
■;,. MARCH 1982 Vol. 7, No. 3 
$2.95 in USA/$3.50 in Canada. 
A'McGraw-Hill Publication 




A 

/ 



A new small computer 
that won't limit you tomorrow 




New Cromemco System One shown with our 
high-capability terminal and printer. 




Expandability 



Here's a low-priced computer that won't run out 
of memory capacity or expandability halfway 
through your project. 

Typically, computer usage tends to grow, requir- 
ing more capability, more memory, more storage. 
Without a lot of capability and expandability, your 
computer can be obsolete from the start. 

The new System One is a real building-block 
machine. It has capability and expandability by the 
carload. 

Look at these features: 

■ Z80-A processor 

■ 64K of RAM 

■ 780K of disk storage 

■ CRT and printer interfaces 

■ Eight S-100 card slots, allowing expansion 
with 

— color graphics 

— additional memory 

— additional interfaces for telecommunica- 
tions, data acquisition, etc. 

■ Small size 

GENEROUS DISK STORAGE 

The 780K of disk storage in the System One 
Model CS-1 is much greater than what is typically 
available in small computers. But here, too, you 
have a choice since a second version, Model 
CS-1H, has a 5" Winchester drive that gives you 
5 megabytes of disk storage. 

MULTI-USER, MULTI-TASKING 
CAPABILITY 

Believe it or not, this new computer even offers 
multi-user capability when used with our advanced 
CROMix* operating system option. Not only does this 
outstanding O/S support multiple users on this com- 
puter but does so with powerful features like multi- 



ple directories, file protection and record level lock. 
cromix lets you run multiple jobs as well. 

In addition to our highly-acclaimed cromix, there 
is our CDOS*. This is an enhanced CP/M + type system 
designed for single-user applications. CP/M and a 
wealth of CP/M-compatible software are also 
available for the new System One through third- 
party vendors. 

COLOR GRAPH ICS/WORD PROCESSING 

This small computer even gives you the option of 
outstanding high-resolution color graphics with our 
Model SDI interface and two-port RAM cards. 

Then there's our tremendously wide range of 
Cromemco software including packages for word 
processing, business, and much more, all usable 
with the new System One. 

ANTI-OBSOLESCENCE/LOW-PRICED 

As you can see, the new One offers you a lot of 
performance. It's obviously designed with anti- 
obsolescence in mind. 

What's more, it's priced at only $3,995. That's 
considerably less than many machines with much 
less capability. And it's not that much more than 
many machines that have little or nothing in the 
way of expandability. 

Physically, the One is small — 7" high. And it's all- 
metal in construction. It's only 14Vb" wide, ideal for 
desk top use. A rack mount-option is also available. 

CONTACT YOUR REP NOW 

Get all the details on this important building-block 
computer. Get in touch with your Cromemco rep 
now. He'll show you how the new System One can 
grow with your task. 



•CROMIX and CDOS are trademarks of Cromemco Inc. 
tCP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



Q 



Cromemco™ 

incorporated 

280 BERNARDO AVE., MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94040 • (415)964-7400 

Tomorrow's computers today 



Circle 113 on Inquiry card. 




CROMIX* — Cromemco's outstanding 
UNIX— like operating system 



cromix is just the kind of major 
development you've come to expect 
from Cromemco. After all, we're 
already well-known for the most 
respected software in the microcom- 
puter field. 

And now we've come up with the in- 
dustry's first UNix-lookalike for 
microcomputers. It's a tried and proven 
operating system. It's available on both 
5" and 8" diskettes for Cromemco 
systems with 128K or more of memory. 

Here are just some of the features you 
get in this powerful Cromemco system: 

• Multi-user and multi-tasking 
capability 

• Hierarchical directories 

• Completely compatible file, 
device, and interprocess I/O 

• Extensive subsystem support 

FILE SYSTEM 

One of the important features of our 
cromix is its file system comprised of 
hierarchical directories. It's a tree struc- 
ture of three types of files: data files, 



*CROMIX is a trademark of Cromemco, Inc. 
-rUNIX is a trademark of Bell Telephone Laboratories 



directories, and device files. File, 
device, and interprocess I/O are com- 
patible among these file types (input and 
output may be redirected inter- 
changeably from and to any source or 
destination). 

The tree structure allows different 
directories to be maintained for different 
users or functions with no chance of 
conflict. 

PROTECTED FILES 

Because of the hierarchical structure 
of the file system, cromix maintains 
separate ownership of every file and 
directory. All files can thus be protected 
from access by other users of the 
system. In fact, each file is protected by 
four separate access privileges in each 
of the three user categories. 

TREMENDOUS ADDRESS SPACE, 
FAST ACCESS 

The flexible file system and general- 
ized disk structure of cromix give a disk 
address space in excess of one gigabyte 
per volume — file size is limited only by 
available disk capacity. 



Speed of access to disk files has also 
been optimized. Average access speeds 
far surpass any yet implemented on 
microcomputers. 

C COMPILER AVAILABLE, TOO 

Cromemco offers a wide range of 
languages that operate under cromix. 
These include a high-level command 
process language and extensive sub- 
system support such as cobol, Fortran 
iv, ratfor, lisp, and 32K and 16K BASICS. 

There is even our highly-acclaimed 
'C compiler which allows a program- 
mer fingertip access to cromix system 
calls. 

THE STANDARD O-S 
FOR THE FUTURE 

The power and breadth of its features 
make cromix the standard for the next 
generation of microcomputer operating 
systems. 

And yet it is available for a surprisingly 
low $595. 

The thing to do is to get all this 
capability working for you now. Get in 
touch with your Cromemco rep today. 



Q 



Cromemco ™ 

incorporated 

280 BERNARDO AVE., MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94040 • (415)964-7400 

Tomorrow's computers today 



Circle 114 on Inquiry card. 



In The Queue 



Volume 8, Number 3 



March 1 982 



Features 

"w Four New Products from Radio Shack by Chris 

Morgan / New developments from Radio Shack include some surprises. 

9 W Use Volceprlnts to Analyze Speech by Steve 

Ciarcia / The first step in designing a speech-recognition system is 
analyzing the spectral content of speech. 

WW The Atari Tutorial, Part 7: Sound by Bob 

Fraser / The Atari 400 and 800 computers can generate a variety of noises. 



100 



Build a Half-year Clock for the Color Computer by 

William Barden Jr. / The inexpensive and accurate half-year clock can 
be easily interfaced to a Radio Shack Color Computer. 

■ " 9 The Input/Output Primer, Part 2: Interrupts and 

Direct Memory Access by Steve Leibson / Second in a series that 
explains the way in which computers talk with the world. 

m^WA a BASIC Plotting Subroutine, Sophisticated 
Plotting with Your MX-80 by Lawrence J. Bregoli / Simple 
software routines let the Epson MX-80 emulate sophisticated plotters. 

i 99 Modify Your Paper Tiger for Different Paper 
Thicknesses by R. P. Sarna / A simple modification increases the 
versatility of your printer. 

I 99 Custom and Standardized Forms for the 
Microcomputer User by Philip Lemmons / A number of companies 
stand ready to help you with various stock, custom, or standardized forms. 

■ l»* The Fill Forms System, CP/M Programs to Cut 

Down on Paperwork by Bill Roch / Use your computer to fill in 
standardized forms. 



248 



Lowercase Descenders for the Epson MX-70 by 

Bruce Piggott / Get true lowercase descenders and program your own 
special characters. 



278 



BYTE Printer Directory by Curtis P. Feigel / A listing 
of printer manufacturers and their products. 

^9 9 The Computer Toolbox by Mark Bernstein / 

The modularity of FORTH gives laboratory computers portability and 
flexibility. 



466 



Skip Sequential: A New File Structure for 
Microcomputers by Jack Purdum / An interesting technique for 
North Star and Microsoft BASICS combines the speed of random-access disk 
files with the space-saving advantages of sequential-access files. 



Reviews 

2C> Commodore 4022 Printer by Joseph Holmes 

44 Integral Data Systems' Prism Printer by Ed Urn lor 

Oo BYTE's Arcade: Apple Panic by Gregg Williams; Missile 
Command by Stanley J. Wszola; Dino Wars by George Stewart 

1/2 Graphics II by Selanar, High Resolution Hard Copy from 
a DECwriter by Daniel Macero. Daniel Holmes, Thomas Banks, 
and Lloyd Burgess 

206 Base 2 Printer by Walter Jeffries 

26Z Text Editing with Compuview's VEDIT by H. Bradford 
Thompson 

jlO Four Implementations of Pascal by Thomas H. Woteki 
and Paul A. Sand 

358 Microsoft's BASIC Compiler for the TRS-80 by Mahlon G. 
Kelly 

372 LDOS— Disk Operating System for the TRS-80 by Tim 

Daneliuk 

384 COBOL for the TRS-80 Models l/lll by Rowland Archer Jr. 

414 John Bell Engineering's Apple II Parallel Interface Board 
by Ned W. Rhodes 

Nucleus 



6 

14 

162, 



166, 



240 

432 
434, 
436 
440 
441 
442 
448 
454 
475 
526 
526 
527 



Editorial: The Microprocessor's Tenth Birthday 

Letters 

300, 310, 473 Programming Quickies: BASIC 

Formatted Printing; An Underline Filter for Matrix Printers; 

A Shape-Drawing Program for Diablo Printers; Finding 

Words That Sound Alike, The Soundex Algorithm 

256, 272 System Notes: Epson MX-80 Print-Control 

Program for the Apple II; Add a Full-sized Keyboard to 

Sinclair's ZX80; Add a Cassette Interface to Your VIC-20 

Product Description: Tele-VIC, Commodore Breaks the $100 

Price Barrier for Modems 

Books Received 

441 BYTE's Bugs 

BYTELINES 

Clubs and Newsletters 

Software Received 

Ask BYTE 

Event Queue 

BYTE's Bits 

What's New? 

Unclassified Ads 

BOMB, BOMB Results 

Reader Service 



BITE 




Page 40 



3LJUi.iUl_|_JLi|UL 

]::i:x;ncan::c 

unDDDEixiao 
:c3Cnc;ac 

3aac rasas:::: 



Page 44 




Page 50 



Page 68 



March 1982 © BYTE PublicaSora Ire 3 



linii 

Editor in Chief 
Christopher Morgan 

Managing Editor 

Mark Haas 

Technical Editors 

Gregg Williams. Senior Editor; 

Richard S. Shuford; Curtis P. Feigel; 

George Stewart," Arthur Little; 

Stanley Wszola; Steve Ciarcia; Mark Dahmke; 

Philip Lemmons. Allan Lundell, Consulting 

Editors; Jon Swanson. Drafting Editor 

Copy Editors 

Beverly Cronin. Chief; Faith Hanson; 
Warren Williamson; Anthony J. Lockwood; 
Ann Graves." Linda M. Evers; Hilary Selby Polk; 
Elizabeth Kempner 

Assistants 

Faith Ferry; Debe Wheeler; 
Karen A. Cilley; Susan Ferber; 
Marie Hennessy 



Production 

Nancy Estle. Director; David R. Anderson. 
Assoc. Director; Jonathan M. Graves. Creative 
Consultant; Patrice Scribner; Damian 
Henriques; Jan Muller; Linda J. Sweeney; 
Sherry McCarthy, Chief Typographer; 
Debi Fredericks. Donna Sweeney; 
Valerie Horn 

Advertising 

Thomas Harvey. Director; Marion Carlson; 
Rob Hannings; Deborah Porter; 
Vicki Reynolds; Cathy A. R. Drew; 
Jacqueline Earnshaw, Reader Service 
Coordinator." Wai Chiu Li. Advertising/ 
Production Coordinator 



Circulation 

Gregory Spitzfaden, Manager; 
Andrew Jackson. Asst. Manager; 
Agnes E. Perry; Barbara Varnum. 
Louise Menegus; Pinky Krulis; 
James Bingham, Dealer Sales; 
Deborah J. Cadwell, Asst. 
Kathleen Reckhart 



Controller's Office 

Daniel Rodrigues, Controller; 
Mary E. Fluhr. Acct. & D/P Mgr.; Karen 
Burgess; Jeanne Cilley; Linda Fluhr; 
Vicki Bennett 

Traffic 

N. Scott Gagnon; Scott Jackson. 
Mary McRae 

Publishers 

Virginia Londoner; Gordon R. Williamson; 

John E. Hayes. Associate Publisher: 

Cheryl A. Hurd; Michele P. Verville, Publisher's 

Assistants; 



Officers of McGraw-Hill Publications Com- 
pany: Paul F. McPherson, President; Executive 
Vice Presidents: Daniel A. McMillan. III. Gene 
W. Simpson; Senior Vice President-Editorial: 
Ralph R. Schulz: Vice Presidents: Kemp Ander- 
son, Business Systems Development; Harry L. 
Brown, Special Markets; Robert B. Doll, Circula- 
tion." James E. Hackett. Controller; Eric B Herr. 
Planning and Development; H. John Sweger, 
Jr.. Marketing. 

Officers of the Corporation: Harold W. 
McGraw Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer; Joseph L. Dionne. President and Chief 
Operating Officer: Robert N. Landes. Senior Vice 
President and Secretary; Ralph J. Webb. 
Treasurer. 




In This Issue 

Hard copy was once considered a luxury by computer hobbyists, 
but now the ability to record program listings and text on paper is 
seen as almost a necessity. And though you're not likely to find a 
printer like the one Robert Tinney pictured on this month's cover, 
you're sure to find one from the many available that will fit your 
needs. For a rundown on what's around, see Curtis Feigel's printer 
directory. For a look at a new approach to printers, see Ed Umlor's 
review of the Prism Printer. We've also included a report on custom 
and standardized forms: where to get them and how to use them. 
And we have an article on programming your computer to fill in 
forms. 

The Atari Tutorial continues with Part 7: Sound; William Barden Jr. 
discusses building a half-year clock for the Color Computer in the 
fourth article in his series on Radio Shack computers; in Part 2 of the 
"Input/Output Primer" Steve Leibson discusses interrupts and direct 
memory access; and Steve Ciarcia writes about using voiceprints to 
analyze speech. Don't miss our quarterly games feature, "BYTE's 
Arcade," plus our regular items and reviews. 



BYTE is published monthly by BYTE Publications Inc. 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458. phone |603) 
924-928 1 . a wholly-owned subsidiary of McGraw-Hill. Inc. Address subscriptions, change of address. USPS Form 
3579. and fulfillment questions to BYTE Subscriptions. POB 590. Martinsville NJ 08836. Second class postage paid 
at Waseca. Minnesota 56093 - USPS Publication No. 528890 (ISSN 0360-5280). Canadian second class registra- 
tion number 932 1 . Subscriptions are S 1 9 for one year. S34 for two years, and S49 for three years in the USA and 
its possessions. In Canada and Mexico. S2I for one year, S38 for two years. S55 for three years. S43 for one year 
air delivery to Europe. S35 surface delivery elsewhere. Air delivery to selected areas at additional rates upon re- 
quest. Single copy price is S2.95 in the USA and its possessions. S3. 50 in Canada and Mexico. S4.50 in Europe, 
and $5.00 elsewhere. Foreign subscriptions and sales should be remitted in United States funds drawn on a US 
bank. Printed in United States of America. 

Address all editorial correspondence to the editor at BYTE. POB 372. Hancock NH 03449. Unacceptable 
manuscripts will be returned if accompanied by sufficient first class postage. Not responsible for lost manuscripts or 
photos. Opinions expressed by the authors are not necessarily those of BYTE. Entire contents copyright © 1 982 
by BYTE Publications Inc. All rights reserved. Where necessary, permission is granted by the copyright owner for 
libraries and others registered with the Copyright Clearance Center |CCC| to photocopy any article herein for the 
base fee of S 1 .00 per copy of the article or item plus 25 cents per page. Payment should be sent directly to the 
CCC. 2 1 Congress St. Salem MA 01 970. Copying done for other than personal or internal reference use without 
the permission of McGraw-Hill is prohibited. Requests for special permission or bulk orders should be addressed to 
the publisher. 

BYTE® is available in microform from University Microfilms International. 300 N Zeeb Rd. Dept PR. Ann^ 
Arbor Ml 48106 USA or 18 Bedford Row, Dept PR. London WCIR 4EJ England. 

Subscription WATS Line: (800) 258-5485 
Office hours: Mon-Thur 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM, Friday 8:30 AM - Noon, Eastern Time 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 





". . .stands well above 
other S-100 graphics dis- 
plays in its price and per- 
formance range." 

BYTE, Product Review 




"... better monochromatic 
. . .display. 



ELECTRONIC DESIGN, 
1981 Technology Forecast 



M1CROANGELO 

HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 

512 x 480 resolution black and white and vivid color displays 



Jib 

, >"' : E •' t - 




-•- ", 

" tf < 

' }'W* "" ■-; 


;;., iid~ 'fjB^jf' " 

■-;;> <^.:^ , : 


:f. Hi:*:::! 


•••"••■••||'..^:;:J rf^^'-"""-*^^--^ 

i-i ,r .,«»_ ... "* 

:::"-I'-""--f **^. ;; ,,,,,. 4 

-K:M~is/-p^. .-■ - ^„^- i 

l_ , ■ ... .-«■&■■ i 


hi l ."ffte Jwoooo a cTi [, ,— "wu &*• 1 --■ 



RS-170 com- 
posite or direct 
drive output 

Local or external 
sync generation 

4MhzZ80 
microprocessor 

60 hertz real- 
time clock 

8 level interrupt 
tie-in 

IEEE S100 bus 
compatible 



Screenware™ Pak I 

A 4K byte operating system resident in PROM on 
MicroAngelo™. Pak I emulates an 85 character 
by 40 line graphics terminal and provides over 
40 graphics commands. Provisions exist for user 
defined character sets and directly callable user 
extensions to Screenware™ Pak I. 

Screenware™ Pak II 

An optional software superset of Pak I which 
adds circle generation, polygon flood, program- 
mable split screen for separate graphics and ter- 
minal I/O, relative coordinates, faster vector and 
character plotting, a macro facility, full UCSD 
Pascal compatibility, and more. 



Light pen 
interface 

Time multi- 
plexed refresh 

4K resident 

Screenware™ 

Pak I operating 

system 

32KRAM 

isolated from 

host address 

space 

High speed 

communications 

over parallel 

bus ports 



And now... COLOR!! 

The new MicroAngelo™ Palette board treats from 
2 to 8 MicroAngelos as "bit planes" at a full 
512 x 480 resolution. Up to 256 colors may be 
chosen from 16.8 million through the program- 
mable color lookup table. Overlays, bit plane 
precedence, fade-in, fade-out, gray levels, blink- 
ing bit plane, and a highly visual color editor are 
standard. 

Ask about our multibus and RS-232 versions. 



Circle 347 on Inquiry card. 



12310 Pinecrest Road • Reston, VA 22091 • (703)476-6100 • TWX: 710-833-0684 



Circle 131 on inquiry card. 



THINK AHEAD 




THINK CP/M -86 



MILESTONE-86™— $395. Manual alone - $30. 
"Critical path" network analysis program for scheduling 
manpower, dollars and time to maximize productivity. 
Interactive project management program that runs under 
CP/M-86. MILESTONE can be used to track paper flow, 
build a computer, check a department's performance, or 
build a bridge. MILESTONE can be used by executives, 
engineers, managers, and small businessmen. 

• Produce PERT chart in minutes. 

• Find critical tasks that can't be delayed. 

• Investigate tradeoffs between manpower, dollars and 
time. 

• Give plans to others using a printed project schedule. 

• Change details and immediately see results on the 
screen. 

• Balance time, manpower and costs. 
Formats: 8. IDW. IPC. 



PLAN80" for 8086 — $495. Manual alone - $30. 

A financial modeling system that's easy to use yet 
powerful enough to replace your timesharing applica- 
tions. Lets you calculate IRR and depreciation as well as 
trig functions effortlessly. You write a PLAN80 model just 
the way you would write a letter using any editor or word 
processing program. 

PLAN80 results can be incorporated into any report that 
requires a financial model. It can tackle any numeric 
problem that can be defined on a worksheet. You'll 
remember how you created the model because calcula- 
tions are defined using real English — not matric coordin- 
ates. At any oint in the PLAN80 model you may display or 
print the results on your screen, printer or disk. Save all 
or part of the results for use by other models, or play 
"what if?" by inputting new values interactively. 
Formats: 8, IDW. IPC 



DATEBOOK-86 T "-$295. Manual alone-$30. 

Schedule appointments for up to 27 different doctors, 
lawyers, rooms etc. Three appointment schedules are 
displayed on the screen at a time. File structure allows 
for appointments for up to one year in advance. Searches 
for openings that fit time of day. day of week and/or day 
of year constraints. Appointments made, modified or 
cancelled easily. Copies of day's appointments can be 
printed easily. 
Formats: 8. IDW. IPC 



MORE SOFTWARE 

CBASIC/86 
PASCAL/M-86 
Pascal:S0RT-86 
TEXTWRITER-86 
FIELD C0MPANI0N-86 
PERSONAL DATEBOOK 



PRODUCT/MANUAL ALONE 

$325. $25. 

$495. $25. 

$195. $20 

$125. $30 

$295. $30 

$150. $30 



FORMAT CODES: B [B'singledensily IBM solt-seclored) IDW (IBM Display Wfiler 
with CP/M-86) IPC (I6M Personal Computer with CP/M-86) 

TRADEMARKS: CP/M-86. CBASIC/86 • Digital Research. Milestone. Datebook. Personal 
Datebook, Textwtiler - Organic Software. Pascal/M - Sorcim. Pascal SORT Field 
Companion - Technical Software 



SOFTWARE 
SOFTWARE 
DIGITA /MARKETING 

DIGML/1/MRKETING" 

2670 Cherry Lane.Walnut Creek.CA 94596 
(415) 938-2880.Telex 17-1852 (DIGMKTG WNCK) 
Dealer Inquiries Invited 



Editorial 



The Microprocessor's 
Tenth Birthday 

by Chris Morgan, Editor in Chief 

". . . Intel introduces an integrated CPU complete with a 4-bit parallel adder, 
sixteen 4-bit registers, an accumulator, and a push-down stack on one chip. It's 
one of a family of four new ICs which comprise the MCS-4 microcomputer 
system — the first system to bring you the power and flexibility of a dedicated 
general-purpose computer at low cost in as few as two dual in-line 
packages ..." 

— from the first microprocessor advertisement in the 
November 15, 1971 issue of Electronic News 

It's hard to believe, but the microprocessor celebrated its tenth birthday this 
past November. The event slipped by with little comment from the technical 
press. We nearly missed it ourselves in the rush to keep up to date in an in- 
dustry that refuses to slow down and wait for anyone. Nevertheless, it's stag- 
gering to realize that ten years have gone by since the calculating powers of the 
computer were first squeezed onto a small square of silicon. The first micro- 
computer was actually a family of four integrated circuits known collectively 
as the "MCS-4 system." It consisted of the 4004 CPU (central processing unit) 
that featured a set of 45 instructions, the 4001 ROM, the 4002 RAM, and the 
4003 shift register. 

Ironically, it was a Japanese calculator company called Busicom (now out of 
business) that spurred the creation of the microprocessor. As Ted Hoff Jr., in- 
ventor of the 4004, put it, "The devel- 
opment came as all good ideas do. I 
looked at a customer's proposed de- 
sign and said, There ought to be a 
better way.' " 

The "better way" came about in 
1971 when Busicom contracted the 
newly formed Intel company to de- 
velop a family of integrated circuits 
that Busicom could use in a proposed 
line of programmable calculators. 
The Japanese company had already 
designed the calculator with about a 
dozen proposed MOS chips, and it 
wanted Intel to complete the design. 
Intel had only two designers at the 
time, though, and probably would 
have been hard pressed to design the 
chips quickly enough if it had not 
been for Hoff's inspiration. It was all 
related to Hoff's admiration for the 
architecture of DEC's PDP-8, a mini- Ted Hoff Jr., inventor of the 4004. 




March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




You Get More Out of 
Percom Disk Systems. 



Expect 



At Percom, our business is making 
disk storage systems for microcomputers 
— something we've been doing right, 
since 1977, 

From the design of rock-solid drive 
controller circuitry to quality controls that 
include 100% life testing of every drive ship- 
ped, you can expect to get more out of 
Percom Disk Systems. 

And Percom provides you with com- 
prehensive after-sales service from our 
wholly owned, fully independent customer 
service center. 

WINCHESTER 
10-MEGABYTE 
DISK STORAGE 
SYSTEMS 

Enormous 
storage capacity 
plus high speed. 
Percom 5V<\ inch hard 
disk systems are 40 
times faster than 
single-density floppy 
mini-disks, 20 times 
faster than double- 
density units. 
Systems include a smart, four-drive controller 
featuring state-of-the-art data encoding and 
separation, adaptable industry-standard disk 
interfacing. Plug-in-compatible version for 





PERCOM 



TRS-80* Model III computer, available 
now. Watch for IBM PC, Apple II, Atari, 
and H/Z-89 versions. Prices start at 
under $3000, including software. Also 
available with 5 or 1 5-Mbyte drives. 

Coming soon! Ten 
megabyte removable- 
disk cartridge drive. 

FLOPPY MINI-DISK 
STORAGE SYSTEMS 

40 or 80-track drives, single 
or dual-head, flippy or non- 
flippy— all double-density 
rated. Available in 1, 2 and 3- 
drive add-on units, 1 and 2-drive 
internal units, with full docu- 
mentation and software support. 
Add-on drives from $599, complete 
systems from $459.95. 

To learn more about quality 
Percom disk storage systems, mail 
the coupon today. Or, call toll-free 
1-800-527-1222. Ask for booklet "D". 



YES... I'd like to know more about Percom disk 
systems. Please rush me booklet "D". 

Send to: PERCOM DATA COMPANY, INC. Dept BD1 
11220 Pagemill Road, Dallas TX 75243 



street 



city 



state 



zip 



THE DRIVE PEOPLE 

11220 Pagemill Road • Dallas TX • 75243 • (214) 340-7081 



phone number 

I'm interested in floppy disk storage for my... 
TRS-80 nMdl IIIDMdl I □ IBM PC 

□ H/Z-89 DH-8 DAIM/KIM/SYM DSystem-50 

I'm interested in hard disk storage for my... 

□ IBM PC nTRS-80 Mdl III DApple II □Atari □H/Z-89 

Other computer? 

(□floppy disk or Dhard disk?) 



PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 

•TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Radio Shack Corporation which has no 
relationship'to Percom Data Company. Inc 
S> 1981 Percom Data Company. Inc 




PROFESSIONAL PASCAL 



IWal/Z 




4.0 



SYMBOLIC DEBUGGER 

This fourth generation version of our reliable, Z-80 
native code compiler adds the two features 
professionals ask for: 

♦ SWAT™— an interactive symbolic Pascal debugger 
that allows easy error detection. 

♦ Overlays— that allow larger programs to run in 
limited memory. 

A compiler for Professional programmers 

Pascal/Z is a true Pascal. It closely follows the Jensen 
and Wirth standard with a minimum of extensions 
designed to aid the serious program developer in 
producing extremely compact, bug-free code that 
runs FAST. 

Pascal/Z generates Z-80 native code that is ROMable 
and Re-entrant. Permits separate compilation, direct 
file access, external routines and includes a relocating 
macro assembler and Microsoft compatible linker. 
And code written for Pascal/Z is fully compatible 
with I'PAS 8000, our new native code Pascal compiler 
for Z-8000, to guarantee graceful migration to 
16 bit operation. 

Get "The FACTS about Pascal" 

Confused about which Pascal to buy? 
Pseudo-code . . . Native code . . . M, MT or 
Z? Compare the unbiased benchmarks 
in our new booklet. Don't buy a Pascal 
compiler until you've read it. 

Call us for a free copy: 

800-847-2088 

outside NYS) 

or 607-257-0190 

And ask your local 
full-service 
computer dealer 
about our 
Pascal/Z 
demo package. 



v^ Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 

Micros for bigger ideas. 

Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 

1650 Hanshaw Rd • Ithaca, NY 14850 • TWX 510 255-4346 
U.K. Distributor: 
Ithaca Intersystems (U.K.)Ltd. 

Vln-iJnn l)„.,,l I nnrlnr, MP OBn PKr.no. rl"1_Td1 O AA7 Tolov 9QQ^RR 





Editorial. 



computer he had been using for some time. "The PDP-8 
was a nice machine: simple, yet it could do a lot. I looked 
at the PDP-8, I looked at the proposed Busicom, and I 
wondered why the calculator should be so much more 
complex." Busicom was initially uninterested in the pro- 
posed microprocessor. Nevertheless, Hoff's supervisors 
encouraged him to continue with the design, and 
Busicom finally relented. 

As it turned out, the final configuration of the 4004 in 
the Busicom calculator was "pretty exotic," as 4004 
design team member Stan Mazor describes it. "Shima 
Masutashi [another member of the 4004 design team who 
was later to design the 8080] and I worked on the design 
of the calculator. He wrote a 19-byte interpreter in 
MCS-4 machine code for the calculator. It performed the 
relatively trivial task of fetching the next pseudo-byte 
and jumping to a subroutine. I laughed when I realized 
that what we had inside the desk calculator was a com- 
puter programmed as an interpreter emulating a pseudo- 
language." 

Intel didn't realize at first what it had. An article in a 
recent issue of Intel's house magazine, Solutions, points 
out that "Intel's own board of directors could not agree 
on whether to proceed with the sale of the 4004. Their 
resistance was underscored by the company's marketing 
department which, based on the belief that microproces- 
sors would only be sold as minicomputer replacements, 
initially estimated the entire worldwide market at only a 
few thousand units per year." Today, as we all know, In- 
tel's initial sales estimate was off by several orders of 
magnitude. 

Situations like this are not uncommon in the technical 
world. A similar situation occurred at the Philadelphia 
Centennial Exposition of 1876. In a small pavilion at the 
fair, Alexander Graham Bell exhibited his newly invented 
telephone to a moderate number of politely interested 
people. Down the midway, though, thousands lined up 
to view the real technological hit of the show: the Corliss 
Steam Engine. I'll refrain from saying which of these two 
gadgets ultimately became a household item. But I will 
say that I don't have a princess model Corliss Steam 
Engine in my den. 

Of course the microprocessor ultimately "made it" too, 
and it continues to affect our lives every day. The per- 
sonal computer simply would not exist today without the 
microprocessor. In fact, it created a revolution. In his 
book Promise of Power, Carl Stokes said, "When you 
start dealing with change you are talking about interfer- 
ing with those who are in possession of something." This 
concept doesn't apply to the microprocessor revolution, 
though, because microprocessors do not deny anything 
to anyone. Instead, they offer everyone a new tabula 
rasa. Not even the mainframe computer companies really 
suffered when the microprocessor appeared: they simply 
regrouped and continued marching (although it took 
some of them a long time to do it, and some of them 
haven't started yet). 

Circle 198 on inquiry card. 



Clogged memory? Sluggish program execution? Constricted throughput? 



Introducing 

the fastest Micro-relief for 

these common business maladies— 



ITHACA 





Ithaca 525, the new, fast single- or multi- 
user S-100 system is the fastest Micro for 
typical disk-intensive business and 
commercial programs, with throughput 
increases of over 500% over 64K systems. 



Ithaca 525 combines a 6 MHz Z-80B® 
aM /XIOS™ 
-MP/MH™ 



CPU 
with Cache BIOS'7XIOS ,m cache memory 
under the CP/M® -MP/MH™ operating 
systems for execution speeds unmatched 
by any other Micro. 



Ithaca 525 includes DMA control for up to 4 
floppy drives and up to 4 Winchesters. 256K 
RAM with parity is expandable to 1 Mbyte. 

Ithaca 525 offers features and performance 
unmatched at the price. And if you act now, 
during our introductory period, the price is 
even more attractive. 

If you suffer from any of the common 
Micro-computer maladies, for fast relief and 
a personal introduction to the Ithaca 525* 
call one of our Regional Sales Managers 
toll free (Outside NYS): 

800-847-2088 

In New York State call: (607) 257-0190. 
Micros for bigger ideas. 

Dnnd®ofes(teoi]os~ 

\r Ithaca Intersystems Inc 

Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 

1650 Hanshaw Rd. P.O. Box 91 

Ithaca, New York 14850 

TWX 510 255 4346 




Ithaca 525, Cache BIOS and Cache XIOS are 

trademarks of Ithaca Intersystems Inc. Z-80B Is a trademark of Zilog, Inc. 

CP/M and MP/M II are trademarks of Digital Research. 



"Systems are available in both 5 1 A" and 8" versions. 
Circle 199 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 151 on inquiry card. 



JOHN STARKWEATHER'S 




$149.95 



For all CP/M systems. Works 
with Apple (softcard need- 
ed), TRS-80, North Star, Super- 
DISKETTE AND MANUAL bra in, Micropolis, Vector and 

many other microcomputers. Needs 32K RAM, one disk drive 

and CRT or video display and keyboard. 

• PILOT for Programmed, Inquiry, Learning Or Teaching. 

• An excellent interactive language for education and office automation. 

• Perfect companion for BASIC, COBOL and PASCAL to solve training and 
documentation problems. 

• John Starkweather, Ph.D., creator of PILOT, wrote this version to meet 
all PILOT-73 standards and added many new features. 

• New features include full screen text editor, commands to drive 
optional equipment such as VTR's & voice response units. 

• Currently used in many college and progressive high schools. 

• Use for interactive applications — data entry, programmed instruction 
and testing. 




$119.95 

DISKETTE AND MANUAL 



For all CP/M-based systems. Re- 
quires 32K RAM, one disk drive 
and CRT or video display and 
keyboard. 

i A character oriented full screen video display text editor designed 
specifically for program preparation. 

i Write program in COBOL, FORTRAN, BASIC or similar languages. 

i Features include single key commands for cursor control, scrol- 
ling, block moves, search and replace, tab setting and multiple file 
insertions. 



c 



IM 



• nt 



l^7^7a^7^9 



\ 



DISKETTE AND MANUAL 

"- V ;■;■■; For all CP/M or MP/M operat- 
I ing systems. Requires 32K 
RAM and one disk drive. 



Edition II of Nevada COBOL is based on ANSI-74 Standards. 
With 48K RAM, you can compile and execute up to 4000 state- 
ments. 

COPY statement for library handling. 
CALL.. .USING. ..CANCEL 

PERFORM. ..THRU. ..TIMES. ..UNTIL. ..paragraph or section names. 
IF. .NEXT SENTENCE. ..ELSE. ..NEXT SENTENCE AND/OR < = > 
NOT. 

GO TO. ..DEPENDING ON... 
Interactive ACCEPT/DISPLAY... 
RELATIVE (random) access files 
Sequential files both fixed and variable length. 
INSPECT. .TALLYING. ..REPLACING. 







ELLIS COMPUTING 

SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 

600 41st Avenue, Dept. B 
San Francisco, CA 94121 
U.S.A. 



COD'S WELCOME 



^fflHj) 



(415) 751-1522 



I CP/M, MP/M and TRS-80 are registered TM's of Digital Research and Tandy Corporation 
10 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Editorial. 




Smith-Corona's new letter-quality printer, the TP-1. 



We congratulate Intel on the tenth anniversary of the 
fortuitous invention that made personal computing possi- 
ble, and we look forward to the day in 1992 when we can 
examine the second decade of the microprocessor. 



An $895 Daisy-Wheel Printer 

This month's theme is printers, and the most exciting 
news in the fast-changing printer market is undoubtedly 
Smith-Corona's new $895 (suggested retail) letter-quality 
printer, the TP-1. It features a plastic daisy wheel plus 
either an RS-232C serial interface or a Centronics-style 
parallel interface. Maximum speed of the TP-1 is between 
14 and 15 characters per second, but the average speed is 
closer to 12 characters per second. 

Smith-Corona makes no apologies for the fact that the 
TP-1 is a bare-bones system, and even though it lacks 
such niceties as proportional spacing, double-striking 
capability, and bidirectional printing, it's still a bargain. 
Price-wise, its closest competitor is in the $1500 range. 
The American-made unit accepts letter or legal-sized 
paper, and, in a new version, will soon be able to handle 
fanfold paper. The TP-1 has some competition in the 
form of add-on boards that convert the Olivetti Praxis 
typewriter into a letter-quality printer. They're manufac- 
tured by Vertical Data Systems Inc., Mississauga, On- 
tario, Canada (Converter TP35); Williams Laboratories, 
Ithaca, New York (Bytewriter); and Systemed Corpora- 
tion, Mountain City, Tennessee (Typrinter). We plan to 
review these units as soon as possible, for they herald the 
beginning of a new age of affordable word-processing 
computer systems. ■ 

Acknowledgments 

Thanks to Donna Shuster and Intel for permission to reprint quotes 
and comments from the article "Tenth Anniversary of the Microproces- 
sor" in the November/ December 1981 issue of Solutions. 



S-100 Fast-Aid. 

Including 3 new boards for system design relief. 



The MB64. 

An economical, high- 
performance 64K static 
RAM memory. 

Just what the doctor ordered. 
A new 64K static RAM con- 
figured as two 32K blocks that's 
fast (in excess of 6MHz), reliable 
and economical. The MB64 sup- 
ports IEEE 696/S-100 24-bit ex- 
tended addressing for up to 
16MB of RAM. Bank switching 
permits compatibility with popu- 
lar multi-user computer systems 
(such as CROMIX*). Up to 8K 
can be replaced with 2716 
EPROMs. The MB64 offers low 
power consumption (typically less 
than 600 milliamps). And a pro- 
vision for optional battery 
backup. 

(The MB64 is priced at less than 
$850.) 

•CROMIX is a trademark of Cromemco, Inc. 



The 108. 

An I/O board featuring eight 
serial interfaces, individually 
programmable baud rates, and 
an interrupt clock. 

Give your system fast-aid — in- 
cluding easier testing and 
speedier diagnosis — with SSM's 
new 108. This board features 
eight asynchronous serial RS-232 
I/O ports with LED data trans- 
fer indicators. Individually pro- 
grammable I/O port baud rates 
(110-19,200) meet all your 
specific configuration require- 
ments. A timer (50/60 Hz) sup- 
ports real-time or multi-user 
applications. 

And all our Fast-Aid boards 
offer: 

• Card ejectors for painless card 
removal. 

• LEDs for easy troubleshooting 
and monitoring. 

• IEEE 696/S-100 compatibility. 




The 105. 

A two-serial/three-parallel I/O 
board with programmable 
timer. 

The perfect remedy for fast sys- 
tem integration, more precise 
diagnosis, and far healthier sys- 
tem operation. The 105 features 
two RS-232 asynchronous serial 
interfaces for maximum peri- 
pheral compatibility. The board 
supports a variety of devices with 
high-speed serial data transmis- 
sion (1 10-19,200 baud). Three 
parallel ports, providing a total 
of 32 bits, support various I/O 
configurations: a 16-bit software 
programmable bi-directional in- 
terface, and two 8-bit interfaces. 
One 8-bit interface supports 
direct connection to Centronics- 
compatible printers. The other 
provides 8 bits of parallel input 
for such devices as keyboards. 
The 105 also offers a software- 
programmable timer for real-time 
or multi-user applications. 

For more details about these new 
boards, or any of SSM's S-100 
compatible boards (including var- 
ious CPU, EPROM, video and 
development boards), just call 
your local dealer or SSM today. 



W 



SSM Microcomputer Products, Inc. 

2190 Paragon Drive 

San Jose, C A 95131 

(408)946-7400 Telex: 171171 

TWX: 910-338-2077 

Circle 357 on Inquiry card. 



The disk drive 



• 



■ 





Introducing the first totally compatible 
Floppy Disk Drive. 

Rana Systems has designed a totally 
compatible disk drive for Apple, that's better 
than Apple's. A high density, high capacity disk 
drive and controller that offers a myriad of 
features Apple never thought of. Unique advan- 
tages that get the maximum efficiency out of 
your existing Apple IP hardware and software. 

At Rana, we knew you wanted more 
storage, so we went right to the core of the 
problem. Even our most economical model is 
designed to give you 15% more storage capac- 
ity than Apple's. Our top-of-the-line unit gives 

Apple 1 1 is a registered trademark of Apple Computer 1 nc. 



you 4 times the capacity of Apple's comparable 
unit. Even our design is tar more dramatic than 
theirs. With lines that actually complement the 
sleek Apple II computer. 

We're a step ahead of Apple because 
we have a faster step. 

Holding more information is even 
more valuable when you can get it faster. The 
Rana System track positioning mechanism is 
engineered to access three to four times faster 
track to track, with greater accuracy than 
Apple's. Our disk drive offers safeguards like 
a stall provision to protect spin motor burnout, 




an advanced write protect feature that keeps 
your information where you put it, and an 
energy saving device that "powers down" when 
your disk drive is taking a break. 

We even took a bite out of Apple's price. 

Our most popular model is 25% more 
economical per byte than Apple's, providing 
you with maximum performance, superior cost 
efficiency, and totally compatible styling. It 
also comes with a free diskette containing all 
the optional software and supports you'll need 
to enhance the capacity and performance. 
And it's all backed up with an efficient service 



support system, and a full 90 day warranty. 

The Rana System Floppy Disk Drive. Just 
plug it into your Apple and all those delicious 
extra bytes will be yours. 

RanaSystems. 



TW 



Circle 222 on Inquiry card. 



20620 South Leapwood Avenue, Carson, CA 90746 213-538-2353. 
For dealer information call toll free: 1-800-421-2207. 
In California only call: 1-800-262-1221. Source Number TCT-654. 
See our booth at the West Coast Computer Faire Show. 



Letters 



Apple's Decision Questioned 

We use Apple computers for commer- 
cial machine-language program develop- 
ment and buy Apple lis at frequent inter- 
vals, either as a service to our customers 
or in order to expand our office. 

I have recently spoken to a mail-order 
distributor of Apples who told me that as 
of December 4, 1981, Apple was no longer 
wholesaling to mail-order houses. I could 
not believe this, so I called CALL- 
A.P.P.L.E. It's true, I was told. 

I am outraged. How can Apple, with 
new, large, clever, powerful competitors 
just beginning to breathe down its neck, 
remove the only way for small, intelligent 
users to buy Apples inexpensively? 

Apple is, in effect, forcing us to buy 
from retail stores, which are usually over- 
priced. Their personnel are insulting in 
their inexperience and knowledgeable 
only about the latest space games. We can 
not afford their arbitrary $700 markup on 
the Apple II. Our software systems, while 
cost-effective with mail-order firms' 
prices, are not with the retail stores' 
prices. 

Apple will have to decide just who its 
friends are — the retailer who sits on his 
duff selling other people's ideas or the 
software innovator who takes a piece of 
hardware and makes it usable by the 
masses. While Apple may be trying to 
help out its dealers, it seems to have decid- 
ed to do this at the expense of its serious 
customers — the people on whose success 
its own utlimate success depends. 

Apple has succeeded so far because it 
provides a product which we (and others) 
can program without too much trouble 
and which our customers can afford. This 
new attitude of demanding that we submit 
to retailers' ridiculous prices will compel 
many to reconsider which personal com- 
puter we will use to develop our systems. I 
hope Apple discovers its error before its 
competitors profit too much from it. 



Dennis Gerald Pratt 

666 North Dearborn, Apt 3F 

Chicago, IL 60610 

Yes, it is true. Apple Computer Inc. has 
given its dealers an ultimatum: either 
cease all mail and phone order sales, or 
your authorized dealership will be ter- 
minated effective December 4, 1981. This 



was delivered in a "Notice of Dealer 
Agreement Modification" dated 
November 2, 1981, and dealers had until 
November 20, 1981, to sign and return the 
"modification." Otherwise, Apple 
threatened to pull the plug, so to speak. 

Apple is attempting to justify this move 
by stating: "We believe that our ability to 
maintain a leadership position in competi- 
tion with the corporate giants now enter- 
ing the personal computer field depends in 
large measure on the willingness of our 
dealers to satisfy the end user with their 
familiarity with Apple products and their 
commitment to passing on this knowledge 
and support. " Accordingly, Apple has 
added subparagraph 3 (g)(iv) to its 
Authorized Dealer Sales Agreement: 
"Dealer and Apple recognize that because 
of the special, technical nature of Apple 
Products, customers purchasing them can 
be properly served only if they have the 
benefit of pre- and post-sale education, 
orientation and support, specifically in- 
cluding in-person contact with the selling 
dealer, in order that each customer's needs 
may be properly served and the features, 
benefits, operation and applications of the 
Apple Products being purchased may be 
demonstrated and fully explained by 
knowledgeable sales personnel. " It then 
goes on to specifically prohibit mail and 
telephone order sales of Apple products 
under penalty of losing the dealership. 

Apple concluded its modification notice 
with the following paragraph: 

"Apple personal computer products de- 
mand innovative and creative marketing. 
We are willing to work with all who are 
willing to meet that challenge. Those who 
are unwilling to expend the effort have no 
place in our future plans." . . . MH 



Is Microfiche the Answer? 

This letter is in response to the letter of 
Lew Merrick (October 1981 BYTE, page 
10) regarding the storage bulk of advertis- 
ing material in BYTE back issues. 

The separation of advertising material 
into a separate removable section is unde- 
sirable because it would reduce the ex- 
posure of the advertising, reduce the value 
of the advertising, and ultimately degrade 
the quality of BYTE by reducing revenues. 

An alternative is to convert to micro- 
fiche files at some loss of convenience but 



great savings in space. BYTE is now avail- 
able from University Microfilms, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, but you must be very 
patient with them because (1) back issues 
are available only in one-year blocks, 
(2) back issues are not produced until well 
into the following year, and (3) orders are 
not filled promptly. 

My suggestion is that BYTE offer a 
microfiche subscription option, just as is 
now done with the IEEE journals. The 
microfiche might actually be cheaper to 
produce and ship than the paper edition. 

A microfiche viewer can be used for 
many purposes and occupies about as 
much space as three years of BYTE. The 
space needed to store the fiche is negligi- 
ble. 

Back issues of BYTE are well worth pre- 
serving, as they enable me, after a session 
on my modest micro, to ponder what little 
was available only five years ago and to 
speculate what the future holds. The ad- 
vertisements in a five-year-old BYTE issue 
contain some very interesting material. 

Richard Schwartz 
Electrical Engineer 
Star Fleet Engineering 
1328 North Santa Anita Ave 
Arcadia, CA 91006 



More on the WAI 

Regarding Dr. S. S. Reddi's "Where Am 
I?" instruction (Technical Forum, 
November 1981 BYTE, page 413), I would 
like to point out that Motorola's 6809 has 
such an instruction. The simplest form is: 



TFR 



PCX 



The instruction transfers the value in PC 
(program counter) to register X. (The 
value transferred is the location of the 
next instruction.) The 6809 also allows: 



LEAX 



n.PC 



which adds "n" (8 or 16 bits) to PC and 
puts the result in register X. (LEA = Load 
Effective Address) This instruction, which 
may also be written: 



LEAX 



label, PCR 



can compute the address of any label 
(location) within the program without us- 
ing an absolute address (PCR means use 



14 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Your 
computer, 

Compute. 
Compute. 
Compute. 
Compute. 
Compute. 

Dump... 

Compute. 



Yojir 
printer 



Compute. 
Compute. 







, Print. 
Print. 
Print. 
Print. 
Print. 
Print. 



New Microbuf fer II lets you use your printer 
without tying up your computer. 



Time. As an important resource 
it shouldn't be wasted. One 
such waste is in printing, where 
your computer must wait for 
your printer. Now there's a way 
to eliminate this waste. 

Introducing the 
Microbuf fer ][™, a buffered 
parallel printer interface for the 
Apple ][" computer with 16K 
characters of memory (user ex- 
pandable to 32K). It accepts 
data as fast as your computer 
can send it, allowing you to use 
your computer while the 
Microbuffer ][ is in control of 
your printing. 

The Microbuffer]!, compatible 



with Applesoft, CP/M"" and 
Pascal, comes with complete 
print formatting features as well 
as advanced graphics dump 
routines for most popular 
graphics printers. 

The Snapshot™ option per- 
mits you to dump the text 
screen or graphics picture to 
the printer while any program is 

A1ICROBUFFERH 



running — without interuption. 

The 16K Microbuffer]! is 
available for $259. And the 32K 
version, for $299. The Snapshot 
option is $69. 

So why waste time while your 
computer waits for your printer? 
Ask your computer dealer for 
the Microbuffer]! or call us for 
the name of a dealer near you. 

Microbuffer K and Snapshot are trademarks of Practical 

Peripherals. Inc. 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 

Apple I is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, 

Inc. 

PRACTICAL PERIPHERALS. Inc. 

31245 La Bay a Drive 

Westlake Village. California 91362 

(213) 991-8200 

Circle 316 on inquiry card. 



Letters i— ^— — ■— _ 

PC-relative addressing). In these ex- 
amples, the destination register could be 
Y, U, or S, instead of X, if desired. The 
destination for the TFR instruction could 
also be register D, which is accumulators 
A and B treated as one 16-bit register. 

I question the usefulness of a WAI 
(Where Am I) instruction by itself, how- 
ever. Apparently, Dr. Reddi would like to 
get the value of the 6502's program 
counter and then use this value to set up a 
table of addresses in page zero of mem- 
ory, to be used with page zero indirect ad- 
dressing (or, I shudder, to modify ad- 
dresses within his program, such as jump 
and subroutine addresses). Adding a WAI 
instruction to the 6502 would help, slight- 
ly, with this rather clumsy method of 
making programs relocatable. 

Much more is needed to make programs 
easily relocatable. The ideal situation 
would be to have code that runs at any 
address with no changes required. This is 
called position-independent code. The 
6809 has the necessary instructions for 
such code. In addition to the LEAX (and 
LEAY, etc.) mentioned above, its instruc- 
tion set includes branches (jumps), both 
conditional and unconditional, and sub- 
routine calls with relative addressing. The 
relative address can be either 8 or 16 bits 
long, the latter allowing relative address- 
ing anywhere within the 6809's address 
space. (Subroutine calls and uncondi- 
tional jumps are also available with ab- 
solute addressing.) The presence of these 
instructions allows writing programs that 
can be run at any address with no changes 
(and with no need to set up a table of ad- 
dresses or to modify the code at run time). 

The WAI instruction by itself solves 
only a small part of the problem of being 
able to have position-independent code, 
code that will run unchanged at any ad- 
dress. Perhaps this is one reason it is not 
present in most computers. Most (or all) 
computers that have a WAI instruction, 
such as the 6809, PDP-11, 68000, and IBM 
370, are also capable of position-inde- 
pendent code. I suspect that the 8086, 
Z-8000, and VAX 11/780 are also in this 
category. 

Another reason for the absence of WAI 
in most microcomputers is that most 8-bit 
microprocessors were intended for use in 
dedicated controllers where there is no 
need for position independence or a WAI 
instruction. 

One may note that the 6800 has a WAI 
instruction, namely: 



NEXT 



BSR 
EQU 



NEXT 



This use of BSR (branch to subroutine), 
which uses relative addressing, pushes the 
address of the next instruction onto the 
stack, where it can be easily retrieved. 
(This is not to be confused with the 6800 
instruction whose mnemonic is WAI. This 
WAI means "wait for interrupt.") 

Jim Howell 

5472 Playa Del Rey 

San Jose, CA 95123 



The "Where Am I?" instruction is in- 
deed useful. That is probably why it was 
included in the design of the Motorola 
6809 as the Load Effective Address, or 
LEA, instruction, and its use is not re- 
stricted to finding the current PC con- 
tents. 

The LEA instruction loads the effective 
address of its operand into the specified 
16-bit register, which may be either stack, 
either index, or the double accumulator. 
The operand must use the indexed ad- 
dressing mode, which includes PC-rela- 
tive. "Where am 1?" could be coded: 

HERE LEAX HERE.PCR 

Assuming that you want HERE to be in 
the X register. 

Other uses for the LEA instruction are 
addressing position-independent tables 
and adding constants to the indexable 
registers. 

I recently read an article comparing the 
6502 and the 6809 in which the author 
complained that he wasn't able to find 
much use for the LEA instruction. This 
caused some amusement among my 
friends. A close examination of some of 
my own code reveals that the LEA instruc- 
tion is one of the most heavily used. I 
would venture the opinion that position- 
independent code would be much more 
difficult to write without it. 

Howard Lee Harkness 
Word's Worth 
POB 28954 
Dallas, TX 75228 



Architecture Controversy 

It was nice to see your article on higher- 
level machine-language constructs, 
"Should the DO Loop Become an Assem- 
bly-Language Construct?" by Glenn L. 
Williams (October 1981 BYTE, page 413). 
I would like to add a couple of comments 
to Mr. Williams's remarks. 

Since Mr. Williams was including mini- 
computers in his article (he references the 



PDP-11 and VAX 11/780) he might also 
have included a reference to the HP3000 
instructions MTBA, MTBX, TBA, and 
TBX. These four instructions each per- 
form a variation of Mr. Williams's NXT 
function. All the instructions use a loop 
variable, a limit value, and a step value. 
TBA and MTBA use a variable address on 
the stack while TBX and MTBX use the in- 
dex register for the loop variable. In all 
cases, the limit and step values are on the 
stack. MTBA and MTBX modify the vari- 
able by the step value, which may be any 
integer, positive or negative, and compare 
the result to the limit value. Positive step 
values cause a check to see if the limit has 
been exceeded, and negative step values 
cause the check to see if the result is less 
than the limit. TBA and TBX do not 
modify the variable but check only for the 
limit being exceeded. These allow com- 
pilers to implement more complex count- 
ing-loop structures than can be accom- 
plished by adding or subtracting a step 
size. Also, functions similar to Mr. 
Williams's SRCH function are performed 
by SCU (SCan Until memory byte match- 
es test byte or terminal byte) and SCW 
(SCan While memory byte matches test 
byte or until terminal byte is found) on 
character strings. 

With the growing acceptance of 
modular, structured programming it has 
long been my feeling that high-level con- 
structs should be imposed at the machine- 
instruction level. The only real need for 
assembly language these days is to utilize 
the machine architecture not available at 
the high-level-language level to produce 
quick, short code. Implementing high- 
level functions in machine language and 
providing optimizing compilers should 
just about eliminate any need for assem- 
bly language. Code produced would be 
very short and quick, because a single 
complex machine instruction should run 
faster than the many simpler instructions 
put together needed to accomplish the 
same function. I would like to see both 
micro- and minicomputer processors de- 
veloped with instructions to implement 
WHILE, IF . . . THEN . . . ELSE, CASE, 
DO . . . UNTIL, and other high-level 
constructs at the machine-instruction 
level. 

Let's all keep pushing for advances in 
architecture to keep up with advances in 
software. And thanks, BYTE, for being 
among the leaders in this respect. 

David B. Mears 
757 Cornell Dr. 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 



16 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




SPRINT 9 



STANDARD OPERATOR 
CONTROL PANEL. 



Switch selection of 
nterface parameters 
and forms handling 
allows simple OEM 
system intregration. 

Automatic propor- 
tional spacing, with- 
out decreasing sys- 
tem throughput, sets 
the new standard for 
print quality. 

To cut service costs 
and reduce adjust- 
ments, the exclu- 
sive Kevlar® belt is 
strongerand lighter 
than steel, with vir- 
tually no stretch. 

For the highest ac- 
curacy in the history 
of daisywheel print- 
ing, our Microdrive'" 
carriage drive mech- 
anism has no cables 
or pulleys. 



Test drive 
our hot new 
daisywheelers. 

If you've always wanted letter-quality |^^ 

printing from your DP system but the cost 

has put you off, then a SPRINT 9 is for you. 

Now you can have the same high quality print— 

usually only available on word processing systems— at 

prices that will let you forget all about dot-matrix terminals. 

With speeds of 45 and 55 cps (average English text, not burst 

rate), the reliable high performance of SPRINT 9 terminals leaves 

the crowd behind. Prove it to yourself with a test drive. 

Call or write Qume at (408) 942-4000. 2350 Qume Drive, 

San Jose, California 95131. 



LIMITED OEM 
CONTROL PANEL. 



Qume 

A Subsidiary of ITT 



A Subsidiary of ITT 
Circle 331 on Inquiry card. 






Circle 118 on inquiry card. 



Compliment 
your 

Apple III® 

or IBM... 



simply 
SCQO00 




# 13" RGB Color. 

# 16 Colors on your 
Apple III® or IBM. 

# Up to 80 Characters per line. 

# 360 Dots per color, 
(horizontal resolution) 

# Available for immediate 
shipment. 

Other models available: 

12" Green Phosphor 

(1200 lines resolution) $179.00 

12" Black & White 

(15Mhz) $139.00 

Contact your local dealer 
or call us direct. 

Toll Free 1-800-258-6370 

MONITORS BY 



lECD 

) Apple III is a registered 
trademark of Apple Computer. 




data led 



18 Bridge Street, Salem, NH 03079 
Tel. (603) 893-2047 
TWX: 710-366-0502 



Letters. 



Glenn Williams is undoubtedly correct 
when he says that the instruction sets of 
microprocessors can be improved. For 
various reasons, however, I do not agree 
with his specific proposals. 

It will always be necessary to write pro- 
grams in assembly language, but if the 
"software crisis" can be solved at all it will 
only be by the efficient implementation of 
high-level languages. Processor designers 
have clearly realized this, but unfortu- 
nately their attempts at providing "fea- 
tures" that are supposed to help the com- 
piler writer are often misguided. Con- 
sider, for example, two of the features 
mentioned by Mr. Williams: stack and 
condition registers. 

There are two principal reasons for us- 
ing stacks in the implementation of a high- 
level language. One is to save and restore 
environments when procedures are called, 
and the other is to provide fast temporary 
storage during expression evaluation. 
Typical PUSH and POP instructions do 
not help in either case: to save and restore 
an environment we need an appropriate 
addressing mechanism, and expressions 
can be evaluated faster using registers 
than stacks in memory. 

If we were interested only in simple test- 
and-jump coding, condition registers 
would be fine, but in high-level language 
programming this is not always the case. 
The Pascal statements 

finished := eof OR (lines > maximum) 

and 



total 



total + width * length 



have the same structure. On a processor 
with condition registers, however, the 
first is coded by means of an elaborate se- 
quence of jumps, while the second is a 
simple sequence of arithmetic operations. 
There is no reason why tests should not 
leave their results in ordinary registers, 
like other instructions. 

The DO statement that Mr. Williams 
proposes would not be used by any but 
the most sophisticated optimizing com- 
piler. First, it is inappropriate for loops in 
which a termination test is made on entry 
to, rather than on exit from, the loop 
body. This is not required for FORTRAN, 
but it is for Pascal. Second, the DO stack 
must be adjusted if an exit occurs before 
the loop is completed, and that is often, 
whatever the structured-programming 
zealots say. Third, a special addressing 
mode is required so that the code within 
the loop can access the DO index, because 



the DO index lives in the DO stack. 

The real requirements have been accu- 
rately summarized by Professor William 
Wulf ("Compilers and Computer Archi- 
tecture," Computer, July 1981): the com- 
piler writer wants well-designed primitive 
instructions, not solutions to problems. A 
small set of efficient, useful instructions is 
better than a vast number of "clever" in- 
structions that do the right thing in special 
circumstances but require elaborate 
analysis in the general case. 

Peter Grogono 
Metonomy Productions 
4125 Beaconsfield Ave. 
Montreal, Quebec 
H4A 2H4 Canada 



SR51A vs. HP-41C 
Calculations Continued 

I thank Mr. Kitchen (Letters, October 
1981 BYTE, page 20) for another opportu- 
nity to discuss accuracy in Hewlett- 
Packard calculators. I fear he missed the 
point; please note my earlier statement re- 
garding predicability (Letters, April 1981 
BYTE, page 16). Then try this with an 
SR51A or a similar calculator: 

l.Take the square root of 2. On both your 
SR51A calculator and my HP-41C, the 
display shows 1.414213562. Square this 
result. You get 2; I get 1.999999999. 
Subtract 2. Neither machine yields zero, 
but yours looks like it will, unless you 
"chisel out" the hidden digits first. 

2. Enter 1.414213562 through the key- 
board, then square it. If your display 
reads 2, feel free to be outraged: your 
machine does funny arithmetic. Indeed, 
the SR51A does not yield 2 as a result, 
but, considering what happened in (1), 
it looks like it will. How much work are 
you willing to do to discover how your 
calculator is going to behave? If it is 
really a 13-digit machine, why must you 
trick it to reap the benefits? 

I could go on. At great length. And not 
just about SR51s and square roots. 

In some cases, the SR51A yields better 
results than an HP-41C. But which cases? 
In chain calculations, digits 11, 12, and 13 
can become numerical noise that creeps 
into the visible mantissa, causing 
mysterious results whose origins are very 
hard to isolate. 

Hewlett-Packard calculators exhibit 
more deterministric behavior. Accurate 
internal software that discards guard 



18 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Has your microprocessor become 
a major problem? 




Mountain Computer introduces 
low cost data entry. 




ifi^ 




* 



rapid, 



M5 Mountain "Computer 

I N COB PO RAT ED 

300 El Pueblo, Scotts Valley, CA 95066 
TWX: 910 598-4504 [408I438-6650 



Circle 267 on Inquiry card. 



Model 1100A Intelligent Card Reader 

Ideal applications include time reporting, 
job costing, inventory control, market surveys 
etc. . . . 

Contact us or see your computer dealer today! 



digits is one reason. When unavoidable 
numerical errors occur, they are predict- 
able, repeatable, and immediately ap- 
parent. Serious numerical analysis 
demands this; braggadocio does not. 

Once again: a calculator is a tool, an ex- 
tension of the mind. It must be under- 
standable and understood by the user. 
Consider what can happen if this is not 
the case for a variety of tools you may use 
(e.g., power saws, guns, automobiles). 
Then consider who uses calculators 
seriously-: scientists, engineers, bankers, 
and doctors. 

The designers at Hewlett-Packard keep 
such things firmly in mind. 

Steve Abell 

Research & Development Engineer 

Hewlett-Packard Company 

Corvallis Division 

1000 NE Circle Blvd. 

Corvallis, OR 97330 



The Big Spelling Sweepstakes 

The spelling-correction software review 
by Phil Lemmons ("Five Spelling-Cor- 



rection Programs for CP/M-Based Sys- 
tems," November 1981 BYTE, page 434) 
gives me new faith in the free-enterprise 
economic system of business. He has cor- 
rectly pointed to the best value in a com- 
puter dictionary program: The Word 
from Oasis Systems. 

When this program was released I com- 
pared it to the "high-priced spreads" and 
came to the conclusion that a big-budget 
ad campaign would always get results for 
the less-valued product. The way that 
various magazine editors and writers were 
talking up certain overpriced spellers I 
thought that the big dollars would win 
over the underfinanced little organiza- 
tions. I concluded I was wrong after 
reading your comprehensive review. 

I'm sure there's a lot of egg on many a 
face this day — and rightly so. There are 
always some individuals willing to lend 
their names to products they don't fully 
understand. Furthermore, they let their 
names to used without understanding the 
competitive positions they are taking. 
That seems to be a characteristic of our 
culture — if action is required, act even if 
you don't have the facts. 

The time is rapidly approaching when 
the fast-buck artist can no longer get away 



WHY SHOULD YOU PAY 
FOR THEIR AD SPACE ? ? 

You'll see many large mail order ads, all 

with the lowest price. We think that's 

funny because we know what those 

large ads cost and who has to pay for 

them - YOU! At Futra Company, we try 

to provide our customers with true 

value. True value to the customer is not 

in larger ads but in better service. Futra 

has sold through mail order for the past 

four years. Our reputation for fast 

delivery and courteous service has 

flourished. Most of our sales are repeat customers or referrals. We're proud of 

that. So, why pay for their ad space? Look over the list of product lines we 

carry and call us when you need a quote on a specific product. Stop paying for 

ad space and consider true value. 

FUTRA "Star Values" 

Microsoft Z-80 Softcard S269.00 

Microsoft 16K Ramcard . . . Limited stock 129.00 

Videx Videoterm CALL 

Epson MX-100 & MX-80/ft CALL 

Zenith 12" Green Monitor 125.00 




Novation Apple-Cat Modem 319.00 

SOFTWARE: 

Wordstar 3.0 (Apple) 229.00 

Peachtree/40 (Apple) 195.00 

Peachtree/5 (8" CP/M) 350 00 



NEC CALL 

Xerox 820 CALL 

Vector Graphics CALL 

Alios 8000 series CALL 

SUPPLIES: 
Scotch Diskettes 

744-0, 10. 16 RH 5" $27.00 

745-0 RH DS/DO 5" 39.00 

741-0 RH SS/DD 8" 37.00 

743-0 RH DS/DD 8" 44.00 



A17 



ADOS 
AITOJ 

ANAQU 



0T1AN 

Epson 

HATCS 

RAZILTINE 



ASK70NT, 



MICROSOFT 
MITSUSISHI (VCRI 
A 1 DESIGNS 



PERSONAL SOFTWARE STRUCTURED SYSTEMS 

RCA (VCR| SDffLIES 

SANTO SYSTEM PLUS 

SCOTCH TDK 

IE II0OKS1 HEWLETT PACKARD MORROW DESIGNS SHARP TELEVIDEU 

TATE HOWaRDSOFT MOUNTAIN COMPUTER SOFTWARE PUBUSIHO TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

KONAN NEC SONY (VCR A TAX 

MIR HOVATWH PHOFEELI VIDEX 

MICRO FOCUS PANASONIC SORCim VISTA 

CORVUS MICRO PRO PEACHTREE SSM XEROX 

STONEWARE ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS 



PI ITPA (213) 328-8951 - (800) 421-5006 

I U 1 lin Twx 9 10 _3 4 g_ 6 211 ™»s»*- 

COMR1IVY AGENFTRA TRNC 



Mail Order to: P.O. Box 4380 
Torrance, CA 90510-4380 

Retail: 20695 S. Western Ave. 

Suite 124, Torrance, CA 90501 

(213) 328-1760 



TERMS: Shipping add 3% lor product shipped within ax*rantal USA via UPS surface (nrnmum 
S6.00) It tha order la placed prepaid with U.S. fund* In tha lorn, of chat* or money order, a 
Total Charge of $6.00 for ahlpplng Is a> you pay wNNn Ins BDBfcw M USA via UPS 
surface. Alow 14 wortring days lor personal and company dtecks to dsar CVed* card chivgas 
limited to 11000. HO COD's. FPO, APO or orders outside conbrnnUI USA cal or write tor ship- 
ping charges or add 20% to purchase price (any drfteronce will be retorted) CaHorraa residents 
add 6% sales tax. Al others. AN otters subject to change or witfrirciwal wtfumi nc/aca. 



with his "get-rich-quick" schemes, thanks 
in no small part to magazines like yours. 

Frank Joseph 

10925 Stonebrook Dr. 

Los Altos Hills, CA 94022 



We wish to inform BYTE and its readers 
that there is a sixth spelling-correction 
program on the market that, according to 
Mr. Lemmons's benchmarks, outperforms 
the others. This program is called the 
Disc-tionary. 

We ran the Disc-tionary on Mr. Lem- 
mons's 400-word benchmark text and it 
found all seven misspellings, yet failed to 
recognize only eight additional correctly 
spelled words. The total time to proofread 
and mark the file was only 47 seconds on 
a typical computer when the word review 
feature was skipped (1:12 with word 
review). A 3100-word file can be proof- 
read in 1:12 without review. While it is 
impossible to make direct timing com- 
parisons due to the use of two different 
computers, the Disc-tionary obviously 
combines a high level of accuracy with a 
large vocabulary. This gives the user a 
higher level of safety and convenience 
than the other programs. 

We believe that the Disc-tionary 
presently provides the best combination 
of speed and accuracy. It is also very easy 
to use because of its menu-driven opera- 
tion. 

The Disc-tionary requires a Z80 and is 
available on an 8-inch CP/M disk for $79. 
This price includes a 54-page user's 
manual (available separately for $15) and 
two free "bug fix" updates. 

David G. Hicks, Vice-President 
Stellarsoft Corporation 
841 Blanchette Dr. 
East Lansing, MI 48823 

Editor's Note: This program has not been 
tested by Mr. Lemmons. The times above 
have been provided by the manufacturer, 
and we cannot vouch for their accuracy. 



An Avalanche of Answers 

I have received some pretty strange and 
fascinating responses to a question I put to 
Steve Ciarcia that was printed in "Ask 
BYTE" (July 1981 BYTE, page 218). 

Apparently, Steve didn't provide what 
the readers thought was the best answer 
and they quickly let us both know. The 



20 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 165 on inquiry card. 



Circle 402 on Inquiry card. 



897 N. W. Grant Ave. • Corvallis, Oregon 97330 • 503/758-0521 



Introducing the Enhancer It: a new 

Standard which is improving the 

relationship between Humans and 

Apples. The Enhancer ][ can help 

your Apple H's keyboard become 

more sociable by remembering 

words or phrases which can be 

entered into the Apple by the mere 

touch of a key. Life can become 

even easier because the Enhancer ][ 

can remember what you typed 

while your Apple was busy talking 

to your disc (or doing other things]. 

Naturally, it knows the difference 

between upper and lower case 

letters and what shift keys are 

supposed to do. It even knows to 

auto repeat any key held down. The 

Enhancer ][ replaces the encoder 

board making installation simple. 

Suggested retail price: $149.00. 






THE DAWN 
OF A NEW ERA 
FOR APPLE ]L' 



ENHANCER It 






■ 

■ 



VlUtU I trim 




The time tested Videoterm BO 
column card: 

• 80 characters x 24 lines 

• True decenders 

• 7 x 9 character resolution 

• Low power consumption 

• Compatible with most word 
processors 

• Softcard and CP/M compatible 

• Modem compatible 

• Most popular character set of 
any 80 column card 

• Alternate character fonts available 
Suggested retail price $345.00 



■ SOFT VIDEO 
SWITCH 



rmwn 




The Soft 
Video 
Switch is 
an auto- 
matic ver- 
sion of the 
popular 
Switch- 
plate. It 
knows 

whether it should display 40 or 80 
columns or Apple graphics. It does 
the tedious work of switching video- 
out signals so you don't have to. The 
Soft Video Switch can be controlled 
by software. Any Videoterm with 
Firmware 2.0 or greater may be 
used with the Soft Video Switch. 
The single wire shift mod is also sup- 
ported. Package price is $35.00. 



■ KEYBOARD AND 
DISPLAY ENHANCER 




The original Keyboard and Display 
Enhancer is still available for Revi- 
sion 0-6 Apples (an which the new 
Enhancer ][ will not fit). These 
Apples have memory select sockets 
at chip locations D1, E1 & F1. The 
Keyboard and Display Enhancer 
allows entry and display of upper & 
lower case letters with fully func- 
tional shift keys. It does NOT have 
user definable keys nor a type ahead 
buffer. The price is $ 1 29. 00. 



■ ACCESSORIES: 

Videoterm Utilities Disc $37.00 
(includes) 

• Font Editor 

• Pascal Mid-Res Graphics 

• Applesoft Read Screen Utility 

• Top S. Bottom Scrolling 

• Pascal Vidpatch 

• Graphics Template 
Character Set EPROMs $29.00 ea 

• Half Intensity 

• Inverse 

• German 

• Katakana (Japanese) 

• Line Drawing Graphics 
(Expanded) 

• Spanish 

• French 

• Math S Greek Symbols 

• Super & Subscript 
Dvorak EPROM 

(Enhancer) $29.00 

Lower Case Chip $29. 00 



Apple and Apple II are registered trademarks of Appli; Cornpu 



Letters. 



day I got my magazine I also got a long- 
distance call asking if I was Dave Bower 
and if I owned a TRS-80 and if I had writ- 
ten to BYTE magazine. The caller then 
answered my question. The next day I got 
a letter answering the question. There's 
nothing strange about getting a letter, ex- 
cept that you didn't print my address, and 
neither did the person sending the letter! 
And it continued like that for the next 
couple of months — letters and phone calls 
from all over the United States. And just 
when I thought it was over I got a package 
from Steve Ciarcia containing the letters 
he had received! 



So, needless to say, I got my question 
answered. And I got a lot more too. I 
think every person that contacted me also 
shared more hints and/or information or 
whatever. So even though they all called 
or wrote me about the same thing, not one 
exchange was a waste of time. 

I just wanted to let you know what kind 
of readers you have and that I think Steve 
has a pretty good column, and a well-read 
one too. 



Dave Bower 

741 Lake Edward Dr., Apt. 

Virginia Beach, VA 23462 



104 





HE S^W, ' 



ORD 



'ill' 



\ ,\ x > 



W \ 

WHY DOES OUR SPELLING CHECKER 
COST LESS THAN THEIRS? 



Maybe we goofed by not charging more 
for The WORD. Our customers tell us we 
must be crazy, giving away this much 
software for only $75. 

What's wrong with it? 

Frankly, we're a little hurt when people 
ask us this question. We guess everyone 
must be getting used to paying $200 to $300 
for decent software. Anything that costs 
less must be junk. Right?... WRONG!!! 

The WORD is not only cheaper, it's 
better! 

Available NOW for: 

8" single CP/M',CDOS™ 
XEROX 820 (8" only) 
Intertec Superbrain™ 

Apple™ with CP/M Softcard 

(35.000 word dictionary) 

North Star™ Double/Quad with CP/M 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 



The WORD gives you more! 

The WORD gives you a 45,000 word 
dictionary that fits into less than 140K of 
disk space. 

The WORD works with your favorite 
text editor and marks mistakes in your 
document for easy, in-context, correction. 

The WORD'S one-touch word review 
lets you add new words to the dictionary 
with a single keypress. You can build your 
own custom dictionaries too! 

The WORD will look up the correct 
spelling of misspelled words. 

The WORD analyzes your writing, 
counting words and showing you how 
often each word was used. 

The WORD has a special homonym 
helper feature to deal with these pesky 
words. 

The WORD will find rhyming words, 
solve crossword puzzles, and much more! 



OASIS SYSTEMS 

2765 REYNARD WAY, SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 



CALL TODAY! 

(714) 291-9489 



Closing the Net 



Harry Saal's article on local networks 
("Local-Area Networks, Possibilities for 
Personal Computers," October 1981 
BYTE, page 92) did injustice to your 
readers with its narrow scope and omis- 
sions. Specifically: 

1. Datapoint's local coaxial network- 
based ARC system was introduced and 
installed in 1977. 

2. About 2000 ARCs are installed and in 
commerical service worldwide — more 
than all other networks, prototype or 
otherwise, combined. (I have heard no 
argument to estimates that Datapoint 
has a 95 percent market share of in- 
stalled local networks.) 

3. Tandy uses the local network portion 
of ARC, ARCNET, for its TRS-80 
Model II personal computer network, 
announced in September — a step of 
major significance. 

4. Three companies now use ARCNET — 
Datapoint, Inforex, and Tandy. 

5. The only deliverable chip-based local 
network interface is manufactured by 
Datapoint. 

Considering these omissions, I'm skep- 
tical that the article was well researched. 

Gerard Cullen 
Vice-President Marketing 
International Operations 
Datapoint Corporation 
9725 Datapoint Dr. 
San Antonio, TX 78284 

Harry J. Saal replies: 

My article was not intended as a com- 
plete survey of local-area network prod- 
ucts. Datapoint's offerings in the high- 
speed, serial, coax network were indeed 
quite early; it is unfortunate that Data- 
point has not provided any in-depth tech- 
nical information in the published 
literature by which its system can be eval- 
uated for comparative study. In 
September 1981, several months after my 
article was completed, Datapoint an- 
nounced its relationship with Tandy, a 
very exciting recent development. 

Let me assure Mr. Cullen that there are 
substantially more than 100 installed, 
non-ARC local networks worldwide; 
hence the 95 percent market share claim is 
false. ■ 



22 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The Context Connector" Converts 

Any Data Directly Into VisiCalc 

Without Re-typing. 



If you're one of the thousands of VisiCalc users 
who enter data from another computer into your 
VisiCalc models, the Context Connector can save 
you hours of work. 

The Connector automatically converts text files 
from any computer into VisiCalc format. So you 
can easily move numbers from any file directly 
into selected VisiCalc cells. 

Load Data From Your Company Computer. 

The Connector lets you convert data from your 
company computer directly into VisiCalc models. 
So you can compare actual results to VisiCalc 
projections. The Connector will also consolidate 
different VisiCalc models, an invaluable tool for 
3.2 version owners. 

Analyze Stock and Commodities Prices. 

The Connector converts data from timesharing 
services like Dow Jones into VisiCalc cells. So 
you can manipulate error free numbers instead of 
spending valuable time on typing. 

Convert Data From Any Timesharing System. 

The Connector will convert data from any time- 
sharing system into your VisiCalc models. Infor- 
mation from DRI, Dow Jones, The Source, Chase 
Econometrics, Dialog and other leading data 
bases can be processed by the Connector. The 
Connector has its own editor to let you review and 
edit figures prior to converting into VisiCalc. 

The Connector Also Transmits and 
Receives Electronic Mail. 

The Context Connector also serves as a basic 
communications program. The Connector has an 
auto-dial feature to automatically call other 



computers. Once on-line, the Connector can 
transmit standard DOS text files to any computer. 
The Connector can transmit and receive complete 
VisiCalc models. Another useful function is "save 
to disk" which allows you to save your electronic 
mail on disk for future reference. 

Specifications. 

The Connector is designed to work with the Apple 
II, 48K of RAM and at least one disk drive. The 
Connector supports both 13 and 16 sector disk 
versions of VisiCalc. It also works with the Apple 
III in emulation mode. 

For data transmission, the Connector supports 
the D.C. Hayes Micromodem, Apple communica- 
tions card or the SSM/AIO card. 

Available at Your Local Computer Store. 

The Connector is available at most personal 
computer stores. For the name of your nearest 
dealer, please call or write Context Management 
Systems. Retailers, the Connector is available 
from Softsel Distributors or from Context Man- 
agement Systems. 

Free Demo Disk 

Send us a blank 5 1 /4" disk and a self addressed 
stamped mailer and we'll return your disk with a 
copy of the Connector demonstration program 
which explains how you can use the Connector. 
Or if you prefer, send a check for $4.00 made out 
to Context and we'll send you a new Maxell MD-1 
5 1 /4" disk containing our demo program. Once 
you've seen our demo, you can delete the program 
and use the demo disk as you would any new 
blank diskette. It's a risk free way of seeing the 
Connector demonstrated on your Apple. 



CONTEXT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 

Management Software For Personal Computers 

23864 Hawthorne Blvd., Suite 101 

Torrance, California 90505 

(213)378-8277 

©1982 Context Management Systems 



VisiCalc™ is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. • Apple™ is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Circle 110 on Inquiry card. 



CP/M-86: 
The Standard 

in the 

16-Bit World 




\C 





WAR?. 



The Growth Market 

& Proven Tools 

The 16-bit world answers 
universal demands for greater 
performance, more address 
space and increased resources. 
This market's unprecedented 
growth fuels a profit-driven supply 
curve for software and hardware, 
where compatibility reigns. Our 
upward compatible CP/M® based 
family of 1 6-bit products, plus our 
commitment to our customers' 
success eases and speeds your 
entry, your conversion, to the 16- 
bit world of opportunities — the 
Digital" Research world . 

Single user solution: CP/M-86 
features efficiency and power. 
For over a year, its dramatic 
user acceptance has generated 
impressive quantities of code. 
While others are just entering 
the market, Digital Research's 
CP/M-86 is already offering a 
broad array of languages and 
applications. This simplifies your 
conversion to 16-bit systems. 

For concurrent single user 
applications, MP/M-86™ per- 
forms simultaneous, multiple 
operations such as communica- 
tions, printing, computation, 
etc. It features compact, time- 
tested modular code. And it's 
available today. 

In multiple computer environ- 
ments, MP/M-86 lets you sell your 
same programs into this market 
segment. You solve multi-user 
needs with a field proven product, 
not a "newcomer! 1 Increased sales 
of multi-user products mean 
more profit potential for you. 

Expand to network: CP/NET- 
86™ interconnects multiple 16 
or 8-bit systems. It allows you 
to expand your product's 
capabilities. 

High level languages [over 20 
languages) under CP/M-86, 
handily support your 1 6-bit appli- 
cations. OurXLT86™ utility speeds 
conversion to 16-bit code by 
reducing R&D time. It makes pro- 
gram development and main- 
tenance easier. 

Documentation in a compre- 
hensive set of manuals clarify your 
use of CP/M-86, MP/M-86 and 
XLT86. 



FTWAltf 







Over 2 Million CP/M-86 Units 

Software Writer Benefits The Standard Is 



2,800,000 CP/M-86 based 
systems by 1986. This market 
projection identifies the type and 
scope of you r f utu re sales. 

Independent Software Vendor 
(ISV] benefits from Digital 
Research can make you more 
profitable. Here's a glimpse. Call 
forthe complete repertoire of 
sales and development aids. 

16-bit laboratory for your use 
features many different 16-bit 
machines. This one stop develop- 
ment reduces the conversion time 
of your application or language. 
First to call means first to enjoy 
this resource, and first to start 
sales rolling. 

ISV selling aid: Descriptive 
listings of your products in our 
ISV Compatible Software Catalog 
have worldwide exposure. 

IBM Display Writers and 
Personal Computers running 
CP/M-86 guarantee a large 
installed base for your 1 6-bit 
products. 




Digital Research 

We are the most experienced 
microcomputer software com- 
pany in the industry. Over 300,000 
microcomputers use our operat- 
ing systems. Over 400 OEMs and 
500 independent software 
vendors use our products. 
Hundreds of 8-bit applications 
now run under our 16-bit prod- 
ucts. Across the board, we set 
the standard. And these people 
help us set it, with languages 
under CP/M-86 or MP/M-86: 
The Code Works 
Computer Innovations 
Compuview Products, Inc. 
Digital Research 
Microfocus, Inc. 
Micropro Int'l Corp. 
Microsoft 

Midwest Micro-Tek, Inc. 
Ryan-McFarland Corp. 
The Soft Warehouse 
Sorcim Corp. 
Stackworks 
Supersoft Associates 
Thomas W. Yonkman 
Vanguard Systems Corp. 



OEM Strategy 

New sales. New markets. New 
applications become realities 
when you convert to 16-bits. New 
demand curves. New and larger 
profit centers are yours with our 
16-bit products. To immediately 
capture increased market share, 
make a priority call to our market- 
ing group for our 16-bit product 
briefs, OEM price list and contract 
information. 



C compiler 

C compiler 

VEDIT, screen editor 

CBASIC-86, PASCAL MT 

CIS COBOL 

WORDMASTER, WORDSTAR 

BASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL, PASCAL 

BASIC-compiler 

RM/COBOL 

LISP compiler, MuMATH 

PASCAL/M.TRANS-86 

FORTH 

C compiler 

LISP/86 

APL/V86 



Turn Opportunity 

into Success. 

Stop following the competition. 
Help lead the field. Today. We 
provide the capability, and we 
have the desire, to accelerate 
your profitability. There's no 
other software product on the 
market today that can help make 
you more successful than Digital 
Research's CP/M-86. And there's 
no other company. We stand 
ready. It's your move. 
Call (408) 649-3896, or write: 
Digital Research, RO. Box 579, 
Pacific Grove, CA 93950. 
Europe: Vector; Int'l., Leuven, 
Belgium, 32(1 6]202496. 
Far East: Microsoftware Assoc, 
Tokyo, Japan, 03-403-2120. 

Circle 132 on Inquiry card. 



Apple/Tandy software writers: 

Personal and professional com- 
puter applications increasingly 
require 16-bit resources. Our 
established "how-to" aids simplify 
and speed your conversion to 16- 
bit applications. Just let us help. 



.ffiA 




^5 




I 



I DIGITAL RESEARCH 



CP/M is a registered trademark ot Digital Research. CP/M-86, MP/M-86. 
CP/NET-86, XLT86and PASCAL MT ate trademarks of Digital Research. 
(0Copyright1981 Digital Re-">=>"-h 



Hardware Review 



Commodore 4022 Printer 



Joseph Holmes 

13049 Broadway Terrace 

Oakland, CA 94611 



Some marriages are made in 
heaven — others are made in Japan. 
Commodore Business Machines has 
joined Epson to produce a fine, low- 



cost printer that combines the hard- 
ware features of the Epson MX-80 
with the upgraded operating system 
of the Commodore CBM 2022 



At a Glance 



Name 

Commodore Business Machines Dot-Matrix Printer Model CBM 4022 

Use 

General [listings, reports, business forms, graphics, draft-quality word processing, etc. 

Manufacturer 

Commodore Business Machines and Epson 
3330 Scott Blvd. 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 

Dimensions 

0.7 by 37.3 by 33 cm (414 by 14% by 13 inches); the weight is 6.6 kg (14.6 pounds) 

Price 

S795 

Additional Hardware Needed 

Cable (CBM to IEEE-488 or IEEE-488 to IEEE-488) 

Features 

Disposable heavy-duty 8-wire jeweled print head, cartridge ribbon, 80-column width capabili 
ty, 5 by 8 dot-matrix characters (6 by 8 for graphics), true lowercase descenders, maximum 
print speed of 80 lines/minute for 20 columns (40 lines/minute for 40 columns), programmable 
line spacing, user-designed characters, paging with variable lines/page, enhanced (widened) 
characters, two character sets, and built-in error messages 

Documentation 

Commodore User's Manual, 45-page paperback (supplied with printer); Osborne/McGraw-Hill 
PET/CBM Personal Computer Guide, 2nd edition, 501 -page paperback (supplied with com- 
puter) 

Audience 

Programmers, businesspeople, engineers, educators, students, writers, hobbyists, or others 
with Commodore 2000, 4000, or 8000 series microcomputers. 



printer. Latest in a series of new prod- 
ucts from Commodore, the CBM 
4022 will handle most printing jobs 
where the 8V2- by 11-inch paper size 
and dot-matrix output are acceptable. 

The 4022 is totally compatible with 
all Commodore 2000, 4000, and 8000 
series computers. The printer requires 
no special interface other than a 
cable. The 4022 prints the entire 
CBM/PET character set (256 
characters), which means that listings 
and graphics programs come out just 
as they were entered (see figure 1). It 
is controlled by an internal micro- 
processor, which gives the 4022 ver- 
satile line-spacing and formatting 
capabilities. You can design your 
own business forms; you can even 
design and print special characters. 
The 4022 has both a replaceable line 
cord and an external, easily replace- 
able fuse. 

In order to detail the other features 
of the CBM 4022, I will compare it to 
its cousin, the MX-80, and to its 
father, the CBM 2022. 

CBM 4022 Versus Epson MX-80 

Many of the 4022's features overlap 
those of the MX-80. Both have a self- 
diagnostic print test and lowercase 
descenders (one-dot descenders with 
the 4022 and two-dot descenders with 
the MX-80). Line spacing defaults to 
1/6 inch (six lines per inch) in the 
4022 and to either 1/8, 1/6, or 7/72 



26 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



1001 



META TECHNOLOGIES 

26111 Brush Avenue. Euclid Ohio 44132 
CALL TOLL FREE 1 -800-321 -3552 TO ORDER 

IN OHIO, call (216) 289-7500 (COLLECT) 



THINGS TO 
DO WITH YOOR 
PERSONAL COMPUTER 

BY MARK SAWIISCH 

333 pages $10.95 

333 pages, written in simple terms, of 
"what-to-do" and "how-to-do-it". Suitable 
not only for microcomputers, but for pro- 
grammable calculators as well. Includes 
program listings, formulas, a glossary of 
computer terms and more! Definitely a 
MUST BUY! 



"TRS-80™ DISK AND 
OTHER MYSTERIES" 

by Harvard C. Pennington 

132 pages written in PLAIN ENGLISH packed 
with HOW TO information with details, examples 
and in-depth explanations. Recover lost files and 
directories, remove file protection, make BASIC 
programs unlistable. How to use SUPERZAP, 
recover from DOS errors and MORE! 

TRS-80TM DISK $19.95 



"OTHER MYSTERIES" 
VOLUME II 

by James Farvour 

Call now and place your order tor tnis new book, 
•'MICROSOFT™ BASIC DECODED & OTHER 
MYSTERIES for the TRS-80TM", from IJG, Inc. 
A primer for cassette and disk BASIC on the 
TRS-80TM, the information provided applies to 
similar MICROSOFTTM BASIC interpreters. 

MICROSOFTTM BASIC DECODED . $24.95 



"OTHER MYSTERIES" 
VOLUME III 

by Dennis Kitsz 

THE CUSTOM TRS-8(r™ $28.95 

CALL FOR AVAILABILITY 

"OTHER MYSTERIES" 
VOLUME IV 

"BASIC FASTER 
AND BETTER" 

If you program in BASIC, you want this book! 
Time-tested and proven, the techniques and 
routines can be used in thousands of ways to 
make your programs smaller, faster, and look 
truly professional. 
BASIC FASTER & BETTER $24.95 



EPSON 

MX-80, MX-80FT, MX-100 

PRINTERS 

NE W LOWER PRIC ES! 

EXTRA-LONG 
10 ft. RIBBON 

CABLE 

$24 95 

CONNECTS EPSON PRINTER 
& TRS-80 MICROCOMPUTER 

40-TRACK, SINGLE/DOUBLE- 
DENSITY, FAST ACCESS, 
5 1 A -inch TAN DON 

DISK 
DRIVES 

$289 complete 

FOR MODEL I and MODEL III 

Includes Case, Power Supply 
and External Drive Connector 

DISK DRIVE 

EXTENDER 
CABLE 



$9 



95 



for VISTA, MICROPOLIS, 

MTI, PERTEC, SHUGART, 

PERCOM& OTHERS 



Single Sided, Soft-Sectored S'/i-inch, 

PARAGON MAGNETICS™ 

PLAIN JANETM 

DISKETTES 



$19 



95 



box of 10 



These are factory fresh, absolutely first 
quality (no seconds!) mini-floppies. They are 
complete with envelopes, labels and write- 
protect tabs in a shrink-wrapped box. 

Box of 10 Diskettes $19.95 

PARAGON 

magnetics™ 

Introducing MTC's premium generic 
diskette. Single-Sided, Soft-Sectored, 
DOUBLE-DENSITY, S'A-inch diskettes with 
reinforcing HUB-RINGS. Individually 100% 
ERROR-FREE certified. Invest in GOLD! 
PARAGON MAGNETICS GOLD $23.95 



VERBATIM'S PREMIUM DISKETTES 

DATALIFE™ 

Seven data-shielding improvements mean 
greater durability and longer data life. 
These individually, 100% error-free cer- 
tified diskettes feature thicker oxide 
coating, longer-lasting lubricant, improved 
liner, superior polishing and more! Meets 
or exceeds IBM, Shugart, ANSI, ECMA 
and ISO standards. 

VERBATIM DATALIFETM DISKETTES 
5!/4-inch(boxof 10) 

MD525-01 $26.95 

8-inch FLOPPIES 

Double-Density, FD34-8000 . $43.95 



'RINGS' & 
THINGS 

HUB RING KIT for 5 1 /." disks $10.95 

HUB RING KIT for 8" disks $12.95 

REFILLS (50 Hub Rings) $ 5.95 

CLEANING KIT for 5 '/I" drives . . $24.95 

5!/4-inch diskette case $3.50 

8-inch diskette case $3.95 

5 Vi -inch File Box for 

50 diskettes $24.95 

8-inch File Box for 

50 diskettes $29.95 



TRS-80 is a trademark of the 

Radio Shack Division ot Tandy 

Corporation. DATALIFE is a 

trademark ol VERBATIM. PLAIN 

JANE, PARAGON MAGNETICS. 

are trademarks of MTC 
© 1981 by Meta Technologies 
Corporation 



MOST ORDERS 

SHIPPED WITHIN 

ONE BUSINESS DAY 

Products damaged in 
transit will be exchanged. 



PRICES IN EFFECT 

March 1,1982 THRU 

March 31, 1982 

Prices, Specifications, 
and Offerings subject to 
change without notice. 

8203 



WE ACCEPT 

• VISA 

• MASTER CHARGE 

• CHECKS 

• MONEY ORDERS 

• COD. 



• Add $3.00 for shipping 
& handling 
•$3.00 EXTRA for COD. 

•Ohio residents add 6.5% 
sales tax. 



Circle 234 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



************< 



CBM 4Q22 PRINT SAMPLE 



PET KEYBOARD: STANDARD CHARACTER. SET CUNSHIFTED) 

e ! "#*;■; ' &:■-. >: :> «-c i qwertvu i op-t-ohsdfgh jkl : zxcvbnm , ; ??S9/456* 1 23+0 . -= 

PET KEYBOARDS STANDARD CHARACTER SET < SHIFTED > 

-i -~_i m #?"*+ 1 »o~_i 1 ,-, nn "* *#--i 1 '-' l_>*--x 1 .•-•■, . % -j 1 1 h-h y n u 

PET KEYBOARD : ALTERNATE CHARACTER SET <UNSHIFTED> 

& ! " #$X r .fc!;: < ) £*+ 1 owier-feyu i opKOasd-Pcjhj k I : zxcvfonm ,• .? ?789/456* 1 23+0 . -= 

PET KEYBOARD: ALTERNATE CHARACTER SET >■. SHIFTED;' 

~i »~J ~lf\«&«-C D QWERTVU I OPt - ASDFGHJKLi-'ZHCVBNM „ \"~ m ' m ^J I I H~tH h n LJ 

REVERSE FIELD: 



ENHANCED : 



ONCE' 



H--J X ill: 



~~r~ :n 1 — 1 



USER DESIGNED CHARACTER: @ IJi 



I jg 



Figure 1: Prinf sample of the Commodore CBM 4022 printer showing the entire character set, reversed and enhanced print, and user- 
defined characters. 



inch in the MX-80. The line spacing 
can be altered (under software con- 
trol) from between 1/216 and 
127/216 (0.0046 to 0.5880) inch in- 
crements on the 4022 and between 
1/72 and 85/72 (0.0139 to 1.180) inch 
increments on the MX-80. 

Characters printed by the 4022 can 
be enhanced (widened). This can be 
done several times, if desired. Print 
enhancement with the MX-80 means 
emphasized print and/or double 
striking; both processes make the 
characters closer to correspondence 
quality. The 4022 is a tractor-feed 
printer that accepts paper in 4- to 
10-inch widths. The print head is 
disposable, has a useful life of from 
50 to 100 million characters, and 
costs less than $30. (Another dis- 
posable print head, which is longer 



lasting and 3 decibels quieter, sells for 
around $40.) The ribbon is housed in 
an easily changed cartridge, which 
needs replacing after about 3 million 
characters, that sells for around $14. 
Otherwise, the basic internal hard- 
ware of the two machines is virtually 
identical. 

In printers, as in marriage, com- 
promises often must be made. In 
order to accommodate the versatile 
CBM operating system, the 4022 has 
missed some of the juicier features of 
the MX-80: 

• The MX-80 prints 10 characters per 
inch (cpi) at 46, 73, and 105 lines per 
minute for 80, 40, and 20 columns, 
respectively. The corresponding print 
speeds for 10 cpi with the 4022 are 30, 
50, and 80 lines per minute. 



• The MX-80 has its own set of 64 
block-graphic characters. (I believe, 
however, that these graphics are far 
less interesting than the Commodore 
graphics.) 

• The MX-80 has 12 printing modes 
that combine four character-width 
sizes: normal, 10 cpi; normal double 
width, 5 cpi; compressed, 16.5 cpi; 
and compressed double width, 8.25 
cpi with four print densities: stan- 
dard, emphasized, double strike, and 
emphasized plus double strike. 
Epson's MX-80 prints all these com- 
binations of print sizes and print den- 
sities — except enhanced and en- 
hanced plus double strike for the two 
compressed sizes. 

• The four type sizes used by the 
MX-80 give a range of 40 to 132 
characters per 8-inch line. The CBM 



28 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Systems Group System 2800 
computers. They're making 
people stand up and take notice. 

But then Systems Group 
products have always appealed 
to those who appreciate sensible 
value, high performance, un- 
matched reliability and prompt, 
courteous service. 

Through the years, Systems 
Group product acceptance in 
Z80 CPU, disk controller, I/O 
and memory boards have been 
the result of some very pur- 
poseful and carefully thought 
out engineering. Not to mention 
strict industrial quality produc- 
tion standards. 

That same effort has made 
System Group's new family of 
expandable System 2800 com- 
puters what they are today. 



Fast, reliable and powerful. 

System 2800 computer sys- 
tems are designed for a single 
user with 64K of memory or for 
up to as many as six separate 
users with additional add-in 
memory. They can easily ex- 
pand as your organization's 
needs grow. 

You can handle up to 8000 
customers and 24,000 inventory 
items in our lowest cost dual 
floppy model and much, much 
more in our 40M byte hard disk 
models. And you can connect up 
to 12 terminals or printers and 
other add-on Systems Group 
floppy, tape and hard disk 
single or dual drive subsystems. 

Select CP/M f , MP/M f or 
OASIS tt operating systems to run 
all your word processing and 



accounting programs. No mat- 
ter what size organization you 
control, control- 
ling will be 
easier from 



now on. 

See the 
System 2800 
from Systems 
Group, they're 
what computers should have 
been in the first place. 

t registered Trademark of Digital Research 
tt registered trademark of Phase One Systems 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 

For dealers only, circle 371. 
All other inquiries, circle 372. 




Systems 



Group 



a Division of MEASUREMENT systems &. controls 
incorporated 

1601 Orangewood Avenue 

Orange, California 92668, (714) 633-4460 

TWX/TELEX 910 593 1350 SYSTEMGRP ORGE 



Be Permanently Impressed. 

The Expandable Computer Family 
from Systems Group. 







ra n 





1981 



1983 



1985 



Today's Requirements 

Dual floppy single or multi-user system 



Tomorrow's Requirements 

10M byte hard disk and floppy drive, 
single or multi-user system 



Your Future Requirements 

40M byte hard disk and 20M byte tape 
back-up, single or multi-user system 



4022 has one print mode and one type 
size giving 10 cpi or 80 characters per 
8-inch line. Characters can be wid- 
ened, however, for special effects. 

• The character matrix of the MX-80 
is 9 by 9 dots, whereas that of the 
CBM 4022 is 6 by 8 dots (5 by 8 for 
nongraphic characters). This allows 
two-dot lowercase descenders for the 
MX-80 versus one-dot descenders for 
the CBM 4022. 

• The MX-80 has four indicator 
lights: Power On, Printer Ready, 
Paper Out, and On Line. The four 
switches on the MX-80 are Power 
On/Off, On Line, Form Feed, and 
Line Feed. In addition, a warning 
buzzer responds to paper-out and er- 
ror conditions. The CBM 4022 has 
one indicator light (Power On), 
which also flashes for paper out, and 
two switches: an On/Off switch and 
a Paper Advance button that takes 
you to top-of-form or feeds con- 
tinuously if held down. 

• The MX-80 lists for $645; the CBM 
4022 lists for $795. Since no addi- 



tional interface board is needed to 
connect to PET/CBM computers, 
you could come out ahead with the 
4022. 

CBM 4022 Versus CBM 2022 

How does the CBM 4022 stack up 
against its predecessor, the CBM 
2022? Physically, they are quite dif- 
ferent. The 4022 is lighter and far 
more compact. It is also much 
quieter — a plus for the families of 
nighttime programmers! The 4022 
has true lowercase descenders; the 
2022 does not. 

Both printers share a slightly an- 
noying bug. When in the lowercase 
mode, the backslash, the left arrow 
and up arrow, and the left and right 
brackets must be shifted to achieve 
their normally unshifted appearance. 
For their shifted versions, or 
graphics, you must type them un- 
shifted. I have learned to live with 
this. The earlier model's paper ad- 
vance couldn't find the top-of-form, 
but it was useful for advancing the 



paper short distances without turning 
the knob. The new model makes it 
more difficult to back up the paper 
without crinkling precious hard copy. 
Both CBM printers have format- 
ting and other features that are con- 
trolled by a system of secondary ad- 
dresses (sa). These features are ac- 
tivated by opening files (channels) to 
one or more of the secondary ad- 
dresses and then printing to the ap- 
propriate file. The earlier model 2022 
had these seven secondary addresses: 

sa 0: Print exactly as received 

sa 1: Print according to an estab- 
lished format 

sa 2: Establish format field 

sa 3: Set number of lines per page 

sa 4: Activate error messages 

sa 5: Design custom character 

sa 6: Set spacing between lines 

The later model 2022 added an 
eighth secondary address (sa 7) that 
switched the entire PET/CBM char- 
acter set from uppercase/shifted 




Photo 1: Manufactured in Japan by Epson, the new CBM 4022 combines the hardware features of the MX-80 with the upgraded 
operating system of the CBM 2022 printer. 



30 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




A simple fact: 



The considerable 
benefits of a per- 
sonal computer like 
the Osborne 1® are 
often intangible, 
often exciting, and 
always expanding. 

The value of the 
Osborne 1 is clear 
and simple: 
$1795. Complete. 



$1795 includes this 
hardware: 

Z80A™ CPU with 64K RAM □ 
Dual floppy disk drives with 100K 
bytes storage each □ 5" CRT □ 
Business keyboard with numeric 
keypad and cursor keys □ 
RS-232C Interface □ 
IEEE 488 Interface □ 
Weather-resistant, portable 
housing □ Operates on European 
and American voltages □ 



$1795 includes this 
software: 

□ CP/M® Operating System 

□ WORDSTAR® word 
processing with MAILMERGE 

□ SUPERCALC™ electronic 
spreadsheet 

□ CBASIC® 

□ MBASIC® 




Call (41 5) 887-8080 for the name of your nearest authorized 
OSBORNE 1 computer retailer. 



Trademarks: ZBOA: Zilog Corporation 

SUPERCALC: Sorcim Corporation 

Registered Trademarks: 

OSBOflNE 1: Osborne Computer Corporalion 

CP/M: Digilal Research MBASIC: Microsoll 

CBASIC: Compiler Syslems. Inc. 

WORDSTAR, MAILMERGE: MicroPro International 



Circle 292 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 55 on inquiry card. 



GARBAGE PROBLEM? 

Memory Loss • Errors • Crashes • Reboots 




Take out the garbage 



with 






SPIKE, SURGE AND 

NOISE SUPPRESSOR 



• Six protected receptacles 

• Load rating of 15 amps 

• Broad band RFI suppression 

• Maximum transient current 
of 6000 amps (8X20us) 

i $ / i095 PLUS $1.75 
only OzJ FOR SHIPPING 

PROTECTS COMPUTERS,TELEVISION, 
PERIPHERALS, VIDEO GAMES, VCR'S 
AND OTHER ELECTRONIC DEVICES. 
SUPPRESSES DAMAGING POWERLINE 
TRANSIENTS AND RF INTERFERENCE. 



[ 



BWJ TECHNOLOGY, INC. 



BOX 6214 ARLINGTON, TX 76011 
DEPT. B (817)277-2726 



CHECK, MONEY ORDER, VISA, MASTER CHARGE » TEXAS RESIDENTS ADD 5% 




A new and powerful computer has been born . . . 

the System 83. The versatile UNIX* operating system 

pilots the System 83's raw power through a myriad of 

software such as "C", FORTRAN, PASCAL, BASIC, COBOL, 

and even Networking. Step into a bold new frontier with more 

power than you ever dreamed possible. 

D UNIX V7 configured by UNISOFT" □ Full IEEE 696/S-100 Com- 
patability D MC68000 8MHz Processor D 32-Bit Data Operations 
|^ with 32-Bit Internal Registers D 16-Bit Data 

Transfer Operations D Memory 
Management Allows 
Concurrent Use of 
Mapped and Non- 
mapped Address space 
D 16 Mb of Main Memory Directly 
Addressable D 7 Vectored Interrupt Levels 
D 256 Kb of RAM with Parity Per Board Slot 
* UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories and is supported on the 

DUAL System 83 by UNISOFT 
"UNISOFT is a trademark of UNISOFT Corporation of Berkeley, CA. 



DUAL SYSTEMS 

system reliability/system integrity 

720 Channing Way • Berkeley • CA 94710 • (415) 549-3854 • Telex: 172029 SPX 






graphics to lowercase/shifted upper- 
case. However, this upgrade had one 
nasty bug. Often, when another 
secondary address was accessed, the 
character set would switch inex- 
plicably to lowercase. The only 
remedy for this was to reset the 
printer by turning it off and then on 
again. The CBM 4022 has overcome 
this problem with the addition of 
three more secondary addresses: 
numbers 8, 9, and 10 — for a total of 
11. Secondary address 8 switches the 
printer back to uppercase mode. 
Secondary address 9 closes the chan- 
nel to sa 4, the error channel, and sa 
10 resets the printer so that only sa 
(the default channel) is left open. 
These new addresses allow much bet- 
ter and more reliable direct keyboard 
and software control of printer func- 
tions. The last four secondary ad- 
dresses for the CBM 4022 are: 

sa 7: Switch to lowercase 
sa 8: Reset to uppercase 
sa 9: Turn off error channel 
sa 10: Reset everything 

Let's look at some of the 4022's 
features in more detail. If a file (chan- 
nel) has been opened to sal, all print- 
ing will be in a format that was 
previously established. This format 
was set up by opening file sa 2 and 
then assigning a format field (or im- 
age string) to a string variable, then 
printing that string variable to the file 
open to sa 2. The format field that 
governs output layout is similar to 
the image fields used in the PRINT 
USING command found in some ver- 
sions of BASIC. 

Here are a sample PRINT state- 
ment, a format field, and the for- 
matted printout. (The values of the 
variables used are A$ = "OK", 
A = 37, B = 86, C = 8.27, 
D = 1.28, E = 1.25, F = 26.51, 
G = -3, H = -3.) The PRINT 
statement is: 

PRINT#1,'A$CHR$(29)CHR$(160) 
CHR$(29),A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H" 

The format field for this PRINT state- 
ment is: 

AAAA AAA ZZZZ R| 9999R| 
99.99 ZZ.99 $99.99 $$$.99 S99 99- 



32 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 137 on inquiry card. 



Tired of writing (and rewriting] 
customized and friendly error free code? 



Programmer 




"»+! "* 



\ 






i 



Printer 






File of forms 



Generic 
terminal 
module 




\ 







fejBB 

Automatic code generation f Applications pro 

i i i i i ii mi i t m i i m i t£ 



CRTFORM 
runtime module 

■Mir 



runtii 

JOl 

I ■ ■■■■■■I 



■r 





CRTForm™ is a programmer productivity tool that saves time. 



CRTForm produces a friendly bug free inter- 
face between end users and the applications 
programmer. 

CRTForm makes sure that end users enter informa- 
tion correctly, and gives error messages (in plain En- 
glish) if they don't. It guarantees that programmers 
will receive correct information without having to 
write hundreds of lines of error checking code. 

CRTForm allows you to modify program input specif- 
ications without requiring expensive and time con- 
suming changes in applications code. It even gen- 
erates a source code skeleton (Pascal, BASIC, 
COBOL. FORTRAN, PL/I, and Ada) to interface the 
programmers' application code to the CRTForm run- 
time module, 



The CRTForm package consists of: 

• A forms manager that manipulates random acces 
files of input specification forms. 

• An editor that creates and modifies the specif- 
ications forms. 

• A print utility that produces hard copy of forms and 
their specifications. 

• A code generator that writes source code skele- 
tons for ease of program interfacing. 

• A terminal-independent runtime module in the 
machine language of your host processor. 

CRTForm is available under the CP/M, UCSD, and 
Apple Pascal operating systems. Please call or write 
for further information on OEM licensing arrange- 
ments, or for the name of your nearest CRTForm 
dealer. 



PROGRAMS THAT WRITE PROGRAMS 

BTATCDM 

CORPORATION 

5766 BALCONES SUITE 202 
AUSTIN, TEXAS 7B731 
PHONE 51 2/451 -OS31 

Circle 360 on inquiry card. 

CRTFORM and Statcom are trademarks of Statcom Corporation - Registered trademark as follows: CPM-Digital Research: UCSD-U.C. San Diego: Apple-Apple Inc. 



Circle 444 on inquiry card. 



TWO TO 
REMEMBER 

256 Kb Dynamic 
Memory... 

Available now from Dual Systems: 
DMEM/256 memory boards. Put 
the most density of memory ever 
available on your IEEE/S-100 bus. 
Get industrial-grade quality with 
this ruggedly built board; it's 
been burned in for 168 hours. 

□ FULL 256 Kb on a single board. 

□ TWO INDEPENDENTLY 
ADDRESSABLE 128 Kb BLOCKS. 

□ RUNS IN 8 MHz System. 

□ RUNS AT 4 MHz BUS SPEED 

(no wait states). 

□ RUNS IN 8 OR 16-BIT systems 
with 8 or 16-bit wide data paths. 

□ EXTENDED 24-BITADDRESSING 

□ PARITY ERROR DETECTION - 

generates either interrupt or 
Bus error signals on error. 

□ DMEM/256KP (Parity) .... $1345 

Static 

Non-Volatile 

Memory 

The Dual Systems CMEM memory 
boards combine high speed 
CMOS memories with new 3-10 
year lithium batteries to give you 
the nonvolatility of an EPROM 
board while retaining the instant 
writability of a high-speed 
read/write RAM. 

□ RUNS AT 6 MHz 

(no wait states). 

□ 8 OR 16-BIT with 8 or 16-bit 
wide data paths. 

□ EXTENDED 24-BITADDRESSING 

and bank select. 

□ CMEM/32K $895 

□ CMEM/16K $795 

□ CMEM/8K $695 

OEM and Dealer pricing is available. 

Sales representatives in most metropolitan areas. 




system reliability/system integrity 



DUAL SYSTEMS 

720 Channing Way, Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415) 549-3854/3890 • Telex: 172029 SPX 



LOOSER 44+ I I 1**1 

L I ME 444 MM;: m* 
SPRCING 444 I I I8WI 

3 LINES PER INCH 



TIGHTER +44 I I \%#** 
LINE 444 I I \%*»* 
SPRCING 44+ I I Mm* 
•3 LINES PER INCH 



NORMAL 444 I I II*** 

LINE +++ | I | H as"! 

SPRCING 444 I I I3»1 

6 LINES PER INCH 

Figure 2: Three examples of the line spac- 
ing available with the CBM 4022. 

The formatted printout is: 

OK 0037 | 86 1 8.27 01.28 $ 1.25 
$26.51 -3 3- 

The CHR$(29) in the PRINT state- 
ment is a string delimiter that assigns 
spaces to the right of a string equal to 
the number of spaces in the format 
field to the right of the alpha (string) 
field. The As represent characters in a 
left-justified alpha field and are right 
padded with blanks, if necessary. The 
CHR$(160) prints the first character 
of the next alpha field as a blank and 
then right pads the rest of the alpha 
field with blanks. Otherwise, 
CHR$(160) will add an extra space, as 
well as convert unshifted leading 
spaces in a string to shifted spaces. A 
shifted space in a string will be ac- 
cepted as a space for formatting. 

The other symbols are numeric. 
The 9s are digits in a right-justified 
field and are left padded, if necessary, 
with blanks. Zs act like 9s, except 
blanks are left padded with zeros. A 
single $ next to a 9 or Z gives a fixed 
dollar sign, whereas using all $s up to 
the decimal gives a floating dollar 
sign. S prints the sign of a number to 
its left ( — 12, +15); the — sign prints 
the sign of the number to its right: a 
blank if positive, and a — if 
negative. Literals such as vertical bars 



can be embedded in the format field. 
These embedded literals are useful in 
creating special forms as a part of the 
printout. 

When paging is turned on by print- 
ing CHR$(147) to a file open to sa 0, 
the paper is advanced six spaces after 
60 lines have been printed. The 
number of lines per page can be 
changed from the default number 66 
by first turning on the paging feature, 
opening a file to sa 3, and then print- 
ing the number of lines to that file 
(e.g., PRINT#3,33— which would be 
correct for 8V2- by 5Vz-inch paper). 
After 27 lines have been printed (six 
less than the 33 set by sa 3 in this ex- 
ample), the paper automatically ad- 
vances six spaces: three spaces before 
and three spaces after the perfora- 
tions — if you have planned correctly. 
When paging is turned off by printing 
CHR$(19) to a file open to sa 0, a top- 
of-form function is performed. It is a 
good idea to do this if you are not 
certain that all set lines have been 
printed. 

Additional Features 

Six diagnostic error messages can 
be accessed by opening a file to sa 4: 

*PE:L* Lines per page out of range 

*PE:C* Bad command (invalid sec- 
ondary address) 

*PE:M* Data-format mismatch 

*PE:E* Exponent error 

*PE:F* Bad format 

*PE:T* Terminator error (change of 
sa before carriage return or 
other terminator detected) 

This error channel can be turned off 
by opening a file to sa 9, printing to 
that file, and then closing the file. 

The User's Manual gives a method 
for designing custom characters that 
should be changed to the following: 
Fill in a 6 by 8 matrix with dots where 
you like. Each row in this matrix is 
assigned a value that is a power of 
two from 1 (bottom row) to 128 (top 
row). The dot values are added for 
each of the six columns, assigned a 
CHR$ value, and then printed to a 
file open to sa 5. This character can 
be printed as CHR$(254). 

Opening a file to sa 6 allows you to 
change the normal spacing of 6 lines 



34 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



EN 
PRINTER INTERFACE 

Free Your Computer from the Mundane Task of Printing 



Imagine being able to use your 
computer seconds after beginning an 
extensive printout. 

Visualize your printout with page 
breaks, page numbering and titles, 
margins of your choice, indented 
carryover lines, on any size paper! 

Appreciate the time and money you 
will save by not waiting on your 
printer. 

SooperSpooler, a buffered printer 
interface, maintains control over your 
printer while you go on using your 
computer for more productive 
activities. Eliminate waiting while 
your printer pecks through a long 
document. SooperSpooler accepts 
information from your computer at up 
to 2500 characters per second and 
feeds it to your printer as fast as it can 
handle it — without using any of your 
computers memory or time! As soon 
as SooperSpooler has stored your 
document in its buffer, control of your 
computer is returned to you. 



SooperSpooler features include: 

16K Memory— Will handle most of 

your printing jobs (expandable, see 

options) 

Buffer Status Readout — Lets you 

know just how much data is stored 

Space Compression — Makes the 

best use of memory on columnar 

documents 

Pagination — Eliminates printout on 

page perforations 

Page Stops — For single sheet 

printouts 

Headers and Page Numbering — 

Give your listing a professional look 

Indentation on Carryover Lines — 

Easy to find the beginning of a line 

Self Test Routine — You instantly 

know that all is well 

All Features Software Controllable 

— Your program can take over 

Plugs into Most Computer 

Systems — Standard cables available 

$349.00!— 16K parallel I/O unit 



Options: 

• Serial Board— $95.00— Gives you 
the option of any combination of 
serial or parallel input or output. Can 
also be used for modem transmission. 

• Memory Expansion— $159.00 — 
Additional 46K for a total of 62K 

• Cables — Available per your 
application. 

TM 

SooperSpooler by Compulink 
— The missing link that gives 
your microcomputer 
mainframe printing. 

COMPULINK 

CORPORATION 

1840 Industrial Circle. Dept. A 

Longmont, CO 80501 

(303)651-2014 

Order line: 800-525-6705 

Dealer inquiries welcome 

Circle 86 on inquiry card. 



■ 



POWER 




SooperSpooler 

INTELLIGENT PRINTER INTERFACE 



BUFFER STATUS 



RESET 



& 



SPACE 
COMPRESSION 



9 



PA6E 

m 




We accept 


• Checks 


• VISA 


• Money Orders 


• MasterCard 


• COD 



Add $3.00 per order for postage and handling 

COD add $3.00 

Colorado residents add sales tax 



Prices and Specifications Subject to Change 
Without Notice 



Circle 445 on inquiry card. 



Toughest Boards 
in Town... 
IEEE 696/S-100 

NON-STOP CLOCK 

Keeps time with power off. Our 
industrial clock utilizes a new 
lithium battery for 3-8 years use. 
Easiest clock to program you'll ever 
see. Runs in all S-100 systems. 

□ Year, date, hrs, mins, sees. 

□ Uses new LSI CMOS chip. 
D Vectored interrupts. 

□ CLK-24 S250 

A/D CONVERTER 

IEEE696/S-100 AIM-12 industrial 
standard module designed for 
industrial analog-to-digital use. 

□ Runs in all S-100 systems. 

D 32-channel, 16-differential D 12-bit 

resolution/accuracy. □ 25-microsecond 

conversions. 

Q Instrumentation amplifier. 

□ BASIC program provided. 

□ AIM-12.. .5695 DAIM-12Bw/1-1000 
gain transducer amplifier. 

D/A CONVERTER 

AOM-12 IEEE696/S-100 industrial 
level digital-to-analog (D/A) 
converter. 

□ 12-bit ± 1/2 L.S.B. accuracy over 
full 0-70°C temperature range. 

D Outputs 0-10, ± 5, or ± 10 volts. 
D Short circuit protection, all outputs. 

□ Switch-programmable for multiple 
boards. 

□ AOM-12, 5575 

VIC 4-20 

Standard output for industrial 
control 4-20 mA D/A converter. 
Used in conjunction with the 
D/A board. VIC4-20, S445. 

DUAL 77 Data Acquisition 
and Control System- 

A Z-80 based system built to industrial 
standards; designed for severe environ- 
ments. BASIC language makes pro- 
gramming easy. Access to hundreds 
of sensors. Expandability to meet your 
increased needs. Nonvolatile memory. 
Power interruption recovery with auto- 
matic restart. DUAL 77 includes 
AOM-12, AIM-12, CLK-24, 64Kb 
(2-CMEM/32K), 2-SI/O ports (SIO-2) 
and twin 8" 1 Mb drives with cp/m, 
BASIC and choice of video or printer 
terminal: 512,495. DUAL 77A basic 
controller only without drives, software 
and terminal: 56,310. 




system reliability/system integrity 
DUAL SYSTEMS 

720 Channing Way, Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415) 549-3854/3890 • Telex: 172029 SPX 



Function 




CHR$ Value Keystrokes 


Enhance On 




CHR$(1) none 


Enhance Off 




CHR$(129) none 


Paging On 




CHR$(147) CLR/HOME (shifted) 


Paging Off (Reset) 




CHR$(19) CLR/HOME 


Reverse Field On 




CHR$(18) OFF/RVS 


Reverse Field Off 




CHR$(146) OFF/RVS (shifted) 


Carriage Return 




CHR$(13) RETURN 


Carriage Return (no feed) 




CHR$(141) none 


Line Feed 




CHR$(10) none 


Uppercase 




CHR$(145) CURSOR UP * 


Lowercase 




CHR$(17) CURSOR DOWN * 


Skip Space 




CHR$(29) CURSOR RIGHT 


Insert Leading Blanks 




CHR$(160) SPACE (shifted) 


Quote 




CHR$(34) Quote (")** 


* These functions are reversed if sa 


7 is in effect. 


** This can be a forced quote 


within a 


PRINT statement. Also, an odd number of quotes 


allows control characters to be 


printed 


in their graphics form. 


Table 1: Control characters sent through secondary addresses and 1. 



per inch (see figure 2). To do so, you 
must choose a divisor for 216 that 
will give a quotient that is the number 
of lines per inch that you want (de- 
fault = 36 for 6 lines per inch): 18 
yields 12 lines per inch and is nice for 
graphics that normally get too 
stretched out vertically when printed; 
24 yields 9 lines per inch, but some 
graphics with this spacing are still too 
stretched out. If you want normally 
spaced text and somewhat com- 
pressed graphics, you can leave an ex- 
tra space between text lines in your 
program and then change your spac- 
ing to 12 lines per inch. The User's 
Manual needs a revision on line spac- 
ing. The values given on page 31 are 
incorrect; they are left over from the 
model 2022. To correct them, change 
the 144 to 216, and change the 
divisors accordingly. You can use any 
divisor from 1 to 127. Dividing 216 
by 1 will, of course, give a quotient of 
216 — the number of lines per inch 
(1/216, or 0.0046, inch spacing). 
Dividing 216 by 127 will give a quo- 
tient of 216/127, or approximately 
1.7 lines per inch (127/216, or 0.5880, 
inch spacing). 

The CBM 4022 and 2022 both have 
a set of special control characters. 
Their functions and equivalent 
keystrokes are listed in table 1. 

To get more information on the use 
of these controls plus the other 
features of the CBM 4022, consult 
either the Commodore User's Manual 
or the appropriate sections of the Per- 



sonal Computer Guide, 2nd edition, 
published by Osborne/McGraw-Hill. 

Conclusions 

The CBM 4022, manufactured by 
Epson for Commodore, is the dot- 
matrix printer of choice for users of 
PET/CBM computers because of the 
Commodore specificity of its 
operating system. It compares well 
with its cousin, the Epson MX-80. 

This printer is an improvement 
over the earlier CBM 2022 because it 
has true lowercase descenders; is 
quieter; has an inexpensive, 
disposable print head; uses a car- 
tridge ribbon; and has overcome 
some serious bugs with the addition 
of three new control channels (sec- 
ondary addresses). 

The CBM 4022 features control 
characters, secondary address chan- 
nels, the full CBM 256-character set 
with graphics, and user-designed 
characters. Although the CBM 4022 
still has a minor bug or two, its 
weakest point is the inaccurate user's 
manual. 

The $795 list price is reasonable, 
considering that a simple cable is the 
only extra expense. 

I have used both the CBM 2022 and 
the new CBM 4022 printers during 
the last year. Although most of my 
time has been spent with the earlier 
model, I am very pleased with the 
upgraded version as it has worked 
well for me. I enthusiastically endorse 
the Commodore CBM 4022 printer. ■ 



36 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



GRAPHICS 

FOR 

CP/M COMPUTERS 




I GRAFTALK® 
The first graphics software for 
CP/M systems, GRAFTALK re- 
duces data to pictures, giving you the 
ability to look at information that would 
otherwise be a boring text file. 

GRAFTALK is friendly and easy to 
use. Great for first-time users. But 
that doesn't mean GRAFTALK lacks 
capability. 

Bar charts. Pie charts. Line plots. 
Symbol plots. Composite plots. Text. 
Color. Advanced graphics, over 100 
powerful commands, and sophisticated 
"tuning" features. 

You name it, you can picture it. 

Available from: 

Lifeboat Associates 

(212)860 0300 



Trademarks: CP/M: Digital Research 
GRAFTALK: Redding Group. Inc. 

Circle 120 on inquiry card. 



2 AUTOGRAPH 
Terminals and printers for 
graphics and alphanumerics, from 
DATATYPE. 

The AUTOGRAPH terminal is based 
on the popular Tele Video series. So 
you get all the terminal you need for 
your CP/M system's alphanumeric 
requirements. 

We've added the logic necessary to 
make the terminal fully compatible 
with GRAFTALK. (With ISSCO's 
Tell-A-Graf and Tektronix graphics 
software, too.) And you can combine 
a graphic display with alphanumeric 
information. (We can even supply 
retrofits for your Tele Video terminals.) 

The AUTOGRAPH dot matrix 
printer is quiet, reliable, and fast. (You 
get up to 200 characters per second at 
only 54dbA.) 

The 7x9 dot print head will also 
produce draft-quality and correspon- 



dence-quality letter characters. In the 
graphics mode you get a true hard 
copy of the graphics you create on 
your AUTOGRAPH terminal using 
GRAFTALK. 

3 RESULTS 
You can now put graphics to 
work to communicate your busi- 
ness information. Quickly, easily, and af- 
fordably. Your local AUTOGRAPH dis- 
tributor can provide a demonstration 
of GRAFTALK and the AUTOGRAPH 
series. 

Call or write DATA TYPE for more 
information and the name of your local 
AUTOGRAPH distributor. 



HQQQB 

□□□□□ 
■DDQS 



DATA TYPE 

26I5 Miller Avenue 
Mountain View, CA 94040 
(415)949-1053 
Telex 172042 



If you have 





thoughts 
t mail order, 

mm ■ + 



call us first. 



If mail-order shopping 
hasn't been everything 
you hoped for, look into 
Alpha Byte. 

Our incredible low 
prices, our guarantee of 
satisfaction, our exper- 
tise — all as near as 
your phone. 

All you have to do is 
call. A state-of-the-art 
microcomputer expert is 
standing by to answer 
your questions, offer ad- 
vice, or take your order. 

The rest is up to us. 
At Alpha Byte, orders 
are processed right 
now! Quickly and effi- 
ciently. In-stock mer- 
chandise is usually 
shipped within 24 hours. 
Sooner than you think, 
there'll be a surprise at 
your doorstep. 

We make mail order 
quite painless and plea- 
sant. Even fun. Call (213) 
706-0333 and let us put 



a little sunshine into 
your shopping. 



16K RAM KITS 



13.95 



Sel ol B NEC 41 16 200 ns Guaranteed one full 
year 

DISKETTES 

ALPHA DISKS 21.95 

Single sided, certified Double Density <!0 Tracks, 
with Hub-ring Box ol 10 Guaranteed one lull 
year 

VERBATIM DATALIFE 

MD 525-01. 10. 16 26 50 

MD 550-01. 10. 16 44 50 

MD 557-01 10. 16 54 95 

MD 577-01. 10. 16 34 80 

FD 32 or 34-9000 36 00 

FD 32 or 34-8000 44.95 

FD 34-4001 48 60 

ATARI COMPUTERS 



ATARI 800 

ATARI 400 (16K) 

ATARI 810 DISK DRIVE 

ATARI 850 INTERFACE 

ATARI 410 PROGRAM RECORDER 

EPSON CABLE 

MEMORY MODULE (16K) 

JOYSTICK CONTROLLERS 

PADDLE CONTROLLERS 

STAR RAIDERS 

MISSILE COMMAND 

ASTEROIDS 

INTEC PERIPHERALS 
RAM MODULES 

48K FOR ATARI 400 

32K FOR ATARI 800 



699.00 

329.00 

449 00 

449.00 

60 00 

35.00 

89.95 

10.00 

1995 

35.00 

35.00 

35 00 



279 00 
135.00 



DISKETTE STORAGE 

5V«" PLASTIC LIBRARY CASE 2 50 

8" PLASTIC LIBRARY CASE 3 50 

PLASTIC STORAGE BINDER w/ Inserts 9 95 

PROTECTOR 5V<" (50 Disk Capacilyl 23 95 

PROTECTOR 8" (50 Disk Capacilyl 29 95 

NEC PERSONAL 
COMPUTERS 

PC-800IA CPU 899 00 

PC-8012A 1/0 559 00 

PC-8033A DISK I'O 125 00 

PC-8031A DUAL DISK 899 00 

ALTOS COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 

Call Alpha Byte tor our low Altos prices 

PRINTERS 

ANADEX DP 9500 1295 00 

ANADEXDP9501 1295 00 

C-ITOH 25 CPS PARALLEL 1440 00 

C-ITOH 25 CPS SERIAL 1495.00 

C-ITOH 45 CPS PARALLEL 1770.00 

C-ITOH 40 CPS SERIAL 1870.00 

EPSON MX-80 SCALL 

EPSON MX-80F/T SCALL 

EPSON MX-100 GRAPHIC SCALL 

EPSON GRAFTRAX 90 00 

IDS-445G PAPER TIGER 779.00 

IDS-460G PAPER TIGER 945 00 

IDS-560G PAPER TIGER 1195 00 

NECSPINWRITER3510SRO 2095 00 

NECSPINWRITER3530P.R0 2095 00 

NECSPINWRITER7710S.R0 2545 00 

NECSPINWRITER7730P.RO 2545.00 

NEC SPINWRITER 7700 DSELLUM 2795.00 

NEC SPINWRITER 3500 SELLUM 2295 00 

OKIDATAMICROLINE80 389 00 

0KIDATAMICR0LINE82A 569.00 

0KIDATAMICR0LINE83A 799.00 



0KIDATAMICR0LINE84 

0UME9/45 

MALIBU 200 DUAL MODE 



1199 00 
2149 00 
2695 00 



38 



BYTE March 1982 



CORVUS 

FOR S-100, APPLE OR TRS-80 
MOD I, III 

Conlroller. Case'P.S.. Operating System, A&T 
5 MEGABYTES 3245.00 

10 MEGABYTES 4645 00 

20 MEGABYTES 5545 00 

MIRROR BACK-UP 725.00 



APPLE HARDWARE 

VERSA WRITER DIGITIZER 259 00 

ABT APPLE KEYPAD 119 00 

MICROSOFT Z-80 S0FTWARD 299 00 

MICROSOFT RAMCARD 159 00 

VIDEX 80x24 VIDEO CARD 299 00 

VIDEX KEYBOARD ENHANCER II 129 00 

VIDEX ENHANCER REV 0-6 99 00 

VIDEX SOFT SWITCH 29.00 

M&RSUPERTERM80X24VIDE0BD 31500 

NEC 12" GREEN MONITOR 199.00 

NEC 13" COLOR MONITOR 399 00 

SANYO 12" MONITOR (B&W) 249 00 

SANYO 12" MONITOR (GREENI 269 00 

SANYO 13" COLOR MONITOR 469 00 

SSMAI0 BOARD (INTERFACE) A&T 165 00 

SSMAIO BOARD (INTERFACE) KIT 135 00 

ZENITH 13" HI RES GREEN MON 139 00 

APPLE FAN 44 95 

T'G JOYSTICK 54 95 

T'G PADDLE 34 95 

VERSA E-Z PORT 21.95 

MICRO SCI A40 W/C0NTR0LLER 479 00 

MICRO SCI A40 W/0 CONTROLLER 409 00 

MICRO SCI A70 W/C0NTR0LLER 629 00 

MICRO SCI A70 W/0 CONTROLLER 549 00 

THE MILL-PASCAL SPEED UP 329.00 

PROMETHEUS VERSACARD 229.00 

SUPERCLOCK II 129.00 



Circle 13 on Inquiry card. 



MOUNTAIN 
HARDWARE 



CPS MULTIFUNCTION BOARD 199.00 

SUPERTALKER SD200 259.00 

ROMPLUS W/ KEYBOARD FILTER 179 00 

ROMPLUS WO KEYBOARD FILTER 130 00 

KEYBOARD FILTER ROM 49 00 

COPYROM 49,00 

MUSIC SYSTEM 369.00 

ROMWRITER 149.00 

APPLE CLOCK 252.00 

A'D + D/A 299 00 

EXPANSION CHASSIS 625 00 

CALIF. COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 

S-100 BOARDS 

2200A MAINFRAME 459.00 

2065C64K DYNAMIC RAM 539.00 

2422 FLOPPY DISK CONT & CP/M' 359 00 

2710 FOUR SERIAL I '0 279 00 
2718 TWO SERIAL'TWO PARALLEL I'O 269 00 

2720 FOUR PARALLEL I/O 199 00 

2810 2-80 CPU 259.00 

APPLE BOARDS 

7710A ASYNCHRONOUS S INTERFACE 149 00 

7712A SYNCHRONOUS S INTERFACE 159 00 

7424A CALENDAR CLOCK 99.00 

7728A CENTRONICS INTERFACE 105.00 

VISTA COMPUTER CO. 

APPLE 80 COLUMN CARD 329.00 

APPLE 8" DISK DRIVE CONTROLLER 549.00 

MODEMS 

NOVATION CAT ACOUSTIC MODEM 145.00 

NOVATION D-CAT DIRECT CONNECT 165.00 

NOVATION AUTO-CAT AUTO ANS 219.00 

NOVATION APPLE-CAT 349.00 

UDS 103 LP DIRECT CONNECT 175.00 

UDS 103 JLP AUTO ANS 209 00 

HAYES MICROMODEM II (APPLE) 299.00 

HAYES 100 MODEM (S-100) 325.00 

HAYESSMART MODEM (RS-2321 249.00 

HAYES CHRONOGRAPH 225 00 

LEXICON LX-11 MODEM 109 00 

TERMINALS 

TELEVIDE0 910 639 00 

TELEVIDEO 912C 745 00 

TELEVIDEO 920C 830.00 

TELEVIDEO 950C 995.00 

ZENITH Z-19 799 00 

TRS-80 MOD I 
HARDWARE 

PERCOM DATA SEPARATOR 27.00 



TANDON THINLINE 8 INCH 

848-1 SINGLE SIDE 459.00 

848-2 DUAL SIDE 549 00 

MICRO PRO 

APPLE CP/M- 

WORDSTAR" 



MISSILE ATTACK 
STAR FIGHTER 



1895 
24 95 



SUPERSORT" 

MAILMERGE" 

DATASTAR" 

SPELLSTAR" 

CALCSTAR" 

CP/M" 

WORDSTAR 

SUPERSORT 

MAILMERGE 

DATASTAR 

SPELLSTAR 

CALCSTAR 

MICROSOFT 

APPLE 

FORTRAN" 
BASIC COMPILER- 
COBOL" 

Z-80 SOFTCARO 
RAMCARD 
TYPING TUTOR 
OLYMPIC DECATHLON 
TASC APPLESOFT COMPILER 

CP/M" 

BASIC 80 
BASIC COMPILER 
FORTRAN 80 
COBOL 80 

APPLE SOFTWARE 

MAGIC WINDOW 

APPLE PIE 

DB MASTER (NEW) 

PFS PERSONAL FILING SYSTEM 

PFS REPORT 

Z-TERM" 

ASCII EXPRESS 

HAYDEN APPLESOFT COMPILER 

EASY WRITER-PRO 

EXPEOITER II APPLESOFT COMPILER 

A-STATCOMP STATISTICS PKG 

SUPER TEXT II 



249 00 
145 00 
90 00 
21500 
169 00 
239 00 



310 00 
19500 
110 00 
245 00 
195 00 
169 00 



165 00 
31500 
595 00 
299 00 
159 00 
17 95 
24.95 
159 00 



299 00 
31900 
369 00 
595 00 



79 00 
99 00 
179 00 
79 00 
79 00 
89 95 
63 95 
149 00 
199 00 
73.95 
119.00 
129 00 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

G/L 199 00 

A/R 199.00 

A/P 199.00 

PAYROLL 19900 

PROPERTY MGMT 199 00 

THE HOME ACCOUNTANT 59.95 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE 



PERCOM DOUBLER II 


159.00 


DESKTOP PLAN II 


159 00 


TANDON 80 TRACK DISK DRIVE 


429.00 


VISIPLOT 


159.00 


TANDON 40 TRACK DISK DRIVE 


289.00 


VISITREND/VISIPLOT 


199.00 


LNW DOUBLER W/ DOSPLUS 3 3D 


159.00 


VISIDEX 


159 00 


MOD 111 DRIVE KIT 


649.00 


VISITERM 


129 00 






VISICALC 3 3 


15900 


MORROW DESIGNS 


VISIFILES 


199.00 


FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS 


CP/M* SOFTWARE 


Controller. PS. Microsoft Basic. 


CP/M r 


THE WORD-SPELL CHECK 


75 00 


A & T 




d BASE II 


59900 


DISCUS 2D (Single Drive - 500K) 


869.00 


SUPER CALC 


229 00 


DISCUS 2D (Dual Drive- 1 MEG) 


1499.00 


SPELLGUARD 


239 00 


DISCUS 2 + 2 (Single Drive - 1 MEG 


1099.00 


P&TCP/M' MOD II TRS-80 


175 00 


DISCUS 2 + 2 (Dual Drive- 2 MEG) 


1999 00 


COMMX TERMINAL PROG 


82.50 


HARD DISK SYSTEMS 




C BASIC 2 


115.00 






PASCAL Z 


349.00 


Controller. P S . Microsoft Basic. 


CP/M" 


PASCAL MT + 


439 00 


A & T 




PASCAL/M 


205.00 


DISCUS M10 (10 Megabytes) 


3099 00 


SYSTEMS PLUS - 




DISCUS M26 (26 Megabytes) 


3749.00 


G/L. A/R, A/P. P/R 


1799.00 






CONDOR I 


579.00 


ISOLATORS 




CONDOR II 


849.00 


IS0-1 3-S0CKET 
IS0-2 6-S0CKET 


53.95 
53.95 


TRS-80 GAMES 








TEMPLE OF APSHAI 


34 95 


BARE DRIVES 




HELLFIRE WARRIOR 
STAR WARRIOR 
RESCUE AT RIGEL 


34.95 
34.95 
24.95 


TANDON 5V4 INCH 




100-1 SINGLE HEAD 40 TRK 


219.00 


CRUSH, CRUMBLE ANDCHOMP 


24.95 


100-2 DUAL HEAD 40 TRK 


299 00 


INVADERS FROM SPACE 


17 95 


100-3 SINGLE HEAD 80 TRK 


299.00 


PINBALL 


17 95 


100-4 DUAL HEAD 80 TRK 


429.00 


STAR TREK 3.5 


17 95 



TRS-80 SOFTWARE 

NEWDOS/80 2 MOD I 

LAZY WRITER MOD I 

PROSOFT NEWSCRIPT MOD I. Ill 

SPECIAL DELIVERY MOD I. Ill 

X-TRA SPECIAL DELIVERY MODI. Ill 

TRACKCESS MOD I 

OMNITERM SMART TERM MODI. Ill 

MICROSOFT BASIC COMP FOR MOD I 

LDOS 5.1 

APPLE GAMES 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE 

CHECKER KING 

GAMMON GAMBLER 

BRIDGE PARTNER 

MONTY PLAYS MONOPOLY 

ZORKI 

ZORK II 

MONTY PLAYS SCRABBLE 

BRODERBUND 

GALAXY WARS 

ALIEN RAIN(AKAGALAXIAN) 

ALIEN TYPHOON 

APPLE PANIC 

MIDNIGHT MAGIC 

SPACE OUARKS 



139 00 
165 00 
99 00 
119.00 
199 00 
24.95 
89 95 
165 00 
159 00 



21 95 
21.95 
21 95 
29 95 
32 95 
32.95 
34 95 



20 95 
20.95 
20 95 
24 95 
29.95 
24 95 

AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS 

INVASION ORION 20 95 

STAR WARRIOR 32.95 

TUES MORNING OUARTERBACK 25 95 

CRUSH. CRUMBLE AND CHOMP 24 95 

THE DRAGON'S EYE 20,95 

MUSE SOFTWARE 

ROBOT WARS '32 95 

THREE MILE ISLAND 32 95 

ABM. 20.95 

GLOBAL WAR 20 95 

CASTLE WOLFENSTEIN 24.95 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 

WIZARD AND PRINCES 29.95 

MISSILE DEFENSE 25.95 

SABOTAGE 20.95 

SOFT PORN ADVENTURE 24,95 

THRESHOLD. 31.95 

JAW BREAKER 24 95 

CROSSFIRE 16.45 

TIME ZONE 69.95 



LISA 2.5 59.95 

SUPERSCRIBE II 99 95 

SIRIUS SOFTWARE 

SPACE EGGS 24 95 

GORGON 32 95 

SNEAKERS 24 95 

EPOCK 29 95 

BEER RUN 24 95 

HADRON 29,95 

EDU-WARE 

PERCEPTION PKG 19.95 

COMPU-READ 24 95 

STORYTELLER 18 95 

COMPU-MATH ARITHMETIC 39.95 

COMPU-MATH FRACTIONS 34 95 

COMPU-MATH DECIMALS 34.95 

COMPU-SPELL (REO DATA DISK) 24.95 
COMPU SPELL DATA DISKS 1-4. ea 17.95 

MORE GREAT APPLE 
GAMES 

COMPUTER OUARTERBACK 32 95 

TORPEDO FIRE 49.95 

THE SHATTERED ALLIANCE 49 95 

POOL 1.5 29 95 

ULTIMA 33 95 

RASTER BLASTER 24 95 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR 27 95 

INTERNATIONAL GRAND PRIX 25 95 

SARGONII 28 95 

SHUFFLE BOARD 29 95 

FIREBIRD 24 95 

SNACK ATTACK 24.95 

THIEF 2495 

ROACH HOTEL 29 95 

JABBERTALKY 24 95 

SUPPLIES 

AVERY TABULABLES 

1.000 3'ft x 15/16 8 49 

3.000 3'A x 15/16 14 95 

5.000 3'A x 15/16 19 95 

FAN FOLD PAPER 

(Prices F.O.B. S.P.) 

9 V; x 1 1 18ldWHITE3.000ct 29 00 

147/8X 11 18ID WHITE 3,000 CI 39 00 

CP/M is a reg trademark of Digital Research 

"Requires Z-80 Sollcard 



To order or for information, call: 

(213)706-0333 

To use our 24-hour modem order line, call: (21 3) 883-8976. 
We built a reputation on our prices and your satisfaction. 

We guarantee everything lor 30 days. If anything is wrong, return the item 
and we'll make it right. And, of course, we'll pay the shipping charges. 

We accept Visa and Master Card on all orders; COD up to $300.00. 

Add $2.00 for standard UPS shipping and handling on orders under 50 lbs, 
delivered in continental U.S. Call for shipping charges over 50 lbs. Foreign, 
FPO and APO orders, add 15% for shipping. Californians add 6% sales tax. 

Prices quoted are tor stock on hand and subject to change without notice. 



Send for our hot new catalog. 



This catalog is a "must". 
Its unique 3-ring binder 
format lets you keep it 
up-to-the-minute current. 
We will provide you with 
additions or changes, as 
necessary, on a regular 
basis. 




IPUTER 
PRODUCTS 



31245 LA BAYA DRIVE, WESTLAKE VILLAGE, CALIFORNIA 91362 



Circle 13 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



39 



Four New Products 
from Radio Shack 



by Chris Morgan 



It was Christmas all over again on 
January 19 at Radio Shack in Fort 
Worth, Texas, where a quartet of 
major new products was unveiled 
during a day-long session. Some of 
the announcements were expected. 
Others were surprises. 

The TRS-80 Model 1 6: 
Two Computers In One 

The most significant announce- 
ment was for the new TRS-80 Model 
16 computer, which contains a 
Motorola M68000 processor (see 
photo 1 ). Externally, the unit looks like 



the TRS-80 Model II (in fact, the case is 
virtually identical to the Model ll's), 
but the front bezel has been rede- 
signed to accommodate either one or 
two slim-line 8-inch drives. Two of 
these drives fit into the same amount 
of space as a single, standard-width 
drive. The big surprise is that Model II 
owners will be able to convert their 
machines to Model 16s by adding 
two printed-circuit boards that 
together cost $1499. But there's one 
limitation: the maximum RAM 
(random-access read/write memory) 
on the upgraded Model II system is 




Photo I: Radio Shack enters the 16-bit market with the Model 16. While 
cosmetically very similar to the Model II, the Model 16 contains a Motorola 
68000 processor and can address up to 51 2K bytes of memory. Two slim-line 
8-Inch floppy-disk drives can be Installed In the same space occupied by one 
standard-width drive. When used in conjunction with Radio Shack's 
8-megabyte Winchester hard-disk drive, one drive Is sufficient. The Model 1 6 
also contains a Z80 processor. Though normally used for disk I/O, the Z80 Is 
employed In a Model II emulation mode and addresses Its own 64K-byte 
memory. Upon booting up, the Model 1 6 automatically enters the 1 6-blt mode. 
A few simple commands place the machine In Model II emulation mode. 



256K bytes, whereas the Model 16 
allows the user up to 512K bytes of 
RAM on board. 

The Model 1 6's most important fea- 
ture is its built-in Z80 coprocessor with 
64K bytes of its own memory that 
allows the user to run all existing 
Model II software. Radio Shack's sim- 
ple but clever idea is to free up the 
68000 processor by using the Z80 for 
disk and I/O routines. This has to be 
one of the most elegant answers to 
the question of 8- and 16-bit com- 
patibility. The operating system (Radio 
Shack's own design) boots up like the 
Model II, but automatically enters the 
16-bit mode. A simple keyboard 
message from the user switches the 
system to the Z80 mode. 

Floppy Disks and Hard Disks 

The slim-line floppy-disk drives are 
double sided and double density, 
with slightly more than one mega- 
byte capacity each (formatted). Nor- 
mally, a user would get only one 
floppy-disk drive for operating the 
Model 1 6 with a Radio Shack 8-mega- 
byte hard-disk unit. Such a configura- 
tion (with the maximum 512K bytes 
of RAM) costs $11,191— a bargain. 
By comparison, the least-expensive 
configuration, featuring 1 28K bytes of 
RAM and one disk drive (no hard 
disk), Costs $4999. This certainly 
gives the IBM Personal Computer 
some competition. (It should be kept 
in mind that the Model 16 lacks some 
of the IBM's features, such as color 
graphics.) 

The announcement of the TRS-80 
Model 1 6 gives the 68000 processor a 
firm footing in the 1 6-bit sweepstakes. 
(Can Apple be far behind with its 
68000 design?) It's safe to say that the 
1 6-bit era is underway. 



40 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



An Updated Pocket Computer 

The PC-2 Pocket Computer is an 
improved version of the current 
TRS-80 Pocket Computer, now 
known as the PC-1 . Like the PC-1 , the 
PC-2, shown in photo 2, is manufac- 
tured for Radio Shack by Sharp, in 
Japan, and features a built-in real-time 
quartz clock; a 7-by-156 dot-matrix 
liquid-crystal display; an 8-bit pro- 
cessor operating at 1 .3 MHz; a new 
extended BASIC package with two- 
dimensional arrays, built-in arithmetic 
functions, and variable-length 
character strings; a four-color printer- 
plotter/dual-cassette interface (more 
about this later); and a 60-pin I/O con- 




Photo 3: Though cosmetically similar 
to the Model III, the DT-1 video ter- 
minal uses the same monitor section 
as the Model II. Communication Is 
through an RS-232C port, and both 
serial and parallel printer ports are 
provided. Transmission rates of from 
75 to 19,200 bps are supported, all 
through keyboard commands. 

Photo 4: The DT-1 video terminal 
achieves new heights In configurable 
systems. Not only does the DT-1 have 
built-in provisions for emulating four 
popular terminals, It can also be pro- 
grammed from the keyboard to 
emulate most other terminals with 
similar capabilities. Emulation and 
transmission parameters are stored In 
an EEPROM, which means. In effect, 
that the DT-1 programs Itself. 
Parameters can be changed on a more 
temporary basis as well, without 
being programmed Into the EEPROM. 







T;- 





Photo 2: The PC-2 Pocket Computer from Radio Shack features an optional 
four-color PC-2 Printer/Plotter. The PC-2 contains 2.6K bytes of RAM and 16K 
bytes of ROM. Provision for a plug-In module allows an additional 1 6K bytes of 
RAM, ROM, or both. A 4K-byte RAM module Is available for $69.95. PC-2 
peripherals are Intelligent and contain additional RAM and ROM. The 
Printer/Plotter can produce nine sizes of characters and plot graphs and charts 
with a resolution of 0.2 millimeter. 





ti|F;it!if«H7tsaiXJ 
1 II 1 I.I 1 1 

id t i W ft W H Hi VI 
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 




. 


unnamm 
iiiii 


- 




■•» o - • « « * •' • « - •■ : 
•hf ac( im^ im'y «^ s*\ *.-*«n m^ oaf *m, ji^ **>\j 



nector that brings address data, inter- 
rupts, timing, and control signals to 
the outside world. 

The basic PC-2, which retails for 
$279.95, contains I6K bytes of ROM 
(read-only memory) and 2.6K bytes of 
RAM. There is provision for one addi- 
tional plug-in module which may be 
RAM, ROM, or a combination of 
both. A 4K-byte RAM module is avail- 
able for $69.95, and an 8K-byte RAM 
will be introduced in the near future. 
The 8K-byte RAM is expected to cost 
almost as much as two 4K-byte 
modules. A 16K-byte RAM module is 
planned, but its introduction will de- 
pend on how quickly the price of 
16K-byte CMOS RAMs drops. 

Peripherals for the PC-2 will be in- 
telligent and will contain their own 
RAM and ROM which will further ex- 
tend the unit's memory capacity. An 
RS-232C interface plus software will 
also be introduced. 

A Miniature Four-Color 
Printer/Plotter 

The PC-2 Printer/Plotter is im- 
pressive. Packed into the unit's 



minuscule chassis is a four-color plot- 
ter that "draws" letter-quality charac- 
ters in nine different sizes on standard 
2 '/2 -inch adding-machine tape and 
creates four-color graphs and charts 
(see figures 1 and 2). A small circular 
barrel holds the four miniature 
solenoid-selectable pens. 

The PC-2 Printer/Plotter is not a toy; 
it is capable of plotting with a resolu- 
tion of 0.2 millimeterl It features a sim- 
ple, yet sophisticated paper-drive sys- 
tem that anchors one side of the 
paper tape with a small nubbed 
wheel. This arrangment allows the 
plotter to move the paper tape back 
and forth repeatedly by as much as 
10 centimeters as it creates an image. 
In the character mode, the printer's 
average speed is 12 characters per 
second (see photo 2). 

The DT-1 Video Terminal 

Radio Shack has done some unique 
things with its new terminal entry, the 
DT- 1 , shown in photos 3 and 4. For a 
suggested retail price of $699, you 
not only get an 80-by-24 character 



TRS-80 




QDUANCED 

POCKET 
COMPUTER 





Figure 1 : The Printer/Plotter for the PC-2 Pocket Computer Is capable 
of 0.2 millimeter resolution In four colors. Characters may be presented 
in nine different sizes. Charts and graphs are no problem for this 
machine. 



display, serial-communication port, 
and both serial- and parallel-printer 
ports— you also get the built-in capa- 
bility of emulating a number of other 
terminals, including the Televideo 
910, Lear Siegler ADM-5, ADDS 25, 
and Hazeltine 1410. This is accom- 
plished by simple commands from the 
keyboard; no DIP switches to set. All 
emulation parameters as well as 
transmission protocols such as word 
length and data rate are then stored 
in an EEPROM (electrically erasable 
programmable read-only memory). 
Thus, the DT-1 actually reprograms 
itself. Even when power is turned off, 
the DT-1 retains its emulation and 
transmission parameters. 

As if that weren't enough, you 
have the ability to change any or all 
of the emulation and transmission 
parameters, which allows you to 
emulate a number of other terminals 
in addition to those that are built in. 
The cursor is programmable from the 
keyboard and may be either a steady 
or blinking block or underline. The 
video attributes include normal, 
reverse, invisible, blink, underline, and 
half intensity. Data rates from 75 to 
19,200 bps are available. The black- 
and-white monitor section of the 
DT-1 is identical to that of the Model II 
computer. 



High-Resolution BASIC Graphics 
Package for the Model II 

A $499 high-resolution BASIC 
graphics package that allows the user 
to create black-and-white graphics 
with a resolution of 640 by 240 pixels 
is now available for the TRS-80 Model 
II (see photos 5 and 6). The price in- 
cludes a plug-in printed-circuit board 
with 32K bytes of on-board memory. 
Because the high-resolution graphics 
are generated from a separate 
memory, both text and graphics can 
be overlaid on the screen and each 
can be cleared separately. 

The accompanying BASIC package 
features the same commands as the 
high-resolution BASIC for the TRS-80 
Color Computer, except that only 
black and white can be chosen. Radio 



42 March 1982 © BYTE Publications tac 



Shack is including a library of com- 
mands that allow you to pass 
parameters from COBOL. FORTRAN, 
or assembly-language programs— a 
nice touch. 

Yet to come is a printer dump 
routine that lets the user dump the 
screen to the Radio Shack Lineprinter 
VIII. Note: In order to use the high-res- 
olution BASIC graphics package, your 
Model II must have the latest CPU 
(central processor unit) board, 
because the original Model II CPU 
board has a different set of wait states 
than the graphics board requires. 



Radio Shack will retrofit any Model II 
with the latest CPU board if you bring 
your computer to a Radio Shack com- 
puter center. The upgrade, if needed, 
is included in the cost of installing the 
graphics package. 

Final Thoughts 

These four new products from 
Radio Shack indicate both a continu- 
ing commitment from the company 
to the furthering of the state of the art, 
and reaffirmation of the company's 
refreshing entrepreneurial approach 
to new computer products. ■ 




Photo 5: A bar graph produced with the Model II high-resolution graphics 
package. Both text and graphics can be mixed on the screen and selectively 
erased. 




Photo 6: Another example of what Is possible using the Model II high- 
resolution graphics package. 




RANDOM ■ CLEAR 
;DIM A$( J >*56. 
DEGREE .ulAl T 

10;<=0:RESTORE 50 
• FOR 1 1---IT0 ]0 
. READ A$<1 >■ 
PRINT A*C J ) 

J5.P0R J=ITO 60. A 
*=]NKEY* • l r A 
$<•>•". "LEt J -'60 

20- NEXT J 

22- IF A*-" 1 ' "HEN 3 
5 

25- ^OR JslTQ 10- 
IF MJDS C'1234 
ABCDEF", J, 1 >=A 
$LE'T K=J- J--J2 

30. NEXT J 

31 •-!■£• KCLS :QN K 
GOSUB 100, 2000 
, 600, 800, 300, 4 
00, 500, 700, 900 
, 1000. GOTO 5 

35. NEXT 1 .! - IF RND 
C25)>2fHEN 10 

40. K ---RND C10>. IF 
K08THEN 31 

45. GOTO 10 

50. DATA "1 - LCD 
display & gro.p 
h i cs ", 2 - Fea 
tures Banner' 1 , 
3 ■- C!ock. ;: , ':4 
•■ Be epe r " 

55, DATA K A - 3-D 
Bar Chart ", ' B 
•- Pie Ch art '' , 
C - 2-D User B 

Figure 2: Mixing text and graphics 
Is easy with Radio Shack's new 
Printer/Plotter. Also shown is a 
partial BASIC listing. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 43 



Hardware Review 



Integral Data Systems' Prism Printer 



Ed Umlor 

E & G Umlor Enterprises 

4 South Street 

Milford, NH 03055 



Integral Data Systems (IDS) has introduced an 
innovative printer called the Prism, whose modular 
design uses add-on options which let you upgrade the 
machine as needed. 

The basic 80-column Prism is available for $899 and 
yields correspondence-quality print using an overlapping 
24 by 9 dot matrix. Printing bidirectionally at 110 
characters per second (cps) (up to 150 cps for propor- 
tionally spaced characters) the Prism printer is capable of 
10, 12, or 16.8 character-per-inch densities, plus double- 
width characters. 

Selectable standard features on the basic printer 
include automatic text justification, programmable 
horizontal and vertical tabbing, reverse paper feed, and 
"fine positioning" of characters to 1/120 inch. Up to four 
different 96-character sets can reside within the printer at 
the same time, although the basic unit is provided with 
only one 96-character set. 

The Prism is microprocessor controlled, with true 
logic-seeking capability. It comes with a standard RS- 
232C serial interface as well as a Centronics-compatible 
parallel interface. Serial transmission rates from 110 to 
9600 bits per second (bps) are switch selectable. 

Six upgrade kits can be added to the printer at any time 
making it one of the faster printers in its price category. 
(As a comparison, an 80-cps printer drops to about 60 cps 
in enhanced mode and 40 cps in double-strike mode.) The 
Prism does not have a double-strike mode, although it is 
capable of providing it with the proper software. You can 
do reverse linefeeds. 

External Controls 

A slot on the top left side of the printer exposes the self- 
test switch and the power-up configuration switches — a 



At a Glance 

Name 

Prism Printer 



Use 

Dot-matrix printer 

Manufacturer 

Integral Data Systems 
Milford, NH 03055 
[603) 673-9100 

Dimensions 

80-column; 9. 1 by 15.75 by 1 2.4 inches (23. 1 by 40 by 3 1 .5 cm) 
1 32-column: 9.1 by 2 1 .6 by 1 2.4 inches [23. 1 by 54.9 
by 3 1 .5 cm) 

Features 

80 and 1 32-column models. 24 x 9 dot matrix, bidirectional 
printing at 110 to 150 cps, true logic seeking, automatic text 
justification, programmable horizontal and vertical tabbing, 
96-character ASCII set, up to four character sets coresident, 
microprocessor controlled, RS-232C and Centronics-compatible 
interfaces. 

Options 

Cut Sheet Feeder. Dot Plot, Prism Color. Sprint Module, additional 
character sets, cassette for fully automatic sheet feed. 

Price 

80-column, basic unit, $899; 1 32-column, basic unit, S 1299; 
Options available now; Cut Sheet Feeder, S 149; Dot Plot, S99; 
Prism Color, S399; Sprint Mode, S99. To come: Additional fonts, 
S99; cassette for automatic sheet feed, S399. Note: Until April 1. 
1 982 only — Special Option Package: Cut Sheet Feeder, Dot Plot, 
and Sprint Mode, S297. 

Warranty 

90-day limited 



44 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



very nice touch in the design of the printer. Unlike most 
printers, you do not have to remove the cover or fumble 
with the unit to change the power-up parameters. Three 
switches located under this slot provide self-test on/off (a 

A Closer Look 

The Prism printer gave me several pleasant surprises. 
The early IDS Paper Tigers were some of the loudest 
printers I had encountered. When IDS engineers designed 
the 560 — and now the Prism — they acoustically insulated 
the case and lowered the noise level to less than 63 dBa, a 
level suitable for most office environments. (By the way, 
the case for the Prism is identical to the one used on the 
560.) 

The print quality in the normal mode is excellent. Most 
other printers require an enhanced mode (move over Vz 
dot and strike again) or double-strike mode (reprint 
entire line) to achieve the same character quality. Fur- 
thermore, the Prism produces this type at 110 to 150 cps, 
and may be used in any combination. Cut Sheet Feeder, 
Dot Plot graphics, Prism Color, and Sprint Module 
upgrades are available now; special character sets and a 
cassette for fully automatic sheet feed will be available in 
the near future. 







Cont 


rol Line 


Form Length 


S3-1 




S3-2 




S3-2 


Length (inches) 


Off 




Off 




Off 


3 


Off 




Off 




On 


4 


Off 




On 




Off 


3.5 


Off 




On 




On 


7 


On 




Off 




Off 


12 


On 




Off 




On 


11 


On 




On 




Off 


8.5 


On 




On 




On 


14 






Control Line Seria 


Data Rate 


S3-4 






S3-5 




bits per second 


Off 






Off 




2400 


Off 






On 




300 


On 






Off 




9600 


On 






On 




1200 








Selecting Parity 


S3-6 




S3-7 






Parity 


Off 




Off 






No parity, transmit space 


Off 




On 






No parity, transmit mark 


On 




Off 






Even parity 


On 




On 






Odd parity 


Table 1 


:DIP 


switch 3, 


locatec 


on the top left-hand side of the 


printer 


and accessible through a s 


ot located there, controls 


form length, 


data rate for the RS-232C interface, and the 


parity. 


Alt In 


ough the 


switch 


sets 


the default values upon 


power- 


up, they can b 


e overn 


dden 


by software commands. 



toggle switch), print-parameter controls (DIP switch S4), 
and form-length and serial-interface-parameter controls 
(DIP switch S3). The self-test switch is nonactive with the 
lever to the left and active (only in the off-line mode) 
when the lever is to the right. S4-1 and S4-2 set the 
character density and characters per inch (cpi), 
OFF-OFF sets the 5-cpi mode (double-width mode), 
OFF-ON sets the 16.8-cpi mode (condensed mode on 
most other printers). S4-3 selects 6 lpi (lines per inch) 
when OFF or 8 lpi when ON. S4-4 controls the automatic 
boundary skip (so the printer skips over the perforations 
on fan-fold paper) of one inch. When OFF, S4-4 disables 
the skip; when S4-4 is ON the skip is enabled. S4-5 is the 
switch TRS-80 users will be interested in. ON enables the 
auto linefeed on carriage return and OFF disables the 
auto linefeed. S4-6 controls the default setting of the 
Sprint Mode and is not used in the basic Prism. S4-7 con- 
trols the expanded functions (IDS's name for software 
control). Once again, ON enables and OFF disables soft- 
ware control. The functions of DIP switch 3 are shown in 
table 1. 

On the right side of the top of the printer are two 
switches and a marker plate with several indicator lights. 
The left switch is a three-position switch labeled 
FS/OFL/ONL (Forms Set/Off line/On Line). The right 
switch is a spring-loaded, center return (off position), 
two-position switch labeled FF/LF (Form Feed/Line 
Feed). The indicators are for fault, on line, and power on. 

Software Control 

Many software commands are available with the basic 
unit. Here is a complete rundown. A line feed, Ctrl-J or 
CHR$(10), causes the paper/form to advance one line 
vertically. A form feed, Ctrl-L or CHR$(12), feeds the 
paper/form vertically to the next top of form. A carriage 
return, Ctrl-M or CHR$(13), causes the carriage to return 
without a linefeed (unless S4-5 is set to auto linefeed) 
after printing data in the buffer. These three controls will 
operate regardless of S4-7's position. 

Now let's take the rest by the numbers: 

Ctrl-A or CHR$(1): set expanded mode (double wide). 

Ctrl-B or CHR$(2): reset expanded mode. 

Ctrl-D or CHR$(4): set justify mode on (left and right 

margins are even). 
Ctrl-E or CHR$(5): reset justify mode. 
Ctrl-F or CHR$(6): set printer to fixed character space. 
Ctrl-I or CHR$(9): tab to next set horizontal tab. 
Ctrl-K or CHR$(11): tab to next set vertical tab. 
Ctrl-N or CHR$(14): do two line feeds (double space 

vertical). 
Ctrl-P or CHR$(16): print characters proportionally 

spaced. 
Ctrl-Q or CHR$(17): reset the deselect mode. 
Ctrl-R or CHR$(18): line feed without carriage return 

(S4-5's position makes no difference). 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 45 



Fig. 1A 



Ctrl-S or CHR$(19): deselect printer (causes it to ignore 
data from computer). 

Ctrl-T or CHR$(20): do two line feeds without carriage 
return. 

Ctrl-Y or CHR$(25): do three line feeds without car- 
riage return. 

Ctrl-Left bracket or CHR$(27): cause the printer to 
enter/exit the programming mode (This is called the 
escape code ESC). 

Ctrl-Right bracket or CHR$(29): set printer to 10 cpi. 

Ctrl-Uparrow or CHR$(30): set printer to 12 cpi. 

Ctrl-Underscore or CHR$(31): set printer to 16.8 cpi. 

ESC F or CHR$(27) + "F": program horizontal tabs in 
increments of 1/120 inch (1 inch = 120, 
2 inches = 240,. . . etc). CHR$(27); "F,120,240,600,$" 
will set tabs at 1 inch, 2 inch, 5 inch points. You can set 
up to 8 tab points. 

ESC B or CHR$(27) + "B": set vertical tab 1 in increments 
of 1/48 inch. CHR$(27); "B,24" will set a Vz-inch ver- 
tical tab with only one point allowed. This is ADV-1 
and defaults to 8 or 6 as S4-3 is positioned. 

ESC C or CHR$(27) + "C": same as ESC B but with a 
default value of 8, which is a 6-lpi subscript value. 

ESC D or CHR$(27) + "D": same as ESC B but with a 
default value of —8, which is a 6-lpi superscript value. 

ESC E or CHR$(27) + "E": same as ESC F but for vertical 
tabs (1/48-inch increments) and up to 8 values can be 
set. 

ESC G or CHR$(27) + "G": set the absolute head position 
from the home position in 1/120-inch increments. 

ESC H or CHR$(27) + "H": set absolute head position 
from top of form. 

ESC J or CHR$(27) + "J": set margins — two values are re- 
quired, left margin first, then the right margin (1/120 
inch). 

ESC L or CHR$(27) + "L": set vertical form length— two 
values are required, form length first and then the 
printable space within that length. This instruction 
works within the form-length switch settings (1/48 
inch). 

ESC P or CHR$(27) + "P": sets the intercharacter 
spacing in increments of 1/24 character width. 

In all the above instructions, a "$" is required as the last 
character to terminate the instruction. Tabs may be 
cleared by setting a single tab to 0: CHR$(27);"E,0,$" 
clears the vertical tabs and CHR$(27);F,0,$" clears the 
horizontal tabs. (I have deliberately not put the PRINT 
statement in these examples due to the variety of forms 
it can take. With the Apple computer you open the 
printer port and then use PRINT statements. With the 
TRS-80 you have to use LPRINT statements.) 



Options 

The $149 Cut -Sheet option (what I call letterhead) adds 
friction feed to the Prism printer. Most printers that have 
a friction option force you to feed the paper from the top 
and manually advance it to the position where you want 



Integral Data Systems and 
Lotus Development Company 




Fig. IB 




Fig. 1C 





***■ 




^r 










s>*^ 












■ ■■■ 


■^*ia 


"■' ■ :^jr* 
















W • * 1 


i**B (\ 












i) v>* 

y ced 



46 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



— 1 1 — I LlkjLikjkj 



HOC 00231 
DdCKCDD 

□□nnn 



kJLi 



DDHC 



K-J Li 



nana an 
nr 






n r** n 

M.V 



nai:: 

DDE 






LI I I bJ Li Ik. J LJ I k. J 

idtticcxa 
Ocidtincdn 
i:na:ac:anii 






anc3D2Gn 
3:3a:ada 
^^nann 



Figure 1: Four examples of color graphics. These were produced on a 132-column Prism printer loith the Dot Plot and Prism Color 
options and the process-color ribbon. Graphics are dot addressable. 



to start printing. If you are good at it, you won't have to 
square up your sheet. It is also very difficult trying to 
print to the bottom of the page with other friction-feed 
printers. The Prism's Cut Sheet option shows the same 
care in design as the rest of the unit. You can feed the 
paper from either the back or front of the printer. A 
photo sensor detects the paper being inserted. After a 
one-half- to one-second delay, the pinch rollers start to 
revolve, and if you have inserted the paper correctly it 
will feed and position the sheet to the first printable line 
on the paper. You might have to manually line feed past 
your letterhead, or you can handle that with your word- 
processing software. You will have to adjust the tractors 
on the printer to allow the paper to feed through them 
with the pins just to the outside of the paper. IDS has 
placed a set of pinch rollers into the tractors that are 
driven by the normal tractor-feed mechanism and con- 
tinue to feed the paper after the bottom pinch rollers have 
been passed. With the out-of-paper sensor located at the 
print head level, this allows the printer to print clearly 
and evenly right to the last line on the page. A simple 
form feed will eject the letter completely from the printer. 
Very nice indeed for the office that does a lot of letters on 
standard letterhead bond. 



Dot Plot is a $99 dot-addressable graphics option 
package. The density is 84 by 84 dots per inch (dpi) for 
single-pass raster and 168 by 168 dpi for a four-pass 
raster. This option adds more control codes for you to 
play with. To enter the graphics mode you set switch 
S4-5 to ON and send a Ctrl-C (CHR$(3)). You can also 
select unidirectional (default) or bidirectional graphics by 
sending Ctrl-Dor Ctrl-V, respectively. To exit you use a 
Ctrl-C + Ctrl-B (CHR$(3);CHR$(2) ; ). In the graphics 
mode you have to be careful to always end your BASIC 
instruction line with a semicolon to prevent the 
automatic generation of carriage returns and linefeeds, as 
these would be printed as graphic characters and mess up 
your picture. Seven wires of the print head are used in the 
graphics mode and are bit controlled. Bit controls the 
top wire and bit 6 controls the bottom wire. Bit 7 is 
ignored. You also have vertical and horizontal control if 
you use the previously given codes prefixed by CHR$(3). 

Prism Color is a $399 color-capability option that adds 
color designator control codes to your instruction set. 
The printer that I reviewed did not have this option, so 
my assumptions are based on the color ribbons that I 
saw. You will have a choice of three ribbons: black plus 
process colors for mixing, black plus primary colors, and 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 47 



INTRODUCING AFFORDABLE COLOR. 

Th» I NT E G R A L DATA F R I S M W F r i n t. e r 

The PRISM COLOR PRINTER prints four basic colors : 

COLOR #4= BLACK COLOR §3«CYArsI 

COLOR *2«MAG ENTA COLOR lis 

AND CAN MIX COLORS : 
MIX 4* 1 -«- 4fr 2 , ORANGE MIX ** 1 -+- 4* 3 , GREEIM 

MIX * 2 -*- ** 3 , VIOLET MIX 4* 2 -I- *» 4 , BROWIM 

Versatile Printing Capabilties 

- Correspondence quality print in a 24x9 matrix cell 

- Sis software selectable character sixes 

- Auto sheet feed mechanism 

- Adjustable tractor feed, S.O to 14.75 inches 

- Programmable horixontal and vertical tabbing 

- 6 or 6 lines/inch spacing 

- 1 10- ISO cps in correspondence quality 

- 200 cps Sprint Node in draft matrix quality 

Microprocessor Driven Controller 

- State-of-the-art technology 

- Versatile features with programmable capabilities 

- User defineable function codes 

Ease of Operation 

- Switch selectable baud rates 

- Auto line feed capability 

- Hardware/software selectable forms length 

- Fault/Paper-out indicator light 

Rea«Sy Serviceability 

- Simple mechanisms for easy service 

- Modular design provides for low MTTR 

- Built-in diagnostics and Self-test mode 

Interfaces for All Configurations 

- Parallel (Centronics compatible) 

- RS-232c (up to 9600 bd> with Xon/Xoff protocol 

- 115/230 volts, 50/60 Hx power, switch selectable 

DotFlot Gra.pln.ics Capability 

- High resolution raster graphics 

- 84x84 dots/inch 

- Includes 1500 byte character buffer 

- Long-life cartridge ribbon system 



■*— J— ——-.... -■ — ■■....■ — — ■■■-■■■. Mf 



Hi 



on 



If 1*»v 



INTEGRAL DATA SYSTEMS 
Milford, N.H. 03055 
(603) 673-9100 

Figure 2: Combining color with text. Color adds a new dimension to reports, manuscripts, and other documents. Combined with 
Dot Plot graphics, the possibilities are endless. 

48 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



(3a) 

! " # 
pqrs 
'abc 
PQRS 
@ABC 
123 

! " # 
pqrs 
"jbc 
PQRS 
@ABC 
123 

(3b) 



5%& ' ( )*+,-. /0123456789 : ; < = > ?@A 
tuvwxy z C I } ~ffl !"#5*S' ()*+,-. /Ol 
d e f gh i j k 1 mno pq r s t u vwxy z { i } ~EB ! 
TUVWXY Z C \]a_^ abode fghijklmnopq 
DEFGH I JKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZC \ ]a_^ a 
456 7 89 : ; < = > ? 9 ABCDE FGH I JKLMNOPQ 
$%&' ()*+,-. /0123456789: ; < = > ?@A 
tuvwjyiO-a !"#$%& '()*+,-./ 1 
defghi jkl mno pqrstuvwxyzC ! }~ffl ! 
TUVWXY Z [\]A_ v abcdefghi jklmnopq 
DEFGHI JKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZC \ ]A_* a 
4567 89 : ; < = > ?<? ABCDE FGH I JKLMNOPQ 



BCDE FGH I JKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZC \]A_^ a bcdefghijklrano 
23456789: ;< = > ? ©ABCDE FGH I JKLMNOPQRSTUVWX Y Z [ \ ]a__ 
"#$%&' <)*+,-./01Z3456789:,< = > ? SABCDE FGH I JKLMNO 
rstuvwxyzC ! }~ffl ! "#$%& ' ( )*+ ,- . /0123456789 : ; <=> ? 
bcdefghi j k lmnopq rst uvwx yzC!)~ffl !"# S%& '()*+,-. / 
RSTUVWXYZ t\]A_>abcdefghi jkl mnopqrstu vwxy z( I } ~ ffl 
BCDEFGHI JKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZC \]A_^abcdefghijklmno 
23456789: ;< = > ? @ ABCDE F GH I JKLMNOPQRSTUVWXY Z C \ 3a_ 
"#S%& ' (>*+,- /0123456789: ;<=>?@A BCDEFGHI JKLMNO 
rstuvwxyzCi }~B ! " #S°A& ' ()*+,-. /0123456789 : ;<=>? 
bcdefghi jk lmnop q r s t u vwxy z C I } ~ 9 !"#$%&'<)*+,-./ 
RSTUVWXYZC \]A_^abcdefghijkImnopqrstuvwxyz{ i }~ffl 



! "**%« ' ( )*■:■ , 

p i.| i- s t uuwx y z ■!! ! 
* abc d <•:• r tghi j k X 

pqrstuvwxyzi::\ 
(»abci:ii. : ;:fgh:i\tki.. 

Q 123456789 : ; < 
! '♦#%& '(!*+ ( 
p i'| i" s \. i.i v 1*1 v. y 7. {'. ! 
5 i.bcd (■:• I ;.(h:i. i k .1. 
PQRSTUVWXYZCN 
C&ABCDEFGHT.JKL 
0123456789 : ; < 



■ . / 12345678*? : ; < = > ?@ABCDEFGHI JK I.. MNOPQRSTUUUXYZ C \ ] A " ab c d © \ : ,; f h :i. j l< 1 m n a 
■}~m ! "«%& ' ( >* + , ■•■• . /01Z3456789: ; <=•==> ?@ABC DEFGH X ..TKI..MNOPqRSTUyUXYZi: s ,::i-'\ 
i»ni:ipi:|rsti.iuwxyz <: 1 !>~M !"#»%&'()*+, - . / 0:1. 2 3456789 : ; <=-->?@ABGDEFGHI JKLMNO 
3 A _*abcdef ghi jklmnapqrstuwwxyzC I :>"KI ! *♦*%&' ( >*+,■-. /0123456789: ;<>»>'? 
MNOPQR5TUVWXYZ C\3 A .... ' ;;i.l:>edo fcfhi. j klmnopqrstuvwxysi <: ! :>"I5I ! "#*%& ' ( ) *+ , - . / 
-■-■■■■■ > -{ C8ABC DEFGH I J K I.. MNOPQ R 5 TUVWXY2X \ :i "> .... v ab c d e F .;f h :i. j k :i. m n ci p q r s» t. uuw x y z C ! :> '" 151 
-, / 0123456789 : ; <==> ?(»ABCDEFGHI JK LMNOPQRSTUVWXYZLVJ^ ...."abc -de -Fcfh:i. J klmna 
>"H ! "#*•/.& '<)*+,-. /0123456789 : ; < ■■■■■■> ?@ABCBEFGI -IIJK I..MNOPQRSTUUWXYZi:\:i '\ 
mnopqrsti.ivwxijz C 1 }"HI ! ■**%£ ' ( )*->• ,- . / 123456789 : , <«>?@ABCBEFGHI JKLMNO 
::i A .... % abcdefi:[hijk:i.»inapqrsi,i.u/wxgz{: .) "ISI ! **»%&' ( )*+,--. /0123456789: ;<«•>'? 
mnoi ; 'QRSTUUUXyz.i::\::|a ^ abode fflhi J klii«napc|rs"i;uvwxyz <: I :>"ffl ! ' #*%s ' t ) #+ , ■■■■ . / 
»«>?eABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUyWXY2C\3' s _ x a.bcdefQl«iakltBnapc|rM!it,uvwxy2£ I :> '•' 151 



Figure 3: A comparison of normal and draft print. Figure 3a shows the normal, correspondence-quality print, monospaced, at 10 
cpi. Figure 3b shows the print produced by the Sprint Mode option. In this mode, the printer zooms along at 200 cps. 



all black for standard printing. The printer I am using has 
the ribbon set at an angle, allowing the head to start at 
the top and finish at the bottom of the ribbon. This has 
the effect of using the entire surface of the ribbon for the 
expected 10-million-character life. The character life 
expectancy of the color ribbons should be less, due to the 
fact the ribbon will be set horizontally. This is necessary 
for the head to encounter the same color strip on the rib- 
bon during its full travel. The colors are stacked in stripes 
over the black, which means the ribbon must be posi- 
tioned to place the proper color in front of the head for 
each pass. There can be up to four passes of the head for 
each line feed: top color, next color down, next color 
down, and black, which is the last color stripe on the rib- 
bon. 

The Sprint Mode option is available for another $99. 
This option is controlled by S4-6 and is enabled with the 
switch ON. It gives what IDS calls rough-draft printing. 
The print quality is that of most other dot-matrix printers 
in single-pass, unemphasized mode. The difference here is 
that the Prism does it at 200 cps (see figure 3). This mode 
can be entered via software and is also switch selectable. 
To change the default setting, turn off the printer, change 
the position of S4-6, and turn the printer back on. 

Optional character sets should become available in the 
summer of 1982. For $99 each, you will be able to have 
Helvetica, scientific notation, and others. All the special 
symbols necessary to print in the six major European 
character sets are standard in the basic printer. 



The last option (to be available soon) is a $399 cut- 
paper-feed cassette. Here the machine will really out- 
distance the field of friction/ tractor printers in the 
$2000-and-under class, as it is the very first one to offer 
this option. By combining this printer, a word processor, 
and a mailing list that works with the word-processor 
files, you will be able to do individualized form letters to 
your mailing list on your letterhead. Now that is real 
class compared to most of the form letters that I get in the 
mail. 

Examples of what can be done with the Dot Plot and 
Prism Color options are shown in figure 1. Figure 2 
shows how text, color, and graphics can be combined. 

Conclusions 

Integral Data Systems has developed a new breed of 
printer. Its designers are to be congratulated for the qual- 
ity of their product, the workmanship, and their 
innovative spirit. 

• I like the design philosophy, execution, and price. For 
the money, it's hard to beat. 

• You don't have to buy more printer than you need. Op- 
tions can be added later. 

• The documentation is excellent, providing complete 
setup, test, troubleshooting, and maintenance pro- 
cedures, as well as complete schematics. 

• IDS provides a 90-day limited warranty on all its pro- 
ducts. It is presently expanding its service organization. ■ 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 49 



Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 



Use Voiceprints 
to Analyze Speech 



Do you ever talk to your com- 
puter? I do. But it doesn't understand 
a word I say. That's just as well right 
now, because I talk to it mostly in 
moments of hardware-induced frus- 
tration. 

Of course, the computer talks to 
me. If you've read my June and Sep- 
tember 1981 Circuit Cellar articles, 
you know that my computers can 
talk using two different methods of 
voice synthesis. At present, a com- 
puter can synthesize speech much 
more easily than it can recognize 
speech. 

Professional speech-recognition 
systems currently on the market can 
cost up to $100,000. Budget-priced 
systems for personal computers are 
available for about $500, but of 
course, they don't perform as well. 

My mail has been full of requests 
from readers for a speech-recognition 
circuit. Most correspondents point 
out that such a project is a natural 
follow-up to the two articles on voice 
synthesis. Unfortunately, designing a 
cost-effective voice-input speech-rec- 

Copyright © 1982 by Steven A. Garcia. 
All rights reserved. 



Steve Ciarcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury, CT 06033 



ognition system is a major project; it 
not only requires a complete under- 
standing of the techniques involved 
but also necessitates skills in the 
design of filter networks and intricate 
data-comparison algorithms. 

The basic concept of speech recog- 
nition is rather simple: have a com- 
puter digitize the analog voice wave- 
form of each spoken word and com- 
pare it to a stored reference vocab- 
ulary. A basic block diagram is 
shown in figure 1. 




Photo 1: The sample and scanning cir- 
cuit of figure 5b, constructed on a 
breadboard. 



First, the analog voice input is 
amplified, then it is digitized to form 
a word template. This template for- 
matting can be done by various tech- 
niques that include bandpass filters, 
A/D (analog-to-digital) converters, 
zero-crossing detectors, or fast 
Fourier analyzers. The result, what- 
ever the technique, is a digital 
representation of the word spoken 
into the microphone. In an inexpen- 
sive speech-recognition system, this 
word template might be 10 bytes 
long, whereas in a $100,000 system 
the template may have 10K bytes of 
data per word. 

The input word template is then 
processed by a computer and com- 
pared to a series of templates stored 
in memory. The stored templates 
constitute the machine's vocabulary. 
A spoken word is deemed to be recog- 
nized when there is an exact or 
reasonably close match with one of 
the stored templates. 

In practical speech-recognition sys- 
tems, the size of the word template 
must be traded off against the amount 
of available memory or storage and 
the computing power of the pro- 
cessor. With a small template, the 



50 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



words are not very well defined, and 
there is a considerable possibility that 
the computer will confuse two dif- 
ferent words. On the other hand, 
large templates, which more precisely 
define the words, take considerably 
more time for comparison as well as 
more storage space. 

To achieve reasonably fast recogni- 
tion with large templates, the com- 
puter must digest information at pro- 
digious speed. In professional speech- 
recognition systems, a typical pro- 
cessor might perform 1 million 16-bit 
by 16-bit multiplications per second. 
Creating such a number cruncher is 
expensive. 

To build a speech-recognition sys- 
tem on a low budget, using a micro- 
processor, we must make some com- 
promise either in the time allotted for 
the computer to recognize a word or 
in the precision with which words are 
defined in the templates. There must 
be some amount of storage between 
10K and 10 bytes that defines a word 
sufficiently well for our low-cost 
speech-recognition system to recog- 
nize it within a tolerable duration. 

Preliminary Research 

This article doesn't tell you how to 
build a speech-recognition system. 




We aren't ready for that yet. Instead, 
it describes a scheme to analyze the 
audible content of speech so that we 
can more accurately define a suitable 
template size. 

A definition of just how much data 
is required can be determined only by 
carefully examining the spectral con- 
tent of speech and analyzing the dif- 
ferences between the words we want 
to have the computer recognize. Just 
what is the audible difference be- 
tween the numbers "six" and "eight"? 
Is there a unique set of data points 
that allows them to be easily differen- 
tiated? 

In essence, the information we are 
looking for is a kind of fingerprint for 
speech, a voiceprint . (It may also be 
called a spectrogram.) By visually 
comparing the spectral voiceprints of 
words, we can perhaps come to 
understand details of definitive tem- 
plates and the workings of compar- 
ison algorithms. 

We may find that in a limited- 
vocabulary speech-recognition sys- 
tem the spectral differences between 
the words in the selected recognizable 
set may be so distinct that the 
template resolution can be reduced to 
perhaps less than 100 bytes. It is also 
possible that such an examination 
will demonstrate that a monumental 
effort must be exerted to distinguish 
between two words such as "seem" 
and "seen." 

I hope to eventually write about a 
voice-response speech-recognition 
system. Such a project seems to lie 



within the scope of a Circuit Cellar 
article. For the present, however, I 
am still researching certain informa- 
tion about the significant differences 
between words, seeking to answer 
such questions as: Must data on 
amplitude as well as frequency be 
recorded? Must the input word be 
digitized in real time? Can the stored 
template data be compressed in some 
way? What frequencies are important 
and which can be ignored? Is there 
much variation between different ut- 
terances of the same word? 

This month's hardware project, a 
spectral voiceprint display, should 
help answer some of these questions. 

What Are Voiceprints? 

When you speak, the sound that 
comes out of your mouth is com- 
posed of various frequencies blended 
together to create the tonal quality 
that is unique to your voice. If you 
attach a microphone to the input of 
an oscilloscope and speak into it, you 
can watch the frequency and ampli- 
tude changes. The bandwidth of 
meaningful sounds for most voices is 
about 4 kHz. (Not coincidentally, this 
is the passband of a voice-grade tele- 
phone line.) 

Another method of looking at the 
various frequencies present in voices 
is to produce a graph of speech wave- 
forms showing frequency as a func- 
tion of time. An example of this is 
shown in figure 2 on page 52. As the 
word'eight" is spoken, the majority 
of the energy is between 1 and 4 kHz 





"^ AUDIO INPUT 








COMPARISON 
ALGORITHM 




MICROPHONE 






TEMPLATE FORMATTING: 

BANDPASS FILTERS, 
A/D CONVERTERS, 
ZERO CROSSING 
DETECTORS, ETC. 




i 

1 










AMPLIFIER 






PROCESSOR 




DECISION 
LOGIC 


) 








/ 








i 


. 
















STORED WORD 
TEMPLATES 


RECOG 
WORD 


NIZED 



Figure 1: Block diagram of a computer speech-recognition system using word templates. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 51 



for the first 0.15 seconds, then a silent 
period is interrupted after another 
0.15 seconds by a quick burst of 
energy at about 4 kHz. The first 
waveform group is the "eigh", and 
the final burst is the "t". A plot of the 
amplitude also provides significant 
information. 

This sort of voiceprint or spectro- 
gram shows a record of frequency 
and amplitude versus time. 

Producing the graph shown in 
figure 2 requires an x,y plotter and a 
real-time spectrum analyzer. This 
equipment is costly and not generally 
available to the average exper- 
imenter, but with a little ingenuity we 
can obtain similar results with some 
simple bandpass filters and an oscillo- 
scope. 

Economy Voiceprint Display 

The laboratory spectrum analyzer 
typically used to produce voiceprints 
often contains either a scanning filter 
or FFT (fast-Fourier-transform) pro- 
cessor. Such equipment has extremely 
high resolution (as well as cost) and 
allows the operator to resolve fre- 
quencies separated by only a few 
hertz (Hz). This is much more resolu- 
tion than is required for our applica- 



tion, and a more cost-effective real- 
time spectrum analyzer can be substi- 
tuted. 

Figure 3 is a block diagram of the 
hardware I used to record voice- 
prints. It consists of an eight-octave 
bandpass filter connected to a micro- 
phone and some timing circuitry. The 
outputs of the circuit are connected to 
the jc-axis, y-axis, and blanking 
(z-axis) inputs of an oscilloscope. The 
result is a three-dimensional view of 
the spoken word. The x axis 
represents time, the y axis represents 
frequency, and the z axis (brightness) 
represents amplitude. 

The plot thus produced looks 
somewhat different from the spectro- 
gram in figure 2, but it is equally rep- 
resentative of spectral content. The 
eight filter sections cover eight oc- 
taves from 31 Hz to 4 kHz. Concen- 
trations of energy in the eight octaves 
appear as eight bands across the 
display. 

For example, if there are any fre- 
quencies present around 1 kHz, the 
1-kHz band on the display is il- 
luminated, appearing as a stripe 
across the oscilloscope screen. The 
amplitude of these frequencies 
governs the intensity of the stripe. If 



this approximately 1-kHz signal is 
weak, the pattern will be dim; if it is 
strong, the pattern will be bright. 

Figure 4 is an example of the kind 
of display produced by my interface 
circuit. This is approximately how 
the word "eight" appears when 
spoken. You'll note the grouping of 
energies corresponding to "eigh" and 
"t" as before. (There is also a shift in 
frequencies due to the fact that this 
display was produced by a different 



4 

3 

FREQUENCY 
kHz 2 



RELATIVE 
AMPLITUDE 




\ 



4h-+ 



0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 
TIME ► 



Figure 2: A conventional voiceprint, or 
spectrogram, of a man saying the word 
"eight." Frequency is plotted as a func- 
tion of time. 



OSCILLOSCOPE 
CONNECTIONS 

Z-AXIS 
»• (BLANKING) 
INPUT 




NPUT 



Figure 3: Block diagram of the Circuit Cellar voiceprint-recording system. 

52 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Uic 



person speaking.) While unlike the 
ink-drawn spectrogram, it is equally 
detailed and unique. 

On an 8- by 10-cm (centimeter) 
oscilloscope display, each frequency 
band occupies 1 cm on the vertical (y) 
axis. Time is recorded on the horizon- 
tal (x) axis where 1 cm corresponds to 
0.05 seconds (all screen photos ac- 
companying this article have these 
values). A complete word sample 
therefore represents sounds occurring 
during a one-half-second interval, 
consisting of 128 samples at each fre- 
quency. Changing the clock rate of 
the circuit can increase or decrease 
the scan time. 

The scans appear as vertical lines 
on the screen. A full half -second sam- 
ple consists of 128 vertical filter 
scans. Each vertical scan is divided 
evenly into eight sections correspond- 
ing to the eight filters. The bottom is 
31 Hz, and the top is 4 kHz. The in- 
tensity of each segment of the scan 
line is determined by the output volt- 
age of the particular filter: the more 
positive the output, the brighter the 
segment. If there is no output from a 
filter section during a segment inter- 
val, that portion of the segment will 
not be illuminated (it will be 
blanked). As configured, a half -sec- 
ond sample period scans the filters 
every 3.9 ms (milliseconds). 

How the Display Circuit Works 

Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of 
the voiceprint-display system. It is 
basically divided into two sections: 
amplifier and filters (figure 5a on 
page 56) and the sample and scanning 
logic (figure 5b on page 58). A proto- 
type of the sample and scanning logic 
is shown in photo 1 on page 50. The 
ribbon cable leads off to the amplifier 
and filter board. 

Integrated circuit ICl is a two-stage 
microphone preamplifier (you could 
substitute a much simpler circuit; this 
just happens to be the one I used) 
feeding output into IC2b, which has a 
sensitivity adjustment potentiometer 
and an additional stage of amplifica- 
tion. IC2a is an average level in- 
dicator. While each filter responds 
only to its preset frequency passband, 
this portion of the circuit passes all 



frequencies and produces a DC 
voltage output proportional to the 
average volume level. This output is 
fed to the voltage comparator IC9, 
which switches when the average in- 
put level is above a certain amplitude, 
thus triggering the sample period 
when pronunciation of the word 
begins. 

Integrated circuits IC3 through IC6 
are configured as eight separate band- 
pass amplifiers with center frequen- 
cies at 31 Hz, 62 Hz, 125 Hz, 250 Hz, 
500 Hz, 1 kHz, 2 kHz, and 4 kHz. The 
filters are not particularly sharp, 
possessing a frequency rolloff of 
about 8 dB (decibels) per octave. The 
output stage of each filter contains an 
integrator that converts the pass fre- 
quencies into an average DC level. 

The timing network appears more 
complicated than it is. For a half- 
second word sample the clock rate is 
set for 4096 Hz and is divided down 
through an 11-bit counter configured 
from IC14 and IC15. The reset lines 
of the counters are controlled by the 
trigger-level comparator IC9 and an 
RS (set-reset) flip-flop formed from 
IC7, sections c and d. When the cir- 
cuit triggers, the reset line on the 
counters is raised to a logic 1, and 
they begin to count. After 2048 clock 
cycles, the flip-flop is reset and the 
scanning is stopped. A timing 



4 kHz 



FREQUENCY 



250Hz 



125Hz 



diagram is shown in figure 6 on page 
60. 

The 3 least significant bits of the 
counter control the address lines of an 
8-channel analog multiplexer, IC16. 
The eight inputs of the multiplexer 
are the eight outputs from the filters, 
and the output of the multiplexer goes 
to the oscilloscope. When the 
multiplexer address is binary 000, the 
31-Hz filter output is channeled 
through it to the scope blanking input, 
where it controls the oscilloscope- 
beam intensity. Similarly, binary 111 
addresses the 4-kHz filter. (While this 
eight-cycle scan occurs every eight 
clock periods, it is displayed only at 
alternating scans.) The other 8 bits of 
the 11-bit counter set the 256 posi- 
tions of the x axis (128 displayed and 
128 blanked positions). 

(The output level of the multiplexer 
should be set for the blanking range 
of your particular oscilloscope. This 
can be either a positive or negative 
voltage. My oscilloscope, a Tektronix 
model 2215, requires a negative 
blanking voltage, so I added IC10 as 
an inverting amplifier.) 

Since an oscilloscope is an analog 
device, the digital counter outputs 
must be converted to analog voltages. 
Two different methods are employed 
in this circuit. The 8 most significant 
bits of the 11-bit counter drive an 



0.2 
SECONDS 



0.3 



Figure 4: Typical display produced by the Circuit Cellar voiceprint system, of the 
word "eight." Although dissimilar in appearance to the conventionally plotted spec- 
trogram of figure 2, it contains the same kind of information, along with indications of 
amplitude through modulation of the intensity of the scanning beam. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 53 



a. on 



b. off 



Photo 2: 

Voiceprints, or 
spectrograms, of 
various words 
being pro- 
nounced by a 
Micromouth 
voice syn- 
thesizer, as 
recorded by the 
circuit of figures 
5a and 5b 
attached to a 
Tektronix 
model 2215 
oscilloscope. 
Eight frequency 
bands are 
defined in 
the vertical y 
axis, while the 
horizontal x axis 
gauges time 
elapsed during the 
sounding of the 
word. The 
amplitude of 
energy in the 
various frequency 
bands is 
indicated by 
the brightness of 
the oscilloscope 
trace. 




c. error 



d. ready 




FT : H^KTfifjllJI 


B^j-H-H-|. ■ ■ : ~- . rit? 


1 


L ^ 


'•^H 



e. stop 



f. start 




"19 



g. zero 



h. one 




54 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



i. two 



j. three 



Iek'S 


s-sss' 




iiii 






i 


i ii 


L 




■Hi 



k. four 




1. five 




Hn * " <W WHSHH 


HHB ,:i JnHi 


» 1 I Ml 1 ■•! 

H v '■ 

[Hi < 





m. six 



n. seven 




■Plf :" ' 1 



o. eight 



nine 




R-2R-ladder D/A (digital-to-analog) 
converter, which I discussed in my 
January Circuit Cellar article. With a 
count of 0, the output is V (volts); 
with a count of 255, the output is +5 
V. Therefore, each step is 19.5 mV 
(millivolts). 

With a clock rate of 4096 Hz, the 
D/A converter increases its output 
voltage by an increment of 19.5 mV 
every 2 ms. With the scope set for 
jc, y-vector display mode, the x-axis 
scope trace proceeds from the bottom 
left corner (0 V) to the bottom right 
corner ( + 5 V), taking half a second. 

Initially I used a 3-bit D/A con- 
verter to increment the position of the 
y-axis beam. However, the 60-MHz 
bandwidth of the Tektronix scope 
was sufficient to cause each vertical 
scan to appear as eight dots rather 
than eight line segments. The scope 
was too fast. This was remedied by 
using a ramp-function generator con- 
figured from IC11 and IC17. ICll is a 
positive-going integrator, and IC17 is 
a shorting switch connected across 
the integrating capacitor. 

When the switch is closed, the out- 
put of ICll is V. This is the case 
during the odd-numbered scans, 
when the Q4 output of IC14 is high. 
On even scans the switch is open, and 
the capacitor is allowed to charge. As 
configured it charges linearly at a rate 
determined by the slope-adjustment 
potentiometer. This potentiometer 
should be set so that the output of 
ICll (pin 6) goes from V to 12 V 
during the 2-ms half period of the Q4 
output. The clock rate affects this 
time period, so the slope will have to 
be readjusted if the clock frequency is 
changed. 

Recording Voiceprints 

After connecting the voiceprint- 
generating system to the scope, you 
can begin to experiment. Speak a 
word into the microphone. The beam 
will be triggered, and the trace will 
move from left to right across the 
screen. Slowly increase the input- 
sensitivity potentiometer until the 
background noise saturates the 
display. All filters will have some 
output, and the screen will be com- 
pletely unblanked. Slowly back off 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 55 



"> 
6 



to 
to 




Figure 5a: Section of the schematic diagram of the spectral voiceprint circuit, showing the amplifier and bandpass-filter com- 
ponents. Eight passbands are selected by the filter stages, with the output sent to the scanning and display section of figure 5b. 



56 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 32 on inquiry card. 



FRIENDLINESS. 

Informative HP manuals, 
helpful error messages, and 
automatic syntax checking 
make BASIC language 
programming easy. 



EXPANDABILITY. 

Just plug in the HP interface bus 
(HP-IB) and add up to 14 peripher- 
als without disassembly. 




FULL-SCREEN EDITING. 

Edit the easy way - without 
retyping entire statements. 
Insert, change, or delete 
characters at the touch of a key. 



HP SOFTWARE. 

Powerful, time-saving 
solutions to your 
everyday problems. 



• 



INTEGRATED 
GRAPHICS. 

Analyze a better 
way - with graphics 
Document your 
results with 
hard-copy 
plots. 



12-DIGIT ACCURACY. 

(Not just 9!) Thanks to 
BCD math capability. 



PORTABILITY. 

Keyboard, CRT, printer and 
storage - all in a 
20-lb. package. 
So you'll have 
computing power 
wherever you 
need it . . . office, 
lab, field, or 
home. 




Hewlett-Packard 
put it all together. 



The HP- 85 personal computing system. 

Leave it to Hewlett-Packard to put a lot of power 
in a little package. Plus flexibility, portability, and all 
the other features you'd expect to find in a personal, 
professional, integrated computing system. 

Turn it on and the HP-85 is ready to go. You're 
off and running using HP software or creating your 
own programming solutions. There's no boot- 
strapping. And since the operating system and 
powerful BASIC language exist in ROM, they use 
almost none of the available RAM. 

If you've been looking for a friendly, integrated 



computer with power and dependability, look at 
the HP-85. 

We put it all together for you! 

For further information, phone toll-free, 
800-547-3400, Dept. 276K, except Alaska/Hawaii. 
In Oregon, call 758-1010. Or, write Hewlett-Packard, 
Corvallis, OR 97330, Dept. 276K. 611/22 

When performance must be measured by results. 



¥ 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 




> 






C\J 


cococogocqco r — r — r — i^— 


t» 


+ 






> 






CM 


■q-^r^TT-sf-a- m- ^- ^- NT 


■* 


D 
CD 


r- i- 


N MDN 


> 

IT) 

+ 


*00 


Mf "<* CD "sr 


a. 
>> 

(- 


COCOCOCOCOCOt-O) 

inioinininLnT-'jTiIiiIII 
55555500 JJJJ 


LM741 
CD4024 
CD4024 
CD4051 
CD4066 


CD 
.Q 

E 


-cMOT*m<£>r-too>°;i£!™2!£St 

ooooooooo555555 00 


z 







Figure 5b: The scanning and display section of the voiceprint circuit, shown in schematic form. Input comes from the bandpass 
filters, and output is sent to an oscilloscope. Discrete resistors may be used in place of the Allen-Bradley 316L08503 resistor package. 



58 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




New from HIPLOT™ 
multi-pen plotting for as little as $1480*. 




The new HIPLOT DMP Series 
6-pen option makes high perfor- 
mance multi-pen plotting affor- 
dable. It's available on the DMP 2, 
3, and 4 models in the HIPLOT 
family so you can enjoy the 
advantages of multi-colored plots 
on &Vi" X 11" (DIN A4) surfaces. 
Of course, you also get the standard 
HIPLOT range of capabilities such as 
intelligence, controls, interfaces and 
resolutions. There's a model for vir- 
tually every plotting application. 



line which made low-cost, high 
performance digital plotting a 
reality. 





Big Performance in a Small Plotter 

Since it's introduction, the 
HIPLOT DMP Series has been rec- 
ognized as the innovative plotter 



TM Trademark ol Houston Instrument. 
U.S. Suggested retail prices. 
Centronics"' registered trademark of 
Centronics Data Computer Corp. 



Now, with our new 6-pen 
option, there's an exciting new 
dimension in the DMP Series' ver- 
satility. Imagine two standard 
models with RS-232-C and parallel 
interfaces, four intelligent models 
with RS-232-C orCentronics®com- 
patible interfaces, a choice of con- 
trols, resolutions, and pen speeds. 
Add to this the ability to plot with 
6-pens on paper, vellum or mylar 
(ideal for overhead projectors) and 
you have the ultimate plotter 
price/performance combina- 
tion — the perfect choice for the 
user or OEM. 



8-Pen Models Also Available 



If you need a little more 
capability, take a look at our new 
8-pen option. It's available on the 
DMP 5, 6, and 7 so you can have 
8-pen multi-colored plots on 
11"X17" (D1N-A3) surfaces. 

Why wait? Let us send you 
complete information on this 
breakthrough in affordable, multi- 
pen plotting. Contact Houston In- 
strument, P.O. Box 15720, Austin, 
Texas 78761. (512) 835-0900. For 
rush literature requests, outside 
Texas, call toll free 1-800-531-5205. 
For technical information ask for 
operator §5. In Europe contact 
Houston Instrument, Rochester- 
laan 6, 8240 Gistel, Belgium. 
Phone 059/27-74-45. 



INSTRUrVBTTS &SY5TEMS DMSION 
lbgerher...we1l create tomorrow 

BAUSCH S LOMB If 

Circle 179 for literature. 

Circle 180 to have representative call. 



PnOOF nEADE 



The Aspen Software Company Spelling Checker 
+ 

QRAMMATlk 

Beyond Spelling Checking 



THE ONLY COMPLETE 
PROOFREADING PACKAGE 



FOR ALL CP/M, MS-DOS, 
AND TRS-80 WORD PROCESSORS 

We'll match Proofreader with any other 
spelling checker on the market. It has a big 
.38.000 word expandable dictionary, and can 
check even your largest documents in under 
lour minutes. Proofreader looks up every 
word, and does not use less accurate root 
word analysis like some others. Full inter- 
active correction is standard on CP/M and 
TRS-80 Model II systems, and is a low cost 
option for the TRS-80 Model 1/ III. 

Spelling checking alone is not enough! No 
one else has anything like Grammatik! It 
analyzes your document for common typos. 
punctuation errors, misused phrases, and 
poor writing style. Grammatik is receiving 
rave reviews from both critics and users. 
Bob Louden in InfoWorld (12/7/81): 
"Grammatik is a surprisingly fast and easy 
tool for analyzing writing style and punctu- 
ation. If you are currently doing original 
writing on a word processor, you should 
consider this product." Eric Balkan in 
The Computer Consultant: "I'm impressed 
with the imagination that went into this 
product." A user: "Thanks for making my 
life easier!" 



Grammatik and Proofreader are compatible with a]] 

CP/M. MS-DOS (including IBM PC), and TRS-80 word 

processors. 

Current CP'M formats: 

standard 8". NorthStar. Omikron TRS-80. 
Please call or write for details of minimum system 
sizes, and availability of additional disk and operating 
system formats. Shipping costs included. 
Please specify your system configuration when 
ordering. Dealer inquiries invited. 
MS-DOS versions scheduled for March 1982 release. 



Proofreader Grammatik 
CP'M. MS-DOS $129.00 $149.00 

TRS-80 Model II $99.00 $99.00 

TRS-80 Mod. I/Ill $54.00 $59.00 

I Model 1 ' III interactive correction option - $30.00) 



Trademarks: CP 'M: Digital Research; TRS-80: Tandy Corp.; 
Proofreader. Grammatik: Aspen Software Co. 



*^ 



9 k 



P.O. Box 339-B. Tijeras, NM 87059 
(505)281-1634 



the gain until the display appears to 
respond as you speak a word. Con- 
tinue this adjustment until the display 
looks like the sample photos. 

In bright ambient light the display 
will appear as a single vertical line 
moving across the screen. If you 
darken the room, the persistence of 
the phosphor screen will allow you to 
see the entire voiceprint. 

To record the voiceprint for 
posterity you will need a camera. In a 
darkened room, simply set the 
camera on a tripod, open the shutter 
manually, allow one sample to scan 
on the screen, and then close the shut- 
ter. This is essentially the technique I 
used to produce the sample voiceprint 
photos that accompany this article. 
Unfortunately, since the Tektronix 
2215 has no reticule illumination, no 
scale is reproduced in the photos. 
Keep in mind that there are eight ver- 
tical filter bands and that the x axis is 
half a second. 

Examples of my own voiceprints 
wouldn't be especially helpful to you 
in trying to align your voiceprint 
system, so I have provided examples 
that can potentially be duplicated and 
compared. All the voiceprint photos 
here were produced using the output 
of a Micromouth voice synthesizer. 
The Micromouth, which I described 
in my June 1981 article, uses a Na- 
tional Semiconductor Digitalker 
speech-synthesis chip set. It has a 
limited vocabulary which is extreme- 
ly intelligible and eminently 
reproducible. If you have a 
Micromouth, simply connect it up 



and compare your results to the 
various prints of words and numbers 
shown here. 

Experimental Results 

What can we learn from studying 
the results of our simple testing? First 
of all, the voiceprints of speech syn- 
thesizers and people are very dif- 
ferent. While the words sound much 
the same to the ear, the frequency 
content is rather different. This dif- 
ference should not bother a computer 
speech-recognition system so long as 
the word templates are set to 
recognize either synthesized or 
natural voices. But because of its 
repeatable speech, the synthesizer 
might provide a good way to initially 
test a speech-recognition system. 

In general, there seem to be con- 
siderable spectral differences between 
the words in the minimum useful 
vocabulary I chose as examples. 
Because of the great differences, a 
speech-recognition system could use 
minimally precise template data to 
differentiate between these words. 

Consider how a computer could 
store these voiceprints as word 
templates. An A/D converter could 
be used to read the filter values. Stor- 
ing the output values from 128 scans 
of eight filters requires 1024 (IK) 
bytes for each word, assuming the use 
of an 8-bit A/D converter. The 
amount of memory required can be 
reduced by eliminating the dead air 
time at the beginning of words and 
between the sounds contained within 
a word. 



"-ock ^ijijTjiniimjwLiiJiJiJijmru^^ 



IC14 ( 



Q2 
Q3 
Q4 



J L 
L 

r 



ICll, PIN 6 
Y-AXIS INPUT 




60 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Figure 6: Timing diagram of the voiceprint-recording system. 

Circle 247 on inquiry card. 



MICRO-SCI IS IN THE GAME FOR ALL THE APPLES. 




H 












«o . iva -e.\r\ ■ 



\ , 










7 



...WITH A FULL HOUSE OF SW DRIVES 



Micro-Sci has three disk drives and two 
controllers so you can configure your Apple II™ or 
Apple II Plus "■' system to fit your individual budget 
and performance requirements. 

THE FIRST ACE— A2 

The new A2 is the price/compatibility substitute 
for the Disk II,'" intended as the second drive on 
an existing controller, or as a full A2 subsystem. 
The A2 dnve or A2 subsystem is an ideal choice 
when the drives will be primarily used for 
entertainment or prepackaged software programs. 

THE SECOND ACE— A40 

The A40 is a price/performance alternative to the 
Disk II. With 40 tracks, you get an additional 20K 
bytes, and faster track-to-track access. The A40 is 
intended for use in dedicated DOS, CP/M and 
Pascal applications, and as a companion drive for 
the A70.The A40 is Micro-Scrs most cost-effective 



disk subsystem for the Apple lis. 

THE THIRD ACE— A70 

The A70 is the price/capacity alternative. 
At over a quarter million bytes per drive, the A70 
has the capacity of two Disk lis or an eight-inch 
floppy, but costs only slightly more than a single 
Disk II. One A70 supports a DOS file as large as 
270K, a CP/M file up to 254K, and 560 blocks 
in Pascal. 

THE PAIF — MICRO-SCIS CONTROLLERS 

The A2 comes with a unique new controller. 
This controller supports any combination of A2s or 
Disk lis, you have complete flexibility. 

The A40 and A70 share a common controller. 
Mix A40s and A70s in any fashion, one A40 with 
one A70, two A40s or two A70s— all on the 
same controller. 

You can have a Disk II or A2 controller with 



Disk II or A2 drives and still add an A40 or A70 
subsystem. Thafs full system-level compatibility. 
THE PAT HAND 

Versatility, reliability, capability are assured 
when choosing Micro-Sci. Pick the drive, pick the 
controller, pick the capacity and function. Whatever 
your need, DOS 3.2, 3.3, Pascal, CP/M, games or 
pre-packaged software, Micro-Sci has the drive. 
Start wherever you choose with the knowledge 
that you can expand without concern. All Micro-Sci 
products are backed by a full 120-day warranty 
(parts and labor). 

Our complete line of Apple compatible products 
makes us the dealer's choice. We're always looking 
for good dealers. 
International dealer inquiries: 
International Markets Co., Telex: 69-6191. 
TELEX CO LSA 



fJSCl 



MICRO-SCI 

17742 IRVINE BOULEVARD . SUITE 205 .TUSTIN, CALIFORNIA 92680 .714/731-9461 .TELEX: 910-346-6739 

MICRO-SCI IS A DIVISION OF STANDUN CONTROLS, INC. 



"APPLE II. APPLE II PLUS T '"DISK II i 'APPLE, APPLE II AND DISK II ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTERS, CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA 



Announcing 23 



new Micr 
pr 



• • • 



ard 



• it 



cts. 



Now there are over 70 

Microboard problem-solvers 

from "Old Reliable'.' 



The first color Microboard Computer 
Development System. 



New Opto 22* I/O interface Microboard. 






rv 



til 



1 1 T< ^^^^^ T 1 ' 



'f$: s.yvss: ?.,.,.,. 




|^t£6i"&>— 




► 



r 



These new products will help you 
to use the power of board-level com- 
puters to solve many more of your 
application problems. 

Color development system. 

The first color development sys- 
tem for 1802-series microprocessors. 
Ideal for developing your own 1 802 
microprocessor, Microboard, or color 
video applications. 

Software development and screen 
editing made easy by colors that 
distinguish your inputs from computer 
responses. Unique cursor, prompt, 
and background color identify Monitor 
and Program Development modes. 
Expandable with any RCA memory or 
I/O Microboard. Firmware includes 
floating-point BASIC3, ROM-based 
assembler/editor, and monitor. 

TheCDP18S695V1 comes 
complete with color monitor, full key- 
board and promprogrammer for only 
$1499** Other models as low as 
$499**. at that price the system is an 
ideal BASIC language controller. 

New I/O interface. 

Opto 22* module interface Micro- 
board CDP18S662 provides 24 bi- 
directional parallel I/O lines. Solves 
your power problems by interfacing 
directly with industry-standard opti- 
cally isolated plug-in modules and 
racks. 

Unique circuit design enables you 
to select the direction of each signal 
line. No Microboard changes or pro- 
gramming required. 



Innovative built-in interrupt struc- 
ture can be programmed to generate 
an interrupt in response to a change 
in one or more signal lines. 

Five new Microboard computers. 

Based on the new 1805 micro- 
processors with built-in counter/ 
timers. The new counter/timer fea- 
tures include real-time event counter, 
pulse-duration timer and program 
decrement counter. 

And these new microprocessors 
have 22 additional powerful instruc- 
tions, including one-instruction call 
and return, and 4 instructions to load 
and store 16-bit words. 

We've put these features of the 
1 805 to work for you on five new Micro- 
boards. Each is a complete computer 
system, with read-write memory, 
parallel and serial I/O ports (available 
on 4 of the 5), power-on reset, expan- 
sion interface and ROM sockets. 

Ideal for solving your 1805 or 1806 
microprocessor prototyping needs, 
or for systems requiring timers 
and counters. 

Industrial chassis series. 

Designed to stand up to tough 
industrial environments. Seven sizes, 
from 4 to 25 slots. Built-in Universal 
Backplane accepts all Microboards. 

Mounting methods almost un- 
limited: 19" rack, NEMA enclosure, 
backwall mounting and even desk-top 
models. 

Every industrial packaging problem 
known to us was carefully considered, 



resulting in a really useful small, 
compact, front access, protected 
family. 

Two initial optional modules make 
these chassis even more versatile: A 
self-contained, plug-in power supply 
that will accept 1 1 0-volt or 220-volt AC 
input to provide all logic and analog 
supplies needed for Microboard cards. 

And a Microboard I/O module 
card which mounts into a 4-slot 
segment of the chassis, and holds up 
to 8 industry-standard optically iso- 
lated power modules in any mix of AC 
or DC input or output signals. Com- 
plete with mating 4-slot cover with 
barrier strips for power connections. 

These new products are part of our 
ongoing commitment (39 new prod- 
ucts in 1 981 ) to develop and produce 
the devices you need to put the flexi- 
bility and power of board-level com- 
puters to work solving your problems. 

And of course, our Microboards 
give you the bonus of CMOS low 
power and -40° C to +85° C operating 
temperature range at no additional 
cost. 

For more information, contact 
any RCA Solid State sales office, 
representative or distributor. 

Or call (800) 526-3862. 

Circle 338 on inquiry card. 



ItC/l 



"Trademark of Opto 22. "Optional U.S. distributor resale. RCA Solid State headquarters: Somerville, NJ. Brussels. Sao Paulo. Hong Kong. 



Five new Microboard computers with 1805 
microprocessors and c^- 



WilllMfHI 



Ui| 



Rugged, versatile family of 16 industrial 
chassis and signal-conditioning Microboards. 



:>'i<' 



n 



s-fipJausr 



m 




illlii) 



iron 





Circle 158 on inquiry card. 



DISCOUNT 
LINE 

1-800-528-8960 



GUARANTEED 
LOW PRICES 

ADDS 

Viewpoint — $545 
ALTOS 

ACS 8000-1 5 — $41 50 
ANADEX 

9500 — $1 225 9501 — $1 225 
ATARI 

400 16K — $349 800 16K — $740 

CENTRONICS 

730 — $600 737 — $750 
DATASOUTH 

DS1 20 — $595 DS1 80 — $1 269 

DIABLO 

630 — $2095 1640 — $2575 

DISKETTES 

Scotch — $2.50 Dysan — $3.50 

EPSON 

MX80 — $449 MX1 00 — $739 

HAZELTINE 

1500 — $995 Esprit -$675 
INTERFACES 

SSM-AIO — $160 CPS-CARD — $199 
NORTHSTAR 

HR64DD — $2875 HR64QD — $3150 

LOBO 

Apple Drive/Card — $390/$90 

TRS80 Drive/Interface — $390/$90 

Apple DD Drive — $2740 

MODEMS 

HAYS-MICROMODEM — $285 

Novation-Cat — $1 55 

Penril - 300/1 200 (21 2A) — $795 

MONITORS 

Teco-BW — $99 Teco Green — $1 20 

Sanyo-Green — $249 Color — $425 

Amdek-Green — $1 59 Color — $350 

MPI 

88G — $575 99G — $675 

NEC 

7710 — $2475 7720 — $2875 

SOROC 

120 — $729 135 — $799 

SOFTWARE 

All Major Brands — $CALL 
TELEVIDEO 

912 — $669 950 — $920 

Tl 

810 — $1240 820 — $1795 

OKIDATA 

M80 — $329 SL125 — $3150 

M82A — $469 SL250 — $4200 

M83A — $739 M84-$1099 

APPLE XTRAS 

Memory-1 6K 200ns — $1 9.95 

Game Paddle Extension — $14.95 

Protyping PC. Board — $1 9.95 

CIOTH 

25CPS-P — $1 320 45CPS-P — $1 699 

ZENITH 

Z19 — $749 Z89 — $2095 

Arizona 1-602-246-1783 



EXP0TEK 

CORPORATION 

2231R W. Shangri La Rd. 
Phoenix, AZ 85029 



Perhaps storing the output 
amplitude of the filters is un- 
necessary, and a simple threshold 
detector would be sufficient. A logic 1 
could indicate that there is some spec- 
tral content in that frequency range 
while a logic indicates none. The 
eight instantaneous filter outputs 
could then be stored in a single byte 
rather than eight. This translates into 
a memory requirement of 128 bytes 
per sample period. This presumes 
that information about the frequency 
content of speech with respect to time 
is more important than information 
about the amplitude of the energy in 
the different frequency bands. I think 
it will depend a lot upon the 
vocabulary chosen. 

Finally, I saw little activity in either 
the 31-Hz or the 4-kHz band in speech 
both from my own voice and from 
the Micromouth. This may be a 
limitation of the hardware, but I 
think it would be safe to eliminate 
these passbands from any voice- 
response system. In my experience, 
the three frequency ranges that seem 
to always contain the most energy are 
about 60 Hz to 200 Hz, 200 Hz to 500 
Hz, and 1 kHz to 2 kHz. I am at pre- 
sent unwilling to design a speech- 
recognition system with only three 
sampling passbands, but I'm still 
gathering data. 

In Conclusion 

I haven't yet decided how I will 
configure my speech-recognition 
system. I have only one major design 
criterion so far: because writing com- 
prehensive software algorithms isn't 
among my greatest pleasures in life, I 
will attempt to do as much in hard- 
ware as I can. 

Perhaps if I stall long enough a few 
inexpensive integrated circuits that 
can do it all will emerge from Silicon 
Valley. I have heard promising 
reports on a few such products. I 
know of the intense interest many of 
my readers have in the subject, and I 
intend to build a speech-recognition 
system as soon as I can make it cost- 
effective. 

I hope that this article has at least 
helped you understand some of the 
first steps in speech recognition. If 



you are talented in software, you 
may have been inspired with an idea 
that will make the process easy. But 
at any rate, I hope to have helped 
allay any suspicions that computer- 
ized voice response is a black art. 

Next Month: 

New technological developments 
have made infrared light a convenient 
medium for remote-control or data 
transmission. We'll explore how to 
use it. ■ 



References 

1 . Analog-to-Digital Conversion Handbook. 
Norwood, MA: Analog Devices Inc., 
1976. 

2. Ciarcia, Steve. "Analog Interfacing in the 
Real World," BYTE, January 1982, page 
72. 

3. Ciarcia, Steve. "Build a Low-Cost Speech- 
Synthesizer Interface," BYTE, June 1981, 
page 46. 

4. Ciarcia, Steve. "Build an Unlimited- 
Vocabulary Speech Synthesizer," BYTE, 
September 1981, page 38. 

5. Digital-to-Analog Converter Handbook. 
Billerica, MA: Hybrid Systems Corpora- 
tion, 1970. 

6. Doddington, George R. and Thomas B. 
Schalk. "Speech Recognition: Turning 
Theory to Practice," IEEE Spectrum, 
September 1981, page 26. 

7. Levinson, Stephen E. and Mark Y. Liber- 
man. "Speech Recognition by 
Computer," Scientific American, April 
1981, page 64. 

8. Wiggins, Richard H. and George R. Dod- 
dington. "Speech Recognition Spurred by 
Speech-Synthesis Success," Electronic 
Design, July 9, 1981, page 107. 



Editor's Note: Steve often refers to previous 
Circuit Cellar articles as reference material for 
each month's current article. Most of these past 
articles are available in reprint books from 
BYTE Books, 70 Main St., Peterborough, NH 
03458. Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume I, 
covers articles that appeared in BYTE from 
September 1977 through November 1978. 
Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume II, contains ar- 
ticles from December 1978 through June 1980. 
Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume III, contains 
the articles that were published from July 1980 
through December 1981. 



To receive a complete list of Ciarcia's Cir- 
cuit Cellar project kits available from the 
Micromint, circle 100 on the reader-service 
inquiry card at the back of the magazine. 



64 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The Performance 
Leader .... Model 925 



.....-....•» 




Non-Glare Green Screen 

Tilt and Swivel 

-^—^— Protected Fields 

8x10 Character 

Resolution 

Visual Attributes 

— — Code Compatible 

with 912/920 and 

910/9501eleVideo 

Products 

RS232C Printer Port 

—25th Status/User Line 

Time of Day 

Character Sets 

(Spanish, German, 

French, English) 






Now you can have it all with 
TeleVideo's new 925. Code compatible 
with our 910 and 950 terminals, the 
925, with its 6502 microprocessor- 
based control board can emulate our 
912/920 models while operating at 
speeds up to 19.2K baud. This allows 
you to grow within theTeleVideo 
family of terminals, from the conver- 
sational to the smart. 

The 925, a modular designed unit 
that uses the same power supply, 
monitor, and keyboard as the rest of 
TeleVideo's family, has built-in proven 
reliability and quality from begin- 
ning to end. TeleVideo's P31 non- 
glare, tiltable, green screen and 
detached selectric style keyboard 
make the 925 a comfortable, low 
stress terminal to use. 

They offer you options; we give 
you standard features like RS232 
printer port, X-on/X-off*confrol, 22 
function keys, user line, 25th status 
line with setup mode, local duplex 
edit modes, and many more. 

Nationwide service is available 
from General Electric Company 
Instrumentation and Communication 
Equipment Service Centers. 

ContactTeleVideo today for 
information on the Performance 
Leader, the 925! 






HlfekMded 

TeleVideo Systems, Inc. 

Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
I; 800/538-8725 (toll-free outside California) 



The Value Leaders 

CALIFORNIA Santa Ana (714) 557-6095 • Sunnyvale (408) 745-7760 • MASSACHUSETTS Boston (617) 668-6891 

NEW YORK /NEW JERSEY Morris Plains (201) 267-8805 • TEXAS Dallas (214) 980-9978 

ILLINOIS Bloonungdale (312) 351-9350 • GEORGIA Atlanta (404) 255-9338 

EUROPE London 44-9905-6464 



BITE 

TOLL-FREE 

SUBSCRIPTION 

LINE 




258-5485 

New Hampshire Residents Dial 924-928 1 

The Quickest Way To 

• Order 

a Subscription 

• Renew 

a Subscription 

• Inquire about 
a Subscription 

• Give a Friend a 
Gift Subscription 

• Change 

or Correct 
an Address 

We are waiting 
to help you. 

Call us between: 

8:30-4:00 Mon.- FN. 

(Eastern Time) 

1-800-258-5485 



EVTE 



the small s ystems | ourna l 



66 BYTE March 1982 



CompuView 



New ! 

CP/M-86 For 

IBM Personal Computer 

The first available CP/M-86 for the IBM Personal 
Computer has the capabilities you need, including serial 
and parallel printer support, a 'smart' screen driver which 
can emulate most popular CRT terminals, 193K disk 
capacity and the facility to read/write the common XEROX 
820 disk format. Innovative features include built in 
horizontal scrolling and screen line editing which lets you 
extensively edit or re-enter your typed lines to CP/M and 
application programs. (Available March 15, 1982) 

CompuView CP/M-86 for IBM Personal Computer. . . $325 
VEDIT-86 with above purchase $100 

8086 Software 

• VEDIT full screen editor for CP/M-86, SCP 86-DOS and 
IBM Personal Computer. Disk and Manual $195 

• CP/M-86 BIOS for popular S-100 disk controllers and 
SCP 8086 computer. Source Code $90 

V-COM Disassembler 

Finally a Z-80 disassembler for CP/M which produces 
easy to read code, a cross reference table and handles 
INTEL and ZILOG mnemonics. V-COM is exceptionally fast 
and produces an .ASM file directly from a .COM file. 
V-COM can accept two user created information files. One 
contains assignments of labels to 8 and 16 bit values; the 
second specifies the location of tables and ASCII strings. 
The resulting .ASM file will then contain labels and proper 
storage allocation for tables and strings. Each information 
file may contain nested 'INCLUDE' to other files. Each 
package includes a 30 page manual, sample program files 
and variations of V-COM compatible with the TDL, MAC 
and two types of ZILOG assemblers. $80 

PIICEON 24x80 S100 
Video Board 

The PIICEON V-100 offers memory mapped speed, 
but being I/O mapped, uses no memory space nor bank 
select. Lower case descenders, hardware scrolling and 
other features. Fully assembled with 1 year warranty by 
PIICEON the company known for reliability. 

PIICEON with software driver $470 

PIICEON board only $450 

Circle 105 on Inquiry card. 



SoftVW&FG An Industry Standard for CP/M & 8086 




Uniquely 
User Oriented 

VEDIT is user oriented to make 
your editing for program development 
and word processing as fast and easy 
as possible. The customization 
(installation) process makes VEDIT 
the only editing package that allows 
you to determine your own keyboard 
layout and use any available cursor 
and function keys. Just think of the 
difference it makes in your ease of 
learning and usage to type cursor and 
function keys instead of memorizing 
obscure control characters. This 
customization is menu driven, extends 
to much more and takes only a few 
minutes. 

Unequaled 
Hardware Support 

The CRT version directly 
supports over 35 terminals (including 
ANSI standard) in its installation 
menu and utilizes 'smart' terminal 
features such as line insert/delete, 
reverse scroll, status line and reverse 
video. Function keys on terminals like 
the Televideo 920/950, Heath H19, 
and IBM 3101 are all supported. The 
memory mapped version is extremely 
flexible, supports bank select such as 
on the SSM VB3 and screen sizes up 
to 70 X 200. 



CP/M and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc. Softcard is a trademark of Microsoft. TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corporation. 



Sophisticated 
Full Screen Editing 

VEDIT gives you true 'what you 
see is what you get' full screen editing 
with an extensive set of features for 
creating and editing standard text files 
of up to one diskette in length. Very 
large files are effortlessly handled by 
VEDIT's ability to edit up to 47K of a 
file entirely in memory without 
performing any slow and annoying 
disk accessing. And you can handle 
multiple files, insert a specified line 
range of another file anywhere in the 
text and even change diskettes. 

User Oriented 
Features 

You get the features you expect, 
like searching, a scratchpad buffer for 
moving and rearranging sections of 
text, complete file handling on 
multiple drives and flexible macros. 
For ease of use VEDIT has features 
you won't find elsewhere, like 
automatic indenting for use with 
structured languages such as Pascal 
and PL/I. You are less likely to make 
a mistake with VEDIT, but if you do, 
one key will 'Undo' the changes you 
just made to a screen line. And if 
you run out of disk space with VEDIT, 
you can easily recover by deleting old 
files or even inserting another diskette. 
It is therefore no surprise that VEDIT 
is the industry standard for program 
development editing. 



Word Processing 

VEDIT is suitable for simple 
stand-alone word processing, or it 
may be used in conjunction with a 
text processor. Its features include 
word wrap, adjustable left margin, 
reformatting of paragraphs, word 
oriented cursor movement and 
deleting, and imbedding of printer 
control characters. VEDIT can print 
any portion of your file and display 
the cursor's line and column 
positions. 



Now for 

IBM 

Personal Computer 

XEROX 820 



Ordering 



Please specify your micro- 
computer, video board or the CRT 
terminal version, the 8080, Z80 or 
8086 code version and disk format. 

VEDIT - Disk and manual 

For 8080 or Z80 $145 

For CP/M-86 or IBM MDOS . $195 

Manual only $15 

VISA and MASTER CARD Welcome. 

Apple II Softcard • TRS-80 II and I 
SuperBrain • Heath H8/H89 • Altos 
NorthStar • Vector • MP/M • IBM 



1955 Pauline Blvd., Suite 200 

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48103 

(313) 996-1299 



ComptfView 



PRODUCTS, INC. 




Apple Panic 



Gregg Williams 
Senior Editor 



Personality — it's a major factor 
in distinguishing arcade best-sellers 
from the ones that lie around 
gathering dust in a corner. In coin- 
operated arcade games, it is not the 
only factor in determining suc- 
cess — anything with enough color, 
sound, and action will attract an 
adequate following. However, per- 
sonality is a greater factor in 
microcomputer-based arcade 
games because they have fewer dis- 
tracting frills. Of the many games 
I've seen in the past six months, 
Apple Panic has far more person- 
ality than any of several equally 
well-done games for the Apple II 
or II Plus microcomputers. Addi- 
tionally, Apple Panic is an original 
game. It is not just a simplified 
copy of a coin-operated game. As 
a game that's available only for 
microcomputers, you can show it 
off to coin-op game snobs. 

Like many successful arcade 
games, Apple Panic has a simple 
but eccentric premise. Your player 
is trapped in a world of walkways 
and ladders. The objective is to 
keep your player alive as long as 
possible. Of course, no arcade 
game is complete without a merci- 












Hi ■ JHI Jl H 






■ AMI 






HRB HriJW 




Hr~' 











Photo 1: An "apple" is knocked 
through a hole by the human 
player. 



less enemy, and Apple Panic is no 
exception. Your enemies are a 
number of flattened "apples" 
(similar to Terrapin Turtle robots) 
that roam the walkways and lad- 
ders. They aren't terribly bright, 
but what they lack in intelligence 
they make up for in number. How 
do you fight back? By digging a 
hole in the walkway, waiting until 
an apple drops into it, and then 
knocking it through the hole to 
smash on the walkway below. 

You control your player's move- 
ment by using the "I," "J," "K," 
and "M" keys. To dig a hole, hit 
the "A" key while your player is 
moving. (For some reason, your 
player does not always dig a hole 
when you want it to. Although this 
is probably the result of simplify- 
ing the game's algorithm to a man- 
ageable size, I look on it as a 
chance to develop my expertise in 
the game.) 

Once an apple falls into the hole 
and sticks there, you have several 
seconds to return to that hole and 
knock the apple through by hitting 
the "S" key; if you line up two or 
more holes well enough for the ap- 
ple to drop through all of them, 



68 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



you get bonus points that increase 
with each extra hole used. When 
an apple falls through a hole, the 
walkway is mysteriously repaired; 
see photos la and lb. (You didn't 
expect this to be easy, did you?) In 
addition, if you don't get to a stuck 
apple in time, the dumb but indus- 
trious critter pulls itself out of the 
hole and repairs the walkway. 

Although the apples are slow, 
they don't waste any oppor- 
tunities. If they get close enough, 
they pounce on and eat your 
player. The screen is then redrawn 
with a different arrangement of 
ladders and apples, and you start 
over. On successive screens, you 
usually get more apples on the 
screen. If you get good enough, 
two new predators, the Green But- 
terfly and the Mask of Death, ap- 
pear; the latter appears only if you 
are very good. You get more 
points for killing them, but they 
are more difficult to kill. The But- 
terfly must drop through two holes 



At a Glance 

Name 

Apple Panic 

Type 

Arcade-style game 

Manufacturer 

Broderbund Software 
2 Vista Wood Way 
San Rafael. CA 94901 

Price 

S29.95 

Author 

Ben Serki 

Format 

5 'A -inch floppy disk 

Language 

6502 machine code 

Computer 

Apple II or II Plus with one disk drive [ 1 3 
or 1 6 sectors) and 48K bytes of memory 

Documentation 

One-page instruction leaflet 

Audience 

Arcade enthusiasts of all ages 



before it is eliminated; if it drops 
from one hole to the walkway im- 
mediately below, it continues 
walking as if nothing had hap- 
pened. (You get an extra player life 
when you kill a Butterfly.) The 
Mask of Death is even more dif- 
ficult to kill; it must fall through 
three holes before it is destroyed. 

One final note on the mechanics 
of the game: your player can fall 
through a hole without injury. 
This is sometimes useful as an 
escape route because the apples 
can't follow. 

Strategy 

Timing is very important in this 
game. It takes a certain amount of 
time to dig a hole or knock an ap- 
ple through a hole. If you under- 
estimate the amount of time need- 
ed when an apple is nearby, it may 
get you before you get it. 

Another element of your 
strategy is the placement of holes 
with respect to ladders. On one 
hand, you like to have a hole be- 
tween you and every apple. On the 
other hand, if an apple falls into a 
hole on the other side of the screen, 
those same holes may prevent you 
from getting to the trapped apple 
in time. After hastily digging a 
hole, you may find that it is now 
impossible to get to an entire sec- 
tion of the screen. Also, the 
strategy of going to the end of a 
walkway, digging a hole between 
you and the center of the screen, 
and waiting for an apple to come 
after you usually doesn't work — 
the apples aren't smart enough to 
sense you unless you are nearby. 

Conclusions 

Apple Panic is an interesting, 
playful game. It is interesting to 
note that, like Pac-Man (a game 
similar in spirit), it uses engulfment 
as the main form of destruction. 
This is very different from the ma- 
jority of games, which have ob- 
jects shooting projectiles at each 
other. 



Apple Panic makes good use of 
both graphics and sound. When 
walking, the player does not 
flicker (as it would with less skillful 
animation). Nearly constant sound 
effects keep the ear entertained 
without assaulting it. 

Even when played by a novice, 
this game usually lasts longer than 
most other arcade-style games. 
Although the apples will eventual- 
ly overwhelm you, split-second re- 
flexes are not as important here as 
they are in other games. A normal 
game of Apple Panic lasts from 
five to fifteen minutes; it lasts 
longer as you get better. There- 
fore, while still being entertaining 
and engaging, Apple Panic will not 
leave you a nervous wreck when 
the game is over. (Well, less of 
one, anyway.) 

I do have a criticism, however. 
This game does not have the fea- 
tures that allow you to indefinitely 
pause while you turn the sound ef- 
fects off. Granted, one game can't 
have everything, but these easily 
implemented features are becom- 
ing more common on Apple 
games. Game designers should 
take note. 

Apple Panic is a copy-protected 
disk that boots directly on either 
13- or 16-sector Apple computers. 
Broderbund Software pledges to 
replace the disk free of charge if it 
fails to boot and to replace it for a 
minimal charge if the disk is ever 
physically damaged. This is 
another policy that should be en- 
couraged. It takes away many of 
the objections about copy-pro- 
tected disks for programs of this 
nature. 

It should be reemphasized that 
Apple Panic is an original game, 
not a copy of an arcade game. If 
the current trend away from 
microcomputer games adapted 
from coin-operated arcade games 
continues, the work of authors and 
companies that produce high-qual- 
ity original games will become 
more important. ■ 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 69 




Missile Command 



Stanley J. Wszola 
Technical Editor 



As your left thumb stabs at the fir- 
ing button, your right hand spas- 
modically tries to control the cursor. 
You see flashes of light, hear bursts of 
sound, and finally it's over. You've 
done it, racked up your best score 
ever playing Missile Command. Have 
you ever wondered why Missile 
Command is such a popular game? 
Despite the claims of Atari that its 



development was a long process, 
there are other reasons for its success. 
In this review, I'd like to touch lightly 
upon some of these reasons. 

If you have never pumped a 
quarter into a video arcade game, or 
don't own an Atari 400 or 800 micro- 
computer, I'll briefly describe the 
game. The Missile Command game 
for the Atari 400 and 800 is an 




Multiuser 
microcomputers-up to 
19MB Winchester /Tape 
from $8,995" 



See for yourself 

All Dynabytes arc backed by 
Dynahyte's engineering expertise 
and reputation for high quality. 
We'd like to tell you more. Call 
now! 800-538-3939. In Califor- 
nia, 408-263-1221 or write 
Dynabyte, 521 Cottonwood Dr., 
Milpitas, California 95035. 



For performance 

Enhanced CP/M-MP/M or 
OASIS multiuser operating sys- 
tem for the speed of a mini with 
the ease of a micro — supports up 
to 8 terminals and 16 printers. 

For Winchester/Tape perform- 
ance, you just can't buy a better 
multiuser microcomputer than 
the Dynabyte 5710. Take our 
5Vi" Winchester disk drive. 
Either 12MB or 19MB capacity 
with a removable 17MB Cart- 
ridge tape drive. 

Packaged in a single, compact, 
table-top box. 

♦5710-A2-64K, 12MB Winchester I7MB Cartridge Tape-$8,995 (list) 
57IO-B2-64K, 19MB Winchester 17MB Cartridge Tape-$10,450 (list) 
CP/M; MP/M-tradcmarks of Digital Research, Inc. OASlS-tradcmark of Phase One Systems. Inc. 



Business Computers 



adaptation of the commercial arcade 
game. You become the commander of 
a missile base with armaments con- 
sisting of ABMs (antiballistic 
missiles). You must preserve your six 
cities and missile base from nuclear 
attack by destroying the incoming 
enemy missiles and bombs. 

The enemy is armed with ICBMs 
(intercontinental ballistic missiles), 
MIRVs (multiple independently tar- 
geted reentry vehicle ICBMs), killer 



At a Glance 

Name 

Missile Command 

Type 

Arcade-type game 

Manufacturer 

Atari Inc. 

1265 Borregas Ave. 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
(408) 745-2213 

Price 

S39.95 

Format 

Plug-in ROM cartridge 

Language 

6502 machine language 

Computer 

Atari 400 or 800 with 8K bytes of RAM 
and joysticks 

Documentation 

18-page booklet 

Audience 

Any Atari computer owner who enjoys a 
good game 



70 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 140 on inquiry card. 



WICAT 68000 
MULTI-USER SYSTEM 150 



STANDARD EQUIPMENT 


HARDWARE OPTIONS 


LANGUAGE SUPPORT 


68000 Processor 


Graphics CRT 


PASCAL 




256KB RAM 


Up to 1.5MB RAM 


C 




10MB Winchester 


Communications: Auto Answer 


FORTRAN 




5 'A" Floppy Disk Backup 


and Auto Dial (1200 Baud) 


BASIC 




ft RS-232 C Serial Interfaces 


Local Networking 


APL* 




Parallel Port 


Videodisc Interface 


COBOL 




Multibus'" 


SOFTWARE OPTIONS 


ADA™ 




WICAT Operating System 


UNIX™ V/7 
CP/M TU Emulator 


LISP 




Choice of One Language 


Assembler 










B 



//iiiii mimnvvv 





n 







WICATsystcms 



Call or write WICAT Systems for additional information. 



P.O. Box 539 IB7S South State Street Orem, Utah H40. r >7 (001) ??4 R4O0 'UNIX is a trademark of Bell Labs. Multibus is a trademark of I 

ADA is a trademark of the United States Dept. of Defense 
CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 
API is n prodUOl "f the Computnr Company 




satellites that drop missiles, bombers, 
and smart missiles that can evade 
your ABMs and home in on their 
targets. 

The enemy attacks come in waves. 
Each wave lasts from 30 to 45 sec- 
onds. The waves become increasingly 
more difficult as the game progresses, 
with the sixth wave introducing you 
to the smart missiles. 

You are provided with 30 ABMs 
per wave. These are launched against 
targets by using the joystick to con- 
trol a cursor on the screen. When a 
missile, bomber, or satellite appears, 
you position the cursor over or near 
the target and press the fire control 
button. Your missile base launches an 
ABM toward a detonation mark left 
by the cursor on the screen. The 
resulting atomic fireball, complete 
with the simulated sound of a nuclear 
explosion, will destroy the incoming 
missile or other target. That is, if 
your aim was true, if you allowed for 
a moving target, if you hadn't already 
used all your ABMs, and if the target 
wasn't smart enough to get out of 
your way (smart missiles). 

The game allows you to select one 
or two players. The computer 
automatically keeps score and 
remembers the highest score while the 
game is continuing. You have the op- 
tion of skipping the easier waves of 




Photo 1: Missile Command, one of 
the most popular coin-operated ar- 
cade games, is now available in a car- 
tridge for the Atari 400 and 800 
microcomputers. The trackball of the 
coin-operated version has been 
replaced by an Atari joystick. Also, 
you have only one missile base (not 
three), but the sights, sounds, and ac- 
tion of the original game are still 
there. 



enemy attacks. For example, you can 
practice shooting down nothing but 
smart missiles. 

The object of all this nuclear may- 
hem is to accumulate points. Points 
are scored for every enemy weapon 
destroyed and for every city and 
ABM left at the end of each wave. 



Every two waves, a wave point 
multiplier increases the value of each 
point by as much as six times. Every 
time you earn 10,000 points, you get 
another city to replace one that was 
previously vaporized. 

Why Is It Successful? 

Though none of the editors on the 
BYTE staff advocate nuclear war, we 
all agree that Missile Command is a 
good game. Yet we agree for different 
reasons, and therein lies the reason 
for the game's success. 

Some people enjoy the com- 
petitiveness of trying to better 
another person's score. Others enjoy 
the interaction between human and 
computer. And some enjoy the lights, 
noise, and the satisfaction of sym- 
bolically blowing things up. My en- 
joyment stems mostly from not hav- 
ing to pump quarters into the com- 
puter. 

The Critics 

There are those who object to the 
overt violence implicit in the game. 
After all, the destruction of cities is a 
very violent activity. A friend of 
mine once said that games of this type 
only encourage the acceptance of 
warfare as a viable solution to prob- 
lems that could be settled peaceably. I 
asked if he ever played chess. 



The HOMEBRAIN™ is a ded 

icated microcomputer system in a 
stand-alone package. HOME- 
BRAIN'S™ I/O potential exceeds 
300 channels. 

ACHIEVE TOTAL 
HOME CONTROL 

• Energy Management 

• Home Security 

• Lighting Control 

• Safety Monitoring 

• Appliance Control 



THE 



HOMEBRAIN 



IS 




32 Channels 
Buffered Input 
■8 Relay Output 
-Uninterruptable 
Power Supply 
-CPU. Communica- 
tions, 256 Channel 
AC Wireless Con- 
trol 



the First Total Home 
Control Computer 

• Communicate wilh the HOMEBRAIN ™ 
using your personal computer RS232 Inter- 
lace 

• HOMEBRAIN™ controls your home using 
your define logic sequences 

• Logic diagrams, timers, counters, alarm 
clocks, calendars, are directly implemented 
by the HOMEBRAIN™ microprocessor 

• HOMEBRAIN™ logs controlled operating 
times for the month 

The HOMEBRAIN ™ operates totally inde- 
pendent ol your personal computer. Crashing 
your computer will not crash HOMEBRAIN™ 
leaving your home defenseless. 



evaluate THE HOMEBRAIN™ 

Order Now By Calling Toll-Free 

1-800-228-2028 ^ 

Lines Open 8 AM To 6 PM C.S.T. 



Just give us your Name, Shipping, Address 
and Visa or MasterCard number and we 
will charge the $750.00 purchase price, 
plus $20.00 shipping (N.J. residents add 
5% sales tax) to your account. Or, SEND* 
your CHECK* or MONEY ORDER* to: 

HYPERTEK, INC 

30-4 FARM ROAD 
SOMERVILLE, NEW JERSEY 08876 

'Sending your check will qualify you for an 

INTRODUCTORY REBATE of 10%. 
Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. 



72 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 53 on inquiry card. 



The revolutionary Discovery multiprocessor is the only system that 
allows the total integration of powerful 16 bit 8086 processors with 
the more standard Z-80 user processors. The DISCOVERY system may 
be configured in any 8 bit/16 bit combination, or as a totally exclusive 
16 bit system only to provide the ultimate in performance and flexibility 
in advanced micro systems. 

Ultimate performance. The dpc-186 is the most sophisticated single 
board microcomputer available today offering more power and faster 
processing time through the 8086 CPU for bigger, more complex 
programs. Memory starts at 128 K (compared to the Z-80's 64 K), and 
is expandable to 1 megabyte. And the dpc-186 is fully compatible with 
the standard DISCOVERY multiprocessor system permitting efficient 
upgrading as future needs develop, without sacrificing any of your 
extensive hardware and software investment. 



World's best multiprocessor system. The DISCOVERY system pro- 
vides separate processors and memory for each of its 16 users. It offers 
full CP/lvrand CP/M-86"' compatibility, interprocessor communication, 
and shared and private files. Each user can take advantage of shared 
peripherals and cross submitting of tasks between processors. The system 
is controlled by a unique, two board dpc-280 service processor and 
dpc/os distributed processing operating system. 
By the board or by the system. The DISCOVERY multiprocessor is 
ready for immediate delivery as a complete system, as processor boards, 
and everything in between. It offers exclusive technology in multipro- 
cessing, yet is fully compatible with existing standards including CP/M 
and S-100. It is quite simply unmatched in performance, capabilities 
and offers a far greater degree of flexibility. 
DISCOVERY— offering a whole new world of possibilities. 



For the first time, 8 and 16 bit processor intermixing. 




Action Computer Enterprises, Inc. 



RT^ 



The Multiprocessing Company 

55 West Del Mar Boulevard, Pasadena. CA 91105 USA 

(213) 793-2440, TWX 910-588-1201 

Circle 7 on inquiry card. 



Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 

*CP/M is a registered TM of Digital Research, Inc. 




When he said yes, I then asked if he 
thought his aggressive activities on 
the chessboard affected his actions in 
real life. A very spirited discussion 
then ensued, with neither of us con- 
vincing the other to change his views. 
Whether the designers of Missile 
Command intended to or not, they 
have presented a game that reflects 
contemporary society. The game 
takes the threat of nuclear warfare 
and, simplifying the concept to the 
extreme, reduces that threat to a man- 



ageable human level. Whether this 
familiarity with nuclear warfare is 
good or not, I don't know. However, 
it doesn't seem to have affected the 
popularity of the game. 

Conclusion 

Missile Command is a great suc- 
cess, and Atari should be con- 
gratulated on producing such a high- 
quality product. However, it is only a 
temporary success. Programmers are 
constantly working on newer, better 



games. My advice to them is to care- 
fully examine the current successes 
and determine why they work. Then, 
taking their own original games, in- 
corporate those ideas in their own 
programs. 

With the advent of new microcom- 
puters and with the foundations for 
software development already well 
established, the potential for creative 
programming is greater than ever. I 
am excitedly awaiting what's coming 
next.B 



Dino Wars 



George Stewart 
Technical Editor 



If any computer game deserves the 
title "action game," -this one does. 
Dino Wars is a two-player game in 
which each player controls a 
ferocious dinosaur that attempts to 
bite the other player's dinosaur until 
it cries uncle. Although there is no 
gore and the losing dinosaur always 
survives, the combat between the two 
creatures seems vicious at times. 

The battle takes place on a desert 
plain decorated with several clumps 
of cactus. However, this is not your 
ordinary cactus. If a dinosaur mis- 
takenly runs into one, the creature 
falls over and loses five units of fight- 
ing energy. Perhaps it's fossilized. 

Although the terrain is much larger 
than the field of view displayed on 
the screen, it is not infinite. If a dino- 
saur exits to either the left or the 
right, it eventually reemerges on the 
opposite side of the screen. Even if 
not visible on the screen, battles can 
rage in full force and dinosaurs can 
trip over unseen cacti. 



The dinosaurs are chunky creatures 
(low-resolution is the term used out- 
side of the prehistoric epoch) modeled 
after Tyrannosaurus rex. One is pur- 
ple, the other blue. (An alternate col- 
or set is available for variety.) 
Although not the most graceful of 
animals, they can swing their tails 
menacingly, open their jaws to bite, 
and swagger around the screen in any 
direction. 

The game is three-dimensional. As 
a dinosaur recedes into the 
background, it becomes smaller, 
eventually shrinking to the size of a 
dot. As it advances, its size increases 
to a stage where it consumes much of 
the screen. 

Joysticks are used to control the 
combatants. Although these joysticks 
permit 360 degrees of apparent con- 
trol, the dinosaurs can actually move 
in only six directions. As a result, 
they appear to hop from one stance to 
another. 

The object of the game is to bite the 



At a Glance 

Name 

Dino Wars 

Type 

Animated dinosaur combat game 

Manufacturer 

Radio Shack 

1 800 One Tandy Center 

Fort Worth, TX 76102 

Price 

S39.95 

Author 

Robert Kilgus 

Format 

Plug-in ROM cartridge 

Computer 

TRS-80 Color Computer with two joystick 
controllers; I6K bytes of RAM recommend- 
ed for best results 

Audience 

Game fans age 6 and up 



74 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 48 on Inquiry card. 



BMC's t wfy available 

ith superb functional versatility 



VIDEO DISPLAY 

12 inch 

80 ch » 25 line 

80 ch x 20 line „ , , . . . _ 

. n l. , t ,. Selectable by Programming 

40 ch x 25 line 

40 ch x 20 line 

Color (8 colors)/Green 

Smooth Scrolling 

• FUNCTION KEY 

Programmable 
10 Keys 

• FLOPPY DISC 

5 inch x 2 deck, 280 KB/deck 
Dual sided — Double density 

. SUPER FUNCTION KEY 

Programmable 
10 Keys 

• PRINTER 

Dot Impact 

80 ch/sec. 

80 ch/line, 40 ch/line 

Graphic Mode 

Alphabets (capital/small), Numerics, 

Katakana 

Various Symbols, Hiragana, Kanji 

Roll Paper/Sproket Paper 

"Dx505H mm (Color) 
510W x 608D x 505H mm (Green; 
Input Voltage: AC 117V/220V ±10% 50/60HZ 
Option: Light pen Rom Cartridge 





4) BMC 

I J 20610 Manhatten PI. 



USA IIMC, 



Suite 112, Torrance CA. 90501 USA 
Tele: 213-320-9880, Telex: 182379 bmcing 




other dinosaur while it is vulnerable, 
i.e., while it has its back turned or is 
recovering from a nasty fall over a 
cactus (the Marquis of Queensberry 
rules don't apply in this primitive 
world). After sustaining an effective 
bite, a dinosaur falls to the ground 
with a resounding crash. 

When two experienced players con- 
trol the dinosaurs, the battle 
resembles an awkward ballet, with 
the dinosaurs constantly circling each 
other while vying for a shot at each 
other's weak point. When beginners 
play, the action is more likely to 
resemble a pastoral scene in which the 
two dinosaurs wander around aim- 
lessly, occasionally engaging one 
another with little effect and separat- 
ing again. 

To make a dinosaur bite, you press 
the joystick button. The ' dinosaur 
issues an awesome roar as it closes its 
jaws on air, cactus, or the opposing 
dinosaur. Generating this sound is 
one of the more satisfying aspects of 
the game. 

Both dinosaurs start out with 100 
units of energy. Each time a dinosaur 
is successfully bitten in a clinch, it 



loses 20 points; if bitten while recov- 
ering from a cactus fall, 10 points; 
falling over a cactus costs five points. 
The game ends when one of the 
dinosaurs loses all its points. 

A prerequisite to enjoying this 
game at length is a sense of the 
ridiculous. Without that, you are apt 
to become frustrated by some of its 
limitations. For example, while either 
dinosaur is roaring, all action on the 
screen halts because the Color Com- 
puter's microprocessor is totally pre- 
occupied with the task of generating 
the sound (a hardware limitation). 

Here are bite-by-bite reports from 
two noteworthy dino wars. 

In the first battle, one player was 
an expert, the other a beginner. This 
quite typical case corresponds to 
computer owner and friend. The ex- 
pert player used a sneak-attack 
strategy: his dinosaur stayed just off- 
screen until the beginner's dinosaur 
presented a vulnerable back. Then 
the expert's dinosaur lunged into 
view, bit effectively, and retreated 
again. Five such attacks were enough 
to send the beginner's dinosaur into 
squeaking submission (a defeated 



dinosaur always runs off yelping 
toward the horizon). 

In the second battle, two jaded 
players searched for a nonviolent use 
of the game. The cactus provided an 
answer. A dinosaur can become 
hopelessly entangled in a cactus; each 
time it gets up, it immediately falls 
down again, losing five points each 
time. Accordingly, the object of this 
absurd battle was to be the first to ex- 
pend all one's energy in mortal com- 
bat with a cactus. 

Dino Wars is primarily a novelty, 
but a good one. It allows two players 
to work off all sorts of aggressions 
toward each other and plant life. 
However, it is not a game you can 
grow with; it doesn't take long to 
"peak out." It is not an intellectual 
game like Adventure, nor does it get 
your adrenaline going as does a fast- 
paced game of Star Raiders. Com- 
pared to one of these, you might say 
Dino Wars is prehistoric. ■ 




MEMORY EXPANSION MODULE for IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER 

■ Directly expands memory to 256K Bytes. Replaces three 
64K Byte cards, (larger configurations available) 

■ Each card aged at high temperature and voltage margined; 
less than 350 mA of +5v; one year warranty. 

■ Available at participating COMPUTERLAND stores: 
contact factory for further information. 
Intermedia Systems: 10 year old company; also 
produces CAD and Medical Graphic Display systems 
for Hewlett-Packard computers. 



STAINLESS 

STEEL 

BRACKET 



$995 

EACH 



CARD GUIDE INCLUDED 



EXTENDED FOOT FOR 
VERTICAL STABILITY 



s 



1 



iiitermeilisi systems 

10601 S. DeAnza Blvd. ■ Cupertino, CA 95014 

(408) 996-0900 



o 



o 



FULL WIDTH CARD FOR HORIZONTAL STABILITY ■ 



76 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 194 on inquiry card. 



Although the Datasouth DS180 matrix printer may not exactly rate as a work of art, our customers have a very 
high opinion of its value. Over the past year, we have shipped thousands of DS180 printers to customers throughout 
the world. Many of our sales now come in the form of repeat business— a strong testimonial to the acceptance of 
a product. 

The success of the DS180 in a very competitive market did not happen by accident; rather through our sensitivity 
to the needs of the industry. This sensitivity we carry through research and development, production and quality con- 
trol and finally to after sales support and service. 

Recently we introduced new enhancements to make the DS180 printer even more versatile. Dot addressable raster 
scan graphics produces output of computer generated charts, maps and graphs at a resolution of 75 x 72 dots per 
inch. Variable horizontal pitch selection allows printing at 10, 12 
or 16.5 characters per inch plus double wide printing at 5, 6 or 
8.25 characters per inch. The expanded 2K FIFO print buffer 
handles a full CRT screen dump at up to 9600 baud without de- 
laying the host system. We also offer transparent mode for isolat- 
ing communications problems, and for APL users, the dual ASCII/ 
APL character set option. 

Check our list of features and we think you will agree that the DS 180 
offers the most complete performance package in matrix printers. 



tSIsll PRINTER STANDARD F-fcATURE! 




OPTIONAL FEATURES 


Microprocessor Control 


• Vertical Tabs 




-Compressed Print- 10, 12. 1( 


1 80 CPS Print Speed 


• Perforation Skip Over 




• High Resolution Dol - 


Bidirectional Logic Seeking 


• Auto Line Feed 




Addressable Graphics 


KM) Character Buffer (Expandable) 


. 6 8 LPI 




• 2k Expanded Print Buffer 


'Jx7 Ui.i Moiriv. 


• Auto Rnd of Une Carrie 


je Retur 


i -APL ASCII Character Set 


Expanded Characters 


• 5 IPS Paper Slew 






Adjustable Prinlheadj 1 6Copies 


• Parallel and Serial Inter 


aces 




% ASCII Character Sel 


. 1 10-9600 Baud Comm 
► Terminal Status Indicate 
• Audio Alarm 


inicatJoi 


s 


Cartridge Ribbon 

132 Column Print Width 


rs 




Tr.K ior Feed (Front or Bottom! 


• Self Test 




^4di_MM 


Non Volatile Formal Retention 
Too of Form 


. X-on. X-ciff 

• Paner Out Detection 




A 




The DS180 is available nationwide through our 
network of sales/service distributors. 



^^r 





A 



£'52 % 




>r: 



$2&* 




Circle 122 onlrtqulry card. 



computer corporation 

P.O. Box 240947 • Charlotte, NC 28224 • 704/523-8500 



erformance. 




1 1 1 1 ■ 1 1 1 1 1 1 



For more information on these products and other business, industrial, 
and scientific computing solutions, contact your nearest CompuPro systems center. 




Hew! 

Disk 2 DMA Hard Disk Controller 



8066/67 Co-Processor 






omouPro 



CompuPro is a division of Godbout Electronics, Oakland Airport, CA 94614-0055 415-562-0636 



The Atari Tutorial 

Part 7: Sound 



Bob Fraser 

1639 Martin Ave. 

Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



The Atari 400 and 800 home com- 
puters have extensive hardware 
sound capabilities. Four independent- 
ly controllable sound channels are 
able to play simultaneously. Each 
channel has a frequency register 
determining the note and a control 
register regulating the volume and the 
noise content. Several options allow 
you to insert high-pass filters, choose 
clock bases, set alternate modes of 
operation, and modify polynomial 
counters. This article will explain 
these options; next month, part 8 will 
show how to call these options from 
both BASIC and 6502 machine 
language. 



Definitions 




For the purposes of this discussion, 


a few terms 


and conventions need to 


be clarified: 




1 Hz 


is 1 pulse per 


(hertz) 


second 


1kHz 


is 1000 pulses 


(kilohertz) 


per second 


1MHz 


is 1,000,000 pulses 


(megahertz) 


per second 



A pulse is a sudden voltage rise 
followed somewhat later by a sudden 
voltage drop. If a pulse is sent to a 



television speaker, it will be heard as 
a single pop. 

A wave, as used here, is a con- 
tinuous series of pulses. Different 
types of waves exist, each of which is 
distinguished by the shape of the in- 

The smaller poly 
counters repeat often 

enough to create 
droning sounds that 
rise and fall quickly. 

dividual pulses. Waves created by the 
Atari computer are square. Brass in- 
struments typically produce triangu- 
lar waves, and a human voice pro- 
duces sine waves. 

A shift register is like a memory 
location (in that it holds binary data) 
that, when so instructed, shifts all its 
bits to the right by one position (i.e., 
bit 5 will get whatever was in bit 4, 
bit 4 will get whatever was in bit 3, 
and so on). Thus, the rightmost bit is 
pushed out, and the leftmost bit 
assumes the value on its input wire 
(see figure 1). 

"AUDFn" is read "any of the audio 
frequency registers, AUDFl through 
AUDF4." Their addresses are, respec- 
tively, hexadecimal D200, D202, 



D204, and D206 (decimal 53760, 
53762, 53764, and 53766). 

"AUDCh" is read "any of the 
audio control registers, AUDCl 
through AUDC4." Their addresses 
are, respectively, hexadecimal D201, 
D203, D205, and D207 (decimal 
53761, 53763, 53765, and 53767). 

For the purposes of this discussion, 
frequency is a measure of the number 
of pulses in a given amount of time; 
that is, a note with a frequency of 100 
Hz means that in one second exactly 
100 pulses will occur. The more fre- 
quent (hence, "frequency") the pulses 
of a note, the higher the note. For ex- 
ample, a singer vocalizes at a high fre- 
quency (5 kHz), and a cow moos at a 
low frequency (100 Hz). The words 
"frequency," "note," "tone," and 
"pitch" are used interchangeably. 

Noise and distortion are also used 
interchangeably, although their 
meanings are not the same. Noise is a 
more accurate description of the func- 
tion performed by the Atari com- 
puter. 

All examples are in BASIC unless 



This article appears in slightly different 
form in De Re Atari, published by Atari 
Inc. , and is reproduced with its express 
permission. 



80 March 1982 © BYTE Publicaeions lnc 



Circle 19 on inquiry card. 



^ 



Amdek 



From picture perfect. 

To letter 



/us/ice* 



Amdek 
Color-I 
FCC/UL approved 



At Amdek, we make monitors for people who 
demand state-of-the-art color. And for people who 
know that crisp, clear text display is an art in itself. 

Our versatile Color-I 13" video monitor features 
standard NTSC composite input, front-mounted con- 
trols and a built-in speaker with audio circuit. Our 
popular Video-300 12" Green Phosphor monitor has an 
easy-to-read, non-glare screen, 18 MHZ band width 
and 80 x 24 character display. 

Both offer easy portability, with lightweight 
cabinetry and molded-in handles. And both are fully 



compatible with most computer and word processing 
systems. So compare our performance with other 
monitors. Then compare prices. For quality and value, 
you'll choose Amdek. 

NEW THIS FALL: our advanced high resolution 
Color-II monitor with interface board for Apple II com- 
patibility. Color-II features RGB , TTL input and 560(H) 
x 260(V) resolution for crisp 80 x 24 character display 
and exceptionally sharp color graphics. Ask your 
dealer about an Amdek Color-II, Color-I, or Video-300 
monitor today. 



2420 E. Oakton Street, Suite "E," Arlington Heights, Illinois 60005 (312) 364-1180 TLX: 25-4786 



BEFORE SHIFT 




INPUT 
PULSES 



ji^mRmmum 



AFTER SHIFT 



Figure 1: Operation of a shift register. 
Here, all bits are shifted one bit to the 
right. As the rightmost bit is lost, some ex- 
ternal value fills the leftmost bit. 

otherwise stated. Type the examples 
exactly as they appear. If there are no 
line numbers, don't use any; if several 
statements are on the same line, type 
them as such. 

Sound Hardware 

Sound is generated in the Atari 
computer by the POKEY chip, a cus- 
tom integrated circuit designed 
especially for the Atari 400 and 800; 
POKEY also handles the serial I/O 
bus and the keyboard. The POKEY 
chip must be initialized before it will 
work properly. Initialization is re- 
quired after any serial bus operation 
(cassette, disk drive, printer, or RS- 
232C read/write). To initialize 
POKEY in BASIC, execute a null 
sound statement; that is, SOUND 
0,0,0,0. In machine language, store a 
at AUDCTL (hexadecimal D208 = 
decimal 53768) and a 3 at hexa- 
decimal 232 (decimal 562); this is the 
shadow location for the SKCTL 
register at hexadecimal D20F (decimal 
53775). 

The Audio Frequency Registers 

Each of the four audio channels has 
a corresponding frequency register 
that controls the note played by the 
computer. The frequency register 
contains the number N used in a 
divide-by-N circuit. This is not a divi- 
sion in the mathematical sense, but 
something much simpler: for every N 



OUTPUT 
PULSES 



Figure 2: An example of a divide-by-4 process. The circuitry for this process allows only 
every fourth pulse to pass through. 



pulses coming in, one pulse goes out. 
For example, figure 2 shows a divide- 
by-4 function. 

As N gets larger, output pulses 
become less frequent, making a lower 
frequency note. 

The Audio Control Registers 

Each channel also has a corre- 
sponding control register. These 
registers allow the volume and distor- 
tion content of each channel to be set. 
The bit assignment for AUDCn is 
given in table 1. 

Volume 

The volume control for each audio 
channel is straightforward. The lower 
4 bits of the audio-control register 
(AUDCn) contain a 4-bit number that 
specifies the volume of the sound. A 
zero in these bits means zero volume; 
a fifteen means as loud as possible. 
The sum of the volumes of the four 
channels should not exceed thirty- 
two because this forces overmodula- 
tion of the audio output. The sound 
produced tends to actually lose 
volume and assume a buzzing quali- 
ty. 

Distortion 

Table 1 also shows that each chan- 
nel has three distortion-control bits in 
its audio-control register. Distortion 
is used to create special sound effects 
any time a pure tone is undesirable. 



AUDCn 
Bit Number 


7 6 5 


4 3 


2 1 





Use 

Table 1: Bit 


V J 


V 




; 


distortion volume- 
only bit 

usage in the AUDCn registers (AUDCl thi 


volume 
■oughAUDC4). 





The computer's use of distortion 
offers great versatility and control. It 
is easy to synthesize an almost endless 
variety of sounds, from rumbles, rat- 
tles, and squawks to clicks, whispers, 
and mood-setting background tem- 
pos. 

Distortion, as used here, is not 
equivalent to the standard interpreta- 
tion. For example, intermodulation 
distortion and harmonic distortion 
are quality criteria specified for high- 
fidelity stereo systems. These types of 
distortion refer to waveform degener- 
ation, where the shape of the wave is 
slightly changed due to error in the 
electronic circuitry. The computer's 
distortion does not alter waves (they 
are always square), but rather deletes 
selected pulses from the waveform. 
This technique is not adequately 
characterized by the word "distor- 
tion." A more descriptive and ap- 
propriate term for these distortion 
methods is "noise." 

Before you can fully grasp what we 



-INPUT WIRE 



RANDOM PULSES 




BIT PROCESSOR 



Figure 3: An example of a poly counter. 
By letting the new leftmost bit be deter- 
mined by some algorithm (here, an ex- 
clusive NOR of bits 3 and 5), a poly 
counter can produce a semirandom 
stream of bits. The pattern of the bits will 
eventually repeat, but the length of the 
pattern depends on the width in bits of the 
poly counter. 



82 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 377 on Inquiry card. 



The IBM Personal Computer 

Personal, Professional, Technical — or somewhere in between ., 
PC-mate™ makes the IBM Personal Computer a perfect match 



PC-MATE™ from TECMAR is the first and only complete 
expansion series available for the IBM Personal 
Computer. There are currently more than twenty PC- 
MATE™ expansion options available, and new products 
are continuously added to the list. 

When you want more from your IBM Personal 
Computer, look to PC-MATE™, 

You can create a SUPER PERSONAL COMPUTER 
with household lights and appliance control, voice 
output, and give it more memory than any ordinary 
personal can handle. 

Or make it a PROFITABLE PROFESSIONAL 
SYSTEM with expansion space and a Winchester disk to 
handle more business accounts. Increase memory up to 






the system limit and process those accounts faster. Add 
flexible I/O interfaces and put yourself on line to outside 
information sources. 

As an INTELLIGENT LABORATORY TOOL with 
interfaces to IEEE 488 instrumentation, analog signals, 
stepper motors and video signals, your IBM Personal 
Computer becomes the perfect workbench assistant. 

Hardware, Software, Accessories — PC-MATE™ provides 
the highest quality and the greatest possible range of 
functionality for the IBM user. 

Ask your local computer store for more information on 
the PC-MATE™ series from TECMAR, or call for the 
name of your nearest authorized PC-MATE™ dealer. 

PCM Ml- EXPANSION OPTIONS 



Personal Computer Expansion Chassis (see photo) 

192K and 256K Dynamic Memory with Parity 

Winchester Disk Drive and Controller 

Parallel Medium Speed Input/Output Interface 

Serial Medium Speed Input/Output Interface 

Parallel High Speed Input/Output Interface 

Serial High Speed Input/ Output Interface 

Analog to Digital Converter - 8, 12, 14, 16 Bit 

Dust Cover Set for IBM PC and Peripherals 

High Speed Static Memory (RAM/ROM) 

Digital to Analog Converter - 8 and 12 Bit 

Multi-System Printer Sharing Facility 

CMOS Memory with Battery Backup 

System Clock with Battery Backup 

Electrically Erasable EPROM 

BSR X-10 Device Controller 

Stepping Motor Controller 

Yideo Image Digitizer 

IEEE 488 Interface 

Prototyping Board 

Music Synthesizer 

Voice Synthesizer 

Extender Board 



One Year Warranty 

Additional products 
are already under 
development, so if 
we don't have what 
you need, chances 
are good that we 
soon will. 




Tecmar Inc 



PERSONAL COMPUTER PRODUCTS DIVISION 

• 23600 Mercantile Rd., Cleveland, OH 44122 (216)464 7410 



NOW THAT TOtT 

FIRST GEN 
TAKEALOOK 




Welcome to a tour of the biggest Apple. 

The Apple* III Personal Computer— the most 
powerful machine in its class. 

Because it's the only personal computer that 
lets you add up to 256K RAM, hang on a full 
complement of peripherals, and still have four ex- 
pansion slots left for future growth. (Unlike some 
micros which become woefully "slot-bound" 
when upgraded to maximum memory.) 

Because it's the only machine now using 64K 
RAM chips to keep 256K tidy on a single board. 

And because it's the only machine that gives 
you the help of SOS. 

THE MOST SOPHISTICATED OS. 

SOS is the Apple Ill's Sophisticated Operating 
System, an elegant software interface that frees 
you from most system control tasks. It features a 
hierarchical file system, device- and user-level 
interrupt capabilities, a device-independent file 
system and memory management capability. 

Since all Apple III languages use SOS, they 
share a common disk format. So Apple III pro- 
grams can merge and communicate — a Pascal 
application program can directly access a BASIC 
text file, for example. 



Xerox 820 


Hewlett-Packard 
125— Model 10 


IBM Personal 
Computer 


Apple m 


Standard Memory 


64K 


64K 


64K 


128K 


Maximum Memory when fully configured* 


64K 


64K 


192K 


256K 


Expandability 


No expansion 
slots 


No expansion 
slots 


No extra expan- 
sion slots in fully 
configured* 
I92K system 


4 extra expansion 
slots in fully 
configured 256K 
system* 


Diskette Storage (per drive) 


92K 


256K 


160K 


140K 


Mass Storage (pest drive) 


- 


1.16 megabyte 
Floppy Disk 


- 


5 megabyte 
Hard Disk 


Display Graphics Capability 


High resolution 
B/W 


High resolution 
B/W 


High resolution 
B/W or 4-color 
(color requires 
additional card) 


High resolution 
B/W or 16-color 


Software Available 


Word Processing 
Super Calc 

Communications 
CP/M* library 


Word Processing 
VisiCak* 125 

Business Graphics 
Communications 

CP/M* library 


Word Processing 
VistGdc* 

Communications 

CP/M* 86 
programs 


Word Processing 
VisiCalc^UI 
Business Graphics 
Communications 
Apple II software 
library 

CP/M* library 
(available 
Spring, 1982) 



"Fully configured means system includes, nt minimum, monitor printer. 2-disk driven and RS-232 
communicator. NOTE: Chart based on manufacturer's information available as of December, 1981. 



VE SEEN THEIR 

EMTION 

AT OURTHIRD. 




SOS allocates system resources to make the 
most of dynamic memory, simplifies programming 
with standard device and file interfaces for all 
languages, and speeds software development by 
reducing program size and complexity. 

OUR NEW PROFILE. 

ProFile™ is Apple's new personal mass storage 
system— a quick, quiet 5MB hard disk ideal for 
software development or any mass storage applica- 
tion. Shown above twixt monitor and console, it 
comes with everything you need to get up and 
running, including interface card and driver 
software. 

The Ill's standard built-in drive is a 140-K 
floppy that can be daisy-chained with three addi- 
tional drives through a back panel connector. 
Which leaves you plenty of expansion slots for 
things like our new Universal Parallel Interface 
Card or our OEM Prototyping Card. 

CHANGE KEYS. 

The 128-character ASCII-encoded keyboard 
happens to be fully-programmable. So you can 
(with SOS) do neat things like remap it into 



DVORK. Or create armies of special function keys. 
Or teach your Apple to write Chinese. 

Its own languages already include Business 
BASIC, UCSD Pascal; Assembly and, soon, a 
powerful new COBOL— and, in emulation mode, 
most languages available for Apple II. 

Look up from the keyboard and you'll see our 
standard Monitor III green phosphor display (80 
char, x 24 lines, u/1). It can show you some of the 
highest resolution graphics available — 560 x 192 in 
16 gray scales. Or choose a color monitor, and you 
could be seeing 16-color graphics in high 280 x 192 
resolution. ^^ 

We have a new edition of that monster hit, 
VisiCalc "' with more modeling space than any other 
version. Plus AppleWriter III, a powerful new 
word processing package. Plus a new Business 
Graphics package. Plus a new Mail List Manager. 

Plus a Pascal Utility Library that lets you take 
full advantage of all UCSD Pascal features. 

Plus Access III— sophisticated smart terminal 
software to access mainframes with asynchronous 
communications up to 9600 bps. 

Plus Apple II emulation to access that vast 
software library. 

Plus, soon, a CP/M" card to access that other 
vast library. 

Even with all this, the Apple Ill's potential 
remains essentially untapped. 

So we're offering improved documentation, 
new programmer's aids, expert hotline counseling 
and an open channel to the industry leader in 
software publishing. Us. 

See your Apple dealer for more information 
and, perhaps, a little comparison shopping. 

We're sure you'll find that between our third 
generation and their first, there's quite a gap. 



The personal computer. 




apple 



for the authorized dealer nearest you, call (800) 538-9696. In California, call (800) 662-9238. Or write: Apple Computer Inc., 10260 Bandley Dr., Cupertino, CA 95014. 

VisiCalc is a registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the Regents of the University of California. CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. Apple is a registered trademark. 

Circle 29 on inquiry card. 



mean by distortion, you must under- 
stand polynomial counters (also 
called poly counters). Poly counters 
are employed in the Atari computer 
as a source of random pulses used in 
noise generation. The Atari com- 
puter's poly counters utilize a shift 
register working at 1.79 MHz. The 
shift register's contents are shuffled 
and fed back into the input; this pro- 
duces a semirandom sequence of bits 
at the output of the shift register. 



For example, in figure 3, the old 
value of bit 5 will be pushed out of 
the shift register to become the next 
output pulse, and bit 1 will become a 
function of bits 3 and 5. 

The bit processor gets values from 
certain bits in the shift register (in 
figure 3, bits 3 and 5) and processes 
them in a way irrelevant to this dis- 
cussion. It yields a value that be- 
comes bit 1 of the poly counter's shift 
register. 



POLY COUNTER'S 
RANDOM PULSES 



TONE PULSES 
FROM FREQUENCY 
DIVIDED BY N 



JiUlfUUlOILillJlLL 

• • • * ••••• 

jihiiMhiililuiJ^ 



PULSES THAT 
MAKE IT THROUG 



■juui rmjuiM 



Figure 4: Using the output of a poly counter to create a noisy tone. The resulting sound 
of the output pulse train is considerably modified by using the poly counter output to 
select pulses from a pure square-wave input. 



These poly counters are not truly 
random because they repeat their bit 
sequence after a certain span of time. 
As you might suspect, their repetition 
rate depends upon the number of bits 
in the poly counter; in other words, 
the longer ones require many cycles 
before they repeat, while the shorter 
ones repeat more often. 

On the Atari computer, distortion 
is achieved by using random pulses 
from these poly counters in a selec- 
tion circuit. This circuit is actually a 
digital comparator, but the term 
"selection circuit" is more descriptive. 
The only pulses making it through the 
selection circuit to the output are 
those coinciding with a random 
pulse. Various pulses from the input 
are thereby eliminated in a random 
fashion. Figure 4 illustrates this selec- 
tion method. A dotted line connects 
pulses that coincide. 

The net effect is this: some pulses 
from the frequency-divider circuit are 
deleted. Obviously, if some of the 
pulses are deleted, the note will sound 
different. This is how distortion is in- 



OPTIONS 

1 . Processor 

• Z8001 • 68000 

2. Disk Controllers 

• Floppy disk controller 

• Winchester disk 
controller 

3. Memory 

• Memory boards from 
32Kto512K 

• Either processor can 
address up to 16 
Megabytes 

4. I/O 

• Standard serial I/O 
board with 8 RS-232 I/O 
ports 

• Intelligent I/O board 
with 8 ports, 16K dual 
port buffer memory, and 
an 8-bit I/O processor on 
board 

• Parallel I/O board with 
80 bits of parallel I/O 

5. 15 slot mother board 

6. Heavy duty power supply 

• + 5 volts at 40 amps 

• +/- 12 volts at 3.5 amps 

7. Meets IEEE Multibus 
Standard 



16 Bit Systems 
Z8000 or 68000 




COMPUTEX 

MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS X 



5710 Drexel Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60637 



TYPICAL SYSTEMS 

System 3 (Z8001 based) $7053 
Includes: • Z8001 processor 
with memory management • 
256K RAM • 8 serial I/O ports 

• Floppy disk controller • 
ZMOS multiuser operating 
system • Dual 8 inch double 
density floppy disk drives • 
Case and power supply 

System 4 (68000) based $7099 

Includes: • 68000 processor 
(8mhz) • 256K RAM • 2 serial 
and 4 parallel I/O ports • 
Floppy disk controller • Dual 8 
inch double density floppy 
disk drives • Operating system 

• Case and power supply 



WINCHESTER DISK 
SUBSYSTEMS 

1. 20 Meg 8 inch drive with dual 
case, power supply, and 
electronic module $3398 

2. 20 Meg add-on 8 inch drive 
$1898 

3. 60 Meg 8 inch drive with dual 
case, power supply, and 
electronic module $5898 

4. 60 Meg add-on 8 inch drive 
$3598 



312 684-3183 



86 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 104 on inquiry card. 





.:.'■ 




ft life . 

iw ,is^ . w. »w S*-* "s- 



THE ULTIMATE IN COMPUTER CHESS - THE MATE 



THE MATE FOR YOUR MICRO 

PMK Associates, one of the world's 
largest dealers of computer chess systems, 
is pleased to introduce an extraordinary 
new product for the computer chess en- 
thusiast. The Mate is a strategy game 
peripheral for your Apple II * , TRS-801 or 
PETJ (TRS-80 and PET versions not 
available until June '82) . 

It comes complete with the strongest 
chess program, by far, ever available for a 
microcomputer (requires 32K) , plus a 
true, magnetic sensor chessboard with 
magnetic pieces. All you do is move the 
pieces. The Mate senses your move, 
enters it into the computer, shows the 
move on its high-resolution graphic display 
and responds by lighting two LEDs. There 
are no distracting codes to type in during a 
game, and no need to apply pressure on 
the squares of the board. 

UNPRECEDENTED FLEXIBILITY 

Developed by Applied Concepts, Inc., 
whose $600 MCT chess computer was 
ranked number one in playing strength in 
Chess Life's January '82 issue, The Mate 
also incorporates a wide variety of 
features: 9 levels of play, opening library 
of over 6,000 moves, computer thinks on 
opponent's time, Best/Randomize move 
selection, move suggestions, audio 
On/Off, move erasing, change sides dur- 

• Appb II TM ol Appb Computer Inc. T TRS-80 TM of Tandy Corp 

Circle 315 on Inquiry card. 



ing game, reverse board, watch replay of 
finished game, printout entire game. And 
for hobbyists who want to write their own 
chess programs, full documentation of the 
interface software is provided. 




As ACI continues to develop new, 
stronger chess programs your system can 
be easily upgraded. And additional pro- 
grams for checkers, Reversi and other 
strategy games will soon be available. The 
Mate comes complete with sensory board, 
magnetic chess pieces, plug-in computer 
interface card, interconnecting cable, 
game program on cassette or disk and 
operation/programming manual for just 
$269.95. 

FREE BONUS BOOK 

Each unit is covered by our 15-day 
home trial, money-back guarantee. And 

t PET TM of Commodore Buslneu Machines 



we will promptly exchange any defective 
unit still under the manufacturer's 90 day 
warranty. We maintain a large inventory, 
and most orders are shipped within 48 
hours of receipt. Order before August '82 
and we will include, free of charge, the 
chess classic Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess 
developed in cooperation with Xerox 
Learning Systems. 

There is no game for your micro more 
stimulating than chess, and in computer 
chess there is nothing more powerful than 
The Mate. 

To order, mail your check to: PMK 
Associates, PO Box 598, East Brunswick, 
NJ 08816 (please include $5.00 for 
shipping; NJ residents please add 5% 
sales tax; include $10.00 extra for disk 
format). Customers in Alaska, Hawaii and 
foreign countries please contact us for 
shipping charges. For fastest service, credit 
card holders may use our 24 hour Toll 
Free order number - 

1-800-835-2246 
ask for Carol 

Please call (201)246-7680 for technical 
questions and further information. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



PALMER, 
MSBRIDE 
KWCATD 

ASSOCIATES 



COMPUTER AND 
ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS 
FOR THE HOME 

P.O. BOX 598 
EAST BRUNSWICK 
NEW JERSEY 08816 

(201) 246-7680 

24 HOURS A DAY 



troduced into a sound channel. 

Because poly counters repeat their 
bit sequences, their output pattern of 
pulses is cyclic. And since the selec- 
tion circuit uses this output pattern to 
delete pulses from the original note, 
the distorted note will contain the 
same repetitious pattern. This allows 
the hardware to create noises such as 
drones, motors, and other sounds 
having repetitive patterns. 

The Atari computer is equipped 
with three poly counters of different 
lengths, which can be combined in 
many ways to produce interesting 
sound effects. The smaller poly 
counters (4 and 5 bits long) repeat 
often enough to create droning 
sounds that rise and fall quickly; the 
larger poly counter (17 bits long) 
takes so long to repeat that no pattern 
to the distortion can be readily 
discerned. This 17-bit poly counter 
can be used to generate explosions, 
steam, and any sound where random 
crackling and popping is desired. It is 
even irregular enough to generate 
white noise (an audio term meaning a 
hissing sound). 

Each audio channel offers six 
distinct combinations of the three 
poly counters, which are listed in 
table 2. These upper AUDCw bits 
control three switches in the audio 
circuit as shown in figure 5. This 
diagram will help you understand 
why table 2 is structured as it is. 

Each combination of the poly 
counters offers a unique sound. Fur- 
thermore, the distorted sounds can 
sound quite different at different fre- 
quencies. For this reason, some trial 
and error is necessary to find a com- 
bination of distortion and frequency 
that produces the desired sound ef- 
fect. Table 3 gives you some rough 
guidelines with which you can begin 
your experimentation. 

Volume-only Sound 

Bit 4 of AUDCn specifies the 
volume-only mode. When this bit is 
set, the volume value in AUDCn bits 
through 3 is sent directly to the 
television speaker; it is not modulated 
with the frequency specified in the 
AUDFn registers. 

To fully understand the use of this 



mode of operation, you must under- 
stand how a speaker works and what 
happens to the television speaker 
when it receives a pulse. Any speaker 
has a cone that moves in and out. The 
cone's position at any time is directly 
proportional to the voltage it is 
receiving from the computer at that 



time. If the voltage sent is zero, the 
speaker is in the resting position. 
Whenever the cone changes position, 
it moves air that is detected by your 
ear as sound. 

From our definition of a pulse, you 
know that it consists of a rising 
voltage followed by a falling voltage. 



AUDCn Bit 
7 6 5 


Type of Distortion Carried Out 




X 

1 

1 




1 





Divide clock by frequency, select using 5-bit then 17-bit poly counter, then 

divide by 2 
Divide clock by frequency, select using 5-bit poly counter, then divide by 2 
Divide clock by frequency, select using 5-bit then 4-bit poly counter, then 

divide by 2 
Divide clock by frequency, select using 17-bit poly counter, then divide by 

2 
Divide clock by frequency, then divide by 2 (no poly counters used) 
Divide clock by frequency, select using 4-bit poly counter, then divide by 2 


1 X 

1 1 


1 




Table 2: 


Types of distortion available from the Atari 400/800. See table 1 for the 


usage of 


other bits in each AUDCn register. An "X" in the second column of the table 


repre.se.rx 


ts a 


bit that can be either or 1. 



AUDCn Bit 


7 


6 


5 














X 


1 





1 





1 








1 
1 


X 

1 


1 





Examples of Resulting Sound 
Low frequencies Middle frequencies High frequencies 



Geiger counter 

machine gun auto at idle 

calm fire laboring auto 

building crashing in 
pure musical tones 
airplane lawn mower 



raging fire 
electric motor 



rushing air steam 
power transformer 
auto with a "miss" 



radio interference 



waterfall 



electric razor 



Table 3: Types of sounds available from the six types of distortion available from 
each AUDCn register. An "X" in the second column of the table represents a bit that 
can be either or 1. 



AUDCTL BIT NO 




TO 

TELEVISION 

SPEAKER 



DIVIDE-BY-N 
CIRCUIT 



Figure 5: A schematic representation of the effects of bits 5 through 7 of the AUDCTL 
register on the sound sent to the television speaker. 



88 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



it 



WHAT IF 



W 



Seldom is your first solution to a prob- 
lem the only one, or the one that's 
necessarily best to use. 

That's why our VisiCalc® pro- 
gram is # 1 in the business: the most 
widely-used business program ever 
for the personal computer. 

It's a powerful "electronic work- 
sheet" that takes the work out of 
working with numbers. Whether you 
are working with investments, cash 
flow, inventory, estimates, budgets, 
plans — nearly anything numerical, 
the VisiCalc program will help you 
work better, smarter, faster. 

In just seconds, the VisiCalc pro- 
gram can calculate and display the 
answers to involved problems you 
could have spent hours doing by hand. 

Its speed and versatility makes it 
easy for you to explore more alterna- 
tives. You can ask "What if?". . . just 
change any number in your problem 
and instantly, the VisiCalc program 
recalculates all the numbers and 
displays the new results. So you can 

©1982VisiCorp 



readily analyze the impact of decisions 
before you make them. 

While the VisiCalc program does 
a lot by itself, it can do even more for 
you when used with the other Visi™ 
programs. That's because they're all 
inter-related, just like your needs and 
tasks, to give you a fully integrated 
solution. For example, automatically 
bring in data stored in our VisiFile 
program — such as customer or 
inventory information— 
for calculation and 
analysis with your 
VisiCalc program. 

In addition, 
our series 
includes the 
VisiTrend/Plot 
VisiSchedule, 1 
VisiDex,™ 
VisiTerm,™ 
VisiPlot,™and 
Desktop/ 
PLAN™ 
programs. 



Ask your retail computer store 
salesperson for a demonstration of the 
VisiCalc program. Discover how easy 
it is to take the work out of working 
with numbers. 

VisiCalc From 
visicorp" 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE'" 




If you sent the speaker a pulse, it 
would push out with the rising 
voltage and pull back with the falling 
voltage, resulting in a wave of air that 
can be detected by your ear as a pop. 
The following statements produce 
such a pop on the television speaker 
by sending a single pulse: 

POKE 53761,31:POKE 53761,16 

A stream of pulses (or wave) would 
set the speaker into constant motion, 
and a continuous buzz or note would 
be heard. The faster the pulses are 



sent, the higher the note. This is how 
the computer generates sound on the 
television speaker. 

It is essential to note that in the 
volume-only mode the volume sent 
does not drop back to zero automati- 
cally, but remains constant until the 
program changes it. The program 
should modulate the volume often 
enough to create a noise. Now try the 
following two statements, listening 
carefully after each: 

POKE 53761,31 
POKE 53761,31 



More Modem. 
LessMoola. 




Our new LEX-11 was designed for 
the professional. Yet its economical 
$175 price tag makes it affordable 
for small businesses and personal 
use, as well. 

The LEX-11 can be operated 
with a home or office terminal to 
communicate with a computer or to 
communicate between computers. 
And it works in geographic areas 
where other modems fall short. 

It has a receive sensitivity of 
—47 dBM (compared to our 
competitor's —45 dBM). It has 
a transmit filter which greatly 
enhances its performance. It 
weighs only 24 ounces. And its 
battery power option enables 
you to use it anywhere. 

If you're looking for a versatile, 
high-performance acoustical 
modem, look into the LEX-11. 



LEX-11 

Acoustically Coupled 
Modem 



For information, mail this coupon 
or call us toll-free at 800-327-8913. 
In Florida, call (305) 792-4400. 

I 1 

I want to know more about the LEX- 1 1 . 
Please contact me with details. 

Name 

Title 



Company 

Street 

City 



State/Zip 



L. 



LEXICON 

Corporation of Miami 
1541 N.W. 65th Avenue 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33313 B3/82 



■J 



The first time you heard a pop, as 
expected. The speaker pushed out 
and moved air. But the second time 
you didn't because the speaker cone 
was already in the extended position; 
an identical extension command did 
nothing to the speaker. Since it 
moved no air, you heard nothing. 
Now try this: 

POKE 53761,16 
POKE 53761,16 

As before, you heard a pop the first 
time as the speaker moved back to its 
resting position, and you heard 
nothing the second time because the 
speaker was already in the resting 
position. 

Thus, the volume-only bit gives the 
program complete control over the 
position of the speaker at any time. 
Although the examples given above 
are only binary examples (either on 
or off), you are by no means limited 
to this type of speaker modulation. 
You can set the speaker to any of 16 
distinct positions. 

For example, a simple triangle 
wave (similar to the waveform pro- 
duced by brass instruments) could be 
generated by sending a volume of 8 
followed by 9, 10, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 
6, 7, and back to 8, then repeating 
this sequence over and over very 
rapidly. By changing the volume 
quickly enough, virtually any 
waveform can be created. It is feasi- 
ble, for example, to perform voice 
synthesis using this technique. 
However, this requires the use of 
assembly language. There is more 
discussion of this bit in part 8 of this 
series. 



AUDCTL 

In addition to the independent 
channel-control bytes (AUDCn), an 
option byte (AUDCTL) affects all 
four channels. Each bit in AUDCTL is 
assigned a specific function, as shown 
in table 4. AUDCTL is at location 
D208 hexadecimal, 53768 decimal. 

Clocking 

Before proceeding with the ex- 
planations of the AUDCTL options, a 



90 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 214 on Inquiry card. 



Mindful Machines 



Brains of Mftf 
and Machno 



BRAINS 



ROBOTICS 



Kent 
Will 



Ernest 



W.Kent 



On the leading edge of the current technological revolution, these two books are written by 

modern thinkers who, like the Renaissance sages of an earlier time, venture across the 
boundaries of traditional disciplines to create vivid, detailed studies of humanity's quest for 

self-contained thinking machines. 

In Brains, Behavior, and Robotics, Dr. James Albus demonstrates through an analysis of the 

processing hierarchies of the human brain that in our own heads we find the best model for 

an artificial intelligence computer. He goes on to survey the state of the art of robotics and 

concludes by portraying the social and economic impact of the coming "robot revolution." 

Dr. Ernest W. Kent writes in The Brains of Men and Machines of the complex relationship 

between humans and machines. Drawing on the latest research in physiological psychology, 

he predicts that the more intelligent our machines become, the more they will resemble 

their creators in methods of processing information, storing data, solving problems, and 

even in their very circuitry. 
Complete with extensive bibliographies, both The Brains of Men and Machines and Brains, 
Behavior, and Robotics will fascinate the layman and challenge the professional. 
Circle 56 on inquiry card. 



m 



Please send Brains, Behavior, and Robotics $16.95 

Brains of Men and Machines $15.95 



Name 






Check Enclosed 


Address 






Bill Visa/ * 
Master Card # 


City 


State 


Zip 


Expiration Date 




BYTE Books 70 Main Street Peterborough, N.H. 03458 pimb« add ,7s par book to cover shipping cost. 



I Toil-Free 800/258-5420 

eiiTi 

B3 




Introducing 
the Sinclair ZX81 

If you're ever going to buy 
a personal computer, now is the 
time to do it. 

The new Sinclair ZX81 is the 
most powerful, yet easy-to-use 
computer ever offered for anywhere 
near.the price: only $149.95* completely 
assembled. 

Don't let the price fool you. The 
ZX81 has just about everything you 
could ask for in a personal computer. 
A breakthrough 
in personal computers 

The ZX81 is a major advance over 
the original Sinclair ZX80-the world's 
largest selling personal computer and 
the first for under $200. 

In fact, the ZX81's new 8K Extended 
BASIC offers features found only on com- 
puters costing two or three times as much. 

Just look at what you get: 

■ Continuous display, including moving 
graphics 

■ Multi-dimensional string and numerical 
arrays 

•Plus shipping and handling. Price includes connectors 
for TV and cassette, AC adaptor, and FREE manual. 



■ Mathematical and scientific functions 
accurate to 8 decimal places 

■ Unique one-touch entry of key words 
like PRINT, RUN and LIST 

■ Automatic syntax error detection and 
easy editing 

■ Randomize function useful for both 
games and serious applications 

■ Built-in interface for ZX Printer 

■ 1K of memory expandable to 16K 

The ZX81 is also very convenient 
to use. It hooks up to any television set 
to produce a clear 32-column by 24-line 
display. And you can use a regular 
cassette recorder to store and recall 
programs by name. 



If you already own a ZX80 

The 8K Extended BASIC 
chip used in the ZX81 is available 
as a plug-in replacement for your 
ZX80 for only $39.95, plus shipping 
and handling— complete with new key- 
board overlay and the ZX81 manual. 
So in just a few minutes, with no 
special skills or tools required, you can 
upgrade your ZX80 to have all the 
powerful features of the ZX81. (You'll 
have everything except continuous dis- 
play, but you can still use the PAUSE 
and SCROLL commands to get moving 
graphics.) 

With the 8K BASIC chip, your 
ZX80 will also be equipped to use the 
ZX Printer and Sinclair software. 

Order at no risk** 

We'll give you 10 days to try out 
the ZX81. If you're not completely satis- 
fied, just return it to Sinclair Research 
and we'll give you a full refund. 

And if you have a problem with 
your ZX81, send it to Sinclair Research 
within 90 days and we'll repair or replace 
it at no charge. 

"Does not apply to ZX81 kits. 




NEW SOFTWARE:Sinclair has 

published pre-recorded pro- 
grams on cassettes for your 
ZX81, or ZX80 with 8K BASIC. 
We're constantly coming out 
with new programs, so we'll 
send you our latest software 
catalog with your computer. 



ZX PRINTER: The Sinclair ZX 
Printer will work with your ZX81, 
or ZX80 with 8K BASIC. It will 
be available in the near future 
and will cost less than $100. 



16K MEMORY MODULE: 

Like any powerful, full fledged 
computer, the ZX8l is expand- 
able. Sinclair's 16K memory 
module plugs right onto the 
back of your ZX81 (or ZX80, 
with or without 8K BASIC). 
Cost is $99.95, plus shipping 
and handling. 



ZX81 MANUAL: The ZX81 
comes with a comprehensive 
164-page programming guide 
and operating manual de- 
signed for both beginners and 
experienced computer users. 
A $10.95 value, it's yours free 
with the ZX81. 




\ 



If you really want to 
save money, and you enjoy 
building electronic kits, you 
can order the ZX81 in kit form 
for the incredible price of just 
$99.95? It's the same, full-featured 
computer, only you put it together 
yourself. We'll send complete, easy 
to-follow instructions on how you can 
assemble your ZX81 in just a few hours. 
All you have to supply is the soldering iro 

How to order 

Sinclair Research is the world's larg- 
est manufacturer of personal computers. 

The ZX81 represents the latest 
technology in microelectronics, and it 
picks up right where the ZX80 left off. 
Thousands are selling every week. 

We urge you to place your order 
for the new ZX81 today. The sooner you 
order, the sooner you can start enjoying 
your own computer. 

To order, simply call our toll free 
number, and use your MasterCard or VISA 

To order by mail, please use the 
pupon. And send your check or money 
order. We regret that we cannot accept 
purchase orders or C.O.DIs. 

CALL 800-543-3000. Ask for op- 
erator #509. In Ohio call 800-582-1364. 
In Canada call 513-729-4300. Ask for 
operator #509. Phones open 24 hours 
a day, 7 days a week. Have your Master- 
Card or VISA ready. 

These numbers are for orders 
only. For information, you must write to 
Sinclair Research Ltd., 2 Sinclair Plaza, 
Nashua, NH 03061. 



inczlam 



Memory Module (for ZX81 or ZX80) 



PRICEt QTY. AMOUNT 



ZX81 



ZX81 Kit 



8K BASIC chip (for ZX80) 



Shipping and Handling 



$149.95 



99.95 



39.95 



99.95 



4.95 



TOTAL 



$4.95 



MAIL TO: Sinclair Research Ltd., One Sinclair Plaza, Nashua, NH 03061. 

NAME 

ADDRESS 



*CITY/STATE/ZIP_ 

tU.S. Dollars 



AUDCTL Bit Function Performed If Bit Set 



Switches the main clock base from 64 kHz to 15 kHz 

Inserts high-pass filter into channel 2, clocked by channel 4 (only fre- 
quencies higher than that of channel 4 are passed by the filter) 

Inserts high-pass filter into channel 1, clocked by channel 3 (only fre- 
quencies higher than that of channel 3 are passed by the filter) 

Joins channel 4 to channel 3 to give 16-bit resolution 

Joins channel 2 to channel 1 to give 16-bit resolution 

Clocks channel 3 with 1.79 MHz 

Clocks channel 1 with 1.79 MHz 

Makes the 17-bit poly counter into a 9-bit poly counter 



Table 4: Modifications to the sound-generation registers available by manipulation 
of the bits in register AUDCTL (location D208 hexadecimal, 53768 decimal). Bit 7 is 
the most significant bit in the register. 



new concept must be explained: 
clocking. In general, a clock is a train 
of pulses used to synchronize the 
millions of internal operations occur- 
ring every second in any computer. 
The central clock pulses continuous- 
ly, each pulse telling the circuitry to 
perform another step in its opera- 
tions. You may remember that a 
divide-by-N frequency divider out- 
puts one pulse for every Nth input 



pulse. You also may have wondered 
where the input pulses come from. 
One main input clock runs at 1.79 
MHz; it can provide the input pulses. 
Also, several secondary clocks can be 
used as input clocks. The AUDCTL 
register allows you to select the clock 
used as the input to the divide-by-N 
circuit. If you select a different input 
clock, the output from the frequency 
divider will change drastically. 



ATTENTION GOVERNMENT D P 
USERS AND PURCHASERS 

We represent many fine micro products and manufacturers 
on the U.S. Government's GSA Schedule, including 

Apple f Cromemco, Micropolis, JSorthStar, 
Osborne and Seequa Computer* 

Purchasing from the Schedule will save you the time 
consumed by the bid process. Products shipped throughout 
the United States and world-wide. Visit or write any of our 
stores for more information or to receive our catalogue of 
products represented. 






•:nip: 


ih-k-j 






Jt 


i Li 


2-t 




3 


L v. • • • • i 




the dependable store 


257 We 

13A Alleg 

9330 Georg 

6671 Bad 

Plaza 38, 24 

Callei 

Career Oppc 


st Street, Annapolis, MD 21401 - (301) 26 
heny Avenue, Towson, MD 21204 — (301) 
ja Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910 - (301 
dick Road, Springfield, VA 22150 - (703) 
42 Route 38, Cherry Hill, NJ 08002 - (60S 
s outside metropolitan areas served by our < 

Please call (301) 268-5801 
irtunities Available * An Equal Opportunity 


8-6505 
296-0520 
) 588-3748 
644-5500 
>) 779-0023 
tores 

> Employer 



For example, imagine that you are 
using the 15-kHz clock, with the fre- 
quency register set to divide by 8. The 
rate of output pulses from the divide- 
by-N circuit would be about 2 kHz. 
But if you changed the selection of 
clocks to get the 64-kHz clock and did 
not change the frequency register, 
what would happen? The divide-by- 
N would still be putting out one pulse 
for every eighth input pulse, but the 
input rate would be 64 kHz. The 
result is an output frequency (from 
the divide-by-N) of 8 kHz. Thus, you 
can see that reclocking changes the 
frequency independent of the fre- 
quency register and on a larger scale. 

The formula for the output fre- 
quency (from the divide-by-N) is 
quite simple: 



Output frequency = 



Clock 

N 



Setting bit of the AUDCTL 
register switches from the 64-kHz 
clock to the 15-kHz clock. Note that 
if this bit is set, every sound channel 
clocked with the 64-kHz clock will in- 
stead use the 15-kHz clock. Similarly, 
by setting bits 5 or 6, you can clock 
channels 3 or 1, respectively, with 
1.79 MHz. This will produce a much 
higher note, as demonstrated by the 
following example: 

SOUND 0,255,10,8 
POKE 53768,64 

The SOUND statement causes chan- 
nel 1 to give a low tone, and the 
POKE sets AUDCTL bit 6 to 1, caus- 
ing the pitch generated by channel 1 
to jump to a much higher note. 

16-Bit Frequency Options 

The 8 bits of resolution in the 
frequency-control registers normally 
provide more than adequate resolu- 
tion for the task of selecting any 
desired frequency. There are, 
however, situations in which 8 bits 
are inadequate. Consider what hap- 
pens when you execute the following 
statements: 

FOR 1 = 255 TO STEP -1: 
SOUND 0,I,10,8:NEXT I 

Initially, the sound rises smoothly, 



94 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 98 on inquiry card. 



SANYOMONITORS 



When you're 
ready to 
stop playing 
around. 



Maybe your home TV was 
OK as a display when all you were 
concerned with was blasting 
Ningons. 

But if you spend more than 
a couple of hours in front of your 
TV screen, you'll start to pay the 
price in eyestrain. Maybe even 
headaches. 

It's not worth it. hot when 
you can get a 5anyo data moni- 
tor that's specifically designed 
for long-term, day-in, day-out use. 



r - r 


HLIN S75 
HUN 580 


HLIH 
HLIN 


Hi 

5SS 


HLIN 585 

COLOR 558 
KLIN 595 


HLIN 
COLOR 
4 

HLIN 
P + 1 


see 


r,,*j see 


UTAB 

GH FI 



Compare display quality of a 

typical home 7V (left) with a 

Sanyo professional monitor (right). 

5anyo monitors have been 
the Industry standard for as long 
as there's been a personal com- 
puter industry— In fact they're 
recommended by computer 
dealers and manufacturers alike. 
That's because when you buy a 
5anyo, you're notjust getting a 
stripped-down TV set. You're 
getting a truly professional dis- 
play system. 

Sanyo offers a complete 
selection of monitors for any ap- 
plication. You can choose from 





9" models with either 
white or easy-on-the-eyes green 
phosphors. Or a sleek new 12" 
model with a special antl-reflec- 




tlve screen (green or white), and 
an optional desk stand with ad- 
justable tilt. If color graphics are 
your thing check our 13" full- 
color models— one with TV- 
compatible video input, and a 
new ultra-high resolution RGB 
model for computers like the 
IBM, MEC and Apple III. 

Visit your computer 
dealer and find out how much 
better things look on a real, 
professional monitor from 
5anyo. 

Anything less Isjust 
playing around. 



© 1982 Sanyo Electric, Inc. 



Communications Products Division 
5anyo Electric Inc., 1200 W. Artesla Blvd., Compton, CA 90220 (213) 537-5830 

Circle 345 on Inquiry card. 



D4 
CF 
D2 
C5 
AO 
C4 
C5 
CC 



LOST PROGRAM 
RECOVERY 



Circle 27 on inquiry card. 

A0C4C9D3CBA0D5D4C9CCC9D4D9A0A4B5B0A0 
AO AO 

g Disk Utility g 
D3 for Apple DOS 3.3 D3 

CB 

AO 
C4 
C9 
D3 
DO 
CC 
CI 

cs If you haven't D9 

C5 written over that A6 

c * program accidental- A0 

C6 ly deleted, this ci 

^ software can re- £4 

cs cover it for you. cs 

D3 AO 

AO D5 

ao Also, it can D4 

AO ■ j- i C9 

M reorganize your disk £c 
cs and inform you of C9 

D8 _. .. / 

ci the remaining 
™ space available. 



CE 

C A S Q And, it allows 
ci you to patch any 
« sector: display in 
af Hex and ASCII on 
D2 standard Apple 
A0 screen. 

DO 



C3 
D4 



D3 



delay. 



D4 
D9 

AO 
CD 



CI 
CE 
D5 
C6 
CI 
C3 
D4 
D5 
D2 
C5 



C4 

CI AO 

?i Menu driven and C2 

cs easy for the novice ao 

A f while still efficient g 

ce for the professional. D3 

H Compatible with g 

C4 M Si R Superterm. D2 

C9 AO 

D3 C3 

CB For more information or CF 

D3 to place your order call: m 

° [208] 263-1213 ao 



AO 
AO 



D2 Cost: $50 ao 

Cl 
AO 
D3 
CF 

C6 



A0 We pay first class postage and 

A( j insurance. You may use VISA or 

Ag MasterCard. 

C4 

C9 TO ORDER: Send us your D4 

D3 check, money order or credit card D7 

CB number and expiration date. Cl 

A ? Certified checks avoid clearance 



C5 

AO 



D4 

o\ ANSWER Corporation ? 4 F 

D5 502 A North Second Ave. CF 

°3 Sandpoint, Idaho 83864 CC 
AO i-i M 

A0A0C2D9A0CAC5D2D2D9A0D4C9C6C6D4A0A0 



Listing 1: A program that uses a 16-bit divide-by-N register. When used with game pad- 
dles in port 1, this program produces a sound with a frequency that can be varied by 
paddles 1 and 2. Paddle 1 changes the sound in large steps; paddle 2 changes the sound 
between two adjacent large steps. 



10 SOUND 0,0,0,0,: REM 
20 POKE 53768,80: REM 



Initialize sound 

Clock channel 1 with 1.79 MHz, clock 

channel 2 with channel 1 

Turn oft channel 1, turn on channel 2 

(pure tones) 

POKE 53760, PADDLE(0):POKE 53762,PADDLE(1) 

GOTO 40: REM Set paddles to put frequencies in 

frequency registers 



30 POKE 53761, 160:POKE 53763, 168: REM 



40 
50 



but as it approaches the end of its 
range the frequency takes larger and 
larger steps that are noticeably clum- 
sy. This happens because you are 
dividing the clock by smaller and 
smaller numbers: 15 kHz divided by 
255 is almost the same as 15 kHz 
divided by 254; however, 15 kHz 
divided by 2 differs greatly from 15 
kHz divided by 1. The only way to 
solve this problem is to use a larger 
number that allows you to specify 
frequency with greater precision. The 
means to do this are built into 
POKEY. 

AUDCTL bits 3 and 4 allow two 
channels to be joined, creating a 
single channel with an extended 
dynamic-frequency range. Normally, 
each channel's frequency-divider 
number can range from to 255 
(which results from 8 bits of divide- 
by-N capability). Joining two chan- 
nels allows a frequency range of to 
65535 (16 bits of divide-by-N 
capability). In this mode, it is possible 
to reduce the output frequency to less 
than 1 Hz. The program in listing 1 
uses two channels in the 16-bit mode 
and two paddles as the frequency in- 
puts. Insert a set of paddles into port 
1, then type in and run listing 1. The 
right paddle tunes the sound coarsely; 
the left paddle finely tunes the sound 
between the coarse increments. 

This program first sets bits 4 and 6 
of AUDCTL; this tells the Atari com- 
puter to clock channel 1 with 1.79 
MHz and join channel 2 to channel 1. 
Once this happens, the 8-bit frequen- 
cy registers of both channels are 
assumed to represent a single 16-bit 
number N that is used to divide the 
input clock. Next, the volume of 



96 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



channel 1 is set to 0. Since channel 1 
no longer has its own direct output, 
its volume setting is meaningless to us 
and we zero it. The channel 1 fre- 
quency register is used as the fine- 
tuning or low byte in the sound 
generation; the channel 2 frequency 
register is the coarse-tuning or high 
byte. For example, poking a 1 into the 
channel 1 frequency register makes 
the pair of registers divide by 1 . Pok- 
ing a 1 into the channel 2 frequency 
register makes the pair divide by 256. 
Poking a 1 into both frequency 
registers makes the pair divide by 
257. 

Bit 3 of AUDCTL can be used to 
join channel 4 to channel 3 in the 
same way. 

The following instructions demon- 
strate some interesting aspects of 
16-bit sound (try poking other 
numbers into the last four locations): 

SOUND 0,0,0,0 
POKE 53768,24 
POKE 53761,168 
POKE 53763,168 
POKE 53765,168 
POKE 53767,168 
POKE 53760,240 
POKE 53764,252 
POKE 53762,28 
POKE 53766,49 

High-Pass Filters 

AUDCTL bits 1 and 2 control high- 
pass filters in channels 2 and 1, 
respectively. A high-pass filter allows 
only higher frequencies to pass 
through. In the case of these high- 
pass filters, high frequencies are 
defined as anything higher than the 
output of another channel selected by 

Circle 81 on inquiry card. "^^♦ , 



I 



The Friendly Computer 

$299.95 





Full Computer Keyboard ■ Memory Expansion to 32K RAM 

16 Colors/4 Sound Generators ■ Includes Microsoft™/PET® BASIC 

66 Graphics Characters ■ Connects to TV or Monitor 

■ Recreation, Education & Personal Computing Programs 

■ Peripheral Equipment: Joystick, Paddles, Disk Drive, Printer, Cassette unit 

■ Telephone Modem for Communicating with outside Information Sources 

■ 4 Programmable Function Keys 

For more information on the VIC-20's exciting 

Space Games, Personal Software, and Programming capabilities, 

visit your Commodore Dealer, or write: 

VIC-20, Commodore Business Machines, 681 Moore Road, King of Prussia, PA 19406 

Cs commodore 

v COMPUTER 



the AUDCTL bit combination. For 
example, if channel 3 is playing a 
cow's moo and AUDCTL bit 2 is set, 
only sounds with frequencies higher 
than the moo will be heard on chan- 
nel 1 (anything lower than the 
"moooo" will be filtered out). See 
figure 6. 

The filter is programmable in real 
time because the filtering channel can 
be changed on the fly. This opens a 
large field of possibilities to the pro- 




grammer. The filters are generally 
used to create special effects. Try the 
following statements: 

SOUND 0,0,0,0 

POKE 53768,4 

POKE 53761, 168:POKE 53765,168 

POKE 53760, 254: POKE 53764,127 

9-Bit Polynomial Conversion 

Bit 7 of AUDCTL, when set, turns 
the 17-bit poly counter into a 9-bit 



COW'S MOO (PLAYED BY CHANNEL #3) 



CHANNEL #1 
WILL ONLY PLAY 
FREQUENCIES IN 
THIS SHADED AREA 



Figure 6: High-pass filtering in the Atari 400/800. At any given instant, the only fre- 
quencies in channel 1 that are passed by the filter are those greater than the frequency 
being played in channel 3. 



poly counter. The shorter the poly 
counter, the more often its distortion 
pattern repeats, or the more discerni- 
ble is the pattern in the distortion. 
Therefore, changing the 17-bit poly 
counter into a 9-bit poly counter 
makes the noise pattern more repe- 
titious and more discernible. Try the 
following demonstration of the 9-bit 
poly-counter option, listening 
carefully when the POKE is executed: 

SOUND 0,80,8,8 
POKE 53768,128 

The first statement activates the 
17-bit poly counter; the second 
changes the counter to a 9-bit poly 
counter. 

Next Month 

Now that we know about the 
various registers that control the 
sound-generating capabilities of the 
Atari 400/800, we will look at several 
BASIC and machine-language tech- 
niques to use sound within a pro- 
gram. ■ 



DATAFACE GRQ SERIES INTERFACE 

TURNS YOUR ELECTRONIC TYPEWRITER INTO A PRINTER/TYPEWRITER 




TheDatafaceGRQ-11 Inter- 
face expands your Olympia ES 
Series electronic typewriter 

into a letter press quality printer for your personal or busi- 
ness computer. And, you still have a fully featured electronic 
typewriter — two machines in one. 

The GRQ Series Interface features: 

1. Standard El A RS-232-C Serial Interface and Parallel 
(Centronics compatible). 

2. Standard asynchronous ASC11 code, 7 bit data; 1 start 
bit; accommodates 1 or 2 stop bits automatically; accom- 
modates odd, even or absence of parity bit. 

3. Fifty thru 9600 Baud data rate options. 

4. Two K buffer; supports X-on, X-off protocol as well as 
RTS signals. 

98 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



5. Circuit board is installed in- 
side typewriter back panel 
along side logic board. The 

connection between boards accomplished by 40 pin 

jumper cable using existing socket. No soldering required. 

Power is provided to the GRQ thru two pins of the 40 lead 

cable. Installation in 10 minutes. 

GRQ-10 — CALL FOR SPECIAL 
WHOLESALE PRICE. 
SUGGESTED RETAIL $349.50. 

oflTflFflCE inc. 

2372 A WALSH AVE., SANTA CLARA, CA 95050 
(408) 727-6704 

Circle 121 on inquiry card. 



SuperSoffe 




t 




Ada*, the language of the '80s, is here now. 
Required by the Department of Defense for all 
programming, Ada is a highly structured, so- 
phisticated language, well suited to both 
plications and systems programming. 

SuperSoft Ada is a native code, full 
sive, two pass compiler which genera 
".COM" files. While currently a subset, Super- 
Soft Ada supports most features of the stand- 
ard Ada language such as: 



pragma 


arrays 


case 


loop 


for 


while 


procedure 


characters 


integers 


strings 


float 


disk I/O 


console I/O 


printer I/O 





for CP/M 



Ada is a state-of-the-art language designed 

for the demanding contemporary user/pro- 

. Because it is required by the 

tment of Defense, Ada is certain to be- 

iminant language soon. Begin learn- 

g Ada now with SuperSoft Ada. 

I requires 48K CP/M) $250.00 

Manual & documentation: $20.00 

Available from fine dealers everywhere, 

or directly from: 

SUPERSOFT, INC. d.g,™? devices 

p n nny 1R9R 134 london road 

r.VJ. PW/\ lU'U SOUTHBOHOUGH, KENT 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 tunbrioge wells 

217-359-21 12 Telex: 270365 England 

T~„t,,,:«„l l_l~» I ;,-,«■ Tel.: Tunbridge W0II5 (0B92I37977I9 

Technical Hot Line. Teu».95582 

217-359-2691 



3-23-8 NISHI-SHIMBASHI. MINATOKU 

SupSTlSOft ... .First in Software Technology SSssss 

The following is required by the Department of Defense for copyright protection: 

"This compiler is presently an incomplete implementation of the Ada programming 
language. It is intended that this compiler will be further developed to enable implementation 
of the complete Ada programming language, and then to be submitted to the Ada Joint Pro- 
gram Office for Validation." *Ada is a trademark of the Department of Defense, (Ada Joint Program Ofl 

Circle 365 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 365 on Inquiry card. 



Build a Half-year Clock 
for the Color Computer 



Fourth in a Series 



William Barden Jr. 

28122 Orsola 

Mission Viejo, CA 92692 



The ideal clock for a computer sys- 
tem, to my mind, would be an inex- 
pensive, compact, accurate unit with 
a self-contained power supply that 
could be easily interfaced to the com- 
puter system. This article describes a 
clock for the Radio Shack Color 
Computer; it meets all of my goals at 
the expense of some software com- 
plexity. 

The half-year clock (HYC) de- 
scribed here can provide the time 
with a resolution of ± 10 seconds or 
better over a six-month period. 
Powered by a self-contained 9-volt 
(V) battery, it can be disconnected 
from the Color Computer at any 
time, set aside, plugged in later, and 
will continue reporting the time. It is 
a compact unit measuring 14 by 9 by 
3.8 cm (5Vi by 3Vz by lVz inches). 

The HYC uses seven integrated cir- 
cuits (ICs) plus some discrete com- 
ponents. The project is built using 
wire-wrapping techniques. If you've 
never tried wire-wrapping, fear not: 
I'll provide detailed tips for easy con- 
struction. 

Since the HYC communicates with 
the Color Computer via the serial in- 
terface of the computer, I'll start with 
a description of that interface. 

Color Computer Serial Interface 

The complete serial interface of the 
Color Computer is shown in figure 1. 
The four lines of the serial interface 
go to a 4-pin DIN plug on the rear of 
the system. These four lines are a sub- 
set of the 25 lines normally used in 
other computer systems, such as the 
Radio Shack Models I and III. The 
Color Computer uses asynchronous 



4-PIN DIN 

/connector 




Figure 1: The Color Computer RS-232C interface consists of two comparators and one 
op amp used as a comparator. The TD signal is generated from software by output to 
PIA (peripheral interface adapter) address FF20 hexadecimal. The RD is read into PIA 
address FF22 hexadecimal. The CD signal is not normally used and is an "edge trigger" 
signal generating a PIA interrupt. 



100 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Announcing the Printing 

Breakthrough of the Century: 

Smith-corona TP-T Text Printer 



Wo,, you, 



*»»/; 



*X 




LOW COSt 

Daisy Wheel Printer 



$ 845 



/ 



• Microprocessor 
Electronics 

• Serial or Parallel 
interface 

Simple, Reliable 
Mechanism 



ACT NOW: Limited Supply, low, bow cost 



Smith Corona, one of the largest 
manufacturers of small printers in 
the world, gives a whole new 
perspective to printing with their 
electronic text printer— TP-1. The 
tp-1 is a microprocessor controlled, 
high quality daisy wheel printer. 
It produces perfectly formed, 
executive quality printouts at the 
speed of 120 words per minute. 
Typewriter quality printing at dot 
matrix prices. 

Simple, durable and dependable, 
TP-1 may be used with word 
processing systems, microcom- 
puters and most small business 
systems. Compact and attractively 



Micro 

Printer 

Marketing 

Circle 245 on inquiry card. 




Additional ribbons S2.95 



styled, the TP-1 blends well with 
any setting. 

Now, all your letters, documents 
forms and reports can have the 
crisp, professional look you 
demand— for business or personal 
use— at an affordable price. TP-1, 
the electronic text printer. 

Don't delay. Order your TP-1 
today at the low price of $845. 

Micro Printer Marketing offers 
same day shipping, nationwide ser- 
vice and invites dealer inquiries. 
Catalogues available. No shipping 
charges on pre-paid orders. 



Call Micro-Printer Marketing 

Hj *Pf^^\l J^^7t_Qt?CQ Mas,erCard and visa Accepted 



CALL 
TOLL FREE 

in PA Call Collect 215/433-3366 



Data sent in asynchronous RS-232C format typically consist of a start bit, 8 bits of 
data, and one or two stop bits. The bits are evenly spaced with no inherent clock. 



BIT INTERVALS 



SPACING* 

START -J 

BIT 

(SPACE) 



-LEAST 
SIGNIFICANT 
DATA BIT 



PARITY OR MOST- 
SIGNIFICANT 
DATA BIT 



-STOP 
BIT 
(MARK) 



8 DATA BITS • 01000101 2 ■ 

69 io-"»" 

*ON RS-232C LINES REVERSE LOGIC (MARKING IS -12 
SPACING IS +12V) 



Asynchronous Communication 



The EIA standard RS-232C defines 
the format for data communication. 
Therefore, serial communication is 
often called "RS-232C" or "RS-232" 
communication. A system channel de- 
signed for data communication is 
known as a serial or RS-232 port. 

The standard format for asyn- 
chronous communication is shown 
above. In this example, 8 bits make up 
the actual data word. The data are 
asynchronous, that is, they are sent at 
unpredictable times, rather than at 
regularly spaced intervals. A good ex- 
ample of an asynchronous datum is a 
character transmitted from a keyboard 
to a communications system such as 
The Source or CompuServe. The host 
system does not know when to expect 
the next character — if may occur 
within 1/10 second or 10 seconds. Each 
character must be detected and han- 
dled as an independent "event." 

The computer system or device re- 
ceiving an asynchronous character can 
read either a logic 1 or logic on the 
receive data (RD) line. Initially, the RD 
line is at logical 1, called "mark." The 
receiving system or device expects this 
high condition to exist initially. To sig- 
nal the start of a data word, the trans- 
mitting system sends a start bit by 
bringing the RD line to a logical 0, 



called a "space, " for a duration known 
as a "bit time. " The length of the bit 
time depends on the data-transmission 
rate and may vary from about 9 milli- 
seconds to 0.1 millisecond. 

The receiving system or device 
detects the start bit, delays Vi bit time, 
and gets set to receive the rest of the 
data word at evenly spaced intervals of 
one bit time. The start bit is followed 
by eight data bits (one of which may be 
a parity bit) and one or two stop bits 
that are always at logic 1 (mark). The 
stop bits ensure that the RD line will be 
marking prior to transmission of the 
next data word. 

The bit rate is the data-transmission 
rate of all data measured in bits per 
second (bps). Three hundred bps is 
typical for the Color Computer. Each 
character at this bit rate typically is 
made up of one start bit, eight data 
bits, and one stop bit, for a total of 
10 bits. Thus, 300 bps yields 30 
characters per second. The bit time is 
1/300 second, or 3.33 milliseconds. 

The standard logic levels for RS- 
232C communication are voltages 
above 3 V (logic 0) and below —3 V 
(logic 1). In the Color Computer, the 
voltages used are 12 V for logic and 
-12 V for logic 1. 




Oc 



STATE 


OUTPUT 


A >B 


a VOLTS (LOGIC ) 


A • B 


INDETERMINATE 


A <B 


<* +5 VOLTS (LOGIC 1) 



Figure 2: A comparator contrasts two in- 
put signals in relation to each other. If the 
"+" (plus) input is greater than the "—" 
(minus) input, a logical 1 is generated at 
the output; if the "+" input is less than 
the "—" input, a logical is produced. 



serial communication, which requires 
only three lines; the fourth line is 
available for special purposes. See the 
text box for background information 
on serial communication. 

Interface operation. The Color 
Computer's serial interface is made 
up of one comparator (actually an 
operational amplifier) for controlling 
the transmit data (TD) line and two 
comparators for checking the receive 
data (RD) and carrier detect (CD) 
lines. 

A comparator accepts two input 
voltages. If the "+" (plus) input volt- 
age is higher than the " — " (minus) 
input, the comparator outputs a logic 
1; if the "+" input voltage is lower 
than the " — " input, the comparator 
outputs a logic (see figure 2). 

In the following descriptions, I'll be 
referring to a few "memory" ad- 
dresses in the Color Computer that 
function as I/O lines — part of the 
peripheral interface adapter (PIA). 

TD line. The 741C operational 
amplifier compares the "— " input 
from bit 1 of port address FF20 hexa- 
decimal with the "+" input from the 
voltage divider R23/R24. The " + " 
input is a constant +1.38 V. A logic 
1 on port FF20 hexadecimal bit 1 will 
generate —12 V on the TD line; a 
logic will generate +12 V on the 
TD line. 

RD and CD lines. The two LM339 
comparators have serial data as their 
input. Both have the same configura- 
tion. One is connected to the 
RS232IN line of port FF22 hexa- 
decimal bit 0. The second is con- 



102 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




"Dad, can I use 

the IBM computer 

tonight?* 



It's not an unusual 
phenomenon. It 
starts when your 
O son asks to 
borrow 
a tie. Or 
, when your 
J daughter 
wants to 

use your metal racquet. Sometimes you let them. Often 
you don't. But when they start asking to use your IBM 
Personal Computer, it's better to say yes. 

Because learning about computers is a subject your 
kids can study and enjoy at home. 

V It's also a fact that the IBM Personal Computer can 
be as useful in your home as it is in your office. To help 
plan the family budget, for instance. Or to compute 
anything from interest paid to calories consumed. "Vbu 
can even tap directly into the Dow Jones data bank with 
your telephone and an inexpensive adapter. 

But as surely as an IBM Personal Computer 
can help you, it can also help your children. 
Because just by playing games or drawing 

The IBM Personal Computer 



colorful graphics, your son or daughter will discover 
what makes a computer tick — and what it can do. They 
can take the same word processing program you use 
to create business reports to write and edit book reports 
(and learn how to type in the process). \bur kids might 
even get so "computer smart," they'll start writing 
their own programs in BASIC or Pascal. 

Ultimately, an IBM Personal Computer can be one 
of the best investments you make in your family's future. 
And one of the least expensive. Starting at less than 
$1,600 + there's a system that, with the addition of one 
simple device, hooks up to your home TV and uses your 
audio cassette recorder. 

To introduce your family to the IBM Personal 
Computer, visit any ComputerLand® store or Sears 
Business Systems Center. Or see it all at one of our IBM 
Product Centers. (The IBM National Accounts Division 
will serve business customers who want to purchase in 
quantity.) 

And remember. When your kids ask to use your 
*St IBM Personal Computer, let them. But just make 
^ sure you can get it back. After all, your son's 
still wearing that tie. ==^= j=» 



^ 




For the IBM Personal Computer deal 



tThis price applies to IBM Product Cenn 

Prices may vary at other stores. 



st you, call (800)447-4700. In Illinois, (800)322-4400. In Alaska or Hawaii, (800)447-0890. 

Circle 182 on Inquiry card. 



ALL MATTER 












Introducing the Prism Printer™ 
from Integral Data Systems. 

The Prism Printer is the first truly 
modular, field -upgradable dot matrix 
printer. Now your printer can be as 
flexible as the rest of your system. 

No other printer offers you as much 
(or as little) as you need. Start with the 
basic printer which features text -quality 
printing; then add the performance 



modules you need— when you need 
them. Getting into word processing? Add 
the automatic cut sheet feeder. Handling 
lots of data? Install the high speed Sprint 
Mode™. Want to get the big picture? Add 
the Dot Plot™ graphic option. And for 
communicating information and ideas 
faster, nothing is more effective than 
Prism Color™ for high quality, multi- 
color output. 

And that's just the beginning. Addi- 
tional Prism option modules will soon 
be available to help your evolving system 
meet its true potential. You'll never pay 
too much or get too little again. 

If you're an Apple, IBM, or other 
professional micro -computer user, Prism 
Printer is the key to your total system 
solution. At last, the chemistry is right 
between you and your printer. The Prism 
Printer from Integral Data Systems. 

For more information, and the name 
of your nearest Integral Data Systems 
Dealer, call toll free (800) 258-1386. 
In New Hampshire, Alaska and Hawaii, 
call (603) 673-9100. 



Circle 190 on inquiry card. 



Integral Data Systems, Inc. 

A Whole New Spr< Imm r>t ImrigirHj Mi' 
Milford, Nil OWi 













9-DIGIT 60Hz COUNT 
123,4 56,789 








\ 










r 
















CRYTAL 
OSCILLATOR 
3.58 MHz 


3.58MHz 


OSCILLATOR/ 

DIVIDER 

MM5369 


6OH2 


3-DIGIT 
BCD 

COUNTER 
MC14553B 




3-DIGIT 
BCD 

COUNTER 
MC14553B 






3-DIGIT 
BCD 

COUNTER 
MC14553B 










3LS 
BCD 
COUNT 
DIGITS 

60 Hz 


















SCAN 
NUMBER 

1 11 




3 NEXT 
BCD COUNT 
DIGITS 






3mS 

BCD COUNT 

DIGITS 






u 








. 




BUS 

REGISTER 
18 BITS) 
MC14034B 




BUS 

REGISTER 
18 BITS) 
MC14034B 




rLTLTL 


• LM339^> 








* COMPUTER 


CLOCK 










1 


1 




h 






./"1/4 










_l 1 


TD FROM COLOR 












SAMPLE 
SHIFT 
SIGNAL 
(P/S) 


OR 
JUT 












* COMPUTER 



Figure 3: The half-year clock consists of a crystal oscillator, a divider producing 60-Hz pulses, a 9-digit BCD counter, a parallel/ serial 
register, and comparator output to the Color Computer. 



nected to the CD line of port FF21 
hexadecimal. The CD line generates 
an interrupt and is not used in this 
project. 

The "+" input of the RS232IN 
comparator is biased at +2 V by the 
R54/R52 voltage divider. The "-" 
input is connected via a diode to the 
RD line. If the RD line is at 2.6 V 
(+2-V bias plus about 0.6 V for the 
diode), the output of the comparator 
is a logic 0, or about V. If the RD 
line is less than 2.6 V, the diode will 
not conduct, and the output of the 
comparator is a logic 1, or about 
+ 5 V. In short, the RS232IN signal 
follows the serial data on the RD line 
and can be tested by reading FF22 
hexadecimal bit 0. 

The third line used in serial com- 
munication is ground, which is con- 
nected to pin 3 of the DIN connector. 

HYC Design 

A block diagram of the HYC is 
shown in figure 3. It interfaces to the 
Color Computer via the RD, TD, and 
ground lines of the serial port. The 
clock count is sent via the RD line 
after a prompt by the Color Com- 
puter from the TD line. 

At the heart of the HYC are three 
BCD (binary-coded decimal) counter 



chips. Each chip accumulates a three- 
decimal digit count of to 999. 
Together, the three chips accumulate 
a count of up to 999,999,999. 

The input to the three counters is a 
60-hertz (Hz) signal from the 
oscillator/divider chip. This chip 
takes a 3.58-megahertz (MHz) signal 
from a "color burst" crystal and 
divides it down to 60-Hz signals. 

At any given time, the count in the 
counter chips represents the number 
of 60-Hz pulses received. The max- 
imum count of 999,999,999 rep- 
resents 16,666,666 seconds — about 
192 days. 

The two "universal bus register" 
chips load 16 bits from the counters 
upon command from the Color Com- 
puter. The bits are then shifted out to 
the RD line at a rate of one every y 60 
second. It requires three transfers (48 
bits total) to transmit the current time 
to the Color Computer. (Of course, 
the Color Computer has to decode it 
into a usable form.) The detailed logic 
diagram of the HYC is shown in 
figure 4. 

Counters. The counters are 
Motorola MC14553B ICs. Each chip 
increments its count by one each time 
a 60-Hz pulse is received from the 
CLK input. To output its count, each 



chip presents one digit at a time over 
the Q3 through Q0 outputs. Q3 
through Q0 represent a BCD digit of 
0000 through 1001. For example, if 
the count in one of the MC14553B 
chips was "678," the outputs on Q3 
through Q0 would be, in sequence, 
0110, 0111, and 1000. 

The chips are outputting their 
counts continually. The scan rate, the 
rate at which the three digits appear, 
is controlled by an external capacitor 
connected to CIA and ClB. A 
1.0-microfarad (jiF) capacitor gen- 
erates a scan rate of about 3 Hz, or a 
new BCD digit every 333 milliseconds 
(ms). The scan frequency has no rela- 
tion to the 60-Hz clock frequency. 
This scan frequency is applied to all 
three counters simultaneously so that 
the BCD digits of all sets of Q3 
through Q0 change at the same time. 

The DS3 to DSl outputs indicate 
which BCD digit is being displayed 
on the Q3 through Q0 outputs. If 
DS3 = 0, the most significant digit is 
being output; if DS2 = 0, the next 
digit is being output; and if DS1 = 0, 
the least significant digit is being out- 
put. 

To read the current count requires 
three reads of Q3 through Q0: at DSl 
time, DS2 time, and DS3 time. When 



106 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




COfTlPUTER DEVICES 



AVAILABLE NOW ... SYSTEM 2800 FROM SYSTEMS GROUP 

FEATURES 

• IEEE S-100 Bus Compatible Systems, Z80A • Table Top or Rack Mountable 

Based • Two Switched AC Outlets on Rear Panel 

• Two 8-Inch Drives: Single or Double Sided . Qne Year Warram on Emire s tem 
Double Density Floppy Disk Drives or 10MB 
Winchester Hard Disk Drive 2812 CP/M, 2 Single Sided Floppies $3,995.00 

• 20MB Winchester and Tape Backup 2814 CP/M, 2 Double Sided Floppies..... 4,395.00 
„„,„,.,., . „ . . „. . 2819 CP/M, 1 10 MB Winchester & __ 

BS • 8-Slot Shielded and Terminated Motherboard 1 Double Sided Floppy 6,995.00 j^*? 

3D ■""'^™ • System Software Selection includes CP/M*, 2824 MP/M, 2 Double Sided Floppies.... 5,195.00 _ 

MP/M* or OASIS** 2829 MP/M, 1 10 MB Winchester & 

M n H»i w>iMm c- , ,, „,,-,, r ' Doubled Sided Floppy.. .. 7,695.00 Model 2819/29 

Model 2812/14/24 . Single-User or Multi-User Systems, 

Expandable to 6 Users 





S-100 PRODUCTS 




QUALITY RAM FROM SYSTEMS CROUP 

• Z-80 4MHZ operation with no wait states 

• IEEE compatible timing - 200 NS 4116's 

• Factorv assembled, tested & burned in 

DMB0400'64K(Bank Select, shown) $599.00 

DM6400 64K 519.00 

DM4800 48K 489.00 

DM3200 32K 459.00 




CONFIGURE A COMPLETE S-100 SYSTEM 
WITH 2nd GENERATION' PRODUCTS 
FROM SYSTEMS GROUP. 

• CPC 2810 (shown) Z-80A processor board 
(4MHZ) with 4 serial & 2 parallel 

ports $379.00 

• CPC2813 - same as CPC2810 but 2 serial 
ports only $349.00 

• FDC2801/8 - 8" floppy disk controller 
board, up to 4 single/double sided drives, 
single or double density $379.00 

• INO-2804 -4 channel serial I/O 329.00 

• CRA-100 - Cromix' adaptor board.. $57.00 

CALL US FOR OUR MOST 
CURRENT PRICES! 

•2nd Generation is a trademark of Measurement Systems 
and Controls, Inc. Cromix is a trademark of Cromemco, 
Inc. CP/M and MP/M are trademarks of Digital 
Research. OASIS is a trademark of Phase One Systems. 



PAPER TIGER 
PRINTERS 



IDS 460G 9x9 Dot Matrix Printer $899.00 

IDS 560G Wide Carriage Printer 1,149.00 

TERMINALS 

ADDS Viewpoint $599.00 

TeleVideo 910C 599.00 

TeleVideo 9I2C 699.00 

TeleVideo 920C 749.00 

TeleVideo 950C 979.00 

8" DISK DRIVES 

Shugart801R $425.00 

NEC FD1160 (double sided) 525.00 

DYNAMIC RAMS 

4116 (200ns) set of 8 $24.00 

4164 (64K X 1) 18.00 



wabash 

8" or 5Vi" flexible diskettes certified 100% error 
free with manufacturer's 5-year limited warranty 
on all 8" media. Soft-sectored in boxes of 10. 
5'/<" available in 10-sector. 

(Add $3.00 for plastic library cases) 

8" single sided, single density $ 28.00 

8" single sided, double density 36.00 

8" double sided, double density 46.00 

5 Vi" single sided, single density 28.00 

5'/ 4 " single sided, double density 29.00 



6502 PRODUCTS 



6502 DM 




BETA 32K BYTE EXPANDABLE RAM FOR 

6502 AND 6800 SYSTEMS 
AIM 65 KIM SYM PET S44-BUS 

• Plug compatible with the AIM-65/SYM expan- 
sion connector by using a right angle connec- 
tor (supplied). 

• Memory board edge connector plugs into the 
6800 S44 bus. 

• Connects to PET using an adaptor cable. 

• Uses + 5V only, supplied from the host com- 
puter. 

• Full documentation. Assembled and tested 
boards are guaranteed for one full year. 
Purchase price is fully refundable if board is 
returned undamaged within 14 davs. 

Assembled with 32K RAM '...$349.00 

&Tested with 16K RAM 319.00 

KIT with all parts except RAM 179.00 

Bare board, manual & 6 hard-to-get parts. 119.00 
PET interface kit. Connects the 32K RAM board 

toa4Kor8KPET $ 59.00 

AIM Professional Enclosure...* 189.00 



TERMS: Minimum order $15.00. Minimum ship- 
ping and handling $3.00. Calif, residents add 6% 
sales tax. Cash, checks, Mastercard, Visa and pur- 
chase orders from qualified firms are accepted. 
(Please allow two weeks for personal checks to 
clear before shipment.) Product availability and 
pricing subject to change without notice. 

INTERNATIONAL ORDERS: Add 15 % to pur- 
chase price for all orders. Minimum shipping 
charge is $20.00. Orders with insufficient funds 
will he delayed. Excess funds will he returned 
with your order. All prices are U.S. only. 



1 corrpirreR Deuces 

1230 W.COUinS RV6. 

ORftflGE, Cfi 92668 

(714)633*7980 




Figure 4: The half-year clock uses seven integrated circuits, most of which are CMOS devices. The counter information is multi- 
plexed and the count data are brought into the Color Computer in three segments of 2 bytes each. 



108 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Complete 



CONFUSED? 



Are You confused from the many new software 
products becoming available? 

Are you searching for the answer to your 
software problems? 

Now your search has ended! You've discovered 
CONQUEST- A fully relational database 
system which allows for the generation of 
complete multifile turn-key applications. 

This one easy-to-use tool will enable you to solve 
a myriad of business, professional, and personal 
information management problems at a fraction 
of the cost of custom programming. 
Ask for a demonstration of CONQUEST 
at your local computer store. 



Available now for 
Apple II 
Corvus 
Compatible 

= ss^ss* — UNITED 
= ===T= SOFTWARE 
OF 




'Conquest formerly Request 



750 3RD Avenue, 
New York NY 10017 



AMERICA (212) 682-0347 Telex 640055 



the outputs are shuffled around in the 
proper order, the nine digits represent 
the current count. 

The OF signal is the "carry" output 
to the next counter. This appears on 
the thousandth count when the 
counter recycles to 000. The disable 
(DIS) and latch enable (LE) lines are 
not used in this application configura- 
tion. MR, "master reset," is used to 
zero the counters when a momentary 
switch is pulsed. 

Bus registers. The bus-register 
chips are Motorola MC14034B ICs. 
They contain two 8-bit registers and 
can operate in a number of different 
modes, depending upon the config- 
uration of the A/E, P/S, A/B, and 
A/S inputs. The two modes being 
used here are "synchronous parallel 
data input" and "synchronous serial 
data input." 

In the first mode, parallel data are 
strobed in by the clock input. In our 
circuit, 14 bits of data from the 
counter chips are strobed in. Twelve 
of these bits are the current BCD 



digits from each counter chip. Two of 
the bits are the DS3 and DS2 scan sig- 
nals. (The third scan signal, DSl, is 
not needed, since we can infer that it 
is active when DS3 and DS2 are inac- 
tive.) 

Setting the P/S signal to logic 1 
selects the parallel data input mode. 
The 14 lines are continuously 
strobed in on the rising edge of every 
C (CLK) input. Since the clock runs at 
60 Hz, the 14 lines are recorded 60 
times per second. 

When signal P/S is a logic 0, the 
bus registers are in the serial data in- 
put mode. This is something of a mis- 
nomer because this mode not only 
shifts in new data, but also shifts out 
previously recorded data; in this case, 
the 14 bits recorded earlier. The 14 
"old" bits are shifted out at a 60-Hz 
rate. To allow synchronization of the 
serial bit stream, a leading and 1 are 
prefixed to every 14-bit group. 

RS-232 interface. The Color Com- 
puter's RD line is driven by the least 
significant bit of the HYC's lower- 



order bus register. The output is 
about V if the data bit is a 1, or 
about +5 V if the data bit is a 0. The 
"bit time" of this output is y 60 second, 
or about 16.66 ms. This RD output 
goes into the RS232IN bit of port 
FF22 hexadecimal. 

The Color Computer's TD line 
drives the HYC's mode-select signal 
P/S. The level at the P/S pin changes 
from V to close to +9 V for a 
positive or negative input, respective- 
ly. The P/S signal is logically 
equivalent to the status of the 
RS2320UT bit in port FF20 hexa- 
decimal. 

CMOS circuitry. All chips except 
the LM339s are CMOS (complemen- 
tary metal-oxide semiconductor). 
CMOS is characterized by low power 
consumption. The HYC requires less 
than 4 milliamperes (mA) of current. 
The optional power switch shown in 
figure 4 lets you extend battery life 
when the HYC is not connected to the 
system or when the Color Computer 
is not in use. It shuts off power to all 



DUAL 



THERMOMETER 

ForAgple II* 

COMPLEK^^OFTWARE 




*o& 



asSKp 



Display temperature, 
maximum, minimum and 
difference. 

Sound alarm for over/ 
under temperature. 

• Store data on disk or 
printer automatically. 

• Display time with on- 



board timer. 

• Up to 7 boards with 1 4 
probes In one Apple*. 

• - S5°C to 125°C range, 
0.4° accuracy over most of 
range. 

• Requires 48K Apple* 
with Applesoft* and disk. 

$260.00 



Strawberry Tree Computers „ your dealer doesnt 
949 cascade Drive /GT\ have it, call or write us at 

Sunnyvale, Ca. 94087 lf\ \ **>•** a 

(408| 736-3083 VV\J Crept. /\ 

xbcV' *TM of Apple Computer, Inc. 





DECLSMl 
Components 

Dependable service 
at discount prices 

Domestic ISill 

and Export 




ITlini 

Computer Suppliers, Inc. 

25 Chatham Rd., Summit, N.J. 07901 
Since 1973 

(201) 277-6150 Telex 13-6476 



©Mini Computer Suppliers, Inc. 
1979 




110 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 361 on inquiry card. 



Circle 262 on inquiry card. 




f 

t 



i 




„V** 



CHANGING THE LAMPS 
IN THEIR OFFICES SJWED 
$2,000 AYEAR. 



While lighting energy costs kept going up, Carroll 
County Bank's costs started going down when they 
changed to General Electric Watt-Miser® II 
fluorescent lamps in the office and customer areas 
of their six banks. In fact, they not only realized 
a slight increase in light levels, they also enjoyed a 
27-month payback period. 

Isn't it about time you realized how much you 
can save by changing to GE 

energy-saving lamps? Call your \\rc DDTIN 

GE lamp distributor or sales 
representative to find out. 
Or call 800-321-7170. 
(In Ohio: 800-362-2750.) 







« (Ntftt 



GOOD THINGS 
TO LIFE. 



This lamp saves 7 watts and $8.40? 
Replace standard fluorescent 

lamps in existing fixtures with 
Watt-Miser II lamps, and 
save enough energy costs 
to pay for them in no time 
at all. 

Savings for lamps and ballast at 6T/KWH. 



GENERAL 



ELECTRIC 



Circle 166 on Inquiry card. 



C-147 



Integrated Circuits 

IC1 Motorola MM5369 oscillator/divider 

IC2-IC3 Motorola BCD counter 

IC5 LM339 comparator 

IC6-IC7 Motorola MC14034B universal bus register* 

Resistors 

1 1 KD, Vt W, 10% 
4 10 K£), Vt W, 10% 

2 15 KB, Vt W, 10% 

1 100 KG, Vt W, 10% 

1 20 Mfi (use two 10 MO), V* W, 10% 

Capacitors 

1 4.7-pF disk 

1 47-pF disk 

2 1.0-/xF electrolytic, 25 V 

Miscellaneous 

1 3.58-MHz crystal 

1 SPDT momentary switch, miniature 

1 SPST or SPDT switch, miniature (optional) 

1 1N4000 series diode (not critical) 

1 4-pin male DIN connector* 

1 9-V battery, alkaline 

1 8-pin wire-wrap socket 

1 14-pin wire-wrap socket 

3 16-pin wire-wrap sockets 

2 24-pin wire-wrap sockets* 
1 prototype board 

1 case 

1 ribbon cable, 3- or 4-conductor wire-wrap wire, solder, #14 wire, battery connectors 

Table 1: Parts list for the half-year clock. All parts, except those starred, are 
available from Radio Shack. 




GROUND 
B 



v D d bus- 



I |-!»rh 

cryst»l| 
I r-4j 

I 1 



? r 
rVni?~si 

I il l IC1 I 

LiLJI*_ij 



IC2 



IC3 



.LL_«J_lI_*J_._l?_«J_ 



) 25 ROWS 



30 COLUMNS 



(BOTTOM VIEW) 



C\> CONNECTING 
WIRE 



Figure 5: A 7- by 9.5-cm (2Vt- by 3Vt-inch) grid board holds seven wire-wrap sockets, 
eighteen discrete components, and two bus lines to facilitate wiring. 



components not involved in main- 
taining the half-year count. 

A typical alkaline battery has a 
capacity of about 0.5 ampere-hours, 
making the HYC functional for about 
250 hours of continuous use in the 
low-power mode, or about 125 hours 
of continuous use without the option- 
al power switch. This 5/10-day life 
can be extended by paralleling a 
number of 9-V batteries or by using a 
larger battery, such as the NEDA 
1603 size, which will not fit in the 
case used here, but which will last a 
good deal longer — over 1000 hours in 
the low-power mode. 

CMOS operates on a power supply 
of from 3 to 18 V. The voltage of the 
supply can be degraded quite far 
before the HYC will stop operating. 
The limiting factor is the RD output, 
which must swing from to at least 
+ 2.6 V for proper comparator 
operation in the Color Computer. 

Construction of the HYC 

All the parts in the HYC are easy to 
obtain. The 3.58-MHz crystal, oscil- 
lator/divider, counter chips, and 
LM339 are stocked by Radio Shack. 
The bus-register chips are available 
from any well-stocked parts supplier 
(see the ads in any issue of BYTE). 
The cost of all parts should be under 
$20. See the parts list in table 1. 

The HYC is housed in a project 
case (Radio Shack 270-219 or 
equivalent). This plastic case has a 
built-in compartment large enough to 
hold a 9-V battery. 

A 7- by 9.5-cm (2%- by 3 3 /4-inch) 
grid board is used to hold the com- 
ponents. Two #14 bus wires run 
down the center of the board. One is 
used for the V DD bus ( + 9 V); the 
other is ground (see figure 5). 

The board has printed-circuit pads 
on one side. Mount the IC sockets, 
resistors, capacitors, and crystal on 
the side of the board without the foil. 
Solder two diagonally opposing pins 
of the IC sockets. Leave the resistor, 
capacitor, and crystal leads uncut for 
wire-wrapping. 

Wire-wrap the IC pins according to 
table 2. All detailed connections are 
shown, but obvious power-supply 
connections are not indicated. I 



112 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 237 on Inquiry card. 



CASH FLOW 
PROBLEMS? 





IfS NICE TO KNOW SOMEONE 
WHO HAS THE SOLUTION. 



MicroAge is your Solution 
Store . . . that means at 

7 MicroAge Computer Stores 
we have a wide selection 
of time-saving computer- 
ized business systems 

t designed specifically to 
solve the daily cash flow 
problems every business- 
man faces. 

MicroAge has computer- 
ized business systems that 
quickly and affordably allow you to regain con- 
trol of your critical accounts receivable ... at last 
making it possible for you to carry out effective 
collection procedures on a consistent basis. 
MicroAge has accounts receivable program 
packages to automatically display and update 
account information; prepare trial balance 
including a balance-due and delinquency aging 



PI H H 



report, and take care of dozens of other tasks 
that eat into your time and profit! 

Computerized business systems from the Micro- 
Age Computer Store are available in the $5,000 
to $15,000 range, to suit the individual budget of 
your small business or professional practice. 
MicroAge backs up every system with personal- 
ized service, warranty service and repair, instal- 
lation, systems consulting, even customer train- 
ing. Visit the MicroAge Computer Store in your 
area soon with your business problems, and let 
us help you with the solution. 

MiaoAge 

caMPuier store 



VISIT THE STORE IN YOUR AREA: 



El Paso, Texas 
(915) 591-3349 


Aurora, Colorado 
(303) 696-6950 


Rockville, Maryland 
(301) 762-7585 


Rochester, New York 
(716) 244-9000 


Tucson, Arizona 
(602) 790-8959 


Hurst, Texas 
(817) 284-3413 


Albuquerque, New Mexico 
(505) 883-0955 


Salina, Kansas 
(913) 823-7596 


Pleasant Hill, California 
(415) 6801489 


Orland Park, Illinois 
(312) 349-8080 



Milwaukee. Wisconsin 
(414)257-1100 
Mountain View, California 
(415) 964-7063 
Scottsdale, Arizona 
(602) 941-8794 
Anchorage, Alaska 
(907) 279-6688 
San Diego, California 
(714) 278-0623 



"The Solution Store" 3V 




Richardson, Texas 
(214) 234-5955 


Indianapolis, Indiana 
(317) 849-5161 


Houston, Texas 
(713) 440-7547 


Minneapolis. Minnesota 
(612) 338-1777 


Portland, Oregon 
(503) 256-4713 


w. Palm Beach, Florida 
(305) 683-5779 


Omaha, Nebraska 
(402) 339-7441 


Norwalk, Conneticut 
(203) 846-0851 


Toronto, Canada 
(416) 487-5551 


Phoenix, Arizona 
(602) 265-0065 


St. Louis, Missouri . 
(314) 567-7644 


Houston, Texas 
(713) 270-9647 


Columbus, Ohio 
(614) 868-1550 


Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
(405) 728-1837 


Wilmington, Delaware 
(302) 368-3672 
AJIentown, Pennsylvania 
(215) 434-4301 



FOR FRANCHISE OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CALL (602) 968-3168 



recommend buying precut wire in 
lengths of 1, 2, and 3 inches. It is inex- 
pensive and will cut the wire-wrap 
time in half. 

The V DD and ground leads can be 
connected directly to the two buses. 
No power switch is used. The three 
leads to the serial port can be made 
from three-conductor ribbon cable 
routed into the battery compartment 
of the case and between the compart- 
ment cover (see figure 6). The op- 
posite end of the ribbon cable con- 



nects to the 4-pin male DIN plug (see 
figure 7). 

Testing the Hardware 

After you've assembled the board, 
test the interconnections, referring to 
table 2 and figure 4. Invariably, there 
will be one or two miswires. (I once 
wired 10 chips in mirror-image 
fashion — pin 1 to 24, 2 to 23, etc.; 
you should be in better shape than 
this!) 

Use two common straight pins, clip 



leads, and an ohmmeter or continuity 
tester to check all connections before 
installing the ICs in their sockets. 
When you're confident that all the 
connections are proper, plug in the 
ICs. CMOS is not as intolerant of 
static electricity as it once was, but 
avoid handling the chips more than 
necessary. 

Plug in the 9-V battery, and you 
should be in operation. If you have 
an oscilloscope, check between pin 3 
of IC4 and ground. The scan clock 



MM5369 (IC1) 


IC4-13 to IC3-13 


IC1-1 to IC2-12 


IC4-16 to V DD 


IC1-2 to GND 




IC1-5 to 20 Mfl/XTAL 


LM339 (IC5) 


IC1-6 to 20 MO/1 kfl 


1C5-1 to 100 m 


IC1-8 to \l Dn 


IC5-1 to IC6-13 




IC5-2 to GND 


Oscillator 


IC5-3 to V uu 


20 MQ/IC1-6 to 1 kfl 


IC5-4 to IC5-2 


20 Mfl/IC1-5toXTAL 


IC5-5 to IC5-2 




IC5-6 to 10 kO/diode (-) 


MC14553B (IC2) 


IC5-7 to 10 kO/15 kfl 


IC2-1 to IC6-3 


IC5-8 to IC7-23 


IC2-3 to 0.47 ,ttF 


IC5-9 to 10 kfl/15 kfl 


IC2-4 to 0.47 ^F 


IC5-10 to IC5-13 


IC2-5 to IC6-8 


IC5-11 to IC5-13 


IC2-6 to IC6-7 


IC5-12 to GND 


IC2-7 to IC6-6 


IC5-13toGND 


IC2-8to GND 


IC5-14 to 10 kfl/TD 


IC2-9 to IC6-5 




IC2-10to IC2-11 


RS-232 Cable 


IC2-11 to IC2-8 


Diode ( + ) to RD 


IC2-12 to IC6-15 


TD to 10 kfl/IC5-14 


IC2-13 to SPDT center 


GND to GND 


or to IC2-11 




IC2-14 to IC3-12 


MC14034B (IC6) 


IC2-15 to IC6-4 


IC6-9 to IC6-24 


IC2-16 to V„„ 


IC6-10 to IC6-11 




IC6-11 to IC6-12 


MC14553B (IC3) 


IC6-12 to GND 


IC3-4 to IC2-3 


IC6-13 to IC7-13 


IC3-5 to IC6-2 


IC6-14 to IC6-24 


IC3-6 to IC6-1 


IC6-23 to IC7-10 


IC3-7 to IC7-8 


IC6-24 to V uc 


IC3-8 to GND 




IC3-9 to IC7-7 


MC14034B(IC7) 


IC3-10 to IC2-10 


IC7-1 to IC7-11 


IC3-11 to IC3-8 


IC7-2 to IC7-9 


IC3-13 to IC2-13 


IC7-9 to IC7-24 


IC3-14 to IC4-12 


IC7-11 to IC7-12 


IC3-16 to IC2-16 


IC7-12 to GND 




IC7-14 to IC7-24 


MC14553B(IC4) 


IC7-15 to IC6-15 


IC4-4 to IC3-4 


IC7-24 to V„ D 


IC4-5 to IC7-6 




IC4-6 to IC7-5 


Miscellaneous 


IC4-7 to IC7-4 


SPDT-NCtoGND 


IC4-8 to GND 


SPDT-NO to V DD 


IC4-9 to IC7-3 


GND bus to GND 


IC4-10 to IC3-10 


V DD bus to + 9 V 


IC4-1 1 to IC4-8 




Table 2: Major compo 


nent pin connections. 



BATTERY 

COMPARTMENT 

COVER 




-3- OR 4- CONDUCTOR 
RIBBON CABLE 



Figure 6: The ribbon cable can be brought out between the 
cover of the battery compartment and the project case. 



4-PIN MALE 




PLUG VIEWED 
FROM REAR 



I*— CD (OPTIONAL) 



3- OR 4-WIRE 
RIBBON CABLE 



HVC 

"PROJECT CASE" 



Figure 7: A 4-pin male DIN connector is used to link the half- 
year clock to the Color Computer's RS-232C jack on the rear of 
the computer. 



114 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc. 



From CMC International, world's 
largest Intertec distributor... 



m. 




SUPERBRAIN and 
COMPUSTAR - YOUR 
CUSTOMERS WILL NEVER 
NEED ANOTHER SYSTEM! 

CMC International is the largest distributor in the world ot Intertec Data 
Systems products -the SuperBrain and CompuStar - Intertec's incredibly 
expandable microcomputers. No matter how small or large your customers 
are or become, we doubt that they'll ever outgrow these computers. Both 
SuperBrain and CompuStar offer the industry-standard CP/M disk operating 
system and 64K of dynamic RAM. Both are expandable to 10 megabytes of 
storage with the CompuStar disk storage system. CompuStars can be linked 
together to form a 255-user network. 

Dealers benefit from the service and support offered through CMC. Like adver- 
tising co-op, software and hardware support, module replacement. And a toll- 
free line so you can call from anywhere in the continental United States. 

The bottom line is profitability. Our dealers benefit with a combination of 
qualify Intertec products and CMC International's pricing. 

Contact us today. We deliver. 

^llFnATA TEC For Information Call (206)453-9777 
sJlks^EMS To 0rder ' Ca " Toll " free 1-800-426-2963 



CMC 



:::]: 




A Division of Computer Marketing Corporation 

11058 Main Street, Suite 220 
Bellevue, Washington 98004 

TELEX 152556 SEAT AC 



SuperBrain and CompuStar are registered trademarks 

ot Intertec Data Systems Corporation 

CP/M Is a registered trademark ot Digital Research 




Circle 76 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 293 on inquiry card. 



PET 
Fun and 
Games 

Sei&dmi £§SsK«? Program;, 
/Son Jeffries and 
Glen FJsiier 




Sj^H&tfffi 



By* 



H^- 



Challenge friends or outwit the 
PET™ in games of action, risk, 
and chance. Practice your cun- 
ning. Sharpen your strategy. 31 
;ames and puzzles which run on 
Commodore PET™ and CBM™ 
computers are presented along 
with complete game instructions 
and the BASIC programs needed 
to play. No knowledge of pro- 
gramming required. Includes 
games which make use of 
Commodore special graphics and 
CB2 sound capability. Perfect 
bound paperback, illustrated, 
192 pages, $10.00. 



m 



Osborne/McGraw-Hill 
630 Bancroft Way, 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

Call Toll Free: 800-227-2895 

in California (415) 548-2805 

Dept.4 

□ PET™ Fun and Games $10.00 

Name 

Address 

City/State/Zip 

Plus: D . 75/item 4th class □ $1. 50/ 
item UPS D $2. 50/item Air Mail 

□ $10.00/item Overseas 

(California residents add applicable tax.) 

Total amount enclosed $ 



or charge my □ Visa □ Mastercharge 
Card # 



Expiration Date 

Authorized Signature^ 



PET AND CBM are trademarks of Commodore 

Business Machines, Inc. 

CURSOR is a trademark of The Code Works 



should be operating at about 3 Hz. If 
it's slower than 3 Hz, try lower 
values than the l-/xF capacitor con- 
nected between pins 3 and 4 of IC2. 
Also, check the oscillator/divider 
output. You should see a clean 60-Hz 
square wave. 



HYC Software 

The HYC, in keeping with the 
traditions of the Color Computer 
system, is largely software depen- 
dent. Listing 1 shows a 6809 



assembly-language program that 
reads data from the HYC. It resides in 
the upper 256 bytes of RAM (in a 
16K Color Computer system). Protect 
this area by a CLEAR 200,&H3EFF 
when running the program with 
BASIC. Key in the 97 bytes of the 
program or use POKEs and DATA 
statements in your BASIC program. 

With the exception of 2 bytes, the 
program is relocatable. Change the 
second and third bytes of the second 
instruction (locations 3F05 to 3F06 
hexadecimal in listing 1) if you 



How the HYC 

The Clock I/O Handler (listing 1) is 
divided into three parts: the DELAY 
subroutine, the INPUT subroutine, 
and the main loop CLOCK. 

The DELAY subroutine delays in 
multiples of 0.8333 second. One 60-Hz 
pulse has a duration of 16.666 millisec- 
onds. This subroutine can be con- 
veniently used for delaying in 
multiples or submultiples of one 60-Hz 
bit time. 

The INPUT subroutine makes a 
single read of 16 bits of data from the 
counters. The BSR instruction at IN- 
PUT calls INPUA, resulting in the code 
from INPUA through the RTS instruc- 
tion being executed twice. Eight bits of 
data are read on each pass through the 
section of code. 

The loop at INP010 reads in eight 
data bits from port FF22 hexadecimal. 
Bit is shifted right into the carry con- 
dition code and then rotated into the 
byte pointed to ■ by the user stack 
pointer. The byte is initially cleared to 
0. At the end of the second pass 
through INPUA, 2 bytes of data have 
been stored in the user stack, repre- 
senting one complete read of three 
digits. 

The main loop at CLOCK performs 
consecutive calls of the INPUT sub- 
routine until three samplings of DSl, 
DS2, and DS3 have been compiled in 
the 6 bytes of the buffer. First, a 1 is 
output to bit 1 of port FF20 hexa- 
decimal, bringing the HYC's P/S signal 
to a 1 (parallel data input mode). A 
delay of 1.9 cycles is provided so that 



Program Works 

the data can be clocked into the bus 
registers. 

After the delay, the serial output is 
started by outputting a to bit 1 of 
port FF20 hexadecimal, bringing P/S to 
a (serial data input mode). Im- 
mediately after the output, the serial 
datum is checked by reading port FF22 
hexadecimal bit 0. If the datum is a 1, 
the first clock occurred too close to the 
initialization of the process, and the 
process is repeated from CLK010. If 
the datum is a 0, a delay of 1/10 cycle 
is done and a test for is done again; if 
the datum is not 0, the clock occurred 
within 1/10 cycle (close to the edge of a 
bit time), so the process is repeated. 

If the first bit is a 0, the loop at 
CLK020 delays until the appearance of 
a 1. At this point, the second clock has 
just occurred. A delay of lVi cycles is 
then done to position the next read in 
the middle of the third data bit time. 
The INPUT subroutine is then called to 
read in the next 16 bits. The last two of 
these are always zeros. 

Now, the scan number of the first 16 
bits is tested. If not equal to binary 11, 
or DSl, the process is repeated from 
CLK010. If equal to DSl, the user 
stack pointer is adjusted, the scan 
number is adjusted to 2, and another 
read from CLK010 is done to read the 
DS2 cycle. A third iteration reads the 
last cycle, DS3. 

The short subroutine at GETSER 
gets the serial bit and tests it, changing 
the Z condition code to zero or 
nonzero. 



116 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 294 on inquiry card. 



relocate the program. These 2 bytes 
should hold the address of a 6-byte 
buffer. 

A simple BASIC test program is 
shown in listing 2. This program 
defines the location of the program 
by the DEFUSRO statement. (Change 
this statement if you have relocated 
the machine-language code.) The 
assembly-language program is 
entered by the USRO call and returns 
with 6 bytes of the current clock 
count in locations 3FF0 through 3FF5 
hexadecimal. These six locations rep- 



resent the BCD digits and scan 
numbers as shown in figure 8. Sample 
outputs are shown in figure 9. 

Text continued on page 122 

Listing 2: This short BASIC program calls 
the clock I/O handler and displays the 6 
bytes of data that were read. 

106 DEFUSR0-&H3F00 

110 R»USR0<0) 

120 FOR I=8cH3FF0 TO &H3FF3 

130 PRINT PEEK<I>, 

140 NEXT I 

150 PRINT 'PRINT 'GOTO 118 



Listing 1: The clock I/O handler is a three-section, assembly-language program that 
reads in 6 bytes of the count into a buffer at location 3FF0 hexadecimal. 



3F08 






00100 




ORG 


S3F00 








3FF0 


00110 


BUFFER 


EQU 


*3FF6 










00120 


J:***********************************************.****** 








00130 


* CLOCK 


I.'0 HANDLER. RERDS IN 3 CLOCK COUNTS * 








00148 


*****#.*****^^***^***»***«**********************»** 


3F00 


188E 


0693 


00150 


CLOCK 


LDY 


#3 


SCAN # 


3F04 


CE 


3FF3 


00166 




LDU 


•BUFFER 




3F07 


es 


02 


00170 


CLK010 


LDR 


#2 


2 TO fl 


3F89 


B7 


FF20 


00180 




STR 


*FF20 


STROBE IN NEXT COUNT 


3F0C 


06 


26 


00190 




LDR 


#38 


1.9 CYCLE COUNT 


3F0E 


3D 


47 


80280 




BSR 


DELAY 


DELAY 1.3 6.0HZ CYCLES 


3F10 


B7 


FF20 


00216 




STR 


»FF20 


START SERIAL 


3F13 


8D 


23 


08228 




BSR 


GETSER 


GET SERIAL IN 


3F15 


26 


F0 


00230 




BHE 


CLK0 1 6 


GO IF INVALID 


3F17 


66 


02 


00240 




LDR 


#2 


DELAY COUNT 


3F19 


SD 


3C 


00250 




BSR 


DELAY 


DELAY 1.-10 CYCLE 


3F1B 


8D 


ID 


00260 




BSR 


GETSER 


GET SERIAL IN BIT 


3F1D 


26 


E3 


80270 




BNE 


CLK010 


GO IF INVALID 


3F1F 


8D 


19 


00280 


CLK820 


BSR 


GETSER 


GET SERIAL IN BIT 


3F21 


27 


FC 


00290 




BEQ 


CLK028 


GO IF 8 


3F23 


8£ 


IE 


00380 




LDR 


»30 


1 + 1..-2 CYCLE COUNT 


3F25 


8D 


39 


80310 




BSR 


DELAY 


DELAY 1 + 1'2 CYCLE 


3F27 


8D 


17 


80328 




BSR 


INPUT 


READ CLOCK COUNT 


3F29 


33 


5E 


00338 




LERU 


-2,U 


RESET PHTR 


3F2B 


IF 


20 


0034 




TFR 


Y , D 


SCH # HOW IN B 


3F2D 


E8 


41 


00330 




EORB 


1,U 


TEST SCN # 


3F2F 


C4 


03 


08360 




RNDB 


#3 


MASK OUT DIGIT 


3F31 


2S 


D4 


80370 




BNE 


CLK016 


GO IF NOT PROPER SCH # 


3F33 


33 


42 


00380 




LERU 


2,U 


POINT TO NEXT 2 BYTES 


3F35 


31 


3F 


00390 




LERY 


-1,Y 


DECREMENT SCN # 


3F37 


26 


CE 


88480 




BNE 


CLK018 


GO IF NOT DOHE 


3F39 


39 




00413 




RTS 




RETURN 


3F3B 


B6 


FF22 


80428 


GETSER 


LDA 


*FF22 


GET SERIAL BIT 


3F3D 


84 


01 


80430 




ANDR 


#1 


TEST 


3F3F 


33 




00440 




RTS 




RETURN 








00430 


**#*****#**> 








80460 


* INPUT 


. INPUTS 


14 BITS 


RHD STORES IN TWO BYTES * 








08470 


* EHTR 


(■ BUFFER RDDRE 


5S IN U * 








00480 


* EXIT 


2 BYTES STORED IN BUFFER.. U UPDATED * 








00490 


****^#*^#*)Mt**^*****#*!|:*****^*#^^*************** 


3F40 


SD 


00 


00300 


INPUT 


BSR 


INPUR 


GO TWICE 


3F42 


4F 




00318 


INPUR 


CLRR 




TO A 


3F43 


R7 


C4 


00320 




STR 


,U 


CLEAR BYTE 


3F45 


CS 


08 


60530 




LDB 


#8 


FOR. S BITS 


3F47 


86 


FF22 


00540 


IHP018 


LDA 


*FF22 


GET BIT 


3F4fl 


44 




06550 




LSRA 




OUT TO C 


3F4B 


66 


C4 


00560 




ROR 


,u 


MERGE IN USER STACK. 


3F4D 


66 


14 


08370 




LDR 


»20 


1 CYCLE COUNT 


3F4F 


80 


06 


085S0 




BSR 


DELAY 


DELAY 1 CYCLE 


3F51 


5R 




00598 




DECS 




DECREMEHT ITERATION COUNT 


3F32 


26 


F3 


00600 




BNE 


IHP010 


GO IF NOT 8 


3F54 


33 


41 


00618 




LERU 


1..U 


POINT TO NEXT STACK BYTE 


3F56 


39 




00620 




RTS 




RETURN < AGAIN OR CLOCK) 








00630 


^*#**!M^*****i(*^***^******!(****#************#***** 








80640 


* DELRY 


. DELAYS 


IN MULTIPLES OF .83333 MS * 








00650 


* ENTRY 


COUNT 


IN A 


* 








00660 


* EXIT' 


AFTER 


DELRY 


* 








00670 


***#**#****************************^ 


3F57 


8E 


003C 


00680 


DELRY 


LDX 


#92 


FINAGLE FACTOR 


3F3A 


30 


IF 


00690 


DEL010 


LEAX 


-\,:< 


DECREMEHT X 


3F5C 


26 


FC 


88708 




BNE 


DEL310 


GO IF NOT 


3F5E 


4R 




00710 




DECA 




DECREMENT MAJOR COUNT 


3F5F 


26 


F6 


80720 




BNE 


DELRY 


GO IF HOT 


3F61 


39 


0000 


00738 
00740 




RTS 
END 




RETURN 




Chumbed 



_i>2_^ lie ^oc^: 

In 14 accelerated steps, 
WordStar™ Made Easy lets you 
build word processing skills which 
are applicable to any business 
office. Legal documents, sales 
reports, business letters, manu- 
scripts—all can be generated 
quickly and easily without refer- 
ence to complicated manuals. 
Applies to any version of 
WordStar™ including version 3.0. 

An appendix listing CP/M® 
commands and a detachable 
WordStar™ Command Sheet 
are featured for handy refer- 
ence. Spiral bound paper, 
125 pages, $7.95. 



Osborne/McGraw-Hill 
630 Bancroft Way, 
Berkeley, CA 94710 



hi 



Call Toll Free: 800-227-2895 

Dept.4 I ■ rill 

□ WordStar Made Easy $7.95 

Name 

Address 

City/State/Zip 

Plus: □ . 75/item 4th class □ $1. 50/ 
item UPS □ $2. 50/item Air Mail 

□ $10.00/item Overseas 

(California residents add applicable tax. 

Total amount enclosed $ 



in California (415) 548-2805 £j.« 



or charge my □ Visa □ Mastercharge 

Card # 

Expiration Date 

Authorized Signature 



WordStar is a trademark of MicroPro Internationa] 

Corporation. 

CH/M is a trademark of Digital Research Corp. 

March 1982 S BYTE Publications Inc 117 



Circle 295 on inquiry card. 




Here Comes 
the Revolution 

'With the price of the UNIX' 8 ' system 
license cut by 90%, a whole new 
era in multi-user systems operation 
comes to programming. 

Now, as the feasibility of incor- 
porating UNIX' 81 into your data man- 
agement or buying UNIX* based 
productsincreases, THE book on 
the subject has been published by 
Osborne/McGraw-Hill. 

Included are hands-on tutorials on 
the basic UNIX 181 system commands, 
chapters on related resources, defi- 
nitions of basic system concepts... 
everything needed for immediate 
practical fluency, or evaluation of 
the system by potential users. $15.99, 
paperback, 496 pages. 



Osborne/McGraw-Hill 

630 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 94710 

Call Toll Free: 800-227-2895 g^J 
in California (415) 548-2805 Jiil'ij 
Dept.4 lid 

□ A User Guide to the UNIX l8J 

System $15.99 

Name 



Address. 



City/State/Zip 

Plus: □ .75/item 4th class □ $1.50/ 
item UPS □ $2.50/item Air Mail 
□ $10.00/item Overseas 
(California residents add applicable tax.) 

Total amount enclosed $ 

or charge my □ Visa □ Mastercharge 

Card # 

Expiration Date 



Authorized Signature. 



HEXADECIMAL 
LOCATION 

3F F 

3FF 1 

3 F F 2 

3 F F 3 

3 F F4 

3 F F 5 



DIGIT D 


DIGIT G 







DIGIT A 


1 1 


■« SCAN IN 


DIGIT E 


DIGIT H 









DIGIT B 


1 






DIGIT F 


DIGIT J 







DIGIT C 


1 







io3 
io 4 
io 5 

10* 

107 



UP TO 999.999.999 
COUNTS IN UNITS 
OF 1/60 SECOND 
(16,666,666 SECONDS 
OR 192 DAYS ) 



Figure 8: The 6 bytes of count data from the half-year clock contain nine BCD digits 
and three scan numbers. The order is based on the functional layout of the hardware 
and the data must be rearranged by the interface software. 



COUNT ■ 000289457 « 4824 + SECONDS 



DECIMAL 

144 

31 

128 

22 

32 
17 



144 
23 

128 
10 
32 
21 



9,0 

7 

8, 

5 

2, 

4 



9, 

5 
8, 

2 
2, 

5 



1 








1 

























1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




* 


1 


































1 





1 


1 















1 




























1 











1 







1 








1 

























1 





1 


l 


1 






1 





































1 





l 







* 








1 




























1 





i 





1 







DS1 



DS2 



DS3 



DS1 



SAMPLE 1 



COUNT ■ 000289525 = 4825+ SECONDS 



Figure 9: These are typical data samples. Sample 1 represents a count of 000289457, or 
4824. XX seconds. Sample 2 occurred after sample 1 and represents the next count of 
000289525, or 4825. XX seconds. 



UNIX is a trademark of Hell Laboratories 



118 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Most small system users think all micro- 
computers are created equal. And they're 
right. If you want performance, convenience, 
styling, high technology and reliability (and 
who doesn't?) your micro usually has a price 
tag that looks more like a mini. It seems big 
performance always means. big bucks. But 
not so with the SuperBrain! 

Standard SuperBrain features include: twin 
double-density 5 1 / 4 " drives which boast nearly 
350,000 bytes of disk storage - expandable 
to 10 megabytes. A full 64K of dynamic 
RAM. A CP/M* Disk Operating System to 
insure compatibility to literally hundreds of 
application packages presently available. And, 
a 12" non-glare, 24 line by 80 column screen. 



You'll also get a full ASCII keyboard with 
an 18 key numeric pad and individual cursor 
control keys. Twin RS232C serial ports for 
fast and easy connection to a modem or 
printer. Dual Z80 processors which operate 
at 4 MHZ to insure lightning-fast program 
execution. And the list goes on! Feature after 
feature after feature. 

Better yet, the SuperBrain boasts modular 
design to make servicing a snap. A common 
screwdriver is about the only service tool 
you'll ever need. And with the money you'll 
save on purchasing and maintaining the 
SuperBrain, you could almost buy another one. 
For under $3,500, it is truly one of the most 
remarkable microcomputers available anywhere. 



Whether your application is small 
business, scientific, educational or just word 
processing, the SuperBrain is certainly an 
exciting solution to the small computer 
problem. And since you can easily expand it, 
you'll probably never outgrow it. 

Call or write us today for a complimentary 
copy of our "SuperBrain Buyer's Guide." We'll 
show you how you can get big system per- 
formance without having to spend big bucks. 



f= INTE3TEC 

DATA 
S SYSTEMS. 



■Recisieied iraOemart rt DiQiial Research, mc 



2300 Broad River Rd. Columbia, SC 29210 
(803) 798-9100 TWX: 810-666-2115 

Circle 195 on inquiry card. 







[ n. INraTEC DATA SYSEMS |si)P£?BRAIN 




B j " 7 ¥"" 1 i I 



a « 



'V - 









,^ 



<f 



«? 






OV 



^ 



,0 



& 



ACCESSORIES ^ 

MOTOROLA 411G-2-MEM- £? 

ORY— 200 nano-second chips. Jy 

GILTRONIX RS-232 SWITCH- 

Up to 3 peripherals to one com- 
puter or vice versa. We have all 
other models. 

MOUNTAIN COMPUTER 

Total product family in stock! 
OPS Multifunction Board— clock, 
calendar, serial and parallel inter- 
face on one card/Super Talker/ 
The Music System/ ROM plus 
board with Keyboard filter/ ROM 
Writer/ Clock Calendar/ A to D 
and D to A Converter Clock/, and 
more. 

CALCULATORS 

HP-41C AND HP-41CV CAL- 
CULATORS— And we have all 
the accessories! 
Memory Modules 
Magnetic Card Reader 
Printer— Upper and lower case, 
high resolution plotting. 
Applications Pacs 

DISKETTES 

DYSAN DISKETTES- 5 W, 8", 

soft or hard sector, single or 
double density. 

MEMOREX DISKETTES- All 

types including some with hub 
ring for Apple Drives. 



CORVUS DISKS 

Winchester Disk in 5, 10, and 20 
megabyte. >^ 

APPLE INTERFACE-With disc^S* 
operating system. ^5F 

CONSTELLATION DISK NET- . 

WORK— Up to 64 computers 4y 
connect to a 5, 1 0, or 20 mega- ^ 
byte Winchester. ^ 

OMNINET— Unlimited number of 
computers and peripherals con- 
nected by a two wire twisted i» 



pair. 



MIRROR— Video backup inter- j> 
face system. 

MODEMS 

NOVATION CAT 
NOVATION D-CAT 
HAYES SMARTMODEM 

MONITORS 

SANYO MONITORS 

9" Sanyo green screen 
12" Sanyo B/W 
1 2" Sanyo green screen 
13" Sanyo Color 

NEC COLOR MONITOR/ 

RECEIVER— Composite video, 
VCR/VTR video loop in/out and 
television reception. 



PRINTERS 

NEC SPINWRITERS-We have 
all models RO thru KSR. 
NEC 3500 Spinwriters— 33 

cps, hardware word processing 
package, bi-directional 370,000 
character ribbon and much more. 
NEC 7700 Spinwriter— 55 

CPS, printer; pitch is 1 0, 1 2, and 
also new 1 5 and proportional 
spacing. Twin sheet feeder and 
word processing package. 

INTEGRAL DATA- 
IDS PRISM PRINTER-Afford- 
able COLOR copy. True four color 
technology. Ship from stock! 
IDS 560 Matrix Printer— 
14V2 paper, 132 col. graphics. 
IDS 445— Available with or with- 
out graphics. 
IDS 460 

CENTRONICS 739-The latest 
innovations from the industry 
leader and quiet too! 

SOFTWARE 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE 

Visi-Pack— Includes Visi-Calc, 
Visiplot/Visitend, Visifile. 
Visicalc-For HP, APPLE, 
COMMODORE and ATARI. 

Compumart has sold thou- 
sands of Commodores— we 
were their first dealer! 



Serious Apple Software— Dow 

Jones, Apple Fortran, Apple 
Plot, Apple Writer, Apple Pilot, 
Data-Plot, Datamover/Telepong, 
Apple Post Mailing System, DOS 
Tool Kit Utilities, DB Master 
Data Base Manager, and much 
more. 
Apple PASCAL 

Games— Zork II, Apple 
Adventure, Microchess 2.0, 
Flight Simulator, Apple Bowl, 
Stellar Invaders, Gammon 
Gambler, Star-Raiders, ABM, 
Pool 1.5, call for more. 

Word Processing— Magic Wand, 
Easy Writer, Apple Writer, Word- 
star, Word Pro 4, Wordcraft, 
Super Text II. 

VIDEO 
CONTROLLERS 

VIDEX-VIDEO TERM 
M & R SUPER TERMINAL 

WRITE: 

YOUR CHOICE OF FREE CAT- 
ALOGS WITH LETTERHEAD 
OR BUSINESS CARD 



MICRO 
CATALOG 

The most com- 
plete catalog of 
micro com- 
puters, periph- 
erals and 
accessories. 



DEC LSI/11 
CATALOG 

Includes com- 
patibles from 
Control Data, 
C-ITOH and 
others. 




m 



<xo 



HP 



J& A* 



>v ^ 



<f 



&&< 



>° 



& 



& 



Authorized Dealers For: 



PACKARD 



Rockwell International 



Mfctppto'computar 




commodore 



■ 1 Day Free Return — No Questions Asked 

■ Choose From Largest Product Line In Industry 

■ Immediate Shipment From $ Multimillion Stock 

■ Expert Service 

■ Technically Knowledgeable Sales Staff 

■ Serving Industry And Education Since 1 971 

NO ONE ELSE HAS IT ALL- 

Call Our Experts For Immediate Configuration Service 



COMPUMART/fcyi£S%&3 

65 Bent Street, Dept. 103 ' 

PO Box 568, Cambridge, MA 02139 
TELEX: 921401 COMPUMART CAM 

800-343-5504 

In Mass call 617-491-2700 

if you prefer, call our Ann Arbor Michigan store 

(313] 994-6344 



VISA r-^— 




'FREE [See below] 




PHONES: open EST Mon.-Thurs. 8:30-7:00, Fri. 8:30-6:00. 
PURCHASE ORDERS: Accepted from Dun and Bradstreet rated 
companies— shipment contingent upon receipt of signed purchase 
order. 



SALE PRICES: Valid for month of magazine date only— all prices 
subject to change without notice. ANN ARBOR RETAIL STORE 

HOURS: Tues. -Fri., 11:00-7:00. Sat. 10:00-5:00, closed Mon. 
• FREE: Diskettes 5W, double sided, double density to the first 100 

Keople who correctly identify all products and models on this page, 
lust use company letterhead; one entry per person. 



l€TUS 
INTRODUC€ 
VOU TO TH€ 
COMPUSTAR 
N€TUJORK. 




AGAIN 




/ £»»».«; 



AND AGAIN 

OR 




AND AGAIN 

Each CompuStar unit offers the CP/M operating 
system, 64K of RAM and the ability to start as 
a floppy- based system and grow to 400 megabytes 
of hard disk storage. Up to 255 units can be linked 
together in one shared-disk system. 

Just the system for the dealer or 
OEM who wants to make it big in the 
business market. The versatility 
and expandability of the CompuStar 
network lets you answer your clients' 
needs today and tomorrow. And our 
low price lets you offer a package they 
can afford to buy and you can afford 
to sell. 

If networking is new to you, TriStar 
will give you a proper introduction. 
We've got software for CompuStar, 
including accounts payable, payroll, 
accounts receivable, word processing 
and database management. Plus we'll 
help you with your own software 
development, systems configuration, 
communications, hardware service, 
training, installation and any other 
needs that might pop up. 

Because we're experts in networking 
and support, Intertec® (the 
manufacturer of CompuStar) has 
chosen us to distribute this incredible, 
expandable business system. 

For more information on CompuStar 
and other Intertec products, call 
(609) 424-4700. 




2 Keystone Avenue 
' Cherry Hill, NJ 08003 
CompuStar is the trademark of Intertec, Inc. 



Listing 3: This BASIC program interfaces to the assembly-language clock driver. It con- 
verts the 6 bytes of clock data into a count of days, hours, minutes, and seconds, and 
checks for error conditions. 

190 INPUT "TIME IN 60THS"iT2 

110 C-LS 

120 DEFUSR0-&H3F0B 

130 T0--1 

140 FKISR0C83 

1 50 R«I HT< PEEK/. 8.H3FF 1 V4 3 

160 B-IKTC PEEK/ 6.H3FF3 V4 3 

170 C=INTf. PEEK<: 8.H3FF3V4 3 

190 0=1 UK PEEK 8.H3FFB V 16 3 

150 E«INTtPEEK<8.H3FF2>-'l$3 

203 F=INK PEEK'. &H3FF4 V163 

210 C"< PEEKC 1H3FF03 RHD 15 > 

220 H»< PEEK': 8.H3FF2 3 RND 13 3 

238 J»< PEEKC &H3FF4 3 RHD 15 3 

243 Tl=<. J* 100000000+H*13000000+G*1000000+F*100000+E* 10000+0*1 000+C*100+B*10+fl'.> 

£45 IF T0=-1 THEN T0=T1 

£50 IF TKT9 THEN GOTO 140 ELSE IF Tl-T0>999 THEN GOTO 140 ELSETB=T1 

260 T3=T1+T2< IF T3>999999999 THEN T3»T3-999S99999 

270 T3=INT<T3'60 3 

280 O=INT<:T3^3S400 3'H=INTC!; T3-D*36400 3/3608 3 > M»IHTC < T3~D*8S400-H*3600 3/60 > ; S=T3- 

D*eS400-H*3G00-TO:G9 

230 PRINT e 256. "ORY" ; Di Hi "HOURS" 1 11; "M1MS" I Si "SECS" 

300 GOTO 140 



Text continued from page 117: 

A general-purpose BASIC driver is 
shown in listing 3. This program dis- 
plays the actual number of days, 
hours, minutes, and seconds rep- 
resented by the count in the HYC. 
This count can be held in a Color 
Computer BASIC variable, which 
allows nine decimal digits of preci- 
sion. 

A "bias" count can be input to the 
program before sampling the HYC. 
This bias may be positive or negative 
to adjust the current count to a pre- 
vious starting point or to "trim" the 
time. The unit of bias is V 60 second. 
Thus, use a value of 60 for every sec- 
ond, 3600 for every minute, 216,000 
for every hour, or 518,400 for every 
day. The momentary-contact RESET 
switch resets the entire count to 0. 

The tests of the current count (Tl) 
with the previous count (TO) require 
some explanation. In most cases, the 
sampling process reads count data in 
a "nonchanging" state. However, 
because the scan clock occurs at un- 
predictable times, the count may be 
sampled in the middle of a scan clock 
"edge," yielding invalid data. Because 
of this, Tl (current) is compared to 
TO (old). If Tl is less than TO, Tl is 
invalid and another sample is made. 
If Tl is greater than TO by 999 counts 
(16.65 seconds), Tl is considered in- 
valid and another sample is made. 
The typical display generated by the 
program shows the time changing 



every 2 seconds, with occasional 
lapses of up to 4 seconds. 

Tests run over several days showed 
less than one (detected) invalid read 
per minute with a maximum delay of 
5.5 seconds. No invalid times ap- 
peared. 

If the HYC is to be called at ran- 
dom times, make three calls and test 
for ascending counts with a difference 
of less than 10 seconds or so. Using 
this method, the resulting time will be 
accurate to within 10 seconds of the 
counter time. 

The crystal used should provide an 
excellent time base. It can be fine- 
tuned, however, by substituting a 5 
to 50-picofarad (pF) "trimmer" 
capacitor in place of the 4.7-pF 
capacitor connected to the crystal. 

In operation, the HYC can be dis- 
connected from the system at any 
time (without turning off the Color 
Computer) and left running. It can be 
reconnected at any later time. (Stop 
the BASIC program above if this is 
done to prevent a hang-up caused by 
T1-T0 being greater than 999.) 

If Rip van Winkle had owned a 
Color Computer, he would have 
loved the half-year clock. If you have 
nothing to do for the next 192 days, 
why not check this project out with 
your Color Computer to test its ac- 
curacy? Or count clock pulses instead 
of sheep: 999,998,767; 999,998,768; 
999,998,769 (yawn) . . .■ 



122 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



$l-'/3 

of a business 
phone call 




$1=6% actual 

McGraw-Hill 

readers* 




As your selling dollar buys less and less, 

it pays more and more to advertise 

in McGraw-Hill magazines. 



♦ One reader-noted impression in the 
average McGraw-Hill publication. 



m 



With inflation, we're an even better buy. 



Ibrains- mainframes 



SUPERBRAINS 




SUPERBRAIN QD 64K 

List $3995 only $2949 

NORTH STARS 

MINICOMPUTER 
PERFORMANCE 
GREEN PHOSPHOR 
OPTIONS: 
GRAPHICS + CP/M 
LIST $3999 

ONLY $2999 




Z-89 48K 

LIST $2895 ONLY $2099 
Z-90 64K DD 3195 ONLY $2489 

ADVANTAGE 





r £/ttTH MONITOR GREEN PHOSPHOR $118 

GREEN ^ 

TERMINALS Z-19$718 

INTERTUBE IIISUPEr smart$710 

EPSON 

MX70 GRAPHICS 299 
MX80 FT 598 

MX-80 474 

MX-100 749 

\^ 

ANADEX9501 $1290 

NEC LETTER QUAL FRICTION & TRACTOR CALL 

ZENITH PRINTER Z-25 LIST 1595 ONLY $1256 

DIP-84 FT GRAPHICS $ 595 

STARWRITER LETTER QUAL FT $1824 
EPSON MX70 WITH GRAPHICS SALE! 

6 ONLY $ 299 

QANTEXW/BUFFER $1299 

J^ 400 LIST 399 ONLY 340 

ATARI 800 1080 799 

WONDERFUL GAMES-EDUCATION 



RCA-COSMAC 



VP-711 



199 



GAMES-BASIC-PROG RAMS-MUSIC 
GUIDED SATELLITE TO SATURN 



TARBELL'S Empire I, II, & III have two 8" 
disk drives. The I is single sided, the II is double 
sided, and the Empire III has one of the floppies 
replaced by an 8-Megabyte Hard Disk. FREE BUSI- 
NESS SOFTWARE EMP 1 $4888 ONLY $3666 

CALIFORNIA COMPUTER 2210A 

$2195 ONLY $1795 Z80, 64K, I/O, DMA Disk 
controller + CP/M. 

Model 300-1A is the larger system: 2.4 Mb 8", 
Z80, 64K, and optional OASIS, CP/M, or MP/M op- 
erating system. LIST $5695 ONLY $4995 

MORROW DESIGNS Decision 1 

OPTIONAL UNIX FREE CP/M. Multi user & Multi 
processing, 4 to 6 Mhz Z80, and optional Floating 
Point Processor, or Hard Disk 26 M6. A very power- 
ful system at a saving. 
LIST $1725 ONLY $1380. 

GODBOUT COMPUPRO Big 8: 

6MHz Z80, DMA Disk Controller, 32K fast static 
RAM, Interfacer 1 I/O board, + CP/M. LIST $1995 
ONLY $1595 

Super Sixteen 8085/8088 is the fastest combo 
8-16 CPU. LIST $3495 ONLY $2795 

SYSTEMS GROUP System 2812 

runs CP/M or OASIS. Supports single user & multi- 
user & multi task. Up to 5 megabytes with 8" 
drives optional 10-megabyte hard disk. 
list $5035 ONLY $3775 

AMERICAN SQUARE COMPUTERS is organizing a 
World-Wide FRANCHISE of Computer Stores. Be a 
WINNER! Join our SUCCESSFUL TEAM selling 
powerful Computers. Write or Phone us. 

SEATTLE'S 16 bit COMPUTER is here! 8 MHz 
8086 CPU the fastest S-100 computer! 128K Static 
RAM, DD Disk Controller, 22-slot Main Frame, 
86-DOS #2 128K LIST $4185 

ONLY $3349 #-| As above but 64K 
LIST $3190 ONLY $2649 



WE SELL GOOD HARDWARE 



WE SELL GOOD SOFTWARE 



square 

American [||] Computers 



919-889-4577 KIVETT DR. JAMESTOWN N.C. 27282 



919-883-1105 



- CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 

Circle 20 on inquiry card. 



LOWEST PRICE - BEST QUALITY 



NORTH STAR 







p^^i 





North Star Horizon 2 

2-5 Vi Disk Drives 
64K Double Den 
Factory assem. & tested 
Factory guaranteed 
List $4195 



only 



$2875 



POWERFUL NORTH STAR BASIC FREE 
SUPERB FOR BUSINESS & SCIENCE 



FACTORY ASSEMBLED & TESTED LIST 



ONLY 



HORIZON-2 32K-DOUBLE DEN 


$3695 


$2625 


HORIZON-2-32K-QUAD DENSITY 


$3995 


$2799 


HORIZON-2-64KQUAD 


$4495 


$3150 


HORIZON-1-64K-Q-HD5 


$6695 


$4685 


HORIZON RAM ASSM 48K 


= $679 


64K = $879 


BIGSALEON MULTI-USER TIMESHARING 


CALL 


ENGLISH TO BASIC TRANSLATOR 




$ 99 


NORTH STAR HARD DISK 18 Mb 


$5375 


$3923 


NORTH STAR TIME SHARING MULTI-USER 


CALL 


ZBASIC 2 TO 5 TIMES FASTER! 




$350 


SECRETARY WORD PROCESSOR 




$99 


WORDSTAR WORD PROCESSOR 




$318 


FLOATING POINT BOARD 


$399 


$319 


OASIS MULTI-USER SOFTWARE 


SAVE 


CALL 


CP/M FOR N* Extra features 


$230 


$220 


MICRO MIKE SOFTWARE 


SAVE 


CALL 


ECOSOFT ACCOUNTING $355 


MICROSTAT $265 


UCSD PASCAL II.O 


$199 


$159 


EXTRA PRECISION BASIC 




$50 


NORTHWORD 


$399 


$299 


MAILMANAGER 


$299 


$224 


INFOMANAGER 


$499 


$374 


GENERAL LEDGER 


$999 


$749 


ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 


$599 


$449 


ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 


$599 


$449 


INVENTORY 


$999 


$749 


ORDER ENTRY 


$999 


$749 



InterSystems 

ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS 2A 




LIST 


ONLY 


$7295 


SAVE 


$6995 


CALL 


$6295 


SAVE 


$1795 


CALL 


$125 


SAVE 


$295 


CALL 


$295 


SAVE 


$295 


CALL 



Z-80A CPU 4 MHz 
64K Dynamic RAM 
Front panel 
V I/O— with interrupts 
FDCII Disk Controller 
20 slot motherboard 



LIST $3795 ONLY $2839 

PASCAL/Z + THE FASTEST PASCAL $375 



PASCAL SYSTEM 128K 2 DRIVES 
CACHE BIOS SYSTEM 128K2 DRIVES 
CP/M SYSTEM 64K 2 DRIVES 
DPS -1 MAINFRAME WITH Z80A 
Z80 MACRO ASSEMBLER 
SPELL— PERFECT SPELLING 
COMPARE— UTILITY SOFTWARE 
INTEREDIT— TEXT EDITOR 

MORROW 8" DISK 

DISCUS 20 + CP/M-' 600K ONLY $848 

DISCUS 2 + 2 + CP/M' 1.2 MEGA B. $1099 

ADD DRIVES 2D = $599 2 + 2 = $795 

DISCUS 20-DUAL + CP/M® ONLY $1388 

FREE MICROSOFT BASIC FROM MORROW WITH 

DISCUS SYSTEM OR HARD DISK 



MORROW HARD DISK 

26,000,000 BYTES!! 

LIST $4495 ONLY $3395 

CP/M' IS INCLUDED! 



AMERICAN SQUARE COMPUTERS is organizing a 
World-Wide FRANCHISE of Computer Stores. Be a 
WINNER! Join our SUCCESSFUL TEAM selling 
powerful Computers. Write or Phone us. 




SAVE ON MEMORY AND PROGRAMS 



SYSTEMS MEMORY 64K A&T J549 
SYSTEMS MEMORY 64K BANK 684 
MICROANGELO 985 

rTHACA MEMORY 8/16 BfT 64K 845 



CORVUS HARD DISK SAVE 

SSM VIDEO BRDVB3 4Mhz 412 

SPECTRUM COLOR ASM ' 326 

EZCODER English to BASIC 99 



ECOSOFT FULL ACCOUNTING 355 
CAT NOVATION MODEM 169 

MEMORY MERCHANT 16K 159 

WICAT 68000 16-BIT CALL 



Which Computers are BEST? FREE 
INSURED SHIPPING AT LOW RATES 
CALL FOR LATEST PRICES, DETAILS 
WE BEAT ADVERTISED PRICES 



FACTORY GUARANTEES 



EXPERT ADVICE 



square 

American [0] Computers 

919-889-4577 KIVETT DR. JAMESTOWN N.C. 27282 919-883-1105 



'• CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 

Circle 20 on inquiry card. 



The Input/ Output Primer 

Part 2: Interrupts and Direct Memory Access 



Last month we left the computer 
waiting patiently for the printer to 
signal its readiness to receive another 
character. If you think it's wasteful to 
make a machine as expensive as a 
computer spend most of its time wait- 
ing on slower equipment, you are def- 
initely thinking ahead. Later in this 
month's article, I'll explore a com- 
munication mechanism that lets the 
computer work on another task after 
transmitting a piece of information. 
This mechanism, known as the inter- 



This article is the second in Steve 
Leibson's six-part series, "The Input/ 
Output Primer. " The series will explain 
the way in which computers talk with 
the world. Upcoming articles will dis- 
cuss parallel and HPIB (GPIB) inter- 
faces; BCD and serial interfaces; char- 
acter codes; and interrupts, buffers, 
grounds, and signal degradation. An 
I/O Glossary, which defines many 
terms used in these articles, appeared 
with the first installment (February 
1982 BYTE, page 122). Figure and table 
numbers are continued from Part 1. 



Steve Leibson 

Auto-Trol Technological Corporation 

12500 North Washington St. 

POB 33815 

Denver, CO 80233 

rupt, enables the computer to go 
about its business until the printer is 
ready for more data. First, though, 
you need to know how a computer 
selects a peripheral device to com- 
municate with; you also need to 
know about interfaces — the hardware 
that connects computers and 



peripherals. 



Creating subaddresses 
ensures that 
information of 
different kinds can be 
directed to the proper 
section of the device. 



Picking and Choosing 

In the first article of this series, I 
briefly discussed peripheral address 
lines. Computers, which generally 
have several peripheral devices at- 
tached, select a particular device in 
one of two ways. One method is to 
have a separate I/O connection for 



every device connected. Selecting a 
particular device is merely a matter-of 
sending information on the proper,, 
bus. This technique, however, rapid- 
ly creates a rat's nest of wires, 
something that's impractical to 
manufacture. 

An I/O bus has a set of peripheral- 
address lines that the processor uses 
to specify a device. This greatly sim- 
plifies wiring the system and results in 
major cost savings, although it does 
limit the computer to communicating 
with one peripheral at a time. For 
most computer processors, though, 
one is the limit anyway. 

Multiplexing Peripherals 

Peripheral-address lines allow the 
I/O bus to be shared or multiplexed 
by many devices. Each device must 
have a unique address on the bus. 
Otherwise, conflicts will arise when 
two devices try to use information on 
the bus simultaneously. For instance, 
plotters are useful for graphing data 
but are terrible for listing programs. 



126 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 176 on inquiry card. 



With the Hayes direct-connect 
Micromodem II™ your Apple II Can 
communicate by phone with the 
outside world. You can access in- 
formation networks like 

The Source for a variety v 

of business and personal 

applications, exchange 

programs with friends 

anywhere in North 

America, and g| 

even use your 5 = 

Apple II when 

you're away 

from your home 

or office. 

Dependable. The 
Micromodem II is so dependable 
it comes with a two-year limited 



warranty. That's another reason 
why it's the largest selling direct- 
connect modem for Apple II 
computers. 

Programmable. 
Automatic dialing 
and answering? 
Of course! We in- 
clude programs on 
diskthat dial phone 
numbers for you, 
ssages while you're 
. * away, and much more! 
Complete. You ^m 
I get everything f A 
you need to com- I ▼ 
municate with other Bell V^L 
103 compatible modems at 1 10 
or 300 baud. The serial interface 



is built-in, and we even include our 
FCC-approved Microcoupler™ 
that plugs directly into any modu- 
lar telephone jack in the U.S. - 
you don't even need the phone! 

S-100, too. The Hayes 
Micromodem 100 gives S-100 
microcomputers all the advan- 
tages of our Micromodem II! 

Put the outside world inside 
your computer with a data com- 
munications system from Hayes. 
Available at computer stores na- 
tionwide—call 
J m ir\r* or write for the 
llCl y %Jw location near- 
+ est you. And 

don't settle for anything less 
than Hayes. 



mure! «vanauie ai uumu 

©Hayes 



The Hayes Micromodem II 
opens up your Apple Hto the outside world. 




HayeS MiCrOCOmpUter PrOdUCtS InC. 5B35Peachtree Corners East, Norcross. Georgia 30092(404) 449-8791 

Micromodem II. Micromodem 100 and Microcoupler are trademarks ol Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc. 

'TM Apple Computer Inc. Micromodem II can also be used wilh the Bell & Howell computer. © 1981 Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc. 




For rent today! 



If you need any model of oscilloscope from Tektronix or Hewlett- 
Packard (or anyone else, for that matter), it's probably sitting on- 
the-shelf, right now, at Genstar REI . . . just waiting for you to rent 
it. Prices are from 30 days up (and darned competitive, too) at any 
of our convenient North American inventory centers. About the only 
kinds of scopes you can't rent from us today are John Thomas and 
tele. Call . . . now! GSA Contract #GS-04S-23560 

GENSTAR 

Rental Electronics, Inc. 
(800)227-8409 

In California (213) 993-7368, (415) 968-8845 or (714) 879-0561 

111 be a monkey's uncle, REI! Send free details immediately! 

□ It sounds great. Tell me more! Call □ I'm particulary interested in the 
meat following equipment: 

□ Send me your new Rental Catalog. 

□ I'd like a copy of your "like new" 

equipment for sale catalog, too. 



NAME 

ORGANIZATION 
ADDRESS 



TITLE- 



MAIL STOP- 



CITY/STATE/ZIP. 



TELEPHONE 



Please complete coupon and mail to: Genstar Rental Electronics, Inc., 19525 
Business Center Drive, Northridge, CA 91324 e Genstar Rental Eleclronics , lne . 1982 



When the computer is accessing the 
disk storage device, everything will 
run more smoothly if the plotter ig- 
nores transactions on the I/O bus. 

Clearly, each peripheral device 
must have its own unique address. It's 
more advantageous, however, for 
each device to have several unique 
addresses. Think of the peripheral 
device as an apartment building hav- 
ing a single, unique street address. 
Apartment One gets the local daily 
newspaper, which covers general in- 
formation, while Apartment Two 
gets The Wall Street Journal, which 
reports on economic events. Each 
apartment gets information but of a 
different kind. 

A peripheral device also requires 
information of different kinds. Not 
only do printers receive characters to 
print, but they also get control infor- 
mation such as line spacing, number 
of characters to print per line, type 
font, and other functions. Creating 
subaddresses within the peripheral 
device ensures that information of 
different kinds can be directed to the 
proper section of the device. 

Peripheral address lines are split 
into a select code that specifies a par- 
ticular peripheral and a register code 
that specifies the subaddress. (A reg- 
ister is a hardware device that holds 
the information until the peripheral 
can use it.) 

Setting up Subaddresses 

To illustrate, I'll create four subad- 
dresses within each select code. Being 
obstinate, as computer designers 
often are, I'll call these subaddresses 
4, 5, 6, and 7 (nobody starts at zero 
any more). These four subaddresses 
are registers that serve as portals to 
the peripheral. 

Four subaddresses require two 
wires for selection because two wires 
can assume four binary states. These 
states are: 



State of 
line #1 



1 



1 



State of 

line #2 



1 

1 



Register 
addressed 
4 
5 
6 
7 



(Remember, digital signals may only 



128 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 167 on inquiry card. 



M ' v 



1 




I 







■ 



Jtate-of-the-art hardware 
demands state-of-the-art software 

Operating Systems & Support Software from Technical Systems Consultants 



To perform to its fullest capabili- 
ties, your hardware demands 
software designed to meet the 
specialized requirements of 
xiay's microprocessors. State-of- 
he-art software from Technical 
Systems Consultants keeps pace 
with the rapid advancements in 
computer technology so your 
hardware can live up to its full 
potential. Our complete line of 
state-of-the-art software includes: 

The UniFLEX™ Operating System 

UniFLEX, a true multi-user, multi- 
tasking system for the 6809 and 
68000 microprocessors, supports 
such features as: 

• hierarchical file systems 

• device independent I/O 

• four Gigabyte disk capacities 

• full file protection 

• inter-task communication via 
pipes 

• I/O redirection 

• task swapping 

• full random-access files 

• comprehensive shell command 
language 



UniFLEX, structured for large-scale 
microprocessor systems, will not 
run with minimal systems and thus 
has avoided design compromise. 
(Off-the-shelf versions and OEM 
licenses are available.) 

The FLEX™ Operating System 

FLEX, a powerful, easy-to-use 
operating system designed for 
the 6800 and 6809 microproces- 
sors, includes: 

• dynamic filespace allocation 

• random files 

• batch job entry 

• automatic space compression 

• English error messages 

• user environment control 

• disk resident commands 

• flexible device I/O 

• printer spooling 

Plus, FLEX can accommodate 
hard disks as well as floppies. The 
System is available off-the-shelf 
for a variety of systems and in a 
field-adaptable version. (OEM 
licenses available.) 

FLEX and UniFLEX are trademarks of 
Technical Systems Consultants, Inc. 



Support Software 

Technical Systems Consultants 
offers a full line of state-of-the-art 
support software compatible to 
FLEX and UniFLEX, some of which 
are: 

• native C and Pascal compilers 
for advanced programming 

• extended BASIC for business 
and educational applications 

• text editing and processing 
software 

• sort/merge package for busi- 
ness applications 

• variety of absolute and relocat- 
able assemblers 

• debug and diagnostic 
packages 

. . . and more. Write or call today 
for our brochures describing 
our complete product line. 




Box 2570, 1208 Kent Avenue 
West Lafayette, Indiana 47906 
(317) 463-2502 Telex: 27-6143 

Sculpture by Joann Chaney 







Turn your TV into a time-sharing 
videotex display for $399: 



Now you can connect your family to 
the informative and entertaining world 
of CompuServe, The Source, Dow 
Jones News/Retrieval and other time- 
sharing and data-base networks. 

All you need is the RCA VP-3501 
Videotex Data Terminal (with built-in 
modem and RF modulator), your tele- 
phone and your TV set. You can get 
instant access to regional newspapers 
and newsletters. ..weather reports and 
sports results. ..computer games and 
more. You can use the VP-3501 to 
make airline reservations. ..find restau- 
rant recommendations in cities around 
the world. Plus stock market and cor- 
porate data. Or access your school or 
business computer. You can even 
send electronic mail and buy products. 

In addition to information retrieval, 
the VP-3501 provides full interactive 
communications with a host computer. 
What you have working for you is a 
versatile, feature-packed interactive 
data terminal which can be worth far 
more to you than its low price. Its 
unique color-locking circuitry gives you 
sharp color graphics and rainbow-free 
characters. You get 20- and 40- char- 
acter formats in one of eight fore- 
ground colors and separate color 
backgrounds. 



With reverse video, you can empha- 
size certain letters, words, or sen- 
tences. A built-in tone generator... plus 
a white noise generator.. .let you create 
everything from the sound of explo- 
sions to the sound of music. The spill- 
proof, easy-to-clean keyboard is highly 
suitable for hostile environments. And 
its membrane key switches give you a 
natural feel. 

The VP-3501 is truly a fine Videotex 
Data Terminal. And don't forget, it's 
made by RCA.. .the first name in tele- 
vision. ..now the foremost name in 
videotex terminals. 

See a demonstration at your com- 
puter or electronics dealer, or contact 
RCA. Order now and you'll get a free 
password and a free hour's time-shar- 
ing on both CompuServe and Dow 
Jones News/Retrieval! (Limited time 
offer.) 

For more information or to order, call 
toll-free. 800-233-0094. (In Pennsylva- 
nia, call 717-393-0446.) Visa or Master- 
Card orders accepted by phone. Or 
send a check including $3.00 delivery 
charge plus your local sales tax to 
RCA Microcomputer Products, New 
Holland Avenue, Lancaster, PA 17604. 

'Suggested User Price. 



assume one of two states: on or off, 
"1" or "0.") 

Although four registers could do 
the job, there's a complication: the 
data lines are bidirectional, and bi- 
directional registers are complex to 
construct. It's easier to use eight reg- 
isters — four for input and four for 
output. The I/O line will specify from 
which group of four the register ad- 
dress lines will select. Remember that 
the I/O line specifies the direction of 
data flow on the data lines and so is 
ideal for selecting between the input 
and output registers. 

I've now constructed a simple I/O 
bus that can convey information be- 
tween the computer and external 
devices. This I/O bus isn't the most 
advanced, but it will satisfy present 
needs. I'll upgrade this "bunch of 
wires" later, but first let's confront a 
more pressing problem. 

Introduction to Interfaces 

The I/O bus discussed above is a 
subset of the bus used in the Hewlett- 
Packard desktop computers, model 
9825 and Systems 35 and 45. It would 
be convenient if all peripherals came 
with circuitry that directly interfaced 
to the I/O bus. 

Unfortunately, present interfacing 
methods are far from ideal. The bus 
constructed above is parallel- 
oriented, which means that every 
binary digit (bit) of a piece of infor- 
mation (such as a character) is avail- 
able simultaneously on the 16 data 
lines. 

Not all peripherals use 16 data 
lines; some peripherals don't have 
any parallel interfaces but instead 
send information one bit at a time in a 
time-serial fashion. No peripherals 
use the eight-register scheme dis- 
cussed above, while several use in- 
compatible voltage levels to represent 
"1" and "0." This appears to be quite 
a problem. In fact, there isn't a single 
peripheral that can talk to our I/O 
bus in its present state. 

Interfaces as Translators 

It's necessary to interpose some 
specialized circuitry between the I/O 
bus and the peripheral device to 
adapt the signals from the computer 
to those used by the peripheral. This 



Circle 337 on inquiry card. 




GOmPUTER WAREHOUSE 



CALL TOLL FREE 



ATARI 



Special 32K 800 System 

800 W/32K, recorder, star 

raiders, joysticks Call 

Above W/48K Call 



800 (16K) 

400 

810 Disk Drive 
825 Printer 
850 Interface . 
410 Recorder . 
830 Modem . . . 



Call 
Call 
$440 
$590 
$160 
$ 75 
$150 



16K Memory . 
32K Memory 



DISK DRIVES 

Lobo 

Apple 1st Drive . 
Apple 2nd Drive . 



$75 
$150 



$490 
$410 



MODEMS 

Novation 

CAT 

D-CAT 

Apple Cat II 
Auto Cat . . . 



$140 
$155 
$349 
$235 



PRINTERS 

C. Itoh 

F-10- Parallel Call 

F-10- Serial Call 

55CPS - Series Call 

Prowriter Call 



Datasouth 

DS 180 . 

Diablo 



$1260 



630 RO w/Tractors . . 
630 RO wo/Tractors . 

Epson 

MX-80 


$2260 
$2050 

Call 


MX-80 F/T 

MX-100 

Infoscribe 

500 


Call 
Call 

Call 


1000 


Call 


NEC 

PC-8023A 

3510 

7710 


Call 

$1690 

Call 


7720 


Call 



Okidata 

Microline80 . . 
Microline82-A 
Microline83-A 
Microline84 . . 



$330 

$470 

$740 

Call 



Paper Tiger 

560G 



Texas Instruments 

810 Basic 

810 Loaded 



$1050 



Call 
Call 




£* 



1800-5281054 



A 



Novation 




NorthStar^ 



ATARI 9 

^^/ TECHNOLOGY, INC. \f ICICVTQCO 

Texas Instruments 

EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA. INC. 

OKIDATA 





California 



Computer 
Systems 



VIDEO TERMINALS 

Adds 

Viewpoint 

Altos 

Altos I 

Soroc 

IQ 120 

IQ130 

IQ135 

IQ140 

Televideo 

910C 

912C 

920 C 

925 C 

950 C 

Zenith 

Z-19 

DISKETTS 
Scotch 
5J4" 0. 10. 16 Sector 

(Qty 100) 

8" 0.32 Sector 
(Qty 100) 



$535 
Call 



$660 
Call 
Call 
Call 



$570 
$690 
$735 
$740 
$925 

$680 



$250 
$260 



Personal checks will delay shipping two weeks. 



COMPUTERS 

Altos 

ACS 8000-15 $3995 

ACS 8000-2 
w/CPM" $2695 

Alspa 

asci-1 Call 

asci-2 Call 

NEC Call 

Northstar 

Advantage $2990 

Horizon II 64KDD .. $2750 
Horizon II 64KQD .. $3050 

Televideo Systems Call 

System I $2255 

System II $5045 

TS-802 $2700 

TS-802H $5050 

Zenith 

Z-89 48K w/CPM" .. $2160 
Z-90 64Kw/CPM" .. $2385 
Both above w/supercalc 

MONITORS 

Zenith 
12" Green Screen $115 



COmPUTER 
WAREHOUSE 



2222 E. Indian School Rd. • Phoenix, Arizona 85016 
Order Line: 1-800-528-1054 
Other Information: 602-954-6109 



^5 ^s 



Store Hours: Tues.-Fri. 10-5 MST Saturday 10-2 MST 



Prices reflect 3% cash discount. Product shipped in factory cartons with 
manufacturers warranty. Add 2% a minimum of $5 for shipping and handling. 



specialized circuitry is called an inter- 
face. The interface, which actually 
plugs into the I/O bus, acts as an in- 
termediary, translating voltages, sig- 
nal formats, and whatever else is re- 
quired to establish communications 
between the computer and the 
peripheral. 

If every peripheral manufactured in 
the last decade required a different in- 
terface, it would be impossible for the 
computer to communicate with even 
a small fraction of them. Computer 
manufacturers simply cannot make 
products for that many different in- 
terfaces. Fortunately, several devices 
require only one of four basic types of 
interface: parallel I/O, serial I/O, 
HPIB (GPIB), and BCD (binary- 
coded decimal). 

To connect with a peripheral, the 
parallel interface uses a set of wires 
much like those of the I/O bus. This 
interface is the most common among 
current peripherals because it's the 
simplest to build and usually transfers 
data the fastest. Major variations in- 
volve (1) the connector used between 
the peripheral and the interface cir- 
cuitry and (2) the sense of the data 
and control lines. Does zero volts 
mean logic zero (positive true logic) 
or logic one (negative true logic)? 

A flexible parallel interface should 
be available with several connectors 
and an unterminated cable so that a 
custom connector can be installed. 
The logic sense of the data and con- 
trol lines and even the logic levels 
used can all be adjusted to suit the 
needs of a particular device. 

A serial interface takes data from 



the I/O bus and serializes it into a 
stream of bits. Incoming serial data is 
converted into parallel data and sent 
to the computer. Only two wires are 
required for serial communica- 
tions—transmit data and receive 
data — however, control lines exist in 
serial interfaces because serial I/O 
dominates the special environment of 
long-distance data communications. 



Interrupts force the 

processor to leave the 

part of the program it's 

executing and start 
executing the code in a 

different location in 
memory. 



HPIB, a relatively new interface, is 
standardized. HPIB stands for 
Hewlett-Packard Interface Bus. Due 
to standardization, it's also known as 
the General Purpose Interface Bus 
(GPIB). Formally known as 
IEEE-488-1978, HPIB has well-de- 
fined signals, connector, logic sense, 
and logic levels. This interface allows 
simple connection to multiple devices 
over a bus structure. Since the con- 
nector and signals are standardized, 
you just bolt the connecting cable to 
the peripheral for the computer to 
begin communicating. You then can 
concentrate on the software needed to 
run the peripheral. A single HPIB in- 
terface can connect a computer to 14 
peripheral devices. 



Older instruments use a different 
type of interface known as binary- 
coded decimal (BCD). Data is trans- 
ferred in 4-bit chunks, and each 
group of 4 bits represents a numeral 
(0 through 9). BCD interfaces are 
generally used for transmitting 
numeric information. 

In the third and fourth installments 
of this primer, I'll examine these types 
of interfaces in depth. For now, 
though, let's turn to this month's 
main topic, interrupts and direct 
memory access (DMA). 

Getting the Processor's Attention 

What do you think is the most im- 
portant part of a telephone? The dial? 
The receiver? The cord? I submit that 
it's the bell. If the telephone had no 
way to summon you when a call 
came in, you'd have to check it 
periodically to see if there was some- 
one on the line. Having to lift the 
receiver every few minutes would 
make the instrument a maddening in- 
convenience. Fortunately, telephones 
do have bells that interrupt you when 
someone calls. 

Earlier I discussed the relative 
speeds of computer processors and 
peripheral devices. The mismatch in 
speeds forced the creation of hand- 
shaking lines the processor could 
check to determine the peripheral's 
availability. Without these lines, the 
speedy processor would inundate the 
poor peripheral with data. Using 
these handshake lines is the simplest 
form of I/O. The computer spends 
much of its time patiently waiting for 
the peripheral to signal readiness for 




SMALL PRICE 
BIG PERFORMANCE 



• COMPATIBLE WITH Z80/B0B0/85 CP/M* DISK BASED COMPUTERS, prom data stored as 
named files on disk lor low cost storage / retrieval. 'trademark — Digital Research, CA 
• STANDARD RS-232 SERIAL INTERFACE, selectable 1 10 to 9600 baud. 

• USER ORIENTED SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION, 21 single keystroke commands 
including copy, verify, and a complete editor. 

• NO PERSONALITY MODULES REQUIRED 

• PROGRAMS ALL 24 AND 28 PIN EPROMS, single or triple supply voltage. 
2704/08, TMS2716, 2532, 2716/32/64, 2732A, 68732/64 and more. 



$695.00 UP-8 PROM PROGRAMMER- price / performance leader 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ADVENT PRODUCTS, INC. 965 N. Main Street, Orange, CA 92667 (714) 997-0800 



132 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 10 on inquiry card. 



COBOL the language of 

business. 

The language of Micro Focus 




Our CIS COBOL product 
family brings you the 
most successful business 
programming tool ever 
devised, COBOL, in a form 
optimized for today's most 
cost effective hardware, the 
microcomputer. Standard COBOL 
as defined by ANSI X3.23-1974. 

The reliability and performance of CIS 
COBOL are strongly emphasized by its' 
continued qualification for U.S. 
government contracts. In January 1981 
CIS COBOL entered its 2nd year of G.S.A. 
certification. 

OS COBOL is powerful but simple to use. 
Its screenhandling, dynamic module 
loading and fast ISAM let you take full 
benefit from micro computer facilities. 

Our FORMS-2 utility is a COBOL source 
code generator to help you build 
interactive applications with ease. Using 
our unique demonstration "How to create 
a COBOL program in 20 minutes," you can 
quickly try out new application ideas. 

And if you are developing software for 
resale, the variety of systems running CIS 
COBOL offers you a very large available 
market. 




MICRO 
FOCUS 

CIS COBOLand FORMS -2 are trademarks ofMicro Focus. 8080 is atrade- 
mark of Intel Corp, Z80 of Zilog. LSI-11 and PDP-11 of Digital Equipment 
Corp, Apple II of Apple Computer, Soft card of Microsoft Consumer 
Products, CP/M of Digital Research and UNIX of Bell Laboratories. 



i ' 



CIS COBOL and 
FORMS-2 are available 
through our dealers 
and distributors for many 
8080, Z80 and LSI-11 systems 
including Apple II with Softcard 
and CP/M. 

For OEM purchase on 8086, PDP-11, 
UNIX and other order codes approach us 
direct. Our system transfer technology 
has made CIS COBOL first on a number of 
processors and enabled us to interface to 
30 different operating systems. 

For more information about CIS COBOL 
fill in the coupon below. 



To: Micro Focus Inc. 1601 Civic Center Drive, 
Santa Clara, Ca 95050, USA. 
Phone: (408) 496 0176. Telex: 278704 MFCIS UR 

Please send me 

□ A brochure on CIS COBOL 

□ A brochure on FORMS-2 
[ ~\ A set of Applications Notes 

(Qty) CIS COBOL manual(s) at $75 

(inc. p+p) for which I enclose a check 
for$ 

My chief interest is in; (please tick box) 

□ 8080 

□ 8086 

□ UNIX 

□ Apple II 

Name 

Position 

Company 

Address 

Tel No 



Circle 242 on inquiry card. 



MEMORY 



f 



MEMORY BUS 







PROCESSOR 



INTERRUPT REQUEST 



t 



I/O BUS 



1 



INTERFACES 



Figure 4: A computer system with memory bus, I/O bus, and added interrupt line. 
Interrupts allow the processor to start I/O processes, then go on to other tasks. The 
peripheral uses the interrupt line to indicate readiness for another transaction. 



the next transaction. 

Interrupting 

Waiting for peripherals is tolerable 
if the computer has nothing else to 
do. Often, however, there are many 
other things the computer could be 
doing, making the handshaking I/O 
highly inefficient. Fortunately, most 
computers now offer an alternative 
called interrupt I/O. 

Let's first make clear exactly what 
will be interrupted. The computer is 
continuously executing a program in 
its memory. If there's no user pro- 
gram running, then at least the 
operating system will be. Thus there 
are at least two program levels in the 
computer, with the higher level being 
the user program, usually written in a 
language such as BASIC. 

Because microprocessors can't run 
a BASIC program directly (although 
that day isn't far off), they use a 
lower-level program called an inter- 
preter, which is written in a machine 
language the processor can run direct- 
ly. The interpreter takes the BASIC 
program and interprets it by deciding 
which machine-language routines to 
call to perform the tasks requested in 
the BASIC program. Another type of 
lower-level program, a compiler, can 
translate a high-level language pro- 
gram into machine code. I'll consider 
only interpreters here. 

Interrupts are hardware mech- 
anisms that force the processor to 
leave the part of the program it's ex- 
ecuting and start executing the code 
in a different location in memory. 
Figure 4 shows the I/O bus with an 
interrupt request line added. That's 
the only change the bus needs in 
order to add interrupt capability. 

Interruption takes place at the 
machine-code level. It's helpful in 
synchronizing external events with 
the computer program but must be 
used carefully. Let's take an example. 

Suppose a user program asks the 
computer to calculate the value of 



2.5 + 2.5, produce the resulting 
value on a printer, then calculate the 
value of 3 + 3. The computer will 
first execute the BASIC interpreter's 
routine for floating-point addition 
and produce the first sum: 5.00. Then 
there will be six characters to print: 5, 
., 0, 0, < CR> , and < LF> . < CR> 
and <LF> are carriage return and 
linefeed characters usually sent to ad- 
vance the printer to the next line on 
the paper. 

Assume the addition takes around 
two milliseconds. If the printer pro- 
duces ten characters per second, it 
will take 0.6 seconds to print the first 
answer (actually, a little more time 
will be needed because carriage return 
and linefeed take extra time on most 
printers). 

Handshake I/O requires the com- 
puter to wait the full 0.6 seconds 
before calculating the second sum 
because the computer is waiting to 
send the printer another character 
during that time. 

Interrupt I/O's alternative is to 
place characters to be printed in a 
buffer somewhere in memory. Inter- 
rupt routines can then withdraw 
characters from this buffer whenever 
the printer can accept them, and the 
computer can push on through the 
program. 

Interrupting Machine Code 

When the first character to be 
printed is removed from the buffer 
and sent to the printer, the printer in- 
terface "goes busy," transferring the 
character to the printer and waiting 
for a signal that indicates completion 
of the printing. Meanwhile, the com- 
puter can proceed to the next BASIC 
statement. When that first character 
has finally been printed, the printer 
will "go ready" for the next one. At 
that time, the printer interface will in- 
terrupt the processor and request 
another character. 

Note that the machine code inter- 
preter is interrupted, not the BASIC 



program. The flow of execution of 
the BASIC statements is not changed 
but merely halted while the interrup- 
tion is serviced. The interpreter, how- 
ever, does branch to a different 
routine. This special routine, also in 
machine code, is called an interrupt 
service routine. The author of the 
BASIC program doesn't have to write 
interrupt service routines for Hewlett- 
Packard desktop computers, as need- 
ed routines are provided in the inter- 
preter. This is convenient because in- 
terrupt service routines must handle 
many factors. 

An interrupt forces a branch to the 
location in memory where the inter- 
rupt service routine is stored. If the 
processor doesn't remember where it 
was before the interruption, the pro- 
cessor will be unable to return to that 
location. In fact, the processor will be 
"lost" and unable to continue process- 
ing. Most microprocessors auto- 
matically save the address of the loca- 
tion being executed before the inter- 
rupt, and a return from the interrupt 
is sufficient to store that address. 

If the interrupt routine uses any of 
the internal registers in the processor, 
the routine must carefully save the 
contents of these registers before 
using them. This procedure is called 
context switching because the reg- 
isters will be used for a different pur- 
pose in the interrupt service routine 
than in the main program. Upon 
completion of the interrupt service 
routine, the routine must restore the 
saved values of the registers. 

Interrupting BASIC 

Occasionally, the buffered I/O 
routines for servicing interrupts are 
not sufficient for handling a problem. 
Some interrupts are more complex 
than those needed for data transfer. 
Maybe the computer is monitoring a 
water system and the dam bursts. 
Such crises require the processor's im- 
mediate attention; a simple data 
transfer will not suffice. A branch is 
needed in the high-level program to a 
special high-level routine written to 
handle the interrupt. You did write 
the "Dam Burst" routine, didn't you? 

Interrupting a program in BASIC 
or another high-level language is con- 
siderably more complex than inter- 



134 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 274 on Inquiry card. 



If you think two dimensions 
of computer calculating power 
have been useful, wait until 
you get your hands on three. 










NEC Introduces Report 
Manager™ for the PC-8000 
microcomputer, giving you an 
astounding mastery of labels, 
numbers, and formulas in a 
unique 3-dimensional matrix, 
the "Data Cube.'™ 

All the power and flexibility of 
the best electronic spread 
sheet ever created... now 
available with an axis of depth 
in addition to the standard 
horizontal and vertical. 

You get an electronic book, not 
just an electronic page. Easy as 
A, B, C.and powerful as X, Y, Z! 

The best way to learn about the solid 
wonders of Report Manager is to see it 
in action. 

Three dimensions of calculating power, 
not just two: Unprecedented flexibility 
in any direction. Powerful editing 
commands to change or add to 
contents of a cell. Versatile report 
features that allow easy control over 
portions of data, columns on a page, 
pages on a row, etc. Four independent 
viewing regions can be created on the 
same screen. And there are built-in time 
and calendar functions, so you can 
manage duration as well as dimension. 

See Report Manager run on the 
PC-8000 at your nearest NEC Home 
Electronics (USA) dealer. 



Sample printout showing use of X, Y, and Z axes. 

Report Manager and Data Cube are trademarks of The Image Producers, Inc. 



Productivity 

at your fingertips 



NEC 



NEC Home Electronics (USA) 
Personal Computer Division 

1401 Estes Avenue 

Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 



ANOTHER CRATE IDEA 
FROM ALTOS! 

The complete multi-purpose, multi-terminal 

desktop business computer system 

with a built-in tutor. 



Get everything you need to com- 
puterize your business. An Altos 
Series 5 computer, with highly reliable 
5 MByte Winchester hard disk that 
stores up to 1,800 pages. Three 
of our new smart terminals, and 
a speedy draft quality printer. Plus 
an Altos Computer Tutor, the self- 
teaching business software package. 

All for less than $4 a day 
per user. 

For a quick, productive start, 
the Altos Computer Tutor provides 
simple, self-paced, step-by-step 
instructions and training. 

Operators will become faster 
and much more accurate 
because, when you have an 
Altos system, it's like having 
F three computers in one. 
While your bookkeeper 
prepares payroll, other 
users can check inven- 
i^ tory, look up needed 

information, or produce 
error-free reports. Plus 
Altos lets you com- 
municate with other 
computers, main 
frames, and even 
-allows networking. 
Need more? 
For less than $1 a 
day additional, each 
user can also have 
WordStar™ for 





word processing and Microplan™ 
for business analysis. And your Altos 
dealer has hundreds of other popular 
CP/M® MP/M 11™ and OASIS applica- 
tions programs for Altos computers. 
And most importantly, he can 
arrange for on-site service, 
nationwide. 

Join thousands of businesses, 
professionals and institutions who 
rely on Altos. 

Call our toll free number. We'll 
put you in touch with your local Altos 
sales and service dealer who'll crate 
an Altos business computer system 
just for you. 

"Complete 3 user system for $4 a day per user. Price approxi- 
mate and may vary in your area. Daily lease based on $1 3.800 
principal. 20% annual interest, five year term. Packaged system 
includes Altos Series 5-5D computer with 5 MByte Winchester 
hard disk, draft quality printer, three Altos 1 smart terminals, 
and the Altos Computer Tutor software package. Price does 
not include tax. installation, training and maintenance. 



Packed with 
fresh ideas 
for business 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

2360 Bering Drive 

San Jose, California 95131 

800-538-7872 

(In Calif. 800-662-6265) 



WordStar is a trademark of MicroPro International Corp. 
Microplan is a trademark of Chang Laboratories. Inc. 
CP/M is a registered trademark and MP/M II is a 
trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 
OASIS is a product of Phase One Systems. Inc. 
■'1982 Altos Computer Systems 



Circle 18 on inquiry card. 



rupting a machine-language routine 
for data transfer. High-level state- 
ments can affect large portions of 
memory through the use of variables, 
arrays, and strings. If a variablejs in 
the process of being changed when 
the interrupt comes in and the BASIC 
interrupt routine uses that same 
variable, the interrupt routine may 
use the wrong value or a garbled 
value. If the dam has burst and you 
need to close some locks downstream 
immediately to save a town, you and 
the townspeople have a strong in- 
terest in seeing that the interrupt 
routine uses the right value. 

End of the Line 

To prevent such problems, Hew- 
lett-Packard desktop computers 
allow the BASIC program to be inter- 
rupted only at the completion of pro- 
gram line execution. This feature is 
called end-of-line branching because 
the branch to a BASIC interrupt ser- 
vice routine is allowed only when the 
end of a line is reached. The interrupt 
may occur at any time and will be 



logged in, but it will not be serviced 
until the end of the current program 
line. 

Machine-code or low-level inter- 
rupts are generally called hardware 
interrupts because the processor 
hardware grants the interrupt request 
and performs the subsequent branch- 
ing. Interrupts to the BASIC or high- 
level program are called software in- 
terrupts because several instructions 
in the operating system are required 
to log in the interrupt, request an end- 
of-line branch, then take control of 
program flow at the end of the line. 

A Misunderstanding 

A classic example of misunder- 
standing interrupt operations occurs 
whenever a first-time writer of inter- 
rupt service routines tries to use an in- 
terrupt for input. The typical pro- 
grammer will enable the interface to 
interrupt and expect that when the in- 
terrupt comes, the interface will have 
the desired data. Unfortunately, the 
interface interrupts when it isn't busy. 
This may happen when the interface 




Carbonless checks, invoices and statements 

'"k Standard formats. ..plus Custom Design Service! 

"if Small quantities (as low as 500). ..plus money-saving prices! 

"A" Super-fast service (shipped 5 days after receipt of order!) 

SEND COUPON. ..OR CALL TOLL-FREE: 1-800-328-9697. 




wasn't told to do anything or when 
an operation has completed. Since the 
interrupt routine didn't originally 
make the interface busy by requesting 
a data input operation before the in- 
terrupt was enabled, the interface in- 
terrupts immediately but has nothing 
to offer. Such a miswritten interrupt 
routine always produces incorrect in- 
formation on the first data transfer. 
Remember, to use interrupts proper- 
ly, you must see that data transfer is 
started before interrupts are enabled. 
That way, the first interrupt will oc- 
cur when the first data transfer is 
complete. 

DMA: The I/O Superhighway 

Thus far, I've covered the hard- 
ware within a computer and the inter- 
facing circuitry necessary to interface 
peripheral devices with computers. 
All the discussions have assumed that 
the computer processor is in control 
of the data-transfer process, which is 
true for many peripheral devices. The 
processor is usually fast enough so 
that the peripheral determines the 
data-transfer rate. 

Some devices, however, are too 
fast for processor-controlled I/O. 
These devices can handle data at rates 
approaching the speed of the com- 
puter memory and therefore require a 
different I/O technique. One tech- 
nique for interfacing these fast 
peripherals is called direct memory 
access. 

If the peripheral device is slightly 
slower than the computer processor, 
the processor may be able to execute 
only the few machine instructions 
needed for the I/O transfer before the 
peripheral is ready for another 
transfer. In that case, there's a good 
match between the I/O software and 
the peripheral speeds, and program- 
med I/O will suffice for the task. 

Some peripherals, however, are 
too fast for the processor to execute 
even the few instructions needed to 
perform programmed I/O. As long as 
these peripherals are not faster than 
the computer's basic memory cycle, 
direct memory access can perform the 
required I/O. 

In order to discuss DMA and how 
it works, we must return to the model 
of the processor/memory/I/O sys- 



138 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Ire 



Circle 125 on inquiry card. 



SUPERVYZ-THE NEXT INDUSTRY STANDARD 



SUPERVYZ is a revolutionary 
software concept designed to 
overcome the frustrations of 
using CP/M®This allows you to 
crack any non-technical market 
without the hassles of teaching 
the operating system. Instead, 
users are greeted with a series 
of self-prompting, self- 
explaining menus linking the 
user directly to the application. 
We'll supply the menus or you 
create your own, to meet the 
exact needs of your customers. 
SUPERVYZ presents unlimited 
software flexibility by providing 
a system to coordinate multiple 
application programs. The 
menus tie it all together, 
allowing program interaction. 
Even the most complicated 
commands between programs 
can be a simple menu choice. 



Dealer inquiries invited, 
foreign or domestic. 




SOFTWARE 



Epic Computer Corporation 
7542 Trade Street 
San Diego, CA 92121 
Tel: 714-695-3560 

Circle 155 on Inquiry card. 



INTRODUCTORY 
RETAIL PRICE 

$95 

'Calif, orders 6% sales tax 
or resale number 



MANUFACTURERS 

Ship SUPERVYZ with every 
computer you sell. SUPERVYZ 
means software support 
interactive help files . . . dealer 
confidence . . . instant foreign 
market access . . . vertical 
market packaging . . . more 
computer sales! 

DEALERS 

Buy SUPERVYZ as a separate 
program . . . bundle software 
from different suppliers . . . 
demonstrate capabilities, not 
confusion . . . sell computers 
more efficiently - SUPERVYZ 
does the teaching . . . end after- 
the-sale handholding . . . 
SOFTWARE SPECIALISTS 
Package SUPERVYZ into every 
system you deliver . . . 
SUPERVYZ is compatible with 
over 2000 programs, 300 
computers. Target your market 
with SUPERVYZ. 
USERS 

Insist on SUPERVYZ . . . don't 
buy a computer without it. 



Sel Current Dale and Time 
Select Default Disk and User 
Add or Change SUPERVYZ Menus 
Extended Volume table ol Content 
File and Disk Support Functions 



Default Dtive a A 
A ACCOUNTS MNU 
A SUPERVYZ MNU 



SUPCftVSJZ 

YOUR NEW MARKETING TOOL 

FOR INCREASED 
SALES OF CP/M 
COMPUTERS 
AND 

APPLICATION 
SOFTWARE 



SUPERVYZ Funrlmn SekCtfofl Menu 



1? 34 56 PM 



fij Accounting (A/R A/P G/L P/ft 0/E) 

7) Data Base inquiry and Repotting 

8) Wotd Processing 

9) Data Entry and Verification 
ifl) Forecasting and Planning 



Volume Table ol Contents ivion) Delaull llset - 

V DATABASE MNU j ' A DATANTRY MNU 

* FORECAST MNU J i A W0RDPH0C MNU 



Push ± arrow lor more 



'Supervyz is a trademark of Epic Computer 
Corporation. CP/M is a trademark of Digital 
Research. 



MEMORY 



Cm 



EMORY BUS 



D 



PROCESSOR 



BUS 
REQUEST 



INTERRUPT REQUEST 



BUS 
GRANT 



\ DMA f- 

J MACHINE V 



I/O BUS 







INTERFACES 



DMA REQUEST 



Figure 5: A computer system with an added DMA (direct memory access) machine. 
The DMA machine, which parallels the processor, can generate the signals necessary 
for controlling both the memory bus and the I/O bus. 



tern. Recall that the processor is 
linked to the memory via a set of lines 
called a memory bus and to the I/O 
interfaces via an I/O bus. Both buses 
require the processor to generate ad- 
dress signals and control signals to 
synchronize the flow of data over 
these buses. 

Generally, I/O consists of taking 
information from the interfaces 
through the I/O bus and transmitting 
this information to the memory using 
the memory bus — or vice versa. Dur- 
ing this transfer, the processor is also 
using the memory and memory bus to 
supply machine instructions so that it 
knows how to effect the data trans- 
actions. If you assume that the pro- 
cessor takes only nine machine in- 
structions to perform one data trans- 
action, you can see that the effective 
I/O throughput is only ten percent of 
the rate that the memory could sup- 
port. That is, of every ten memory 
cycles, nine instruct the processor and 
only one places data for I/O. Only 
the simplest data transactions can be 
performed with nine machine instruc- 
tions. Formatting and code conver- 
sions require many more instructions. 

The only way to speed up the I/O 
process is to eliminate the slowest link 
in the data path. For high-speed 
peripherals, the slowest link is clearly 
the processor itself! How can you 
eliminate the processor when it's the 
component that links the I/O and 
memory buses and is required for 
generation of the signals that actually 
make these buses work? The answer 
is to build a specialized circuit de- 
signed to transfer data at the full 
speed of memory. Since this transfer 
is the only function this circuitry 
must perform, the capability can be 
wired into the circuit. Instructions 
from memory, which would reduce 



the effective memory bandwidth, are 
not needed. 

By placing this special circuitry so 
that it bridges the I/O and memory 
buses and also by giving it the 
capability of generating the address 
and control signals required by these 
buses, you then have a machine that 
can perform I/O at the full speed of 
memory. Such special circuitry is 
called a direct memory access 
machine. Figure 5 shows how one 
might add a DMA machine to the I/O 
bus. 

All that remains is to decide which 
device will have control of the buses: 
the processor or the DMA machine. 
Normally, the processor will have 
control of the buses, since the DMA 
I/O must be infrequent enough to 
allow some processing to get done. 
The DMA machine must therefore 
have a way to acquire bus control 
from the processor whenever nec- 
essary. The processor can enable the 
DMA machine to request bus control, 
but the interface must actually re- 
quest service through the DMA 
machine because only the interface 
knows when an attached peripheral 
requires DMA service. Thus some 
connecting signals must exist between 
the interface and the DMA machine 
and between the DMA machine and 
the processor. To give the interface a 
means of requesting service from the 
DMA machine, let's add a signal called 
DMA Request (DMAR) to the collec- 
tion of signal lines on the I/O bus. 

Upon receipt of a DMA Request, 
the DMA machine must request bus 
control from the processor. If the pro- 
cessor decides that the request comes 
at an inopportune time, it can tem- 
porarily withhold transfer of control. 
This is a job for the ever-present hand- 
shake! Let's create two handshake 



lines, Bus Request and Bus Grant. 
The DMA machine will ask for bus 
control with Bus Request and will 
take control after receiving a signal 
on Bus Grant. As a result, the pro- 
cessor can maintain control of the 
memory and address buses as long as 
required. 

The kind of DMA I've been dis- 
cussing is called burst DMA because 
the data transfer is done in a burst 
during which the DMA machine 
totally controls the memory and I/O 
buses. This provides the I/O with the 
full speed of the memory bus at the 
expense of completely halting pro- 
cessor activity. If half the memory 
bus bandwidth were sufficient to 
solve the high-speed I/O problem, we 
could use another type of DMA 
called cycle-steal DMA. In the cycle- 
steal arrangement, the DMA machine 
alternates control of the buses with 
the processor, each using every other 
memory cycle. Cycle-steal DMA 
allows the processor to operate at 50 
percent efficiency while still pro- 
viding relatively high-speed I/O. 

Summary 

It would simplify matters greatly if 
all devices could agree on data rep- 
resentation, format, signal levels, 
timing, or even the number of wires 
used for interconnection. Attempts at 
standardization have been made, but 
the swift pace of computer tech- 
nology renders some standards ob- 
solete before they're published. In ad- 
dition, the need for compromises 
seems to arise with every new system. 
Older equipment also needs to be in- 
terconnected; otherwise, replacement 
of a computer would dictate replace- 
ment of the entire system. 

Fortunately, present technology 
can reach backward as well as for- 
ward. The computer itself can make 
adaptations, since computers excel at 
changing one value into another. Fur- 
thermore, interface circuitry that 
links the computer's memory or I/O 
bus to the I/O of the peripheral 
device can overcome hardware in- 
compatibility. Next month I'll discuss 
two basic types of hardware interface 
presently used in computer systems: 
the parallel and HPIB (GPIB) inter- 
faces. ■ 



140 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Ire 



-Whitesmiths, Ltd? 



is now shipping Pascal Compilers 

for 10 (count em ten) different 

operating system families: 




CP/M, CDOS 




RSX-11M, RSTS/E, IAS 
ldris/R11, UNIX/V6, UNIX/V7 




UNIX/32V 



'Available in source form only. 

Idris is a trademark of Whitesmiths, Ltd. ■ UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories ■ CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research ■ RSX-l IM, RSTS/E. 
RT- 1 1 , and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation ■ VERSAdos is a trademark of Motorola Inc. 

All implementations support the full ISO Pascal (Level 0). All pass the 
Tasmanian Validation Suite with flying colors. And all are free of those tempting 
non-standard extensions-because we added the only extension you need. 

Separate Compilation. 

You can partition your Pascal program into separately maintainable files. 
You can write library functions to add to the extensive set we give you (about 100 
of them). And you can mix in modules written in other languages, like assembler 
(if you must) or C (to preserve portability). 

In fact, C language support comes with every Pascal Compiler we sell. 

Our native Pascal Compilers are only $950, including shipping in the con- 
tinental U.S. Cross Compilers, for most combinations of host system and target 
machine, $1350. Interested? Write or call. 

Distributors: Australia, Fawnray Pty Ltd., Brighton-Le-Sands 522 5574 
japan, Advance Industries, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-258-0839 
United Kingdom, Real Time Systems, Newcastle upon Tyne 0632 733131 



'Whitesmiths, Ltd: 



P.O. Box 1132 Ansonia Station New York, N.Y. 10023 (212) 799-1200 Telex 645 592 



A BASIC Plotting Subroutine 

Sophisticated Plotting with Your MX-80 



Since the introduction of the 
MX-80 printer, several articles have 
described most of its outstanding fea- 
tures, including the remarkable print 
quality for the price. I'd like to show- 
case another great feature of this 
printer: its ability to plot data curves. 
By combining its features with simple 
software routines, the MX-80 can 
emulate sophisticated plotters. 

Plotter Criteria 

Several features constitute a good 
plotting routine. First, it should be a 
subroutine that, when called, plots 
data generated in the main program 
and, if needed, returns to the main 
program with the data unmodified 
for further processing. Second, the 
plot routine should be automatically 
scaling so that the operator of the 
main program doesn't have to worry 
about keeping tabs on all the max- 
imum and minimum values sent to 
the plotting routine. Last but not 
least, the hard-copy output should 
have enough resolution to allow in- 

About the Author 

Lawrence ]. Bregoli has a bachelor's degree 
in electrical engineering and is currently 
employed as a research engineer working on 
electrochemical aspects of fuel cell research 
at UTC in South Windsor, CT. 



Lawrence J. Bregoli 

106 South Longyard Rd. 

Southwick, MA 01077 



terpretation of the data. After all, 
that's why a plot was deemed 
necessary in the first place. 

Once a linefeed is 

generated, there's no 

turning back. 

The MX-80 printer easily meets 
these criteria, as evidenced by figure 
1. The plot is a straight line of the 
form y = mx + b. Note that the plot- 
ting routine provides its own graph 
paper by inserting horizontal and ver- 
tical grid lines; legends for both axes 
are included. Ah, you say, any print 
routine could handle a straight line 
with ease. Figure 2 is a better test of 
the printer and plotting routine. 
Here, concentric circles are plotted 
with radii of 1 and 0.5. Note that the 
auto-scaling routines in this case must 
handle both positive and negative 
values, and that, although the circles 
are not perfect, they have enough res- 
olution for most plotting applica- 
tions. 

Resolution of these plots is set by 
the maximum number of data points 
allowed by the plotting routine. In 
the plots shown, the number of points 



was limited to 101 X,Y pairs. The 
number of points chosen was based 
on several criteria. First, the max- 
imum number of print positions that 
can be set in the horizontal direction 
is 132. Using 101 of these positions 
for data plotting leaves 31 positions 
for printing the Y-axis scale values 
and the Y-axis title. In the vertical 
direction, the MX-80 can be set so 
that every linefeed increment moves 
the paper up by as little as V 72 inch. 
Therefore, resolution to a single 
printed dot can be obtained. I chose 
only 101 points in the vertical direc- 
tion for several practical reasons. In 
most cases, this is all the resolution 
needed to obtain a smooth fit of the 
data. Most important, though, each 
data point plotted takes time to print, 
and the increased printing time is not 
warranted in most cases. 

About the Program 

The program for generating the 
plots, shown in listing 1, was written 
in Microsoft MBASIC 5. The size 
of the program can be cut down 
considerably by removing the REM 
statements and by combining several 
program lines into one multiple-state- 
ment line. As written, the program 
doesn't need a main program to gen- 



142 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MORROW D 



$?1 & 



•'*%-% 



Leading edge technology 
in hard disk systems. 



Complete systems. Morrow 
Designs hard disk subsystems 
are delivered complete with hard 
disk, controller, cabinet, power 
supply, tan, cables and CP/M" 
2.2 operating system. 
Widest range. Morrow Designs 
offers the widest range of hard 
disk systems available from a sin- 
gle supplier. b l M',' 8," 14." Five to 
over 100 megabytes of formatted 
hard disk storage. $2,995 to 
$17,980. Cost effective systems 
that work. And keep working. 
S-100 and more. Morrow Designs 
hard disk systems are designed 
for use with the CP/M operating 
system. Available soft- 
ware packages allow our "=*"' 
systems to run on any 
IEEE696/S-100 Standard 
system with no hard- 
ware modification. 
Plus, Cromemco*** North 
Star** Vector Graphics, 
Godbout, Dynabyte, 
Exidy**** IMSAI, Micro- 
mation, Processor Tech- 
nology and California 
Computer Systems. 

Reliable systems. Morrow Designs is com- 
mitted to hard disk system reliability. Not 
simply with a 90-day warranty, but with a money 
back guarantee. If our system fails to perform to 
specification, send it back. We'll send back 
your money. 




Experience. As of April, 1981, 
there were over fifteen hun- 
dred Morrow Designs hard disk 
systems successfully installed. 
In fact, over 200 independent 
systems integrators now use 
our hard disks to solve their 
mass storage problems. 
Performance answers. Morrow 
Designs hard disk systems have 
been benchmarked against all 
other systems. None is faster 
under CP/M. Morrow Designs 
hard disks operate at 10 times 
the speed of a floppy disk 
drive. Transfer rates range from 
590,000 bytes to 900,000 bytes 
per second. That kind of perfor- 
mance can become addictive. 
Cost effective answers. Compare 
Morrow prices and performance 
to anything presently available 
for S-100 systems. You'll find 
Morrow's price/megabyte/ 
performance ratio to be 
unmatched. Leadership in 
disk systems technology 
earned us leadership in 
price/performance. And 
that may have earned us 
a call from you. Circle the 
Reader Service Number- 
for our full line data sheets. 
Can't wait? Call us at (415) 
524-2101. And yes, OEM quantity prices are 
available. LOOK TO MORROW FOR ANSWERS. 

MORROW OE5IGN5 



'CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 
'Northstar is a trademark of North Star Computers. Inc. 
"Cromemco is a trademark of Cromemco, Inc. 
' Exidy is a trademark of Exidy Corporation. 



5221 Central Avenue, Richmond, CA 94804 
(415)524-2101 

Circle 266 on inquiry card. 






STRAIGHT LINE 



Y=mX+b, b=0 



100.00 ■ 



90.00 



BO. 00 



70.00 



T 50.00 





30.00 



0°°! 

r : 



-t t- 



o.oo \p 1 

0.00 10. 

Figure 1: Sample plot of a straight line using auto-scaling (y = mx + b, b — O) 



•i 



i t t- 

0.00 10.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 50,00 40.00 70.00 BO. 00 90.00 100.00 

K AXIS -- AUTO SCALED 



CONCENTRIC CIRCLES- >Radi i = i and 0. ! 



O.B0 



0.40 



-0.20 



-0.B0 



-1.00 



t— -«— -t~ 

o : 



-t— o — et — o— t- 



h o 



o 1 



o ! 
o; 



o 
o 
-« — t 



— -t- 

-1.00 -O.B> 



-i +— +--«- i «-- 1 1 r t 1 

0.60 -0.40 -0.20 0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 O.B0 1.00 



COSINE AXIS 

Figure 2: Sample plot of concentric circles using auto-scaling (radii = l and 0.5). 



erate X, Y data sets. It was written this 
way so that it could be tested im- 
mediately for errors using data gen- 
erated in lines 5120 through 5200. In 
normal operation, the DIM statement 
in line 5160 would be in the calling 
program, and the entry point to the 
plotting routine would be at line 
5250. Line 5670 would also be 
changed from END to RETURN. 

Lines 5250 through 5310 allow the 
user to enter the graph's title and 
legends for the X and Y axes. These 
strings are then centered in 50-char- 
acter strings so they are printed at the 
center of the X and Y axes, indepen- 
dent of the title or legend length. 
Manual or automatic scaling can then 
be selected by answering the prompt 
in line 5320. 

The main body (lines 5460 to 5670) 
and its subroutines are where the real 
plotting action occurs. Most dot- 
matrix printers print from the top of 
the page down and do not allow this 
top-down mode to be reversed. The 
MX-80 also fits into this category. 
The resulting limitation forces special 
handling of the data to be printed so 
that all the data of a given Y value is 
printed on a line before the next line- 
feed occurs. Once a linefeed is gen- 
erated, there's no turning back to 
print another data point on the line 
above it. 

In the main body, the first few lines 
set up the printer for 132 characters 
per line and V 36 inch per linefeed. 
With these settings, a plot size of 
somewhat over 5V 2 inches in both 
directions is obtained when two line- 
feeds are performed for each of 101 
data positions in the Y direction. Line 
5520 performs a very important func- 
tion in that it converts the line 
number position presently being 
pointed to on the plot to a numeric 
value proportionate to the total span 
of the data, which is set by the max- 
imum and minimum scale values. (I 
didn't even understand that!) In other 
words, consider line number 100 to 
be at the top of the plot and line 
number at the bottom; also suppose 
that y MAX = l and Y M /n=-1 as 
shown in figure 2. Then, if the present 
line number were 20 lines down from 
the top, the value of YN would be: 



144 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Systems IK €x 



a total business system. 



JOB COSTING MENU 

1. TRANSACTION ENTRY/DATE 

2. JOB/TASK TABLE MAINTENANCE 

3. JOB COST FILE MAINTENANCE 

4. JOB COST REPORTING 

5. EMPLOYEE TABLE MAINTENANCE 

6. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 

SELECT |1-6|? 



SYSTEMS II EX 
MASTER MENU 

1. INVENTORY 7. CHART OF ACCTS. 

2. PAYABLES B. VENDOR MAINT. 

3. RECEIVABLES 9. CUST. MAINT. 

4. PAYROLL 10. CHANGE BATE 

5. LEDGER 11. SYS/BACKUP 

6. JOURNAL 12. STOP PROCSS'G. 
' 13. OPTIONAL PROCSS'G. 
L SELECT 11-13)7 



DATABASE MENU 

1. FILE MAINTENANCE 

2. REPORTS/REPORT MAINT. 

3. UTILITIES 

4. RETURN TO SYSTEM MENU 

SELECT (14)? 



skLg 



ACCOUNTS PAYABLES MENU 



1. FILE MAINTENANCE 

2. PAYMENT SELECTION 

3. PRINT CHECKS AND REGISTER 

4. MONTH END 

5. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 

SELECT |1-5|? 



RECEIVABLES SYSTEM MENU 

1. FILE MAINTENANCE 

2. RECEIPT OF PAYMENTS 

3. GENERATE BILLING 

4. MONTH END 

5. PAST DUE REPORT 



7. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 
. SELECT |1-7|? 



LEDGER SYSTEM MENU 

1. FILE MAINTENANCE 

2. BAL SHEET/INCOME STATEMENT 

3. YEAR END PROCESS 

4. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 

SELECT |1-4|? 



INVENTORY SYSTEM MENU 
TIME DATE 

1. FILE MAINTENANCE 

2. POINT OF SALES 

, 3. REORDER REPORT 
4. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 
I SELECT (1-4)? 



STATE 
PAYROLL MENU 

1. MISC/TAX TABLE MAINT. 

2. TRANSACTION FILE 

3. MISC. PAY/DEDUCTION FILE 

4. EMPLOYEE MASTER FILE 

5. CALCULATE/PRINT CHECKS 

6. PRINT W2s 

7. RETURN TO MASTER MENU 
SELECT |1-7|? 



SYSTEMS II EX — EX for EXTENDED 
PERFORMANCE. Westware brings you the 
most completely integrated and simplest to 
use business software for your Apple 
Computer. The SYSTEMS II EX is complete 
with an integrated Database. Yes! The DBII 
Database can move your system's files into 
Database format for customized reports or 
labels. 

Although the SYSTEMS II EX is a fully 
integrated system, you may purchase 




individual modules and later add additional 
modules, such as Job Costing for 
contractors. The power of our system is in 
the KSAM Firmware card that plugs into the 
Apple. This card permits high speed 
searches and eliminates running sort 
routines to get your files in order. 

SYSTEMS II is available on 5%" drives, and 
also on the Corvus hard disk. A Corvus 
based system will give you the power and 
capacity that challenges larger computers. 



COMING SOON — Cash flow analysis with 
graphics, Database II with graphics, and Bill 
of Materials for small manufacturers. 

CURRENT OPTIONS AVAILABLE — Job 
Costing, Cycle Invoicing, Order entry, and 
Layaway. 

All Checks, statements and invoices use 
NEBS forms. 

Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computers. 



Systems E€x 

2455 S.W. 4th Ave. 
Suite 2 

Ontario, OR 97914 
(503) 881-1477 
Circle 411 on Inquiry card. 



Yes. please send 
me your Systems II 
Demo Package. 



2^ □ Yes, I would like to sample your software. Please 
send me the Systems II Demo Package. My check 
for $25 is enclosed. 




2455 S.W. 4th Ave. 
Suite 2 

Ontario, OR 97914 
(503) 881-1477 



Name. 
Title _ 



Company Name. 
Address 



City 



State . 



Zip. 



Listing 1: Program listing of MX-80 plotting routine, written in Microsoft MBASIC 5. 



5000 
5010 
5020 
5030 
5040 
5050 
5O60 
5070 
50B0 
5090 
5100 
5110 
5120 
5130 
5140 
5150 
5160 
5170 
5175 
5180 
5185 
5186 
5187 
5190 
5200 
5210 
5220 
5230 
5240 
5250 
5260 
5270 
5280 
5290 
5300 
5310 
5320 
5330 
5340 
5350 
5360 
5370 
5380 
5390 
5400 
5410 
5420 
5430 
5440 
5450 
5460 
5470 
5480 
5490 
5500 
5510 
5520 
5530 
5540 
5550 
5560 
5570 
5580 
5590 
5600 
5610 
5620 
5630 
5640 
5650 
5660 
5670 
5680 
5690 
5700 
5710 
5720 
5730 
5740 
5750 
5760 
5770 
57B0 
5790 
5B00 
5810 
5820 
5830 
5840 
5850 
5B60 
5870 
5880 
5890 
5900 
5910 
5920 
5930 



REM 

REM »tnt*nt*i»mi*«tn»ist««t«nmitH«m**»iiiit*»tuttti* 

REM * PLOT PROGRAM FOR MX-80 * 

REM * BY * 

REM * LAWRENCE J. BREBOLI * 

REM ************************************************************** 

REM 

REM ************************************************************** 

REM * USE THE FOLLOWING SPACE TO CALCULATE A 101 BY 101 * 

REM * DATA ARRAY IN X(I> AND Y(I). * 

REM * ENTER PROGRAM BELOW THIS SECTION IF ARRAY EXISTS * 

REM ************************************************************** 

REM 

REM 

REM SAMPLE ARRAY->CONCENTRIC CIRCLES 

REM 

DIM Y(101) ,X(101) :REM MOVE DIM TO MAIN PROGRAM 

FOR 1=0 TO 50 

X(I>=SIN(I*6. 282/50) : Y ( I ) =COS ( I *6. 282/50 ) 

NEXT I 

FOR 1=51 TO 100 

J=I-50 

X(I)=.5*SIN(J*6. 282/50) : Y ( I ) =. 5*C0S ( J*6. 282/50) 

NEXT I 

REM 

REM ************************************************************** 

REM * ENTER TITLE OF PLOT AND AXIS LEGENDS * 

REM •t*«t*»«tit»i»m»ti»tim*i;H»i*m*»ut»t»t»i*»ttmiiti*u 

REM 

XTITLE*=SPACE* <50) : YTITLE*=SPACE* (50) : PTITLE*=SPACE* (50) 

LINE INPUT "ENTER TITLE OF PLOT (SO CHARACTERS OR LESS) " ; T* 

LINE INPUT "ENTER Y AXIS TITLE (50 CHARACTERS OR LESS) " j Y* 

LINE INPUT "ENTER X AXIS TITLE (50 CHARACTERS OR LESS) ";X» 

MID*(YTITLE», (LEN (YTITLE*) -LEN (Y*> )/2)=Y* 

MID*(XTITLE», (LEN(XTITLE*>-LEN(X*))/2)~X» 

MID*(PTITLE«, (LEN(PTITLE*)-LEN(T*> )/2>=T* 

INPUT "DO YOU WANT (A)UTO OR (M)ANUAL SCALING " ; Y» 

IF Y*="M" THEN 5360 

IF Y*="A" THEN GOSUB 6550 ELSE 5320 

GOTO 5460 

INPUT "ENTER MAXIMUM VALUE OF Y AXIS";YMAX 

INPUT "ENTER MINIMUM VALUE OF Y AXIS";YMIN 

INPUT "ENTER MAXIMUM VALUE OF X AXIS";XMAX 

INPUT "ENTER MINIMUM VALUE OF X AXIS";XMIN 

REM 

REM ************************************************************** 

REM * MAIN BODY OF PROGRAM STARTS HERE * 

REM ********************i***************************************** 

REM 

REM 

LPRINT:LPRINT:LPRINT TAB ( 15) :PTITLE»:REM 

LPRINT:LPRINT 

GOSUB 5810: REM 

LSPACE=2: GOSUB 5780: REM 

RST0P=20:CHAR*=" ! ": GOSUB 5850: REM 

FOR LNN0=100 TO O STEP -1 

YN=YMAX-( ( (YMAX-YMIN) /100) * (100-LNNO) > : REM 

YD=ABS( (YMAX-YMIN)/100) : REM 

GOSUB 6250: REM 

IF LNN0/2-FIX(LNN0/2)=0 THEN GOSUB 5910:REM 

GOSUB 6020: REM 

GOSUB 6140: REM 

LPRINT 

RST0P=20:CHAR*=" ! ": GOSUB 5850: REM 

LPRINT 

NEXT LNNO 

GOSUB 6350: REM 

GOSUB 6460: REM 

LSPACE=12: GOSUB 5780: REM 

GOSUB 5830: REM 

FOR 1-1 TO 23: LPRINT: NEXT I : REM 

END 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * END OF MAIN BODY-SUBROUTINES START HERE » 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PRINTER CONTROL SUBROUTINES « 

REM ********************************************* ****** 

REM 

LPRINT CHR*(27) "A"CHR* (LSPACE) CHR* (27) "2":REM EDIT WITH GRAFTRAX OPTION 

RETURN: REM SET LINE SPACING 

REM 

LPRINT CHR* (15) : RETURN: REM SET COMPRESSED MODE 

REM 

LPRINT CHR* ( IB) : RETURN: REM SET NORMAL MODE 

REM 

LPRINT SPC(RSTOP) ; CHAR*; : RETURN: REM PRINT CHAR AT RSTOP 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PLOT VERT I CLE LINE SUBROUTINE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

CHAR*=" i ":RST0P=20: LPRINT CHR* ( 13) :: GOSUB 5B50 

RST0P=9 

FOR 1=1 TO 10 

Listing 1 continued on page 148 



PRINT TITLE OF PLOT 

SET COMPRESSED CHAR MODE 
SET LINE SPACING 
FORCE CARRIAGE LEFT 

NORMALIZED Y VALUE 
VALUE OF EACH LINE 
PRINT VERTICAL TITLE 
PLOT VERTICAL LINES 
PLOT DATA 
PRINT HORIZONTAL LINE 

FORCE CARRIAGE LEFT 



PRINT X SCALE 
PRINT X AXIS TITLE 
SET NORMAL LINE SPACING 
SET NORMAL CHAR WIDTH 
TOP OF NEXT FORM 



YN = i-(((l-(-l))/100) 
X (100 - 80)) 
= 0.6 
This value is subsequently tested 
against the data in the PLOT DATA 
subroutine. If a match with any data 
in the Y array occurs, a point is plot- 
ted at the proper X position as deter- 
mined by the value in the correspon- 
ding X array. 

The overall action performed on 
any given line can be summed up as 
follows: 

1. The value of YN is calculated. 

2. A character in the Y-axis title is 
printed. 

3. The vertical grid line segments are 
printed. 

4. The data is plotted for that line, if 
any. 

5. If a horizontal line is called for, it's 
printed along with the scale. 

6. The cycle is repeated for the next 
line down. 

A special precaution must be taken 
to ensure exact horizontal indexing on 
printers like the MX-80, as they use 
bidirectional printing. Because the 
print head doesn't physically return 
to the left-hand stop each time a new 
line is printed, a slight but distracting 
misalignment occurs in the vertical 
grid lines. To overcome this, lines 
5500 and 5590 were inserted to force 
the print head to the left prior to each 
new line printed. If you take a close 
look at the left-hand vertical grid lines 
in figures 1 and 2, you can see this 
slight misalignment. If your par- 
ticular printer is perfectly aligned or if 
you can put up with a slight misalign- 
ment error, then remove these line 
numbers. Removal of these lines will 
save a lot of time in actually plotting 
the data. 

While I'm on the subject of time, 
it takes about eight minutes to com- 
plete a plot using the program shown 
in listing 1. This may seem a bit long 
to some users, but consider plotting 
101 X,Y points by hand from a table 
of data. I'd rather sip my coffee and 
watch the MX-80 go about that 
agony. Later, I'll discuss a way to 
take about two minutes off this time. 

Another program statement which 



146 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



APPLE • ALTOS • ATARI • MAXELL • DYSAN • EPSON • CCS • SHARP • CASIO • HP • VERBATIM • MEMOREX • SOROC • CORVUS • ADDS 



MICRO 



BUSINESS WORLD INC. 
Information Line (213) 996-2252 
TOLL FREE MAIL ORDER LINES 

(800) 423-5B86 Outside Calif 




OUR 



price $1995.00 Special Of The Mont ft 



MSL 
3250.00 

$** 
1255.00 



The HP83 



We Turn 

Problems 

Into Solutions 



HP DISC DRIVE 
Single Master 
Model 82902M 

Our Price 



Dual Master 
Model 82901M 



$1849.00 

MSL $1500.00 MSL $2500.00 



$1099.00 5^401.00 S^651 



00 




SHARP 
BUSINESS 
COMPUTER 
64K SYSTEM 

• 5.25" diskette 
' 284K byte per disk drive 
' 2 disk drives per unit 
' Expandable up to 4 units 

• Including SHARP'S FDOS (Floppy 
' Disk Operating System) 

MSL OUR PRICE C/^rA 

599500 $3995.00 &* J 



Complete 
System 

Including 
Printer 



>Ol HEWLETT 
KM PACKARD 

HP 125 Microcomputer 
HP-85 Microcomputer 
HP 83 Microcomputer 
liiK Exp Memory Module 
Graphics Plotter 7225 
Personality Mod. For 7225 
2631B Impact/Printer/ 

Hvy Dry 

Option 020 For 2631 B 
8 Drives to Choose 

Irom 82902S 
9895A 8" Dual Drive 
Graphics Tablet 9111A 
HP 11C Slim Line Advanced 
HP-12C Slimline Financial 
HP 41 CV New 2.2 

Bytes Mem 
HP-41C Calculator 
Card Reader For 41CV/C 
Printer For 41CV/C 
Optical Wand For 41 CWC 
Quad Ram Equals 

4 Mem. Mods 
Memory Modules For 41C 
HP 97 Programble Printer 
HP 67 Piogramble 

Calculator 
HP 34C Piogramble 

Scientific 

HP-38C Programble 
Bus. R/E 

HP 32E Adv. Scientific 
^HP^E Business Mgml. 



List 

3750.00 
3250.00 
2250.00 

295.00 
2450.00 

750.00 

3950.00 
150.00 



Our ^ 
Price 

2750.00 
2475.00 
1777.00 

255.00 
2O75.0O 

66500 

3250.00 
125.00 



1300 00 


1125.00 


6850.00 


5500.00 


2050.00 


1678.00 


135.00 


119.00 


150.00 


129.00 


325.00 


250.00 


250.00 


185.00 


215.00 


162.00 


385.00 


289.00 


125.00 


97.00 


95.00 


81.00 




25.00 


750.00 


595.00 



150.00 117.00 



150 00 
55.00 
75.00 



117.00 

48.00 



Qcommodore 

8032 32K 80 Col Crt 
4032 32K 40 Col Crt 
4016 16K 40 Col Crt 
1050 Dual Disk 950K 
4040 Dual Disk 34. IK 
C2NCasserte Drive 
4022 80 Col Printer 
8024-Mannsman Talley 
25CPS Starwnter 
CBM IEEE Modem 
Voice Synthesizer 
VIC 20 

PET to IEEE Cable 
IEEE to IEEE Cable 



List 
1495.00 
1295.00 
995.00 
1795.00 
1295.00 
95.00 
795.00 
1995.00 
1895.00 
279.00 
395.00 
299.00 
39.95 
49.95 



Price 
1097.00 
989.00 
788.00 
1344.00 
989.00 
77.00 
639.00 
1545.00 
1399.00 
225.00 
325.00 
255.00 
34.00 
39.00^ 



rxEROX 

Xerox 8201 5 1/4- Disk 
Xerox 8202 8- Disk 
CP/M Operating System 
Word Processing Software 
^Super Calc 



List 

2995.00 
3795.00 
200.00 
500.00 
295.00 



Our Pr 1 
2399.00 
2995.00 
169.00 
429.00 
249.00J 



ATARI 
PERSONAL 

COMPUTERS 

400 16K Bytes ol Ram 
800 16K Bytes of Ram 
410 Program Recorder 
810 Disk Drive 
825 Punter 180 col 

Centronic 737) 
820 Printer (40 col 

impact} 

830 Acoustic Modem 
850 Interlace Module 
Alan Visicalc 



A 

ATARI 



List 

595.00 

1080.00 

90.00 

600.00 



Our 
Price 
337.45 
739.00 

77.00 
457.00 



999.95 769.00 



450.00 

200.00 
220.00 
20000 



353.00 
155.00 
192.00 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

II 99I4A Console New l , 



List 



Our^ 
Price 



10' Color Monitor High V -J- 



tmproved 

Resolution 

32K Memory Module 
Speech Synthesizer 
Disk Memory Drive 
RF Modulator 

Telephone Couplet (Modem! 
Printer (Solid Strata) 



950.00 369.00 



399.95 
399.95 
149.95 
499.95 
49.95 
224.95 
39995 



339.95 
312.95 
127.95 
390.95 
42.50 
185.95 
315.95^ 



NEC STUDENT 

SYSTEM 

I4K 




•NEC PC 8001 A Computer 
•NEC PC 8012 A Expansion 
•NEC PC 8031 A Dual Drive "j 
12" Gin, Phs. Video Monitor ' 



«#•<* 




EPSON 

MX 80 FT 
MX 80 IMPACT 
MX 70 IMPACT 
MX 100 

ANADEX 9501 
NEC 

5510 
5515 
3510 
3515 

OKIDATA 

MICROLINE 80 
MICIIOI INI 82 
MICROLINE 83 
PAPLR TIGER 

445G with Graphics 
460G with Graphics 
560G New lull size 
DIABLO (LETTER 

630 R102 bi-directional 

tractors 
1640K109 keyboard 

tractors 

630 R0 Receive Only 
1650K 136 keyboard 
. tractors 



I 745.O0S 549 00 

645.00 450.00 

500.00 390.00 

995.00 749.00 

1650.00 1299.00 

3195.00 2445.00 

3295.00 2545.00 

249500 1795.00 

2545.00 1849.00 

545.00 395.00 

649.00 549.00 

1050.00 769.00 

795.00 695.00 

1.394.00 899.00 

1.695.00 1,139.00 
QUALITY) 

2.965.00 2.450.00 

4.00000 2.899.00 

2.710.00 2.250.00 



4.000.00 3,100.00^ 




BMC 

12" Grn. Phs KQ 115 Hz! 

12" Gin. Phs EO (IS Hzl 

12" Grn Phs (20 Hzl 

12" Colour Composite Hi Res. 

Gin, Phs 12" 

NEC Gin. Phs. 12" 

Zenith 12" 

LE MONITOR 

• 9-B&W 

• 9" Green Phs 

• 12" B & W 

• 12" Green Phs. 
•• 12" Green Phs. 

• Anti Reflective Screen 
•• T.V. Grade Screen 

SANYO MONITORS 

13" Color (new) 

high quality 
12" Green Phs. 
12" B 8 W 
15" B S W 

9" B S W The Best Seller! 

9" Green Phs. 



219.00 165.00 

S249.00 185.00 

279.00 209.00 

439.00 319.00 

275.00 165.00 

225 00 179.00 

15900 119.00 



179.00 159.00 

189.00 165.00 

209.00 185.00 

229.00 199.00 

199.00 159.00 



S550.O0 399.00 

360.00 269 00 

340.00 239.00 

37000 255.00 

235,00 159,00 

275.00 199 00, 




AVINQS 
ERVICE 
ELECTION 
ATISFACTION 



CT^n 



XEROX 820 



WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM 
(INCLUDES SOFTWARE) 




3495.00 




TELEVIDEO 

910 
912C 
920C 
^9500 



list 

S 699.00 1599.00 

950.00 699.00 

995.00 795.00 

1.195.00 949.00 




DISKETTES sold in boxes of 10 

(Min. Purchase) $100 

DYSAN 



List 
PRICE PER DISKETTE 



Our 
Price 



104/1 5" SOFT SECTOR 
104/10 «" DBL 

OEN. SOFT SEC. 
3740/1 8" SOFT SECTOR 
3740/1D 8" DBL. 

DEN. SOFT SECTOR 

MAXELL 

MD-1 5" SOFT SEC- 
T0R/DBL. DEN. 
M0 2 " SOFT 
SECTOR/DBL. SIDE./DBL. 

DEN. 
FD-1 8" SOFT SEC./DBL. 

DEN. 
FO 1 8" SOFT SEC./DBL. 

SIDE/DBL. DEN. 



6.40 
7.25 



4.60 
4.75 



CORVUS 

5 MBYTES 
10 MBYTES 



Our 
List Price 

,750.00 J3.050.OO 
,350.00 4.449.00 
6.450.00 5.325.00 



Q STAR 

16K RAM BOARD 
LIST OUR PRICE 

199.00 129.00 





FOR APPLE II * s <^§r. 



Language System with 

Apple Pascal 495.00 399.00 

BPI General Ledger Syslem 395.00 319 00 

Visidex 200.00 159.00 

Visicalc 200.00 159.00 

Desktop Plan II 200.00 [59.00 

Miciolab Database System 150.00 119.00 

Stoneware DB Master 229.00 189.00 

Muse Supertext II 150.00 119.00 

Jioltape Magic Window 99.00 72.00 



■p- -^ 

Qcommodore 

COLOR COMPUTER IflC^bQ 



FOR COMMODORE 

Ozz-The Information Wizard 
Wordcrafl 80 

lfni;t Inlo Retrieval t, MgmL Aid 
Dow Jones Portfolio Mgmt. 
Pascal Development Pkg. 
Ebs-Receivabies. Inventory 
Rfii General Ledger 
Word Pro 3 40 Column 
Word Pro 480 Column 
Word Pro 4 Plus 





MSL 
299.00 



OUR PRICE 
$255.00 



Save 
44.00 



SOFTWARE 



List 

395.00 

395.00 

495.00 

149.00 

295.00 

750.00 

395.00 

250.00 

375.00 

450.00 



Our 
Price 

S 289.00 
289.00 
389.00 
119.00 
219.00 
569.00 
389.00 
175.00 
259.00 
319.00^ 



NOVATION CAT MODEM 
NOVATION D-CAT 
NOVATION APPLE-CAT 
HAYES MICROMODEM 
HAYES SMARTMODEM 



199.00 150.00 

389.00 329.00 

379.00 295.00 

279.00 239.00 



CALCULATORS, 



miiarusi 

HR-10 Paper Feed I-":" 49.95 

HR-12 Paper Feed '-1 

FR 100 Paper Feed i\ 

FR 1210 Paper Feed "■ 

PQ-20 

LC-785 

LC-3165 

FX-68 Scientilic 

FX-81 Scientific 

FX 3600P Scientilic 

FX-602P "Computer Talk 
gramming Upper & Lower Case Dot 
Matrix 512 Step 129.95 

FX-702P Solves Problems with Alpha- 
Numeric Clarity, uses Basic 
Language 199.95 




TELE. ANSW. 
DEVICES 

PHONE MATE 

900 Economy 
905 Remote Dual Tape Sys 
910 60 Calls Per Side 
920C Vox 

925 Remote Call Monitor 
930 Remote Twin Cass, 
950 Remote 

960 Remote Built In Tele 
Microcompuler Controlled 




m 



/VIIC 

GML1LL Wm 



—•BUSINESS WORLD 
^ J WAREHOUSE 

18720 Oxnard, 1108 
Tarzana. CA 91356 

OUTSIDE CA CALL TOLL FREE 1 [800) 423-5886 IN CA (213) 9962252 

Name (Please print) 

Address , 

Cily State _ 



-Zip- 



(J ly 


Make 


Model 


Description 


Price 


Total 



















































Telex: 182852 
Answer: MICKOTZNA 

"California residents add 6% sales tax. 
* "Add 3% Shipping &. Handling - Add 
3% surcharge for credil cards. Orders 
cannot oe shipped unless accompanied 
by payment, including shipping, handl- 
ing and tax where applicable. 



TOTAL ORDERS . . 

TAX IF APPLICABLE* 

SHIPPINGS HANDLING** 
TOTALENCLOSEDS_ 



Certified Check or M.O. 
! Bank Wire Transfer 

CREDIT CARD # 

Exp. Date 



D Allow 2 weeks clearance for 
personal check 



VISA 



.Signature 



MAXELL • DYSAN • EPSON • CCS • SHARP • CASIO • HP • VERBATIM • MEMOREX • SOROC • CORVUS • PERSONAL SOFTWARE • CCS 



Circle 334 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



147 



Circle 236 on inquiry card. 



INDUCTIVE 



COUPLED 
MODEM 

Eliminates noise, vibra- 
tion problems. Originate/ 
Answer. Bell 103. Cas- 
sette port saves data. 

Money back if 
not delighted 




MFJ-1230 INDUCTIVE COUPLED MO- 
DEM eliminates room noise, vibration 
caused by acoustic coupling. Gives more 
reliable data transfer. Used like acoustic 
modem. 0-300 Baud, Bell 103 compatible. 
Originate/ Answer. Half/ Full duplex. RS- 
232, TTL, CMOS compatible. Use any com- 
puter. Cassette tape ports save data. 
110VACor9V batteries. Crystal controlled. 
Carrier detect, power LEDs. 9x1 1 /2x4". 
MFJ-1231, $39.95. Optional cable, soft- 
ware for Apple II, II Plus. Plugs into game 
port. No serial board needed. 

QB MFJ-1108, AC POWER 
» — CENTER. Adds conven- 
ience, prevents data loss, 
head bounce, equipment 
damage. Relay latches power off 
during power transients. Multi 
filters isolate equipment, elimin- 
ate interaction, noise, hash. Var- 
istors suppress spikes. 3 isolated 
switched socket pairs. 1 un- 
switched for clock, etc. Lighted 
power, reset switch. Pop-out 
fuse. 3 wire 6 ft. cord. 15A/ 
125VAC, 1875 watts. Aluminum 
case. Black. 18x2%x2". MFJ- 
1107, $79.95. Like 1108 less 
relay. 8 sockets, 2 unswitched. 
Other models available. 





$ 79 



95 



MFJ-1240 RS-232 TRANSFER SWITCH. 

Switches computer between 2 peripherals 
(printer, terminal, modem, etc.). Like 
having extra port. Pushbutton switches 10 
lines (pins 2,3,4,5,6,8,11,15,17,20). Chan- 
ge plug or cable to substitute other lines. 
Pushbutton reverses transmit - receive 
lines. LEDs monitor pins 2,3,4,5,6,8,20. PC 
board eliminates wiring, crosstalk, line 
interference. 3 RS-232 25 pin connectors. 
7 x2x6 inches. 

Order from MFJ and try it. If not delighted, 
return within 30 days for refund (less shipping). 

One year unconditional guarantee. 

Order yours today. Call toll free 800-647-1800. 
Charge VISA, MC. Or mail check, money order. 
Add $4.00 each lor shipping and handling. 



CALL TOLL FREE . . . 800-647-1800 



Call 601-323-5869 for technical information, or- 
der/repair status. Also call 601-323-5869 out- 
side continental USA and in Mississippi. 

Me I ENTERPRISES, 

|Yli%f INCORPORATED 

Starkville, MS 39759. 



v921 Louisville Road, 



Listing 1 continued: 



5940 
5950 
5960 
5970 
5980 
5990 
6000 
6010 
6020 
6030 
6040 
6050 
6060 
6070 
6080 
6090 
6100 
6110 
6120 
6130 
6140 
6150 
6160 
6170 
6180 
6190 
6200 
6210 
6220 
6230 
6240 
6250 
6260 
6270 
6280 
6290 
6300 
6310 
6320 
6330 
6340 
6350 
6360 
6370 
6380 
6390 
6400 
6410 
6420 
6430 
6440 
6450 
6460 
6470 
6480 
6490 
6500 
6510 
6520 
6530 
6540 
6550 
6560 
6570 
6580 
6590 
6600 
6610 
6620 
6630 
6640 
6650 
6660 
6670 
6680 
6690 
6700 
6710 
6720 
6730 
6740 
6750 
6760 
6770 
6780 
6790 
6800 
6810 
6820 
6830 
6840 
6850 
6860 
6870 
6880 
6890 
6900 
6910 
6920 



GOSUB 5850 

NEXT I 

RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PLOT DATA SUBROUTINE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

CHAR*="0" 

FOR 1=0 TO 100 

IF (Yd) ) >YN+. 50001* YD OR (Y ( I ) XYN-. 50001 *YD THEN 6080 

XP=FIX ( (X ( I ) -XMIN) *100/ (XMAX-XMIN) ) 

IF XP<0 OR XP>100 THEN 6080 

LPRINT CHR*<13) ; : RSTOP=XP+20: 80SUB 5850 

NEXT I: RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PLOT Y SCALE AND HORIZONTAL LINE SUBROUTINE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

IF LNN0/10-FIX(LNN0/10)<>0 THEN RETURN 

LPRINT CHR*<13) ; : RST0P=10: CHAR*=" ": GOSUB 5850 

LPRINT USING "#*###*.##"; (YMAX-YMIN) *LNN0V100+YMIN: 

LPRINT CHR*<13) ; : RST0P=20:CHAR*="-" : GOSUB 5850 

LPRINT STRINGtdOO, "-") ; 

RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PRINT YAXIS TITLE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

IF LNN0/2-FIX(LNN0/2)O0 THEN RETURN 

LPRINT CHR»C13>s:RSTQP-7 

CHAR«=MID*(YTITLE*,FIX( ( ( 100-LNNO) /2) +1 ) , 1) 

BOSUB 5850 

RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PRINT X SCALE SUBROUTINE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

LPRINT: LPRINT 

RST0P= 13: CHAR»="": GOSUB 5850 

FOR 1=0 TO 10 

LPRINT USING "###*«##.*#"; (XMAX-XMIN) *I /10+XMIN; 

NEXT I 

RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * PRINT X AXIS TITLE * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

LPRINT: LPRINT: LPRINT 

LPRINT: LPRINT: LPRINT 

RST0P=45: CHAR*=XT I TLE* : GOSUB 5B50 

RETURN 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * AUTO SCALING SUBROUTINES * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

YMAX=Y(0) :XMAX=X(0) :YMIN=Y(0) :XMIN=X(0) 

FOR 1 = 1 TO 100.-REM 

IF Y(I)>YMAX THEN YMAX=Y(I) 

IF YdXYMIN THEN YMIN=Yd) 

IF X(I)>XMAX THEN XMAX=X (I ) 

IF XdXXMIN THEN XMIN=Xd> 

NEXT I 

RESTORE 6830 : REM 

MSD=(YMAX-YMIN)/10:REM SCALE THE Y AXIS 

FOR I =-2 TO 4 

FOR K=l TO 3: READ J 

IF MSD<=J*10"(I) THEN MSD=J*10 A (I ) : GOTO 6680 

NEXT K: RESTORE 6830: NEXT I 

FOR 1=10 TO -10 STEP -1 

IF <YMAX<=I*MSD)*(YMAX>I*MSD-.99999*MSD) THEN YMAX=I*MSD 

NEXT I 

YMIN=YMAX-10*MSD 

RESTORE 6830 : REM 

MSD= (XMAX-XMIN) /10:REM SCALE THE X AXIS 

FOR I =-2 TO 4 

FOR K=l TO 3: READ J 

IF MSD<=J*10'-(I) THEN MSD=J*10" ( I ) : GOTO 6780 

NEXT K: RESTORE 6830: NEXT I 

FOR 1=10 TO -10 STEP-1 

IF (XMAX<=I*MSD)*(XMAX>I*MSD-.99999*MSD) THEN XMAX=I*MSD 

NEXT I 

XMIN=XMAX-10*MSD 

RETURN 

DATA 1,2,5 

REM 

REM *************************************************** 

REM * LIST OF VARIABLE NAMES USED IN PR08RAM * 

REM *************************************************** 

REM 

Yd) Y AXIS DATA ARRAY 

Xd) X AXIS DATA ARRAY 

YMAX MAXIMUM VALUE OF Y AXIS 

YMIN MINIMUM " 

Listing 1 continued on page 150 



FIND XMAX !< YMAX 



REM 
REM 
REM 
REM 



148 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MHMMMMMMHM| 



COMPUTERS 

INTERSYSTEMS 




DPS1, DPS1A, DPS2A CALL FOR PRICES 

DYN ABYTE List Less 30% 

ALTOS List Less 20% 

NORTHSTAR 

Horizons & Advantages CALL 

TELEVIDEO COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS CALL 

SUPERBRAIN 




64K DD $2639 

64K QD $2949 

DSS-10MEG Hard Disk $3195 

CROMEMCO 

CS-1 Lisi $3495 OUR PRICE $3195 

CS-2 List $4695 OUR PRICE $3549 

CS-3 Lisi $7995 OUR PRICE $6349 

Z2H Lisi $9995 OUR PRICE $7995 

YgNtrH | data 

systems 

Z-89 List 

$2895 

OUR PRICE 
$2099 




TERMINALS 

TeleVideo 




Televideo 910C CALL 

912C CALL 

920C CALL 

925C CALL 

950C CALL 

INTERTUBE $725 

Emulator $725 

OKIDATA 

Microline80 . . . $359 

Microlme 82A ... $469 

Microlme 83A $749 

C.1TOH CALL FOR PRICES 

SOROC 

Soroc IQ120 $679 

IQ130 $585 

IQ135 $719 

lQ135w graphics $789 

IQ140. ..." $995 

HAZELTINE 

1420 CALL 

1500 SAVE 

1510 CALL 

ZENITH Z19 $639 

Prices quoted are for prepaid orders only, and 
reflect a cash discount, C.O.D.'s and chatge cards 
slightly higher. 

Mosl iiems in slock for immediate delivery, factory sealed 
cartons w full factory warranty, NYS residents add appro- 
priate sales tax. Prices do not include shipping. C.O.D. orders 
require 25% deposit Prices suhiect to change without notice. 



PRINTERS 

CENTRONICS 




749-1 PAR $699 

739-3 SER $619 

704-11 parallel $1569 

704-9 (RS232) $1519 

TI810 

810 Basic $1289 

810 Full Option $1599 

820 RO Basic $1545 

820 KSR Basic $1739 

NEC 7710 (RS232) SERIAL $2395 

7730 PARALLEL $2395 

Qume CALL FOR PRICE 

Diablo 630 RO $2049 

1640 KSR $3495 

1640 RO $3095 

Paper Tiger 445G $739 

460 $799 

460G $839 

560G $1099 

Epson 

MX-80 $465 

MX-80FT $548 

MX 100 $745 

DISK SYSTEMS 



MORROW 




Discus 2D 


$835 


Dual Discuss 2D 


$1385 


Discuss2 + 2 


$1089 


M 5 5meg Hard Disk 


$3750 


M 10 10 meg Hard Disk 


$2999 


M26 26 meg Hard Disk . 


$3349 


CORVUS 5 meg Hard Disk 


$3109 


CORVUS 10 meg Hard Disk 


$4439 


CORVUS 20 meg Hard Disk 


$5349 




Circle 101 on Inquiry card. 



Listing 1 continued: 


6930 


REM 


XMAX 


6940 


REM 


XM1N 


6950 


REM 


LNNO 


6960 


REM 


RSTOP 


6970 


REM 


LSPACE 


6980 


REM 


YN 


6990 


REM 


YD 


7000 


REM 


XP 


7010 


REM 


MSD 


7020 


REM 


J 


7030 


REM 


K 


7040 


REM 


I 


7050 


REM 


T* 


7060 


REM 


PTITLE* 


7070 


REM 


Y* 


7080 


REM 


YTITLE* 


7090 


REM 


X* 


7100 


REM 


XTITLE* 


7110 


REM 


CHAR* 


7120 


REM 





MAXIMUM VALUE DF X AXIS 
MININUM " " » 

Y AXIS LINE NUMBER 
CHARACTER TAB STOP 

SIZE DF LINEFEED AT PRINTER 

NORMALIZED Y AXIS VALUE 

DELTA VALUE FOR EACH Y AXIS LINE 

CHARACTER POSITION ON X AXIS 

MINIMUM SCALE DELTA 

SCALE DELTA 

INDEX COUNTER 

INDEX COUNTER 

PLOT TITLE 

PLOT TITLE CENTERED IN 50 SPACES 

Y AXIS TITLE 

Y AXIS TITLE CENTERED IN 50 SPACES 
X AXIS TITLE 

X AXIS TITLE CENTERED IN 50 SPACES 
STRINB PRINTED AT RSTOP 



may be difficult to interpret occurs in 
the PLOT DATA subroutine. Line 
6040 compares a data value in the Y 
array with the value of YN discussed 
above. If the value in the Y array 
equals YN plus or minus 51 percent of 
the value between lines, it's printed 
on the plot at an X position deter- 
mined by the corresponding value in 
the X array. This value (XP) is 
calculated in line 6050. The PLOT 
DATA subroutine checks every data 
value in the Y array each time the 
subroutine is called to make sure that 



all data corresponding to YN is plot- 
ted before a new value of YN is 
calculated and a new linefeed occurs. 

Automatic Scaling 

The type of automatic scaling used 
in a plot program can be one of the 
most critical factors in determining 
usefulness of the resulting plot. I've 
run programs containing auto-scaling 
features that actually make the result- 
ing plot worthless. These programs 
seem to be written so that the highest 
data point falls on the top line and the 



lowest falls on the bottom line— with- 
out any consideration of the inter- 
mediate scale values. This type of 
scaling is the easiest to implement but 
makes data interpretation extremely 
difficult. One of the problems in 
developing auto-scaling routines in- 
volves individual perference regard- 
ing the scales selected. Some people 
may prefer the type of scaling men- 
tioned above, some may choose scale 
deltas that vary in the 1-2-5 sequence 
which many analog plotters have 
adopted, and others may accept any 
sequence as long as it has integer 
values. Because of this, I've written 
auto-scaling routines in which you 
can tailor the scaling sequence simply 
by inserting a new DATA statement 
with user-selected values. 

The auto-scaling subroutines start 
at line 6550. The extreme values in 
both the X and Y arrays are deter- 
mined in lines 6550 through 6610; then 
the X and Y scales are determined. 
Determination of the scales starts by 
restoring the DATA statement in 
6830. Then the minimum scale delta 




THE CAT'S-EYE VIEW 

Get a lion's share of graphic capabilities 
at a price that will make you purr. 

CAT digital graphic systems interface with S-100, PDP-11, LSI-11 and other host 
computers to create incredibly detailed images. Look at the features that a CAT 
can deliver: 

• Flash digitizer to grab your image from camera, broadcast or recording in as 
little as 1/60 of a second. 



• Highest possible resolution— up to 484x512x8, 242x512x16 or 242x256x24. 

• Dynamic color mapping to produce animation and other effects. 

• Maximum color palette of 16.7 million hues, with dis- 
plays of 65,536 simultaneous colors or 256 levels of gray. 

• Light-pen input and other useful options. 

• Flexibility to fit your computer imaging needs within the 
CAT-100 through CAT-800 and CBX series. Call us for a 
CAT that suits your application . . . and your budget. 

n DIGITAL GRAPHIC SYSTEMS, INC. 



935 Industrial Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94303 
Call (415) 856-2500 



150 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 130 on Inquiry card. 



IBM 



BY 





K MEMORY WITH PARITY 

$ 998 

HARD DISC SUBSYSTEM FDR 

I8M and S-1QQ $2495 

HA62 IBM BUS HARD DISK INTERFACE FOR WD-1000 

4-SP 4 SERIAL PORTS FOR IBM 

PB PROTOTYPING BOARD FOR IBM 

EB EXTENDER BOARD FOR IBM 

S'lOO BOARDS 
ZOBEX DPU 

Z-80A CPU WITH 4 SERIAL AND 3 PARALLEL PORTS 

ZOBEX DDFDC 

DOUBLE DENSITY DISK CONTROLLER 

ZMS-100 

64K RAM 
HDCI 

S-100 HARD DISK INTERFACE FOR WD-1000 



ZOBEX 

7343 J. RONSON RD. 
SAN DIEGO, CA. 92111 

C714D 571-6371 



ZOBEX is trademark of ZOBEX CORPORATION 

IBM is trademark of International Business Machines Corporation 



Circle 422 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 151 



The New Idea 



I 



I 



I 



TeleVideo 







Two great single -user 
computers that can grow 
for multi-user applications 
when you need it. 



We're bursting with new ideas when it 
comes to small business computers and 
peripherals designed to give you much more 
value for your money. That's why we've 
zoomed to our No. 1 position among inde- 
pendent suppliers of CRT terminals. We make 
it our business to get new ideas to market 
first. So, meet our latest new idea. The 
Model TS 802. 

The new TS 802 has been designed with 
upgradeability and growth in mind. You can 
start out with a Model TS 802, using it as a 
powerful, single-user work station with a full 
data processing and word processing capa- 
bility. Then, as your computer needs expand, 
you can add our TS 806 or TS 816 multi-user 
hard disk system to build a versatile multi- 
station mass storage computer for up to 16 
users and 70 Mbytes of on-line storage. 

The TeleVideo TS 802 computer. It can grow 
as your needs grow. That's computer power 
with no restrictions or hassles. Now, that's 
a real new idea ! 

New Technology Galore 
Looking at the hardware, our new idea 
TS 802 Series comes in two different versions. 
The TS 802 features two oVi-inch floppy disks 
for 1 Mbyte of on-line storage, a Z80A micro- 
processor, 64K or RAM memory, and a 4K 
EPROM for diagnostics. The TS 802H com- 
puter has one 534-inch Winchester disk drive 
with 10 Mbytes of on-line storage, and a 
single 500 Kbyte minifloppy disk unit. Both 
versions come in an attractive, low-profile 
desktop enclosure that can enhance any 
modem office decor. 

Nationwide Service: 

All computers are backed and serviced by 
General Electrics Instrumentation and Com- 
munication Equipment Service Centers. 

Circle 381 on inquiry card. 



Worth Looking Into 

Both versions of the TS 802 computer offer 
an easy-to-read green phosphor CRT display 
with an exclusive patented character reso- 
lution that spells goodbye to eyestrain. The 
telescreen gives you advanced editing with 
wraparound, smooth scrolling, special graph- 
ics characters, and versatile screen attributes. 
And the detachable keyboard can be placed 
conveniendy anywhere you want it. 

Just the Software You Want 

In its stand-alone mode, our new TS 802 
Series uses the *CP/M® operating system. 
In the multi-user mode, each TS 802 satellite 
user station runs CPM under TeleVideo's 
unique ^MmmOST™ Service processing sys- 
tem that provides scheduling, file/record 
locking, and data base access control formerly 
only possible with much more expensive and 
sophisticated multi-user operating systems. 

The Price is Right, Too! 
Our new idea Model TS 802 computer is 
priced at just $3495. And the Model TS 802H 
is only $6995. These two revolutionaries can 
deliver new idea features you might have to 
pay $30,000 for elsewhere. If you want to get 
down to business, try a new idea computer 
from TeleVideo today. 

©TekMdeo 

TeleVideo Systems, Inc. 
1170 Morse Ave. 

Sunnyvale, CA 94086 408/745-7760; 
800/538-8725 (toll-free outside California) 
Georgia: .\orcross(404) 447-1231 
Illinois: Lombard (312) 069-0112 
Xew York: New York (212) 308-0705 
Europe: Netherlands i31 1 075-287-461 
TIA: 844-19122 (TLVDO NL) 



'ci' M l is a registered trademark of Digital Research, inc. 
^MmmOST™ (Multi-User, multi-task, multi-processor 

Operating System Technology) is a trademark of 

TeleVideo Systems, Inc. 



Listing 2: Additional software to presort data prior to plotting. 

5450 REM 

5452 REM *************************************************** 

5454 REM * SPEED UP MODIFICATIONS USING SDRT ROUTINE * 
5456 REM *************************************************** 

5455 REM 

5465 TOP= 1 00 : TEMPTOP- 1 00 

5468 BOSUB 6B90:REM SORT DATA 

5970 REM 

5980 REM *************************************************** 

5990 REM * PLOT SORTED DATA SUBROUTINE * 

6000 REM *************************************************** 

6010 REM 

6020 CHAR*="0" 

6030 FOR I=TOP TO STEP -1 

6033 IF Y<I)>YN+.50001*YD THEN 6080 

6035 IF Y(IXYN-.5*YD THEN I=0:QOTO 6080 

6040 TEMPTOP=I 

6050 XP=FIX< (X(I)-XMIN)*100/ (XMAX-XMIN) ) 

6060 IF XP<0 OR XPMOO THEN 60S0 

6070 LPRINT CHR* ( 13) ; : RST0P=XP+20: QOSUB 5850 

6080 NEXT I :TOP=TEMPT0P: RETURN 

6840 REM 

6850 REM *************************************************** 

6860 REM * SHELL SORT OF DATA * 

6870 REM *************************************************** 

6880 REM 

6890 M=100 

6910 M=INT(M/2) : IF M=0 THEN RETURN 

6920 J=0:K=100-M 

6930 I=J 

6940 L=I+M:IF VdXV(L) THEN 6970 

6950 T=Y(I) :T1-X(I):Y<I)=Y(L) :X(I)=X(L) : Y (L) =T: X <L) =T1 : I=I-M 

6960 IF KO THEN 6970 ELSE 6940 

6970 J=J+1:IF J<=K THEN 6930 ELSE 6910 

6980 REM 



(MSD) is determined, based on the 
data extremes. This value is the 
smallest that can be used between ma- 
jor scale divisions yet still fit all the 
data on a plot with ten major divi- 
sions. Line 6640 starts a 



FOR. . .NEXT loop which selects the 
multiplier for the scale divisions; the 
nested FOR. . .NEXT loop beginning 
at line 6650 selects the value of the 
major scale divisions using the DATA 
statement in line 6830. Lines 6660 



through 6710 then use this informa- 
tion to determine new maximum and 
minimum scale values which in turn 
are used in the data plotting routines. 
Scaling of both the X and Y axes is 
handled in the same manner. 

Although the logic of these routines 
would become quite clear with some 
study, you don't have to understand 
these routines at all to select your 
own personalized auto-scaling fac- 
tors. Simply change the DATA state- 
ment in line 6830 and the limit of the 
FOR. . .NEXT loops in lines 6650 and 
6750. For example, suppose you like 
any even integer scaling. Change the 
DATA statement from 1, 2, 5 to 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and change the 
upper limits in the READ loops from 
3 to 9. I don't like scales with incre- 
ments of 3, 6, 7, 8, or 9 and typically 
use a scaling of 1, 2, 2.5, 4, 5. As I've 
stated, though, this depends strictly 
on your esthetic values. The program 
uses 1, 2, 5 scaling as an example. 

Figure 3 is a plot of EXP(X) versus 
X using 1, 2, 2.5, 4, 5 auto-scaling 
values. Exponential curves such as 



JANUS 




the language that is 
based on the past but 
looks to the uses of 
the future. 




Now You Can Have JANUS On Your System. 

JANUS is a subset of the famous ADA language developed by the U. S. Department of Defense. 
This new language was designed to ease maintenance of programs, yet be easy to program in. 
ADA combines the best features of ALGOL and Pascal to produce a powerful programming 
language. ADA puts an emphasis on Modular programming and program portability. 

The JANUS implementation of an ADA subset includes features found in no other micro- 
processor programming language. It features true modular programming, where the computer, 
rather than the programmer, remembers which modules are being used. JANUS also features 
full error walk-backs and line number error messages. And there is much, much more. 

The JANUS system comes complete — no other 
programs to buy — It includes: 

• Compiler • Screen Editor 

• Assembler • Linker 

• Disassembler • Full Documentation 

The JANUS package produces ROMable, Re-entrant 8080, optimized Z80, or 8086 machine code. 
You too can take a step forward into the future. 

8080 or Z80, CP/M (requires 56K memory) — $300.00 

8086, CP/M-86 or 86-DOS (requires 64K memory) - $400.00 

JANUS is supplied on IBM formatted, single density 8" floppy disks. Other formats are available. 




OFTWARE 



CP'M and CP-'M 86 arc trademarks of Digital Research. Inc 
86 DOS is a fademark □< Seattle Computer. Inc 
* ADA is a tfaOomarV ol the U S Department ot Dolense 



specialists in state of the art programming 



P.O. BOX 1512 MADISON, WISCONSIN 53701 



(608) 244-6436 



154 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 333 on inquiry card. 



I 



Ha 



■ 




H 



*3JKK 



HP 



SEATTLE COMPUTER S NEW RAM+ GIVES YOU 
THE MEMORY YOU NEED AT A PRICE YOU CAN T FORGET. 



A great new machine, the IBM personal computer, just got 
better. With RAM+, the new expansion memory from 
Seattle Computer.™ 

RAM+ can change your personal IBM from a 
pony to a workhorse by adding up to 256 K of memory. 
RAM + is expandable, reliable and is made by Seattle 
Computer, the people who created the operating system 
for the IBM personal computer. 

To make your IBM work even better, each RAM 4- 
card has a RS-232 serial port which uses IBM supplied 
software. And RAM+ comes fully assembled, tested and 
with a 90 day guarantee* The RAM+ is available in 64 K, 
128 K, 192 K or 256 K, with affordable prices ranging from 
$475. to $1,075. Expansion kits are also available. 



How to order: Call Anna Ford at (206) 575-1830 for the 
location of the nearest RAM+ dealer. 

The RAMH — a great addition to your IBM 
personal computer. At a great price. 

Dealer inquiries welcome. 




1114 Industry Drive, Seattle, Washington 98188 



•Extended warranty available. 



Circle 350 on inquiry card. 



EXPONENTIAL CURVE 



22500.00 



20000.00 



17500.00 



15000.00 



12500.00 



V 10000.00 

A 

L 

U 

E 

7500.00 
K 



5000.00 - 



2500.00 



-2500.00 



I I 1 H 



H 1 1 h- 












— i- 



4.00 5.00 

VALUE OF II 



6.00 



-4— 

7.00 



B.00 



-t — 
9.00 



00 1.00 2.00 3. 

Figure 3: Sample plot of exponential curve using auto-scaling (Y=EXP(X)) 



EXPONENTIAL CURVE (LOW VALUES) 



200.00 



1B0.00 



160.00 



HO. 00 



120.00 



B0. 00 



40. 00 



|00Q,0t>000 Of «»»?f » 

1.00 1.50 







-4-6- 

i 



0.00 0.50 



-t— 

2.00 



— t — 
2.50 



— i 

3.00 



3.50 



-t— ■ 

4.00 



— t— ■ 
4.50 



— k 
10.00 



— i 

5.00 



Figure 4: Sample plot 
figure 3). 



value DF I 
of exponential curve using manual scaling (expanded section of 



the one shown are particularly dif- 
ficult for any linear plot routine to 
handle because of the wide range of 
values usually involved. It's obvious 
from figure 3 that much of the data 
falls below the Y value of 200 and 
below the X value of 5. With this type 
of data, it's sometimes desirable to 
have a higher-resolution plot of this 
section of the data. You can ac- 
complish that by now replotting this 
section of data using the MANUAL 
feature of the program. Figure 4 
shows a plot of the same data with 
the Y scale manually set from to 200 
and with the X scale manually set 
from to 5. Use of auto-scaling to 
present all of the data and manual 
scaling to expand features of the 
overall plot can provide a very 
powerful tool for those who have to 
handle data regularly. 

Speeding It Up 

As I mentioned before, this plotting 
routine isn't very fast and has never 
been optimized to make it faster. One 
obvious method to decrease the over- 
all time is to presort the data prior to 
plotting it so that the PLOT DATA 
routine doesn't have to scan every bit 
of data each time through. Listing 2 
shows the lines that have to be added 
or modified to sort and plot the data 
with the sort routine given. Inserting 
these lines will cut almost two 
minutes off each plot, but there's no 
free lunch here either. What price is 
paid for this speed-up feature? The 
data isn't the same as when it entered 
the routine, since the array numbers 
have been altered. You could save the 
arrays in other arrays to maintain the 
integrity of your data, but this will 
cost you variable space. Again, use of 
these options is strictly up to the user 
and the particular application. 

I've written the software for a stan- 
dard MX-80 without the Graftrax-80 
option. Those of you having this op- 
tion should delete the last part of line 
5780, since the CHR$(27)"2" is no 
longer needed. 

Please feel free to write and let me 
know of any features of the MX-80 or 
of the program I've missed that would 
reduce the plot time — my mailman 
will love it!B 



156 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



p. 



"VT-100 is a registered trade mark 
of Digital Equipment Corporation. 



Why Pay More? 



<* 




b- MICRO-TERM 

■■^ Gives You Complete 

Performance for the 
Price With Features 
Others Don't Have 




MIME740 

VT-100* compatible terminal with advanced video and printer 
port standard. Additional features include two pdges of memory, 
plain English set-ups, user programmable function keys, diagnostic 
mode, X-OFF indication, and green screen with screen saver. 
Better than all these features is the price. 




lVlliVlk^£*V/rl^ l~C)/\ 

Fully featured smart terminals with smooth scroll, bi-directional 
printer port, function keys, editing, and four non-volatile video 
attributes. Both terminals feature 7x1 1 dot matrix with true 
descenders. MIME-2A emulates popular DEC, Hazeltine, and 
Soroc terminals. 



MIME 340 




HlMHHtW 



Low end terminal with block mode, full editing, protected 
fields, printer port, host definable function keys, numeric 
keypad, green monitor and LEAR Siegler, Hazeltine or ANSI 
Codes. So reliable it carries a full one year warranty. Very 
smart -- very inexpensive. 



m 



micRO-T«=Rm, inc. 



CALL OR WRITE: 
1314 HANLEY INDUSTRIAL COURT, ST LOUIS. MISSOURI 63144. 
(314) 968-8151, TWX: 9107601662, MICROTERM, STL 



Terminals are our only product ,and we put more into them. 



Circle 248 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



157 



Modify Your Paper Tiger for 
Different Paper Thicknesses 



R. P. Sarna 

39 Cushnoc Dr. 

Augusta, ME 04330 



Are you tired of removing the 
printer cover of your Paper Tiger to 
adjust for different paper thicknesses? 
A simple modification can change all 
that. 

The various Paper Tiger models 
produced by Integral Data Systems 
(IDS) are popular with microcom- 
puter owners because they're rugged, 
reliable, extremely flexible in opera- 
tion, and well supported by the 
manufacturer. That tremendous flex- 
ibility, however, is marred by one 
"bug" in the IDS 460. I use my high- 
speed printer to generate business 



reports (using both single- and 
multiple-part copy paper), form let- 
ters, and address labels. This 
necessitates a change from thick ad- 
dress labels to thin fanfold paper to 
single sheets in holders to carbonless 
multiple-part copy-forms, and back 
again. 

The paper-thickness control knob is 
located inside the cover. In order to 
adjust it, you must remove the cover, 
adjust the control, replace the cover 
(try not to snag the ribbon or damage 
the circuit board), and then run the 
printer to see if it's adjusted correctly. 




Photo 1: Use a square or a drafting triangle to mark the table directly beneath the 
center of the knob. Measure the height of the shaft above the table and mark the 
triangle. 



If it isn't, you have to start all over 
again. 

A simple modification solves this 
problem, making it easy to adjust to 
the proper paper thickness from out- 
side the printer. All you have to do is 
drill a hole in the cover and cut a slot 
in the adjusting rod for a screwdriver. 

(Editor's Note: IDS says that this 
modification isn't necessary for the 
newest version of the model 460, as 
there is a lever attached to the paper- 
thickness control knob which allows 
it to be adjusted from outside the 
printer. You can purchase this lever 
and knob by contacting Customer 
Support Group, Integral Data Sys- 
tems Inc., Milford, NH 03055. If you 
choose to make the modifications 
described in this article, IDS says it 
will still repair its printers no longer 
under warranty, as long as the printer 
mechanism itself has not been mod- 
ified.... SJW) 

The first step is to locate the posi- 
tion for the hole. Put the printer on a 
light-colored table or piece of paper 
and remove the cover. Set a drafting 
triangle or a small carpenter's square 
on the table (see photo 1) and make a 
mark on the table or paper directly 
below the center of the paper-thick- 
ness control knob. Then mark on the 
triangle the height of the center of the 
control knob from the table. Without 
moving the printer, carefully replace 
the cover. Using the marks on the 
table and on the triangle, find the 
spot on the cover where the two 
marks intersect (see photo 2). Mark 



158 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



9:00AM-8:00PM ET! 

VISA AND MASTERCARD WELCOME! 



SORCIM 

SUPERCALC 225.00 

SUPERSOFT 

DIAGNOSTICS II 84.00 

DISK DOCTOR 84.00 

FORTRAN 80 218.00 

SSS FORTRAN 

WITH RATFOR 285.00 



SHOP 
SMART 

FORORDERSPRICEQUOTESAVAILABILITY z= 

l800S23-351im 



TINY PASCAL 74.00 

TERM 131.00 

ASHTONTATE 

dBASEII 599.00 

HAYDEN 

APPLESOFT COMPILER. 167.00 

PERSONAL 

VISICALC-k 755.00 

VISIDEX* 759.00 

VISIFILE-k 200.00 

VISIPLOT* 149.00 

VISITERM* 128.00 

VISITRENDVISIPLOT-k . . 220.00 
DESKTOP PLAN II* 160.00 

MICROSOFT 

BASIC 80 285.00 

BASIC COMPILER 3 J5.00 

COBOL 80 568.00 

FORTRAN 80 345.00 

muSIMP-muMATH 215.00 

MACRO 80 740.00 

FOR APPLE® 

CP/M® 

BASIC COMPILER 3 7 5. 00 

TASC APPLESOFT 

COMPILER 7 50.00 

FORTRAN 80 765.00 

COBOL 80 568.00 

ALDS 705.00 

ADVENTURE 24.95 

OLYMPIC DECATHALON 21.95 



IN PENNSYLVANIA 



CALL MICROHOUSE FOR ALL 

PRINTER ACCESSORIES AND 

SUPPLIES. WE CARRY A 

COMPLETE LINE OF INTERFACE 

CABLES, TRACTOR FEEDS, AND 

PRINTER PAPERS. 



CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital 
Research. 
' Registered trademarks of MicroPro 
International. 
* Registered trademarks of Personal 
Software Inc. 

APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computers. 

ALL ITEMS SUBJECT TO A VAILABILITY 

PRICES AND SPECIFICA TIONS SUBJECT 
TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 



MICROPRO 

WORDSTAR 3.0* 299.00 

SUPERSORT' 170.00 

MAILMERGE' 7 05.00 

DATASTAR' 244.00 

SPELLSTAR' 765.00 

CALCSTAR' 225.00 

FORAPPLE® 

WORDSTAR' 245.00 

SUPERSORT' 130.00 

MAILMERGE' 65.00 

DATASTAR' 207.00 

SPELLSTAR' 745.00 

CALCSTAR' 255.00 

TELEVIDEO 

950 TERMINAL 950.00 

920 TERMINAL 779.00 

912 TERMINAL 745.00 

910 TERMINAL 595.00 

MODEMS 

HA YES MICROMODEM II 307. 00 
HAYES SMARTMODEM. . 230.00 

NOVATION D-CAT 7 56.00 

NOVATION AUTO-CAT . . 213.00 
NOVATION APPLE-CAT. . 335.00 

ACCESSORIES 

Z-80CARD 299.00 

MICROSOFT 16KRAM .. 150. 00 

MOUNTAIN COMPUTER 

MULTII/O 178.00 

VIDEX VIDEOTERM 290.00 



CENTRONICS 

739 SERIAL 888.00 

739 PARALLEL 793.00 " 

ANADEX - 

ANADEXDP-9501 7 299.00 — 

ANADEX DP-9500 1299.00 — 

ANADEX DP-9001 7 250. 00 ~ 

ANADEX DP-9000 1250.00 — 

ANADEX DP-8000 776.25 

ANADEX DP-8000 

for APPLE 600.00 

C.ITOH = 

STARWRITER I P 7 562.50 — 

STARWRITER IS 7 500. 75 ^Z^ 

STARWRITER II P 7650.00 

STARWRITERIIS 7950.00 

COMET 1 295.00 ^ZZZZ 

COMET IIP 875.00 ^^ZIZ 

COMETHS 950.00 

PROWRITER P 545.00 JZZZZZ 

PROWRITERS 599.00 ^^^^ 

DIABLO == 

DIABLO 630 2095.00 

EPSON ^^ 

EPSON MX-70 CALL — 

EPSON MX-80 CALL ^^^^^^1 

EPSON MX-80FT CALL ^^^^^Z 

EPSON MX-100 CALL — 

EPSON GRAFTRAX CALL ^^^Z^^^ 

OKIDATA ^^^= 

MICROLINE80 449.00 ^H^HZZZZ! 

MICROLINE 82A 535.00 — 

MICROLINE 83 795.00 ^Z^^^^^^Z 

PAPER TIGERS - 

IDS 445 695.00 

IDS445G 769.00 

IDS460G 985.00 — 

IDS560G 1200.00 .^^Z^^^^^^^ 




P.O. Box 498 Bethlehem, PA 18016 



The Microcomputer People. Microhouse 




Photo 2: After replacing the cover, use 
the square to mark the hole location on 
the cover. 



Photo 3: Slotting the end of the thickness- 
adjusting knob allows it to be adjusted 
with a screwdriver. 



Photo 4: The hole in the cover opposite 
the paper-thickness adjusting knob allows 
easy access with a screwdriver. 



this spot on the cover. This is the 
location for the hole you will drill. 

Next, remove the cover from the 
printer. As you begin to drill the hole, 
let the drill bit turn slowly (I used a 
sharp %-inch drill and a drill press for 
an accurate hole). Make the hole 
large enough to allow a screwdriver 
to be inserted easily. 

Use a fine-tooth hacksaw to cut a 
slot in the shaft (see photo 3), and 
watch out for the circuit board and 



the wires attached to it. I chose to 
make a slot that is horizontal when 
the print head is at its closest setting 
so that I could use it as a reference 
point. Once the shaft was marked, 
however, I turned it 45 degrees clock- 
wise to cut it, making it less awkward 
to work on. Saw through the knob 
and the shaft until you have a screw- 
driver slot about V 16 -inch deep. Then 
clean out all the shavings from the 
printer. 



Replace the cover, erase any pencil 
marks, and adjust your printer from 
the outside (see photo 4). I find that 
the screwdriver blade on my jack- 
knife fits perfectly. It's easy to set the 
proper adjustment while the Paper 
Tiger is printing its test pattern on the 
type of paper you will be using. I also 
marked the positions of the slot for 
various paper thicknesses on the cover 
of the printer, so that I can quickly set 
the different adjustments. ■ 




S 100 USERS 




INTERFACE 9 TRACK 
TAPE DRIVES 

With the DTI - DMA 
Tape-Unit Interface 

• Transfers data via DMA 
up to 200K bytes 

per second 

• Allows full control over 
all tape-drive functions 



SPEED 

NUMBER-CRUNCHING 
SOFTWARE 5 10 X's 
AND MORE 

With the FMP - 
Fast Math Processor 

• Kit or assembled 

• 32-bit floating point operations 

for arith., trig., exponential, etc. functions 

• Or 64-bit floating point operations for arithmetic functions 




Both the DTI and FMP meet the IEEE S-100 
standard. Software is available. 



For further information contact: 




A MEMBER OF THE SPC GROUP 



jt\ SPC TECHNOLOGIES, inc. 



P.O. Box 248, Arlington, VA 22210 
(703) 841-3632 



160 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 340 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 342 on inquiry card. 




AND a microcomputer. 

Through multiprocessor tech- 
nology, each user has a dedicated 
Z-80A-based single-board micro- 
computer module, housed in the 
system mainframe. 

But users enjoy minicomputer 
performance and capacity. Includ- 
ing modular hard disk storage of 
34 to 600 megabytes. Tape backup. 
Shared printers with spooling and 
queuing. Disk caching. Access to a 
common database. 

Unequalled flexibility and 
reliability. The completely mod- 
ular, stackable system can expand 
to 64 users. To add a user, add 
only a dumb terminal and an 
inexpensive user microcomputer 
module. 



ZE/xS sounds powerful. 
Now prove it. 

Name 

Company 

Address 

City/State/Zip 

Phone 



Trademarks 

ZEjuS, MUSE: OSM Computer Corporation 

Registered trademark: 

CP/M: Digital Research 



And ZE^tS isn't fazed by light- 
ning, voltage variations, or power 
failures. Power for the entire 
system is "buffered" through a 
battery/ recharger system that 
provides up to 20 minutes of 
operating power. 

Unequalled value. MUSE™ 
multiprocessor operating system is 
compatible with CP/M®. Minicom- 
puter performance and capacity. 
New levels of reliability and flex- 
ibility. All at a per-user price that 
is shockingly competitive. If the 
coupon isn't fast enough, call. 



OSM Computer Corporation 

2364 Walsh Avenue 

Santa Clara, CA 9505 1 

(408) 496-6910 TWX 910-338-2099 



Circle 297 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



161 



Programming Quickies 



BASIC Formatted Printing 



Dr. Malladi Subbaiah 

301-46 Caltech 
Pasadena, CA 91125 



How often would you like to have the results of a com- 
putation printed in a selected format? Unlike FORTRAN 
or Extended BASIC, a minimal BASIC such as TI BASIC 
does not usually have FORMAT statements. Listing 1 
shows a routine that I developed to obtain printer output 
in any desired format with my BASIC programs. The 
routine, written in TI BASIC (although it can easily be 
adapted to other BASICs), is simple to use because the 
PRINT statement can directly access the user-defined for- 
mat functions without any conditional transfers. 

To use the format routine in a program, you must in- 
clude the statements in lines 230 through 320 in your pro- 
gram before the first PRINT statement. Line 510 is a 
typical example of such a PRINT statement. Titles and 
string variables are printed using a PRINT statement like 
that shown in line 490. 

An example of the formatted output is shown in figure 
lb. The results would have been printed as in figure la if 
a regular PRINT statement with semicolon print 
separators (line 470) was used. (Figures la and lb are on 
page 164.) 

The formatting routine takes advantage of the string 
variables used in TI BASIC. To print a real variable, say 
X, print the formatted string RF$(X). Similarly, use IF$(I) 
to print an integer, I. To obtain print titles, use RFT$(X$) 
to print X$ as the title associated with the real numbers. 
IFT$(I$) is a similar function for titles of integer fields. 
RFT$(X$) and IFT$(I$) can, of course, be used like RF$ 
and IF$ to print any string variables. 

The format field is controlled by the variables FL, FD, 
and IL (see the DATA statement on line 250). FL and IL 
represent the total length of the field for real and integer 
variables, and FD is the number of decimal places chosen 
for the real numbers. The real numbers are rounded off to 
the desired digits. (The effect of the two format descrip- 
tions is similar to using the FORTRAN statements FOR- 
MAT^ FL.FD) for real numbers and FORMAT (I IL) for 
the integer numbers.) 



The program prints right-justified entries in the user- 
selected field in both real and integer formats. When the 
value of the variable is larger than can be accommodated 
in the allocated field, a starred output is printed as shown 
in figure lb.H 



Listing 1: The format routine embedded in this program (lines 
230 through 320) allows control of printer output without the 
use of FORMAT statements. 



FORMAT PRINTING 
IB TI BASIC 

PROGRAM BY 

MALLADI SUBBAIAH 

FL- PRINT LENGTH 
FOR REAL N0S. 

FD- DECIMAL DIGITS 

IL- PRINT LENGTH 
FOR INTEGER N0S. 

***************** 



100 REM 

110 REM 

120 REM 

130 REM 

140 REM 

150 REM 

160 REM 

170 REM 

180 REM 

190 REM 

200 REM 

210 REM 

220 REM 

23 RESTORE 250 

240 READ FL,FD,IL 

250 DATA 10,3,6 

255 FLD-FL-FD-1 

260 BLNKS-" " 

262 STAR$=" ***********'» 

264 DEF CUX)-INT(((ABS(X)>10-FLD)t(ABS(X)>lE10)-l)/-2) 

266 DEF C2(I)=INT(((ABS(I)>10"IL)+(ABS(I»lE10)-l)/-2) 

270 DEF RXS(X)=STRS(X+SGN(X+lE-40)*0.5/10"FD) 

295 DEF RFS(X)-SEGS(STARSSBLNK$&RX$(X),l+(24-FL+P0S(RXS(X),".",I)+FD)*(l-Cl(X)), 

FL) 

305 DEF IF$(I)=SEGS(STARSSBLNKSSSTRS(I),H-(24-IL+LEN(STRS(I)))*(l-C2(I)),IL) 

310 DEF RFT$(XS)=SEGS(BLNKS&x$&BLNK$,LEN(BLNKS)-(FL-FD-1-LEN(XS)/2),FL) 

320 DEF IFT$(I$)=SEGS(BLNK$6I$,LEN(BLNK$)-IL+LEN(I$)-U,IL) 

330 REM 

340 REM ***************** 

350 REM END FORMAT ROUTINE 

360 REM 

370 DIM M(10),X(10),Y(10),XY(10) 

380 READ M(1),M(2),M(3),M(4),M(5),M(6),M(7),M(8),M(9),M(10) 

390 READ XU),X(2),X(3),X(4),X(5),X(6),X(7),X(8),X(9),X(10> 

400 READ Y(I),Y(2),Y(3),Y(4),Y(5),Y(6),Y(7),Y(8),Y(9;,Y(10) 

410 DATA 12, -25, 1E12, 167, -5, 432, 29, 7618219, 14, 9527 

420 DATA -1.7962, 23. 95, 4741. 111111, 1E21 .1E-14.-0. 

92135,216.9821 

430 DATA -2.1,0.97,1.86372,0.01754,7.8924,6.9159, 

434 N-10 

435 U-l 

440 OPEN i>l:"RS232" 

450 FOR 1=1 TO N 

460 XY(I)-X(I)*Y(I) 

470 PRINT #U: :I;M(I ) ;X(I) ;Y(I) |XY( 1 ) 

480 NEXT I 

490 PRINT *U: : : :IFTS("I") ;IFTS("M(I )") ;RFTS< "X(I )") ;RFT$("YU )") ;RFT$( "X( I)*Y(I) 

"):: 

500 FOR 1=1 TO N 

510 PRINT *U:IF$(I);IF$(M(I));RF$(X(1));RF$(Y(I));RF$(XY(I)) 

520 NEXT I 

530 CLOSE #1 

54U STOP 



.0265,79830.90145,134.91672,245. 
.15,3.000145,176.36241,213.56 7 



162 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Esprit 

has a timely announcement 
on buyer protection for oniy 



Any terminal can claim to be They're warranties that are 

reliable. Esprit™ backs it up! unavailable with any other low 

Each Esprit is backed by two cost terminal. Unavailable with 

warranty options that protect any terminal at any cost, 
owners against repair cost. 



$49.95. 






a 
3 






TWO WARRANTY OPTIONS. 

HAZELTINE, IN COOPERATION WITH WESTERN UNION* NOW OFFERS: 

( ) RETURN TO FACTORY FOR REPAIR AT NO COST FOR MATERIALS 
AND LABOR. OR 

( ) ON-SITE SERVICE CONTRACT THROUGH 19S2 IN ANY WESTERN 

UNION ZONE 1 AREA* FOR ONE-TIME CHARGE OF ONLY $49.95 PER TERMINAL 

THESE SERVICE OPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE ON ESPRIT TERMINALS 
PURCHASED AFTER FEBRUARY |j 1982. FOR SERVICE RENDERED THROUGH 
DECEMBER 31, 1982. 

TO QUALIFY, CHECK THE OPTION DESIRED AND MAIL THIS COUPON 
ALONG WITH THE COMPLETED WARRANTY REGISTRATION CARD TO: 

HAZELTINE CTE CUSTOMER SERVICE 

780 PARK AVE GREENLAWN NEW YORK 11740 



Now, that's a very 
smart idea! 



a 



COMPANY 

ADDRESS OF TERMINAL LOCATION 

- ZIP 

PHONE AT TERMINAL LOCATION ■ 

NUMBER OF TERMINALS AT LOCATION- 
TERMINALS PURCHASED FROM 

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE 




•EXT- 




These warranty options are also available through your Hazeltine Esprit distributor. 

*Zone 1 coverage is within an approximate 25-mile radius of any one of 65 Western Union Authorized Service Centers located throughout the U.S. 
Call toll free to check your location (800) 645-5300 or in New York (516) 549-4627. 

Circle 177 on inquiry card. 



Programming Quickies 



1 12 -1.7962 -2.1 3.77202 

2 -25 23.95 .97 23.2315 

3 l.E*12 4741.111111 1.86372 8836.1036 

4 167 l.E+21 .01754 1.754E+19 
5-5 I.E-14 7.8924 7.8924E-14 

6 432 -.0265 6.9159 -.18327135 

7 29 79830.90145 1.15 91805.53667 

8 7618219 134.91672 3.000145 404.7697229 

9 14 245.92135 176.36241 43371.28196 

10 9527 216.9821 213.567 46340.21615 

Figure la: Sample of printer output from the program in listing 1 
without the format routine. 



I 


M(I) 


X(I) 


Y(I) 


X(I)*Y(I 


1 


12 


-1.796 


-2.100 


3.772 


2 


-25 


23.950 


.970 


23.232 


3 


***** 


4741.111 


1.864 


8836.104 


4 


167 


********* 


.018 


********* 


5 


-5 


.000 


7.892 


.000 


6 


43 2 


-.027 


6.916 


-.183 


7 


29 


79830.901 


1.150 


91805.537 


8 


***** 


134.917 


3.000 


404.770 


9 


14 


245.921 


176.362 


43371.282 



10 9527 216.982 213.567 46340.216 



Figure lb: Using the format routine, the printer output can be 
formatted to suit your needs. If a number exceeds the length 
available for a variable, the program in listing 1 will print a 
string of stars, as shown in lines 3, 4, and 8. 



Lowest Prices 
Largest Selection 

Fastest Deliveries 



TCBMflBLS 



MICROS 



INTERTEC: 

Superbrain $2895.00 

Superbrain QD 3375.00 

TCRmiflALs nmtfic 



PRINTERS 



DATASOUTH: $1355.00 

NEC: 

7710 $2350.00 

7715 2400.00 

7730 2350.00 

7720 2750.00 

7725 2850.00 

Standard Forms 200.00 

Bi-Directional Forms 300.00 

QUME: 

Sprint 5, 55RO $2575.00 

Sprint 5, 55KSR 2900.00 

Sprint 9, 45RO, 

Full Panel $2250.00 

Limited Panel 2120.00 

Standard Forms 200.00 

Bi-Directional Forms 200.00 



TCBfllflflLS TiBBIFK 



DIABLO: 

630 R.O. 



$1995.00 



TERMINALS 



AMPEX: 

Dialogue 30 $ 775.00 

Dialogue 80 950.00 

BEEHIVE: 

DM5 $ 745.00 

DM5A 930.00 

DM310 1095.00 

C. ITOH: 

CIT 101 $1350.00 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

745 Standard $1390.00 

810 Basic 1375.00 

810 Package 1600.00 

820 RO Package 1775.00 

820 KSR Package 1940.00 

840 RO Basic 795.00 

840 RO Tractor Feed Pkg. . 1059.00 

TERHIflALS TEMNFIC 



DISC DRIVES 



QUME: 

DataTrack 8 $ 575.00 

DataTrack 5 350.00 



AMPEX • INTERTEC 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
GENERAL DATA 
ANDERSON JACOBSON 
C. ITOH • QUME 
BEEHIVE • DATASOUTH 
DIABLO 




COUPLERS 



STAR: 

300 Band . 



.$ 150.00 



TCRmiflALS TCBBIFIC 



SOFTWARE 



BISYNE — 80 RJE $ 806.00 

Forms 2 199.00 

Wordstar 445.00 

Data Star 310.00 

Cobol 849.00 

Mail Merge 131.00 

Spell Guard 266.00 

Plan 80 355.00 

Super Calc .266.00 

Milestone 266.00 



Add 2% for shipping and insurance to a maximum of $15.00. Superbrain shipped freight collect. 
VISA and Mastercards welcomed. All equipment is in factory cartons with manufacturers 
warranty. No C.O.D. orders. Toll Free 800-368-3404. Virginia Call Collect. (703) 237-8695. 



T€BfQlflAL5 




Terminals Terrific, Incorporated, P.O. Box 490, Falls Church, VA 22046, 800-368-3404 



164 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 382 on inquiry card. 



WESTICO— The Software Express Service that really delivers: 

IILANGUAGE 
//PROCESSORS 




When it comes to providing quality 
programs for serious microcomputer 
users — come to Westico. And you'll 
find more than quality software. 
You'll find instant response. In most 
cases, your order will be shipped 
within 24 hours. You'll also find the 
technical expertise on staff when 
you need help. For language proc- 
essors and lots more, it's Westico. 
Here's just a sample of the more 
than 150 quality programs currently 
in stock: 

./I-80"' —Powerful application 
programming language for micro- 
computers. Implements on a micro 
the ANS Subset G language for 
minicomputers. Includes native 
code compiler, LINK-80 linkage 
editor, LIB-80 subroutine library 
manager. PLILIB run-time library and 
RMAC relocatable macro assembler. 
$475/$35. LINK-80 and RMAC also 
available separately. 
BT-80 — Efficient B-tree key indexed 
access method for PL/l-80. Features 
key length to 63 bytes, unique or 
duplicate keys, and data records to 
4096 bytes. Datasets can be spread 
over 8 files for a total of 64 mega- 
bytes. $200/$30. 

BASIC-8C — Extremelyfast interpreter 
features double precision floating 
point math, 40 character variable 
names, CHAIN/COMMON, random 
and sequential files, EDIT, CALL with 
parameters and an overlay tech- 
nique. $350/—. 

R —Compatible 
with BASIC-80. Produces extremely 
efficient, optimized 8080/Z80 
machine code. Includes macro 
assembler, linkage editor and sub- 
routine library manager. Compiled 
programs can be linked with FOR- 
TRAN-80, COBOL-80, and assembly 
language programs. $395/—. 

— BASIC language 
compiler/interpreter for develop- 
ment of financial and businessappli- 
cation programs. System $120/$20. 

IC-86 — Implementation of 
CBASIC for CP/M-86. INT files com- 
patible with CBASIC and supports 
128K main memory. Requires 
CP/M-86 or MP/M-86. $325/$30. 



;B-80' m — Native code 8080 com- 
piler of CBASIC language. Offers all 
of the features of CBASIC plus the 
speed and versatility of a compiler. 
Includes linkage editor which can 
create overlay modules, Supports 
CP/M and MP/M II. $500/$30. 

IN-8C — Includes full ANSI 
standard X3.9 except COMPLEX 
data type. $500/—. 
LYNX™ — Friendly overlay linkage 
editor for creating COM files from 
Microsoft compatible REL files. Con- 
structs programs that use all avail- 
able memory including that used 
by LYNX itself. Program size can be 
increased at least 9K without using 
the overlay feature. The overlay 
option is vital to programs larger 
than available memory. Easy to use 
with BATCH and HELP commands. 
$250/$25. 



— Compiler produces 
8080/Z80 code. Standard REL file 
can be linked with other languages. 
Includes linker, debugger disassem- 
bler and special Speed Program- 
ming Package with editor and 
Pascal syntax checker. $475/$30. 

>l-80 —Complies with ANSI 
Level 1 requirements and most useful 
features of Level 2. SCREEN SECTION 
for definition of CRTs. $750/—. 

i — Family of microprocessor 
cross-assemblers. Designed to run on 
8080/Z80 based microcomputers 
under a CP/M-like operating system. 
Support for Motorola 6800, 6801, 
6803, 6805, 6809; RCA 1802; COP400; 
Intel 8048, 8051; MOS 6502. $200/$25. 

T86'" -Translates Intel 8080 
assembly language source code 
into optimized Intel 8086 source 
code $150/$10. 



The Westico 24-Hour Computer Hotline (203) 853-0816 
(300 baud) for detailed information and quick 
access ordering. 




• Westico has more than 150 programs 
for professionals and businesses that use 
a wide variety of microcomputers includ- 
ing: TRS-80 Model II, Apple, Vector 
Graphic, Cromemco. North Star, Micro- 
polis, Ohio Scientific, Altos, Dynabyte, 
IBM, Intertec, Xerox, Zenith, Northern 
Telecom, AVL Eagle and more. We're 
working hard to be your software 



4 Ways to order 

Westico, Inc., 25 Van Zant Street, 
Norwalk, CT 06855. 

• Cali (203) 853-6880. 

• Telex 643-788 

• Dial-up our 24-hour computer (300 
baud) (203) 853-0816. 

COD, MasterCard and VISA accepted. 

Prices do not include shipping and are 
subject to change. In CT add 7 1 /2% sales 
tax. All sales final. 

Manual price may be credited toward 
purchase of software. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



company. 



WES-43 

Copyright © 1982 Westico. Inc. 



WESTICO 

The Software Express Service 

25 Van Zant Street • Norwalk, Connecticut 06855 
(203) 853-6880 • Telex 643-788 



System Notes 



Epson MX-80 Print-Control 
Program for the Apple II 



BUI Starbuck 

2100 East Edgewood Ave. 

Shorewood, WI 53211 



How many times have you, after buying a new "toy" 
for your computer, installed the hardware, read the 
manual carefully, and played with the equipment until its 
functions become familiar, only to go back to your 
regular activities and forget much of what you've 
learned? 

This is what happened after I bought my Epson MX-80 
printer. I studied the manual conscientiously and learned 
all the printer-control codes. For weeks thereafter, I did 
nothing with the printer except turn it on and off. By the 
time my Epson Graftrax-80 bit-plot graphics option 
arrived, I had forgotten how the printer worked. 

This time I entrusted the information to the Apple's 
memory instead of my own. I wrote a print-control pro- 
gram in Applesoft BASIC, called MX-80 (see listing 1), 
that I keep on disk with my Applewriter text editor. 

When the program is run, the screen displays a menu 
of available printer options (see figure 1). The on-screen 
display has some of the instruction codes highlighted as 
black on white. The highlighted options are the choices 
transmitted to the printer when one of the three termina- 
tion codes (EDITOR, PRINTER, or QUIT) is entered. To 
review the inventory of (nongraphics) printer signals, I 
can choose the INVENT option. 

There is no way to query the printer about its current 
status, so the program records a status file, called 
MX. STATUS, that recalls the last instructions sent to the 
printer. This status file is used to initialize the program 
the next time it is run. The status file is especially conven- 



ient when a given typeface is used repeatedly. So that 
there will be a file for the print-control program to read 

Text continued on page 170 



STANDARD 
ITALIC 

STRIKE1 
STRIKE2V 
STRIKE2H 
STRIKE4 



SMALL 
NORMAL 

SPACEN 
SPACET 
BPACEO 

INVENT 

EDITOR 

PRINTER 

QUIT 



» STANDARD FONT 

■ ITALIC FONT 

= SINGLE STRIKE 

■ TWO VERTICAL STRIKES 

= TWO HORIZONTAL STRIKES* 
■= QUADRUPLE STRIKES* 

* ONLY WITH NORMAL LETTERS 

SMALL LETTERS, UP TO 132/LINE 
NORMAL LETTERS, UP TO SO/LINE 

NORMAL SPACING BETWEEN LINES 
TIGHT SPACING BETWEEN LINES 
NO SPACE BETWEEN LINES 

INVENTORY OF MX-80 SIGNALS 

SHIFT TO APPLEWR ITER'S EDITOR 
SHIFT TO APPLEWRITER' S PRINTER 
QUIT 



ENTER INSTRUCTION CODEi 

Figure 1: Menu from the MX-80 print-control program. The 
menu offers 36 combinations: 24 with normal letters (two fonts 
by four strikes by three spacings); 12 with small letters (two 
fonts by two strikes by three spacings). You can also choose IN- 
VENT, an inventory of the control signals for the Graftrax-80 
function codes, and one of three program-termination 
options-EDITOR, PRINTER, and QUIT. 



166 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



TRS*80* COMPUTING EDITION 



©1981 Percom Data Co., Inc. 



W$t percom peripteral 



35 cents 



Percom's DOUBLER II tolerates wide variations in media, drives 



GARLAND, TEXAS — May 22, 1981 — 
Harold Mauch, president of Percom Data 
Company, announced here today that an im- 
proved version of the Company's innovative 
DOUBLER adapter, a double-density plug-in 
module for TRS-80' Model I computers, is 
now available. 

Reflecting design refinements based on both 
theoretical analyses and field testing, the 
DOUBLER II , so named, permits even great- 
er tolerance in variations among media and 
drives than the previous design. 

Like the original DOUBLER, the DOU- 
BLER II plugs into the drive controller IC 
socket of a TRS-80 Model I Expansion Inter- 
face and permits a user to run either single- or 
double-density diskettes on a Model I. 

With a DOUBLER II installed, over four 
times more formatted data — as much as 364 
Kbytes — can be stored on one side of a five- 
inch diskette than can be stored using a stan- 
dard Tandy Model I drive system. 

Moreover, a DOUBLER II equips a Model I 
with the hardware required to run Model III 
diskettes. 

(Ed. Note: See "OS-80 S : Bridging the TRS- 
80' software compatibility gap" elsewhere on 
this page. ) 

The critical clock-data separation circuitry 
of the DOUBLER II is a proprietary design 
called a ROM-programmed digital phase-lock 
loop data separator. 

According to Mauch, this design is more 
tolerant of differences from diskette to diskette 
and drive to drive, and also provides immunity 
to performance degradation caused by circuit 
component aging. 




Percom DOUBLER II 



Mauch said "A DOUBLER II will operate 
just as reliably two years after it is installed as it 
will two days after installation." 

The digital phase- lock loop also eliminates 
the need for trimmer adjustments typical of 
analog phase-lock loop circuits. 

"You plug in a Percom DOUBLER II and 
then forget it," he said. 

The DOUBLER II also features a refined 
Write Precompensation circuit that more 
effectively minimizes the phenomena of bit- 
and peak-shifting, a reliability-impairing char- 
acteristic of magnetic data recording. 

The DOUBLER II, which is fully software 
compatible with the previous DOUBLER, is 
supplied with DBLDOS 13 , a TRSDOS"- 
compatible disk operating system. 

The DOUBLER II sells for $?TC5, includ- 
ing the DBLDOS diskette.. _y/*|L<l/o! 



JH**H* 



Circuit misapplication causes diskette read, format problems. 

High resolution key to reliable data separation 



GARLAND, TEXAS — The Percom 
SEPARATOR 15 does very well for the Radio 
Shack TRS-80* Model I computer what the 
Tandy disk controller does poorly at best: relU 
ably separates clock and data signals during 
disk-read operations. 

Unreliable data-clock separation causes for- 
mat verification failures and repeated read 
retries. 

CRC ERROR-TRACK LOCKED OUT 

The problem is most severe on high-number 
(high-density) inner file tracks. 

As reported earlier, the clock-data separa- 
tion problem was traced by Percom to misap- 
plication of the internal separator of the 1771 
drive controller IC used in the Model I. 

The Percom Separator substitutes a high- 
resolution digital data separator circuit, one 
which operates at 16 megahertz, for the low- 
resolution one-megahertz circuit of the Tandy 
design. 

Separator circuits that operate at lower 
frequencies — for example, two- or four- 



megahertz — were found by Percom to provide 
only marginally improved performance over 
the original Tandy circuit. 

The Percom solution is a simple adapter that 
plugs into the drive controller of the Expansion 
Interface (EI). 

Not a kit — some vendors supply an un- 
tested separator kit of resistors, iCs and other 
paraphernalia that may be installed by mod- 
ifying the computer — the Percom 
SEPARATOR is a fully assembled, fully tested 
plug-in module. 

Installation involves merely plugging the 
SEPARATOR into the Model I EI disk con- 
troller chip socket, and plugging the controller 
chip into a socket on the SEPARATOR. 

The SEPARATOR, which sells for only 
$29.95, may be purchased from authorized Per- 
com retailers or ordered directly from the fac- 
tory. The factory toll-free order number is 
1-800-527-1222. 

Ed. note: Opening the TRS-80 Expansion In- 
terface may void the Tandy limited 90-day 
warranty. Circle 308 on Inquiry card. 



The Percom DOUBLER II is available from 
authorized Percom retailers, or may be ordered 
direct from the factory. The factory toll-free 
order number is 1-800-527-1222. 

Ed. note: Opening the TRS-80 Expansion In- 
terface may void the Tandy limited 90-day 
warranty. 'circle 309 on inquiry card. 

All that glitters is not gold 

OS-80® Bridging the TRS-80* 
software compatibility gap 

Compatibility between TRS-80* Model I diskettes 
and the new Model III is about as genuine as a gold- 
plated lead Krugerrand. 

True, Model I TRSDOS* diskettes can be read on 
a Model III. But first they must be converted and re- . 
recorded for Model III operation. 

And you cannot write to a Model I TRSDOS* dis- 
kette. Not with a Model III. You cannot add a file. 
Delete a file. Or in any way modify a Model I 
TRSDOS diskette with a Model III computer. 

Furthermore, your converted TRSDOS diskettes 
cannot be converted back for Model I operation. 

TRSDOS is a one-way street. And there's no re- 
treating. A point to consider before switching the 
company's payroll to your new Model III. 

Real software compatibility should allow the di- 
rect, immediate interchangeability of Model I and 
Model III diskettes. No read-only limitations, no 
conversion/re-recording steps and no chance to be 
left high and dry with Model III diskettes that can't 
be run on a Model I. 

What's the answer? The answer is Percom's OS- 
80^3 family of TRS-80 disk operating systems. 

OS-80 programs allow direct, immediate inter- 
changeability of Model I and Model III diskettes. 

You can run Model I single-density diskettes on a 
Model III; install Percom's plug-in DOUBLER® 
adapter in your Model I, and you can run double- 
density Model III diskettes on a Model I. 

There's no conversion, no re-recording. 

Slip an OS-80 diskette out of your Model I and in- 
sert it directly in a Model III. 

And vice-versa. 

Just have the correct OS-80 disk operating sys- 
tem — OS-80, OS-80D or OS-80/III — in each com- 
puter. 

Moreover, with OS-80 systems, you can add, de- 
lete, and update files. You can read and write disket- 
tes regardless of the system of origin. 

OS-80 is the original Percom TRS-80 DOS for 
BASIC programmers. 

Even OS-80 utilities are written in BASIC. 

OS-80 is the Percom system about which a user 
wrote, in Creative Computing magazine, ". . .the best 
$30.00 you will ever spend. "t 

Requiring only seven Kbytes of memory, OS-80 
disk operating systems reside completely in RAM. 
There's no need to dedicate a drive exclusively for a 
system diskette. 

And, unlike TRSDOS, you can work at the track 
sector level, defining and controlling data formats — 
in BASIC — to create simple or complex data struc- 
tures that execute more quickly than TRSDOS files. 

The Percom OS-80 DOS supports single-density 
operation of the Model I computer — price is 
$29.95; the OS-80D supports double-density opera- 
tion of Model I computers equipped with a DOUB- 
LER or DOUBLER II; and, OS-80/III — for the 
Model III of course — supports both single- and 
double-density operation. OS-80D and OS-80/III 
each sell for $49.95. Circle 310 on Inquiry card. 



PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECTTO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. PRICES DO NOT INCLUDE HANDLING AND SHIPPING. 

PERCOM DATA COMPANY, INC. 11220 Pagemill Road Dallas, Texas 75243 (214) 340-7081 

^'Trademark of Percom Data Company, Inc. *TRS-80 and TRSDOS are trademarks of Tandy Corporation which has no relationship to Percom Data Company. 1 Creative Computing Magazine, June, 1980, page 26. 



li/tzard-SO 

INSTANT 80 COLUMN APPLE 

The miracle of the 80's . . . everything you want in an 
80-column card. 



STOP STARING AT 
40 COLUMNS 

WIZARD-80 lets you see exactly 
what you will get when typing 
80-column format. It gives you a 
full 80-column by 24-line display 
with all these features. 

■ Fully compatible with Apple II 
and Apple II Plus'* 

■ Fully compatible with most word 
processors, micro-modems 
and prom programmers, plus 
all current Apple II expansion 
boards 

■ Lists BASIC programs, integer 
and Applesoft 

■ Fully compatible with Pascal 

■ Uses software to switch 
between 40 and 80 column 
formats 



Displays 7x9 matrix characters 
Provides upper/ lower case 
characters with full descenders 
Fully edits... uses ESCape key 
for cursor movement 
Scrolling stop/start uses 
standard Control-S entry 
Retains text on screen while it 
is being printed 
Contains crystal clock for 
flicker-free character display 
Has low power consumption 
for cool reliable operation 
Leads soldered directly to board 
for maximum reliability 
2Kon-boardRAM,50or60Hz 
operation 

Inverse video selection 
standard 

Available at all fine 
Computer Stores $295.00 



■O lllESIT-H llliMIII 
tfi|sti:ms 

SUBSIDIARY OF WESPERCORP 



"Registered trademarks 
ol Apple Computer Inc. 




System Notes 



Listing 1: MX-80, an Applesoft program that controls the print 
of an Epson MX-80 printer equipped with the Graftrax-80 
option. 

1 REM LISTIN8 li 
10 REM MX-80 

BY BILL STARBUCK 
20 REM THIS PROGRAM SETS THE 
TYPEFACES OF THE EPSON 
MX-80 PRINTER EQUIPPED 
WITH GRAFTRAX-80. 
30 TEXT i A* - CHR* (4)iD» - CHR* 
(27)1 PRINT A»"NOMON C,I,0"i 
PRINT A* "OPEN MX. STATUS" i PRINT 
AVREAD MX. STATUS" i INPUT Ai 

INPUT B) INPUT Ci INPUT Di PRINT 
A* "CLOSE MX. STATUS" 
40 PRINT A*"PR# 0"i HOME I IF A ■ 

1 THEN INVERSE 

50 PRINT "STANDARD" | i NORMAL I PRINT 
" ■ STANDARD FONT"« IF A - 2 
THEN INVERSE 
60 PRINT "ITALIC" j i NORMAL I PRINT 

- ITALIC FONT"i PRINT I IF 
B ■ 1 THEN INVERSE 

70 PRINT "STRIKE1"ji NORMAL I PRINT 
" - SINGLE STRIKE"! IF B - 

2 THEN INVERSE 

80 PRINT "BTRIKE2V"ji NORMAL I PRINT 

" - TWO VERTICAL STRIKES"! IF 

B - 3 THEN INVERSE 
90 PRINT "STRIKE2H"|I NORMAL I PRINT 

" - TWO HORIZONTAL STRIKES*" 

» IF B - 4 THEN INVERSE 
100 PRINT "STRIKE4"ji NORMAL i PRINT 

" ■ QUADRUPLE STRIKES* "i PRINT 
TAB( IS)"* ONLY WITH NORMAL 
LETTERS"! IF C - 1 THEN INVERSE 

110 PRINT "SMALL" | i NORMAL I PRINT 

- SMALL LETTERS, UP TO 1 
32/LINE"! IF C - 2 THEN INVERSE 

120 PRINT "NORMAL" | i NORMAL I PRINT 
" - NORMAL LETTERS, UP TO 8 
O/LINE"! PRINT i IF D - 1 THEN 
INVERSE 

130 PRINT "SPACEN"|i NORMAL I PRINT 
" « NORMAL SPACING BETWEEN 
LINES"! IF D - 2 THEN INVERSE 

140 PRINT "SPACET"|» NORMAL I PRINT 
" - TIBHT SPACING BETWEEN L 
INES"! IF D - 3 THEN INVERSE 

150 PRINT "SPACEO"|i NORMAL i PRINT 
" - NO SPACE BETWEEN LINES" 
i PRINT i PRINT "INVENT - I 
NVENTORY OF MX-80 SI8NAL8"! PRINT 
i PRINT "EDITOR - SHIFT TO 
APPLEWR ITER'S EDITOR" 

160 PRINT "PRINTER - SHIFT TO AP 
PLEWR ITER'S PR INTER" |i PRINT 
"QUIT - QUIT"! PRINT I INPUT 



Circle 408 on inquiry card. 



Listing 


1 continued 




170 


IF B* 


- "INVENT" GOTO 440 


180 


IF B* 


- "STANDARD" THEN A - 




li GOTO 40 


190 


IF B* 


- "ITALIC" THEN A - 2i 




GOTO 


40 


200 


IF B* 


- "BTRIKE1" THEN B - 1 




i GOTO 40 


210 


IF B* 


- "BTRIKE2V" THEN B - 




2 i GOTO 40 


220 


IF B* 


- "STRIKE2H" AND C - 2 




THEN 


B - 3i GOTO 40 


230 


IF B* 


- "STRIKE2H" GOTO 330 


240 


IF B* 


- "STRIKE4" AND C - 2 THEN 




B - 4i 


GOTO 40 


250 


IF B* 


- "STRIKE4" GOTO 330 


260 


IF B* 


- "SPACEN" THEN D - 1 l 




GOTO 


40 


270 


IF B* 


- "SPACET" THEN D - 2i 




GOTO 


40 


280 


IF B« 


- "SPACEO" THEN D - 3i 




GOTO 


40 


290 


IF B* 
330 


- "SMALL" AND B > 2 GOTO 


300 


IF B* 
40 


- "SMALL" THEN C - la GOTO 


310 


IF B» 


■ "NORMAL" THEN C - 2 


320 


GOTO 40 


330 


HOME i 


VTAB 12! PRINT "SMALL 



340 



350 
360 
370 



380 
390 



400 
410 



420 

430 
440 



LETTERS CANNOT BE"i PRINT " 

COMBINED WITH TWO HORIZONTAL 

STRIKES."! PRINT ! GOTO 490 

PRINT A*"PR# 1"! IF D < 3 THEN 
PRINT D*j(4 - 2 * D)|i GOTO 

360 

PRINT D*i"l"| 
E « 80i IF C» 2 THEN E - 81 

PRINT D*| CHR* <84)|D«| CHR* 

(E)i PRINT D*|i IF B < 3 THEN 
PRINT CHR* <70) | I GOTO 390 

PRINT CHR* (69) ; 

PRINT D*i i IF B - 1 OR B - 3 

THEN PRINT CHR* (72) I l GOTO 
410 

PRINT CHR* (71) | 
PRINT D*| (6 - A) I PRINT A*"P 
R# 0"i PRINT A* "OPEN MX.8TAT 
US"i PRINT A*"WRITE MX. STATU 
S"i PRINT Ai PRINT Bi PRINT 
Ci PRINT Di PRINT A*"CL08E M 
X. STATUS" i IF B* - "PRINTER" 

THEN PRINT A*"BRUN PRINTER 

II 

IF B* - "EDITOR" THEN PRINT 
A*"BRUN TED I TOR" 
END 

HOME i PRINT TAB( 9)"* DENO 
TES CHR* (27) -ESC" i PRINT "ST 
ANDARD FONT" J SPC( 24)i"*5"i 
PRINT "ITALIC FONT" | SPC ( 2 
6)|"*4"i PRINT "SINGLE STRIK 
"ENTER INSTRUCTION CODEi "i 
B*i IF B* - "QUIT" OR B* - " 
PRINTER" OR B* - "EDITOR" GOTO 
340 

Listing 1 continued on page 170 



Whard-JeX 

16K RAM APPLE MEMORY CARD 

Unleashes your Apple II* and Apple II Plus* computer. 



ON TO MAXIMUM MEMORY 

Wizard-16K gives your 48K 
Apple II or Apple II Plus the 
last bit of directly accessible 
add-on memory it can accept. 
And, it interfaces with all 
Z80** cards to give you 
CP/M*** 

■ Fully compatible with 
Apple II and Apple II Plus 

■ Adds 16K bytes of Random 
Access Memory (RAM) 

■ Fully compatible with Z80 
microprocessor cards 
for CP/M 

■ Used with Z80 card, it turns 
your Apple II into a two- 
microprocessor system with 
56K of usable memory 

■ With a Z80 card, it lets you 
run BASIC-80*"* 



COBOL-80*"* 
FORTRAN-80****, BASIC 
Compiler**** and Assembly 
Language Development 
System**** plus Applesoft 
BASIC* , Integer BASIC*, 
Apple Pascal System* Apple 
FORTRAN* and Apple Pilot* 
Utilizes Apple DOS 3.3* 
16-sector system to permit 
loading both Applesoft* 
and Integer BASIC* 
Compatible with 
VisiCalc***** 
Offers all features of Apple 
Language Card* (except 
Autostart ROM) 



Available at all fine 
Computer Stores $149.00 



'Registered trademarks 

ot Apple Computer Inc. 

"Registered trademark 

ot Zilng 
"•Registered trademark 

ot Digital Research 
""Registered trademarks 
ol Microsoft 

Registered trademark 

ol Personal Soltware 



■O'lllESI™ n l' UHI 
Si|sti:ms 

is SUBSIDIARY OF WESPERCORP 



mm 01 

i 






Circle 409 on inquiry card. 



System Notes, 



Listing 1 continued: 

E"| 8PC( 22)|"*F«H" 
430 PRINT "TWO VERTICAL STRIKES" 
| 8PC< 15>|"«F*B"i PRINT "TW 
HORIZONTAL STRIKES" | SPC( 
13)|"*H*E"i PRINT "QUADRUPLE 

8TRIKES n | SPC( 18)|"*E*G"i PRINT 
"SMALL LETTERS < 16.5/INCH, 13 
2/LINE) *T*P" 
460 PRINT "NORMAL LETTERS (10/ 
INCH, SO/LINE) *T*Q"i PRINT " 
* WIDE LETTERS <8. 25/ INCH, 66 
/LINE) *S*P"i PRINT "* DOUBL 
E LETTERS (5/ INCH, 40/LINE) 
*Q»8"i PRINT "* RETURN PRINT 
HEAD LEFT W/0 LINEFEED «<"i PRINT 

TAB( 6)"* THESE TERMINATE A 
T END OF LINE "i PRINT "SPACE 

6 LINES/ INCH" | SPC( 19) | "*2 

II 

470 PRINT "SPACE 8 LINES/ INCH"! SPC ( 
19)j"«0"i PRINT "SPACE #/72 
/INCH (0<tt<86)"| SPC( 10) |"* 
A #"i PRINT "SPACE #/216/INC 
H <0<#<2S5)"| SPC( 9)|"«3 #" 
i PRINT "FORMFEED"! SPC< 23) 
l"CHR*(12)"i PRINT "FORM LEN 
8TH - # LINES (0<#<256) * 
C #"i PRINT "SET HORIZONTAL 
TABS" | SPC( 6)|"*D #1 #2 ... 
0" 

480 PRINT "HORIZONTAL TAB MOVE") 

8PC< 8) | "POKE 49296,9"! PRINT 
"SET VERTICAL TABS") SPC ( 8) 
|"*B #1 #2 ... 0"i PRINT "VE 
RTICAL TAB MOVE"| 8PC( 14) J " 
CHR* (11)" 

490 INPUT "PRESS 'RETURN' TO CON 
TINUE. "|C*i 80T0 40 



Text continued from page 166: 

the first time it is run, I've included a brief program, 
shown in listing 2, that creates a status file. (Listing 2 also 



Listing 2: This program creates a disk file, called MX. STATUS, 
that is accessed by the program in listing 1. You must run this 
short program prior to running the MX-80 printer program for 
the first time. 

10 REM THIS PROGRAM CREATES 
A FILE, MX. STATUS, OF 
PARAMETERS THAT ARE 
USED BY THE MX-80 
PROGRAM. 
20 A ' It A* " CHR* <4>* PRINT A* 
"OPEN MX.STATUS"t PRINT A*"M 
RITE MX. STATUS"* PRINT At PRINT 
At PRINT flf PRINT At PRINT A 
*"CL0SE MX. STATUS" 



shows the italic font that is available with the 
Graftrax-80.) 

The print-control program is designed for the Apple- 
writer word processor, but can be adapted to other text 
editors by modifying lines 150, 160, 410, and 420. To use 
the program with Applewriter: 

1. Enter S to save the text file. 

2. Enter Q to quit Applewriter. 

3. Enter RUN MX-80. 

4. Turn on the printer. 

5. Enter choices from the menu. 

6. Enter Printer to quit the MX-80 program. 

7. Enter L to load the text file. 

8. Enter P to print. 

Do not turn the printer off between running the print- 
control program and the actual printing because your 
choices will be lost as the printer resets to its default 
options (STANDARD, STRIKE1, NORMAL, SPACEN). 
You may switch the printer offline and manually advance 
the paper by pressing the formfeed or linefeed buttons 
without affecting the typeface settings. ■ 




IEEE 488 TO S-100 INTERFACE 



Handles all IEEE-488 1975/78 functions 
IEEE 696 (S-100) compatible 
MBASIC subroutines supplied; no BIOS 
mods required 



■3 parallel ports (8255A-5) 
■Industri 



$375 



rial quality; burned in and tested 

(Dealer inquiries invited! 

D&W DIGITAL 

1524 REDWOOD DRIVE 

LOS ALTOS, CA 94022 14151 966-1460 



170 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 1 16 on inquiry card. 



Grab a byte 
at the 5 & 10 




5 or 10 Megabytes in a desk-top micro 

If you need 5 Megabyte capacity grab our = /U)P®^(r 
Grab our SuperTen for 10 Megabytes and join the 
hundreds of users world-wide. 



• 12" CRT 

• 5 or 10 Mbyte (formatted) 5% " Winchester type 
hard disk 

• Complete and ready to run with CP/M™ 2.2 



700K or 350K floppy disk back up 
Dual Z-80A processors with 64K RAM 
4 MHZ Clock frequency 



Dual RS232 ports 

Full ASCII keyboard, numeric pad, user- 
programmable function keys 



CMC INTERNATIONAL 

A Division of Computer Marketing Corporation 

10058 Main • Suite 220 • Bellevue, WA 98004 • Phone (206) 453-9777 • Telex: 152556 SEATAC 

Call or write for the dealers nearest you. Call Toil-Free 1-800-426-2963 

Circle 77 on inquiry card. 
Distributed by: 



Compu Data 


Diversified Data 


Input SRL 


Featherbed (Pty.) Ltd 


Dialog Computer Treuhand 


1 Bala Cynwyd Plaza 


8043 W. 82nd 


Chile 1830 


156 Main Reef Road 


Seeburgstrasse 18 


Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004 


Indianapolis, IN 46278 


1227 Buenos Aires, Argentina 


Johannesburg, South Africa 


6002 Luzern 


(215) 667-6843 


(317) 253-5878 


Telex: 9191 FINCO 




Switzerland 
Telex: 72227 DCL 



Hardware Review 



Graphics II by Selanar 

High-Resolution Hard Copy from a DECwriter 



A picture, a thousand words, or 
both — that's what you can print out 
on a DECwriter II terminal outfitted 
with the Selanar Graphics II attach- 
ment. This versatile modification 
provides a host of features for the 
DECwriter (by Digital Equipment 
Corporation): high-resolution 
graphics, bidirectional linefeed, 
multiple character sets, the ability to 
print standard, boldface, and double- 
width characters that can be rotated 
in any one of four directions, and' 
several other useful options that cost 
extra if purchased from DEC. 

Our interest in this unit began 
when we saw it featured in the new- 
products section of a digital-elec- 
tronics trade magazine. We were es- 



DEC and DECwriter are trademarks of Digital 
Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Mass- 
achusetts. 

Graphics II is a registered trademark of Selanar 
Corporation, Santa Clara, California. 



Daniel Macero, Daniel Holmes 

Thomas Banks and Lloyd Burgess 

Department of Chemistry 

Syracuse University 

Syracuse, NY 13210 

pecially interested in the claim that, 
with this attachment, a dot could be 
printed anywhere on a standard 
DECwriter page and that up to 
1,045,440 points could be addressed. 
For $850 (less a 5 percent educational 
discount), this seemed like a low-cost 
way to high-resolution graphics, so 
we ordered a Graphics II modifica- 
tion from Selanar Corporation. 

In less than three weeks the unit 
arrived. The box contained the 
Graphics II circuit board, a power 
cable consisting of three wires: blue, 
black, and orange (the same color- 
coding used by DEC), six #8 nylon 
screws and nylon washers (already 
attached to the circuit board), and a 
user's manual. 

Installation and Testing 

With the help of the user's manual, 
installing the Graphics II board was 
simple and straightforward. First, we 
examined the board for any damaged 
or loose components. (The manual 



provides a list of likely sources of 
trouble.) In our case, we found the 
ground connection of the TTL 
(transistor-transistor logic) interface 
socket (J4) to be loose and had to 
touch it up with a bit of solder; other- 
wise, everything was in order. 

Next, the board was prepared for 
installation by selecting from the sev- 
eral available jumper options (i.e., 
parity, bell, serial interface, and data- 
transfer rate). Step-by-step instruc- 
tions are accompanied by two full- 
page photographs that show the in- 
side of the DECwriter before and 
after installation of the Graphics II 
board. The photos are invaluable for 
locating and identifying the various 
components important to the in- 
stallation. 

Following the instructions given in 
the user's manual, the original DEC- 
writer board was removed. (A screw- 
driver is all that is necessary for this 
and the following operations.) The 
Graphics II board was attached to the 



172 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Now it can be Revealed 



ms 



The business softwar 
that 
solves problem^ 
your wa^ 



So useful and 

adaptable it's like 

having an Award 

Winning programmer 

on staff. 



y 



What is GBS? 

GBS is both a powerful, relational data 
base management system . . . and, more 
importantly, a very powerful applications 
development tool. As such, it can deliver pro- 
grams that match your specific business require- 
ments . . . not just those of the average business. 
The final result is increased productivity now and in 
the future. 

Surprisingly Easy to Use 

GBS has been honed and refined for two years, so it meets the 

needs of the user who wants programs that work without a lot of 

computerese! To that end, GBS operates with a simplified fill-in-the- 

blanks approach. The user merely fills in blanks and GBS does the 

rest . . . acting like an in-house programming whiz! 

Since you need know only 1 5 instructions to utilize the full scope of GBS 
you should be able, after studying our exceptional documentation for a few 
hours, to develop your own business programs . . . general ledger, inventory 
control, order entry, job costing and more. 

Relational Data Base 

Management of business records is a must for profitability. GBS 

handles it for you with unbelievable accuracy, speed and ease. For 

example, three data files of up to 64 thousand records and 1 

million characters can be concurrently in use . . . and multiple 

indexes fully maintained (yes, fully maintained!). GBS . . . truly 

the quality solution in business software. 

Only $700. On disk, including documentation. 

Requires CP/M* 

Dealer and distributor inquiries invited. 



QUALITY SOFTWARE 

6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 105 

Reseda, Calif. 91335 

(213)344-6599 





Circle 328 on inquiry card. 



*CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 



Circle 271 on inquiry card. 



MBC 
SYSTEMS 

(203) 342-2747 



Inc. 







COMPUTERS 




ONYX C8002 




256K 10 MEG HD 


$13590 


" " 18 MEG HD 


$14990 


ALTOS SYSTEMS 




ACS 8000-2 1 MEG FD 


$2990 


ACS 8000-6 14 MEG HD 


$8990 


ACS 8000-10 10 MEG HD 


$6895 


COMMODORE 




CBM 9000 SUPERPET 


$1699 


CBM 8300 LETTER QUALITY 


$1990 


CBM-64 CP/M.64K, GRAPHIC 


$ TBA 


CBM 8023 (132COL.150CPS )$ 799 


CBM 8052 2 MED FD 


$ TBA 


ATARI 




800 16K 


$ 749 


400 16K 


$ 349 


ZENITH 




Z-89 GA 


$2068 


Z-89 ALL-IN-ONE-SYSTEM 


$2275 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 




HP-85 


$2395 


HP-83 


$1790 


HP CALCULATORS - 20S OFF $$$ 


XEROX SYSTEMS 




810 5 1/4 FLOPPY SYS 


$2395 


820 8 " FLOPPY SYS 


$2990 


NORTH STAR 




HRZ-1Q-64K-HD5 SAVE $1600 $$$ 


ADVANTAGE 64K-QD 


$3550 


INTERTEC SUPERBRAIN 




64K-DD 


$2775 


64K-QD 


$3180 



DISKETTES 

SINGLE SIDE (BOX OF 10) $24.50 

DOUBLE SIDE (BOX OF 10) $35.00 

CABLES- RS232 M/M 6' $17.95 

M/F 6' $18 .95 



PRINTERS 



OLYMPIA ES-100 TYPEWRITER 

WITH, RS-232, PARALLEL, IEEE $1250 

IDS PRISM-80 (200CPS) F/T $ 999 

560-G 132COL $1090 

PRISM-132 COLOR F/T $1690 

CENTRONICS 739-1 $ 560 

739-3 $ 675 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 82A $ 495 

MICROLINE 83A $ 749 

EPSON MX-80, MX80-F/T 

IN STOCK INCLUDING CA 

ALWAYS COMPETITIVELY 

C . ITOH 

DIABLO 630 $1990 

NEC SPINWRITER 7710/7730 $2590 

NEC SPINWRITER 3510/3530 $1950 

NEC SPINWRITER 7720 KSR $2890 

ANADEX 9500/9501 $1199 



MX-100 $$$ 

RDS&CABLES 

PRICED $$ 

$1499 



TERMINALS 



TELEVIDEO 920C 
912C 
950 

ZENITH Z-19 



$ 775 
$ 695 

$1050 
$ 820 



ABOVE ITEMS MAY BE ORDERED BY 
MAIL OR PHONE. FACTORY SEALED, 
MANUFACTURERS WARRANTY INCLUDED 
PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



(203) 342-2747 

MULTI-BUSINESS 
COMPUTER SYSTEMS 



28 MARLBOROUGH STREET 
PORTLAND, CONN. 06480 



TWX/TELEX 710-428-6345 



six mounting points on the DEC- 
writer back panel using the attached 
nylon hardware. The cables provided 
with the DECwriter were then con- 
nected to the new circuit board and 
the three-wire cable was connected to 



At a Glance 

Name 

Graphics II 

Use 



Enhancement to the DECwriter II printer 

Manufacturer 

Selanar Corporation 

3054 Lawrence Expressway 

Santa Clara, CA 9505 1 

Dimensions 

48.3 x 26.7 cm |I9 x 
10.5 inches) 

Price 

S895 

Hardware Needed 

DECwriter LA35 or DECwriter LA36 

Software Needed 

None 

Hardware Options 

Precision tractors, S50 extra 

Documentation 

50-page manual, includes schematics 

Audience 

DECwriter owners desiring high-resolution 
hard-copy graphics 

Features 

Print speed:character mode, average 36 
cps— graphics mode, average I ips: 
transmission rates: selectable to 1200 bps, 
with X-on and X-off; interfaces: 20 mA 
current loop, EIA RS232. TTL (for modem): 
line length: character mode, 132 charac- 
ters—graphics mode, 1320 dots: spacing: 
character mode, horizontal. lOcpi — ver- 
tical. 6 Ipi; graphics mode: horizontal, 100 
dots per inch — vertical, 72 dots per inch: 
four complete character sets including up- 
percase and lowercase: ASCII character 
set, APL character set, Math/Greek charac- 
ter set, user-defined character set |load 
from keyboard or computer into memory): 
boldface: all characters: four rotations: all 
characters: double width: all characters 

Paper 

Variable width 7.6 cm (3 inches) to 
37.8 cm (14% inches): up to 6-part forms 
0.020 in maximum thickness: tractor-drive 
line feed 

Power Requirements 

1 20 V AC 50/60 Hz 



the terminal's power supply. This 
completed the assembly of the unit. 

Sufficient warnings are included at 
each step to insure a virtually 
foolproof installation. Total installa- 
tion time was about 30 minutes. After 
verifying that all connectors to the 
Graphics II board and all components 
on the board were secure, and that 
there were no loose parts, tools, or 
other items left on the circuit board or 
in the internal cabinet area of the ter- 
minal, the unit was ready for testing. 

The testing procedure is straight- 
forward and can be done without 
sophisticated test equipment. By 
switching the DECwriter to local op- 
eration, the user can run through the 
various features, including graphics, 
and verify that everything is working 
properly. Once everything is opera- 
tional, the I/O (input/output) inter- 
face is checked and the printer is 
ready to use. 

Printer Adjustment 

Our unit worked immediately and 
we were soon printing out the dif- 
ferent character sets in boldface and 
double-width; however, some char- 
acters did not seem well formed. In 
addition, the tractor drive had a 
tendency to slip. The character prob- 
lem, we were told, was caused by 
minor variations in parts such as the 
drive and stepper motors used in dif- 
ferent DECwriters; this can result in 
different levels of performance de- 
pending on the user's specific ter- 
minal. To compensate for these varia- 
tions, the Graphics II unit has built-in 
adjustments that can be set to obtain 
optimum performance. An oscillo- 
scope, preferably one with dual-trace 
capability, is necessary for making 
these adjustments. The procedure 
outlined in the user's manual gives 
two types of adjustments: print col- 
umns and print-speed control. In our 
case, we simply adjusted the forward 
and reverse print-speed controls and 
the characters printed out perfectly. 

In operation, the enhanced DEC- 
writer can function as an unmodified 
terminal, as a terminal featuring 
many of the options offered by DEC 
at extra cost, and in the graphics 
mode (a completely new feature). 
System commands are selected by 



174 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 






"We provide business 
programs as individual as 
your business needs." 

"Allow me to introduce myself. I'm a Vector 
computer, dedicated to the advancement of society. And 
I'd like to tell you how a computer can help you man- 
age your business more efficiently. Especially if that 
computer is a Vector, like me. Because we're prob- 
ably the most flexible and cost-effective computers you 
can find. 

"Our programs are the key. Because they enable 
me to handle sales forecasting, budgeting, job costing 
and proposals, commissions, personalized mass mail- 
ings, charts and graphs. We Vectors can even talk to each 
other and to other bigger computers. 

"Unique combinations of our individual pro- 
grams can actually customize me to meet your specific 
requirements. Any combination of our software pack- 
ages can be assembled right off the shelf, to help you 
realize your full potential as a salesman, merchant, 
stockbroker, clergyman, contractor, real estate or insur- 
ance agent or whatever your business. 

"Choose from Memorite III for word processing 
and mail list management, Execuplan for financial plan- 
ning and forecasting, Business Accounting, Data 
Management for filing and sorting information, Com- 
munications and a host of others. And, of course, all we 
Vectors come with the popular CP/M operating system. 

"For more information and your local dealer, 
call usat (805)499-5831 or(800) 235-3547. In California, 
call (800) 322-3577. Or write to us at 500 North Ventu 
Park Road, Thousand Oaks, CA 91320. 

"We'll show you how we small information systems 
can mean big business for you!' 

Circle 400 on inquiry card. 



Vector Graphic, Inc. 
COMPUTERS FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SOCIETY. 

Sold and supported by 400 dealers worldwide. 

Vector Products are approved on General Services Administration authorized ADP 

scheduled price list. 



Control 




Code 


Name 


cL 


Form feed 


cN 


APL character set 


cO 


Normal character set 


ESC 5 


Print entire 




character set 


ESC 7 


Upside-down 




print mode 


ESC 8 


Sideways 1 




print mode 


ESC 9 


Sideways II 




print mode 


ESCO 


Double-width 




characters 


ESC A 


Boldface characters 


ESCC 


Special reset 


ESCF 


Power-up reset 


ESCG 


Up 1/4 line 


ESCH 


Down 1/4 line 


ESCN 


Third character set 


ESC P 


Fourth character set 


ESCQ 


Load-memory 




character set 


ESCB 


Enter graphics mode 


ESC J 


Set bar mode 


ESCC 


Exit graphics mode 



Description 

Advance paper to beginning of next form (top of 

page). 

Selects second character set (factory set with APL 

characters). Once selected, all characters printed 

are as defined from this PROM. 

Selects normal character set. 

Test mode. 

Rotates characters 180°. 

Rotates characters 90°. 

Rotates characters 270°. 

Prints double-width characters. 

Prints each character in boldface. 
Returns DECwriter to normal configuration. 
Resets all modes, character styles, tabs, and top of 
form (also occurs at power-up). 
Moves paper up 1/4 line at a time. 
Moves paper down 1/4 line at a time. 
Selects third character set (factory set for mathe- 
matics symbols and selected Greek letters). 
Selects fourth character set as defined in program- 
mable memory. 

Defines fourth character set to be loaded into pro- 
grammable memory. 

Enters graphics mode. All characters ignored ex- 
cept "(" "," "■" "]". and digits through 9 
In graphics mode, prints all seven dots instead of 
one at a time. 



Table 1: Command codes used by the LA36 DECwriter II with the Selanar Graphics 
II modification. Codes in the table preceded by a lowercase "c" are entered by 
holding down the Control key while entering the indicated code (similar to the stan- 
dard procedure for typing any uppercase letter by using the shift key). Other codes 
are entered by typing ESC (escape) followed by the indicated letter. 



either a Control code or an ESC 
(escape) code. The Control code is 
obtained by simultaneously pressing 
the Control key and another key to 
select a given function. The ESC code 
is a two-step operation: first the ESC 
key is pressed, then the key that 
selects the desired function. Pressing 
ESC a second time cancels this com- 
mand sequence. Table 1 is a list of 
some of the more important ESC and 
Control commands that function in 
the normal (nongraphics) and 
graphics modes. 

Other system commands that can 
be implemented with Graphics II are 
horizontal tab control (advances the 
print head to the next column posi- 
tion with a set tab); vertical tab (ad- 
vances the paper vertically to the next 
line with a vertical tab); set horizon- 
tal tab (sets a tab where the head is 
positioned, up to 16 tabs may be set); 
reset horizontal tab (resets the in- 
dividual horizontal tabs at each 
desired head position); set vertical tab 
(sets a tab to any one or all of 16 ver- 
tical tab positions); and reset vertical 
tab (resets an individual vertical tab 
at the present position of the print 
head). 

In addition, you can activate the 
bell, reset the top-of-form position, 
enable the automatic linefeed with 
carriage return, backspace, and issue 
a special Here-is message where up to 




Also available: 

(A) 2-Port, RS 232; Capable 
ASYNC, BISYNC, SDLC & 
HDLC Model: CC-232 $240 

(B) Wire-wrap Development Kit 
(w/w board & Extender) 
Model: WW-070 $95 

Available Soon: 
64K-256K Error Correcting Memory 



R€S€flRCH INC. 



Capacity Unit Price 

64K + parity $ 495 
128K + parity $ 995 
192K + parity $1295 
256K + parity $1595 

All memories are 250 ns Access Time 

and 410 ns Cycle Time. 

Fully assembled and tested. 

17925 Sky Park Circle, Suite B 
Irvine, CA 92714 (714) 540-1333 

Dealer inquiries 
welcome. 



176 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 2 on inquiry card. 



Vista 





Invisible or Invincible? 

It all depends on your perspective. 

The Vision 80® is a video display card that 
gives your Apple™ terminal an industry- 
standard 80 column by 24 line display 
screen with a full 128 character set in- 
cluding upper and lower case letters 
with three dot descenders. It is compat- 
ible with all existing Apple™ BASIC 
software and allows the use of 80 
column lower case text with pro- 
grams written in BASIC, FORTRAN 
Pascal, Microsoft CP/M™ and 
ASSEMBLER. Full communications 
driver support allows the Apple II™ 
to operate as an intelligent terminal 

Definitely invincible. Ask Softalk 
magazine editors, who rated 
Vision 80© the Best Apple- 
video display card on the 
market. 



But the Vision 80© card has an 
"Apple" command vocabulary 
including H-tab, V-tab, HOME, 
TEXT, PR# GRAPHICS). 





No changes in operating or programming 
procedures are necessary to produce what- 
ever sophisticated displays you require. 
And it doesn't interfere with the operation 
of popular Apple™ compatible peripher- 
als. Except for the enhanced display, 

it's as if you 

had never installed the Vision 80© 

in your Apple II computer. 

Definitely invisible. 



Ask your local computer dealer for 

a demonstration of the invincible, 

invisible Vision 80© video 

display card by Vista Computer 

Company. Or correspond with 

us directly: Vista Computer 

Company, Inc. 1317 East 

Edinger, Santa Ana CA 

92705, (714) 953-0523. 

Toll free order line: 

(800) 854-8017. 

Be sure to inquire about our new 
Vision 40, a softscreen program- 
mable character generator for 
Apple II™ computers. It's great 
for graphics and perfect for 
foreign language applications. 



Perceptive Perspective 




Circle 404 on Inquiry card. 



COMPUTER COMPANY. INC. 

131 7 East Edinger • Santa Ana, CA 92705 

7 1 4-953-0523 800-854-801 7 

©1981 Vista Computer Co., Inc. 
Apple and Apple II are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 



CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Inc 



32 characters encoded in PROM (pro- 
grammable read-only memory) are 
transmitted as if from the keyboard 
(e.g., for an automatic password 
sign-on to a remote computer). 

"Normal" Printing Operations 

In the printing mode the Selanar 
Graphics II acts as a normal DEC- 
writer printer with enhanced capa- 
bilities. We can select any one of four 
character sets: standard, APL, mathe- 
matical, and user-defined. The first 
three sets are encoded in PROM, the 
fourth is stored in programmable 
memory. The fourth character set 
may be loaded from the host com- 
puter or entered manually from the 
keyboard; once loaded, it remains in 
memory until the DECwriter is 
turned off. 

The programmable character set 
can contain up to 94 printable charac- 
ters. Each of these is represented as a 
7-by-7 dot matrix with the top dot 
corresponding to the most significant 
bit and the bottom dot to the least. 



Seven bytes are required to define 
each character: one for each column 
of the matrix. For convenience in en- 
tering characters from the keyboard, 
each byte can be entered as an ASCII 
(American Standard Code for Infor- 
mation Interchange) character. 

Using the boldface character op- 
tion, we are able to emphasize words 
and headings, or even print out an en- 
tire document in this type style for a 
more pleasing appearance. Figure 1 
shows the first three character sets 
and the various type styles available 
with the Graphics II enhanced DEC- 
writer. The one-quarter-up and one- 
quarter-down linefeed option is in- 
valuable for printing the superscripts 
or subscripts that are often necessary 
when writing chemical or mathemati- 
cal equations (see figure 1), as well as 
printing chemistry manuscripts, ex- 
aminations, and writing computer-as- 
sisted instruction units. 

Data Buffer 

The Graphics II unit also has a 



1000-character buffer for serial I/O. 
In this mode, the printer will auto- 
matically print characters as fast as it 
can. Data not ready for printing will 
be temporarily stored in the buffer; 
however, the programmer must be 
careful not to overflow the buffer. To 
prevent this, an X-off character is sent 
to the host computer when the buffer 
is filled to within 100 bytes of over- 
flow; an X-off character is then sent 
for every additional character re- 
ceived. When the buffer is emptied to 
fewer than 100 characters, an X-on 
character is transmitted. Thus, the 
programmer does not have to worry 
about overflowing the buffer or other 
timing considerations, and data 
transfer rates of up to 1200 bps (bits 
per second) are possible. The X-on/ 
X-off option need not be used if the 
programmer is careful to take into ac- 
count the time needed to execute a 
carriage return and line feed, horizon- 
tal tab, vertical tab, graphic vectors, 
and Here Is, to avoid overflowing the 
buffer. 



TXL 




Telecommunications package to interface your Microcompu- 
ter to the Western Union Telex II (TWX) Network. Your outgo- 
ing messages are edited to perfection using your text editor, 

and are then formatted and sent 

by TXL. 

Incoming messages are re- 
ceived, displayed on your CRT, 
stamped with the current date & 
time, and written to disk storage. 

Order TXL today and put the 
power of your Micro-computer to 
work on your most important 
communications! 

(Currently requires Z-BO CPU 
and CP/M) 

TXL: Telex Link is available now for Telex II (TWX) from: 
Our Dealer: John D. Owens Assoc. (See their ad elsewhere) 
or direct from: 




Cawthon Scientific Group 

24224 Michigan Ave. 

Dearborn, Michigan 48124 

Phone: 313-565-4000 Telex II: 810-221 



1265 



GRAPHICS I! CHARACTER SETS 



STANDARD 



! *:»'£&'<)*-)- r-./01234567B9:; <■■=>? 
BABCLTEFBHIJKLMNQPaRSTUyWXYZEN.S*''™ 

v^bcdef=lhi.Jk:Lmnui"Hr!sl i .uvwi:a::>\-C' v 

! !#«ZX'0*tr-./012345678? :*<=>? 
eABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPDRSTUVUXYZCNjI"- 

v abcdef3hi Jkl*nDParstujvwxyz-C!>" 

! ■■ =lh us :x. a, ' < > ^< t v * so :i. s 3 ^ '-'.'i <f> "S m <? t t> < 

tf)AB(;;DEFGH :i: jkumnopqrstuvwxyz cn ::i 

"* -ii* r..i v.: <:A (■:-? (' aM M :i. -.t \*-. A. m r< c> r*> ca t* *r* l; 1..1 v tsi ;•; *:< *■:■: -<; J ">■ 



MATHEMATICS 



! '»'•/.%• ( >X+.-. A>12:S4567B9: iX;s[X> 
♦ABrAEZHelKAMNH0nPETY»XTa*t«4ft« 



APL 



••)<.<-=> X* a**, + ./D.t23<K567l39< L" »x;\ 

~ajLnt.fi .-<?m° ■ u 1 TQ*'?Fr"j'iiM3t"=-*-t-».>.- 

5.^ BCDRfQHXvIK l-MMOPOR B T IJ V M i : V Z.-Q H> t 



CHEMICAL EQUATIONS 



Figure 1: The character sets and type styles preprogrammed 
into the Graphics II modification. Under the Normal printing 
mode, subscripts and superscripts can be printed easily with the 
1/4 linefeed capability, and characters may be printed as 
boldface, large, or double width. 



178 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



How to maximize 
your 




You don't have to settle for 
standard equipment. Let MTI 
and Alpha Byte help you build 
the Model III you want. 




MTI FLOPPY DISK ADD-ON KITS 

Now you can upgrade your I6K level II Model III to 
a full 48K Disk System the easy way with MTI's 
Double Density Disk Controller and your choice of 
Disk Drives. You can choose 40 track, Double- 
Sided 40 track or Double-Sided 80 track Drives to 
supply your disk storage needs. Forty Track 
Drives store I75K, Double-sided 40 Track drives 
store 350K. Four Double-Sided 80 Track Drives 
provide up to 3 MEGABYTES of On-Line storage. 

INTERNAL DISK DRIVE KITS 

The first drive kit includs one Tandon Disk Drive, 
MTI Double Density Controller, Switching power 
supply. 32K of RAM. all mounting hardware, 
cables and Detailed Installation Instructions. The 
second internal drive kit includes a second drive 
and the necessary installation hardware. 



40 TRACK DRIVE SYSTEM 




DRIVE NO 1 KIT 


695 00 


DRIVE NO. 2 KIT 


279 00 


40 TRACK DUAL HEAD SYSTEM 




DRIVE NO 1 


779 00 


DRIVE NO. 2 


389 00 


80 TRACK DUAL HEAD SYSTEM 




DRIVE NO 1 


929 00 


DRIVE NO 2 


569 00 


Circle 14 on Inquiry card. 





EXTERNAL DRIVE KITS 

Two external drives can be attached to any dual 
drive Model III Computer. 

40 TRACK EXTERNAL DRIVES 

DRIVE NO 3 379.00 

DRIVE NO 4 359.00 

DUAL HEAD 40 TRACK EXTERNAL DRIVES 

DRIVE NO. 3 499.00 

DRIVE NO. 4 479.00 

DUAL HEAD 80 TRACK EXTERNAL DRIVES 
DRIVE NO 3 679.00 

DRIVE NO. 4 659.00 

FIVE MEGABYTE EXTERNAL 

WINCHESTER HARD DRIVE 2795.00 

Add the Ultimate in Fast High Capacity Disk 
Storage to any Model III Floppy Disk system. 
Reliable Winchester technology provides enough 
storage for the largest business files. Winchester 
disk drives have greatly increased data transfer 
rates and that means faster program and file 
loading. This is a complete self contained system 
that connects to a standard Model III Disk System 
in minutes without any modification to the com- 
puter. 

MODEL III DIAGNOSTIC PROGRAM 49.95 

A complete diagnostic program for the Model III. 
Tests RAM and ROM. video display and all disk 
drives. Catch problems while they're small and 
be sure that your Model III is in perfect running 
condition. 



MODEL 
CP/M* 



II CP/M-80 NOW AVAILABLE!. 
& 80 Column Kit. 



849.00 




PUTER 




• i 



Now you can run proven CP/M based software on 
your Model III, with standard 80-column display. 
A simple internal modification will transform your 
Model III into a NEW computer and allow you to 
run CP/M the industry-standard operating system 
and assure you of a large supply of fine software. 
Includes CP/M 2.2. 

MODEL III SPEED-UP MOD 149.00 

Now you can run your Model III at 4 MEGAHERTZ, 
that's almost double the standard speed. This 
simple-to-install kit does require some soldering. 

MODEL III COOLING KIT 44.95 

Heat build up is a major cause of system failures 
and 'flakey' operation. This kit provides excellent 
cooling. 

DOSPLUS OPERATING SYSTEMS 
FOR THE MODEL III 

Solid BUG-FREE operating systems for the Model 
III. Supports different size drives on the same 
system and Basic Program Chaining with 
variables saved in memory. 

40 TRACK 99.00 

80 TRACK 119.00 

EXPANDED DOSPLUS 3.3.8 .... 149.00 

Read and Write 40 Track Diskettes on an 80 Track System 

HARD DISK DOSPLUS 299 00 

Supports the MTI 5 MEG HARD DISK. 
CP/M is a reg trademark ot Digital Research, 



We guarantee everything for 30 days. If 
anything is wrong, return the item and we'll make 
it right. And, of course, we'll pay the shipping 
charges. 

We accept Visa and Master Card on all orders; 
COD orders, up to $300.00. 

Add $2.00 for standard UPS shipping and 
handling on orders under 50 lbs, delivered in con- 
tinental U.S. Call for shipping charges over 50 
lbs. Foreign, FPO and APO orders add 15% for 
shipping. Californians add 6% sales tax. 

Prices quoted are for stock on hand and are 
subject to change without notice. 

31245 LA BAYA DR, WESTLAKE 
VILLAGE, CALIFORNIA 91362 



To order, or for information-call: 

(213)706-0333 

To use our 24-hour modem order line, call: (213) 883-8976. 



BYTE March 1982 



179 



(2a) 



HE GRAPHICS MODE 



ACCUMULATOR 








X2 


r~Y2 


| 




f\ i 


i Y1 





GRAPHICS COMMANDS 

n TO XI, Y2 TO Y1, 
( CLEAR ACCUMULATOR 

) ACCUMULATOR TO X2, AND CLEAR 

. ACCUMULATOR TO Y2, AND CLEAR 

) DRAW LINE FROM X1,Y1 TO X2,Y2 

POSITION PRINT HEAD TO XI, YV 



(2b) 



F 



XAMPLFS USING GRAPHICS .COMMANDS 



LOCAL - (800, 200X900, )(10G0, 150.)- 



BASIC - LPRINT.YjS 



T 
i 

» V 



I00):\':STR$(200);\(':STR$(900): 



)(';STR$(1000);Y;STR$(150); T 

-OCAL - (900,500.(1 000,450. )800,450.)800,550.)1 000,550.) 

s 




Figure 2: Graphics-mode sample output. Figure 2a gives a summary of the graphics 
command procedures, as printed in the graphics mode. Figure 2b shows how straight 
lines are drawn. 



Graphics Operation 

The graphics mode is entered at 
any time with an ESC B and exited 
with a ESC C command. Graphics are 
done a page at a time, with each page 
consisting of 792 lines with 1320 dots 
per line. The origin (0,0) is located at 
the upper left-hand corner of the page; 
the bottommost right-hand corner 
corresponds to the point (1319,791). 

In the graphics mode, the system 
responds only to the digits through 
9, parentheses, the right bracket, the 
comma, and the period; all other 
characters are ignored. 

The comma transfers the pre- 
viously entered number from the ac- 
cumulator to the X2 register and then 
clears the accumulator. A left paren- 
thesis copies X2 into XI and Y2 into 
Yl and also clears the accumulator; a 
right parenthesis is the command for 
drawing a line between XI, Yl and 
X2,Y2. This sequence of operations is 
summarized in figure 2a. Examples of 
lines drawn using these commands 
are shown in figure 2b. Also il- 
lustrated is a BASIC print statement 
that shows the method of drawing 
lines under program control. Note 
that a comma indicates that the num- 
ber preceding it is an ordinate value 
and a period indicates that the pre- 
ceding number represents an abscissa. 

Thus, (A,B.(C,D.) will draw a line 
between A,B and C,D; (A,B.(C,) 
draws a horizontal line between A,B 



ACT-85 




*CPM is a registered trademark of Digital Research 

180 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



THE CP/M* TERMINAL WITH 
BUILT IN LOCAL NETWORK 



NETWORK 

access to all printers 

and disks from any 

terminal 

CP/M* runs in each 

terminal 

single twisted 

shielded pair up to 

1500 feet 

880,000 baud SDLC 

protocol 

32 terminals per line 



MONITOR 

12 " monitor 
24 lines of 
80 characters 
reverse video 
highlighting 
blinking 
underlining 
separate 
keyboard 
38,400 baud 
effective speed 



MASS STORAGE 

• to 8 drives 
in each 
terminal: 

FLOPPIES 



SHUGART 

400, 410, 450 

460, 801, 851 

WINCHESTERS 



COMPUTER 

• 8085 cpu 

• 10 mhz 
crystal 

• 64 K ram 

• two RS-232 
ports 



5 l A " - 5, 10 or 15 Megabyte 
8" - 10, 20, 30 or 40 Megabyte 



(autocontrolB j\ 
11400 Dorsett Rd. I 
St. Louis, MO 63043 / 
(314) 432-1313 y 



Circle 40 on inquiry card. 




THE ANN ARBOR AMBASSADOR 





IT ALL ADDS UP. . . 

to Full Capability in a Full Page Display 



The Ann Arbor Ambassador offers you a combination of features unmatched in its price 
range. Its 60-Hne display lets you see more of your program or report; and it's selectable from 
the keyboarder host. There are other user-friendly features, too — 48 programmable function 
keys, 22 operator convenience modes, 5 graphic renditions, protected and guarded areas, 
erase and edit controls, local and remote printer output, block and character transmission. 

Call Ann Arbor Terminals for more information at (313) 663-8000 



nnn rrbor 



6175 JACKSON ROAD • ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN 48103 • TEL: 313-663-8000 • TWX 810-223-6033 



Circle 26 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 181 



Circle 277 on inquiry card. 



Buy with Confidence 

from the best 



GREAT PRICES. GREAT SERVICE. GUARANTEED 




— , KJLv Xerox 

V/ 1 * Zenitr 



COMPUTERS: 

Altos 

Apple 

Atari 

Commodore 

Hewlett-Packard 

B.M.C. 

Intertec/Superbrain 

N.E.C. 

Northstar 

Onyx 

Point Four 

Sharp 

Televideo 

Vector 



VIDEO TERMINALS 
& MONITORS: 

ADDS 

Amdek 

Ampex 

Apple 

B.M.C 

Hazeltine 

IBM. 

Lear-Siegler 

N.E.C. 

Sanyo 

Soroc 

Televideo 

Zenith 





THERMAL 

Apple 
Trendcom 
DOT MATRIX 

Anacom 
Anadex 



Epson 

LD.S./Paper Tiger 

Microline/Okidata 

M.P.I. 

Novell 

Texas Instruments 

LETTER QUALITY 

Diablo/Xerox 





80 COLUMN 
VIDEO CARDS 

Double Vision 

Smart-Term 

Videx 

LOWER CASE 

ADAPTERS 

Dan Paymar 

INTERFACE CARDS 

Apple 

California Computer 

Mountain Computer 

Microsoft 

S.S.M. Products 

Thunderclock 



CP/M 

Fortran 

Pascal 

Vanguard AP/L 
OTHER PRODUCTS 
Bar Code Readers 
Card Readers 
Game Controls 
Graphics Tablet 
Music System 
Numeric Keypads 
Programming Aids 
Type-and-Talk 
Video Digitizers 
Voice Entry 



LANGUAGES 

Basic Compiler 
3 Cobol 







MONITORS 

BMC & NEC Green Screen 

NOW IN STOCK 

EDUCATORS 

We have the CORVUS 
systems lo hook up several 
Apple computers al once 1 

NEC & DIABLO PRINTERS 

Anadex. Paper 

Tiger CALL 

lor latest prices %■ 



MX 100 & 
MX80F/T 



The new 136 
column Epson 
printer with graphics and the 
Friction/tractor MX BO are in 
Slock. WE HAVE THE GRAPHIC 
PACKAGE FOR MX 80 coll. 
SILENTYPE PRINTER 
ONLY $284.00 




SOFTWARE 



Amazing Mounlain Hardware 
CPS Multt-lunctlon card 

ALL IN ONE: 
Pursllel/Serlol/Clock/Calen 



Visicalc 3 3 S159 Reg S199 

BPI GL INVAR elc 299'Reg 399 

Tax Preparer by Howardsolt 79'Reg 99 

Real Esiale Anatyior Howardsolt 125'Reg 150 

Creanve Financrng Howardsolt t2S'Reg 150 

ASCII E>press II by SOS 55.'Reg 65 

Z-TERM ICPWJ |I6 sector' 85 Reg 100 
TRS 80 & ATARI SOFTWARE TOO 



PLOTTERS 

Bausch&lnmb plotters 
tor your computer Dy 
Houslon Instrum 
CALL 1 




Visit our retail store 
Nel Prolll Computers 

521 W Chapman Ave 
Anaheim. Cal 92802 
714 750-7318 



20% OFF ALL SOFTWARE 



Mall orders ONLY: 

NET PROFIT COMPUTERS 

2908 Oregon Court, Bid Gl 
Torrance Ca 90503 ^£ 

1(800)421-1520 ^^ 

n Cal 213 320-4772 QS 



:i: N i 



r r u r-i i;=: N r a i. 



m i;;: r i-i a n 



c:; i-i ,:•: f 



*i 3 



:i. t :i: T l :: * u P 



i-i 



I.J M l-i 



r :i: r \- 



i n "T" a :o x:i i; : : x:i 



Figure 3: Typical acid/base titration curve. Data points are drawn as short bars, the 
curve is enclosed by a border, and the heading and labels are printed double width. 



and C,B; (A,B.() prints a single dot; 
and the right bracket, as in A,B.(], 
positions the print head at location 
A,B without printing. Two examples 
are illustrated in figure 2b where, in 
the top example, a horizontal line is 
drawn between the points 800,200 
and 900,200 and then a line from 
900,200 to 1000,150. The intersecting 
lines in the bottom example are 
drawn in the same manner. First, a 
line is drawn between the points 
900,500 and 1000,450; then a line be- 
tween 900,500 and 800,450; a line be- 
tween 900,500 and 800,550; and fi- 
nally, a line between 900,500 and 
1000,550. 



The Use of Precision Tractors 

Another modification of the DEC- 
writer, which is particularly useful in 
graphics mode, is the installation of a 
set of precision paper-feed tractors in 
place of the standard tractors sup- 
plied with a conventional DECwriter. 
(These can be obtained from the 
Selanar Corporation for $50.) Their 
purpose is to insure that lines origi- 
nating from the same point (such as in 
a radial pattern) begin at that point 
every time a new line is drawn — 
otherwise the pattern shows a distinct 
discontinuity. The improvement in 
the printed results due to the use of 
the precision tractors can be seen in 



182 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 228 on Inquiry card. 




In an age when new standards are constantly emerging, 
one disk consistently meets or exceeds them all. 

Maxell. The Gold Standard. 



Not all disks are created equal. Some are better 
than others. To find out what's best for you, look for 
Maxell disks. They now carry the Gold Standard 
symbol of quality. It's your assurance Maxell disks 
meet or exceed every definition of quality. No matter 
who establishes it. We've earned this universal supe- 
riority by never relaxing our 
uniquely demanding quality 
control. Every aspect of manu- 
facturing is checked, then 
checked again. 

Your benefits are many. 
Take the perpetual problem of 
drop-outs. A drop-out is a tiny 
defect that wastes time and 
degrades computer accur- 
acy and performance. Now 
that you understand what a 
drop-out is, forget it. Maxell 
disks don't have any. Each 
disk comes to you certified 





maxel 


**■ 

■ <t 1 ■ I 


<■""% M i 


} 


Tno'i ~ 






R<WV Disk 

FH2 


1 ] 1 


_ 


0- 


- 


c 


I 1 

9 


H 



drop-out free at the time of manufacture. You can 
depend on this quality protecting your valuable 
programs and programming time, indefinitely. 
We've run disks over ten million passes under 
conditions designed to find weak points and wear. 
We couldn't. And you won't. 

There is a Maxell disk for the 
floppy system you use, or plan 
to use. Check your computer's 
instructions. Or write for our 
complete, highly informative 
brochure. 

When you set the Gold 
Standard as your level of 
quality, you'll benefit from 
improved disk performance, 
immediately. Bank on it. 



maxell 



Maxell Computer Products Division, 60 Oxford Drive, Moonachie, N.J. 07074, 201-440-8020 



ACCE 




Why this operating system? 

Ask the leading independent 
software vendors. They know 
Intel's iRMX 86 well 
enough to know it's 
an industry standard; 
that it allows them to 
plug into VLSI tech- 
nology, and to design in 
a heap of high-perform- 
ance features. 

Ask OEM's. They'll 
point out how it lets them 
tap a vast reservoir of mass- 
market application software. 
And how major software 
houses have already packed it 
with popular languages. 

And both will tell you that iRMX 86's 
performance and cost advantages are flat 
out impressive. Which makes it a marv- 
elous match for the industry's most widely 
used VLSI microcomputers— the iAPX 
86 and iAPX 88. 



How marvelous? 
iRMX 86 has two to 
five times the multitasking 

talents of any other microcomputer 
operating system. So users can perform 
various chores simultaneously— with blazing, 
realtime system response. Thanks to ultra- 
fast context switching, task synchronization 
and memory-based message passing. 

And iRMX 86 even supports multi- 
processing. Not only overseeing our 8087 
numeric processor and 8089 I/O processor, 
but going even further. Often helping a 
whole team of 8086, 8088 microprocessors 
and 8087, 8089 processor extensions work 
together. While you're reaping the rewards 
of multiprocessing performance— without 



PTED 
WHERE 



Company 
Microsoft 



having to wrestle with multiprocessing 
software. 

Most importantly, iRMX 86 is the only 
operating system taking 
full advantage of 
VLSI— already putting 
its advanced archi- 
tectural virtues into 
silicon. 

A prime example 
being our iAPX 80130 
operating system 
processor. It squeezes 
timing tasks, interrupt 
processing and key 
functions of the iRMX 
86 nucleus all onto a 
chip. Marking the first major chapter in our 
commitment to bring operating software 
into silicon— so performance goes up as the 
cost goes down.. 

And when it's time to tie into a com- 
munications network, you won't have to get 
tangled up writing complicated software: 
built-in software drivers are already in place 
In fact, iRMX 86 is the only microcomputer 
operating system to support Ethernet* 
the de facto standard for local area networks 



The leading software vendors have added the 
most popular languages to iRMX 86. 



Language Available 

BASIC Interpreter 
BASIC Compiler 
COBOL 



Microfocus CIS COBOL 

Digital Research CBASIC 

Intel FORTRAN 

Pascal 
PL/M 
Macroassembler 



Incidentally, all these features are 

available for $130/unit in OEM quantities. 

Plus all are backed by extensive docu- 
mentation, development 
tools, workshops, field 
support, software main- 
tenance, and a company 
name that's liable to turn 
up anywhere. 

Who knows, maybe 
everywhere. 

For a free copy of 
our article "Choosing a 
Microcomputer Operating 
System," contact your 
local distributor. Or write 
our Literature Department, 

3065 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95051, 

(408) 987-8080. 

delivers 
solutions 



iny 



Europe: Intel International, Brussels, Belgium. Japan: Intel Japan, Tokyo. 
United States and Canadian distributors: Alliance, Almac/Stroum, Arrow 
Electronics, Avnet Electronics, Component Specialties, Hamilton/ Avnet, 
Hamilton/Electro Sales, Harvey, Industrial Components, Pioneer, LA. Varah, 
Wyle Distribution Group, Zentronics. 



Circle 192 on Inquiry card. 



'Ethernet is a trademark of Xerox Corporation. 



(4a) 



EXAMPLES C' : HERSHEY CMARAC T ER ALPHABETS 



A ppnrrr 

I \ \_J V_- i_> i i O 



U 



AfBCMmm 
ABCDEFCHIJ 



d r 



iS (US it J (Si J 3 

tfi Mf i* n i> *** rt f t 



(4b) 



II 



Ht^^f-W D^'tWOi^d ctOK-^ON 



USE A. 2-0 ROTATIONAL ALGORITHM 



_ / 



x 1 Y 1 t 




COS(Q) -SIN(Q) 




*1 r 1 


X 2 Y 2 1 


* 


SIN(O) COS(Q) 


— 


X 2 Y 2 


*H Y H 1 









X H Y H 



EXAMPLES 



- 

X 

< 
1 
>- 



,4 







4 V 




Figure 4: Various type fonts produced by the program of listing 1 from data stored on 
disk. The rotation feature is shown in figure 4b. 



figure 2b, where the lines all originate 
from the point 900,500. The precision 
tractors are no trouble to install and 
otherwise perform exactly like the 
original tractors. 

Figure 3 shows a typical acid/base 
titration curve. Note the use of the 
double-width characters to label the 
graph, the box enclosing the curve, 
and the use of the bar-print mode to 
emphasize the individual data points. 
This graph was generated with a 
FORTRAN program and is a good ex- 
ample of the combined use of printing 
characters and graphics. The four 
character sets, double-width, bold- 
face, and character rotation options 
all make the Selanar Graphics II 
board a powerful addition to any 
DECwriter. 

Generating Character Sets 

The excellent resolution available 
with the Graphics II and the fact that 
it prints vector-generated graphics 
prompted us to explore the use of 
graphics to draw characters as well as 
plot curves. Normally, we would 
have to do this by developing tables 
of coordinates for each alphanumeric 
character. But fortunately, there is an 
invaluable reference work that pro- 
vides all the information needed: A 
Contribution to Computer Typeset- 
ting Techniques: Tables of Coor- 
dinates from Hershey's Repertory of 
Occidental Type Fonts and Graphic 
Symbols. (Published by the U.S. 
Department of Commerce, the book 
is now out of print, although many 
libraries have a copy.) 

This document lists the coordinates 
used to generate 1377 different alpha- 
betic and graphic characters on either 
a video terminal or a hard-copy digital 
plotter. The tables were originally 
developed by Dr. A. V. Hershey of the 
Naval Weapons Laboratory in Dahl- 
gren, Virginia. Dr. Hershey's assidu- 
ous digitization of these many charac- 
ter sets and symbols is as much a 
work of art as it is a scientific achieve- 
ment, and it includes symbols from 
mathematics, engineering, music, and 
other disciplines. The typeset quality 
of the characters and symbols is cer- 
tain to enhance any graphics display. 

Figure 4a presents several examples 

Text continued on page 196 



186 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ItAl/COKOL™ MAKES IT ACROSS! 




. . . FROM ONE OPERATING 
SYSTEM TO ANOTHER! 
A VITAL WAY TO PROTECT YOUR 
SOFTWARE INVESTMENT FOR 
THE FUTURE!! 

The KJi/GMML language runs on more 
different Operating Systems and more 



different-sized computers than any other 
similar language. For starters, it runs on 
NCR and TI minicomputers and, in the 
micro field, on the CP/M 2 , MP/M 2 , 
CP/M86 2 , MP/M-86 2 , TRSDOS^, OASIS 4 . 
MOASIS-. and UNIX 5 , (ONYX version) 
Operating Systems ... to mention only a 
few. 



IMt/<:OltOLand <RT?™ from CYBERNETICS 
ARE GOING STEADY... 




.AND YOU'RE GONNA LOVE 'EM TOO!! 



Use your computer to program itself. <RT! (Cobol 
Reprogramming ToolJJ from Cybernetics is a program 
generator for HAl/COBOI. that produces error-free 
i:AV COItOI. source programs for data input, file main- 
tenance, and report printing programs. 

A full feature interactive program generator, not a sub- 
set! Call Now! 714/848-1922. 



Until now, serious business software 
of the scope and flexibility seen in the 
minicomputer world has not been 
available on micros. IM\ MIKOI, now 
allows transfer of such software with a 
minimum of fuss. 

We have participated in such a mini-to- 
micro transfer of a major set of general 
business software . . . using I'.At INKIM as 
the transfer mechanism, of course. Run- 
ning on literally thousands of minicom- 
puters, these refined, enhanced, and 
proven software packages cover A/R, 
A/P, G/L, P/R, Order Entry (with Invoic- 
ing and Inventory Control) as well as 
Sales Analysis. The Packages define a 
new level of achievement for features and 
flexibility in micro applications software 
and offer top quality at a reasonable price. 

For immediate information, call 
714/848-1922 for your complete product 
descriptions. 



Trademarks of: 

1-Ryan-McFarland Corp.; 2-Digital Research, Inc.; 
3-Tandy Corp.; 4-Phase One Systems, Inc.; 5-Bell 
Telephone Laboratories, Inc.; 6-Cybernetics, Inc. 




8041 NEWMAN AVE., SUITE 208 

HUNTINGTON BEACH, CA 92647 

714/848-1922 



(5a) 



Km 

mi 

K\ '"ll 



^P/^\\\\v\ •■■ 

■=^=Z%ffl/// s~~~ -. \\\\\Y\V 



(/) 

X 
< 



N 



-T 



^ 
>> 



X-AX! 



D 



LOT OF EXP(-(X 2 +Y 2 )) 



(5b) 




X-AXIS 



PLOT OF EXP(-(X 2 -fY2) 
USING CROSS-HATCHING 



Figure 5: Tliree-dimetisional plotting in the graphics mode. Figures 5a and 5b show the same function but with differing detail; 
figure 5c (on page 190) is a "two-dimensional particle in a box. " 



188 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




I learned that I could get specific advantages when 
purchasing from A.E.I. 

A.E.I, has valuable knowledge gained from selling 
millions of dollars of computer equipment, and will 
take the time to discuss which equipment is right for 
me. 

Based on its vast experience, A.E.I, sells only reliable 
equipment. 

A.E.I, can test and configure equipment to match my 
system. 

A.E.I, will initalize my software to match my system, 
saving me valuable time. 

A.E.I, stocks repair parts and can answer my 



"I found out why 
V.I.P.'s call A.E.I." 



technical questions, and expedite repairs to my 
equipment when necessary. 

A.E.I, is price competitive even when compared to No- 
Service sales companies. 

I learned that 40% of all A.E.I, sales are to public and 
semi-public institutions,* such as the Universities of 
Nebraska, Virginia, Kentucky, California, M.I.T., the 
U.S. Air Force, Princeton; as well as scores of major 
corporations. 

Calling A.E.I, is the smart thing to do. 

*A.E.I. does not wish to imply that any of these fine 
organizations endorse A.E.I. , merely that A.E.I, is proud 
to have them as customers. 



A PARTIAL LIST OF PRODUCTS AVAILABLE AT A.EI. 




TELEVIDEO COMPUTER 

List Sell 

TS-800 User Station 1795 1450 

TS-801 Computer 3295 2650 

TS8Q2 ComputfTermlnal 3495 2796 

TS-S02H Comput/Temun 6995 5596 

TS406 Multi User Proc 7195 5749 




TELEVIDEO TERMINALS 

List Sell 

910 Terminal 699 .575 

912 Terminal 
920 Terminal 
925 Terminal 
950 Terminal 




NEC PRINTERS 



35101 30CPS Serial 
7710 1 55CPS Serial 
7720 1 KSR Serial 
Forms Tractors 



List Sell 

2450 2050 

CALL CALL 

CALL CALL 

CALL CALL 




NORTHSTAR HORIZON 
PRODUCTS 



MR2 20*4K 
HRZ-1Q-64K-HD5 

HRZ 1064K HD18 



List Sell 

4495 3149 

6695 4999 

9270 6749 



NorthStar is discontinuing many ol their 
horizon products. Call lor availability 
and price ol any producl not listed. 



o 



NORTHSTAR SOFTWARE 



Nofthword D/Q 
Mailmanager D/Q 
Infomanager D/Q 
General Ledger D/Q 
Affi D/Q 
A/P D/Q 




TEXAS INSTRUMENTS PRINTERS 





List 


TI-810 BASIC 


1645 


TI-310 Full ASCII 


1745 


TI-810 Package 


1945 


TI-820 R/O BASIC 


1995 


TI-820 KSR Package 


2395 



NORTHSTAR ADVANTAGE 
COMPUTER 



ADV-2Q-64K 
SI0 Board 
PI0 Board 
FPB Board 
Graphics Optic 



List 


Sell 


3995 


CALL 


175 


CALL 


200 


CALL 


399 


CALL 


299 


CALL 



List 

Cat Modem 189 

D-Cat 199 

Auto-Cat 249 

Apple-Cat 389 

DC Hayes Micro- 100 379 

DC Hayes Smart Modem 279 




EPSON PRINTERS 

List Sell 
MX-80 645 CALL 

MX-BO FT 745 CALL 

MX-100 995 CALL 

Call for pricing on interfaces and cables 




MORROW DECISION COMPUTER 

List Sell 

Decision 1 BASIC 1725 1350 

Decision 2 CALL CALL 

65 K Static Ram 1000 780 

Switchboard I/O 259 210 
Select drives from Monow disc systems 
tor desired configuration. 




MORROW DISC SYSTEMS 



Discus 2D 1 Drive 
Discus 2D 2 Drive 
Discus 2 + 21 Drive 
Discus 2 + 2 2 Drive 
M26 Hard Disc 



List 

1095 
1875 
1395 
2495 
4495 



CP/M & Microsoft Basic Included 



Okidata 82A 
Okidala 83A 
Anadex 9500 
Anadex 9501 



LINE PRINTERS 
List 



—SEE THESE PRODUCTS AND MORE IN OUR SHOWROOM- 
PRICES CHANGE DAILY— CALL OR VISIT FOR CURRENT PRICING 

AUTOMATED EQUIPMENT, INC. 

18430 WARD STREET. FOUNTAIN VALLEY, CALIFORNIA 92708 




SYSTEMS GROUP 



2600 Computer 
DM-64O0 Memory 
DMB-6400 Memory 
CPC-2813CPU + I/0 
FDC-2801 Controller 



5035 3595 



sjUlt 

MICROPRO SOFTWARE 

List St 



Wordstar 
Apple Wordstar 
Spellstar 

Mailmerge 

Datastar 

Supersort 



*fl* 



DISCCABLES 



Meniere* 5" ID 
Memorex 5" 2D 
Verbatim 5" 1D 
Verbatim 5" 2D 
R5-235 5' Cable 
RS-232 10' Cable 



Calif and International 

(714) 963-1414 
Out ol Stale 

(800) 854-7635 



Circle 41 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



189 



(5c) 




TWO-DIMENSIONAL 

PARTICLE IN A BOX 



Listing 1: Program used to print characters in the various type fonts from data stored 
on disk. The program (written in Microsoft BASIC-80, Version 5.0) produces output, 
such as that shown in the figures, on the modified DECwriter. 

10 REM *************#«**#********#*#*****#************** 

15 REM * * 

16 REM * DANIEL S. HOLMES * 

17 REM * CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT * 

18 REM * SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY * 

21 REM * * 

22 REM A************************************************ 
30 REM THIS PROGRAM OUTPUTS ANY OF A NUMBER OF HERSHEY 
32 REM CHARACTERS AS TEXT. THE TEXT AND NUMBER OF LINES 
34 REM ARE USER SELECTED, ALONG WITH THE MAGNIFICATION 
36 REM FACTORr AND THE ANGLE OF ROTATION (0-360 DEGREES). 
38 REM 

40 REM 

42 REM ENTER GRAPHICS MODE 

44 LPRINT CHR*(27)f"B" 

46 REM 

47 REM THIS PART OF THE PROGRAM IS TO INPUT ALL USER SELECTED DATA 

48 REM 

50 DIM X*(10t100),A*(250),A(250>» S( 3r 120) r Q( 3r 120) 
70 PRINT ■ CHARACTER SETS tREC/CHARACTER" 

1" 



bo print "croman 
90 print "simscript 
100 print "comitprn 
110 print 'tr0man3 
120 print "g0thiceng4 
130 print "lcg0th3 
140 print:print:input 

150 OPEN "R"»1»C* 

160 PRINT : INPUT ■# RECORDS / CHARACTER "fREC 

170 PRINT 

200 PRINT ■ ENTER TEXT'tPRINT 

210 INPUT "# OF LINES (UP TO TEN) - rQ2 



'WHICH CHARACTER SET DO YDU 



2" 

2" 

3" 

4- 

3" 
WANT 



;c* 



Listing 1 continued on page 192 



Anadex Printer Distributors 



NORTHWEST (Oregon, Washington, W. Idaho) 
Sigma Distributing 

Bellevue , WA (206) 454-6307 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Basic Electronic Distributors 

Santa Clara, CA (408) 727-1800 

Terminal Rentals 

San Jose, CA (408) 292-991 5 

Byte Industries 

Hayward, CA (415) 783-8272 

Computerland 

San Leandro, CA (415) 895-9363 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Basic Electronic Distributors 

Inglewood, CA (213) 673-4300; 
San Diego, CA (714) 268-8000 

Terminal Rentals 

Tustin.CA (714)832-2414 

SOUTHWEST 

(Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, W. Louisiana) 
Barnhill Associates, Inc. 

Richardson, TX (214) 231-2573; 

Houston, TX (713) 688-9971 ; Austin, TX (512) 451-0217 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN STATES (Colorado, Wyoming, 
Montana, Utah, E. Idaho, Arizona, New Mexico) 
Barnhill Associates, Inc. 

Englewood, CO (303) 779-3600; 
Soottsdale, AZ (602) 947-7841; 
Albuquerque, NM (505) 299-7658; 
Murray, UT (801) 262-3000 

MIDWEST (Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, 

N. Dakota, S. Dakota, Minnesota, Indiana, W. Kentucky, 

Iowa, Wisconsin) 

Tek-Aids, Inc. 

Arlington Heights, IL (312) 870-7400 

Comtel Corporation 

Chicago, IL (312) 539-4838; St. Louis, MO (314) 428-5508: 

Shawnee Mission, KS (91 3) 722-1030; Minneapolis, MN 

(612) 835-3060; Indianapolis, IN (317) 253-1681; 

Cedar Rapids, IA (319) 377-9434; 

Brookfield, Wl (414) 786-1940 

NORTHEAST (Connecticut, Vermont, Massachusetts, 
Maine, Rhode Island, New Hampshire) 

Pat Jenks Associates 

North Haven, CT (203) 239-6201 ; 
Woburn, MA (61 7) 938-0488 

Microamerica Distributors 

Needham, MA (617) 449-4310 

NEW YORK METROPOLITAN AREA 
Logon, Inc. 

Fort Lee, N J (201) 224-691 1 I (21 2) 594-8202 

MID-ATLANTIC STATES (Maryland. Washington, DC, 
Virginia, W. Virginia, E. Pennsylvania, S. New Jersey) 
Micro Distributors, Inc. 
Rockville.MD (301) 468-6450 
Plymouth Meeting, PA (21 5) 265-1600 

SOUTHEAST STATES (Louisiana, Florida, Alabama, 
Mississippi, Georgia, N. Carolina, S. Carolina) 
Currie, Peak & Frazier, Inc. 
Huntsville, AL (205) 536-1506; 
Orlando, FLA (305) 855-0843; 
Greensboro. NC (919) 273-3040 

CANADA 

Nelma Electronics Ltd. 

Mississauga, Ont. (416) 624-0334 



A 



.the plus in printers 



Circle 21 on Inquiry card. 



190 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




The important plus in matrix printers: 









Since their introduction in mid-1980, the Anadex high- 
resolution DP-9500 Series matrix printers have set new 
standards for printer quality and performance. All 
models feature the rugged Anadex 9-wire print head 
that combines long life with resolutions of 72 dots/inch 
vertical and up to 75 dots/inch horizontal. With this kind 
of resolution, fineline graphics (under data source con- 
trol) and razor sharp characters are pluses built into 
every printer. 

Performance Plus 

The full standard ASCII 96 character set, with de- 
scenders and underlining of all upper and lower case 
letters, is printed bi-directionally, with up to 5 crisp 
copies, at speeds up to 200 CPS. Models DP-9500 and 
DP-9501 offer 132/158/176 and 132/165/198/220 columns 
respectively. Print densities are switch- or data-source 
selectable from 10 to 16.7 characters/inch. All char- 
acters can be printed double-width under communi- 
cations command. 

Interface Plus 

Standard in all models are the three ASCII compatible 
interfaces (Parallel. RS-232-C. and Current Loop). Also 
standard is a sophisticated communications interface 
to control Vertical Spacing, Form Length and Width. 
Skip-Over Perforation, Auto Line Feed, X-On/Off, and 
full point-to-point communications. 



Features Plus 

As standard, each model features forms width adjust- 
ment from 1.75 to 15.6 inches, shortest-distance 
sensing, full self-test, 700 character FIFO buffer (with 
an additional 2048 characters, optional), and a quick- 
change, 6 million character life ribbon. 

Quality Plus 

Beyond the built-in performance of the grafixPLUS 
series printers, the engineered-in quality and support 
are equally important. The result? Approval of both UL 
and FCC, Class A: operating noise levels under 65dbA; 
and a nationwide service organization second to none. 

To see for yourself why the grafixPLUS printers offer 
more pluses for your printing dollar, contact us today. 




the plus in printers 



Circle 22 on inquiry card. 



Made in 

U.S.A. 

for the World 



ANADEX, INC. • 9825 DeSoto Avenue • Chatsworth. California 91311, U.S.A. • Telephone: (213) 998-8010 • TWX 910-494-2761 
U.S. SALES OFFICES, San Jose, CA (408) 247-3933 • Irvine. CA (714) 557-0457 • Wakefield, MA (617) 245-9160 • Austin, TX (512) 327-5250 
ANADEX, LTD. • Weaver House Station Road • Hook Basingstoke Hants RG27 9JY. Fngland • Tet Hook (025672) 3401 • Telex: 858762 ANADEX G 



Save 
$ 2500°° 



Are you faced with having to 
spend $3000 and up for a 
letter-quality printer? 

Mediamix offers an alternative. 



For only $500 the 
Mediamix ETI lets you 
connect the IBM Electronic 
Typewriter Models 50,60, 
or 75 to any computer. Why 
invest in two separate 
machines? Your office 
typewriter can do both jobs, 
yielding better type quality, J 
a consistent corporate 
image and renowned^ 
IBM service. 



The ETI is 

no simple black 
box, either. It is a 
sophi sticated micro- 
computer 
with 
2000 
charac- 
ot memory, over 39 



I 

etrtnle IVpMrnttx Interface ■ 



ters 

special commands and the 
option of doing typesetting 
on the IBM Model 50. 

Write or Call 

MCDinMIX 

P.O. Box 67B57 

Los Angeles, California 90067 

(213)475-9949 



192 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



GOTD 310 



Listing 1 continued: 

220 PRINT : PRINT "USE CONTROL-H TO BACKSPACE" 

230 FOR J=l TO Q2 

240 PRINT ■ LINE "}J5" 

250 X=l 

260 X*<JrX)=INPUT*(l> 

270 IF ASC<X*(J»X))=B THEN X=X-1 : PRINT CHR$(B>. 

280 IF X*<J.X)=CHR*<13> THEN 320 

290 PRINT X*<J»X)» 

300 X=X+1 

310 GOTO 260 

320 PRINT 

330 D(J)=X-1 

340 NEXT J 

350 PRINT :PRINT 

360 INPUT -IS THIS THE STRING YOU WANTED ".Y$ 

370 IF Y*="YES" THEN 390 ELSE 170 

390 INPUT " UHAT MAGNIFICATION POWER ".MAG 

400 PRINT 

410 INPUT "UHAT ROTATION ANGLE (0-360) "iTl 

420 T2=Tl/57.2958 

430 PRINT 

440 INPUT "UHAT IS THE STARTING POINT ON THE PAGE ".AtB 

450 A1=A : B1=B 

490 REM 

495 REM 

500 REM THE COORDINATE PAIRS ARE STORED IN A RANDOM ACCESS FILE 

505 REM THE RECORD NUMBER IS DETERMINED BY THE ASCII VALUE OF 

510 REM THE LETTER TO BE WRITTEN. NOTE: THE CHARACTERS ARE 

515 REM NOT STORED IN SEQUENTIAL ASCII FORMAT. 

516 REM 

517 REM 

520 FOR J=l TO Q2 

530 FOR Q=l TO D<J) 

540 IF ASC<X*<JrQ>)>96 THEN 600 

550 IF ASC(X*<JrQ))>64 THEN 610 

560 IF X*(J,Q)=- - THEN C=27*REC-REC+1 IGOTO 620 

570 IF X*CJ.Q>="=" THEN C=2B*REC-REC+1 JGOTO 620 

5B0 IF X*(J»Q)='?" THEN C=29*REC-REC+1 :G0T0 620 

590 C=(ASC(X*(JfQ))-10)*REC-REC+1 : GOTO 620 

600 C=(ASC<X*<J.Q>)-47)*REC-REC+1 : GOTO 620 

610 C=(ASC<X*(J.Q>)-64)*REC-REC+1 

620 PRINT "THE RECORD t IS "5C 

630 REM 

635 REM 

640 REM HERE UE GET THE COORDINATE PAIRS. 

645 REM SOME OF THE CHARACTER SETS TAKE UP MORE 

650 REM THAN ONE RECORD/CHARACTER. 

660 REM 

665 REM 

670 FIELD #1.1 AS M$f2 AS L*.2 AS R*,2 AS H* 

680 Z=0 

690 FOR G=l TO 59 STEP 2 

700 FIELD #l.Z#4+7 AS D*,2 AS A*(G).2 AS A*(G+1) 

710 Z=Z+1 

720 NEXT G 

730 GET *1.C 

740 L=CVKL*> 

750 R=CVI(R») 

760 H=CUI(H$) 

770 1=1 

7B0 A<I)=CUI(A*(I)) 

790 A<I+1)=CVKA*(I + 1>> 

BOO IF A(I+l)=-64 THEN 1100 

810 IF 1=59 THEN B50 ELSE 1=1+2 I GOTO 7B0 

840 GOTO 1100 

B50 Hl=60 

B60 FOR Y=l TO REC-1 

B70 1=0 

BBO FOR X=Hi +1 TO Hl+59 STEP 2 

B90 FIELD #1.1*4 AS D*,2 AS A*(X>.2 AS A$(X+1> 

900 1=1+1 

910 NEXT X 

920 C=C+1 

930 GET #1.C 

940 FOR X=H1+1 TO Hl+59 STEP 2 

950 A<X)=CVKA*(X>> 

960 A(X+1)=CUKA*(X+1>) 

970 IF A(X+l)=-64 THEN 1100 

9B0 NEXT X 

990 Hl=Hl+60 

1000 NEXT Y 

1050 REM 

1055 REM 

1060 REM THIS IS THE PART OF THE PROGRAM THAT OUTPUTS 

1065 REM THE LETTER TO THE DECURITER. THE DECURITER 

1070 REM ACCEPTS THE STRING REPRESENTATION DF EACH CHARACTER. 

1075 REM A (-64.0) IS A LIFT PEN INSTRUCTION. 

Listing 1 continued on page 195 






bfl 



a m. 



d-Buy Pi 








«^**- 



wut 



I < 



4lte 



Z-80A™ CPU, 
Floppy Disk Controller, 
r 64K of Memory, Serial & Parallel 

I/O Ports ... all on a SINGLE S-100 BOARD! 



Your business computer market 
has problems— expensive, power- 
hungry machines that are hard to 
expand and even harder to 
service. Advanced Micro Digital 
Corporation has the solution— 
SUPER/NET®, a TRULY single S-100 
board computer that will seem 
like a dream to skeptical 
technicians and salesmen— not 
to mention your customers. 
SUPER/NET® is less expensive, less 
difficult to service and expand 
and requires less power than 
traditional four board S-100 
systems; yet It contains all their 
popular features: 



. IEEE S-100 Standard 
. Z-80A™ CPU 

• 64K Bank Select Memory 

. Both 8" or 5 1 /4" Floppy Disk 
Controller (WD 1 793 chip) 

. 2 Serial & 2 Parallel I/O Ports 

• Real Time Clock Interrupts 
. 2K Monitor EPROM 

• Extended Addressing 

. Runs with CP/M'", MP/M'" 
and CP/NET'" 

• One Year Warranty 



Advanced Micro Digital 
Corporation is dedicated to the 
research and development of S- 
100 computer technology. The 
maintenance of superb quality in 
our product line is our priority. 

Now you can say "Good-Bye!" to 
all your old S-100 boards without 
giving up convenience and 
configurability, because now Its 
all on a single S-100 computer 
board. 





For more Information 
on SUPER/NET® write or call: 

3en Grove Blvd. • Suite E • Garden Grove CA 92641 • (714) 891-4004 • TELEX: 678401 tab irln 

™ Reentered Trademark of Digital Research Corp. « Copyright 1 981 Advanced Micro Digital Corp 

Circle 9 on inquiry card. 




Fill this space with a GRAFTRAX graphic 
and win a trip to Japan. 

The Epson 
"Softwear" Sweepstakes. 



We're looking for the Picasso of programming. So we 
drew up an art contest for people who don't know a 
painting pallet from a PROM. 

If you've got an Epson printer, a computer and a little 
imagination, you could win a week-long trip for two to 
Japan. Or our top-of-the-line 136-column MX-100 
printer. Or his and hers Seiko Quartz Watches. Or a 
whole lot of honorable mention prizes. And you'll get a 
T-shirt with the winning graphic just for entering. 

All you have to do is program a GRAFTRAX graphic 
— abstract, landscape, still life, whatever — using an 
Epson MX-70, MX-80, MX-80 F/T or MX-100 printer. 
We'll not only put it on our T-shirts, we'll be displaying 
the winning entries for all to see in June at the National 
Computer Conference in Houston. 

Why, you may ask, are we being so generous? It's 
simply because GRAFTRAX is the most incredible 
graphics capability made for micros. And we want to 
see it used to its full potential. 



All entries will be judged on originality, creativity 
and best use of computer equipment. They must be 
postmarked no later than May 1, 1982, and be accom- 
panied by the software program, so we can recreate the 
winning entries for verification. Make sure the graphic 
is no larger than 8" x 10" and no smaller than 4" x 6". 
And remember, if you digitize art or a photograph, it 
must have been originally created by you. 

So get busy and enter. 
You might be a winner. 
And your software 
could be your "soft- 
wear." 




EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 



3415 Kashiwa Street • Torrance, California 90505 




EPSON 

"SOFTWEAR" 

SWEEPSTAKES 

RULES 

1) Any computer equipment may be used to format the entry, 
but the graphics output must have been printed on an Epson 
MX-70, MX-80, MX-80 F/T or MX-100 printer with either 
built-in or optional GRAFTRAX. Winning entries will be re- 
created by Epson for verification. 

2) Each entry must be accompanied by the software program 
used to create it. All entries and software and the rights to use 
them become the property of Epson America, Inc. 

3) All entries must be at least 6"x 4" and no larger than 8"x 10" 
in size. 

4) Art or photographs, if used, must have been created by the 
entrant. 

5) All entries will be judged by an independent panel of 
judges on their creative merit, originality and best use of com- 
puter equipment. Decision of the judges is final. 

6) This contest is valid from January 1, 1982 until May 1, 1982. 
Entries must be postmarked no later than May 1, 1982. 

7) Participation in the Epson "Softwear" Sweepstakes is open 
to any except the following: employees of Epson America, 
Inc., its service agencies, or their families. 

8) Winners will be notified by mail no later than June 1, 1982. 
A list of winners will be made available by sending a stamped, 
self-addressed envelope to Epson America, Inc., 3415 Kasniwa 
Street, Torrance, CA 90505. 

9) Entries will be maintained on file at Epson America, Inc. 

until January 1, 1983. 

10) Prizes are as follows: First prize includes round-trip 
economy air transportation for two to Tokyo, from the airport 
nearest the winner's place of residence, and six nights stan- 
dard hotel accommodations, double occupancy. Trip does not 
include airport departure taxes, hotel service charges, cost of 
transportation or other expenses incurred before leaving the 
airport of initial departure, returning to Tokyo airport and re- 
turning home from the airport of initial departure; nor does it 
include meals or gratuities. Second prize consists of one 
Epson MX-100 Printer. Third prize consists of his and hers 
Seiko Quartz Watches. Additional prizes include 25 Micro- 
Nine Printheads, 50 Epson Digital Watches, and 100 Epson 
Ribbon Cartridges. 

11) You may enter more than once, but each entry must be 
accompanied by the official entry coupon below. 

12) Void where prohibited by law. 



Attach this 
NAME 


form fi 


rmly to 


the back of 


each 


graphic 


you er 


te-r. 


STREET 
















CITY 
















STATE 
PHONE 




) 


7TP 











COMPUTER EQUIPMENT USED 



PRINTER MODEL AND SERIAL NUMBER 



_M. 



T-SHIRT SIZE S 

Mail entries to: 

"SOFTWEAR" SWEEPSTAKES 
Epson America, Inc. 
3415 Kashiwa Street 
Torrance, California 90505 



_X! 



EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 



Listing 1 continued: 

1080 REM A < -64.-64) IB AN END DF CHARACTER INSTRUCTION, 

1090 REM 

1095 REM 

1100 A=A-L*MAG*C0S(T2) 

1110 B=B-L*MAG*-SIM(T2) 

1120 G0SUB 2000 

1130 IF H=l THEN 1300 

1140 LPRINT ■C;STRS<INT<A(1)*MAG+A) ) r ■ r ' i STRt ( INK A( 2)*MAGtB) ) i • . ( ] - 

1150 FOR G=l TO H*2-l STEP 2 

1160 IF A(G+l)=-64 THEN 1300 

1170 IF A<G)=-64 THEN 1270 

1180 ACG)=A<G)*ttAG 

1190 A(G+1)=A(G+1)*MAG 

1200 A(G)=A<G)+A 

1210 A(G+1)=A<G+1)+B 

1220 LPRINT ■<"5STR*(INT(A<B))>f '»• JSTR*( INT(A(G+1 )))»■." f 

1230 IF U = l THEN 1250 

1240 LPRINT ")■; 

1250 Y=0 

1260 GOTO 1290 

1270 LPRINT 

1280 y=i 

1290 NEXT G 

1300 A=A+R*MAG*C0S<T2) 

1310 B=B+R*MAG*-SIN(T2> 

1320 NEXT 

1360 REM 

1365 REM 

1370 REM NDU WE GO BACK TO THE START OF THE NEXT LINE 

13B0 REM 

1390 REM 

1400 IF REOl THEN 1440 

1410 A1=A1H5*MAG*SIN<T2) 

1420 B1 = B1H5*MAG*C0S(T2) 

1430 GOTO 1465 

1440 A1=A1+30*MAG*SIN(T2) 

1450 B1=B1+30*MAG*COS(T2) 

1465 ft:=Ai J B=B1 

1470 NEXT J 

1472 REM 

1475 REM 

14B0 REM CHECK FOR ANYTHING ELSE TO PRINT OUT 

1490 REM 

1495 REM 

1500 INPUT "DO YOU HAVE MORE TEXT "JYt 

1510 IF Y*='N0* THEN 1550 

1520 PRINT 

1530 INPUT "DO YOU UANT TO CHANGE CHARACTER SETS " 5 Y$ 

1540 IF Y*="YES' THEN CLOSE : GDTO 70 

1542 REM 

1543 REM 
1545 GOTO 190 

1547 REM 

1548 REM 

1550 LPRINT CHR*<27);-C- 

1560 END 

2000 REM 

2010 REM 

2020 REM THIS IS THE ROTATIONAL ALGORITHM USED TO ROTATE THE 

2030 REM CHARATERS ANY ANGLE FROM 0-360 DEGREES. 

2033 REM THE COORDINATE PAIRS ARE STORED IN A 3*3 MATRIX, AND 

2035 REM MULTIPLIED BY THE ROTATION MATRIX (ROTATION ABOUT 

2038 REM THE POINT OtO). 

2040 REM 

2045 REM 

2050 IF T1=0 THEN RETURN 

2060 FOR 1=1 TO H 

2070 S(1,I>=A(I*2-1) 

2080 S(2rI)=A<I*2) 

2090 S(3»I)=1 

2100 NEXT I 

2110 T(l»l)= C0S(T2) 

2120 T(2f2)=C0S(T2) 

2130 T<1»2)=SIN<T2> 

2140 T(2rl)=-SIN(T2) 

2150 T<3,.1)=0 

2160 T(3r2)=0 

2170 T(3>3>=1 

2180 FOR Y5=l TD H 

2190 IF A(Y5*2-l>=-64 THEN 2250 

2200 FOR X5=l TO 3 

2210 Q(X5fY5)=S(lrY5>*T(X5,l)tS(2,Y5)*T(X5r2)+S(3rY5)*T(X5»3) 

2220 NEXT X5 

2230 A(Y5*2-l)=INT(Q(lfY5)+.5) 

2240 A(Y5*2)=INT(Q(2r Y5M-.5) 

2250 NEXT Y5 

2260 RETURN 

March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 195 



Text continued from page 186: 

of Hershey-character alphabets. 
Starting from the top of the figure, 
these are: simplex Roman, simplex 
script, complex italic, triplex Roman, 
and Gothic English. At our labora- 
tory, we now have the coordinates of 
these various character-printer sets 
stored on disk and can send them to 
the DECwriter under program con- 
trol in any size desired. The coor- 
dinates for the simplex Roman char- 
acters occupy approximately 7K 
bytes of disk storage space, while the 
Gothic English files require more 
than four times that amount. 

In addition to being able to vary 
the size of the displayed Hershey 
character sets, we also included in our 
program the ability to rotate charac- 
ters to any angle. The effects of this 
routine, adapted from Mathematical 
Elements for Computer Graphics, by 
D. F. Rogers and J. A. Adams (see re- 
ferences), are shown in figure 4b, 
which displays several examples of 
character rotation; also shown is the 



rotational algorithm that does the cal- 
culations necessary for the individual 
rotations. The BASIC program that 
outputs the Hershey coordinates as 
letters, starting at any location on the 
page, with any magnification and any 
degree of rotation, is given in listing 
1. 

Figure 5a is a three-dimensional 
plot of an exponential function show- 
ing the use of the graphics mode to 
display the lettering as well as the 
mathematical function itself. Figure 
5b is a three-dimensional plot of the 
same function with certain lines hid- 
den, with cross hatching, and labeled 
with graphically generated Hershey 
characters. Finally, shown in figure 
5c is the three-dimensional represen- 
tation of the quantum-mechanical 
wave function for a two-dimensional 
particle in a box. 

Conclusion 

The Selanar unit has been in opera- 
tion in our laboratory for over a year 
and has performed flawlessly during 



that time. The illustrations of the 
various graphs shown, especially the 
three-dimensional plots, with or 
without hidden lines, coupled with 
the development of programs to en- 
code and output the different Hershey 
character sets, has made our DEC- 
writer a truly versatile and low-cost 
generator of high-quality, high- 
resolution hard copy.B 



References 

1. GRAPHICS II Installation and User 
Manual. Selanar Corporation, Santa 
Clara, CA 1979. 

2. Rogers, D.F. and J. A. Adams. 
Mathematical Elements for Computer 
Graphics. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1976, 
page 202. 

3. Wolcott, N.M. and J. Hilsenrath. A Con- 
tribution to Computer Typesetting Tech- 
niques: Tables of Coordinates from Her- 
shey 's Repertory of Occidental Type 
Fonts and Graphic Symbols. Washing- 
ton, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards 
Special Publication No. 424, U.S. 
Department of Commerce, U.S. Govern- 
ment Printing Office, 1976. Ou1 of print. 




68000 



XAVAXTwo includes: 

• 68000 processor at 8MHz 

• 32 bit registers, operations 

• 7 vectored interrupt levels 

• 256KB parity checking RAM 

• 10MB Winchester hard disk 

• 960KB floppy disk 

• Graphics display monitor 

• Multibus™/IEEE architecture 



XAVAXsystems 



XVX multiuser operating system 
Option: UNIX™, CP/M 
Screen editor, filer, linker 
Language: (Pascal, C, COBOL, 
FORTRAN, BASIC, or Assembler) 
Option: add 10MB Winchester 
with 10MB tape backup 



Option: on site service 
Software: A«Counts™accounting and inventory control 



Bizgraf™ business color 

Tektext™ scientific word 

TeleSoft-Ada™ to DOD s 

Representatives worldwide. 



graphics. 

processor. 

pecifications. 



• UNIX™ of Bell Laboratories 

• CP/M T Mof Digital Research 

• MulttbusTMof Intel Corp 

• Ada™ Dept of Defense 



IMMEDIATE ATTENTION! B382 

Please send specifications on the system checked below: 

□ XAVAXOne (board only, 1 28KB RAM) ($2,000) □ XAVAXThree ($14,000) 

□ XAVAXTwo (with 10MB Winchester) ($8,500) □ XAVAXFour ($40,000) 

Name Title 

Company MS 

City State Zip Phone 

Phone: XAVAX Corporation Cable: 

(319) 344-0550 300 Northwest Tower. Bettendorf, Iowa 52722 XAVAXCORP 



196 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 419 on inquiry card. 



^B 



I 



«--j 



I 




,!:*»" 



WHILE OUR COMPETITORS TALK 
ABOUT PRINTER RELIABILITY, 



DATAROYAL PROVES IT. 



F *-." 



Many printer companies talk about how reliable 
their products are. But very few can publish hard 
evidence supporting those claims. 

Dataroyal knows that every printer breakdown, 
service call, or extra maintenance procedure 
increases the cost of owning and operating your 
system. So we don't make claims we can't prove. 

Dataroyal tests our IPS-5000 printers non-stop at 
100% duty cycle and page density. These printers 
have now surpassed an MTBF (mean time between 
failure) figure of 2000 hours-without failure, 
maintenance, or any special treatment. Under 
normal conditions, this performance rating means 
years of reliable operation between service calls. 









■ i i r >••» 



r 1 1 



■ 



_ ^L 



■ 



DATAROYAL 



INCORPORATED 



And our printhead life now exceeds 500 million 
characters. All of this reliability spares you the 
time and expense you might now be spending on your 
existing printers. 

This superior performance has made Dataroyal the 
intelligent choice for major domestic and inter- 
national OEM systems manufacturers. Want to see 
our proof? Contact us, and we will send you our 
latest test results. And that's not just talk. 

235 MAIN DUNSTABLE ROAD, NASHUA, NH (USA) 03061 
(603) 883-4157 

2801 FAR HILLS AVENUE, SUITE 200, DAYTON, OHIO 45419 
(513) 204-6426 

3150 EAST LAPALMA AVENUE, SUITE D, ANAHEIM, CA. 92806 
(714) 632-9310 



Circle 117 on inquiry card. 



Custom and Standardized Forms 
for the Microcomputer User 



To help you find forms for your 
software, we are offering this brief ac- 
count of the current marketplace of 
forms for microcomputer users. 

Some microcomputer users have 
written their own software; others 
have bought one or more commercial 
programs. Many microcomputer 
users run both software of their own 
and commercial programs. 

A number of companies stand 
ready to help you with various stock, 
custom, or standardized forms. Table 
1 (page 200) lists companies active in 
this market. Table 2 (page 202) sum- 
marizes the product offerings of these 
companies and the minimum orders 
required for custom and standardized 
forms. I have also included brief in- 
formation about these companies' of- 
ferings, if any, of continuous custom 
letterheads. 

While stock forms are of several 
common types, they are not written 



Philip Lemmons 

c/o BYTE Publications Inc. 

POB 372 

Hancock, NH 03449 



specifically for one company's com- 
puter or software. Nevertheless, 
stock forms do, in fact, work with 
many commercial programs. Com- 
panies offering stock forms are too 
numerous to list. If stock forms will 
work with your commercial pro- 
grams, or if you can write software 
that uses stock forms, you will be 
able to get the forms you need at an 
economical price. Some companies 
make the use of stock forms easier by 
providing programmer's guides for 
use of the form, e.g., a grid with rows 
and columns numbered and data 
fields highlighted. 

But the focus of this article is on 
custom and standardized forms. 
Custom forms, of course, are de- 
signed to go with unique, user- 
written software. What I am calling 
standardized forms are designed to go 
with specific pieces of commercial 
software. If you buy an accounting 



program from the fictitious Ersatz 
Software, for example, and you 
know someone who sells forms for 
the Ersatz programs, you won't need 
to spend any time adapting the soft- 
ware to your forms or spend any 
legwork looking for stock forms that 
happen to be compatible with the 
software. 



Custom Forms 

If you absolutely must do things 
your own way down to the last 
detail, custom-designed and printed 
forms are for you. Many companies 
produce custom forms. These com- 
panies are found under "Business 
Forms" in the Yellow Pages. 
Minimum order quantities vary 
greatly. The companies listed in table 
2 that do custom forms accept orders 
for minimums ranging from 1000 to 
5000. Pricing varies with the com- 



198 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Ire 



THE CENTRONICS 739. IT'S A LOT MORE THAN 
YOU'D EXPECT TO SELL FOR THE PRICE. 







■ 

■ 

* Ml M> ' 

. Ell II 



HKHni 



Jlik 

H 

■ I I m «», 



» > • • »#««»«#•• ■ 



^■^^^^ 



Inexpensive doesn't have to 
mean incomplete, and the quiet, 
dependable Centronics 739 is the 
classic example. It's complete 
in capability and because it's from 
Centronics you can expect it to 
perform just like the workhorse 
printers that have made Centronics 
a leader in the business for more 
than a dozen years. So when you 
shop for a desk-top printer and 
compare features, here's what you 
can expect from a 739: 

CORRESPONDENCE 
QUALITY- Clear, high density 
characters plus right justification 
and proportional spacing that 
produce correspondence, direct 
mail, and other important docu- 
ments that demand a "custom" 
quality appearance. 

BUSINESS GRAPHICS - 
What good is a printer that can't 
print your technical business/ 
management information? The 
739 produces a range of graphics — 
from bar charts and curves to 
illustrative material — almost any- 
thing your computer can produce. 




3-WAY PAPER 
HANDLING - Cut sheets for 
correspondence; roll paper for 
day-to-day operations; fan-folded 
forms for normal data printout. 

DEPENDABILITY- You 
depend on your printer for hard 
copy of timely information and 
that means it must operate 
dependably. With Centronics repu- 
tation behind the 739, reliability is 
a foregone conclusion. More than 
350,000 Centronics printers sold 
worldwide is the proof. 



SERVICE - Someday you 
may need it. Where do you find it? 
With Centronics worldwide 
network of service locations it's 
not very far. And now, there are 
authorized Centronics sales and 
service dealers, and "walk-in" 
service centers in an expanding 
number of key cities throughout 
the U.S. 

When it comes to printers, 
Centronics is the leading 
independent printer manufacturer — 
chosen by computer professionals 
in major industry brand preference 
studies. So when you look for an 
inexpensive printer don't settle 
for incomplete. Choose the 
Centronics 739. It comes complete 
with a commitment — to 
performance, dependability and 
service. See it at your Centronics 
dealer. Or write for information. 



cenTRonics 

PRINTERS 

Circle 70 on Inquiry card. 



Centronics Data Computer Corp. 

One Wall Street, Hudson, New Hampshire 03051 



plexity of the form. Many companies 
stress that it makes little sense to buy 
only 1000 custom forms because 5000 
cost relatively little more — much of 
the cost lies in the unique design of 
the form. 

Standardized Forms 

A few companies are now offering 
forms to go with standard, commer- 
cial software packages for microcom- 
puters. NEBS, Checks-to-Go, DFS, 
Moore, and Trinity are all active in 
this market. Your choice of a com- 
pany might depend on whether you 
want to buy forms by telephone or 
mail, from your local computer or 
software dealer, or (with Moore, at 
least) from the company's own local 
office. 

More likely, however, your choice 
will depend on which company has 
the forms for your commercial pro- 
grams. Table 3 (page 204) lists the 
kinds of software for which the com- 
panies shown sold forms. Note that 
not all these companies identify forms 



the same way. Some companies list 
their standardized forms primarily by 
reference to software houses. Others 
refer primarily to computer com- 
panies: you tell them what kind of 
computer you use, and they tell you 
what forms they have for it. Some 
companies list standardized forms by 
a combination of software house and 
computer company. Since many 
computer companies sell software as 
well as hardware, you can't always be 
sure which forms company has exact- 
ly what you need. 

Perhaps the wisest course is to con- 
tact all the companies or their local 
dealers and ask about your specific 
needs. Although table 3 lists the kinds 
of microcomputers and software for 
which various companies offer stan- 
dardized forms, some of the com- 
panies have only recently entered the 
field. By the time you read this, the 
new entrants in the microcomputer 
forms market are likely to have added 
many new forms to their product 
lines. ■ 



"2& S*iH$ 2ei*tofy 

• 7 working day RUSH service 

• FREE demo samples 

• Quality design 

• Very COMPETITIVE PRICES 

• Personalized assistance 

• FREE shipping - in continental U.S. 

• COMPLIMENTARY quotes on 

custom forms 




VICES 



.arisfany other continuous 
form you may need! 



COMPU 




RMS 



Currently providing forms support 
for: 

Systems Plus • Vector • TCS • Alpha Micro 

Radio Shack • Insoft • IMS • Continental • DIBS 

Libra • Structured Systems Group • Peachtree 

Anchor • Accounting Plus • BPI • Designer • MCS 

Graham Dorian • MCBA • Durango • Dynabyte 

Call NOW for FREE sample forms 
packet. Your customer service 
representative is waiting to assist 
you with your continuous forms 
needs! 

I Checks 8384 Hercules St. 
I To-Go La Mesa, CA 92041 



Check-Mate 

POB 103 

Randolph, MA 02368 

(617)963^7694 

Comments: Check-Mate sells only by 

direct mail and telephone. Its custom 

forms are limited to checks; its standard 

computer forms are for Radio Shack and 

Libra software only. 

Checks-to-Go 
8384 Hercules St. 
La Mesa, CA 92041 
(800) 854-2750 

(800) 552-8817 (California residents only) 
Comments: Checks-to-Go sells only by 
direct mail and telephone. Tell Checks-to- 
Go what kind of computer you have and 
you will receive a sample kit of its forms 
for your computer. 



DFS Computer Forms 
POB 643 

Townsend, MA 01469 
Comments: DFS has an extensive line of 
forms for existing microcomputer soft- 
ware and sells only through local dealers. 



Moore Business Forms inc. 
1205 North Milwaukee Ave. 
Glenview, IL 60025 
(800) 447-4700 

(800) 322-4400 (Illinois residents only) 
Comments: Moore sells forms through 
more than 600 of its own local sales of- 
fices around the United States. Check the 
Yellow Pages or call Moore's toll-free 
numbers to find out the name of your local 
dealer. 



NEBS Computer Forms 

78 Mollis St. 

Groton, MA 01471 

(800) 225-9550 

(800) 922-8560 (Massachusetts residents 

only) 

Comments: NEBS sells only by direct mail 

and telephone. On request, NEBS sends a 

helpful, cross-indexed Forms Selector 

Guide and a catalog with programmer's 

guides for each form. 



Trinity Forms Company 

Micro Computer Forms Program 

Carrcllton, TX 75006 

(800) 527-0625 

(800) 492-5232 (Texas residents only) 

Comments: Trinity sells through local 

dealers only. Contact Trinity on a toll-free 

number for the name of your local dealer. 

Trinity plans to introduce a large line of 

standard forms for many different 

microcomputer software packages. 



Table 1: Some companies selling stan- 
dardized or custom forms for micro- 
computers. 



CALL TOLL FREE: (800) 854-2750; (800) 552-8817 in CA 

200 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 73 on inquiry card. 



HEGR4PHIC 
DIFFKBMQ 

BETWEEN ATARI COMPUTERS AND ALL OTHERS. 













3.7 million reasons why the ATARI 
Home Computer is something to see. 

The display screen used with our computers 
is composed of 192 horizontal lines, each 
containing 320 dots. Delivering color and 
luminosity instructions to each dot for a 
second requires 3.7 million cycles... a lot 
of work for the normal 6502 processor 

That's why the ATARI computer has 
equipped its 6502 with its own electronic 
assistant. It's called ANTIC, and it handles 
all the display work, leaving the 6502 free 
to handle the rest. What this means to you 
is uncompromisingly spectacular display 
capabilities without loss of computer 
power needed to carry out the demands 
of your program. 

That's a quality you just don't find in 
ordinary personal computers. And it's 
one of the reasons some computer 
experts say that ATARI computers are 
so far ahead of their time. 
There's more. . .which is what 
you'd expect from ATARI. 
Language. The ATARI Personal 
Computer uses several program- 
ming languages to give the user 
maximum control of its extraordi- 
nary capabilities. PILOT, Microsoft 
BASIC* and ATARI BASIC are 
understood and spoken by the 
ATARI computer You'll also find 
our Assembler Editor cartridge 
indispensable for machine 
language programming. 




W W iJHiiWiiW m wiWIiiii 

mm " """ ' \'A\\\ 



— ■■■■ 1 

a ATARI 




ATARI 



Sound. An ATARI computer has four sound 
generators, or voices, activated by a sepa- 
rate microchip. This leaves the principal 
microprocessor chips free to perform other 
tasks. And you can take full advantage of 
this capability which is designed 
for easy programming. 

Change. ATARI Home Computers have 

been designed to make change and 

expansion easy. The ATARI computer has a 

modular operating system* that can be easily 

replaced as new technology develops. If you 

need it, memory expansion requires no more 

than inserting additional RAM modules* 

And the ATARI ROM cartridge system also 

makes it easy to change languages. In short, 

your ATARI computer won't be obsoleted by 

future developments . . . beause it already 

incorporates the future. 

Sharing. To learn more about the amaz- 
ing capabilities of ATARI computers, visit 
your local computer store for a demon- 
stration. Or send for our Technical 
User's Notes, intended for the serious 
programmer They are only $27 and 
contain a lot more information about 
our computers' special capabilities 
than most companies could tell. 
See your ATARI dealer, or send 
$30 ($27 plus $3 postage and 
handling), payable to ATARI, to 
Technical User's Notes, c/o 
ATARI Customer Service, 1340 
Bordeaux Avenue, Sunnyvale, 
CA 94086. 



•ATARI 800'" computer only. 



31981 Atari, Inc. 



Circle 39 on Inquiry card. 



o 



A Warner Communications Company 





Check-Mate 


Checks-to-Go 


DFS 


Moore 


NEBS 


Trinity 


How Sold 


Mail and 
telephone 


Mail and 
telephone 


Local 
dealers 


Local 
offices 


Mail and 
telephone 


Local 
dealers 


CUSTOM FORMS 
Minimum quantity 


Checks 
only 

5000 


Y 
5000 




Y 
1000-2500 


N 


Y 

1000 


CUSTOM CONTINUOUS 
LETTERHEAD 

Minimum quantity 


Y 

1000 


Y 
5000 




Y 
1000-2500 


Y 
500 


Y 
1000 


STANDARDIZED FORMS 
Minimum quantity 


Y 
1000 


Y 
500 


Y 


Y 
1000 


Y 
500 


Y 
500 



Table 2: Information about how six companies sell custom and standardized forms for microcomputers. Important considerations 
include minimum order quantities and sales methods— whether through a company's own local offices, through local dealers, or 
by mail and telephone. 



NORTHSTAR "*** TELEVIDEO 

vS Kou? 'SX^H!^ %£?'££ Th * "•» <*»«"• "»•* backed by G.E. Dull, 

Wny buy your components from severe , ,„. , ..... . . «»■#/ 

sources when we con bum ond lest you, I" CRT. de.ochoble keyboard. 750Klo,mo n ed. 

Nor,hs,o,.prin,e,and/o„e„™nolasosys,em? du °' "°PP ys : 64K ' CP j"f 2* m0W> Flve 

Des, pdc« overall. K ""*" lre buslne " rnodules S695 - 

HRZ II 64K Quod $3145 Televideo 802 $2795 

Advantage Call Televideo 802H (10MG.) .... $5555 

TS5/18-4 $8295 " 




Financial Planning... 

from SuperSoft 



SCRATCHPAD: SUPERSOFT'S 
ELECTRONIC WORKSHEET 

Scratchpad is a user-interactive data 
modeling program suitable for financial 
planning or any general purpose model- 
ing. Whether you are an executive, a 
researcher, or planning the family 
budget; you will find Scratchpad an 
invaluable tool in giving you the numeric 
correlations you need for sound decision 
making. 

Scratchpad provides for labels and 
corresponding numeric data entries 
cross-referenced by row and column. 
Data entries are then defined as depen- 
dent variables in a user-created algebraic 
formula. You can now quickly see how 
changes in one or more variables affects 
all others. 



Scratchpad includes the following 

• Multiple screen splitting which allows 
two or more sections of the worksheet to 
be viewed simultaneously. 

• Both immediate and deferred calcula- 
tion modes allowing calculations to be 
either made as data is entered or de- 
ferred until later. 



• Flexibility in entry and editing func- 
tions so that data can be entered or 
changed easily. 

• Column widths are variable. 

• Portions of the worksheet not current- 
ly being viewed can be quickly brought 
to the screen for either single or split 
screen viewing. 

• Any portion of the worksheet can be 
printed as hardcopy at the user's 
discretion. 




STATS-GRAPH: 
SUPERSOFT'S STATISTICAL 

DISPLAY PACKAGE 

Stats-graph performs statistical analyses 
on user data and displays the results in 
graphic form. 
Graphic formats include: 

Pie Graph 

Bar Graph 

Scatter Graph 
Statistical Analyses include: 

Mean 

Median 

Minimum and Maximum values 

Standard Deviation 

Regression Analysis 



DATA-VIEW: THE EXECUTIVE 
ORGANIZER 

Data-view is an easy:to-use, free 
formatted system for organizing informa- 
tion. It can be used as an electronic 
filing cabinet, an automated date book, 
or a computerized listing device. Inser- 
tion and retrieval of information is both 
simple and quick. Data may be retrieved 
by file, string, or key word, and any type 
of information can be stored. 



Stats-graph is an easy-to-run, user- 
interactive program that presents 
valuable and often complex information 
in a concise and easily understood form. 



Scratchpad: 


$200.00 


Stats-graph: 


$200.00 


Data-view: 


$200.00 


Total Package: 


$500.00 


Manuals only: 


$ 15.00 



UK and Europe: 

DIGITAL DEVICES 

134 LONDON ROAD 

SOUTHBOROUGH. KENT 

TUNBFIDGE WELLS 

TN4, OPL 

ENGLAND 

Tel.: Tunbridge Wells (0892)37977/9 

Tele*: 95582 



ASR CORPORATION INTE0NAT1ON- 

3-23-8 NISHI-SHIMBASHI. MINATO-K 

TOKYO 105 

JAPAN 

Tel: 03-437-53,71 

Telex: 0242-2723 



Software available for virtually all CP/M 
systems. Specify your system. 

Available from fine dealers everywhere, 
or directly from: 
SUPERSOFT, INC. 
P.O. BOX 1628 
CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 
217-359-2112 Telex: 270365 
Technical Hot Line: 217-359-2691 



First in Software Technology 



Circle 366 on Inquiry card. 



Check-Mate 



Checks-to-Go 



Moore 



NEBS 



Trinity 



DFS 





Accounting Plus 








Allison Crain 


Agency Computer Systems 


Agency Computer Systems 


Alpha Micro 








Anchor Systems 












Antech 


Antech 


Apple Computer 


Apple Computer 


Apple Computer 


Apple Computer 






Applied Business Software 


Applied Business Software 






Atlanta Business Computer 


Atlanta Business Computer 






Balcones Computer Corp. 


Balcones Computer Corp. 






Biss 


Biss 


BPI Systems 


BPI Systems 


BPI Systems 




Briareus 












Broderbund Software 


Broderbund Software 






Business Enhancement 


Business Enhancement 






Compuservice 


Compuservice 


Cado 


Cado 
Canon U.S.A. 










Cape Cod Computer 


Cape Cod Computer 


Centurion-War rex-Eds 








Cimarron 




CMS Software Systems 


CMS Software Systems 






Coelco Software Systems 


Coelco Software Systems 






COM Business Computer 


COM Business Computer 






Systems 


Systems 






Compumax Associates 


Compumax Associates 


Computax 












Computerease Inc. 


Computerease Inc. 






Computer Products 


Computer Products 






International 


International 






Computer Research 


Computer Research 






Computerware Inc. 


Computerware Inc. 






Computhink 


Computhink 


Continental Software 


Cromemco 


Continental Software 


Continental Software 






CTI 


CTI 






Custom Accounting 


Custom Accounting 






Customation 


Customation 






Custom Computing 


Custom Computing 






D.B. Software 


D.B. Software 






Dakin-5 


Dakin-5 




Data General 










Data Solutions 


Data Solutions 




Data Train 


Data Train 


Data Train 






Data Universal 


Data Universal 






Datavision 


Datavision 






Davis-Lane 


Davis-Lane 




DEC 










Delphic Systems 


Delphic Systems 






Delta Software 


Delta Software 






Denver Software Company 


Denver Software Company 


Designer Software 








DIBS 








Digilog 








Digital Systems 












Digital Tech 


Digital Tech 






Duchess Enterprises 


Duchess Enterprises 


Durango 


Durango 


Durango 


Durango 


Dynabyte 












Ecosoft 


Ecosoft 






EDP Business Systems 


EDP Business Systems 






Electronic Information 


Electronic Information 






Systems 


Systems 






Fox Computer Systems 


Fox Computer Systems 






Functional Solutions 


Functional Solutions 






Glenn/Cliff Associates 


Glenn/Cliff Associates 






Haland Data Systems 


Haland Data Systems 






H & E Computronics 


H & E Computronics 




Hewlett-Packarc 






IBM 5120 








IBM Systems 32/34 








Table 3: Hardware and software sources for which these companies produce standardized forms 


. Keep in mind that a company 


that produces forms for one program from a particular 


software house may not produce forms for all programs from that house. 


Furthermore, a company that produces 


forms for one 


computer from a certain manufacturer may not produce forms for every 


computer from that manufacturer. In addition, since 


some of these forms companies entered this market shortly before the 


research was done for this article, they 


may by now o 


ffer forms for more computers and more software. 



204 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Check-Mate Checksto-Go 



Moore 



NEBS 



Trinity 



DFS 



IMS 
Insoft 



Libra 



Libra 



MCBA 
MCS 



Libra 



Radio Shack 



NEC 
North Star 

Osborne 
Peachtree 



R & B Systems 
Radio Shack 



Moore 



NEC 



ICM Computer Systems 
Idea Micro Design 

Info Designs 

Interactive Operations 

Associates 
International Computer 

Service 
International Data Tech 
Key Systems 
Legler Systems 
Lenz, Masterson & 

Associates 

Mark/Donn Associates 
George Matyjewica & 
Company 



Medfield Computer 

Software 
Microcomputer Consultants 
Micro-Management 
Midwest Data Services 
Mitex 
Montour Computer Systems 

Murray Jones Murray 
Engineers 



Open Systems 
Peachtree 



Radio Shack 



P.G. & J. 
P K Systems 

Radio Shack 



Peachtree 



ICM Computer Systems 
Idea Micro Design 

Info Designs 

Interactive Operations 

Associates 
International Computer 

Service 
International Data Tech 
Key Systems 
Legler Systems 
Lenz, Masterson & 

Associates 

Mark/Donn Associates 
George Matyjewica & 
Company 



Medfield Computer 

Software 
Microcomputer Consultants 
Micro-Management 
Midwest Data Services 
Mitex 
Montour Computer Systems 

Murray Jones Murray 
Engineers 



P.G. & J. 
P K Systems 







Realistic Computing 


Realistic Computing 






of Georgia 


of Georgia 






G.A. Rook Systems 


G.A. Rock Systems 






Group 


Group 






Rocky Mountain 


Rocky Mountain 






Software 


Software 






RTG Data Systems 


RTG Data Systems 






S & M Systems 


S & M Systems 






Score 


Score 




Serendipity Software 






Shasta 












Small Business 


Small Business 






Systems Group 


Systems Group 






Small Systems Software 


Small Systems Software 






Software Services 


Software Services 






Software Technology 


Software Technology 






for Computers 


for Computers 


Structured Systems 


Structured Systems 










Synergetic Computer 


Synergetic Computer 






Systems 


Systems 


Systems Plus 






Systems Plus 






Tailored Data 


Tailored Data 






Taranto & Associates 


Taranto & Associates 






Targhee Software 


Targhee Software 






Engineering 


Engineering 






TBSB 


TBSB 


TCS Software 


TCS Software 
Texas Instruments 




TCS Software 






The Bottom Shelf 


The Bottom Shelf 






The Software Exchange 


The Software Exchange 




The Software Shoppe 










The Systems Shop 


The Systems Shop 


Timberline 












Utility Computing 


Utility Computing 






Service 


Service 


Vandata 




Vandata 


Vandata 


Vector Graphic 








Wang 












Westware 


Westware 






Woodbury Computer 


Woodbury Computer 






Associates 


Associates 






Xtra Soft 


Xtra Soft 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 205 



Hardware Review 



Base 2 Printer 



Walter Jeffries 

RFD1 

Readfield, ME 04355 



Recently, after considering it for 
quite awhile, I added a printer to my 
system. My choice was the Base 2 
printer, which I use with an Exidy 
Sorcerer with 32K bytes of RAM 
(random-access read/write memory). 
I bought the printer used for $470, 
complete with most of its options 
(tractor feed, graphics option, and ex- 
panded character buffer). Parts of 
this article may not apply to Base 2 
printers that lack these options. 

Construction 

This compact printer measures 7.5 
by 24.5 by 35.6 cm (3 by 11 by 15 
inches) and is constructed of 
aluminum, which makes the printer 
surprisingly heavy for its size. The 
aluminum chassis acts as a heat sink 
for the large-scale integrated (LSI) cir- 
cuits, making a fan unnecessary if the 
printer has an unimpeded airflow. 
Designed around the 8085 micropro- 
cessor and other LSI chips, the printer 
has few components but great flex- 
ibility. Behind the tractor mechanism 
is a removable panel that provides ac- 
cess to two erasable programmable 
read-only memories (EPROMs). 

One EPROM contains the printer's 
program and the standard character 
set, consisting of 96 ASCII char- 
acters. The other EPROM can con- 
tain auxiliary character sets; it does 
not come standard with the printer. 
The paper inlet is located in the bot- 
tom of the printer, and the friction 



feed mechanism is located inside. In 
the upper left-hand corner of the 
printer's back panel is the power 
switch. Also on the back panel are the 
three interface connectors, power in- 
let, mode switches, and the reset/self- 
test switch. On the front panel are the 
formfeed (FF) and unit-select 
switches. 

Interfaces 

The Base 2 printer has three inter- 
face connectors that support four 
popular interfaces: RS-232, 20-milli- 
ampere (mA) current loop, Cen- 
tronics parallel, and IEEE-488. You 
select the interface mode by using two 
switches of an eight-position minia- 
ture DIP (dual-inline package) switch 
located under the power switch. The 
next four switches set the default line 
length from any of five of the six line 
densities. The remaining two switches 
determine the "pinout" (lines assigned 
to the socket pins) for the serial inter- 
faces. Also on the back panel is the 
data rate/unit-number switch, which 
consists of a 16-position thumb-wheel 
switch. In the serial mode this switch 
determines one of 15 data rates rang- 
ing from 75 to 9600 bits per second. 
In the IEEE-488 interface mode this 
switch acts as the unit-number 
switch. In the parallel mode this 
switch is not used. 

An additional mode recommended 
for the TRS-80 uses the parallel inter- 
face and a line length of 80 



At a Glance 

Name 

Base 2 printer 

Use 

Medium-quality printer 

Manufacturer 

Base 2 Inc. 
POB 3548 
Fullerton, CA 92634 
|7I4) 533-0111 

Dimensions 

7.5 by 24.5 by 35.6 cm (3 by 1 1 by 1 5 
inches) 

Price 

S699 

Hardware Needed 

Host computer with one of four interfaces: 
RS-232, 20-mA current loop, Centronics 
parallel, IEEE-488 

Software Needed 

Appropriate driver for interface 

Hardware Options 

Tractor feed, paper holder, graphics op- 
tion, expanded buffer 

Features 

Print speed: 100 cps bidirectional. Form- 
feed speed: 1.5 inches per second. Six 
character densities with elongated print- 
ing. Standard 96 ASCII characters in 5 by 
7 dot-matrix font. Nine additional user- 
defined character fonts. 

Documentation 

74-page paperback 

Audience 

Computer hobbyist desiring a flexible, in- 
expensive printer 



206 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



into a handheld 
computer. 



ir uitw ■•••■. 

... 



WK^^mbM 



C=S 



OB S3 



Introducing the 
Hewlett-Packard 
Interface Loop. 

Starting today, your HP-41C or HP- 
41CV can be more than just a great 
little calculator. It's a great little com- 
puter, capable of controlling a quickly- 
expanding family of peripherals. 

The new Hewlett-Packard Interface 
Loop (HP-IL) makes it all possible. HP- 1 1 
is an easy-to-use, low-cost interfacing 
system, specifically designed for battery- 
operable devices. 
The Interface Module and 
Peripherals. 

At the heart of the system is the 
Interface Module, which plugs into 
any one of four HP- 41 ports. You 
can control up to 30 peripherals, 
using only one port in your 
HP-41 calculator. 

One of the key HP-IL periph- 
erals is the new Digital Cassette 
9 Drive. This battery- 
operable device 
provides an 

Circle 178 on Inquiry card. 






incredible 131,000 bytes of 
mass memory: 

Another work-saving HP-IL 
peripheral is the new, battery- 
operable Thermal Printer/ 
Plotter with enhanced 
formating options and graphics. 
This is just the beginning. 
There are many more HP-IL 
products on the way. And they're all 
designed to provide the versatility 
and adaptability you expect from HP. 
You see, Hewlett-Packard is committed 
to a very big idea: small devices talking 
to each other, giving you big system 
capabilities - at small system prices! 
For details and the address of your 
nearest dealer, CALL TOLL FREE: 800 
547-3400, Dept. 276J , except Hawaii/ 
Alaska. In Oregon, call 758-1010, or write 
Hewlett-Packard, Corvallis, OR 97330, 
Dept. 276J.TTY users (503) 758-5566. 

61 1/18. 
When performance must be measured by results. 



¥ 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 



ASCII 


Hexadecimal 


Decimal 


Code 


Operation 


CTLI 


09 


09 


HT 


Horizontal Tab 


CTLJ 


0A 


10 


LF 


Linefeed 


CTLK 


OB 


11 


VT 


Vertical Tab 


CTLL 


OC 


12 


FF 


Formfeed 


CTLM 


OD 


13 


CR 


Carriage Return 


CTLN 


OE 


14 


SO 


Elongated Characters 


CTLQ 


11 


17 


X-ON 


Selects unit online 


CTLS 


13 


19 


X-OFF 


Deselects unit offline 


Table 1: 


The control codes 


of the Base 


2 printer. 





characters, with automatic linefeed 
(LF) on receipt of a carriage return 
(CR). 

Power Supply 

My printer came wired for 110 
volts of alternating current, but it can 
easily be rewired for 210 volts. Writ- 
ten directions and diagrams are in the 
operator's manual. Since the stepping 
motors are direct current (DC) and 
independent of the line frequency, the 
printer does not need to compensate 
for frequencies of 50 or 60 hertz (Hz). 




Chart your financial future 
with MicroFinesse 



In this fast-paced business world, the best way to stay 
competitive is to chart your financial alternatives 
clearly and make decisions fast. 

MicroFinesse is a complete planning package 
providing professional forecasting PLUS full high- 
resolution color graphics support, including pie charts, 
histograms and graphs, for the financial projections 
you create. 

With this evolutionary resource planning tool you 
can consolidate or expand your financial models, 



generate up to 15 user-defined reports per model, 
with visuals, all without bothersome reprogramming. 

Previously available only for mainframe applica- 
tions, MicroFinesse can now be pur- 
chased for the 48K Apple II* with the 
Apple Language Card. 

So when your variables are many 
and your time is limited, take a good 
look at the financial artistry of 
MicroFinesse. 




MicroFinesse 

630 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 94710, (415) 548-2805, Distributed by: #J"OSBORNE/McGraw-Hill Ewffl 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MicroFinesse is a trademark of P-E Consulting Group Limited. 



208 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Lie 



Circle 296 on inquiry card. 



Circle 153 on inquiry card. 



THE FUTURE TERMINAL 
* WILL COST $465:°° * 



i ..i. 




M* ||>^ 



1 I *■<#.. I 













WELCOME TO THE FUTURE. 



For $ 465.°° this full feature terminal is 
a lot smarter than you think! 
Call the "800" number today to order or for more 
information. 

• 800-277-1258 • 
In California call 800-972-5286 



a* <■ 



The 



Emulog Inc. 

48881 Kato Road 
Fremont, CA 94538 
(415)490-1290 

* 



STAR 

Manufactured by Emulog Inc. 

Sold exclusively through 
Phasar Marketing 




■I 








III 
■ 



I ■ ■ ■ 




H ' 



Manual Control 

The Base 2 printer's front panel 
consists of a unit-select switch and a 
formfeed switch. When the unit-select 
switch is on, the formfeed switch 
causes the printer to eject paper to the 
top of the next form (default form 
length is 66 lines per page). When the 
switch is off, the formfeed switch 
causes the paper to advance at a rate 
of 1.5 inches per second. 

In the upper right-hand corner of 
the printer's back panel is the 
reset /self -test switch. When toggled 
to the left, this switch resets the 
printer to its default mode. When the 
reset/self-test switch is toggled to the 
right, the printer prints a line of char- 
acters using the present mode. The 
self-test switch allows testing the 
printer independently of the host 
computer. 



Software Control 

Two sets of software controls have 
functions that overlap to a slight 
degree. One set consists of "control 
codes" (table 1); the other set consists 
of "function codes" (table 2). To take 
effect, the function codes must be pre- 
fixed by an ESC (ASCII 27). Some of 
the function codes must be followed 
by data, as when setting tabs. 

The Base 2 printer supports six 
character densities (64, 72, 80, 96, 
120, and 132 characters per line), as 
well as elongated characters (10 dots 
wide rather than 5) in all character 
densities. 

The standard character set contains 
96 ASCII characters in a 5 by 7 dot- 



ASCI 


Hexadecimal 


Decimal 


Function 


J 


4A 


74 


General printer reset 


H 


48 


72 


Unit select 


1 


49 


73 


Unit deselect 


j 


6A 


106 


Enable unidirectional printing 


k 


6B 


107 


Enable bidirectional printing 


R 


52 


82 


Enable 1920 character buffer 


S 


53 


83 


Disable 1920 character buffer 


5 


35 


53 


Disable print on buffer full 


6 


36 


54 


Enable print on buffer full 


7 


37 


55 


Enable auto LF following CR 


8 


38 


56 


Disable auto LF following CR 


B 


42 


66 


Enable CR recognition 


C 


43 


67 


Disable CR recognition 


D 


44 


68 


Enable LF recognition 


E 


45 


69 


Disable LF recognition 


V 


56 


86, M...M6 


Set horizontal tabs 


X 


58 


88 


Reset horizontal tabs 


Y 


59 


89, n1...n10 


Set vertical tabs 


a 


61 


97 


Reset vertical tabs 


@ 


40 


64 


Enable elongated characters 


A 


41 


65 


Disable elongated characters 


T 


54 


84, n 


Set form length to n lines 


9 


39 


57, n 


Set auto FF count 




3A 


58 


Enable auto FF 




3B 


59 


Disable auto FF count 


F 


46 


70, n 


Set eject to n lines 


G 


47 


71 


Eject 


d 


64 


100 


Set line length to 64 chars. 





30 


48 


Set line length to 72 chars. 


1 


31 


49 


Set line length to 80 chars. 


2 


32 


50 


Set line length to 96 chars. 


3 


33 


51 


Set line length to 120 chars. 


4 


34 


52 


Set line length to 132 chars. 


b 


62 


98, n 


Set vertical line density 


c 


63 


99, data 


Enable and send graphics 


K 


4B 


75, data 


Load user-defined characters 


L 


4C 


76 


Enable user-defined chars. 


M 


4D 


77 


Enable Standard ASCII chars. 





4F 


79 


Enable optional chars. 1 


P 


50 


80 


Enable optional chars. 2 


Q 


51 


81 


Enable optional chars. 3 


e 


65 


101 


Enable optional chars. 4 


f 


66 


102 


Enable optional chars. 5 


9 


67 


103 


Enable optional chars. 6 


h 


68 


104 


Enable optional chars. 7 


i 


69 


105 


Enable optional chars. 8 


Table 2: 


The function codes 


of the Base 2 printer 


. All function codes must be preced- 


ed by an 


ASCII <ESC> (escape, hexadecimal IB, decimal 27) in order to take ef- 


feet. 










$32.50 



McGraw-Hill Bookstore 



^^n 



Are programmers available? Are they needed? 
APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 
WITHOUT PROGRAMMERS 

by James Martin, Prentice-Hall 

With the wide range of software available and the 

great proliferation of computers, there may not be 

enough programmers to go around. 

Here's how to put the computer to work without 

a programmer. 

A wide range of methods is described. Each has its 

place; the ability to apply the right approach to each 

trade becomes an essential new DP skill. 320 pp 



McGraw-Hill Bookstore 

1221 Avenue of the Americas 
N.Y, N.Y 10020 

Please send me 



M 

BY382 

.copies Of 



Application Development without 
Programmers by James Martin at $32.50. 

MasterCard Visa AmerExp 



Account No.. 

Name 

Address 

City 



.Expires. 



.State. 



-Zip- 



Add sales tax plus $2.50 postage, handling 



210 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 111 on inquiry card. 



DEALER DEMO SOFTWARE 
FOR 3* ON THE DOLLAR 




Look at what you get for just $295. 

How can we afford to make available over $9,000 You'll also receive important promotional materia 



How can we afford to make available over $9,000 
worth of the finest software in the microcomputer 
industry for just $295? Our answer is how can we 
afford not to? 

We both know that professional demonstration is 
the best sales closer. It sells your computers and it sells 
our top quality software. That's why we'll send you all 
the business applications listed below for just $295. 



You'll also receive important promotional materials 
and our exclusive video sales presentation designed to 
help you make the sale. 

Just give us a call, or drop us a card and we'll send 
you the whole package for just 3 C on the dollar . . . 
we'd like to lose less, but we can't afford to. 



FINANCIAL 

General Ledger • Accounts Payable • Accounts 
Receivable • Payroll • Cash Receipts/Disbursements • 
Job Costing • Mailing List Management 

MEDICAL/DENTAL 

Office Scheduler- Patient Billing • Accounts Receivable • 
Insurance Forms 

GOVERNMENTAL/EDUCATIONAL 

Student Record Keeping • Student Scheduling • Fund 
Accounting 



WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION 

Purchasing and Receiving • Inventory Control • 
Invoicing and Receivables • Sales Commission 
Reporting • Backorder Management 

MANUFACTURING 

INVENTORY CONTROL 

Finished Goods Inventory Management • Parts Inventory 
Management- Parts Purchasing and Receiving • Bill of 
Material • Production Scheduling 

All IMS business applications require CP/M" or MP/M'and CBASIC It' . 
registered trademarks ol Digital Research Corp. 



Call for details (913)677-1137 




INTERNATIONAL MICRO SYSTEMS 



6445 METCALF 



SHAWNEE MISSION, KS. 66202 



Circle 189 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



211 



NOW TWO LOCATIONS 

SAVE TIME* SAVE SHIPPING 



Jll Computers 
ATARI f "*"* 1 *" 




800 „ s 679 



'TM 
410 Recorder 
810 Disc Drive 
822 Printer 
825 Printer 
830 Modem 
820 Printer 
850 Interface 
New DOS 2 System 
CX30 Paddle 
CX40 Joy Slick 
CX853 16K RAM 
Microtek 16KRAM 
Microtek 32K RAM 

Ramcram (128K) 

One year extended warranty . 



$76.00 

$449.00 

$229.00 

$629 00 

$159 00 

$269 00 

$169.00 

$21 00 

$1800 

$18 00 

$89 00 

$75 00 

$159.00 

$539.00 

. . $50.00 




ATARI 400 
16K.... $329 
32K.... $478 
-48K. . . . $555 



ATARI SOFTWARE 

CX404 Word Processor $119 00 

CX405 PILOT (educational) $105.00 

CX413Microsolt Basic $68 00 

CX4101 Invitation To Programing I $1700 

CX4102 Kingdom $13.00 

CX4103 Statistics $1700 

CX4104 Mialing List $17 00 

CX4105 Blackiack $13 00 

CX4106 Invitation to Programing 2 $20 00 

CX4107 Biorythm $13 00 

CX4108 Hangman $13 00 

CX4109Graph II $1700 

CX4110Toucn TyomQ $20 00 

CX4H2 Stales & Capitals $1300 

CX411<- European Countries & Capitals $13.00 

CX4115 Mortgage & Loan Analysis . $13 00 

CX4I16 Personal Fitness Program $59 00 

CX4117 Invitation To Programing 3 $20 00 

CX4 118 20 Conversational Languages lea I $45 00 

CX4121 Energy Czar $1300 

CXL4001 Educational Masler $21 00 

CX6001 -17 Talk & Teach Series lea I $23 00 

CX8106 Bond Analysis $20 00 

CX8107 Slock Analysis $20.00 

CX8101 Slock Charting $20 00 

CXL4002 Basic Computing Language $46 00 

CXL4003 Assembler Editor $46 00 

CXL4004 Basketball $24.00 

CXL4005 Video Easel $24.00 

CXL4006 Super Breakout $30 00 

CXL4007 Music Composer $45.00 

CXL4008 SPACE INVADERS $32.00 

CXL4009 Chess $30.00 

CXL4010 3DTIC Tac-Toe $24 00 

CLS4011 STAR RAIDERS $39.00 

CXL4012 MISSLE COMMAND $32 00 

CXL4013 ASTEROIDS S32.00 

CXL4015 TeleLink $20.00 

Visicalc S 149 - 00 

Letter Perfect (Word Processor: $109.00 

Source J8 900 

CX481 The Entertainer $75.00 

CX482 The Educator $130.00 

CX483 The Programmer $54.00 

CX 484 The Communicator $329.00 







Texas Instruments 



TI-99/4A $ 359 

PHP 1600 Telephone Coupler $169 00 

PHP 1700 RS-232 Accessories Interlace $169 00 

PHP 1BO0 Disk Drive Controller . $239 00 

PHP 1850 Disk Memory Drive .. . $389 00 

PHP 2200 Memory Expansion (32K RAMI $319.00 

PHA2100RF Modulator . .. $43 00 

PHP 1 100 Wired Remote ControllerstPairl $31 00 

32K Expansion '. $329.00 

PHP Printer Solid State $319.00 

CALL FOR SOFTWARE 
SELECTION AND PRICES 



XEROX 820 

Xerox 820 

System I 5%," $2450.00 

System II 8" $2950.00 

CPM 5V< " $169.00 

Word Processing $429.00 

Super Calc $269.00 

CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION 




PRINTERS 



Terminals 



Centronics 739-1 $649.00 

Diablo 630 Special $1799.00 

Epson 

MX70 S359.00 

MX80 $469.00 

MX80FT Call 

MX100 Call 

NEC 

8023 $639.00 

7730 Call 

7720 Call 

7710 Call 



Okidata 

82A $499.00 

83A $769.00 

84 $1 1 29.00 

Citoh Starwriter 

25 CPS-P $1329.00 

45 CPS-P $1699.00 

Paper Tiger 

445G $699.00 

460G $899.00 

560G $11 29.00 

Talley 

8024-7 $1399.00 

8024. L $1629.00 



Televideo 

910 


. . . $579.00 




. . . $699.00 


920C 


. . . $749.00 


950 


. . . $939.00 


Call for computers 


. . . $749.00 


Adds 


. . . $549.00 


Modems 

Novation Auto 


$239.00 
$169.00 




.... $159.00 


Hayes 


$239.00 



HOW TO ORDER: Phone orders invited or send check or money order and receive free shipping in the continental United States. PA and NEV. add sales tax. 

computer mail order west 
800- 648-3351 

IN NEVADA, CALL (702) 588-5654 

P.O. BOX 6689, STATE LINE, NEVADA 89449 



212 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 93 on Inquiry card. 



TO SAVE YOU MORE! 

COSTS* SAVE SALES TAX 

Hyl HEWLETT 



PACKARD 




HP«85 s 1999 

80 Column Printer $799,00 



NEW HPM25 

HP-83 

HP-85 16K Memory Module 

5' * " Dual Master Disc Drive 

Graphics Plotter (7225B) 



$2999.00 
$1699.00 
$249.00 
$2129 00 
$2079 00 



NOW IN STOCK! 

The new HP41CV Calculator 
$259 

*1C $189.00 

11 C $119.00 

12 C $129.00 

34 C $117.00 

38 C $119.00 

HP«41 Printer $340.00 

Card Reader $164.00 

Optical Wand $99.00 

HPIL CALCULATOR PERIPHERALS 

IL Modual $104.00 

Digital Cassette $449.00 

Printer/Plotter $419.00 

CALL FOR SOFTWARE INFORMATION 



Monitors 



Amdex 12" B&W $149.00 

12" Green $169.00 

13" Color $349.00 

Sanyo 12" B&W $259.00 

12" Green $269.00 

13" Color $449.00 

Tl 10" Color $349.00 



Electronics 

Pioneer Lazer Disk $599.00 

BSRX-10 Systems 

PK 500 $84.00 

LM 501 $16.00 

AM611 $17.00 

AM286 $17.00 



(^ commodore 



CBM 8032 



1039 




4032 $969.00 

4016 $769.00 

8096 $1569.00 

Super Pet $1599.00 

2031 $529.00 

8050 $1299.00 

4022 $599.00 

4040 $949.00 

8300 (Letter Quality) $1799.00 

8023 $769.00 

Pet to IEEE Cable $37.00 

IEEE to IEEE Cable $46.00 

Tractor Feed lor 8300 $240.00 

8010 Modem $229.00 



SOFTWARE 

WoidPro3 Plus $199.00 

WordPio4 Plus $299.00 

Commodore Tax Package $399 00 

Visicalc $149 00 

BPI General Ledger $329 00 

02Z Information System $289.00 

Dow Jones PorMolio $129 00 

Pascal $239 00 

Legal Time Accounting $449 00 

Word Cralt 80 $289 00 

Power $79.00 

Socket-2-Me $20 00 

Jmsam SCall 

MAGIS $ Call 

The Manager $209.00 

Softrom $129.00 

Real Estate Package $799.00 

BPI Inventory Control $319.00 

BPI Job Costing $319.00 

BPI Payroll $319.00 



VIC 20 
$259 

COMPLETE 



i I ti | | | ixiXIXlii D 



Vic 6 Pack Program 
VIC1530 Commodore Dalassette 
VIC'1540 Disk Drive 
VIC1515 VIC Graphic Primer 
VIC12I0 3K Memory Expander 
VIC1 1 10 8K Memory Expander 
VIC1011 RS232C Terminal Interlace 
VIC1 112 VIC IEEE-488 Interface 
VIC12U VIC 20 Super Expander 



$44 00 
$69 00 
$499 00 
$339.00 
$32 00 
$53 00 
$43 00 
$86 00 
$53 00 



VIC1212 Programmers Aid Cartridge 

VIC1213 VICMON Machine Language Monitor 

VIC1901 VIC AVENGERS 

VIC1904 SUPERSLOT 

VIC1906 SUPER ALIEN 

VIC1907 SUPER LANDER 

VIC1908 DRAW POKER 

VIC1909 MIDNIGHT DRIVE 

VT106A Recreation Pack A 

VT107A Home Calculation Pack A 

VT164 Programmable Character/Gramegraphics 

VT232 VICTerm I Terminal Emulator 



New VIC Software 



Household Finance $27,00 

VIC Games $19.00 

VIC Home Inventory $13.00 

VIC Rec/Ed II $13.00 

I SAM $79.00 

General Ledger $229.00 

Accounts Receivable $229.00 

Inventory $229.00 



Terminal 

Un Word 

Grafix Menagerie . 

VIC PICS 

Ticker Tape 

Banner Headliner , 
RS 232 



$45 00 
$45 00 
$23 00 
$23 00 
$19 00 
$23 00 
$23 00 
$23 00 
$44 00 
$44 00 
$12.00 
$9 00 



$13.00 
$13.00 
$11.00 
$15.00 
$13.00 
$13.00 
$39.00 



Above are cash prices, add 3% for Master Card and Visa purchases. 



computer mail order 
800-233-8950 

IN PA. CALL (717) 327-9575 

501 E. THIRD ST., WILLIAMSPORT, PA 17701 




Circle 93 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 213 



matrix font. With software, you can 
define 96 other characters as an alter- 
nate character set. Up to eight other 
character sets can be contained in a 
2732 EPROM, or four in a 2716 
EPROM. A function code selects each 
of the 10 character sets. These extra 
character sets, especially the user- 
defined set, allow for special charac- 
ter sets, for example, APL characters, 
math symbols, and foreign alphabets. 

The expanded buffer allows storage 
within the printer of a full screen 
(1920 characters). The buffer contents 
are printed either when the buffer is 
full or the print-buffer function code 
is received. The print on buffer full 
can be optionally disabled with a 
function code. 

The graphics feature provides six 
horizontal densities up to 99 dots per 
inch and a constant vertical density of 
72 dots per inch. Table 3 shows the 
character set in different densities. To 
use the graphics mode, you send the 
graphics-mode-enable function code 



followed by a full line of graphics 
data. The graphics data consist of 
bytes in which the lower 7 bits con- 
trol the seven wires in the print head. 
The printer automatically prints the 
line of graphics upon receiving a full 
line of data. Since the printer does not 
linefeed automatically in the graphics 
mode, you must send an LF after each 
line of data. Figure 1 shows a printout 
of my name in script, produced by 
using the graphics mode. 

Documentation 

The documentation for the Base 2 
printer is well done. It consists of a 
single 74-page Operator's Reference 
Manual that is divided into five sec- 
tions plus appendixes. The sections 
cover installation, operation, internal 
specifications, and software control. 
Each control code and function code 
has a complete written description 
followed by a demonstration pro- 
gram in BASIC. The appendixes 
cover the hardware, providing full 



schematic diagrams and component 
layouts for the logic boards, as well 
as the parts lists. 

Disaster and Recovery 

After I wrote the first draft of this 
article, disaster struck at a most in- 
convenient time (couldn't Murphy 
have waited?). I had used my com- 
puter to write my term papers in 
school and had saved the papers on 
tape. When the time came to print the 
papers and pass them in, the printer 
blew a fuse. Okay, I thought, no 
problem. Just a fuse. Having noticed 
that the lights had flickered earlier, I 
thought it was probably just a power 
surge. I made sure that none of the 
mechanical parts had stuck, and then 
I inserted a new fuse. That blew im- 
mediately. My printer was not under 
warranty. Besides, I needed the 
printer now, I could not afford to 
wait six weeks for the company to fix 
it. Well, everything was not against 
me. With the help of the Operator's 



1 "#*"•„£■• >■; ;., 

!::'' i- o i! ;; ; ' ;=i + '■-"' 




: , ; 


• & r 1 


i n © : 


7 @ R E C D E FG H I J l< L M N O PQ R ST! 


JUW!"!V; 


,_ 


I » » ::,|::||:: : .;||::" - 


* .''-•"■• 




:~ ;;;n s+ 


•■ -»*- ... , ,..•■ 


• Oi 1 S345e.7'!39 a 


.: ■■■■:.:. — 


= >■■ 


72 ■:. !■,-=!!■• act 


V !'":r 


F >? 1 


■ 1 i n i 










1 "#*\* ■ :: * 


+• , — 


■ 


.23456 


7"S9 ; .: <» • T'lBf-i 


3CDEFGH I JKLMNOPQR*- TUUWXYZ 






El oils a •' -f-d i 
















» '" #*-££ :--; m 


.'!i:"- '■'" 


ii ;' 


■;. 3-H-e-i- 


... - . --- O 3 


.. 31; 3 " :: - :l l- S «£< T~" 53 *~5" : „s < " ::: "" 


> ";;' : ■ q^a | 


~'ll O 


8 C h 3 !'" 3C T * 


■'■ = P 


'? t 


i i n e ; 










' "+!• T ',.•:': : ' /*•+• 


-,.-• 


i 2 




? : ; <=0 ?'?RE'CDE 


FGH I JKLMNOPQRSTUUWXYZ 






EI 3 o m =» a f ■=■ d : 
















■ » " -W- _*; " C 


» '*" i 


• > 


+■:-+- ., 


— . --' O 1. 2~ 


5 4- " : ::5 >'£■ T^ © "3 : .- < ■= > ""?" @ F 


4BCD 


EF 


?i char act pps 


per 


1 i n i? 












' "^f*..fe •'<>*+ - . 


012 


345*: 


79'?! ; ■> 


>?9flBCC£P3HIJKL 


1N0PQPSTUUWKYZ 






Ei CMisat s-d; 
















» " ■ +4- -< . - ■■ J*. •-■ 


iT" "j 


+ ■--+- 


.■ — . -■ 


O 12:3-+^5iiS. 


7* O P : ; < «■ > 7 @ 1=1 B CDEFGHIJ K 


LM 


I2v character-* n 


r lin> 














' "ts*;* ■'■';.** -,. 0! 


2T45t 


7 ':"? : : 


>' rUflBCC 


EFGHIJKLMHOPQPSTUUW 


\ 1 L^. 






Elc ftsa' *c *. 
' "4* -4. '-.& -" <•; . 


.* + 


^ ■ 


• 12 


3456.7'©9 : ; ■= 


: - >?i?flECDEFGH I JKL.MNOPQ 


RSTIJiv 


IWXYZ 


'iZ2 characters per 


hne; 














* '"H';j '*/*+ -.. i] 


2T4K; 


'':? ■ ; < 


--SflPC&Er 


GHIJKLMNiKiPSTWiKt'ZE 


] A J'3bcd*fShiJklflflOFir§*.u'JB«s{ij-'*l 






E! e(i53! ed 
















• " tr :\ '-. & •■■ <■' 


:. *-t 


, — . 


-0123 


456789 i ; <= 


.■ T^nECC-EFGH I JKLMNOPQRSTIJMWXVZ 


: -•3' v _ 


Table 3: Printouts 


of the Base 


2 printer 


character set. The densities range from 64 characters per line to 132 


characters 


per line. 



214 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 






.pap 



-\ 1.1 



i - 



i53SJ7 



KKT| 









• I 




E 3r 



With a reliable 
TRAXX 100/200/300 
series add-on 
drive system. 



, 






■5^ 






■ 


r^ 




1 

: 














II 


E35SB 








i 








1 


< 




|™' 




fci 












nr 



gS33 



E*23 



ESjg 






Our drives feature excellent engineering, and 
all of the advanced performance features you've 
come to expect from the nation's leading disk 
drive manufacturers. All systems are completely 
burned-in and tested. And. you'll see at least 
five quality assurance stamps on each and every 
drive, which is how we make sure our drives 
will run and will continue to run past our 
optional two year extended warranty. 

Our drive packages start at $250.00 and in- 
clude a comprehensive operations manual and 
an attractive static free, dust free cover. 



Systems available for Altos. 'Apple™, Atari, 
Heath™, North Star™, S-100. 2 TRS-80™ (Model 
1,11, III, Color), Zenith™. 

If one of our drives fails to meet your highest 
expectations of how trouble free and reliable a 
disk drive can be, then return it to us for a 
complete refund.* 

So. before you buy another drive, take a test 
drive with one of ours. We're sure that you'll 
find TRAXX to be the - 
finest. 

IT'S GUARANTEED! 

Circle 387 on inquiry card. COMPUTER CORPORATION 




Call our toll-free TRAXX LINE: 1-800-621-3102. In Illinois, call: (312) 987-1024. 10AM-6PM CST, 
Monday thru Friday. • For full refund drives must be returned within 10 days of purchase. 



i trademark of Ap 
2 TR5-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Company 




We Meet or Beat 
Any Advertised Price! 



NORTHSTAR 



HORIZON II 

64k Quad Density 

•2 5/8" Dbi Side 
Dbl. Density Drlvtt 
•Full Factory Warranty 
•List $4495 



$ 



PCB PRICE 
ONLY 

3275 



HORIZON II 

64k Doubla Density 

S? 9S $ 3050 



NORTHSTAR ADVANTAGE 

$ 3125 



Complete with graphics, 
12" green screen, 64k RAM 
QD floppy drives. 



I: ■■ 

■*;'•'■•. ■■•;-'v.r.k-rf-. 



SUPETO?AIN 



QD 



64k RAM, dual B'/i" 
Double side, double density 
disk drives 



2945 



64k RAM, double density 

single-side, double density disk 

drives 



2650 



PRINTERS 



COMET 8300 c.itoh 
COMET II C.itoh parallel 
EPSON MX80 parallel 

EPSON MX80 RS232 

EPSON GRAFTRAX UPGRADE 

STARWRITER 25cps parallel 
STARWRITER 25cps RS232 
STARWRITER II 45cps parallel 
STARWRITER III 40 cps RS232 

NEC 7710 RS232 
NEC 3510 RS232 

MPI 88G List $749 

MPI 99 G 



'450 

'795 

'479 

'549 

'90 

'1495 

'1650 

•1795 

•1750 

'2395 

'1895 

'550 

■680 



5%" DISK DRIVES 



Power lupply, controller and cablet not Included. 

Tandon,CDC S. »1„ $ 225 
TandoaCDC SSSU $ 350 
Tandon, 100-4 so tr.c k . . $ 600 

Seagate 5mb Hard Disc 
ST-506 $ 1350 



DISKETTES 

Verbatim 525-01 b« 01 10 '29 

Dysan 5%, ss, do Soft. . . b« oi 10 *34" 



DISK DRIVES 

Superbrain Add-on Drives 
Includes case, software, power supply. 

Single side, one 5VV drive List $595 PCB *495 

Single side, two 5'/« " drives List $995 PCB $ 795 

Double side, one 5Vi" drive List $745 PCB *595 

Double side, two 5'/<" drive List $1295 PCB *995 



HARD 

TARGA5mbfor IBM, 
TRS-80, Superbrain, 
Heath H-89, S-100, Apple 

LIST C, 

$3495 



2795 



DISKS 

CORVUS 

lOmb LIS! $5350 $ 4295 
20mb LIST $6450 ! 5300 
Minor Backup 650 

Multiplexer '775 



TELEVIDEO 

910C $ 595 

912C $ 665 

920C $ 720 

950 $ 950 



SUPERBRAIH 

S-100 Bus Adapter 
LIST $595 



SUPERBRAIN 
Parallel Port 



SBE Prom 



*475 

LIST $90 

$ 75 

LIST $205 

'155 



SOFTWARE 

C Basic II '98 

M Basic 80 '275 

NIT Pascal »430 

Fortran 80 '450 

Cobol 80 '650 

M Basic Compiler. '329 
Word Star. '310 



GRAPHICS 

For SUPERBRAIN 

Graphics Board '896 

Symbol Generator '176 

Graphics Plotter '176 

3-D Graphics. . '346 

Surface Plotter 395 

Graphics Terminal 
Emulator '396 



To Order Call (206) 453-8159 

Mail and telephone orders only. Mastercharge, VISA add 3%. No COD. All prices 
FOB origin. Send for catalog. Mail all correspondence to P.O. Box 3952, Bellevue. Wa. 98009 

PACIFIC COMPUTER BROKERS 

P.O. Box 3952, Bellevue, WA 98009 



h- 



<%*" L.-3 



n 



•v« 



■^w- "-'• 



Figure 1: A printout produced using the 
Base 2 printer's graphics mode. The 
printer renders the author's name in 
script. 

Reference Manual and a multimeter, I 
was able to determine that the diodes 
in one of the bridge rectifiers of the 
power supply had blown, creating a 
short circuit. The parts were stan- 
dard; the night before my papers 
were due, I got the parts and fixed the 
printer. 

This experience put quite a strain 
on my nerves, but it did teach me that 
the printer is quite simple to disman- 
tle and repair. 

Conclusions 

The following conclusions can be 
made about the Base 2 printer. It is 
rugged and is backed up with a good 
manual listing all the parts and con- 
taining schematics and layouts. 

The printer's format is very flexible 
and can be changed under software 
control or, to a lesser degree, by 
hand. It requires a driving program in 
the host computer to do the hand- 
shaking. 

The printer can support as many as 
10 character fonts: standard 96-char- 
acter ASCII, user-defined, and eight 
more fonts, all in EPROM. 

It accommodates four major inter- 
faces: RS-232, 20-mA current loop, 
Centronics parallel, and IEEE-488. 
The printer provides high-resolution 
graphics. 

The print rate is 100 characters per 
second, with bidirectional printing. 
Both hardware and software are well 
documented with many diagrams and 
examples. ■ 



A Public Service ol This Magazine 4 The Advertising Council 

Need help? 
Callus. ■! 



Red Cross 
counting 
on you. 



216 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 298 on inquiry card. 



Circle 17 on inquiry card. 








&ACI-2 



o* 



£± Alspa Computer, Inc 



? MORE COMPUTER POWER 
MINIMUM REAL ESTATE 

NOW! All ALSPA computers come standard 
with a CORVUS** hard disk interface. In less 
than S minutes you'll be up and running. In the 
space of a standard 8 inch drive, ALSPA com- 
puters have three RS-232, one parallel, and one 
hard disk port; 8 inch drives; and run CP/M 
software. Optional clock/calendar. ALSPA per- 
formance starts at S1995, list. 
DEALER/DISTRIBUTOR INQUIRIES 

INVITED 



3 OJWfrV E Y V^El^pteBJV 

•CP/MlsTS'trSemarkOf DIGITAL RESEARCH, INC. 
JEisl't/ademartt of COR_VUS_SYSTEM3.'l!nc. 



ANTA CRUZ, CA 95060 • (408) 429-6000 






The Fill Forms System 

CP/M Programs to Cut Down on Paperwork 



Bill Roch 

24000 Bessemer St. 

Woodland Hills, CA 91367 



We live in a paper-mill world with 
a form for just about everything. And 
someone has to fill out all those 
forms. A computer can make form 
handling easier because it can be pro- 
grammed to do the complete job, but 
if there are many forms then you'll 
need many programs to fill out these 
forms — right? Wrong. You can do it 
with three programs. 

The Fill Forms System is composed 
of three CP/M-based programs. The 
first, FFGRID-1, is used to determine 
the line and column position for each 
data field. The next, FFTABL-1, is 
used to build a control table that is 
used by the third program, 
FFORM-1, for data entry and forms 



Editor's Note: Copies of these pro- 
grams, on either 8-inch single-density 
CP/M disks or 5'A-inch single-density 
disks for North Star CP/M users com- 
plete with instruction manual can be 
obtained for $20 from Elliam 
Associates, 24000 Bessemer St., 
Woodland Hills, CA 91367. Programs 
with the enhancements mentioned in 
the article are also available. 



printing. These programs are rel- 
atively simple and, best of all, easy to 
use. 

Form designers have 

been known to ignore 

the fact that 

typewriters and 

printers are generally 

unable to handle forms 

with unusual line 

spacing. 

Each of these programs is written in 
Microsoft BASIC and is designed for 
use on a CP/M-based system (CP/M 
versions 1.4 through 2.2). 

Determining Field Positions 

The idea behind the system is to 
establish the line and column position 
for each data field to be printed on 
the form, then enter the data and 
print it in the proper position. 

Field positions may be determined 
by measuring the number of lines in 
the form and finding the width by 
counting the spaces from the left side 



of the form (see figure 1). Once line 
position 1 and column position 1 are 
established as reference points, all 
other field locations can easily be 
determined — if you count correctly. 

This method works fine for a form 
with a few fields, but when there are a 
number of fields, it is better to draw a 
grid on the' form and then determine 
the field positions from the intersec- 
tions of the horizontal and vertical 
lines of the grid. 

Gridding the Form 

The FFGRID-1 program is used to 
produce a grid on a form (see listing 
1). The program prints a row of col- 



LEFT 
SIDE 



TOP OF FORM 



12345678901234567890 



Figure 1: Each field position is determined 
by its particular reference points. The 
form is divided into numbered rows and 
columns. In this example, the data for the 
NAME field should be placed on line posi- 
tion 4 and start in column position 14. 



218 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Wild Hare Software Systems 
Multiply the Capabilities of 
Data General's 



RDOS 
INFOS 
ICOS 
DOS 



Wild Hare gives Data General ^| = 

users a choice when upgrading i^ 

to a multi-user environment and ^ 

eliminates the need to use AOS. 

Wild Hare makes it easy for you. It creates 

a true multi-lingual, multi-user environment for 

your current system. No user software modifications 

are necessary. There is no need to install a new 

operating system. And, no expensive hardware upgrade is 

required. 

Features 

• Each user is totally independent of all other users. 

• Each user may run all standard Data General software. 

• Each user may independently edit, compile, execute and debug 
programs written in any language supported by RDOS, INFOS®, 
ICOS and DOS. 

• Standard languages supported include: Fortran IV, Fortran V, 
COBOL, ALGOL, RPG, DG/L™, BASIC, PASCAL, MAC, etc. 

• All NOVA's® and ECLIPSE'S® are supported. 

• Wild Hare guarantees its software systems on a money back basis. 

Wild Hares Software 
Gives Data General Users 
A Choice! 




NOVA ■ ECLIPSE ■ And INFOS ' are registered trademarks of Data General Corporation 



<£0 

go 

cdt5 
_m 



RO. Box 3581 .Boulder, Colorado 80307 
(303)494 0221 



HARE 



Circle 414 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



219 



Unbeatable prices 




Oran 









NEC 8023 DOT MATRIX 



High resolution graphics: 
144x160 dots/inch • Pro- 
portional spacing ■ Lower 
case descenders • 9 x N 
dot matrix • 8 character 
sizes • 5 unique alphabets 
• Greek character set • 
Graphic symbols • 100 cps 
print speed • Bidirectional, 
logic seeking printing • 
Adjustable tractors • Single sheet friction feed • Paper 
empty sensor • Vertical & horizontal tabbing • 
Bidirectional paper feed • Bold & underlined print 
NEC 8023 DOT MATRIX (List $795) $ Call 



EPSON MX 80/MX 80 FT 

9 x 9 dot matrix ■ Lower case descenders • 80 CPS 
• Bi-directional, logic seeking • 40, 66, 80,132 columns 
per line • 64 special graphic 
characters ■ TRS-80 Com- 

>le ■ Form handling • 
Multi-page printing ■ 
Adjustable tractors 
MX 80 . , (List $645)$ Call 
Graftrax-80 Dot Graphics 
Upgrade (List $95) $ Call 
MX 80 FT includes Friction 
Feed 




EPSON MX 70 




(List $745)$ Call 



Super low-priced dot res- 
olution graphics • 5 x 7 dot 
matrix • User replaceable 
printhead & Top of Form 
MX 70. . . (List $450)$ Call 



EPSON MX 100 

Same basic features as 
the MX 80 • PLUS friction 
feed for single sheets • 
PLUS 15" wide carriage 
MX 100. (List $945)$ Call 




C. ITOH STARWRITER 



Daisy Wheel Letter 
Quality 25 CPS (Optional 
45 CPS) ■ Typewriter quality 
- Centronics parallel • RS 
232 Serial (Optional) • Pro- 
portional spacing • Bi-direc- 
tional ■ Programmable VFU 
• Self test • Diablo compatible • Friction feed (Optional 
tractors) ■ 136 printable columns • Manufactured byTEC 
C ITOH STARWRITER (List $1525) $ Call 



NECSPINWRITER 

High Speed Letter Qual- 
ity • 55 CPS • Typewriter 
quality • Bi-directional ■ 
Plotting & Proportional 
spacing 
77XX RO, Serial/Parallel 

(List $3055) $2575 

QUME 9/45 typewriter quality 
DIABLO 630 typewriter quality 





$ Call 

$ Call 



MALIBU 200 

165 cps standard (250 cps optional) • 
Letter quality font • 12 optional fonts • Bidirectional, 
logic seeking • 19x18 dot matrix • Expanded characters 
(2x, 4x) • Dot resolution graphics • Underlining 
MALIBU 200 (List $2995)$ Call 

TELEVIDEO CRT'S 

TVI910, TVI912C, TVI920C, TVI950-Please call toll 
free. Prices are too low to advertise $ Call 



CENTRONICS 739 




With graphics and word 
processing Print Quality • 18 
x 9 dot matrix; suitable for 
word processing ■ Underlin- 
ing • proportional spacing 

• right margin justification • 
serif typeface • 80/100 
CPS • 9/j" Pin Feed/Friction 
feed • Reverse Platen 

• 80/132 columns • Top 
of Form 

CENTRONICS 739-1 (Parallel) (List $955) SCall 

CENTRONICS 739-3 (Serial) (List $1045) $815 




technical expertise. 




cialists. 



ANADEX 

Dot Graphics, Wide Car- 
riage • 11 x9 dot matrix; 
lower case descenders • 
Dot resolution graphics • Bi- 
directional, logic seeking 
• Upto200CPS • RS232 
Serial & Parallel • Forms 
control ■ X-ON/X-OFF • Up 
to 6 part copy. 
ANADEX 9501/9500 



IDS PAPER TIGERS 




List $1650) $1350 




Dot Resolution Graphics, 
quality print, speed 9 wire 
staggered printhead with 
lower case descenders • 
Over 150 CPS ■ Bi-direc- 
tional, logic seeking • 8 
character sizes; 80-132 col- 
umns • Adjustable tractors 
• High-resolution dot graph- 
ics • Proportional spacing 
& text justification 

(List $1094)$ Call 
(List $1394) $ Call 



PRISM COLOR PRINTER (List $1995) $ Call 

INTERFACE EQUIPMENT 

CCS APPLE SERIAL Interface & Cable , . $150 
ORANGE INTERFACE for Apple II parallel 

interface board & cable $110 

TRS-80 CABLES to keyboard or Exp. Interface $ Call 

NOVATION D-CAT direct connect modem $ Call 

ATARI, NORTHSTAR printer cables $ Call 

ALL EPSON ACCESSORIES. $ Call 

THEGRAPPLER™ 

APPLE INTERFACE AND CABLE 
by Orange Micro 

The Grappler™ interface 
card is the first to provide 
on-board firmware for Apple 
high resolution dot graph- 
ics. No longer does the user 
need to load clumsy soft- 
ware routines to dump 
screen graphics — its all in 
a chip. Actually, it's our 
E-PROM, and it is replace- 
able to accommodate the Anadex, Epson MX-70, 80* 
and 100 IDS Paper Tigers, Centronics 739, NEC 8023, 
C. ITOH Prowriter, and future graphic printers. The 
Grappler™ accepts 18 software commands including 
Hi-Res inverse, 90° rotation, double size, and much 
more. Invented by, and available from Orange Micro and 
Orange Micro dealers only. $ Call for price. 







Ircle 288 on Inquiry card. 



•Requires GRAFT RAX 80 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORES 

If you live in California, or are visiting don't miss our 
two Printer Stores. Expert consultation and know-how 
is available to assist you in getting the best printer for 
the application. We provide live demonstrations for a wide 
selection of Printers. 




SANTA CLARA, 3216 Scott Blvd., (408) 980-1213 
SHERMAN OAKS, 13604 Ventura Blvd., (213) 501-3486 
ANAHEIM, 3150 E. La Palma, Suitel, (714) 630-3622 
Store Hours: M-F 10-6, Sat. 10-4 

At Orange Micro our printer specialists fit the right 
printer to your application. Call us today for free consul 
tation (and don't forget to ask for your free catalog). 

Phone orders are WELCOME; same day shipment Free use ol VISA 
and MASTERCARD CODs accepted Personal checks require 2 weeks 
to clear Manufacturers warranty included on all equipment Prices sub- 
ject to revision. 

CALL FOR FREE CATALOG 
TOLL FREE (800) 854-8275 

CA, AK, HI (714)630-3322. 




Orange micro 

^ Inc. 

31 50 E. La Palma, Suite G, Anaheim, CA 92806 



Copyrighl 1= 1981 by Orange Ml 



Circle 206 on inquiry card. 



Sell 

Your 

Software 



How to Sell Your Micro Software: Profit 
from your software. This new book will 
show you how to sell your own micro soft- 
ware or have others sell it for you. Written 
specifically for owners of personal com- 
puters it shows -how to package software 
products - how to sell via mailorder - exhibit 
at computer shows - design ads and bro- 
chures - sell through computer stores, soft- 
ware distributors, brokers, publishers, 
manufacturers, clubs and user groups. 
Also contains latest ideas on pricing strat- 
egy and software protection including pa- 
tents, copyrights, disk protection and trade 
secret agreements. Contains many valu- 
able names of distributors, buyers for major 
chains, and much more. A complete guide 
to the business of micro software entrep- 
reneurship. Written by B.J. Korites PhD, 
author of the popular "Free-Lance Software 
Marketing" . -$18.50 

The 1982 Software Writer's Market: This 
is the where to sell your software directory 
for independent software writers and small 
software businesses. It's filled with more 
than 2000 names and addresses of people 
and companies who will buy your software 
or market it for you - software publishers - 
manufacturers - book publishers - software 
brokers - distributors - service bureaus - 
consulting companies - 1500 retail com- 
puter stores - 850 Apple computer dealers. 
Also computer shows, mail list vendors, 
software catalogs and much more. In- 
depth writeups on individual companies 
tell what kinds of software they want, how 
much they pay, and who to contact with 
names, addresses and phone numbers. 
Companies interviewed include Apple, 
Atari, Hewlett-Packard, Tandy, Addison- 
Wesley, Hayden, Lifeboat Associates and 
hundreds more. This is the only directory 
of its kind. It is your best source of contacts, 
guaranteed to help you win your share of 
the exploding market for packaged soft- 
ware. - $28.50 



VISA/MASTERCHARGE 

KERN PUBLICATIONS 

1 90 Duck Hill Rd-Box 1 029M-Duxbury,MA 02332 

Add $2 per book for 4th cl mail in US and Canada, $3 lor 

1st cl 'ft UPS in US, $4.50 1s! cl Canada, $12 air Europe 

and Central America, $18 air elsewhere 



umn positions across the top of the 
form and on every tenth line. It also 
prints each line position on both 
edges of the form as well as horizon- 
tal and vertical grid lines. Since plus 
and minus characters are used, the 
grid intersections are at the center of a 
character rather than to the left and 
under it. 



The program requires that you 
enter only the form size: the number 
of lines per page and the width in col- 
umns. After you position the form, 
the program prints an asterisk (*) in 
line position 1 and column position 1. 
You can then reposition the form if 
necessary. Any number of attempts 
at repositioning may be tried, since 
Text continued on page 228 



Listing 1: The FGRID-1 program prints a grid on your form. Each plus or minus 
character denotes the center of a character. 



10 


'**************************************** 




20 


'** ** 




30 


PRINT: PRINT '** 




40 


PRINT " FGRID-1. BAS" '** 




50 


PRINT " Form Grid Program" '** 




60 


PRINT "Copyright 1981 by Elliam Assoc."'* 




70 


'** ** 




80 


"** This program prints a grid on a ** 




90 


"** form. ** 




100 


' ** ** 




110 


-**************************************** 




120 


' 




500 


PRINT: INPUT "Form length: ",L% 




510 


INPUT " Form Width: " ,W% 




520 


PRINT: INPUT "Position Form c/r ",X? 




530 


LPRINT "*"; 


'Print alignment mark 


540 


PRINT 




550 


INPUT "OK (Y or N) : ",X$ 


'OK ? 


560 


IF X$="Y" GOTO 1020 


'Its ok 


570 


LPRINT CHRS (13) ; 


'Print c/r only 


580 


GOTO 520 


'Try again 


590 


' 




1000 


'BUILD COLUMN NUMBER LINE 




1010 


' 




1020 


HORZS="": FOR K%=1 TO W% 


'Build a column 


1030 


AS=MIDS(STRS(K%) ,2) 


'number print line 


1040 


HORZ$=HORZ$+RIGHTS (A$,l) 




1050 


NEXT 




1060 


' 




1200 


'BUILD GRID LINE 




1210 


' 




1220 


DP$="": DASHPLUSS=" +" 


'Build grid line 


1230 


FOR K%=1 TO W%/5+l 


1240 


DPS=DPS+DASHPLUS$ 




1250 


NEXT 




1260 


DP$=LEFTS (DP$,W») 




1270 


' 




1300 


'PRINT TOP COL NUM LINE 




1310 


' 




1320 


LPRINT MIDS (H0RZS,2) 




1330 


J% = 1 




1340 


' 




1400 


'PRINT GIRD LINES 




1410 


' 




1420 


FOR K%=2 TO L%-1 




1430 


A$=MIDS (STRS (K%) ,2) 




1440 


LPRINT A$; 


'Print line number 


1450 


IF J%=0 GOTO 1500 




1460 


DPLUS$=MID$ (DP$,LEN(A$)+1) 


'Set up '-+' line 


1470 


DPLUS$=LEFTS (DPLUSS ,LEN (DPLUSS) -LEN (A$) 




1480 


LPRINT DPLUSS; AS 


'Print grid line & 


1490 


GOTO 1520 


'line number on rt. 


1500 


GOSUB 3020 


'Go build col num line 


1510 


LPRINT HZ$;A? 


'and print it 


1520 


J%=J%+1: IF J*=10 THEN J%=0 


'Reset for every 10th 


1530 


NEXT 


'line 


1540 


' 




2000 


'PRINT BOTTOM COL NUM LINE 




2010 


' 




2020 


A?=MIDS (STRS (K») ,2) 




2030 


GOSUB 3020 




2040 


LPRINT AS;HZS;A$ 




2050 


END 




2060 


' 




3000 


'SETUP COL NUM LINE 




3010 


' 




3020 


HZS=MIDS (HORZS,LEN(AS)+l) 




3030 


HZS=LEFTS (HZS ,LEN(HZS) -LEN (AS) ) 




3040 


RETURN 





Call (61 7)934-0445 lor (aster delivery 



THE 256K BOARD YOU NEED AND: 




COMPRO 




No Compromise in 
Performance 

D Operates in any S-100 System 
IEEE 696* or not. 

□ Main-trame type memory 
mapping or 24-BIT extended 
addressing. 

□ DMA operation fully supported* 

□ 8/16 data transfer protocol* 

□ Up to 6 MHZ with no wait 
states; 

Up to 10 MHZ with automatic 
wait state assertion 

□ Parity error detection* 

No Compromise in 
Features 

□ Easy overall characterization 

□ No timing characterization 
required: optimal refresh mode 
selection- 



No Compromise in Quality 

□ Multilayer board and bus signal 
filtering for noise-free operation 

□ Highest quality tested 
components 

□ Highest standard workmanship 

□ Thorough, rigid 100% final test 
and burn-in 

No Compromise in 
Customer Support 

□ Comprehensive technical 
manual 

□ User hot-line 

□ Full one year parts and labor 
warranty 



ORDER NOW 



(213) 887-5737 

If you wish, send a check or 
money order for $1,379 (in 
California add 6% sales tax 
where applicable). 

MACROTECH International Corp., 
22133 Cohasset St. Canoga Park, 
California 91303 



M 



'In accordance with IEEE 696 S-100 Standard 



MACROTECH International Corp., 
22133 Cohasset St. Canoga Park, 
California 91303 
(213) 887-5737 

Circle 223 on inquiry card. 



Circle 332 on inquiry card. 



APPLESCOPE 

DIGITAL STORAGE OSCILLOSCOPE 

Interface for the Apple II Computer 




The APPLESCOPE system combines two high speed 
analog to digital converters and a digital control board 
with the high resolution graphics capabilities of the Apple 
II computer to create a digital storage oscillosocpe. 
Signal trace parameters are entered through the keyboard 
to operational software provided in PROM on the Dl 
control board. 

• DC to 3.5 Mhz sample rate with 1024 byte buffer 
memory 

■ Prelrigger Viewing 

• Programmable Scale Select 

• Continuous and Single Sweep Modes 

• Single or Dual Channel Trace 

Price for the two board Applescope system is $595 
EXTERNAL TRIGGER ADDAPTER $29 

APPLESCOPE ACCESSORIES 

APPLESCOPE-HR12 High resolution 12 bit analog to 
digital converter with sample rates to 100 Khz. Requires 
48K Apple II with disk drive. Software provide on floppy 
disk includes basic SCOPE DRIVER package. 

Price per channel $695 
APPLESCOPE-HRHS High Resolution AND High Speed. 
Circuit combines two 6 bit flash analog to digital converters 
to give a 1 bit dynamic range. The 1 bit converter resolu- 
tion is maintained at sampling rates up to the 7 Mhz. maxi- 
mum for signal slew rates less than .5 volts per micro- 
second. Larger inputs slew rates will reduce the converter 
resolution to 6 bits until the signal stabilizes within the .5 
Volt per microsecond limit. Requires 48 K Apple II with disk 
drive. Software provided on disk includes the basic 
SCOPE DRIVER package. Price per channel $695 

APPLESCOPE-EXT External trigger adapter has a 
switch selectable external trigger input to a BNC con- 
nector mounted in a rear slot ot the Apple II computer. 

Price $29.00 
APPLESCOPE-BNC BNC adapter connects the Berg stick 
connectors on the Al circuit card to male BNC plugs 
mounted in a rear slot ol the Apple II compter. 

Price $14.95 
BUS EXTENDERS Allow easy access to Apple II 
peripheral circuit cards. Price $1 9.95 

SCOPE PROBES Oscilloscope probes for use with the 
APPLESCOPE - BNC adapter. Pnce$29.95 

SCOPE DRIVER Advanced software lor the Applescope 
system provided on 5'/>" floppy disk. Available options 
include: 

• Signal Averaging - Acquires 1 to 255 signal sweeps 
and displays the averaged result. 

• Digital Volt Meter - Allows use as a real time DVM or use 
to measure points on an acquired sweep. 

• Hard Copy - Uses graphics printer to produce hard- 
copy output ot displayed traces. 

• Disk Storage - Allows automatic storage and recover 
ol acquired data on tloppy disks 

• Spectrum Analyzer- Calculates and displays frequency 
spectrum ol acquired data. 

BUS RIDER 
LOGIC ANALYZER for the APPLE II 

The BUS RIDER circuit card silently rides the Apple II 
peripheral bus and allows real time tracking ol program 
How. Soltware provided on EPROM allows set up of trace 
parameters irom the keyboard and read back ol disas- 
sembled code after a program has been tracked. 

■ 32 bit by 1024 sample memory bulfer 

• Monitors Data and Address bus plus 8 external inputs 

• Trigger on any 32 bit word or external trigger 

• Pretngger viewing 

The BUS RIDER is an invaluable development tool lor 
anyone working with Apple II or Apple II f computers. 

Price $295 

RC ELECTRONICS INC. 

7265 Tuolumne St., Goleta, CA 931 1 7 
Visa (805)968-6614 M/C 



Listing 2: Using the positions determined from the gridded form, the FFTABL-1 pro- 
gram can develop a control table that displays the field name for each piece of data, sets 
the maximum field length, and enters the exact line and column position for each data 
field. 



10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 

90 

100 

110 

120 

130 

140 

150 

160 

500 ' 

510 

520 

530 

540 

550 

560 

570 

580 

590 

600 

610 

6 20 

630 

640 

650 

660 

670 

680 

690 

700 

710 

720 

730 

740 

750 

1000 

1010 

1020 

1030 

1040 

1050 

1060 

1070 

1080 

1090 

1100 

1110 

1120 

1130 

1140 

1150 

1160 

1170 

1180 

1500 

1510 

1520 

1530 

1540 

1550 

1560 

1570 

1580 

1590 

1600 

1610 

1620 

1630 

1640 

1650 

1660 

1670 

1680 

1690 

1700 

1710 

1720 

1730 

1740 

1750 

1760 

1770 

2000 

2010 

2020 



' ** ** 

PRINT: PRINT '** 

PRINT " FFTABL-1. BAS" *** 

PRINT " FillForm Table Program" '** 
PRINT "Copyright 1981 by Elliam Assoc."'* 

* * * ** 

*** This program Builds or Updates a ** 

'** Control table file that is used ** 

'** with FFORM-l.BAS ** 

* * * ** 

'** MICROSOFT BASIC ** 

'A*************************************** 

'Set for 100 records 

INITIALIZATION 

'** Dimension arrays, Set flags and Initialize** 
'** variables. ** 

************************************************ 



DIM LCL 
FALSE% 
NOREC%= 
CTFLG% 
RFL% 
UDT% 
ERFLG%: 
DEF FNL 
CHD1?=" 
CHD2S=" 
INV$ =" 
LCL$ (1) 
CMDS$ (1 
CMDS$ (3 
CMDSS (4 
CMDSS (5 
CMDS$ (6 
CMDS$ (7 
CMDS$ (8 



$(3) ,LNE$ (100) ,COL$ (100) ,LN$ (100) ,FLDNA$ (100) 

0: TRUE%=-1 

0: 

FALSE % 

FALSE* 

FALSE% 

FALSE% 

$ (Q$)=LEFT$ (A$,l) 

Item Ln Col Fid" 

No No No Len Field Name" 
Invalid ": FIL$="" 
="Line No.": LCLS ( 2) ="Column No. 
)="VALID COMMANDS" : CMDSS (2)=" 



'Max Number of Records 
'Record counter flag 
'Re-enter flag 
'File read flag 
'Error flag 



LCL$ (3)="Length" 



)="D# - Deletes item no. ft" 

)="Iif - Allows record to be inserted at 

) = " R# - Allows new item to replace item 

)="L - Lists all items" 

)="L# - Lists item no. #" 

)="L#-# - Lists Range of Items" 



item no. 
no. #" 



COMMAND MODE 

************************************************ 

'** This section directs the control of the ** 
'** program. ** 

************************************************ 

PRINT 

INPUT "Build Table, Update Table, List Table or 

IF FNL$ (Q$)="B" GOTO 1130 

GOTO 1140 

GOTO 1160 

GOTO 7050 



END (B, U, L or E) : " ,A$ 



IF FNL$ (Q$)="U" 
IF FNLS (Q$)="L" 
IF FNL$ (QS)="E" 
GOTO 1060 
GOSUB 2190 
GOSUB 1560 
GOSUB 4090 
GOSUB 1560 
GOSUB 5860 



GOTO 1050 
IF AS="<" 
GOTO 1050 
IF A$="<" 
GOTO 1050 



GOTO 1050 



GOTO 1050 



'B'uild Mode 
'Read table file 
'Update Mode 
'Read table file 
'List file 



READ CONTROL TABLE FILE 

'** This routine reads the sequential control ** 

'** table file and places each field in the ** 

'** appropriate array for updating. ** 



IF UDT% THEN RETURN 

INPUT "Drive (A or B) : " ,DRV$ 

IF DRV5-"<" THEN RETURN 

IF DRV$o"A" AND DRV$o"B" GOTO 1580 

INPUT "Enter Table Name: ",FIL$ 

IF FIL$»"<" GOTO 1580 

OPEN "I" , 1,DRVS+" : "+FIL$+" .TBL" 

PRINT "Reading {";FILS;"1 Table" 

FOR I%-1 TO 1000 

IF EOF(l) GOTO 1710 

INPUT #1,LNES (IS) ,COL$ (I«) ,LN$ (I») 

LINE INPUT #1,A$ 

A$-MID$ (AS, 2) : FLDNAS (I » ) =LEFT$ (AS ,LEN (A$) -1) 



'If file has been read ret 
'Get drive for file 

'NOTE: <filename> 
'extension set to 'TBL' 

'Open sequential file 
'Displav message 
'Read Table File 



NEXT 

N0REC»«I%-1 

PRINT: PRINT NOREC* 

PRINT 

UDT»-TRUE% 

CLOSE #1 

RETURN 



'Table Entries Read" 



Strip quotes 
'from string 
Number of records 



'Set file read flag 
'Close file 



BUILD CONTROL TABLE 

'** This routine builds and also is used to ** 



Listing 2 continued on page 226 



224 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



r_ inn cram- memhou oocoi/Tuoni iru 
_/ iUU -inniL i ili iui 1 1 ui ili nn i n tuuui i 






** ••• i 

• ••♦ 
••• ••• 

••• ••• 

••• ••• 

••• ••• 

••• ••• 

::': Hi 



!• ••••• 
«• ••••••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••♦•*•# 

••• •••«••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• 

••• ••* ••• 



••• ••• •••••• 

••• ♦•• •••••• 

••• iii ••• 



••• ••• •••#• ••• ••• *••«•• 

••• ••■ ••••••• *•• ••• ••••••• 

••• ••• ••• ••• ••* *•• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• ••• *•* ••• ••• ••• 

•«• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• aii *•• 

¥8 II iiB \\H\t 

••• • •••• ••••• ••• •♦• 



•• ••• •••••• «•• ••••••••• 

•••••••••••••••a «•••••••• 

• ** ••• •*• •*• ••• ••• 

••• *•• ••• ••• ••• ••« 

*•• ••• ••• *• •■ ••• 



:• ••• •••• 
• *•• • ••• 



::: Ill ::: 

• •• ••• •••••• ••• 



••• ••• 



••• ••• 

::: ::: 

- ••• 



:: 




\& 



••••• •••••• 



•••••• ••« ••••••••• •••••••• ••• 

••*•••• ••• ••• ••••••• •••••• ••• ••• ••••••• •••••• •••••• 

!•* ••• ••• ••* ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 



«f 



i ••• 

__ ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• ••• ••• f •• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

»*••••• if* ••• ••••••• ••• f •**••• ••••••• •••• • •••• 

f ff ••• ••• ••• ••• iff f •• f •• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

::: :::.::: ::: ::: :::... ::: ::: ::: ::: ...::: :: 

•*• ••••• ••• ••• ••••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••••• •• 






•••••• 

• •* 

• •• 
••• 



•••••• •*• ••• ••• **• ••• ••• ••* ••• ii* •*• ••• iiiiiii iff ii* **i iii 

:: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: tx: ::: ::: 

*• ••• ■•• **f ••• •••••• iii ••• *i« *ii*i*i *ii ii* •*• iii i if f i i • ••••*• ••*• 

•* ••• ••• ••• •••••••••••• ••• ••• ***i* ••• •••••• ••• •••••• •••••• i*i*i 



•f • ii* 
-- ••• 

• •••• 



•**f* *f ••• ••«••• ••• 

!•• ••• ii* ••• i*« ••• 

•• ♦♦♦ ••* ••• ••• «•• 

••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••* 

••• ••• ••• ••• •#•••• ••• 

••• ••• ••• ••• •••••• ••• 

ii* ff* i*« •*• ••• 

••• ••• *•• ••• ••• ••• 

••••••• ••• ••• •••••• ••• 

••••• ••• ••• •••••• ••• 





16K STATIC RAM $169 64K STATIC RAM $795 



32K PARTIALLY POPULATED $479 48K PARTIALLY POPULATED $659 



Finally, you can buy state-of-the-art 
S-100 static memory for your 
computer at unprecedented savings. 

Memory Merchant's memory 
boards provide the advanced 
features, quality and reliability you 
need for the kind of operational 
performance demanded by new 
high-speed processors. 

COMPLETELY ASSEMBLED 
These memory boards are not kits, 
nor skeletons— but top quality, high 
performance memories that are 
shipped to you completely assembled, 
bumed-in, socketed, tested and 
insured with one of the industry's 
best warranties. 

SUPERIOR DESIGN & QUALITY 
Memory Merchant's boards are 
created by a designer, well-known 
for his proven ability in advanced, 
cost-efficient memory design. 
Innovative circuitry provides you 
with highly desired features and 
incredible versatility. 

Only first quality components are 
used throughout, and each board is 
rigorously tested to assure perfect 
and dependable performance. 

SHIPPED DIRECT FROM 
STOCK 

All Memory Merchant's boards are 
shipped direct from stock, normally 
within 48 hours of receipt of 
your order. 

Prices, 



NO RISK TRIAL 

We are so convinced that you will 
be absolutely delighted with our 
boards that we extend a no risk trial 
offer. After purchasing one of our 
boards, you may return it (intact) for 
any reason within 15 days after 
shipment and we will refund the 
purchase price. 

NEW 18 MONTH LIMITED 
WARRANTY! 

The reliability of our boards, through 
quality controlled production and 
proven performance, has enabled 
us to extend our warranty to a full 
18 months. This includes a 6 month 
exchange program for defective units. 

HOW TO ORDER 

Please send check, money order, 
VISA or MASTERCHARGE (add ICA#) 
with your order. Sorry, no C.O.DIs. 
Specify model number, and quantity 
desired. Shipping and handling 
charge is $5.00 per board. California 
residents add 6% Sales Tax. Credit 
card purchases may be telephoned 
to (415) 483-1008. 
OEM and DEALER inquiries invited. 

mcmofv 
ImUuI merchant 

14666 Doollttle Drive 

San Leandro, CA 94577 

(415) 483-1008 

terms, specifications subject to change without 
Circle 233 on Inquiry card. 



64K RAM, Model MM65K16S 

Cool running operation to 10 MHz 

Ultra low-power consumption 
Fully loaded 64K board draws: 
Typ. 350 Ma. (Max. current 550 Ma.) 

Bank Select Capability 

Extended Addressing Capability 

One 16K submodule equipped with a 
2K window which may be located 
in any of the 2K segments 

2716 (5V) EPROM Compatibility: 
Programmed 2716 EPROM's may 
replace any or all of the RAM 

Four independently addressable 16K 
submodules on one board organized 
as two pair of independent 32K 
banks or as one 64K Extended 
Address Page. Each 32K bank 
responds independently to phantom. 
Bank Select logic is compatible 
with either Cromemco Cromix* or 
standard Bank Select software. 

*Cromix is a trademark of Cromemco. 

New 16K (2K X 8) 150ns Static RAM 
Runs on any S-100, 8-bit system 
MPM Conversion Option: Write for details. 
16K RAM, Model MM16K14 

Bank Select Capability 
Extended Addressing Capability 
One 4K segment equipped with IK 

windows 
Four independent 4K X 8 byte 

segments 
Uses field proven 2114 (IK X 4) 
Low-power consumption (Typ. 1.3 Amps) 
Runs on any S-100 8080, 4 MHz 

Z-80 or 5 MHz 8085 system. 

notice. 



Circle 341 on inquiry card. 



S-100 Boards from S. C. Digital 




64K DYNAMIC RAM 'Uniselect: 2' 

features: Model G4KUS 

• 16 or 24 bit addressing. • 8 bit data. • Bank Select by 
SW settable Port, Bits in Two blocks. • Two 32KB (or 
128KB) addressing. * Transparent refresh with delay lines, 
giving unlimited DMA, immune to Wait States, halts, resets. 

• Fast access time - 220nsec from Smemr or Psync high, will 
run with Z80, Z8000 to 4mhz, 8080, 8085, 8088, 8086 to 
5mhz without wait states. • Provision to expand to 256KB 
using 64K by 1 chips. 




32K Static Ram 'Uniselect: 3' 
features: Model 32KUS 

• Fully Static using 2k by 8 NM0S chips. • 16 or 24 bit 
address. * 8/16 bit wide data. * Bank Select by port and 
bit in 32K block. • Two 16K block addressing with window 
capability in 2k increments. • EPROM can be mixed with 
RAM. • Fast access - 250nsec from address valid -will run 
with Z80, Z8000 to 4mhz, 8080, 8085, 8088, 8086 or 
68000 to 8mhz without Wait States. • Provision for Battery 
Backup using NM0S or CMOS. 




TstSiW. - 

I/O, Memory Interface 'Interface: 1' 

features: Model 3SPC 

• 3 serials using UART, RS-232C or 20ma current loop. • 
1 Parallel I/O with hand shakes. • 4k Ram, 4k EPROM (not 
supplied). • Built in Kansas City Audio Cassette interface. • 
Baud rate generator from 19.2kbaud to 110 baud. 

2K Z80 Monitor Program 
available for M:3SPC 

features: many routines including breaker points, cassette 
record and play back . . . etc. Comes in 2 EPROMs and IK 
RAM. 

Z80 CPU Board Model CPUI-Z80 

features: • 2 or4mhz clock. • Jump on Reset • 2K of 
EPROM (not supplied). • 8 levels of prioritized vectored 
interrupts. 

16K Static Ram 'Uniselect: V 

features: Model 16KUS 

• Fully static using 2114L-2, 200nsec chips. • Bank 
Select by port and bit. • 8 bit data, 16 bit address. 

All boards conform to IEEE696/S100 specifications, fully 
socketed, screened legends, masks, Gold contacts. Guaranteed 
One Full year. 



Model 






List 


Our Price 


64KUS 


with 64KB 


AST 


S520 


$479 


64KUS-16 


with 16KB 


AST 


$309 


$264 


32KUS 


with 32KB 


AST 


$435 


$399 


32KUS-16 


with 16KB 


AST 


$295 


$269 


32KUS-N 


no mem chips 


AST 


$165 


$149 


3SPC 


with cassette 


AST 


$249 


$229 


3SPC-KC 


with cassette 


Kit 




$159 


CPUI-Z80 


with interrupt 


AST 


$239 


$219 


CPUI-Z80-K 


. no interrupt 


Kit 




$149 


16KUS 


200 nsec chips 


AST 


$210 


$195 


16KUS-K 


200 nsec chips 


Kit 




$175 


2K Monitor 


with IK Ram 






$ 55 



Delivery is within 3 working days. MC, Visa or COD orders 
accepted. Illinois residents add 5'/a% sales tax. 

OEM. & DEALER PRICING AVAILABLE 

S.C. DIGITAL 

P.O. Box 906, Aurora, Illinois 60507 
Phone: (312) 897-7749 



Listing 2 continued: 



2030 
2040 
2050 
2060 
2070 
2080 
2090 
2100 
2110 
2120 
2130 
2140 
2150 
2160 
2170 
2180 
2190 
2200 
2210 
2220 
2230 
2240 
2250 
2260 
2270 
2280 
2290 
2300 
2310 
2320 
2330 
2340 
2350 
2360 
2370 
2380 
2390 
2400 
2410 
2420 
2430 
2440 
2450 
2460 
2470 
2480 
2490 
2500 
2510 
2520 
2530 
2540 
2550 
2560 
2570 
2560 
2590 
2600 
2610 
2620 
3000 
3010 
3020 
3030 
3040 
3050 
3060 
3070 
3080 
3090 
3100 
3110 
3120 
3130 
3140 
3150 
3200 
3210 
3220 
3230 
3240 
3250 
3260 
3270 
3280 
3290 
3300 
3310 
3320 
3330 
3340 
3350 
3360 
3370 
3380 
3390 
3400 
4000 
4010 
4020 
4030 
4040 



'** update the control table. The user may 

'** go back and re-enter a previous field by 

*** entering *<* or to any item no. by enter- 

'** ing *<N' where 'N' is the item number. 

'** Data is entered as a string with a ',' 

'** as a required delimiter between fields. 

'** An "END entry terminates the building of 

'** a table. If entering the Build Mode from 

*** the Update Mode entries will be added to 

'** the end of the file. Entries are edited 

"** for delimiters as well as sequential line 

'** and column positions - also for overlapp- 

*** ing fields. 

'** A 'CHD' entry will cause a column heading 

'** to be displayed. 
'•♦A****************************************** 

PRINT "<< BUILD MODE >>"' : PRINT 

PRINT CHD1$ : PRINT CHD2$ 

IF UDT% THEN C%=NOREC%: GOTO 2 240 

C%=0 

C%=C%+1: C1%=C% 

RFL%=FALSE%: CTFLG%=TRUE% 

PRINT RIGHTS (" "+STR$ (C%) , 4) +" . " ; 

LINE INPUT "",A$ 

IF LEFTS (A$,l)<>"<" GOTO 2370 

CTFLG%=FALSE% 

IF LEN(A$)<>1 THEN GOTO 2330 

C%=C%-1: IF C%<1 THEN C%=1 

GOTO 2260 

C%=VAL(MID$ (AS, 2) ) : IF C%<1 THEN C%=1 

IF UDT%=TRUE% AND C%>NOREC% THEN C%=NOREC% 

IF UDT%=FALSE» AND C%>C1% THEN C%-C1% 

RFL»=TRUE%: GOTO 2260 

IF AS="CHD" THEN PRINT CHD1S: PRINT CHD2S: 

IF AS-"END" THEN RETURN 

FOR K*=l TO 3: J%=INSTR (AS , " , " ) 

IF J»ofl GOTO 2420 

PRINT INVS ; "delimiter" : GOTO 2260 

B$ (K»)=LEFT$ (A$,J%-1) 

A$=MID$ (AS,J»+1) 
NEXT 
B$(4)-A$ 
FOR KS-1 TO 3 

FOR J4-1 TO LEN(B$(K%)) 

IF MIDS (BS (K%) ,J%,1)=>"0" AND MIDS (B$ (K% 

PRINT INVSf 

PRINT LCLS (K%) i 

NEXT 
NEXT 

IF EDFLG% THEN GOSUB 3260: 
IF C*-l GOTO 2560 

GOSUB 3060: IF ERFLG4 GOTO 2260 
LNE$(Ct)-B$(l)t COLS(C»)-BS(2) 
LNS(CI)-B$(3) : FLDNAS (C»)-B$(4) 
UDTt-TRUE% 

IF CTFLG* THEN NOREC%-NOREC»+l 
IF RFLt THEN CI-CU-1: RFL*-FALSE% 
IF EDFLG* THEN RETURN ELSE GOTO 2 240 



GOTO 2260 



IF ERFLG* GOTO 



"Display Column Heading 
'If file read set counter 

'Increment counter 
'Set/Reset flags 
'Display Record No. 
'Get record from Kbrd 
'Ck for re-enter 
'Reset counter flag 
'Test for record number 
'Decrement counter 
'Go re-enter Prev record 
'Get record number 
'Range test record no. 

'Set reenter flag 
GOTO 2260 
'End of entries 
'Test for Field 

delimiters 
'Error message 
'Break up entry string 



'Field name 
'Test for numeric 

) ,J%,1)<="9" GOTO 2510 
'Display Error msg 
'Field not Numeric 



2260 'Go Edit 
'Skip if first record 
'Go Edit against Prev 
'Store fields 

'Set no-read flag 
'Increment Max rec ctr 
'Reset Counter s flag 



CHECK AGAINST PREV RECORD 

'*********************************************** 

'** Teat line numbers and column positions to ** 
'** prevent backward movement and overlapping** 
'** fields. ** 

'***************, ******************************** 

ERFLG« "FALSE! 'Reset Error flag 

IF VAL(B$(1))->VAL(LNE$(C%-1)) GOTO 3110 'Test line number 

PRINT "Line no. (";B$ (1) •") Less then Previous Line No. (" jLNES (C%-1) j ") " 
GOTO 3390 'Display error message 

IF VAL(B$(1))>VAL(LNES(C«-1)) GOTO 3360 'Test for overlapping 
IF VAL(COL$(C%-l))+VAL(LN$(C%-l))<VAL(B$(2)) GOTO 3140 'fields 
PRINT "Overlapping fields": GOTO 3390 'Display error message 
GOTO 3360 'Go finish test 

'CHECK AGAINST NEXT RECORD 

************************************************* 

'** Test line numbers and column positions to ** 
'** prevent backward movement and overlapping ** 
'** fields. ** 

'**************, v ******************************** 

IF C%-NOREC*+l THEN RETURN 'No test if appending 

IF C»-NOREC» AND EDFLGt THEN RETURN 'No test if repl last 

ERFLG%-FALSE% 'Reset Error flag 

IF VAL(BS(1))<-VAL(LNE$(C»+D) GOTO 3330 'Test line number 
PRINT "Line no. (";BS (1) •") Greater then Next Line No. (" iLNES (C*+l) i "1 " 

GOTO 3390 'Display error message 

IF VAL(BS (1) )<VAL(LNES (C%+1) ) GOTO 3360 'Test for overlapping 
IF VAL(BS (2) )+VAL(B$ (3) )<VAL(COL$ (C%+1) ) GOTO 3360 'fields 

PRINT "Overlapping fields": GOTO 3390 'Display error message 

FOR K%=1 TO 3: IF BS(K%)="0" GOTO 3380 'Test for zero 
NEXT: RETURN 

PRINT LCLS(K%);" can not be Zero" . 'Display error message 

ERFLG%=TRUE%: RETURN 'Set Error flag 

'UPDATE 

-*********************************************** 

'** In the Update Mode records may be Insert- ** 
'** ed, Replaced, Deleted and Listed. Enter ** 
'** the code letter for the function and the ** 



226 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 







The Grappler™ is the most 
intelligent Apple interface avail- 
able. Simple commands from the 
keyboard or user program, are all 
you need to dump screen graph- 
ics to your printer. The Grappler's 
exclusive EPROM chip makes 
high resolution graphics that 
easy. There are Grappler ver- 
sions to accommodate the 
Anadex, Epson Series* IDS 
Paper Tigers, Centronics 739, 
NEC 8023, C. Itoh Pro-writer, 
Okidata 82A,* Malibu 200, and 
future graphic printers. 

'Requires Graphics Upgrade, 



• ■ ■ I • 




ACTUAL APPLE II PRINTOUT USING GRAPPLER" AND EPSON MX100. 

With -»The , 

Grappler 

Printer! ■interface 

r ?V~~ miiiiiiiiii. I 

r*"' 1 \,..» 'llllillJJJJJl-■ 



er s features 
include: 

• Graphics Screen Dump 

• Inverse Graphics - 

• Emphasized Graphics 

• Double Size Picture 
■ 90° Rotation 

• Center Graphics 

• Chart Recorder 

• Mode Block Graphics 

• Bell Control 

• Skip-over-Perf 

• Left and Right Margins 

• Variable Line Length 

• Text Screen Dump. 

The Grappler™ works with Pasca 
and CPM. 



For information contact; 

CompuCable Corporation 
(714)635 7330 
High Technology 
(314)838 6502 
Kal Tronics 
(312)2911220 
Micro Distributors 
(800) 638 6621 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiii 



•Orange Micro 

J inc. 

3150 E. La Palma, Suite G, Anaheim, CA 92806 
(800) 854 8275 TOLL FREE 
(714) 630 3322 CA; AK; HI. 



Microamerica Distributing 
(800) 343 4411 
Waybern Corporation 
(800) 854 8348 
In England: 

Pete & Pam Computers 
Rawtenstall, Lancashire 
(070)622 7011 



Circle 289 on inquiry card. 



o 1982, Orange Micro, Inc. 



Circle 260 on inquiry card. 



MMSFORTH VERSION 2.0: 
MORE FOR YOUR RADIO SHACK 
TRS-80 MODEL I OR MODEL III ! 

• MORE SPEED 

10-20 times taster than Level II BASIC. 

• MORE ROOM 

Very compact compiled code plus VIRTUAL 
MEMORY makes your RAM act larger. Variable 
number ol block buffers. 31-char.-unique word- 
names use only 4 bytes in header! 

• MORE INSTRUCTIONS 

Add YOUR commands to its 79-STANDARD-plus 

instruction set! 

Far more complete than most Forths: single & 

double precision, arrays, string-handling, clock, 

more. 

• MORE EASE 

Excellent full-screen Editor, structured & 

modular programming 

Word search utility 

THE NOTEPAD letter writer 

Optimized tor your TRS-80 with keyboard 

repeats, upper/lower case display driver, full 

ASCII, single- & double-width graphics, etc. 

• MORE POWER 

Forth operating system 

Interpreter AND compiler 

8080 Assembler 

(Z80 Assembler also available) 

Intermix 35- to 80-track disk drives 

Model III System can read, write & run Model I 

diskettes! 

VIRTUAL I/O for video and printer, disk and tape 

(10-Megabyte hard disk available) 




FORTH 



THE PROFESSIONAL FORTH 
FOR TRS-80 

(Over 2,000 systems in use) 

MMSFORTH Disk System V2.0 (requires 1 disk drive & 
32K RAM, speclty Model I or III) 129.95- 

AND MMS GIVES IT 
PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT 

Source code provided 

MMSFORTH Newsletter 

Many demo programs aboard 

MMSFORTH User Groups 

Inexpensive upgrades to latest version 

Programming staff can provide advice, modifications 

and custom programs, to fit YOUR needs. 

MMSFORTH UTILITIES DISKETTE: includes FLOATING 
POINT MATH (L.2 BASIC ROM routines plus Complex 
numbers, Rectangular-Polar coordinate conversions, 
Degrees mode, more), plus a full Forth-style Z80 ASSEM- 
BLER: plus a powerful CROSS-REFERENCER to list 
Forth words by block and line. All on one diskette 
{requires MMSFORTH V2.0. 1 drive 4 32K RAM) , $39.95' 

FORTHCOM: communications package provides RS-232 
driver, dumb terminal mode, transfer of FORTH blocks, 
and host mode to operate a remote TRS-80 (requires 
MMSFORTH V2.0, 1 drive & 32K RAM) $39.95' 

THE DATAHANDLER V1.2: a very sophisticated data, 
base management system operable by non-pro- 
grammers (requires MMSFORTH V2.0, 1 drive & 32K 
RAM) $59.95* 

MMSFORTH GAMES DISKETTE: real-lime graphics 4 
board games w/source code. Includes BREAKFORTH, 
CRASHFORTH, CRYPTOQUOTE. FREEWAY. OTHELLO 
4 TICTACFORTH (requires MMSFORTH V2.0, 1 drive & 
32K RAM) $39.95* 

Other MMSFORTH product! under development 

FORTH BOOKS AVAILABLE 



MMSFORTH USERS MANUAL - without Appendices, for 
non-owners $17.50* 

STARTING FORTH - best companion to our man- 
ual $15.95' 

THREADED INTERPRETIVE LANGUAGES - advanced, 
excellent analysis of MMSFORTH-like lan- 
guage $16.95' 

PROGRAM DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION ■ intro. to struc- 
tured programming, good for Forth $13.95' 

FORTH -79 STANDARD MANUAL - official reference to 
79-STANDARD word set. etc $13.95* 

FORTH SPECIAL ISSUE, BYTE Magazine (Aug. 1980) 
we stock this collector's item for Forth users and begin- 
ners $4.00* 

ORDERING INFORMATION: Software prices Include 
manuals and require signing of a single system, single- 
user license. SPECIFY for Model I or Model III! Add 
$2.00 S/H plus $3.00 per MMSFORTH and $1. 00 per addi- 
tional book; Mass. orders add 5% tax. Foreign orders 
add 20%. UPS COD, VISA 4 M/C accepted; no unpaid 
purchase orders, pioaso. 



Send SASE lor tree MMSFORTH information 
Good dealers sought 

Get MMSFORTH products from your 
computer dealer or 

MILLER MICROCOMPUTER 
SERVICES (B3) 

61 Lake Shore Road, Natlck, MA 01760 
(617)653-6136 



Listing 

4050 

4060 

4070 

4080 

4090 

4100 

4110 

4120 

4130 

4140 

4150 

4160 

4170 

4180 

4190 

4200 

4210 

4220 

4230 

4240 

4250 

4260 

4270 

4400 

4410 

4420 

4430 

4440 

4450 

4460 

4470 

4480 

4490 

4500 

4510 

4520 

4530 

4540 

4550 

4560 

4570 

4580 

4590 

4600 

4700 

4710 

4720 

4730 

4740 

4750 

4760 

4770 

4780 

4790 

4800 

4810 

4820 

5000 

5010 

5020 

5030 

5040 

5050 

5060 

5070 

5080 

5090 

5100 

5110 

5120 

5130 

5140 

5150 

5160 

5170 

5400 

5410 

5420 

5430 

5440 

5450 

5460 

5470 

5480 

5490 

5500 

5510 

5520 

5530 

5540 

5550 

5560 

5570 

5580 

5590 

5600 

5800 

5810 

5820 

5830 

5840 

5850 



2 continued: 

'** Item No. The "L" (list) by itself will ** 

'** list the whole Control Table. 'L#' lists ** 

'** Item #. 'L#-#* lists a range of item Nos.** 



******** 



r*************************************** 



<< UPDATE MODE >>": PRINT 

Replace, Delete, List, END or ? (I# ,R# ,D# ,L#-# ,E 
PRINT 



PRINT: PRINT 
INPUT "Insert, 
EDFLG%=FALSE%: 
IP FNL$ (Q$)="E 
EDFLG%=TRUE%: 
CMD?=FNL$ (QS) : 
FOR K»=l TO 5 

IF CMDS=MIDS ("IRDL?" ,K*,1) GOTO 4190 
NEXT: GOTO 4110 

INSR REPL DELT LIST ? 
ON K% GOSUB 4470,4740,5060,5450,4240 
PRINT: GOTO 4110 



,AS 



THEN RETURN 
DPB$="D" 
A$=MID$ (A$,2) 



Reset Edit flag 
'Done updating 
'Set Edit flag 
'Strip cmd char 

'Valid entry? 
'Go redo 



LIST COMMANDS 



FOR K%=1 TO 8: 
RETURN 



PRINT CMDS$ (K%) : 



INSERT ITEM 

'A********************************************** 

'** Records are always inserted ahead of the ** 
'** item number used. Records are moved up to** 
'** room to insert the new record. The Max ** 
'** record counter is incremented. ** 

-*********************************************** 



LNENO%=VAL(AS) : IF LNENO%>0 GOTO 4500 
GOTO 5570 

IF LNENO%>NOREC* THEN LNENO%=NOREC*+l: 
FOR K%=NOREC% TO LNENO% STEP-1 

LNES (K%+1)-=LNE$ (K%) 

COL$ (K%+l)=COL$ (K%) 

LN? (K%+1)=LN$ (K%) 

FLDNAS (K%+1)=FLDNA$ (K%) 
NEXT 

C%=LNENO% 
GOSUB 2260 
NOREC%=NOREC%+ 1 : RETURN 



'Test for valid Rec # 

GOTO 4570 'Append 

'Open up space for rec 

'Move line number 

'Move column position 

'Move Field length 

'Move Field Name 

'Set Counter 
'Go get entry 
'Increment Max rec ctr 



REPLACE ITEM 

"****************************V: ****************** 

'** The new record replaces the old data ** 

************************************************ 

LNENO%=VAL(A$) 

IF LNENO»<l OR LNENO%>NOREC% GOTO 5570 

BOT%=LNENO» : TOP»=LNENO« : GOSUB 5940 

CTFLG%=FALSE% 

C%=LNENO% 

GOSUB 2260 

RETURN 



'Get record number 
'Test for valid Rec # 
'Set rec I & display 
'Reset Counter flag 
'Set Counter 
'Go Replace record 



DELETE ITEM 

************************************************ 

'** Records are moved down to overlay the item** 
'** being deleted. The Max record counter is ** 
'** decremented. ** 

************************************************ 

IF LNENO«<l OR LNENO%>NOREC« GOTO 5570 

LNENO%=VAL(A$) 

BOT%=LNENO«: TOP%=LNENO«: GOSUB 5940 

INPUT "SURE (Y or N) : ",A$ 

IF FNLS(Q$)o"Y" THEN RETURN 

FOR K*=LNENO% TO NOREC* 

LNE$ (K%)=LNE$(K*+1) 

COLS (K%)=COL$ (K4+1) 

LN$(K»)=LNS(K*+1) 

FLDNAS (K«)-*FLDNAS (K%+1) 
NEXT: NOREC»=NOREC%-l: 



RETURN 

LIST ITEMS IN UPDATE MODE 

************************************************ 

'** Lists All items, Single item or a range of** 
'** Items depending on the parameters entered ** 
'ft********************************************** 



'Test for valid Rec ♦ 
'Get record number 
'Set rec # & display 
'Second chance 

'Move all records down 
'Line number 
'Column Position 
'Field length 
'Field name 
'Decrement Max rec ctr 



PRINT: DPB$="D" 

IF AS-"" THEN B0T»-l:TOP%=NOREC»: 

J»-INSTR(A$,"-") 

IF J%=0 THEN LNENO%-VAL(AS) : GOTO 5560 

BOTS-VAL (LEFTS (AS , J%-1) ) 

IF B0T%<1 THEN BOT%=l 

TOP«=VAL(MID$ (AS,J*+1) ) 

IF TOP*>NOREC» THEN TOP4-NOREC* 

IF BOT»<TOP» THEN GOSUB 5940: RETURN 

GOTO 5570 

IF LNENO%>0 AND LNENO%<-NOREC% GOTO 5580 

PRINT "Line No. out of Range": RETURN 

BOT»-LNENO%: TOPS»LNENO% 

GOSUB 5940: RETURN 



GOTO 5540 

'Test for 



'Set Low rec number 



'Set Hi rec number 

'Go list 

'Invalid rec numbers 

'Test Rec number 

'Display error message 

'Set list range 

'Go list 



LISTS or PRINTS RECORDS IN COMMAND MODE 

*************„ **************************+****** A 

'** Lists or Prints the complete Control Table** 
'** This routine is also used by the Update ** 
'** Mode. ** 

'*********************************************** 



228 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 2 continued: 



5860 
5870 
5880 
5890 
5900 
5910 
5920 
5930 
5940 
5950 
5960 
5970 
5980 
5990 
6000 
6010 
6020 
6030 
6040 
6050 
6060 
6070 
6080 
6090 
6100 
6110 
6120 
6130 
6140 
7000 
7010 
7020 
7030 
7040 
7050 
7060 
7070 
7080 
7090 
7100 
7110 
7120 
7130 
7140 
7150 
7160 
7170 
7180 
7190 
7200 
7210 
7220 
7230 
7240 
7250 
7260 
7270 
8000 
8010 
8020 
8030 
8040 
8050 
8060 
8070 
8080 
8090 
8100 

sun 

8120 
8130 



'Set list range for all 



PRINT: B0T%-1: TOPS-NOREC%:SCNT%-0 :LCNT«-0 

INPUT "Display, Print or Both (D, P OR B) : " ,A$ 

DPB$»AS: IF AS»"<" THEN RETURN 

IP A$="D" THEN PRINT CHD1$ : PRINT CHD2$: GOTO 5940 

IP A$o"P" AND A$o"B" GOTO 5880 

INPUT "Position Paper: o/r " ,A$ 

GOSUB 6090 'Heading 

FOR I%=BOT% TO TOPS 

A?=RIGHT$(" "+STRS (1%) ,4)+" . " 'Record number 

IF DPB$="P" GOTO 5990 

PRINT ASiLNE? (1%) ;TAB(13-LEN(COL$ (1%) ) ) ;COL$ (1%) ; 

PRINT TAB(18-LEN(LN$(I%) ) ) ;LNS(I%) ; TAB (22) ;FLDNAS (I*) 

IF DPB$="D" GOTO 6050 

LPRINT A$;LNE$ (I») ;TAB ( 13-LEN (COL? (1%) ) ) ;COLS (1%) ! 

LPRINT TAB(18-LEN(LN$ (1%) ) ) } LN$ (1%) ;TAB(22) } FLDNAS (I*) 

LCNT%=-LCNT%+1: IF LCNT%<=>62 GOTO 6050 'Test for end of page 
FOR K%=LCNT% TO 66: LPRINT 'End of page spacing 
NEXT: LCNT*-0: GOSUB 6090'Page heading 

IF DPB$="P" GOTO 6070 

SCNT%-SCNTI+1: IF SCNT%=18 THEN SCNT«-0: INPUT "c/r " ,A$ 
NEXT : RETURN 



HEADING 

LPRINT: LPRINT 

LPRINT "Control Table { " ;FIL$ ; ") " : LPRINT 
LPRINT CHD1$: LPRINT CHD2$ : LPRINT 
LCNT»=7: RETURN 

'WRITE CONTROL TABLE FILE 

************************************************ 

'** This routine writes the Control Table data** 
'** to a sequential file. ** 

************************************************ 

IF A$="<" GOTO 1060 

INPUT "Write File (Y or N) : ",A$ 

IF A$="Y" GOTO 7100 

IF A$o"N" GOTO 7070 ELSE GOTO 8060 

INPUT "Write to Drive (A or B) : " ,DRV$ 

IF DRV$-"<" GOTO 7070 

IF FIL$-"" GOTO 7170 

IF DRV$o"A" AND DRV$o"B" GOTO 7100 

INPUT "Same File Name (Y or N) : " ,A$ 

IF A$="<" GOTO 7100 

IF A$-"Y" GOTO 7190 

INPUT "Enter Table Name: 

IF FIL$-"<" GOTO 7100 

OPEN "0",1,DRV$+" :"+FIL$+" 

PRINT "Writing {";NOREC%i" 

FOR I*-l TO NOREC% 

PRINT #1,LNE$ (1%) ; 

PRINT #1,LN$ (I*) ;" ,' 

WRITE tl,FLDNA$ (1%) 



'Column Headings 
'Set line counter 



',FIL$ 



.TBL" 

} Records" 



, "(COM <!%)>' 



'ODen output file 



'Line No & Col Posn 

'Length 

'Field name 



NEXT 
CLOSE #1 

AGAIN 

************************************************ 

'** This routine allows the user to Build or ** 
'** Update another Control Table without ** 
*** leaving the program. ** 

************************************************ 

INPUT "Aqain (Y or N): ",AS 

IF A$="N" THEN END 

IF AS<>"Y" GOTO 8070 

INPUT "Same Control Table (Y or N): ",A$ 

IF AS="<" GOTO 8070 

IF A$="N" THEN NOREC%=0 : UDT%=FALSE% : GOTO 1060 

IF A$o"Y" GOTO 8100 ELSE GOTO lOfiO 



'Close file 



'Reset Max ctr & flag 



Listing 3: A sample control table 
developed using the purchase order form 
shown in figure 1. 



Control Table (PO) 



tern 


Ln 


Col 


Fid 




No 


No 


No 


Len 


Field Name 


1. 


4 


10 


30 


Company Name 


2. 


4 


44 


8 


'Contact : ' 


3. 


4 


57 


25 


Contact name 


4. 


5 


10 


30 


Company Address 


5. 


5 


57 


14 


Contact Phone 


6. 


6 


10 


30 


City, State, zip 


7. 


9 


10 


30 


PO to Company 


8. 


9 


58 


25 


Ship to Name 


9. 


11 


10 


30 


PO to Address 1 


10. 


11 


58 


25 


Ship to Address 


11. 


12 


10 


30 


PO to Address 2 


12. 


13 


10 


30 


PO to City, 
State, Zip 


13. 


13 


58 


25 


Ship to City, 
State, Zip 


14. 


17 


2 


12 


For 


15. 


17 


20 


14 


Req.No. 


16. 


17 


37 


12 


How Ship 


17. 


17 


51 


8 


Date Required 


18. 


17 


60 


8 


Terms 


19. 


17 


70 


11 


Date 


20. 


20 


5 


5 


Ordered 1 


21. 


20 


12 


5 


Received 1 


22. 


20 


20 


42 


Item Desc 1 


23. 


20 


64 


7 


Price 1 


24. 


20 


74 


7 


Unit 1 


25. 


22 


5 


5 


Ordered 2 


26. 


22 


12 


5 


Received 2 


27. 


22 


20 


42 


Item Desc 2 


28. 


22 


64 


7 


Price 2 


29. 


22 


74 


7 


Unit 2 


30. 


24 


5 


5 


Ordered 3 


31. 


24 


12 


5 


Received 3 


32. 


24 


20 


42 


Item Desc 3 


33. 


24 


64 


7 


Price 3 


34. 


24 


74 


7 


Unit 3 


35. 


26 


5 


5 


Ordered 4 


36. 


26 


12 


5 


Received 4 


37. 


26 


20 


42 


Item Desc 4 


38. 


26 


64 


7 


Price 4 


39. 


26 


74 


7 


Unit 4 


40. 


28 


5 


5 


Ordered 5 


41. 


28 


12 


5 


Received 5 


42. 


28 


20 


42 


Item Desc 5 


43. 


28 


64 


7 


Price 5 


44. 


28 


74 


7 


Unit 5 


45. 


30 


5 


5 


Ordered 6 


46. 


30 


12 


5 


Received 6 


47. 


30 


20 


42 


Item Desc 6 


48. 


30 


64 


7 


Price 6 


49. 


30 


74 


7 


Unit 6 


50. 


32 


5 


5 


Ordered 7 


51. 


32 


12 


5 


Received 7 


52. 


32 


20 


42 


Item nesc 7 


53. 


32 


04 


7 


Price 7 


54. 


32 


74 


7 


Unit 7 



Text continued from page 222: 

the program issues only a carriage 
return and waits for a response. If 
your printer includes a line feed, you 
will have to crank the form back one 
line before repositioning. When the 
form is aligned satisfactorily, the pro- 
gram prints the grid on the form. 
Figure 2 shows a sample standard 
purchase-order form that has been 
gridded with the FFGRID-1 program. 

Building a Forms-Control Table 

Using the gridded form, you can 
determine the line and column posi- 



tions to be used in building a control 
table (see listing 2). At the same time, 
the maximum length for each field 
can be specified. 

Listing 3 shows the control table 
created with the FFTABL-1 program 
for the purchase-order form. This 
control-table file will also be used by 
the FFORM-1 program to display the 
field names for data entry, determine 
the maximum field length, and pro- 
vide the line and column position for 
each data field. 

FFTABL-1, like the other pro- 
grams, scrolls up from the bottom of 



the screen, so no cursor positioning is 
required. 

When the FFTABL-1 program 
comes up in the command mode, you 
are given the choice of building a new 
control table, updating or changing 
an existing control table, listing an 
existing control table to the screen or 
printer, or ending the program and 
writing out the control table to disk. 
The program always returns to the 
command mode after each mode is 
finished. 

Build Mode: When the Build mode 
is entered, a column heading is dis- 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 229 



played with item number 1 on the 
next line. After each entry is made, 
the item number is incremented by 
one. An entry consists of the line 
number, the column position, the 
maximum field length, and a field 
name (see figure 3). The field name is 
displayed by the FFORM-1 program 
for data entry. Commas are required 
as delimiters between fields. 

While in the Build mode you may 
reenter the previous field by entering 
a < or go back to any previously 
entered item by entering <N, where 
N is the item number. The program 
issues an error message if N is less 
than 1 or greater than the largest item 



number. The Build Mode is ter- 
minated by entering the word END. 

List Mode: After the Build mode is 
ended, you may list the control table 
on the screen or print the table. The 
program lists 18 lines on the screen 
and then requests a carriage return 
before listing the next 18 lines. If 
printed, the program takes care of 
column headings for a 66-line page. A 
previously prepared control table can 
also be read and listed. 

Update Mode: In the Update mode 
you can: 

• Insert: Enter the code IN, with N 
being the item number of the record 



* 234 567890123 4 56789012345678901234 3OTSg«¥2?S«B 7 8 9 1 2 3 4 5678901234 567 8901; 
2 + + + + + + + + + + + + H 



WS 



-+-4 
-+-5 



9 ,._ 

10"©-+- 



_.SU£.JQ_ 



-9 
-HO 



113456789012345678901234 5678901234 5678901234 5678901234567890123456789 01234 56789011 

12VOW&8S — + J- + + k_— I | | H-iDDtjESS | ., | , y +12 

+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + 13 



14+K+- 
15 — + - 




3ft?d1f^.8Wi^'. r .C7S'01 



' : '7<6«Iginal 



+ 37 
4567S 1 C I 2345G7890M 



Figure 2: The FFGR1D-1 program prints a grid over your form that allows you to deter- 
mine the coordinates for the various data fields. 



14, 



20, 



NAME 



ITEM # 

PROGRAM 

DISPLAY 



FIELD NAME 

MAXIMUM FIELD LENGTH 
COLUMN POSITION 
LINE POSITION 



Figure 3: In the Build mode, the FFTABL-1 program prompts you to enter the data for 
each field. 



to be inserted. If 19 is used, item 9 will 
be renumbered to 10, 10 will be 
moved to 11, etc. The inserted record 
becomes item 9. All previous records 
are moved up to make room for the 
insertion. Item numbers greater than 
N will be incremented. To append 
records to the end of the file use I to 
insert an item number greater than 
the highest item number in the file or 
return to the Command mode and use 
the Build mode. 

• Replace: The entry of RN will 
allow a new entry for item N. This 
entry replaces the existing record with 
the new record. 

• Delete: DN causes item N to be 
deleted. All records will be moved 
down. Item numbers greater than the 
N used will be decremented. 

• List: The list commands allow you 
to L all items, L# a single item, or L#-# 
a range of items (# is the number of an 
item). 

• End: END terminates the Update 
mode and returns the program to the 
Command mode. 

Valid Entries 

The fields that make up a record 
are entered as a string, then broken 
up into individual fields. This allows 
use of < and END, which would 
never work in BASIC if the line- 
number field was a numeric field. The 
program edits each record to make 
sure it is valid by 

• Checking for commas as delim- 
iters between fields 

• Checking for line or column posi- 
tions less than 1 

• Checking to make sure that line 
numbers increment (for example, you 
cannot insert line number 20 ahead of 
line number 15) 

• Checking to make sure that fields 
on a line do not overlap (a field start- 
ing in column position 20 that is 20 
characters long cannot be followed 
by a field starting in column 30) 

• Issuing error messages when the 
record is not valid and displaying the 
same item number again for a correct 
entry 

Once a control table is built, it can 
be changed by running the control- 



230 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Ire 



mm op 



A GALAXY of features makes the LN.W80 a 
remarkable computer. As you explore the 
LNW80, you will find the most complete, 
powerful, ready to run, feature-packed per- 
sonal and business computer ever made into 
one compact solid unit. 




QUALITY CONSTRUCTION - Instrumenta- 
tion quality construction sets LNW80 com- 
puters apart from all the rest. Integrated into 
the sleek solid steel case of the LNW80 is a 
professional 74-key expanded keyboard that 
includes a twelve key numeric keypad. 

HIG.H RESOLUTION GRAPHICS* COLOR- 

The stunning 480 X 1 92 resolution gives you 
total display control - in color or black and 
white. The choice of display formats is yours; 
80, 64, 40 and 32 columns by 24 or 1 6 lines in - 
any combination of eight colors. 

.PERFORMANCE- Lift-off with a 4 MHz Z80A 
CPU for twice the performance. The LNW80 
outperforms all computers in its class. 







MODEL I COMPATIBILITY - The LNW80 is 

fully hardware and software compatible with 
the Model I. Select from a universe.of hardware 
accessories and software - from VisiCalc" to 
space games, your LNW80 will launch you 
into a new world of computing. 




FULLY LOADED - A full payload includes an 
on-board single and double density disk 
controller for 5 VV and 8" single or double 
sided disk drives. RS2-32C communications 
port, cassette and parallel printer interfaces 
are standard features and ready to go. All 
memory is fully installed - 48K RAM, 16K 
graphics RAM and 12K ROM complete with 
Microsoft BASIC. 



Our down to earth price won't send you into 
orbit 



search Corp. 

'1&J.0 VVAI.MI : T Tusl.in. ('A. STitWi 
(Til) (Ml HHf,(i (714) 5.14-5744 



Monitor and Di^ik drivoc not Included 
TM Pcr.onu! Software. Inn 



Circle 217 on inquiry card. 



table file through the FFTBAL-1 pro- 
gram. Use the Update mode to insert, 
delete, or replace the line and column 
positions that need adjusting so that 
the data fields will fit properly on the 
form. 

Filling in a Form 

After building a control table, the 
FFORM-1 program is used to enter 
the data to be printed on the form (see 
listing 4). When the program is 
loaded it goes into the Command 
mode and gives you the following op- 
tions: 

• Build: Build new data arrays; 
these may be printed or written to 
disk. 

• Change: Change the data in the 
data array or data file (fix errors). 

• List: List the data-array file, show- 
ing the line and column position and 
data for each field. The listing may be 
displayed or sent to the printer. You 
can specify that the whole file, a 
single field, or a range of fields be 
listed. 

• Print: Print out the form on the 
printer or display the data on the 
screen as it would look on the form. 

While in the Command mode, the 
FFORM-1 program functions the 
same as the other two programs. User 
options include: 

Build: The control table that pro- 
vides the line and column positions 
and field names is first read into an 
array. The program then displays the 
first field number and field name, 
together with underscores corre- 
sponding to the maximum field 
length. You enter the data for that 
field and hit the carriage return. The 
program will display the field number 
and field name for the second field. 
For blank fields, a carriage return is 
entered. The use of the < and <N 
for reentering data is the same as in 
the FFTBL-1 program. If you want to 
stop before reaching the end of the 
table, enter < END to go back to the 
Command mode. 

Form designers have been known 
to ignore the fact that typewriters and 
printers are generally unable to han- 

Text continued on page 236 



Listing 4: The FFORM-1 program prints out the form or allows you to enter or change 
data in the data file. 



10 
20 
30 
40 
50 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
500 ' 
510 
520 
530 
540 
550 
560 
570 
580 
590 
600 
610 
620 
630 
640 
650 
660 
670 
680 
690 
700 
710 
720 
730 
740 
750 
760 
1000 
1010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
1060 
1070 
1080 
1090 
1100 
1110 
1120 
1130 
1140 
1150 
1160 
1170 
1180 
1190 
1200 
1500 
1510 
1520 
1530 
1540 
. 1550 
1560 
1570 
1580 
1590 
1600 
1610 
1620 
1630 
1640 
1650 
1660 
1670 
1680 
1690 
1700 
1710 
1720 
1730 
1740 
1750 
1760 
1770 
2000 
2010 
2020 
2030 
2040 
2050 



******** ************************************* 
'** ** 

PRINT: PRINT '** 

PRINT " FFORM-1. BAS" '** 

PRINT "FillForm File and Print Program" '** 
PRINT "Copyright 1981 by Elliam Assocates" '** 
' ** ** 

"** This Program Builds a Form File ** 

'** and/or Fills Out a Form - uses ** 
'** a control table built with ** 

-** FFTBL-1 ** 

* ** ** 

********************************************* 

'Program set for 100 fields 

INITIALIZATION 

************************************************ 

**** Dimension arrays, Set flags and Initialize** 
*** variables ** 

************************************************ 

DIM LCL$ (3) ,LNE$ (100) ,COL$ (100) ,LN$ (100) ,FLDNA$ (100) 

DIM FLNE$ (100) ,FCOL$ (100) ,FDTA$ (100) 

FALSE%=0: TRUE%=-1 

NOREC%=0 

NODTA*=0 

CTFLG%=FALSE% 

RFL% =FALSE% 

UDT% =FALSE% 

FUDT% =FALSE% 

EDFLG%=FALSE% 

CNTR% =0 



OKS 

Cl% 

C2% 

LNO% 

SCNT% 

LCNT% 



DEF FNLS (OS) =LEFT$ (AS , 1) 

CHD1$=" Item Lne Col" 

CHD2S=" No No No Field Data" 

'COMMAND MODE 

************************************************ 

'** This section directs the control of the ** 



'Max No of Ctl Tbl Records 

'Max No of Data Records 

'Record counter flag 

'Re-enter flag 

'Control tbl read flag 

'Data file read flag 

'Edit flag 

'Record ctr in print routine 

'Alignment flag 

'Line number 

'Column position 

'Print line counter 

'Screen line counter 

'List print line ctr 



PRINT 

PRINT "Build File, Change File, 

INPUT " (B,C r L,P or E):",AS 

CMD$=AS 



List File, Print File or END 



IF FNLS (QS) ="B" 
IF FNLS (QS) = "C" 
IF FNLS (Q$)="L" 
IF FNLS (QS) ="P" 
IF FNLS (QS) ="E" 
GOTO 1060 
FUDT%=FALSE%: 
GOSUB 4100: 
GOSUB 4 570: 
GOSUB 8490: 



GOTO 1160 
GOTO 1170 
GOTO 1180 
GOTO 1190 
GOTO 7050 

GOSUB 2170: 
GOTO 1050 
GOTO 1050 
GOTO 10 50 



GOTO 1060 



'Reset Read data flag 



READ CONTROL TABLE 

************************************************ 

'** This routine reads the sequential control ** 
'** table file and places each field in the ** 
'** appropriate array for use in building a ** 
'** data file. ** 

************************************************ 



'If file has been 
'Get drive for fil 



'NOTE: <filename> 
extension set t 

'Open file 
'Display message 
'Read Table file 



IF UDT% THEN RETURN 

INPUT "Control Table Drive (A or B) : " ,AS 

DRVS=AS: IF DRV$="<" THEN RETURN 

IF DRVS<>"A" AND DRVS<>"B" GOTO 1590 

INPUT "Enter Table Name: ",FIL$ 

IF FIL$="<" GOTO 1590 

OPEN "I" ,1,DRVS+" : "+FILS+" .TBL" 

PRINT: PRINT "Reading j";FILS;") Table" 

FOR I%=1 TO 1000 

IF EOF(l) GOTO 1720 

INPUT #1,LNES (1%) ,COLS (1%) ,LNS (1%) 

LINE INPUT #1,AS 

A$=HIDS (AS ,2) : FLDNAS ( I %) =LEFTS (AS , LEN (AS ) - 1) 'Strip quotes 
NEXT 'from string 

N0REC%=I%-1 'Number of table recs 

PRINT: PRINT NOREC% "Table Entries Read" 

PRINT: UDT%=TRUE% 'Set update flag 

CLOSE #1 'Close file 

RETURN 



-BUILD DATA FILE 
*************** 



****************** 



:************* 



'** This routine builds a data file. It is 

'** also used to change a data field. The 

'** user may go back and re-enter a previous 

'** field by entering '<' or to any field 



Listing 4 continued on page 234 



232 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Look What Apparat has 
for your IBM Personal Computer 



I ■ 




m 




w* 



m< 



Apparat 

announces 

our initial line 

of add-on 

boards for your IBM Personal Computer. 

We are committed to further product 

introductions to enable you to build on 

your new IBM system. 

Add functionality and Capability with 

These Mew P.C. Boards 

Apparat has the following products 

available for delivery in the first quarter 

1982: 

Prom Blaster will program most IK to 4K 

byte EPROMS of 25XX and 27XX single or 

multivoltage type. Complete with 

personality modules and read/write 

software. Priced at $149.00. 

Clock Calendar features seconds, 

minutes, hours, day of week, date, 



month and year. Backup battery, 

leap year and crystal time 

base. Priced at $129.00. 

Protype Card 3.5 by 8 inches 

wirewrap area holds over 

150-14 Pin Dips. Priced at 

$29.95. 

RGB Color Monitors choose 

from MEC, AMDEKand TECO CRTs. 

Priced at $1,095.00 for the MEC and 

$999.00 for AMDEK. TECO available in 

April 1982. 

More Products Coming Soon 

Apparat has more products for your IBM 

system in production and ready for 

introduction in the second quarter 1982: 

3rd and 4th add-on disk drives 

expansion cabinet houses up to two IBM 

compatible drives. Priced at $499.00 for 

cabinet and one 160K drive, two drives at 







$749.00. 
Combo Card 
parallel printer, 
ASYNC 
communication 
(RS-232), and clock 
calendar multipurpose 
adapter. 
64K byte hardware 
print-spooler — (with parallel printer 
adapter) buffers 13 minutes of.print 
output (at 80 characters/second). 
300 Baud Modem Card with ASYNC serial 
adapter. 

Apparat will continue developing add-on 
products to support your IBM Personal 
Computer. Call today to find out more 
information about the above products or 
to order yours. Dealer inquiries welcome. 

(303) 741-1778 

IBM Personal Computer is a trademark of IBM. 






Apparat, Inc. 

440 1 So. Tamarac Parkway. Denver, CO 80237 (303) 74 1 - 1 778 

"O/Y GO/7YG SUPPORT FOR MICROCOMPUTERS' 



Circle 28 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 126 on inquiry card. 



What's 
Better 
Than 
Basic? 

BRSIC 

n i 



Delphic Systems has merged 
its Z80 BASIC with FairCom's 
MICRO B + ™ to produce 
BASIC B + ™, the first all pur- 
pose interpreter featuring a 
B-TREE file structure im- 
plemented using NEW com- 
mands. No more messy CALLs 
or difficult assembly language in- 
terfacing! Instead, use the 
following BASIC B + ™ functions 
to manage an index without ever 
reorganizing the file: 

BOPEN BCLOSE NEWB 

KILLB FINDB GETB 

NEXB PREVB STATS 

In addition, BASIC B + ™ was 
written using Z80 code in order 
to minimize size and enhance 
speed performance. 

Features & Requirements 

• Search a 1 0.000 entry index in 
one second 

• No index reorganization needed 

• Uses fast and compact Z80 code 

• CP/M'" Versions 1.4 or 2.2 

• 1 2 Digit precision 

• Program Chaining 

• Read only file protection 

• Sequential and random tiles 



B 



BRSIC B+ 

with documentation 

$325.00 

Delphic Systems 

2260 Compton Avenue 

St. Louis, MO 63104 

314/773-6753 

Coming Next 

INVENTORY B + ™ 

VISA MastetCard 

MICRO 8 + TM is a Trademark ol FairCom 



Listing 4 continued: 



2060 
2070 
2080 
2090 
2100 
2110 
2120 
2130 
2140 
2150 
2160 
2170 
2180 
2190 
2200 
2210 
2220 
2230 
2240 
2250 
2260 
2270 
2280 
2290 
2300 
2310 
2320 
2330 
2340 
2350 
2360 
2370 
2380 
2390 
2400 
2410 
2420 
2430 
2440 
2450 
4000 
4010 
4020 
4030 
4040 
4050 
4060 
4070 
4080 
4090 
4100 
4110 
4120 
4130 
4140 
4150 
4160 
4170 
4180 
4190 
4200 
4210 
4220 
4230 
4500 
4510 
4520 
4530 
4540 
4550 
4560 
4570 
4580 
4590 
4600 
4610 
4620 
4630 
4640 
4650 
4660 
4670 
4680 
4690 
4700 
4710 
4720 
4730 
4740 
4750 
4760 
4770 
4780 
4790 
4800 
4810 
4820 
4830 
4840 
4850 
4860 
4870 



number by entering '<N' where 'N' is the 
field number. Each field name is display- 
ed followed by a number of underscores. 
The number of underscores corresponds to 
maximum length of the field. If the 
entry is to long an error message is dis- 
played and the field name is redisplayed. 
If no data is to be entered in a field 
then enter a c/r. To escape before al I 
fields are filled enter *<END". 
******************************************* 



pri?:t 

GOTO 2220 



'Head control tM file 
'If data file in rcnon 



GOSUB 1570 

PRINT "<< EUILD MODE >>": 

IF FUDT% THEM C%=NODTA%: 

C%=0 

C%=C%+1: C1%=C% 

RFL%=FALSE%: CTFLG%=FALSE4 

PRINT TAB (LFN (FLDNAS (C%) 1 +9) ; 

PRINT STRINGS (VAL(LNS (C%) ) ," ");CHRS(13); 

PRINT RIGHTS (" "+STRS (C%) , 4 ) +" . " J FLDNAS (CD i 

LINE INPUT "",AS 

IF A$="<END" THEN NODTA%=C%-l: RETURN 

IF AS="<STOP" GOTO 2400 

IF LEFTS (A$,l) <>"<" THEN CTFLG%=TRUE% : GOTO 23 

ir LEN(A$)<>1 THEM GOTO 2340 

C%=C%-1: IF C%<1 "ITV CS=1 

GOTO 2240 

C%=VAL(MID$ (AS, 2) ) : IF C%<1 THEN C%=1 

IF UDT%=TRUE% AND C%>NOREC% THEN C%=NOREC% 

IF UDT%=FALSE% AND C%>C1% THEN C%=C1% 

RFL%=TRUE%: GOTO 2240 

IF LEN(AS) <=VAL(LNS (C%) ) GOTO 2400 

PRINT "<<<T o o L o n g>>>": GOTO 2240 

FLNES (C%) =LNES (C%) : FCOLS (C%) =COLS (C%) 

FDTAS (C%)=AS 

FUDT%=TRUE%: IF C%=NOREC% THEN RETURN 

IF RFL% THEN C%=C1%-1: RFL%=FALSE% 

IF EDFLG% THEN RETURN ELSE GOTO 2220 

CHANGE 

'*********************************************** 

'** This routine allows a user to change the ** 
'** in an existing file by field number. If ** 
*** no field number is supplied from the ** 
'** Command mode the program requests a field ** 
'** number. The old data is displayed so the ** 
'** user can see what was in the field. Also ** 
'** the line and column position are displayed** 
-*********************************************** 



GOSUB 9050: IF AS="<" THEN RETURN 'Read Data file 

GOSUB 1570: IF AS="<" THEN RETURN 'Read Ctl tbl 

EDFLG%=FALSE% 'Reset edit flag 

AS=MID$ (CMDS.2) 'Get field no. 

IF VAL(AS)<1 OR VAL(AS) >NOREC% THEN INPUT "Record t : ",A$ 

IF AS="<" THEN RETURN 'No change - return 

IF VAL(AS)>0 AND VAL (AS) <=NOREC* GOTO 4190 'Range test field no. 

PRINT "Line No. out of Range": GOTO 4150 'Display error msg . 

EDFLG%=TRUE% 'Set edit flag 

C%=VAL(AS): DPB$="D" 'Set Rec# S Dsplay 

BOT%=C%: TOP%=C% 'set Rec # 

GOSUB 4B50: GOSUB 2240: RETURN 'List/Enter Chg 



'Increment counter I fs' 

'Peset flags 

'Tab & Display underrco 

then c/r to 'eft 
: " ; ' f. i el C n^r.0 
'enter ( T atfl 
'Check for escape 

'Ck for re-c- r; 
'Test for record nc . 
'Decrement field ctr 

'Get field number 
'Range test field no. 

'Set re-enter flag 

'Test length 

'Error message 

'Store line & col posn 

'Store data 

'Set no read data flag 

'Reset counter & flag 



LIST CONTROL 
' ********* 



i* ********************** *********** 

'** This section sets up the parameters for a ** 
'** listing. All fields, single field or a ** 
'** range of fields depending on the ** 

' ** entered . ** 

'*********************************************** 

GOSUB 9050: IF AS="<" THEN RETURN 

DPBS="D" : AS=MIDS (CMDS,2) 

IF AS="" THEN BOT%=1:TOPS=NODTA%: GOTO 4640 'No prams - All 

J%=INSTR(AS,"-") :IF Jl=0 THEN LNEN0%=VAL (AS ) : GOTO 4660 

BOT%=VAL (LEFTS (AS, JS-1) ) : IF B0T%<1 THEN B0T»=1 'Test range 

TOP%=VAL(MIDS(AS,J%+l) ) : IF TOP%>N0DTA% THEN TOP*=NODTA% 



'Read Data file 



IF BOT«<TOP% THEN GOSUB 4770: RETURN 

GOTO 4670 

IF LNENO%>0 AND LNENO%<=NODTA% GOTO 4680 

PRINT: PRINT "Line No. out of Range": RETURN 

BOT%=LNEMO%: TOP4=LNENOl: COSUE 4770: 

LIST DATA FILE 



** Displays or prints the selected part of ' 
** the data file. Field numbers, line nos, * 
** column numbers and data are output. A * 
'* Column heading is available when printing.* 
*********************************** ********** 



'Go list 

'Test range of fields 
'Error message 
PETURN 



' * 



PRINT 

INPUT "Display, Print or Both (D, P OP, B) : ",AS 

PRINT: DPBS=A$: IF A$="<" THEN RETURN 

IF AS = "D" THEN PRIKT CIID1S: PRINT CHD2S : GOTO 4C50 

IF AS<>"P" AND AS<>"B" GOTO 4790 

INPUT "Position Paper: c/r ",AS 

GOSUB 8910 'Headir.c 

SCNTt=0 

FOR I%=BOT% TO TOP% 

AS=RIGHTS(" "+STRS (1%) ,4) +" . " 'Field numbe 



234 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 6 on inquiry card. 



Listi 

4880 
4850 
4900 
4910 
4920 
4930 
4940 
4550 
4960 
4970 
4980 
4990 
5000 
5010 
7000 
7010 
7020 
7030 
7040 
7050 
7060 
7070 
7080 
7090 
7100 
7110 
7120 
7130 
7140 
7150 
7160 
7170 
7180 
7190 
7200 
7210 
7220 
7230 
7240 
8000 
8010 
8020 
8030 
8040 
8050 
8060 
8070 
8080 
8090 
8100 
8110 
8120 
8130 
8140 
8150 
8160 
8170 
8180 
8190 
8200 
8400 
8410 
8420 
8430 
8440 
8450 
8460 
8470 
8480 
8490 
8500 
8510 
8520 
8530 
8540 
8550 
85C0 
8570 
8580 
8590 
8600 
8610 
8620 
8630 
8640 
8650 
8660 
8670 
8680 
8690 
8700 
8710 
8720 
8730 
8740 
8750 
8760 
8770 
8780 
8790 



ng 4 continued: 

IF DPBS="P" GOTO 4940 

PRINT AS;FLNES (1%) ; TAB ( 16-LEN (FCOLS (14) ) ) ; 
PRINT FCOLS (1%) ;TAB (20) ,-FDTAS (1%) 
IF DPBS<>"D" GOTO 4950 

3CNT%=SCNT%+1: IF SCNT%<18 GOTO 5000 
INPUT "c/r ",A$: SCNT%=0: 
IF DPE$="D" GOTO 5000 

LPRINT AS;FLNE$ (1%) ; TAB ( 16-LEH (FCOLS (1% 
LPRINT FCOLS (1%) ; TAB (20) ;FDTAS (1%) 
LCNT%=LCNT%+1: IF LCNT%<62 GOTO 5000 
FOR K%=LCNT% TO 66: LPRINT 



Screen line count 
GOTO 5000 



))) ; 



NEXT: LCNT%=0: 



GOSUB 8910 



Test for end of page 
End of paqe spacinq 



NEXT: 



RETURN 



'Heading 



WRITE DATA FILE 

'*********************************************** 

'** This routine writes the data in the arrays** 
'** to a sequential file. ** 

'*********************************************** 

GOSUB 1560 

INPUT "Write File (Y or N): ",AS 

IF AS="Y" GOTO 7100 

IF AS<>"N" GOTO 7070 ELSE GOTO 8080 

INPUT "Write to Drive (A or B) : ",AS 

DRVS=A$: IF AS = "<" GOTO 7070 

IF DRVS<>"A" AND DRVS<>"B" GOTO 7100 

INPUT "Enter File Name: ",FILS 

IF FILS="<" GOTO 7100 

IF FILS""" THEN FIL?=FFIL$ 

OPEN "O" , 1,DRVS+" : "+FILS+" .FLE" 

PRINT "Writing ( " ;NODTA%; " ) Records" 

FOR I%=1 TO HODTA1 

PRINT #1,LNES (1%) ;",";COLS (1%) ;"," ; 

WRITE S1,FDTAS(I%) 
NEXT 

CLOSE #1 



'*********************************** 

'** This section allows the user to: 

'** 1. Build another data file. 

'** 2. Print another data file. 

*** 3. Change another data file. 

'** without leaving the program. 

INPUT "Again (Y or N) : ",AS 

IF AS="N" THEN END 

IF A$«"Y" GOTO 8090 

INPUT "Same Control Table (Y or N) : 

IF AS="<" GOTO 8090 

IF AS="H" GOTO 1060 

IF A$«"Y" GOTO 8120 

INPUT "Same Data File (Y or N) : " ,AS 

IF AS="<" GOTO 8120 

IF AS="N" THEN FUDT%=FALSE% : 



'Get control table 



'Line & col Posn 
'Data field 



",AS 



GOTO 1060 



IF AS<>"Y" GOTO 8160 ELSE GOTO 1070 

'PRINT CONTROL 

********************************************** 

'** This routine uses a line counter LNO%, 
'** when the line number Cl% in the record 
'** matches LNO% the data is printed at TAB 
'** position C2%. After the first data field 
'** is printed the program allows the user to 
'** realign the form if necessary. 
'********************************************* 



IF AS=" 



THEN RETURN 



'Read data file 



GOSUB 9050: 

PRINT 

INPUT "Display, Print or Both (D, P OR B) : ",AS 

FDPBS=AS: IF A$="<" THEN RETURN 

IF FDPBS<>"D" THEN LPRINT 

IF FDPB$o"D" THEN INPUT "Position Form: ",AS 

'C1%=LINE, C2%=SPOSN, CNTR%=PRINT LINE COUNTER 

CNTR%=0: :OK%=0: LNO%=0 

C1%=VAL(FLNES (CNTR%) ) : C2%=VAL (FCOLS (CNTR%) ) 

IF LEN(FDTAS(CNTR%) ) =0 GOTO 8750 

IF Cl%-LNO%=l GOTO 8640 

LM0%=LN0%+1 

IF FDPB$="D" OR FDPBS="B 

IF FDPBS = "P" OP. FDPBS = "B 

GOSUB 8840 

ON OK% GOTO 8750 

PRINT 

IF FDPBS="D" THEN AS="Y": GOTO 8730 

INPUT "Alignment OK, Ck Next Field or Quit (Y, C or 0): ",AS 



THEN PRINT: 
THEN LPRINT: 



'Clear Printer Buffer 



'Clear counters & flag 
'Line it/Col posn 
'No data for field ? 
'Check for matching lines 
'Increment line counter 
GOTO 8600 'Blank 1 ine 
GOTO 8600 'Blank line 
'Print Field 
'Continue or align 



GOTO 87 30 
"P" THEN PRINT 
IF FDPB$o"D" THEN LPPINT 
RETURN 

IF AS«"Y" AND AS<>"C" GOTO 8670 
OK%=0: IF AS="Y" THEN 0K%=1 

CNTR%=CNTR%+1: IF CNTR*<=NODTA% GOTO 8580 
PRINT: IF FDPBS<>"D" THEN LPRINT: RETURN 



IF AS<>"Q" 
IF FDPBSo" 



'Test valid entry 
'Set continue flag 
'Inc Ctr s Test EOF 



'PRINT FIELD 

************* 



******************************** 



Listing 4 continued on page 236 



r 



^^ 






You say your eprom program- 
ming needs are varied, but 
your engineering budget 
doesn't permit the purchase 
of that $5,000-57,000 stand- 
alone programmer? 

a.d.s. has the solution! 

Hardware 

The ads Prom Blaster eprom 
programming card sits on the 
I.E.E.E. 696/S-100 bus as an 
I/O device. 



I I I I I I ll MM 




Does not require memory 
locations! 

Handles the following 
devices: 2708's thru 2764's, 
single and three supply parts, 
and the Hitachi 48016 eeprom! 
Device plugs into on-board LIF 
socket. 

Software 

Runs under CP/m* or adsmon 
MC6809 monitor. Price: 
$299.00 A & T + shipping. 
Includes board & software. 

For complete details 
contact: 

ackerman 

digital systems, inc. 
110 n. york rd. 
elmhurst, II. 60126 
(312) 530-8992 *CP/m 

trademark 
Digital 
Research. Inc. 




) 



Listing 4 continued: 



8800 
8810 
8820 
8830 
8840 
8850 
8860 
8870 
8880 
8890 
8900 
8910 
8920 
8930 
8940 
8950 
8960 
9000 
9010 
9020 
9030 
9040 
9050 
9060 
9070 
9080 
9090 
9100 
9110 
9120 
9130 
9140 
9150 
9160 
9170 
9180 
9190 
9200 
9210 
9220 
9230 
9240 



'** Check for <ST0P to allow for repositioning** 
'** the form. Print date field at line number** 
'** and column Position. ** 

************************************************ 

IF PDTA$ (CNTR%) <>"<STOP" GOTO 8870 'Test for reposn 

INPUT "Reposition Form c/r ",z$: RETURN 

IF FDPB$<>"P" THEN PRINT TAB (C2%) ; FDTAS (CNTRS) ; 'Display field 

IF FDPB$<>"D" THEM LPRINT TAB (C2%) ; FDTA$ (C^ITR%) ; 'Print field 

RETURN 



HEADING 

LPRINT: LPRINT 

LPRINT "Data File j " ; FFIL$ ; " ) " : LPRINT 
LPRINT CHD1S: LPRINT CHD2$: LPRINT 
LCNT%=7: RETURN 

'READ DATA FILE 

********************************************** 

'** This routine reads a data file and places 
'** the data in appropriate arrays. 



'Print column heading 
'Set line counter 



*************** 



********** 



******** 



IF FUDT% THEN RETURN 

INPUT "Form File Drive (A or B) : ",A$: DRV$=A$ 

IF DRV$="<" THEN RETURN 

IF DRV$o"A" AND DRV$o"B" GOTO 9070 

INPUT "Enter Form File Name: " ,FFIL$ 

IF FFILS="<" GOTO 9070 

OPEN "I",1,DRVS+" :"+FFIL$+" .FLE" 

PRINT: PRINT "Reading {";FFIL$;") Form File" 

FOR I%=1 TO 1000 

IF EOF(l) GOTO 9200 

INPUT #1,FLNE$ (1%) ,FCOL$ (1%) 

LINE INPUT #1,A$ 

A$=MID$ (A$,2) : FDTAS (I*) =LEFT$ (A$ , LEN (AS ) - 1) 
NEXT 

N0DTA%=I%-1 

PRINT: PRINT NODTA% "Form File Entries Read": PRINT 
FUDT%=TRUE% 
CLOSE #1 
RETURN 



'Strip quotes 
'from string 



Text continued from page 232: 

die forms with unusual line spacing. 
If the form has unusual line spacing, 
the print program can be stopped so 
the form can be realigned: just enter 
<STOP for the field name and the 
program will stop on the selected line 
at the selected column. Reposition 
Form will be displayed on the screen. 

Once back in the Command mode 
the data can be changed, listed, writ- 
ten to disk, displayed on the screen, 
or sent to the printer. 

Change: If the change command is 
used when the program starts up, you 
will be requested to enter the file 
name for a previously saved data file 
and control table. If you enter C 
while using the FFORM-1 program, it 
will request the field number to 
change. If you enter CN, the program 
will display the current data for field 
N. You can then change the data for 
that field and the program will be 
ready for the next command. 

List: The list command, like the 
change command, can be used with a 



View and edit many 
files simultane- 
ously. 

Draw diagrams as 
easily as typing 
text. 



Cut text from one 
window and paste 
it into another. 



BREAKTHROUGH! 




Automatic 
Horizontal and 
Vertical scrolling. 

Create your own 
commands for 
your applications. 

Automatic 
memory manage- 
ment of large files. 

Compare, contrast, 
review or analyze. 



A MULTI-WINDOW TEXT EDITOR FOR UNDER $200. 



Imagine this kind of productivity: Your 4 favorite files right 
before your eyes on the screen of your CRT. 

Divide the screen of your CRT into any combination of 
horizontal and vertical windows, each with its own 
workspace. Or, windows can share a workspace — so you 
can edit different parts of the same file. 

You get true on-screen editing, plus the ability to add or 
delete any of 10 windows, at any time, anywhere on the 
screen. 

Using CP/M compatible files and simple, easy to remember 
commands, THE ELECTRIC BLACKBOARD" has 
functions to satisfy the needs of the most demanding 
professional computer scientist. Yet THE ELECTRIC 
BLACKBOARD'" can be used just as productivly by the 
novice within minutes. A step-by-step Learning Guide, 



designed for the novice, will guide you gently through the 
learning process. 

Unleash the extraordinary power and flexibility of THE 
ELECTRIC BLACKBOARD'" on your Z80-based micro- 
computer today. 

Requires 48k CP/M or CDOS, Z80 processor, and CRT with cursor 
addressing. Distributed on SSSD 8" diskette. Includes reference 
manual, learning guide, and quick reference card. Price: $198, 
manuals only: $30. 

Call or write for more information: 

SANTA CRUZ SOFTWARE SERVICES 

1711 Quail Hollow Road , Ben Lomond, CA 95005 
(408) 336-2170 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research CDOS is a trademark of Cromemco 
Z80 is a trademark of Zilog 



236 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 344 on inquiry card. 



Introducing The 

Filled II or cl! 

Word processing that goes beyond the stars. 



H 




'* B *«r«te«* BW , 



ow could anyone call their word processor 
The FinalWord? Take the best features of the most popular 
word processors, combine them and 
add a few more in one text editor/ 
formatter and you'd be off to a 
good start. Then, write the program 
in C to allow user customiza- 
tion and make it capable of 
supporting any printer on the 
market and you'd be ahead of 
everybody else. If you went one 
step further and made your word 
processor transportable from one terminal to 
another you'd have— The FinalWord. 

Supports multiple printers: The FinalWord 
allows you to produce high-speed draft copies on one 
printer, and letter-quality on another. It also means you'll 
never need another version just because you bought a 
new printer. 

User-installable on different hardware: 

With The FinalWord you can upgrade your system and still 
have a familiar screen display. And since we've written 
The FinalWord in C, new versions are available almost 
as soon as new computers. 

Features that go beyond the stars: Look at 
what you get with The FinalWord: automatic generation 
of Table of Contents, Index, footnoting and chapter/section 
numbering; enhanced command sets (delete/move a 
letter, word, sentence, paragraph, page); multiple buffers 
and windows, deletion recovery, true proportional spacing 
and more. And because we wrote The FinalWord to be 
easily reconfigured for different systems, our price can 
be lower. 



Features 



The 
FinalWord WordStar 



Magic 
Wand 



Full-Screen Editing Yes Yes Yes 

Directory Access while Editing Yes Yes Yes 

Simultaneous Printing while Editing Yes Yes Yes 

External Commands while Editing Yes Yes No 

Video Highlighting Yes Yes No 

Automatic Footnotes Yes No No 

User-Defined Commands Yes No No 

Multiple File Editing Yes No No 

Deletion Recovery Yes No No 

Supports Multiple Printers Yes No No 

Crash Recovery Yes No No 

Dynamic Include Files Yes No Yes 

Suggested Retail Price $300 $495 $395 

The FinalWord requires a 56K CP/M system and video terminal with cur- 
sor positioning character sequences. It is presently available in 8" standard 
format for the TRS-80 Model II, Vector Graphics and Altos Systems. There 
are compatible versions for the HP-125, Xerox 820, Cromemco, Micropolis, 
Ohio Scientific and Dynabyte Systems, and there are 5W versions for the 
Heath/Zenith Z-89, Northstar, Apple and Superbrain. Coming Soon: 
The FinalWord for the IBM Personal Computer. 

The FinalWord is available through leading 
retailers, Westico, and Discount Software, 
or directly from: 

Mark of the Unicorn 

PO BOX 423 

Arlington, Massachusetts 02174 

(617) 489-1387 

Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 
Call for delivery schedule. 
Reserve yours now! 




Circle 226 on Inquiry card. 



Mark of the Unicorn 



BYTE March 1982 237 



Listing 5: A sample data file developed 
with the FFORM-1 program. The data is 
also shown in the completed form in 
figure 4. 
Data File {ride) 



PURCHASE ORDER 



I tern 


Lne 


Col 




No 


No 


No 


Field Data 


1. 


4 


10 


Easyoff Riding Stables 


2. 


4 


44 


Contact: 


3. 


4 


57 


Fred Horseman 


4. 


5 


10 


123 Pony Lane 


5. 


5 


57 


(555) 123-4567 


6. 


6 


10 


Mustang, AZ 10001 


7. 


9 


10 


Mavrick Supply Company 


8. 


9 


58 


Easyoff Riding Stables 


9. 


11 


10 


456 Whitehorse Blvd. 


10. 


11 


58 


Back Gate 


11. 


12 


10 


Quarterhoss, AZ 10002 


12. 


13 


10 




13. 


13 


58 


Mustang, AZ 10001 


14. 


17 


2 


Stock 


15. 


17 


20 


S78-9 


16. 


17 


37 


Livery Wagon 


17. 


17 


51 


y'terday 


18. 


17 


60 


net 10 


19. 


17 


70 


Mo/Da/Yr 


20. 


20 


5 


12 


21. 


20 


12 




22. 


20 


20 


Soft Pillows 


23. 


20 


64 


3.75 


24. 


20 


74 


each 


25. 


22 


5 


1 


26. 


22 


12 




27. 


22 


20 


Saddle Glue 


28. 


22 


64 


37.50 


29. 


22 


74 


case 


30. 


24 


5 


1 


31. 


24 


12 




32. 


24 


20 


Saddle sore liniment 


33. 


24 


64 


27.80 


34. 


24 


74 


box 



6731 



Easyoff Riding Stables 
123 Pony Lane 
Mustang, AZ 10001 



Mavrick Supply Company 



Contact : 



Fred Horseman 
(555) 123-4567 



456 Whitehorse Blvd. 



SH|(J Tn Easyoff Riding Stables 
. Back Gate 



ADDRESSJ 



Quaterhoss, AZ 10001 



CITY— 



Must ang, AZ 10001 





FOR 

Stock 


BfO NO 1 HOW SHIP 

S78-9 | Livery Wagon 


DATE REQUIRED 

y'terday 


TERMS 

net 10 


DATE 

Mo/Da/Yr 




o»D(« D ° U *'i" ,M hciivid PLEASE SUPPtY ITEMS LISTED BEIOW PRIC 


I \ UNIT 1 


i 


12 




Soft Pillows 


3 


75 


each 


i 


1 




Saddle Glue 


37 


.50 


case 


3 


1 




Saddle sore liniment 


27 


.80 


box 


« 














S 














6 














1 




















1ME2Z 


iW.^'iaMBBHHHMB 






OUR ORDER NUMBER MUSI APPEAR ON All INVOICES. PACKAGES. 
ETC. 

PIEASE NOTIFY US IMMEDIATELY IF YOU ARE UNABtE TO SHIP COM 
PLETE ORDER BY DATE SPECIFIED. 


PUAM StNl) COPIES 0' YOUR INVOK I wiIm ORIdiNAl Bill O' IADINC". 




-y^ / / PURCHASING AGtNl 












/ ' / 



Rtditprm* IS 144 



Figure 4: The result of the FFORM-1 program. The information on this form is the same 
as that in the data file in listing 5. 



data file or used to list the fields just 
completed. All the fields may be 
listed by entering L; a single field can 
be listed using LN; a range of fields 
can be listed using LN-N, where N is 
the field number (see listing 5 for a 
sample data file). 

The listing of the sample data file 
created with the FFORM-1 program 
contains the item number, line posi- 
tion, column position, and data to be 
printed at that location. 

Print: The print command allows 
you to display either the array data 
(created by FFORM-1) or field data, 
formatted as it would look on the 
form, or the field data can be used to 
fill in the form on the printer. 

When a printout of a form is re- 
quested, the program first asks you to 
position the form, then prints the first 
field and allows you to reposition the 
form. It can then print the next field 
and stop for forms alignment check, 
print the rest of the form, or quit. If a 
data field contains < STOP, the pro- 
gram will stop to allow you to reposi- 
tion the form. Figure 4 shows the 
completed purchase order that was 
printed using sample data fields. 

Saving the Data-. In the Command 



mode, the program can be ended by 
entering E. You then have the option 
of writing the data arrays to a disk 
file for future use or rerunning the 
program. 

Depending upon your needs, you 
can add a number of enhancements to 

These programs work 

best when there is 

constant use of a 

standard form, such as 

insurance forms, 
applications, or govern- 
ment paperwork. 

these programs that will make them 
easier to use, for example: 

• Multiple page forms with more 
than 100 data fields 

• Command letters in either upper- 
case or lowercase 

• Left- or right-justified data fields 

• String or numeric fields 

• An alert to any entry-required 
fields 

• Print constants from the control 
table 



• Special editing and range checking 
of data 

• Use of the INP statement instead 
of INPUT to eliminate the need of the 
carriage return for completely filled 
fields 

• Making a mask that looks similar 
to the form to be filled in and placing 
it over the screen — then filling in the 
data in the mask fields (this enhance- 
ment requires the use of a display that 
has an addressable cursor) 

Most of these enhancements could 
be implemented by expanding the 
number of fields in the control table, 
then adding more code to support 
them. 

Summary 

The Fill Forms System is a rel- 
atively simple set of programs that 
can be used in a wide variety of situa- 
tions. They work particularly well in 
situations where a standard form is 
required — for insurance agencies, ap- 
plication forms, or government docu- 
ments. The more complex the form 
and the more frequently it is used, the 
more time you'll save by using this 
system. ■ 



238 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 54 on inquiry card. 



Don't gamble 
with your m • m 

business! • 

# 





Invest in an 



"Okay, which entry-level, single- 
user microcomputer should I own?" 
The BOS M System. 
"Which multi-user system should 
I own?" 

The BOS M System. 
"If I want a larger system with the 
ultimate in performance and 
capacity, what should I own?" 
The BOS M System Multiprocessor. 
"How much more does it cost to 
own a single-user set-up and 
upgrade it, than to start with a 
larger system?" 
Not a penny more. 
"Can I have diskette, tape, and 
large rigid disk storage?" 
Yes. 



Dealer and OEM 
Inquiries Welcome 



"How about really good accounting 

software?" 

The MBSI* package (GL, AR, AP, 

PR, OE/INV, Sales Analysis — all 

in Cobol) is probably the best 

available on any system. . .this is 

one you have to see to believe. 

"How about Word Processing?" 

WordStar™, and others. 

"Can I run all the other software 

I've seen?" 

Yes, if it's CP/M* * * compatible, 

almost certainly! 

"Will I have to change the 

operating system when I expand?" 

No, with BOS/TURBODOS 

just upgrade it. 




"Well, this is important. . .wil 

service be available when I need 

it?" 

Yes, with a large dealer network, 

strategically placed maintenance 

depots, and fast factory repair 

turn-around. 

"Sounds great! But isn't it too good 

to be true?" 

No. . .and it's not even expensive! 

So, why take a chance with 

somebody else? 

"Okay, how can I get one?" 
Contact your dealer, systems 
house, or consultant — or call us 
toll-free! 



BOS 



Business Operating Systems, Inc. 
2835 East Platte Avenue 
Colorado Springs, Colorado 80909 
In Colorado Call: (303) 634-1541 
Toll Free Number: 1-800-525-3898 



APPLICABLE INDUSTRY STANDARDS: S-100 IEEE 696 • RS 232, HDLC, SDLC, Async, Sync • CP/M*," TURBODOS"" • 8" soft sectored diskettes • ANSI X3/B5/15 Tape Cartridge 
"Micro Buiineas Software, Inc. • * "Trademark ol Micropro Int. Corp., San Raiael, CA • '"Registered Trademark of Digital Research * ** "Software 2000, Inc. 



Product Description 



Tele-VIC 

Commodore Breaks the $100 Price Barrier for Modems 



A really good modem takes a 
telephone number stored in your 
computer's memory, dials it, selects 
the appropriate originate/answer fre- 
quencies, and starts communicating 
at 9600 bits per second (bps). Unfor- 
tunately, a really good modem can 
also cost as much as a good used car. 

If you are willing to dial your own 
telephone, set a manual switch to 
select originate/answer frequencies, 
and settle for 300 bps, Commodore's 
new modem may be an inexpensive 
solution. In fact, for the price of a 
moderately good 1200-bps modem, 
Commodore will sell you its modem 
and a VIC-20 home computer to go 
with it. 

The modem is the VICMODEM. It 
is contained in a slim plastic case with 
an edge connector at one end and a 
modular telephone jack (for the hand- 
set cord) at the other. The edge con- 
nector attaches directly to the 
VIC-20, which has a special telecom- 
munications slot to accept this 
modem or Commodore's RS-232 in- 
terface (see photo 1). (The VIC-20 is 
named for the Video Interface Chip, 
which provides the necessary inter- 
face between the computer and a 
television set. The VIC-20 has built-in 
connectors for a television (RF) and a 
video monitor. It also has a type- 



Max Lebow 

2121 Locust St. 

Philadelphia, PA 19103 



writer-style keyboard, which is 
unusual for a computer in this price 
range.) 

The modem is compactly designed 
on a single circuit board and con- 
forms to the Bell 103 modem frequen- 
cies. It uses Motorola modem 
integrated-circuit chips and has a 
crystal to ensure frequency stability. 
Selection of originate or answer fre- 
quencies is accomplished manually 



by setting a small slide switch on the 
side of the unit. A carrier-detection 
LED (light-emitting diode) is also pro- 
vided. 

A cassette contains the object code 
for the interface program VICTERM 
I. The features included in this soft- 
ware are impressive. They include: 

Word wrap: If the word at the end of 
a line is too long to fit on that line, it 




Photo 1: This low-cost modem for Commodore's VIC-20 home computer takes a 
modular plug from a telephone handset and plugs directly into VIC-20's telecomputing 
slot. The modem shown here is a prototype with a provisional model number. 



240 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Aiiwmindn^ 
A Medii Event from IMS 




+ + 




( 'nnfigiiralinii shown includes livn slimline double sided, double (tensity drives, 40 M hyte Winchester subsystem wjih tape hack ii[). 



The New 8000 SX Micro Computer System With Winchester And Floppy And Tape 



Winchester technology 
brought a tremendous increase 
in capacity but it also dumped 
a big problem in your lap. 

How to dump all that data? 

TVying to transfer 10 to 40M 
bytes of data between Winchester 
and floppies takes an armload 
of diskettes and a lot of time. 

Cartridge tape is fast, but not 
efficient for random file handling. 

Answer? 



The new 8000 SX Micro 
Computer System with Winchester 
plus Floppy and Tape. It lets you 
back up and restore a single file 
or a complete drive with 
maximum efficiency. 

Choose from 10, 20 and 40M 
byte Winchester subsystems, with 
eiTor detection and correction, 
capable of loading a 20K byte 
system program in less than 
a second. 



The floppy subsystem offers 
up to 1.2M byte per 8" drive. 

The bulk memory subsystem, 
an incremental cartridge tape 
drive, stores up to 17M byte on 
a single cartridge. 

And, of course, the computer 
itself offers proven IMS top per- 
formance and reliability. Compare 
its full 2-year warranty. 

Operating systems include 
CP/M, MP/M, and the incredibly 



powerful TurboDOS. 

For all the facts and the 
location of your nearest IMS 
International dealer, call us today 
at (714) 978-6966. Or write: 



INTERNATIONAL 

We Build Computers As If Your Business 
Depended On Them. 

2800 Lockheed Way, Carson City, NV 89701 
Telex: 910-395-6051 



CP/M 4 MP/M.TM of Digital Research •TurhoDOS, TM of Software 2(11X1 ■ FMS-80.TM of DJR Associates • WORDSTAR, TM of MICROPRO -ACCOUNTING PLUS, TM of SOFTWARE DIMENSIONS 



Circle 186 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 150 on inquiry card. 



CHOOSE... 

Choose an Apple Desk 




A compact Bi-Level desk ideal for the Apple com- 
puter system. This 42" x 29Vi" desk comes with a 
shelf to hold two Apple disk drives. The top shelf for 
your TV or monitor and manuals can also have an 
optional paper slot to accomodate a printer. It is 
shown here with the optional Corvis shelf which will 
hold one Corvis disk drive. The Corvis shelf is avail- 
able on the 52" x 29 V4" version of the Apple desk. 

Choose a Micro Desk 



f'Pf 



The Universal Micro desk accommodates the S-100 
type microcomputers. The desk is available in four 
sizes: 17.75 inch, 19.06 inch, and 20.75 inch wide 
openings with 24 inch front-to-rear mounting space. 
The fourth size is a 20.75 inch wide opening with a 
26.50 inch front-to-rear mounting space. 

Choose a Mini Rack 






Mini racks and mini micro racks have standard vent- 
ing, cable cut outs and adjustable RETMA rails. 
Choose a stand alone bay or a 48", 60", or 72" desk 
model in a variety of colors and wood tones. A 
custom rack is available for the Cromemco. 

Choose a Printer Stand 




The Universal printer stand fits the: 



Centronics 700's 
Dec LA 34 
NEC Spinwriter 
Lear Siegler 300's 



Diablo 1600's&2300's 
T.I. 810 & 820 
Okidata Slimline 
Anadex 9500's 



Delivery in days on over 200 styles and colors in 
stock. Dealer inquiries invited. 

ELECTRONIC 5<d5TEMS 
FURNITURE 

CQMPXN4 

17129 S. Kingsview Avenue 
Carson, California 90746 
Telephone: (213)538-9601 



Product Description _^_ 

is whisked to the beginning of the 
next line. This feature is particularly 
useful for the VIC-20 with its max- 
imum line length of 22 characters. 
Without this word-wrap feature, the 
screen would quickly become clut- 
tered with many word fragments at 
the beginnings and ends of lines. (A 
40-character-line software option for 
the VIC-20 is under consideration. 
However, it would use a 3 by 5 dot 
matrix to form the characters and 
might be difficult to read.) 
Half or full duplex: Half duplex 
means that the "echoplex" used by 
some data networks is not utilized. 
Communication still takes place in 
two directions on two frequency- 
multiplexed "channels," but the host 
computer no longer echoes what the 
user types. Instead, the VIC-20 
displays what the user types directly 
on its own screen. This feature is also 
menu -selec table . 

Color separation: In the half-duplex 
mode, the software can display what 
the user types in one color, while 
displaying the host computer's output 
in another color. This feature makes 
user-computer dialogues easier to 
read. 

Data rate: This selection on the menu 
goes from to 300 bps. Some data- 
communications aficionados may 
turn up their noses at a data rate of 
300, but most economy modems do 
not exceed it. Three hundred bps 
translates into 300 five-letter words 
per minute. This is faster than most of 
us type and faster than a radio an- 
nouncer can read. 

Five parity settings: These are also 
menu-selectable. They are: even 
parity, odd parity, parity set to one 
(mark), parity set to zero (space), and 
no parity (eighth bit treated as data). 
This feature goes a long way toward 
assuring that the modem will make 
the VIC-20 compatible with most 
8-bit-byte transmission schemes. 
More on this feature later. 

By now, a cartridge with even 
more features should be available, 
priced around $50. 

If you decide not to buy the 
VICTERM I software, Commodore 
provides a free printed copy of a 



short BASIC program with the 
modem (see listing 1). You key this 
program in before dialing and even- 
tually record it on your own cassette. 
It has none of the features listed 
above for the VICTERM I software. 
What do engineers at large data 
networks recommend when using an 
inexpensive modem to connect to 
their expensive computers? Mike 
Marburger, Tymnet's Eastern Region 
Technical Manager, recommends set- 
ting parity to zero (space) on the 
modem and typing control-H im- 
mediately after the Terminal Iden- 
tifier (TID) to disable Tymnet's 



At a Glance 



Name 

VICMODEM 

Use 

Telecommunications for the VIC-20 



Manufacturer 

Commodore Business Machines Inc. 

681 Moore Rd. 

King of Prussia, PA 1 9406 

Dimensions 

Approximately 15 by 10 by 3.75 cm (6 by 

4 by 1 Vi inches) 

Price 

5 109.95 (includes S9.95 VICTERM I 
cassette software) 

Hardware Needed 

VIC-20, modular telephone, television set 
or video monitor, cassette recorder 

Software Needed 

VICTERM I cassette software or cartridge 
equivalent 

Hardware Options 

If you already own an acoustic coupler, it 
can be used with Commodore's RS-232 
interface 

Features 

Direct connection to VIC-20 and 
telephone, crystal control, carrier-detect 
LED, originate/answer switch. With 
VICTERM I: word wrap, color separation 
(see text), menu-selectable data rate, 
parity options, cursor (on/off) 

Documentation 

User-friendly, step-by-step, illustrated 
manual 

Audience 

Anyone desiring an inexpensive telecom- 
munication device 



242 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



PtHcal Computer lesfgn 



volume No. 4 



PEIMIM YAIM, NEW YORK 



25 CENTS Cheap 



IMP Debuts 

A Generation Beyond 
MuMath and FORTRAN 

Penn Yan- 

Programmer/Engineer John 
Clarke has released his IMP 
(Instant Mathematical 
Programming) for use with all 
UCSD p-System machines, as 
well as for CP/M users with 
Pascal/M. The program, which 
was introduced at $225, 
permits anyone (yes, a non- 
programmer) to generate 
sophisticated Pascal programs 
to solve complex linear and 
non-linear equations. 
IMP Writes It 
The IMP software first 
simplifies an algebraic problem 
statement (entered in simple 
text form), then writes a Pascal 
source program which, when 
compiled, gives the user a 
solution. The compiled 
program then permits the user 
to Interactively redefine 
constants or variables, or to 
maximize given parameters. 
Reviewers claim this system 
may replace FORTRAN as the 
engineer's computer standard. 

TURNKEY CHEAPER 
THAN CP/M 

Eliminate Need for Operating 
System Boot to Run 
Applications Approach (End 
Users Relieved) 

P-System Turnkey Packages 
are now available for 
applications developers to 
distribute with their programs. 
The software allows the end- 
user to "Boot and Run" without 
needing to learn about 
operating system commands. 
Full backup, editing and file 
handling capabilities also 
available at a fraction of the full 
system cost. This should 
prove to be a boon to systems 
houses. . .and it's cheaper than 
CP/M! 

LOGICALC (TM) 
moves "Calc" 
Software to 
UCSD Environs 

LOGICALC (TM) gives 
spreadsheet capability to all 
those other micros. Does 

■Does Regression Analysis 
-Accepts Database In-Out 

Penn Yan- Logicalc (TM) has 
swept the Pascal world by 
storm. Only $295 a complete 
package. 




RADIO SHACK II, III 
GET p-SYSTEM 
Now Can Share Programs 
with Apple, DEC and IBM 

Penn Yan- PCD Systems, 
who originally installed the p- 
System on the TRS-80 Model II 
have announced release of the 
complete system for the TRS- 
80 Model III. The p-System 
requires a 48K Model III with 2 
disk drives. Now Radio Shack 
users can write programs 
compatible with Apple, 
Commodore, IBM (Personal 
Computer) and DEC machines 
(and vice versa). 

A spokesman from the 
company noted that p-System 
software for DEC, Altos, Terak 
and Apple are already available 
from PCD Systems, Inc. 

Chapin Refuses to 
Reveal True Meaning 
ofCPR 

Penn Yan- Chip Chapin, who 
recently released his CPR 
"text formatter" refuses to 
reveal the true meaning of his 
new program's title. 

CPR, which was designed for 
use with the UCSD p-System 
operating system software, 
takes raw text files produced 
from the Editor and formats 
them for printing. At $195, 
CPR provides sophisticated 
word processing capabilities 
for a fraction of the cost. 

So, when someone mentions 
CPR, don't think "first aid", 
think "text aid". 

Now available at PCD 
Systems, Inc. 

§CP/M is a tm of Digital Research 
(DEC. PDP- 1 1 , LSI-1 1 4RT-1 1 are tm 

of Digital Equipment Corp. 
•MuMath is a tm ot Microsoft 

* p-System is a tm of the Regents of 
California 

tTRS Model II, III & TRSDOS are tm of 
the Tandy Corp. 

* Z-80 is a tm of Zilog Corp. 



UCSD p-System To 
Burst CP/M's Balloon 

Experts predict 8-Bit to 1 6-Bit Portability Crucial 

Support from IBM, Texas Instruments, Philips, Hewlett 
Packard, Commodore Announced 

San Diego- Sources close to the battle predict that recent 
Version IV.O release and the master design that allows 
programs compiled on an 8-bit machine to run unchanged on 
the new 1 6-bit micros will give the p-System the "industry 
standard" status presently enjoyed by CP/M. They say that 
SofTech and PCD Systems have come up with the most viable 
system for the 80's. 

Cross assemblers and "Pseudo-Code" allow programs 
developed on an 8-bit 6502 (such as Apple or Commodore) to 
be transported to a 1 6-bit 8088 (IBM) or LSI-1 1 (DEC) in 
OBJECT CODE FORM. A program can be executed without 
change on dozens of different machines with any common 
terminal. 
Structured Programming lowers Maintainence Costs 

P-System structured languages give developers powerful 
tools. A complete implementation of Pascal (plus many useful 
extensions) is available, as is FORTRAN-77, which supports 
the ANSI-77 subset for that language. A new BASIC compiler 
and a full range LISP interpreter round out the high level 
languages available. The structured approach to programming 
eliminates maintenance headaches which plague present 
users of standard BASIC and FORTRAN systems. 
Speed No Longer an Issue 

Linkage of Code segments in assembly language and/or use 
of the NATIVE CODE generators give compact code without 
the sacrifice of speed expected from p-Code interpretation. 
One can have one's cake and eat it too! 
Dynamic Memory Management 

Virtual operating system characteristics with nearly unlimited 
overlaying of program segments allows the user to run larger 
programs than other microcomputer operating systems. 
Program chaining, print spooling, 1 28K addressing capability 
and efficient use of systehn library units, universal screen 
control coding, and many peripherals configurations are fully 
supported. Command files, asynchronous I/O processing, p- 
Code debugger, procedural cross referencer and many more 
capabilities are being hailed by thousands of users. 

Cross Assemblers, File 
Conversion Transfer 

A complete set of native code 
generating cross assemblers 
generate absolute or 
relocatable code for the Z-80, 
Z-8, 8080, PDP-11, LSI-1 1, 
6502, 6800, 6809 and 9900 
microprocessors and are 
available through PCD 
Systems. File conversion 
programs for transferring data 
between TRSDOS, CP/M, RT- 
1 1 , Microengine and IBM 
3741 formats and p-System 
format add depth to system 
capabilities. 
Complete Portable 
Environment 

The standard p-System still 
includes that amazing screen 
editor (with its programming 
and word processing modes), 
file handler, interpreter, 
formatter, backup and 
configuration programs, and 
your choice of compiler. PCD 
Systems together with UCSD 
and SofTech have advanced 
the state of the art! 



20% Off List 

Penn Yan- PCD Systems is 
giving purchasers 20% off 
SofTech Microsystems 
suggested list price for those 
who buy a complete UCSD 
Development System by July 
1st. Operating System, File 
Handler, Screen Editor (with 
word processing capabilities) 
system Library, Assembly 
Code Linker, Pascal Compiler 
and full documentation over 
1000 pages is being sold for 
only $600 complete. 
Compare other systems of this 
power and capability at three 
times the price! 

For a Catalog of 
UCSD p-System 
and Applications 
Software 

write to PCD Systems, Inc. 

P O Box 1 43 

Penn Yan, NY 14527 
(315)536-7428 

(or stop in, Penn Yan is no 
stranger than Armonk) 

Circle 307 on Inquiry card. 




r offers you an 




mn i )i mm ma ms m$ 



IttWi IWiWW* 




Eg 


M^H^H an ^ 


81 


-^ #&ft ■*■ ^ k* 'in •* ^ -— m •* --'* 








. ' 


fgj _-nii ■"* 


■ 




-^^^i 






0&^A 




' 



incredible Advantage 
over IBM and Apple. 



The ADVANTAGE™ desktop 
computer from North Star is 
better in every category than 
either the IBM Personal 
Computer or the Apple III. 
Compare for yourself! 

Incredible Data Storage: 

The ADVANTAGE has twice 
the diskette capacity of either 
the IBM PC or the Apple III. 
This means you have twice 
as much information at hand. 

Incredible Graphics: 

The ADVANTAGE gives you a 
higher precision display. A 
revolutionary software 
package called BUSIGRAPH™ 
is provided at no extra 
charge for preparing graphs, 
bar charts, and pie charts. 



Incredible Software: 

The ADVANTAGE is fully 
CP/M* compatible. Neither 
IBM nor Apple provides this 
ability to run the broadest 
range of industry-standard 
applications, In addition, 
only North Star offers 10 
application packages for 
word processing, financial 
analysis, accounting and 
data base management. 

Incredible Convenience: 

ADVANTAGE is the only one 
of the Three thaf s fully- 
integrated. It fits attractively 
on your desk without the 
clumsiness of the multiple- 
enclosure, multiple-cable 
approach taken by IBM and 
Apple. 



Incredible Price: 

The ADVANTAGE from North 
Star offers you the best in 
price/performance. You get 
more data storage per dollar 
invested, more applications 
programs, more available 
languages, and more 
graphics capabilities. At an 
incredible list price of $3999. 

To find out more about our 
incredible family of desktop 
computers with graphics, call 
TOLL FREE 800-447-4700. 
(Illinois 800-322-4400.) 
North Star Computers, Inc. 
14440 Catalina St., San Leandro, 
CA 94577 USA (415) 357-8500. 
TWX/Telex (910) 366-7001. 

North Star. ADVANTAGE and BUSIGRAPH are trademarks of North 
Star Computers. Inc. CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital 
Research. Inc. 




THE INCREDIBLE ADVANTAGE COMPUTER COMPARISON CHART' 




NORTH STAR ADVANTAGE 


IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER 


APPLE III 


MICROPROCESSOR(S) 


Z-80A Central processor 
8035 Auxiliary processor 


8088 processor 


6502A processor 


jjk GRAPHICS DISPLAY RESOLUTION 


640x240 pixels 


640x200 pixels 


560x192 pixels 


Up DUAL FLOPPY DISC CAPACITY 


720K bytes 


320K bytes 


2B0K bytes 


P? CONVENIENT DESKTOP PACKAGE' 


Yes, all in one enclosure 


No, 3 enclosures 


No, 3 enclosures 


BUSINESS GRAPHICS 
/ SOFTWARE INCLUDED? 


Yes 


No 


No 


CP/M COMPATIBLE? 


Yes 


Partial 


No 


LANGUAGES SUPPLIED 
BY MANUFACTURER 


Graphics BASIC, PASCAL, 
COBOL FORTRAN. C 


BASIC. PASCAL 


BASIC, PASCAL 


APPLICATIONS S/W PACKAGES 
SUPPLIED BY MANUFACTURER 


10 packages 


5 packages 


5 packages 


SELFTEST DIAGNOSTIC 


Yes 


Yes 


No 


NATIONAL ON SITE SERVICE 


Yes 


No 


No 


MANUFACTURER SUPPLIED PRINTERS 


Letter quality/matrix ( 1 36 columns) 


Matrix (80 columns) 


Letter quality/matrix (80 columns) 


! RETAIL PRICE PER KILO- 
BYTE OF DISK STORAGE 


S5.55 


ST1.17 


S15.57 


'Professional configuration: Duol Floppy Disks, Monochrome Display. Keyboard, CPU, 64K byres (or minimum) RAM Memory, and Printer Interface. 
Source: Dataquest and Manufacturer's Literature, November 1981 . 



FOLLOW THE STAR J^t 

NorltiSlarl 

Circle 281 on inquiry card. 






Product Description 



Listing 1: A simple BASIC program that allows the Commodore VIC-20 to com- 
municate using the modem. VICTERM 1, a more sophisticated program, is available at 
extra cost. 

3.CHR$(<>) ?DT(1F(2SS) ,T(255) 

064 JT ( J)=J? NEXT : T < 1 3) = 13 !T(20)=8i RV=1 f) : CT = 
O9O5K=J+32 5T<J)=KsNEXT!F0RJs9tT0?55T(J)=.|!NEXT 
T02i8:K=J-128!T(J)=K!MEXT!T(146) = i65T(i33) = 1.6 

255 : K = T ( J ) : IFKO0THENF ( K ) ==J : F ( K+ 128 > -=,l 

NT"!) 

:SR=ST: IFA*=""0RSR O0THFN31 

"CHR*<F(ASC(A*>)>! sIFF(ASC<A*) )=34THENPRINTCHR*< 34) ; 



too 


0PEN5.2, 


210 


F0RJ=32T 


220 


F0RJ=A5T 


240 


F0RJ=1?3 


2A0 


F0RJ=0T0 


270 


NEXTiF'RI 


7,00 


GETtt5,A* 


7,05 


PRINT" II 


30 A 


B0T0300 


310 


F'RINTCHR 


315 


CT=CT+t: 


320 


IF < PEEK C 


330 


GOT0300 



t(RU)" II?"; S6ETA*SIFA*<>' 
IFCT=8THENCT=0:Ry=164-RU 
37151. )AND64>=1THEN320 



'THENPRINTHfi,CHR*(T(ASC(A*) ) ) 




Here's 256K 

Performance 

'At an Economy Price! 

InterSystems has done it again! The new Series HI operates at 6 MHz and 
includes software to fully utilize the 256K high speed memory. You can buy 
it from BRIDGE for $5545 — check out these features. . . 

• Operating system software that effectively utilizes the 256K RAM 

• CP/M 2.2 and Cache BIOS ™ that speeds operation up to 4 times 

• 6 MHz CPU with powerful 1 MByte memory management system 

• 256K memory — 6 MHz with parity and 8/16 bit transfers 

• S-100 Bus follows IEEE 696 Standards 

• Two serial ports and four parallel ports with two interrupt controllers 

• Dual double-density soft-sectored 5V4" drives (0.8 MByte total) 

• Easily upgraded to 6-user MP/M system. 

But we are sure that you want turnkey operation, so we have packaged a 
system that includes . . . 

• InterSystems Series HI Computer P/N CB-256/525 

• BMATE ™ screen oriented text editor/word processor 

• Zenith Z-19 or Televideo 950 Terminal. 



INTRODUCTORY OFFER 

ORDERING INFORMATION 



Special 
List Offer 

InterSystem CB-256/525 Computer with software $6545. $5545. 

As above with BMATE ™ and Zenith Z-19 Terminal 7590. 6495. 

As above with BMATE ™ and Televideo 950 Terminal 7935. 6725. 



For something still more powerful, ask about the BRIDGE enhanced 
systems, including the FORTRAN Development and the Compiler sys- 
tems, based on InterSystems computers. 

Call to order, or send for complete information. Dealer inquiries invited. 
DDDteD^gjteOQDf'" 

Authorized Distributor 

Cache BIOS is a trademark of Ithaca InterSystems, Inc. 
BMATE is a trademark of BRIDGE Computer Company, 
Division of Sea Data Corporation. 




Computer Company 

DIVISION OF SEA DATA CORPORATION 

ONE BRIDGE STREET 

NEWTON, MASS. 02158 U.S.A. 

PHONE: (617) 244-3203 



default (automatic) echo state. 
Tymnet can, at the interface to a host 
computer (not a terminal or home 
computer), routinely strip parity 
coming in from terminals and 
microcomputers and put on whatever 
type of parity the host computer re- 
quires. 

General Electric Information Ser- 
vices Company operates a network 
similar to Tymnet, although GE's is 
much larger. In fact, it is the largest 
international data-communications 
network in the world. Robert Mc- 
Calley, manager of the communica- 
tions and distribution system, recom- 
mends setting the modem to half 
duplex and no parity (treating the 
eighth bit as data) before logging on. 

Keith Boyer, a spokesman for 
CompuServe's technical services, 
noted that although any parity setting 
will put ASCII characters on the 
screen, the eighth bit must be send- 
able and receivable as data in order 
for CompuServe's A and B file- 
transmission protocols to work prop- 
erly. These protocols are used for im- 
portant functions such as down- 
loading programs to user memory. 
Also, transmission of some graphics 
characters requires the eighth bit. The 
"no parity" selection on the 
VICTERM I menu should be selected 
when using the A and B protocols or 
graphics programs. 

As this article was being com- 
pleted, The Source had some infor- 
mation for VIC users in its Com- 
modore Business Machines database. 

The VICMODEM was developed 
under the watchful eyes of Michael 
Tomczyk. The development process 
took four months from start to finish, 
he said in a recent interview. The 
toughest part was bringing it in at the 
right price. Tomczyk, who has an 
astute sense of the marketplace for 
home computers, assessed the future 
of the modem this way: "We think 
this modem may sell as many VICs as 
the game cartridges." 

With a growing number of giant 
publishing firms gearing up to supply 
electronic newspapers, videotex, and 
other home data products, he may 
well be right. ■ 



246 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 51 on inquiry card. 



NEW HIGHER PRINTING SPEED, 
NEW LOWER PRINTER PRICE 



High-speed printer 

The Heath/Zenith 25 Printer is a heavy-duty, high-speed 
dot matrix printer that gives you sharp, clear printouts. It 
prints crisp, clear copy at speeds over 150 characters per 
second with quiet smoothness. 
Baud rates from 1 10 to 9600 are user-selectable. 

Versatile printer 

The 25 prints the entire 95-character ASCII set in upper 
case and lower case with descenders, in a 9x9 matrix. Also, 
33 block graphic characters - which are compatible with 
the Heath/Zenith 89 All-ln-One Computer and the 19 Smart 
Video Terminal - let you create graphs and charts. All func- 
tions and timing are microprocessor-controlled. 
Plug-in ribbon cartridges make ribbon replacement a 
no-mess snap. 

The 25 works with most computers and terminals - 
using an RS-232C Serial Interface or a 20 mA 
current loop with handshaking control signals. 



Low-priced printer 

The 25 has all the features you've been looking for in a high- 
quality, high-speed dot matrix printer - for only $1 095 in kit 
form, or for only $1595 assembled and tested. 

Free demonstration awaits you at 
your Heathkit Electronic Center t 

Pick the store nearest you from the list below. And stop in 
today for a demonstration of the new Heath/Zenith 25 Printer. 
If you can't get to a store, send $1 .00 for the latest Zenith 
Data Systems Catalog of assembled commercial computers. 
We'll also send you a free copy of the latest Heathkit® 
catalog. Write to Heath Company, Dept. 334-874, Benton 
Harbor, Ml 49022. 

HEATH/ZENITH 



Your strong partner 




H'lWIlii lllllMIIIIII ^HWUm- ^Mk. ,^ awu _ 

"<=COND 

10ND 

D 

D 

D 

R SECOND. 



*1 50 characters per second 



Visit your Heathkit Electronic Center! 

Where Heath/Zenith Products are displayed, sold and serviced. 



PHOENIX. AZ 

2727 W. Indian School Rd. 
602-279-6247 

ANAHEIM, CA 

330 E. Ball Rd 

714-776-9420 

CAMPBELL. CA 

2350 S.Bascom Ave. 

408-377-8920 

ELCERRIT0.CA 

6000 Potrero Aire. 

415-236-8870 

LA MESA, CA 

8363 Center Dr. 

714-461-0110 

LOS ANGELES. CA 

2309 S. Flower St. 

213-749-0261 

POMONA. CA 

1555 N. OrangeGrove Ave 

714-623-3543 

REDWOOD CITY. CA 

2001MiddletieldRd. 

415-365-8155 



SACRAMENTO. CA 

1860 Fulton Ave. 

916-486-1575 

WOODLAND HILLS, CA 

22504 Ventura Blvd. 

213-883-0531 

DENVER, CO 

5940 W. 38th Ave. 

303-422-3408 

AVON, CT 

395 W. Main St. (Rt. 44) 

203-678-0323 

HIALEAH, FL 

4705 W. 16th Ave. 

305-823-2280 

PLANTATION, FL 

7173 W Broward Blvd 

305-791-7300 

TAMPA. FL 

4019 W.Hillsborough Ave. 

813-886-2541 



ATLANTA, GA 

5285 Raswell Rd. 

404-252-4341 

CHICAGO.IL 

3462-66 W.Devon Ave. 

312-583-3920 

DOWNERSGROVE.IL 

224 0gdenAve. 

312-852-1304 

INDIANAPOLIS, IN 

2112 E. 62nd St. 

317-257-4321 

MISSION. KS 

5960 Lamar Ave. 

913-362-4486 

LOUISVILLE. K¥ 

12401 ShelbyvilleRd. 

502-245-7811 

KENNER.LA 

1900 Veterans Mem Hwy. 

504-467-6321 



BALTIMORE. MD 
1713 E. Jappa Rd. 
301-861-4446 
R0CKVILLE.MD 

5542 Nicholson Lane 
301-881-5420 



ST. PAUL, MN 

1645 While Bear Ave. 
612-778-1211 
BRIDGETON.MO 
3794 McKelvey Rd. 
314-291-1850 



PEAB0OY.MA OMAHA, NE 

242AndoverSt.(Rt.114) 9207 Maple St 

617-531-9330 402-391-2071 

WELLESLEY. MA ASBURY PARK. NJ 

165 Worcester Ave. (Rt. 9) 1013 State Hwy. 35 

617-237-1510 201-775-1231 



DETROIT, Ml 

18645 W Eight Mile Rd 
313-535-6480 
EAST DETROIT, Ml 
18149 E Eight Mile Rd 
313-772-0416 
HOPKINS, MN 
101 Shady Oak Rd. 
612-938-6371 



FAIR LAWN. NJ 

35-07 Broadway (Rt. 
201-791-6935 
AMHERST. NY 
3476 Sheridan Dr. 
716-835-3090 
JERICHO. LI. NY 
15 Jericho Turnpike 
516-334-8181 



ROCHESTER, NY 

937 Jefferson Rd. 
716-424-2560 
N.WHITE PLAINS, NY 
7 Reservoir Rd 
914-761-7690 
CLEVELAND. OH 
28100 Chagrin Blvd. 
216-292-7553 
COLUMBUS. OH 
2500 Morse Rd. 
614-475-7200 
TOLEDO. OH 
48 S. Byrne Rd 
419-537-1887 
W00DLAWN.0H 
10133 Springfield Pike 
513-771-8850 
OKLAHOMA CITY. OK 
2727 NW, Expressway 
405-848-7593 



FRAZER, PA 

630 Lancaster Pk. (Rt. 30) 
215-647-5555 
PHILADELPHIA. PA 
6318 Roosevelt Blvd 
215-288-0180 
PITTSBURGH, PA 
3482 Wm.Penn Hwy. 
412-824-3564 

WARWICK. Rl 

558 Greenwich Ave 
401-738-5150 
DALLAS, TX 
2715 Ross Ave. 
214-826-4053 
FORT WORTH, TX 
6825-A Green Oaks Rd. 
817-737-8822 
HOUSTON, TX 
1704 W. Loop N. 
713-869-5263 



tHeathkil is a registered trademark of Heath Company. Heath Company and Veritechnology Electronics Corporation 
are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Zenith Radio Corporation Heathkit Electronic Centers are operated by Veritechnology Electronics Corporation. 



SAN ANTONIO, TX 

7111 Blanco Rd. 

512-341-8876 

MIDVALE.UT 

58 East 7200 South 

801-566-4626 

ALEXANDRIA, VA 

6201 Richmond Hwy. 

703-765-5515 

VIRGINIA BEACH, VA 

1055 Independence Blvd 

804-460-0997 

SEATTLE, WA 

505 8th Ave. N. 

206-682-2172 

TUKWILA. WA 

15439 53rd Ave. S 

206-246-5358 

VANCOUVER, WA 

516 S. E.ChaklovDr. #1 

206-254-4441 

MILWAUKEE, Wl 

5215 W. Fond du Lac 

414-873-8250 

CP-208 



Lowercase Descenders 
for the Epson MX-70 



Bruce Piggott 

35 Beverley Rd. 

Stevenage, Hertfordshire 

SGI 4PR, England 



Like most home-computer owners, 
I wanted a printer and, like most, 
couldn't afford one. But as prices 
began to fall, I gradually realized I 
could afford the Epson MX-70. 

The MX-70 uses ordinary paper 
and has a graphics mode, but unfor- 
tunately it does not do lowercase 
descenders. This didn't worry me too 
much because most of the printing I 
wanted to do was program listings. 

However, after working with the 
printer, I realized that although the 
MX-70 has eight print wires, it uses 
only seven in text mode. That meant 
lowercase descenders would be pos- 
sible by switching to the graphics 
mode at the right time and using all 
eight print wires to create the lower- 
case letters. 

Strangely enough, the MX-70 can 
print true descenders mechanically, 
but electronically the option was not 
available. I decided to write a 
machine-language program to modify 
the output. 

The technique is to have a small 
program that examines the output of 
a printing routine. It looks at the 
ASCII (American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange) character in 
the microprocessor's A register to see 
if it is a lowercase letter with 
descender (e.g., g, j, p, q, or y). If 
one of those letters is not in that 
register, then the program jumps to 



the standard output routine and 
prints the character in the normal 
way. 

If, however, the letter requires a 
lowercase descender, the program 
switches the printer into the graphics 
mode and outputs a string of data 
that drives the printing pins to con- 
struct the improvised character (see 
listing 1). 

The program assumes that the 
printer controller card is in slot 1. The 
equates (EQU) in lines 19, 20, and 21 
must be changed for other slots: for 
slot 2, add hexadecimal 100 to the 
numbers, for slot 3, add hexadecimal 
200, and so on. 

If the character style is not to your 
liking, it can be changed by modify- 
ing the appropriate data string. The 
format is 5 dots wide and 8 dots deep, 
with the first byte defining the left 
side of the character and with the 
most significant bit at the top. The 
data string must end in a zero, as this 
is the delimiter for the program. 

The program can also be extended 
to modify other characters or create 
some that are not in the standard 
ASCII set, for example: 

• to change the number sign (#) to the 
English pound sign (£) 

• to intercept normally unprintable 
codes (0 through 7) and print graphics 

• to print Chinese characters 



Plan the character you wish to 
design on graph paper. Convert the 
vertical columns into hexadecimal 
values using the tables in the MX-70 
operation manual (remember the top 
bit is most significant). Then insert 
the resulting string into the source 
code in the DATAl file (line 93), and 
insert the representative ASCII code 
into the "match" string (line 87). If 
you add a string at the end of the 
DATAl file, you must also place the 
matching ASCII code at the end of 
the match string. 

The program resides at hexa- 
decimal 300 (decimal 768) and this 
address will have to be entered into 
the printer driver program. 

Anyone planning to use this tech- 
nique should expect that the opera- 
tion of the MX-70 will seem a little 
strange at first. Whenever the MX-70 
enters the graphics mode, it com- 
pletes printing whatever is in the buf- 
fer up to that point, then backsteps to 
print the graphics. Consequently, the 
speed of the printer will slow down 
proportional to the number of lower- 
case letters with descenders. For this 
reason, I use the routine only for the 
final copy. 

But the combination of the MX-70 
and this program has saved me over 
$150 compared to the price of the 
MX-80. And now I also have the use 
of the graphics mode.H 



248 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 1: The Lowercase Descender program for the MX-70 and Apple II. Not only can you get true lowercase descenders, but you 
can program your own characters. 



SOURCE FILE: MX-70 

0000: 1 ******#**#+***+*******##*++*^ 

0000= 2 * LOWER CASE DESCENDERS FOR MX-70 

8080: 3 * 

0000= 4 * PROGRAM INTERCEPTS LOWER CASE !~ S, J, P„ Q, Y AND 

0000= 5 * USING BIT MODE GRAPHICS, CONSTRUCTS TRUE 

0000: 6 * DESCENDING CHARACTERS. 

0O 88s 7 * 

0000: 8 * PROGRAM ASSUMES THAT PRINTER INTERFACE- 

0000: 9 * IS IN SLOT ONE. FOR OTHER SLOTS CHANGE- 

0000: 10 * PRINTER, POUT AND PSENSE EQUATES. 

0000: 11 * EG. FOR SLOT TWO ADD HEX. 100 TO ALL THREE EQUATES,, 

OO00S 12 # 

0000 s 13 * BRUCE PIGGOTT. 6 .-'20 ■••"81 

0000s 14 # 

0000: 15 ********* + + #**********+^^ 

O0O0 S 1 6 * 

FF4As 17 SAUE EQU *FF4A : SAUE ALL REGISTERS 

FF3F: IS RESTORE EQU *FF3F : RESTORE ALL REGISTERS 

CI 02s 19 PRINTER EQU *C102 

CO90S 28 POUT EQU $C090 

C1C1: 21 PSENSE EQU SC1C1 : SWITCHED ROM LOCATION 

O000S 22 * 

0000: 23 * MAIN PROGRAM ENTRY POINT 

0000s 24 * 

NEXT OBJECT FILE NAME IS MX-70. OB JO 

O3O0: 25 ORG $300 

0300:20 4 A FF 26 ENTER JSR SAUE : THIS ROUTINE SAUES ALL 

0303: 27 * REGISTERS BUT DESTROYS THE 

0303: 28 * CHARACTER IN THE 'A : ' REG. 

0303 :A5 45 29 LDA *4S : REPLACE CHAR. FROM IT'S STORE. 

0305 sA2 04 38 LDX #4 s SET UP X AS COUNTER FOR CHAR. SCAN 

0387: DD 6E 03 31 L.00P1 CMP MATCH, X s COMPARE CHAR WITH MATCH LIST + X 

030A:FO 09 32 BEQ MODIFY : IF IN LIST.X REG TELLS WHICH 

030CSCA 33 DEX 

O3OD:10 F8 34 BPL L00P1 : IF X NOT < 8 

O3OFS20 3F FF 35 JSR RESTORE s IT WAS NOT IN LIST SO RESTORE 

0312:40 02 CI 36 JMP PRINTER s — AND GO TO STANDARD ROUTINE 

0315: 37 * 

133 1 5 : 33 #*##**#**##**##*********#****** 

0315s 39 * 

0315s 40 * THE CHARACTER HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS G,J,P,Q OR V 

0315s 41 * THE X REGISTER IDENTIFIES WHICH. 

0315s 42 * FIRST STEP IS TO MULTIPLY X BY 6 SO THAT IT CAN BE USED 

0315s 43 * AS AN IDEXED OFFSET TO THE DATA LIST. 

0315s 44 * 

0315s 8A 45 MODIFY TXA s PUT X IN A TO ALLOW MANIPULATION 

0316s OA 46 ASL A s DOUBLE A 

0317= 8D 6D 03 47 STA SUM : STORE RESULT 

O31AS0A 48 ASL A s QUADRUPLE A 

031B5 18 49 CLC s CLEAR CARRY FOR NEXT ADD 

031CS6D 6D 03 58 ADC SUM s 4XA + 2XA = 6XA 

031 F s 48 51 PHA s SAUE RESULT FOR LATER 

8320 s 52 * 

0320 s 53 * HOW PUT PRINTER IN BIT MODE FOR 6 BYTES 

0320 sA2 03 54 LDX #3 s COUNTER 

0322! BD 4B 03 55 L00P2 LDA DATA8,X : GET NEXT DATAO 

8325 s8D 98 CO 56 STA POUT s SEND TO PRINTER 

0328:20 43 03 57 JSR SENSE s WAIT TILL PRINTER DONE 

832B:CA 58 DEX 

032C:10 F4 59 BPL. L00P2 : IF NOT DONE 

Listing 1 continued on page 254 

March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 249 



INTERESTED? 




LETS TALK 



CONCEPT: PRIVATE COMPUTERS 

Our marketplace is maturing. Those of you that were around in 1977 will remember 
what it took then to make a sale... (anything that worked!) 

The two beautiful faces at the left are evidence that changes have occured in the 
industry!!! 

Besides an excellent, well proven S-100, CP/M, Z-80 4MHZ computer system, we 
have a few extra things to offer. (Not the model!) 

Delta specializes in something called a Private Computer . It's for those of you 
systems integrationists that have matured with the market. You stopped assembling 
systems in your garage a long time ago, but still need a totally flexible computer line 
that your customers won't find at Wards or Sears. 



1 



A Private Computer means you will never see one of our computer 
systems on the shelf of your local department store or computer shop. We 
only sell to systems integrationists who add value to our product. 

^-^ A Complete Range of Products is available. No other micro company in 
*M, the world offers a more complete line of equipment to satisfy your needs. 

'w f • We have everything from low end single user systems to the top of the line 64 

user distributed processing networks. 

^-^ The DP Software Library is growing every month. We supply 
£^ Accounting, Business Management, Code Writing, Medical, Dental, 
^^ * Chiropractic, Word Processing, Property Management and other 
programs. We have the source code in most cases and can negotiate customization if 
needed. Video taped training cassetts to aid you and your customers in learning how 
to use the programs and run the hardware are available. 

— Factory Support and Service is available in most large cities. There are 66 

/W fully stocked factory maintainance centers in the U.S. and 12 outside the 

-"-* U.S. In more remote areas, our 24 hour fast turnaround component pool 

can be used to insure reasonable response times to satisfy customers. We have a 

customer service Hotline independant of sales or service. We have a 24 Hour 

Modem Engineering Advisory Billboard. 

^ Our Engineering Assistance and Software Development Program 

^L can make headaches turn into profits. We maintain a staff of Engineers and 
^^ * Programmers whose services can be leased to expand your range of 
services. Problems from something as simple as hooking up a new printer or 
modifying an existing software program to customize a screen display can be resolved 
with this service. 

-^ Financial Assistance is available through a flexible credit program that 
§| can not only get the product to you quickly but keep your cash busy where it 
^-F • will do the most good. 30 - 60 - 90 day flooring plans can be arranged to allow 
you to collect your money before you have to pay us. 

Sherry Starkey is on line right now at Delta to direct you to your area 
representative. If you have a half inch Beta or VHS video machine, ask Sherry for a 
sales demonstration in your own home or office. See the Plant, the People and the 
Program. 



DELTA PRODUCTS INC. • 15392 ASSEMBLY LANE, HUNTINGTON BEACH, CA 92649 
(714)898-1492 • MON to FRI - 8 AM to 5 PM • TELEX: 681-367 DELTMAR HTBH 

Circle 128 on Inquiry card. 



NEW FROM NETRONICS 

AUTO-PATCH 
HARD DISK 

With plug-in multi-user ports 

Automatically Installs Itself Into 

Your Present CP/M & 2.2 Operating 

system & Floppy Disk Hardware. 

It's Exclusive! 

6 megabytes . . . $2995.00 12 megabytes . . . $3495.00 




What's the big concern of S100 owners when they 
consider adding Hard Disks? They worry that it will be 
difficult (o install, that it won't be compatable with 
their present software and hardware, and that it may 
cause down-time on their S100 system. 

Worry no more — Netronics new AUTOPATCH Hard 
Disks Systems are here. AUTOPATCH installs in just 
one-two-three: (1) plug in the hard disk S100 card; (2) 
run three short programs supplied on disk; (3) disable 
the'boot on your floppy controller and enable the boot 
on your hard disk controller (this step not required if 
you wish to continue to boot to your floppy drives). 

And thats it: The AUTOPATCH feature automatically 
finds the end of your existing BIOS and then self 
relocates and patches itself into the existing BIOS. A 
virgin copy of CCP and BIOS are loaded into memory, 
a customized SBOOT is added to the front of CCP and 
the whole memory image is written to the reserved 
tracks on your hard disk. You can add up to 4 hard 
disks to the controller supplied. The new BIOS will 
automatically rename any old devices as B: and C: 
and define Ihe hard disk as drive A:. All with the lift of 
one finger!!! If your BIOS is large you may have to re- 
sysgen your system down 1 or 2 k. If this is necessary 
the AUTOPATCH program will prompt you to do so. 

AUTOPATCH Hard Disk Systems are available in 6 
and 12 megabyte models. Included in the system: 6 or 
12 megabyte Hard Disk Drive . . . Controller for up to 4 
Hard Disk drives . . . S100 Hard Disk card with provi- 
sions for adding 8 additional I/O ports to be used 
when adding a multi-user operating system . . . Power 
Supply . . . Deluxe Steel Cabinet ... All necessary 
cables . . . AUTOPATCH Programs supplied on either 
8" or S'V IBM formatted single density diskettes 
(specify style reguired) . . . Complete installation in- 
structions . . . Fully wired and tested, ready to go. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Unformatted Recording Capacity: 6.4 or 1 1.6 MB . . . 
No. of tracks: 612 or 1380 . . . Data Transfer Rate: 3 ms 
. . . Bytes/sector format: 512 . . . Communication Port: 

DO (other ports available on special order) . . . Pro- 
grams supplied on BVi" or 8" single density IBM for- 
matted diskettes (North Star CP/M" version available 
on special order) 



10 DAY MONEY BACK OFFER 

Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers Outside Conn. 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

To Order From Connecticut Or For Tech. Assist. 
Call (203) 354-9375 

NETRONICS R&D LTD. Dept. 

333 Litchfield Road, New Milford, CT 06776 

Please send the items checked below: 
Q AUTOPATCH/6 Hard Disk System . . . $2995.00 
Q AUTOPATCH/12 Hard Disk System . . . $3495.00 
D Additional 6-megabyte drive with power supply, 
cabinet, cables and necessary software . . . $1995.00 
Q Additional 12-megabyte drive with power supply, 
cabinet, cables and necessary software . . . $2495.00 
All plus $15.00 P&.I (postage & insurance). For Cana- 
dian orders, double the postage ($30.00). Conn. res. 
add sales tax. 

Total Enclosed $ 

D Personal Check Q Cashier's Check/M.O. 

□ VISA D MasterCard (Bank No. ) 

Acct. No. Exp. Date 

Signature 

Print Name 

Address 

City State Zip 



Big sale 
onK'si 

16K...S 149.95 
32K... $199.95 
48K... $249.95 
64K... $299.95 




New JAWS-IB 

The Ultrabyle Memory Board 

Due to the tremendous success of our JAWS I, we 
were able to make a special purchase of first-quality 
components at below-cost prices for JAWS-IB. And 
we are sharing our cost saving with you. But don't be 
surprised if the next time you see this ad the prices 
have gone up substantially. Better yet, order now, 
and get the best memory on the market at the best 
price on the market. 
ONE CHIP DOES IT ALL 

Jaws-IB is the Rolls-Royce of all the S100 dynamic 
boards. Its heart is Intel's single chip 64K dynamic 
RAM controller. Eliminates high-current logic parts 
. . delay lines . . . massive heat sinks . . . unreliable 
trick circuits. JAWS-IB solves all these problems. 
LOOK WHAT JAWS-IB OFFERS YOU 
Hidden refresh . . . fast performance . . . low power 
consumption . . . latched data outputs . . . 200 NS 
4116 RAM's . . . on-board crystal . . . RAM Jumper 
selectable on 8K boundaries . , . fully socketed . . . 
solder mask on both sides of board . . . phantom line 
. . . designed for 8080, 8085, and Z80 bus signals . . . 
works in Explorer, Sol, Horizon, as well as all other 
well-designed S100 computers. 

► 10-DAY MONEY-BACK TRIAL: Try a lully wired ^M 

and lesled board lot todays — Irion nllhei keep ^^k 

II, return II lor kit, or simply return II In working ^H 

condition. ^ 

Continental U.S.A. Credit Cord Buyers Outside Connecticut: 

TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

From Connecticut Or For Assistance: 
(203) 354-9375 

Please send (ho items checked below: 
JAWS-IB kit: 

□ 16K $149.95* 

D 32K $199.95* 

□ 48K $249.95* 

□ 64K $299.95* 

JAWS-IB Fully Assembled, Wired & Tested: 

D 16K $179.95* 

D 32K $239.95* 

D 48K $299.95* 

D 64K $359.95* 

D EXPANSION KIT, 16K RAM Module, to expand 

JAWS-IB in 16K blocks up to 64K. $59.95 
"All prices pins £2 positive unci Insurance ($4.00 Canada). 
Connecticut residents odd safes tcix. 

Total enclosed: S 

O Personal Check D Money Order or Cashier's Check 

D VISA □ Master Card (Bank No. ) 

Accl. No. Exp. Date 

Signature 

Print 

Name 

Address , 

City 

State __^ Zip 

1^ NETRONICS R&D Ltd. 

■ fill :t33 Litchfield Hoad, New Milfortl, CT 06776! 



Now with added words! % 

ELECTRIC MOUTH 

m 




for SI 00, Elf II, Apple 
TRS-80 , Level II 



WW, Level IP ^om $99.95 kit 

Now — teach your computer to talk, 
increasing interaction between you 
and your machine. 

Thai's right: Ihe ELECTRIC MOUTH actually Ids your computer talk) Installed 
and on-line in just minutes, it's ready for spoken-language use in office, busi- 
ness, industrial and commercial applications, and in games, special projects. 
RAD. education, security devices— there's no end to the ELECTRIC MOUTH's 
usefulness. Ixmk at these features: 

• Supplied with 143 letters/wo rds/phonemes/numbers. capable of producing 
hundreds of words and phrases. 

• Expandable on-board up to thousands of words and phrases with additional 
speech ROMs (see new speech ROM described below), 

• Four models, that plug directly into S100. Apple, EH il and TRS-80 Level II 
computers. 

• Get ELECTRIC MOUTH to talk with either Basic or machine language (very 
easy to use. complete instructions with examples included). 

• Uses National Semiconductor's "Digitalker. 

• Includes on-board audio amplifier and speaker, with provisions for external 
speakers. 

• Installs in jusl minutes. 

Principle of Operation: The ELECTRIC MOUTH slores the digital equivalents 
of words in ROMs. When words, phrases and phonemes are desired, they 
simply are called for by your program and then synthesized into speech. The 
ELECTRIC MOUTH system requires none of your valuable memory space ex- 
cept for a few addresses if used in memory mapped mode. In most cases, output 
ports (user selectable) are used. 

SPOKEN MATERIAL INCLUDED (Vnx I) 



eight 
nine 

ten 

eleven 

twelve 

thirteen 

fourteen 

fifteen 

sixteen 

seventeen 



eighteen 

nineteen 

twenty 

thirty 

forty 

fifty 

sixty 

seventy 

eighty 

ninety 

hundred 

thousand 

million 

again 



cancel 

cent 

400herlz lone 
BOhertz tone 
20 ma silence 
40ms silence 
BOms silence 
160ms silence 
320ms silence 
centi 
check 
comma 
control 
danger 
degree 



dollar 
down 
equal 



gallon 

80 

gram 

great 

greater 

nave 

high 

higher 

in 



lesser parenthe 

limit percent 

lower plus 
mark point 
meter pound 
mile pulses 
milli rale 
minus re 
minute ready- 
near right 



sel 

space 
speed 
star 
s start 
stop 
than 
the 



ADDITIONAL VOCABULARY NOW AVAILABLE (VOX U) 



complete 
continue 
copy 



ask 

assistance 

attention 

blue 

brake 

button 

buy 

call 

called 

caution 

celsius 

centigrade 

change 



fifth 

first 
floor 

fourth 
forward 



get 



east 


going 






emergency 






heat 


entry 


hello 


er 


help 


"eth" 


hurts 


evacuate 


hold 


exit 


hoi 


fail 


in 


failure 




fahrenheit 


inlrud 



load 
lock 
longer 



notice 
open 

operator 

per 

power 

press. 

pressure 

process 

pull 

push 



quarter 

range 

reached 



red 

repeat 
replace 
room 

second 
secure 
select 



station 
switch 
system 
lemperatui 



thank 
third 
this 



"Registered Trademarks 



Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut i 

TO ORDER : 

Call Toll Free: 800-243-7428 

To Order From Connecticut, or For Technical \ 
Assistance, call (203) 354-9375 ■ 

NETRONICS R&D LTD. j 

333 Lhchficid Road, New Milford. CT 06776 ", 



I3N 



Please send the items checked below: ; 

P SlOO "Electric Mouth" kit w/Vox I S 99.95 ■ 

D Elf It "Electric Mouth" kit w/Vox I $ 99.95 J 

□ Apple "Electric Mouth" kit w/Vox I $119.95 ■ 

D TRS^BO Level II "Electric Mouth" kitw/Voxt $119.95 ■ 

D VOX II (Second Word Sel) $ 39.95 I 

Add $20.00 for wir<:d li!slf„l units Instead of kits. VOX If postage A Insurance » 

51.00. all nthors S3.00 pos1;,|>,! and it 



Total Enclosed $ ■ 

■ 

□ Personal Check D Cashier's Check/Money Order , 

□ Visa □ Master Charge (Bank No. )■ 



Acct. No. 



-Exp. Date _ 



Signature _ 
Print 
Name 

Address 

City 

State 



__Zip_ 



FOR ONLY $129.95 Learn Computing \ 
From The Ground Up 




Build a Computer kit that grows 
with you, and can expand to 64k 
RAM, Microsoft BASIC, Text Edi- 
tor/Assembler, Word Processor, 
Floppy Disks and more. 

EXPLORER/85 

Here's the low cost way to learn the fundamentals of com- 
puting, ihe all-imporlanl basics you'll need more and 
more as you advance in compoter skills. For just S129.95 
you get the advanced-design Explorer/85 motherboard, 
with all the features you need to learn how lo write and 
use programs. And it can grow into a system that is a 
match for any personal compuler on the market. Look at 
these features: ROHS Central Processing Unit, ihe 
microprocessor "heart" of the Explorer/85, (loin the 
millions who will buy and use the 8080/8085 this year 
alone!). . . Four 8-hil plus one 6-hit input/ootpul ports from 
which you can input and output your programs, as well as 
control exterior switches, relays, lights, etc. . a cassette 
interface that lets yoo store and reload programs you've 
learned to write . . . deluxe 2,000 byte opemli'ng 
system/mnnilor makes it easy lo learn computing in 
several important ways: • It allows simpler, faster writ- 
ing and entering of programs • It permits access by you 
lo all parts ot the system so you can check on the status of 
any point in the program • It allows tracing each pro- 
gram step by step, with provision for displaying all Ihe 
contents of the CPU (registers, flags, etc.) «... and it 
does much more! 

You get ail this in the starting level (Level A) of the 
Explorer/85 for only $129.93. Incredible! To use. just 
plug in your 8VDC power supply and terminal or 
keyboard/display — if you don't have ihem. see our 
special offers below. 

D Level A computer kit (Terminal Version) . . . $129.95 
plus S3 PM." 

D Level A kit (Hex Keypad/Display Version) . . . $129.95 
plus $3 P&I.* 

LEVEL B — This "building block" converts Ihe mother- 
board into a two-slot Si 00 bus (industry standard) com- 
puter. Now you can plug in any of the hundreds of SlOO 
cards available, 
n Level Bkil .. .$19.95 plus $2P*I.* 

□ SlOO bus connectors (two required) . . . $4.85 each, 
postpaid. 

LEVEL C — Add still more 
computing power this "build- 
ing block" mounts directly on 
Ihe motherboard and expands 
the SlOO bus lo six slots. 

□ Level C kit . . . $39.95 plus $2 
PS I* 

□ SlOO bus connectors (five 
required) . . . $4.85 each, 
postpaid. 

LEVEL D — When you reach the point in learning that re- 
quires more memory, we offer Iwo choices: either add 4k 
of a memory directly on the motherboard, or add 16k |o 
64k of memory by means of a single SlOO card, our famous 
"IAWS." 

Level D kit: (CHECK ONE) . . .□ 4k on-board . . . M&95 

plus S2 P&P: D 16k SlOO "|AWS": . . . $149.95 plus $2 

P&I':D 32k SlOO "|AWS". .. $199.95 plus S2 P&I*:D 48k 

SlOO "JAWS" . . . $249.95 plus $2 P&I"; D 64k SlOO 

"JAWS" . ..$299.95 plus $2 P&l'. 

LEVEL E— An important "buiiding block:" it activates 

Ihe 8k ROM/EPROM Space on Ihe motherboard. Now just 

plug in one flk Microsoft BASIC or your own custom 

programs. 

D Level E kil . . . $5.95 plus 50C P&I.* 

Microsoft BASIC — It's the language that ailows you to 

talk English loyour compoter! It is available three ways: 

D 8k cassclte version of Microsoft BASIC: (requires Level 

B and 12k of RAM minimum: we suggest a 16k SlOO 

"IAWS" — see above) . . . $64.95 postpaid. 

□ 8k ROM version of Microsoft BASIC: (requires Level B 
&I.evelEand4kRAM: just plug inlo your Level E sockets. 
We suggest either Ihe 4k Level D RAM expansion ur a 16k 
SlOO "JAWS.") ... $99.95 plus $2 P&I. ' 

D Disk version of Microsoft BASIC: (requires Level B. 
32k of RAM. floppy disk controller. 8" floppy disk drive) 
. . . $325 postpaid. 

TEXT EDITOR/ASSEMBLER — The editor/assembler 
is a software lool (a program) designed to simplify the task 
of writing programs. As your programs become longer 
and more complex, the assembler can save you many 
hours of programming lime. This software includes an 
editor program thai enters the programs you wrile, makes 
changes, and saves the programs on cassettes. The assem- 
bler performs the clerical task of translating symbolic 
code inlo Ihe compuler- readable object code. The editor/ 
assembler program is available either in cassette or a 
ROM version. 

D Bditor /Assembler (Cassette version: requires Level 
"B" and 8k (min.) of RAM — we suggest 16k "JAWS" — 
see above) . . . $59.95 plus $2 P&I.* 

□ Editor/Assembler (ROM version, supplied on an SlOO 
card; requires Level B and 4k RAM (min.) — we suggest 
either Level D or 16k "IAWS") . . . $99.95 plus $2 P&P 
8" FLOPPY DISK — A remarkable "building block." 
Add our 8" floppy disk when you need faster operation, 
more convenient program storage, perhaps a bosiness ap- 
plication, and access to the literally thousands of programs 
and program languages available today. You simply plug 
them into your Expltirer/85 disk system — it accepts all 
IBM-formatted CP/M programs. 

□ 8" Floppy Disk Drive . , . $499.95 plus $12 P&I.* 
D Floppy Controller Card . . . $199.95 plus $2 P&I. ' 

□ Disk Drive Cabinel & Power Sopply . . . S6&..95 plus 
$3 P&I." 

D Drive Cables (set up for Iwo drives) . . . $25.00 plus 
$1.50 Pal* 

D CP/M 2.2 Disk Operating System; includes Text 
Editor/Assembler, dynamic deougger, and other features 
that give your Explorer/85 access to thousands of existing 
CP/M-based programs . . . 5150.00 postpaid. 
NEED A POWER SUPPLY? Consider our AP-1. It can 
supply all Ihe power you need for a fully expanded Ex- 
plorer/85 (note: disk drives have their own power supply). 
Pius Ihe AP-1 fits neatly into the attractive Explorer steel 
cabinel (see below). 

D AP-1 Power Supplv kit (BV @ 5 amps ) in delux e steel 
cabinel .. .$39.95 plus $2 P&I.* 
NEED A TERMINAL? We 
offer you choices: the least ex- 
pensive one is our Hex 
Keypad/Display kit lhal dis- 
plays the information on a 
calculator-type screen. The 
other choice is our ASCI! 
Keyboard/Computer Terminal 
kit. lhal can be used with either 









4. Plug | 



1. Plus ta Nelro 
Ki;yp(j(l/Dis|)lfiv 

2. Add Level B lo 
SlOO 

3. Add 4% RAM 



hivvl E here; rjf> ■ 
t\ t BASIC or J 



as Hex Editor/ Assembler in ROM 
5. Add Iwo Sioo boards 

invert In 6. Add you own custom i: 
curls (prototyping area) 

7. Conned terminal 



a CRT monitor or a TV sel (if y 
a Hex Keypad/Display kit . 



j have an RF modolator). . 
.$69.95 plus 52 P&I.' I 



D ASCII Keyboard/Computer Terminal kil featuring it 

full 128 character set. u&l case, full cursor control, 75 ohm 

video output, convertible lo 

bnudot output, selectable baud 

rate. RS 232-C or 20 ma.l/O. 32 | 

or 64 character by 16 line for- 

mats.. .$149.95 plus S3 P&I.* : 




^-1 



D Steel Cabinel for ASCII Keyboard /Terminal . . . $19.95 
plus S2.50 P&I.* 

D RF Modulator kit (allows you to ose your TV set as a 
monilor) . . . $8.95 postpaid. 

□ 12" Video Monitor (10MHz bandwidth) . . $139.95 
plus $5 P&I.' 

□ Deluxe Sleel Cabinet for the, 
Explorer/85 . . . $49.95 plui 
P&I.* 

D Fan for cabinet . . . $15.00 J 
plus $1,50 P&I.* 



^B ■■ ^ m 



ORDER A SPECIAL-PRICE 

EXPLORER/85 PAK— THERE'S 

ONE FOR EVERY NEED. 



□ Beginner Pak (Save $26.00) — You gel Level A (Ter- 
minal Version) with Monilor Source Listing ($25 value) 
AP-l,5-amp. power supply, Intel 8085 Users Manual . . . 
(Reg. $199.95) SPECIAL $169.95 plus $4 P&I.' 

□ Experimenter Pak (Save $53.40) — You gel Level A 
(Hex Keypad/Display Version) with Hex Keypad/ 
Display, Intel 8085 User Manual. Level A Hex Monitor 
Source Listing, and AP-1 ,5-amp. power sopply . . . (Reg. 
$279.95) SPECIAL $219,95 plus $6 P&I.* 

□ Special Micrusoft BASIC Pak (Save $103.00)— You get 
Levels A (Terminal Version). B. D (4k RAM). E. 8k 
Microsoft in ROM. Inlel 8085 User Manual. Level A Moni- 
tor Source Listing, and AP-1. S-amp. power supply . . 
(Reg. $439.70) SPECIAL $329.95 plus $7 P&I.' 



□ ADD A ROM-VERSION TEXT EDI- 
TOR/ASSEMBLER (Requires Levels B 
and D or SlOO Memory) . . . $99.95 plus 
$2 P&I.* 



Starter 8" Disk System — Includes Level A. B floppy disk 
controller, one CDC 8" disk-drive, two-drive cable, Iwo 
SlOO connectors: just add your own power supplies, 
cabinets and hardware . . . □ (Reg. S1065.00) SPECIAL 
$999.95 plus S13 P&I." . . .□ 32k Starter System. $1045.95 
plus $13 P&I.' □ 48k Starter System. $1095.95 plus $13 
P&I.* D 64k Starter System, $1145.95 plus $13 P&l.* 

□ Add to any of above Explorer steel cabinet. AP-1 five 
amp, power supply, Level C wilh two SlOO connectors, 
disk drive cabinet and power supply, two sub-D connec- 
tors for connecting your printer and terminal . . . (Reg. 
$225.95) SPECIAL $199.95 plus $13 P&I. ' 

□ Complete 64k System, Wired & Tested . . . $1650.00 
plus $26 P&I.' 

□ Special! Complete Business Software Pak (Save 
$625.00) — Includes CP/M 2.2 Microsoft BASIC. General 
Ledger. Accounts Receivable. Accounls Payable. Payroll 
Package . . . (Reg. $1325) SPECIAL $699.95 postpaid. 



" For Canadian or- , 
i 

i 

i 

Continental Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut: i 

TO ORDER 
Call Toll Free: 800-243-7428 ; 

To Order From Connecticut, or For Technical ' 
Assistance, call (203) 354-9375 



v^k 



""JJr (Clip and mail entire ai 

SEND ME THE ITEMS CHECKED ABOVE 

Total Enclosed (Conn. Residenls add sales tax): $ 

Paid by: 

D Personal Check D Cashier's Check/Money Order 
D VISA □ MASTER CARD (Bank No. ; 



■% 



% 



Sr/^NETRONICSResearch&DevelopmentLtd.: 

iSSl333 Litchfield Road, New Milford, CT 06776 ] 




ANNOUNCING TWO 
NEW TERMINALS 

Smart* Fast • Graphics • Matching Modem and $295 Printer 

Netronics announces a state of the art 
breakthrough in terminals. Now at prices you 
can afford, you can go on-line with data-bank 
and computer phone-line services. It's all 
yours: "electronic newspapers,'" educational 
services, Dow-Jones stock reports, games, 
recipes, personal computing with any level 
language, program exchanges, electronic bul- 
letin boards . . . and more every day!!! 

Netronics offers two new terminals, both 
feature a full 56 key/128 character typewriter- 
style keyboard, baud rates to 19.2 kilobaud, a 
rugged steel cabinet and power supply. The 
simplest one, FASTERM-64, is a 16 line by 64 or 32 character per line unit, with a serial 
printer port for making hard copy of all incoming data, and optional provisions for block and 
special character graphics. The "smart" version, SMARTERM-80, features either 24 line by 80 
characters per line or 16 by 40 characters per line, it offers on-screen editing with page-at-a- 
time printing, 12,000 pixel graphics, line graphics, absolute cursor addressing, underlining, 
reverse video, one-half intensity and much more . . . simply plug them into your computer or 
our phone modem and be on-line instantly. Use your TV set {RF modulator required) or our 
delux green-phosphor monitor pictured above. For hard copy just add our matched printer. 

Price breakthrough!!! Own the FASTERM-64, a complete terminal kit, ready to plug in for 
just $199.95 or order the SMARTERM-80 kit for just $299.95, (both available wired and tested.) 
Be on-line with the million-dollar computers and data services today ... we even supply the 
necessary subscription forms. 

More good news: All the components in our terminals are available separately (see 
coupon), so you buy only what you need! !! 

FASTERM-64 . . . DISPLAY FORMAT: 64 or 32 characters/line by 16 lines ... 96 displayable 
ASCII characters (upper & lower case) ... 8 baud rates: 150, 300, 600, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, 
19, 200, (switch sel.) . . . LINE OUTPUT: RS232/C or 20 ma current loop . . . VIDEO OUTPUT: 1V 
P/P (EIA RS-170) . . . CURSOR MODES: home & clear screen, erase to end of line, erase cursor 
line, cursor up & down, auto carriage return/line feed at end of line & auto scrolling . . . 
REVERSE VIDEO . . . BLINKING CURSOR . . . PARITY: off, even or odd . . . STOP BITS: 1, 1.5, 
2 ... DATA BITS PER CHARACTER: 5, 6, 7 or 8 . . . CHARACTER OUTPUT: 5 by 7 dot matrix 
in a 7 by 12 cell . . . PRINTER OUTPUT: prints all incoming data . . . 1K ON BOARD RAM . . . 
2K ON BOARD ROM . . . CRYSTAL CONTROLLED . . . COMPLETE WITH POWER SUPPLY . . . 
OPTIONAL GRAPHICS MODE: includes 34 Greek & math characters plus 30 special graphics 
characters . . . ASCII ENCODED KEYBOARD: 56 key/128 characters. 

SMARTERM-80 . . . DISPLAY FORMAT: 80 characters by 24 lines or 40 characters by 16 lines 
128 displayable ASCII characters (upper & lowercase) 8 baud rates: 110, 300, 600, 1200, 2400, 
4800, 9600, 19, 200 .. . LINE OUTPUT: RS232/C or 20 ma current loop . . . VIDEO OUTPUT: 1V 
pp (EIA RS-170) . . . EDITING FEATURES: insert/delete line, insert/delete character, for- 
ward/back tab . . . LINE OR PAGE TRANSMIT . . . PAGE PRINT FUNCTION . . . CURSOR POSI- 
TIONING: up, down, right, left, plus absolute cursor positioning with read back . . . VISUAL 
ATTRIBUTES: underline, blink, reverse video, half intensity, & blank . . . GRAPHICS: 12,000 
pixel resolution block plus line graphics . . . ON-SCREEN PARITY INDICATOR . . . PARITY: off, 
even or odd . . . STOP BITS: 110 baud 2, all others 1 ... CHAR. OUTPUT: 7 by 11 character in 
a 9 by 12 block . . . PRINTER OUTPUT ... 60 OR 50 Hz VERTICAL REFRESH . . . BLINKING 
BLOCK CURSOR . . . CRYSTAL CONTROLLED . . . 2K ON BOARD RAM . . . ASCII ENCODED 
KEYBOARD: 56 key/128 character . . . 4K ON BOARD ROM . . . COMPLETE WITH POWER 
SUPPLY. 

TELEPHONE MODEM 103 O/A . . . FULL DUPLEX, FCC APPROVED . . . DATA RATE: 300 baud 
. . . INTERFACE: RS232/C and TTY . . . CONTROLS: talk/data switch (no need to connect and 
disconnect phone), originate/answer switch on rear panel ... NO POWER SUPPLY RE- 
QUIRED. 

ASCII KEYBOARD ASCII-3 ... 56 KEY/128 CHARACTER ASCII 
ENCODED . . . UPPER & LOWER CASE . . . FULLY DEBOUNCED . 
2 KEY ROLLOVER . . . POS OR NEG LOGIC WITH POS STROBE . 
REQUIRES + 5 & -12V DC (SUPPLIED FROM VIDEO BOARDS) 
PRINTER COMET I . . . SERIAL I/O TO 9600 BAUD ... 80 
CHARACTER COLUMN (132 COMPRESSED) . . . 10" TRACTOR FEED i 

UPPER/LOWER CASE . . . INDUSTRY STANDARD RIBBONS . . . 
4 CHARACTER SIZES ... 9 BY 7 DOT MATRIX . . . BI-DIRECTIONAL 
PRINTING 




Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

To Order From Connecticut Or For Tech. Assist. Call (203) 354-9375 

NETRONICS R&D LTD. o.pt. 

333 Litchfield Road, New Milford, CT 06776 

Please send the items checked below: 

□ COMPLETE FASTERM-64 TERMINAL (includes FASTVID-64 video board 
ASCII-3 keyboard, steel cabinet and power supply) ... kit $199.95 plus $3 P&I 
. . . wired & tested $249.95 plus $3 P&I . . . graphics option: add $19.95 to 
each of above 

D COMPLETE SMARTERM-80 TERMINAL (includes SMARTVID-80 video 

board, ASCII-3 keyboard, steel cabinet and power supply) ... kit $299.95 plus 

$3 P&I . . . wired and tested $369.95 plus $3 P&I 

D FASTVID-64 VIDEO BOARD (requires + 5 & -12V DC) . . . kit $99.95 plus $3 

P&I . . . graphics option add $19.95 . . . wired & tested $129.95 plus $3 P&I . . . 

graphics option add $19.95 

D SMARTVID-80 VIDEO BOARD (requires +5 & +/-12V DC) . . . kit $199.95 

plus $3 P&I . . . wired & tested $249.95 plus $3 P&I 

□ DELUXE STEEL TERMINAL CABINET . . . $19.95 plus $3 P&I 

□ ASCII-3 KEYBOARD (requires +5 & -12VDC) ... kit $69.95 plus $3 P&I . . . 
wired and tested $89.95 plus $3 P&I 

□ POWER SUPPLY (powers ASCII-3 keyboard & video boards) ... kit only 
$19.95 plus $2 P&I 

D ZENITH VIDEO MONITOR (high resolution green phosphor) . . . wired & 
tested $149.95 plus $6 P&I 

□ TELEPHONE MODEM MODEL 103 O/A . . . wired & tested $189.95 plus $3 
P&I 

□ DOT MATRIX PRINTER Comet I . . . wired & tested $299.95 plus $10 P&I 

□ RF MODULATOR MOD RF-1 ... kit only $8.95 plus $1 P&I 

□ 3FT-25 LEAD MODEM/TERMINAL OR PRINTER/TERMINAL CONNECTOR 
CABLE . . . $14.95 ea plus $2 P&I 

For Canadian orders, double the postage . Conn. res. add sales tax. 

Total Enclosed $ 

□ Personal Check □ Cashier's Check/Money Order 

□ VISA D MasterCard (Bank No ) 

Acct. No Exp. Date 

Signature . 

Print Name . 

Address 

City 



State 



Zip 



Listing 1 continued from page 249: 



032ES 

032E: 
832E : 

032FS AA 
8338 5 BD 4F 93 
0333s C9 08 
0335s F0 09 

@337 : 3D 98 C8 

833 A 5 28 43 03 

033D:ES 

033E: 10 F8 

0340 : 

0340: 

0340 ! 

0340: 4C 3F FF 

0343: 

8343 : 

0343: 

0343: 

0343 = 

0343 : 

0343: AD CI CI 

8346 : C9 FE 

0348: F0 F9 

034 A: 60 

834E: 

034B! 

034B: 

03 4B: 

03 413: 

834B5 08 06 4B 

834E ! 1 B 

034F : 

034F : 1 8 25 25 

0352:25 5A 00 

0355:02 01 21 



68 

61 
62 



* HOW OUTPUT CHARACTER DATA 



FLA 

TAX 

LDA DATA1: 

CMP #0 

BEQ EXIT 

ST A POUT 

INK 

BPL LOOPS 



GET OFFSET TO CHAR. 
PUT IN X AS INDEX 

GET NEXT CHAR,, DATA 

DELIMITER? 

IF DONE 

SEND TO PRINTER 

WAIT TILL PRINTER DONE 

IF NOT DONE 



64 

65 L00P3 

66 

67 

63 

69 

78 

71 

72 * 

73 * ALL. DONE SO EXIT UI A RESTORE ROUTINE 

74 * 

75 EXIT JMP RESTORE 

76 * 

7 7 * * * * * * :+: * :+: * * * * :+: :+: + * * + * + * * # + + * * * * + * * * * * * * + + * + * * * * +• + + * * * * * + + * 

78 + SUB ROUT I HE TO SENSE THAT PRINTER HAS 

79 + FINISHED PRINTING LAST CHARACTER. 

Q :+: * * + * * :+: * :+: * :+: * * :+: :+: + + * * * * # + * * + + * * * + * +• * + * + * * * ** * + * * * + * * * * * * + * * 

81 * 

82 SENSE LDA PSENSE : GET PRINTER STATUS 

83 CMP tt*FE : STILL BUSY ? 

84 BEQ SENSE : IF VES 

85 RTS : IF PRINTER READY 

86 * 

87 * 

88 *+**##++++***:^ 

89 * DATA GROUPS 
98 * 

91 DATAO DFB 0,6n*4B»*lB : C0NT.K»6 IN REM. ORDER 



92 * 

93 DATA1 

94 



96 



99 SUM 
1 08 * 



8358 » BE 20 OO 

835B:3F 24 24 

035E5 24 18 88 

8361: 18 24 24 

8364:24 3F 88 

0367s 39 05 85 

036A5 85 3E 80 

036D: 

036D: 88 

836E : 

836ESE7 EA FO 101 MATCH 

0371 :F1 F9 

8 3 7 3 s 

0373: 

0373: 

8373: 

0373: 

0373: A 9 54 

0375: 20 02 CI 

0378: A9 F9 

837A" 20 00 83 

837D5A9 8 A 

037'F:4C 02 CI 

0382 : 



DFB *18,$25,*25,*25, *5A,0 :G DATA 

DFB 2,1, *2 1 t *BE , *20 , a J DATA 

DFB *3F,*24,$24,*24,*18,0 5 p DATA 

DFB $ 1 8 , *24 , $24 , $24 , $3F , 8 : Q DATA 

DFB *39 ,5,5 , 5 , *3E , 8 s Y DATA 

DFB 8 ! SCRATCH DATA 

D F B $ E 7 , * E A , $ F 8 , $ F 1 , $ F 9 i S , J , P , Q , V 



1 82 
183 
184 
1 85 
106 



* END OF SOURCE 
ft************************* **************+*****•*+********+ 

* TEST ABOUE ROUT I HE 

+: :H< + + :+: :+ :.|.: :+: * :1.: :+: :+: :* :+: :.(■: :+: :+: * * :^ * :-K :+: :+: * :+: :+: Mc :■!■: * :+: * :+: :+: * :H( :« :+: :+: :+: * *:+::+::+: :* :* +: :+: :+: He :+: :+: :+: :+: :+: * 
107 TEST LDA ##54 5 » T " 

188 JSR PRINTER 

189 LDA #*F9 » LOWER CASE "Y" 

110 JSR ENTER 

111 LDA #*A : LINEFEED 

112 JMP PRINTER : EXIT 01 A PRINTER 
1 13 ««)|c**9Mc******>|c4c3f:»****Hc4e^***H<«>K*4c********«***^*4c*>|c4c«***** 



**+ SUCCESSFUL ASSEMBLY: NO ERRORS 



254 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 401 on inquiry card. 



Next to keeping all your data on 
Verbatim Datalife v flexible disks, 
the best thing you can do for 
your computer or word processor 
is to keep it running clean and 
error-free. 

And the way to do just that 
is with Verbatim's new Datalife 
Head Cleaning Kit. It can remove 
up to 90"o of the debris contami- 
nating your drive heads. Dust, dirt 
and debris that causes data loss 
and errors, hinders system 



performance. 

Quick and easy to use 

All you have to do is remove a 
Cleaning Disk from its protective 
pouch, put the disk in the spec- 
ial jacket, insert it into your drive 
and turn it on. 



Introducin 
you can 



In just 30-60 seconds, your 
drive heads are cleaned. 

Cleaning, 
with no cleaning mess 

With your Datalife Head Clean- 
ing Kit there's no hit-and-miss 
applying solvents that can splash 
and spill. 

What's more, with Datalife 
Cleaning Disks every time you 
clean your heads, you can do it 
with a fresh, clean] disposable 
disk. 

Cleans both Single and 
Dual Head Drives Safely 

There's no worry about damaging 
your system with Datalife Clean- 
ing Disks. And you can use them 
on single or dual head drives. 



Protect your investment 

The Datalife Head Cleaning Kit 
will help you guard against data 
loss, errors, and degradation of 
system performance because of 
debris contamination. 

So if you want your data 
back verbatim, keep it on Verbatim 

j;_i__ a i i j:_i_ _i • 



clean with Verbatims Datalife Head 
Cleaning Kit. 

Call (800) 538-1793 for 
the name of your nearest Verbatim 
dealer. (In California and outside 
the U.S. call (408) 737-7771 
collect.) 

\ferbatim 



"Verbatim.. 



^ifr 



■ 



■ 



"Vr I 



Head Cleaning K 



I 1981 Verbatim Co 

Datalife is a trademark of Verbatim Corp- 





/ jit?&&+&&&mw» 



System Notes 



Add a Full-Sized Keyboard 
to Sinclair's ZX80 



Wayne J. Cosshall 

Swinburne Institute of Technology 

POB 218 

Hawthorne 3122 

Swinburne, Australia 



The Sinclair ZX80 keyboard has several obvious 
limitations. After only a short period of use, the user will 
begin to realize that the keyboard is awkward and doesn't 
really allow any degree of speed. Another limitation is 
not so obvious: the lack of a true reset button. This may 
not be apparent when running BASIC programs, as the 
break key works well, but a reset button is necessary 
when running machine-code programs or subroutines. 
Thankfully, all of these limitations can be eliminated (see 
photo 1). 



Adding the Keyboard 

The ZX80 decodes its keyboard by software. To the 
processor, the keyboard appears as a block of I/O (in- 
put/output) ports. The upper 8 bits of the address bus, 
A8 through A15, are apparently used to strobe the 
keyboard sequentially, and the resulting values on the 
data bus are decoded. Figure 1 shows this interconnection 
as it appears from the back (solder side) of the ZX80 
printed-circuit board. If software makes address line A9 
high while the A key is pressed, Dl will be high, but DO 




Photo 1: The ZX80 in operation with its new keyboard. 

256 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



AH-H A ! 





EUREKA! 



ALL-RIIIGHT! 




Introducing 
"Popular 
Computing," 
the key to 
understanding. 

Now you don't have to be 
a computer professional to 
unlock all the mysteries, 
potential, and pleasures of 
home and small business 
computers. Popular Com- 
puting, the new monthly 
magazine from McGraw- 
Hill, is the key. 

Created in response to 
growing demand for our 
informative quarterly 
onComputing, Popular Com- 
puting explores every 
aspect of personal com- 
puters and their use. All 
reported in easy-to- 
understand nontechnical 
language. 

POPULAR. 



POPULAI 

COMPUTING 

Choosing 
YourPopi 
Comp 

Wll.lt t(l\ 

Where ft 

III IV ll 




Computet 

YtHII 'tllhlli 

Business 

Asimov 
Reviews Asimov 

Hume Computer 

Gr7(HC'i 



■■■■■■■■■■■■ 

The answer to 

' * Computer phobia. ' ' 

Even the most computer- 
unsophisticated reader will 
find Popular Computing 
interesting and 
stimulating. Every issue 
will contain straight- 
talking product reviews, 



special news briefs, and 
feature articles by famous 
guest contributors (like 
Isaac Asimov). There'll 
even be a helpful glossary 
of computer jargon we 
couldn't avoid using, and 
much, much more. 

Special 

Introductory 

Offer. 

Send in this coupon to- 
day, and take advantage of 
Popular Computing's Special 
Introductory Offer. 






M 



j® 









*%** 



^ov 



#< 






COMPUTING 

THE KEY TO UNDERSTANDING 

P.O. Box 397, Hancock, NH 03449 





4t^ 



System Notes. 



A15 A14 A13 A12 All A10 




/ DjI)^ J 0j0^^Aj/^)fi} i 







■V-V. 





7YHHT 




Figure 1: 77ie coj-mecfiorc o/ keys on ffie Sinclair ZX80 keyboard. The black lines represent actual traces on the "solder side" of the 
printed-circuit board. The red lines are connections made on the other side of the board. The ribbon-cable connection to the new 
keyboard is made to the points labeled A8 through A15 and DO through D4. When wiring the new keyboard, all connections should 
follow this diagram. 



(2a) 



iHesflBBOSsaooao 
eeflBfiflBOiiiiaa fluaa 

OSBiSBB BM f§ JB 



(3a) 




> 


_\ 


„ ; <n >) , 8 » «> 

iii V a V m » 
/" ; ,i k * : 'Hi c 

HP K X - »'«•»« 


s * * -■ 

r 'fi c M * ' \ 


Kill „ * * t 


».. niii J 




■•ff^ 




Photo 2: TTie standard-sized keyboard shown in photo 2a is 
made of a metal plate into which the keyswitches are pressed. 
Photo 2b shows the solder lugs to which connections will be 
made. 

258 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Photos 3a and 3b: Wiring the new keyboard. Photo 3a shows 
the first set of installed jumpers. The wire is standard 30 AWG 
wrapping type, wrapped once around each post before solder- 
ing. Photo 3b shows the completed jumper system. 



and D2 through D4 remain low. 

Photo 2a shows the keyboard I used, consisting of a 
metal base with holes into which the keyswitches are 
pushed. Two solder lugs on the back of each keyswitch 
make the connections (see photo 2b). Many of the sym- 
bols that are unshifted on a normal keyboard are ob- 
tained by using the shift key on the ZX80; consequently a 
number of keys on the new keyboard will not be used. 

The first step is to wire the keys together (use figure 1 
as a guide). Keys do not have to be arranged as they are 
on the ZX80, as long as the connections remain the same, 
and two or more keys may be used for the same function 
by wiring them in parallel (i.e., wire one as shown, then 
wire the two posts of the second key to the corresponding 
posts on this first key — I did this with the shift key to use 
the second shift key on the keyboard). Photo 3 shows 
how to wire the keys together. I used striped Kynar (wire- 
wrap) wire to make the connections and insulating tape 
to shield the wires where necessary. A connector may be 
added to the free end of the ribbon cable. 

The second step involves the connection at the ZX80 
end. The ribbon cable should be carefully soldered to the 
points shown in photos 4a through 4c, then extra solder 
added to obtain a good connection. Avoid applying too 



much heat as it can damage the board or solder pads. 
Again, a connector can be added to the ribbon cable. 

Once the final connection is made, you're ready to test 
the keyboard. If you have problems, recheck your wiring 
on the new keyboard for a short circuit or broken con- 
nection. I had no such problems — the keyboard worked 
perfectly from the start. One potential problem, key 
bounce, never arose. Apparently the touch-sensitive keys 
on the ZX80 aren't as prone to this phenomenon as other 
keyboards. A constant worry was that the technique the 
ZX80 used to handle key bounce would not allow suffi- 
cient time for the key bounce on the new keyboard to set- 
tle down. In practice, however, this was not a problem. 

Adding the Reset Key 

To reset, simply connect the reset pin of the Z80A pro- 
cessor, pin 26, to ground. There are two ways of doing 
this. The first uses the expansion bus. Pin 21A on the 
component side is the reset line, and pins 4B and 5B on 
the solder side are ground. All that is required is to con- 
nect a momentary contact switch between these two pins. 

The second technique involves making these connec- 
tions closer to the processor. I chose this approach 
because connections had already been made on the 




(2a) 



PROCESSOR 

OF 

ZX80 



PIN 26 



+ 5V 



R21 

220K 



RESET 



CIO 



m 




Photos 3c and 3d: Extra insulation is added in photo 3c, and 
photo 3d shows the installed ribbon cable. 



(2b) 



CIO 



MAKE 

CONNECTIONS 

HERE 




PROCESSOR 
OF 
< ZX80 

i PIN 26 



Figure 2: Diagram of the reset system used in the ZX80. Figure 
2a is a schematic representation of the reset circuitry. Figure 2b 
is a sketch of the solder side of the circuit board where the 
connection to the reset key is made. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 259 



Circle 413 on inquiry card. 









Volume I 
Getting Started 



STARTING YOUR OWN 
MICROCOMPUTER BUSINESS 

Starting your own microcomputer business is easy if you 
know the right steps to take. Two volumes of the new book 
Your Fortune In The Microcomputer Business describe the 
things you should know to start right and to build your 
business successfully. 

Many people have good ideas for a successful microcomputer 
business. But they don't know how to put their ideas into 
action. These people are plenty smart. That's not the problem. 
The problem is in knowing simple things: How to analyze the 
market. How to select the right product or service. How to get 
enough startup money. How to plan your growth and success. 
The answers to these problems are not hard to understand. All 
you need is the right information. Your Fortune In The 
Microcomputer Business gives you the knowledge tools to 
start right, grow and prosper. 

This practical reference manual has no hocus-pocus. It does 
not tell you how to do astrology or dating services. It does give 
you clear, complete, step-by-step instructions on how to get 
started right and insure your success! 

Volume I Includes: 

■ The hottest trends in the market 

■ The seven best test markets 

■ How to read between the lines at a trade show 

■ 107 ways to reach your market 

■ Examples of the best ads in the business 

■ How to get free advertising 

■ The 21 steps to set up your business 

■ How to start a manufacturing business 

■ How to write a newsletter 

■ How to give a seminar 

■ How to start a service business • Mm *** 

■ How to package software for the mass market 

■ How to be a highly paid consultant 

■ Franchising— the good, the bad and the ugly 

■ Interviews with six successful microcomputer businesses 

■ How to use the RLC factor to be street smart, lean, mean and successful 

Volume II Includes: 

■ Strategies for growth 

■ Straight facts on incorporation 

■ How to build your organization 

■ How to manage cash flow 

■ How to develop your accounting system 

■ How to manage employees, wages and salaries 

■ How to survive a cash crunch 

■ What to do if things get really bad 

■ How to maximize your profits 

■ How to grow by acquisition 

■ How to value your business 

■ How and when to sell your business 

WRITE OR CALL-DONT WAIT! 

Wildfire Publishing, 326 DC Toro Canyon 
Carpinteria, CA 93013 Ph. (805) 684-1489 

Please send the following book(s) by return mail. I 
understand if I want to return them for any reason within 90 
days of receipt, I can do so and get a prompt full refund. 
D Your Fortune In The Microcomputer Business 

Vol. I, Getting Started, $20.00. 
D Your Fortune In The Microcomputer Business 

Vol. II, Growth, Survival and Success, $20.00. 
Please add $1.50 per book for shipping, Calif, residents please add 
$1.20 each sales tax. 

Name 

Street 

City State Zip 



iipM'ira-- 



Volume II 
Growth, Survival 
and Success 

fcy ViCTOR WILD 



Enclosed is . 

Card # 

Ex. Dt 

Signature _ 



_ or charge my MasterCharge D or Visa D 



MCInterbank # 



.• 1982 Wildfire Pub. 



System Notes. 




(4b) 



< — — 1— _ 


1 -^^'^-^r'^'i^^^<,_Z±^WMU 






jp^g^ypflpgg 


: '[ ^:y^S/ 


1 




WEsiMS&tsZaa&fflmftti-S^ 


. . ' - 


a -'7 s< -<lv/'' /,-' _) 2r-— rr~\ 

warn/ — .■-■-« . 4 


' ,,. . 


HKJj^KXfl 


1 



Photos 4a and 4b: Ribbon-cable connections to the ZX80. Photo 
4a shows the solder pads to which the data-bus connections 
should be made (labeled through 4). Photo 4b is the completed 
ribbon-cable connection. 

underside of the board for the keyboard, so two more 
didn't matter. 

Pull-up resistor R21 and capacitor C10 on the ZX80 are 
connected to the reset pin of the processor (see figure 2a). 
Thus, the reset switch can be connected between pin 26 of 
the processor and the grounded side of the capacitor (see 
figure 2b). I ran two lines with the ribbon cable to the 
keyboard I had added and connected two spare keys in 
series such that both have to be pressed together for a 
reset. This minimizes the chance of an accidental reset. 

These simple modifications greatly increased the ac- 
curacy, speed, and ease of use of the Sinclair ZX80, and 
neither process is beyond the ability of anyone who has 
used a soldering iron on printed-circuit boards. ■ 



260 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 












C5 



'A 14 A13 






L ^*"* 5?- ; ^ly 



- / 






, , :/? * 



>i \*i * 



\ , 1 



A10 A9 A8 



60 do 69 69 60 60 



Photo 4c: The pads to which the address lines should be connected. 



.... 



§f to do do do do do 




INDUSTRIES, INC. 



In Texas Orders 

Questions & Answers 

1-713-392-0747 



21969 Katy Freeway 
Katy (Houston) Texas 77450 



To Order 
1-800-231-3680 
800-231-3681 



SAVE BIG DOLLARS ON ALL TRS-80 HARDWARE & SOFTWARE 

TRS-80 BY RADIO SHACK. Brand new in cartons delivered. Save state sales tax. Texas residents add only 
5% sales tax. Open Mon.-Fri. 9-6, Sat. 9-5. We pay freight and insurance. Come by and see us. Call us for a 
reference in or near your city. Ref: Farmers State Bank, Brookshire, Texas. 



WE OFFER ON 
REQUEST 

Federal Express (Overnight Delivery) 

Houston Intercontinental 

Airport Delivery (Same Day) 

U.P.S. BLUE (Every Day) 

References from people who have 

bought computers from us probably 
in your city 




In stock TRS-80 Model 
II and III 

No Tax on Out of Texas Shipments! 



' TRS-80 is a Registered Trademark of Tandy Corp 

ED McMANUS 



39 



10% 15% 

OR MORE 
We Specialize In Overseas Shipments 

Telex 77-4132 (Fleks Hou) 



WE ALWAYS 
OFFER 

NO extra charge for Master Card 
or Visa. 

We use Direct Freight Lines. No 
long waits. 

We always pay the freight and 
insurance 

Toll free order number 

Our capability to go to the giant 
TRS-80 Computer warehouse 5 
hours away, in Ft. Worth, Texas, 
to keep you in stock. 

JOE McMANUS 



Circle 227 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 261 



Software Review 






Text Editing with 

Compuview's 

VEDIT 



H. Bradford Thompson 

Department of Chemistry 

University of Toledo 

Toledo, OH 43606 



VEDIT is a fast, friendly, adapt- 
able, full-screen editor for use with 
CP/M and compatible operating sys- 
tems. It is the first software product 
from Compuview, based in Ann Ar- 
bor, Michigan. If you're writing pro- 
grams on the editor that came with 
CP/M, and particularly if you've 
never used a full-screen editor, then 
what follows will probably be of in- 
terest to you. With VEDIT, you 
always have a full screen of text in 
front of you. To add or change, you 
just type. If this review gives you an 
appetite for simplicity while editing, 
then VEDIT, at $130, is well worth 
considering. 

If you already own a word pro- 
cessor or a full-screen editor, you 
might still be interested in VEDIT. It's 
very adaptable to your video-display 
terminal, to your preferences in 
assigning special keys, and to the task 
at hand. I keep three versions: one for 
general text writing, one for BASIC 
programming, and one for assembler 
programming. (More about this 
under Customization.) VEDIT per- 
forms best as a programmer's editor. 
You can write notes, letters, and even 
manuscripts on it, but VEDIT is not a 
word processor. 



What It's Like to Use VEDIT 

VEDIT has two operating modes: a 
command mode (which works like a 
conventional command editor) and a 
visual mode. In visual mode, the 
screen is filled with a portion of the 
text. Most work is done in visual 
mode, so I'll describe that first. 

The portion of text on the screen is 
called the window. I began the final 
version of this article by giving CP/M 
the command: 



VEDIT BYTVEDIT.REV 



If the file BYTVEDIT.REV had not 
existed, the message NEW FILE 
would have appeared briefly, after 
which the screen would have been 
cleared, with the cursor at upper left 
ready for entry of text. Until you 
have a change or correction to make, 
you just type in your text. In this 
case, the file already existed, so the 
window filled with the first lines of 
the file, with the cursor at upper left. 
You can move the cursor over the 
window at will, adding, changing, or 
inserting text. If the cursor rests on 



existing text, what you type normally 
overwrites the old text. With one key, 
however, you can switch to an insert 



At a Glance 

Name 

VEDIT 

Type 

Full-screen text editor 

Manufacturer 

Compuview Products Inc. 
618 Louise 
Ann Arbor. Ml 48103 
(313) 996-1299 

Price 

S 1 30; order directly from Compuview 

Format 

5 'A - or 8-inch floppy disk 

System needed 

An 8080- or Z80-based computer with a 
video-display console and CP/M or CDOS 
operating system 

Documentation 

65 pages punched for 3-ring binder; ap- 
proximately 1 5 pages of assembly-lan- 
guage listing also provided in two disk files 

Audience 

Programmers and anyone else who writes 
text on a video-display device 



262 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




THE WORD FROM SYBEX 



Introduction to WordStar m 

by Arthur Naiman 

Learn the wonders of WordStar. 
A guide through the many impor- 
tant features of this powerful 
CP/M-based word processing 
system — from simple cursor 
movements, editing, boldfacing, 
and right-justifying, to sophis- 
ticated commands like global 
editing and electronic "cut and 
paste." This book is for anyone 
who has WordStar, is considering 
buying it, or simply wants to 
know what a high-powered word 
processing program can do. 
Includes special sections on 
the Apple and TRS-80 versions of 
WordStar. 

200 pp., 30 iliustr., Ref. WHO 
ISBN: 0-89588-077-6, $8.95 




Introduction f 
Word Processing 

by Hal Glatzer 

The latest word on word pro- 
cessors. Learn how a word 
processor can save you time 
and improve accuracy. Discover 
how word processing improves 
productivity in homes and offices 
Find out what to look for when 
you buy one. An important 
introduction to an essential new 
technology. 

232pp.,70illustr., Ref.WlOl 
ISBN: 0-89588-076-8, $12.95 

Circle 368 on Inquiry card. 



WordStar is a trademark of 
Micro Pro Int'l Corp. 



PLEASE SEND ME □INTRODUCTION TO WORD PROCESSING 



□ INTRODUCTION TO WORDSTAR 



TSYBE 



MAIL TO: 

SYBEX DEPT. 2B 



NAME . 

ADDRESS- 
CITY 



OSEND ME YOUR FREE CATALOG 



CVBEW 2344 SIXTH STREET 
9YME#% BERKELEY, CA 94710 
^k jm PHONE ORDERS: 

'<±--:-+ INSIDE CA 415-648-8233 
TOLL FREE OUTSIDE CA 800-227-2346 SIGNATURE 



.STATE . 



ZIP. 



ADD n$1.50/book UPS or n75C/book 4th class mall or D SB/book overseas alrmail(CA add tax) 

Total Amt. Enclosed __£__ OR CHARGE MY D VISA D MC D AM EX. 

CARD NO EXP. DATE . 



IN A WORLD 
FULL OF MEDIA HYPE, 
HOW DID DYSAN 
COME SO FAR 
SO QUIETLY? 



Or so Cist/ We r 



.1 $100 



)IIIS ( Oil II), 



nine years i>y produ< ing just .my 
magnetic media. We did ii by making 



S( ( .llllldril 



in diskettes And in mini diskettes. 

M.iny majOl ( )l Ms li.tve lecnqni/ed 



Today, there are sales offices and 

distributors in the United St. lies . 



iiiioiKjtiont the world, selling and 
servk Ing I >ys<in pier ision magneiu 
media to ( >' Ms, end users and 
retail outlets II out media w.is just 

1 1 (< * • everyone else's, we nevei would 

h.ive come this frir this fast, 



Dys.in sales 



ouiiei nearest you, contact I >ysa 
I-10H) 988 J472 roll Free: (800) 
538 81 13 lelex 171551 DYSAN 
SNIA IWX 910 -UH /Ml 



Dysan Corporation, U.S. Sales Offices: 

St. Louis, MO, |314) i it -loi i / Sunnyvale, c A, (408) /m 2145/ Sherman Qaks,CA, |2I3) 

907-1803 / McLean, VA, |/0 i) V,(> 64-11 / Irvine. <■ A, |/I1) 851-9462 / New York, NY, |2I2| 
687-7122 / Schaumburg, IL, |312| HH2-RI/6 / I all Oaks, CA, |9I6) 966-8037 / Glenrlor.i, N I, 
|609| 939-4/62 / Bellevue, wa, |206) 455-4725 / Atlanta. QA, (404| 952-0919/ Arlington, TX, 
(at 7) 261-!")312 / Burlington, MA. (617) 273-5955 / Rocky River, OH, |2I6) 3.33-3725 (In 
Cleveland) |4t2) 261-0406 fin Pittsburgh) / Livonia, mi, (813) 525-8240, 

Dysan Magnetic Media is also available Worldwide: 

Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, c.\n.\ti.\, Chile, Colombia, China, Denmark, Ecuador, 
Finland, France, French Polynesia, Greece. Guatemala, I long Kong, Iceland, India, Israel, Italy, 
Ireland, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Martinique, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, 
Philippines; Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia. Singapore, South Africa. Spain. Sweden. Switzerland, 
Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom. Uruguay Venezuela, Western Germany 



Dysan Flexible Diskettes are also available from all Computerland Stores, Sears Business 
System Centers, and many independent computer outlets nationwide. 



O Dysan 

mSC()N I 'ORATION 



Our Media Is Our Message 

5201 Patrick Henry Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 



Circle 142 on Inquiry card. 



mode, where the new text is inserted 
and everything to the right is shifted 
to make room. 

Old text can be deleted by typing 
spaces over it (which leaves blanks), 
by backspacing (which moves the 
cursor left, deletes that character, and 
closes up the line), or by hitting 
Delete (which does the same without 
moving the cursor). In addition to the 
usual moves up, down, left, and 
right, VEDIT's cursor commands in- 
clude single-key moves to the start or 
end of the current line, to the begin- 
ning of the next line, or to the next 
tab stop. 

Once you've mastered on-screen 
maneuvers, how do you move the 
window? VEDIT has one-key instruc- 
tions that page up or down a little less 
than one screen-height; others move 
the window and cursor to the begin- 
ning or end of the text. If you want to 
move up or down just a few lines, 
move the cursor up until it reaches 
the third line (or fourth or fifth, the 
value is set during customization). 
From that point on, additional Up 
Cursor keystrokes move the text 



down through the window (unless, of 
course, you're already at the begin- 
ning). Moving the cursor close to the 
bottom also scrolls the text up 
through the window. 

An editor should be able to per- 
form functions in addition to these 
on-screen manipulations. VEDIT 
handles these via an adequate com- 
mand mode, which is designed to 
work nicely in tandem with the visual 
mode. For example, to replace every 
occurrence of the word OLD with the 
word NEW, the command string is: 

#<S OLDS NEW $> $$ 

The § means "do the contents of < > 
as often as necessary." S is the sub- 
stitute command, and $ is echoed 
when the escape key is used. By add- 
ing a V command, 

#<S OLDS NEW $V>$$ 

VEDIT enters the visual mode after 
each substitution, with the cursor 
marking the point where the change 
was made. If the substitution is sat- 



TO START OF 
BUFFER 


PAGE 
UP 




Switch 
insert mode 


Cursor up 


Undent 


TO START OF 
THIS LINE 


NEXT TAB 


TO END OF 
THIS LINE 


Cursor left 




Cursor right 


TO START OF 
NEXT LINE 


PAGE 
DOWN 


TO END OF 
BUFFER 


Indent 


Cursor down 




COPY TO 
TEXT REGISTER 


MOVE TO 
TEXT REGISTER 


INSERT 
TEXT REGISTER 



Figure 1: Suggested keypad layout for Heath H-19 terminal. Shading (shifted keys) in- 
dicates large cursor movement and accompanying window movement as required. 
The H-19 should be set to Heath mode, the keypad shifted using internal switches and 
also set to Alternate keypad mode by including the sequence ESC = in the terminal 
initiation routine in the BIOS section of CP/M. 



isfactory, you press one key to return 
to command mode. Since the V com- 
mand is inside the < > , you're im- 
mediately back in visual mode, with 
the cursor marking the next substitu- 
tion. Of course, you may discover 
that you set up the substitute com- 
mand incorrectly. VEDIT's author 
has provided another escape from 
visual to command mode, which 
jumps out of the < > . 

Command mode has an adequate 
set of editing commands, considering 
you'll spend most of your time in 
visual mode. It also provides file-han- 
dling commands and a means for 
changing disks and escaping from 
write-error and full-disk situations. I 
made up a full disk for testing and 
VEDIT did indeed let me off the hook 
in two ways: by deleting a file to 
make space or by changing disks. 

Customizing VEDIT 

For those of us tinkering with new 
systems, VEDIT's strongest point 
may be its adaptability. The process 
is versatile, simple, and well docu- 
mented. 

VEDIT comes in versions for 8080 
or Z80 processors and for serial inter- 
face or memory-mapped video dis- 
plays. I've tested only the Z80, video- 
display version. You set up VEDIT by 
running a customization program 
called VEDSET, which leads you 
stepwise through the required 
choices. VEDSET first presents a list 
of nineteen popular terminals, in- 
cluding the Lear-Siegler ADM-3A, 
Heath H-19/Z-19, DEC VT52, Hazel- 
tine, and Televideo, from which you 
identify your own. This lets VEDSET 
install the display-control escape se- 
quences unique to your terminal, 
unleashing the speed made possible 
by those expensive features. If your 
terminal isn't included or if you've 
built your own, VEDSET provides 
special instructions and even an 
assembly listing of the terminal- 
dependent routines and tables. 

I've done most of my testing of 
VEDIT on a North Star Horizon with 
51K bytes of memory, two disk 
drives, and a Zenith Z-19 (alias Heath 
H-19) terminal. I've also used a Cam- 
bridge Development Labs Graphics 
Display plus a homebrew character 



266 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Lie 





Our plug-in I/O boards can do it. 

You already know you've got one of the 
finest microcomputers available. IBIvfmade it. 
Now Quadram Corporation sets the standards 
for hardware that helps you realize the full 
capabilities of your Personal Computer. . .for 
the very lowest price. 

Expanded memory. Until now, if you 
wanted a floppy disk, an RS-232C board, and 
192K bytes of memory— all five slots were 

Addinore ? ua ^ m , ^ c t n ° w 

*■ - have 192K on just one 

r\\7fp trWOl IT card ' freeing up the other 
XT LV/ Y VJKA - L four slots for additional 

IBM Personal KS 

•-* « your computer to grow 

( OYYITTI T PY* w ' tn y° u (each board is user- 

\~KJL L lJ/UlVU expandab | e tQ 192K) . 

64K RAM card (no-parity) -$359; 64K RAM 
card -$395; 128K RAM card -$595; 192K 
RAM card -$795. 

And more. Quadram offers additional 
boards for your IBM Personal Computer, 
including: Serial RS-232C asynchronous 
adapter (expandable to two ports); expansion 
ROM card; clock/calendar; 8K non-volatile 
RAM (expandable to 16K); parallel printer 
interface. Several other boards will be avail- 
able soon, all with the same high-quality per- 
formance you'd expect from any Quadram 
product, and all for a similarly low price. 

Available right now Expanded memory 
. . .additional capabilities. . .and unbeatable 
prices. Quadram's ready nowfo help your 



IBM bite off more. 



Circle 325 on inquiry card. 



For further information and the name of your nearest dealer, call (404) 923-6666 
Orfill in thiscoupon and mail to: Quadram Corporation, 4357 Park Drive, Norcross, 
Georgia 30093. 



Company 



Title 



Address 



City 



State 



Zip 



See us at booth 1242-44 at the Computer Faire. 



generator and terminal emulator, 
which provided a pretty rigorous test 
of those special instructions. VEDIT 
makes good use of smart terminal fea- 
tures when they're available. How- 
ever, unforeseen questions may arise. 
For example, H-19 users should be 
aware that VEDSET assumes your 
H-19 is in "Heath Mode." If you've 
set the internal switch to "ANSI 
Mode," you'll want to set it back. It 
didn't take me long to work this out, 
but Compuview's literature, in- 
cluding the special sheet on the 
H-19, failed to mention it. Other ter- 
minals may have similar problems. 



The Compuview people urge you to 
contact them if you have trouble, and 
my experience indicates that they 
mean it. A phone call (on a different 
question) yielded technical assistance 
right away, and when things became 
complicated, I was connected with 
VEDIT's author, Ted Green. 

The next step in customization is 
assignment of keys for cursor and 
window movements and for a dozen 
other special operations in visual 
mode. If your terminal has special 
function keys, you can assign them. 
You can also use any control charac- 
ter (except CTRL-M) or ESC followed 



• • * FEATURING 8 and 16 BIT S-100 SYSTEMS* • • 



WE OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF CRTs, PRINTERS, GRAPHICS EQUIPMENT, SOFT- 
WARE FOR ALL SYSTEMS. EACH SYSTEM IS COMPLETELY TESTED, 
INTEGRATED AND READY FOR PLUG-IN OPERATION WHEN YOU RECEIVE IT. 
WE TAILOR & CONFIGURE SYSTEMS TO MEET YOUR BUDGET AND NEEDS. WE 
WELCOME YOUR REQUEST FOR TECHNICAL INFO BY PHONE OR LETTER. 



NEW SYSTEMS FROM IMS 2 yr warantee on boards! Integrated system with 
built-in monitor, detached keyboard, 5Vi" drives. Systems w/8" drives, optional 10,20 
or 40 MB Winchesters, built-in tape back up, multi-user capability (TURBODOS or 
MP/M). Z-80, S-100 bus. Over ISO configurations to match your specific needs. On site 
service contracts for NY tri-state area. 



SEATTLE COMPUTER 8086 SYSTEMS Featuring 86-DOS, the IBM PC 

Operating System. 

System I: 8 MHZ CPU set w/1 serial, 1 parallel I/O (additional I/O options) 64KB 16 bit 
Static RAM, Tarbell DD controller, TEI 22 slot mainframe w/constant voltage trans- 
former $2,695. System II: with 128K Static RAM $3,550. 

Interfaced to dual Shugarts 801 $1,275. or dual QUME DT-8 $1,680. 



CROMEMCO: Sale! 25% off systems/software; 15% off boards/components. 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 2210A High quality, low price. Z80 

CPU, 1 serial port, disk controller w/CP/M 2.2 64K RAM $1,750. 

Add our Max Box w/dual Shugarts or Qumes and IMS I/O w/2 serial, 1 parallel. 



LOMAS DATA 8088 SYSTEMS same CPU & Operating System as IBM PC. 
Complete LOMAS card set in TEI 12 slot mainframe, 86-DOS, dual Shugarts, 
Televideo 912, assembled and tested $4,424. 

LOMAS controller will also interface to 5Vt" drives, mix of 5Vi & 8 possible. 



TECMAR 8086 and Z80 Video Digitization systems 5% off list. 

IBM PC boards and accessories produced by TECMAR also discounted. 



GRAPHIC SYSTEMS: Advertising'Architects'Designers'Complete package includ- 
ing powerful interactive graphics software plus MicroAngelo Graphics Subsystem w/20 
MHZ high resolution green phosphor screen; M9900 16 bit, IEEE S-100 computer 
w/dual 8" floppies, 64K RAM, Multi user capability, Houston Instruments HIPAD 
Digitizer, Mauro Plotter. . . .$10,200. 10MB Hard Disk Subsystem option $3,400. 



GODBOUT: Complete product line now available. 



MAX BOX DISK DRIVE SUBSYSTEM mfg by John D. Owens Assoc. Dual drive 
cabinet w/regulated power supply, fan, complete internal cabling. Will hold Shugarts, 
Qumes, Tandons and/or 8" Winchester, horizontally mounted. Excellent design and 
engineering. 17Vi X 5Vz X 22. Attractive buff color. 

W/2 Shugart 801 $1,275. W/2 QUME DT-8 dble sided drives $1,680. 



PER SCI - The King and Queen of Drives. 

Model 299B $2,300. Model 277 $1,245. Slim line cabinet $325. 



TURBODOS: SPECTACULAR CP/M COMPATIBLE MULTI-USER OPERATING 
SYSTEM. Z80Code, interrupt driven. Up to 6X faster than CP/M; up to 35% increased 
disk capacity. Now available for IMS, TRS-80 Model II, CCS & Tarbell controller. 



Prices subject to change without notice 



JOHN D. OWENS Associates, Inc. 

12 Schubert Street, Staten Island, New York 10305 
212 448-6283 212 448-2913 212 448-6298 



by any letter. The assignment process 
is simple: VEDSET names the func- 
tion, and you strike the key(s) you 
want to use. VEDSET will reject un- 
suitable choices. A sample layout for 
a keyboard without special keys is 
provided. My package included a 
suggested layout for the H-19, but I 
devised one I like better; its third revi- 
sion is shown in figure 1. The instruc- 
tions encourage you to try one of the 
sample setups and then revise it to 
suit yourself. 

In the final segment of customiza- 
tion, you enter your screen size in 
characters, the number of lines up 
and down that you want the window 
to move when paging, and similar pa- 
rameters. You can also set up two fea- 
tures of special convenience to pro- 
grammers. First, there's a selective 
lowercase-to-uppercase conversion 
that operates on each line of text until 
some particular character is encoun- 
tered. This lets you leave the caps 
lock off when entering programs, 
type your code in all caps, and type 
your comments in lowercase. VEDIT 
switches modes when it crosses the ; 
(semicolon) in 8080/Z80 code, the ' 
(apostrophe) in Microsoft BASIC, or 
the ! (exclamation point) in DEC 
BASIC Plus. This feature can be set 
up during customization and then 
altered during use from command 
level. 

Second, there's Indent/Undent. 
You define a special key for Indent 
and another for Undent during setup 
and also specify an indent increment 
(say, 5 spaces). Each time you press 
the Indent key, it changes the position 
the cursor goes to when you press 
Return. One Indent and you return to 
position 6 instead of position 1; press 
Indent again and you now return to 
space 11, and so on. Each tap of the 
Undent key undoes one Indent. Even 
if the language you're writing doesn't 
require specific indents, this makes it 
easy to improve the readability of 
your code. 

Other Special Features 

A feature highly touted in VEDIT 
publicity is the Undo key. Whatever 
you've done on the line you're 
editing, one stroke on Undo and the 
whole line is restored — you're back 



268 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



where you started. That seems like a 
good thing, but I don't use it much. 

VEDIT also has a text register for 
moving or copying a block of text. 
Place the cursor at the beginning of 
the block, hit the Move key, move 
the cursor to the end of the block, and 
hit Move again. The block, now 
placed in the text register, disappears 
from the screen. You then move the 
cursor to wherever you want the text 
and hit the Insert key. Copy works 
the same way but doesn't delete the 
copied text from its original location. 
The Move key can also be used to 
delete a block of text. 

One of VEDIT's best features is its 
speed in visual mode. VEDIT rarely 
rewrites the screen when it isn't neces- 
sary, and even when it does, the time 
required is not excessive. On the Z-19 
at 9600 bps (bits per second), most 
operations seem instantaneous. Com- 
mand mode, however, is another 
matter. A loop I set up to remove the 
first six characters from each line of a 
200-line file took about 30 seconds. 

VEDIT and Large Files 

On my 5lK-byte system, VEDIT's 
text buffer holds 35,786 bytes. (For 
comparison, Microsoft's EDIT80 
holds 32,974, and Digital Research's 
ED holds 28,589.) That's almost 900 
40-character lines. I rarely write 
single program modules that long, so 
I have limited experience with 
VEDIT's disk buffering for large files. 
On a 32K byte system, the buffer 
would hold about 17K bytes or over 
400 lines. 

Like most simple editors, VEDIT 
processes long texts by reading lines 
from an input file into the text buffer, 
where editing can take place, then 
writing into an output file. Progress is 
one-way. You can move the window 
at will over the text in the buffer, but 
once lines have been written to the 
output file, the entire text must pass 
through before the beginning can be 
reread. 

VEDIT has command mode in- 
structions to open and close files, to 
read and write lines, and to switch 
logged-in disks. There's even a single 
command to process the entire text 
and restart at the top of the file. 
However, these instructions aren't 



needed in the simplest cases. VEDIT 
does auto-buffering while in visual 
mode: if you page past the end of the 
buffer contents, the first lines are 
written to output and new lines are 
read from the input file. Normally, 
the buffer is no more than 80 percent 
full, leaving lots of room for inser- 
tions. VEDIT also writes to the out- 
put file if you fill the buffer by inser- 
tions. 

My experience with other editors 
proved that supposedly legal opera- 
tions could hopelessly scramble files 
on my disks. I've tried all the com- 
binations that usually cause trouble, 



but VEDIT seems to handle them 
flawlessly. 

What VEDIT Doesn't Do 

I haven't found any serious bugs in 
VEDIT. A minor problem arises 
when you use the terminal's Repeat 
button to move the cursor around 
quickly or to delete a long string of 
characters. This works until VEDIT is 
required to do more than a simple op- 
eration. For instance, a repeated Up 
Cursor works until the cursor reaches 
the line where VEDIT must scroll 
down and write a new top line for 
each incoming Up Cursor. If Up Cur- 



* • •WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE CATALOGUE* * * 



EPSON MX 80 $475. 

MX80F/T $630. 

MX 100 $725. 

Graftrax option $ 95. 

Rs232 interface $ 70. 

2K Buffer $140. 



3M SCOTCH® Diskettes In storage box 
5 box minimum, price per box. 

740,8" ss/sd $29.00 

741,8" ss/dd $35.50 

743,8" dd/dd $45.50 

744-0, 5V4 " soft sectored or 744-10, hard 

sectored, single sided $28.50 

Head cleaning kit $28.00 



TEI MAINFRAMES, S-100 

MCS 112 . . .$ 620. MCS122. . .$ 745. 

RM 12 $ 655. RM 22 $ 790. 

OEM & Qty. discounts offered 



HOUSTON INSTRUMENTS 
PLOTTERS Standard & Intelligent models 

w/surface areas of 8'/2"Xll" to 11" X 

17". Front panel electronic controls. 

DMP-2 . . .$ 935. DMP-3 . . $1,195. 

DMP-4 . . $1,295. DMP-5 . . $1,455. 

DMP-6 ...$1,685. DMP-7 ...$1,865. 



TARBELL 

Double density controller $435. 

Z80 CPU 395. 



CORVUS: Hard disk & Constellation 
networks for S-100 systems, TRS 80 
Mod III, Apple II, Zenith, Xerox 820, 
Vector, Superbrain, Northstar, NEC, 
DEC LSI-11, Altos, Alpha Micro 
Discount prices. 



PMMI S-100 Modem $385. 

Compatible w/ telex & Twx. 51 to 600 
baud. On board pulse dialer. 



HAZELTINE 1500 $ 885. 

1510 $ 980. 

1520 $1,210. 

ESPRIT $ 695. 



TELETYPE 

Model 4320 AAK $1,140. 

Model 43ASR, 8 level, 1* tape. . .$2,595. 



MICROANGELO Price Lowered 

SUBSYSTEM W/LIGHT PEN $2,300. 

Includes S-100 graphic card, 15" moni- 
tor, detached keyboard, light pen. 

Without light pen $1,930. 

Graphics card alone $ 975. 

Screenware Pak II $ 350. 

TEKEM: Tektronix emulator $ 350. 

Color systems from 4 to 256 colors. Basic 
color system (4 colors) $2,330. 

WHITESMITH: The Complete C-com- 
piler produces optimized native code for 
Z80. PASCAL from Whitesmith allows 
intermixing of C & PASCAL Full PAS- 
CAL as defined by Jensen & Werth, 
discounted price. 

dFJASE II Brings power of mainframe 
database software to a microcomputer. 

Manual and demo software $75. 

Complete package with money back 
guarantee: $595. 

COMMUNICATIONS SOFTWARE 

Enables communications from a micro to 
a terminal or to another micro, mini or 
maxi computer. Source code $500. 

MICROSOFT COBOL-80 $560. 

BASIC-80 (interpretor) $270. 

BASIC COMPILER: $305. 

FORTRAN-80 $380. 

X-MACRO-86: $275. 

muLISP/muSIMP: $190. 

MICROPRO 

WORDSTAR: $320. 

MAIL MERGE: $110. 

TWX (TELEX II) SOFTWARE $350. 

Send/receive with a microcomputer con- 
nected directly to WU line. Eliminate 
paper tape. Messages can be formatted 
w/text editor. 

OLIVETTI DAISY WHEEL PRINTERS 
Model 311 (34CPS) $2,150. 

QUICKSCREEN $149. 

Use CRT as scratch pad, produce quality 
screens, create reports & forms. 



WE EXPORT 



Overseas Callers: TWX 710 588 2844 
Phone 212 448-6298 or Cable: OWENSASSOC 



JOHN D. OWENS Associates, Inc. 

SEE OUR AD ON FACING PAGE 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 269 






You can save buying wholesale with our buying service. 
As your agent we will buy computer equipment on the 
wholesale market for you. Our fee is one fourth of what we save 
you off the list price. We have access to over 500 manufac- 
turers. Call for present wholesale market conditions. Examples of 
total prices being paid by our clients (including our fee) are: 



COMPUTERS 








Alpha Micro 1030 


$12,047.00 


Dynabyte 5615-A1 


8,396.00 


Alpha Micro 1051 


17,634.00 


Ithaca C.B. 128KSS/OD 


5,421.00 


Alpha Micro AM- 1011 


9,313.00 


Ithaca Sys. 2AW/Panel 


2,941.00 


Altos 8000-10 


6.397.00 


NEC 8001A 


865.00 


Altos 8000-15 


3,585.00 


NEC 8012A 


565.00 


Altos 8000-2 


2,629.00 


NEC 8031 A 


865.00 


Altos 8600- 10 


9,385.00 


North Star 64KDD 


3,073.00 


Archives Model I 


4,794.00 


North Star Advantage 


2995.00 


Archives Model II 


5,532.00 


Televideo System I 


2,380.00 


Archives Model III 


6,269.00 


Televideo System II 


5,311.00 


CCS Series 300-1 A 


4,414.00 


Televideo TS-800 Term. 


1,324.00 


CCS Series 400-1 A 


6,374.00 


Televideo TS-802 


2,629.00 


Cromemco System 3 


5,650.00 


Televideo TS-802H 


5001.00 


Cromemco Z-2H 


7,521.00 


Vector 2600 


4,221.00 


Dynabyte 5200-A2 


3,216.00 


Vector 3005 


6,458.00 


Dynabyte 5200-B2 


4,896.00 


Vector 5005 


7,308.00 


SOFTWARE 








Dbase II 


500.00 


Wordstar 


305.00 


Spellguard 


200.00 


Basic Compiler 


277.00 


Datastar 


230.00 


Fortran 80-CPM 


375.00 


Spell Star 


180.00 


Visi Calc 


160.00 


PRINTERS 








Anadex9000 


1,100.00 


NEC 5510 


2,345.00 


Anadex9501 


1,278.00 


NEC 5520 KSR 


2,645.00 


C.Itoh25P 


1,325.00 


NEC 5530 


2,345.00 


C.Itoh45P 


1,700.00 


NEC 7710 


2,345.00 


Diablo 630 


2,075.00 


Epson MX80 in stock 


485.00 


Diablo 1640 


2,444.00 


Qume Sprint 9-35 


1,738.00 


Malibu 165 


1,796.00 


Oume Sprint 9-45 


1,996.00 


Malibu200 


2,320.00 


Qume Sprint 9-55 


2,085.00 


NEC 3510 


1,795.00 







CRT, DISK DRIVE, MODEMS 

Alpha Micro AM-600 8,075.00 Houston Instrument DMP-7 



Anderson Jacobsen 1256 641.25 
DEC VT 100 1.495.00 

Hayes Mcromodem Apple 275.00 
Hayes MicromodemS- 100 319.00 
Houston Instrument DMP-2 819.00 
Houston Instrument DMP-4 1,063.00 



Lobo Dual 8" DS/DD 
Lobo Dual Mini Drives 
Morrow 10MEG 
Morrow 20 MEG 
Morrow 26 MEG 



1,528.00 
2,234.00 
855.00 
2,750.00 
3,650.00 
3,375.00 



For latest wholesale prices and to order Call Toll Free 
800-227-2288. In California call 415-376-9020. 
Assembly, integration and testing also available from 
our service department. 

ASK ABOUT OUR IE* dUTf PROGRAM. 



LEASING 



Credit cards add 3% handling fee. Prices subject to change without 
notice. Minimum fee $100. 15% cancellation fee. 



V/SA 



We are buying agents for 

overseas computer dealers. 

Export services available. 

International Telex 470851 



THE PURCHASING AGENT 

1635 School St., Suitet 101, Moraga, CA 94556 



270 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 323 on inquiry card. 



sor consists of the sequence ESC A, 
the Escapes can get lost, and one or 
several As may appear in your text. 
VEDIT's author, Ted Green, tells me 
that this problem is at its worst on the 
Heath H-19 terminal — the Repeat just 
sends too fast. In the absence of an 
interrupt-driven input buffer routine, 
the only remedy is a light touch on 
the Repeat button. 

You can't enter control characters 
or reverse-video text into VEDIT's 
text buffer while in visual mode, pre- 
sumably because any control charac- 
ter is a potential special function key. 
You can, however, switch to com- 
mand mode, insert, say, your CTRL- 
L form feed, switch back to visual 
mode, and there it is, represented by 
the usual * L. 

Unfortunately, VEDIT doesn't pro- 
vide a means for sending text to a 
printer. The only way you can print 
current text is to exit and use some 
other program. I find this annoying, 
but it hasn't caused me to take my 
command editors out of retirement. 

Conclusions 

VEDIT is a convenient, friendly, 
full-screen editor available at a rea- 
sonable price. It has several features 
specifically designed for program pre- 
paration and, for that purpose, has 
distinct advantages over command 
editors. It's readily adaptable to a 
wide variety of terminals and takes 
advantage of smart-terminal features. 
Special function keys can be assigned 
whatever functions you wish. If you 
don't have special function keys, 
substitute control characters and 
escape sequences of you own choice. 
The well-documented customization 
process is easily accomplished. 

In addition to its screen mode, 
VEDIT has an adequate command 
mode. The command mode is useful 
in setting up string searches and 
substitutions; it also allows iteration 
macro commands that include trans- 
fers into visual mode and back. You 
won't spend much time in command 
mode. As part of a word-processing 
system, VEDIT has several limita- 
tions. You can't underline or even in- 
sert control characters in visual 
mode, and you can't send text to a 
printer. ■ 

Circle 34 on Inquiry card. * 



MicroMed™ and MicroDent™ make your practice perfects 



Sinr 

They're the real solution to the problems confronting every 
physician's and dentist's office. Each is a unique package, 
developed through years of work in close conjunction with 
doctors and dentists. They'll help you treat your patients more 
efficiently and accurately, while saving you time 
and money in the process. 

Versatility. 

Whether you are in private practice or a member of a busy 
group, there's sufficient capacity to handle your needs. 
Thousands of patients can be accommodated on floppies, 
and even more on hard disk. MicroMed and MicroDent 
can easily handle everything in your practice from billing to 
patient records to complex insurance forms . With millions 
of hours of actual use in medical and dental offices 
throughout the country, they stand alone at the top, 
in a class by themselves. 



We know you're after solutions, not more problems. Our 
menus are simplicity itself, and are designed for your 
convenience (not our programmers'). The computer displays 
your options at every step. What could be simpler? 
Your own office staff can easily take care of the routine 
so that you can devote your valuable time to your patients. 

You are the boss. 

Forget about problems with outside billing services or 
manual record-keeping. You exercise absolute control over 
your billing procedures. Finger-tip patient recall lets you know 
instantly whose accounts are due and what services were 
performed. Account aging is automatic, and past-due notices 
or statements are printed and addressed, ready for mailing. 
All types of reports may be requested to help you better 
understand your finances and c ash flo w. Daily backups 
are created automatically. 




Multiple Insurance Forms. 

Many patients have several different types of insurance 
coverage. With MicroMed and MicroDent you can enter almost 
any form, keep track of which patients it applies to, and get it 
processed and ready for mailing. When new forms come out 
(as we all know they will) you don't have to pay for custom 
programming, you can modify the form print format yourself. 
With our exclusive Formulator" 1 system it takes just minutes. 



The biggest surprise of all is that MicroMed and MicroDent 
are just $2000 each. Plus, having your own office computer 
provides you with great tax advantages . If you like what you 
see, contact your nearest computer store. They can provide 
you with MicroMed or MicroDent on any CP/M® based 
computer for an amazingly economical price. Or, if you already 
have a computer, a demo disk and manual set is available 
for just $75, and allows you to run the entire program. 
The manual separately is $50. Send for one today, and 
make your practice perfect! 




Features: 

Automatic billing for any patient load 
Handles practices with up to 20 doctors 
Accepts all insurance forms 
Exclusive "Formulator" form system 
Multiple insurance coverage 
Insurance preauthorization 
Automatic statements with aging 
•' Instant access to patient records 
Full transaction and treatment details 
Cumulative totals by doctor 
Profitability analysis reports 
Mailing list maintenance 
Can be linked to word-processing 
Appointment recall with reminders 
Maintains hospital and lab codes 
Keeps track of referring doctor codes 



Demo disk and manual set $ 75! 



Dealerships are available to established computer vendors 
on a territorial basis. 



See Us At 
West Coast 
Computer Faire 



"MicroMed. MicroDent, and Formulator are trademarks ol SoftwareHows^ 
»CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 
Copyright »1981. SoftwareHows 




P.O. Box 36275, Los Angeles, CA 90036 
(213) 731-0876 . TWX: 910-321-2378 



System Notes 



Add a Cassette Interface 
to Your VIC-20 



William R. Hale 

3309 June St. NE 

Albuquerque, NM 87111 



During the time I've owned a Commodore VIC-20, I've 
found it to be an excellent home computer. You really get 
a lot for your money. With so many excellent peripherals 
being introducted recently, the VIC-20 v/ill be a great ad- 
dition to the home computer market. I do feel, however, 
that the price (almost $100) Commodore is asking for a 
cassette recorder is a little high. Thus, I decided to design 
my own interface. 

Figure 1 (on page 274) is a schematic of an interface 
that allows use of an ordinary, portable audio-cassette 
recorder to store programs from a VIC-20. The cost of 
the few parts needed, including a plastic case, runs about 
$10; the parts are available at Radio Shack and other 
electronic parts stores. The audio tape needed to store 
programs need not be of high quality due to the tones the 
VIC-20 uses. The cassette "shell" itself should not be so 
cheap that it causes the tape to drag. 

Most of the components I used were already in my 
home stock, including the 6-pin connector to the VIC-20 
motherboard. (See figure 1 for part numbers.) The 
VIC-20 outputs to +4 volts (V) and prefers as an input 
a signal of an amplitude between and —4 V. (Later 
testing has shown that the VIC-20 will accept a 0- to 
+4 V input if the signal consists of true square waves 
and does indeed range from to +4 V.) Capacitor Cl 
allows the recorder to receive a normal AC input; the 
combination of C2 and CRl allows DC restoration for 



the VIC-20 input. R2 is merely a fuse to protect the 
VIC-20. 

Ll is an LED used to indicate that data is coming into 
the interface and is of sufficient level to properly operate 
ICl, which is being used as a wave-shaping circuit. Ll 
isn't a necessary part of the interface, but since the 
SN7404 has extra inverters, you might as well use one for 
the indicator. Switch Si is also unnecessary because you 
can tie the line coming to it low. However, if you do this, 
be sure your recorder is in PLAY for the load and verify 
operations and in RECORD for any save operations 
before pressing the return key. Switch S2 is needed to re- 
wind the tape. Always return this switch to REMOTE im- 
mediately after using it in MANUAL. 

My particular recorder, Superscope Model C-76, uses 
+ 6.7 V to drive its motor, so I was able to use the 
VIC-20's motor-power line directly. Figure 1 also il- 
lustrates an alternate method for controlling the recorder 
using the VIC-20's +6.7 V motor line as a control signal. 

Notice that the shield on the AUX input of the recorder 
is not connected to the VIC-20 system ground. I found 
that if I tied this line to the VIC-20 ground, noise would 
appear on the external speaker output of the recorder 
while I was attempting to load a program from the 
recorder. This noise was of sufficient level to trigger the 
input of inverter ICl prematurely and cause an error 
message to be generated by the VIC-20. ■ 



272 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 





"DISCOUNT PRICING ON 
QUALITY PRODUCTS" 




-«%? 



'F AST DELIVERY ON ALL MAJOR BRANDS — ACCESSORIES — SOFTWAR E 

ORDER TOLL-FREE! 1-800-854-2833 



^V VIC 20 

xtfj^Personal Computer 




V»c-20 3K by MPC 69 

Vic-TV Module ,9 

Vic Cassette 68 

Vic 6 Pack Program 44 

VIC1530 Commodore Datassette 69 

VIC 1 540 Disk Drive 499 

VIC 1 51 5 VIC Graphic Printer 399 

VIC1210 3K Memory Expander 32 

VIC1 1 10 8K Memory Expander 53 

VIC 1011 RS232C Terminal Interlace 43 

VIC1 1 12 VIC IEEE-488 Interlace 86 

VIC121 1 VIC 20 Super Expander 53 

VIC1212 Programmers Aid Cartridge 45 

VIC1213 VICMON Machine Language Monitor 45 

VIC1901 VIC AVENGERS 23 

VIC1904 SUPERSLOT 23 

VIC1906 SUPER ALIEN 19 

VIC1907 SUPER LANDER 23 

VIC1908 DRAW POKER 23 

VIC1909 MIDNIGHT DRIVE 23 

VT 1 06A Recreation Pack A 44 

VT107A Home Calculation Pack A 44 

VT164 Programmable Character 'Gramegraphics 12 

VT292 VIC Term I Terminal Emulator 9 



tipplG 




FREE CATALOGUE 
1-800-854-2833 



ATARP 




Atari 400 Computer 319 

Atari 410 Program Recorder 59 

Atari 810 Disk Drive 425 

Atari 820 Printer 249 

Atari 825 Prinler 599 

Atari 850 Interface 159 

Assembler Editor 45 

Atari Joysticks 17 

Atari Paddles 17 

Basketball 30 

Computer Chess 30 

Invitation to Programming 17 

Music Composer 45 

Star Raiders 35 

Super Breakout 30 

Missile Command 32 

Asteroids 32 

Visicalc 180 

Atari 16K RAM by MPC 89 

Atari 32K RAM by MPC 149 

Atari Le Slick 35 



ACCESSORIES 

16K Ramcard by MPC . 

CPS Multifunction Card by Mm Comp 185 

Expansion Chassis by Mln Comp 595 

Joystick by TG 47 

Mtcromodem II by Hayes 295 

CCS #7720A 99 

Smartmodem by Hayes 239 

Versa-Wnter Digitizer Drawing Sys by Versa Comp. 199 

Videoterm (80 Column Card) by Videx 269 

Z-80 Soltcard by Microsoft 299 

Numeric Keypad by Keyboard Co 119 

Joyport by Sinus 69 

Keyboard Enhancer II 1 29 

Corvus Hard Disk Drive CALL 

Lower Case Adapter by MPC 35 

Paddle Adapple 21 

Serial Card by CCS "7710A 129 

NEW! 

32K RAM 139 

MetaCard by Metamorphic CALL 

Speecnlink 2000 by Heuristics 249 



SAVE! 
CALL FOR BEST PRICES 



SOFTWARE 

Apple Panic <= 4 

Alkemstone by Level 10 34 

Asteroid Field by Cavalier 19 

Business Pkgs by Continental 199 

Castle Wollenstein 24 

DB Master III by Stoneware 169 

DB Master Utility Pkg 89 

Desktop Plan II by Personal Software 159 

Epoch by Sinus 29 

Flight Simulator by Sub-Logic 34 

Continental Software CALL 

Gorgon by Sinus 35 

Home Money Minder by Continental 29 

Hungry Boy by Astar 21 

Magic Window by Art-Sci 89 

Olympic Decathalon 24 

Personal Filing System 69 

PFS Report 69 

Raster-Blaster 29 

Robot Wars by Muse 31 

Sargon II Chess Game by Hayden 29 

Space Eggs by Sinus 25 

Spellstar by Micropro 169 

Super Stellar Trek by Rainbow 33 

SupeMext II by Muse 1 19 

Tax Preparer by Howardsoft • 1 39 

Thunderbirds by Astar 19 

Visicalc II by Personal Software 155 

Visitrend/Visiplot by Personal Software 199 

Visifile by Personal Software 199 

Wordstar by Micropro 239 

Peach Tree Accting Software CALL 

"APPLE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 



WE HAVE IT ALL . . . JUST CALL IF YOU DON'T SEE IT! 



SALE! 
EPSONS 

MX80 CALL 
MX80 F/T CALL 
MX100CALL 




WE CARRY 
A HUGE SELECTION OF 

MONITORS 

AMDEK. SANYO. NEC & ZENITH 

PRINTERS 

PAPER TIGERS, C. IT0L & QUME 

MEDIA 

DYSAN. VERBATIM. ETC. 



SEC 



PC-8001A, 

32K 




The WEDGE I/O Unit 32K RAM 549 

32K Memory Board for use with The WEDGE 179 

NEC 12" Green Screen 169 

NEC Add-on dual Mm. Drive CALL 

NEC Computer PC8001 -A 32K 995 

NEC Dual Mini-Drive CALL 

NEC FDC I/O Port 149 

NEC Hi-Res Color Monitor 929 

NEC I/O Unit 32K RAM 595 

NEC Impact Printer Cable 49 

NEC Impact Printer F/T 695 

NEC Low Res Color Monitor CALL 

NEC Spinwriler #5510 (Serial) 2785 

WordStar configurecftor NEC 299 

SuperCalc configured for NEC 279 

NEC Wordprocessor & Accounting Software CALL 

Many more software packages and language; 

(Pascal. Fortran. Cobol. etc) are available configured for 

the NEC 8001A Computer 

Please call or write for a product price list. 



Qcommodore 

40,6 CBM 8032 $1095 799 

4032 995 

8096 1795 

CBM4022 Printer 629 

Tally 8024 1699 

CBM4040 Dual Disk Drive 995 

CBM8050 Dual Disk Drive 1339 

CBM 2031 Single Disc Drive 525 

WordPro 3 Plus SOFTWAR E 229 

WordPro 4 Plus 329 

Commodore Tax Package . . . '. 399 

Visicalc 149 

BPI General Ledger 329 

OZZ Information System 299 

Dow Jones Portfolio 114 

Pascal 229 

Legal Time Accounting 449 

Word Craft 80 289 

Create-A-Base 249 

COMMODORE 64 CALL 



HOW TO ORDER 

Ordering information: Phone orders using VISA. MASTER- 
CARD. AMERICAN EXPRESS. DINER'S CLUB, CARTE 
BLANCHE, bank wire transfer, cashier's or certified check. 
money order, or personal check (allow ten days to clear) 
Unless prepaid with cash, please add 5% for shipping, 
handling and insurance, (minimum 5 00) California resi- 
dents add 6% sales tax We accept CODs. OEM's Insti- 
tutions and corporators please send for a written quo- 
tation All equipment is subject to price change and 
availability without notice. All equipment is new and 
complete with manufacturer's warranty (usually 90 days) 
Showroom prices may differ from mail order prices 



szfflsfflMm 



(714) 579-0330 

MAILTO:1251 BROADWAY 

EL CAJON, CA. 92021 



circle 97 on Inquiry card 



System Notes, 



mm 



PLAY PB f_ 
SW 



WRITE £ 
READ f - _ 



MTR f- 

+ 6.7V V_ 



+SV <^_ 



GND f_ 



GC#41-800 

AMP#225-2-06-2-4-l-01 
CINCH # 251-06-30-160 
WINCHESTER #880-065 



SIMULATE PUSHING 'PLAY' ON RECORDER 
SI-0 STBY 

° G0 A? 



+ j-Lnj- + ' 



Jis\ry, 



R2 

0. 5W 

1/10W 

— w — 



C2 
47/i F 



^ 



ic^>o^ 



LI 

DATA FEED 



Rl 

56 

-vw 



VIC 
+ 5V 



on 

^ 1 



ci 

10 M F 



-ne 



t 



AUX INPUT f". 



a 100 mA 



VIC+5V 



I -o S2 



MAN <L ! I +6.7V 

' REMOTEl 




SUPERSCOPE 
C-76 



9<? 




SN7404 
4_^^ 3 



-o<^ici 




SN7404 



REMOTE 



<m CR1 
*- 1N914 



^ 



CASSETTE 
RECORDER 



VOLUME AT 8 



8J1 EXT SPK j 




.J 



Ql 



2N2222 REMOTE R4 

R3 S~y^. "V 470fl 

47on f y^ \ >o wv 

MTR C> vw 



,_r 



€> 



PMAN 



m 




Figure 1: Interface between the VIC-20 and a standard cassette recorder. Although the VIC-20 outputs to +4 V, it seems to prefer a 
to —4-V input. Switch Si could be eliminated (see text), but it's safer to include it. Alternate sources for the connector to the VIC-20 
are listed; an alternate motor control circuit is also shown. 




££3 ffJTQ QQ £2 I 

CO CO CO ID I 

COI 




Tl ICO P imji i nmf 



New! Tl LCD Programmer. 

Hexadecimal and Octal Calculator/Converter. 

The brand new tilt-top Tl LCD Programmer can save you 
hours of work. It was designed specifically for the 
problems you do, and has features that make it ideally 
suited for applications in computer programming, 
debugging, repair and digital logic design. 

• Performs arithmetic in any of three number bases — OCT, 
DEC, HEX. 

• Integer, two's complement arithmetic in OCT and HEX. 

• One's complement capability in OCT and HEX. 

• Converts numbers between OCT, DEC and HEX. 

• Fifteen sets of parentheses available at each of four 
processing levels. 

• Logical functions AND, OR, EXCLUSIVE OR and SHIFT 
operate bit by bit on OCT or HEX numbers. 

Unisource Electronics has committed to buy Tl's initial 
production of this unique product. Availability is 
limited! Order now. 



15-Day Free Trial. 

The best way to evaluate the Tl LCD 
Programmer is to try it yourself — on the 
Job — for 15 days. If you're not 100% 
satisfied, simply return it for a full refund. 
Order now by calling toll-free: 

1-800-858-4580 

In Texas call 1-806-745-8835 
Lines open 8 am to 6 pm CST 

Just give us your name, shipping address 
and Visa or MasterCard number and we 
will charge the tax deductible" $75.00 
purchase price, plus $2.00 shipping and 
handling (Texas residents also add 5% 
sales tax) to your account. Or send your 
check or money order to: 

Unisource Electronics, Inc. 

P.O. Box 64240 • Lubbock, Tx. 79464 
* IVrjen used lor business. 



274 March 1982 © BYTE Publications toe 



Circle 392 on inquiry card. 



Introducing . . . 

THE TEC-86 SERIES OF 16 BIT MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS 

TEC -8 6 - COMPLETE 16 BIT 8086 MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEM _ $4390 



FEATURES 

• Two 8 Inch DD Floppy Disk 
Drives (1.2 MB Total) 

• ROM Boot for MP/M-86™ 

• 64K Bytes of Memory 

• Vectored Interrupts 

• 16 Bit 8086 CPU 

• Heavy Duty Power Supply 

• IEEE 696 S- 100 




Two RS232 Serial Ports 
Baud Rates from 50 to 19200 Baud 
Independent Baud Rate for each Serial Port 
24 Parallel 1/0 lines (Three 8 Bit Parts) 
Attractive Industrial Quality Enclosure 

TEC-86M4 — $7595. 

FOUR USER TEC-86 SYSTEM 
WITH V2 MEGABYTE OF MEMORY 



TEC-86 W — $10990. 

TEC-86 SYSTEM WITH WINCHESTER 
31 MegaBYTE HARD DISK 



ONE YEAR 
WARRANTY 



TEC-86M4W — $12990. 

FOUR USER TEC-86 SYSTEM WITH l/j MEGABYTE OF MEMORY 
AND 31 MegaBYTE WINCHESTER HARD DISK 



TEC-86 OPTIONS 



CP/M-86™ Single User Operating System 
MP/M-86tm Multi-User Operating system 
Concurrent File Access File Password Protection 
File Time and Date Stamping Print Spooling 
Additional Memory, 64K and 256K byte increments 
up to a system total of one full Megabyte 
Languages 

BASfC-86»v FORTRAN-86™, PASCAL-86im, 
CBASIC/86im, PASCAL/M861* FORTH, 
CIS-COBOL and other High Level Languages 



• Double sided double density floppy disks (2.4 MB total) 

• 31 Megabyte Winchester Hard Disk 

• Attractive Wood Grain Desk Top Enclosure 

• Rack Mounted enclosure 

• Alphanumeric terminals (80 chars x 24 lines) 

• Matrix, correspondence quality, letter quality, and 
graphics printers 



ANALOG TO DIGITAL DIGITAL TO ANALOG 

DATA ACQUISITION AND CONTROL BOARDS AND SYSTEMS 



APPLE A/D $695 
w/Timer-Counter 

ANALOG TO DIGITAL Converter with 

Timer/Counter 

12 Bit Accuracy, 16 Channels, 30 KHz 

Conversion, Three programmable 

Timer/Counters to: 

Trigger Conversions 

Count Conversions 

Count External Signals 

Count Bus Clock 
Options: Programmable Gain; 14, 16 Bit 
Accuracy; 40, 100, or 125 KHz; Expansion 
to 256 Channels 



DIGITAL TO ANALOG 
CONVERTERS 

12 Bit Resolution 

3 Microsecond Conversion 

Jumper Selectable Outputs 

+2.5V, +5V, +10V, Oto 

+5V, Oto +10V 
Each operates independently 
Each DAC holds previous value 
until an entire new word 
is presented to it 
Fully assembled and tested 



S100 A/D $765 

Analog to Digital Converter 

with Timer/Counter 

12 Bit Accuracy, 16 Channels, 
30 KHz Conversion, Five 
Programmable Timer/Counters for: 
Time of Day 
Triggering Conversions 
Counting Conversions 
Counting External Signals 
Interrupting the CPU 
Options: Programmable Gain; 
14, 16 Bit Accuracy; 
40, 100, 125 KHz Conversion; 
Expansion to 256 Channels 



Circle 378 on Inquiry card. 

OTHER FINE SI 00 and APPLE PRODUCTS AVAILABLE, INCLUDING: 
ANALOG to DIGITAL CONVERTERS (12, 14, 16 bit accuracy, 30, 40, 100, 125 KHz Conversion rates, 16 to 256 Channels, programmable 
gain, timer/counters). DIGITAL to ANALOG CONVERTERS (12 bit accuracy, 3 microsecond conversion rate). 8086 CPU Board, I/O Boards 
64K/256K Memory Boards, Real-time Video Digitizer and Display. Complete Systems also available for Data Acquisition, Video 
Digitization, and General Purpose Applications. 

REQUEST OUR CATALOG FOR COMPLETE LISTING, AND SPECIFICATIONS ON THE ENTIRE TECMAR PRODUCT LINE. 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



23600 Mercantile Rd. • Cleveland, OH 44122 



TECMAR, INC. 

(216)464-7410 




with our variety ot quality disk drives. 



ASAP carries only the highest quality floppy disk drives, to 
provide you with years of trouble-free service and superior 
performance. 

Data Trak™ double-sided, double-density drives from Qume® 
feature state-of-the-art technology. You get superior data 
integrity through improved disk life, data reliability and drive 
serviceability. 

Data Trak™ 5 (ANSI 5W compatibility) Call for price 

Data Trak™ 8 (IBM compatibility) Call for price 

Shugart drives have been setting industry quality and reliability 
standards for years. Shugart's Bi-Compliant™ head assembly 
provides superior media compliance and high reliability. 

Model 801 (standard floppy) $400.00 

Model 850 8640.00 

Dual Disk Drive Cabinet $225.00 

ASAP also provides a full line of high reliability disk drive 
subsystems. 

Part No. — Description* Price 

HDC8/1-H0 — Cabinet with (1) Priam 10 megabyte hard disk 

drive with Microbyte Controller Call for price 

HDC8/1F+1HD — Cabinet with (1) Qume® DT-8 double-sided, 
double-density drive, and (1) Priam 10 megabyte hard disk 

drive with Microbyte Controller Call for price 

CAB8H — Dual cabinet for 8" floppy disk drives 

(horizontal mounting) S 225.00 

CAB8V — Cabinet for 8" floppy disk drives 

(vertical mounting) $ 225.00 



CAB8H/V+1S - Dual cabinet with (1) Shugart SA801R 

installed (horizontal or vertical mounting) $ 695.00 

CAB8H/V+2S — Dual cabinet with (2) Shugart SA801R's 

installed (horizontal or vertical mounting) $1095.00 

CAB8H/V+1Q — Dual cabinet with (1)Qume® DT-8 double-sided 
double-density drive installed (horizontal or vertical 

mounting) $ 775.00 

CAB8H/V+2Q — Dual cabinet with (2) Qume® DT-8's double- 
sided double-density drive installed (horizontal or vertical 
mounting) $1275.00 

*AII cabinets come complete with power supply, tan and internal cables. 



asaii 

computer I 



Toll free outside California: 

(800)421-7701 

computer S^SEmqi 

products, inc. BS-SffSl 

1198E. Willow St., Signal Hill, CA 90806 I'lHJOSJI CUUO 

For superior quality, high reliability disk drives, contact ASAP today. 

ASAP offers a 30-day buyer protection policy: full money-back guarantee if not 

totally satisfied. 

Ordering information: name, address, phone: ship by: UPS or truck. Please call for 

shipping charges. 

Terms: We accept cash, check, money orders. Visa and Master Charge (U.S. 

funds only). Tax: 6% Calif, res. COD's and terms available on approval (school 

PO's accepted). 



276 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 36 on Inquiry card. 



Printers 

Okidala Dot Matrix Printers 

82A — 80 column printer w/tractor 

Throughput @ 80 characters per line: 76 lines 

per minute 

Print Speed: 120 CPS 

83A — 136 column printer w/tractor 

Throughput @ 136 characters per line: 76 lines 

per minute 

Print Speed: 120 CPS 

84A — 136 column printer w/tractor 

Throughput @ 136 characters per line: 1 14 lines 

per minute 

Print Speed: 200 CPS 

Centronics & RS-232C interfaces standard on 

models 82A & 83A. 2K serial buffer board (RS-232) 

optional on all models. Centronics 8-bit parallel 

interface and Okigraph HI-RES Graphics standard 

on Model 84A 

Epson MX-80 

80 Column Dot Matrix Printer 

Character set: full 90-character ASCII with 

descenders 

Graphics characters: 64 block characters 

Centronics-style 8-bit parallel interface 

standard; Apple. TRS-80, RS-232 interfaces optional. 

MX-80 FT/Friclion Feed 

IHX-100/132 Column 

CALL FOR PRICE & DELIVERY 

Apple Parallel Interface: 

AEI-1 W/Cable $69.95 

• Standard Interface 

• Compatible with Epson & Okidata Printers 

• On-board Firmware (2708) 
Optional Cables: $25.00 
AEC-2/Atari to Epson Printer 
TREC-2/TRS-80 to Epson/Okidata Printer 
RSC-1 /RS-232 (male to male) 

Serial Interface SEI-1 $55.00 

• Asynchronous 300. 1200, 2400 or 9600 BPS 

• Compatible with Epson Printers 

• 75 to 9600 BPS 

Manulacturer/ModBl # Price 

Anacom-150 S1095.00 

Anadex-9501 W/2K buffer S1295.00 

Diablo-630R0 S2095.00 

C.ltoh Starwriter 45 S1925.00 

Texas lnstruments-810 S1650.00 

Modems 

Manufacturer Model # Price 

Novation CAT S 149.00 

Novation d-CAT S 160.00 

Novation Auto-Cat S 229.00 

DC Hayes Smart Modem S 245.00 

DC Hayes Micro Modem II S 320.00 

(Apple) 

DC Hayes Micro Modem 100 S 335.00 

Lexicon Lex-11 S 139.00 

Livermore LIV-Star 20M S 149.00 

UDS UDS 103 LP S 185.00 

UDS UDS 202 LP S 245.00 

Monitors 

Manufacturer Model # Price 

Amdek 100/12" 8&W S 125.00 

Amdek 100-80 S 169.00 

Amdek 100G/12" Grn. S 149.00 

Amdek Color-1 13" S 375.00 

Sanyo DM 5109CX/9" Grn. S 175.00 

Sanyo DM 5012/12" B&W S 270.00 

Sanyo DM5112ex/12"Grn. S 290.00 

Sanyo DM C6013/13" Color S 450.00 

Zenith ZVM-121/12"Grn. $ 115.00 

Terminals 

Manufacturer Model # Price 

Ampex Dialogue 80 S 899.00 

Lear Siegler ADM-5 Call tor price 

Lear Siegler ADM-3A Call for price 

Lear Siegler ADM-3A* Call for price 

Lear Siegler ADM-31 Call for price 

Lear Siegler ADM-32 Call for price 

Lear Siegler ADM-42 Call for price 

Televideo TVI 910 S 625.00 

Televideo TVI 912C S 725.00 

Televideo TVI 950C S 925.00 

Televideo TVI 925 S 825.00 

Components 

411B's(200nS)/5290-3 

Apple. TRS-80. Heath 

1-15 S1.85 each 50-99 S1.60 each 

16-49 SUOeach 100 up S1.40each 



2114L-2/200 nS 

Low-Power 1K x 4 Static RAM 

1-16 S2.80 each 50-99 $2.60 each 

17-49 S2.70 each 100 up ... . S2.45 each 

2708/450 nS 

1K x 8 EPROM S3.00 each or 8/S22.00 

2716/5 Volt 

2Kx8EPR0M 



S4.95 each 

74LS240 . . . S1.25 each 74LS373 . . . S1.25 each 
74LS241 . . . S1.10 each 74LS374 . . . S1.25 each 
74LS244 ... S1 .25 each 8T245 . . . S1 .50 each 



Support Chips 






8080A-CPU S 2.50 


Z80A-SI0 . . 


. . . S22.00 


Z80A-CPU S 8.95 


8255AC5 .. 


. . . S 6.95 


Z80A-CTC S 8.95 


8257AC5 .. 


. . . S15.00 


Z80A-DART .... S13.95 







Regulators 

320T5 S.80 320T12 S.80 

340T5 S.70 340T12 S.75 





> 1-9 10-24 


25 up 


DB25P 


S2.25 S2.15 


S2.00 


DB25S 


S325 S3.10 


S2.90 


DB25C 


S .95 S .85 


S 75 


100 Pin IMSAI 




Gold/S-100 Soldertail Connectors 




S2.60 each or 


10/S2.40 each 




Capacitors 






1 <§> 12 Volt Ceramic 8c each or 


100/S7.00 


DIP SOCketS — Low Profile Tin Soldertail 


Description 


1-9 10-49 50-9! 


100 up 


14 pin tin st 


S .15 S .1? S .12 


' S .11 


16 pin tin st 


S .16 S .14 S .13 


■ S .12 


18 pin tin st 


S .19 S .18 S .16 


S .14 


20 pin tin st 


S .25 S .23 S .21 


S .20 


24 pin tin st 


S .26 S .24 S .22 


S .20 


28 pin tin st 


S .32 S .30 S .28 


S .27 


40 pin tin st 


S .42 S .40 S .38 


S .34 


DISKETTES from ASAP 






Verbatim 






5'A" Diskettes 




Part* 


Sector 


Price 


MD525-01 


Soft 


10/S27.50 


MD525-10 


Hard 10 


10/S27.50 


MD525-16 


Hard 16 
8" Diskettes 


10/S27.50 


FD32-1000 


Hard 


10/S3500 


FD34-1000 


Soft 
Memorex 

5'A" Diskettes 


10/S3500 


Part# 


Side/Dens Sector 


Price 


MEM 3403 


1/Sgl Hard 10 


10/S25.00 


MEM 3405 


1/Sgl Hard 16 
8" Diskettes 


10/S25.00 


MEM 3060 


1/Sgl Soil 


10/S35.00 


MEM 3101 


2/Sgl Soft 


10/S45.00 


MEM 3090 


1/Dbl Soft 


10/S45.00 


MEM 3102 


2/Dbl Soil 

Scotch 3M 

57<" Diskettes 


10/S55.00 


Part* 


Side/Dens Sector 


Price 


744-0 


1/Sgl Soft 


10/S33.00 


744-10 


1/Sgl Hard 10 


10/S33.00 


744-16 


1/Sgl Hard 16 


10/S33.00 


745-0 


2/Dbl Soft 


10/S59.00 


745-10 


2/Dbl Hard 10 


10/S59.00 


745-16 


2/Dbl Hard 16 

Maxell 

5V." Diskettes 


10/S59.00 


Part* 


Side/Dens Sector 


Price 


MD1 


1/Sgl Soft 


10/S35.00 


MD2D 


2/Dbl Soft 


10/S4900 


MH1 


1/Sgl Hard 16 


10/S39.00 


■MH2D 


2/Dbl Hard 16 
8" Diskettes 


10/S55.00 


FD1-128 


1/Sgl Soft 


10/S45.00 


FH1-32 


1/Sgl Soft 32 


10/S45.00 


FD2-XD 


2/0bl Soft 


10/S55.00 


Elephant Memory Systems 




Part* 


Side/Dens Sector 


Price 


EMS-1 


1/Sgl Soft 

SRW 

Media Storage Cases 


S2500 


Part* 


Size 


Price 


SRW-5 


5V," 


S2.50 ea. 


SRW-8 


8" 


S3.25 ea. 



SYSTEMS WITH SPICE from 
CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
FOR APPLE II 7 " USERS 

Synchronous Serial Interlace 

Part Number 7712A Price: S149.00 

Programmable Timer 

Part Number 7440A Price: S 95.00 

Asynchronous Serial Interlace 

Part Number 7710A Price: S139.00 

Calendar/Clock Module 

Part Number 7424 Price: S 99.00 

3V< Digit BCD A-to-0 Converter 

Part Number 7470A Price: $ 95.00 

12K ROM/PROM Module 

Pari Number 71 14A Price: S 85.00 

Parallel Interlace 

Part Number 7720A Price: $125.00 

Arithmetic Processor 

Part Number 781 1A Price: S349.00 

Centronics Printer Interface 

Part Number 7728A Price: S125.00 

FOR S-100 USERS 

32K Static RAM Board 

Part Number 2032C Price: S610.00 

16K Static RAM Board 

Part Number 2116C Price: $290 00 

64K Dynamic RAM Board 

Part Number 2065C Price: $550.00 

Z8DA CPU Board 

Part Number 2810A Price: S265.00 

Floppy Disk Controller 

Part Number 2422A Price: $365.00 

CP/M' - Version 2.2 Free' With Purchase 
S-100 Mainframe 

Part Number 2200A Price: S475.00 

2201 A (220VAC) £47500 

S-100 Motherboard 

Part Number 2501 A Price: S150.00 

4-Port Serial I/O Interlace 

Pari Number 2710A Price: $245.00 

2-Serial. 2-Parallel I/O Board 

Part Number 2719A Price: S275.00 

4-Port Parallel I/O Board 

Part Number 2720A Price: $195.00 

Microbyte Boards 
Z80A/I-0 CPU Board 

• A complete single board Z80A CPU with 
serial/parallel interface (2) Ser. (3) Parallel 

• Fully compatible with proposed IEEE 
S-100 Bus Standard 

• Z80A CPU (4MHz version of the Z80) 
$329.00 Assembled & Tested 
Optional Monitor Program $40.00 

Floppy Disk Controller 

• DMA to within 16 Mbyte of memory 

• State-of-the-art NEC765 LSI Controller 

• IEEE S-100 compatible 

• DMA arbitration allows use of multiple 
boards within a system 

$329.00 Assembled & Tested 
•CP/M S150.00 Available (Optional) 

4-Port I/O Board 

• Quad RS-232-C serial ports. One 20 mA 
current loop port 

• Fully IEEE S-100 bus compatible 

• Asynchronous communications with 
Z80A-DART" or synchronous commu- 
nications with Z80A-SICW" 

• Full set of modem control signals, 
including Rl (Ring Indicator) 

• Easily configurable to any type of terminal 
interface 

$265.00 Assembled & Tested 
Cables Available (Optional) 



64K Dynamic RAM Board 

• Fully S-100 bus compatible (4 MHz) 

• 64K x 8 bit dynamic RAM 

• Low power: 
*8VDC @ 700 mA 
+16VDC @ 100 mA 
-16VDC @ 25 mA 

• Built-in capacity with LED indicator and 
vector interrupt 

$475.00 Assembled 8, Tested 
•CP/M* Trade Mark ol Digital Research 

ATARI COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
ATARI 800 

(16K) Personal Business Computer Features: 

• Computer console 

• Atari 8K basic 

• 57 full stroke alpha-numeric keyboard 
with four function keys 

• Operator's manual 

• RF modulator 

• Power supply 
Call for price 

Special Offer: Additional 16K RAM FREE with 
purchase of system 

ATARI 400 $349.00 

Atari Optional Accessories 

Model ll Description Price 



810 
820 



822 



825 



.$ 455.00 



.$ 279.00 



Disk Drive System . 
40 Column Dot 
Matrix Printer . . . 
40 Column Thermal 

Printer $ 299.00 

80 Column Dot 

Matrix Printer $ 625.00 

Acoustic Modem 5 159.00 

Interface Module S 169.00 

Cassette Recorder S 80.00 



830 
850 
410 

CX30-04 Paddle Controls S 17.95 

CX40-04 Joysticks (pair) $ 17.95 

INTRODUCING ASAP's 

Atari 800 16K RAM Module: $55.00 

1 year warranty parts & labor 

Atari Software (Many more available) 

Basketball S 30.00 

Super Breakout $ 30.00 

Chess S 32.00 

Video Easel S 25.00 

3-D Tic Tac Toe 3 25.00 

Star Raiders S 36.00 

Asteroids $ 32.00 

Music Composer S 42.00 

Educational ROM S 19.95 

Assembler/Editor S 45.00 

Telelink I S 24.00 

Space Invaders S 30.00 

Kingdom S 12.95 

Missile Command S 32.00" 

Biorhythm S 12.95 

Graph It S 17.95 

Energy Czar $ 12.95 

Mailing List 5 19.95 

Touch Typing S 19.95 

Stock Charting $ 19.95 

Stock Analysis S 19.95 

Bond Analysis S 19.95 

Word Processor S119.00 

Personal Finance S 64.95 

Microsoft BASIC S 75.00 

Ghost Hunter (Cassette) S 25.00 

Ghost Hunter (Disk) S 30.00 



All prices subject to change without notice. Call for best price. 

ASAP offers a 30-day buyer protection policy: full money-back guarantee if not 

totally satisfied. 

Ordering Information: name, address, phone, ship by: UPS or Mail. Shipping 

charge: add $2.50 up to 1 lb. for UPS blue; add $1 .50 for U.S. Mail (U.S. only) ($25.00 

minimum order). Call for larger shipments. 

Terms: We accept cash, check, money orders, Visa 8. Master Charge (U.S. Funds 

only). Tax: 6% Calif, res. COD's and terms available on approval (school PO's 

accepted). 

Toll free outside California: 



asait 

computer ■ 
products, inc. 

1198 E. Willow St., Signal Hill, CA 90806 



(800)421-7701 

Inside California: 

(213)595-6431 
(714)891-2663 



Circle 36 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



277 



BYTE Printer Directory 



Curtis P. Feigel 
Technical Editor 



To say that the printer market has 
blossomed is to make an apt analogy. 
An immense crop of printers with ex- 
citing features has flourished in the 
last few years. Unfortunately, a 
handful of thorns is waiting for those 
who make a hasty grab without 
carefully examining the field. Only an 
understanding of the present state of 
the art and knowledge of the printers 
available will help the personal- 
computer user choose the best printer 
for an application. 

The printer provides an important 
and common man-machine interface. 
Recent advances in printer 
technology allow the use of personal 
computers in many new ways: pro- 
ducing letters, checks, and even pic- 
tures. However, a printer still 
represents a large investment to most 
people — sometimes as much as the 
rest of the computer system. BYTE 
provides this list of printers and their 
features to help you get the necessary 
information. 

The newest printers offer standard 
features that illustrate the progressive 
thinking of designers and manu- 
facturers, at a low cost that would 
have been impossible two years ago. 
Through the use of dedicated 
microprocessors, new printers pro- 



vide bidirectional printing, short-line 
seeking, and multiple-font 
capability — features that are difficult 
to implement with mechanical 
printers. The presence (or absence) of 
these features is the key to selection of 
the proper printer. 

Understanding Printers 

Although a variety of printing 
technologies is available, the tradi- 
tional impact printer is still the most 
common. The other printing concepts 
find favor in special applications 
(e.g., if copy must be produced at 
high speed, an ink-jet system might 
be used) where special attributes are 
used to advantage. The following is a 
description of the printing tech- 
nologies you will discover in the 
microcomputer printer market: 

Impact: Uses a type element with a 
raised character that strikes an inked 
ribbon against the paper, thus 
transferring the outline of the 
character to the paper. This is the 
same concept used in the common 
typewriter, but manufacturers have 
added several twists to the idea. In 
daisy-wheel or thimble-type printers, 
the complete set of type elements can 
be removed and replaced as a single 



unit. This makes it possible to change 
type fonts (the style of the letters) or 
install characters not commonly 
available. 

The typical small-computer owner 
usually opts for an impact printer 
that uses a dot-matrix type element. 
This device prints characters made 
from dots in a closely spaced grid. It 
is popular because of its flexibility. In 
many units, the characters' form is 
stored in memory and can be changed 
easily. The presence or absence of 
dots can be controlled by the com- 
puter (in some fashion) so that graphs 
and pictures can be printed. 

A rather unusual printer that might 
be classed with impact types uses a 
stylus to form the characters (an idea 
analogous to having a machine that 
draws with a pencil). The theory is 
that this system should provide the 
flexibility of a dot-matrix design with 
the fully formed characters of a daisy- 
wheel-type printer. 

Thermal and Electrostatic: Both use a 
form of the dot-matrix print head, 
but depend on special paper to create 
the image, rather than ink from a rib- 
bon. These printers are usually small, 
allow only 20 or 40 characters on a 
line, and have few extra features 



278 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Surprising Symmetries in 
Design and Letterforms . . 



llMplO.K 



"Kim is the Escher-of-the alphabet. 
He has created a new art-form that 
blends beauty and ingenuity, and has 
made it so clear to us that we can try it 
Ourselves . . . . " Issac Asimov, Author 

Inversions 

A Catalog of Calligraphic Cartwheels by Scott Kim 
Foreword by Douglas Hofstadter 
Back word by Jef Raskin 

The striking designs that grace the pages of Scott 
Kim's new book appeal to us as both viewers and 
readers, for words themselves are the subject of his 
calligraphic creations. With imagination and care, Kim 
bends, shapes, and sculpts words into novel and in- 
triguing works of art. Inversions is more than a 
showpiece, though, as the author details the theories 
and techniques that lie behind his art and draws 
parallels to related perceptual exercises in music, 
linguistic wordplay, and even mathematics. 

ISBN 0-07-034546-5 
1 28 pages; softcover 
$8.95 



"Scott Kim has perfected a personal art form — one with 

grace, elegance, subtlety, and surprises." 

Douglas Hofstadter, author 

Godel, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid 

"Scott Kim's Inversions ... is one of the most astonishing 
and delightful books ever printed." 
Martin Gardner 
Scientific American 



dear 



sura to dazzle and delight anyone to whom writing is 



B3 



m 



The New York Times Book Review 



A New Frontier Between 
Sight and Sound . 



■ 




"Here in this beautiful book John 
Whitney marries art to modern 
technology. Scenes that previously we 
would have strained to imagine, 
Whitney can now show us." 

Jearl Walker, Scientific American 



Digital Harmony by John Whitney 

On the Complementarity of Music and Visual Art 

Digital Harmony is the art of music made visible. 
Already acclaimed for pioneering the striking visual ef- 
fects in 2001 and Star Wars, author John Whitney 
here establishes a new art form in representing the 
magic of music through computer-generated color 
graphics. The author also delves into the technicalities 
of his work, offering to share his methods with others 
who would explore this field of vast artistic promise. 
Digital Harmony is the vanguard of what is sure to be 
one of the most exciting art forms for years to come. 

ISBN 0-07-07001 5-X 
240 pages; hardcover 
$21.95 



"Digital Harmony is a peek into the future when com- 
puterization will bridge the gap between art, science, and 
self-understanding. I loved it." 

Seymour Papert 

Author, Professor Massachusetts Institute of Technology 

Call Toil-Free 800/258-5420 

BYTE Books 70 Main St. Peterborough, N.H. 03458 



Circle 57 on inquiry card. 




" 







w 







When You Have To Face A Deadline . . . 




ince lis Introduction, Pascal/MT + ' has been used to produce thousands ol 
professional solutions to industrial, business and systems level application 
problems. In addition to implementing the complete ISO STANDARD 
Pascal/MT + ' contains a host ol powerful leatures and facilities which make 
! program construction a snap! 
Pascal/MT + ■ is a total programming system including our native machine code com- 
piler, linker, PascaHevel debugger, disassembler, run-time subroutine library and the ex- 
clusive SpeedProQrammlng ,m Package. 

With the advent of 16-bit machines and increasing customers demands, you can no 
longer afford to write programs In anything bul a professionally constructed and profes- 
sionally supported package like Pascal/MT + ■ MT MIcroSYSTEMS has demonstrated its 
commitment to keeping your programs and programmers productive with our recent in- 
troduction ol Pascal/MT + 86 and Pascal/MT + 68K for the 8086. While 
Pascal/MT + • provides the capability to write non-portable programs when the need arises, 
true portability between radically dilferenl machines is a reality while still translating 



into efficient, optimized native machine code. 

Our Pascal/MT + ' compilers and SpeedProgramming Package are available on a wide 
variety ol processors and operating systems, with more to come! We are continually work- 
ing to provide innovative solutions to the ever present problem ol translating your ideas into 
software solutions. 
The Pascal/MT + • System 
Compiler: 

Generates ROMable Native Code • Complete ISO Standard (superset ol Jensen & Wlrthl 
Powerful Extensions Include: 

Modular Compilation, Direct production ol binary relocatable modules • Dynamic stnngs 
• Chaining • Powerlul Overlay system • Address and Size returning functions • Bit manipu- 
lation (test, set, clear, shifts! • Byte manipulation (high, low, swapl • Imbedded assembly 
language • Easy linkage lo external assembly language • Full NEW and DISPOSE pro- 
cedures • Direct access lo I/O ports • Fast floating point, bolh software and AMD 951 1 • 
Accurate 18 digit BCD (fixed point. 14,4) • Include files • Hex literal numbers • and more 



. . . Arm Yourself With Pascal/MT+® 




Linker: 

Combines relocatable modules into executable files • Can generate Hex format for use 
with PROM programming. 
Interactive Symbolic Debugger: 

Variable display • High-level breakpoints by procedureflunclion name • Tracing/single 
step by Pascal statement • Procedure/lunction entry and exit trace available 
Disassembler: 

Combines a relocatable module with its listing file to produce interleaved Pascal and ap- 
proximate assembly language code 
The SpeedProgremmlng Package'" 1 : 

The SpeedProgrammtng Package is an integrated set of tools which allows you to create 
Pascat/MT+* programs, check them for correct syntax and undefined identifiers, format 
them to display flow of control, and do this all within the editing environment before you 
ever invoke the compiler Programmers like SpeedProgrammtng because it frees them from 
the time consuming chore of repeated compilations to correct simple syntactic and typing 
errors. Managers find that SpeedProgramming improves productivity, thereby reducing 
development costs SpeedProgramming combined with our field tested Pascal/MT+ ' 
package gives you a comfortable, powerlul. interactive programming environment in which 
to create your professional quality software. Your products demand production quality 
tools Order Pascal/MT+ " with SpeedProgramming lodayl 
ScnMn Editor: 

User configurable • Standard random cursor movement, tile access search and replace, 
insert, delete, exchange, etc. • Structured language editing features such as automatic in- 
dent, line adjustment, reading from and writing to a file, block text insertion and duplication 
• Requires 24 x 80 CRT (or larger). ASCII Keyboard (7 bit data), random cursor addressing. 
Interactive Syntax Scanner: 

Finds syntax errors in text being edited • Enters SPEED, puts cursor at error, prints error 
text 
Variable Checker: 

Catches undefined and mis-spelled variables before the compiler is invoked. 



On-Line Reformatted 

Beautify programs in seconds • Clearly shows structure and program flow. 
Source Code Management Tools: 

Automatic Modification Log and Backup utility program 

PRICING: 'Read carefully, some systems do not include the SpeedProgramming Package 
but do include the compiler, linker, disassembler, debugger and other utilities 

AVAILABLE NOW! 

•8080/8085/Z80 without SpeedProgramming Price $350 00 

56K or larger CP/M 
8080/8085/Z80 complete including SpeedProgramming Price $475 00 

56K or larger CP/M 
8080/8085/ZBO for special MP/M environments . Contact Factory 

•8086/8088 without SpeedProgramming Price $600.00 

CP/M-86 or MP/M-86, requues 1 16K program area 
8086/8088 complete including SpeedProgramming Price $800 00 

All 808678088 packages include 9511 and 8087 support and 
program to convert MT ob|ect files into Intel OBJ 8086 files 

Digital Research, Inc. is now the sole distributor for Pascal/MT + , and Is proud to add 
It to the Digital Research family of operating systems, languages and utilities. 

Available on 8" (3740) Single Density Disks Contact Distributors For Other Formats 
Pascal/MT + , CP/M, MP/M are trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. 



FOR: 8080/8085/Z80/8086 



Circle 276 on inquiry card. 






M DIGITAL RESEARCH 

P.O Box 579 

160 Central Ave. 

Pacific Grove, CA. 93950 

Phone No. 408/649-3896 

TWX 910-360-5001 



'All prices and speciflctions subject to 
change without notice. 



because of their low cost. They are 
most popular in calculator-sized com- 
puter systems where space is at a 
premium. 

Ink-Jet: This is actually a controlled 
spray of ink directly onto paper. 
Small droplets of ink formed at a noz- 
zle are directed by electrostatic fields 
to cover the proper areas on the 
paper. This is a fast way to print 
whole pages because the inertia of the 
droplets is far smaller than that of 
mechanical systems. The system is 
flexible because the form of each 
character is computer-controlled. 

Laser: Uses a raster-scan system 
similar in idea to a video display. The 
laser moves across a sensitized drum, 
"burning" a row of dots; as each row 
is completed, the beam moves down 
to begin the next row. The image is 
then transferred to paper, just as in a 
photocopier. Obviously, laser 
printers contain precision optical and 
mechanical parts, so they cost tens of 



thousands of dollars; but they are 
very flexible and fast. 

Because many of these systems are 
relatively new, manufacturers have 
not been able to bring down their 
cost. Because of this money factor, 
we will mainly consider the impact, 
electrostatic, and thermal types. Even 
the least expensive of today's impact 
printers has features that set it apart 
from the teletypewriter that was the 
common hard-copy appliance 10 
years ago. Here is an explanation of 
the concepts behind these features: 

Print Quality: An obvious considera- 
tion for most people and small busi- 
nesses. The quality of the characters 
that appear on paper is mostly deter- 
mined by the printer technology 
used. Daisy-wheel and thimble-type 
printers produce fully formed char- 
acters that look similar to those pro- 
duced by typewriters or typesetting 
equipment. Dot-matrix printers, 
although usually faster, are not as a 



ATTENTION GOVERNMENT D P 
USERS AND PURCHASERS 

We represent many fine micro products and manufacturers 
on the U.S. Government's GSA Schedule, including 

Apple, Cromemco, Micropolis, NorthStar, 
Osborne and Seequa Computers 

Purchasing from the Schedule will save you the time 
consumed by the bid process. Products shipped throughout 
the United States and world-wide. Visit or write any of our 
stores for more information or to receive our catalogue of 
products represented. 

Computers. 



the dependable store 



257 West Street, Annapolis, MD 21401 - (301) 268-6505 

13A Allegheny Avenue, Towson, MD 21204 - (301) 296-0520 

9330 Georgia Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910 - (301) 588-3748 

6671 Backlick Road, Springfield, VA 22150 - (703) 644-5500 

Plaza 38. 2442 Route 38, Cherry Hill, NJ 08002 - (609) 779-0023 

Callers outside metropolitan areas served by our stores 

Please call (301) 268-5801 

Career Opportunities Available * An Equal Opportunity Employer 



rule capable of producing high- 
quality printing (the exception is 
multipass types that allow their dots 
to overlap, giving a fully formed 
look). In dot-matrix printers, the 
number of dots in the matrix is a good 
guide to the visual quality of the 
printing (i.e., a 9- by 14-dot character 
will probably look far better than a 5- 
by 7-dot one). 

Character Sets: They can be an over- 
riding factor if special characters are 
required. Although the type elements 
of daisy-wheel and thimble-type 
printers can be changed manually, 
many dot-matrix printers can be pro- 
grammed with alternate character 
sets; some come with several 
preprogrammed sets. Almost all 
printers follow the ASCII (American 
Standard Code for Information Inter- 
change) convention that assigns each 
standard character with a 7-bit binary 
number. Few printers, however, 
allow all 128 ASCII characters. 

A related concern is the font, or 
style of type, used by the printer. This 
governs whether parts of the lower- 
case letters g, j, p, q, and y actually 
descend below the print line, whether 
the vertical lines of the characters are 
slanted, and whether or not the char- 
acters have serifs (short lines that ex- 
tend at an angle from the ends of the 
main strokes of the letter). Many dot- 
matrix printers provide a feature to 
condense or expand the characters 
horizontally; some even slant or 
rotate the characters. 

Although most printers produce 
characters that all take the same 
amount of space, an important fea- 
ture on high-quality units is propor- 
tional spacing. (Perhaps you have 
noticed that typesetting — such as is 
used in magazines, newspapers, and 
books — produces characters that 
have a variety of widths.) This con- 
tributes much to the look of a printed 
page. 

Speed: Many printers include features 
that allow them to print characters at 
a high rate. This may be as simple as 
a character set that is draft-quality 
(the printer doesn't spend much time 
making the character look pretty). 



282 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 99 on inquiry card. 



Circle 383 on inquiry card. 



The Logo Language is Here 

for the Apple n 



I ! I <i5 

■ i J (fa 

I •'« ^H , 

i fjji 

I ,*%-' ■ 



TO SQUIRflL rflNGLE DISTANCE 

IF .-DISTANCE > 200 THEN STOP 

FORUflRD :DISTflNCE 

RIGHT : ANGLE 

SQUIRflL :ANGLE DISTANCE + i 
END 



Terrapin, the Turtle Company, brings you the 
Terrapin Logo Language for the Apple II with 
Turtle graphics, now ready for immediate 
delivery. 

The Terrapin Logo language is a sophisticated 
and powerful language that is easy for anyone 
to use. Although originally intended for 
children, the Logo language is one that the 
most advanced programmers will enjoy using 
too. It includes many features common to 
artificial intelligence research languages 
permitting programs of great power to be 
written quickly and easily. Writing comparable 
programs in other languages is usually much 
more difficult and time consuming. 

The Turtle graphics is fun and easy. With 
simple commands such as FORWARD, RIGHT, 
and PENUP you can draw in six hi-res colors. In 
just a few short sessions you can learn to create 
figures more complex than the one above 
whether you know how to program or not. 

But the Terrapin Logo language is more than 
just a graphics language. It supports: 

■ list structure, allowing easy manipulation of 
words (strings) and lists 

■ user defined procedures which can be used 
exactly as if they were part of the language. 

* fully integrated screen editor for procedures 
and text 

■ floating point and integer arithmetic 

■ a total of 120 primitives (commands) including 
30 graphics commands 

■ recursion 

■ assembly-language interface capability 




SQUIRHL 123 1 



The Terrapin Logo language was developed 
by the Artificial Intelligence lab at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Terrapin is now authorized by MIT to dis- 
tribute the results of its 12 years of research t~ 
you. To provide quality support for the 
language, Terrapin has assembled a team 
that includes two of the three authors who 
developed the Logo language for the Apple II 
at MIT, as well as Dr. Feurzeig, the originator 
of the Logo language. 

Every copy of the Terrapin Logo language 
comes with complete documentation. To run 
the language, a 48K Apple II with a 16K RAM 
card or a language card, and one disk drive 
is required. 

Terrapin also offers the robot Turtle, and the 
following books: Turtle Geometry, Special 
Technology for Special Children, Mindstorms, 
Katie & the Computer, and Apple Logo from 
Byte Books. 

Suggested retail price: $149.95 

To order or for more information, call or write: 



678 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
(617) 492-8816 



■ i*M ^-j 






I 




However, two logical concepts are 
important to the speed of any printer: 
bidirectional printing and short-line 
seeking. A printer that does bidirec- 
tional printing does not waste time 
moving the print head from the end 
of one line, at the right of a page, to 
the beginning of the next line at the 
left. It simply prints the next line 
backward, beginning at the right. A 
short-line-seeking printer skips over 
multiple spaces at a higher than nor- 
mal speed and slows when the print 
head is located at the first printable 
character. 

Forms: Paper that the printer will ac- 
cept is usually limited to one or two 



types. A large amount of computer 
printouts are done on fanfold paper. 
However, cut sheets are preferred for 
correspondence and reports. Some 
printers accept only roll paper, as 
used on adding machines. Forms con- 
trols that allow the printer to auto- 
matically find the top of the next fan- 
fold page, and feeding mechanisms 
that load the printer with a single 
sheet of paper, are also available. 

(Fanfold continuous paper is sepa- 
rated into sheets by perforations 
along the top and bottom of each 
"page." A series of holes is provided 
along each margin for a tractor to 
move the paper vertically through the 
printer. Fanfold paper is available in 



a variety of styles and widths, includ- 
ing preprinted forms such as invoices 
and checks.) 

Following is a listing of printer 
manufacturers and their products. 
Where possible, the information has 
been taken directly from the maker's 
literature. But please remember this 
caveat: a manufacturer may em- 
phasize one feature and neglect to 
mention other features. Although we 
have made every attempt to keep the 
specifications accurate and up-to- 
date, errors do occur. Also, keep in 
mind that manufacturers reserve the 
right to alter specifications without 
notice. 



A D Data Systems Inc. 

200 Commerce Dr. 
Rochester, NY 14623 
(716) 334-9649 
Addmaster Corporation 
416 Junipero Serra Dr. 
San Gabriel, CA 91776 
(213) 285-1121 
170: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 18 or 21 char/line; 
50 cps; 6 line/inch; ASCII 
or Baudot characters; time- 
of-day clock with battery 
backup; self test; friction 
feed; 2.25 inch wide roll 
paper; RS-232, 63 char buf- 
fer; Centronics or Apple II 
parallel; 8.25 by 12 by 5; 7 
lbs; $299 

180: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix (9 by 7 optional); 34 
or 40 char/line; 48 cps; 6 
line/inch; ASCII or Baudot 
characters; time-of-day clock 
with battery backup; self 
test; friction or tractor feed; 
4.5 inch wide roll paner or 
labels; RS-232, 40 char buf- 
fer; Centronics parallel; $399 
Alphacom Inc. 
3031 Tisch Way 
San Jose, CA 95128 
Sprinter 20: thermal, 5 by 8 
dot matrix; 20 char/line; 96 
char ASCII; graphics; 
rotated printing; roll paper; 
RS-232, 110 to 9600 bps; 
parallel; $175 

Sprinter 40: thermal, 5 by 8 
dot matrix; 40 char/line; 96 
char ASCII; graphics; 
rotated printing; roll, fan- 
fold paper; RS-232, 110 to 
9600 bps; parallel; $350 
Alps Electric Inc. 
100 North Center Ave. 
Rockville Center, NY 11570 



(516) 766-3636 
1200: stylus; 15, 18, 24, or 
36 char/line; 6 cps; four col- 
ored ballpoint pens; 
graphics; all characters 
created under software con- 
trol of the host computer; 
friction feed; 2.25 inch wide 
roll paper; 8.5 by 5.9 by 
1.25; 1.1 lbs; $450 
1100: same as 1200 except: 
one color only; $325 
Amperex Electronics Cor- 
poration 
230 Duffy Ave. 
Hicksville, NY 11802 
GP300: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 120 or 144 char/line; 
80 or 300 cps; vertical tab; 
paper out indicator; 
graphics; self test; two 
character sets; friction feed 
and tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 300 
to 9600 bps; parallel; 20.5 
by 17.5 by 7.4; 44 lbs; $3165 
Anacom General Corpora- 
tion 

Computer Products Division 
1116 Vallencia Dr. 
Fullerton, CA 92631 
(714) 992-0223 
150: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 136 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; lowercase 
descenders; double-width 
characters; bidirectional 
printing; short-line seeking; 
self test; graphics optional; 
paper-out indicator; top-of- 
form control; tractor feed 
adjustable to 15 inches wide; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, buf- 
fer optional; parallel; 34 lbs; 
$1495 
150Z: impact, dot matrix; 40 



or 220 char/line; 180 cps; 
four selectable char sets; 
graphics; tractor feed; fan- 
fold paper; RS-232; parallel; 
$1650 

160: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 94 
char ASCII; graphics; lower- 
case descenders; paper-out 
indicator; top-of-form con- 
trol; tractor feed adjustable 
to 10 inches wide; fanfold 
paper; RS-232 with hand- 
shaking, 110 to 9600 bps; 
256 char buffer (IK to 4K 
char buffer optional); 
parallel; 17.5 by 18.5 by 
7.9; 34 lbs; $1450 
160Z: same as 160 except: 
96 char ASCII, 2 pass high- 
quality mode; prepro- 
grammed and programmable 
character sets; 70 by 70 dot 
graphics; self test; 4K char 
buffer 

Anadex Inc. 
9825 De Soto Ave. 
Chatsworth, CA 91311 
(213) 998-8010 
DP8000: impact, 9 by 7 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 112 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; double- 
width chars; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps, 2 K char 
buffer; parallel; 18.6 by 14.2 
by 7.3; 27 lbs; user- 
replaceable print head; 
$1125 

DP8000 AP: same as 
DP8000 except: 96 char/line; 
134 cps; Apple parallel inter- 
face 



DP9000: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 cnar/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; graphics, 72 by 60; 
compressed characters give 
106 char/line at 200 cps; self 
test; tractor feed; fanfold 
paper; RS-232; Centronics 
parallel; 22 by 15.4 by 8.3; 
30 lbs; $1550 

DP9001: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 cnar/line; 120 
cps; 96 char ASCII; com- 
pressed characters give 132 
char/line at 200 cps; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232; 
Centronics parallel; $1550 
DP9500: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
150 cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; lowercase 
descenders; underlining; 
double-width characters; 
condensed characters; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; graphics; top- 
of-form control; self test; 
tractor feed adjustable to 
15.6 inches wide; fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 800 char buf- 
fer; Centronics parallel; 35 
lbs; $1650 

DP9501: impact, 11 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
120 cps; 96 char ASCII; 6 or 
8 line/inch; lowercase 
descenders; double-width 
characters; compressed 
characters give 176 char/line 
at 200 cps; underlining; 
graphics; bidirectional print- 
ing; short-line seeking; 
paper-out indicator; self test; 
tractor feed adjustable to 
15.6 inches wide; fanfold 
paper; top-of-form control; 



284 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



INTRODUCING 
CALCSTAR. 

ANOTHER 

INDISPENSABLE 

BUSINESS 



Presenting CalcStar— another standard- 
setting software product in the WordStar 
tradition. 

CalcStar is MicroPro's new electronic 
spread sheet and financial modeling program— 
a sophisticated, yet easy to use, calculating 
and planning tool for CP/M-based computers. 
The ultimate electronic spread sheet. 
CalcStar calculates solutions to complex 
PPiMbIP A IUI ! Iclllwl nunierica 'P r °blems in business and finance. 
•^ HWUftlf I lm\#lwl Helps you make budget plans and sales fore- 
WlM If PADPA™ casts wim S reater speed and accuracy. And 

IwllVlm^TH Im^Tf projects figures into the future to answer the 

flip m ADffcfTl W%"'' " w ' lar ii questions you face in business. 
f||[ VW^r Klrd) IJuC ^ nc * CalcStar also has a unique MicroPro 

■%fa4fe*%|| m ' advantage: It joins with WordStar to combine 

PPlipi j spread-sheet and word-processing capabilities in 

— ^^ B ^^* several powerful ways. 
CalcStar software eliminates the need to use ledger paper 
ever again. It turns your video screen into a "window" on 
a giant electronic ledger sheet, with up to 600 entries arranged 
the way you want. Then, by inserting formulas into CalcStar, 
you create financial models that simulate the future numeri- 
cally. And predict the outcomes of your business decisions. 

When you notice what CalcStar can do for your business, 
you'll wonder how you ever got along without it. (If you're 
now a WordStar user, you probably already know the feeling.) 

The MicroPro bonus. Like WordStar, CalcStar is 
packed with innovative features that make it versatile and 
easy to use. Features like Automatic Forms Mode, which 
lets an inexperienced user enter data into a spread sheet 
quickly and with less chance of error. 

CalcStar s greatest innovation is its ability to join with 
WordStar. Which means, for example, you can use WordStar's 
printing options, like boldface and underlining, to dress 
up financial documents. And you can insert sections of 
CalcStar s spread sheets into your WordStar documents. 
This kind of flexibility should come as no surprise if 
you're already familiar with the MicroPro software family — 
a line of programs designed to work together to multiply 
your problem-solving power. Visit your MicroPro dealer to 
find out just how big a difference all our products can 
make in your business. We predict you'll discover it's not just 
CalcStar or WordStar that's indispensable. It's MicroPro. ^ 




A glance at CalcStar features 

Runs on CP/M version 2.0 or above, with 80- 
column screen, addressable cursor, and at lease 
48K memory. 56K or more is recommended for 
fullest utilization. 

Highly user friendly: Call up full screen of help 
or use help menu. WordStar-like cursor commands. 
User's guide shows you the basics. Install from 
menu OR a WordStar file. 

Stores formulas and formats along with data, for 
convenience and less chance of error. 

Math functions include average, minimum, 
maximum, logarithms, exponents, and regression 
analysis. 



SOFTWARE 
THAT MEANS BUSINESS 



INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

1299 Fourth Street, San Rafael, California 94901 
(415) 457-8990;Telex: 340-388 



lenutk of DJgto 
md distribute i 



Research, Inc. 

miries invited. 



Oatastar 



H **'«tt]ita, 



»ill* £r * C 



«*** 



«>crs6n 



c **s* 



&&** 



Circle 246 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 285 



RS-232, 800 char buffer; 
Centronics parallel; 35 lbs; 
$1650 

Apple Computer Inc. 
10260 Bandley Dr. 
Cupertino, CA 95014 
(408) 996-1010 
Silent Type: thermal, dot 
matrix; 40 char/line; friction 
feed; thermally sensitive 
paper 

Astronautics Corporation of 
America 
POB 523 

Milwaukee, WI 53201 
(414) 671-5500 
Autek Systems Corporation 
3200 Coronado Dr. 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 
(408) 496-0400 
Axiom Corporation 
5932 San Fernando Rd. 
Glendale, CA 91202 
(213) 245-9244 
GP-80M: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix formed by single 
hammer; 80 char/line; 30 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; graphics; double- 
width characters; tractor 
feed adjustable to 9.5 inches 
wide; fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel; 13 by 6.75 by 5; 5 
lbs; $399 

EX-801 Micro Printer: elec- 
trostatic, 5 by 8 dot matrix; 
20 or 80 char/line; 5 
line/inch; 96 char ASCII; 
RS-232, 50 to 1200 bps, 256 
char buffer; 11.75 by 12.75 
by 4.4; 12 lbs; $599 
EX-850 Video-Screen 
Printer: impact, dot matrix; 
13 seconds/page; prints any 
screen image formed by 
dots; friction feed; sheet 
paper; $1595 

IMP-1: impact, dot matrix; 
80, 96, or 132 char/line; 100 
cps; 96 char ASCII; 
graphics, 70 by 70 dots; fric- 
tion feed; sheet paper; 
RS-232; parallel; $699 
IMP-2: impact, dot matrix; 
80, 96, or 132 char/line; 100 
cps; 96 char ASCII; 
graphics; bidirectional print- 
ing; friction and tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold; 
RS-232; Centronics parallel, 
Apple II, PET, and IEEE-488 
interfaces 

IMP-4: impact, 7 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 100 
cps; 8 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; graphics, 19008 
dot/inch; bidirectional print- 
ing; friction or tractor feed; 
sheet, fanfold, or roll paper; 
RS-232; Centronics parallel, 
Apple II, and IEEE-488 
interfaces 
Azurdata 
4102 148th Ave. NE 



Redmond, WA 98052 
(206) 881-5100 

40-Column Desktop: impact, 
7 by 5 dot matrix; 40 
char/line; 80 cps; 96 char 
ASCII; friction feed; 2.8 
inch wide roll paper; 
RS-232, 1200 bps, 80 char 
buffer; 10 by 6.5 by 12.75; 

11 lbs 

40-Column Vehicle- 
Mounted: same as 
40-Column Desktop except: 
10.5 to 15 VDC; 0.1 A 
(standby), 4 A (printing); 6 
by 12 by 13.5; 7 lbs 
80-Column Desktop: impact, 

9 by 9 dot matrix; 80 
char/line; 57 cps; 96 char 
ASCII; double-width 
characters; bold characters; 
bidirectional printing; trac- 
tor feed adjustable to 10 
inches wide; fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 9600 bps, 80 char 
buffer; 14.75 by 4.25 by 12; 

12 lbs 
Base 2 
POB 3548 

Fullerton, CA 92634 
(714) 533-0111 
800MST: impact, dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
100 cps; 96 char ASCII; 
graphics; friction or tractor 
feed; RS-232, buffer; Cen- 
tronics parallel 

850: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
100 cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; short-line seeking; 
bidirectional printing; ver- 
tical tabs; graphics; self test; 
friction and tractor feed; 
fanfold or roll paper; 
RS-232, 75 to 9600 bps, 2K 
char buffer; Centronics 
parallel; 15 by 11 by 3; 15 
lbs; $799 

BDS Computer Corporation 
1120 Crane St. 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
(415) 325-2115 
Canon USA Inc. 
— Components 

10 Nevada Dr. 

Lake Success, NY 11040 
(516) 488-6700 
Cardinal Scale Manufactur- 
ing Company 
POB 151 

Webb City, MO 64870 
(417) 673-4631 
2170: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 100 
cps; 96 char ASCII; draft- 
and high-quality fonts; 
double-width, tall, boldface, 
and combination characters; 
bidirectional printing; short- 
line seeking; self test; 
upside-down printing; dual 
friction or dual tractor 
drives allow printer to be 



loaded with two types of 
forms; fanfold paper; 
RS-232; Centronics parallel; 
20 by 20 by 7; 70 lbs 
Centronics Data Computer 
Corporation 
1 Wall St. 
Hudson, NH 03051 
(603) 883-0111 
150: impact, 7 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 150 
cps; 96 char ASCII; "inter- 
national" character set op- 
tional; bidirectional printing; 
short-line seeking; top-of- 
form control; friction or 
tractor feed; sheet, fanfold, 
or roll paper to 10 inches 
wide; Centronics parallel; 
14.9 by 13.8 by 5.9; 22 lbs 
352: impact, 7 by 8 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 200 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; alternate 
character sets optional; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; vertical tabs; 
graphics; programmable 
forms control; friction or 
tractor feed; sheet, fanfold, 
or roll paper; RS-232, 50 to 
19200 bps, 2K char buffer; 
Centronics parallel; 22 by 18 
by 8; 40 lbs 

353: same as 352 except: 
also has high-quality print- 
ing mode at 50 cps 
700: impact, dot matrix; 132 
char/line; 69 cps; 64 char 
ASCII (96 char ASCII op- 
tional); friction and tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
Centronics parallel; $1460 
701: impact, dot matrix; 132 
char/line; 60 cps; 64 char 
ASCII (96 char ASCII op- 
tional); bidirectional print- 
ing; friction and tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
Centronics parallel; $1700 
702: impact, 9 by 7 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 120 
cps; 96 char ASCII; bidirec- 
tional printing; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; Centronics 
parallel; $2660 
703: same as 702 except: 180 
cps; $2965 

704: same as 702 except: 180 
cps; RS-232; $1795 
730: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 100 
cps; 6 line /inch; 96 char 
ASCII; double-width 
characters; friction or trac- 
tor feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper to 9.5 inches wide; 
Centronics parallel; 11 lbs; 
$795 

737: impact, line-wide by 9 
dot matrix; 80 char/line; 100 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; lowercase 
descenders; underlining; 



double-width characters; 
condensed characters; pro- 
portional spacing; reverse 
linefeed; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper 
to 9.5 inches wide; Cen- 
tronics parallel (RS-232 op- 
tional); 12 lbs; $995 
739: impact, line-wide by 9 
dot matrix; 80 or 132 
char/line; 100 cps; 6 
line /inch; 96 char ASCII; 
lowercase descenders; 
double-width characters; 
condensed characters; 
underlining; bidirectional 
printing; reverse linefeed; 
paper-out indicator; 
graphics; proportional spac- 
ing; self test; top-of-form 
control; friction feed; roll or 
fanfold paper to 9.5 inches 
wide; RS-232; 14.5 by 11 by 
5; 12 lbs; $995 
753: impact, line-wide by 9 
dot matrix; 80 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; short-line seeking; 
programmable forms con- 
trol; paper-out indicator; 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 
Centronics parallel; 24.5 by 
19.5 by 8; 60 lbs 
761: impact, dot matrix; 132 
char/line; 30 cps; 64 char 
ASCII (96 char ASCII op- 
tional); tractor feed; fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 300 bps; 
$1865 

779: impact, dot matrix; 80 
char/line; 60 cps; 64 char 
ASCII; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
Centronics parallel; $1485 
Mico PI: electrostatic, dot 
matrix; 40 char/line; 100 
cps; 90 char ASCII; friction 
feed; aluminized roll paper; 
Centronics parallel 
Commodore Business 
Machines 
3330 Scott Blvd. 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 
(408) 727-1130 
4022: impact, 5 by 8 dot 
matrix; 40 char/line; 30 cps; 
6 line/inch; 96 char ASCII, 
preprogrammed alternate 
character set; lowercase 
descenders; double-width 
characters; bold characters; 
bidirectional printing; self 
test; top-of-form control; 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 
IEEE-488 interface; 14.75 by 
13 by 4.25; 14.6 lbs; $795 
Computer Devices Inc. 
25 North Ave. 
Burlington, MA 01803 
Computer Printers Interna- 
tional 

340 East Middlefield Rd. 
Mountain View, CA 94043 



286 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



8 



MACRO OPERATIONS FOR 
MICRO SYSTEMS 



[i I I ,11! 






Microcomputer 
Operating Systems 



by Mark Dahmke 




Microcomputer Disk 
Techniques 

by Paul Swanson 

Rarely has so much useful in- 
formation been presented as 
clearly and logically as it is in 



Microcomputer Disk Tech- 
niques. The author shows how 
sophisticated methods used on 
larger computers may be im- 
plemented on a personal com- 
puter. Building from a basic 
introduction, Paul Swanson 
goes on to detail random- 
access, sequential, and key 
files, parameter-driven sub- 
routines, and, finally, the art of 
programming itself. This 
volume will help both novices 
and experienced computer users 
squeeze every bit of use out of 
a disk system. 



Microcomputer 
Operating Systems 

by Mark Dahmke 

A uniquely helpful volume, 
Microcomputer Operating Sys- 
tems details the structures and 
capabilities of the operating 
systems that link the computer 
user to the hardware itself. The 
author explains small systems 
and their monitors, larger 
systems with terminals and disk 
storage, and the function of 
command languages. Data and 
memory management, multi- 
processing, user interference, 
multiuser environments, and 
system design are among the 
more specific topics included in 
this comprehensive guide. Two 
particular operating systems — 
CP/M and Unix — are covered 
in appendices. 



Price $15.00 

ISBN 0-07-062582-4 



Price SI5.95 
ISBN 0-07-033356-4 



Please send 
Name 



Microcomputer Disk Techniques $ 1 5.00 
. Microcomputer Operating Systems $ 1 5.95 



Call Toll Free 800/258-5420 

Check Enclosed 



Address 



Bill Visa/ 
MasterCard # 



ftnli 



City 



State 



Zip 



Expiration Date 



BYTE Books 70 Main Street Peterborough, N.H. 03458 



Please add .75 per book to cover shipping cost. 



B 3 



Circle 58 on inquiry card. 



Go with McGraw-Hill's 

_ . , m TAKE ANY 3 BOOKS 

ji'ffl FOR ONLY $l«o EACH 

when you join the 

COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS' 
BOOK CLUB (values up to $75.00) 




THE PASCAL HANDBOOK. By 

Jacques Tiberghien. 471 pp. A sin- 
gle reference manual that tames 
this unruly language. Every feature 
of Pascal is explained in a brilliantly 
organized format that covers the 
major Pascal dialects, including 
Jensen and Wirth's original defini- 
tion, with the CDC implementation 
. . . the proposed ISO Standard . . . 
UCSD Pascal . . . Pascal 1000 
(HP1000) . . . OMSI Pascal-1 ... and 
Pascal/Z. 

582365-9B $35.00 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

MICROPROCESSOR APPLICATIONS 
MANUAL. By Motorola Semicon- 
ductor Products, Inc. 720 pp., il- 
lus., 8y2 x 11 format. With nuts- 
and-bolts practicality, this manual 
by the Motorola people (who should 
know) gives you detailed applica- 
tions information on micro- 
processors. Assumes no prior 
knowledge on your part about 
MPUs. 

435/278B $42.50 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 




.— 



COMPUTER CAPACITY. By Melvin J. 
Strauss. 288 pp., tables and 
charts. The key purpose of the book 
is to provide both senior manage- 
ment and DP practitioners with a 
methodology for identifying and 
quantifying issues of capacity and 
demand within the data center 
without becoming entrapped by 
language problems 
582317-9 $24.95 




"•i~-.-'"'' 



ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COMPUTER SCIENCE. Edited 
by Anthony Ralston and C. L. Meek. 1,500 pp., 60 
illus., 100 charts, 7 x 10 format. This first and only 
in-depth coverage of the entire field of computer 
science in a single volume is comprehensive and 
completely up to date. 

769/01XA $60.00 

(counts as 3 of your 3 books) 



BUILD YOUR OWN Z80 COMPUTER. 

By Steve Ciarcia. 330 pp., dia- 
grams, softbound. Written for peo- 
ple who don't need an introductory 
electronics handbook. Its admira- 
bly achieved objective is to present 
a practical, step-by-step analysis 
of digital computer architecture 
and the construction details for a 
complete and functional micro- 
computer. 
109/621 $15.95 

DATA STRUCTURES USING PAS- 
CAL. By Aaron M. Tenenbaum and 
Moshe J. Augenstein. 544 pp., il- 
lus. With its emphasis on struc- 
tured design and programming 
techniques, this definitive work 
takes you on a trailblazing journey 
through Pascal. Separate chapters 
are devoted to the stack, recursion, 
queues and lists, Pascal list pro- 
cessing, trees, graphs and their 
applications. 
582230-X $23.95 

HOW TO BUILD YOUR OWN WORK- 
ING MICROCOMPUTER. By Charles 
K. Adams. 308 pp., 214 illus. and 
tables . Everything you need to know 
to build your own microcomputer 
with a handful of chips! The author 
takes you through the hardware . . . 
assembly and running of the sys- 
tem . . . and details the instruction 
set and mechanics of program- 
ming. 
582267-9 $16.95 

APPLE PASCAL: A Hands-On-Ap- 
proach. By Arthur Luehrmann & 
Herbert Peckham. 426 pp., spiral- 
bound. Finally, a how-to-use- 
PASCAL book for Apple computer 
users that makes a complex lan- 
guage as easy as (forgive us!) 
applesauce. Takes you from "total 
ignorance" all the way up to very 
impressive competence in the use 
of that rather complex language, 
PASCAL. 
491/712 $14.95 



MICROPROCESSORS/MICROCOM- 
PUTERS/SYSTEM DESIGN. By 

Texas Instruments Learning Center 
and the Engineering Staff of Texas 
Instruments, Inc. 634 pp., illus., 
outsized 7V& x IOVa format. The 
book takes you through the devel- 
opment of memory-to-memory ar- 
chitecture, shows you the compo- 
nents, and details programming 
methods and techniques. 
637/58XB $26.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

minicomputer systems: or- 
ganization, Programming, and 
Applications. By Richard H. Eck- 
house, Jr. and L. Robert Morris. 
2nd Ed., 491 pp., illus. Updated, 
revised, and expanded, this is a 
book for every systems program- 
mer, systems designer, computer 
scientist, and application special- 
ist who wants to know more 
about microcomputer hardware, 
software, and design. 
787/026 $21.95 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING 
HANDBOOK. Edited by The Diebold 
Group. 976 pp., 269 illus. Written 
by a staff of internationally recog- 
nized authorities on ADP, this com- 
prehensive handbook explains sys- 
tems, programming and the lan- 
guages, communications pro- 
cesses, and the design and instal- 
lation of today's computers. 
168/075B $49.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

SOFTWARE DEBUGGING FOR MI- 
CROCOMPUTERS. By Robert C. 
Bruce. 351 pp., illus. Takes you 
through the fundamental methods 
for finding errors, glitches, and 
faults in programs . . . goes on to 
techniques for tracking down and 
exterminating program bugs . . . 
then combines these techniques 
into a complete debugging plan. 
582075-7 $18.95 



EXPERIENCE! 




THE DEVIL'S DP DICTIONARY. By 

Stan Kelley-Bootle. 160 pp., 
softbound. This devilishly clever lit- 
tle book isguaranteed to fill anyone 
who has ever slaved over a hot ter- 
minal with savage delight. Some 
500 computer words and terms are 
misdefined, from abacus to your pro- 
gram. 

340/226 $7.50 

MICROCOMPUTER INTERFACING. 

By Bruce Artwick. 352 pp., 117 il- 
lus. In this up-to-date, complete 
design guide you'll find the de- 
tailed descriptions and explana- 
tions necessary to enable you to 
select, build, and interface micro- 
computer systems to virtually all 
applications. Advanced interface 
devices and methods are thor- 
oughly examined and illustrated. 
789/436 $24.95 

personal computing: Hard- 
ware and Software Basics. Elec- 
tronics Book Series. 224 pp., 175 
///us., 8V2 x 11 format. Gives you 
comprehensive guidance to the 
present state of trie art in personal 
computers — an overall survey of 
the technology and methods avail- 
able to perform various tasks, facts 
about the work others are doing — 
and just how they are doing it. 
191/514 $24.50 



PROGRAMMING AND INTERFAC- 
ING the 6502- with Experi- 
ments. By Marvin L De Jong. 414 
pp., heavily illus., softbound. This 
guide not only teaches you all you 
must know about programming and 
interfacing the 6502, but it also 
carries you to a high level of under- 
standing and proficiency quickly 
and painlessly. 
582080-3 $15.95 

Z80 USERS MANUAL. By Joseph 
Carr. 326 pp., with diagrams, 
charts and tables. Takes you 
through every opportunity the ZAP 
can offer. It covers Z80 pin defini- 
tions, CPU control signals, support 
ships, interfacing peripherals, and 
much more. It also includes a 177- 
page Z80 instruction set so you can 
study the instructions on a one- 
by-one basis. 
582336-5 $18.95 

ELECTRONIC GAMES: Design, 

Programming, and Trou- 
bleshooting. By W. H. 
Buchsbaum and R. Mauro. 335 
pp., 338 illus. Information you 
need to design, program, and trou- 
bleshoot electronic games is right 
here in this widely popular hands- 
on guide. 

087/210B $26.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 



PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES. By 

Allen B. Tucker, Jr. 439 pp., illus. 
Gives you not only the principles of 
design but the applications of six 
major programming languages. 
Shows you their strengths and 
weaknesses in solving various rep- 
resentative "benchmark" prob- 
lems. 

654/158B $28.50 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 Books) 

BIT-SLICE MICROPROCESSOR DE- 
SIGN. By John Mick and Jim Brick. 
398 pp. All in one place — the cru- 
cial information you've been need- 
ing about the 2900 family of bit- 
slice microprocessor components. 
This remarkable "first" designs 
right before your eyes not just one 
but two complete 16-bit machines! 
417/814 $24.00 



Be sure to 
consider these 
important 
titles as well! 



6502 SOFTWARE DESIGN. By L J 

Scanlon 

582138-9 $10.50 

THE GIANT HANDBOOK OF COM- 
PUTER PROJECTS. By the Editors of 
73 Magazine 
582012-9 $15.95 

SYNTAX OF PROGRAMMING LAN- 
GUAGES: Theory and practice. By 

R. C. Backhouse 

582064-1B $25.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

STRUCTURED PROGRAMMING: 
Theory and Practice. By R C 

Linger, H.D. Mills, & B.I. Witt 
788/537B $22.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

THE BYTE BOOK OF PASCAL. Edited 

by B. W. Liffick 

789/673B $25.00 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 

THE Z-SO MICROCOMPUTER 
HANDBOOK. By W. Barden, Jr. 
784/914 $8.95 

COMPILER DESIGN AND CON- 
STRUCTION. By A. Pyster 
582026-9 $24.50 

COMPUTER PERIPHERALS FOR 
MINICOMPUTERS, MICROPRO 
CESORS AND PERSONAL COMPUT- 
ERS. By L C. Hohenstein 
294/518 $19.50 

16-BIT MICROPROCESSOR AR- 
CHITECTURE. By T. Dollhoff 
582003-X $24.95 

PRINCIPLES OF INTERACTIVE 
COMPUTER GRAPHICS. By W. M. 

Newman & R. Sproull 

463/387B $28.95 

(Counts as 2 of your 3 books) 



*If you join now for a trial period and agree to purchase 
three more books — at handsome discounts — during your 
first year of membership. (Publishers' prices shown) 



MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 



Why YOU should join now! 

■ BEST AND NEWEST BOOKS IN YOUR FIELD -Books are selected 

from a wide range of publishers by expert editors and consultants to give 
you continuing access to the best and latest books in your field. 

■ BIG SAVINGS — Build your library and save money too! Savings rang- 
ing up to 30% or more off publishers' list prices — usually 20% to 25%. 



BONUS BOOKS — You will immediately begin to participate in our 
Bonus Book Plan that allows you savings of bet ween 70% — 80% off 
the publishers' prices of many professional and general interest 
books! 



■ CONVENIENCE — 12-14 times a year (about once every 3-4 weeks) you 
receive the Club Bulletin FREE. It fully describes the Main Selection and 
alternate selections. A dated Reply Card is included. If you want the Main 
Selection, you simply do nothing — it will be shipped automatically. If you 
want an alternate selection — or no book at all — you simply indicate it on 
the Reply Card and return it by the date specified. You will have at least 10 
days to decide. If, because of late delivery of the Bulletin you receive a 
Main Selection you do not want, you may return it for credit at the Club's 
expense. 

As a Club Member you agree only to the purchase of 3 books during your 
first year of membership. Membership may be discontinued, by either you 
or the Club at any time after you have purchased the 3 additional books. 

Other McGraw-Hill Book Clubs: 

Accountants' and Controllers' Book Club • Architects' Book Club • Chemical 

Engineers' Book Club • Civil Engineers' Book Club • Electronics and Control 

Engineers' Book Club • Mechanical Engineers' Book Club 

For more information, write to: 

McGraw-Hill Book Clubs 

1221 Avenue of the Americas, 26th fl„ New York, NY 10020 



McGraw-Hill Book Clubs 
Computer Professionals' Book Club 
P.O. Box 582, Hightstown, New Jersey U8520 

Please enroll me as a member and send me either the ENCYCLO- 
PEDIA OF COMPUTER SCIENCE, billing me only $3.1)0. or any 
three other books, billing me only $1.00 each, plus local tax. 
shipping and handling. I agree to purchase a minimum of three 
additional books during my first year of membership as outlined 
under the Club plan described in this ad. A shipping and han- 
dling charge is added to all shipments. 



□ 
□ 



Check here if vou want ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COMPUTER 
SCIENCE (769/U1X). 

Check here if you prefer three other volumes, and indicate 
below by number the books you want. 
A few expensive books (noted in the description) count as 
more than one choice. 



Name 



Address/Apt. 

City/State/Zip . 



Corporate Affiliation 



This order subject to acceptance by McGraw-Hill. All prices sub- 
ject to change without notice. Offer good only to new members. 
Orders from outside the U,S. cannot be accepted. 

P39549 



(415) 969-6161 
Continental Resources Inc. 

175 Middlesex Turnpike 
Bedford, MA 01730 
(617) 275-0850 
Coosol Inc. 
POB 743 

Anaheim, CA 92805 
101B-48E: impact, 5 by 7 to 
10 by 14 dot matrix; 48 
char/line; 100 cps; 6 
line/inch; 96 char ASCII; 
friction feed; 4 inch wide 
roll paper; RS-232, 110 to 
9600 bps; parallel; 12 lbs; 
$355 

101B-80E: impact, 5 by 7 to 
10 by 14 dot matrix, 
multipass; 80 char/line; 160 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; tractor feed ad- 
justable to 10 inches wide; 
RS-232, 110 to 9600 bps; 
parallel; 20 lbs; $545 
102B-133E: impact, 5 by 7 
to 10 by 14 dot matrix, 
multipass; 132 char/line; 160 
cps; 6 line/inch; 128 char 
ASCII; TRS-80 graphics 
characters; bidirectional 
printing; RS-232, 110 to 
9600 bps; parallel; 20 lbs; 
$595 

Data Electronic Devices 
(Data ED) 
18 Bridge St. 
Salem, NH 03079 
(603) 893-2047 
DE-80SG: impact, 7 by 9 
dot matrix; 80 char/line; up 
to seven preprogrammed 
character sets including bar 
code; graphics; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232 with 
handshaking, 50 to 9600 
bps; 17 by 16 by 7; 20 lbs; 
$995 

Data General Corporation 
Route 9, 15 Turnpike Rd. 
Westborough, MA 01581 
(617) 485-9100 
Dasher: impact, dot matrix; 
60 cps; RS-232, to 19200 bps 
Dasher TP2: same as Dasher 
except: 180 cps 
Datapoint 
9725 Datapoint Dr. 
San Antonio, TX 
(512) 690-7151 
Dataproducts Corporation 
6200 Canoga Ave. 
Woodland Hills, CA 91365 
(213) 887-8000 
M-100: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 130 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char modified ASCII; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; 70 by 84 dot 
graphics; tractor feed ad- 
justable to 16 inches wide; 
fanfold paper; tape and 
direct access forms control; 
parallel (RS-232 or Cen- 
tronics parallel optional); 



26.6 by 23.4 by 8; 60 lbs; 
$2200 

Dataq Corporation 
637 Oritz Ave. 
Sand City, CA 93955 
(408) 899-4888 
Dataroyal Inc. 
235 Main Dunstable Rd. 
Nashua, NH 03060 
(603) 883-4157 
IPS5000: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 125 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; self test; 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 110 to 9600 bps; 
parallel; 14 by 18.3 by 7; 30 
lbs; $1110 

1PS7000: impact, dot matrix; 
132 char/line; 150 cps; 96 
char ASCII; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, ex- 
pandable buffer; parallel; 
$2295 to $2860 
Datasouth Computer Cor- 
poration 

474 Dwight Evans Rd. 
Charlotte, NC 28210 
(704) 523-8500 
DS180: impact, 9 by 7 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 6 or 8 
line /inch; 96 char ASCII; bi- 
directional printing; vertical 
tabs; graphics; double-width 
characters; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps; IK char 
buffer; 24 by 16 by 7; 34 
lbs; $1595 

Di-An Controls Inc. 
944 Dorchester Ave. 
Boston, MA 02125 
(617) 288-7700 
Diablo Systems Inc. 
26460 Corporate Ave. 
Hayward, CA 94545 
(415) 786-5000 
KSR1640: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 45 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction or tractor 
feed; RS-232; $3100 
KSR1650: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 45 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232; $3295 

RO630: impact, daisy wheel; 
132 char/line; 25 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
$2430 

Digi-Data Corporation 
8580 Dorsey Run Rd. 
Jessup, MD 20794 
2511: 200 cps; bidirectional 
printing; underlining; 
RS-232, expandable buffer, 
1200 to 19,200 bps; 22 by 
18.5 by 8.5; 40 lbs; $1550 
Digital Equipment Corpora- 



tion (DEC) 

1 Iron Way 

Marlborough, MA 01752 
(617) 493-4622 
LA34: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 30 
cps; condensed characters; 
self test; paper-out indicator; 
friction or tractor feed ad- 
justable to 15 inches wide; 
sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232; $1450 
LA36: impact, dot matrix; 
132 char/line; 30 cps; 96 
char set; tractor feed; fan- 
fold paper; parallel (RS-232 
optional); $2695 
LA120: impact, dot matrix; 
132 char/line; 120 cps; trac- 
tor feed; fanfold paper; 
parallel (RS-232 optional) 
Letterprint 100: impact, 9 by 
9 dot matrix; 132 char/line; 
240 cps; 2 to 12 line/inch; 
96 char ASCII, draft- and 
two high-quality fonts (high- 
quality fonts print at 30 cps 
and 80 cps); graphics; ver- 
tical tabs; friction or tractor 
feed (adjusts to 15 inches 
wide); sneet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 50 to 9600 
bps; 22 by 15 by 7; 25 lbs 
Dip Inc. 

745 Atlantic Ave. 
Boston, MA 02111 
(617) 482-4214 
Dip-81 : impact, 7 by 7 dot 
matrix; 40 or 80 char/line; 
100 cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; condensed 
characters; self test; friction 
feed; sheet, fanfold, or roll 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 1200 
bps, 80 char buffer; parallel; 
17 by 9.75 by 3.5; $499 
Dip-82: impact, 7 by 7 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 100 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; vertical tabs; 
graphics; condensed char- 
acters; self test; tractor and 
friction feed; sheet, fanfold, 
or roll paper; RS-232, 110 to 
1200 bps, 80 char buffer; 17 
by 9.75 by 3.5; $695 
Dip-84: impact, dot matrix; 
40 or 80 char/line; 100 cps; 
96 char ASCII; tractor feed; 
sheet paper; RS-232, (3K 
character buffer optional); 
parallel; $795 

Dip-85: impact, dot matrix; 
80 or 132 char/line; 100 cps; 
96 char ASCII; graphics; 
RS-232, with handshaking; 
parallel; $895 
Eaton Corporation 
901 South 12th St. 
Watertown, WI 53094 
(414) 261-4070 
7000 + 40: impact, dot 
matrix; 40 char/line; 125 



cps; uppercase only; friction 
feed; sheet paper; parallel 
(120 char buffer optional); 
$425 

7000 + 64: impact, dot 
matrix; 64 char/line; 125 
cps; uppercase only; friction 
feed; sheet paper; $443 
Epson America Inc. 
3415 Kashiwa 
Torrance, CA 90505 
(213) 539-9140 
MX-70: impact, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 80 cps; 
6 to 10 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; graphics; self test; 
tractor feed adjustable to 10 
inches wide; top-of-form 
control; Centronics parallel; 
14.75 by 12 by 4.5; 12 lbs; 
$450 

MX-80: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 80 cps; 
6 or 10 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; graphics; 
double-width characters give 
40 char/line; compressed 
characters give 132 
char/line; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; Cen- 
tronics parallel; (RS-232, 80 
char buffer optional); 14.75 
by 12 by 4.5; 12 lbs; $645 
MX-80F/T: same as MX-80 
except: tractor and friction 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
graphics, 120 by 72 dots; 
$745 

MX-100: impact, 18 by 18 
dot matrix formed by multi- 
ple passes; 132 char/line; 80 
cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; graphics, 
120 by 72 dots; double- 
width characters give 90 
char/line; compressed 
characters give 233 
char/line; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor and 
friction feed; sheet, fanfold, 
and roll paper to 15 inches 
wide; Centronics parallel 
(RS-232 optional); 23.3 by 
12.5 by 5.2; 21 lbs; $995 
Engineering Dynamics 
618 South Greenwood PI. 
Burbank, CA 91506 
(213) 843-9036 
Facit Data Products 
66 Field Point Rd. 
Greenwich, CT 06830 
4525: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; vertical tabs; com- 
pressed characters; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
512 char buffer; parallel; 
18.3 by 14 by 7; 30 lbs; 
$1595 
4526: impact, 9 by 9 dot 



290 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



NO LEADING IMPORT IS HIGHER 
THAN SUBARU IN OWNER LOYALTY. 



&fi**v ....^- 



Subaru owners have a lot in common. 
Including the habit of trading in one Subaru 
for another Subaru: 

If that isn't the best endorsement any 
car can earn, we don't know what is. 

One good reason people stick with 
Subaru is for its day in, day out reliability. The 
last time Road and Track surveyed Subaru 
owners, they reported ". . . one of the most 
trouble-free cars we ever surveyed."** 

Another reason is the wide choice of 
models. There's the sporty 2-door hardtop. The 
luxurious 4-door sedan. The versatile hatch- 
back. And the roomy station wagon. 

Every Subaru has full-time front wheel 
drive. In addition, three of our models — 
Hatchback, Station Wagon, Brat — are also 
available with On Demand Four Wheel Drive. 
Which is four wheel drive at the flick of a lever. 
Without sto pping. 

(Any other 4 wheeler around requires 

te a full stop before switching. 



And stopping is exactly what you can't 
do sometimes.) 

Some attractive options we offer are 
the Hill-Holder™ (a device on our manual 
transmission models' that keeps you 
from drifting back after stopping on 
steep hills), as well as power windows | 
and power steering, AM/FM stereo, 
cassette deck, cruise control. All the 
wonderful unnecessities of driving. 

Plus one huge necessity: out- 
standing gas mileage. Our cars are 
designed to squeeze every last mile 
out of every last drop. Year after year. 

Just remember that it's 
quite easy to find an inexpensive car. The trick 
is to find one that stays that way. 




INEXPENSIVE. AND BUILT 
TO STAY THAT WAY. 





TICKETS 



I 



US. MAIL 
POST OFFICE 



TICKETS; FREIGHT 






POLK AND COMPAN 
"OOEL OWNERS, 
, ...ACK - NC 

5EMAY DIFFER DEPENDING ON DRIVING SPEED, 
DITIONS,-,. UAt HWY MILEAGE WILL PROBABLY BE LESS. 



© SUBARU OF AMERICA, INC. 1981 



matrix; 132 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 
bidirectional printing; ver- 
tical tabs; compressed 
characters; tractor feed; fan- 
fold paper; RS-232, 512 char 
buffer; parallel; 24 by 14 by 
7; 35 lbs; $1697 
Florida Data Corporation 
600 D John Rodes Blvd. 
Melbourne, FL 32935 
OSP120: impact, 36 by 16 
dot matrix formed by two 
passes; 198 char/line; 600 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; vertical tabs; com- 
pressed characters; paper- 
out indicator; self test; fric- 
tion feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232; 25 by 20.5 
by 8.5; 60 lbs; $3900 
Forte Technology Inc. 
611 Neponset St. 
Canton, MA 02021 
(617) 828-7478 
Fujitsu America Inc. 
2945 Oakmead Village 
Court 

Santa Clara, CA 90505 
SP830: impact, daisy wheel; 
163 char/line; 80 cps; 127 
char set; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; graphics; 
paper-out indicator; friction 
feed and tractor feed; sheet 
or fanfold paper; RS-232; 
23.5 by 17.7 by 7.3; 40 lbs; 
$2650 

General Electric Company 
Data Com Products Division 
GE Drive 

Waynesborough, VA 22980 
(703) 924-8161 
Terminet 2030: impact, 9 by 
7 dot matrix; 80 or 132 
char/line; 30 cps; 2 to 12 
line/inch; 96 char ASCII; 
bidirectional printing; ver- 
tical tabs; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; integral 
modem (optional); friction 
or tractor feed; fanfold or 
roll paper; RS-232, 110 to 
1200 bps, 640 char buffer; 
22 by 18.5 by 5.5; 22 lbs; 
$1475 

Terminet 2120: impact, 9 by 
7 dot matrix; 150 cps; 
bidirectional printing; paper- 
out indicator; self test; fric- 
tion feed; sheet or roll 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 1200 
bps; 22 by 18.5 by 5.5; 24 
lbs; $2120 

Gulton Industries Inc. 
Gulton Industrial Park 
East Greenwich, RI 02818 
(401) 884-6800 
AP-20L: thermal, 5 by 7 dot 
matrix; 20 char/line; 6 
line/inch; 50 cps; 64 char 
ASCII uppercase only; fric- 
tion feed; 2.25 inch wide 



sensitized roll paper; 
RS-232, 20 char buffer; 
IEEE-488; 11.5 by 13 by 4.75 
Microplot-44: thermal, 1 by 
256 (line wide) dot matrix 
produces 5 by 7 to 8 by 12 
dot characters; 44 char/line; 

6 line/inch; 2 lps; 96 char 
ASCII; dot-addressable 
graphics; rotated printing; 
compressed characters; 
double-height characters; 
boldface characters; friction 
feed; 5 inch wide sensitized 
roll paper; RS-232; 
IEEE-488; 9.9 by 11.5 by 4.3 
Microplot-80: same as 
Microplot-44 except: 1 by 
512 (line wide) dot matrix; 8 
inch wide sensitized roll 
paper; 13.8 by 11.8 by 4.5 
Versatmk-60: thermal, 5 by 

7 dot matrix; 20 char/line; 6 
line/inch; 80 cps; 64 char 
ASCII uppercase only; 
directly accepts analog 
signals for chart recorder ap- 
plications at infinitely 
variable speeds; graphic 
plotting; rotated printing; 
reverse linefeed; friction 
feed; 2.75 max width sen- 
sitized roll paper; RS-232 
with handshaking; 5.75 by 
10.75 by 6.25 

Heath Company 
Benton Harbor, MI 49022 
(800) 253-0570 
H-14: impact, dot matrix; 5 
by 7 matrix; 80, 96, or 132 
char/line; 6 or 8 line/inch; 
40 cps; 96 char ASCII; 
double-width characters; 
print head temperature pro- 
tection; forward and reverse 
linefeed, and top-of-form; 
tractor feed, 2.5 to 9.5 inch 
width; RS-232, 110 to 4800 
bps; 18.33 by 14.33 by 4.80 
inches; 23 lbs; kit: $495, 
assembled: $595 
H-25: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; graphics; 
bidirectional printing; self 
test; tractor feed adjustable 
to 17.75 inches wide; fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 9600 
bps; 26.5 by 18.5 by 8.25; 
80 lbs; $1095 
Hecom Corporation 
31-45 Park Rd. 
Tinton Falls, NJ 07724 
(201) 542-9200 
Hewle tt-Packard 
1501 Page Mill Rd. 
Palo Alto, CA 94304 
Hi-G Company 
580 Spring St. 
Windsor Locks, CT 06096 
(203) 623-3363 
9/50: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 150 cps 



draft-quality, 75 cps high- 
quality; 96 char ASCII; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; vertical tabs; 
graphics; top-of-form con- 
trol; tractor or friction feed; 
sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 110 to 9600 bps, 
350 char buffer, expandable 
to 3422 char; Centronics 
parallel; 21.25 by 16.5 by 
7.25 

9/132: same as 9/80 except: 
132 char/line 
Howard Industries 
2031 East Cerritos Ave. 
Anaheim, CA 92806 
(714) 778-3443 
Ty printer 221: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 20 cps; 
100 char modified; ASCII; 
bidirectional printing; in- 
telligent text editing; vertical 
tabs; paper-out indicator; 
self test; friction feed; sheet 
paper; RS-232; $2850 
Informer Inc. 
8332 Osage Ave. 
Los Angeles, CA 90045 
(213) 649-2030 
Infoscribe 

2720 South Croddy Way 
Santa Ana, CA 92704 
(714) 641-8595 
500: impact, dot matrix; 136 
char/line; 150 cps; 96 char 
ASCII (draft- and high- 
quality fonts); tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel; $1595 
1000: impact, dot matrix; 
136 char/line; 200 cps; 96 
char ASCII (draft- and high- 
quality fonts); program- 
mable character set; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel; $1825 
1500: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 136 char/inch; 360 
cps; 96 char ASCII; bidirec- 
tional printing; tractor feed 
adjustable to 16 inches wide; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 110 
to 9600 bps; parallel; $1895 
Integral Data Systems (IDS) 
Milford, NH 03055 
(603) 673-9100 
445: impact, dot matrix; 80 
or 132 char/line; 198 cps; 96 
char ASCII; graphics (op- 
tional); tractor feed; fanfold 
paper; parallel (RS-232 op- 
tional); $795 

460: impact, dot matrix; 80 
char/line; 150 cps; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; auto justification; pro- 
portional spacing; graphics, 
84 by 84 dots; $995 
560: impact, dot matrix; 132 
or 220 char/line; 198 cps; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; single-dot graphics; 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 



RS-232; parallel (optional); 
$1695 

Prism: impact, 24 by 9 
overlapping dot matrix; 200 
cps draft mode, 150 cps 
high-quality; 96 char ASCII; 
double-width characters; 
bold characters; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; color graphics; 
proportional spacing; fric- 
tion or tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 300 
to 9600 bps; Centronics 
parallel; 21.75 by 12.5 by 
8.5; 29 lbs 
Integrex Inc. 
233 North Juniper 
Philadelphia, PA 19107 
(215) 627-0966 
CX80 Colour: impact, 5 by 
7 dot matrix; 80 char/line; 
125 cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; preprogrammed 
and programmable graphics 
characters; dot graphics; 
prints in up to seven colors 
using special ribbon; self 
test; tractor feed adjustable 
to 10 inches wide; fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 75 to 9600 
bps; Centronics parallel; 
IEEE-488; Apple II; 16.25 by 
12.8 by 7.5; 21 lbs 
Innovative Electronics Inc. 
15200 Northwest 60th Ave. 
Miami Lakes, FL 33014 
(305) 558-1591 
Interface Mechanics Inc. 
4405 Russell Rd. 
Lynnwood, WA 98036 
(206) 743-7036 
C. Itoh Electronics Inc. 
5301 Beethoven St. 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
(212) 682-0420 
Comef I: impact, dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 125 
cps; 96 char ASCII; bidirec- 
tional printing; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 2K 
char buffer; parallel; $455 
Comet II: impact, dot 
matrix; 136 cnar/line; 125 
cps; 96 char ASCII; bidirec- 
tional printing; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 2K 
char buffer; parallel; $1290 
Sfar Writer I: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 25 cps; 
friction or tractor feed; sheet 
or fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel; $2380 
Star Writer II: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 45 cps; 
friction or tractor feed; sheet 
or fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel; $2898 
Ivo Industries Inc. 
1109 Green Grove Rd. 
Neptune, NJ 07757 
(201) 922-3600 
Landis and Gyr Inc. 
Industrial Products 



292 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



EPSON 

PRINTERS & ACCESSORIES 

Common Features of the MX80, MX80FT & MX100 Printer* 



• 80 characters per second 

• Replaceable print head by user 

• User programable from BASIC 

' Bi-directional logic seeking printhead 

• 96 ASCII characters 

' Programable tabs (vert./horz.) 

' Cartridge ribbons 

• Self-test mode 



Tractor/pin feed paper flow 
Extreme reliability 
12 type fonts under software control 
9x9 & 9x18 matrix 
Programable form feeds 
Compressed/expanded letters 
Parallel interface standard 
Double strike & emphasized modes 



MX80 ...The Printer that started it all. All of the above features plusextreme ease of use 
CompleteTRS80 block graphics set as well as user selectable international symbols. Gives 
correspondence quality printing in several user selectable modes. Dip switch pins may be 
set for dedicated applications. Complete forms programability from BASIC software. 

MX80FT All the features of the MX80 but with FRICTION feed as well for the use of 
single sheets of paper or roll paper. An exceptional buy for the user needing the single sheet 
capability. In the compressed mode 132 characters can be printed across the width of a page 
which means it can be used for any printouts that normally need a 15 inch wide printer. 
MX 100 An exceptional printer with a extra quiet printhead and extra heavy duty 
construction for the intense use of a business environment. Does not have the TRS80 graphic 
blocks but comes standard with Bit-Image graphics which allow the user control of 
individual dots for designing specialized graphs, symbols, etc. A best buy for business use. 

MX70 For the budget minded a excellent entry level printer. It has most all of the 
features mentioned above including Bit-Image graphics in place of the TRS80 graphic blocks 
set. The Printer is unidirectional only. Expandable text can be printed but not compressed. 
Only single density printings is supported on the MX70. An inexpensive heavy duty printer. 

$CALL for BEST prices on Epson Printers 
All Printers & accessories in STOCK now!!! 

If you buy your EPSON somewhere else you'll probably pay too much! 
EPSON ACCESSORIES, INTERFACES & CABLES 



GRAFTRAX 80 option (bit-image & italics). .$79 

CABLE Model I interface* Model III $35' 

* $25 if purchased with printer 
CABLE & INTERFACE to Model I Keyboard. $85 

APPLE interface & cable $89 

PET IEEE interface & cable (Pet) $79 

SERIAL RS232 unbuffered int.card $65 

SERIAL RS232 2k buffered int.card $149 

Epson to Color Computer card/cable $59 

All RIBBONS and CARTRIDGES in Stock 



$CALL 



800-433-5184 



Radio Shack LINE PRINTERS Line Printer VI $988 

Daisy Wheel II $1695 Line Printer VII $325 

Line Printer V $1580 Line Printer VIII $699 



TEXAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

Offers Lowest Prices on 




Model II 64K 




The best buy for small business needs 
and yet completely expandable as 
your business grows. Easy to use for 
the beginning operator. We have in 
STOCK all accessories and disk 
expansions as well as printers and 
software. IMPORTANT: We also 
have CP/M for the Model II plus a 
large amount of support software. All 
of these items at our fabulous 
DISCOUNT Drices. We ship from DFW 
by air and fully insured for FAST safe 
delivery. 



HARD DISK SUPPORT FOR THE MODEL II...NOW! 

5. 10 or 20 Megabytes (up to 80 Megabytes) for the Model II. Full CP/M support. Also full 
support for TRSDOS and all TRSDOS software. Multiple computers (multi-user) can be con- 
necfed to these hard disk systems and can share and access common data bases under both 
CP/M and TRSDOS. The same common data base can even be accessed simultaneously by 
several users. We use top of the line CORVUS Hard Disk Drives which have a proven track 
record and have outsold all of their competitors combined in the microcomputer market. 
Model I and III are also supported by these Hard Disk Systems. SCall for our LOW prices 



COLOR COMPUTERS 

Orginal mfg. warranty on these items: TCS 180 day Limited warranty on TCS items: 

4K Level 1 $308 16K Level 1 $369 

16K Level 1 $439 16K Extended Basic $439 

16K Extended Basic $459 32K Extended Basic $499 

32K Extended Basic $569 32K Upgrade Kit (TCS) $79 

Color Disk 0...$499 Disk 1...S349 EPSON/COLOR lnt.& cable $59 



TRS80 MODEL III COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

The following with Radio Shack Warranty: _. , ,.. _„_ 

■ > j i mi «i ,.„r The following with quality TCS memory Sour 

Model III 16k $o2o own 180 day limited warranty: 

Model III 32k $979 Model III 32K $909 

Model III 48k $1089 Model III 48K $969 

Model III 48k 2 Drives RS232.$2069 



CUSTOM SOFTWARE FROM TCS 

Completely Integrated binary SEARCH TREE programs now available. This series of 
programs fully implements the B-TREE structures including INSERTION. DELETION. EDITING 
& TRAVERSAL. No more sorting or long data file searches and yet files can be larger than 
memory. Duplicate keys are fully supported. Files can be retrieved in sorted order via B- 
TREE Traversal. Each of the programs come with fully commented source code so that you 
can use the modules in your own programming. A Screen oriented Input routine is also 
included in each module. The following B-TREE programs are now available and each 
includes all of the mentioned modules and full documentation: 

B-TREE Library (organlzt your home library keyed by author) $39.95 

B-TREE Video (organize your video cauarte library, prlnta labeli, ate) $39.95 

B-TREE Mailing Lilt (keyed by name or rip. label printlng.etc) $49.95 



EPSON PACK A Utility Soft- 
ware package for MX80 & 80FT. 

MX80/CMD will send all printer commands 
from DOS. BIGLETT/BAS prints lame Graphic 
Letters. EPSON/SUB merges with BASIC pro- 
grams allowing 2 letter mneumonic 
commands lo be sent to printer. JKL Patchs 
allow JKL in NEWDOS 80 1 .0 & NEWDOS 2.1 to 
send graphics properly. DEMO/BAS tutorial 
program of use of printer. LABEL/BAS custom 
label making program with graphics. DEF- 
STATE/SUB allows one word BASIC com- 
mands for centered titles, titles with borders, 
etc. A great program package for EPSON fans. 
SPECIAL DEAL: $24.95 with printer $34.95 
seperately. Specify Model 1 or III. disk only 



EPSON PACK 2 - GRAFTRAX 

version for MX80, 80FT & MX100. This 
package includes updated versions of 
modules in original Epson Pack. A screen 
oriented BIT IMAGE GRAPHICS generator util- 
ty is provided. Create your special 
characters, symbols, etc. directly on your 
monitor and then send to printer. Printout in- 
cludes code to generate graphics and will 
save needed code as BASIC program line to 
disk. Then MERGE these into your BASIC pro 
gram. Also demo programs showing use of 
Bit-Image graphics. Full documentation. 
INTRO SPECIAL: $24.95 with printer or 
GRAFTRAX. $34.95 aaparataly. $7.50 tor 
update of old Epaon Pack 



ZAP3 - Direct read/write access lo any TRSDOS 1.2 or 1.3 sector. Disable Passwords & 
access levels. Self prompting. Modify any sector in HEX or ASCII. Includes many patches to 
TRSDOS 1.2 & 1.3. Also COPYIT to allow backups of SCRIPSIT, VISICALC. etc. Just. ...$24.95 
SDIR - Super directory manipulation lor TRSDOS 1.2 or 1.3. Alpha 4 column directory & 
free space. Display a range of programs by extension. Change name and date. Generate 
report of location of any program on diskette. Just. ...$14.95 
SPECIAL DEAL: Buy ZAP3 & SDIR together for .... $29.95 



MODEL III DISK EXPANSION KITS 

We use the highest quality fiberglass Our DISK DRIVES are made by Tandon the 

controller BOARDS with double sided same company that makes the drives used by 

glass epoxy board and goldplated contacts in Radio Shack These drives are 40 track, 

our TCS systems The finest switching double density, 5 millisecond stepping rate 

POWER SUPPLY available is also provided, and are fully burned in for 48 hours. These 

The aluminum MOUNTING HARDWARE ur i ves have the same specifications as the 

has slotted holes for easy installation of the ur j ves use d by Radio Shack. No soldering or 

drives and includes all the power and data modifications to existing circuitry is 

cables necessary to install the controller, necessary The following kits are available: 
drives and power supply. 

KIT 1 Controller, Power Supply & Mounting Hardware $379 

KIT 2 Controller, Power Supply, Hardware A 1 Disk Drive $595 

KIT 3 Controller, Power Supply, Hardware & 2 Disk Drive* $819 

KIT 4 One Tandon Disk Drive (bare drive only) $219 

KIT 5 16K ol High Quality TCS Memory chips $49.95 

KIT 6 32k ol High Quality TCS Memory chips $79.95 

MODEL III 48K 2 DISK DRIVES KIT.. ..$1753 

Yes, you read it right. A complete 48k 2 Disk Drive Model 111 computer system for just 
$1753. Here's what you get: one TRS80 Model Ml 16k Computer in factory carton, one 
CONTROLLER. POWER SUPPLY & HARDWARE kit (kit 1). two Tandon Disk Drives 
and 32K of TCS Memory. You also receive several important extras that make this a 
complete super kit. These extras include a complete illustrated instruction and trouble 
shooting manual, a TRSDOS 1 .3 operating system and manual and a special diagnostic 
Diskette for testing the unit after you have put it together. The only tool necessary « a 
screwdriver. EVERYTHING is included in this kit and the price is right. ..$1753 

MODEL III 48k 2 DISK DRIVES ... $1895 

Above KIT fully assembled, with 48 hour burn-in test & 180 day TCS Limited Warranty!! 
DEALER INQUIRIES ARE INVITED ON THE ABOVE TCS KITS 



CASIO ELECTRONIC ORGANS have arrived!!! 

The fantasic CASIO Electronic Organs are here in force. Fully egual to any $2000 traditional 
Organ with dozens of exciting NEW features not seen on other musical instruments 1 

CASITONE CT— 403 (25 lnitrumentl,16 rythnn.chord memory.etc.) $519 

CASITONE CT-701 (programable, barcode raadar,51 keyi.etc.etc.) $835 



For fast, eflicient service. Heart Of we can air freight from Dallas 

TEXAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 1327 Arlington, Texas 76004-1327 

^VToll Free Number 800 433-5184 
Texas Residents 817 274-5625 






Payment: Money order, cashiers or certified 
check. Prices above reflect 3% cash Discount 
Call for Visa/MC card prices. 



Prices subject to change at any time 
No Tax out-of-state. Texans add 5%. 
Many items shipped FREE. Call for guote. 



Circle 384 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



293 



4 Washington Plaza 
Elmsfield, NY 10523 
(914) 592-4400 
Lear-Siegler Inc. 
714 North Brookhurst St. 
Anaheim, CA 92803 
310 Ballistic: impact, 7 by 9 
dot matrix; 136 char/line; 
180 cps; 128 char ASCII; 
vertical tabs; compressed 
characters (optional); pro- 
grammable forms control 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 70 to 9600 bps (2K 
char buffer optional); 
parallel; 27 by 19.8 by 8; 50 
lbs; $2045 
Litton Industries 
Westrex OEM Products 
1140 Bloomfield Ave. 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
(201) 227-7290 
Mag Labs Inc. 
1 Crown Dr. 
Apalachin, NY 13732 
(607) 625-2161 

Malibu Electronics Corpora- 
tion 

2301 Townsgate Rd. 
Westlake Village, CA 91361 
(805) 496-1990 
165: impact, 10 by 9 dot 
matrix; 165 cps; graphics; 
RS-232; parallel; $2295 
200: impact, 9 by 18 dot 
matrix, double pass; 132 
char/line; 250 cps; 6 or 8 
line/inch; 96 char ASCII 
(multiple fonts); bidirec- 
tional printing; graphics, 120 
by 144 pixels; self test; fric- 
tion and tractor feed; sheet 
or fanfold paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps; 23.9 by 
17.1 by 7; 41 lbs; $2995 
Mannesman-Talley 
8024 South 180th St. 
Kent, WA 98031 
(206) 251-5524 
MT-1800: impact, 7 by 9 
dot matrix, double pass; 132 
or 218 char/line; 200 cps; 6 
or 8 line/inch; bidirectional 
printing; vertical tabs; 
double-width characters; 
compressed characters; 
paper-out indicator; self test; 
tractor feed; fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 300 to 9600 bps; 
parallel; 25.5 by 19.5 by 
18.5; 63 lbs; $2495 
Matchless Systems 
18444 Broadway 
Gardena, CA 90248 
(213) 327-1010 
MDS Trivex 
3180 Redhill Ave. 
Costa Mesa, CA 92626 
(714) 546-7781 

MPI (Micro Peripherals Inc.) 
4426 South Century Dr. 
Salt Lake City, UT 84107 
(801) 263-3081 
88G: impact, 11 by 7 dot 



matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
100 cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII (draft- and high- 
quality fonts); bidirectional 
printing; graphics; friction 
or tractor feed; sheet, fan- 
fold, or roll paper; RS-232, 
IK char buffer; Centronics 
parallel; 16.3 by 10.8 by 
6.3; 15 lbs; $749 
Microtek Inc. 
9514 Chesapeake Dr. 
San Diego, CA 92123 
Tekwriter-1 (formerly 
Bytewriter 1): impact, 7 by 
7 dot matrix; 80 char/line; 
80 cps; friction feed; sheet 
or roll paper; parallel Cen- 
tronics, Apple II, or Atari; 
$349 

Tekwriter-2: impact, 9 by 9 
dot matrix; 80 or 132 
char/line; graphics; Cen- 
tronics parallel 
MT-80: impact, dot matrix; 
80 char/line; 125 cps; 96 
char ASCII; tractor feed; 
fanfold paper; RS-232, 3K 
char buffer; parallel; $795 
Miltope Corporation 
9 Fairchild Ave. 
Plainview, NY 11803 
(516) 349-9500 
Newman Computer Ex- 
change Inc. 
1250 North Main St. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 
(313) 994-3200 
NEC Information Systems 
Inc. 

5 Militia Dr. 
Lexington, MA 02173 
5510: impact, thimble; 132 
char/line; 55 cps; 6 or 8 
line/inch; 128 char ASCII 
(multiple fonts); bi- 
directional printing; vertical 
tabs; paper-out indicator; 
friction and tractor feed; 
sheet or fanfold paper; cut- 
sheet feeder; RS-232, 110 to 
1200 bps, 256 char buffer; 
25 by 16.5 by 8.7; 45.5 lbs; 
$3055 

5520: impact, thimble; 132 
char/line; 55 cps; 128 char 
ASCII (multiple fonts); fric- 
tion or tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; cut-sheet 
feeder; RS-232, 110 to 1200 
bps; $3415 

5530: impact, thimble; 132 
char/line; 55 cps; 128 char 
ASCII (multiple fonts); fric- 
tion or tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; cut-sheet 
feeder; parallel; $3055 
Okidata Corporation 
111 Gaither Dr. 
Mount Laurel, NJ 08054 
(609) 235-2600 
Microline 80: impact, dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
80 cps; 96 char set; friction 



and tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; parallel; $475 
Microline 82A: impact, 9 by 
9 dot matrix; 80 or 132 
char/inch; 120 cps; 6 or 8 
line/inch; short-line seeking; 
bidirectional printing; 
graphics; double-width 
characters; compressed 
characters; friction and trac- 
tor feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 1200 
bps; parallel; 14.2 by 12.9 
by 5.2; 20 lbs; $645 
Microline 83: impact, dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 120 
cps; 96 char ASCII; bidirec- 
tional printing; tractor feed 
adjustable to 15 inches wide; 
fanfold paper; RS-232; 
parallel 

SL300: impact, dot matrix 
whole-line printer; 132 
char/line; 300 1pm; 96 char 
ASCII; software selectable 
fonts, oversized chars; bar- 
code font; graphics; tractor 
feed; parallel; $3995 
Olivetti Peripheral Equip- 
ment 

505 White Plains Rd. 
Tarrytown, NY 10591 
(914) 631-3000 
DY-211: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 20 cps; 
5 or 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; manually changeable 
print element; friction feed 
accepts paper up to 17 
inches wide; RS-232, 110 to 
9600 bps; 36 lbs; $1900 
DY-311: impact, daisy 
wheel; 150 char/line; 32 cps; 
5 or 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; manually changeable 
print element; friction or 
tractor feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 100 to 9600 
bps; parallel; 39.5 lbs; $2850 
DY-811: impact, daisy 
wheel; 150 char/line; 65 cps; 
5 or 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; manually changeable 
print element; friction or 
tractor feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 9600 
bps; parallel; 79 lbs; $4280 
DM80/180: impact, 8 by 7 
dot matrix; 150 char/line; 80 
cps; 5 or 6 line/inch; 96 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 110 to 9600 bps; 
parallel; 79 lbs; $4280 
Pertec Computer Company 
12910 Culver Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
Stylist 360: impact, daisy 
wheel; 198 char/line; 17 cps; 
100 char modified ASCII; 
bidirectional printing; fric- 



tion feed; sheet or fanfold 
paper; RS-232; parallel; 20.9 
by 13 by 5.5; 29 lbs; $1500 
Printek Inc. 
1517 Townline Rd. 
Benton Harbor, MI 49022 
(616) 925-3200 
910: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 170 
cps; 96 char ASCII, pro- 
grammable character set; 
double-width characters; bi- 
directional printing; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
1800 char buffer; parallel; 23 
by 17 by 7; $1695 
920: same as 910 except: 340 
cps; $2345 

Printer Terminal Com- 
munications Corporation 
124 10th St. 
Ramona, CA 92065 
879: impact, 7 by 9 dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
180 cps; 6 line/inch; 96 char 
ASCII; bidirectional print- 
ing; vertical tabs; com- 
pressed characters; friction 
and tractor feed; sheet, fan- 
fold, or roll paper; RS-232, 
300 to 9600 bps, 256 char 
buffer; parallel; 18 by 22 by 
7.5; 25 lbs; $1299 
Printronix 
17421 Derian Ave. 
Irvine, CA 92713 
(714) 549-8272 
Qantex 
60 Plant Ave. 
Hauppage, NY 
(516) 582-6060 
Qume Corporation 
2350 Qume Dr. 
San Jose, CA 95131 
(408) 942-4000 
Sprint 5/45: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 45 cps; 
friction or tractor feed; sheet 
or fanfold paper; cut-sheet 
feeder; RS-232; parallel; 
$3137 

Sprint 5/55: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char /line; 55 cps; 
3 to 8 line/inch; manually 
changeable print element; bi- 
directional printing; vertical 
tabs; graphics; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; friction 
feed; sheet paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps; 24.3 by 
16.8 by 6.5; 45 lbs; $3726 
Sprint 9/35: impact, daisy 
wheel; 132 char/line; 35 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232; parallel 
Sprint 9/45: same as 9/35 
except: 45 cps 
Sprint 9/55: same as 9/35 
except: 55 cps 
Sprint Wide-Track: impact, 
daisy wheel; 240 char/line; 
55 cps; manually changeable 



294 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



In Los Angeles, 
your great escape 
couldtake place 
in minutes. 

As a Data Processing specialist at Northrop, you'll surround yourself with the 
benefits of a climate and location that lets you enioy it all ■• the arts, 
educational opportunitiesand the great outdoors. Every day All year round. 

Located in Southern California, Northrop offers the professional 
opportunities you seek plus the flexibility of lifestyle that makes hours off the 
job exceptionally pleasurable. And. you'll appreciate oui location 
with easy access to beach, desert, and mountains 



If you're up for the challenge of membership 
in a department that supports corporate information 
systems activities at every level, look into career 
opportunities at Northrop. 

Make the Great Escape that could last a 
hie lime. 




Low Desert- 45 min. 

High desert- 98 min. 

Beaches - 1 min. 

Forest- 25 min. 

Mountains- 30 min. 

Big mountains- 40 min. 

Very big mountains- 240 min. 



Skiing - 70 min. 

Better skiing - 1 80 min. 

Sailing - 1 5 min. 

Golf- 17 min. 

Running- change your shoes 

Cricket- 23 min. 

Disneyland - 45 min. 



Hollywood Bowl -45 min. 
Universities- 30 min. 
Surfing -10 min. 
Knott's Berry Farm - 45 min. 
Rollerskating - 

change your shoes again 
Universal Studios- 50 min. 



Scientific Applications 
Programmer Analysts 

Experience with IBM 3033, Engineering 
and Graphics Applications, FORTRAN. 

MVS Systems Programmers 

Using SMP4, TSO and SPF maintenance 
tools. 

Computer Operations 
Personnel 

Console Operators. Control Clerks, 
Tape Librarians. 

Numerical Control Systems 
Support 

Knowledge of IBM, APT-AC systems. 
FORTRAN. ASSEMBLY and familiarity 
with numerical control environment. 

Data Base Analysts 

Experience in IMS Data Base and 
Data Communications. 

Business Applications 
Programmers 

To design and maintain business, 
finance, and manufacturing applications 
on large scale IBM computers. 



We will arrange a personal interview for you. We will fly you to 
California, travel and accommodations paid, or we will send a 
representative to your location. Investigate the opportunities out- 
lined above by sending your resume to: 



Barbara Nettles 
Dept. NDP-BYTE 1853 

P.O. Box 4625 
Long Beach, CA 90804 



NORTHROP 

Making advanced technology work 

Northrop Corporate Data Processing Center 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H / Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required 



Circle 282 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



295 



print element; friction feed; 
sheet paper; RS-232; 
parallel; $4315 
Radio Shack 
1 Tandy Center 
Fort Worth, TX 76102 
Daisywheel II: impact, daisy 
wheel; 136 char/line; 43 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; proportional spac- 
ing; friction feed; sheet 
paper; Centronics parallel; 
$1860 

Lineprinter IV: impact, dot 
matrix; 80 or 132 char/line; 
50 cps; 96 char ASCII; fric- 
tion or tractor feed; sheet or 
fanfold paper; Centronics 
parallel; $999 
Lineprinter V: impact, dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 120 
cps; 96 char ASCII; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; Cen- 
tronics parallel; $1860 
Lineprinter VI: impact, dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 100 
cps; 96 char ASCII plus 
graphics characters; bidirec- 
tional printing; self test; 
Centronics parallel; $1160 
Lineprinter VII: impact, 5 by 
7 dot matrix; 40 or 80 
char/line; 30 cps; 6 
line/inch; graphics; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
100 to 600 bps; Centronics 
parallel; $399 
Lineprinter VIII: impact, 9 
by 12 dot matrix; 80 
char/line; 80 cps; 8 or 12 
line/inch; graphics; bi- 
directional printing; short- 
line seeking; proportional 
spacing; friction or tractor 
feed; sheet, fanfold, or roll 
paper; self test; RS-232, 600 
or 1200 bps; Centronics 
parallel; 15.4 by 11 by 4.7; 
16.5 lbs; $799 
Quick Printer II: elec- 
trostatic, dot matrix; 16 
char/line; 32 cps; uppercase 
only; compressed characters 
give 32 char/line at 64 cps; 
friction feed; aluminized roll 
paper 2.4 inches wide; $219 
Sanders Technology 
Columbia Drive 
Amherst, NH 03061 
(603) 882-1000 
Media 12/7: impact, line- 
wide dot matrix, overlap- 
ping passes; 80 char/line; 96 
char ASCII (draft- and high- 
quality); 220 cps draft- 
quality, 60 cps high-quality; 
preprogrammed alternate 
fonts; proportional spacing 
on some fonts; high-quality 
compressed-character font 
gives 117 char/line at 120 
cps (proportional spacing); 
friction feed; sheet paper; 
cut-sheet feeder; RS-232, 



2400 bps with handshaking; 
Centronics parallel; $4395 
Sci Systems Inc. 
8600 South Memorial 
Parkway 

Huntsville, AL 35802 
(205) 881-1611 
Sentinel Computer Corpora- 
tion 

9902 Carver Rd. 
Cincinnati, OH 45242 
(513) 984-6622 
Siemens Corporation 
OEM Data Products Divi- 
sion 

240 East Palais 
Anaheim, CA 92805 
(714) 991-9700 
Smith-Corona 
65 Locust Ave. 
New Canaan, CT 06840 
(203) 972-1471 
TP-1: impact, daisy wheel; 
105 or 125 char/line; 12 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction feed; sheet 
paper; $845 
Star Micronics Inc. 
200 Park Ave. 
New York, NY 10166 
(212) 986-6770 
DP-8480: impact, 7 by 9 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 80 
cps; 96 char ASCII; short- 
line seeking; bidirectional 
printing; graphics; double- 
width characters; com- 
pressed characters; self test; 
friction and tractor feed; 
sheet or fanfold paper; 
RS-232, 256 char buffer; 
15.3 by 12.2 by 4.9; 19 lbs; 
$495 

Systemed Corporation 
POB 18 

Mountain City, TN 37683 
(615) 727-6000 
Typrinter: impact, daisy 
wheel; 180 char/line; 12 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction feed; fan- 
fold paper; parallel; $599 
Syntest Corporation 
169 Milham St. 
Marlborough, MA 01752 
(617) 481-7827 
TDC 

203 East Main St. 
Riverton, WY 82501 
(307) 856-7111 
TEI Inc. 

5075 South Loop East 
Houston, TX 77033 
(910) 881-3639 
3431: impact, 9 by 9 dot 
matrix; 136 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line/inch; 94 
char ASCII; bidirectional 
printing; double-width 
characters; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps, 256 char 
buffer; parallel 



Telecom Terminal Systems 

3903 Grand View Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
(213) 390-9494 
Teletype Corporation 
5555 Touhy Ave. 
Skokie, IL 60077 
(312) 982-2000 
43: impact, dot matrix; 80 
or 132 char/line; 30 cps; 96 
char ASCII; friction or trac- 
tor feed; RS-232; $1388 
Texas Instruments 
POB 225012 
M/S84 

Dallas, TX 75265 
(312) 982-2000 
743: electrostatic, dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 30 cps; 
96 char ASCII; APL char set 
(optional); friction feed; 
aluminized roll paper; 
RS-232; $1995 
765: electrostatic, dot 
matrix; 80 char/line; 30 cps; 
96 char ASCII; bubble- 
memory storage up to 80K 
char; dual communications 
ports; friction feed; 
aluminized roll paper; 
RS-232 (integral modem op- 
tional); $2995 
810: impact, 9 by 7 dot 
matrix; 132 char/line; 150 
cps; 6 or 8 line /inch; 64 
char modified ASCII (96 
char ASCII optional); 
double-width characters (op- 
tional); compressed 
characters (optional); 
bidirectional printing; ver- 
tical tabs; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; tractor 
feed; fanfold paper; RS-232, 
110 to 9600 bps, 256 char 
buffer; $1895 

820: impact, dot matrix; 132 
char/line; 150 cps; 96 char 
ASCII; APL char set (op- 
tional); tractor feed; fanfold 
paper; RS-232, 110 to 9600 
bps; $2165 

825: impact, 9 by 7 dot 
matrix; 75 cps; 6 or 8 
line/inch; bidirectional 
printing; RS-232, 110 to 600 
bps, 256 char buffer; $1565 
Toshiba America Inc. 
2441 Michelle Dr. 
Tustin, CA 92680 
(714) 730-5000 
Trend com 

480 Oakmead Parkway 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
(408) 737-0747 
100: thermal, dot matrix; 40 
char/line; 40 cps; 96 char 
ASCII; friction feed; sen- 
sitized roll paper; Centronics 
parallel, IEEE-488 
United Systems Corporation 
918 Woodley Rd. 
POB 458 
Dayton, OH 45401 



Victor Business Products 

3900 North Rockwell St. 
Chicago, IL 60618 
Vista 

1317 East Edinger Ave. 
Santa Ana, CA 92705 
(714) 953-0523 
Wang Laboratories 
1 Industrial Ave. 
Lowell, MA 01851 
2231 W-l: impact, 7 by 9 
dot matrix; 112 char/line; 
120 cps; 96 char ASCII; ver- 
tical tabs; double-width 
characters; paper-out in- 
dicator; self test; Wang 
serial interface, 112 char 
buffer; 24 by 18 by 10; 60 
lbs; $2900 

2281W: impact, daisy wheel 
157 char/line; 30 cps; 6 
line/inch; 96 char ASCII; bi 
directional printing; vertical 
tabs; graphics; Wang serial 
interface; $4500 
Wasomark Inc. (Data 
Printer Division) 
1 Willard Rd. 
Norwalk, CT 06856 
(203) 847-7251 
Williams Laboratories 
125 Northview Rd. 
Ithaca, NY 14850 
(607) 272-1132 
Bytewriter: impact, daisy 
wheel; 100 char/line; 12 cps. 
manually changeable print 
element; self test; underlin- 
ing; friction feed; sheet 
paper; Centronics parallel; 
21 lbs; $795 
Xerox Corporation 
Xerox Square 
Rochester, NY 14644 
(716) 423-3411 
1730: impact, daisy wheel; 
132 char/line; 40 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction feed; sheet 
paper; RS-232; $2710 
1 740: impact, daisy wheel; 
132 char/line; 45 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction feed; sheet 
paper; RS-232; $3375 
1750: impact, daisy wheel; 
132 char/line; 45 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; friction feed; sheet 
paper; RS-232; $3555 
Xymec Inc. 

17905 J Sky Park Circle 
Irvine, CA 92714 
(714) 423-3411 
HY-Q 1000: impact, daisy 
wheel; 198 char/line; 20 cps; 
manually changeable print 
element; boldface characters 
paper-out indicator; self test 
RS-232; parallel 
Zentec Corporation 
2400 Walsh Ave. 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(408) 246-7662H 



296 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Computer Exchange 

M P.O. Box 1380, Jacksonville, OR 97530 ^P 929 




w 




APPLE 

SUPPLY 

CENTER 



Dealer inquiries invited 



HARDWARE &,,.„,„♦ 

Direct Substitute for Apple Drives 

Micro-Sci A2 is a direct substitute for Apple II 
drives. Save $300 on a dual disk system. The A2 
does not include DOS Software 
Micro-Sci 5" Drives for Apple II SAVE 

A2, 143K,5"Drive $395 18% 

A2 Controller Card for A2 Drives $ 85 15% 
A70, 286K, 5" Drive $ 489 20% 

A40, 160K.5" Drive $369 18% 

Controller Card for A70 or A40 $ 79 21% 

320K RAM substitute for Disk System 
AXLON, 

RAMDISK320K Memory System $1145 20% 

MONITORS: 

NEC 12" Color 



software: 






SANYO: 



12" Green 
9" B&W 
9" Green 

12" B&W 

12" Green 

13" Color 
NEW 13" RGB Color 

12" Green 



$359 
$169 
$149 
$159 
$219 
$229 
$399 
$899 
$119 



ZENITH 

DISKETTES, 5", box of 10: 
Maxell 
Memorex 

80 COLUMN VIDEO CARDS: 

Videx Videoterm 
M&R Sup RTerm 
ALS: Smarterm 

MISCELLANEOUS: 

Apple: 

Graphics Tablet (CLOSE OUT) 
CCS: Serial Interface 7710A 
Parallel Interface 7720A 
Other CCS Cards In Stock, 
Hayes: Micromodem II 

Smartmodem 
Keyboard Company: 
Joystick II 
Game Paddle 
Numeric Keypad 
M&R: RF Modulator 
SUP R FAN 
X Microsoft: Z80 Softcard 
16L RAM Card 
Mountain: 

CPS Multifunction Card 
Clock/Calendar 
Orange Micro Grappler 
SSM AIO Serial /Para. Interface 
T^" ALS: Smarterm 80 Col Card 
* Z-Card (Z-80) 
•frAddram 16KCard 
•fcSynergizer Package 
NEC 
16K Expansion Chips for Apple II 

LETTER QUALITY PRINTERS 

Qume Letter quality printer 

Sprint 9 45RO 

Sprint 5 45RO 
Olympia (Typewriter/Printer) 

ES-100, 18CPS 

w/full interface to Apple 1 1 

PRINTERS: 

Intergral Data 

445 Tiger w/Graphics & 2K 

460 Tiger w/Graphics 

560 Tiger w/Graphics 

Prism color printer w/Graphics $1695 
Epson, See special Epson section at right 



$ 39 
$ 25 

$249 
$319 
$269 



$650 
$139 
$ 99 
CALL 
$299 
$249 

$ 45 
$ 25 
$119 
$ 25 
$ 39 
$279 
$159 

$209 
$239 
$129 
$159 
$269 
$209 
$119 
$549 



24% 
22% 
31% 
31% 
30% 
30% 
28% 
25% 
20% 

33% 
45% 

18% 
19% 
30% 



20% 

22% 

20% 

CALL 

26% 

11% 

10% 
17% 
21% 
27% 
25% 
33% 
20% 

13% 
15% 
21% 
20% 
30% 
22% 
20% 
27% 



$ 39 35% 



$2295 
$2395 



20% 
20% 



$ 1695 22% 



$695 
$895 
$1095 



23% 
20% 
22% 
16% 



Above prices for mail orders only. Ourstore showroom is 
126 NE "F" St., Grants Pass, OR. Store prices, which Include 
software service, differ from mail order prices. No mail order 
sales at store. CALL ORDER DESK. 

ORDERING INFORMATION: 

Minimum order $100. Money Orders, Cashier Checks or Bank 
Wire welcomed. Visa and MC orders add 3%. Personal or 
company checks accepted {allow 20 days to clear). Add 
3% for shipping, handling and insurance; UPS ground is 
standard. 6% total for UPS Blue or 10% total for foreign 
orders or US Parcel Post. Include your telephone number. 
No COD's. Prices are subject to change without notice. 
Order desk hours are 8 to 5 PST, 10 to 3 Saturdays. APO is 
sent by US Post. 



for 

Apple ll/l 
Apple Software: 

Apple Fortran 

Apple Pilot 

Apple Plot 

Dow Jones News & Quotes 

Dow Jones Portfolio Eval. 

Microcourier 
Ashton-Tate 

dBase II for Apple II 
Broderbund Software 

Payroll 

General Ledger 

Apple Panic 

Arcade Machine 

Red Alert 

Space Warrior 

Many Others In Stock 
Budgeco, Raster Blaster 
Calf. Pacific, Ultima 
jt Central Point Software: 

Copy II Plus 
Will copy most copy protected software 
for your backup in 45 seconds I NEW 
Continental Software 

Home Accountant 

Home Money Minder 
Data Most 

Snack Attack 

Thief 



$149 
$119 
$ 49 
$ 69 
$ 40 
$189 

$495 

$269 
$349 
$ 21 
$ 32 
$ 21 
$ 18 
CALL 
$ 22 
$ 30 

$ 35 



56 
26 



25% 
27% 
30% 
28% 
20% 
24% 

30% 

30% 
30% 
30% 
30% 
30% 
30% 
CALL 
27% 
25% 

10% 



25% 
25% 



$ 22 
22 



Epson, MX 80 Graphics Dump $ 9 



Hayden, Sargon II (chess) 
Howard Software 

Tax Preparer 

Real Estate Analyzer 

Creative Financing 

Info Unlimited, 
Easywriter (PRO) 

Innovative 

Apple Spellguard 

Insoft: 

Electric Duet NEW 
ALD System II or III 
TransFORTH II or III 
Accounting 



$ 29 

$ 75 
$115 
$ 115 



$219 

$ 25 
$110 
$110 
$355 



25% 
25% 
30% 
22% 



25% 
25% 
25% 

20% 

26% 

20% 
10% 
10% 
66% 



A full professional quality integrated GL, A/R, 
A IP. Payroll package. Hotline support available. 
Send lor free sample printouts. Requires Z80 
and 16K RAM card. 

Micro Lab 

Data Factory, ver. 5.0 $249 20% 
y^ Micro Pro 

Word Star $ 239 36% 

Super Sort $129 36% 

Mail Merger $ 79 36% 

Data Star $189 36% 

Spell Star $159 36% 

Microsoft 

A.L.D.S. $110 10% 

BASIC Compiler $ 299 25% 

Cobol80 $559 25% 

Fortran 80 $149 25% 

Olympic Decathlon $ 24 24% 

TASC Compiler $159 22% 

Typing Tutor II $ 19 30% 

On-Line 

Expediter II $ 75 25% 

Superscribe II $ 95 27% 

Pegasus II $ 22 25% 

Threshold $ 30 25% 

Cranston Manor $ 26 25% 

Mission Astroid $ 15 25% 

Mystery House $ 19 25% 
W Osborne (Disk and Book) 

Some Common Basic Programs, 
75 Business, Statistics and Math 

programs for the Apple II + $ 49 50% 

Peachtree Software 

Magic Wand $250 37% 

GLor A/Ror A/Por PRor lnv.$189 38% 

Personal Software: 

Desktop Plan II $159 21% 

Visictlc3.3 $159 25% 

Visiplot $149 21% 

Visitrend Visiplot $199 31% 

Visidex $159 30% 

Visiterm $119 21% 

Visifile $199 30% 

Software Publishing: 

PFS Filing/Data Base $ 69 28% 

PFS: Report $ 69 28% 

Stoneware, 

DB Master (new version) $179 22% 

Sub Logic 

Flight Simulator $ 28 20% 

For specific software not listed, 
CALL (800) 547-1289 



===-=: 3101-10 Terminal $1295 



ra 



SAVE 

$1995 27% 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 

HP-85A Microcomputer with built-in 

printer and monitor 
HP-125New! Microcomputer 

64K CPU /Terminal/ Keyboard /Monitor 



HP-41CV New! 2.2K Memory Calculator $245 25% 
HP-41C Calculator $ 185 26% 

Memory module for HP41C $ 25 25% 

Call for other HP equipment, software and accessories! 



aTEai D%llPIOt350 



3COLOR PROFESSIONAL PLOTTER 
Plotter 

11" wide. For Apple and Vlslcalc. $795 

Automatic 3 color option CALL 

Interface to Apple II $ 79 

Visicalc/Apple II software, Insoft CALL 

Serial RS 232 Interface $ 209 



15% 

CALL 
15% 

CALL 
15% 



A 

ATARI" 



800 16K 
400 16K 



$759 
$339 



Atari 810 Disk Drive 

Atari 16K RAM Module 

Atari 850 Interface 

More software and accessories in stock 



SAVE 30% 
SAVE 20% 

$425 29% 

$ 83 27% 

$149 32% 

CALL CALL 



,, = INTE?TEC 
IU =E SYSTEMS™ 



While 
They Last 



SUPRBRAIN 



Superbrain 64K QD $ 2895 28% 



EPSON 



PRINTERS 



MX70w/Graftrax 

MX80 

MX80F/T 

MX100F/Tw/graphlcs 

MX80/100 Apple Interface and Cable 

MX80 Friction feed adapter 

MXBOGraftrax 

MX80/100 Atari Cable 

MX80/ 100 TRS 80 Cable 



$359 
$449 
$555 
$729 
$ 95 
$ 59 
$ 79 
$ 29 
$ 29 



20% 
31% 
25% 
27% 
15% 
22% 
20% 
22% 
22% 



SEC 



Microcomputer 

32K Computer PC8001 $ 750 25% 

286K Total Dual Drive PC8031 $ 750 25% 

32K addon and I/O Unit PC8012S495 24% 

NEC PC Software CALL CALL 



Corvus 



5 Meg Hard Disk 
10 Meg Hard Disk 
20 Meg Hard Disk 
Omni-Net, Constellation, 
Mirror, In Stock 



$2995 
$4345 
$5245 



21% 
20% 
20% 



XEROX. 



820 System II 

Complete system includes monitor, 
keyboard, CPU and two disk drives 
With 5V4 inch dual drives 
With 8 inch dual drives 



SAVE 
$2495 18% 
$3095 19% 



£s commodore 

VIC 20 Home Computer $249 16% 

CBM 8032 Computer $1195 20% 

CBM 4032 Computer $ 995 22% 

CBM 4040 Disk Drives (2) 343K $1019 21% 

CMB 8050 Disk Drives (2)1 Meg $1295 28% 



(ALTOS) 

ACS 8000-15, 208K, 4 User 
Other Altos Systems In Stock 



COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

$4,450 11% 



Hardware Technical Hotline 
(503)772-3803 (customers only- 
please have invoice i or packing slip *) 

NO SALES TAX 

Oregon Order Desk 
(503) 772-3803 




REFERENCES: 

We have been an Apple dealer since 1978. Our bank reference 
is First Interstate Bank (503) 776-5620. We belong to the 

Chamber of Commerce. 

(503) 772-6293 Free gift with your order if you mention this ad. 



TOLL FREE 

NATIONAL ORDER DESK 

(800)547-1289 



Circle 91 on Inquiry card. 



MARCH 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 80A 
MATRIX m A PRINTER 




SPECIALS 



ATARI 810 DISK DRIVE 





$429.00 



PERSONAL 
COMPUTERS 



CALL TOLL FREE! 

EAST COAST WEST COAST 



1-800-556-7586 

COMPUTER SHOPPING CENTER 

12 Meeting St. 

Cumberland, Rl 02864 

1-401-722-1027 

TELEX 952 106 



1-800-235-3581 

COMPUTER SHOPPING CENTER 

3533 Old ConejoRd. #102 

Newbury Park, CA 9 1320 

1-805-499-3678 

CA TOLL FREE 1-800-322-1873 

TELEX 182889 



COMPUTER SHOPPING CENTER 

We Accept CO.D.'s » Stock Shipment;, Same Day or Next* No Surcharge for Credit Cards* All Equipment Factory 
Fresh w/MFT Warranty • We Carry the Complete Line of Personal Software • Prices do not Reflect Shipping Charges 
Rhode island and California residents please add 6% Sales Tax 



298 BYTE March 1962 



Circle 284 on Inquiry card. 



NEC PC-8023 Printer $629.00 ^^ 

NEC 7710 Spinwriter 2345.00 C^ ^J 

NEC 7720 Spinwriter 2695.00 ^m Um JiB 

NEC 7730 Spinwriter 2345.00 ™J ^f 

NEC JC 1201 M(A)- Color 12" Monitor 359.00 flQ ^V 

NEC JB 1201 M 12" Green Monitor 159.00 ^«* P"J ^™ 

Okidata Microline-80 329.00 ^V ^3 

OkidataMicroline-82A 499.00 ■■■ ^^ ^^ 

Okidata Microline-83A 729.00 f J ^^ 

Diablo 630 1 995.00 ^"^ ^^ UJ 

M & R Sup-R-Terminal 279.00 ^^ ^^ ^^ 

Microsoft Soft Card (Z-80) 279.00 ■*■■ !■■ ■■■ 

Hazeltine 1420 799.00 | ^f 

Northstar Horizon II 32K QD 2925.00 I ^V 

AnadexDP-9500/9501 1249.00 Jik LJ 

Televideo910 559.00 £ J ™* 

Televideo912C 669.00 ^^ ^^ 

Televideo 920C 689.00 £j£ MM i^p 

Televideo 950 929.00 # m ^^ ^ 

CBM 8032 Computer 1149.00 V«F V^ ^*k 

CBM 8050 Disk Drive 1349.00 ' t J 

CBM 4032 Computer 1029.00 ^^ *^k 

CBM 4040 Disk Drive 1029.00 ^Mj |^J ^** 

CBM 4022 Printer 649.00 £^ ( 

CBM VIC-20 269.00 UJ ^ -, 

Leedex/Amdek 100G 159.00 #^ *• """ 

Leedex/Amdek Color - 1 13" Color Monitor .. . 329.00 ^^ ^^j 

Microtek 16K Ramboard for Atari 800 79.00 I J ■■ ', 

Microtek 32K Ramboard for Atari 400 and 800 149.00 F% f\ 

Qume Sprint 9/45 (Full Panel) 2295.00 £ J V«F ^g/ 

Atari 400 16K 339.00 M^ UjJ 

Atari 410 Recorder 60.00 C^ M^ 

Atari 825 Printer 599.00 ^a* ^/* U 

Atari 850 Interface 1 39.00 5* ^? mm 

Atari 830 MODEM 159.00 ^J """ ^^ 

Atari 810 Disk Drive 429.00 ^ ^^ 

Atari 800 16K 749.00 ^g^ 

Epson MX-70 349.00 f^ 

Epson MX-80 449.00 \J 

Epson MX-80 FT 549.00 |J 

Epson MX-100 FT 729.00 V^ 

PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 
WE CARRY THE COMPLETE LINE OF ATARI SOFTWARE, PERIPHERALS AND ACCESSORIES 




NEC GREEN 12" MONITOR 

JB 1201M 

$159.00 



PERSONAL COMPUTERS 

COMPUTER SHOPPING CENTER 




EPSON MX-80 

INTERFACES & CABLES 

IEEE $55. RS-232 $70. 

TRS-80 CABLE $35. 

$449.00 



i 




AMDEK COLOR- 1 MONITOR 
$329.00 




EPSON MX-100 FT PRINTER 
$729.00 



Circle 284 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 299 



Programming Quickie 



An Underline Filter 
for Matrix Printers 



Adam Reed 

Center for Human Information Processing 

UCSD C-009 

La Jolla, CA 92093 



characters to minus signs (which are the same length as 
underline characters on most matrix printers, including 
the Decwriter), then moves them onto a separate line to 
be printed under the corresponding line of text. The result 
is clear, fast, legible underlining. At the end of the text 
file, the program restores the Decwriter to normal ver- 
tical spacing. 

The program in listing 1 is written in C to act as a 
"filter" under the Unix operating system. Its input is a 
text file with standard underlining, and its output is the in- 
put to the matrix printer. It can be translated readily into 
other languages, such as BASIC or FORTRAN, for use 
with other operating systems and matrix printers.* 



Although matrix printers such as Digital Equipment 
Corporation's Decwriter III have the advantages of rela- 
tively high speed and fairly low cost, they do have an im- 
portant disadvantage when it comes to printing manu- 
script copy. By convention, some items in manuscripts 
(the names of cited journals, for example) are underlined 
in the text. Matrix printers, if they underline at all, do so 
by overprinting the bottom line of each "underlined" 
character. Besides being slow and aesthetically unappeal- 
ing, this type of "underlining" makes the text nearly il- 
legible. 

Fortunately, many matrix printers, including the Dec- 
writer, can achieve half-line vertical spacing. The pro- 
gram in listing 1 sets this option, converts the underline 

Listing 1. 

1 /* This pro^rsiii improves Decwriter underline handling by using 3 line buffer */ 

2 /* snd may also be used to change; temporarily r the dw3's horizontal pitch . */ 

4 tinelude <stdio.h> 

5 # include <satta.h> 

6 t include <si3risl.h> 

8 int dwreset( ) J 
10 nisiri(3r3c? 3r2v ) int 3r£Ci chsr *3rgvC]» -C 



12 
13 



register ch3r ci h» #p» 
int b» nJ 



Listing 1 continued on page 302 



300 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Boy is this 
costing you. 



It's really quite basic: time is 
money. 

And BASIC takes a lot more 
time and costs a lot more 
money than it should every 
time you write a new business 
software package. 

Especially when you 
could speed things up with 
dBASE II. 

dBASE II is a complete 
applications 
development package. 

Users tell us they've cut the amount of code they 
write by up to 80% with dBASE II. 

Because dBASE II is the high performance relational 
database management system for micros. 

Database and file handling operations are done 
automatically so you don't get involved with sets, lists, 
pointers, or even opening and closing of files. 

Instead, you write your code in concepts. 

And solve your customers' problems faster and for 
a lot less than with BASIC (or FORTRAN, COBOL 
or PL/1). 

dBASE II uses English-like commands. 

dBASE II uses a structured language to put you in 
full control of your data handling operations. 

It has screen handling facilities for setting up input 
and output forms. 

It has a built-in query facility, including multi- 
key and sub-field searches, so you can DISPLAY 
some or all of the data for any conditions you want 
to apply. 

You can UPDATE, MODIFY and REPLACE entire 
databases or individual characters. 

CREATE new databases in minutes, or JOIN data- 
bases that already exist. 

APPEND new data almost instantly, whether the 
file has 10 records or tens of thousands. 

SORT the data on as many keys as you want. Or 
INDEX it instead, then FIND whatever you're looking 
for in seconds, even using floppies. 

Organize months worth of data in minutes with the 
built-in REPORT. Or control every row and column 
on your CRT and your printer, to format input and 
output exactly the way you want it. 

You can do automatic calculations on fields, 




records and entire databases 
with a few keystrokes, with 
accuracy to 10 places. 

Change your data or your 
entire database structure 
without re-entering all 
your data. 

And after you're finished, 
you can protect all that 
elegant code with our run- 
time compiler. 

Expand your clientbase 
with dBASE II. 

With dBASE II, you'll write programs a lot 
faster and a lot more efficiently. You'll be able to 
write more programs for more clients. Even take 
on the smaller jobs that were out of the economic 
question before. Those nice little foot-in-the-data- 
base assignments that grow into bigger and better 
bottom lines. 

Your competitors know of this offer. 

The price of dBASE II is $700 but you can try it 
free for 30 days. 

Call for our Dealer Plan and OEM run-time package 
prices, then take us up on our money-back guarantee. 
Send us your check and we'll send you a copy of 
dBASE II that you can exercise on your CP/M system 
any way you want for 30 days. 

Then send dBASE II back and we'll return all of your 
money, no questions asked. 

During that 30 days, you can find out exactly how 
much dBASE II can save you, 
and how much more it lets 
you do. 

But it's only fair to warn 
you: business programmers 
don't go back to BASIC'S. 

AshtonTate, 9929 Jefferson, 
Los Angeles, CA 90230. 
(213) 204-5570. 



Ashton-Tate 



(BAshton-Tate 1981 




Circle 38 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



301 



Programming Quickies, 



Listing 1 continued: 

14 chsr opstrinSC2563 5 

15 char #option = opstrins 1 » 

16 char *poi3>:j *plast; 

17 static char buf [2563 5 

13 sethuf( stdout, (char *)raalloc( BUFSIZ ))» 



20 



/% Make sure to reset decuriter if interrupted */ 



22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 



sianaKSIGHUPr dwreset)> 
signal (SIGINT? dwreset)? 
si2n3l(SIGQUITidwreset) ; 
si3ri3l(SIGKILL»dwreset) 5 
si3rial(SIGPIPE»dM reset) J 
signal (SIGhLRH » dw reset ) J 
si£Ti3l(SIGTERHrd«reset) i 



30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 

4? 

50 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 

56 

59 

60 



/* Get the option from the comaand */ 

streat (optionrarsvCl] ) J 

if Uoption == NULL) c = '2"? 

else -C 

c = *option++ i 

if (c == ' + ' lie == '-') c = *option++ i 

if (c == '"1') c = *optiont+ i 

if (c == 'p' lie == '?') c = '0' 

if (c == 'n' lie == 'N') e = '6' 

if (c == 'w' Me == 'U') c = '8' 
> 

/* Then? initialize the Decwriter */ 

putchar(27)J printf ( ' L"3z' ) ', 
putchar(27); printf ( *C132f ) i 
putch3rC27)} printf CCl»i32r")i 
putchar(27) J 

if <c == '0'Hprintf ( "Clw" ) Jputchar (27) Jprintf ( , Ci;84s" ) ;> 

else if (c == '6' Kprintf ( , C4w' ) Jputchar(27) Jprintf ( , ClJ140s" ) ;> 

else if (c == '8' ) -[printf ( 'CBh* ) ;putehar(27) fprintf ( 'Ci ;70s" ) }> 
el5 * -Cprintf ( •C2W" ) »putchar(27) ; printf ( "CI J 102s" ) J> 

/* Then process the file! */ 

c=3etchar( ) » 

while ( c != EOF ) < 

/% Main 1oop5 process esch line in turn! %/ 



62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 



h=b=0J 

Pl35t = pn.3>c= XbufE255], 

p=buf ; 

while ( p<Plast ) *p++ = 32 J 

Pl3st=p=buf r 

while ( e!=10 It e!=E0F U c\= 13 X& p<pibsx ) -C 



/* elesr under line buffer */ 



/* loop for processing chsrscters. */ 



Listing 1 continued on page 304 



302 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



THE FORTH SOURCE 

Specializing in the FORTH Language 



TM 



FORTH MANUALS. GUIDES, « DOCUMENTS price 

□ "Starting FORTH" by Brodie. Prentice Hall. Best 

user's manual available, (soft cover) $16.00 

□ "Starting FORTH" (hard cover) 20.00 

□ "Systems Guide to fig-FORTH" by Ting. Excellent 

guide to inner mechanisms. 25.00 

□ "Using FORTH" by FORTH, Inc. Guide to concepts 25.00 

□ "A FORTH Primer" by Stevens. In-depth self-study 

manual 25.00 

□ "Caltech FORTH Manual" by Ewing. Overview and 
Structure. 12.00 

I? "Threaded Interpretive Languages" by Loeliger. Byte 

Books. FORTH adapted for Z80 20.00 

□ "Invitation to FORTH" by Katzan. Petrocelli Books. 
Limited introduction. 20.00 

□ "PDP-11 FORTH User's Guide" by James. 20.00 

□ "AIM FORTH User's Manual" by Rockwell- 
International 12.00 

D "APPLE FORTH-79 User's Manual" by MicroMotion 20.00 

□ "TRS-80 MMSFORTH User's Manual" by Miller 
Microcomputer Services. 18.50 

□ "FORTH-79". Latest FORTH Standard. 15.00 

□ "FORTH-79 Standard Conversion" by Smith 
Implementation aids. 10.00 

□ "METAFORTH" by Cassady. Cross compiler with 

8080 code. 30.00 

□ "Tiny PASCAL in fig-FORTH" by Zimmer. 10.00 
Proceedings of Technical Conferences 

□ "1980 FORML" (FORTH Modification Laboratory) 25.00 

□ "1981 FORML" Two Volume Set 40.00 

□ Volume I, Language Structure 25.00 

□ Volume II, Systems and Applications. 25.00 
D "1981 Rochester University" 25.00 

FORTH HARDWARE 

□ AIM65 Microcomp by Rockwell. 4K RAM, FORTH IC's 

and manuals (plus $20.00 handling and shipping) $530.00 



INSTALLATION DOCUMENTS 

I ] Installation Manual for fig-FORTH, contains FORTH 
model, glossery, memory map, and instructions 
Source Listings of fig-FORTH, for specific CPU's and 
computers. The above installation manual is required 
for implementation. Each 



$15.00 



15.00 



□ 1802 


D 6502 


D 6800 


□ AlphaMicro 


□ 8080 


□ 8086/88 


n 9900 


□ APPLE II® 


D PACE 


□ 6809 


D NOVA 


□ PDP-11/LSI/11 



FORTH DISKS WITH DOCUMENTATION 

fig-FORTH Model and Source Listing, with printed 
Installation Manual and Source Listing. 

D APPLE II® 5'/. □ 8080/Z80® 8 

D 8086/8088 8 □ H89/Z89 5'/. 

D APPLE 11/11 +® by MicroMotion. Version 2. 
FORTH-79 Standard, editor, assembler, 200 pg 
manual, 5'/, 

□ Option 1 - floating point and HiRes Turtle 
Graphics 

D Option 2 - DBMS, DOS/FORTH, modem utilities 

□ Combo Package - All of the above 

D APPLE II by Kuntze. fig-FORTH editor, assembler, 
source listing and screens, 5'/, 

H ATARI® by Pink' Noise Studio. fig-FORTH, editor, 
assembler, missile graphics, sound and handle 
drivers, 5'/, 

D CROMEMCO® by Inner Access fig-FORTH editor, 
assembler, 5'/, or 8 

□ PET® by FSS. fig-FORTH editor and assembler, 5'/. 
Q PET® with floating point, strings, disk I/O 

D TRS-80/1® by Nautilus Systems fig-FORTH, editor 
and assembler, S% 

D TRS-80/1 or III by Miller Microcomputer Services. 
MMSFORTH, FORTH-79 subset, editor, assembler, 
dbl-precision. arrays, utilities & applications. 210 pg. 
manual, 5'/, 

□ HP-85 by Lange fig-FORTH, editor and assembler, 5 

□ H89/Z89 by Haydon. fig-FORTH, CP/M® source, 
editor,assembler, & tutorial on disk, 5 V, 

□ CP/M® , Z80 by MicroMotion. Version 2.x, FORTH-79 
Standard, editor, assembler, 200 pg manual 5'/, 

□ Enhancement Package - floating point, DBMS & 
modem utilities. 

□ Combo Package - all of the above 

n 6800 by Talbot Microsystems fig-FORTH, editor, 
assembler, disk I/O, FLEX 5 5V. or 8 

□ 6809 by Talbot Microsystems fig-FORTH, editor, 
assembler, disk I/O, FLEX® 57. or 8 

□ 6809 Enhanced 2nd screen editor, 
macroassembler.tutorial, tools and utilities, FLEX 

D Z80" by Laboratory Microsystems. Editor and 
assembler, CP/M, 8 

□ Z80 with floating point 

□ Z80 with AMD 9511 support 

□ Z80 by Inner Access. Editor, assembler and manual, 
CP/M, 8 



PRICE 



$65.00 



$100.00 

50.00 

50.00 

$180.00 

$90.00 



$90.00 

$100.00 

$90.00 
$150.00 

$90.00 



assembler, and manual 



n 8080 by Inner Access. Editor, 
CP/M, 8 

□ 8086/88 by Laboratory Microsystems Editor, 
assembler, CP/M-86® , 8 

□ 8086/88 with floating point, CP/M-86 

□ 8086/88 with AMD 9511 support CP/M-86 



$130.00 

'/„ $90 00 

$175.00 

$100.00 

$70.00 
$150.00 

$100.00 

$100.00 

$250.00 

$50.00 
$150.00 
$150.00 

$100.00 

$100.00 

$100.00 
$200 00 
$200.00 



Cross Compilers by Nautilus (NS), Talbot 
Microsystems (TM), Laboratory Microsystems (LM) 
and Inner Access (IA). 

Allows extending, modifying and compiling for speed 
and memory savings, can also produce ROMable 
code. 



□ CP/M (NS) $200 

D H89/Z89 (NS) $200 

□ Z80 (LM) $200 

□ 6809 (TM) $250 
PCP/M (I A) $450 



□ TRS80/I (NS) $200 
D Northstar (NS) $200 

□ 8086 (LM) $300 

□ Cromemco (IA) $450 



ORDERS ONLY (415) 961-4103 



DEALER & AUTHOR INQUIRIES INVITED 



Ordering Information: Check, Money Order (payable to MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS), VISA or MasterCard accepted No COD'S or unpaid PO's. 
California residents add 6"V2% sales tax. Shipping costs in US included in price. Foreign orders, pay in US funds on US bank, include for handling 
and shipping by Air: $5.00 for each item under $25 00. $10 00 for each item between $25 00 and $99 00 and $20.00 for each item over $100.00. 
Minimum order $ $10.00. All prices and products subject to change or withdrawal without notice Single system and/or single user license 
agreement required on some products. 

MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS, INC. 



PO BOX 4656 



MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94040 



(415)961-4103 



Circle 268 on inquiry card. 



BYTF March 1 982 



303 



Programming Quickies. 



Listing 1 continued: 
71 

73 

74 

75 

76 

77 

73 

79 

80 

81 

82 

83 

84 

85 

86 

87 

88 

8? 

90 

91 

92 

93 

94 

95 

96 

97 

98 

99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 
108 
109 



if ( c== 3 ) dwresetO"? /* catch interrupt signals */ 

if ( c =='\t' ) -C /* tab both text and ul line */ 
putchsr ( '\t' ) i 

*p++ = '\t' ; 

if (plast<p) plast=Pi 
> 
else if ( c=='" ' ) -C /% underline* backspace? %/ 

if ((c~- aetcharO) == '\b') ■{ 
b=2J 

> 

else -C 

PTT - ~ T 

if (pIssUp) plast=pf 
putchar<32)J 

h=l? /% a character is waiting */ 
> 
> 

else if ( c=='\b' ) % /* backspace » underline? %'/ 
if i(c = aetcharO) == '_') -C 
if (plast<p) Pl3st=p; 

*(p-i) = '-'; 
> 
else -C 

h = 1 i 

putchar('\b')i 

— p ? 
> 

else ■£ /% ordinary char */ 

putchar(c) t 
++pJ 

if ( b==2 ) -C /# previously underlined char */ 
b = 5 

if (plsst<p) plast=pJ 
*<p-l> = '-'} 
> 
> 
if ( h==l ) h=0r /* character read already */ 

Listing 1 continued on page 306 



c? 


'OUR STOCK ROOmTsV 


Tfull but tme computer! 


VN 5AY5 THAT WE HAVE A 


5 


fyTO RE- ORDER, yj^ 






f---. 






O 


& 






j— 






# 


t? 


0/ 


Wmm 




L 


■Hwi "" 


~^~~*~*j 


<§ 




ft 


*Ji « T 


m 


Ho ° Kj 


*3 


V 










304 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




NEECO 



WHY BUY FROM THE BEST? 

Service.. . Support. .. 
Software . . . 



MULTI-CLUSTER 

For Commodore Systems, allows 3 
CPU's (Expandable to 8) to access a 
single Commodore Disk. 

MULTI-CLUSTER (3 CPU's) S 795 

Each Additional CPU (up to 8) . . . S 199 



Qwi commodore 

16K B (16K RAM-40 Column) - Lim. Qty $ 995 

32K B (32K RAM-40 Clm.) - Lim. Qty $1295 

4016 (16K RAM 4.0 Basic-40 Clm.) $ 995 

4032 (32K RAM 4.0 Basic-40 Clm.) $1295 

8032 (32K RAM 4.0 Basic-80 Clm.) $1495 

8050 Dual Disk (1 Meg Storage) $1795 

4040 Dual Disk (343K Storage) . . $1295 

8010 IEEE Modem $ 280 

C2N Cassette Drive $ 95 

CBM - IEEE Interface Cable '.'..'.'.'...$ 40 

IEEE - IEEE Interface Cable $ 50 

VIC 20 Home/Personal Computer $ 295 

CALL NEECO FOR 

ANY OF YOUR 

COMMODORE COMPUTER NEEDS 



EPSON PRINTERS 

MX-80 PRINTER $ 645 

MX-80 FT $ 745 

MX-100 S 945 

MX-70 S 459 

INTERFACE CARDS 

8141 (RS-232) S 75 

8150 (2K Buffered RS-232) $ 150 

8161 (IEEE 488) S 55 

8131 (Apple Card) $ 85 

8230 (Apple Card) $ 25 

8220 (TRS-80 Cable) $ 35 

DIARLO 630 PRINTER 

DIABLO 630 - Serial - RS-232 $2710 

Tractor Option $ 250 



NEC SPINWRITER PRINTERS 

5530 (Parallel) $3055 

5510 (Serial) $3055 

5520 (KSR-Serial) $3415 

Tractor Option $ 225 



APPLE 

16K APPLE II+ $1330 

32K APPLE II* $1430 

48K APPLE II* $1530 

APPLE DISK w/3.3 DOS .$ 650 

APPLE DRIVE Only $ 490 

APPLE IN 128K - In Stock! 
w/Monitor + 
Info Analystpak $4740 




AMDEK MONITORS INTERTEC COMPUTERS 



Video 100 12" B+W $ 179 

Video 300 12" Green $ 249 

Color 1 13" Low Res $ 449 

Color II 13" High Res $ 999 



64K Superbrain 

(360 Disk Storage). CP/M™ . . . $3495 
64K QD Superbrain 

(700K Disk Storage). CP/M™. . $3995 



*CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 





ATARI COMPUTERS 

Atari 400 (16K RAM) $ 399 

Atari 800 (32K RAM) - good thru 8/31 $1080 

Atari 410 RECORDER $ 89.95 

Atari 810 DISK DRIVE $ 599.95 

NEECO carries all available ATARI Software and Peripherals. 



PROFESSIONAL 
SOFTWARE 

WordPro 1 8K $ 29.95 

WordPro 3 (40 Clm. )16K ....$ 199.95 

WordPro 3+ $ 295 

WordPro 4 (80 Clm.) 32K . . . . $ 375 
WordPro 4+ $ 450 



JUST A SAMPLE OF THE MANY PRODUCTS WE CARRY, CALL US FOR OUR NEW 60-PAGE CATALOG. 

WE WILL MATCH SOME ADVERTISED PRICES ON CERTAIN PRODUCTS USTED UNDER SIMILAR "IN STOCK" CONDITIONS. 




NEECO 

679 HIGHLAND AVE. 

NEEDHAM. MA 02194 



(617)449-1760 

Telex: 951021 



MON-FRI 9:00 - 5:00 



MasterCharge and VISA Accepted 



Circle 275 on Inquiry card. 



Programming Quickies, 



Listing 1 continued: 

110 

111 

113 

114 

115 

116 

117 

118 

11? 

120 

121 

122 

123 

124 

125 

126 

127 

128 

129 

131 > 



else c=3eteh3r ( ) ? 
> 
putchsr (10) J /* 3o down to underline position "#/ 

p=buf 5 

while ( p<pl3st ) -C /* output and clear under line %/ 
putchsr(*-p) t 
*p++ = 325 
> 

pl3st=buf; 
putchsr ( 10) J 
if ( c!=10 %l c!-13 ) bresk? /* any c other than LF or CR */ 

/# at end-of line indicates error %/ 
c=aetchar(>f /* otherwise iet first c in new line %/ 

> /* or EOF */ 

/* after EOF the end is near; so reset decwriter to noriaal mode */ 

3l3rm(120) i 
dureset ( ) ? 

/* THE END */ 



133 dwresetO \ 



/% Subroutine to reset the decwriter to norissl mode */ 



135 
136 
137 
138 
139 
140 
141 



siSnal(SIGINT.SIG_IGN)» 

putchar(27)J printf ( ' Clz" ) I 

putehar(27>» printf ( 'C6it' ) J 

putchar(2?)i printf ( "Cl,66r* ) ! 

putchar<275 J printf (*C2w" ) ? 

putchar«27) J printf < ' CI t 102s * ) > 
e*it()j 



14: 



the Graphics Family. 

the most versatile, easiest-to-use 
graphics available for your Apple II. 

The A2-3D1/3D2 with A2-GE1 Graphics Editor package lets you 
put simultaneous multiple images on your screen . . . where you 
want, in the size you want, in your choice of orientation, complete 
with upper and lower case text. Because the most important part 
of your computer system is you. $119.85 

©oMDGIC . 

Communications Corp. 
713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign, I L 61820 
• (217)359-8482 

TaI py.' PfifiQQ 1 ^ "Apple is the registered trademark ol A 



306 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 363 on inquiry card. 




Now for $59^ 




you can own a 

professional quality 

small business computer. 



It seems like everybody's selling 
computers these days. Personal com- 
puters. Hobby computers. Compu- 
ters that play games. Computers with 
incredibly low prices. 

But if you're interested in a 
professional quality small business 
computer that can stand 
up to all the punishment 
your business can dish 
out, the bargains start 
at $5995. 

That's the price of 
Digital's DECmate Work 
Processor™ system. It in- 
cludes the Work Processor 
itself, a BASIC operating 
system that lets you write 
your own programs, plus 
two of our most popular 
software packages. One m 
for financial modeling, 
and one for mailing lists. 
You also get a printer. That's 
everything you need to start 
managing your business more 
efficiently. 

For an extra $500, you can even 
get the software to do word proc- 
essing. And other software packages 
are reasonably priced, too. 




So if you're looking for 
bargains, start with the 
Work Processor from 
Digital. And for just 
$5995, you can run 
your small business like 
a big business. 

'Destination charges not included. 



Look what the Work 
Processor system can 
do for you!** 

Word processing 

• Word processing 

• Applicant tracking 

• Office management system 
(telephone log and directory, 
signature log, calendar, 
tickler file) 

• Smart mailer for 
mailing lists 

• Math 

• Sort 

• Communications 

Data Processing 

• BASIC, FORTRAN, PAL 8, 
DIBOL 

• Financial modeling 

• Accounts receivable 

• Accounts payable 

• Payroll 

• General ledger 

• Invoicing and inventory 
control 

• Construction management 
system 

• Dental practice management 

• Lawyer's client accounting 

• CPA client write-up 

• Communications 

• * With optional software 




We change the way 
people work. 



To arrange a free demonstration or for more information call 800-258-1577 extension 1010. 

In New Hampshire, call 603-884-7492. 



DYNACOMP 

Quality software for*: 



ATARI 
PET/CBM 
APPLE II Plus 
OSBORNE-1 
ALTAIR**** 



TRS-80 (Level II)** 
NORTH STAR*** 
CP/M Disks/Diskettes 

(see Availability box) 



CARD GAMES 



BACCARAT (AUri only) Price: $18.95 Caucltc/SI2.45 llukette 

This il the European card game which is Che favorite of the Monte Carlo jel ML Imagine yourself 11 the gaming table with 007 
lo your left and Goldfinger (o your right. Leant and play BACCARAT at your leisure on the Atari. Contains full high resolu- 
tion color graphics and matching sound. Rum in 16K. Requires one joystick. 

GIN RUMMY (Apple only) 

This is the best micro computer implemenialion of GIN RUMMY existing 
HIRES graphics are superb. What cist can be said? 

POKER PARTY (Available for all computers) Price: $17.95 Caw lie /SI 1.95 Dbkelfe 

POKER PARTY is a draw poker simulation based on the hook. POKER, by Oswald Jacoby. This it the mosr comprehensive 
version available for microcomputers. The party consists of yourself and six other (computer) players. Each of these players 
(you will get to know them) has a different personality in (lie fnrm of a varying propensity to hluff nr fold under pressure. 
Practice with POKER PARTY before going to that expensive game tonight! Apple cassette and diskette versions require a 
32 K [or larger) Apple II. 



GO FISH (Available for all computers) 

GO FISH is a classic children's card game. The opponent is 
small children to easily master. The Apple and Atari versinns 
for children! 



Price: Sl4.1t Cassette/ SIR. 93 Dliketlr 

It user inputs that are simple enough for 
.raphics for the display of hands. A musi 



THOUGHT PROVOKERS 



MANAGEMENT SIMULATOR (Atari, North Slur. OSBORNE and CP/M only) 



Price: 5 19.95 ('twite 
$13.95 Diskette 

This program is both an excellent teaching tool a* well as a stimulating intellectual game. Based upon similar games played at 
graduate business schools, each player or team controls a company which manufacturers three products. Each player attempts 
to outperform his competitors by setting selling prices, production volumes, marketing and design expenditures etc. The most 
successful firm is the one with the highest stock price when (he simulation ends. 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR (Available for all computers) Price: $17.95 Ciuetie/$ll.95 Diskette 

A realistic and extensive matnematical simulation of takeoff, flight and landing. The program utilizes aerodynamic equatinns 
and (he characi eristics of a real airfoil. You can practice instrument approaches and navigation using radials and compass 
headings. The more advanced flyer can also perform loops, half-rolls and similar acrobatic maneuvers. Allhough this program 
does not employ graphics, it is exciting and very addictive. See (he software review in COMPUTRONICS. Runs in I6K Atari 

VALDE7, (Available for all cumpulera) Price: $15.95 Cauei(e/SI9.95 DUketle 

VALDF.Z is a computer simulation of supertanker navigaiion in (he Prince William Sound/Valdcr Narrows region nf Alaska. 
Included in ihis simulation is a realistic and extensive 25.6 x 236 element map, portions of which may be viewed using the 
ship's alphanumeric radar display. The motion of the ship itself is accurately modelled mathematically. The simulation also 
contains a model for (he lidai patterns in the region, as well as oilier traffic (outgoing tankers and drifting icebergs). Chan 
your course from the Gulf of Alaska to Valdez Harbor! Sec the software reviews in 80 Software Critique and Personal Com- 
puting. 

BACKGAMMON 2.0 (Atari, North Star. OSBORNE and CP/M only) Price: 514.95 Caaseiie/S 11.95 Diskette 

This program tests your backgammon skills and will also improve your game. A human can compete against a computer or 
against another human The computer can even play against itself. Either the human or the computer can double or generate 
dice rolls. Board positions can be created or saved for replay. BACKGAMMON 2.0 plays in accordance wilh (he official rules 
of backgammon and is sure to provide many fascinating sessions of baekgammnn play. 

CHESS MASTER (Nohh Star and TRS-80 only) Price: $19.95 Cauelle/$13.95 Diskette 

This complete and very powerful program provides five IcvcLs of play. It includes castling, en passant captures and [he promo- 
tion of pawns. Additionally, the board may be presel before the start of play, permitting ihe examinalion of "book" plays. To 
maximize execution speed, the program is written in assembly language (hy SOFTWARE SPECIALISTS of California). Full 
graphics are employed in (he TRS-80 version, and I»o widths of alphanumeric display are provided to accommodate North 
Star users. See review in onCampuiing, 

SUPER SUB CHASE (Alari only) Price: S19.95 Caueite/SU.95 Dlikeite 

SUPER SUB CHASE simulates a search and destroy mission. Set your course and keep an eye on ihe sonar readings as you 
hum for the hidden submarine. Set the depth charge explosion depth and watch them sink towards the sub. This is an addictive 
game which takes advantage of the Atari's graphics and sound capabilities. One nr two players. Jnystick(s) required. 

FOREST FIREI (AUrl only) Price: $15.95 CaiMlle/S 19.95 Dlikeite 

Using excellent graphics and sound effects, ihis simulation puis you in the middle of a forest fire. Your job is lo direct opera- 
tions to put out the Tire while compensating for changes in wind, weather and terrain. Not proleciing valuable structures can 
result in startling penalties. Life-like variables are provided 10 make FOREST FIRL-;! very siispenscful and challenging. No two 
games have the same setting and there are l levels of difficulty. 

BLACK HOLE (Apple nnly) Price: S14.95 Casveite/Sll.95 Diskette 

This is an exciting graphical simulation of the problems involved in closely observing a black hole with a space probe. The ob- 
ject is to enter and maintain, for a prescribed time, an orbit close lo a small black hole. This is to he achieved withnui coming 
so near the anomaly lhat Ihe tidal stress destroys the probe. C'onlrol of Ihe craft is realistically simulated using side jet*, for 
rotation and main thrusters for acceleration. This program employs Hi-Res graphics and is educational as well as challenging. 

SPACE EVACUATION! (Apple, Atari and TRS-80 only) 

Can you colonize (he galaxy and evacuate (he Earth before (he sun exploi 
you explore Ihe universe to relocate millions of people. This simulation i 
exciting elements of classic space games wiili die mystery challenge of A 



nation requiring you lo 
;e devoted lo industrial and agricultural i 
Dilution control. You will find thai all del 



Price: $1 1.95 Cawtle/$15.95 Diskette 

urvive an 8-year term as your nation's leader. You deter - 
;c. how much food lo dislribule to Ihe populace and how 



CHOMPELO (Alari only) 

CHOMPELO is really two challenging games in one. One is similar I 
ing the poisoned portion. The other game is the popular board gam 
and is hard to beat. This package will run on a I6K system. 

SPACE LANES (Available for aU computers) 

SPACE LANES is a simple but exciting space iransportntion game w 
The object is to form and expand space transportation companies in 
worth than your opponenl. 



Price: S1 1.95 C met le/$ 15.95 Diskette 
•RSI. It fully uses the Aran's graphics capability. 

Price: $10.95 CuKt(e/$l4.95 Diskette 

'olves up to four players (including Ihe computer). 

mpany mergers. Walch your wealth grow! 



AVAILABILITY 



is and examples. Unless otherwi 



DYNACOMP software is supplied wilh complete documcniaiion containing clear explanalii 

specified, all piograms will run within I6K program memory space (ATARI requires 24K). Except where noted, programs are as 
able on ATARI, PET, TRS-80 (Level 11) and Apple (Applesoft) cassette and diskette as well as North Slar single density (dot 
density compatible) diskette. Additionally, most programs can be obtained on siundnrd (II1M J740 single density /double den 
compatible formal) 8" CP/M floppy disks for sysicms running under MBASIC (for example. Alios, Xerox R20 and many olhe 
5'/." CP/M diskeiies are available for ihe Nonh Star and Osborne computer systems. 



ATARI. PET/CBM, NORTH STAR. CP/M, IBM, OSBORNE and XEROX art- 



k-baxtd systems. DYNACOMP (J. 
in* Microsoft BASIC. 



-1 thr new North Star . 



DYNACOMP OFFERS THE FOLLOWING 

• Widest variety 

• Guaranteed quality 

• Fastest delivery 

• Friendly customer service 

• Free catalog 

• 24 hour order phone 



AND MORE... 



STARTREK 3.2 (Available for all computers) 

This is the classic Startrek simulation, but wilh several new leal 
without warning while alio attacking siarbases in other quadr.inl: 
and move when shot all The situation is hectic when the Enlcrpri 
received! The Klinguns get even! Sec the software reviews in A.h 



Price: SI I.WCuwlte $15.95 Diskette 
res. For example, the Klingons now shoot at ihe Enterprise 
The Klmgons also attack wuh bolh light and heavy cruisers 
e is besieged hy three heavy uuisers and a starbase S.O.S. is 
A.I.O.G., Kt) Software Ctiluiueaiid Ciamc Merchandising. 



L1L' MEN FROM MARS (Alari only) 
Defend yourself! The liitle men from Mars 

animated graphics (arcade) game which 

SPACE TILT (Apple and Alari only) 

Use ihe game paddles to till ihe plane of the TV 



Price: $19.95 Csu«iie/$25.95 Diskette 

out lo gel you if you don'l gel them first. This is a hilarious high resolution 
:h of Ihe Atari's power. Require one joystick. 

Price: $10.95 C»Melle/$l4.9S Diskette 

I to "roll" a ball into a hole in the screen. Sound simple? Not when ihe 
, you lo measure your skill against others in this habil-kirming action 



ESCAPF FROM VOI.ANTIUM (Atari only) Price: Sl5.9SC««eire $19. 95 Dbkrtte 

Brim (lle Kttal ami cxcilemeni of an arcade inlo your home wilh ESCAPF FROM VOI.ANTIUM! To escape you must 
maneuver your space ship jmund obstacle and laser blast the dragon {without being eaten), II he is killed with a ditcct shin 
(mil Just a leg lopped of f). a door opens 10 Ihe outside. However, the door does ncu stay open indefinitely. If you (ail to escape 
in lime, ilicduor closes and a new dragon appears. Sometimes you can smash through ihedooi hy repeatedly chipping DM) ai 
il. Other times il is impervious. At the higher Icsels of play mine obstacles and dragons appear, adding to 
high resolution graphics and sound. Runs in I6K. 



ALPHA FIGHTER (Atari only) 

Two excellent graphics and action programs in one! ALPHA FIGHTER ieu_uircs you 1 
through your sector nl the galaxy. ALPHA HASE is in the path of an alien UFO invasio 
ends. Both games require Ihe joystick and gel progressively mnre difficult the higher yo 
on IfiK systems. 



Price: SUM Caurllr/Sn.W Diskette 

1 to deslroy the alien \Ut\hips passing 

nn- l« fii C UFO's gel h> and the game 

ALPHA FKiHTFR will run 



THF RINGS OF THE EMPIRE (Atari only) 

The empire has developed a new battle station protected by roiatin 
deslroy (he nation, ihe empire develops a new siaiinn wilh more 
employs extensive graphics and sound and can he played by one 



Price: S15.95 Cawttle/S19,9fl Diskeiie 
energy. Each lime you hlasi through the rings and 
rings. This exciting game tuns on IftK sysicms. 
players. 



INTRUDER ALERT (Atari only) Price: $15.95 C.uetir'$|9.95 DMtetW 

This is a fas! paced graphics game which places you in ihe middle ol the "Dreadslar" having iiisi siolen iis plans The droid* 
have been alcricd jud are directed In deslroy yuu al all coslv You must find and enter your ship |Q escape with Ilic plans. Five 
levels of difficulty are provided. INTRUDER ALFRT requites a joystick and will run on Ink systems. 



MIDWAY (Atari only) 

MIDWAY isanesciling eslensinn of the game o( Ballleship. Il mixe 
can be anniher human or Ihe compuler. Color graphics and sound a 



Prlcr: $14.95 Casselle/$I8.9 

the challenges or strategy and chance. Your 
c boih included. Runs in 16K. 



Diskette 



TRIPLE BLOCKADE (Atari only) Price: $14.95 Caj»elie/$ 18.95 IHikeiie 

TRIPI F BLOCKADE is a two-lolhrce player graphics and sound action ganic. If is based nn the classic video arcade game 
which millions have enjoyed. Using the Alari joysticks, the object is in direct your blockading line around ihe screen wuhoui 
running inlo youi opponcni(s). Although the concept is simple, the combined graphics and sound effect lead to "high 

GAMES PACK I (Available for all computers) Price: $10.95 Cassette /$ 14.95 Diskette 

GAMES PACK I contains the classic compuler games of BLACKJACK. LUNAR LANDER. CRAPS. HORSERACE, 

SWITCH and more. These games have been combined inlo one large program for case in loading. They are indisiduallv ac- 
cessed by a convenieni menu. This collection is worlh the price just lor the DYNACOMP version nl HLACKJACK. 

GAMES PACK II (Available for all computers) Price: $10.95 CmtttofSHM DtUtcMt 

GAMES PACK II includes ihe games CRAZY EIGHTS, JOTTO. ACEY-DUCEY. LIFE. WUMPUS and olhent, As wilh 
GAMES PACK I, all ihe games are loaded as one program and are called from a menu. You will particulate enjO) 
DYNACOMP's version of CRAZY EIGHTS. 

c per program when you can buy a DYNACOMP collection tor just $10.9!? 

Price: $1 1.95 (■t*ellr/$15.95 Diskette 
usi diop from orbit 111 land al a predetermined large! on 
rail plus direct Ihe rale ol descent and approach angle 



MOON PROBE (Atari and North Star only) 

This is an extremely challenging "lunar lander" program, The u 



SPACE TRAP (Atari only, 16K) Price: $14.95 ( .«eite/$ia.95 Diskette 

This galactic "shoni'em up" arcade game places you near a black hole. You control your spacecraft using ihe inysnck and at 
tempt lo bias! as nuns ol ilic alien ships .is possible hclnii- ilic black hole closes about you. 



CHIRP INVADERS (PET/CBM only) 
CHIRP INVADERS is an addictive game u 
conquer (he Earth. Stationary obstacles. 1 
journey. Good luck. 



Price: $14.95 Cassette/ $18.95 Dhkelte 
\ Federation space siaiinn must be reached be lore iheChirpv 
ihe attacking Chirps musi all be avoided tin a successful 



ADVENTURE 



CRANSTON MANOR ADVENTURE (North Star and CP/M only) Price: $19.95 Dlsketti 

At last! A comprehensive Advenlure game for North Slar and CP/M syslcms. CRANSTON MANOR ADVl-NTl IRI- take: 
you into mysterious CRANSTON MANOR where you allempi to gather fabulous treasures, lurking in Ihe manoi arc WfU 
animals and robots who will not give up ihe treasures without a Light. The number nf ruoms is greater and the associates 
descriptions are much mure elaborate than the current popular series of Adventuie programs, making this game Ihe tup in til 
class. I'lay can he stopped al any lime and (he stains stored on diskeiie. Not available in )'/•" CP/M formal 

GUMBAI.L RALLY ADVENTURE (North Star only, 48K) Price: $21.95 Disked. 

Take par! in ihis outlaw race from the GUI coast 10 Ihe west coast. The goal is to find youi way to the finish line while main 
taining the highest possible speed. You may choose one of five cars available al ihe garage. The choice will alteci your speci 
and range. Remember 10 lake spare parts and don't get caughi speeding! 

UNCLE HARRY'S WILL (North Slar only, 40K) Price: $14.95 Dbkttli 

Uncle Hatty has died and has lefl you everything. However, he has neglected to mention where everything is! lns.lc.ul, Ins wil 
consisls of a poem which contains clues. You will have io travel all over ihe I Iniled Stales bulh hy cai and on liiul to solve Itu 
puule, and (here ate over 300 locations 10 prohe. Be careful and waich out for red herrings! 



SPEECH SYNTHESIS 



DYNACOMP is nnw distributing Ihe ne 
conned TNT 10 your computer's serial i 
program speech synthesizer 011 Ihe marki 



Ilic lea- 
ps! pr.ee $375. DYNACOMP'S pi 



y TOWN-TALK rM (TNT) speech synthesizer (mm Voiism. Simply 
from (he keyboard and hear ihe words spoken. TNT is the easiest-io 
.mount of memory and provides the most flexible vocabulary available 



r $119.95 plus $5.00 for si 



TALK TO ME (TNT Atari only, 24K) 
This program presents a snperl 



I, TALK TO ME h 



n speech synthesis using Ihe 
>rk(CBS)TV! 



Price: $14.95 Ciuctir $ 18.95 Dlskrllr 
and TYPE 'H TA1 K™. TALK TO ME will 
illation includes many helpful p 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CRYSTAUS (Alari only) 



NORTH STAR SOFTWARE EXCHANGE (NSSE) LIBRARY 
DYNACOMP now distribute* Ihe 2s volume NSSE library. These disk, 
standing value for ihe purchase price They should be pan of every Nor 
for details regarding ihe contents of the NSSE collection. 



Price:! 9.95Cauelle'$13.95DI(krlte 

^iih tones which vary as ihe patterns are 
s are mesmerizing. CRYSTAI S has been 



Circle 141 on inquiry card. 



BUSINESS and UTILITIES 

MAILMASTER (Atari diskette only) Price: S39.93 Dlikette 

MAILMASTER is a very versatile software package Tar managing and manipulating mail lift] and mini data bases. Each disk 
can hold over 700 customer entries containing name, address, three .1-lelter key words and a phone number. The display is 
marked so that entries may he made and edited with ease. The status (e.g., disk space left, options, etc.) is shown ai all times. 
Labels may be pfititcd 1 .2 nr J up, and all sorting (zip code and alphabetic) is performed by a fast machine language program. 



■nly) 

n different programs. 

onthly bar graphs of v 
in. 3IK North Star) 
ic programs). Vo 



Price: S39.95 Diskette 

lesides recording your etpenses and tax 
aliun tin expenditures by any of 26 user 
ur etpenses by category! This powerful 
nd «tll store up to 6O0 records per disk 
can record checks plus cash expenses so 
.Iculations. Contains high speed 



PERSONAL FINANCE SYSTEM (Atari and North Star 

PFS is a single diskette, menu-oriented system composed of t. 

deductible items, PFS will son and summarise expenses by pay: 

defined codes by month or by payee. PFS *ill even produce mo 

package requires only one disk drive, minimal memory <24K At 

(and over 1000 records per disk by making * few simple changes 

that you can finally see where your money goes and eliminaie guesswork and tedious hand 

machine language sort. PFS has been demanstrated on network (CBS1 TV! 

FAMILY BUDGET (Appk and Atari only) Price: S34.9S Diskette 

FAMILY BUDGET is a very convenient financial record -keeping program. You will be able to keep track of cash and credit 
expenditures as well as income on a daily basis. You can record tax deductible items and charitable donations. FAMILY 
BUDGET also provides a continuous record of all credit transactions. You can make daily (ash and charge entries to any of 21 
different expense accounts as well as to 5 payroll and tax accounts. Data me easily rclricvrd giving the user complete control 
over an otherwise complicated land unorganized!) subject. 

INTELINK (Atari only) Price: S49.95 Diskette 

This software package contains a menu-driven collection of programs for facilitating efficient two-way communications 
through a full duplex modem (required for use), In one mode of operation you may connect to a data service (e.g., The 
SOURCE or MicroNct) and quickly load data such as slock quotations onto your diskette for later viewing. This greatly re- 
duces "connect time" and thus the service charge. You may also record the complete contents of a communications session. 
Additionally, programs written in BASIC. FORTRAN, etc. may be built 0'f-linc using the support text editor and later ■'up- 
loaded" to another computet, making the Atari a very smarf terminal. Even Atari BASIC programs may be uploaded. 
Further, a command file may be built off-line and used later as controlling input for a time-share system. That is, you can set 
up your sequence of time-share commands and programs, and the Atari will transmit them as needed; batch processing. All 
this adds up to saving both connect time and your time. 

TEXT EDITOR II (CP/M) Price: H9.93 Dbketle/J33.4S Dlik 

This is the second release version of DYNACOMP's popular TEXT EDITOR I and contains many new features. With TEXT 
EDITOR II you may build Unci files in chunks and assemble them for later display. Blocks of text may be appended, inserted or 
deleted. Files may be saved on disk/diskette in right justified/centered format to be latet ptinted by cither TEXT EDITOR II 
or the CP/M ED facility. Futher. ASCII CP'M files (including BASIC and assembly language programs) may be read by the 
editor and processed. In fact, text files can be built using ED and later formatted using TEXT EDITOR II. All in all. TEXT 
EDITOR II is an inexpensive, easy to use. bui very flexible editing system. 

PAYFIVE (Apple II plus dfalU lie, two drive; required) Price: $149.95 

This is an enormously flexible employee payroll system with extraordinarily good human engineering features. PAYFIVE 
prinis checks and compiles the tequired federal, slate and local forms for up to MS employees. The pay methods may be hour- 
ly, salary, commission or any combination. There are multiple options for pay periods, and ibey also can he used in any com- 
bination. PAYFIVE includes muniothct features and comes extremely well documented with a 200 page manual. The manual 
may he purchased separately for $30, and Ihat payment later applied to the software purchase. 

SHOPPING LIST (Atari only | Price: SI2.95 Cauelte/S16.95 Diskelle 

SHOPPING I 1ST stores information on items you purchase at the supermarket. Before going shopping, it will remind you of 
all the things you might need, and then display (or optionally print) your shopping list and ihe total cost. Adding, deleting, 
changing and storing data is very guy, Runv with I6K. 

TAX OPTIMIZER (North Star only) Price: 559.95 Diskelle 

The TAX OPTIMIZER is an easy-to-use. menu oriented software package which provides a convenient means for analyzing 
various income tax strategies. The ptogram n designed to provide a quick and easy data entry. Income tax is computed by all 
tax methods (tegular, income avetaging, matimum and alternate minimum tax). The user may immediately observe the tax 
effect of critical financial decisions. TAX OPTIMIZER has been thoroughly field tested in CPA offices and comes complete 
with the current lax tables in ils data files. TAX OPTIMIZER is tax deductible! 

UTIL (Apple only. 48K) Price: S19.95 Dlikette 

UTIL is a disk-oriented utility sysiem which permits examining and changing of the contents of DOS 3.2 and 3.3 diskettes at 
the bit (nibble ot byte) level. With UTIL you can easily examine Ihe contents of a diskette sector by sector, restructure the sec- 
tor pointers, reallocate sectors (e.g. had sectors may be "hidden"), and perform many other sophisticated operations. For the 
experienced programmer. 

TURNKEY AND MENU (Atari only) Prtee: S17.95 Diskette 

TURNKEY is a utility program which allows you io create autoboot/autorun diskettes easily. Simply load and run TURN- 
KEY, load the program diskelle to be modified, and answer the questions! The TURNKEY diskette also comes with DOS 2.0 
and includes another program, MENU. MENU lists the contents ofyour diskette alphabetically, and permits the running of 
any BASIC program on the diskette by typing a single key. TURNKEY and MENU provide you with the ability to run any 
program on your diskette by simply turning on the computer and pressing a single key. 

STOCKAID (Atari only) Price: S29.95 Diskette 

STOCKAID provides a powerful set of tools for stock market analysis. With STOCKAID you can display poinl and figure 
charts, as well as bar charts with oscillators. You can also examine long term moving averages md on-balance volume features. 
STOCKAID allows you to input daily data with a single diskette storage capability of 239 days » 16 stocks. Included arc 
stock dividend and split adjustment capabilites. A very professional package! 

SHAPE MAGICIAN (Apple II, 48K. diskette only) 

At last! An utility for painlessly creating graphics shapes for the Apple. Create, edit and save u| 
used io develop arcade games or to simply enhance your programs. Add that professional It 



EDUCATION 



HODGE PODGE (Apple only, 4SK Applesoft or Intetjer BASIC) Prke:SM.95 Casaeite/SU.93 Diskette 

Let HODGE PODGE be your child's leacher Pressing any key on your Apple will result in a different and intriguing "hap- 
pening" related to the letter or number of the chosen key. The program's graphics, colot and sound are a delight for children 
from ages I ; I (o 7. HODGE PODGE is a non-intimidating teaching device which brings a new dimension to the use of com- 
puters in education. See the excellent reviews of this very popular program in 1NFOWORLD and SOFTALK. 

TEACHER'S AIDE (Atari only) Price: 113.95 C«*»eiie/Sl7.95 Diskelle 

TEACHER'S AIDE consists of three basic modules contained in one program. The first module provides addition and sub- 
traction exercises of varying levels of difficulty. The second module consists of multiplication problems in which the student 
may be tested both on the final answer and/or on the subtotal answers in the longhand procedure. Several levels of complexity 
are provided here as well. The third module consists of division problems; one particularly nice feature of Ihe division module 
is that ihe Icing hand division stepv can be displayed along with Ihe remainder in order to clearly demonsttale the procedure by 
which the remainder is derived. Using TEACHER'S AIDE it not merely a drill, but rather a learning experience. 

PHARMACOLOGY UPDATE (PET only) Price: SH9.95 Cai«tlr/S153.9S Diskette 

This is DYNACOMP's fitsl educational soil ware entry for the medical ptofession (mote ate coming!), PHARMACOLOGY 
UPDATE was written by a R.N, as a mastets project, with the aid of a practicing pharmacologist and an electronics instructor. 
This package comes in two parts. The first pan is a 200 page manual which is divided into 10 sections Each of these sections 
provides both concise information and probing questions. The second pan consists of 10 programs that are keyed to the text 
and which tesi the degree of your understanding of the text material. This package has great educational value for the begin- 
ning student ai well as the professional intetested in an efficient way to review and update his or hct knowledge. 



ORDERING INFORMATION 



Shipping and Handling Charges 

Within North America: Add $2 00 
Outside North America Add IJWi 1/ 



I" CP/M Disks 

Add S2 Jt) [O the listed diskette price for e; 
Microsoft MBASIC or BASIC-80. 



" floppy disk (IBM sufl si 



an 8" CP/M disks is alio available on 5V<" disks. Noith Star and Osbor 
rams al yout local software dealet. Write for detailed descriptions of thes 

DYNACOMP, Inc. (Depi. B) 

1427 Monroe Avenue 

Rochester, New York 14618 

24 hour order phone: (716)442-8731 recording 

Office phone (9AM-5PM EST): (716)442-8960 



New York Sl,lc t 



j pltiK idd 7* NYS ,i 



STATISTICS and ENGINEERING 

DIGITAL FILTER (Available for ill computers) price: SJ9.9S Caucite/S43.95 Diskette 

DIGITAL FILTER is a comprehensive data processing program which permits the user to design his own filter function or 
choose from a menu of filter forms. The filter forms arc subsequently converted into non-recursive convolution coefficients 
which permit rapid daia processing. In the explicit design mode the shape of the frequency transfer function is specified by 
directly entering points along the desired filler curve. In the menu mode, ideal low pass, high pass and bandpass Fillers may be 
approximated to varying degrees according io the number of points used in the calculation. These filters may optionally also be 
smoothed with a Hanning function. In addition, multi-stage Butterworth filters may be selected. Features of DIGITAL 
FILTER include plotting of the data before and after filtering, as well as display of (he chosen filtet functions. Also included 
are convenient data storage, retrieval and editing procedures. 

DATA SMOOTHER (Not available for Atari) Price: $19.95 Ca*aerte/S23.95 Dlikette 

This special data smoothing program may be used to rapidly derive useful information from noisy business and engineering 
data which arc equally spaced. The software features choice in degree and range of fit, as well as smoothed first and second 
detivative calculation. Also included is automatic plotting of the input data and smoothed results. 

FOURIER ANALYZER (Available for all computers) Price: 119,95 CaAetie/513.95 Dtikeiie 

Use Ihis program io examine Ihe frequency spectra of limited duration signals. The program features automatic scaling and 
plotting of ihe inpui data and results. Practical applications include the analysis of complicated patterns in such fields as elec- 



TFA (Transfer Function Analyzer) Price: S19.95Cauetie/iU.9S Dlikette 

This is a special software package which may be used lo evaluate the transfer functions of systems such as hi-fi amplifiers and 
fillers by examining their response lo pulsed inpuis. TFA is a major modification o! FOURIER ANALYZER and contains an 
engineering-oriented decibel versus log-frequency plot as well as data editing features. Whereas FOURIER ANALYZER is de- 
signed for educational and scientific use, TFA is an enginecting tool. Available for all computers. 

HARMONIC ANALYZER (Available for all computers) Prtc*:SM.95Cu*ite/SM.9S Dlikette 

HARMONIC ANALYZER was designed for ihe spectrum analysis of repetitive waveforms. Features include data file geneta- 
tion. editing and storage/retrieval as well as data and spectrum plotting. One particularly unique facility is that the input data 
need not be equally spaced or in order. The original data is sorted and a cubic spline interpolation is used to create the data file 
required by the FFT algorithm. 

FOURIER ANALYZER. TFA and HARMONIC ANALYZER may be purchased logether for a combined price of 549.95 
(three cassettes) and $59.95 (three diskettes) 

REGRESSION I (Available for all computers) Price: SI9.95 Caa«tte/$23.93 Diskette 

REGRESSION I is a unique and exceptionally versatile one-dimensional least squares "polynomial" curve filling program. 
Features include very high accuracy; an automatic degree determination option; an extensive internal library of fining func- 
tions; data editing; automatic data, curve and residual plotting; a statislical analysis (eg: standard deviation, correlation coeffi- 
cienl, etc.) and much more. In addition, new fits may be tried without reentering the data. REGRESSION I is certainly the 
cornerslonc program in any data analysis software library. 

REGRESSION II (P ARAFIT) (Available for all computers) Price: S19.95 Cauetle/$13.95 Dlikette 

PARAF1T is designed to handle those cases in which ihe parameters are imbedded (possibly nonlinearly) in (he filling func- 
tion. The user simply inserts ihe functional form, including the parameters (A| I), A(2), etc.) as one or more BASIC statement 
lines. Data, results and residuals may be manipulated and plotted as with REGRESSION I. Use REGRESSION 1 fot 
polynomial fitting, and PARAFIT fot those complicated functions. 

MULTILINEAR REGRESSION (MLR) (Available for all computers) Price: SM.95 C*ueiK/5M.95 Dlikeite 

MLR is a professional software package for analyzing data sets containing two or more linearly independent variables. Besides 
performing the basic regression calculation, ihis program also provides easy to use data entry, storage, retrieval and editing 
functions. In addition, the user may intetrogaie the solution by supplying values fot the independent variables, The number of 
variables and data size is limited only by the available memory. 

REGRESSION I. II and MULTILINEAR REGRESSION may be purchased together (or $51.95 (three cassettes) or $63.95 
(three diskettes). 

ANOVA (Not available on Atari cassette or for PET/CBM) Price: S39.95 Cauette/S43.95 Dlikette 

In the past Ihe ANOVA (analysis of variance) procedure has been limited to ihe latge mainframe computcts. Now 
DYNACOMP has btought the power of this method to small systems. For those conversant with ANOVA, the DYNACOMP 
software package includes the l-way, 2 -way and N-way procedures. Also provided are the Yates 2*"™ factorial designs. For 
ihose unfamiliar wilh ANOVA, do not worry. The accompanying documentation was written in a tutorial fashion (by a pro- 
fessor in the subject) and serves as an excellent introduction lo the subject. Accompanying ANOVA is a support program for 
building the data base. Included are several convenient feaiutcs including data editing, deleting and appending. 

BASIC SCIENTIFIC SUBROUTINES, Volumes 1 and 2 (Nol available Tor Atari) 

DYNACOMP is the exclusive distributor for ihe software keyed to the popular lexis BASIC SCIENTIFIC SUBROUTINES, 

Volumes I and 2 by F. Ruckdeschel (see advertisements in BYTE magazine). These subroutines have been assembled according 
to chapter. Included with each collection is a menu program which selects and demonstrates each subroutine. 

Volume 1 

Collection *l: Chapters 2 and 3 - Data and function plotting; complex variables and functions. 

Collection *2: Chapter 4 - Extended matrix and vector operations. 

Collection *3; Chapters 5 and 6 - Random number generators (Poisson. Gausiian, etc.); series approximations. 
Price per collection: $14.95 Cassette/ 1 18.95 Diskette 
All three collections are available for $19.95 (three cassettes) and $49.95 (three diskettes). 



Volume 2 
Collection #1: 
Collection 12: 
Colled ion «: 
Collection HA: 

Collection *5: 
Collection »6: 
Collection IP: 
Collection *8: 

All eight collections a' 
Because the lexis are a 
from DYNACOMP: 



Chapter I - Linear, polynomial, multidimensional, parametric least squatcs. 

Chapter 2 - Scrici approximation techniques (eco nomination, i 

Chapter 1 - Functional approximations by iteraiio 

Chapter 4 - CORD1C approximations to trigonometric, hyperbolic, i 



d logarithm 



Chapter 5 - Table interpolation, differentiation and integration (Newton, LaGrange, splines). 

Chapter 6 - Methods for finding the real roots of functions. 

Chapter 7 - Methods fot finding Ihe complex roots of functions. 

Chaptet B - Optimization by steepest descent. 
lollectloni 114.95 Cassetie/J 18.95 Diskette 

I are available for 599.95 (eight cassettes) and 5129.95 (eight diskettes), 
e a viral part of Ihe documenialion. BASIC SCIENTIFIC SUBROUTINES, Volumes I and 2 ire available 



See reviews in KILOBAUD and Dr Dobbs 

SOFTNET (Apple II 48K, diskelle only) 

SOFTNET may be used to create models of liquid pipelin 
up to 150 connecting elements may be simulated, and mod 
in watct distribution systems, chemical fluid flow problcn 



Price SI 29.95 

iystems lo evaluate their flow performance. Up to 150 nodes with 
s may be combined to form yet larger models. If you are involved 
. building plumbing, or similar situations, this is an ideal analysis 



ACTIVE CIRCUIT ANALYSIS (ACAP) (48K Apple only) Price: $23.95 Cane lie/ $29 .95 Dlikette 

ACAP is ihe analog circuit designer's answer to LOGIC SIMULATOR. Wilh ACAP you may analy/e the response of an ac- 
tive ot passive component circuit (e.g. , a transistor amplifier, band pass filter, etc.). The circuit may be probed al equal steps in 
frequency, and the resulting complex (i.e.. real and imaginary) voltages at each component juncture examined. By plotting the 
magnitude of these voltages, the frequency response of a filter or amplifier may be completely determined with respect to both 
amplitude and phase. In addition, ACAP ptints a statistical analysis of the range of voltage responses which result from 
tolerance variations in the components. ACAP is easy to learn and use. Simply describe the circuit in terms of the elements and 
iheit placement, and execute. Circuit descriptions may be saved onio cassette or diskette to be recalled at a later lime for execu- 
tion or editing. ACAP should be pan of every circuit designer's program library. 

LOGIC SIMULATOR (Apple only; 4»K RAM) Price: SM.9S Ctuetle/SM.95 Dlikette 

With LOGIC SIMULATOR you may easily lest yout complicated digital logic design with respect to given set of inputs to 
determine how well the circuit will operate. The elements which may be simulated include multiple input AND. OR, NOR, 
EXOR, EXNOR and NAND gales, as well as inverters. J-K and D flip-flops, and one-shots. The response of the system is 
available every clock cycle. Inputs may be clocked in with varying clock cycle lengths/displacements and delays may be intro- 
duced to probe for glitches and race conditions. At the user's option, a timing diagram for any given sei of nodes may be plot- 
ted using HIRES graphics. Save your breadhoarding until the circuit is checked by LOGIC SIMULATOR. 

NUMBERKRUNCHER(TRS-80onlyl Price: $69.95 Cauette/ 573 .93 Dlikelte 

This program is the most complete numerical analysis sysiem available for the TR5-B0 It can handle up to 255 data sets, each 
set having a six character name. It includes complete data editing facilities and convenient data input/output capability. The 
analyses available are multiple linear regression and correlation detctmination of rcsiduils, data transformations and extensive 
graphics generation, including axis naming, and more. The supporting documentation is extremely well written and well 
organized, and includes appendices which describe the numerical procedures used in Ihe program. 



Price; S39.95 C**Hlle/$43.95 Dliktlle 

: (build, edit, merge), format and prim 
average, variance, standard deviation) 
can also be employed to create a data 



STATSORT (TRS-80 only) 

STATSORT consists of several menu selected programs which allow the us 
files, (machine) sort them on any field, and numerically analyze (maximum, 
tabulated data. STATSORT is well documented and easy to use. The casse 
lype which can be tead by Ihe Radio Sliack Advanced Statislical Package. 

ST ATTEST (TRS-80 only) Price: S19.95 Cai»etle/$2J.9S Dlikette 

This is a slalislical inference package which helps you make wise decisions in the face ol uncertainly. In an interactive fashion 
you can build and edit data files and test the differences in means, variances and proportions. STATTEST will also perform 
data analysis as well as do linear correlation and regression. This menu-directed statistical workhorse is rounded out with a chi- 
squarc contingency tesl and a (uniform and normal) random sample generator. The docjmentation is written by a college pro- 
fessor who guides you through the various tests. 



ABOUT DYNACOMP 



DYNACOMP is. a leading distributor of small system software with sales spanning ihe world (currently in excess 
of 50 countries). During the past three years we have greatly enlarged the DYNACOMP product line, but have 
maintained and improved our high level of quality and customer support. The achievement in quality is apparent 
from our many repeat customers and ihe software reviews in such publications as COMPUTRONICS, 80 Soft- 
ware Critique, A.N.A.L..O.G., Sofialk, Creative Compuling and Kilobaud. DYNACOMP software has also 
been chosen for demonstration on network television. Our customer support is as close as your phone. It is 
always friendly. The staff is highly trained and always willing to discuss products or give advice. 






Circle 141 on inquiry card. 



1 software . . . with lots of technical support 


CALICO 


(213)475-8104 

TO ORDER CALL TOLL-FREE 


SYSTEM! 


(800| 854-2003, ext. 75 






(800) 522-1 500. ext. 75 in Calif. 




CP/M® 


Specily lormaL 

Most disk formats available. 


LANGUAGES 


disk 

with /manual 

manual/ only 


0ATA BASE MANAGEMENT 

dBASE II Ashton-Tate S599/40 


Basic Microsoll S2B9/- 


Series 20-1 Condor S249/50 


Basic Compiler Microsoft S329/- 


Series 20-2 Condor S509/50 


C-Basic Dig. Research $110/20 


Data Star MicroPro S245/60 


CB80 Dig. Research S437/37 
COBOL 80 Microsoft S574/- 


FMS-80-1 Systems Plus Call 
FMS-80-2 Systems Plus Call 


C Compiler Supersoft $169/- 


INCOME TAX 


Forth Supersoft S169/45 


MICRO TAX 


Fortran Supersoft S209/30 


Lev 1 (Indvl ) S225/- 


Fortran 80 Microsoft S375/- 
muLISP Microsoft S169/- 


Lev 2 (Prof.) Call 
Lev 3 (Partner) Call 
Lev. 2 & 3 Call 


Pascal/M Sorcim $345/30 


State Tax Call 


Pascal Z Ith. Intersys. S349/30 


ACCOUNTING 


RATFOR Supersoft S85/- 


TCS 

G/LorA/P 


Fortran + RATFOR $289/35 


S-Basic Micro AP $269/25 


or A/R or Payroll S75/25 


Tiny Pascal Supersoft S79/25 


All four $250/99 


ASSEMBLERS/UTILITIES 


ACCOUNTING PLUS'" 


ACT I Sorcim S152/25 


G/L $439/67 


Despool Dig. Research $50/- 


A/P $375/67 


Diagnosticll Supersoft S84/20 


A/R S375/67 


Macro 80 Microsoft S162/- 


Payroll $375/67 


MAC Dig. Research $85/15 


Inventory S375/67 


P/L 1-80 Dig. Research S469/40 
0S0RT Struc.Sys S907- 


Sales Order $375/67 
Point of Sale S375/67 
Purch Order S375/67 


SID Dig. Research S70/15 


PEACHTREE-SERIES5 


ZSID Dig. Research $90/15 


G/L $437/40 


WORD/TEXT PROCESSING 


A/P S437/40 


Edit 80 Microsoft S907- 


A/R S437/40 


Letteright Struc.Sys. $1567- 
Magic Wand Peachtree S289/45 


Payroll S319/40 

Inventory S437/40 

Sales Invoice S437/40 


Mail Merge MicroPro S108/25 


CP/M® 


Spellguard ISA $225/25 


Spell Star MicroPro S175/40 


TRS-80VMod ll(PST) -S169/- 
Z-89 $140/- 
Z-90 $140/— 


TEX Dig. Research $100/10 


Textwriter III Organic Softwr $110/- 
WordStar MicroPro $318/60 




CALICO Mar. 


Word Star + Mail Merge $415/85 


SYSTEMS '82 


ANALYSIS/MODELING 

CalcStar MicroPro $229/45 


1746% Westwood Blvd. 


Milestone Organic Softwr $269/- 


Los Angeles. CA 90024 


muMATH/muSIMPMicrosoft S225/- 


(2131475-8104 


Supercalc Sorcim $259/50 


YES. WE'VE GOT HARDWARE TOO! 


Worksheet Soho Group $185/- 


VISIT OUR NEW COMPUTER STORE. 












APPLE II® 




I.U.S. 






PEACHTREE 


Datadex $258 


G/L S219 


Easy Writer (40 col) $88 


A/R • $219 


Easy Mailer (40 col) $61 


A/P $219 


Forth $123 
Pro. Easy Mailer $149 


Payroll S219 


Pro. Easy Writer $225 


Inventory S219 




Mail. List S219 


MICROPRO 


H0WAR0 SOFTWARE 


Mail Merge $97 


Income Tax Call 


Super Sort I S159 




Word Star S260 


PERSONAL SOFTWARE 


Word Star + Mail Merge $349 


Desktop Plan II $159 


MICROSOFT 


VisiCalc $159 


A.L.D.S. S105 


VisiDex $159 


Basic Compiler $320 


VisiFile $199 


Fortran-80 S175 


VisiPlot $149 


16K RAM Card S149 


VisiTerm S149 


Z-80 Soft Card S295 


VisiTrend/VisiPlot $229 


MASTER CK 


ARGE/VISA 


CALICO 


1746'/? Westwood Blvd. 


SYSTEMS 


Los Angeles. CA 90024 
(213)475-8104 


Add $3 50/item for shipping, handling. 


Overseas add $10 California residents 


add 6% sales tax. Allow time for chec 


ks to clear. Prices subject to change 


without notice. All items subject to av 


illabllity. "Registered trademark. 



310 March 1982 © BYTE Publications [nc 



Programming Quickies 



A Shape-Drawing 

Program for 

Diablo Printers 



Thomas D. Brock 
1227 Dartmouth Rd. 
Madison, WI ,53705 



The Diablo Model 1620 and 1640 daisy-wheel printers 
have a lot of nice graphics features that aren't generally 
used. After working with high-resolution graphics shape 
tables on the Apple II computer, I decided to write a 
shape-list generator for the Diablo in BASIC. \We call 
this construct a "shape list" to distinguish it from the 
binary-coded Apple shape tables. ...RSS) 

The program I devised permits the definition of a vari- 
ety of shapes and the printing of these shapes at any 
chosen size. No attempt has been made to write a com- 
plete graphics package, but the shape-list generator could 
easily be incorporated into a larger program Changing 
the position of printing on the paper and rotating the 
shapes could also be added. 

Each shape is defined in terms of the instructions need- 
ed to print it on the paper The move and print instruc- 
tions are coded into character strings that are interpreted 
by a series of subroutines. The program can be used on 
any BASIC interpreter that supports string variables and 
permits dissection of strings into substrings. 

The details of the Diablo codes for graphics can be 
found in the Diablo user's manual The printer is placed 
into graphics mode by sending to it an Escape, "3" se- 
quence and is taken out of graphics mode through an 
Escape, "4" sequence. When in graphics mode, carriage 
movement is not tied to character printing, but space and 
backspace cause carriage movements of 1/60 inch for- 
ward and backward, respectively. Also the linefeed char- 
acter causes paper-feed movement of 1/48 inch, and 
"negative linefeed," initiated by sending an Escape, line- 
feed sequence, causes paper movement of 1/48 inch in the 
opposite direction. Other paper-movement commands 
such as vertical tab, formfeed, and margin control remain 
unchanged. 

Thus, to print a horizontal line, it is necessary to send 
an alternating sequence of periods (decimal ASCII code 
46) and spaces or backspaces; the length of the line in 
inches will be 1/60 times the number of periods printed. 
To print a vertical line, one sends an alternating sequence 
of periods and linefeeds, or negative linefeeds; the length 



Circle 63 on inquiry card. 



Hitachi Oscilloscopes ... 

satisfying a wide variety of needs. 

Hitachi oscilloscopes are innovative modern scopes featuring 
wider band width, more compact design, and light weight. 
Through adopting circuitry with linear IC's and logic ICs plus 
modern manufacturing techniques, including automatic com- 
ponent-insertion machines, these scopes offer increased 
stability, improved reliability, excellent performance, and 
enhanced operating ease. 



Hitachi 15 MHz 
Single Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 5" CRT 

with One X10 Probe 

V-151B S570.00 




Hitachi 15 MHz 
Dual Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 5" CRT 
with Two X1 Probes 



WITH COUPON 

$640 





Hitachi 20 MHz 
Dual Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 5.5" CRT 
with Two XII) Probes 



V-202 
Reg. S850 

Hitachi 30 MHz 
Single Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 5" PDA CRT 

• Signal Delay with One XI Probe 

V-301 $745 



WITH COUPON 
$755 





Hitachi 30 MHz 
Dual Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 5" PDA CRT 
• Signal Delay with Two XI II Probes 
V-302B WITH COUPON 

Reg S995 $849 



Hitachi 35 MHz 
Dual Trace 

• 1 mV .Sensitivity 
• Signal Delay 




5.5" PDA CRT 
with Two XI Probes 



WITH COUPON 
$988 




Hitachi 50 MHz 
Dual Trace 

• 1 mV Sensitivity • 6" PDA CRT 
• Cal. Delay Sweep with Two X10 Probes 

V-550B CALL FOR 

Reg St 745 SPECIAL PRICE 



Hitachi 100 MHz 
Four Trace Operation 

• D.S mV Sensitivity • 6" PDA CRT 
• Cal. Delay Sweep with Two X10 Probes 
v-1050 CALL FOR 

Reg. $2390 SPECIAL PRICE 





Waveform Monitor/ 
Portable Oscilloscope 

• 7 MHz • 10 mV Sensitivity • 5" CRT 

with Rettery Peck end One XI D Probe 
V059B $1200 



Waveform Monitor 

Small Size NTSC Waveform Monitor 

AC/DC Operation 

V-099 $1350 





P.O. BOX 2208Y. CULVER CITY, CA 90230 



STORES DO NOT 
ACCEPT MAIL ORDERS 



MAIL ORDER 



PHONE ORDERS: (21 3) 641-4064 



Minimum Order 510.00. Add S2.00 to cover postage and handling. 
Master Charge and VISA welcomed. Please include your charge card 
number, interbank number and expiration data Some items are subject 
to prior sale. Not responsible for typos. Store pricing may vary from Mail 
Order pricing. We reserve the right to substitute manufacturer. 




COMMODORE 

CBM-8032 Computer 
Regular $1495.00 
EXTRA SPECIAL 
WITH COUPON 

. $1040 

80 Column Screen 
32K Memory 
Typewriter Styled Keyboard 



THANDAR TG105 PULSE GENERATOR 

i Period: 200ns to 200ms (5MHz-5Hz) 
j • Pulse Width: 100ns to 100ms 

• 50 ohm output range: 0.1V -10V 
1 * TTL output • Sync, output 

» Compliment and square wave 



TG105 Reg. $219 ^SPECIAL WITH COUPON $195.00* 



CARBON FILM RESISTORS 

Only in Multiples of 
100 pieces per value /ohms) 
'/<W5%...$1.69per100 
MW596... $1.79 per 100 



12K 120K 
13K 130K 
150K 

16K 160K 



10 100 1.0K 

11 110 1 .IK 

12 120 1.2K 

13 130 1.3K 

15 150 

16 160 1.6K 
18 180 1.8K 18K 180K 
20 200 2.0K 20K 200K 
22 220 2.2K 22K 220K 
24 240 2.4K 24K 240K 
27 270 2.7K 27K 270K 
30 300 3.0K 30K 30OK 
33 330 3.3K 33K 330K 
36 360 3.6K 36K 360K 
39 390 3.9K 39K 390K 
43 430 4.3K 43K 430K 
47 470 4.7K 47K 470K 
51 510 5.1K 51K 510K 
56 560 5.6K 56K 560K 
62 620 6.2K 62K 620K 
68 680 6.8K 68K 680K 
75 750 7.5K 75K 750K 
82 820 8.2K 82K 820K 
91 S10 9.1K 91K 910K 



CARBON FILM 
RESISTOR KIT 




j_ANCRONA_P.O. Box 2208Y, Culver City, CA 90230 



•SPECIAL* 
COUPON 

Bring this Coupon into one of our stores or 
mail to our Mail Order address shown below 
and receive the Special Discounts listed on 
this page with purchases of $50.00 or more. 
Offer EXPIRES on April 30, 1 982 




ntersil LED or LCD 

3% DIGIT PANEL 

METER KITS 

BUILD A WORKING DPM IN 'A HOUR WITH 
THESE COMPLETE EVALUATION KITS 

cosl proToivpmg kils. cnmolele with A/D 
LCD display (7 1 06| or LED display 17107] Kns providi 
all materials, incl PC hoard, for a functioning panel 
IC1710BEV |LCD) SM.*5 IC17107EV (LEDJ .... 121.70 



Universal Oscilloscope 



Probe 

$3500 



SWITC H ABLE XI and X10 Attenuation Factor 

KEV ADDITIONAL FEATURES: • 100MH? bandwidth • Heavy 
duly tip • Break resistant center conductor • Slender, Flexible cable 

• 6ft. cable length • Wide compensation range • Fiis all scopes 

• Ground reference tan be activated at tip • Includes SPRUNG 
HOOK. I.C TIP. BNC ADAPTOR. INSULATING TIP and TRIMMER 
TOOL ACCESSORIES. 




6500 SERIES MICROPROCESSOR ICs 

A =(2 MHz) B =(3 MHz) C = (4 MHz) 



P650? S 

P6502A 

P650?B 

P6502C 

P6503 

P6503A 

P65CK 

P65CKA 

P6505 

P6505A 

P6506 



8 82 

9 66 
15 0? 

21 00 
8 09 
8 82 
8 09 
8 82 
8 09 
8 82 
8 09 



P6506A ! 

P6507 

P6507A 

P6512 

P6512A 

P6513 

P6513A 

P6514 

P6514A 

P6515 

P6520 



P65 20A 


S3 74 


P6820 


3 40 


P68B20 


3 74 


P6521 


4 90 


P6521 A 


5 34 


P6821 


4 90 


P6SB21 


5 34 


P6522 


8 40 


P65 22A 


11 24 


P65 30-004 


15 84 



P6530-005S15 84 
P6532 1082 

P6532A 

P6545-1 

P6545A-1 

P6551 

P6551A 

P6591 

P1791-02 

PI793-02 



11 87 
17.51 
22.44 

10 71 
1 1 76 
40.00 
40 00 
40 00 



* SPECIAL 20% DISCOUNT WITH COUPON # 



IFLUKEI Hand Held 

Digital Multi-Meters 

When you need dependable, accurate, easy, measure- 
ments from a handheld DMM ... look to iflukei 

You'll be owning the finest quality DMM available. 
FLUKE MODEL 8020B 

• 3Yi Digits 

• Eight Functions, Including; Audible Conti- 
nuity, Conductance & Diode Test 

• 0.1 % Basic DC Accuracy 

• 2 Year Warranty 

• High-speed Audible Continuity Testing 

• Extensive Overload Protection 

• Shock and Vibration per MIL-T-28800. 
Class 5 

• Low Battery Indicator 

• Extended Measurement with Optional 
Accessories 

Model 8020B DMM $1 89.00 

FLUKE MODEL 8021 B 

• 3J4 Digits 

• Seven Functions, Including; Audible Conti- 
nuity and Diode Test 

• 2 Year Warranty 

• 2 Year Calibration Cycle 

• Extensive Overload Protection 

• Shock and Vibration per MIL-T-28800, 
Class 5 

• Probes for RF. High Voltage, High Current. 
and More 

Model 8021 B DMM $149.00 



FLUKE MODEL 8022B 

• 3Vi Digits 

• Six Functions. Including Diode Test 

• Fluke's Lowest Priced DMM 

• 2 Year Warranty 

• 2 Year Calibration Cycle 

• Extensive Overload Protection 

• Shock and Vibration per MIL-T-28800. 
Class5 

• Probes for RF, High Voltage. High Current, 
and More 

Model 8022B DMM S139.00 

FLUKE MODEL 8024B 

• 3VS Digits • 2 Year Calibration Cycle 

• Eleven Functions, Including; Visual and 
Audible Continuity, Peak Hold. Temperature 
(with optional K thermocouples). Level 
Detection Conductance and Diode Test 

• 0. 1 % Basic DC Accuracy 

• Extensive Overload Protection 

• Fast AC or DC Transient Capture 

• Shock and Vibration per MIL-T-28800, 
Class 5 • 2 Year Warranty 

• Extended Measurements with Optional 
Accessories • Low Battery Indicator 

Model 8024B DMM S239.00 




• ■PJ V 



VISIT A STOHE NEAfl YOU TODAY - We slock a large selection of Technical Books, Discrete Components, Integrated Circuits, Test Equipment and Electronic Supplies. 



ATLANTA 

3330 Piedmont Rd. N.E. 
Atlanta, GA 30305 

(404) 261-7100 



CULVER CITY 

11080 Jefferson Blvd. 

Culver City, CA 90230 

(213) 390-3595 



HOUSTON 

2649 Richmond 
Houston, TX 77098 

(713) 529-3489 



PORTLAND 

1125 N.E. 82nd Ave. 
Portland, OR 97220 

(503) 257-9464 



SANTA ANA 

130O E. Edinger Ave. 

Santa Ana, CA 92705 

(714) 547-8424 



SUNNYVALE 

1054 E. El Carnino Real 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 

(408) 243-4121 



TUCSON 

4518 E. Broadway 
Tucson, AZ 85711 

(602) 881-2348 



Circle 23 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



311 



Programming Quickies , 



Listing 1: Diablo printer shape-table program in BASIC for the Apple II computer. 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

10 

11 

12 

19 

20 

22 

28 

30 

40 

45 

48 

50 

52 

54 

60 

62 

64 

70 

72 

74 

80 

82 

84 

198 

200 

998 

999 

100 

100 

110 

110 

120 

199 

200 

201 

202 

203 

204 

499 

500 

502 

503 

510 

520 



REM DIABLO SHAPE TABLE GENERATOR 

REM BY THOMAS D. BROCK, MADISON, WI . 

REM FIRST DEFINE CODES FOR DIABLO. E$=ESCAPE . SP$=SPACE . 

REM LF$=LINE FEED . G$= 3 . TX$=4 . PE$=PERIOD (PRINT CHARACTER) 

REM BS$=BACKSPACE.NF$=NEGATIVE LINE FEED. 

E$ = CHR$ (27) :SP$ = CHR$ (32):LF$ = CHR$ 

CHR$ (52):PE$ = CHR$ (46):BS$ = CHR$ (8) 



;10) :G$ = CHR$ (51) 



GRAPHICS MODE 



TX$ i 

NF$ = CHR$ (27) + CHR$ (10) 

REM SHAPE TABLE REFERENCES 

INPUT "SHAPE#?" ;N 

INPUT "SCALE?" ;S 

REM TURN ON PRINTER . INITIALIZE 

PR# 3: PRINT " ";E$;G$; 

ON N GOSUB 1000,1100,1200,1300 

GOTO 20 

REM MOVE AND PRINT ROUTINES 

FOR I = 1 TO M * S 

PRINT SP$;PE$; 

NEXT I: RETURN 

FOR I = 1 TO M * S 

PRINT LF$;PE$; 

NEXT I: RETURN 

FOR I = 1 TO M * S 

PRINT BS$;PE$; 

NEXT I: RETURN 

FOR I = 1 TO M * S 

PRINT NF$;PE$; 

NEXT I: RETURN 
REM RETURN TO TEXT MODE 
PRINT E$;TX$;: PR# 0: END 
REM LINES 1000,1200 DEFINE SHAPES 
REM ANY SHAPES MAY BE INSERTED HERE 

SH$ = "L3D3R2XL2D3R3" 

1 GOSUB 5000: RETURN 

SH$ = "XD3L2U4R4D4L2" 

1 GOSUB 5000: RETURN 

SH$ = "XD3L2XL1XU1U3XU1XR1R3XR1XD1D3XD1XL1L2" 
8 REM TEST FOR PRINT DIRECTION 



GOSUB 5000: RETURN 







030 







IF M$ = "R" THEN GOSUB 50 
IF M$ = "D" THEN GOSUB 60 
IF M$ = "L" THEN GOSUB 70 
IF M$ = "U" THEN GOSUB 80 
RETURN 

REM INTERPRET STRING AS SHAPE 
FOR J = 1 TO LEN (SH$) 
IF MID$ (SH$,J,1) = "X" THEN 
M$ = MID$ (SH$,J,1) : J = J + 1: 
PE$ = CHR$ (46) : NEXT J 
RETURN 



PE$ = CHR$ (0) 
M = VAL ( MID$ 



J = J + 1 
(SH$,J,1); 



GOSUB 2000 



of the vertical line in inches will be 1/40 times the number 
of periods printed. To move the print head without print- 
ing a line, the print-head-movement command is sent 
without the corresponding periods. 



The program in listing 1 is fairly self-explanatory. The 
shapes are stored as character strings in lines 1000 to 
1200, and could, of course, also be input just before start- 
ing execution by a change in line 20. 



312 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Made by Seikosha, AXIOM'S new GP-100 is the finest printer 
a little money can buy. It uses standard 8-1/2 x 1 1 paper and has 
AXIOM'S fabulous graphics interfaces for Apple, TRS-80, Atari, 
PET, HP and more! See the GP-100 at your AXIOM dealer today! 




Seikosha is the leading company of the 
worldwide Seiko Group. 



/mm 

AXIOM CORPORATION 



1014 Griswold Avenue, San Fernando, CA 91340 -Telephone: (213) 365-9521 -TWX: 910-496-1746 

Circle 42 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 367 on inquiry card. 




for 
TRS-80 Models I & III 

AND NOW, CP/M*! 

SuperSoft LISP allows the TRS-80 to become 
a complete Artificial Intelligence laboratory! It 
is the tool that takes you to the frontier of Com- 
puter Science. 

The SuperSoft LISP is a complete and full im- 
plementation. (It is NOT a subset!) It contains 
an efficient garbage collector which optimizes 
the usage of user RAM, and supports the 
TRS-80 graphics. Below are some features: 

• Runs in 16k level II (with only 6K overhead) 

• Fully implements atom property list structure. 

• PROG is supported. 

• FUNARG device is implemented. 

• Efficient garbage collection. 

• Complete with LISP editor and trace. 

• Allows complete range of single precision 
numeric data. 

• Works with old as well as new ROMs. 

• Contains 97 functions. 

• Sample Programs. 

The LISP package is supplied on tape or 
discette and with a complete user manual. 

cassette version TRS-80: $75.00 

(requires 16K level II) 

Disk version TRS-80: $100.00 

(requires 16K disk) 

CP/M version: $150.00 

(requires 32K CP/M) 

(manual only: $15.00) 

Software available for virtually all CP/M 
systems. Specify your system. 

Available from fine dealers everywhere, 
or directly from: 
SUPERSOFT, INC. 
P.O. BOX 1628 
CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 
217-359-2112 Telex: 270365 
Technical Hot Line: 217-359-2691 






U K and Europe 

DIGITAL DEVICES 

\2A LONDON ROAD 

SOUTHBOROUGH, KENT 

TUNBRIDGE WELLS 

TN4, OPL 

ENGLAND 

Tel Tunbridge Wells 10892)37977/9 

Telex. 95582 



Japan 

ASR CORPORATION INTERNATIONAL 

3-23-8 NISHI SHIM8ASHI. MINATO KL1 

TOKYO 105 

JAPAN 

Tel 03-437-5371 

Telex 0242-2723 



SuperSoft 



First in Software Technology 



TRS-80 TRADEMARK TANDY CORP 



'CPM REGISTERS 'RUXHARKDICI'AI RE SURE" 



Programming Quickies, 



E 



□ 



1 1 



Figure 1: Sample printout produced on a Diablo printer of the 
1600 series with the program of listing 1. 



The shape string selected is interpreted in the sub- 
routine at line 5000. If an X is present, it means move 
without printing, an R means move right, an L means 
move left, a U means move up, and a D means move 
down. The number after the move instruction provides 
the relative amount of movement, which is stored in the 
variable M. 

The actual amount of movement depends upon the size 
of the shape, selected at line 22. The whole shape is 
quickly printed by the program. Printing is then stopped 
so that another instruction can be fetched, if desired. A 
typical printout is shown in figure 1. 

Although the Diablo printer has several different ways 
by which graphics can be created, the shape-list program 
provides a simple means to make nonnumerical draw- 
ings. By permitting the selection of any desired size (and 
position on the paper, with routines easily added) some 
useful tasks can be performed. Because of the simplicity 
and shortness of the program, it can be run with virtually 
any BASIC interpreter that supports string functions. ■ 



314 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



CQMPUTRQNICS 



N 
C. 



EVERYTHING FOR YOUR TRS-80* • ATARI* • APPLE* • PET* • 

•TRS-80 is a trademark ol (he Radio Shack Division oi Tandy Corp. - -ATARI is a trademark of Atari Int. - -Apple is a trademark of Apple Corp. - -Pet is a trademark of Commodore 

BUSINESS PAC 100 

100 Ready-To-Run 
Business Programs 




* 30-Day money °° 
Software 



(ON CASSETTE OR DISKETTE) Includes 1 10 Page Users Manual 5 Cassettes (Or Diskettes) 

Inventory Control Payroll Bookkeeping System Stock Calculations 

Checkbook Maintenance.... .Accounts Receivable... ..Accounts Payable 



BUSINESS 100 PROGRAM LIST 



1 RCILE78 Interest Apportionment by Rule of the 78s 

2 ANNLII Annuity computation program 

3 DATE Time between dates 

4 DAYYEAR Day of year a particular date falls on 

5 LEASEI^T Interest rate on lease 

6 BREAKEVN Breakeven analysis 

7 DEPRSL StraighUine depreciation 

8 DEPRSY Sum of the digits depreciation 

9 DEPRDB Declining balance depreciation 

10 DEPRDDB Double declining balance depreciation 

1 1 TAXDEP Cash flow vs. depreciation tables 

1 2 CHECK? Prints NFBS checks along with daily register 

13 CHECKBKl Checkbook maintenance program 

14 MORTGAGE/A Mortgage amortization table 

1 5 MULTMON Computes time needed for money to double, triple. 

16 SALVAGE Determines salvage value of an investment 

1 7 RRVARIN Rate of return on investment with variable inflows 

1 8 RRCONST Rate of return on investment with constant inflows 

1 9 EEEECT Effective interest rate of a loan 

20 FVAL Future value of an investment (compound interest) 

21 PVA1 Present value of a future amount 

22 LOANPAY Amount of payment on a loan 

23 REGWTTH Equal withdrawals from investment to leave over 

24 SIMPDISK Simple discount analysis 

25 DATEVAL Equivalent & nonequivalent dated values for oblig. 

26 ANNUDEE Present value of deferred annuities 

27 MARKUP % Markup analysis for items 

28 SINKFCIND Sinking fund amortization program 

29 BONDVAL Value of a bond 

30 DEPLETE Depletion analysis 

31 BLACKSH Black Scholes options analysis 

32 STOCVAL1 Expected return on stock via discounts dividends 

33 WARVAL Value of a warrant 

34 BONDVAL2 Value of a bond 

35 EPSEST Estimate of future earnings per share for company 

36 BETAALPH Computes alpha and beta variables for stock 

37 SHARPE1 Portfolio selection modeli.e. what stocks to hold 

38 OPTWRITE Option writing computations 

39 RTVAL Value of a right 

40 EXPVAL Expected value analysis 

41 BAYES Bayesian decisions 

4? VALPRIMF Value of perfect information 

43 VALADINF Value of additional information 

44 CmUTY Derives utility function 

45 SIMPLEX Linear programming solution by simplex method 

46 TRANS Transportation method for linear programming 

47 EOQ Economic order quantity inventory model 

48 QCECIE1 Single server queueing (waiting line) model 

49 CVP Cost-volume-profrt analysis 

50 CONDPROF Conditional profit tables 

51 OPTLOSS Opportunity loss tables 

52 FQGOQ Fixed quantity economic order quantity model 

NAME DESCRIPTION 

53 FQEOWSH As above but with shortages permitted 

54 FQFOQPB As above but with quantity price breaks 

55 QUECJECB Cost-benefit waiting line analysis 

56 MCFANAL Met cash-flow analysis for simple investment 

57 PROFIND Profitability index of a project 

38 CAP] Cap. Asset Pr. Model analysis of project 

Circle 172 on inquiry card. 



59 WACC Weighted average cost of capital 

60 COMPBAL True rate on loan with compensating bal. required 

61 DISCBAL True rate on discounted loan 

62 MERGANAL Merger analysis computations 

63 FIMRAT Financial ratios for a firm 

64 NPV Net present value of project 

65 PR1NDLAS Laspeyres price index 

66 PRINDPA Paasche price index 

67 SEASIND Constructs seasonal quantity indices for company 

68 TIMETR Time series analysis linear trend 

69 T1MEMOV Time series analysis moving average trend 

70 FLIPRINF Future price estimation with inflation 

71 MAILPAC Mailing list system 

72 LETWRT Letter writing system-links with MAILPAC 

73 SORT3 Sorts list of names 

74 LABEL 1 Shipping label maker 

75 LABEL2 Name label maker 

76 BCISBCID DOME business bookkeeping system 

77 TTMECLCK Computes weeks total hours from timeclock info. 

78 ACCTPAY In memory accounts payable system-storage permitted 

79 INVOICE Generate invoice on screen and print on printer 

80 INVENT2 In memory inventory control system 

81 TELDIR Computerized telephone directory 

82 TIMCISAN Time use analysis 

83 ASSIGN (Jse of assignment algorithm for optimal job assign. 

84 ACCTREC In memory accounts receivable system-storage ok 

85 TERMSPAY Compares 3 methods of repayment of loans 

86 PAYNET Computes gross pay required for given net 

87 SELLPR Computes selling price for given after tax amount 

88 ARBCOMP Arbitrage computations 

89 DEPRSF Sinking fund depreciation 

90 (JPSZONE Finds UPS zones from zip code 

91 ENVELOPE Types envelope including return address 

92 AUTOEXP Automobile expense analysis 

93 INSF1LE Insurance policy file 

94 PAYROLL2 In memory payroll system 

95 DILANAL Dilution analysis 

96 LOANAFFD Loan amount a borrower can afford 

97 RENTPRCH Purchase price for rental property 

98 SALELEAS Saleleaseback analysis 

99 RRCONVBD Investor's rate of return on convertable bond 
100 PORTVAL9 Stock market portfolio storage-valuation program 



D CASSETTE VERSION $99.95 

D DISKETTE VERSION $99.95 

D TRS-80* MODEL II VERSION $149.95 



NEW 



TOLL. 



p Ree 



ADD $3.00 FOR SHIPPING IN UPS AREAS 
ADD $4.00 FOR C.O.D. OR NON-UPS AREAS 
ADD $5.00 OUTSIDE U.S.A, CANADA & MEXICO 



(800 > «Z2S 



■CQMPLJTRQUICS 



50 N. PASCACK ROAD 
SPRING VALLEY, NEW YORK 10977 





HOUR 
OA ORDER 
^ LINE 
(914) 425-1535 



Software Review 



■ 



Four Implementations of Pascal 



Thomas H. Woteki 

FEROX Microsystems Inc. 

1701 North Ft. Myer Dr. 

Suite 611 

Arlington, VA 22209 

Paul A. Sand 

Sandpiper Software 

10 Hemlock Forest 

Dover, NH 03820 



The programming language Pascal was developed in 
the late 1960s and early 1970s by Niklaus Wirth. Accord- 
ing to Wirth, principal aims were to create a language 
suitable for teaching and facilitating disciplined and sys- 
tematic programming and to develop reliable and effi- 
cient implementations of the language on computers then 
available. Here, we review four implementations of 
Pascal designed for today's microcomputers. Three of 
these — Pascal/M, Pascal/MT + , and Pascal/Z — are de- 
signed to operate under the CP/M operating system; the 
fourth, Sof tech's UCSD Pascal, is an entire operating sys- 
tem designed to run on a variety of microcomputers, in- 
cluding Z80-based machines. 

Wirth 's Pascal, or standard Pascal, is defined in the 
Pascal User Manual and Report (K. Jensen and N. Wirth. 
New York: Springer Verlag, second edition, 1974) and is 
the common basis for the implementations considered. 
Each implementation is essentially a superset of this stan- 
dard and incorporates features of the proposed Interna- 
tional Standards Organization (ISO) draft proposal for 
the language, ISO/DP 7185. The ISO proposal extends 
Wirth's Pascal. 

Differences in Implementations 

The four implementations of Pascal described here dif- 
fer chiefly with respect to these kinds of features: 

• Extensions to the ISO standards. 



• Nature of code generated, whether machine code that 
can be directly executed in the target processor, or P-code 
(pseudo-machine code, also called intermediate code) 
that must be translated into machine code by an inter- 
preter when the program is run. 

• Types and variety of input and output primitives (in- 
trinsic procedures for input and output). 

• Support for separate compilation of modules or 
libraries of procedures and data structures (so that the 
separate modules can be called and used by other pro- 
grams, eliminating the need to rewrite commonly used 
procedures). 

• Support for memory overlays (an overlay is a section of 
code brought into main memory in an area previously oc- 
cupied by another section of the same program). An 
overlay reduces the amount of main memory necessary 
for a program to run. 

• Ease of use. The nature of the code generated and the 
steps required to generate it do much to determine ease of 
use. 



We will describe each of the four implementations of 
Pascal and then examine the way they handle some of the 
Pascal features just mentioned. Some of the terms used to 
describe programming languages are defined separately 
in the text box "Programming Language Terms" on page 
354. 



316 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Tired Of your 

GENERAL LEDGER? 




• THE ULTIMATE PERSONAL CHECK REGISTER 

• A PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM 

• A PERSONAL FINANCIAL MANAGER 

• A SMALL BUSINESS ACCOUNTING SYSTEM 

• A COMPLETE GENERAL LEDGER 



■,\w$m \miMi sin 






jje • mm • m. 



HCW IT WORKS 

VERSALEDGER is a complete accounting system that grows as you or your business grows. To 
start, your VERSALEDGER acts as a simple method of keeping track of your checkbook. Just 
enter your check number, date and to whom the check is made out to. As you or your business 
grows, you may add more details to your transactions .... account number, detailed account 
explanations, etc. 



VERSALEDGER 



• VERSALEDGER can give you an instant cash 
balance at anytime. (IF YOU WANT IT TO) 

• VERSALEDGER can be used as a small per- 
sonal checkbook register. (IF YOU WANT IT 
TO) 

• VERSALEDGER can be used to run your 
million dollar corporation. (IF YOU WANT IT 
TO) 

• VERSALEDGER prints checks. (IF YOU WANT 
IT TO) 

• VERSALEDGER stores all check information 
forever (IF YOU WANT IT TO) 

• VERSALEDGER can handle more than one 
checkbook. (IF YOU WANT IT TO) 

• VERSALEDGER can be used to replace a 
general ledger. (IF YOU WANT IT TO) 

• VERSALEDGER HAS AN ALMOST UNLIMITED CAPACITY .... 

(300 checks per month on single density 5Vt" disk drives such as the TRS-80 Model-I) 

(500 checks per month on the Apple II) 

(2400 checks per month on the TRS-80 Model III) 

(6000 checks per month on the TRS-80 Model II) 

(3000 checks per month on single density 8" CP/M) 

• VERSALEDGER will soon have an add-on payroll package. (IF YOU NEED IT) 

— CAN BE USED WITH 1 or MORE DISK DRIVES — 




INTRODUCTORY PRICE 

$ 99. 95 



VERSALEDGER HAS REEN CREATED 
WITH THE FIRST TIME COMPUTER USER IN MIND 



•CQMPLJTRQNICSS 



50 N. PASCACK ROAD 
SPRING VALLEY, NEW YORK 10977 



* ADD $3.00 FOR SHIPPING IN UPS AREAS 

* ADD $4.00 FOR COD. OR NON-UPS AREAS 

* ADD $5.00 TO CANADA AND MEXICO 

* ADD PROPER POSTAGE OUTSIDE U.S., CANADA & MEXICO 



t m f .\ HOUR 

\SP)24 order 

LINE 
(914) 425-1535 




NEW TOLL-FREE 

ORDER LINE 

(OUTSIDE OF NY. STATE) 

(800) 431-2818 



ALL PRICES & SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE ** 



Circle 173 on inquiry card. 



Circle 273 on inquiry card. 



Computer 

Forms 

Catalog 



with 32 pages of 
continuous 
business forms for 
small computer 
systems 

Send today for our NEW full color 32 
page catalog with programming guides, 
prices and order forms for continuous 
checks, invoices, statements, envelopes, 
stock paper and labels. 

• Quality products at low prices 

• Available in small quantities 

• Fast Service 

• Money Back Guarantee 

• Convenient TOLL-FREE ordering 



Fast Service by mail or. . .PHONE TOLL FREE 
1 + 800-225-9550 

Mass. residents 1+800-922-8560 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time Monday — Friday 



Please rush a new computer forms catalog to: 
Name 



CODE 22460 



Company 



Street 



City, State and Zip 



Phone 



Computer make & model 



— -Computer Forms— ' 

78 Hollis Street, Groton, Mass. 01471 



Pascal/Z 

Ithaca Intersystems' Pascal/Z is a compiler for the Z80 
processor and is designed to run under Digital Research's 
CP/M Version 2.2 operating system. Pascal/Z requires 
56K bytes of RAM (random-access memory), including 
the space used by the operating system and at least one 
disk drive. According to the developer, the Pascal/Z 
compiler generates optimized macro-assembler code that 
is capable of being written into a read-only memory de- 
vice (ROM-able) and capable of being interrupted and 
later reentered at the point of interruption (reentrant). 

To execute a Pascal program with Pascal/Z, you must 
compile the source text, assemble the resulting Z80 
assembler code, and link the resulting code file to a run- 
time library. The linked code is then ready for execution 
under CP/M. 

The Pascal/Z compiler, assembler, and linker are all 
part of the Pascal/Z package, retailing for $395. 

Pascal /M 

The Pascal /M compiler, made by Sorcim of Santa 
Clara, California, is a one-pass compiler that produces a 
P-code file as output. Pascal/M was designed to run 
under CP/M 2.0, MP/M, Cromemco CDOS, and Oasis 
operating systems on Z80 or 8080/8085 machines. 
Pascal/M requires 56K bytes of memory and one disk 
drive. The Pascal/M package includes the compiler, a 
run-time library, and a run-time interpreter. It costs 
$225. (Our thanks to Digital Marketing of Walnut Creek, 
California, for making a copy of Pascal/M available to 
us.) 

Pascal/M is identical to UCSD Pascal — in all its exten- 
sions to standard Pascal — with two important excep- 
tions. The similarity includes the naming and definition 
of strings and the built-in procedures for handling them, 
along with low-level, byte-oriented procedures for mov- 
ing information from one part of memory to another. 

The important differences between Pascal/M and 
UCSD Pascal are in the operating system and library 
facilities. Pascal/M operates under CP/M, but UCSD 
Pascal is an independent operating system. Pascal/M has 
no apparent facility for separate compilation of libraries 
of procedures; UCSD Pascal is well endowed in this 
regard. Pascal/M allows memory overlays. 

UCSD Pascal 

UCSD Pascal, originally developed at the University of 
California, San Diego, is supplied by Softech Microsys- 
tems Inc. of San Diego. The UCSD Pascal system re- 
quires at least 48K bytes of contiguous RAM (64K bytes 
are recommended) and at least 175K bytes of disk stor- 
age. 

UCSD Pascal comprises an entire operating system and 
can run on a variety of machines. The operating system 
includes a file handler, a character-oriented editor, a one- 
pass compiler that generates P-code, a conditional macro 
assembler, a linker, and a librarian utility. The operating 



A division of New England Business Service, Inc. 



318 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Investigate 
Robotics 



with a 



RHiNC XR-1 



Complete Robotic System 

$2400 



The high-tech robotic system designed for 
education, research and industry— robotic 
arm, power pak, controller card, cables, 
150 page manual and tool kit 

The RHINO* XR-1 is built with the same 
operating technology as large 
industrial robots. 

• Compatible with all computers 
having RS-232C interface (3 wires) 

• Digital choppers on all axes 

• Six powerful DC Servo gear motors 

• Controller card with lntel®8748 CPU 

• Rigid V aluminum arm construction 

• Built-in self-test program 

• Specs: reach— 22.5" maximum, 

height-32", width-14" 
grasp— opens 2" 
(larger opening available) 
lift— 1 lb. at extension 

• Options: two hands with seven 

finger combinations, 
computer controlled carrousel, 
conveyor and lateral slide base 

Available for immediate delivery. 
Shipped F.O.B. Champaign, IL via UPS 
in Continental USA. (Illinois residents 
please add 5% sales tax) 
We reserve the right to alter prices 
and specifications without notice. 
Dealer/Rep. inquiries invited. 



Sandhu Machine Design, Inc. 
308 S. State, Champaign, IL 61820 
217/352-8485 




Hands-on-lntf^uctterr+to ROBOTr^§7lt 



The ManuaTfor XR-TVtn©l#de_ek 
with the robotic system, maybe '" 
purchased separately @ $20 ea. p.p. 



■as 



Circle 343 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



319 



system is written in Pascal and supported by a run-time 
interpreter written in the language of the host processor. 
The interpreter is part of the package, which retails for 
$500. A separate FORTRAN compiler is available for the 
system. 

An important trade-off to be noted by CP/M users 
who are considering purchase of the UCSD system is its 
portability versus its incompatibility with CP/M. The 
UCSD system is portable because versions of the inter- 
preter have been developed for a variety of micropro- 
cessors. Softech supports the system well, and this sup- 
port will probably be extended to more processors in the 
future. The considerable advantage to the software 
developer is that UCSD Pascal programs can be trans- 
ferred without modification from one hardware system 
to another. 

Conversely, UCSD Pascal is incompatible with CP/M. 
Data files are not automatically transferable between 
CP/M and the UCSD system. This causes problems in 
maintaining the integrity of databases. The problems are 
only partially offset by the availability of programs to 
convert files from one system to another. 



Pascal/MT + 

Pascal /MT+ is a product of MT Microsystems of 
Cardiff-by-the-Sea, California. This Pascal includes a 
compiler, a linker, a disassembler, a debugger, and a run- 
time subroutine library. Pascal /MT+ requires an 8080 
or Z80 processor running CP/M with at least 140K bytes 
of disk storage and 52K bytes of RAM, including space 
for CP/M. For developing large programs, a minimum of 



300K bytes of disk storage and 60K bytes of RAM are 
suggested. The compiler generates relocatable, optimized 
Z80 code, or 8080 code (if desired) that must be linked to 
the run-time library. The Pascal /MT+ package costs 
$450. 

Pascal /MT+ is an interesting and powerful tool. 
Alone among the four implementations, it supports pass- 
ing of procedures and functions as parameters to other 
procedures and functions and supports "conformant" ar- 
rays — both features required by the ISO standard. In 
fact, PascaI/MT+ is the only implementation that claims 
full compatibility with the ISO standard. 

The conformant-arrays scheme is important because 
there are no dynamic arrays in Pascal. The programmer 
must change the declaration of an array in the source pro- 
gram to change the bounds of the array at run time. This 
restriction imposes a burden on the programmer. The 
conformant-array scheme provides greater flexibility. For 
example, you can pass bounds derived by the source pro- 
gram to a library program, provided the array in the 
library program is of the same type as the array originally 
declared and the bounds passed are within those origi- 
nally declared. 

Pascal/MT+ provides several facilities for machine- 
level programming from Pascal and also makes possible 
the use of interrupts. Also, several nonstandard data 
types are built in. For example, Pascal/MT+ provides 
two types of real data: fixed-point binary-coded and 
floating-point. 

Control Statements and Data Structures 

The program control statements included in standard 





At a Glance 




Name 


supported by a run-time 


Pascal/M, Version 3.3 


interpreter 


Type of Software 


Computer Needed 


Package 


Any Z80- or 8080/ 


Implementation of Pascal 


8085-based computer run- 


programming language 


ning either CP/M Version 




1 .4 or later, or MP/M, 


Manufacturer 


Cromemco CDOS or OASIS, 


Sorcim 


with 56K bytes of RAM and 


POB 32505 


one floppy-disk drive 


San Jose, CA 95 1 52 




(408) 248-5543 


Documentation 




A 77-page, staple-bound 


Price 


manual 


S225 






Audience 


Format 


Applications software 


8-inch standard CP/M floppy 


developers. Pascal users 


disk 




Type of Compiler 




Pseudo-code compiler 





At a Glance 




Name 


Type of Compiler 


Pascal/MT + , Version 5.2 


True 280 compiler 


Type of Software 


Computer Needed 


Package 


Any Z80- or 8080-based 


Implementation of the Pascal 


computer running CP/M 


programming language 


Version 2.2 with 52K bytes 




of RAM (56K or more pre- 


Manufacturer 


ferred) and 1 40K of floppy- 


MT Microsystems 


disk storage (300K preferred) 


1562 Kings Cross Dr. 




Cardiff-by-the-Sea, CA 92007 


Documentation 


(714) 755-1366 


A 165-page, staple-bound 




manual 


Price 




S450 


Audience 




Applications software 


Format 


developers, Pascal users 


8-inch standard CP/M floppy 




disk 





320 March 1982 © BYTE Publications he 



TRS*-CP/M* 

TRS-80 owners ... if you would like to learn more about 
CP/M, call or write for our free brochure. 



OMIKRON proudly presents 



THEWOIKS 



the ultimate CP/M package for your TRS-80* Model I 



The WORKS includes: 
Mapper I & CP/M 2.2, CBASIC II, MBASIC-80 and WordStar 



$399 



WordStar is widely recognized as the 
most advanced product on the market. It is 
featured by many computer manufacturers, in- 
cluding Xerox, for wordprocessing applications. 

□ List price: $495 



CP/M 2.2 is the latest version of CP/M 
from Digital Research. Our package also includes 
the MAPPER I CP/M adapter and a sophisticated 
set of utilities and drivers designed to optimize 
the CP/M system for the TRS-80. 

□ List price: $239 



MBASIC-80 is the CP/M version of 
Microsoft BASIC. The conversion of TRS-DOS 
BASIC programs to MBASIC is easy because the 
syntax is almost identical. 

□ List price: $349 



CBASIC II is the most widely used BASIC 
for CP/M applications programs. This version of 
BASIC contains all of the features necessary to 
develop complex business programs. 

□ List price: $149 



OMIKRON 



Products that set Precedents 

1127 Hearst Street, Berkeley, CA 94702 (4 1 5) 845-80 1 3 



"TRS-80™ Radio Shack/Tandy Corporation 



CP/M™ Digital Research I 



Circle 285 on inquiry card. 



At a Glance 

Name 

Pascal/Z, Version 3.3 

Type of Software 
Package 

Implementation of Pascal 
programming language 

Manufacturer 

Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 
1650 Hanshaw Rd. 
POB 91 

Ithaca. NY 14850 
[607| 257-0190 

Price 

S395 

Format 

8-inch standard CP/M floppy 
disk 



Type of Compiler 

True Z80 compiler 

Computer Needed 

Any Z80-based computer 
running CP/M Version 2.2 
with 54K bytes of RAM 
(64K preferred) and at 'east 
one disk drive |two drives 
preferred) 

Documentation 

A 198-page, loose-leaf 
bound manual 

Audience 

Applications software 
developers, Pascal users 



Pascal are the WHILE... DO, REPEAT... UNTIL, 
IF... THEN... ELSE, the FOR... DO loop, the CASE state- 
ment, and the GOTO statement. All of these constructs 
are supported in the four implementations. All the im- 
plementations but UCSD Pascal have provided for an 
OTHERWISE clause in the CASE statement— an addition 
included in the ISO standard. A restricted form of GOTO 
(which precludes exiting the body of a procedure) is sup- 
ported in all versions except Pascal /MT + , which pro- 
vides unrestricted GOTOs. 

The primitive data types defined in standard Pascal in- 
clude integers, reals, Boolean data, user-defined scalars 
and subrange types, and character data. The defined, 
structured types include arrays, sets of scalars, pointers, 
record types, and files of records. Wirth's Pascal calls for 
text files and permits packing of structured types to con- 
serve memory space. 

All these data types and structuring techniques except 
packing are available in each of the four Pascals. Packing 
is not explicitly available in the native-code compilers 
Pascal/Z and Pascal/MT-f . These two allocate memory 
in bytes, whereas the other two allocate in words; that is, 



Now available from your computer store- 
the whole line of AJ couplers and modems. 




Starting now you can buy AJ acoustic data couplers and 
modems directly from your local computer store. 

Not just selected models. Any models. Ranging from the 
0-450 bps A 242A, the world's most widely used acoustic data 
coupler, to the revolutionary AJ 1259 triple modem that 
handles 300 bps Bell 103, 1200 bps Bell 212A, and 1200 
bps VA 3400 protocols. 

Whether you need full or half duplex or both in one; 
originate or answer, auto answer; acoustic coupling, or 
direct-connect— there's a model for you in the AJ line 

Starting now you don't have to settle for second best 



For the location of your local 
computer store handling the AJ line, call toll-free: 

800/538-9721 

California residents call 408/263-8520, Ext. 307. 



ANDERSON 
JACOBSON 



322 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 24 on inquiry card. 



gpjlllll 




i 



* 



TASC. The Applesoft Compiler. 

It turns your Apple into 
a power tool. 



Step up to speed. TASC, the Applesoft Compiler, 
converts a standard Applesoft BASIC program 
into super-fast machine code. By 
increasing program execution speed 
up to 20 times, Microsoft gives 
you a power tool for Applesoft 
BASIC programming. 
Highest capacity available. 
TASC will compile and run 
larger programs than any other 
Applesoft Compiler. As a 
disk-based system, it doesn't 
require the simultaneous pres- 
ence of compiler and program 
in memory. The memory you save 
allows you to compile significantly 
bigger programs. 

Power without bulk. Code expansion of up to 100% 
severely restricts other compilers. TASC's special 
code compression schemes typically limit code 
expansion to only 25%. You'll really appreciate that 
with complex programs or programs that utilize 
Apple's hi-res graphic pages. 
More BASIC power. TASC's powerful new 
commands increase Applesoft BASIC programming 
capability. Chain with COMMON allows compiled 
programs to share variables, so a main menu 

'Applesoft is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Circle 254 on inquiry card. 




supports several programs in a 
single runtime environment. 
TASC's True Integer Arithmetic 
and Integer FOR... NEXT 
capabilities maximize the execu- 
tion speed of compiled programs. 
TASC's near total compatibility 

with Applesoft speeds compil- 
ation of existing programs 
with little or no modification. 
What about mistakes? You 
perfect your programs inter- 
actively with Applesoft. If some- 
thing does slip by, TASC recovers 
from errors discovered in compilation 
and traps all runtime errors. It even permits 
graceful interruptions during compilation. 
See for yourself. Ask for a demonstration of 
TASC at your Microsoft dealer. Discover the software 
package that turns your Apple into a power tool. 

/MCftpSOfT 

V CONSUMER^ PRODUCTS f 

A Division of Microsoft Inc. 
10700 Northup Way • Bellevue, WA 98004 



Circle 143 on inquiry card. 




Authorized Commodore service center 

Repair of the complete line of Commodore products 

In a hurry? Check our modular exchange program 




commodore 



HARDWARE: 

CBM 8032 Computer. 

80 Column SI 095 
CBM 8050 Disk Drive 1 340 
CBM 4032 Computer, 

40 Column 995 

CBM 4040 Disk Drive 995 

CBM 4022 Printer 649 
CBM VIC 20 Computer 263 

CBM VS 1 00 Cassette 68 

PET to IEEE Cable 33 

IEEE to IEEE Cable 39 
BASF Diskette, Box of 1 30 



SOFTWARE: 
OZZ 

Wordcraft 80 

Tax Preparation System 

IRMA 

Dow Jones Portfolio 

Management System 
Personal Tax 
Pascal 
Assembler Development 

Package 
Wordpro 4+ 



S299 
299 
380 

380 

115 

55 
229 

77 
329 



Order TOLL FREE 
T +800-527-3 135 

10 AM to 4 PM CDT Monday through Friday 

Texas residents call 1 +2 1 4-66 1 - 1 370 
VISA, MASTER CHARGE, MONEY ORDERS, AND CO.D. 
"Certified Check" accepted. 

Units in stock shipped within 24 hours, FOB. Dallas, Texas. 
All equipment shipped with manufacturer's warranty. 

Residents of Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma City and Tulsa, 
Oklahoma must add applicable taxes. 



Eclectic shortly will be announcing products that are designed to work 
with CBM systems. 

1. ROMIO: two RS232 ports -three parallel ports -26K EPROM 

memory-managed alternate character set, software 
controlled— EDOS (extended DOS). 

2. Terminal program (options with ROMIO) 

3. EPROM programmer 

4. Front-end processor 

5. Additional firmware to be announced 

Be sure to write the address below for more information; 
dealer inquiries welcome. 



P.O. Box 1 166 * 16260 Midway Road 
Addison, Texas 75001 • (214) 661-1370 



the native-code compilers always pack data. Generally 
speaking then, the native-code compilers are more con- 
servative in terms of memory needed for data than are 
the other two implementations, although similar and 
sometimes even greater conservation can be achieved by 
packing data in the other two. 

All the versions extend standard Pascal to include a 
predefined string type. Strings of length N may be de- 
fined up to a maximum length of 255, and the actual 
length of a string may vary from to N during program 
execution. The next section discusses built-in procedures 
for manipulating strings. 

Pascal/M and UCSD Pascal have provided long 
(32-bit) integers as a predeclared data type. The opera- 
tions permitted with long integers are addition, subtrac- 
tion, and comparisons. Pascal /MT-f- has provided two 
types of reals: floating-point reals and fixed-point, 
binary-coded decimal reals with 18 digits, four decimal. 
Pascal/Z provides floating-point reals and fixed-point 
reals with user-declared precision. 

Built-in Procedures and Functions 

Standard Pascal includes a number of intrinsic proce- 
dures and functions, including transcendental-arithmetic 
functions, memory-management procedures, and several 



At a Glance 




Name 


tiguous RAM (64K recom- 


UCSD Pascal. Version 2.0 


mended) and a floppy-disk 




system with at least I75K 


Type of Software 


bytes of online storage, or 


Package 


any Digital Equipment Corp 


Implementation of Pascal 


LSI-I 1 or PDP-I 1 computer 


programming language. 




including the UCSD 


Documentation 


operating system 


A 450-page, paper-bound 




manual; includes documen- 


Manufacturer 


tation for the UCSD operat- 


Softech Microsystems 


ing system 


9494 Black Mountain Rd. 




San Diego. CA 92126 


Audience 


(714) 578-6105 


Applications software 




developers, Pascal users 


Price 




S500. Note: price is for 


Comments 


Version 4.0. We tested Ver- 


The UCSD system has its 


sion 2.0 


own file handler and operat- 




ing system, including com- 


Format 


piler, linker, assembler. 


8-inch IBM 3740-compatible 


editor, and librarian utility. 


disk 


When the system is used on 




machines already equipped 


Type of Compiler 


with CP/M, only the BIOS 


Pseudo-code compiler 


routines from CP/M are 


supported by a run-time 


used. Non-CP/M users will 


interpreter 


need to write their own 




simplified basic input/output 


Computer Needed 


subsystem (SBIOS) and boot- 


Any Z80-, 8080/8085-, 


strap module. Docu- 


6502-. or 6800-based com- 


mentation for how to write 


puter with 48K bytes of con- 


the SBIOS is included. 



324 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Application Developers. . . 




. . .MDBS makes professional 
mainframe software available 
on micro computers at micro prices 



Quality application development is expensive and 
time-consuming. Over 50% of the development 
effort for applications is usually related to the 
problems of data storage and retrieval. 

The MDBS Data Base Management System. . . 

• is the "state-of-the-art" tool which can cut 
application development costs by 50% or more. 

• is the first and only true and complete DBMS for 
micro computers. 

• is also available lor the POP- i 7. 

• offers features not available anywhere else. . .not 
on any machine. .. not at any price — even sur- 
passing mainframe DBMS's costing over 
S 100. 000! 



In no other system can you get all these advantages: 

• fully integrated, data dictionary driven 

• unparalleled data structuring abilities. . far 
surpassing the older and more limited hierar- 
chical, network, and relational approaches. 

• unmatched query system ... powerful, non- 
navigational, and English-like. . .enables nested 
queries. 



• extensive recovery facilities. . .ability to roll DB 
back to previous state. 

• built-in data compression, data security, data 
encryption. 

• numerous performance tuning abilities 

• true multi-user capabilities. 

• highly portable . . .available for most operating 
systems and languages (BASIC, COBOL, 
PASCAL. C, PL/1, FORTRAN, etc.) 

MDBS overcomes the disadvantages of the older 
hierarchical, relational, and CODASYL approaches 
to data base management. MDBS is not restricted by 
any of those limitations typical of "data base 
pretenders" (file management systems). MDBS is 
the only true and complete data base management 
system currently available on micro computers 



MDBS, Inc., also offers professional training 
seminars and consulting services to assist 
application developers in developing the 
highest quality application software in the 
shortest time possible. 



Don't be misled by pretenders claiming to be "relational" . . . 

PROFESSIONALS KNOW THE DIFFERENCE! 



Setting standards of excellence for data base 
software. . .worldwide. 



/Wticrc 
Data Base 

Systems, inc. 

Box 248-B 

Lafayette, Indiana 47902 

31 7-448-1 6 16/TWX 810-342-1881 

Dealer/distributor/OEM inquiries invited. 




As a professional application developer, I need to know more about 

MDBS... 

D Yes, I'm interested. Please call me. 

D Please send me the complete MDBS Manual Set (5 Manuals + 

tutorial materials) at $85 per Set. 

Indiana residents please add $3.40 sales tax. 



Name 



Title . 



Company 
Address . 

City 

Phone 



(Please print) 



(State) 



(Zip) 



MAIL TO: Micro Data Base Systems, Inc. 
P.O. Box 248-B 
Lafayette, IN, 47902 



Circle 239 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 325 



input/output (I/O) procedures. We will consider the I/O 
procedures in a later section; for now, we will concen- 
trate on other intrinsics and built-ins. 

In standard Pascal you are permitted to dynamically 
allocate and deallocate memory for user-defined data 
types on a variable-by-variable basis. Only Pascal/MT + 
fully implements this standard. In the other versions, you 
can allocate space on a variable-by-variable basis, but 
you can only deallocate blocks of memory cells at a time. 
In these cases, memory is a heap of undifferentiated cells; 
the programmer can mark the top of the heap, dynami- 
cally allocate memory to variables, and then deallocate 
memory back to the old top of the heap. 

A useful function for dynamic-memory management is 
one that returns the amount of memory available at the 
time the function is called. Such a function can inform the 
programmer that allocating more memory may clobber 
some portion of the current program. All but Pascal/Z 
provide this function. 

All the versions have provided built-in functions for 
manipulating the string types just described. Pascal/Z 
provides functions for appending one string to another, 
determining the length of a string, and finding the posi- 
tion of a substring within a string. The other versions 
have these three built-in functions, and functions for in- 
serting, deleting, and copying substrings from a string. 



UCSD Pascal, PascaI/MT+ and Pascal/M have pro- 
vided several high-speed, built-in procedures for moving 
bytes between memory locations. You can move data be- 
. tween packed arrays of data and similar data structures, 
initialize packed arrays, and search arrays for specified 
bit patterns on a byte-by-byte basis. 

Pascal/M, Pascal/MT + , and UCSD Pascal have a 
procedure called EXIT that permits clean exits from pro- 
cedures, functions, and programs. A typical application 
would be to exit a program after flagging an egregious 
user error, such as bad input from the keyboard. 

Pascal/M and UCSD Pascal support random screen- 
cursor addressing through the built-in function 
GOTOXY(X,Y). Pascal/M also has built-in procedures 
that permit homing the cursor, clearing to end of line, 
and so on. UCSD Pascal supplies the utility program 
SETUP that matches the operating system to the charac- 
teristics of the user's terminal. 

Pascal /MT+ has several built-in procedures and oper- 
ators for byte and bit manipulation. For example, you 
can perform an "OR" operation on two integers that is a 
logical OR on their bit representations, and you can test 
bits, shift bits, and swap bytes in 16- and 8-bit variables. 
There are also built-in primitives for handling interrupts 
at the Pascal level. The programmer can enable and dis- 
able interrupts and designate up to seven Pascal proce- 



SAVE UP TO $750.00 NOW 

on TRS-80™ & Hewlett-Packard® Computers 

With This Coupon* 

Now you can own a great little computer at a great big discount off the manufacturer's 
list price. 

• FREE SHIPPING in the 48 continental contigious states on prepaid orders of $100 or more. 

• NO SALES TAX collected on out-of-state orders. TRS-80 

• CONVENIENT ORDERING — Call us TOLL FREE — 800/531-7466 Model II 

• FREE COMPLETE PRICE LIST available upon request. 




Catalog Cashier's Cash Price 

Number Description List Price Check You Save 
Radio Shack® TRS-80 Model II 

26-4002 64K 1-Disk Model II 3,899.00 3,299.00 600.00 

26-4150 Model II Hard Disk System (installation Not included). 4,495.00 4,045.50 449.50 
Radio Shack® TRS-80 Model III 

26-1062 Model III 16K 999.00 859.00 140.00 

26-1065 Model III 48K — 1 Disk 1,995.00 1,795.50 199.50 

26-1066 Model III 48K — 2 Disk 2,495.00 2,099.00 396.00 

Radio Shack® TRS-80 Color Computer 

26-3001 4K Color Computer 399.00 315.00 84.00 

26-3002 16K Color Computer 599.00 475.00 124.00 

26-3003 32K Color Computer 699.00 585.00 114.00 

Hewlett-Packard® HP-85A Personal Computer 2,750.00 Call for Price 

Hewlett-Packard® HP-125 3,750.00 2,999.00 751.00 



Pan American Electronics 



CALL TOLL FREE 800/531-7466 • Texas & Principal Number 512/581-2766 • Telex 767339 

Dept. 15 • 1117 Conway Avenue • Mission, Texas 78572 

FORT WORTH BRANCH: 

2912 N. Main, Fort Worth, Texas 76106 • Phone Number 817/625-6333 



TRS-B0 is a Trademark of Tandy Corp. 'With This Coupon Only! — Offer expires 4/30/82 Prices subject to change without notice — Slightly higher for Credit Card Orders. 

326 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 306 on inquiry card. 



^ 



4) 256KB IBM PERSONAL 
^ COMPUTER MEMORY! 



ruirmTfrramr 




SINGLE BOARD 256KB IBM PERSONAL 
COMPUTER MEMORY 

Designed Specifically for IBM's PERSONAL COMPUTER is Chrislin 
Industries newest CI-PCM Memory Module. 

FEATURES INCLUDE: 



• On-board parity generator checker 

• Addressable as a contiguous block in 64K byte 
increments through 1 megabyte 

• Access time of 225 NSEC 



• Requires only one I/O expansion slot for 256K bytes 
memory 

• Power requirements are +5V at 1.0A max. 

• Cycle time of 400 NSEC 



SEE YOUR LOCAL COMPUTER STORE FOR DETAILS 

OR CALL US. 

DON'T ASK WHY WE CHARGE SO LITTLE, ASK WHY THEY CHARGE SO MUCH. 



e 



Chrislin Industries, Inc. 

31352 Via Colinas • Westlake Village, CA 91362 • 213-991-2254 
TWX 910-494 1253 (CHRISLIN WKVG) 



Circle 75 on inquiry card. 



dures as interrupt procedures. The programmer assigns a 
vector number to an interrupt procedure and the com- 
piler generates code to load the vector number with the 
procedure address. 

Only Pascal/Z permits functions to return structured 
data values. In the other Pascals, functions can return 
only unstructured types. 

Input-Output Procedures 

Not surprisingly, there is significant variation in the 
I/O procedures that these four Pascals provide. The ver- 
sions differ in adherence to standard Pascal and in their 
extensions to the standard. 

Standard Pascal specifies four primitive file-handling 
procedures-GET(F), PUT(F), RESET(F), and RE- 
WRITE(F), where F is an arbitrary file type— and certain 
procedures for reading and writing text files. PUT(F) ap- 
pends data to F, GET advances the file-position pointer 
and retrieves the next record, RESET resets the file-posi- 
tion pointer to the beginning of the file, and REWRITE 
initializes a file for writing. The text-file procedures are 
READ and READLN, which reads to the end of a line, 
and their counterparts WRITE and WRITELN. Left to the 
Pascal implementer is the way that an external disk file is 
associated with the internal file. Standard Pascal makes 
no provision for random access I/O. 



I 



The gnosis version of P-LISP 
has been acknowledged- as 
the lines! and most complete 
available lor Apple micro- 
computers, and. with the addi- 
tion of floating point math and 
HI-RES graphics, it becomes an 
indispensable tool tor edu- 
cators, scientists, business ex- 
ecutives, mathematicians, or 
applications requiring artificial 
intelligence This excellent pro- 
gram is now available for only 
S199 95 (DOS 3 3 only) 

Included in an attractive 
binder is a ninety page user's 
manual which will aid you in 
creating your P-LISP programs 
This manual is also available 
separately for S20.00. which is 
fully refundable on purchase of 
the program 

P-LISP will run on a 48K or 
larger APPLE II/II • , and wil 
take advantage ol ALL avail 



for the Apple II 

able memory Supplied with Ihe 
interpreter are several sample 
programs including a complete 
ELIZA 

For those of you who do not 
fully understand P-LISP. we have 
available the P-LISP Tutorial lor 
S25 00. This expertly written text 
is bound in a handsome binder 
and is packaged lo include a 
disk containing all the sample 
programs referenced in Ihe text 
at no extra charge 



22 ' ffi ? 




formerly Pegasys Systems, Inc. 



4005 Chestnut Street — Philadelphia, PA 19104 
Orders Only: 800-523-0725— Penna. Residents: 215-387-1500 

Pennsylvania residents add 6\ sales lax Apple is a liademam ol Apple Compute, inc 



Pascal/MT + , Pascal/M, and UCSD Pascal all supply 
the standard procedures; Pascal/Z subsumes the opera- 
tions of GET and PUT under general-purpose READ and 
WRITE procedures. All four Pascals have simple 
methods for assigning disk files and external devices to 
internal file variables. All versions provide some form of 
random access for nontext files. 

All four versions have built-in facilities for purging 
files from disk directories. All but Pascal/Z have an add- 
ed procedure for closing an open file; in Pascal/Z, files 
are automatically closed on exit from the procedure block 
in which the file is declared, but there is no way to close a 
file explicitly. 

Pascal/M, Pascal/MT + , and UCSD Pascal all provide 
a built-in function IORESULT that returns an integer 
value to indicate the result of the last I/O operation. The 
function can trap fatal execution-time I/O errors, such as 
failure to find a required disk file. 

UCSD Pascal, Pascal/M, and Pascal/MT+ all provide 
low-level procedures to perform I/O on untyped files. 
These procedures transfer memory-image bytes with no 
interpretation. In addition, Pascal/M and Pascal/MT + 
provide built-in primitives for manipulating Z80 input- 
output ports. 

Modules, Overlays and Chaining 

Programmers developing large application programs 
face several problems that can become acute on micro- 
computers. Among these are limitations on memory size, 
the time-consuming need to recompile large programs 
when only small changes are made, and the need to link 
high-level programs to low-level routines for speed or 
convenience in special applications. The four Pascals 
reviewed here are reasonably well equipped with tools to 
solve these problems. 

Two techniques for mitigating limitations on memory 
size are overlays (program segmentation) and chaining 
(calling one program from another). For the overlay ap- 
proach, the programmer declares segments within a host 
program, with the segments either procedures or func- 
tions. A segment is brought into memory from disk when 
needed and remains active in memory only as long as 
needed; control returns to the host program. Segment 
procedures can access global data and procedures in the 
host program, just as they do ordinary procedures. With 
chaining, the currently active program calls the next link 
in the chain, which is then loaded from disk. There need 
be no host program per se and no relationship between 
the global declarations of chained programs. 

UCSD Pascal and Pascal/M support overlays. In 
UCSD Pascal, a program can have a maximum of 16 seg- 
ments, while Pascal/M can support as many as 10 seg- 
ments. Both versions count the host program as one seg- 
ment. Pascal/Z and Pascal/MT+ allow chaining. Both 
provide mechanisms for sharing global data between 
chained programs, but not for sharing global procedures. 
Pascal/Z, UCSD Pascal, and Pascal/MT+ support the 
ability to divide large programs into separately compil- 



328 March 1982 © byte Publications he Circle 170 on inquiry card. 




t>i There is More 
Brewing in b 

Milwaukee 6 

Than lust Beer 

$ 






OO _ 

(QTY I) ^ 



MC-IOOO 





COMPUTERS 



J 



Our new MC-1000 Computer Sys- 
tem is proof that the age of afforda- 
bility in computers has arrived. 
Thanks to single board design we can 
offer not only the lowest priced com- 
puter in its class but also the most 
reliable. For Information and or- 
dering call: 



(414) 784-2312 



r 



ALL STANDARD 



64K Memory 

2-5 Vi" Disk Drives (225K Total Storage) 

Real Time Clock 

2-RS-232 Interfaces 

Parallel Printer Port (Centronics Type) 

Extensive Self Diagnostics (In Rom) 

2 Year Limited Warranty 



OPTIONS 



Disk Capacity to 1.8 MBYTE 
UCSD* Pascal, Basic, Fortran 

•TM LI Of California 



MILWAUKEE COMPUTERS INC. 

16235 W. RYERSON ROAD * NEW BERLIN, WI 53151 * (414) 784-2312 



Circle 313 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



329 




TM 



TYPE-W-TALK 

The exciting 
text-to-speech 
synthesizer with 
unlimited vocabulary. 

Get your computer talking 
for only $375.00. 

• Text-to-speech algorithm 

• A one-watt audio amplifier 

• SC-01 speech synthesizer chip (data 
rate: 70 to 100 bits per second) 

• 750 character buffer 

• Data switching capability 

• Selectable data modes for versatile 
interfacing 

• Baud rate (75-9600) 

• Data echo of ASCII characters 

• Phoneme access modes 

• RS 232C interface 

• Complete programming and installation 
instructions 

The Votrax Type-'N-Talk^is one of the easiest-to- 
program speech synthesizers on the market. It 
uses the least amount of memory and it gives you 
the most flexible vocabulary available anywhere. 

Order now. Toll free. VK4 ' I SHI 

llilllllllllillll 

Call the toll-free number below to order or 
Hi request additional information. MasterCard I 
or Visa accepted. Charge to your credit card 
or send a check for $375.00 plus $4.00 
■ delivery. Add 4% sales tax in Michigan. 

■ 1-800-521-1350 



For product information call: 1-313-588-0341 




YOU'RE TALKING.. 
500 Stephenson Highway, Troy, Ml 48084 

Type-'N-Talk™ is covered by a limited warranty. Write Votrax for a free copy. 



able pieces and the concomitant ability to develop 
modules or libraries of logically related procedures. 

UCSD Pascal offers UNITs, which consist of three ma- 
jor syntactical pieces: an INTERFACE portion, an IM- 
PLEMENTATION portion, and initialization code. The 
INTERFACE portion contains the declarations (data, 
procedures, and functions) accessible to a host program. 
The IMPLEMENTATION portion contains the code for 
the procedures delcared in the INTERFACE and any ad- 
ditional data structures and code required to perform the 
tasks of the unit; the latter declarations are not accessible 
to the host program. The initialization code is used to ini- 
tialize the UNIT and is unknown to the host. 

UCSD UNITs come in two varieties: intrinsic UNITs 
and regular UNITs. An intrinsic UNIT must be stored in 
the system library, which must be online when a program 
using the unit is executed. Intrinsic UNITs are prelinked 
to their hosts and do not have to be relinked if either the 
host or the UNIT is changed. Regular UNITs must be 
linked to the host by the programmer. Once linked, they 
need not be online, since the UNIT's code is duplicated in 
the host's code file. Regular UNITs count against the 
number of segments allowed in a program; intrinsic 
UNITs do not. 

Pascal/MT + provides what it calls modular compila- 
tion. When combined with a certain compiler option, this 
feature is comparable to the UCSD regular UNIT except 
for the initialization code. Pascal/MT + modules may be 
somewhat more convenient to use than UCSD UNITs 
because the former can be broken into as many modules 
as desired at any time, while the latter require more fore- 
thought for effective use. 

Pascal/Z provides a somewhat more limited version of 
modular compilation than Pascal/MT + . First, the num- 
ber of modules is held to 10, including the host program. 
Also, there can be no hidden portions to a Pascal/Z mod- 
ule; in the language of UCSD UNITs, Pascal/Z modules 
consist of only an INTERFACE block. Finally, a Pascal/Z 
module cannot contain any global data declarations; it 
can only contain procedures and functions with local 
(private) data structures. 

Like UCSD UNITs, Pascal/Z and Pascal/MT + 
modules must be linked explicitly to their hosts. Unlike 
UCSD Pascal, Pascal/Z and Pascal/MT + make the pro- 
grammer responsible for insuring that data and pro- 
cedures used by the host and its modules are declared 
consistently across modules. 

Modules in Pascal/Z and Pascal/MT + can freely use 
procedures declared in other modules. Procedures can be 
similarly cross-referenced by UCSD UNITs, but this re- 
quires more planning than in the other two Pascals. 

Pascal/Z, Pascal/MT + and UCSD Pascal all allow the 
user to link Z80 assembly-language programs to Pascal 
programs. Pascal/MT + features a special declaration 
INLINE whereby the programmer can include hexadeci- 
mal code for machine-language programs in the body of a 
Pascal program without using externally assembled rou- 
tines. 



330 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



LETTER PERFECT 



ATARI 400/800 




APPLE II 



EASY TO USE - Letter Perfect is a single load easy to use program. It is a menu driven, character orientated processor 
with the user in mind. FAST machine language operation, ability to send control codes within the body of the program 
mnemonics that make sense, and a full printed page of buffer space for text editing are but a few features. Screen Format 
allows you to preview printed text. Indented margins are allowed. Data Base Merge with DATA PERFECT by LJK, form 
letters, accounting files and mailing labels only with MAIL MERGE/UTILITY by LJK. FEATURES - Proportional/ 
Incremental spacing * Right Justification * File Merging * Block movement * Headers * Footers * Print Multiple Copies * 
Auto Page Numbering * Scroll forward/backward * Search and Replaces * Full cursor control * Underlining * Boldface * 
Superscripts * Subscripts * Auto page numbering * Insert character/line * Delete character/line * Centering * Horizontal 
tabs/changeable * Multifunction format line (line spacing — left margin — page width — lines/page — change fonts — top/ 
bot margin adjust) MUCH MORE! $149.95 

ATARI VERSION 2.0 #2001 

Uses proportional font, right justified with Atari 825/Centronics* 737, 739 printers. Uses EPSON MX* Series + Graftrax/italicized 
font. Can mix type fonts on same page; mix boldface and enhanced font in same line with justification. Can be used with 16K 
Atari/400. 

"Compared to the price of many other word processors, this package is a steal. It does everything the advertisement 
claims and more. On top of this the software is very easy to use." A.N.A.L.O.G. MAGAZINE 

APPLE VERSION 5.0 #1001 

DOS 3.3 compatible — Use 40 or 80 column interchangeably (Smarterm — ALS; Videoterm-Videx; Full View 80 — Bit 3 
Inc.; Vision 80 — Vista; Sup-R-Term — M&R Ent.) Reconfigurable at any time for different video, printer, or interface. 
USE HAYES MICROMODEM ll*LCA necessary if no 80 column board, need at least 24 K of memory. Files saved as 
either Text or Binary. Shift key modification allowed. Data Base Merge compatible with DATA PERFECT* by LJK. 

"For $150, Letter Perfect offers the type of software that can provide quality word processing on inexpensive micro- 
computer systems at a competitive price." INFOWORLD 



DATA PERFECT 



T.M. LJK 



APPLE & ATARI 

DATA BASE MANAGEMENT 



$99.95 



EDIT 6502 



Complete Data Base System. User orientated for easy and fast operation. 100% Assembly language. Easy to use. You may 
create your own screen mask for your needs. Searches and Sorts allowed, Configurable to use with any of the 80 column 
boards of Letter Perfect word processing, or use 40 column Apple video. Lower case supported in 40 column video. 
Utility enables user to convert standard files to Data Perfect format. Complete report generation capability. Much More! 

T.M. LJK $29.95 

MAIL MERGE/UTILITY ATARI 

This menu driven program combined with LETTER 
PERFECT allows user to generate form letters and print 
mailing labels. With the Atari, you may CONVERT 
ATARI DOS FILES, or Visicalc files compatible for 
editing with LETTER PERFECT. Utility creates Data 
Base files for Letter Perfect. 



This is a coresident — two pass ASSEMBLER, DIS- 
ASSEMBLER, TEXT EDITOR, and MACHINE LANGU- 
AGE MONITOR. Editing is both character and line 
oriented. Disassemblies create editable source files with 
ability to use predefined labels. Complete control with 41 
commands, 5 disassembly modes, 24 monitor commands 
including step, trace, and read/write disk. Twenty pseudo 
opcodes, allows linked assemblies, software stacking 
(single and multiple page) plus complete printer control, 
i.e. paganation, titles and tab setting. User can move 
source, object and symbol table anywhere in memory. 
Feel as if you never left the environment of BASIC. Use 
any of the 80 column boards as supported by LETTER 
PERFECT, Lower Case optional with LCG. 

LJK DISK UTILITY APPLE $29.95 

This menu driven program allows the user to manipulate a 
variety of different file types. Binary, Text, and Source 
files may be easily converted into each other. The pro- 
gram may be used with APPLESOFT*, VISCALC*, and 
other programs. These program files may be readily 
adapted for multiple use including editing with LETTER 
PERFECT word processings. 



LOWER CASE CHARACTER 
GENERATOR $24.95 



-./0123436789' ;<»>?tMCQEFG 



Lower Case Character Generator for the Rev. 7, Apple II 
or II+ computers. When installed, this Eprom will generate 
lower case characters to the video screen. Lower case 
characters set has two dot true descenders. Installation 
instruction included. Manual includes listing of software 
for full support and complete instructions for shift key 
modification. Compatible with LETTER PERFECT. 




UK 



COMPUTER BASED SOFTWARE 



ENTERPRISES 



LJK ENTERPRISES INC. 
P.O. Box 10827 
St. Louis, MO 63129 
(314) 846-6124 



DEALER 

INQUIRES 

INVITED 



•Trademarks of: Apple Cor 
Software - 



iputer - 
Videx 



Atari Computer — Epson America — Hayes Microcomputers — Personal 
- Bit 3 Inc. - M&R Ent. - Advanced Logic Systems - Vista Computers 



Circle 216 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 33] 



Ease of Use 

Ease of use of any given language implementation lies 
mainly with the user. Ease of use may be defined as a 
measure of how quickly and reliably an implementation 
can help a programmer accomplish a given programming 
task. 

The main advantage of Pascal is the ease with which 
the programmer can express the control and data struc- 
tures that seem to arise naturally when designing a pro- 
gram. Beyond the standard Pascal, however, there is 
much that the language implementer can do to simplify 
the programmer's job. Since the programmer spends (or 
should spend) a great deal of time designing and writing 
programs, the relevant question is whether the language 
implementation helps or hinders the programming pro- 
cess. String functions, for example, have proved very 
useful in manipulating character data of arbitrary length, 
and all the Pascals we examined had string functions in 
one form or another. We feel that other additions to stan- 
dard Pascal can be of great help, as long as they do not 
detract too much from the resulting program's portability 
to other systems. We previously discussed most of these 
useful features. 

In addition to programming ease, there is debugging 
ease that reduces the time necessary for the programmer 
to sit in front of the video display. The sequence of com- 



mands that the user types to compile, link, and run a pro- 
gram can be simple (e.g., with UCSD Pascal, in the 
simplest case, you can execute a source program just by 
typing an "R") or complex (e.g., Pascal/Z, which in the 
simplest case requires three separate CP/M commands to 
transform a source file into a runnable program). For- 
tunately, CP/M commands can themselves be gathered 
into a file and executed using the SUBMIT feature. 

Finally, the documentation can be a source of either 
help or frustration. The manuals that accompany these 
packages are uniformly poor; unfortunately, they were 
probably written by the programmers who developed the 
packages. Any user who expects to learn Pascal from 
these will be bitterly disappointed. (Although to be fair, 
the manuals do not claim to be tutorials.) We also found 
the manuals disorganized, with poor indexes and tables 
of contents. Finding the answer to any specific question 
was a challenge, and the clarity of the English in the 
documentation is best left without critique. 

We mentioned earlier that UCSD Pascal comprises an 
entire operating system, but failed to express the grief we 
experienced in getting the system configured for our ma- 
chine, compounded by the confusing and contradictory 
documentation. The configuration process per se is sim- 
ple. The difficulty is in reaching the point at which you 
can start the configuration process. 



S-100 INNOVATORS: 



c 
i 

T 

R 

N 
I 

C 
S 

I 

N 
C. 



REMOTE CONTROLLER-lnnovative Features: 

* Complete 256 address control— not just 16 
*No ultrasonic link— prevents erractic operation 
*120, 208,240 and 277VAC control-for single & 3 phase operation 

* Hardware driven— requires minimal software 
*Complete line of industrial switches available— to 5.5KW 

REAL TIME CLOCK— Innovative Features: 

* First to use LSI OKI clock chip 
*Crystal controlled for .002% accuracy 
*4 software selectable clock generated interrupts 
"*" Full clock and calendar data 

* Lithium battery backup good for 6000 hours! 

ENERGY WATTCHER™-lnnovative Features: 

* First microcomputer based energy monitor 

* Clip on probes for easy installation 

* Monitors Real Power, not volt-amps 
*Peak Power and continuous power readings 

* Single and 3 phase operation 

See your local computer dealer or contact SciTronics directly for more information. Watch for future innovative products 
from SciTronics Inc., 523 So. Clewell St., P.O. Box 5344, Bethlehem, PA 18015 (215) 868-7220 




332 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 348 on inquiry card. 



THE FORMULA™ allows the computer professional to 
focus on the most important part of business: the needs 
of the client. Customized systems for any business appli- 
cation can be created in a fraction of the time required by 
conventional methods. 



ot0 **2f? : 



o* 



Interactive data entry, file updating, and 
maintenance routines are automatically 
generated from a definition of the fields. 

Reports can be created through a unique 
full screen editor simply by typing a sample 
format. 

Menus and job streams are defined through 
a preprogrammed parameter-driven pro- 
cedure. 

Fast response time is insured because 
each routine can be interpreted directly by 
the computer and data management is 
controlled by an efficient ISAM algorithm. 

THE FORMULA™ is a complete system language which 
brings the process of developing applications closer to 
the user's description of his needs. That'sTHE FORMULA™ 
for success. 

Disk and manual, $595. Manual only, $60. 

THE FORMULA™ will run on any 8080 or Z80 computer 
with CP/M,* 48K RAM, 300K total disk storage, and a CRT. 

DMA • WE SPEAK YOCIR LANGUAGE. 



THE FORMULA™ For Success can help you build 
systems. Now, the General Accounting System, 
created with THE FORMULA™ is available at no 
extra charge. 

The General Accounting System includes: 



^(^ V**^-& • General Ledger: Journals, Trial Balance 



Income Statement, Balance Sheet, etc. 



• Accounts Payable: A/P Journals, Checks, 

Aged Payables, Vendor Report, etc. 

• Accounts Receivable: A/R Journals, Aged 

Receivables, Customer Statements, 
Customer Activity Report, etc. 

TM- 



In addition, two new optional packages have been developed for use with THE FORMULA 

Professional Time Management $80 Label Option Pak $80 

Manager's Billing Report, Employee Name Inversion, Multiple Up Labels, 

Production Report, Client Invoices, etc. Customized Label Size and Format, etc. 

Circle 135 on inquiry card. 

DYNAMIC MICROPROCESSOR ASSOCIATES • 545 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10017 • (212) 687-7115 

We ship prepaid and COD orders. Shipping & handling charges extra: $5 UPS areas; $7 non-UPS areas, Mexico, Canada; $10+ elsewhere. MasterCharge and VISA accepted. 

New York State residents add appropriate sales tax. "CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 



We point this out not to dissuade the reader from using 
UCSD Pascal, but to inform you of what to expect. If you 
are interested in UCSD Pascal, it may be worthwhile to 
seek out a configuration matched to your machine. Some 
preconfigured versions are available. 



Benchmarks 

To test each version of Pascal for speed, ease of use, 
and other features, we wrote and ran a series of bench- 
mark programs. We did all testing on a Cromemco Sys- 
tem III computer, which has 64K bytes of memory and 
two 8-inch floppy-disk drives capable of handling more 
than a million bytes of data each. The CP/M-compatible 
versions of Pascal were run under CP/M version 2.2 
(from Intelligent Terminals Corporation). We timed the 
programs using Mountain Computer's 100,000 Day 
Clock. The results appear in table 1. 

A few words of caution: the results of these (or any 
other) benchmarks should not be taken as absolute in- 
dicators of any Pascal's inherent quality. Our programs 
are necessarily simple and relatively portable between the 



different implementations. We certainly do not represent 
these programs as the 'best" programming solutions 
available for the problems they solve. 

Our first benchmark, PRIMES (see listing 1), is a pro- 
gram to calculate the first 1000 prime numbers, using a 
method from Donald Knuth's The Art of Computer Pro- 
gramming, Volume I: Fundamental Algorithms (Reading, 
MA: Addison-Wesley, 1968), pages 143-144. The only 
statements that needed change, as we moved from one 
version of Pascal to the next, were in the routine to 
read the time from the Mountain Computer clock board, 
which required Z80 hardware port input. Pascal /M and 
Pascal/MT+ had intrinsic routines to do such input; for 
UCSD Pascal and Pascal/Z, we wrote small assembler 
routines to do the job. To minimize rewriting, we isolated 
the version-dependent code in a function that was dif- 
ferent for each implementation. 

We also made two ease-of-use measurements while we 
were compiling and running the program. First, we 
measured the time needed to transform the Pascal source 
file into a running program. For the CP/M Pascals, we 
used a SUBMIT file containing the necessary commands 



Language 










Implementation 










Program 


Pascal/M 


Pascal/MT + 


Pascal/Z 


UCSD Pascal 


PRIMES 










Execution time 


94.2 sec 


24.1 sec 


35.1 sec 


70.0 sec 


"Compile time" 


35 sec 


93 sec 


132 sec 


46 sec 


Keystrokes 


31 


56 


68 


16 


required to run 










PRECISION 










Small 


5.96E -08 


1.19E-07 


2.38E-07 


5.96E-08 


Big 


3.36E + 07 


1.68E + 07 


8.39E + 06 


3.36E + 07 


BLOWUP 










Memory available for 


37.4 K 


52.3 K 


52.4 K 


38.9 K 


dynamic variables 










BENCHMARK 










(All numbers are 










execution times in 










seconds) 










Random number 


3.4 


2.7 


1.1 


2.0 


generation 










Writing array to disk 


3.5 


4.3 


3.9 


6.9 


Shell sort 


332 


152 


93 


193 


Reading array from disk 


1.4 


2.0 


1.8 


2.4 


Quicksort 


31 


14 


15 


18 


Binary tree generation 


51 


21 


8 


25 


Writing tree to disk 


28 


25 


21 


45 


Displaying array on CRT 


46 


10 


14 


22 


Displaying tree on CRT 


48 


11 


14 


23 


Table 1: Results of benchmarking programs 


for four implementations of Pascal 


All testing was 


done on a Cromemco System III 


computer with two 8-inch disk drives. PRIMES, shown in 


listing 1, is a program that calculates the first 1000 prime numbers. 


PRECISION, shown in listing 2, determines the precision 


of floating-point 


calculations in 


each implementation of Pascal. 


BLOWUP, shown in listing 3, determines the 


approximate amount of memory sp 


ace available for dynamically allocated variables. 


BENCHMARK, shown in listing 4, performs a series of tasks common in applications programs. 



334 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



uNBEwuun BELIEVE IT! 

State-of-the-art Single-Board computer now available! 
Can be used in S-100 (Master, Slave, Multi or Single user) 
or Stand-Alone configurations. 



FINALLY, state-of-the-art performance Is avail- 
able at an affordable price. 
COMPARE THESE FEATURES: 

Z80AorZ80B 

4 TIMERS (ZCTC) 

64K RAM (64KX1 CHIPS) 

2 SERIAL PORTS (ZSIO) 

• 4 PARALLEL PORTS (ZPIO| 

• UPT016K.EPROM{2732) 

• NEC FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER 

|UP TO FOUR 8" DOUBLE SIDED/DOUBLE DENSITY DRIVES| 

• INTELLIGENT WINCHESTER INTERFACE 

• ONBOARD EPROM BURNER 

(DOES NOT REOUIRE 24V| 

FOR THESE SINGLE QUANTITY PRICES: 



4MZ VERSION |Z80A| 

I 
I 

6 MZ VERSION (Z80B) 

4 MZ SLAVE PROCESSOR 

|NO DISK CONTROLLERS ON BOARD) 

6MZ SLAVE PROCESSOR * 

(NO DISK CONTROLLERS ON BOARD) 



$ 1,195°° 

$ 795°° 

'1,095°° 



The S-100 version of this product can act as a 
Master processor. Slave processor, or Intelli- 
gent peripheral controller. Intra-processor com- 
munication Is achieved through the use of effi- 
cient, high speed buss transfers using special 
hardware/software techniques. 

We also have what we think Is one of the best 
Implementations of a CP/M BIOS available off 
the shelf. The BIOS has the following features: 

• All Devices INTERRUPT DRIVEN 

• Type Ahead Input/Output Buffers 

• Real-Time Clock 

• Time Of Day Clock 

> Multi-level User Password Support 
Menu Driven Utilities for Format, 
Disk Copy, etc . 

• Unique Configuration Utility Program 
for Setting Baud Rates, Changing Step 
Time, Changing Passwords, etc. 

• Cylinder Concept used for Double Sided 
/Double Density Configuration 
Resulting In Increased Performance 
Std.sizeSxIO. 



CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research Corporation 




nutawuut 

SOFTWWE 




Dealer Inquiries Invited 

sierra arm sciences 



Fresno, California 

Marketing Division 

21162 Lorain Ave./Fairview Park, Ohio 44126 /(216) 331-8500 



Circle 430 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 335 



Listing 1: PRIMES, a Pascal program that calculates the first 1000 prime numbers, based on an algorithm from Donald Knuth's The 
Art of Computer Programming, Volume I: Fundamental Algorithms. 



P R Q R A M p r i m a s ." 
CONST 

max we c~ 1 4 ? '•'* used by the t imi ri3 routine *> 

n p = 1 " < * n u in b e r o f p r i m e s : + : > 
TVPE 

t i rn e v e c = A R R A V C0, . m a. x '•••» e c 3 F I H T E G E R " 
MAR 

J u n k ? .1 apse : REAL ; 

t : iimeveeS 

ft:ARRAV [l..np] OF INTEGER" 

J, k, n,-=i, r: INTEGER; 



FUNCT I ON po r t i n < po r t : I NTEGER > : I HTEGER 
UAR 

is INTEGER? 
BEGIN 

i nport(portr i > ; 

porti ri' =i ? 
END? 



', + : P a s c a 1 — M '■> e r s i o n + ; .5 



FUNCTION ticka 


'AR ts time 1 


>€i ' 


:> "■ 


REAL 5 


CONST 










baseport=32; 










UAR 










i : INTEGER; 










p rev ; t i me ye c ; 










BEGIN 










FOR i : -0 TO max vac DO 








prevC i 3 s =tC i I 


; 








FOR i:=0 TO max vac DO 








tC i 3 " =porU rv 


basepo r t+ 


l > ; 






ti c k : =0. 000i*i 


tC 3 -pre' 


.'t: 


3 


:i + c] .+ 


0, 001*' 


U. 13 -pre- 


.'i: 


13 


) + < :+ 


. 1 * >'■ 


tC 2] -pre' 


.'i: 


23 


5 + < :+ 


. 1 * C 


tC 3 3 -pre' 


.'[: 


3 3 


> + ■:; :+ 


1.0*': 


tC 4 3-pre 1 - 


>l 


4 3 


j •+• C + 


10. : + : >: 


tC 5 3 -pre' 


.'i: 


53 


:> + < :+ 


60. 0*< 


tC 6 3— p re 1 - 


>z 


6 3 


:> •+• < * 


€.00. 0*t 


tC 7 3 -pre-. 


.'[: 


71 


j + <; * 


36O0 „ 0*< 


tC 83 -pre '• 


>c 


8 3 


J + < * 


36000. 0*< 


tC 9 3 -pre'. 


.'[ 


9 3 


) 4- < :+: 


86400. 0*'- 


tt 103-pre'. 


.' C 1 3 


' + ( * 


£'■64000. 0*< 


tCll J -pre-. 


.■ l: i 1 3 


i 4- < :+: 


86-4000© . 0*( 


tC123-pre'. 


.'Cl 


2 3 


i 4- £ ■+• 


8 6 4 . * < 


tC 133-pre'. 


.' i: l 


33 


i +■ < * 


8640O00O0 „ 0* •: 


tn.4 3-pre'. 


.' C 1 4 3 


■ +■ >:; * 


END; 










BEGIN 










wri tel n< ' The f 


i rst '" > hpj 


' ft imes! " 


■J u n k s -• t i c k < t > " 










prC 1 3:»2? 










prC23s=3? 











1 m i c r o s e c o n d s * 

m i 1 1 i se co nd s * '? 
■ 1 in i 1 1 i se co rid s * > 

J. OO milliseconds * 
,: seconds ■+•) 
,: lO seconds : + : ) 

mi nutes *> 

10 mi nutes : + : ) 

hours *> 

10 hours : + : > 

d ay s * > 

10 days *) 

100 days ■*'■':' 

10G0 days +> 

1OO0 days '*■':■> 



Listing 1 continued on page 338 



336 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



o 



44 *tP^^^ 






CornP 



uter 



Man a ' 



ge m 



en* 



g^ 




Take the 



ENCYCLOPEDIA 
OF COMPUTER 
SCIENCE 

YOURS FOR ONLY 




95 



when you join The Library o) 
Computer and Information 
Sciences. You simply agree to 
buy 3 more books— at 
handsome discounts— within 
the next 12 months. 



(a $60.00 value) 

Find the answers to virtually all your data 
processing questions in the ENCYCLOPEDIA 
OF COMPUTER SCIENCE. 

Thousands of photos, diagrams, graphs 
and charts completely illuminate the 
ENCYCLOPEDIA'S clear and thorough 
coverage of every area of the computer 
sciences — software, hardware, languages, 
programs, systems, mathematics, networks, 
applications, theory, history and terminology. 

Appendices provide abbreviations, acronyms, 
special notations and many numerical tables. 
An additional highlight is a complete cross- 
reference system that assists the reader 
seeking in-depth information. 

What is The Library of Computer and "^ 
Information Sciences? 

It's the oldest, largest and most respected book club especially designed 
for the computer professional. In the incredibly fast-moving world of data 
processing, where up-to-date knowledge is essential, we make it easy for you 
to keep totally informed on all areas of the information sciences. In addition, books 
are offered at discounts up to 30% off publishers' prices. 

Begin enjoying the club's benefits by accepting the ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COMPUTER 
SCIENCE. It's the perfect reference for computer professionals. . . and it's a great bargain, too. 



If reply card has been removed, please write: The Library of Computer and Information Sciences, Dept. 7-BA2, Riverside, N.J. 08075, 
to obtain membership information and application. 



Listing 1 continued: 

n : =33 

REPEAT 
REPEAT 
n! ™n+2" 

k s - 1 1 
REPEAT 

k:=k+l? 

«i*»ri DIU FTtk]" 

UNTIL (q<prCk3) OR Cr*8'.:<S 

UNTIL rOBt 

J : =J+-1 ; 

p r [ J 1 : = n " 
UNTIL J = riP5 
lapse' ■ ti ck< t> " 
FOR Js=l TO np DO 

1...1 r i te I n < ' P r i in a < '" s J r p ) = ' ■ p r II J II ::• " 
w r i te 1 n < ' T he ca 1 c u 1 a ti o ri too k " t I a.pse r * se co nd s 
END . 



to eliminate variation due to typing speed. We started 
timing when the compilation of the program began and 









r 

DISCOUNT PRICES: 


J SYSTEMS 

ZENITH 


"N 






Z89-1 48K 100MB 
Z90-2 64K 160MB 
Z87 
Z37 


$2255 
2499 
977 
1620 




MICROCOMPUTER 


NEC 






HARDWARE/ 
SOFTWARE 


NEC 32K WITH 
GREEN MONITOR 
32K EXPANSION 
5" DUAL DISK 

ATARI 


1039 

530 
863 




WE ALSO BROKER 


400 (8K) 
800 (16K) 


332 
692 




USED MICROS. 


XEROX 


2545 

3170 






820-1 (5" DRIVES) 
1 820-2(8" DRIVES) 


PRINTERS SOFTWARE 






EPSON MX80 $ CALL 
EPSON MX80F/T $CALL 
EPSON MX100 $CALL D BASE II ' 

FMS80" 
MICROLINE82A $ 499 CONDOR I " 
MICROLINE83A 787 CONDOR ll" 

WORDSTAR" CP/M" 
DIABLO630 2175 MAILMERGE " CP/M 

SPELLSTAR - 
NECP8023A 548 SUPERCALC' 

CALCSTAR" 
NEC SPINWRITERS DATASTAR" 


$499 
715 
499 
715 
296 
90 
150 
230 
180 
210 




7710 2365 

7720 2750 WORDSTAR" -APPLE 
7730 2365 MAILMERGE" -APPLE 
PAPER TIGER IDS 460G 879 Also available: Microsoft, Structured 
PAPER TIGER IDS 560G 1119 Systems Plus and Personal Software 


224 

75 
Systems, 




Allow 20 days for personal checks to ciear. Money orders, cashiers check or Bank Wire welcomed. 
Certified COD'S accepted. Add 3% for Visa or Mastercard. Add 3% for shipping, handling & 
insurance. 




Calif, residents add 6% sales tax. All equipment subject to price change and availabll 


ty. 




The MIcroExchange P.O. Box 3790, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266 
(213) 372-7381, outside Calif. (800) 227-2634 Ext. 961 for call back. 






^sRssssrsssrAS 


> 





stopped when the program's message 'The first 1000 
primes:" was displayed. Then we counted the number of 
keystrokes that would have been necessary for compila- 
tion. 

As expected, we found that the execution time of pro- 
grams produced by the native-code compilers was much 
less than that of programs produced by the P-code com- 
pilers. On the other hand, the compilation time and the 
number of keystrokes necessary to run the program were 
much greater for the native-code compilers; there is a 
trade-off between calculational speed and ease of use. 
Perhaps the ideal situation would have P-code used for 
software development and native code employed for the 
final version. 

Our second benchmark is PRECISION (see listing 2). 
It is an attempt to determine the precision of floating- 
point calculation for each Pascal. We calculated two 
numbers, BIG and SMALL. BIG was defined to be the 
largest number such that: 

(BIG + 1.0) > BIG 

given the limitations of floating-point arithmetic. 
Similarly, SMALL was defined to be the smallest number 
such that: 

(1.0 + SMALL) > 1.0 

Here we found that all our Pascals had approximately 
seven digits of precision, some slightly more and others 
slightly less. (Note that all four verions include some 
means of doing extended-precision arithmetic.) 



338 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 241 on inquiry card. 



STOP 

SOFTWARE 

FAILURES 



Using a micro in a product so unds easy... 
One piece of software can make the difference 
between success and failure. 



What do you do when the software 
doesn't work? Over the years, we have 
seen many good products fail, either 
before or after they reached the market, 
because the microprocessor software 
did not do its job. 

WHAT WENT WRONG? 

Many of the failures occurred because 
the people programming the micro did 
not know how to organize a large control 
program. Those responsible for the pro- 
duct implementation were wizards at 
hardware design and had easily coded 
small micro control programs before. 
Bui the programming techniques that 
worked for less than 2K bytes of code 
simply fell apart as the program grew 
beyond 4K bytes. 

Unfortunately, the loops and tests and 
flags that work so well for a small pro- 
gram get out of control very rapidly as the 
program grows. Pretty soon, some of the 
things the program must do are not 
being done fast enough. The code gets 
too complicated, difficult to modify and 
unreliable. The result: another software 
failure! 

Fortunately, these problems can be 
avoided by using a program manager. 
You can divide your complex control pro- 
gram into a number of separate, more 
manageable programs, called tasks, 
each designed to do one job. For exam- 
ple, a Keyboard Task might handle user 
input; a Printer Task might generate re- 
ports. Each task can be written and tested 
separately and then combined to form a 
reliable, finished system. 

The program manager, called a multi- 
tasking executive, supervises the orderly 
execution of these tasks, assuring that 
the most important jobs always get done 
first.Tasks appear to be executing simul- 
taneously. It's almost like having a separ- 
ate CPU for each task! 



That is why professional software des- 
igners are now turning to AMX as the 
starting point for their product and sys- 
tem designs. They know that AMX will 
shield them from the difficulties of mana- 
ging the micro, freeing them to concen- 
trate on their application. 




AMX is our multitasking executive for 
the 8080, 8085, Z80 and 6809 proces- 
sors. We're rather proud of it. We made 
AMXcompact.veryfast.andROMableto 
meet our own application needs. Even 
though the AMX nucleus is less than 
1400 bytes in size, it features multiple 
task priorities, intertask message pas- 
sing with priority queuing, external event 
synchronization, and interval timing with 
32-bit precision. Each feature is clearly 
explained in the AMX Reference Manual. 

RELIABILITY BUILT IN 

We don't know anyone who can write 
an executive without errors, so we 
thoroughly tested AMX in real applica- 
tions before ever offering it as a product. 
That is why not one system malfunction 
has ever been attributed to AMX. That 
kind of reliability just isn't an accident. 

HARDWARE INDEPENDENCE 

AMX does not require a particular 
hardware configuration. Of course, it 
does need a microprocessor, but even 
there we offer you a choice. You control 
your environment. You pick the I/O 
method. You decide the most optimum 
interrupt service technique for your sys- 
tem. AMX will support your choice. 



High level language interface modules 
are available separately to allow AMX to 
be used with most popular program- 
ming languages including PASCAL, C, 
PL/M and FORTRAN. Of course, you can 
also code in assembly language if 
required. 

Users of the CP/M and FLEX Opera- 
ting Systems can utilize our AMX inter- 
face modules to access information on 
diskette in realtime. 

COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION 

AMX can be judged by the quality of 
our documentation. The positive re- 
sponse from our users has exceeded 
our expectations. Our manuals are es- 
pecially valuable to those just being 
introduced to real-time multitasking. 
More experienced users will appreciate 
the fact that we deliver AMX source on 
diskette to permit AMX to be moved to 
the software development system of 
your choice. 

HOW TO ORDER 

A specification sheet and price list are 
available, free. Your check or money 
order for $75 will purchase the AMX Ref- 
erence Manual for immediate evaluation 
(specify 8080, 8085, Z80 or 6809 proces- 
sor). Add $25 for postage and handling 
outside USA and Canada. The standard 
AMX Multitasking Executive package, 
including source code, is available for 
$800 after signing our liberal license 
agreement. 

AMX is the choice of professionals the 
world over. Make it yours, today. 



J^ KADAK Products Ltd. 

1847 West Broadway Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6J 1Y5 
Telephone (604) 734-2796 
Telex 04-55670 



Mis a trade 



irk of Digital Research Corp.; FLEX is a trademark ol Technical Systems Consultants, Inc.; Z80 is a trademark ol Zilog Corp. 



Circle 205 on inquiry card. 



Listing 2: PRECISION, a program that determines the precision of floating-point calculations for each Pascal. 

PROGRAM f re cisi o n ." 
OAR 

sma 1 1 , b i 3 , f a c to r .test: REAL ! 
BEG I N 
sma 1 1 : = 1 . 5 
factor: =3. 05 

WH I LE fa c to r > < 1 . O+sma 1 1 > DO 
BEGIN 
tes t : =srna 1 1 ■•-' fa c to r " 

WH I LE c; < tes t+ 1 . ■' > 1 . > AND C tes t< sma 1 1 > DO 
BEG I N 
smal 1 :=test; 
tes t : = tes t .-•■" fa c to r " 
END ; 

f a c to r s = < 1 . S+ fa c to r > .'"2 . 6 ; 
END? 
'■) r i te 1 n >■. 7 Sma 11= * » sma 1 1 > ; 

b i 3 : = 1 . ? 
factor: =3. 0; 

WHILE fact o r > < 1 . + s m a 1 1 > D 
BEG I H 
tes t : = b i s : + : fa c to r " 

WH I LE < < tes t+ 1 . > > tes t > AND < b i s< tes t > DO 
BEG I H 
bis: = test 5 
tes t : = tes t* fa c to r : 
END? 
fa c to r : =< 1 . £1+ fa c to r > '2 . @ : 
END? 
i.-j r i te 1 n •'. ' B i g= ' > b i s ? 5 
END. 



Our third benchmark, BLOWUP (see listing 3), was de- 
signed to measure the amount of memory each im- 
plementation had available for dynamically allocated 
variables. The program successively allocates 100-byte 
blocks of memory until a run-time error occurs due to 
lack of additional memory. The program continuously 
prints out the number of blocks it has successfully 
allocated; the last number it prints (before the run-time 
error), divided by 10, is the approximate dynamic- 
memory space in kilobytes. All the versions of Pascal ex- 
cept for Pascal/MT+ generated such an error; running 
the program with Pascal/MT+ eventually caused the 
system to "hang," apparently due to overwriting the 
memory containing the program or the operating system. 
Pascal/MT+ does not check for such memory overflow; 
the programmer must do it with one of the built-in proce- 
dures. (For many programmers, this may be a desirable 
feature.) 

From this program we found that the native-code 
compilers have more space for program code and dynam- 
ic variables than do the P-code versions. This is probably 



because of the extra memory required for the P-code in- 
terpreters, which results in less memory available to user 
programs. This test is somewhat misleading, however, 
since for larger programs this situation could be reversed. 
P-code should be more compact than native code, and 
the compactness should atone for the interpreter over- 
head in large programs. (We did not test this hypothesis.) 
The final benchmark is called BENCHMARK (see 
listing 4), which is an attempt to measure the different 
Pascals' performances in the more realistic applications of 
sorting, disk I/O, and data-structure generation. The 
program first generates a pseudorandom array of 1024 in- 
tegers, then writes it to disk. (Pascal allows writing the 
entire array as a single entity, which turns out to be in- 
finitely faster on our system than writing each element of 
the array individually.) The array is sorted using the 
Shell-Metzner algorithm. The random array is then read 
back into memory from disk (again, as a single entity) 
and sorted using the quicksort algorithm. (Both sorting 
algorithms are adapted from Algorithms Plus Data Struc- 

Text continued on page 352 



340 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



GAMES 

Red Alert S29.95 now $24.29 

Empire I World Builders $32.95 now $28.99 

Golden Mountain $19.95 now $14.89 

Space Eggs $29,95 now * 1 9.99 

Apple' Panic S29.95 now $19.99 

Thiel $29.95 now $23.39 

Snack Attack $29.95 now $25.39 

Med Fly Mania $29.95 now $34.59 

The Book $19.95 now $17.99 

Hi-Res Soccer $29.95 now $25.39 

Apple ■ -Olds $29,95 now $25.39 

Wurst of Huntington Computing $19.99 

Ultima $39.95 now $33.19 

Autobahn $29 95 now $25.39 

Battle Cruiser Action S44.95 now $34.89 

Gorgon $39.95 now $33.89 

Super Stellar Trek 539.95 now $33.89 

Helllire Warrior $39.95 now $33.99 

Gamma Goblins $29.95 now $23.39 

Mission Asteroid $19.95 now $17.99 

Wizardry $49.95 now $42.49 

Warp Factor S39.95 now $33.99 

Microsoft Adventure $29.95 now $23.39 

Wizard and the Princess $32.95 now $28.99 

Flight Simulator $34.95 now $19.49 

Odyssey $29.95 now $25.39 

Sargon II S34 95 now $29.69 

Space Eggs $29.95 now $25.39 

Hi-Res Cribbage $24.95 now $21.19 

Lords of Karma (cass.) 520.00 now $16.99 

Oh Shoot now $19.99 

ABM S24.95 now $21.19 

Computer Conflict $39.95 now $35.99 

Computer Air Combat $59.95 now $52.99 

Temple of Apshai $39.95 now $33.89 

Zork II $39.95 now $33.99 

All Nibble Software 15% mH list 



Robot Wars $39.95 now 

Cranston Manor $34 95 now 

Dragons Eye $24 95 now 

Twala's Last Redoubt S29.95 now 

Snoggle S24 95 now 

Alien Ram S24.95 now 

Alien Typhoon $24.95 now 

Raster Blaster $29.95 now 

Creature Venture $24.95 now 

Hodge Podge $19.95 now 

Solitaire $29.95 now 

Arcade Machine 

Time Zone $99.95 now 

Mouskattack $39.95 now 

Ceiling 

The Game Show 

Shadow Hawk I 

Mummy s Curse 

Dragon Fire $49.95 now 



.$29.95 now 
$34 95 now 
$29.95 now 
$39 95 now 
$29 95 now 
$24 95 now 
$39 00 now 
$24 95 now 
529 95 now 
$24 95 now 
$24.95 now 
529 95 now 



Jawbreaker 
Hadron . . 

Dark Forest 

Soulhern Command 

Beer Run 

Hungry Boy 

Ring of Saturn 

Streets of the City & Trucker 
Race lor Midnight 
Galactic Empire 

Space Warrior 

Pulsar II 

Star Cruiser $24 95 , 

Both Barrels 524 95 . 

Cyber Strike S39.95 now 

Castle Wolfenstein 529 95 now 

Upper Reaches of Apshai 519 95 now 

Bridge Tutor $39 95 now 

Crossfire $29 95 now 

Epoch $29 95 now 

Oulposl $29.95 now 

Ulysses 534.95 now 

Space Ouark 529 95 now 

Birth ollhe Phoenix $14.95 now 

Goblins S27 50 now 

Super Stellar Trek 539 95 now 

Waterloo II 549 95 now 

KavesolKarkhan $49.95 now 

Phantom 5 529.95 now 

Meleoroids in Space . 519 95 now 
Dragon Fire S49 95 now 



STOCK PROGRAMS 

Portfolio Master S75.00 now 

Market Charter S1 29. 95 now 

Dowlog lor Market Charter 599 95 now 

Investment Decisions 599 95 now 

Stock Tracker $19000 now 

Stock Tracker (Auto. Ver ) 5300.00 now 



$33.99 
$29.49 
$21.19 
$23.39 
$21.19 
$21.19 
$21.19 
$23.39 
$21.19 
$17.49 
$25.39 
$39.49 
$87.99 
$33.09 
$26.29 
$34.29 
$43.89 
$26.39 
$4239 
$24.29 
$30.49 
$26.29 
$33.09 
$26.29 
$21.19 
$33.89 
$21.19 
$25.39 
$22.99 
$21.19 
$25.39 
$30.99 
$21.89 
$36.99 
$25.39 
$16.89 
$35.19 
$26.29 
$23.39 
$26.29 
$29.69 
$23.39 
$12.69 
$23.19 
$33.89 
$42.39 
$42.39 
$23.39 
$14.99 
$4239 



$43.49 

$110.39 

$89.99 

$84.99 

$14139 

$254.99 



Softlights 

By Fred Huntington 

We are proud to introduce our first major 
piece of software, Understand Yourself. 
Written by Mike Taylor, this series of pro- 
grams is based on the Chicago Review Press 
book, The Test Yourself Book by Dr. Harry 
E. Gunn. 

The disk contains several hundred ques- 
tions and consists of the programs: Assertive 
Test, Conscience Test, Manipulation Test, 
Personal Equation Test, Marital Adjustment 
Test, Individual Scale of Values, Preferred 
Activities Test, and Sexual Attitudes Test. 

The price of Understand Yourself is 
$24.99. The book, which contains all the 
tests plus a lot more, is a bargain at $7.95. 
Dealer inquiries are welcome. 
VOLCANOES 

Just took a look at a new program called 
Volcanoes. Has great graphics and tremen- 
dous teaching potential for home or school 
use. It lists for S49.95 and our price is 
$44.99 

Foreign Orders 

We are no longer able to accept foreign 
checks not drawn upon U.S. banks. We 
welcome charge cards. We also take wire 
transfers to our bank (S6.00 service charge). 
We had one check that by the time all the fees 
were taken out of it, we owed S8.00. Help! 
Maxell Disks 

We are now authorized distributors for the 
best diskettes made today - Maxell. We are 
selling the Apple L /Atari " version of these fine 
disks, 10 for $36.99. Once you try these, 
you II never go back to the cheaper versions. 
The tolerances on these disks are so close 
that they never need hub rings. We stock the 
complete line of Maxell disks, including all the 
eight inch variety. Dealer inquiries welcome. 
Great Grandma Huntington 

Great Grandma Huntington always said to 
try harder - and we do. We will soon have tee 
shirts for sale with Great Grandma Hunting- 
ton s picture on them. Watch for Granny! 
ton s picture on tnem. watcn tor uranny! 



HUNTINGTON COMPUTING I 

r JluJ GAMES BUSINESS APPLICATIONS Wa 

edAlert S29.95now $24.29 f» __ r. I ; « . DataDex $230.49 TA 
^rr\r\.ra I VA/nrlH QuiMflxn nine 4-_- u **jW at^% -;," i _ „ F^B 

IS 
B 
IS 
B 

B 
IS 

B 
IS 
B 
U 

B 


B 
IS 
B 

B 
I! 
B 
IS 
B 
IS 
B 
IS 
B 
i! 
B 

B 
IS 
B 




FOREIGN ORDERS 

We regret that we can no longer accept 
checks (bank charges were sometimes 
greater than the amount of the check). We 
will gladly accept U.S. currency, VISA, 
MasterCard or American Express at no 
extra charge, or you may make direct wire 
transfers to our bank, Security Pacific, 
Corcoran. CA 93212, for a S6.00 charge. 
All overseas orders are shipped by air. 



DataDex 




$230.49 


Invoice Factory (Special) 


. .5200 00 now 


$149.00 


Regression Trend Analysis . 


. 526 95 now 


$22.89 


Multiple Regression 


$29 95 now 


$25.39 


Microsolt Fortran 


5200.00 now 


$143.49 


Microsoft Cobol-80 


5750 00 now 




Business Pac 100 


599.95 now 


$84.99 


Desktop Plan II 


















Visitrend/Visiplot 


S259.95 now 


$220.89 


Visiterm 


5149 95 now 


$127.39 


DB Master 






PFS 


595.00 now 


$80.49 














Request 


S225 00 now 


$191.19 


Super Kram 


. .S175.00 now 


$148.49 


ASCII Express . . 


599 95 now 


$84.99 


BPI Accounts Receivable 


S395 00 now 


$333.49 


BPI General Ledger 


5395 00 now 


$335.49 


The Mail Room . . 


S29 95 now 


$25.39 


Continental General Ledger 


5250 00 now 


$312.49 


Com Accounts Receivable 


S250 00 now 


$212.49 


Conl Accounts Payable 


S250 00 now 


$212.49 


Continental Payroll 


S250 00 now 


$212.49 


Broderbund"Payroll 


S395 00 now 


$335.49 


Inlormer II 


S49 95 now 


$42.49 


Creative Financing 


5150 00 now 


$127.49 


Real Estate Analyzer 


515000 now 


$127.49 


Spell Star 


5250 00 now 


$212.49 


Muse Form Letter 


S100 00 now 


$84.99 


Properly Management System 


5225 00 now 


$191.19 


PERSONAL/HOI.st 




Soft Touch Recipe Handler 


539 95 now 


$35.09 


Interlude (disk) 


$19 95 now 


$14.99 


Handwriting Analysis 


S19 95 now 


$14.89 


Decision Master 


S29 95 now 


$25.39 


The Correspondent 


S44 95 now 


$38.19 


Diet Planning 


S24 95 now 


$21.19 


Win at the Races 


539 95 now 


$33.89 


Pro Football iSDLi 


526 95 now 


$22.89 


College Football iSDLi 


526 95 now 


$22.89 


Grocery List 


519 95 now 


$14.89 


Financial Management Sys:em 


II 539 95 now 


$33.89 


Home Money Minder 


S34 95 now 


$29.49 


WORD PROCESSORS 




Sensible Apple' Speller 


$75 00 now 


$63.99 


The Dictionary 


599 95 now 


$87.99 


Magic Window 


$100 00 now 


$84.99 


Easy Writer Professional 


$250 00 now 


$219.80 






$127.49 


Super Text 


$150.00 now 


$127.49 






$110.19 


Executive Secretary 


.5250.00 now 


$212-49 


Apple ' Wordstar 


5375.00 now 


$284.00 


Hebrew II 


560 00 now 


$50.99 


Apple" Writer Extended 


$34 95 now 


$30.69 




$323.39 


Word Handler 


$249.00 now 


$219.99 


MISCELLANEOUS 




Wordstar Made Easy (Book) 


57 95 now 


$7.13 


Kern Graphic Software 


S18 95 now 


$16.39 


CS MX80. 100 Enhanced Graphics S44 95 now 


$39.49 


CS MX80/ 100 Graphic Writei 


534 95 now 


$30.69 


Z-Card 


5269 00 now 


$239.0O 


Hayes Micromodem 


$375 00 now 


$299.08 


Hayes Smart Modem 


$279 00 now 


$249.00 


460G Paper Tiger 


S1094 00 now 


$961.99 


560G Paper Tiger 


51394 00 now 


1223.00 


Tiger Trax 


S16 95 now 


$13.25 


Z-80 Sottcard 


5395 00 now 


$299.00 


NEC 12 Green on Black 


5260 00 now 


$179.00 


Videx 80-col 


$350 00 now 


$299.00 


TG Joystick 


559.95 now 


$50.89 


TG Game Paddles 


$39 95 now 


$33.89 






129.49 


Verbatim Datahte-plain w/hubs 


10 tar $27.99 


Dysans 


10 tar $49.99 


Flipsort Box 




$29.80 


Scotch Disk Cleaner 


S29 95 now 


$26.99 


E-ZPort 


524.94 now 


$21.19 


Atan-/TRS-80-/Pef 


■frlta tar lataraallM 


Escape from Acturus 


$29.95 now 


$23.39 


Basic Mailer 


569.95 now 


$59.49 


Memory Management II 


. .549 95 now 


$42.89 


Beneath Apple DOS (book) 


519 95 now 


$16.89 


Painter Power 


. .$39.95 now 


$33.89 


U S Constitution 


. S29.95 now 


$23.39 


Merger 


. $49.95 now 


$42.49 


LISA 


. . .S79.95 now 


$47.89 




. S49 95 now 


$42.49 




. .5150.00 now 


$127.49 


Speedstar 


. .5139.95 now 


$114.69 


Dos Boss 


524 00 now 


$20.39 



HUNTINGTON COMPUTING 

Post Office Box 1235 
Corcoran, California 93212 

Order by Phone 800-344-5109 
In California 800-692-4146 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. 
Pet is a registered trademark of Commodore. 
TRS-80 ■ is a regisiered trademark of Tandy Corp. 
Atari is a registered trademark of Atari. Inc 



(209)992-5411 




We take MasterCard, American Express or 
VISA (Include card # and expiration date). 
California residents add 6% tax. Include 
S2.00 for postage. Foreign and hardware 
extra. Send for free catalog. Prices subject to 
change. 



Circle 181 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



341 



Listing 3: BLOWUP, a program that measures the amount of memory available for dynamically allocated variables. The program 
successively allocates 100-byte blocks of memory until a run-time error occurs. 



PROGRAM b 1 cn-.i uf ' 
CONST 

blocks -ne-l .06* 
T'.'PE 

by te=@. . 255? 

b 1 o c k =PACKED ARRAV [1.. blocksize] OF by te 3 

blocks tr= "block; 
UAR 

f : b loc kp t r s 

i,j: INTEGER; 
BEGIN 

i = =0; 

I...IHILE TRUE DO 
BEGIN 
new K f- > ; 
FOR Js=l TO block-size DO 

H-i + I ■ 

wr i tel n< i > " 
END; 
END . 



Listing 4: BENCHMARK, a program that measures performance in tasks that occur commonly in applications programs. The pro- 
gram generates a random array of integers; writes the array to disk; sorts the array with the Shell-Metzner algorithm; reads the ran- 
dom array back into memory from disk; sorts the array with the quicksort algorithm; reads the unsorted array into memory yet 
again, using the integers as keys by which dummy data are stored in a binary tree; and writes the tree elements individually to disk. 
Along the way, the program displays the array elements on the terminal screen to insure that the disk input/ output and the sorts are 
done correctly, as well as to see how fast each version of Pascal can output text. 

P R G R h M b e n c h m a r k s " 

CONST 
max 1 e n-g t h= 1 024 ; 
rii a x >.,' a c ~ :; 1 4 ■■ < # p a r t o f t i rn i n 9 p a c k a g e # ':■< 

TVPE 

i nd ex =8 . . max 1 e rig t h 3 

Mector= A R R A V C i n d e x 2 of INT E G E R " 

1 i n k"*'^ nod e 5 

d u m in y d a t a ~ R E C R D 

key: INTEGER? 
frequency "• i ndexs 
dataf :L elds STRING i: 16 J? 
END? 
nod ©""RECORD 

dd - d urn my da tas 
left? r i g h t : 1 i n k 5 
END? 
t i rn e '•.•' e c : = A R R A V C 8 . , m ax w e c 1 OF I N TE G E R " t -■ a r t o f t i rn i n 9 r* a c. k a 9 & 

OAR 
v! '...'e c to r " 
roots 1 i nk" 
n o d e c o u n 1 1 IN T E G E R " 

Listing 4 continued on page 344 
342 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



If you want a choice 

in print wheels^ 
here's the first choice 

in printers. 



h*-X=X 



\^ 



%h,. 








The Diablo 630. 

It's the first printer that lets you use either metal or plastic print wheels. So you can 
choose the print wheel that's just right for the job. 

The 630 works as well with a 96-character plastic daisy print wheel as it does with an 
88-, 92-, or 96-character metal daisy print wheel. In over 100 different type styles. 

Every 630 lias fewer moving parts than competitive 
printers, which makes it more reliable. And it offers unsurpassed print 
quality Compatibility with Diablo supplies. And bi-directional 
printing capability. 

So if you want to change your print wheels, you'll just have 
to change your printer. 

To a Diablo 630 printer. 






y*&x, 




'i:f f 



Diablo Systems 



XEROX 



Diablo® and XEROX® are trademarks of" XEROX CORPORATION. 
Circle 129 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 343 



Listing 4 continued: 

J u n k I REAL " pa r t o f t i m i ns pa c kasa 
t : timavee 

>:'.* define 'port In" and 'tick' as in PROGRAM primes!! +> 

FUNCT I ON po r t i n C po r 1 1 I NTEGER > « I NTEQER I 

BEGIN 



END ; 

FUNCT I ON t :i, c k < OAR t » t i m«M« c 5 s REAL ; 

BE Q IN 



END? 

P R C EE D U R E r a. n d •3 e n '■'. U A R v J v e c t o r ) ; 
UAR si INTEGER; 
i : i ndex? 

FUNCT I ON r-n nd om < UAR seed : I NTEGER > : I NTEGER " 
CONST 

rnul tip]. ier=3" 

i ncrement— 5S 

mod ul us=81925 
BEGIN 

ra nd om s =seed ; 

seed : : = ( m u 1 1 i p 1 i e r*seed + i n c reme n t '> mod mod u 1 us 
END; 

B E 8 1 N < * r a n d se n * '} 

F P. i : « 1 T maxlen s t h D 
vE i 1 : = random <s> " 
END " 

P R C E D U R E writearray<UAR m s >..> e c t o r ? ; 
UAR 
fiFILE OF sectors 

BEGIN 

r ew r i t e k f > : ' oe c to r « d a t ' !■• ; 

f ••'- s =>...' ; 

p u t < f > ; 

closed f ? I ock> " 
END; 

P R CEDURE re a d a. r r a y £ U A R o : vector? ; 
UAR 

f 8 FILE OF vector; 
BEGIN 

rese t >■'. f ? ? ve •:: to r ,, d a t : ' ) ; 

3 e t '•. f y ; 

END; 



Listing 4 continued on page 346 



344 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



WE HAVE A HARD -ONE 

FOR YOU ! 

WHO MAKES A 
WINCHESTER HARD DISK for 

IBM-PERSONAL COMPUTER 
TRS-80" MODEL III etc.? ' 




THE VR DATA HARD DISK III 
WINCHESTER SUBSYSTEM 

6.5 MEG to 19 MEG per UNIT 
FROM $2895* 



'Subsystem includes 6.5 MEG Winchester Drive Powar 
Supply, Controller, I / Controller Adaptor, Enclosure. 
Cables. 



Other Quality Products 




Quality Products 


Available 




in the QUEUE 


IBM - Personal Computer 




IBM - Personal Computer 


2nd Floppy Disk Drive 


$265.00 


Memory Expansion - 192K 


Superbrain & QD 




D-CON • Integral Direct Connect Mode 


Parallel Output Port 


99.00 


VR-RS232C 


TRS-80- Model III 




TRS-80 Mod III 


Disk III Floppy Subsystem 


599.00 


D-CON • Integral D.C. Modem 


2nd Drive 


265.00 


Computer w/lntegral Hard Disk III 


VR-RS232C 


75.00 


and Disk III 



DEALERS & OEM'S INVITED SERVICE • 215-461-5300 

800-345-8102 • 215-461-5300 - PA • TELEX 845-124 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE W/O NOTICE 
TRS-80 - TRADEMARK OF TANDY CORP. 
DISK II HARD DISK III, D-CON - TRADEMARKS OF VR DATA CORP. 




Zr 



VR Data Corporation 
777 Henderson Boulevard 



Folcroft, PA 19032 



VISA' 



Listing 4 continued: 

PROCEDURE s he 1 1 so r t < MAR ',' : ye c to r > ; 
MAR J uniF ? itt; n« i ndex" 
temp : I NTEGER " 
done: BOOLEAN 5 
BEGIN 
J Limp : =max 1 e n-3 t h " 
MH I LE J un.F > 1 DO 
BEGIN 
J Limp : =J urriF D I U 2 ; 
REPEAT 
done:=TRUE5 

FOR ms— 1 TO Cmaxlensth— JuwifO D 
BEGIN 
ns =m+J uniF ; 
IF wCm3>wEnD THEN 
BEGIN 
temp: ='•.-« Cm J ; 
ml" ml : = I , I C n J ; 
'.'C nil : = temF •" 
done: =FhLSE!; 
END? 
END; < + FOR +:■ 
UNTIL done; 
END; C* WHILE *> 
END; ■::+ shell sort *> 

PROCEDURE =i u i c k so r t < UAR '■.•' : ye c to r ? " 

PROCEDURE so r t < 1 ef t > r i g h t : :i. nd ex ) ; 
OAR i , J : i ndex; 

pivot.- temp: INTEGER; 
RFRTN 

i : = 1 e f t !J: = r i g hi t ; 
p i '..•> o t : = '..' r < 1 e f t + r i 3 hi t > D I U 2 ] ; 
REPEAT 
l. J NILE ',' C i ] < p i >..> o t DO i : - i + 1 ; 
UN I LE P i MO t< '.' C J ] DO J s = J - 1 5 
IF i<=J THEN 
BEGIN 
temp: =vC i II ; 
',' C i 1 : ~'->l~ J ] ? 
mCJ'J : "temp; 
i : = i + 1 3 
J:==J~l; 
END? 
UNTIL i>,i; 

IF left<J THEN sort 'Clef t? J > 5 
IF i < r i a h t THEN so r t. <: i , r i s h t > ■ 
END; 

BEGIN 

so r t < 1 - max 1 e ns 1 h ) ; 
END; 



Listing 4 continued on page 348 



United States: 


\*%MWm 


Arizona 




Phoenix 


602/258-9333 


California 




San Francisco 


415/434-2410 


— Mountain View 


415/969-4910 


■■ Los Angeles 


213/386-5500 


Van Nuys 


213/781-4800 


Torrance 


213/540-7500 


Century City 


213/203-8111 


Irvine 


714/833-1730 


San Diego 


714/231-1900 


Colorado 




Denver 


303/571-4450 


Englewood 


303/773-3700 


Connecticut 




™ Hartford 


203/522-6590 


— Stratford 


203/375-7240 


District of Columbia 




Washington 


202/466-5890 


Florida 




S Miami 


305/624-3536 


| Ft. Lauderdale 


305/491-0145 


Georgia 




■h Atlanta 




Northeast 


404/325-8370 


Downtown 


404/588-9350 


North 


404/953-0200 


Illinois 




i Chicago 


312/782-0857 


■ Northfield 


312/441-5200 


Oak Brook 


312/986-0422 


I Rolling Meadows 


312/392-0244 


Indiana 




Indianapolis 


317/631-2900 


■■ Kansas 




, Overland Park 


913/888-8885 


Kentucky 




Louisville 


502/581-9900 


Louisiana 




New Orleans 


504/561-6000 


' Maryland 




_ Baltimore 


301/727-4050 


Rockville 


301/258-8800 


Towson 


301/321-7044 


Massachusetts 




■■ Boston 


617/482-7613 


Burlington 


617/273-5160 


Wellesley 


617/237-3120 


Michigan 




Detroit 


313/259-7607 


Southfield 


313/352-6520 


H Minnesota 




^ m Minneapolis 




West 


612/544-3600 


Downtown 


612/332-6460 


™ St. Paul 


612/227-6100 


■■J Missouri 




St. Louis 


314/231-4880 


Clayton 


314/862-3800 


Kansas City 


816/474-3393 


New Hampshire 




Nashua 


603/880-4047 


New Jersey 




Cherry Hill 


609/482-2600 


Edison 


201/494-2800 


Morristown 


201/267-3222 


^ Paramus 


201/845-3900 


_ New York 




New York City 




Penn Station 


212/736-7445 


Wall Street 


212/962-8000 


Grand Central 


212/557-8611 


Syosset, L.I. 


516/364-0900 


White Plains 


914/683-9300 


Rochester 


716/263-2670 


Ohio 




Akron 


216/535-1150 


H Cincinnati 


513/769-5080 


_ Cleveland 


216/771-2070 


Columbus 


614/224-0660 


Dayton 


513/461-4660 


Oklahoma 




■w Tulsa 


918/599-7700 


Oregon 




Portland 


503/223-6160 


Pennsylvania 




Philadelphia 


215/665-1717 


King of Prussia 


215/265-7250 


■ Pittsburgh 


412/261-6540 


Wilkins fwnshp. 


412/247-4400 


1 Texas 




| Dallas 




™ North 


214/387-1600 


■■j Central 


214/749-1900 


Fort Worth 


817/338-9300 


Houston 




S.W. Freeway 


713/626-8705 


Downtown 


713/751-0100 


N. Loop West 


713/957-8555 


i San Antonio 


512/344-0217 


Virginia 




McLean 


703/790-5610 


Washington 




^ Bellevue 


206/454-6400 


_ Wisconsin 




Milwaukee 


414/277-0345 


Canada: 




Toronto 


416/865-1125 


1 Don Mills 


416/425-5730 


H Montreal 


514/849-7043 



346 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Are you keeping up 
with computer salaries? 



Career 



ope 



ortoM*^^ oportum'ties 




1982 



puter 



• 



■■iS:./.<-sr 



rvey 

and Career PtsmrAisQuide 




Get the latest data 
in our new report. 

It's 




i 



With compensation rising 
rapidly and sweeping 
technological changes 
occurring practically 
overnight in the computer 
profession, you can 
quickly become out-of- 
touch with salary and 
career trends. Are you — 
and is your salary — 
keeping up? 

If you haven't kept in touch 
with computer salaries in the 
past six months or so, you 
might be surprised at the 
changes. 

In our recent survey, 
which polled more than 
50,000 computer profes- 
sionals, new statistics about 
compensation differences 
emerged. Here is a 
sampling: 

• While some computer 
professionals have in- 
creased their salaries 
dramatically during the 
past twelve months, others, 



performing the same type 
of work and having the 
same general level of 
experience, have barely 
managed to keep pace. 

• While length of experience 
in computing bears a 
direct relationship to 
compensation, type of 
experience is often a more 
critical factor. 

• Some emerging technol- 
ogies—microcomputer 
systems, for example— are 
having an unusual impact 
on compensation in the 
field. 

Salaries for 48 positions 
are compared. 

1982 salary data for 48 
different position categories 
—at various levels of ex- 
perience and computer 
installation sizes— are re- 
viewed in the report. 
Included are positions in 
programming, software, 



systems design, data com- 
munications, mini/micro 
systems, data base, EDP 
auditing, computer market- 
ing and more. 

It's free to computer 
professionals. 

The report is available 
without charge. Call today, 



and a copy will be mailed to 
you in strict confidence, with 
absolutely no obligation. 



source 



<3* 



North America's largest, non-franchised 
recruiting firm devoted exclusively to the 
computer profession. 



Call for your 
FREE report 
today. 



1982 ~ 
Computer 

Salary 
Survey 




The new report is available 
to you without charge. Call 
the office nearest you that's 
listed to the left for your 
copy. Our 28-page Survey 
will be sent to you in strict 
confidence, without obliga- 
tion. If you're unable to call, 
please write: 

Source Edp, Department B-1 
Two Northfield Plaza, 
Suite 227 
Northfield, Illinois 60093 



Listing 4 continued: 

P P. C E D U R E t r eege n '-. U A R r o o t s 1 i n k " U A R '.■> • '■.■' e c t o r > " 
UAR 
n o d e c o u n t i I N T E 6 E R " 

i s i ndex" 

P R C E D U R E i n s e r t >'. U A R r e f s 1 i n k 5 U A R n o d e c o u n t s I N T E Q E R " ri e w k eys I N T E G E P. 
BEGIN 
IF ref=nil THEN 
BEGIN 
n e i.o '•! ref '•' " 

nod e co u n t : « nod e co u ri t+ J. ; 
WITH ref"- DO 
BEGIN 
1 e f 1 1 - n i 1 ; 
r i 3 h t s as n i 1 s 
WITH dd DO 
BEGIN 
dataf ield s =' 0123456789ABCDEF ; ' ? 
k sy ■ : ~ n e w k e y " 
frequency ! = : i ; 
END? 
END? 
END 

ELSE WITH ref-'- DO 
I F new key < d d » key THEN i nse r t. < 1 e f t -.■ nod e co u n t ? new key !'j 
E L S E I F n e w k e y > d d ■ k e y T H E H i n s e r t < r i s h t ? n o d e c o u n t ? n e w key ) 
E L S E < * d Li p I i c a. t e k e y ! u p d a t e f r e -=1 u e n c y » : + : > 
d d . f re^ ue n cy s ~d d .. f r e-i ue n cy + 1 " 
END? 

BEGIN 

root: =ni 1 ; 

nod e co u n t " -~0 " 

i : =©; 

REPEAT 
i "■-■! + 1 I 
i nse r t < roo t :■ nod e co u n t ? o C i 3 > " 

UNTIL i -max length 5 

w r i te 1 n •'. nod e co u n t ? : ' d i s t i n c t nod es c re a ted „ * ) 5 
END? 

PROCEDURE w r i te t ree < roo t. ! 1 i n k ) ? 
UAR 

d urn my f i 1 e : F I I....E OF cl urn my d a ta S 

co u n te r : I HTEGER " 

PROCEDURE t rave rse < re f : 1 i n k 5 UAR co u n te r : I NTEGER > 5 
BEGIN 
IF refOnil THEN 
BEGIN 
t rave rse '■! re f '"' „ left? co u n te r -• " 
d umrny f i 1 e"" : = re f •"" . d d " 
F-utCd umrny f i le) ; 



Listing 4 continued on page 350 



348 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



More performance than you ever 
imagined — for $1995. If you're con- 
sidering a DEC" terminal, C. Itoh 
now has two reliable alternatives that 
could easily change your mind. 

Take our 132-column CIT 101, 
for example. Unlike DEC's VT100',"' 
it includes full AVO performance — as 
standard equipment. You also get a 
96 ASCII character set, plus 128 spe- 
cial characters. Characters may 
appear single-width and double- 
width, double-height. Reverse video, 
blinking, half-intensity and under- 
score may be used in up to 16 
combinations. The cursor may be 
underline or block, blinking or non- 
blinking, or invisible to the viewer 
— all under computer control. There's 



raster graphics too. And 19.2K Baud 
asynchronous communications. 
Human engineered features include 
a non-glare screen and detached 
selectric-type keyboard. Of course, if 
all you need is 80-column capability, 
have we got a terminal for you. 

The $1195 80-column terminal 
that performs like a 132. It's C. Itoh's 
CIT 80, the DEC VT52 1 emulator 
that's packed with features many big- 
ticket terminals don't offer. Things 
like smooth scrolling, soft setup 
mode, line drawing graphics and 
unidirectional RS 232-C printer port. 
A 19 2K Baud main port features 
X/ON-X/OFF protocol as well as full 
and half-duplex in conversation 
mode. Video attributes include 



blinking, underline, half intensity— 
even reverse video. You get CIT 101- 
type human engineered features too. 
Plus socketed firmware for maximum 
OEM flexibility. 

Both terminals are backed by 
our 90-day warranty, fully field sup- 
ported and ready for immediate 
shipment. So if you're thinking of 
getting a DEC terminal, consider 
the alternatives: CIT 80 and CIT 101. 

For full details, contact our 
exclusive representative, ACRO Cor- 
poration, 18003-L Skypark South, 
Irvine, CA 92714. (714) 557-5118. 

<3S C. ITOH 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 

One world of quality. 



Before you order a VTIOO, 

think twice. 





Circle 62 on Inquiry card 

*Jle$s)£red trademark ofDigilal Equipmen: 



Listing 4 continued: 

co u n te r : = co u rf te r+ 1 " 
t rave rse < re f "'" . ris h t > co u n te r ) ; 
END; 
end; 

BEGIN 

re i.o r i te >' d urn my file? * d urftri'iy . da. t ' . ;i ; 
co u n te r > = 05 

t rave rse '-. roo t ? co u ri te r . ;i ? 
c 1 ose < d uriiriiy file? 1 o c k ') ? 

i.o r i te 1 n '•' co u n te r » * re co rd s w r i t ten . * > " 
end; 

P R C E D U R E d i s pa r r a y < U A R v s ve c t o r > ; 
UAR 

i : i rid ex? 
BEGIN 

FOR i ! - 1 TO max 1 e ns t hi DO w rite 1 n < v C i D > 5 

end; 

PROCEDURE: d i sp t ree < P t r : 1 i n k > 3 
BEGIN 
IF FtrO nil THEN BEGIN 
d i sp t ree < p t r "" . I e f t "> " 
1...1 r i te 1 n < p t r"'" . d d . key ) " 
■J i sp t ree <"■. P t r"'" . 1 e f t > " 
END? 
END; 

BEGIN 
J u n k s = t i c k >'■. t > ; 

rdfidsen(u) ; 

1...1 r i te 1 n C ' Ra nd om a r ray ge ne rati o ri too k ' » ti c k < t > » * sec' ) ; 

d i spar ray Cv) " 

1...1 r i tel n >■'. ' D i sp 1 ay i ns» a r ray too k ' > tic k < t > ? : ' se c . ' > ; 

wri tear ray Cv) 5 

1...1 r i te 1 n < ' W r i t i ns a r ray to d :i s k too k ; ' ? t i c k < t > » * se c • 7 ) ? 

s hie 1 1 so r t ,; . V > " 

w r i te 1 n ••! ' S hie 1 1 so r t too k ' > t i c k ,; . t ? ? : ' se c ■ ' ' :i 3 

d i spar ray f.v> ; 

1...1 r i te I ri < ' D i sp 1 ay i rvs a r ray too k ' ? t :i. c k < t ) * ' sec." is ; 

read array O-.-O ; 

w r i te 1 n >'-. ' Read i n-3 a r ray f rorn d i s k too k ' ? t i c k < t > » ' se c . : ' ;■ ; 

d ispar ray O-.-O ; 

1...1 r i tel n (. ' D i sp 1 ay i ns a r ray too k * .- t i c k < t > ? '' se c . * > S 

•=iui cksort(^) ; 

i.o r i te 1 ri C ' Q u i c kso r t too k ' * t i c k <! 1 5 > * se c . : ' ? ; 

Listing 4 continued on page 352 
350 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



YOUR COMPUTER HEADQUARTERS 



(BUSINESSMAN'S SPECIAL* 

• Apple II plus 48K. 

• Apple Disc Drive II 
w/interface DOS 3.3. 

• 12" High Resolution 
Green Monitor. 

• Visicalc 3.3 Software 

s 2059 00 



PERSONAL TAX PLAN 

1 Apple II plus 48K 

| • Apple Disc Drive II w/DOS 3.3 

• T2" High Resolution 

Green Monitor 

k« Aardvark Personal Tax Plan 

• 1 Box Diskettes 



s 2 oi 500 



WORD PROCESSOR 
SYSTEM 

• Apple II plus 4SK 

• Apple Disc Drive II w/DOS 3.3| 

• 12" High Resolution Monitor 

• IUS Orig. Easywriter 

V*OKIDATA Microline 80 PrinterJ 

l • Printer cable w/intertace 



s 2445 



00 



ACCESSORIES FOR APPLE 

Videx Videoterm - 80 Col . s 279" 
Videx Keyboard 

Enhancer II s 119 s0 

DC Hayes Micromodem II s 298 00 
Microsoft Z-80CP/M Card ! 289°° 
Microsoft 16K Ram Card M59" 
Saturn 32K Ram Card . . . S 200 D ° 
VC Expand for Saturn Card s 85" 
Mountain CPS 

Multifunction Card S 189 00 

Mountain Clock s 239" 

Keyboard Company 

Numeric Keypad S 135 BS 

Apple Language System 

with Pascal 5 405"° 

Apple High Speed 

Serial Interface S 15B" 

Dan Paymar 

Lower Case Chip s 39" 

R.H.Superfan II S 65 0G 

WORD PROCESSORS 

IUS • Pro Easywriter s 200"° 

Orig. Easywriter S 79 BS 

Apple Pie (word 

Proc. 40 Col) 'lOO"" 

LJK Letter Perfect M29" 

Supertext II s 129" 

Superscribe II s 104" 

Executive Secretary . . . , 5 200 00 
Magic Window S 85 D0 

EDUCATIONAL 
FOR APPLE 

Edu-Ware Math/Fractions . s 34 ,! 

Math/Decimals s 34" 

Arithmetic Skills s 43°° 

Algebra I s 34 9s 

Compuspell System s 26" 

Data Disc Lev. 4-5-6-7-8 . ea. s 18"° 

CMA Teacher Plus s 44" 

CMA Teacher Plus Pack ..W 
PDEI New Step-by-Step . . . s 69" 

SOFTWARE FOR APPLE 

Fortran 80 s 154" 

A.LD.S s 99" 

Basic Compiler s 295" 

Tasc Compiler S 149 BS 

Cobol-80 s 595°° 

Context Connector s 145°° 



MICRO PRO 

Wordstar 3.0 s 269" 

Spell Star ! 170 ! ° 

Mail Merge s 95 00 

Super Sort-1 '139" 

MICROLAB 

Data Factory s 120°° 

Invoice Factory s 159 95 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Tax Preparer New 1982 . . S 120 B ° 
Real Estate Analyzer .... s 129 ,! 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE 

Visicalc 3.3 s 159' ! 

Visiplot M59" 

Visidex s 159" 

Visitrend/Visiplot s 239"° 

Visiterm 5 79°° 

Visifile M99" 

Desktop Plan II s 199 ,! 

THE SOURCE 

Telecommunication 5 90°° 



S 105 BC 
s 20 B ' 



AARDVARK 

Personal Tax Plan . . . 
Individual Tax Plan . . 

SYSTEM PLUS 

Accounting Plus II CALL 

ASHTON TATE 

dBase II . . . > : s 595" 

HIGH TECHNOLOGY 

Info. Master S 119 B ' 

Store Manager s 199" 

Data Master s 79°' 

Job Control System s 595 01 



SOUTHEASTERN SOFTWARE 

Data Capture 4.0 40 Col. ,. S 49 BB 
Data Capture 4.0 80 Videx . S 69 B! 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS 5 77"° 

PFS Report s 77 00 

PHOENIX SOFTWARE 

Zoom Graphics s 35°° 

Master Diagnostic 

(Formerly Brain Surgeon) . s 42" 



STONEWARE 

DB Master Vers. 3 S 179 B! 

Utility Pack I '90°° 

Z-Term(CP/M) s 80"° 

ASCII Express 3.3 S 65 B » 

Brodebund Payroll •300"° 

GAME AND HOBBY 

Temple ofAsphai S 32 BS ' 

Hellfire Warrior s 32" 

Rescue at Rigel S 24 B! 

Crush, Crumple& Chomp . s 25°° 

Jabber Talky '24" 

Major League Baseball ...26" 

Alien Rain S 21 SB 

Apple Panic S 24 BS 

Snack Attack S 24 B1 

Joy Breaker S 24 B! 

Space Quarks S 24 BB 

Genetic Drift s 24" 

Red Alert S 24 B! 

Ultima s 32 Bf 

Star Thief s 24' ! 

Bug Attack s 24" 

Sargon II ! 30 OB 

Pool 1.5 '30°° 

Shuffle Board s 24" 

Trick Shot s 32" 

Dog Fight s 24" 

Olympic Decathlon S 24 B * 

Three Mile Island s 32" 

ABM =21°° 

Robot War S 32 BS 

Castle Wolfenstein s 24" 

Zork s 32' s 

Falcons 5 24" 

Beer Run s 30°° 

Outpost S 24 B! 

Raster Blaster s 24" 

Space Eggs S 24 BS 

Gorgon S 32 BS 

Cops and Robbers S 30° B 

Tigers in the Snow s 32 ,s 

The Battle of Shiloh S 32 B! 

The Shattered Alliance . . . s 48 ! ° 

Computer Baseball 5 32 BS 

Computer Quarterback . . . S 32 B5 

Phantoms Five s 24 95 

Sneakers s 24" 

TG Joystick s 48" 

TG Game Paddles 5 34 B0 



HOME MONEY MINDER* 

• Apple II plus 48K 
• Apple Disc Drive II 
w/interface DOS 3.3 

• 12" Green High 
Resolution Monitor 

' Money Minder 

s 1899 00 



THE HOME 
ACCOUNTANT PACKAGE ' 

' Apple II plus 48K 

• Apple II Disc Drive w/ DOS 3.3/ 

• 12" High Resolution 

Green Monitor 

• The Home Accountant 



00 



5 1945 



THE FAMILY 

SYSTEM 

NOW ONLY 

S2099 00 



fz. commodore 




U^iTexos Instruments 



PERSONAL COMPUTER 

VIC 20 w/RF Modulator 
(Expands up to 32K) ... s 262 95 

VIC Phone Modem 

byBizcom s 152 9s 

DATA Tape Recorder (f/Cassette 

Programs) s 69" 

VIC 1210 3K Memory Expands s 39" ! 

VIC 11108K Memory Expands S 59 BB 

VIC 1906 Super Alien (Cartridge, Plugs 

Directly Into VIC 20 Computer) S 27 B " 

VT 106A Recreational Program A Con- 
sists: of A 6 Pack of (Cassettes) (1) 
Biorythem (2) Car Chase (3) Black Jack 
(4) Space Game (5) Math (6) Slither . . ! 58 ,! 
VT 107 Cassette Six Pack (1) Personal 
Filing System 1 (2)PFS 2 (3) VIC Typing 
Tutor (4) Expense Calendar (5) Mortgage 

& Loan (6) Home Inventory S 58 BB 

"Introduction To Basic & Computers" 

(Book) S 22 BB 

2 Atari Joysticks (for Games Requiring 
Them) S 19 SB 




Tl 99/4A 

Designed to be the first Computer for the 
skilled user, or the beginner. 



Now Only 



334995 



Disc Dr. Controller 239.50 

Disc Memory Drive 399.50 

Solid State Printer 319.00 

RF Modulator 39.95 

Solid State Speach Synthesizer . . .119.50 

Telephone Coupler (modem) 174.50 

RS-232 Accessories Interlace 172.50 

Memory Expansion by 32-K 295.00 

10" Color Monitor 324.50 

ENTERTAINMENT MODULES 

3052 Tombstone City 37.50 

3053 Invaders 37.50 

3054 CarWars 37.50 



Tl LOGO A limitless learning 
environment tor children 199 



fZ/71 HEWLETT 

miKM PACKARD 




HP- 125 PERSONAL 
OFFICE COMPUTER 

The HP 125 is a new kind of personal office 
computer w/VisiCalc™ software to in- 
crease the accuracy & speed, of sales 
forecasts, budget estimates & financial 
models. With its powerfull Graphics 
capabilities you can turn hard-to-under-- 
stand data into easy-to-understand charts, 
color graphs & even transparencies for 
presentations. The HP-125 uses simple 
English-language operating commands. 

HP-125 Reg '3750 S 2785°° 

HP 85 A Reg. -3250 S 1982 00 

HP 82091 Nl 5%" Disc Drive . s 1995°° 
HP 7225B Graphics Plotter .. s 1939 00 
HP 2631 B Impact Printer . . . . s 2500 00 
HP 82905 B Serial Printer s 749 00 



ATARI 800 W/16K s 719 00 

810 Disc Drive s 459 00 

410 Programmable Recorder . s 79? s 



We carry the full line of Tl and HP Programmable Calculators. 



PRINTERS 

OKIDATA 

82A 

Graphics, 120 CPS, Bidirectional, Fric- 
tion & Pin Feed, 80/132 Columns. .519.95 

83A 

Graphics, 120 CPS, Bidirectional, Fric- 
tion and Tractor, 136 Columns, Takes 15 
inch Paper 795.00 

CENTRONICS 

739 

Graphics, 100 CPS monospaced mode, 
Right justification, F/T 599.00 

NEC 

8023 

Pro Writer, 100 CPS, 136 Column, Parallel, 
Bidirectional, Tractor and Friction, High 
Resolution Graphics 519.00 

EPSON PRINTERS 

MX-80, MX-80FT, MX-100FT . . CALL 

MONITORS 

SANYO 

VM-4509 9" B&W 169.95 

DM-5112CX 12" Green 269.95 

DMC-6013 13" Color 449.95 

NEC 

JB1201 12" Green 179.95 

JC1201 12" Color 349.95 

AMDEK 

13" Color 369.95 



CORPORATE ACCOUNTS WELCOME 




OPEN 
SUNDAY 



©1962 



67 West 47th Street, New York, N.Y. 10036 
115 West 45th Street, New York, N.Y. 10036 
MAIL ORDER ADDRESS: 36 E. 19th St. New York, N.Y. 10003 
Items on sale for limited time only, and are subject to limited availability. Not responsible for typographical errors. These ad supersedes all other ads prior to March '82. 
Prices effective as of January 24, 1982. All orders subject to verification and acceptance. Minimum shipping and handling $4.95 



(212)260-4410 

FREE OUT OF STATE 

800-221-7774 
800-221-5858 
800-223-5661 



Circle 1 on inquiry card. 



Listing 4 continued: 

d isp.ar.ray Cw? " 

i,.i r i te 1 n C ' D i sp 1 ay i ns a r ray too k '.tic k ■:: 1 3 ? ' sec' ) 

read array 0*0 " 

1...1 r i tel n < ' Read i n« a r ray f rom d i s k too k ' * t i c k < t 5 » : ' 



d i spar ray '■.'•..'':■> ° 

w r i tel n < ' D i sp 1 ay i ns a r ray 

t reese n i roo t ? '...' ? ? 

w r i t e 1 n < 'Gene r a t i n s b i n a r y t r e e 



took % ti ck( t> 



ok ' , ti 



t ■• , 



d i SP t ree •:'. roo t ) " 

i.o r i te 1 n >'. ' D :L sp 1 ay i ns t ret 



t i c k '■■ t ■' 



i.o r i te t ree ( roo t '.> " 
i.o r i te 1 n '-. " Id r i t i ns t ree t 
END. 



:k took 



t i c k 



Text continued from page 340: 

tures Equals Programs by Niklaus Wirth, Prentice-Hall, 
1975.) After this, the unsorted array is again read in- 
to memory, and the integers are used as keys by which 
dummy data are stored in a binary tree. The tree elements 
are then written individually to disk. The array elements 
are displayed on the monitor along the way to insure that 
the disk I/O and the sorting are done correctly. Display- 
ing the array also measures how fast the Pascal can out- 
put textual information. 

The incompatibilities between the Pascal implementa- 
tions for this program only involved the way the disk 
data were accessed. Slight changes in the program were 
made for opening, closing, reading, and writing to the 
disk files. (Obviously, the changes described for reading 
the clock also had to be made.) 



Again, native-code compilers were faster in the compu- 
tation-intensive tasks such as sorting and were also no- 
ticeably faster in output to the terminal. All Pascals took 
about the same time to write and read from the disk. 

The four Pascals reviewed here defy classification as 
good or bad; they seem almost to represent different 
philosophies of language implementation. We cannot 
recommend one Pascal over another or say that you 
would find any of them unacceptable for your purposes. 
We only hope that you now have enough information to 
decide for yourself. ■ 



Updates seem to be published faster than magazines 
are. Some information on new versions of the Pascals 
tested in this article is given on page 356. . . . G.W. 



PROFESSIONAL 
MICROCOMPUTER 



$2990 




THE BEST VALUE ON THE MARKET 

• Z80 4MHZ • 64K RAM 

• DUAL 8" DRIVES • 1.2 MB STORAGE 

• 2 SERIAL I/O • 2 PARALLEL I/O 

• OPERATING SYSTEM AND UTILITIES 
MICRO BUSINESS ASSOCIATES. INC. 
500 SECOND STREET 

SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94107 
415-957-1343 



HY-TYPE I • HY-TYPE III 



j.fnfnfc I 
['iiiiidiiniiiinii 



INTELLIGENT PRINTER INTERFACE 

16,000 BYTE BUFFER /STAND ALONE 
PARALLEL I SERIAL INPUT (BAUD RATES ■ 50 10 19,200) 
OPTIONS INCLUDE: GRAPHICS • REVERSE PRINT • BOLD PRINT 
UNDER-SC0RE • REPRINT OF BUFFER 
ADJUSTMENT OF LINES PERINCH 
CHARACTERS PERINCH SELECTION 
DOUBLE LINE 
CUSTOM OPTIONS ALSO AVAILABLE 
A & T FROM 9450.00 BARE BOARD 980.00 

MASTER CARD & VISA ACCEPTED 
I BOX 526 KNIGHTDALE, NX 27545 19191 i hi 341 i 





"ELF" interface; 
Converts Your 
Typewriter Into Printer 




• Finest print quality • low cost 

• Easy Installation • Oulck delivery 

• Fits IBM selectrlc- and' Electronic 
Typewriters 

• Models for all popular computers 

• Call or write for more Information, 
todayl 

■ we export to all countries - 

^<%J> INTERNATIONAL INC. 

tJl 5115 Douglas fir Rd. 

calabasas, CA 91302 U.S.A. 

Tel: (213) 710-1444 TLX/TWX: 910 494 2100 . 



Circle 238 on inquiry card. 



Circle 406 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 197 on inquiry card. 



QumaDataTrak 
Floppy Disk Drives 

III" I Mid lid It tj) double-sided double-density drive uses 
state-of-the-art technology to give you superior data integrity through im- 
proved disk life, data reliability, and drive serviceability using 5W'media. 

Qume's independent head load yields wear characteristics far superior to 
competitive drives. This superior wear performance produces savings on both 
diskette usage and drive maintenance. 

Improved data reliability, resulting from superior amplitude and bit shaft 
characteristics, optimizes operator efficiency and reduces processing time for 
end-users. 

And Data Trak's unique modular design means simplified field servicing for 
you and your customers. 

Design Features 

Expanded storage capacity • Two-sided, double-density 

Proven head carriage assembly • Ceramic head with tunnel erase • Dual-head 
flex mounting arrangement • Superior head load dynamics 

Precise lead screw actuator • Fast access time — 12 ms track-to-track • Low 
friction and minimum wear • Low power dissipation 

Additional features • Industry standard 5W' media format • ISO standard write 
protect • Door lock out for media protection • Requires DC voltage only • 
Daisy Chain up to 4 drives • Heads load on command independent of loading 
media 

Product Specifications 

Performance Specifications • Capacity: Unformatted: 437.5K or 500K bytes; Qume 
Formatted: 286.7K or327.7K bytes • Recording Density: 5456 BPI • Track Den- 



Distributed 
by: 



assail 

computer ■ 
products, inc. 




ImSk&t&s&Mr. _.__ ' 









sity: 48 TPI • Cylinders: 35 or 40 • Tracks: 70 or 80 • Recording 
Method: FM or MFM • Rotational Speed: 300 RPM • Transfer Rate: 
250K bits/second • Latency (avg.): 100 ms« Access Time: Track-to- 
track 12 ms; Settling 15 ms • Head Load Time: 50 ms 



The Data Trak 8 



double-sided double-density drive uses 
state-of-the-art technology to give you superior data integrity through im- 
proved disk life, data reliability, and drive serviceability. 

Qume's innovative approach to controlling head load dynamics yields wear 
characteristics far superior to competitive drives. In independent evaluation, 
Data Trak 8 is setting industry standards for tap test performance. This superior 
wear performance produces savings on both diskette usage and drive 
maintenance. 

Improved data reliability, resulting from superior amplitude and bit shift 
characteristics, optimizes operator efficiency and reduces processing time for 
end-users. 

And Data Trak's unique modular design means simplified field servicing for 
you and your customers. 

Design Features 

Expanded storage capacity • Two-sided, double-density 

Fully IBM compatible • IBM 3740 and System 32 drives • IBM 3600 and 4964 
drives • IBM System 34 drives 

Proven head carriage assembly • Ceramic head with tunnel erase • Dual-head 
flex mounting arrangement • Superior head load dynamics 

Fast, precise steel belt drive • Fast access time — 3 ms track-to-track • Low 
friction and minimum wear • Low power dissipation 

Additional features • ISO standard write protect • Programmable door lock • 
Negative DC voltage not required • Daisy Chain up to 4 drives • Side-by-side 
mounting in standard 19" RETMA rack • Compatible with Shugart 
SA850/SA851 




Product Specifications 

Performance Specifications • Capacity: Unformatted: 1.6 Mbytes/disk; 
IBM Format: 1.2 Mbytes/disk • Recording Density: 6816 BPI • Track 
Density: 48 TPI • Cylinders: 77 • Tracks: 154 • Recording Method: 
MFM • Rotational Speed: 360 RPM • Transfer Rate: 500Kbits/sec- 
ond • Latency (avg.): 83 ms • Access Time: Track-to-track 3 ms; 
Settling 15 ms; Average 91 ms • Head Load Time: 35 ms • Disk: 
Diskette 2D or equivalent 



sisaii 

computer ■ 
products, inc. 



Circle 37 on inquiry card. 



1198 E. Willow, Signal Hill. CA 90806 
Call Toll Free (800) 421-7701 



AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR FOR QUME 
CALL FOR PRICE AND DELIVERY 

(213) 595-6431 or (714) 891-2663 m California 



BYTE March 1982 



353 



Programming Language Terms 

Machine language, also called object code, is binary; it 
consists entirely of zeros and ones. Words made of zeros and 
ones represent both op codes, which define basic operations 
in the processor, and addresses of the data on which an opera- 
tion is to be performed. The accurate reading and writing of 
machine language is difficult. 

Machine-language statements that use the correct op 
codes for a specific processor are said to be the native code 
for that processor. 

Intermediate between machine language and higher-level 
languages like Pascal is assembly language. Assembly lan- 
guage substitutes standard mnemonics — more easily remem- 
bered names — for machine-language instructions. State- 
ments in assembly language are not directly executable. An 
assembler is a program that translates assembly -language 
code into machine code; a macro assembler allows the pro- 
grammer to use a single name to represent a sequence of 
assembly-language instructions. Assembly-language 
mnemonics vary from one processor to the next, and an 
assembly -language program written for one processor will 
not run on another. 

A compiler is a program that translates the programmer's 
statement in a source language or higher-level language (such 
as BASIC or Pascal) into machine language. The resulting 
machine-language code needs no support software to run 
(except an operating system). Compilers process an entire 
program at one time; the resulting machine-language code 
can be executed only after the whole program is compiled. 



Single-pass compilers complete the translation of a pro- 
gram in source language into machine language in a single, 
continuous operation. Multiple-pass compilers divide the 
process of translation into different stages. The advantage of 
multiple-pass compilers is that they usually reduce demands 
on main memory, though single-pass compilers work faster. 

An interpreter is a program that translates each source-lan- 
guage statement into machine language as the statement is 
read and then immediately executes the machine-language 
translation of the statement. 

Some higher-level language implementations such as 
CBASIC (from Compiler Systems) and Pascal/M compro- 
mise between the compiler approach and the interpreter ap- 
proach. These implementations compile source code into a 
nonexecutable intermediate code; a separate interpreter must 
then be run to execute the intermediate code. The inter- 
mediate code produced by a Pascal compiler is called P-code. 
Unlike assembly language, P-code is the same for different 
versions of Pascal that use the intermediate-code approach. 

A linker is a program that combines into a single module 
two or more program segments that have been separately 
compiled. 

A program library is a set of programs distributed with a 
program language to provide code to perform frequently 
used operations. Programmers save time and labor by incor- 
porating code from the library in programs under develop- 
ment. A linker can incorporate library program segments in- 
to a program whose other segments were written by an appli- 
cations programmer and separately compiled. 



AT LAST. 



A catalog of business software pj 
that are easy to use, 




SEND FOR YOUR FREE 
48-PAGE CATALOG TODAY! 



illltS 



Here's a FREE catalog of serious business 

software for today's most popular 

microcomputers. You'll find programs for 

accounts receivable, payroll, payables, 

managerial forecasting and more. 

Each program has been thoroughly tested, 

whether it's a popular best-seller. . . 

or an exciting new application. And each 

program is complete with all the matching 

business forms and accessories you need! 

A wide selection of proven software 
programs, at direct-by-mail savings . . . it's 
like having a convenient personal 
computer store at your fingertips. 

To receive your FREE catalog, simply 
call Toll Free 800-323-0628 (In Illinois, 
call 312-377-0990) or circle Reader 
Service Card number below. 

Computer Supplies and Accessories by 
Mail for More Than 35 Years 




COMPUTER SUPPLY CORPORATION 

A subsidiary of Wallace Computer Services, Inc. 3626 Stern Drive • St. Charles, Illinois 60174 



354 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 403 on inquiry card. 



BASF Fte«yDtek 1 
NO. 



rpsEj 4 



four decades of experi- 
ence in magnetic media- BASF 
invented magnetic recording 
tape, the forerunner of today's 
wide range of magnetic media, 
back in 1934, and was the first , 
independent manufacturer of 
IBM-compatible floppy disks. 



Tough Tyvek sleeve- no paper 
lust, no static electricity. 



Special self-cleaning jacket and 
iner help eliminate data errors 
and media wear and tear. 



BASF BASF FlexyDisk 



Center hole diameter punched to 
more accurate standards than 
industry specifications, for top 
performance. 



Bi-axially oriented polyester 
substrate -for uniform and reli- 
able performance year after year. 



Cross-linked oxide coating -for 
low head wear and long trouble- 
free media life. 



Total capability — one of two man- 
ufacturers in the world that 
makes both 8" and 5.25" models, 
has tape and disk experience, and 
manufactures floppy disk drives. 



Double lubrication - lubricants 
both in the formula and on the 
disk surface, to minimize media 
wear due to head friction. 



Packaging to suit your 
requirements— standard flip-top 
box , Kassette 10® storage case, 
or bulk pack. 



100% certification— every single 
disk is tested at thresholds 2-3 
times higher than system require- 
ments, to be 100% error-free. 



For the name of your nearest 
supplier, write BASF Systems, 
Crosby Drive, Bedford, 
MA 01730, or call 617-271-4030. 




BASF 



Floppy Disks Mag Cards Cassettes Computer Tapes Disk Packs Computer Peripherals 

Circle 44 on Inquiry card. 



Pascal Updates 

Each Pascal has been revised and improved in the past few 
months. All of the vendors claim bug fixes, increased speed 
for low-level support routines, and better user interfaces. We 
were unable to test the new versions. Version numbers and 
prices were current as of October 1981. 

Pascal/Z Version 4.0 

An interactive debugger and the ability to segment pro- 
grams are the major additions to Pascal/Z. The debugger is 
fully symbolic. Among other things, you can symbolically 
display and modify local and global variables (including 
record fields), trace program flow, and display run-time 
memory requirements. 

Overlays, or segments, are compiled separately like 
modules. They are then processed by a system program that 
prepares the memory maps and relocation information 
needed by a host that uses the overlay. Finally, they are 
linked to the host. 

Version 4.0 costs $395. The cost of updating from Version 
3.3 is $50; new manuals are included in the update. 

Pascal /M Version 4.02 

Major enhancements to Pascal/M are an interactive sym- 
bolic debugger, the ability to perform 14-digit BCD arith- 
metic, and an increase from 10 to 40 in the number of pro- 
gram segments permitted. 

Pascal/MT+ Version 5.5 

Several changes have been made to Pascal/MT+ to in- 
crease its power and compatibility with other CP/M soft- 
ware. The compiler has been reduced in size by 7K bytes, 
substantially adding to the amount of symbol table space for 
compiling user programs. Users can- compile larger programs 
than were heretofore possible. 

A converter program has been added to the collection of 
utility programs. The new program converts code files pro- 
duced by the compiler to a format acceptable to Microsoft 
linkers. Overlays are now allowed. A program is permitted 
16 overlay "areas" with up to 16 overlays per area. The pro- 
grammer is burdened with supplying code address informa- 
tion to the linker before the overlays can be used by a host 
program. 

The new version can be purchased with a speed program- 
ming kit that consists of a menu-driven program whose op- 



tions include a screen-oriented character editor, a Pascal syn- 
tax scanner for preprocessing program texts, and an iden- 
tifier frequency counter. The latter can be used, for example, 
to spot identifiers referenced only once in a program, such as 
uncalled procedures or unreferenced variables. 

The manuals have been rewritten with improved indexes. 
Version 5.5, including the speed programming kit, is $475. 

UCSD Pascal Version 4.0 

(Note: Version 3.0 is specially designed for Western 
Digital's Microengine.) 

■ Major enhancements to UCSD Pascal include an increase 
in the number of segments and units allowed to 255 and 
easier compilation and cross-referencing of units, facilitating 
ihe development of very large application programs. Pro- 
grammers can also control the residency of segments and 
units in memory through calls to intrinsic procedures. Over- 
lay segments can be protected from being overwritten by 
other segments until the programmer permits, and potential- 
ly time-consuming, annoying disk I/O (due to repeated calls 
to a segment) can be defeated. Chaining is also permitted in 
Version 4.0. 

Procedures for memory management have also been aug- 
mented. One of these permits a form of dynamic arrays and 
should considerably increase the ease of development for 
libraries of procedures operating on arrays. 

Concurrent processes have been implemented in Version 
4.0. Concurrent processes, or tasks, are controlled by "sema- 
phores" (a term coined by E. W. Dijkstra), which syn- 
chronize tasks and control access to critical code sections and 
resources. Semaphores can be associated with hardware in- 
terrupts so that interrupt handlers can now be written in 
UCSD Pascal. 

Intrinsic procedures for redirecting program and system 
I/O have been included. Redirection of system I/O means 
that the system can be driven from a script in a manner 
similar to CP/M's SUBMIT facility. Redirection of program 
I/O enables the programmer to collect the input to (or out- 
put from) a program from any peripheral device or disk file. 

Additions to the system's utilities include an interactive de- 
bugger, a procedural cross-referencer, and a console screen 
control unit. The documentation has also been completely 
rewritten. 

Version 4.0 costs $500. Preconfigured versions are avail- 
able for a variety of machines. 



I 

Industrial 

marketing 

problems? 



Regardless of what marketplace you 
are staking out, its position or size, we 
can help you draw a precise circle 
around it. 

Why? Because as the leading 
business/technical /professional publish- 
ing company, we probably already know 
your market and can apply our expertise 
to your research needs. 

Give us a call. Phone Ann Graham- 
Hannon at 212-997-6401 or write her as 
Director, Marketing Research, McGraw- 
Hill Research, 1221 Avenue of the 
Americas, New York, NY 10020. 



Call 

McGraw-Hill 

Research 

m 

If it's a marketing research problem, 
we probably pioneered the solution. 



356 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Now. . . Multi-User, Multi-Tasking 
Distributed Processing Systems 
...at Personal Computer Prices 



1 









Now you can utilize the storage capacity, access speed and reliability of 
Winchester disk technology . . . and the economy and portability of floppy disk 
systems with the Columbia Data Products' single and multi-user, multi-tasking 
1500/1800 microcomputer series. 

The 1 500/1 800 product line provides a complete selection of 5 !4 and 8 inch 
floppy and Winchester disks, Z-80A microprocessor architecture, up to 256K 
RAM and DMA disk controllers. Two parallel ports allow for interface of high- 
speed peripherals such as printers and expansion storage, and six RS-232 ports 
give you up to five user stations in a true CP/M® and MP/M® operating system 
environment. The sixth RS-232 port is available for modems, serial printers or an 
additional CRT station. 

With our new microcomputer series, you can configure your system solution 
by selecting the terminals and printers best suited for your application based on 
cost, appearance, performance and such features as intelligence, video at- 
tributes, graphics (both black and white and color), and ergonomic factors . . . you 
need not compromise any longer. 

Cost effectiveness, versatility, performance superiority, hardware expan- 
dability, and application flexibility are now yours from Columbia Data Products. 

And prices start under $900* list per user . . . 



: Price excludes display terminals and printers. 



CALL US FOR DEALER 
PROGRAM INFORMATION 



COLUMBIA 



DATA PRODUCTS, INC. 



Home Office: 
Columbia Data Products 

8990 Route 108 
Columbia, MD 21045 
Telephone: 301-992-3400 
TWX: 710-862-1891 



West Coast: 

Columbia Data Products 

3901 MacArthurBlvd. 
Suite 211 

Newport Beach, CA 92660 
Telephone: 714-752-5245 
Telex: 692 310 



® Trademark of Digital Research 



Europe: 

Columbia Data Products 

P.O. Box 1118 
4050 Moenchengladbach 1 
West Germany 
Telephone: 021-61-33159 
Telex: 852 452 



Circle 80 on Inquiry card. 



Software Review 



Microsoft's BASIC Compiler 

for the TRS-80 



Mahlon G. Kelly 

268 Turkey Ridge Rd. 

Charlottesville, VA 22901 



At a Glance 

Name 

BASIC Compiler 

Type 

A BASIC compiler package, including a compiler, linker, routine 
library file, and run-time package 

Manufacturer 

Microsoft Consumer Products 
400 108th Ave., Suite 200 
Bellevue, WA 98004 

Price 

Model I, SI 95 

Format 

Model I, 5-inch floppy disk; (also available for the TRS-80 Model II) 

Language 

Z80 machine language 

Computer needed 

TRS-80 Model I, minimum of 48 K bytes of memory and one disk 
drive 

Documentation 

More than 200 pages in a three-ring binder 

Audience 

TRS-80 BASIC programmers who want to increase the speed of 
their programs 



Do you have friends who tell you that BASIC is a toy 
language or that it's only for beginners and those too lazy 
to learn more "sophisticated" languages? Such snobs 
seem to fall into one of three categories: the machine- or 
assembly-language fan who wants to commune directly 
with the hardware and keep track of where every bit 
goes; the structured-program maven who feels that the 
machine must force a person to write well-organized pro- 
grams; and the traditionalist who still thinks that the only 
"real" higher-level languages are FORTRAN, COBOL, 
and ALGOL. 

Machine and assembly languages are essential when 
you need fast execution that can't be accomplished with a 
higher-level language. Structured languages like Ada and 
Pascal make it much easier to monitor long, convoluted 
programs. 

But we should listen carefully to the traditionalists; 
they probably learned to program on an IBM 650 in 1956 
and have sage minds. Most of them will tell you that 
FORTRAN, COBOL, and the like are superior because 
they are compiled languages that use a computer much 
more efficiently. They forget that BASIC — originally 
written at Dartmouth College as a simple beginner's lan- 
guage for easy interaction with the computer — is now at 
least as sophisticated and as easily compiled as older lan- 
guages. 



358 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



IBM'S DOS or CP/M-86? 




Confused about operates system options for 
your IBM Personal Computer? HAVE IT BOTH 
WAYS WITH LIFEBOAT'S CP/EMULATOR™. 

CP/EMULATOR solves the problem by permit- 
ting you to use all the software written for IBM's 
PC for both DOS and CP/M-86. 

This high performance, low cost DOS utility al- 
lows you to fully integrate and mix programs. 
You can use a DOS editor to write a program, 
compile it under a CP/M-86 compiler and ex- 
ecute the finished application under DOS. 

CP/EMULATOR extends the scope and capacity 
of all of your software. With CP/EMULATOR, 
CP/M-86 programs run quicker with faster file 
access than with CP/M-86 itself. 




Additionally, your program will enjoy all the 
other DOS advantages, such as large file size, 
dated directory displays, and more. The DOS 
peripherals arz already installed and DOS com- 
mands are fully available. The package even 
contains a utility program to transfer programs 
and data files from a CP/M-86 diskette to a stan- 
dard DOS diskette. 

NO NEED TO LEARN A NEW SET OF UTILITIES 
AND COMMANDS; 

NO NEED TO END UP WITH TWO INCOMPATI- 
BLE SETS OF DISKETTES; 
NO NEED TO SPEND HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS 
ON CP/M-86, WHEN CP/EMULATOR COSTS $75. 

NO NEED TO WONDER WHICH OPTION IS 
BEST FOR YOUR IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER. 



PMATE: Editor-in-Chief 

Perform miracles of manipulation on your keyboard with Lifeboat's PMATE. 

This new generation text editor is the most sophisticated text editor available today and is bristling with features previously 
unavailable on microcomputers, making it ideal for virtually any program or data file editing. 

PMATE's command set includes full screen single keystroke editing, horizontal scrolling, automatic disk buffering, macro 
command language, text formatting, expression evaluation, conditional branching, I/O with prompting, and other program- 
ming language constructs. PMATE makes use of 11 buffers for storage, and includes commands permitting work on more 
than one text at a time. Unique to PMATE is the facility for user customization. Keystroke functions can be redefined, and se- 
quences can be programmed to directly execute macros. Video commands can be changed, and macro functions can be 
written, to emulate any other editor with which you may be familiar. PMATE provides full side-scrolling, and can be used 
with virtually ANY video terminal on the market. IF you use an editor, you need PMATE. 

PMATE is the only text editor you'll ever need. 

PMATE-86 is available for IBM's Personal Computer DOS, SB-86™ and MS-DOS™. Also available is PMATE for SB-80 and other 
CP/M-80-compatible operating systems. 



Lifeboat Worldwide offers you the world's largest library of software from its offices in the U.S.A., U.K., Switzerland, France, 
West Germany and Japan. 

For more information, send to: 



Lifeboat Associates 

1651 Third Avenue 

New York, New York 10028 

Tel: (212) 860-0300 

TWX: 710-581-2524 (LBSOFT NYK) 

Telex: 640693 (LBSOFT NYK) 




SB-80 and SB-86 are trademarks of Lifeboat Associates 

PMATE and PMATE-86 are trademarks of Phoenix Software Asso. Ltd 

MS-DOS is a trademark of Microsoft, Inc. 

CP/EMULATOR is a trademark of Lifeboat Associates 

CP/M-80 and CP/M-86 are registered trademarks of Digital Research, Inc 

This ad was designed by DocuSet™ 

Copyright € 1981, by Lifeboat Associates 



LIFEBOAT HAS THE ANSWER 



£ 



3 



Circle 215 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 359 





MODEMS 

All Modems connect to any 
RS232 Computer or Terminal! 

1200 Baud and 300 Baud-Bell 212A 
Style. Penril 300/1200 S799 

Originate/answer/auto-answer. Full duplex, 
RS232 Phone line connection via standard 
phone jack 1 yr. warranty. 

Auto-dial option $350 

300 Baud Phone Link $129 

Originate/answer. Sleek, low profile. 15 ozs. 
Half/lull duplex. Self test. RS232 Light displays 
(or On Carrier, Test, Send & Receive Data. 1 yr. 
warranty. 

300 Baud. USR-330D $249 

Originate/answer/auto-answer. Phone line con- 
nection via standard jack. 1 yr. warranty. 

300 Baud. USR-330A $299 

Same as USR-330D PLUS Auto-Dial. Call for 
quote and technical information on higher speed 
modems and multiplexors. 
1200 and 300 Baud. AJ1235 

Acoustic coupler $799 Printing Terminals 

Vadic Compatible. Originate only The new generation 

1200 Baud. AJ1234 . „ 3 , ,-. . 

Acoustic Coupler $639 f rom General Electric. 

Vadic Compatible Originate only 

1200 and 300 Baud. AJ1256 $719 

Direct connect to phone lines. Vadic compatible. 

Originate/ Auto-answer. 

1200 and 300 Baud. AJ1259. 

Triple Modem $819 

Vadic and Bell 212A compatible. Originate/ 
Auto-answer. Direct connect to phone lines. 

Printing Terminals (yg 

30/60 CPS. GETerminet 2030 $999 

110/300/60/1200 Baud. User selectable lines per 
inch and chars, per inch. True descenders and 
underlining. Up to 217 cols per line. Top of form, 
vert, and hor. tabs. Friction feed std., tractor 
feed opt. Answerback. 1 yr. warranty on parts 
Nationwide servicing. Extremely compact. 15 in. 
paper. Only 22 lbs SUPERIOR TO DEC LA34AA 
al lower cost. 
120/150 CPS. 

GETerminet 2120 $1,799 

Housed in same compact package as the 2030 
with all the features of the 2030 PLUS 150 char, 
per. sec. print rate. 

Slash Your Connect Time and Printer 
Delay Time 

Text Editor For GE2030 & 2120 . . . .$799 
Includes 32K buffer inside terminal for data 
receipt and transmission at up to 9600 baud 
Also Available: Receive only/Printer only ver- 
sions of GE2030 & 2120. 

CRTs 

ADDS Viewpoint $549 

Detachable keyboard Numeric keypad. Tillable 
screen. Cursor control keys. Function keys. 
Auto-repeat on all keys. 110 to 19,200 baud. 
Transparent mode. Printer Port, Compact, 20 
lbs. Visual attributes. 

TAB 132/15 $1,999 

15 inch screen. 132 cols x 24 lines. 4 pages 
memory Green Phosphor. Soft programmable 
function keys Full editing. Detachable keyboard. 
VT52, VT100, VT132 compatible. Superior 
Screen quality. Smooth Scrolling. Horizontal and 
Vertical Scrolling. 

We also stock: NEC DEC 

OKIdata Televideo p^ • 

Teletype Altos Computers __ 

Dynabyte Computers 

Call for pricing and technical information. 
Visit our showroom lor product 
demonstrations. 

M-F 8:30-5:00. Sat. -Call for appointment. 



Listing 1: A small BASIC program used to demonstrate the 
compiler. 





VISA /MasterCard Accepted. Corporation and Insti- 
tution purchase orders accepted. Leasing rates 
available on request. Your satisfaction Guaranteed. 
All equipment may be returned for full credit We 
offer full service, on-site maintenance plans on all 
equipment. All equipment in stock. »— »— 

U.S. ROBOTICS nw ^^ L - 



52 



10 DEFSNGA-Z 

20 FOR I = 1 TO 2000 

30 A = I + 2 

40 NEXT I 

50 PRINT CHR$(7) 



SUITE I7IB 
CHICAGO. II 



ALES 
jEISJERAL 



What It Does 

A compiler is a machine-language program that trans- 
lates a higher-level language, such as FORTRAN or 
BASIC, into machine code. This compiled program can 
be stored on disk and run as if originally written in 
machine language. On the other hand, an interpreter, 
used in many microcomputers with BASIC, "translates" 
each line of a program while the program is running. If a 
line is executed many times, it must be "translated" many 
times. 

A compiled program is therefore much faster than an 
interpreted one and uses the computer more efficiently 
despite the lengthy compilation time (which need only be 
done once). Compilation also allows more flexibility and 
offers options unavailable with interpretation. Converse- 
ly, an interpreted program can be run immediately, 
without waiting for compilation, and thus is much easier 
to debug, edit, and modify. Although this may be a poor 
practice, it is a good way to learn programming and is 
usually necessary to refine a moderately long program. 

Microsoft's BASIC compiler gives you the best of both 
worlds. It is now possible to debug and modify a pro- 
gram using the TRS-80's built-in interpreter. Then, when 
it's doing just what you want, it compiles the program to 
get rapid execution. 

I've often wished I could do that with FORTRAN on 
our university's Cyber 172; in fact, I have been known to 
write and rewrite a program in interpreted BASIC until it 
did what I wanted, then translate it "by hand" into 
FORTRAN for fast execution. 

We can evaluate the Microsoft compiler in five ways: 
ease of use (and quality of documentation); compatibility 
with TRS-80 disk BASIC; speed; added features com- 
pared to interpreted BASIC; and any special quirks, 
bugs, or problems that may get in the way. 

This compiler has many versions; the one I review here 
is the latest available for the TRS-80. It is much improved 
over that machine's first version, and anyone with the 
earlier version can obtain an update from Microsoft for a 
nominal charge. 

Procedures for Use 

The compiler is very easy to use, although that's not 
conveyed in Microsoft's documentation. The compiler is 
really a package of four software modules: the actual 
compiler (BASCOM/CMD); a library file 
(BASLIB/REL); a linker (L80/CMD) that links machine 
code from the library file to the program as compiled by 
BASCOM; and a "run-time package" (BRUN/CMD) 



360 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Uic 



Circle 390 on inquiry card. 



YOU CAN'T BUY 
A FASTER 
BUS SYSTEM 





Presenting the LDP 1/2 SlOO Bus System: 



Standard features: 

□ Lightning One CPU 

□ 2 Serial Ports 

□ 2 Parallel Ports 

□ 128KRAM 

J 600K bytes floppy storage 

□ MS-DOS** or CP/M-86* 
operating system 

Options available: 

□ 10 MHz 8086 

□ 8087 - 8089 co-processor 
(onboard, not tacked on) 

□ 128K static RAM 

□ Multi-user option including 
MP/M-86* 

□ 1.2M bytes disk storage 

□ 2.4M bytes disk storage 

□ 11. 2M bytes disk storage 



Lightning ( )ne trademark of Lomas Data Products, Inc. 
'CP/M-M and MP/MSG trademark of Digital Research. 
•'MS-DOS trademark oj Microsoft Inc. 

Circle 219 on inquiry card. 



The LDP 1/2 system incorporates the 
fastest SlOO bus CPU, the Lightning 
One''". The Lightning One, when 
coupled with our other fine board 
products offers a level of performance 
comparable to many large 16-bit 
minicomputers. Our multi-user system 
doesn V lose steam as with other 8-bit 
systems. 

In addition to Lightning performance, 
Lomas Data Products has the widest 
selection of operating systems 
software. We offer both MS-DOS** 
and CP/M-86* for single user systems 
and MP/M-86 for multiuser systems. 
A wide variety of high-level languages 
are available including: BASIC 
(interpreter and compiler), FORTRAN, 
PASCAL, COBOL, C, and FORTH. 
Call or write for our benchmark 
comparisons with other systems. 

We have saved the best for last: Our 
standard system, the LDP 1 with 
600K bytes of disk storage is available 
for just $4150. 




Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 

For 16 bit computing 
on the SlOO bus, 
come to the leader. . . 

LOMAS DATA 
PRODUCTS, INC 

729 Farm Road 

Marlboro, Massachusetts 01752 

Telephone: 617-481-2822 

BYTE March 1982 361 



Circle 261 on inquiry card. 



The 
Landlord 

Apartment 

Management 

Software 



Keeping track of apartment 
availabilities, rent payments, secu- 
rity deposits, leases and other ad- 
ministrative functions consumes a 
great deal of time and attention 
for apartment owners and man- 
agers. You and your staff probably 
spend countless hours dealing with 
the paperwork necessary to man- 
age your property. 

With the Landlord™ apartment 
management software and an 
Apple II* computer, file cabinets 
full of paperwork and the frustra- 
tions of cumbersome bookkeeping 
procedures can be eliminated. The 
clerical work for your apartments 
can be accomplished with greater 
accuracy in a fraction of the time 
you presently spend. The Land- 
lord™ will keep up-to-date files on 
apartments and residents as well 
as detailed records of property in- 
come and expenses. 

You'll be able to enter, change, 
or delete information by following 
the simple English instructions that 
appear on the screen of the Apple 
II*. With the Landlord™, your resi- 
dent manager can instantly deter- 
mine where apartment vacancies 
exist and when additional units will 
become available for rental. The 
Landlord™ also keeps track of 
resident payments, letting you see 
at a glance who is behind on rent 
or other payments. Property and 
tax analysis reports are printed 
automatically each month and 
allow you to monitor the profit- 
ability of your apartments. 



y\M 



MIN MICROCOMPUTER SOFTWARE, INC 

5835-A Peachtree Corners East 
Norcross, Ga. 30092 (404) 447-4322 

The Landlord 

is a trademark of MIN Microcomputer Software. Inc. 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 



Listing 2: The compiled version of the program shown in listing 1. 

BASCOM 5.23 • COPYRIGHT 1979, 80 (C) BY MICROSOFT - 08542 BYTES FREE 

0014 0007 10 DEFSNG A-Z 

0014' CALL $4.0 

0017X00010: 

0017 0007 20 FOR 1= 1 TO 2000 

0017'L00020: CALL $FASA 

001 A' DW II 

00 1C DW .CONST. 

OOIE'100000: 



00 IE 000B 


30 A = I + 2 






** 


001E'L00030: 


CALL 


$FADA 


** 


0021' 


DW 


11 


** 


0023' 


DW 


.CONST 


** 


0025' 


CALL 


$FASO 


** 


0028' 


DW 


Al 


002A 000F 


40 NEXT I 






** 


002A'L00040: 


CALL 


$FADA 


* * 


002D' 


DW 


11 


* * 


002F' 


DW 


.CONST 


** 


0031' 


CALL 


$FASO 


»* 


0034' 


DW 


11 


** 


0036' 


CALL 


$LEJA 


* * 


0039' 


DW 


11 


* » 


003B' 


DW 


.CONST 


* * 


003D' 


DW 


100000 


003F 000F 


50 PRINT CHR$ (7) 




* * 


003F'L00050: 


CALL 


$PR0A 


** 


0042' 


LD 


HL.0007 


** 


0045' 


CALL 


$CHR 


* * 


0048' 


CALL 


$PV2D 


004B 000F 








* * 


004B' 


CALL 


SEND 


005C 0019 








00000 FATAL ERROR(S) 






08219 BYTES FREE 







Listing 3: The same compiled version of the program, except with two errors inserted 
to show the response of the compiler. 

BASCOM 5.23 • COPYRIGHT 1979, 80 (C) BY MICROSOFT - 13512 BYTES FREE 



0014 0007 


10 DEFSNG A-Z 




** 


0014' 


CALL 


$4.0 


* * 


0017'LOOOIO: 






0017 0007 


20 FOR I = 


1 TO 2000 


** 


0017X00020: 


CALL 


$FASA 


** 


001 A' 


DW 


11 


* # 


00 1C 


DW 


.CONST. 


* * 


001ET00000: 






00 IE 000B 


30 A = I + 2 






** 


001E'L00030: 


CALL 


$FADA 


* * 


0021' 


DW 


11 


* * 


0023' 


DW 


.CONST. 


** 


0025' 


CALL 


$FASO 


** 


0028' 


DW 


Al 


002A 000F 


40 NXT I 










error pointer, syntax error SN 


** 


002A'L00040: 




Listing 3 continued on page 364 



362 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



QUALITY AND VALUE. 



1982 will find more OEM's, businesses, dealers and personal computer 
users turning to MICROTEK than ever before. 



TckWritor-1 




80 Column Dot 
Matrix Printer 
(Formerly BYTEWRITER-1) 

The Tekwriter-1 printer is, dollar for 
dollar, the finest value in the 
industry. And we've proved it by 
comparing the Tekwriter-1 to 
the Epson MX-80. Our print speed 
is 14 lines per minute faster, our life 
expectancy is longer, the character 
sets are the same, and the 
interface, warranty and printhead 
replacement cost are all identical.* 
But the biggest difference is the 
price. The Tekwriter-1 is about 
$300 less. 

Our extensive testing has proved 
that the Tekwriter-1 interfaces 
problem-free to most parallel 
Centronics and serial (RS-232) 
computers. 

The Tekwriter-1 is tough to beat for 
performance and quality. 

"Data Source: Epson MX-80 Operation Manual 



Parallel 
Serial 



$349 
<>389 



TekWriter-2 

■■■■ ■■■»■ ; 

!&?«■■■■■■! 

BsfSill 




NEW! 80/132 Column 
Dot Matrix Printer 

The Tekwriter-2 is perfectly suited 
to personal, business or OEM 
applications. Tekwriter-2 is 
designed to accept single sheet, 
roll or pin feed paper. It has 
a 9-wire dot matrix impact 
print head which produces crisp 
characters and has underlining 
capability. The printer is 
manufactured to run extremely 
quietly even while operating at 
peak output levels. 

Tekwriter-2 is especially well suited 
to handle word processing 
applications because of its data 
buffer expansion capabilities to 25K. 
This ability makes it an efficient 
graphics generator. 

Parallel interface (Centronics 
type). Interfaces all models of 
TRS-80, Apple, and Atari 400/800, 
and most computers with 
Centronics printer interface. 



$695 



Peripherals 




Parallel/Serial Data 
Buffer Converter 

Interfaces with most computers and 
printers on the market today. 
Switch selectable parallel or serial 
input/parallel or serial output. 
Ideal for word processing and data 
communications. Data buffer 2K 
standard — expandable to 62 K. 
Serial I/O BAUD rates switch 
independently selectable. 

16K Apple Memory Board 

Apple Parallel Interface 
Card 

16K-32K Atari Memory 
Boards 

Atari Parallel or Serial 
Printer Cables 

8K-16KVIC-20 Memory 
Boards 

64K to 256K IBM Memory 
Board 



Quantity and OEM discounts available. 



Continuing our quest for excellence. 



TRS-80 is a trademark of Radio Shack, Inc. 
Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Atari 400/800 are trademarks of Atari, Inc. 
Microsoft is a trademark of Microsoft Consumer 

Products, Inc. 
Z-80 is a trademark of Zilog, Inc. 
Visicalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



Circle 257 on inquiry card. 




MICROTEK 

9514 Chesapeake Drive 
San Diego, CA 92123 
(714) 278-0633 
Outside CA call 
Toll Free (800) 854-1081 
TWX. 910-335-1269 



IVHCROTEKnc 



TCiy MICROPROCESSOR 
I tZr\ SELECTION SEMINAR 



LEARN 



TO 




juiPs 



Take advantage of our experience with microprocessor design. 
Enroll in our one-day seminar and learn how to choose the right 8- and 
16-bit microprocessors lor your particular application. 

A $25 tee provides you with lunch and the seminar materials. 

To enroll for the seminar in a city near you, call Tektronix collect at 
(503)642-8951. 



City 


Date 


City 


Date 


Irvine. CA 


February 23 


Denver. CO 


March 5 


Woodland Hills. CA 


February 24 


Allanta, GA 


March 8 


Boston. MA 


February 25 


Raleigh. NC 


March 9 


Washington. D C 


February 25 


Orlando, FL 


March 1 1 


Dallas. TX 


February 25 


Ft Lauderdale, FL 


Maich 12 


Bellevue. WA 


February 25 


Rochester, NY 


March 12 


Philadelphia. PA 


February 26 


San Diego, CA 


March 16 


Houston. TX 


February 26 


Albuquerque. NM 


March 17 


Santa Clara, CA 


February 26 


Detroit, Ml 


March 22 


St. Louis. MO 


March 1 


Cleveland. OH 


March 23 


Saddlebrook, NJ 


March 1 


Phoenix, AZ 


March 23 


Woodbury. NY 


March 2 


Pittsburgh. PA 


April 5 


Kansas City, MO 


March 2 


Columbus, OH 


April 6 


Sail Lake City. UT 


March 3 


Charlotte. NC 


April 6 


Chicago, IL 


March A 


Cincinnati, OH 


April 7 


Albany. NY 


March 4 


Indianapolis, IN 


April 8 


St. Paul. MN 


March 5 


Baltimore, MD 


April 14 




Tfe 


ktronix 

COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE 


c 19B1 Tekl'anr* Ail RitjMs Reserved 124 







Listhig 3 continued: 








002A 000F 


50 PRINT CHR$(7) 




* * 


002A'L00050: 


CALL 


$PR0A 


* * 


002D' 


LD 


HL.0007 


* * 


0030' 


CALL 


$CHR 


* * 


0033' 


CALL 


$PV2D 



0036 000F 



0041 000F 



0036' 



CALL SEND 



error pointer, FOR-NEXT error FN 



00002 FATAL ERROR(S) 
13286 BYTES FREE 



with additional machine code accessed by the linked pro- 
gram while it is running. 

Compilation is best understood by following a pro- 
gram through the whole process. Programs are compiled 
in many ways, but the following procedure is used in 
almost all cases. (Other options, invaluable when need- 
ed, are rarely used.) First, write and debug a BASIC pro- 
gram (see listing 1). The program is then saved as an 
ASCII file, using the command: 

SAVE "TEST1/BAS",A 

(My most common error is forgetting to save it as an 
ASCII file; also, the BAS extension is needed for recogni- 
tion by the compiler.) After returning to the DOS with 
CMD"S", the program is compiled by typing the com- 
mand: 

BASCOM TEST2,TEST3 = TEST1 

This will produce a listing file (called TEST3/LST) of the 
compiled code in assembly language (see listing 2) and a 
partially complete and relocatable machine-language 
program (called TEST2/REL) that must be linked to other 
machine code using L80. TESTl/BAS was the BASIC 
source program. 

Error diagnosis is excellent — any errors in the BASIC 
source code will be listed to the screen and shown in the 
listing file (see listing 3). The command: 

L80 TEST2,TEST4-N-E 

will link machine code from BASLIB/REL and produce 
the file TEST4/CHN (for chain) from TEST2/REL. The 
" — N" and " — E" are "switches" that in turn tell L80 to 
write the /CHN file to disk and exit to DOS. A variety of 
other switches are available for L80 and BASCOM. 
Again, errors will be listed to the screen. TEST4/CHN 
can then be run as a machine-language program with the 
command: 

BRUN TEST4 

Obviously BRUN/CMD must be available any time 
the program is run, but the other programs are unneces- 
sary. Other names could have been used for any file, and 
disk drive numbers could have been specified. Usually, 
all of the names are the same (e.g., TEST/XXX). In that 
case, we create files called TEST/BAS, TEST/LST, 



364 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



VICTOR... Number 1 

in Impact Matrix Printing ) 




A Unique Printing Terminal 

• 80 column, bi-directional printing 

• Upper & lower case font 

• Full graphics — 480 columns per line 

• Top of form & horizontal tabs 

• True 60 Ipm throughput 

• Bi-directional friction and 
sprocket paper feed 



Large 360 character buffer 

Four interfaces — standard 

parallel & RS232 & TTY & OEEE-488) 

Baud rate switch selectable 

Self-test 

UL/CSA approved 

Intelligent shortest path head return 



Model 5080 



A Complete Line of Impact Matrix Printers 



Model 5010 



The Model 5080, shown above, is a heavy-duty printing terminal 
offered for sale at most competitive prices. Only $995 in single 
quantity! This printer has been designed to conform to the most 
stringent computer specifications, including software on/off con- 
trol, status feedback signals and a busy signal should you fill our 
extra large buffer. Don't delay, order now to insure early delivery! 

Victor has delivered more than 700,000 industrial, quality matrix 
printers. These are terminals, mechanisms, and heads designed 
to solve your problems. Products that are backed by a strong 
application engineering staff, worldwide service and 50 years of 
Victor pride in product. 

VICTOR DATA PRODUCTS 

Subsidiary of Walter Kidde & Company, Inc. 

KIDDE 

3900 North Rockwell Street, Chicago. Illinois 60618 Telephone: 312-539-8200 

GREAT BRITAIN — DATAPLUS, 0242-30030 ITALY - C.A.I. . 23.63.851 

SPAIN — CETA, 254 6607 SWITZERLAND - ERNI, 01 833 33 33 CANADA — MUNRO, (416)676-1042 

FRANCE — METROLOGIE, (1) 791 44 44 SOUTH AFRICA — EAGLE, 45-1421 

SINGAPORE — OG, 917788 or 918592 HONG KONG - GILMAN, 3-427144 




Model 80 





Model 130 



Model 129 



Circle 432 on inquiry card. 



TEST/REL, and TEST/CHN. If the compiled program 
runs correctly, the /LST and /REL files can be deleted. 

Although the procedure I describe is used with three 
disk drives, the sequence is very similar using one or two 
drives, though disk swapping is necessary. Actually, the 
process is so cumbersome with one drive that Microsoft 
doesn't recommend it. (Microsoft also points out that, for 
almost all purposes, 48 K bytes of memory are needed.) 
Three double-density drives are ideal. I can use drive 
for the operating system, drive 1 for the compiler soft- 
ware and Microsoft's FORTRAN and macro assembler, 
and drive 2 for the various programs. 

At this point, the compiler may seem awkward. With 
practice, it's simple to use and any program needs compi- 
lation only once if interactively debugged. Also, the com- 



TIMES (seconds) 


Integer 


Single Precision 
Interpreted Compiled 


Interpreted Compiled 


PRINT(I) 45 18 
A = PEEK(I) 39 2 
A=LEFT$("ABC".1) 37 6 
A!=SIN(3.14159) 149 50 
A = I + 2 40 2 
FORJ=1TO10:NEXT 169 4 


55 39 

44 14 
38 9 

150 50 
44 8 

188 8 


Table 1: Execution speeds with 
substituted for line 30 in Listing 1. 


the above statements 



Supercharge Your Micro's Performance With 




The Professional Operating System with CP/M™ Compatability 

•Spectacular Performance. Programs run 3 to 10 limes lasler compared with TRSD0S or CP/M. 
Benchmark results up lo 20 limes faster obtained wilh some applications by independent lirm 1 

• Double-Sided Drive Support. Provides 1 25 Megabytes ot storage per 8" double-sided/densily disk 
intermix any combination ot single- or double-sided drives on-line 

•Expanded Directories. Slore larger number ot dies and more informalion per disk 

•Automatic Denirty/Slde Recognition. Detects changes in disk tormat automatically Change disks al 

any lime wilhoul compromisino data or ■BDOS/Read-Only" errors 
•Fail Disk Backups. Copy a complete 8 SS/DO diskette (610K| in less lhan 80 seconds Copy a 

double sided/density diskette n 25 Megabytes) in less lhan 1 minute 45 seconds' 
•Hard Disk Drive Support. Supports large hard disks in excess ol 1 ,000 Megabytes without partitioning 

• Advancad Utilities. Complete set ol disk utilities, system. dale and time lunctions.communicalions 
channel interlace etc provided as standard tealures 

•Enhanced Automatic Print Spooling. Run multiple printers simultaneously, support lor multiple 

queues and primers is standard leature on spooling versions 
•CP/M Compatibility. Virtually any CP/M (version 2 x| program will run under TURB0D0S without 

modilication Also fully media compatible with standard CP/M-lormat diskettes 
•Advanced Malnlrame-llka lialuras. Includes read-attet-write validation ol all disk update operations. 

type-ahead butters, incremental disk backup utility, password/log-on security, system date and time 

tunctions accepts string ol multiple commands, and numerous other capabilities not available under 

CP/M or TRS00S Multi-user, networking versions also available 

Dealer and OEM inquiries invited 



TRS-80 Model II 

and Xerox 820 versions 

Special Introductory Price 
Easily adaptable to any ZBO-based computer. 



*195 



Data-Rx,lnc. 



(408) 375-2775*686 Lighthouse Avenue* Monterey, 93940 



TURB0D0S is the registered trademark ol Sollware 2000 

CP/M MP/M and CP/NET are registered trademarks ol Dioilal Research 



pilation time is very short in relation to the run time if the 
program is to be run several times. There are some cases, 
however, when compilation is superfluous. For example, 
a program that spends most of its time with disk I/O (in- 
put/output) will gain little speed by compilation. On the 
other hand, a program that does a lot of iterative number 
crunching with little I/O will be greatly quickened. If you 
use short programs or those that wait a long time for I/O, 
a compiler won't help much. 



Flexibility and Documentation 

The compiler is designed to be very flexible; in fact, I 
can't fully describe its tremendous range of options. For 
example, subroutines written in Microsoft FORTRAN 
can be called from BASIC by using the command: 

CALL SUBR (A,B,C) 

where SUBR is the name of a subroutine in a compiled 
(but not linked) FORTRAN program and A, B, and C are 
variables to be passed to the subroutine as sequentially 
declared in the FORTRAN subroutine statement. You 
can write a personal subroutine library in FORTRAN 
that can be called from BASIC. The ability to write a user 
library of language-independent subroutines is usually 
found only on mainframe computers or very large 
minicomputers. Working with the compiler on a micro- 
computer is much less awkward than it would be on a 
large computer system. This means, however, that L80 
must have a provision for specifying a FORTRAN pro- 
gram that will be searched for subroutines. In other 
words, flexibility means some complexity in compilation, 
and there are a wide variety of different procedures for 
compilation. For example, typing BASCOM and then 
after a prompt: 

TEST2,*PR=TESTl 

sends the listing to a line printer. Many other features are 
too complex and lengthy to be described here. 

Unfortunately, this flexibility and complexity mean 
rather unclear documentation. Microsoft has tried to de- 
scribe all of the options, special features, and peculiarities 
of the system before a user becomes acquainted with the 
rudiments. In some instances, the system's complexity 
seems to have confused even the writer of the manual. 

For example, in one section a COMMON statement is 
described in great detail, while another section tells us 
that it's not implemented. In another case, it gives an ex- 
cellent table comparing Level II BASIC, disk BASIC, and 
"standard" Microsoft BASIC (BASIC-80) with compiled 
BASIC, but several statements and commands that are 
available in compiled BASIC (and BASIC-80) are 
omitted. 

The manual is very complete and includes an intro- 
ductory section (confusing); a technical section (also con- 
fusing) detailing the features of compiled BASIC; and 
the BASIC-80 manual that gives the syntax of statements 
not found in either Level II or TRS-80 disk BASIC, but 
with (distractingly) almost everything in the TRS-80 lan- 



366 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 119 on inquiry card. 




The 16 bit operating system designed specifically for business micro-computing. 
Application software? — it's here, NOW! 



OASIS-16 * : the operating system 
designed for business. Not just a hobby 
or development system rewritten for 
business use, it is the natural evolution 
of OASIS**: the multi-user system with 
a world-wide reputation as the standard 
for those who take business seriously. 

And here's more good news : there's 
no waiting for application software 
because what now runs on OASIS is 
upward compatible to run on OASIS-16. 
That means plenty of proven software, 
available immediately. 

OASIS-16 puts it all in one package . 
For manufacturers: one source for oper- 
ating systems, languages, tools: custom 
implementation to maximize hardware 
potential: international support & 
training: flexible licensing agreements. 
For software developers: complete 
portability keeps application software 
machine independent; integrated tool 
set makes development easier, faster. 
For end-users: user-friendliness; data 
security; portability simplifies system 
expansion; plus an extensive applica- 
tion software library. 



Computing professionals have long 
told us ' OASIS makes micros run like minis ' 
— with OASIS-16. it's truer than ever. And 

that's strictly good business . 

"For 8086. 68000. Z8000, LSI-11, & others. 
• • For Z80. 

THE OASIS-16 PACKAGE CONTAINS: Operating 
System, exec jcl Language: Editor. Script 
Output Text Formatter. Assembler; Linkage 
Editor Diagnostic & Conversion Utilities; 
BASIC Interpreter & Compiler. 'C Compiler. 




FEATURES: File & Automatic Record Locking: 
Logon, Password & Privilege Level; User 
Accounting; Re-Enlrant BASIC Interpreter & 
Compiler; ISAM, Keyed, Direct & Sequential Files; 
and more. Plus some of the best, most extensive 
documentation in the industry. 
OPTIONS: COBOL; PASCAL; FORTRAN: RDBMS: 
2780/3780 Bisync; Networking; and others. 



PHASE ONE SYSTEMS, INC. 

7700 Edgewater Drive, Suite 830 

Oakland, CA 94621-3051 

Telephone 415/562-8085 TWX 910-366-7139 

I'm serious about my business — 
please send me quick: 

□ OASIS-16 Manual, $75 

□ OASIS Manual, $60 

□ Free Application Software Directory 
and put me on your mailing list. 

(Add S3 tor shipping; California residents add sales tax. ) 

Name 

St. (No Box#) 

City 



D Check enclosed 

□ VISA □ Mastercharge 

Card No 



State Zip_ 

□ UPS COD. 



Exp. date_ 



Signature^ 



STRICTLY BUSINESS 

Circle 427 on inquiry card. 



guages described as well. I spent several days trying to 
decipher some simple features (like the CALL statement 
mentioned above), but everything I needed to know was 
eventually found within the several different sections. 
The software is easily used, but the simplicity is obscured 
by very confusing documentation. In fairness to Micro- 
soft, I have seen much worse obfuscation in documenta- 
tion from CDC, DEC, and IBM. 

Compatibility 

The package is compatible with TRS-80 disk BASIC. 
Disk BASIC is more forgiving in some things, like 
FOR . . . NEXT loops, but if you use legal disk BASIC 
the compiler will recognize everything (except, of course, 
things like EDIT and CLOAD). CLEAR is not needed by 
the compiler, but if it's in the source program it will be ig- 
nored and a nonfatal error message will be given (which 
may be ignored). Also, there's no provision for data I/O 
with tapes. There are a few other minor differences, but 





OPTION BASE 

WHILE 

FRE 

INP(I) 

POS 

CHAIN 






SWAP 

WEND 
HEXS 
INPUTS 
SPACES 
% INCLUDE 




WAIT 

WIDTH 
OCT$ 
LPOS 
SPC 






Table 2: Some statements, commar 
Microsoft's compiled BASIC, but 
BASIC. 


ds, etc., 
not by 


supported by 
TRS-80 disk 



PEEK AT PERISOFT's 
PRODUCTS FOR YOUR APPLE"!! 




$139.95 A+T 




$109.95 A+T 




JiKjSB 

$99.95 A+T 



PRINTER+REAL TIME CLOCK 

ECONOMICALLY PRICED FOR THE USER 
NEEDING BOTH PARALLEL PRINTER INTER- 
FACE AND REAL TIME CLOCK 
CAPABILITIES THIS BOARD HAS ALL THE 
FEATURES MENTIONED BELOW FOR OUR 
PRINTER/PARALLEL AND REAL TIME CLOCK 
BOARDS. COMES WITH ADDITIONAL SOFT- 
WARE. 

ASYNC. SERIAL BOARD 

THIS RS232C COMPATIBLE INTERFACE 
BOARD HAS A CMOS UART, HANDSHAKING 
LINES, CRYSTAL CONTROL, AND 9" CABLE. 
IT CAN HANDLE FULL OR HALF DUPLEX, 
ODD, EVEN, NO PARITY, 1 , 1 .5, 2 STOP 
BITS, 7 OR 8 BIT WORD AND 50 TO 1 9.2K 
BAUD. 

REAL TIME CLOCK BOARD 

PROVIDES REAL TIME AND DATE INFORMA- 
TION. ON BOARD MONITOR FACILITIES 
TIME, DAY, MONTH, YEAR SETTING. 
COMES WITH NICAD RECHARABLE BAT- 
TERY. CRYSTAL CONTROLLED. JUMPER 
ENABLED INTERRUPT RATES OF 1/1024 
SEC, 1 SEC, 1 MINUTE OR 1 HOUR. 

PRINTER/PARALLEL BOARD 

CONFIGURABLE AS A PRINTER INTERFACE 
WITH HANDSHAKING SIGNALS OR AS A 
TWO WAY PORT. CABLES FOR VARIOUS 
PRINTERS AVAILABLE. COMES STANDARD 
WITH CENTRONICS COMPATIBLE SOFT- 
WARE. SPACE IN EPROM FOR PROGRAMS 
WRITTEN BY THE USER. 



ALL OF THESE BOARDS MADE BY PERISOFT INC.: 

-COME ASSEMBLED AND TESTED 
-PASS A 72 HOUR BURN IN PERIOD 
-HAVE AUTO SAVE POWER CIRCUITRY 

ARE COMPATIBLE WITH APPLE II 

PERISOFT INC. (ySSs) 

5126 Calle De Sol, Santa Clara, CA 95050 \ INVITED/ 



HAVE SOLDER MASK + SILK SCREEN 
HAVE GOLD PLATED FINGERS 
INCLUDE FULL DOCUMENTATION 
• AND APPLE II PLUS™' 



1408) 727-9989 
•APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS ARE TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTER INC. 



almost any program written in standard TRS-80 BASIC 
will compile successfully. The reverse, however, is not 
true. The compiler recognizes many statements and com- 
mands not used by TRS-80 BASIC. 

Speed 

All compiled programs are much faster, but the compi- 
lation process itself takes some time. The trivial program 
in listing 1 took less than two minutes to compile and 
link. A game using UK bytes took one minute and 46 
seconds to compile and two minutes and 50 seconds to 
link without a listing file. With a BASIC listing file but no 
object code between the lines, compilation took two min- 
utes and 11 seconds, and the listing file required about 
14K bytes or 13 "grans." It was impossible to compile the 
program with object code; the listing file needed more 
than 100 grans of disk space. This is a problem with the 
compiler that's not mentioned in the documentation; ob- 
ject code listings may need more storage than is available 
on any blank disk. However, it's probably never 
necessary to get a complete listing file with object code. A 
"-N" switch after the BASCOM line will inhibit the ob- 
ject code. 

Some differences in run times for various interpreted 
and compiled programs are given in table 1, which shows 
the execution times for statements placed in line 30 of list- 
ing 1. Speed increases vary from more than 40 times, 
with integer variables in simple functions, to less than 
three times faster using SIN, COS, and similar functions. 
Nevertheless, there's always a speed increase that varies 
depending on the program. 

Special Features 

Compiled BASIC has many features unavailable in in- 
terpreted TRS-80 BASIC. In fact, they're not all listed in 
the documentation. Table 2 gives the additional state- 
ments and commands, although they are too numerous 
to fully describe. For example, SWAP( A,B ) exchanges 
the value assigned to the two variables, and transcenden- 
tal functions will return double precision. Perhaps the 
most important are WHILE and WEND statements; they 
allow writing structured program code. Variables may be 
of any length; that is, the compiler will consider J, JOS, 
and JOSEPH to be different variables. This may pose a 
problem when compiling a program that uses variable 
abbreviations; the compiler may recognize more vari- 
ables than were originally intended. 

Microsoft's original BASIC compiler had many 
defects, but all of the problems seem cured in this new 
version. I have some BASIC programs that will not com- 
pile using BASCOM, but that's always because standard 
TRS-80 conventions were not used. For example, Radio 
Shack's backgammon game will not compile because it 
branches to subroutines from within a loop; that is dis- 
allowed but forgiven by interpreted BASIC. Also, some 
things may be mistaken for bugs. For example, I thought 
there were problems with linking because L80 is different 
for Microsoft FORTRAN and BASIC. But the two act the 
same if a "— R" switch is used with the BASIC version. 



368 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 311 on inquiry card. 



If you don't know a baud from a floppy... 

YOU NEED TO KNOW THE 
GtDP-lOO MICROCOMPUTER 



Most people who need computers 
don't have the time, or desire, to 
become full-time computer 
"wizards." 

With the budget-priced QDP-lOO 
you get all the time-saving pre- 
cision information you want from 
a computer, now and in the future, 
without all the unnecessary com- 
plexity associated with less consider- 
ate computers. 

QDP-lOO IS A FULL-SCALE 8-bit computer, 
readily upgradeable to 16 bits as your 
business or professional information- 
processing needs grow. It uses the LEEE 
S-lOO bus, compatible with CP/M and 
MP/M disk operating systems. 

QDP-lOO HANDLES BOTH floppy disks 
and hard disks to give you total 
software versatility. 

QDP-lOO CONNECTS INSTANTLY to 
any standard terminal and printer. 
Both serial and parallel ports are 
available. Features most micro- 
computers can't match. 



It does more, 

does it easier, 

and costs a 

lot less. 



QDP-lOO HAS SINGLE BOARD 
• SIMPLICITY. Eliminates the hassle 
of complex multi-chip, multi- 
board computers. 
QDP-lOO IS EASY to learn and to 
operate. Most owners use their 
QDP-lOO with professional skill and 
results in short order. Our instruction 
manual doesn't need an interpreter. 
If you'd rather be a wizard with 
computer results, than with computers, 
choose the QDP-lOO. Call or write for 
literature and full details. 
QDP NEEDS A FEW MORE GOOD DEALERS. 
Attractive, profitable, protected dealerships 
are still available in several high-potential 
computer market areas. 



Quasar 
Products 

10330 Brecksville Road 
Cleveland, Ohio 44141 
216/526-0838 Telex 241596 




CP/M and MP/M 

are registered trademarks 

of Digital Research Corp. 



Circle 329 on Inquiry card. 



i#*-w~~ — 



I've yet to find any "real" bugs— only things that I either 
misinterpreted or didn't understand. 

If you have code that you want to run faster, or if you 
need any of the features like a FORTRAN library, this is 
definitely a worthwhile product. If you're not accus- 
tomed to a compiler, compilation may be annoying. But 
this is a professional package, just as flexible and much 
easier to use than some compilers on mainframe com- 
puters. 

Conclusions 

Microsoft's BASIC compiler allows compilation of any 
BASIC program written for a disk-based TRS-80. This re- 
sults in a three to 30 times increase in execution speed. 
The system includes a compiler (BASCOM), linker (L80), 
routine library (BASLIB), and run-time package (BRUN). 
For most purposes, 48 K bytes of memory and two disk 
drives are needed. The package is nearly identical to the 
interpreter that Microsoft designed for the TRS-80. 

The software is readily used by those familiar with a 
compiler and compilation is quick. The documentation is 
confusing but complete, and a novice should be operating 
the system within an hour. Full use of its very flexible and 
extensive special features will require several days' study, 
which would be reduced with better documentation. 

There are more than 20 features in the package that are 
not available in disk BASIC, including structured loops 



and calls to FORTRAN subroutines. Because of am- 
biguities in documentation, full use of the features re- 
quires long study and experimentation. 

This is a very professional software package that gives 
the TRS-80 features found only on much larger systems. 
Except for the documentation, the package is superlative 
in all respects. ■ 



A Public Service ol This Magazine jm 
& The Advertising Council rSSj 



Red Cross 
is counting 

on you to help. 




Give Your TRS-80* a Tremendous Boost 
with RACET computes Software 

RACET computes Utility Software makes the TRS faster, more efficient, and easier 
to use. Our programming aids improve your productivity. Our reputation is for 
products that are professional in design and work as advertised!!! 

FIELD PROVEN HARD DISK DRIVES AND OPERATING SYSTEM 

Now you can use RACET's Hard/Soft Disk Operating System (HSDS) with the 
ARM Winchester Disk Drive on the Model II. This cost effective combination 
provides 15 Megabytes per drive including ECC Error Correction Code and an 
advanced sequencer to further ensure data integrity. An incremental backup to 
lloppy is provided so that only those sectors that were changed from the last 
backup are saved. A full monthly service contract is available at $30 per month 
per drive. 

The HSDS Software has more than One Year's FIELD Experience. The latest 
HSDS version adds several enhancements including maintenance of system files 
on the hard drive, files as large as the disk, the ability to segment the disk as 
logical drives, definable directory size, and many utilities including bulk copies 
between floppy and hard drives, multiple purge, Superzap, and Directory Catalog 
System. Full program compatibility with TRSDOS 2.0a is maintained. Mixed 
floppy and hard drive operation is supported. 

HSDS is available for the Cameo, Cynthia Bull, Corvus, Data Peripherals, and 
Santa Clara Systems hard disk systems as well as the ARM Winchester Drive. 
ARM 15 Megabyte Drive Subsystem $3895. HSDS Software $400. 

Cameo 5/5 Cartridge Drive $5995. Cynthia Bull 10/10 Drive $7995 

new product • Model II Fast Backup Utility * $75 

5 to 10 times faster backups!!! Full disk backup (including verify) 55 seconds!!! 
on two drive system — 2:15 on single drive system. In business, time is money, 
and one BACKU P is worth 1 000 tears! ! 

new PRODUCT • INTEGRATED BUSINESS SYSTEM • 

ISAM File Structure — Multi-Company Capability. Modular structure. Each 
module includes complete user documentation which guides the user through 
installation ant) allows "practice" using a sample data base. When ready, the 
user simply names his data base and begins. The Integrated Business System 
program set includes General Ledger. Accounts Receivable. Accounts Payable, 
Payroll, Inventory, General Journal, Asset Management and more. 
Business Programs $250/module Mod III, $300/module Mod II, $795 for all four 
Mod III. $995 for all four Mod II. General Ledger and Accounts Receivable 
available now. Accounts Payable and Payroll 1 st Quarter 1 982 . 



I 1 RACET 



COMPUTES 

1330 N. GLASSEIL. SUITE M, ORANGE. CA 92667 



CIRCLE READER RESPONSE BELOW FOR FREE CAIALUC- 

■ TRS-80 IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF TANDV CORPuKATION 



CHECK VISA, M/C. COD . PURCHASE 0ROER 
TELEPHONE ORDERS ACCEPTED (7H| 997-4950 



GET THE MOST FROM YOUR NEC PC-8001 
WITH RACET computes SOFTWARE!! 

RACET NECD0S $175 

RACET NECD0S does more for your PC-8001 than any other DOS. It's faster. 

more efficient and easier to use. It's loaded with extra features to let you stretch 
the limits ol your system. This advanced operating system works with Ihe ROM 
NBASIC to give full compalibilily with color and other BASIC commands 
USER FRIENDLY — Emphasizes Integrity. No MOUNT or REMOVE commands!!! 
Excellent prolection from improper diskette swapping. AGAIN. HELP, FIND and 
REF commands. File password prolection. 

ADVANCED DESIGN. RACET NECDOS utilizes the computer in the 8031 lor most 
disk I/O functions minimizing memory utilization in Ihe PC-8001. The Dynamic 
Transient Area (DTA) allows multiple transients to be scatter loaded and relocated 
in memory simultaneously. This unique capability optimizes use of valuable 
memory, yet provides an almost limitless growth potential. 
ADVANCED FEATURES. All DOS functions and commands may be used directly 
in a BASIC program!!! Special RUN option allows merging of programs, retaining 
all variables in memory. Fixed block spanned records. AUTO and DO commands 
Machine language loads and saves. MATPRINT and MATINPUT to disk. Complete 
directory. ALL supervisory calls documented and available to the machine 
language programmer. Superzap utility included. 

CONVERT TRS-80* PROGRAMS TO RACET NECDOS WITH 'PR0TRAN' $99:95 

COMPLETE utilities for file transfer and BASIC program conversion. Model III 
diskettes may be read directly. Model I and II via RS-232. Transfer BASIC 
programs, data files, or machine language files. NO support is provided for 
conversion of machine language files or PEEK'S, POKE'S, or USR's to function on 
PC-8001. Includes Mod I, Mod II and RACET NECDOS Datadisk with complete 
documentation on conversion requirements and syntax differences. 

MULTI-KEY SORT 'MKS' $60 

SUPER FAST Machine Language In-Memory Sorts. Three-key sort on 500 
elements in 4 Seconds!! ! Simple one-line BASIC functions — SORTV and SORTC 
verbs. Mixed ascending and descending keys. 

KFS-80 KEYED FILE SYSTEM $150 

Machine language BASIC ISAM utility provides keyed and sequential access to 
multiple files. Simple interlace to BASIC. Binary tree keyed-lile index syslem 
provides rapid access to records. 

RACET computes software for the NEC is distributed by the Waybern Corporation 
and is available from your local NEC Dealer. 

IK Waybern Corporation 



13911 Enterprise Dr.. Garden Grove, CA 92643 
(714)554-4520 • (213)222-7514 



CIRCLE READER RESPONSE BELOW FOR FREE CATALOG 



RACET computes 



Circle 428 on inquiry card. 



Circle 429 on inquiry card. 



UPMANSHIP. 




We opened our doors with two 
basic goals: 

To distribute as many software 
packages to as many dealers 
as possible. 

And to make money doing so. 

Our success on both counts is the 
result of hard work, a positive busi- 
ness attitude and a recognition that 
you, as a retailer, have a right to be 
treated fairly and honestly by your 
distributor. 

We're 1-up for three 
good reasons: 

1. We always offer a wide selection 
of the latest and best microcom- 
puter software packages available 
anywhere. (Why should you have 
to hunt for what you need?) 

2. Our dealer discounts start with 
quantities of 1. (Remember all 
those times you just wanted one 
or two to see how they'd sell?) 

3. We don't play The BackOrder 
Game. (If we can't ship your order 
within 48 hours we'll let you know, 
instead of hanging you out to dry.) 

If there's anything else we can do 
for you, just let us know. Because 
we're 1-up and we intend to stay 
that way. 

Software Distributors, 9929 
Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, 
CA 90230. Telex 4990032 BVHL, 
ATT: SOFT 

For our dealer info packa ge, call 
(213 ) 559-9330. 

SOFTWARE 
DISTRIBUTORS 

We won't leave you holding the bag. 



Circle 355 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



371 



Software Review 



LDOS — Disk Operating 
System for the TRS-80 



Tim Daneliuk 

4927 North Rockwell 

Chicago, IL 60625 



The TRS-80 microcomputer has 
evolved from a rather simple, cas- 
sette-based experimenter's delight to a 
complex and powerful disk-centered 
system. With disks came the necessity 
of a DOS (disk operating system) for 
control and communication with the 
computer. The first DOS came from 
Radio Shack, but independent ven- 
dors have since released others. The 
latest of these is LDOS from Logical 
Systems Inc. 

LDOS was created out of need. 
Lobo Drives International wanted to 
market a new disk interface for the 
TRS-80 Model I that supported not 



At a Glance 

Name 

LDOS |logical disk operating system] 

Type 

Systems software/disk operating system 

Manufacturer 

Logical Systems Inc. 

I 1520 North Port Washington Rd. 

Mequon, Wl 53092 

|414) 241-3066 

Price 

SI69 

Format 

5 'A -inch floppy disk 

Computer 

TRS-80 Model I or III with 32K bytes of 
memory and a disk drive 

Language 

Z80 machine language 

Documentation 

Approximately 250 pages in a three-ring 
binder 

Audience 

All TRS-80 disk system users 



only 5V4-inch floppy disks, but 8-inch 
and hard disks as well. Additionally, 
the floppy-disk interface supported 
both single- and double-density 
operation. At the time of the hard- 
ware design, no existing DOS could 
support this diversity of hardware. 
Therefore, LDOS was created. Orig- 
inally, it started as a debugged and 
enhanced version of VTOS 4.0. How- 
ever, the present version is essentially 
all new code. VTOS users will be 
quite comfortable with LDOS 
because the command structure and 
syntax of VTOS have been largely 
maintained. The present version of 
LDOS supports both the Radio Shack 
expansion interface and the Lobo 
LX-80 interface. It is compatible with 
TRSDOS 2.3. Also, it supports both 
the Percom Doubler and double-sided 
operation. A version of LDOS is also 
available for the TRS-80 Model III. 

It is always difficult to review a 
software product of this magnitude. I 
hope I have successfully avoided the 
tendency to get lost in infinite detail. I 
will stress the highlights of the system 
based on extensive use of LDOS 5.0.2 
on a Model I and limited use of LDOS 
5.1 on a Model III. The features dis- 
cussed reflect primarily LDOS 5.1. As 
this is being written, this latest ver- 
sion, called 5.1.1 for the Model I, has 
just been released. Therefore, the op- 
erating features of both Model I and 
Model III LDOS are identical. 



The LDOS Command Library 

TRSDOS 2.3 could be viewed as a 
subset of LDOS. Every TRSDOS 
command has been implemented, and 



most have been significantly en- 
hanced. LDOS also provides many 
new commands never previously 
available on any one TRS-80 DOS. 
Table 1 contains a brief listing and 
descriptions of the major enhance- 
ments and extensions found in LDOS. 
The major features are described 
below. 

If you do any assembly-language 
programming, you will find the 
LDOS extended DEBUG a tremen- 
dous tool. All of the old commands 
are included, but many new ones 
have been added, too. Some of the 
extensions are: 

• enter data directly into entire sec- 
tions of memory 

• fill a block of memory with a 
specific byte 

• jump over a byte in program execu- 
tion 

• locate first occurrence of a specific 
byte or word in memory 

• print a block of memory 

• send or display a byte to or from 
any I/O (input/output) port 

• type ASCII (American Standard 
Code for Information Interchange) 
characters directly into memory 

• compare two blocks of memory 

There is also a disk read/write utility 
that allows reading or writing to any 
sector of any disk, even the directory 
sectors! 

The fact that LDOS supports hard 
disks and 8-inch floppy disks is evi- 
dent in the changes to the DIR (direc- 
tory) command. An unconditional 
call for a disk directory on a 10-mega- 
byte hard disk would be a messy 
proposition. LDOS allows directories 



372 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



We have 
ways. 



*o 



HO 



-eo 



to make 
it talk! 



Give your computer the 
magic of speech with an 
ECHO™ Speech Synthesizer! 

There are four new models 
to choose from: the ECHO 80 
(TRS-80 models I & III), ECHO 100 
(S-100), the ECHO GP (general- 
purpose, serial/parallel) and the 
ECHO SBC (single board computer). 
These join the popular ECHO ][ (Apple). 

ECHO Speech Synthesizers use 
LPC synthesis pioneered by Texas Instruments, 
combined with a phoneme-based operating system 
to provide any vocabulary you desire while using 
a minimum of your computer's memory. 

The TEXTALKER Speech Generator, stan- 
dard with all ECHOs except the SBC, translates 
normal English text to speech automatically. 

Circle 362 on inquiry card. 




pie commands allow 
you to select from: 

63 different pitch levels 
Words spoken monotonically 
or with intonation 
Fast or slow speech output 
Entire words pronounced or 
spelled letter by letter 
Different volumes 
Spoken punctuation if desired 

Speech applications are virtually unlimited, 
ranging from education to games to aiding the 
handicapped. The flexibility and low price of 
ECHO Speech Synthesizers make them the logi- 
cal choice when adding speech to your system. 

For more information see your dealer or contact: 

STREET ELECTRONICS CORPORATION 

3152 E. La Palma Avenue, Suite D 

Anaheim, CA 92806 Telephone: 714/632-9950 



fsEcj ' 



by class and date. For example, a 
directory of only files with the exten- 
sion "/TXT" could be shown. Or all 
files created on, before, or after a 
specific date could be shown. This is a 
real time-saver when you are trying 
to find a specific file in a full disk. 
Any DIR command also shows the 
amount of free space in kilobytes on a 
specific disk, as well as the usual disk 
name, creation date, and drive num- 
ber. 

The LINK and ROUTE commands 
are very sophisticated and offer fea- 
tures normally found only on mini- 
computer and mainframe operating 
systems. LDOS is a device-indepen- 
dent operating system. Each periph- 
eral is seen by the operating system as 
a DCB (device control block) in 
memory independent of the actual 
hardware. This means that data can 
be transferred between peripherals 
(called devices) in any manner you 
want. Additionally, so-called 
dummy-devices can be created so that 
data intended for one destination can 
be made to go elsewhere (a disk file, 
for example). In essence, device- 



independence allows you to redirect 
I/O any way you like without having 
to rewrite the machine-language I/O 
drivers. This may sound terribly 
complicated, but it is extremely easy 
to use and offers unbelievable ver- 
satility. 

The ROUTE command allows you 
to change the destination of data. For 
example, routing the video to the line 
printer forces anything normally dis- 
played on the screen to be printed on 
the printer. Another application for 
ROUTE is to send anything from the 
RS-232 serial port to a disk file, in- 
stead of the screen, when the com- 
puter is unattended. LINK is similar 
to ROUTE in function. However, in- 
stead of redirecting data to another 
device, it simultaneously adds a sec- 
ond (or third, or fourth . . .) destina- 
tion device. This would allow you to 
send anything appearing on the 
screen to the printer, too, or vice 
versa. I have a disassembler that only 
goes to the screen. By linking the 
video display to the printer, the disas- 
sembled code appearing on the screen 
is simultaneously sent to the printer, 



APPEND 

ATTRIB 

AUTO 

BOOT 

BUILD 

COPY 



CREATE 

DEBUG 

DEVICE 

DIR 

DO 

DUMP 

FILTER 

FREE 



LINK 
LIST 

LOAD 
MEMORY 

PURGE 

RESET 

ROUTE 

RUN 

SET 

SPOOL 

SYSTEM 



Can ECHO to screen while appending, and can back up 1 byte in 
destination file to merge Scripsit files. 
Can make files Visible and INVisible. 
Can disable BREAK key. 
Software reset "button." Reloads LDOS. 
Creates ASCII or HEX files for PATCHing, JCL, etc. 
Simplified syntax. Can specify LRL. CLONE attributes of source file. 
ECHO characters to screen while copying. Single-drive copy from non- 
system disk. 

Preallocate disk space for a file in either kilobytes or number of 
records. 

Extended significantly (see text). 
Shows all important disk-configuration data. 
Extended significantly (see text). 
Used to execute JCL file. 

Will dump in ASCII. End of text marker can be specified. 
Modify I/O flow. 

Shows amount of space used and available, creation date, disk name, 
number of directory entries used and available, free space in K, and 
space map. Can be sent to printer. 
Change I/O flow (see text). 

Can number lines, dump in HEX, expand tabs, begin at specific record 
or line number, specify LRL, and output to printer. 
Can load from a nonsystem disk in single-drive systems. 
Can show or modify top of memory. Can display, jump to, or modify 
specific memory locations. 
Multiple kill of files. 

Reconnect peripherals to standard I/O drivers. 
Modify I/O flow (see text). 

Execute file from nonsystem disk on a single-drive system. 
Connect device to new I/O driver routine. 
Data spooler (see text). 
Configure system parameters (see text). 



Table 1: The major enhancements of LDOS as compared to TRSDOS 2.3. Not all 
library features are listed here. 



thus providing hard copy. The LINK 
command takes 10 seconds to type in; 
writing a new I/O driver could have 
taken days. 

The SPOOL command has many 
uses, but its greatest application is 
when long printouts are required. 
Rather than tying up the computer 
completely while printing, SPOOL 
sends the data to be printed to a buf- 
fer located in memory or on a disk. 
Then, as the computer has time (in 
between keystrokes, for example), 
the data are sent to the printer. You 
can choose the size of the buffer, as 
well as whether to spool to memory 
or the disk. When using SPOOL, it 
seems that the TRS-80 is doing two 
things at once. However, it's just 
using time much more efficiently! 
Small-business users will love this 
feature because you can print a long 
report or a general ledger and use the 
computer for other things at the same 
time. 

A final highlight of the LDOS 
library is the SYSTEM command. 
This allows you to customize LDOS 
for a particular installation. The disk- 
drive stepping rate, blinking cursor, 
keyboard type-ahead, and break key 
disable are but a few of the many fea- 
tures that can be configured. The 
final configuration can then be saved. 
Each time that LDOS system disk is 
booted, the configuration is also 
loaded. SYSTEM will be a real 
favorite with a single-drive user 
because it allows you to load many of 
the "/SYS" files into memory. This in 
turn frees a great deal of disk space 
for data. It also has the effect of 
speeding up disk I/O since overlays 
are not being called from the disk. 
Potentially, you could have the full 
operating system at your disposal, 
and about 60K bytes of disk space in 
a single-drive, single-density, 
35-track system. Finally, SYSTEM 
allows you to reassign which physical 
drive is logical drive 0. You must load 
LDOS the usual way, but after that 
anything goes. This will find applica- 
tion among Model III users who have 
a 35-track drive left from their Model 
I. By making this external drive the 
system drive, the two higher-capacity 
40- or 80-track drives in the Model III 



374 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Gain instant access to over 1,200 

information and communication services 

for as little as $4.25 an hour. 




They're all at your fingertips 

when you join The Source, SM 

America's Information Utility. 

The Source can improve your effi- 
ciency, speed your work, and reduce 
expenses in your organization by giving 
you access to personal and business ser- 
vices that run the gamut . From electronic 
mail and discount buying services to 
stock reports and hotel reservations. 
And in most cases, you can reach The 
Source with a local phone call using any 
standard microcomputer, communicat- 
ing word processor, or data terminal. 

Sou rce Mai 1 SM . . . faster than 

U.S. Mail, cheaper than most 

long distance calls. 

SourceMail is an electronic mail 
system that lets you send messages to 
other Source subscribers, anywhere in 
the country. Use it to 
communicate with 
your field offices or 
traveling sales 
representatives. 
Create your own 
network to clients, 
associates, outlets 
or suppliers. Store 
information for 
later retrieval 
when needed. The Source can even cor- 
rect spelling errors. 

Best of all, communicating through 
The Source can be cheaper than any 
other method . . . including long-distance 
phone, Telex, facsimile, express mail, or 
messenger. 

Streamline your business operations. 

Just feed The Source your figures 
and it will calculate your taxes, cash 
flows, equity capital, lease vs. equip- 
ment purchase, loan amortizations, 
annual interest rate on installment loans, 
depreciation schedules. Use its Model 1 
service for financial planning, simula- 
tion, and analysis. 

You can use The Source's powerful 
mainframe computers to write and store 
your own programs, with computer lan- 
guages like BASIC, COBOL, FOR- 
TRAN, RPG11 and assembly language. 
Naturally, we give you a private access 
code so your programs and data inputs 
are secure. 

Your electronic travel agent. 

Plan your trips with instant national 
and international flight schedule infor- 
mation. Use The Source Travel Club SM 
_ to arrange airline 
■2? tickets , rent a car, 
and make hotel res- 
ervations. Use The 
Source to check the 
weather ahead or find 




the best place to eat using our electronic 
Mobil Restaurant Guide. 

Instant access to the stock market. 

Whatever your investments — 
stocks, bonds, mutual funds, T-bills, 
commodities, futures or others — The 
Source will give you 
updated investment 
information 22 
hours a day. We 
go beyond mere 
market quotes to 
add economic, 
business, and 
financial commen- 
tary by noted econo 
mists and securities 
analysts. 





Get news, hot off the UPI wire. 

Around the world or around 
the corner, find out about the latest 
news straight from 
United Press 
International. 
You can select 
only the news, busi- 
ness reports, sports 
or features you want . . . 
geographically, by date, 
or subject matter. Get the 
latest update within 2Vi minutes ' 
of a filed report, or go back to 
earlier coverage. 

That's just the beginning. 

There's so much more. The Source 
has an electronic personnel search net- 
work. It lets you barter your goods and 
services with other businesses. Orders 
hard-to-find technical and business 
books direct from the publisher. Gives 
you a daily review of Washington ac- 
tivities. Lets you order thousands of busi- 
ness and consumer items at discount 
prices. Maintains your stock portfolio. 
And we're improving and adding to our 
subscriber services every day. 

Anyone can use The Source. 

You don't have to know computer 
languages or have programming skills. 
The Source operates on simple, logical 
English commands. It comes with a 
complete user's manual, categorized 
directory, and private sign-on codes. 

The Source isn't limited to your 
office. You can access it from home, or 
on the road, 22 hours a day. Use it to 
catch up with office work, or for self- 
improvement and family fun. The 
Source will play bridge with you, coach 
your children in foreign languages, 
help select dinner wines, give you the 
latest movie reviews, and more. It's 
amazingly versatile. 



The value with the guarantee. 

For all the communications and in- 
formation services, you pay only a $100, 
one-time subscription fee and $18 per 
hour during the business day when you 
are actually using it. From 6 P.M. to 
midnight and on weekends and holidays 
The Source is just $5.75 an hour. From 
midnight to 7 A.M. the rate drops to 
$4.25. Minimum monthly 
usage charge is only $10. 

What's more, we're so 
sure you'll find The Source 
just what you need, we offer a 
30-day money-back guarantee. 
If you're not completely satisfied, 
write us and cancel. We'll refund 
your $100 hookup fee in full, with- 
out question. You pay only for time 
actually used. 

See your computer dealer, mail 
coupon, or call for free brochure. 

To learn more about THE SOURCE, 
visit one of the more than 800 independent 
computer stores that offer THE SOURCE. 
Or get our free 16-page color brochure and 
index of over 1 ,200 Source services now 
by mailing the coupon or calling toll-free 
1-800-323-1718 (In 111. call 1-800-942- 
8881) and ask for Operator 91. 

Find out how much THE SOURCE 
can do for you. 

SOURCE 

AMERICA S INFORMATION UTILITY 

Department 0-2M 
1616 Anderson Road 
McLean, VA 22102 

Please send me your free 16-page 

color brochure without obligation. 



(name) 



(Please Print) 



(telephone) 



(Company if for business use) 



(address) 



(city/state/zip) 



Do you own a microcomputer, 

terminal or communicating word pro- 
cessor? 

If yes: 

(make/model) 



The Source is a servicemark of Source 
Telecomputing Corporation, a subsidiary of 
The Reader's Digest Association, Inc. 



Circle 290 on inquiry card. 



\tfryx 
software 

What does the Oryx, an African 
antelope, have in common with 
reliable service? They are both 
almost extinct. 

Oryx Software wants to bring 
trustworthy service back to life. 
We're here to stay! 

GUARANTEED LOWEST PRICES! 

To celebrate our opening, we are 
matching any advertised price. Just 
show us the ad. 



ORDER TOLL FREE 


- Outside Wl 


1-800-826-1589 




SOFTWAR 


E 


Graphpower 


299.00 


Tax Preparer '82 


127.00 




127.00 


Creative Financing 


127.00 


Word Processor 


425.00 




550.00 


Mail Management 


250.00 


Micropro Wordstar 


248.00 


Mailmerge 


90.00 


Spellstar 


169.00 


Supersort il 


159.00 


Context Connector 


180.00 


Easywriter (Pro) 


195.00 


Easymover 


45.00 


Tellstar II 


70.00 


Easymailer 


160.00 


Datadex 


249.00 


Microplan Basic ....... 


419.00 


Executive Secretary 


212.00 


Nevada CoBol 


129.00 


Visicalc (3.3) 


159.00 


Apple Panic 


25.00 


SpellGuard 


........ 239.00 


Computer Air Combat 


53.00 


PFS & Report 


80. 00 


Sublogic Flight Simulator 


28.00 


SpeedStar 


115.00 


Systems Plus Acc'tg. Module 


425.00 


Microprinter 


34.00 


Zorkll 


33.00 


Edu-ware (Apple) 


.. 35.00 


Painter Power 


34.00 


Invoice Factory 


148.00 


Locksmith 


99.00 


Raster Blaster 


25.00 


SuperCalc 


269.00 


Visiterm 


120.00 


Visiplot 


145.00 


Visidex 


159.00 


Visitrend/Visiplot 


199.00 


Magic Window 


79.00 


Intl Grand Prix 


25.50 


Estimator 


295.00 


A-stat 79 


145.00 


SuperVyz 


95.00 


Graphic Software 


19.00 


C.O.R.P. I 


235.00 


Real Estate Office Mngmt. 


425.00 


Electronic I, II. or III 


39.00 


WordPro 3 + 


. ... . 295.00 


Mailing List Program 


50.00 


Apple Doc 


49.00 



. . . AND MANY MORE! 

Quoted prices valid for stock on hand and sub- 
ject to change without prior notice. 

Ask for our FREE catalog. 

For Peripherals see our other ad. page 470 



Please: 

• Wisconsin residents - add 4% sales tax 

• Foreign orders ■ please add 15% 

• Add $2.50 for shipping per software and 
small item. Call regarding others. 

We Welcome: 

• Visa, MasterCharge - (Add 4%) 

• Checks (Allow 1-2 weeks for clearing) 

• COD (Add 4%) 

TOLL FREE - Outside Wisconsin. 
1-800-826-1589 

For Technical Info & in Wisconsin A 

715-848-2322 % 

Oryx Software 

P.O. Box 1961 • Wausau. Wl 54401 



376 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



£ 



are free to handle data disks. 

LDOS Utilities 

LDOS includes the familiar 
BACKUP and FORMAT utilities, 
which have been greatly enhanced, 
plus several new utilities. As with the 
command functions, BACKUP and 
FORMAT provide support for larger 
disk drives. BACKUP by class can be 
invoked, for example, to back up 
only nonsystem files. FORMAT pro- 
vides the necessary functions to for- 
mat disks of various sizes, densities, 
and single- or double-sided usage. As 
with most sophisticated operating 
systems, LDOS requires that a disk be 
formatted before a backup is allowed. 

CMDFILE is a utility that allows 
the transfer of files stored on tape to 
disk, or vice versa. Where necessary, 
the utility will offset program loca- 
tions from the tape version to insure 
that no conflict with the operating 
system is encountered. Disk-to-disk 
transfers are also supported. The 
PATCH utility allows modification 
of disk files to make minor changes or 
repairs without having to rewrite the 
entire file. Model III LDOS comes 
with a CONV utility to convert 
Model III TRSDOS disks to LDOS. 

A final utility of interest is 
LCOMM. It provides communica- 
tions software compatible with both 
the Radio Shack and the Lobo LX-80 
serial ports. This is not a "dumb- 
terminal" program, but a full-blown 
communications package with fea- 
tures like file transfers and download- 
ing. 

LDOS Filters and Drivers 

One of the unique features of 
LDOS is its ability to "filter" data. By 
loading an appropriate program, it is 
possible to modify data before they 
are sent to a particular device. Three 
such filters are provided with LDOS, 
but documentation is provided to 
help the assembly-language program- 
mer write others. The KEYSTROKE 
MULTIPLY filter allows you to pro- 
gram any key to generate a phrase 
when pressed. I programmed some 
commonly used BASIC phrases into 
my keyboard. By pressing CLEAR 
and G together, the phrase GOTO is 



generated. Another possible applica- 
tion for this filter would be to reduce 
complicated DOS commands to a 
single keystroke. LDOS does provide 
abbreviation for certain commonly 
used library commands such as FREE 
and DIR by means of the M1N1DOS 
filter. The third filter is the PRINTER 
filter. Its features include adding a 
linefeed after a carriage return, speci- 
fying the number of characters to be 
printed on a line, and setting the left 
margin of the printed page. 

Logical Systems is also releasing an 
entire disk of filter routines to be used 
with LDOS. This disk will sell for 
$60. It has many extended features, 
such as redefining every ASCII 
character. This would allow, for ex- 
ample, translation from ASCII to 
another data code such as EBCDIC. 
Another filter on this disk allows 
decimal and hexadecimal arithmetic 
while in another program (EDTASM, 
for example). 

LDOS has a provision for loading 
custom I/O drivers as well. With one 
command, it is possible to change 
peripheral control from the LDOS 
drivers to one you have written. An 
RS-232 driver is provided for applica- 
tions involving the serial port. 

Job Control Language 

It is impossible to do justice to the 
Job Control Language (JCL) feature 
short of writing a separate review of 
it. This is essentially a way of writing 
programs using LDOS library com- 
mands. Let's say you want to load a 
disk, and from then on have hands- 
off operation while the computer up- 
dates your mailing list, realphabetizes 
it, and prints labels. Normally, you 
would have to type in four separate 
DOS and BASIC commands: 

BASIC 

RUN "NEWDATA" 
RUN "ALPHABET- 
RUN "LABELS" 

In LDOS, you simply create a file 
with these commands in it (using the 
LDOS BUILD command or a text 
editor such as Scripsit). Then tell 
LDOS to DO this file and sit back/ 
Program execution is automatic. JCL 



Move Up to Tarbell 




The Serious Business Machine 



Do you have a small computer system that 
operates with mini-floppies and has limited storage 
capacity? Then it's time to move up to the Tarbell 
Empire Series System. Tarbell starts where small 
systems leave off, providing storage from 1 to 20 
megabytes. This means Tarbell is capable of 
growing right along with your business. (It also 
makes sense to start with Tarbell if you're a first- 
time computer buyer.) 

Tarbell is the serious general purpose business 
machine, backed by years of experience with disk 
systems. It gives you word processing, inventory 
control with bill of materials, mailing lists — all in 
addition to accounting applications: general ledger, 
payables, receivables, payroll with cost accounting 
and order entry. Whatever your need may be, 
Tarbell can provide the working software that gets 
the job done. 

With the Tarbell System you get a Z80 4 Mhz CPU 
with memory management, timer and full interrupt 
capability, 2 RS-232 serial ports with handshaking, 
64 K bytes of random-access memory, double 
density floppy disk interface, 2 double density 
floppy disk drives, cabinet, power supply, and 
cables. 



The software includes: CP/M™ 2.2 disk operating 
system, Tarbell Disk BASIC, Tarbell Database 
System, and all manuals and documentation. 

Tarbell also offers the MP/M™ Multi-User 
Operating System and 4 additional RS-232 serial 
ports. 

The Tarbell Empire Series is delivered assembled, 
tested, and with a FULL six-month warranty on 
parts and labor. 

And when you need even more mass storage, 
Tarbell also has a hard disk that's system- 
compatible and provides easy back-up. 

If your business is growing or you need more than 
a few hundred K bytes — it's time to move up to 
Tarbell. Call your local Tarbell dealer for 
competitive prices. 




The One-Stop Shopping Service 

950 Dovlen Place, Suite B 
Carson, CA 90746 
(213) 538-4251 



CP/M and MP/M are trademarks o( Digital Research 



Circle 376 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 377 



also has the capability of prompting 
the user for input from the keyboard, 
to make decisions, to wait for a 
specific time on the clock before ex- 
ecuting, and many other features. 
One application could be running 
long business programs unattended at 
night. This feature alone is worth the 
entire package price. 

LBASIC 

As with Disk BASIC 2.2, LBASIC 
is an adjunct to the BASIC interpreter 
in the TRS-80. It is compatible with 
programs written in Radio Shack 
BASIC, but has extended features 
that significantly enhance the lan- 
guage. 

LBASIC adds many new random 
and sequential file controls. One of 
the best is the implementation of the 
Blocked File mode. In this mode of 
operation, an LRL (logical record 
length) between 1 and 256 bytes per 
record may be selected. This means 
that although the physical record size 
is still 256 bytes per record, you can 
deal with logical records that are less 



than this. Let's say you wanted to 
write a random-access file that con- 
tained nothing but names up to 32 
characters long. Rather than 
FIELDing the buffer for eight separate 
data fields and writing 256-byte 
records, LBASIC allows you to have 
records that are exactly 32 bytes long 
as far as you are concerned, while 
maintaining actual physical records 
that are 256 bytes. Another random- 
access file control, OPEN, has been 
modified to allow the opening of a file 
only if it already exists or, converse- 
ly, only if it does not already exist. 

The sequential file controls have 
been enhanced as well. It is now 
possible to write to the end of (ap- 
pend) a sequential file directly 
without having to first load the file 
into memory, modify it, and write it 
back to disk. As with the random 
files, OPEN can be made dependent 
upon whether the file does or does 
not already exist. 

LBASIC implements some features 
that greatly enhance writing and 
debugging programs. The more com- 



monly used BASIC commands such 
as AUTO, EDIT, and LIST have been 
reduced to a single-letter command, 
and it is possible to single-step 
through a BASIC program. To 
facilitate program documentation 
and debugging, LBASIC includes a 
powerful line-renumber command 
and a cross-reference generator. 

Several totally new BASIC com- 
mands have been added. RESTORE 
lets you go to a specific line of a pro- 
gram rather than always to the first 
DATA statement. When chaining 
programs, it is possible to specify at 
what line of the next program execu- 
tion is to begin. Variables can also be 
passed from program to program 
while chaining. Thus, it is no longer 
necessary to save the variables in a 
file and read them back in when the 
next program has been loaded. A 
final addition is the ability to reset the 
EOF (end-of-file) marker in a random 
file, effectively allowing you to make 
random files smaller at will. 

A final enhancement in LBASIC is 
the extended use of the CMD com- 



INTRODUCING 



EXECUPORT 400 

The little portable that's making a Q |« llYIDSCtl 



• Lightweight — 12 lbs. 

• Compact - 12" by 14" 
footprint 

• Inexpensive — $795 to 
$1195 

• Plain paper impact printing 

• Multi copy capability 

• 30 cps throughput 

• 80 cps maximum print 
speed 

• RS 232 and 20 Ma interface 

• Multiple type fonts 

• Compressed print 

• Nationwide maintenance 
service 



EXECUPORT — first with the best 




hree Models Available 



420 



430 




440 



Receive Only printer (R0) 

2K print buffer 

Up to 9600 baud rate 



Keyboard Send-Receive (KSR) 



Computer Transceiver Systems, Inc. 

P.O. Box 15 • East 66 Midland Avenue • Paramus, NJ 07652 • Phone: (201) 261-6800 



Keyboard Send-Receive (KSR) 
Built-in 300 baud modem 
Dual RJ-11c phone jack 
Optional acoustic coupler 
Automatic dialing 



378 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Iric 



See us at booths 869 and 871 Interface '82 circle 85 on inquiry card. 



'". 'Mi ' 



»i*\ 



. » 

*. 



v.. V.. 






LASTING 

MEMORY™ 

a 

The LASTING MEMORY" 
uses byte-wide electrically 
eraseable PROM's (E 2 PROM's) to bring ease of 
firmware development and non-volatile memory to the S100 
bus. An E 2 PROM programmer on this 32K (8 bit only) board gen- 
erates all required timing and voltages. Single bytes can be erased and 
written using normal memory write instructions. E 2 PROM's can be operated and 
programmed in the same socket. All sockets also accomodate static RAM's and 2716 type 
EPROM's. Prices for the LASTING MEMORY 7 " start at $299 without memory IC's. Call or write for pricing on 
additional configurations. 

For your general memory needs, remember THE LAST MEMORY 7 " 64 K static RAM/EPROM board for 8 bit 
S100 systems. Prices start at less than $100. 




static memory systems inc. 

15 So. Van Buren Ave. Suite 209 
Freeport, Illinois 61032 (815) 235-8713 
9 A.M. to 4 P.M. Monday - Friday 

Circle 426 on inquiry card. 



MC, VISA accepted 
All prices net, FOB Freeport, IL 
OEM discounts available 
Dealer inquiries invited. 



mand. Any legal LDOS command 
that does not affect protected mem- 
ory can be executed from within 
LB ASIC. To do a directory, for ex- 
ample, simply type in CMD "DIR". 
You can also load "/CMD" files from 
LBASIC by typing in CMD "filespec". 

Documentation 

It is claimed that of the approx- 
imately $100,000 spent on the LDOS 
project, the manual alone cost more 



than $25,000 to develop. This is not 
difficult to believe because LDOS has 
the best, most comprehensive docu- 
mentation and manufacturer support 
I've ever seen for a microcomputer. In 
excess of 250 pages, the LDOS 
manual is plainly the work of profes- 
sionals. It will bring particular joy to 
assembly-language programmers 
because all major system entry vec- 
tors are thoroughly documented and 
all old documented TRSDOS vectors 



Listing 1: The Benchmark program used to compare the speed of TRSDOS and LDOS, 

180 CLEAR 1980 

1 10 CLS 

120 DEFINT fi-Z 

13@ ' ** Program to test sPeed of system ** 

139 ' Set display delay 

140 DODELflV=2900 

200 PRINTS 256, "Do you wish to make a <R>ead or <W>rtte test 

??"; : INPUT MODE* 

210 ' Set Read or Write mode 

22Q IF MODE*="R" OR M0DE$="r" THEN MQDE=0i GOTO 388 

230 IF I10DE*="W" OR M0DE*="w" THEN MuDE=l : GOTO 300 

240 SOSUB 9999: GOTO 260 

380 CLS 

310 PRIHTS256, " What Is the name of the file to use ??";: INPUT 

FILE* 

320 IF LEFT* (.'FILE*. 1><"R" OR LENCFILE*)>12 THEN BOSUB 9999! SOTO 

308 

343 CLS 

35S PRINT325S." Which drive shall, be used C8 to 7> ??";: INPUT 

DR1UE* 

368 IF LEN<DRIUE*>>1 OR UAL<DRIUE*>>7 THEN BOSUB 9999! SOTO 349 

378 CLS 

3S0 PRINT3256," What Logical, record length CI to 256> ??";: INPUT 

LRL* 

390 IF URL<LRL*K1 OR UP,L<LRL$>>256 THEN SOSUB 9999: GOTO 378 

480 CLS 

419 PRINT3256," How roanU records shall, be Processed ??";: INPUT 

REC 

428 IF MODE THEN CLSsPRINT3256» " If the file exists do you want 

It KILLED (VVN) ??";: INPUT KI*: ELSE GOTO 560 

430 IF KI*="V" OR KI*"'*y" THEN KI = i 

500 CLS 

510 FILE$=F.IL£#+ +DRIUE*! PRINT3256, " Fllenane : "SPILE* 

528 PRINT3384, " Record size : "SLRL* 

538 PRINTS512. " # of Records: "J REC 

540 PRINT3640.- " File MODE : ";:IF MODE 

THEN PRINT" WRITE" ELSE PR INT "READ" 
550 PRINT: PRINT" IS THIS CORRECT CSVNii ??";•: INPUT GO* 
568 IF 80*="n" OR 80*= "N" THEN RUN 
680 IF KI THEN ON ERROR GOTO 15900! IF MODE THEN KILL FILE* 

601 ON ERROR GOTO 

602 Q*=" HELLO "+ "GOODBYE" 

685 SI2E=UP,L<LRL*::':IF LRL*="256" THEN LRL*="" 

610 OPEN"r'M ! .FILE*,UflL<LRL*>iFIELD #1, SIZE-1 AS REC* 

628 PRINT8288, "START :";TIME* 

630 PRINT3416, "FINISH :"5 

648 PRINT3544; "RECORD !"J 

690 IF MODE THEN 800 

700 FOR L=l TO REC:PRINT3552,L; : GET 1,L:IF REC*=Q* THEN 1000 

ELSE NEXT: CLOSE: GOTO 908 

800 FOR L=l TO REC: PRINTS 552.- L; : LSET REC*=STR*<L>+"Thls Is a 

test, of file handling In Basic"! PUT 1, L: NEXT: CLOSE: GOTO 900 

909 PRINT3424,Tir'1E$;:PRINT;ii900, ;:EHD 

1080 PRINT" ERROR "8Q0T0 900 

9999 CLS:PRINT3488.-" I N U fi L I D RES P N S E "3 

10008 FOR TIMER" 1 TO DODELflYiNEKT ' ** PAUSE LOOP 

10001 CLS: RETURN 

15000 RESUME NEXT 



have been maintained. (I gained a 
great deal of insight into TRSDOS by 
reading the LDOS technical section.) 
The nontechnical user is by no means 
left out though. The manual is ex- 
tremely readable and full of good ex- 
amples. 

The documentation is further sup- 
ported by a toll-free telephone num- 
ber, an excellent update policy, a 
Micronet bulletin board, and a 
quarterly news magazine. The phone- 
in customer service is available for 
four hours daily. The magazine is free 
for the first year. New releases of 
LDOS can be obtained by sending $5 
and the original master disk to the 
manufacturer. If you prefer, you can 
update LDOS by logging in to Micro- 
net and copying the updated version 
at no charge. As newer versions of 
LDOS become available, existing 
owners will be able to upgrade to the 
new version for a nominal fee (de- 
pending on the nature of the new 
revision). In short, the LDOS docu- 
mentation and support system have 
no peers. They can be expected to 
become the standard by which all 
others are measured. 

Benchmarks 

LDOS boots quickly and seems to 
operate quite efficiently. One of its 
nicer features is the fact that the real- 
time clock is kept on during disk I/O 
operation. While this keeps the clock 
much more accurate than other sys- 
tems, it can lead to a rather mysteri- 
ous problem. If the disk drive is turn- 
ing at exactly 300 rpm (revolutions 
per minute), the interrupt for the 
clock can occur at the same time the 
directory track becomes available to 
be read. This can result in long waits 
during disk I/O. The problem is rem- 
edied by reducing disk-drive speed by 
several rpm. The first quarterly 
magazine includes a BASIC program 
that indicates drive speed allowing 
you to see if your drives need a slight 
readjustment. The 15 minutes it takes 
to do this minor correction is a small 
price to pay for the added clock accu- 
racy, though, and the problem is in- 
termittent and minor at most. 

Listing 1 is the Benchmark program 
used to compare the speeds of LDOS 



380 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Price 

Performance 

Reliability 




CMC IS MEETING TODAY'S 
HIGH STANDARD OF 
EXCELLENCE WITH TOSHIBA, 
CMC'S OWN SUPERFIVE AND 
SUPERTEN, 5- AND 10-MBYTE 
MICROCOMPUTERS, AND 
OTHER FINE PRODUCTS 



TOSHIBA 
DESKTOP 
COMPUTERS 



CMC International offers dealers the new Toshiba computer line, 
CP/M® -based micros with lots of flexibility... your choice of one 
or two drives, either 5V* or 8 inch. Toshiba computers come with 
C/PM, Microsoft BasicSO and CBasic® . We're proud to offer a 
system with day-in, day-out dependability, backed by one of the 
world's largest electronics manufacturers. And, we offer a com- 
prehensive dealer program including parts and module inventory, 
and prepaid freight for warranty repairs (if you ever need it). 



ALSO DISTRIBUTING: 






•Corvus 


•Tandon 


•C.ltoh 


•NEC 


•Seagate 


•MicroPro 


•Dysan 


• MPI 


•Accounting Plus 


•Epson 


•Superbrain 


•Peachtree 


•Verbatim 


•Compustar 


•dBase II 



t inn 64k RAM ' 80x24 12 " greBn 
T-200 phosphor screen, complete with 

CP/M, MBasic80 and CBasic. 

Model 3 Modal 2 

One 5 1 /4 "280k Two 5 1 /4" 280k 

Disk Drive Disk Drives 

List '3700 List $ 4500 

t ten 64k RAM - 80x24 12 " screen ' 
T-250 complete with CP/M, M BasicSO 

and CBasic. 



YOUR STOCKING DISTRIBUTOR 

\ffj A Division of Computer Marketing Corporation 



Mod. I 3 
One 8" 1 mbyte 
Disk Drive 

List '4750 



Mod. I 2 

Two 8" 1 mbyte 

Disk Drives 

List '5750 



CMC 



EXCELLENT DEALER DISCOUNTS 

To Order Call Toll Free 

1-800-426-2963 



11058 Main. Suite 125 Bellevue, WA 98004 



PHONE (206) 453-9777 



TELEX: 152 556 SEATAC 



Circle 78 on Inquiry card. 



and TRSDOS. Table 2 is a summary 
of the results of that benchmark. For 
the Model III, TRSDOS 1.3 was used. 
The Model I benchmark presented a 
problem since TRSDOS 2.3 does not 
officially support variable LRLs (i.e., 
logical record lengths less than 256 
bytes). The latest version, TRSDOS 
2.3B, does support variable LRLs on 
the Radio Shack Compiler BASIC 
package, but not with the interpreter. 
Variable LRLs are partially imple- 
mented in TRSDOS 2.3 and 2. 3B, but 
they cause errors to occur. In in- 
vestigating this, I discovered that it 
was possible to write records in this 
file mode, but not to read them. Fur- 
thermore, the write procedure ap- 
peared to work fine, except that when 
the file was to be CLOSEd an error 
message appeared. Consequently, the 
timings given for TRSDOS on the 
Model I should not be treated as true 
benchmarks. They are included here 
only as a point of interest. It is in- 
teresting to note that, even with the 
errors being generated, the figures for 
the Model I and Model III are remark- 
ably similar. This seems to indicate 
that, if Radio Shack ever imple- 
mented variable LRLs on the Model I, 
no significant improvement in effi- 
ciency could be expected unless the 
entire procedure was rewritten. 

Summary and Conclusions 

It is probably apparent that I really 
like LDOS. It is by far the most so- 
phisticated piece of systems software 
available for the TRS-80 (and prob- 
ably for any computer priced under 
$5000). It offers unprecedented fea- 
tures, giving the TRS-80 new applica- 
tions previously impossible without a 
massive programming effort. I had 
been considering selling my Model I 
and upgrading. After using LDOS, it 
became apparent that, while I might 
improve the hardware, I would be 
hard-pressed to come up with a more 
usable and better supported system in 
an affordable price range. 

Specifically, LDOS offers these 
unique features: 

• A user-oriented DOS that doesn't 
require in-depth technical knowledge 
to use well. 



• A level of documentation and tech- 
nical support almost unheard of in 
anything but minicomputers and 
mainframes. 

• Virtually problem-free operation. 
In the months I have used LDOS, the 
only problem encountered was the 
disk-speed problem mentioned 
earlier. 

• The possibility of true portability 
between members of the TRS-80 
family, as well as some S-100 com- 
puters. Versions of LDOS for the 
Model II and certain S-100 computers 
are planned. These will probably be 
CP/M-compatible to some extent and 
will allow transporting data disks be- 
tween any machines running under 
LDOS (provided the media are com- 
patible). 

• An exceptional bargain! If the in- 



dividual features of LDOS were 
bought separately, the price would be 
near $1000. The SPOOL feature 
alone would cost almost as much as 
the complete LDOS package. 

It is difficult to conceive of a 
TRS-80 user who would not benefit 
from LDOS. In fact, the overall pro- 
gramming efficiency should at least 
double. Even if you are using another 
advanced DOS, it would be worth- 
while to look into LDOS because its 
advanced features are yet to be 
rivaled in any one competitive oper- 
ating system. If you are about to pur- 
chase a disk system or a new DOS, 
you'll find LDOS to be a professional, 
debugged, and efficient tool that will 
free your time and talents to write 
better applications software. ■ 







Model III 


Model 1 


TRSDOS 1.3 


LDOS 5.1 


TRSDOS 2.3B 


LDOS 5.0.2 




Real 


Clock 


Real Clock 


Real Clock 


Real Clock 


Function 


Time 


Time 


Time Time 


Time Time 


Time Time 


Write 












New 












File 
LRL=2 


13:23 


2:09 


1:28 1:28 


13:36 


1:37 1:38 


2000 Records 












Write To 












Existing 












File 
LRL = 2 


1:21 


0:13 


0:09 0:09 


1:23 


0:11 0:11 


200 Records 












Read 












Existing 












File 
LRL = 2 


6:37 


1:54 


0:49 0:49 




1:05 1:06 


2000 Records 












Write 












New 












File 
LRL= 128 


1:52 


0:26 


1:05 1:05 


1:42 


1:28 1:30 


200 Records 












Write 












New 












File 

LRL = 256 








0:45 0:20 


0:55 0:55 


100 Records 












Read 












Existing 












File 

LRL = 256 










0:10 0:11 


50 Records 












Table 2: The results from the Benchmark program 


Times given are in minutes and 


seconds. Blank 


spaces in 


dicate tests not run on the N 


lodel III, or not possible with the 


Model I. 









382 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Double your 

disk storage capacity 




simply by switching 

to Omni's new 

reversible disk. 



If you have an Apple, TRS-80, Zenith, North Star or 
any other single-sided 5'/4" disk drive, you can 
double disk capacity by simply switching to the 
Flip/Floppy disk from Omni. It works just like your 
present disks, except you can flip it over and 
record on the reverse side. So you can consolidate 
programs and files that used to require two disks. 
You can halve your disk requirements. And save 
money. 

Each disk comes with some impressive specifica- 
tions: They're certified error-free at more than twice 
the error-threshold of your system. Rated for more 
than 12 million passes without disk-related errors or 
significant wear. And precision fabricated with such 
standard features as reinforced hub rings. 



Call Omni toll-free today. Get premium disks. Twice 
the capacity. A full money-back guarantee. 
Unbeatable price. And if you order a ten pack now, 
a free $5.00 storage case as well. 



©MNI 



Omni Resources Corporation 

4 Oak Pond Avenue, Millbury, MA 01527 
(800) 343-7620 In Mass. (617) 799-0197 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

Software Houses: We also offer duplicating and 

formatting services. 



$26.00-Five pack 

(Equivalent to lO single-sided disks) 

$5QOO-Ten pack 



(Equivalent to 20 single-sided disks) 



Send the following Flip/Floppy disks. 

I understand they have a full 90 day money-back 

guarantee if I'm not completely satisfied. 

System & model # 



Free 



Protective plastic 
storage case with each 
lO pack ordered by 

5/1/82 




Order toll-free (800) 343-7620. 
In Mass. (617)799-0197. 



Five packs @S 26. OO S 

Ten packs @ S50.00' S 

• includes plastic case 

Shipping and handling $ 

5% sales tax (Mass. only) S 

Total S 

Check (to Omni Resources) C.O.D. 

Master Card Visa 

Card # Exp.. 

Name 

Address 



1.50 



Tel 



Circle 286 on Inquiry card. 



Software Review 



COBOL for the 
TRS-80 Models I and III 



COBOL on a TRS-80 Model I? Yes, 
I was skeptical myself. Visions of 
COBOL's notoriously verbose source 
code rapidly filling memory and flop- 
py disks led me to believe that Radio 
Shack had probably exceeded the 
limitations of the TRS-80 this time. I 
have been surprised in the past by 
some things people have converted 
from mainframes and minicomputers 
to microcomputers, but COBOL 
seemed like too much. Now, after 
substantial use of the system, I can 
happily report that Radio Shack's 
COBOL package is professionally 
done and well suited to the TRS-80. 

COBOL is the most widely used 
programming language in the world. 
Over the years, the American Na- 
tional Standards Institute (ANSI) 
CODASYL committee has overseen 
the evolution of COBOL into a 
powerful language highly suited for 
business applications. It is particular- 
ly strong in its file-handling capabil- 
ities. Also, Radio Shack has an- 
nounced that all the business- 
application software it develops in 
the future for the TRS-80 Model II 
will be done in COBOL. 

Radio Shack COBOL (RSCOBOL) 
is a complete COBOL program 
development system. It implements a 
substantial portion of the ANSI 
X3. 23-1974 COBOL Standard (the 
most recently approved standard). 
The package contains two 5Vi-inch 



Rowland Archer Jr. 
Flint Ridge Apartment 59 
Hillsborough, NC 27278 



floppy disks for the TRS-80 Model I 
and one for the Model III. My report 
is based on the use of the Model I 
system. The Model III version is sup- 
posed to be functionally identical. 

The disks contain: 
1. CEDIT, a line-oriented text editor 
for preparing COBOL source pro- 
grams. This editor is similar to the 
one provided with the Model I 
EDTSAM (Editor-Assembler) pack- 
age, with tab settings for COBOL 
and several additional commands. 



2. The RSCOBOL compiler supplied 
in Z80 machine-language format. 
It produces an object file, listing 
file, and cross-reference list in a 
single pass over the source code. 

3. The RUNCOBOL run-time pack- 
age, including an interactive 
COBOL debugger. The output of 
the RSCOBOL compiler can be run 
immediately with no need to go 
through a linking/loading phase, 
such as the one required by Radio 
Shack's FORTRAN package. 



At a Glance 




Name 




RSCOBOL 


overlayed COBOL compiler, interactive 




COBOL debugger, and run-time package. 


Type 




TRS-80 COBOL development system 


Software Format 




Model 1 version requires TRSDOS 2.3B. 


Author 


which is provided with the package; 


Ryan-McFarland Corporation 


Model III version requires TRSDOS 1.1, 


Software Products Group 


which is also provided. 


Aptos. CA 95003 






Computer 


Distributor 


TRS-80 Model 1 or III with 48K bytes of 


Tandy Corporation 


RAM and at least two disk drives 


One Tandy Center 




Fort Worth. TX 76102 


Documentation 


[817] 390-3583 


Concise but complete explanation of 




system operation; lengthy and thorough 


Price 


description of language; written in the 


SI 99 


style of a reference manual, not a tutorial; 




368 pages. 


Software 




All software needed to run COBOL on 


Audience 


both Model 1 and Model III TRS-80s, pro- 


Programmers in need of a COBOL 


vided on three 5% -inch floppy disks. This 


development system for the TRS-80 


includes a line-oriented text editor, 


Model 1 or III 



384 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Interested in computers or robotics? Looking for info on 

hardware, software, theory, and applications? 

Tl3 il 11( 1 1 !l Eoft Slua offers you an incredible 
range of computer books and a huge variety of tapes 
and disks . . . ALL at low, low member prices! 




1332 
List $16.95 




Select 6 fact-filled books 
for only $2 95 



HOW TO 
DESIGN, MHO * 

A0WKC£D WORKING- 
COMPUTER STSTEIK 



'Zm&wm^ 



pw» 




(total value up to $111.70) 



1000 
Lis! SI 0.95 



Digital "*"' 

Interfacing tUitfi 



>, ™\'\ji\n\ Interfacing Willi 

TfOOKBOOK 




7 very good reasons to try 
The Computer Book Club 

Blue Ridge Summit, PA 17214 

• Reduced Member Prices. Save up to 75% on books sure to 
increase your know-how 

• Satisfaction Guaranteed. All books returnable within 10 
days without obligation 

• Club News Bulletins. All about current selections — mains, 
alternates, extras — plus bonus offers. Comes 10 times a year 
with dozens of up-to-the-minute titles you can pick from 

• "Automatic Order". Do nothing, and the Main selection 
will be shipped automatically! But ... if you want an 
Alternate — or no books at all — we'll follow the instructions 
you give on the reply form provided with every News 
Bulletin 

• Continuing Benefits. Get a Dividend Certificate with every 
book purchased after fulfilling membership obligation, and 
qualify for discounts on many other volumes 

• Extra Bonuses. Take advantage of added-value promo- 
tions, plus special discounts of software, games, and more 

• Exceptional Quality. All books are first-rate publisher's 
editions, filled with up-to-the-minute info 



r 1 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

I 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

L. 



1T"1 THE COMPUTER BOOK CLUB 
r— ^ Blue Ridge Summit, PA 17214 



Please accept my membership in the Computer Book Club 
and send the 6 volumes circled below. I understand the cost 
of the books selected is $2.95 (plus shipping/handling). If 
not satisfied, I may return the books within ten days without 
obligation and have my membership cancelled. I agree to 
purchase 4 or more books at reduced Club prices during the 
next 12 months, and may resign any time thereafter. 

554 985 1000 1050 1053 1070 1088 1101 1108 

1141 1160 1169 1187 1191 1195 1200 1209 1228 1250 

1251 1275 1277 1290 1303 1305 1332 1333 1341 



Name 



Phone 



Address 

City 

State _ 



Zip 



(Valid for new members only. Foreign and Canada add 20%. Orders outside U.S. 
or Cfinada must be prepaid with international money orders in U.S. dollars.) 

BY-382 



Circle 374 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE Much 19S2 385 



Circle 4 on Inquiry card. 



more 



SPECTACULAR 
OFFERS 



I BASF 



MAXELL 



WABASH 



OPUS 



We stock the complete line of BASF diskettes, 
reel-to-reel tapes, mag cards, disk packs and 
cartridges. We also carry MAXELL, OPUS and 
WABASH products. All are 100% certified and 
fully guaranteed. 

Box of 10 diskettes: 5Vt" 8" 



OPUS ss/sd $20 $21 

BASF ss/sd 23 24 

WABASH ss/sd 23 24 

MAXELL . TOO LOW TO QUOTE. CALL 
5V4 "-10 sector-now available 
Sectoring must be specified 



5Vt" or 8" Vinyl Storage Pages 10/S5 



LIBRARY CASES 



8" Kas-sette/10 $2.99 

5V»" Mini Kas-sette/10 . . $2.49 



£ 



Applicators 

Hardhole Rings (50) 



HARDHOLE DISK PROTECTORS 
Reinforcing rings of tough mylar 
protect disk hole edge from 
damage. 

5'/4" 

$3 
$6 



DISK DRIVE HEAD 
CLEANING KITS 

Prevent head crashes and 
ensure error-free operation. 
5'/i"or8" $19.50 




SFDC-10 CASSETTES 10/$7 

(All cass ettes include box ana labels.) 

Get 8 cassettes, C-10 
Sonic, and Cassette/8 
Library-Album, as illustrated, 
for only $8 




SNAP-IT POWER CENTER 

Turns 1 outlet into 6. Wall 

mount or portable. Circuit 

breaker, lighted switch and 

UL approved. 

4"x3"x2" ~ $19.95 



^s» 



We also offer printer ribbons, printwheels, 
type elements, equipment covers, power con- 
soles, paper supplies, storage and filing equip- 
ment, furniture and many other accessories 
for word and data processing systems. Write 
for our free catalog. 



VISA • MASTERCHARGE • MONEY 

ORDERS • CERTIFIED CHECK • FOR 

PERSONAL CHECKS ALLOW TWO WEEKS 

• C.O.D. REQUIRES A 10% DEPOSIT • CAL 

RES. ADD 6% SALES TAX • MIN $2 

SHIPPING & HANDLING • MINIMUM 

ORDER $10 • SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 

OR FULL REFUND 



PRODUCTS 



8868 CLAIREMONT MESA BLVD. 
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92123 



Toll Free 800-854-1555 Order Onl> 
For Information or California Order: 



(714) 268-3537 



A New TRSDOS? 

TRSDOS 2.3B is being provided 
with RSCOBOL, the new RSBASIC 
Model I BASIC Compiler, and the 
Series 1 Editor/ Assembler. Each of 
these packages requires TRSDOS 2.3B 
and will not run under older versions 
of TRSDOS or other disk operating 
systems from alternate vendors (at 
least not at the time of this writing; the 
alternate DOS vendors will probably 
do something to remedy this 
situation). 

Because of its dependence on certain 
features of TRSDOS 2.3B, the 
RSCOBOL package cannot be used 
without modification on systems that 
support double-density disk storage on 
the Model I, such as LDOS and 
NEWDOS/80, although the extra disk 
storage would certainly be useful for 
this package. 

A utility, UPGRADE, is provided to 
convert a disk made with older ver- 
sions of TRSDOS to run under 2.3B. 
However, once the disk is upgraded it 
can no longer be used with an older 
TRSDOS. UPGRADE also deletes any 
system (TRSDOS) files that happen to 
be on the disk being upgraded. 
Therefore, make sure you really want 
this to happen before you run the pro- 
gram! 

The major change to TRSDOS is in 
the way it maintains the end-of-file 
(EOF) information in a disk's direc- 
tory. The old systems maintained a 
2-byte count of sectors in use by the 
file, plus a 1-byte offset of the last byte 
in use in the last sector. The new 
system maintains these 3 bytes dif- 
ferently. Together, the 3 bytes com- 
prise a true total byte length of the file; 
if the EOF offset byte is not zero, the 
sector-count byte is one less than it was 
under the old system. 



Ironically, this is the way Apparat's 
NEWDOS systems have always main- 
tained the EOF internally. It was a 
"correction" to TRSDOS 2.1 noted in 
the documentation for NEWDOS 2.1, 
released more than two years ago. 
NEWDOS systems, however, convert 
the EOF data to be compatible with 
TRSDOS 2.3's "incorrect" method 
when they write the EOF to the disk 
directory. This makes NEWDOS- 
created disk files compatible with 
TRSDOS 2.3 and earlier systems, but 
incompatible with TRSDOS 2.3B — 
which uses the NEWDOS EOF method 
not only internally, but also in the disk 
directory. If you are confused, imagine 
the fun this creates when you have 
disks generated by both systems in 
your library! 

In practice, this means that any 
machine-language program that does 
physical record disk I/O and maintains 
the EOF pointer itself will not function 
properly under TRSDOS 2.3B. For ex- 
ample, you cannot use Radio Shack's 
Scripsit to edit RSCOBOL source files 
without using a utility to move the files 
back and forth between TRSDOS 2.3 
and 2. 3B disks. However, Radio Shack 
provides only a utility for converting 
all the files on a 2.3 disk to 2.3B for- 
mat. It is unfortunate that Radio Shack 
had to make these changes to 
TRSDOS, as they will certainly cause 
lots of confusion for thousands of 
TRS-80 users. [Editor's Note: TRSDOS 
2.3B is not a replacement for TRSDOS 
2.3. Radio Shack says it is only re- 
quired for use with the RSCOBOL, 
Series 1 Editor/Assembler, and 
RSBASIC Compiler packages. 

. . .sjwy 



New TRSDOS 

One of the biggest surprises of this 
package was the introduction of a 
new version of DOS (disk operating 
system) for the Model I, TRSDOS 
2.3B. I had seen no mention of this 
upgrade when I purchased 
RSCOBOL. Although this new 
release is only slightly different from 
TRSDOS 2.3, one of its changes is 
significant enough to make 2.3B disks 



incompatible with any other TRS-80 
disk operating system, including 
NEWDOS, LDOS, TRSDOS 2.3, and 
its predecessors. This raises many "in- 
teresting" (read "painful") problems 
with file sharing between the various 
systems. 

System Overview 

The RSCOBOL system is heavily 
disk oriented. It requires two disk 



386 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




NEC 

Microcomputer 




PC-8001A 32K Computer 

PC-8012A I/O Unit w/32K RAM 

PC-8013A Dual Mini-Disk Drive Unit CALL 

PC-8001 Mult] Carduvare (FDI /O & 32K) . . . prta 

CP/M 2.2 Operating System for NEC ^"" 

WordStar configured for NEC PRICES 

SuperCalc configured for NEC 

NEC Wordprocessor & Accounting Software 

Many more software packages and languages; 

(Pascal, Fortran. Cobol. etc) are available configured for 

the NEC 8001A Computer. 

Please call or write for a product price list. 

Software for the Apple 

VisiCalc version 3.3 199 

VisiFtle (NEW data base manager) 249 

VisiTrend/VisiPlot 249 

VisiDex 199 

VlsiTerm 99 

Desktop Plan II 159 

DB Master 189 

Wordstar (Apple 80-col version) 299 

Easywriter Word Processor (80 col) 199 

Tax Preparer 89 

Real Estate Analyzer 129 

Creative Financing 139 

Personal Filing System (PFS) 79 

Peachtree Accounting Software CALL 

BPI Accounting Software CALL 

Systems Plus Acctng Software CALL 

A ATARI ££££. 

■S Tir ' ATARI 800 

B7SS5T- 1 6K 

£ PLEASE CALL 

3 I FOR 
_^ J BEST PRICE 

Atari 400 w/16K 349 

410 Program Recorder 65 

810 Disk Drive 449 

825 80 col. 7x8 Dot matrix impact printer 699 

822 40 col. Quiet Thermal Printer 349 

850 Interface Module 159 

Atari 16K Ram Module 69 

Axlon Ramcram 32K Module 189 

Asteroids. Missile Command and Star Raiders . . . 35 ea. 

_$259 

Personal 
Computer 

Color ' Sound ' Graphics ^^^^^ 
Call or write for more info. 
Disk drives available soon! 




Apple Cards and Hardware 

16K RamBoard by ConComp Industries 129 

Hayes Micromodem II 299 

Novation Apple-Cat 339 

Videx Videoterm 80 Column card 249 

Videx Keyboard Enhancer 115 

Z-80 Softcard by Microsoft 299 

16K RamCard by Microsoft 159 

Thunder clock Plus clock/ calendar card 129 

Smarterm 80 column card 299 

Corvus Winchester Hard Disk Drives CALL 

ALF 3 Voice Music Card 199 

ALF 9 Voice Music Card 149 

Lazer Lower Case Plus + 55 

Lazer Keyboard Plus + 99 

23 Key Numeric Keypad by Keyboard Co 120 

Joystick II by Keyboard Co 45 

6809 CPU Card (The Mill) by Stellation 319 

AIO Serial & Parallel Interface by SSM A&T .... 189 

Music System (16 voices) 299 

A / D + D / A Interface 279 

Expansion Chassis (8 slots) 569 

Introl X-10 Controller Card 169 

Clock, Calendar Card 225 

CPS Multi-Function Card 175 

SuperTalker SD 200 159 

Romplus + Card 135 

RomwriterCard 149 

Symtec Hi-Res Light Pen 210 

Sup-R-Fan ventilation system for Apple II 45 

Sup R-Terminal 80 column card by M&R 329 

SVA ZVX4 Megabyter 8" Disk Controller 589 

SVA 2+2 Single Den 8" Disk Controller 345 

Speechlink 2000 by Heuristics 249 

Versawriter Digitizer Tablet 229 

Asynchronous Serial interface card by CCS 139 

Centronics Parallel interface card by CCS 119 

We carry all California Computer System Cards . . CALL 

We stock inony more items for the Apple II. 

Please call or write for current price list. 



16K RAMBOARD 

by ConComp 

for Apple II 
Computers 



FOR ONLY 



$ 



129 




AVAILABLE NOW 



ORDER TOLL FREE 

800-854-6654 

In California and 
outside continental U.S. 

(714) 698-8088 

Telex 695-000 Beta CCMO 




4MI 
Printers 
Epson 

MX-80 or 

MX-80 FT 

CALL 

Anadex9501 w/2K Buffer 1349 

C. Itoh Starwriter 25 CPS daisywheel 1449 

C. Itoh Starwriter 45 CPS daisywheel 1649 

Epson MX 70 CALL 

Epson MX-80 & MX-80 FT CALL 

Epson MX-100 CALL 

NEC 8023 Impact Dot Matrix 629 

NEC Spinwriters (Latest models) CALL 

Paper Tiger IDS-460G w/ graphics 899 

Paper Tiger IDS-560G w graphics 1099 

Qume Spring Dalsywheels (Latest models) . . .CALL 
Diable 630 Daisywheel 40 CPS 1795 



Video Monitors 

Amdek/Leedex Video 100 12" B&W 129 

Amdek/Leedex Video 100G 12" Green Phospher 149 

Amdek (Hitachi) 13" Colorw/audio output 389 

NEC 12" Green Phospher Display JB-1201M . .CALL 

NEC 12" Lo-Res Color Display CALL 

NEC 12" Hi-Res RGB Color Display CALL 

Sanyo 9" B&W Display 185 

Sanyo 9" Green Display CALL 

Sanyo 12" B&W Display 269 

Sanyo 12" Green Phospher Display 285 

Sanyo 13" Color Display 449 

Zenith 12" Green Phospher Display 139 




ZENITH 

12" 
GREEN 

$139 



NOW' * 



IBM 

ACCESSORIES 

BV TECMAR 



256 K Dynamic Ram Card 

Hi-Speed Parallel I/O Card CALL 

Hi-Speed Serial I/O Card FOR 

Real-Time System Clock BEST 

Card Expansion Chassis PRICES 

And Many More Accessories! 



Ordering information: Phone orders using VISA, 
MASTERCARD, AMERICAN EXPRESS, DINER'S 
CLUB, CARTE BLANCHE, bank wire transfer, 
cashier's or certitfied check, money order, or per- 
sonal check (allow ten days to clear). Unless prepaid 
with cash, please add 5% for shipping, handling and 
insurance (minimum 5.00). California residents add 
6% sales tax. Foreign customers please add 10% for 
shipping. OEM's, Institutions and corporations 
please send for a written quotation. All equipment is 
subject to price change and availability without 
notice. All equipment is new and complete with 
manufacturer's warranty (usually 90 days). 
Showroom prices may differ from mail order prices. 

Send Orders to: 

G®DDQ[°)Da , , ®D ] g Mailorder 

8314 Parkway Drive 
La Mesa, California 92041 



Circle 108 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 185 on inquiry card. 






_ con- 
de the very latest 



There's a lot of excellent computers on 
the market, but make sure you don't get 
sold a system that isn't right for your 
needs. Find out about available software 
before buying hardware or you may end 
up with a lemon instead of an apple. 

The International Microcomputer Soft- 
ware Directory (IMSD) is quite simply the 
best reference source on microcomputer 
software. Five important features have 
put it first in its field. 

1 Comprehensive: Our database con- 
tains lull details ot over seven thousand 
programs covering every conceivable 
business application. 

2 Up-to-date: The directory is being 
tinually updated to include the very I 
software available. 

3 Relevant: The IMSD only contains pro- 
grams specifically written for microcom- 
puters. 

M Easy-to-use: Fully indexed and cross- 
referenced so you can access the infor- 
mation you need in a matter of seconds. 

5 Independent: We have no affiliation 
with any computer manufacturer or soft- 
ware houses listed so all the information is 
completely objective. 

ON-LINE SERVICE: The IMSD is available on- 
line through Lockheed Dialog Information Ser- 
vices starting early 1982. 

ON-DEMAND SERVICE: We are also able to 
provide up-to-the-minute information on de- 
mand by telephone or mail. 

MINI-COMPUTER DIRECTORY: Available 
early 1982. Details on request. 



1982 Edition now avallabla — Include* 
January '82 update. ORDER YOUR COPY 
TODAY — ONLY S34.95. 

No risk ofler. II not absolutely delighted, pur- 
chase price will be relunded. 



Name _ 
Address 



I . Check enclosed, please add $2.95 
postage 

All Major credit cards accepted. Telephone 
orders welcome. 

Ace. No. 



Please state which . 



Exp. Date . 



imprint ^oFtcoarc 

420 SOUTH HOWES 
FORT COLLINS. CO 80521 
TEL (3031 482-5574 



drives. Since the compiler and the 
run-time module both use overlays, 
these disks must always be online 
during compilation and execution. 

During compilation, the files in 
table 1 must be online. During execu- 
tion of COBOL programs, the files in 
table 2 must be online. The best way 
to set up the disks in a two-drive 
system has the disk in drive contain- 
ing TRSDOS and either all the files 
needed to compile a program or all 
the files needed to run one. This 
allows the disk in drive 1 to be for- 
matted as a "data disk," with all its 
space available for COBOL source 
code, object code, and/or the files 
used by applications programs. In 
fact, the disk containing both 
TRSDOS and the run-time system 
has enough space for a sizable 
COBOL object program, allowing 
drive 1 to be used entirely for data. 

Unfortunately, Radio Shack didn't 
see it this way and its disks are set up 
differently. Only the run-time disk 
contains the TRSDOS system files. 
This disk does not contain the run- 
time debugger overlay, RSCBLD13/ 
OBJ. That file is on the disk that must 
go in drive 1. The second disk con- 



tains the COBOL compiler, all 
overlays, and the COBOL editor. E 
since this disk does not conti 
TRSDOS, you must have a disk cc 
taining TRSDOS in drive while y 
are compiling. Where should you p 
your COBOL source code and obji 
code? Take your pick, but you mi 
share space on the same disk w 
either TRSDOS or the compiler a 
its overlays. 

Why the fuss about file placemei 
After all, can't you just use COPY 
move the files around to achieve 
more logical placement? Due to an 
explicable move on Radio Shac 
part, you can't. Although the disk; 
a whole can be copied using 
BACKUP utility, all the COB' 
system files are password pro tec 
and can't be copied individual 
Frankly, the logic of this escapes r 
There is no protection against pira 
as both disks may be copied fre 
with no restrictions. But the licen; 
owner of the system is prevem 
from moving individual files arou 
to increase the usefulness of 
system. Does anyone in Fort Wo 
care to explain this policy? It is eit! 
a slip-up or Radio Shack is trying 



File Function 




Size, GRANS 


RUNCOBOL/CMD COBOL Run-time 
RSCBLD13/OBJ Debugger overlay 

(Only needed if 
debugger is used) 




25 
2 


"One GRAN = five 256-byte sectors, or 1280 bytes. 
Table 1: These files must be online during program 


compilation. 





File 




Function 




Size, GRANS 


RSCOBOL/CMD 
RSCBL213/OBJ 
RSCBL313/OBJ 
RSCBL413/OBJ 




COBOL Compiler 
Compiler overlay 
Compiler overlay 
Compiler overlay 




23 
6 
6 
5 


*One GRAN = five 256-byte sectors, or 1280 bytes. 
Table 2: These files must be online during program 


execution. 





388 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ONE-STOP 
LEASING 



at your 
FALS Dealer. 




FORD 



Your Ford Authorized Leas- 
ing System Dealer offers a 
comprehensive package of 
benefits designed to take 
the hassle out of leasing a 
car. Just purchase the 
parts of the package that 
suit you best. It's as simple 
as that. 
• The Ford Extended 



Service Plan gives parts 
and service protection 
beyond the normal car 
warranty • FALS Main- 
tenance Leasing. It means 
your car is cared for by 
Ford-trained professionals 
using the latest diagnostic 
equipment and tools • A 
Ford Auto Club member- 
ship provides you with 



emergency road service 
reimbursement • Preferred 
Insurance Program. Your 
insurance can be conven- 
iently arranged by your 
FALS Dealer. One-stop 
leasing. It's simple, com- 
prehensive and hassle free. 
Just see your FALS Dealer 
for details. 

Check your Yellow Pages for 
your nearest Ford Authorized 
Leasing System Dealer. 




FALS 

FORD AUTHORIZED LEASING SYSTEM 




LOOK OUT WORLD 
HERE COMES FORD 




Circle 160 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE M»rch 19B2 389 



KISS 
BASIC 

GOODBYE 



Announcing the new quick and easy 
way to write custom business applications 

in hours instead of weeks. 




At last, you can get a microcomputer 
business application development system 
that is designed tor one purpose 
only . . . fast production of bug-free 
professional-looking custom business 
applications. 

"Thinks" the Way Business Thinks 

Quic-N-Easi is the revolutionary screen- 
format-oriented application development 
system that thinks in terms of transactions, 
records and fields. The same way business 
thinks. Quic-N-Easi expects an application 
to include custom formatted key entry. It 
lets you set up the character, field, and 
record validity checks business wants by 
merely filling in the blanks. It automatically 
signals in real time when errors occur 
and "explains" what is wrong in plain 
English messages you select for each 
custom application. 

Much Faster than BASIC 

Quic-N-Easi programming is much faster 
than BASIC because the standard busi- 
ness applications (key input, file handling, 
and output reporting) are handled via 
pre-programmed parameter driven sub- 
routines. To produce finished professional 
looking custom business programs, you 
merely: 

Draw the business formats directly 
on the CRT in minutes. 

Fill in the blanks for field attributes, 
validations, tables, etc. 

Invoke the Quic-N-Easi interpreter 
to check fields against tables, check 
limits, access data files, and perform 
business calculations, etc. 



Optionally define file and output 
formats right on the screen. 

Pays for Itself in a Week 

By eliminating the coding drudgery of 
writing screen, field, file, and format 
programs in BASIC, programmers are 
free to concentrate on the unique business 
aspects of each custom application. No 
professional programmer can afford to 
develop one more business application 
without Quic-N-Easi. The savings are so 
significant with Quic-N-Easi, it can actually 
pay for itself in only one week. 

Gives You Much More than a 
Screen Builder . . . the Only 
Complete Business Development 
System for Microcomputers 

Quic-N-Easi handles the entire application 
development job from key entry to final 
output. You get everything you need, 
including detailed documentation to begin 
writing professional programs the first 
day. You get . . . 

r^3 A singularly capable Quic-N-Easi 
' — ' screen builder 



H 
H 

a 



A comprehensive parameter driven 
Quic-N-Easi content editor 

rn A full Quic-N-Easi interpreter 
'— ' language 

nD A complete Quic-N-Easi file 
'-— ' management system with Index 
Sequential, Random, and 
Sequential File Access Method 

r^l A complete Quic-N-Easi print format 
*—-> handler 

F^J A detailed Quic-N-Easi reference 

'— ' manual 



390 BYTE March 1982 



r.1 A Quic-N-Easi self-teaching guide 
["ill A Quic-N-Easi quick reference card 
rn An interface to other program files 

ORDER NOW— Don't Waste 
One More Day Coding BASIC 

Your time is too valuable to waste hours 
on end writing BASIC code. The first 
week you use Quic-N-Easi, your finished 
business programs will look better, run 
better, and return more dollars to you. 
Don't delay. Order Quick-N-Easi today. 
Phone.. .215 968-0689 

num- n - gasi 

STANDARD MICROSYSTEMS INC. 

136 GRANITE HILL COURT. LANGHORNE. PA 19047 

Pricing Information 

■ Complete Quic-N-Easi system $395 

■ Manual only $60 

■ Visa and Mastercard accepted 

■ Dealer Inquiries Invited 

Minimum System Requirements 

Z80 • 48K • Floppy Disc 

• CP/M (except TRS80 Mod III) 

Disk Formats 

8" Single Density • VECTOR 
GRAPHICS • MICROPOLIS Mod 2 • 
TRS80 Mod II • TRS80 Mod III • APPLE 

• OSBORNE • INTERTEC • ZENITH 

Apple, CP/M, Intertec, Micropenis, and TRSBO are 
trademarks of Apple Computer, Digital Research, Intertec 
Data Systems, Micropolis Corp., and Tandy Corp. 

Circle 358 on inquiry card. 



TM 



Listing 1: A sample program created using the COBOL development system. The pro- 
gram searches sequential disk files for records that match the key entered by the user. 
For a further explanation of how this COBOL program operates, see the text box on 
page 392. 



TRS-80 Modi?]. 
SOURCE FILE i 



I/III COBOL 
SAMPLE 



(RM/COBOL 1.3B) 



08/17/81 08S30! 

OPTION LIST! <T X l...==l 0=1 



DEBUG PI3/LN A ... I? 



1 
2 
3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

1<S 
17 

IS 

19 
20 

21 

22 
23 
2') 
25 
2<6 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
561 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
61 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
76 
77 
78 
79 



SO 
J-0000 

»00OA 

:000C 
>00 0C 
>0014 
S-001C 



>0I)50 
s-0 050 



IDENTIFICATION DIVISION . 
PROGRAM-ID • 

SAMPLE . 
AUTHOR. 

ROWLAND ARCHER . 
DATE-WRITTEN. 

29 JULY 1981. 

ENVIRONMENT DIVISION . 

CONFIGURATION SECTION . 
SOURCE-COMPUTER. RMC. 
OBJECT-COMPUTER . RMC. 

INPUT-OUTPUT SECTION . 

FILE-CONTROL . 

SELECT INFILE ASSIGN TO INPUT i 



DATA DIVISION. 

FILE SECTION. 
FD INFILE 

LABEL RECORDS ARE DMITTE 

01 INFILE-RECORD 

WORKING-STORAGE SECTION . 

01 IN-RECORD. 

05 RECORD-KEY 

05 REST-OF-RECORD 

01 U8ER-QUIT8-FLAG 
88 USER-QUITS 

1 MORE-DATA-REMAINS-FLAG 

813 NO-MORE -DATA-REMAINS; 
88 MORE-DATA-REMAINS 



01 



000100 
II 1 1 

000120 

000130 
0(1 01 40 
000150 
00 0160 
000.170 
000180 
000190 
020 
0210 
00220 
0230 
0210 

0250 
000260 
0270 
000280 
0290 

030 

0310 

0320 

0330 

0340 

0350 

000360 

00370 

000380 

0390 

000100 

000410 

000420 

0430 

0440 

000450 

000460 

0470 

000480 

0490 

050 

0510 

0520 

0530 

0540 

0550 

0560 

0570 

05(30 

000590/ EJECT 

060 PROCEDURE DIVISION. 

000610 

0620 

0630 

0640 

0650 

0660 

0670 

0680 

0690 

000700 

000710 

0720 

0730 

000740 

0750 

0760 

000770 

0780 

0790 

000800 

000810 

0820 

000830 

0840 

0850 

0860 

000870 

08(30 



" INFILE /D AT ::l.' 



PIC X<80> . 



FTC X(5> . 
PIG XC75) . 

PIC XXX VALUE "NO" . 

VALUE "YES' 

PIC XXX VALUE "YES" 

VALUE ■ NO " . 

VALUE "YES" 



REQUEST-KEY-MSG . 

05 FILLER PIC X<40) 

VALUE "TYPE SELECTION KEY (OR Q TO QUIT)". 



WAIT-MSG. 

05 FILLER 

value "hit centers 
05 wait-char 

select-key 



PIC X<40) 
TO CONTINUE". 
PIC X(2> . 

FTC X(5) . 



RECORD-SELECTION-AND-DISPLAY. 

PERFORM GET-KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE 

UNTIL USER-QUITS. 
STOP RUN. 

GET-KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE. 

DISPLAY REQUEST-KEY-MSG » LINE Zr ERASE. 
ACCEPT SELECT-KEY » POSITION ll> PROMPT* ECHO. 
IF SELECT-KEY ■ "Q" 

MOVE: "YES" TO USER-QUITS -FLAG 
ELSE 

OPEN INPUT INFILE 

PERFORM SEARCH-FILE-AND-DI8PLAY-RECORD 
UNTIL NO-MORE-DATA-REMAINS 

CLOSE INFILE 

MOVE "YES" TO MORE-DATA-REMAINS-FLAG 

DISPLAY WAIT-MSG 

ACCEPT WAIT-CHAR i POSITION v PROMPT » ECHO. 

SEARCH-FTLE-AND-DISPLAY- RECORD . 
READ INFILE INTO IN-RECORD 

AT END MOVE "NO" TO MORE-DAT A-REMAINS-FLAG . 
IF MORE-DATA-REMAINS 

AND RECORD-KEY IS EQUAL TO SELECT-KEY 

DISPLAY IN-RECORD . 

END PROGRAM. 



sell more disk drives. [Editor's Note: 

Radio Shack replied saying that they 
have been using this same method of 
protecting their application software 
program files on all Model II soft- 
ware. They stressed that this does not 
represent a change in Tandy policy 
and emphasized that there are no 
restrictions on backups, only on 
copying individual files. . . .SJW] 

For those who own disk editors 
such as Apparat's Superzap and are 
familiar with the disk-directory struc- 
ture, it is a simple matter to overcome 
this problem by zapping the pass- 
words. However, sensible use of the 
system should not be restricted to 
those with this knowledge. 

One of the biggest 
surprises was the 
introduction of a 

new version of DOS 
for the Model I. 

On the positive side, all com- 
ponents of the RSCOBOL system ap- 
pear to honor the high memory 
pointer address stored at location 
hexadecimal 4049. This is not docu- 
mented, but by using a disassembler I 
found code referencing hexadecimal 
4049 during the start-up phase of 
both the compiler and the run-time 
package in a manner that suggested it 
was using hexadecimal 4049 as a 
pointer to the top of available 
memory. I have also been using a 
serial printer driver that protects itself 
by storing the last available address 
below itself at hexadecimal 4049. I 
have experienced no difficulties with 
the use of this driver during compila- 
tion and execution of COBOL pro- 
grams. If you have an application for 
this, I recommend careful testing to 
make sure that it works. 

In case you haven't seen a reference 
to this before, most Model I DOS 
systems, including TRSDOS 2.3B, 
store a pointer at location hexa- 
decimal 4049 to the last byte of 
available memory. Anything stored 
after the address contained in hexa- 
decimal 4049 is "protected"; pro- 
grams that follow this protocol, as 
RSCOBOL appears to, are careful not 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 391 



A Sample RSCOBOL Program 

The sample RSCOBOL program 
shown in listing 1 prompts the user to 
type in a selection key (a string of up to 
five characters); it then reads through a 
sequentially organized disk file and 
compares the first five characters of 
each record in that file against the 
string typed in at the keyboard. All 
records whose first 5 bytes match the 
specified string are listed on the screen. 
This process is repeated until the user 
types Q instead of a key value. 

The IDENTIFICATION DIVISION 
of the program, lines 1 through 7, is 
treated as a comment by the compiler. 
It tells the program's name, its author, 
and the date it was written. 

The ENVIRONMENT DIVISION 
contains a CONFIGURATION SEC- 
TION. This identifies the SOURCE 
COMPUTER, or the system on which 
the program was compiled, as RMC 
(Ryan-McFarland COBOL). The OB- 
JECT COMPUTER is the system on 
which the program will run; this is also 
RMC. 

The INPUT-OUTPUT SECTION 
serves to establish connections be- 
tween real disk file names and program 
identifiers for files. In this instance, 
line 17 logically connects the program 
file identifier INFILE with the TRSDOS 
file INFILE/DAT-.l. A program 
variable could have been specified in- 
stead of the literal string 
INFILE/DAT:1, which would have 
allowed the file name to be specified at 
run-time rather than compile-time. 
The keyword INPUT specifies that this 
file is to be used for INPUT only. 

The DATA DIVISION contains 
declarations for all program variables. 
Program variables in COBOL are 
referred to as "data items. " The FILE 
SECTION contains a description of the 
disk records that will be read from the 
sequentially organized file INFILE. The 
WORKING-STORAGE SECTION 
contains declarations for all the pro- 
gram data items. IN-RECORD is the 



name for the "group" data item com- 
prising RECORD-KEY and REST-OF- 
RECORD. The clause PIC X(5) on 
RECORD-KEY declares that data item 
to be a 5-byte long string of 
alphanumeric characters. (PIC stands 
for PICTURE; X stands for a number 
or an alphabetical character.) 

The data item USER-QUITS-FLAG 
in line 32 illustrates one of COBOL's 
powerful tools for enhancing program 
readability. This flag is a 3-byte 
character string (PIC XXX) that initial- 
ly has the value "NO". USER-QUITS 
in line 33 is a "Level 88" item; it gives a 
name to a possible value of USER- 
QUITS-FLAG. In line 54 of the pro- 
gram, the statement PERFORM GET- 
KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE UNTIL 
USER-QUITS serves to repeatedly per- 
form the code paragraph labeled GET- 
KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE until the 
USER-QUITS-FLAG assumes the value 
named by USER-QUITS, in this case 
the string "YES". MORE-DATA- 
REMAINS-FLAG is another example 
of the use of "Level 88" data items. 

REQUEST-KEY-MSG and WAIT- 
MSG are data items containing 
prompts to be printed on the screen 
using the DISPLAY statement. The 
VALUE clause gives them initial 
values. 

The PROCEDURE DIVISION of a 
COBOL program is where the work 
gets done. It is divided into "para- 
graphs, " each labeled by a name start- 
ing in the second column. The first 
paragraph is named RECORD-SELEC- 
TION-AND-DISPLAY. It contains 
only two statements: one that has been 
explained already, and STOP RUN, 
which halts program execution and 
returns control to TRSDOS. 

The next paragraph, labeled GET- 
KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE, is the one 
PERFORMed repeatedly by the first 
paragraph. It clears the screen 
(ERASE) and puts the REQUEST-KEY- 
MSG on the second line of the screen. 



It then ACCEPTS a user response from 
the keyboard, which goes into the data 
item called SELECT-KEY. POSITION 
means leave the cursor where it is; 
PROMPT puts out a prompt of under- 
scores the size of the data item 
SELECT-KEY; ECHO sends what is 
typed at the keyboard to the screen. 
The user is not allowed to type in more 
characters than will fit in the data item 
(one per underscore prompt 
character). 

The IF statement in line 61 tests the 
value of SELECT-KEY typed by the 
user; if Q is typed, it puts the value 
"YES" in the USER-QUITS-FLAG. 
This causes termination of the program 
because the UNTIL USER-QUITS test 
in line 55 now evaluates as true. 

If the user types anything other than 
Q, the ELSE part of the IF statement is 
executed starting at line 64. The file IN- 
FILE is opened for INPUT, and the 
paragraph SEARCH-FILE-AND- 
DISPLAY-RECORD is performed for 
each record in the file. When the file 
has been completely processed, it is 
closed in line 67, the flag MORE- 
DATA-REMAINS is reset to "YES" for 
the next time through the loop, and a 
messsage is displayed telling the user to 
hit the ENTER key to continue (lines 
69 and 70). 

The SEARCH-FILE-AND-DIS- 
PLAY-RECORD paragraph reads the 
next record from INFILE into the data 
item IN-RECORD. When the end of 
the file is reached, the word "NO" is 
put into the MORE-DATA- 
REMAINS-FLAG. This makes the test 
UNTIL NO-MORE-DATA-REMAINS 
in line 66 evaluate as true. If the end of 
the file is not reached, the RECORD- 
KEY field of the record read in from 
the file is compared to the SELECT- 
KEY typed in by the user. If they 
match, the entire record is displayed 
on the screen by the DISPLAY state- 
ment in line 77. 



to use any memory past this point. 
This means that you can load any 
machine-language routines into high 
memory and set hexadecimal 4049 to 
point below them; the RSCOBOL 
system will not clobber your 
machine-language programs. 

To give you a feeling for the 



system, I will explain the procedure 
followed to create, compile, and run 
the COBOL program shown in listing 
1. This is a short (by COBOL stan- 
dards) program that searches a se- 
quential disk file (very similar to a 
BASIC sequential file) for records 
whose key fields match the one typed 



in at the keyboard. All matching 
records are displayed on the screen. 

COBOL Editor 

To create a COBOL source pro- 
gram, some type of text editor must 
be used. If you are accustomed to 
full-screen editors, you will be disap- 



392 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




The Newest, Easiest to Use 
Low-Cost Word Processor 



Available 
for the Apple II™ 



The word processor you choose 
should be powerful, yet simple to use. 
It should have the features of expensive 
word processors, and still be reason- 
ably priced. And it should be able to 
run on any Apple II computer without 
requiring you to spend a few hundred 
dollars to buy additional hardware to 
make the program compatible with the 
computer. 

The word processor that best meets 
these requirements is Hayden's new PIE 
Writer: Word Processing System. 
Here's what John Martellaro of Peelings 
II magazine (the only independent 
magazine devoted solely to the evalua- 
tion of Apple software) has to say 
about an earlier version of PIE Writer, 
". . .one of the best Word Processors 
available for the money. It has an abun- 
dance of user-oriented features. . .is 
very fast and has a powerful editor 
. . .has to be considered a best-buy 
word processor. For the money spent, 
it cannot be beat. The aesthetics of 
the input, the power of the editor and 
formatter and the flexibility are 
impressive." 

PROPORTIONAL AND 
INCREMENTAL SPACING 
ADDED 

And now PIE Writer is even better. 
We've added the ability to do incre- 
mental spacing so that fractions of a 
space can be added between words 
when justifying text. This makes the 
distribution of the space required to fill 
out a justified line more uniform and 
less noticeable. In addition, with its op- 
tional proportional spacing formatter 
program, PIE Writer becomes the 
ONLY word processor that can print 
true proportionally spaced documents. 
Even WordStar™ at almost 3 times the 
price, can't do that. PIE Writer can also 



save the final formatted text on a disk 
for printing at a later time. 

PIE WRITER IS EASY TO USE 

Because it is so simple to learn, PIE 
Writer can be used by anyone who can 
use a typewriter. The new, simplified 
manual and interactive tutorial will 
have even the inexperienced user up 
and running quickly. In just a matter of 
minutes you will learn how to enter and 
delete text, modify what has already 
been entered and format your infor- 
mation so that it is printed exactly the 
way you want it. 

PIE WRITER IS VERSATILE 

Versatility and compatibility are two 
important features of PIE Writer. While 
some word processors for the Apple II 
computer will only work with specific 
accessories, such as 80-column display 
boards, lowercase adapters and 
printers. PIE Writer is versatile enough 
to work with almost any combination 
of these. For example, the standard ver- 
sion is available for use on standard 
Apple II computers with a 40-column 
display. However, if you have any of 
the commonly available 80-column dis- 
play boards, such as the Videx Video 
Term, Sup'r Term, Smarterm or Dou- 
ble Vision, we have a version of PIE 
Writer for you. Specify the version you 
want when ordering. 

While the standard Apple computer 
does not permit the user to enter lower- 
case characters from the keyboard, PIE 
Writer does. Even more, PIE Writer 
supports a wide variety of lowercase 
adapters that are available, such as 
those that are available from Dan Pay- 
mar, Lazer Systems and Videx. 

In addition, PIE Writer permits the 
user to display and print lines as long 
as 132 characters (for the 80-column 
version of PIE Writer). If you want to 



see what your text will look like on the 
printed page before it gets there, you 
can preview the final page 24 lines at a 
time and check for page breaks and 
even get a final page count before the 
document is printed. 

So why settle for less than the best. 
Get PIE Writer today. A comparison 
with the other leading word processor 
ought to convince you. 





PIE 






Writer 


WordStar™ 


Incremental spacing 






(microspacing) 


Yes 


Yes 


Proportional spacing 


Yes* 


No 


Split and glue 


Yes 


Yes 


Word Wrap Around 


Yes 


Yes 


Page scrolling 






(forward & backward] 


Yes 


Yes 


Supports upper & 






lower case adapters 


Yes 


Yes 


Automatic centering 


Yes 


Yes 


Custom form letters 


Yes 


Yes 


Saves text or 






binary files 


Yes 


No 


Flexible formatting 


Yes 


Yes 


Suppressed & 






continued page 






numbering 


Yes 


Yes 


Hyphenation 


No 


Yes 


Save text segment to 






a new file 


Yes 


Yes 


Insert text from 






another file 


Yes 


Yes 


Underlining 


Yes 


Yes 


Automatic search 






& replace 


Yes 


Yes 


Edits page breaks 


Yes 


Yes 


Status display 


Yes 


Yes 


80-column board ver- 






sions for the Apple 


6 


3 


Price of software 


SI 49.95 


S375.00 


Total installed price 


SI 49.95 


S724.00** 


* Optional 






* "Includes S349 for a Z80 card. 





How to order: call 800-631-0856, or 
write to Hayden Book Co., Inc., 50 
Essex Street, Rochelle Park, N.J. 
07662. Also available from your local 
computer store. 



WordStar is a registered trademark of MicroPro International. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc neither 
is affiliated with Hayden Book Co 



Circle 175 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 393 



W.litVHil^iHiliV.'llil^illJJII^M.lMK.lll.-fJiU 

CP/M 
SOFTWARE 



LARGEST SELECTION 
IN U.S.A. 




dBASE II 

Ashton-Tate 


QUICKSCREEN 8 

Fox & Geller 


WORDSTAR* 

Micropro 


«i95 


'149 


'299 


CB-80 9 

Compiler Systems 


SUPERCALC* 

Sorcim 


MICROTAX* 

Microtax Systems 


'419 


'239 


CALL 


SPELLSTAR 8 

Micropro 


MAILMERGE® 

Micropro 


T/MAKER* 

Lifeboat Assoc. 


'169 


*99 


'229 


MICROPLAN* 

Chang Labs 


CALCSTAR® 

Micropro 


BASIC 8 
COMPILER 

Microsoft 


'349 


'219 


'325 


BASIC 8f/ 

Microsoft 


SELECT® 

S.I.S. 


FMS-80 S 

Systems Plus 


'284 


'395 


^9 



SAVE ON HARDWARE 



TELEVIDEO910 '. .$575.00 MICROSOFTSOFTCARD $289.00 

TELEVIDEO950 $955.00 ALTOS PRODUCTS LESS 20% 

C ITOHSTARWRITER $1429.00 ZENITH PRODUCTS LESS20% 

C. ITOH PROWRITER $559.00 CCS. PRODUCTS LESS 20% 

IDS560G $1060.00 ARCHIVES PRODUCTS LESS20% 

XEROX COMPUTERS LESS 15% 

CP/M is a Trademark of Digital Research 



CORPORATION OF AMERICA 

10 MAZZEO DRIVE, RANDOLPH, MA. 02368 

617-903-7220 



SOFTWARE - HARDWARE - SUPPLIES - DISCOUNT PRICES 




pointed with RSCOBOL's editor. Un- 
til there is a version of Scripsit or 
another full-screen editor that works 
with TRSDOS 2.3B, your only op- 
tion is to use the line-oriented editor 
included with the RSCOBOL pack- 
age. This editor, CEDIT, is written in 
assembly language. It is very similar 
to the original Model I EDTASM 
(Editor-Assembler) package, which in 
turn bears a close resemblance to the 
Level II BASIC editor. CEDIT does 
have a few enhancements, most 
noticeably the inclusion of a global 
"replace text" command. All CEDIT 
commands can be abbreviated to a 
single letter. 

If you are accustomed 

to full-screen editors, 

you will be 

disappointed with 

RSCOBOL's editor. 

CEDIT loads all the text to be 
edited into memory and saves every- 
thing to disk at once. It is not a 
memory buffer editor, such as the one 
supplied with Radio Shack's FOR- 
TRAN package. Thus, you are re- 
stricted to editing files that will fit in 
memory all at one time. CEDIT saves 
COBOL source programs on disk in a 
plain ASCII format; blanks and line 
numbers are not compressed in any 
way. 

If you look through the CEDIT 
portion of the RSCOBOL manual, do 
not be misled by the section titled 
"Source File Format" on page 3. It im- 
plies that each line of source code 
takes up its own 256-byte disk record. 
Fortunately, this is not true. Source 
code lines are packed together and 
terminated by carriage returns, as in 
most other TRS-80 editors. The entire 
file is terminated by a hexadecimal 
1A byte. 

When you are ready to use CEDIT 
to create a COBOL source program, 
you must decide which disks to put 
online. I have a disk that contains 
TRSDOS, CEDIT, and the 
RSCOBOL compiler. This disk goes 
into drive 0, and a blank disk in drive 
1 holds the COBOL source code being 
edited. Decide in advance which disk 



94 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 359 on inquiry card. 



A feast of 
computing ideas. 



iM&Li 



P0TO8EB 1881 




You'll love every byte. 

If you work with a 6502 or 6809 based 
system, you're probably hungry for the 
facts and ideas that will help you under- 
stand the inner workings of your com- 
puter. You want to go beyond canned 
software-use your computer for more 
than games- learn the advanced pro- 
gramming techniques that enable you 
to get the most out of your 6502/6809 
system. 

MICRO, The 6502/6809 Journal, 
gives you page after page, month after 
month, of solid information to sink your 
teeth into. MICRO is the premier how-to 
magazine for serious users of the Apple, 
PET/CBM, OSI, Atari, AIM, SYM, KIM, 
and all 6809 based systems including 
the TRS-80 Color Computer. It's a re- 
source journal internationally respected 
by professionals in business, industry, 
and education. 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES (U.S. dollars) 
Yearly subscription (ISSN 027-9002) 
saves 20% off the single-issue price. 
U.S., $24 (SPECIAL OFFER: Save 30% 
off single-issue price: 2 years, $42) 
Other countries, $27 (via surface mail. 
Foreign air rates available on request.) 



Get more out of your Apple . . . 



with the MICRO 

ON THE APPLE series 



/AlCftO 

on the Apple 



Volume! 



INCLUDES I 
DISKETTE | 




VOLUME 2 just released! 

More than 40 new programs on diskette 
to help you get more from your Apple: 

• Machine Language Aids 

• I/O Enhancements 

• Runtime Utilities 

• Graphics and Games 

• Hardware and Reference Infor- 
mation 

31 choice articles 

46 tested programs on diskette 
(1 3 sector DOS 3.2 format) 

Volume 1 also available at $24.95. 
Together MICRO on the Apple 1 & 2 
provide more than 70 programs on disk- 
ette for less than $1 .00 each. No need 
to type in hundreds of lines of code. 



with the most impor- 
tant book ever 
published for the Apple 




The most comprehensive description 
of Apple II firmware and hardware ever 
published — all in one place. 
What's Where in the Apple? 

• Guides you— with a numerical At- 
las and an alphabetical Gazetteer— to 
over 2,000 memory locations of PEEKs, 
POKEs and CALLs. 

• Gives names and locations of vari- 
ous Monitor, DOS, Integer BASIC, 
and Applesoft routines— and tells you 
what they're used for. 

• Helps BASIC users to speed up 
their programs. 

• Enables assembly language pro- 
grammers to simplify coding and inter- 
facing. 

All Apple users will find this book help- 
ful in understanding their machine, and 
essential for mastering it! 



* Look for all these MICRO INK publications at your local computer store, or 

• Call our toll-free number: 1 -800-227-1 61 7, ext. 564 (In California, 
1-800-772-3545, ext. 564) and charge it to your VISA or MasterCard, or 

■*• Use the order form below. Send your check (payable to MICRO) and the form to: 
MICRO, Dept. OA, P.O. Box 6502, Chelmsford, MA 01 824. 



QTY ITEM price each cost Q check enclosed □ Charge my credit card below 

MICRO on the Apple 2 @ $24.95 

MICRO on the Apple 1 @ $24.95 j^ 

What's Where in the Apple?...® $14.95 

MICRO (U.S.).... 1 yr@ $24:2 yrs@ $42 Company 

MICRO (Foreign) 1yr@$27 gj^ I 

Subtotal 

I Massachusetts residents add 5% sales tax " y tate 

AJJ „, . , . .. . □ VISA □ MasterCard 

I Add $2 per book for shipping signature ■ 

L MICRO Journal excluded. Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. . 

TOTAI Card Number Expiration Dale I 



• CRT'S • PRINTERS • TELEPRINTERS • 



W 



W ¥ 4 



TAKE A BYTE OUT 



Z3S 



BETTER THAN EPSON!! 

$595.00 

C. ITOH 8510 PRINTER 

•NEW* 



ONE PER CUSTOMER 

$499.00 

TEC 511 CRT 

•SAVE* 



frX DEC 



LA 34 DA 

$849.00 

DEC LA 34AA $999.00 

VT100 $1399.00 



Jk 



ANADEX 



DP 9500 
DP 9501 
DP 8000 




199.00 

199.00 

$749.00 



LETTER QUALITY PRINTERS 



DIABLO 

• 630 RO 

$1949.00 

• 630 KSR. . . CALL 

• 1640 CALL 



^F 



GLUME 



• SPRINT 9/45 

$1849.00 

• SPRINT 9/35 
CALL FOR PRICE 



NEC 



• 7700 SERIES 

• 3500 SERIES 
CALL FOR OUR 

LOW PRICES 



SOROC 



iai20 
la mo 



. . $689.00 
$1075.00 



C. ITOH 



SP 



ec 



W« 



CIT 101 ....... ?.*: $ 1 399.00 




TELETYPE 43 
PF(TTL) $899.00 



TELEVIDEO 

910 $569.00 

912 $689.00 

920 $725.00 

950 $939.00 

925 NEW! CALL 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

810/2 $1399.00 

(includes upper/lower case option) 

810/2 VFC/CP $ 1549.00 

(includes u/1 case, forms 
control & compressed print) 



[CALL TOLL FREE (800) 854-6028] 



To Older: Send check to MICROMAIL, P.O. Box 3297, Santa Ana, CA 92703, Personal or company checks 
require two weeks to clear. Visa/MasterCard accepted. C.O.D. requires a 15% deposit. Handling: Add 3% 
to orders less than $750.00, and 2 % for orders $75 1.00 or over. NOTE: Handling charges are waived on 
orders pre-paid in advance by check Shipping: We ship FREIGHT COLLECT via UPS or Motor Freight. Air 
and Express delivery is available. Prices subject to change without notice. 



WE SELL INTERNATIONALLY 



c 


HI 


1 


K 


1 


fl 


, 


P.O. Box 3297 
Santa Ana, CA 92703 
II Phone: 714/731-4338 
L_ ■!! TWX: 910 595 1146 



will hold your COBOL program; 
once in the editor, you cannot go 
back to TRSDOS to look at the disk 
directory without losing what is in 
memory. 

Since the COBOL language re- 
quires much similar information at 
the start of every program, I recom- 
mend that you create a "skeleton" or 
"template" file that contains this in- 
formation. Then, when you create a 
new program, load this file and edit it 
as needed, rather than having to type 
in all the header information every 
time. Referring to listing 1, my 
skeleton file contains the IDEN- 
TIFICATION DIVISION, the EN- 
VIRONMENT DIVISION, and part 
of the DATA DIVISION seen in this 
listing. My DATA DIVISION 
skeleton includes a FILE SECTION 
with a couple of FDs and the 
WORKING-STORAGE section with 
some often-used identifiers. Ex- 
perience will help you decide which 
things are frequently repeated. 

Line numbers are provided by the 
editor during the text creation pro- 
cess. The INSERT command, ab- 
breviated I, is used much like 
BASIC'S AUTO command; it auto- 
matically enters a line number, then 
you type the line. During text inser- 
tion, if the line number of a new line 
is the same as that of an existing line, 
the entire text is automatically 
renumbered from the current line to 
prevent overwriting the existing line. 
This gives you the advantage of never 
running out of room during text in- 
sertion. However, the disadvantage is 
that automatic renumbering causes 
the line numbers of existing lines to 
change. INSERT does not notify you 
that this has happened. This makes it 
more difficult to find and correct a 
line that was the cause of a compila- 
tion error, since error messages use 
the old line numbers. However, the 
offending line's contents are printed 
along with the error message. There- 
fore, you can use the editor's FIND 
command to locate the line. 

FIND lets you search a range of 
source text for any string of 
characters. Another "new" command 
is CHANGE, which lets you change 
any string of characters to a different 



396 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 252 on inquiry card. 





1982 

NATIONAL 
COMPUTER 

CONFERENCE 



JUNE 7-10 • ASTROHALL - HOUSTON; TEXAS 



<( 



ADVANCING PROFESSIONALISM 



» 



Register now for the most prestigious 
computer conference in the world. 

♦ The conference that has progressed in 
quality each year since its inception. 

♦ The conference that continues its dedication 
to Advancing Professionalism — through an 
intensified emphasis on excellence in: 

Plenaries and technical sessions 
Professional Development Seminars 
Senices to international visitors 
Exhibits of the latest technological advances 



♦ The conference that this year honors the 
developers of FORTRAN, the pioneer computer 
language. 

To pre-register, just clip and mail this coupon. 
You'll save money on full conference registra- 
tion. And you'll avoid time-consuming registra- 
tion lines at the 1982 National Computer 
Conference. 

♦ The one computer conference you can't 
afford to miss. 



••*****•**•***••**•*•**•*•*•*♦••••*****•**•••***•**♦***••*••*•*•**•**••***•*******•* 



* 

* 

* 

* 
* 
* 

* 

* 
* 
* 
* 



Yes, I want to pre-register for NCC '82. 
Please send me information. 



Name. 



Title. 



Company- 
Address 




Fl 



Mail to: NCC '82 
AFIPS 
BOX 9658 



City_ 



.Slate- 



Zip 



Arlington, VA 22209 



* 

* 
+ 
* 

* 
* 

* 
* 





#23 SOFTWARE 



ULTIMATE SOFTWARE PLAN 



Well match any advertised price on any 
item that we carry. And if you find a lower 
price on what you bought within 30 days of 
buying it, just show us the ad and we'll 
refund the difference. 
It's that simple. 



Combine our price protection with the 
availability of full professional support and 
our automatic update service and you have 
the Ultimate Software Plan. 

It's a convenient, uncomplicated, logical 
way to get your software. 



DISK WITH , 
MANUAL/ 

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE" 

Medical(PAS-3) 5849/540 

Dental (PAS-3) $849/$40 

ASYST DESIGN* 

Prof Time Accounting .5549/540 
General Subroutine . 5269/540 
Application Utilities $439/$40 

COMPLETE BUS. SYSTEMS " 

Creator $269/$25 

Reporter $169/$20 

Both $399/$45 

COMPUTER CONTROL* 

Fabs(B-tree) $159/520 

UltraSortll $159/$25 

COMPUTER PATHWAYS* 

Pearl (level 1) $ 99/$25 

Pearl (level 2) $299/$40 

Pearl (level 3) $549/$50 

DIGITAL RESEARCH* 
CP/M 2.2 

NorthStar $149/$25 

TRS-SO Model II 
(P+T) $159/$35 

Micropolis $169/$25 

PL/l-80 $459/$35 

BT-80 $179/$30 

Mac $ 85/$ 15 

Sid $ 65/$15 

Z-Sid $ 90/$ 15 

Tex $ 90/S15 

DeSpool $ 50/$ 10 

CB-80 $459/$35 

CBasic-2 $ 98/$20 

D.M.A. 

Ascom 

Formula 



\S (New items or new prices) 

MANUAL CP/M users: 

ONLY specify disk systems and formats. Most formats available. 

DATA BASE 

FMS-80 $649/$45 

dBASE II $595/$50 

Condor II $899/$50 

Access 80 Level 1 $249 
Access 80 Level 2 . . $429 
Access 80 Level 3 $679 
Optimum $749/550 



DON'T SAY UNCLE; 
SAY "MICROTAX" TODAYI 

Individual $ 250/$na 

Professional $ 1 000/$ na 

Partnership $ 750/$na 

Package $1500/$na 

ACRS, depreciation, batch 
computing/printing of over 
30 forms/schedules, and 
much more. 



$149/515 

$539/$45 

GRAHAM-DORIAN' 

General Ledger $729/$40 

Acct Receivable $729/$40 

Acct Payable $729/$40 

Job Costing $ 729/$40 

Payroll II $729/$40 

Inventory II $729/$40 

Payroll $493/$40 

Inventory $493/$40 

Cash Register $493/$40 

Apartment Mgt. $493/540 

MICRO-AP* 

S-Basic $269/525 

Selector IV 5295/535 

Selector V $495/550 

MICRO DATA BASE SYSTEMS* 

HDBS $269/535 

MDBS 5795/540 

DRSorQRSorRTL $269/510 

MDBS PKG $1295/$60 

MICROPRO* 

WordStar 5319/560 

Customization Notes .S429/$na 

Mail-Merge $109/525 

WordStar/ Mail-Merge. $419/$85 

DataStar $249/$60 

WordMaster $119/540 

SuperSort I $199/540 

Spell Star $175/540 

CalcStar S259/$na 

MICROSOFT* 

Basic-80 5298 

Basic Compiler 5329 

Fortran-80 5349 

Cobol-80 5629 

M-Sort 5124 

Macro-80 5 1 44 

Macro-86 5259 

Edit-80 5 84 

MuSimp/MuMath $224 

MuLisp-80 $174 

Multi Plan Call 

Manager Series Call 



ORGANIC SOFTWARE" 

TextWriter III 5111/525 

DateBookll 5269/525 

Milestone $269/$30 

OSBORNE* 

General Ledger $ 59/$20 

Acct Rec/Acct Pay. . . .5 59/520 

Payroll w/Cost $ 59/520 

All 3 5129/560 

All 3 + CBASIC-2 $199/$75 

Enhanced Osborne ... 5269/560 
PEACHTREE* 

General Ledger 5399/540 

Acct Receivable 5399/540 

Acct Payable $399/$40 

Payroll $399/$40 

Inventory $399/$40 

Surveyor $399/$40 

Property Mgt $799/540 

CPACIientWrite-up. . $799/540 

Mlg Address $349 

P5 Version Add 5129 

* MagiCalc $269/$25 

fc* Other less 10% 

SOFTWARE WORKS* 
Adapt(CDOStoCP/M) $ 69/$na 

Ratfor $ 86/$na 

SOHO GROUP* 

MatchMaker $ 97/$20 

Worksheet $177/520 

STRUCTURED SYSTEMS* 
^ Business Packages. 
Call for Price 
SORCIM" 

*■* SuperCalc $269/$na 

X* Trans 86 $115 

V Act $157 

TCS* 

GLorARorAPorPay.S 79/$25 

All 4 $269/599 

Compiled each $ 99/$25 

Inventory $ 99/$25 

SUPERSOFT* 

Diagnostic I $ 49/520 

Diagnostic II 5 84/520 

Disk Doctor 5 84/520 

Forth (8080 or 280). .5149/530 

Fortran $219/$30 

Fortran w/Ratfor $289/$'35 

CCompiler $174/520 

Star Edit 5189/530 

Other less 10% 

UNICORN* 

Mince 5149/525 

Scribble 5149/525 

Both $249/550 

WHITESMITHS* 

"CCompiler $600/530 

Pascal (incl "C") $850/545 

"PASCAL 

Pascal/MT+ Pkg 5429/530 

Compiler $315 

Sp Prog $175 

Pascal/Z $349/$30 

* Pascal/UCSD 4.0. . . $670/$50 
Pascal/M $355/$20 



WORD PROCESSING 

WordSearch . 

SpellGuard 

VTS/80 

Magic Wand 

s Magic Spell 

Spell Binder 

Select 

"OTHER GOODIES 

Micro Plan 

Plan 80 

Target 

BSTAM 

BSTMS 

Tiny'C" 

Tiny "C" Compiler 
t** Nevada Cobol 

MicroSlat 

Vedit 

MiniModel 

StatPak 

Micro B+ 

Raid 

String/80 

String/80 (source) 

ISIS CP/M Utility. . 

Lynx 



5 179/$ 50 
$229/$25 
5259/565 
$289/545 
5269/525 
5349/545 
5495/Sna 

5419/5na 
5269/530 
5189/530 
S149/5na 
5149/Sna 
5 89/550 
5229/550 
5179/525 
5224/525 
5130/515 
5449/550 
5449/540 
5229/520 
5224/535 
5 84/520 
5279/5na 
5199/550 
5199/520 



INFO UNLIMITED* 

EasyWriter 5199 

Datadex 5249 

EasyMailer 5128 

Other less 15% 

MICROSOFT* 
Softcard(Z-80CP/M). 5298 

Fortran 5179 

Cobol 5499 

Tasc 5139 

MICROPRO' 

Wordstar 5269 

MailMerge 5 99 

Wordstar/MailMerge . .5349 

SuperSorl 1 5159 

Spellstar 5129 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE* 

Visicalc 3.3 5159 

Desktop/Plan II 5159 

Visiterm 5129 

Visidex 5159 

Visiplot 5149 

Visitrend/Visiplot 5229 

Visifile 5199 

PEACHTREE* 
^G/L,A/R,A/P. Payor 

Inventory (each) 5224/540 

"OTHER GOODIES 
VU #3R 

(usew/Visicalc). . . 5 79 
Context Connector 

(usew/Visicalc) $129 

Micro Courier 5219 

Super-Textll $127 

Data Factory 5134 

DB Master 5184 

Charles Mann less 15% 

STC less 15% 



IBM PC SOFTWARE 



v' Business/Med/WP 
Call for Price 



ORDERS ONLY-CALL TOLL FREE VISA • MASTERCHARGE 

1-800-854-2003 ext. 823 • Calif. 1-800-522-1500 ext. 823 

Outside Continental U.S. -add $10 plus Air Parcel Post • Add $3.50 postage and handling per each item 

• California residents add 6% sales tax • Allow 2 weeks on checks. CO. D. $3.00 extra • Prices subject to change 

without notice. All items subject to availability • ® — Mfgs. Trademark. Blue Label $3.00 additional per item. 

THE DISCOUNT SOFTWARE GROUP 

6520 Selma Ave. Suite 309 • Los Angeles, Ca. 90028 • (213) 837-5141 

Int'l TELEX 499-0446 DISCSOFT LSA • USA TELEX 194-634 (Attn: 499-0446) 

TWX 910-321-3597 (Attn: 499-0446) 



string in as many places as you want. 
This is useful if you discover that a 
data item name is a COBOL reserved 
word, e.g., KEY. KEY can be changed 
to RECORD-KEY in all lines of a pro- 
gram with the CEDIT command: 

C/KEY/RECORD-KEY/ * 

The "*" means change KEY to 
RECORD-KEY everywhere it occurs 
in the program. A number N, instead 
of "*", means change it the next N 
times it occurs. The "X" command 
behaves like CHANGE, but it asks 
you if the change should be made 
every time it finds a match for the 
search string. 

Another useful command is 
MEMORY, which tells how big your 
program is in bytes and how much 
free memory is left. 

CEDIT's remaining commands 
have counterparts in the Level II 
BASIC and EDTASM editors. These 
include commands to list a range of 
lines to the screen or printer, delete a 
range of lines, replace a range of 
lines, renumber the lines, and move 
to the top or bottom of the program 
file. The EDIT command provides 
editing of a single line; character in- 
sertion, deletion, and replacement; 
extension of the line, etc., in a man- 
ner nearly identical to Level II 
BASIC'S EDIT command. 

Once a program is completely 
typed in, it is saved to disk with the 
WRITE command. A default file 
name extension of /CBL is automat- 
ically provided. For example, typing 
W SAMPLE :1 saved the sample pro- 
gram's source file on drive 1 with a 
file name of SAMPLE/CBL. 

RSCOBOL Compiler 

All the files in table 1 must be 
online before compilation begins. 
Several options are available at 
compile-time. I used the command: 

RSCOBOL SAMPLE 
(PXL = lO = l) 

to compile the sample program. The 
options selected are printed at the top 
of each listing page. The P option 
means send a listing to the printer; an 



398 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 134 on Inquiry card. 



Quality Computer Services presents. . 



12m $3195 



For TRS e , Apple*, Hearrf,S-100 and more 
6,12,20,40and 60 Megabyte systems 

Completely assembled and tested subsystem including: 



> Switchable power supply 

• Winchester drive 

• Host adapter card 

• Sealed case 

• Expansion 

The enclosier, controller 
and power supply have been 
designed to allow for future 
backup hardware or increased 
storage 

• Software 

» Auto attach CP/M* f 

Hard disk utilities I 
Real time clock I a 



Formatting program 

Assigns alternate sectors 
for any weak sectors detected 
during formatting assuring 
the lowest possible error rate 

• Warranty: The system has a full one year 
warranty on all parts and workmanship 

• Also available: attach for TRSDOS, 
OASIS*, Apple DOS 

• Optional 5 1 / 4 " floppy (shown) 



itlii «^J....... j, ... 

... s£3^*= 



: t m*?.&4!^ 



■ws.. 



£*& 



See local dealer 

or call: 

QuCeS 

178 Main Street 

Metuchen, New J 

201-548-2135 



• Quantity discounts available. Distributor, Dealer 
and OEM inquries invited. 

'OASIS is a trademark of Phase One Systems, CP/M is trademark of Digital Research 



s 



Circle 327 on Inquiry card. 



Toll free number: 800 631 i 



xample is listing 1. The X option 
;enerates a cross-reference of PRO- 
ZEDURE and DATA DIVISION 
lames. This appears at the end of 
isting 1. The L = l option sends a 
:opy of the listing to a disk file on 
Irive 1. = 1 means put the object 
ile on drive 1. If 0=N had been 
lelected, no object file would have 
jeen created. 

RSCOBOL provides a COPY state- 
ment that allows COBOL source files 
:o be included directly from disk in 
:he compilation of a program. For ex- 
ample, a common record definition 
rould be kept in a file called RECDEF, 
and the source program statement 
COPY RECDEF would open that file 
and compile its contents just as if it 
,/vere part of the main source file be- 
ng compiled. 

One problem with the implementa- 
:ion of COPY is that all COPY files 
must be online during compilation. If 
Dne of them is not, the compilation 
aborts with an error message. It 
Arould have been simple to have the 
:ompiler pause if the file were not 
round and ask the user to mount the 
disk containing the file instead of 
aborting the compilation. This would 



have extended the size of source files 
that could be compiled for users with 
only two disk drives. 

A couple of other options are 
available that were not used in the 
sample compilation. The D option 
compiles all the "debug" lines. Simply 
stated, any program line starting with 
D is ignored during compilation 
unless the D option is specified. 
Therefore, you can write your pro- 
gram with as much extra code as you 
want to help during debugging, and 
then have it all eliminated from the 
final version of your program by 
simply compiling without the D op- 
tion. Debug code is commonly used 
to DISPLAY the value of some data 
item while testing a program. 
However, there is no restriction on 
the type of source code line that can 
be flagged in this way. 

If the compiler finds any errors in 
your program, they are clearly 
marked with a pointer to the offend- 
ing word and an error message in 
English. More than 70 error messages 
are possible, and I have never had a 
problem figuring out what they 
meant. Each error message has a brief 
explanation in the manual. 



.isting 2: A summary of all data items from the program in listing 1 . 

rRS-80 Mcutel I/III COBOL (RM/COBOL 1.313) 08/17/81 08!3I)»52 

SOURCE file: sample OPTION LISV. <T X L=l 0=1 

ADDRESS SIZE DEBUG ORDER TYPE NAME 



> 1)0 01) 



80 


ANS 





FILE 
ALPHANUMERIC 


INFILE 
INFILE-RECORD 


>00S1 
>00'.3'1 
>0059 


B0 
75 


GRP 

ANS 
ANS 




[) 




GROUP 
ALPHANUMERIC 

ALPHANUMERIC 


IN-RECORD 
RECORD-KEY 
RE8T-0P-REC0RD 


>0 ()«•<) 


3 


ANS 




I) 


ALPHANUMERIC 
CONDITION-NAME 


USER-QUITS-FLAG 
USER-QUITS 


>0 0AB 


3 


ANS 







ALPHANUMERIC 
CONDITION-NAME 

CONDITION-NAME 


MORE -DATA-REMAINS -FLAG 
NO-MORE -DATA -REMAINS 
MORE-DATA-REMAINS 


>00AC 


10 


GRP 





GROUP 


REQUEST-KEY-MSG 


>0tfD4 

>0 0FC 


'1 2 


GRP 

ANS 






GROUP 
ALPHANUMERIC 


WAIT-MSG 
WAIT-CHAR' 


XIOEE 


s 


ANS 





ALPHANUMERIC 


SELECT-KEY 


r <EAD ONLY 1 


3YTE I 


SIZE ■ 


" 


XI 122 




READ/WRITE 


BYTE 


SIZE 




>0112 




3VERCAY SEGMENT 


BYTE 


SIZE 


■■--■■ >00()0 




TOTAL BYTE 


SIZE 


- 




>0261 




ERROI 


*S 










WARNINGS 











The compiler does not stop until it 
reaches the end of the source file, no 
matter how many errors it finds. This 
helps you to find as many errors as 
possible with a single compilation. If 
you specify the E option when you 
compile, only error messages are sent 
to the listing files. This is useful when 
compiling for the first time; you are 
likely to have some errors and can 
save wear and tear on your printer by 
printing only the error lines. 

The T option directs the listing out- 
put to the screen. You can specify as 
many listing destinations as you 
wish — it is possible to direct output to 
a disk file, the printer, and the screen 
all at once. The sample program in 
listing 1 creates a disk file and a print- 
out at the same time. 

As you can see from listing 1, the 
compiler provides a complete pro- 
gram listing. The date and time of 
compilation appear at the top of each 
page, along with the name of the 
source file and any options selected. 
The leftmost number in each line is a 
line number supplied by the compiler. 
The next column contains informa- 
tion needed when using the interac- 
tive debugger. Next is the editor line 
number, and then the source code line 
itself. 

A summary of all program data 
items is provided in the order in 
which they were defined in the 
DATA DIVISION. Information pro- 
vided for each data item includes 
from left to right: 

• its address relative to the start of 
data storage, for use during debug- 
ging 

• its size in bytes 

• a three-character type code used 
during debugging; ANS = alphanu- 
meric, GRP = group, etc. (there are 
12 in all) 

• the "Order," which is the number of 
subscripts a data item requires 

• the data item type name in English 

• the data item name 

This listing is followed by the size 
of the read-only portion of the pro- 
gram (presumably the code block) in 
bytes, the size of the read/write por- 
tion (the data area) in bytes, and the 



400 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Ire 



"Without touching your program 
I can move it to and from Z80, LSI-U," 
8086, 6502, 8080, 6809 68000 and 
9900-based computers." 

JULIE ERWIN, Vice President, Marketing, Soflcch Microsystems, Inc. 




UCSD p-System and UCSD Pascal are trademarks of the Regents of the University of California. LSI-11 is a 
trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation. XenoFile is a trademark of Sofl'ech Microsystems. Inc. CPIM 
is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 



You can do it too, with 
SofTech Microsystems' 
unique software 
development and execution 
environment, the UCSD p-System™. 

Our UCSD p-System is the 
only genuinely machine-independent 
operating system for 8-bit and 16-bit 
microcomputers. And to over 50,000 
end-users and scores of applications 
developers it is the one proven, 
reliable answer to software 
obsolescence. 

For software development, 
it allows you to work in any 
combination of UCSD Pascal™, 
FORTRAN-77, BASIC, and assembly 
language. It provides you support for 
dynamic memory management and 
multitasking, with a full arsenal of 
powerful enhancements, such as a 
versatile Screen Editor, Native Code 
Generators, a Print Spooler, 
TURTLEGRAPHICS and XenoFile™, 
for easy access to CP/M® disks and 
files. 

Users report that our 
UCSD p-System's friendly, fast and 
compact execution environment 
makes it their first choice in software. 
So whether it's for IBM, Apple, 
Tandy, Commodore, Texas 
Instruments, Philips or any other 
small computer, your best move 
is to our UCSD p-System. 
Nothing else touches it. 

Our UCSD p-System is 
available for distribution licensing as 
well as single copy purchase. Visa and 
MasterCard orders are welcome, or 
you may write to us for more details. 



micoosvsTems 

R SUHSIDIORV OF SOFTECH 

9494 Black Mountain Road, San Diego, 
CA 92126. (714) 578-6105 
TWIX: 910-335-1594 



Circle 353 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE Much 1982 401 



total size in bytes. The total size for 
the sample program and its data is 
hexadecimal 0264 (612 decimal) 
bytes, which is fairly compact for this 
COBOL program. 

For the sample program, a cross- 
reference table was requested. All 
PROCEDURE and DATA DIVISION 
names are listed in alphabetical order. 
For each entry, the line numbers in 



which it is declared and referenced 
are given. The line numbers in which 
a data item is declared are surrounded 
by slashes. Lines in which the value of 
a data item may be altered are 
marked with asterisks, e.g., *0073* 
for the variable IN-RECORD. In line 
73, IN-RECORD is the destination of 
a record read from INFILE. 

The COBOL compiler resides from 



Listing 3: A cross-reference of all PROCEDURE and DATA DIVISION names in 
alphabetical order. The line number where it is declared and referenced is also listed. 



TR8-80 Model I/III COBOL 


(RM/COBOL 1.31= 


> 


08/17/81 


no : 30 : 


SOURCE file: SAMPLE 






OPTION 


list: (T x l 


-:L 0=1 


CROSS REFERENCE 




/DECL/ 


skDEST* 






GET-KEY-AND-SEARCH-FILE 




0051 


70038/ 






INFILE 




/(1 017/ 


700227 


0061 067 


073 


INFTLE-RECORD 




/0 0Z1/ 








IN-RECORD 




/002a/ 


X0073* 


077 




MORE-DATA-REMAINS 




/0 037/ 


oo/a 






MORE-DATA-REMAINS-FLAG 




/0035/ 


x 1)068* 


K0071* 




NO-MORE-DATA-REMffiDIS 




/003A/ 


0066 






RECORD-KEY 




/0029/ 


1)076 






RECORD-S£LECTION~AND-DIS 


PLAY 


/0 053/ 








REHUEST-KEY-MBC 




/0 03V/ 


t)0S9 






REST-OF-RECQRD 




/0 030/ 








BEARCH-FILE-AND-DI8PLAY- 


RECORD 


0063 


700727 






SELECT-KEY 




/0 018/ 


X0 060X 


0061 0076 




USER-QUITS 




70033/ 


0055 






USER-QUITS' -F LAG 




70032/ 


*0 062* 






WAIT-CHAR 




700167 


*l)<)70* 






WAIT-MSG 




/00137 


069 







PAGE 



hexadecimal locations 5200 to AAFF 
in memory. This leaves hexadecimal 
5500, or 21,760, bytes of memory 
free. The compiler is so large that it 
had to be split into overlays as shown 
in table 1. Different overlays are 
loaded from disk to compile different 
divisions of a COBOL program. It is 
not documented whether these over- 
lays eat into the 21,760 bytes of free 
storage. A couple of internal error 
messages tell when the compiler's 
working storage has been exceeded. 
This could happen, for example, if a 
program has too many symbols to 
store in the compiler's symbol table. 
If this should happen, the sub- 
routine CALL can be used to alleviate 
the problem. A program can be split 
into a main program and subroutines, 
each separately compiled. At run- 
time, when the main program CALLs 
a subroutine, it is loaded dynamically 
from disk. This also provides a 
method for controlling memory usage 
at run-time. But it is not the only 
method. A single program can be 
broken into overlays. A program 



Learn about the Z8000 from 
the people who are 
pioneering the Microworld. 



Zilog's Z8000 Architecture 
Course takes you into the world of 
faster, smarter, smaller micro- 
processors without leaving your 
home. Our five-part correspon- 
dence course covers the details of 
the Z8000's 16-bit architecture, 



techniques of memory management, 
methods for interfacing memory 
and peripherals, plus use of the 
ZSOOO's powerful instruction set. 

You study at your own pace. 
Each test is individually graded and 
critiqued, then returned to you. 



This course can make you an 
expert on Z8000 technology for only 
$39. Enroll today by sending us 
the coupon? Allow six weeks for 
delivery of your first lesson. 



ZHOG Training and Education, 1315 Dell Avenue, Bldg. C, Campbell, CA 95008 

Enroll me today in Zilog's Z8000 Architecture Course. D Enclosed is my check or money order (no cash or purchase orders, please) for $39. 

Make check payable to Zilog, Inc. 

Please charge my □ MasterCard or □ Visa account 0000000000000000 

BUSINESS ADDRESS Expiration date: Mo:_ .Year: Signature_ 

Name Tide 

Company 

Address 



City/Stale/Zip_ 
Telephone 



Pioneering 
the Microworld. 



extension 



BILLING ADDRESS (as shown on charge card) 

Name 

Company 

Address 



City/State/Zip 

Please mail my lessons to: 



-Business Address. 



-Billing Address 



Zilog 



An affiliate of E )((ON Corporation 



•Offer expires August 27, 1982. Good only in the U.S. 



402 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 421 on inquiry card. 



PMS-8C 

Organizes ycur 
Organization 



MS-80, a data base management system, offers 
the user a quick and easy way to organize and 

efficiently manipulate data so sound decisions * 

can be made on facts displayed. 

FMS-80" 

is the 

most power- 
ful stand 

alone DBM 

program 

available to 

the nucr 

compute 

industry. 

Complet 
menu dr 
and writ 
in assem 
languag 
it offers 
these features: 






■ 



KARA' 



• User definable 
File Definitions 
Screen Displays 
Reports (with 
math and field 
break analysis) 
Selection Criteria 
(on any or all 
fields) 

Menus (that ap- 
plications programs 
can be selected from) 

• Instantaneous data query on 
indexed records. 

• Mathematical manipulation 
of numeric data fields using 
the report generator or the 
programming language EFM 
(Extended File Maintenance) 

• Easy to use video "how to" 
training tapes are available. 

• Manipulation of up to 19 differ- 
ent data files (using EFM) _^ 
at one time and display.---. 

ing this informaticfflfc 1 
on the screen, 




0r„n , 






&~0 




rating reports, generating other data files or on- 
line updating of input files that already exist 
FMS-80 is able to call other programs like sub- 
routines in EFM 

FMS-80 is able to read data files that other 
programs have generated 
No restrictions to record size other than avail- 
able RAM memory space 
Operates under CP/Mf MP/M" or CDOS" 

FMS-80 allows the flexibility to quickly create 

programs that 

allow data to be 

entered in a 

' | form that 

^Q * a secretary 

■^ recognizes 

and 

l±\ * generates 

reports 

that the 

manager requires. 

f 

If you're continuously asked to 

do applications programs and 

don't have time to do it in 

BASIC, consider FMS-80. 

For additional 

information contact 

Systems Plus, 

1120 San Antonio Road, 

Palo Alto, CA 

94303. Phone 

415/969/7047 







°"TM of I5JR Associates 
OD TM of Cromemco, Sunnyv 1 " 
°TM of Digital Research, Pacific Cn 



Circle 373 on Inquiry card. 



segmented in this manner is compiled 
in one piece, but the overlays are 
loaded into memory dynamically at 
run-time when they are entered via a 
GOTO or PERFORM statement. 
These two options, CALL and 
overlays, combine to provide the 
most dynamic memory-management 
system that I have seen in any TRS-80 
language. 

A word on compiler performance. 
With both the input of source text 
and the output of object code involv- 
ing disk I/O (input/output), and the 
compiler itself requiring several disk 
overlay loads during the course of a 
single compilation, this compiler is no 
speed demon. The sample program, 
with the options shown, took 135 
seconds to compile. This works out to 
about 35 lines per minute. This in- 
cludes printing a listing and creating a 
listing file on disk, both including 
cross-reference lists. Choosing op- 
tions of T and E (create an object file 
on disk and print any errors on the 
screen), sped things up to about 50 
lines per minute. It then took 95 
seconds to compile the sample pro- 
gram. 

Testing a Program 

The RSCOBOL system provides a 
simple run-time interactive debugger. 
This debugger allows you to test 
many aspects of a COBOL program 
without having to program in a lot of 
special debugging statements. Com- 
bined with the compiler's D option 
described earlier, RSCOBOL pro- 
vides a decent debugging environ- 
ment. 

To make full use of the interactive 
debugger requires a current printed 
listing of the program under test. A 
printer is not a prerequisite for use of 
RSCOBOL, but I strongly recom- 
mend having one. 

The command RUNCOBOL in- 
vokes the RSCOBOL run-time 
module. The debugger is invoked by 
specifying the D option. Once in the 
debugger, a COBOL program can be 
single-stepped a sentence or group of 
sentences at a time. This is achieved 
by typing S, optionally followed by 
N (where N is the number of 
sentences to execute). To execute all 



the way up to a particular sentence, 
type A followed by the address in the 
DEBUG column preceding the 
sentence at which execution should 
stop. 

The final debugger command is D. 
It is used to DUMP the contents of 
different data items in a readable for- 
mat. For the sample program, by typ- 
ing D 54, 5, ANS, the current value of 
the data item RECORD-KEY is dis- 
played on the screen. It is permissible 

A printer is not a 

prerequisite for use 

of RSCOBOL, but I 

strongly recommend 

having one. 

to request the display of a data item 
in other than the default format; a 
hexadecimal dump is available, for 
example. 

Some important features that this 
debugger lacks include: 

1. The capability to alter data item 
values. 

2. A way of setting program break- 
points. The current system lets you 
specify that execution should pro- 
ceed to a particular COBOL sen- 
tence; it is desirable to be able to 
specify a number of points in the 
code at which execution should 
halt, passing control to the debug- 
ging monitor. 

3. A way to reference data sym- 
bolically rather than requiring the 
use of hexadecimal values repre- 
senting actual data-storage loca- 
tions. 

4. A way to step through the state- 
ments of a COBOL sentence. In 
listing 1, there is only one value in 
the DEBUG column for the entire 
range of program lines from 61 to 
71. This value represents the begin- 
ning of the COBOL sentence start- 
ing with "IF". You cannot step par- 
tially through this sentence; you 
must execute it in full. 

If you are not using the debugger, the 
RSCBLD13/OBJ file need not be pres- 
ent during run-time. 



Run-Time Environment 

The RSCOBOL package includes a 
substantial run-time module that 
must be resident during the execution 
of any COBOL program. The run- 
time code resides from locations 
hexadecimal 5200 to BlFF, leaving 
about 20K bytes of user program 
space. This is respectable for a small 
machine. 

There is a trade-off in using a stan- 
dard run-time module rather than 
linking in only those pieces specifical- 
ly required by each program. Use of a 
run-time module allows much faster 
program development; the linking 
phase otherwise required is usually 
very time-consuming. It involves a 
lengthy search of a large library 
module to find those pieces required 
by a particular program. A run-time 
module also cuts down on the size of 
user programs; without one, every 
user program must contain a lot of 
the code that is otherwise in the run- 
time module, resulting in much 
duplicated code on a disk holding 
several user programs. 

The disadvantage is that, in most 
cases, not all of the run-time code is 
needed for a particular program. 
Therefore, some memory space is 
taken up unnecessarily. RSCOBOL 
compensates for this somewhat with 
its overlay and CALL statements for 
memory management. 

Two options besides D (invoke in- 
teractive debugger) are available at 
run-time: 

1. S=nn..n: This option allows the 
setting of "switches" at run-time. A 
COBOL program can test for the 
value of these switches and make 
decisions accordingly. The eight 
switches each can assume the value 
Oor 1. 

2. T = hhhh: This sets the top 
memory address that will be used 
by RSCOBOL at run-time. It is 
used to protect user machine- 
language programs from the run- 
time system. As discussed pre- 
viously, it appears that if your 
assembly-language program stores 
this value in location hexadecimal 
4049 (for the Model I), the same ef- 
fect is achieved. 

Many English-language error 



404 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



OMEGA 



The Last Disassembler 
You Will Ever Need! 

Mnemonics Externally Defined 

Zilog, Intel, PASM Supplied 

ASCII/HEX Preconditioner 

Can Externally Def. Equates 

Optional Address Listing 

ASM/PASM/M80 Compatible 

DB statements forcible over user 
specified range 

$150. complete/$25. manual only 
for further information contact 

COMPUTER TOOLBOX, INC. 

1325 East Main St. 

Waterbury, Ct. 06705 

Phone (203) 754-4197 



circle 438 on inquiry card. 



A ATARI 



Entertainer Kit 86 00 Atari 800 16K .710 00 

Programmer Kit . .56 00 Atari 400 16K 359.00 

Communicator Kit 320 00 Atari 410 Cassette 80.00 

Microsoft Basic 72 00 Atari 810 Disk . 480.00 

ALL ATARI SOFTWARE 20% OFF 

Plus Loads of 3rd Party Software! 

V0TRAX TYPE'N'TALK: 340.00 

ALSO EPSON & CENTRONICS PRINTERS 

ZENITH & TELEVIDE0 TERMINALS 

BBI Mail Order is a company made up of com 
puter professionals. We are able to provide 
low prices as well as technical support. Give 
us a call and find out why we consider the 
Atari the best home computer on the market 
today. You won't be disapointed. 



W 



BBI Mall Order 



Specializing in Atari Home Computers 
P.O. Box 365 

Newton Highlands. MA 02161 
[617) 964 3080 



rele 435 on inquiry card. 



THIN is IN! 




Srate-of-rhe-orT 8" disk drive subsysrems 
give you a remarkable 2.4 MB in the space 
of a single-drive cabiner, 4.8 MD srorage 
capacity in rhe space of a 2-drive cabiner. 
Perfecr add-ons for IBM. Apple, Radio Shack 
and all 8" Shugorr comparible compurers. 

2-Drive - $1695. 4-Drive - $2995, 2-Drive 
Horizonral — $1750, write prorecr swirch 
option -$30/drive 

Columbia microsystems, Inc. 

905 E. Broadway, Columbia. MO 65201 
(314) 875-8900 



1 MEGABYTE FLOPPY 
$415.00 

CALDISK MODEL 142M 8'" FLOPPY $385.00 
Dbi Den. Sgl Sided. Reconditioned 

CALDISK MODEL 143M 8" FLOPPY $415.00 

DblDen, 48TPI, 1 Mbyte Capacity 

50 Pin Edge Connector. Reconditioned 

TANDONTM-100 5V4" FLOPPY $219.00 

Dbl Den. Sgl Sided. SA400 Connector Compatible 
(This is the one used in IBM's personal computer) 

SHUGARTSA400 5V4" FLOPPY $212.00 

MOTOROLA M3970 CRT MONITORS 
$99.00 (P31 ) $89.00 (P4) 

12".+12v, 15 MHZ Bandwidth. P4 orP31 Phosphor 
TTL Compatible. 10 Pin Circuit Card Edge Connector 

CENTRONICS PRINTERS (Used) 

• 701 withstand S600.00 »761 with stand £675.00 

• 703 wtth stand S750.00 • 6300 with stand S 1800.00 

PAPER TIGER IDS 440 (Used) $529.00 



mm 



CALDISK 

Box 555. Provo, UT 84603 
1801)375-0000 
TWX 9 109 7 15889 
Phone orders welcome with MasterCard and VISA 



Circle 436 on inquiry card. 



VOICE 
SYNTHESIZER 

WITH INTERACTIVE 
TELEPHONE INTERFACE 



For APPLE II " compatible dial-up voice response 
and remote da la-base access arrangements, con- 
sider a V1 00 series design from VYNET CORPO- 
RATION. 

• Direct connect, auto-dial/answer 

• Control via Touch-Tone" detection 

• Allophone (LPC) based voice synthesizer 

• Includes 1 ,000 word vocabulary 

• Editor lor custom vocabulary 

• Extensive application software 

• Programmable buffered port 

• Upgrade available for high quality LPC 
vocabulary 

• S395.00 

Telephone interface may be purchased without 
synthesizer. TRS-80 " and IBM versions available 
soon. 

2405 QUME DRIVE 
SAN JOSE. CA 95131 
(408) 942-1037 



Circle 440 on Inquiry card. 



TBw'^HhL intern 



— FORTH-like direct threaded interpretive system with 
structured assembly language (8080 mnemonics). 

— Application development can utilize al! CP/M (tm) 
capabilities (editor, tile system, etc.). 

— Includes re-entrant multi-task executive with counting 
semaphores for TASK/MSG synchronization. 

— Supports strings, single and double precision Integers. 

— Capable o( generating ROM-based stand-alone systems 
tor dedicatee applications. 

— All source code supplied. No royalties on derivative soft- 
ware. 

— Fully documented with 200 page reference manual In- 
cluding glossary and index of all standard words. 

— Training seminar available on request. 

— Send checK or money order for $495.00 to receive manual 
and system (B" single sided single density diskette). Demo 
system with manual $75.00. Manual only $45.00. Alabama 
residents add 6% sales tax. 



Ue UNITED CONTROLS CORPORATION 
P O Box 1,620 Hunlsville, Alabama 35802 
(205)837-6144 



Circle 441 on inquiry card. 



CP/M DATA ENTRY 

"RADAR" 



RADAR is a high speed data entry system 
that will run on any CP/M system pro- 
viding a "3741" style key-to-disk en- 
vironment. RADAR is ideal for replacing 
KEYPUNCH machines and older, slower 
key-;to-disk systems like the 3741 's and 
42's. 



Features: 

Verify Mode 

Check Digit Processor 

Auto Dup/Manual Dup 

1 6 Accumulators 

Parameter Driven (No 
Programming) 

"Virtual" File Access 

Add or Delete Records 

Record Retrieval By Number 
Or Content 

Full Editing Capability 

Operator Prompts 

Extremely Fast (Written In 
Assembly Language) 



In addition to "heavy,-duty" data entry, 
RADAR is also the ideal "front-end" for 
many applications programs, providing 
aquisition and retrieval of keyed data with 
a degree of reliability simply not possible 
with any other technique. RADAR can cut 
programming time by more than 30%, 
simply because there is no longer any 
need to write the "input" portion of a pro- 
gram, just let RADAR handle it! 



Write or call for free brochure. The 
RADAR manual is also available 
separately for $25.00. 




SOUTHERN 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS, 
Inc. 



P.O. Box 3373A 
Birmingham, AL 35255 
Phone: 205-933-1659 



•cle 437 on inquiry card. 



Circle 439 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



405 



messages can appear at run-time. 
They are carefully documented in the 
RSCOBOL manual. 

My overall impression of run-time 
performance is favorable. Every pro- 
gram I have written which reads 
from the disk, computes something, 
and writes the results to the printer 
has managed to keep the printer mov- 
ing at full speed (60 characters per 
second bidirectional). Interpreted 
BASIC programs I have written, 
which perform similar formatted I/O 
with the PRINT USING statement, 
pause noticeably between the output 
of formatted data items. By com- 
parison, RSCOBOL is quite snappy 
and moves right along. 

Language Implementations 

RSCOBOL is based on the ANSI 
X3.23-1974 COBOL Standard. The 
ANSI Standard defines "levels" of im- 
plementation for different aspects of 
the language. Table 3 lists the levels 
of implementation provided by 
RSCOBOL. The more advanced the 
implementation, the higher the level 
number. The Federal Information 
Processing Standard (FIPS) lists 2 as a 
relatively "high" level of implementa- 
tion for most language components. 
RSCOBOL's implementation does 
quite respectably. 

Table 3 is somewhat misleading in 
that there are exceptions to the levels 
of implementation stated, i.e., certain 
features defined by ANSI as part of a 
level are not implemented. A com- 
plete list of these exceptions is in the 



back of the RSCOBOL manual. 
Notable exceptions include: 

• Multiple results are not supported 
in arithmetic statements. For exam- 
ple, you cannot state ADD A TO B 
C; you must state ADD A TO B and 
ADD A TO C. 

• REMAINDER is not supported in 
the DIVIDE statement. 

• INSPECT data items are restricted 
to a single character. 

• Compound TALLYING and 
REPLACING clauses in the INSPECT 
statement are not supported. 

• Exponentiation to a noninteger 
power is not supported. 

• Abbreviated combined relation 
conditions are not supported. You 
cannot say IF A EQUALS 1 OR 2; 
you must say IF A EQUALS 1 OR A 
EQUALS 2. 

• The STRING and UNSTRING 
statements are not supported. 

Some extensions to the stated levels 
of implementation are available, 
mostly nonstandard. One that struck 
me as quite interesting was the inclu- 
sion of several statements having to 
do with the locking and unlocking of 
disk records. These statements allow 
simultaneous access to a disk file by 
multiple users in a controlled fashion. 

It is worth mentioning that the 
rather powerful MOVE CORRE- 
SPONDING statement is im- 
plemented. This lets you move all 
like-named fields from one record to 
another with a single statement. 
MOVE CORRESPONDING is fre- 



Function Module 


Implementation 


Nucleus 


Level 2 


Table Handling 


Level 1 + 


Sequential I/O 


Level 2 


Relative I/O 


Level 2 


Indexed I/O 


Level 2 


Sort-Merge 


Null (nothing provided) 


Report Writer 


Null 


Segmentation 


Level 1 


Library 


Level 1 


Debug 


Nonstandard 


Inter-program 




Communication 


Level 1 


Communication 


Modified ACCEPT and DISPLAY for 




terminal communication 


Table 3: Radio Shack COBOL's level of implementation as compared to the ANSI 


X3. 23-1974 COBOL Standard. 





quently left out of small-machine im 
plementations of COBOL. Also im 
plemented are ADD CORRESPOND 
ING and SUBTRACT CORRE 
SPONDING. 

The ACCEPT and DISPLAY state 
ments provide good capabilities fc 
interacting with the display an 
keyboard. In listing 1, the ACCEP 
statement in line 60 puts out a field ( 
underscore characters the size of tr 
data item SELECT-KEY, and allow 
only that many characters to be ii 
put. DISPLAY is a programmatical 
simple way of printing a data iterr 
contents on the screen. 

Assembly-language programs a 
be called from RSCOBOL. They a 
dynamically loaded from disk ar 
must be in standard TRSDOS lo; 
format. An arbitrary number 
parameters can be passed to ; 
assembly-language program via tl 
USING clause of the CALL stat 
ment. Parameters are passed I 
reference, i.e., the address of the da 
item itself is passed. This is a ve 
flexible system. Loading assembl 
language programs from disk at ru 
time gives the same flexibility f 
managing memory used by assembl 
language programs as for that us' 
by COBOL subroutines. 

File I/O 

COBOL probably has the mc 
complete set of commercial fil 
handling statements of any languag 
It is a substantial challenge to impl 
ment them for a 48K-byte RAM, du 
floppy-disk Model I. RSCOBOL pr 
vides three major COBOL file type 
sequential, relative, and indexed s 
quential. 

Sequential files can have fixed- 
variable-length records. Variabl 
length records contain a byte at tl 
beginning of each record telling tl 
length of that record. Lengths va 
from 2 to 255 bytes. Fixed-leng 
records do not contain any bytes te 
ing the length. Sequential files, co 
taining records of either type, must I 
accessed in order, that is, one reco 
after the other in the order they we 
stored. 

Relative or random files conta 
fixed-length records. Any particu) 



406 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The MICR0MINTZ8 BASIC 
COMPUTER/CONTROLLER board repre- 
sents a milestone in microcomputer price- 
performance. It is cheap enough to be 
programmed directly in a high level lan- 
guage, and efficient enough to be battery 
operated if required. The entire computer 
is 4" by 4 1 /2" and includes a tiny BASIC 
interpreter, 4K bytes of program memory, 
one RS-232 serial port and two parallel 
ports, plus a variety of other features. Us- 
ing a powerful Z8 microcomputer chip and 
Z6132 4K X 8 RAM, the Z8 BASIC 
COMPUTER/CONTROLLER board is com- 
pletely self-contained and optimized for 
use as a dedicated controller. The unit is 
assembled and tested and comes with 
over 200 pages of documentation. 
The price, in single quantity, a tiny $195.* 
Optional power supply 
( + 5, + 12 and -12V) $35. 
Please include $4 for shipping and handling. 
'Call Micromint for quantity pricing 



Z8 MICROCOMPUTER 

• On board tiny BASIC interpreter. 

• Parallel and serial I/O ports. 

• 6 interrupts. 
RS-232 CONNECTOR 

•Just attach a CRT terminal and immediately write 

control programs in BASIC. 

4K BYTES OF RAM 
•Z6132 4K X 8 low power quasi-static 

RAM. EPROM pin compatible. 

SWITCH SELECTABLE BAUD RATES 
•110-9600 BPS. 
FULLY EXPANDABLE 

• Data and address buses available for 124K memory 
and I/O expansion. 

• 2 onboard parallel ports. 
•7.3728MHZ crystal for fast control operations. 

JUMPER SELECTABLE MEMORY OPTIONS 
•4K RAM, 2716 or 2732 EPROM operation. 

LOW POWER 
•Consumes only 1V2 WATTS at +5, +12 

and -12V (optional power supply available). 



To Order: 
Call Toll Free 
1-800-645-3479 

For Information Call 
1-516-374-6793 

MICROMINT INC. 
917 Midway 
Woottmere, N.Y. 11598 




Micromint will put both a 

computer development system 

and an OEM dedicated controller 

in the palm of your hand 

for only $195. 




As featured in Byte Magazine, July, August, 1981. 



Z8 is a trademark of Zilog Inc. 



Circle 412 on inquiry card. 



PFAS 



The portable ISAM for the UCSD p-System T 
Pascal MT + ™, and the HP-1000 Pascal 



PFAS is the professional, easy to use 
program development tool with ad- 
vanced features such as: 

* Variable length records 

* Alternate and partial key access 

* Unlimited number of records in a 
file. 

* A B+ tree index. 

PFAS is a set of modules which link to 
your PASCAL program making powerful 
ISAM functions part of Pascal. 



Programs using PFAS are not limited to 
a single machine or operating system. 
Since PFAS is written in Pascal it is truly 
machine independent, from Apple to 
Zenith, from HP- 1 25 to HP-1000. Only 
PFAS is this portable. 

Mow available for the p-System is PHOS- 
FORM. our formatted screen input sys 
lorn. PHOSFORM allows you to quickly 
create and customize fill-in-the-form 
type input for your programs. PHOS- 
FORM configures itsell to run on any ter- 
minal making your software portable. 



When you use PFAS and PHOSFORM to input, organize, and maintain your data, your 
time can be more effectively spent dealing with the creative facets of your software. 

* PFAS with Manual from $200 

* PHOSFORM with Manual (Introductory Price) .... $ 95 

* Manual only $ 15 

C*J. ft&igglesinarrh Jiofhnare / 
£rgphan igsfEtns 

P.O. Box 755, Cardiff-by-the-Sea, CA 92007 (714) 436-1455 

* (JCSD Pascal and p-System are trademarks of the Regents of ihe University of California. 

* Pascal MT + is a trademark of MT MicroSYSTEMS. 
















Kb ne^ 







***»£* stuc 



lists 
inde 



.co\o f 



tf^ s 



m* 



cb, 









THE 
RANDOM 

DXCriONA^I 

l^ GUA £a 

Unabrid-gO*! 
Edition 



record can be accessed "at random" 
by specifying its record number. The 
first record is number 1, the second 
number 2, etc. The maximum length 
of a relative record is 253 bytes. 

Indexed sequential access method 
(ISAM) files are the most powerful 
ones provided by RSCOBOL. 
Records in an ISAM file are fixed- 
length, but can be up to 4096 bytes 
long. When creating an ISAM file, 
one or more "keys" must be specified. 
A key is simply a field of the record 
that is used later as a search argument 
over the file. 

For example, an employee record 
may contain a Social Security 
number field. If this field is specified 
as a key when the file is created, you 
can later retrieve a particular 
employee's record by specifying the 
Social Security number. Such a 
method is usually easier to program 
than relative files, which require that 
you provide a record's number in 
order to directly retrieve it. 

When an ISAM file is created, 
records are stored in sorted order on 
their "primary keys." The primary 
key must be guaranteed unique; the 
Social Security number is a good ex- 
ample of such a field. Secondary keys 
can also be specified for a record. A 
record can be retrieved by specifying 
the value of any secondary-key field. 
Secondary keys can have duplicates, 
that is, two or more records can have 
the same value in a field designated as 
a secondary key. 

The sample program in listing 1 
uses a sequential-type file, not ISAM. 
It does a sequential search of the file 
when looking for a record whose key 
field matches the value typed in at the 
keyboard. If an ISAM file had been 
used, the record desired could have 
been located directly by its key value. 

In summary, the records of an 
ISAM file can be sequentially re- 
trieved in the sorted order of any key 
field, and directly retrieved by speci- 
fying the value of a particular key 
field. This powerful access method 
reduces the amount of user program- 
ming required for many data-storage 
applications. 

ISAM files do pay a space penalty 
for this generality in retrieving 



408 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 336 on inquiry card. 



Robotics • Fiber Optics • 
Lasers • Pollution Control • 
Pollution Monitoring • 

Up-to-date, inside-track reports now available from the vast 
resources of McGraw-Hill Research and Standard & Poor's 



Turn Willi confidence to those INDUS- 
TRY PROFILES to keep up with techno- 
logical trends, marketing opportunities, 
and your competitors' activities in to- 
day's key industries. 

Each Profile gives you current and 
immediately useful facts on a major 
growth industry. Each condenses a 
wealth of hard data and essential infor- 
mation for either quick access or con- 
centrated study 

INDUSTRY PROFILES are now avail- 
able for five key industries: industrial 
robots, fiber optics, industrial lasers, 
pollution control equipment, and pollu- 
tion monitoring equipment. 

Developed from a unique data base 
comprising nearly a quarter of a million 
documents, they reflect the combined, 
unparalleled resources of McGraw-Hill 
Research and Standard & Poor's. 

In these Profiles you'll find the most 
relevant and up-to-date industry infor- 
mation, distilled in a clear and accessi- 
ble format from government docu- 
ments, private reports, and the world's 
business press. 

No other single source offers 
you this unique opportunity — 
at such an affordable* price — to 
obtain concentrated, reliable 
information on industries vital 
to your company's growth and 
success. 

Now available - INDUSTRY PROFILES in 
these five rapidly developing areas: 

Industrial Robots 

Explores the rapid technological and 
economic expansion of this growing in- 
dustry sector'; describes markets, market 
leaders, and major foreign producers; 
highlights current technology and re- 
search programs; summarizes political 
and environmental pressures; and 
mora. 



Fiber Optics 

Examines an industry which is just 
leaching its turning point — estimated 
world demand for all fiber optics ap- 
plications will grow to around $40 
billion by the year- 2000. Details the 
reasons for the predicted explosive 
growth; identifies fiber optics produc- 
tion by component type as well as com- 
ponent consumption by application; 
and more. 



Industrial Lasers 

Reviews the industrial, scientific, and 
defense applications of this growing 
business; focuses on nineteen user in- 
dustries; discusses competing, new and 
emerging technologies; offers unique 
marketing projections; gives details on 
more than 170 producing companies; 
andmore. 



Pollution Control 
Equipment 

Assembles extensive data on air; water; 
noise, marine, and other pollution con- 
trols; examines future standards and 
comments on the $22 billion to be spent 
in compliance; outlines foreign sales 
and sales by SIC; reviews legislation; 
identifies nearly 500 companies in the 
product area; and more. 

Pollution Monitoring 
Equipment 

Spotlights trends, technology, uses, and 
sales of monitoring devices; identifies 
major- companies and their products; 
details domestic and foreign markets; 
shows current R&.D expenditures; 
traces the role of the EPA and other 
regulatory agencies; and more. 



hdus*ry p,olfcs 



Hi 



INDUSTRY PROFILES 

McGraw-Hill Research 

Dept. R 

i^~i Avenue of die Americas 

New York, IW iihkki 

Please send me the INDI sue, I'HOI II.IXs; eheeketl below 
.il S250eat*h postpaid plus applicable sates taxi 
I INDUSTRIAL Illinois 

l mill OPTICS 
i INDUSTRIAL I.VSLHS 
1 POLLUTION CONTROL l-:o.lll»Ml;vr 
POLLUTION MONITORING EQUIPMENT 

Also send inc. on a regular basis, n|Hlalcs of Ibe 
lnllnuirm I'HOI ll.lJsi: 



Join the forward- 
looking executives who 
rely on INDUSTRY 
PROFILES for 

• data to support decisions on 
new products, expanded 
markets, mergers, acquisitions 

• forecasting — a finger on the 
pulse of industry development 
and activities 

• succinct overviews of specific 
industries — their economic 
and technological patterns 

• sales backup — data, contacts, 
and details on competitors 



Each INDUSTRY PROFUSE covers 
these vital subjects . . . 

v Background — including legal, 
sociological, and historical data 

i^ Economics — applications, users, 
sales, forecasts 

u* Competition — who's producing 
what, who's making the sales 

*** Tbchnology — state-of-the-art and 
research programs 

is Political and Foreign Implications 
— perspectives, trends, major for- 
eign producers 



Each Profile is assembled in a handsome and 
durable portfolio. To receive your copies, at 
$250 each, send in Ibis coupon or write to: 
INDUSTRY PROFILES 
McGraw-Hill Research 

1221 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 



I understand (lie updates, available to subscriliors at 
the siMs-ial price of only $1115 each, are puhlished 
every six monlbs and will he liilled at lite time of 
mailing. 

I < ;herk enelused. | I 'lease hill me lll> company. 



Company. 



-zip- 



Circle 230 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 409 



records. An index structure is stored 
in the file for each field specified as a 
key. The manual states that the use of 
secondary (ALTERNATE) keys 
causes a geometric growth in the time 
required to create a file. However, the 
time required to access a record by its 
key is relatively uniform throughout 
the file. 

The RSCOBOL manual gives the 
following formula for estimating the 
number of 256-byte sectors required 
for an ISAM file with the specified 
parameters: 

NRECS = INT ((S+33)/32)XR/8 
+ (RX2)/INT(252/(Kn + 8)) For 

each key 

+ (RXD)/8 If duplicates 

are allowed 

where R = maximum number of 
records desired 
S = size of records in bytes 
Kn =size of key n in bytes 
D = number of keys that 
allow duplicates 



I created an ISAM file containing 
one hundred 61-byte records, each 
containing a 5-byte primary key and 
no secondary keys. The input records 
used to create the file were read from 
a sequential file on disk. The ISAM 
file took 3 minutes and 40 seconds to 
create (2.2 seconds per record), and it 
used 37 sectors on the disk (8 grans). 
Since the formula predicts 35.5 sec- 
tors, it appears to be fairly accurate. 
A record file created by Disk BASIC 
would take 25 sectors (four records 
per sector) to hold this same amount 
of data. Therefore, the indexes do 
produce some overhead. Of course, 
you could not access the Disk BASIC 
records by key value, and this is the 
function you are buying with this ex- 
tra disk space. 

Performance wise, the disks kept 
spinning the whole time the ISAM file 
was being generated. An interpreted 
BASIC program creating a record file 
usually leaves the disks idling at inter- 
vals while it is performing computa- 
tions. Two factors could further 



speed up the file creation process. 
First, TRSDOS 2.3B steps my MPI 
disk-drive heads at a slow 40 
milliseconds (ms) per track; they are 
capable of 5 ms per track. Second, I 
had the file of input records used to 
create the ISAM file on the same 
drive as the ISAM file itself. By plac- 
ing these two files on separate drives, 
less disk-head movement would oc- 
cur and the files would be accessed 
faster. 

Documentation 

The manual accompanying 
RSCOBOL is a substantial one. It 
comes in a 3-inch-thick loose-leaf 
binder containing 368 offset-printed 
pages in a readable dot-matrix font. 
This is definitely not a beginner's 
guide; a good COBOL textbook is a 
necessity if you have not used the 
language much. If you are already 
familiar with COBOL, however, you 
will find complete information about 
every aspect of RSCOBOL, written in 
the style of a reference manual. 



BUILD YOUR COMPUTER BREADBOARDS 

Si INTERFACES FASTER AND EASIER 

WITH NEW VECTOR PLUGBORDS 

4610 series- for STD-BUS- 
WW, solderable and 
unpatterned models. 

4608 series -for Intel/ 
National SBC/BLC 80-WW 
solderable, or unpatterned. 

8804 series- for S-1 00. 
Five models available. 

4607 -for DEC LSI-11/ 
PDP8-11, Heath-11. 

4609 -for Apple II, Super- 
Kim, Pet Commodore with 
Expandamem. 

4350- for Tl 980 
Computer. 

4611 series - for Motorola 
Exorciser,™ Rockwell 
AIM65 expansion. 

Send for FREE brochure! 




New RACK MOUNTING CAGES & ENCLOSURES AVAILABLE. 



Everything in this ad is available through distributors 
or factory direct, from stock, if not available locally. 



(v) PectMSM^mieCbmpanu 

X^T,/ INCORPORATED * * 



12460 Gladstone Ave., Sylmar, CA 91342; (213) 365-9661, TWX (910) 496-1539 
Circle on inquiry card: 393 for 4610, 394 for 4608, 395 for S100, 396 for 4607, 397 for 4609, 398 for 4350, 399 for 4611. 



410 March 1982 © BYTE Publications tac 



€ 

3 
C 



i 



*$>c0?^ 







BYTE'S Best 

Qellsp List 



JlnsMtl 






Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, 

Volumes I, II, & III 
by Steve Ciarcia 

Collections of Steve Ciarcia's perennially 
popular columns from BYTE Magazine, these 
three volumes are sure to please home computer 
users and electronics hobbyists. Volume I 
includes power conversions, programming 
EPROMs, remote terminal interfacing, touch- 
input video display, and more. Volume II, 
focusing on projects which interface the personal 
computer with the home, features useful applica- 
tions such as a computer-controlled home securi- 
ty system, computerized appliances, input-output 
expansion for the TRS-80, and even a computer- 
controlled wood stove. Volume HI offers low-cost construc- 
tion projects such as an ultrasonic rangefinder, handheld 
remote computer control, two speech synthesizers, and a 
remote-control motorized platform, to name just a few. 



Build Your Own Z80 Computer 

This complete guide to building a working computer offers 

engineers, students, and hobbyists an exciting alternative to buying a computer. With clear 

instructions, Steve Ciarcia fully explains how to build a basic single-board micro-computer 

based on the Zilog Z80 microprocessor. The finished product features a 1 K-byte operating 

system, serial and parallel ports, hexadecimal display, audio cassette mass storage, and easy 

expansion to include a video terminal. 



m 



Please send 

Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Vol. I $8.00 

Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Vol. II $ 1 2.95 

Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Vol. Ill $ 1 2.95 

Build Your Own Z80 Computer $ 1 5.95 



Call Toll-Free 800/258-5420 



Name 






Check Enclosed 


Address 






Bill Visa/ 
MasterCard ft 


City 


State 


Zip 


Expiration Date 



E4ME 

fiflll'lS 70 Main Street Peterborough, N.H. 03458 
Circle 59 on Inquiry card. 



Please add .75 per book to cover shipping cost. 



WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU 
CONDUCTED A SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA? 

■ We can't wheel the. Berlin" Philharrnonic into your, living; room* but 
we can supply '.you with art ALF Music Card — and-that's almost, 
,'. as good., ,'-,-''•".' ' ■ 

' Play whatyou phoose — whether if be i the .umpteerith variation' 
•'Of "Heart arid Soul" or the ultimate I hterpretat iori of "Toccata 
and Fugue",..the -music is totally yours. ■■_ . .- .' 

'■■. : Can't play an instrument? No matter — all you need- is your. ?•' • ' :. 
• • Apple® II, "your stered, arid anALF Music Card. . •. - 



Wait 'til you hear the applause! 




priced from $1'95 at your local dealer' 



A L F- Products Inc. 
'1448 Estes 
Denver,. CO SQ215 
(303.1 234-OB71 



Choice 

GNT Makes a Tape Punch Station and 
a Tape Reader/Punch Combination. 

Both are small, quiet, and economical. 
One of them will fit your needs exactly. 




The 4601 Combo 

• Punching speed: 75 Cps 
Reading speed: up to 150 Cps 

• RS-232-C serial interface 

• Utilizes all types of Mylar® and 
paper tape 

• Reliability: MTBF 100 million 
characters 



The 3601 Punch 

Punching speed: 50 or 
75 Cps 

RS-232-C serial interface 

Utilizes all types of Mylar* and 
paper tape 

Reliability: MTBF 100 million 
characters 



Serviced nationally by Carterfone 

y GNT AUTOMATIC INC 



1560 Trapelo Road, Waltham, MA 02154 (617) 890-3305 Telex: 923318 



The first section describes the use 
of the system, including discussions 
on how to use the compiler, the run- 
time module, and the interactive 
debugger . Compile-time and run-time 
error messages are listed and ex- 
plained. An appendix gives sample 
program listings, including one that 
demonstrates many error messages. 
The source code for these sample pro- 
grams is included on the disk that 
comes with the system. 

The second section of the manual 
describes CEDIT. Several examples 
are given for each command. You 
should have no problems using the 
editor based on these instructions. 

The third section is by far the 
largest at 297 pages. It gives a 
thorough definition of the RSCOBOL 
language, with detailed semantics for 
every language feature. The organiza- 
tion of the parts discussing file I/O is 
nicely divided into sections on se- 
quential, relative, and indexed files. 

There is a good table of contents, 
but no index is provided. Every error 
message the system can produce is 
documented with a sentence or two of 
descriptive text. There is an appendix 
listing all the COBOL reserved 
words. A thorough 24-page glossary 
describes special terms. The last ap- 
pendix gives a skeleton description of 
the complete language syntax. 

Conclusions 

Radio Shack has provided a very 
complete, professionally done 
COBOL package. The memory-man- 
agement options do almost every- 
thing possible to compensate for the 
inherent limits of the Model I and III 
machines — a small main memory of 
48K bytes and limited floppy-disk 
storage. The most powerful features 
of this system, especially the multi- 
keyed ISAM files, are limited by the 
floppy-disk system for anything but 
the smallest applications. Use the for- 
mula given earlier for computing 
disk-space requirements and make 
sure your application will fit before 
you invest in this software. However, 
if you just want to learn how to pro- 
gram in COBOL and you already 
have the hardware, this is an excellent 
package.! 



412 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 171 on inquiry card. 



1 



Infinity: 

First in a series of t-shirts by Scott Kim 



Inversions 

An "inversion" is a word that 
has been written so that it reads 
symmetrically. 

For instance, words that are 
the same upside down and right 
side up are inversions. A few words 
exist in the English language that 
do this naturally, such as "SWIMS" 
and "NOON'.' But alas, the great 
majority of words, when turned 
upside down, don't do anything 
interesting at all. 

Fortunately for lovers of inver- 
sions, letters are quite flexible. 
Look around you and you will see 
the letter "a" written in hundreds 



of different ways. And all of them 
we have learned to read as the 
same letter. 

By bending and stretching 
the shapes of letters, we can turn 
ordinary asymmetrical words into 
symmetrical inversions. Not all 
words will work, but when they do, 
the results are inevitably fascinating. 

Scott Kim's new book 
Inversions: a Catalog of Callig- 
raphic Cartwheels, published by 
Byte Books, is a collection of more 
than 60 inversions, exploring a wide 
range of ideas and lettering styles. 



In the accompanying text, Scott 
explains how inversions are created, 
so that you may try your hand 
at them. 

"Scott Kim's Inversions. . . 
is one of the most astonishing and 
delightful books ever printed . . . 
Over the years Kim has developed 
the magical ability to take just 
about any word or short phrase 
and letter it in such a way that it 
exhibits some kind of striking 
geometrical symmetry." 
— Martin Gardner, 
Scientific American 



Infinity 




address 



city 



slate 



zip 



xs s m I xl 

xs s m I xl 

Infinity: 100% cotton, silkscreened. 
Check or money order only. 
Sorry - no CO. D. Dealer inquiries 
invited. 



Black on white @ $8.00 . 
White on black© $8.75 . 

Postage [add $1 per shirt) . 
Calif, residents: add 
6/ 2 % sales tax 
Total Enclosed $_ 



inversions Dept B 3 , RO. Box 50697, Palo Alto, CA 94303-0662 

Circle 60 on Inquiry card. 



Infinity 

In this design, Scott Kim mixes 
idea and image, art and tech- 
nology, in a swirling evocation 
of infinity. This intricate design 
was created with the aid of a com- 
puter program, which took a basic 
hand-drawn design, 



IX I 



rep eated it symmetrically, 

intin 



then bent it into a continuously 
expanding spiral. 
As you look at the design, you'll 
discover that it can be read in two 
different ways. Notice that the letters 
"fi" when turned upside down 
become the "y" at the end of 
"infinity!' And so the spiral can be 
read as either "infinity" going in or 
"infinity" coming out! Which do 
you see? 

Infinity is the first in a series of 
wearable wordplays from the book 
Inversions: a Catalog of Callig- 
raphic Cartwheels by Scott Kim. 
The book is available through your 
local bookstore, or by calling Byte 
Books toll-free at 800-258-5420. 

Give the Infinity shirt as a gift, 
wear it while doing double back 
somersaults, take one on your 
next space flight. The possibilities 
are infinite. 



Hardware Review 



John Bell Engineering's 
Apple II Parallel Interface Board 



One reason I bought an Apple II 
was the potential for expansion on its 
motherboard. I'd planned to add a 
parallel I/O (input/output) port, a 
real-time clock, and a couple of other 
items I was going to design and build. 
After working with the board for 
two years, though, I concluded that 
buying one that already had these 
features would put me ahead of the 
game. 

Fortunately, I discovered that John 
Bell Engineering produces an Apple II 
parallel interface board — actually a 
multifunction module. It contains 
two 6522 Versatile Interface Adapters 
(VIAs) and can function as a parallel 
interface, clock, or counter. To ex- 
plain the capabilities of the card, I 
need only elaborate on the capa- 
bilities of the 6522 chip. 

About the Author 

Ned Rhodes earned a BEE from the Universi- 
ty of Minnesota and a master's in computer 
science from George Washington University. 
He presently develops minicomputer-based 
distributed processing systems for the 
MELPAR division of E-Systems Inc. in Falls 
Church, Virginia. 



Ned W. Rhodes 

2001 North Kenilworth 

Arlington, VA 22205 



The 6522 VIA 

The 6522 is a 40-pin support chip 
compatible with the 6502 micropro- 
cessor family. The chip is designed 
for connection to the data and ad- 
dress bus of a 6502 microprocessor, 
and it provides two bidirectional, 
8-bit I/O ports (where the direction 
of each bit is programmable). In addi- 



tion to the parallel ports, each 6522 
has two 16-bit, fully programmable 
clocks that can be used as counters or 
interval timers. The chip also includes 
a shift register for use with one of the 
timers to clock serial data into or out 
of the 6522. Each 6522 fully supports 
the 6502 interrupt structure, finally 
allowing you to constructively use 



At a Glance 






Name 




Features 


Apple II Parallel Interface 




Board contains two 6522 Versatile Inter- 
face Adapters with a total of four 8-bit, 
bidirectional I/O data ports; eight I/O con- 


Use 




trol lines; four independent, 1 6-bit timers; 


Board may be used for parallel 


/O, timing, 


and two 8-bit, serial-to-parallel/parallel-to- 


or serial-to-parallel/parallel-to-serial conver- 


serial shift registers. User can choose the 


sions 




IRQ or NMI interrupt lines 


Manufacturer 




Software Needed 


John Bell Engineering 




All user-written — no software provided 


POB 338 






Redwood City, CA 94064 




Documentation 


(415) 367-1 137 




A 16-page booklet containing a circuit 
board description and a 6522 data sheet 


Dimensions 






3 inches by 5 (7.5 by 12.5 cm] 


plugs into 


Audience 


any Apple slot 




Assembly-language programmers and 
others with some hardware experience 


Price 






Assembled, S69.95; kit, $59.95; 


board 




only, $22.95 







414 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 11 on Inquiry card. 



QUALITY parts at DISCOUNT PRICES 



4PDT PRINTED 
CIRCUIT I2VDC 

14 pin style 
3 amp contacts 
BRAND NEW 
P.C. Mount 
$2.75 EA. 



1000 MFD VLSL-b 25 VOLT 

2 FOR $1.00 



COMPUTER 

GRADE 
CAPACITOR 

700mfd.150VDC S2.& 

2 1/2" MA Y U 5/"t" HIGH" 

3,600 mid. «>. 

40VDC $1.00 p -f 

6,400 mfd. 

60VDC $2.50 

I 3/8"i,ia »tl|C 
12,000mfd. 40VDC $3.00 

2" m/\ y. << i/v high 
18,000 mfd. 75 VDC $4.00 

2 1/2" DIA X l( l/2 ,r HIGH 

20,000 mfd. 25 VDC 

2 " DIA. X 2)5" HIGH $2.00 

22,000 mfd. 15VDC 

'»• X 2 1/2' $2.00 



22,000 mfd. 40 VDC 

DIA. X I," HIGH $3.00 

25,000 mfd. 75 VDC $4.50 

DIA X <t 3/fi" HIGI 

4&000mfd.25VDC 

$3 50 
72,000mfd. 15VDC 

" HA. ■ I," HI..H $3.50 
CLAMPS TO FIT CAPACITORS bote 



SUPER SMALL 
PHOTO FLASH 

170 MFD 330 VOLT 
1 1/4"X '/8° 

2 for $1.50 
10 for $7.00 



RFI/EMI FILTER 




FOR NOISE 
SUPPRESSION 
C/DK APF540W 
RATED: 5 AMPS 
250 VAC 

S3, 50 each 



JOYSTICK 



PRECISION 
DEVICE... 
CONTAINS <t 
SOK CENTER 
TAPPED ALPS 
POTS 



$4.75 each 




So^MRF 901 

'VJr MICROWAVE 



MICROWAVE 
TRANSISTOR 

$2.50 EA. 



Circle 45 on Inquiry card. 



SEND FOR NEW 1982 



4 



L.E.D.s 

STANDARD JUMBO 
DIFFUSED 

RED 10 FOR 51.5oll 
GREEN 10 FOR $2.00 
YELLOW 10 FOR $2.00 

FLASHER LED ll\ 

5 VOLT OPERATION 
U JUMBO SIZE 

2 FOR $1.70 

Bl POLAR LED 

2 FOR $1.70 
SUB MINI LED 

-A 

.079" X .098" 
20mA at 1.75v 

10 FOR $1.00 
200 FOR $18.00 
QUANTITY PRICE5 AVAILABLE 



ALL CLECTROAKS CORP. 



14 CONDUCTOR 
RIBBON CABLE 




SCOTCHFLEX H3365 

28 AWG STRANDED 

GRAY WITH RED MARKER 

10 FEET for $2.50 
100 FOOT ROLL $12.00 



905 S. Vermont Ave. 
P.O. BOX 20406 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90006 
(213)360-8000 

Mon. ■ Fri. Saturday 
9 AM -5 PM 10 AM -3 PM 



TRANSFORMERS 



120 volt 
primaries 



6 VOLTS at 150 mA S1.25 
12 V.C.T at 500mA $2 50 
16.5 V. at 3 AMPS $6. SO 
18 VOLTS at 1 AMP $4.50 
25.2 VCT at 2.8 AMP $5.50 




• Quantities Limited 

• Min. Order $10.00 
•Add $2.50 

Shipping USA 

• Cnlif. Res. Add 6% 
■ Prompt Shipping 



FLAT LEVER 
MINI-TOGGLE . 
S.RDT (ON-ON) " 
5 AMP ft 128 VAC A 

cr.K « nets M 

$1.00 EACH HFl 

10 lor S8.50 fiV 

100 lor $75.00 ' I 



Model 953A EPROM 
PROGRAMMER 




Programs 2508, 2758, 2516, 2716, 2532 and 2732 five volt EPROMS. 

Complete - no personality modules to buy. 

Intelligent - microprocessor based, programs and verifies any or all bytes. 

RS-232 serial interface - use with computer or terminal. 

Verify erasure command ■ verifies that EPROM is erased. 

Extended diagnostics - error output distinguishes between a bad EPROM 
and one which needs erasing. 

May be used for extremely reliable data or program storage. 

All power on programming socket under processor control. LED warning 

light indicates when power is applied. 

Complete with Textool zero insertion force socket. 
High performance/cost ratio. 
Standard DB-25 I /O connector. 



4> 



BAY TECHNICAL ASSOCIATES, inc. 

< 
HWY. 603, P.O. BOX 387 
BAY ST. LOUIS. MISSISSIPPI 39520 
(601)467-8231 



ORDER: 1-800-547-2492 

IN OREGON CALL 

SERVICE: 503-479-4150 



APPLE HARDWARE 



ATARI HARDWARE 



ATARI 


R! Jll 400 (16K) 
• IV 800 (16K) 


$325 
$669 


EPSON 


I.D.S. 


OKIDATA 


MX-70 $369 


445G Printer $689 


80 $389 


MX-80 $459 


460G Printer $799 


82A $539 


MX-80FT $559 


560G Printer $999 


83A $829 


MX-100 $739 




84 $1229 


OLIVETTI 121 -PRINTER/TYPEWRITER 



w/Magnum RS 232 or Parallel $1495 

WORD PROCESSOR PACKAGE 

WORDSTAR 80 Column enhanced character set 

Z-80 & 16K Card by ALS $1049 

TERMS: 

SHIPPING: Add 3% nfiot.il transaction for UPS brown (ground) or S% for UPS blue (air), Parcel Post, 

or any special arrangements. 

PAYMENT: Cashier's checks, certified checks, money orders, and bank wires honored immediately. 

Wire transfer funds to U.S. National Bank of Oregon, South Grants Pass Branch. Credit RCE, account 

number 501-981, to the attention of Rose. Add 3% for Visa and Master Charge Allow 20 days for 

personal checks to clear. 

REFUNDS: 10% restocking charge on all returns or exchanges. No refunds on opened software. Call first. 

GUARANTEE: All products with full manufacturer's warranty. Sanyo and Apple warranty available. 

We have full repair and service facilities for all electronic repairs with HP, Dynascan, Pioneer, Sanyo and 

Apple trained and certified technicians. For any technical service call them for instant .ldvice or questions 

right on their benches at (503) 479-4150. 

REPAIRS: Out of warranty guarantee: Labor 30 days from date of your receipt, 90 days on parts. Call 

for details on quality guaranteed discount repair and reconditioning service. 

We have been repairing electronic equipment for 12 years and love it ! 

MINIMUM ORDER - $100.00 MINIMUM SHIPPING CHARGES - S4.00 











(DIRECT APPLE REPLACEMENT) 




410 PROGRAM RECORDER 


$139 






810 DISK DRIVE 




CONTROLLER 1 .1 & 1.2 


$70 


820 PRINTER 




VN1EX 80 COLUMN 


$ 269 


822 PRINTER 


$339 


CORVIS 5 MEC. DRIVE 


J 3049 


825 PRINTER 




LOWER CASE ADAPTOR 


$39 


830 MODEM 


$149 


16K RAM CARD (MICROSOFT) 


$149 


850 INTERFACE MODULE 




Z-80 CARD (MICROSOFT) 


$299 


853 16K MEMORY EXPANSION 


179 


MICROMODEM (HAYES) 


1289 


RAM CRAM J2K 


$185 


SMART MODEM (HAYES) 


$229 






NOVATION MODEMS 








APPLE CAT 
AUTO CAT 


$309 
$209 


SOFTWARE 




CAT 


$139 






D CAT 


$149 






MOUNTAIN CLOCK 


$239 


V1SICALC (ATARI) 


$149 


MOUNTAIN MUSIC SYSTEM 


$469 


BASIC (ATARI) 


$$49 


MOUNTAIN A/D CONVERTER 


$299 


VISICALC 


$139 


MOUNTAIN INTROL/X-10 CARD 


$169 


V1SIDEX 


$139 


MOUNTAIN C.P.S. 


$189 


VI5IPLOT 


$129 


10 KEYPAD (A.B.T.) 


$99 


VISITERM 


$109 


SUP-R.TERM (80 COLUMN) 


$299 


VISITREND/PLOT 


$179 


SUP-R-MOD R.F. MODULATOR 


$24 


MICROLAB DATA FACTORY 


$129 


16K MEMORY EXPANSION 


$39 


D B MASTER (STONEWARE) 


$179 


JOYSTICK (T.G ) 


$39 


SUP-R-TEXT II 


$109 


9 B&W MONITOR (SANYO) 


$145 


WORDSTAR 


$249 


9"IUW MONITOR (N.E.C.) 


$149 


B.P.I. SOFTWARE (each) 


$319 


12"B&W MONITOR (SANYO) 


$189 


STOCKFILE INVENTORY 




12" GREEN MONITOR (SANYO) 


$229 


ADVENTURE 




12" GREEN MONITOR (ZENITH) 


$114 


ZORK 




12" GREEN MONITOR BMC) 


$255 


SARGON CHESS 




13" COLOR MONITOR (SANYO) 


$385 


GALAXIAN 


$22 


EPSON CABLE & INTERFACE 


$79 


FUJI CASS TAPE/10 


$19 


EPSON GRAFTRAX 


$70 




$25 


SANYO SLIM II CASS DECK 


$29 




$38 



PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 
^^^ WRITE FOR CATALOG 

VISA' 





"A Unique Combination of 
Quality Products, Competitiue Prices, and seruice" 



RALSTON-CLEARWATERS 
ELECTRONICS 

530 N.E. 'E' Street • Grants Pass, Ore. 97526 

ALL BRAND NAMES ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS 



Circle 339 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



415 




PORT A REGISTERS 



„,-„ 






R/W »> 






CHIP 


CS1 ► 


ACCESS 
CONTROL 


CS2 »■ 






RSI ► 




RS2 ► 









COUNTER COUNTER 
HIGH I LOW 
(T2CH) I (T2C-L) 



INPUT 

REGISTER A 
(IRA) 



OUTPUT 
REGISTER A 
(ORA) 



DATA DIR. 
REGISTER A 
(DDRA) 



PORT A 

PERIPHERAL 

BUFFERS 



PORT A 

HANDSHAKE 

CONTROL 

PORT B 

HANDSHAKE 

CONTROL 
































SHIFT 

REGISTER 

(SR) 















CA1 
»• CA2 



CB1 
CB2 



PORT B REGISTERS 



INPUT 




REGISTER 


B 


(IRB) 




OUTPUT 




REGISTER 


B 


(ORB) 




DATA DIR. 




REGISTER 


B 


(DDRB) 





PORT B 

PERIPHERAL 

BUFFERS 



Figure 1: Block diagram of the internal configuration of the 6522 VIA (Versatile Interface Adapter) integrated circuit. 



the Apple interrupts. 

All communication with the 6522 
occurs through 16 internal registers. 
Two of the 16, IRB/ORB and 
IRA/ORA, are used as I/O registers 
for the two 8-bit parallel ports. Two 
others, DDRB and DDRA, are data- 
direction registers that define the 
direction of each bit (either input or 
output) of the parallel ports. Four 
registers are set aside to control the 
two programmable counter/timers, 
and one I/O register controls the 
serial-shift register. Two registers 
select the operating mode of the 
timers and shift register; they also 
determine whether the chip will 
recognize positive- or negative-going 
control pulses. 

The 6522 has a dedicated interrupt 
flags register that allows the chip to 
generate interrupts upon detection of 



(1) a positive- or negative-going edge 
on any of the four control lines, (2) a 
timeout (overflow) condition on 
either of the timers, or (3) the comple- 
tion of a shift-register shift cycle. One 
register selectively enables and dis- 
ables interrupt generation, while the 
last register is reserved for special 
forms of I/O through port A. Figure 1 
is a block diagram of the 6522 chip's 
internal layout. 

6522 on the Apple 

Due to a design limitation in the 
Apple II, the 6522 can't work proper- 
ly if it's merely attached to the bus; 
the 6522 requires a phase 2 clock 
pulse that isn't available on the Ap- 
ple. The Apple 6502 processor 
generates the phase 2 clock signal, but 
that pin is unavailable at the expan- 
sion slot connectors. 

Therefore, the I/O board must gen- 



erate its own phase 2 clock signal. 
The phase 2 clock pulse is simulated 
by delaying the phase clock signal 
by 80 nanoseconds. I must point out 
that simply delaying phase may not 
match the duty cycle specification of 
the phase 2 clock, but that doesn't 
seem to matter. The 6522s accept the 
simulated phase 2 clock signal and 
work just fine. 

The Circuit Board 

The board may be purchased in 
three different forms. For those of 
you with no hardware experience, it's 
available as a fully assembled and 
tested card. It may also be bought as 
a complete kit or as a bare board for 
which you supply the parts. I chose 
the bare board, then ordered the 
sockets and 6522 chips from a mail- 
order supplier. 

The board is very simple to build. 



416 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ircle 79 on inquiry card. 



Circle 138 on Inquiry card. 



We review products from every source and carry ALL of THE BEST 




PRODUCTS 



I We offer products from 

I Mark Data • Micro Works 

Radio Shack • Book Publishers 

Epson • NEC • Centronics • Moore 

SOFTWARE: Color Invaders • Color Pac Attack 

Monitor • Adventure Games • Text Editors 

Assemblers • PASCAL • Magikube 

Finance Programs ■ Color Data Organizer 

Graphic Games ■ Disassembler 

HARDWARE: 32K RAM Expansion Board • 16K RAM Set 
Cables • Interfaces • Power Pack ROM Cartridge • Printers 

ACCESSORIES: Books • Cassettes • Supplies • Service Manuals 

Look to COMPUTERWARE for DISK SOFTWARE 

• • * NEW PRODUCTS * • * 

16 PLUS BOARD — just plug in to expand from 16K to 32K 

PAC ATTACK — graphics action game — PAC ATTACK 

32 K versions of Editor, Assembler, Monitor, PASCAL, BERSERK game — 

Micro Text (communications) — STAR BLASTER 



Shipping from stock 



CALL 

OR 

WRITE 

FOR 

COMPLETE 

FORMATION 




COMPUTERWARE 



Dept. C • Box 668 
6809 Specialists Encinitas. CA 92024 • (714) 436-3512 

Computerware is a Irademaik ol Computerware. 



DISCOUNT PRICES 



ECT 

NorthStaf^ 
OKPATA 

Tfektfdeo 

Tieiitrti I data 

^^ I systems 

AND OTHERS 



WE'RE ON THE 

AST COA! 



DUPRE ENTERPRISES, inc 

MICROCOMPUTER SALES DIVISION 



SUITE 6 NELSON BLDG. 
271 FORT LEE ROAD 
LEONIA, NJ 07605 



(201) 461-8086 

9 AM-3 PM 
MON.-FRI. 



OLYMPIC SALES COMPANY 



/ Authorized Dealer 

Icippkz computer 

NEW APPLE FAMILY SYSTEM 
* 48K Apple II + *era//.-S2495.00 
Call for 



LARGE 
INVENTORY 
L0WER-THAN 
EVER PRICES 



* Disk w/controller 

* RF Modulator 

* 7 Personal & game disks BEST Pnce! 




Second Diik Drives 
Piial-Fortrin-Cobcl lingiiigei 
Dow Jonn & Quote reporter 
Griphics Tablets 
Visialc for Apple II & III 
Smirmm 80 column card 
Micromodem II bv DC Hivei 

WE ALSO" CARRY SOFTWARE! 
Personal Software Innovative 

Peach Tree Software American 
Microsoft System Plus 

Micronio and more. 

* authornad wrvieing App.lt dtalii lor Apple II & III 

Imnndnte dtlmry on all modtli-wi carry an cnormout inventory 

of Applt products i! all limti 1 

Just some of the software in stock N0W- 
Magic Window, Raster Blaster, Ultima, Home $ Minder, 
Tax Preparer, Pool 1.5, Typing Tutor, Olympic Decath- 
alon, ABM, Robot War, Castle Wolfenstein, Cranston 

Manor, Expediter, OO-Topos, Cyborg, Gorgon, 
Falcons, Wizardry, Personal Filing System. PFS: 
Report, Flight Simulator. . . 



Texos Instruments 

Home Computer 



1982 Model with 
full typewriter-style keyboard 

TI-99/4A U/L case & mare 

New KEYBOARD 

SOCQ95 



Reu 



! 369 ! 



rout Cost 
$369,951 



10" color monitor for 99/4 
32K Exp mem. module 

Extended Basic, a MOST for 

32K module 
Speech synthesizer 
Disk memory drive 
RF modulator 

Telephone coupler (modem) 
Printer (solid state) 
We carry a large inventory of software, & accessaries 



S9SO.0O 

New 

keyboard 
65000 319.95 
399.95 311.95 
10000 75.00 

150.00 129.95 
500 00 397.95 
69.50 49.50 
225,00 189.95 
400.00 319.95 



AJAR 

Model 



EH 



HEWLETT 
PACKAPD 



Mattel 1670 Race Horse Computer 

Hill. SI 25.00 Y/C: $21.95 



!i!. P " 11 J C D li Your Cost: 

Advanced Programmable Jl, M nr 

Scientific LCD Retail: $130.00 $1 1 4.35 

HP-1ZC Vnitr f*Vw#- 

Advanced Programmable *, nn nr 

Financial LCD Retail: Si 50.00 $119.95 
HP-125 Now Microcomputer Retail Your cost 

64K CPU/Terminal/Keyboard 375000 3195.00 
HP-85 Microcomputer- 

bu ilt in printer/monitor 3250.00 2499.00 

HP-83 Mrcrocom-biiilt mmon 2250.00 1799.00 
HP 2631 B Printer, dot mux 395C.00 31 99.00 
HP82905A 80 col printer 945.00 755.00 

HP 2601 A Letter quality prter 3495.00 

HP-82901M Dual master 2500.00 1999.00 

Call us for the lowest prices on 7 disk drives 



2450.00 2089.00 

750.00 636.00 
2050.00 1699.00 
325.00 256.00 



Graphics plotter 7225 
Personality module-a must 
for 7225 

Graphics Tablet 911 1A 

HP4ICV 

Card Reader for 41 CV 

Printer for 41 CV 

Quad Ram 

Optical Wand for 41 CV 

HP-41C Calculator 

Memory mod. for 41 C 

HP-97 Progrmble printer 

HP34C Progrmble scientific 

HP 38C Progrmble business R/E 

HP-32E Advanced scientific 

HP 37 F Business management 

We carry a complete inventory of 

Libraries, accessones & supplies: 



215.00 
385.00 
95.00 
125.00 
250.00 

750.00 
15000 
15000 
55.D0 
7500 



171 

294.00 
84.95 
99.95 
188.95 
26.95 
579.95 
117.95 
119.95 
48.95 
58.95 






>■"■; 



COMPUTERS 

lodei" " Retail Your Cost 

800 16K 1080.00 759.95 

810 Disk Drive 600.00 469.95 
Atari VisiCalc 200.00 169.95 

825 Impact Printer 1000.00 779.95 

(Centronics 737} 
SUPER SPECIAL-ATARI 400 (16K) 
Retail:S595.00 Your Cosi:$339.95 

Language Cart, not included-Opt'l at $54.95 



ATARI 

Programmable 

Color TV Game 

Video Console: 



Reuvt S225.00 



$ 137 



95 



M/rTTTcL £L£rTRamC5 

liNtEUiViSiON 



Retail $325.00 $■ 



234 



95 



VIDEOTAPES 

Min order: 3, mixed OK 
SONY L500 2 hr $11.89 
SONY L750 3 hr 14.69 
RCA VK250 6hr 13.95 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 


Retail 


You Pay 


Tl 59 295.00 


179.95 


TI30I1 LCD Stu Slide/NEW 18.95 


TI35SP LCD Sci 


22.50 


TI-40 LCOSei/NEW 


28.95 


Bus. Anal. 1 


19.95 


Bus. Anal. II 


44.95 


Bui. Card 


39.95 


MBA 


54.95 


Invest. Analyst 


49.95 


TIM Adv. LCSSci/NEW 


39.95 


TI-5511 NEW 


44.95 


Tl 57 Proj, Sci 


39.95 


TI-58C 480 Step. Prog. 


09.95 


PC100C Print/Plot 


149.95 


LCD-Proflrammer/NEW 


59.95 



DIABLO 630 

Letter Quality 
daisy wheel 
w/traetors 
Retail $3395.00 
Y/C: $2595.00 



OHIO SCIENTIFIC 

Professional Computet?. Retail Your Cost 

C8P0F-48K 3495.00 3195.00 

• Dual 8" Drives *64 col x 32 line/color 

• .7 MIPS FASTI tlvlanv more stnriard fealtes 

Fortran & Pascal available 

Many other OS/ product* available 
-at discounted prices, of course' 



Main Showroom & Offices: 
216 South Oxford Avenue 
Los Angeles, CA 90004 

WE HONOR 

VISA and MASTERCHARGE ! 



TELEX: 67 34 77 

ORDER DESKS open 7 Days a Week! 

7:00 AM to 7:00 PM Mon thru Sat 

Sunday Noon to 5:00 PM 

Order Desks: (213)739-1130 

TOLL-FREE TOLL-FREE 

(outside Calif.) (within Calif.) 

800-421-8045 800-252-2153 



All goods subject to availability; this ad super- 
sedes all previous ads; we are not responsible 
for typographical errors; we will meet or beat 
any advertised prices if the competition has 
the goods on hand. 

Minimum shipping and handling $4.95. 
All orders subject to verification and acceptance, j 



EPSON PRINTERS 

MX80 

Optional Graftrax Chip 80 

MXOO FT 

MX100 



Retail: Vour Cost 
645.00 499.00 
95.00 
745.00 599.00 
995.00 749.00 



PAPER TIGER PRINTERS 

460 995.00 895.00 

460G graphics 1094.00 969.95 

560 1235.00 1099.00 

560G graphics 1394.00 1195.00 ■ 

445 795.00 695.00 I 

445G 894.00 789.00 i 



SANYO MONITORS 

13" Color (new) high quality 
12" Gieeo phosphoious 
12" Black & white 
15" Black & white 



High resolution 

550 00 419.95 i 

360 00 259.95 

340 00 239.95 ! 

370.00 259.95 I 



9" Black 8. white (the best seller) 235 00 169.95; 



AMDEK(Leedex)High Quality Monitors 

100 12"8/W. 12 MHz 179.00 139.95 

100-G 12" Green, 12 MHz 199.00 174.95 1 

300-G 12" Green. 18 MHz 249.00 199.95: 

Color I 13" Color, NTSC comp. input, 449, 00 339.95 j 



'e 283 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



417 



All you do is mount two 40-pin 
sockets, four 16-pin sockets, one 
14-pin socket, and two bypass 
capacitors. Then plug in the chips and 
you're ready to go. The documenta- 
tion suggests that you use "standard 
assembly and soldering techniques." I 
guess that means you shouldn't lift 
the solder donuts by applying ex- 
cessive heat and that solder bridges 
between pins are taboo. I managed to 
avoid both perils. 

Connections are made through the 
four 16-pin DIP (dual in-line package) 



sockets; each socket handles eight 
bits. If interrupts are used, two 
jumper wires must be installed to 
enable them. One of the 6522s can be 
attached to the IRQ (interrupt- 
request) line, while the other can be 
attached to the NMI (nonmaskable 
interrupt) line. Note that the interrupt 
lines cannot be shared — you can have 
only one 6522 attached to an inter- 
rupt line. 

Documentation accompanying the 
board is sparse, and the unadven- 
turous user may get lost. The board 



Tune up your LA36 



The DS120 Terminal Controller makes your LA36 
perform like a DECwriter® III. 

The Datasouth DS120 gives your DECwriter® II the high speed printing 
and versatile performance features of the DECwriter® III at only a frac- 
tion of the cost. The DS120 is a plug compatible replacement for your 
LA36 logic board which can be installed in minutes. Standard features 
include: 



• 165 cps bidirectional printing 

• Horizontal & Vertical Tabs 

• Page Length Selection 

• 110-4800 baud operation 

• 1000 character print buffer 

• X-on, X-off protocol 

• Self Test 



• RS232 interface 

• 20 mA Current Loop interface 

• Top of Form 

• Adjustable Margins 

• Double wide characters 

• Parity selection 

• Optional APL character set 
Over 5,000 DS120 units are now being used by customers ranging from 
the Fortune 500 to personal computing enthusiasts. In numerous instal- 
lations, entire networks of terminals have been upgraded to take advan- 
tage of today's higher speed data 
communications services. LSI 
microprocessor electronics 
and strict quality control en- 
sure dependable performance 
for years to come. When ser- 
vice is required, we will 
respond promptly and effec- 
tively. Best of all, we can de- 
liver immediately through 
our nationwide network of 
distributors. Just give us a 
call for all the details. 




data 



computer corporation 



4740 Dwight Evans Road • Charlotte, North Carolina 28210 • 704/S23-8500 



418 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 123 on inquiry card. 



comes with a two-page circui 
diagram and register identificatioi 
list, a two-page circuit description 
and a two-page list of all possibh 
board addresses (whose availability 
depends upon which slot is used ii 
the Apple). A ten-page 6522 dat 
sheet is also provided. 

If you can read the data sheet, yo 
can use the 6522. If you find the dat 
sheet difficult to understand, chance 
are this product isn't for you. Th 
manufacturer has provided no sofl 
ware examples because of "th 
numerous uses of the board." 
believe that limits the board 
usefulness. Hold on, though; I've pre 
vided two software routines t 
demonstrate the capabilities of tf 
parallel interface board and tl 
6522s. 

Software 

I was unable to write software th 
would test all of the 6522 function 
so I chose two of the more commc 
applications: parallel I/O and clock 

Parallel Printer Routine. The fir 
software example, in listing 1, is 
parallel output routine for a print 
such as the Epson MX-80. Two bas 
sections comprise the routine. In tl 
first section, the output routine 
"hooked" through DOS, so that ai 
character output to the screen w 
also appear on the printer. T 
horizontal-tab counter and tl 
screen-echo flag are initialized at tl 
time. The 6522 is then set up for oi 
put, and a Control X is sent to t 
printer, clearing its internal buffer, 
the routine's second sectio 
characters are output, one at a tirr 
to the printer. 

The 6522 initialization is uniqi 
First, you enable port A for output 
placing a hexadecimal FF in the da 
direction register (DDRA) for port 
Then set up the data-output strc 
and the data-ready flag, which are I 
handshaking signals required I 
parallel communications. When I 
printer is ready to receive data, it 
dicates this with a pulse. With I 
MX-80, a negative-going pulse 
dicates ready, so you tie it to the C 
line (one of the control lines for p 
A). The other signal, the data stro 

Text continued on page 



Circle 163 on Inquiry card. 



forth 



for PET/CBM 



FORTH is a new concept in programming, with 
the speed of compilers and interactive ease 
of BASIC. Programs become a part of FORTH 
extending the power of FORTH and your PET . 

8050,4040 disk, cassette all PET-CBMs 16k+ 

Starter (ig- FORTH w editor a ssembler $35 

Personal float i ng point, strings; source $75 

Proteiiional turnkey development/data base $259 



[o-^-tui*r-» -for 

1903 Rio OranaW 

Aus-tin, Texas 

78765 



•All o« 



1-312-477-2287 



P.O. Box 8403 

rVj*-tin,T»x*» 
78712 






DEALERS INQUIRE 



Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany 



>< 
c 
n 
E 

L. 
II 

o 



E 

u 

« 

• 

>i 
c 
l» 
E 

k 

u 
O 



ti 

o 






GERMANY 



IS THE MOST SUCCESSFUL COMPUTER MARKET 
IN EUROPE, BUT IT IS ALSO THE MOST DIFFICULT 
ONE TO PENETRATE. WE REPRESENT A SUC- 
CESSFUL GERMAN MICROCOMPUTER DISTRIBU- 
TOR, WHO KNOWS THE GERMAN MARKET INTI- 
MATELY AND HAS WORKED WITH AMERICAN 
COMPANIES FOR YEARS. 

WE ARE LOOKING FOR A YOUNG AMERICAN 
COMPANY, GETTING READY TO INTRODUCE A 
TOP NOTCH, STATE OF THE ART MICROCOMPUT- 
ER SYSTEM, INTERESTED IN SELLING IT'S PROD- 
UCTS IN GERMANY FROM THE START. WE WILL 
REQUIRE EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORSHIP FOR 
GERMANY, SWITZERLAND AND AUSTRIA AND 
CAN GUARANTEE A MINIMUM OF 200 SYSTEMS 
FOR THE FIRST YEAR. 

INTERESTED PARTIES SHOULD CONTACT THE 
FOLLOWING ADDRESS IMMEDIATELY: 

DEPARTMENT S 

P.O. BOX 4229 
j STAMFORD, CT. 06907 

Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany • Germany 



o 
a 

3 

at 

3 
•< 



3 

21 

a 
• 

CI 

n 

i 

3 

ti 



3 
v 



n 

a 

I 



A REFURBISHED DAISY WHEEL TERMINAL 
FOR PERSONAL COMPUTER USERS AND SMALL BUSINESSES. 

Now you can have letter-qualit y printin g 
and prof essional features for just $1,495? 



E5" 



AJ daisy wheel printer terminals are renowned for 
exceptional performance, high reliability, and applications 
versatility. Now you can have all this for only $1,495* in our 
special limited offer. 

• 30 cps letter-quality printing J 

• Changeable type faces 

• Full ASCII keyboard with 
numeric pad 

• High resolution X-Y plotting 

• Complete electronic forms 
control 

• 128-character buffer 

• Asynchronous RS-232 interface 

• Printwheel, ribbon cartridge, j 
and cable included 

• 30-day parts/labor warranty 



•Price excludes options and is subject to 
change without notice. Model shown includes 
certain options. Offer available only in the 
contiguous U.S. 



a 



And you can choose from a list of options including 
forms tractor, pin-feed platen, paper trays, side shelves, 
extra printwheels, APL keyboard and 2K buffer. 

Call your nearest AJ regional 
a office for details: San Jose, CA 

(408) 946-2900; Rosemont, IL 
(312)671-7155; Hackensack, 
NJ (201) 488-2525. Or check 
the phone book for the number 
of your local AJ sales/service 
office. 

Call Toll Free Now: 
800-538-9722 
In California: 
(408) 946-2900 

ANDERSON 

JACOBSON 




Circle 25 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



419 



Circle 31 on inquiry card. 




MORE 



POWER 

FOR YOUR APPLE 

H^ri^^^g s i Fa nd][+ 

=3TLanguage systems 




APPLESOFT: 30.3 MINI. 

MICROSPEED ][: 3.9 MINI. 

MICROSPEED ][+: 2.4 MIN. 




FA^TF^T- up to 100 

I no I l_o I . T | MES FASTER 

THAN APPLESOFT 

MOST POWERFUL:^™* 



EXPANDABLE: ^otth based 
CREATIVE: gJSM?"*" 
USER-FRIENDLY: ™*<8™» 




REQUIRES APPLE, SINGLE DISK 
U SPEED ][ USES 2mHz PROCESSOR 
U SPEED ][+ USES 4mHz PROCESSOR 

SEE YOUR DEALER OR CONTACT 



r 



\pprie(tf;!MMv't, 



T~ 



TmTjr,,- 

j'acfjrJjQraxea, 



w 



8910 Brookridge Di . Suite 609. Upper Marlboro, Md 20870 
(301)627 6650 

I'm Interested: Please Send 
D \J SPEED ][ M95. D 160 page Manual ! 35. 

D jj SPEED ][» '645. D Detailed Information 

Name 

Address 

City 

State 



Zip. 



Listing 1: Parallel printer output routine for the John Bell Engineering parallel 
board. Written in 6502 assembly language, this program is designed to drive an 
Epson MX-80 printer. 



C300- 
C301- 
C303- 
C30C- 
C30D- 



0024- 
0479- 
04F9- 
0579- 
0011- 
0098- 
FDF0- 
0036- 
03EA- 
0037- 
0008- 
000D- 
OOftO- 



0300- 

0302- 
0305- 

0307- 
03CA- 
030C- 



0311- 
0314- 
0317- 

0319- 
031B- 
031B- 
031F- 

0322- 
0324- 



FF 
03 

OC 
11 
01 
93 
79 
6? 
2B 
36 
03 
37 
EA 
00 
79 
F9 



032B- 


r,9 


37 


032D- 


F0 


36 


032F- 


?9 


7F 


0331- 


4R 




0332- 


r.9 


0B 


0334- 


no 


0/ 


0336- 


Hli 


FV 


0339- 


1)9 


on 


033B- 


no 


Oh 


033D- 


AV 


W 


033F- 


Hli 


IV 


0342- 


AM 


If 


0345- 


Cri 


24 


0347- 


B0 


0B 



04 



0349- 


A9 


A0 


034B- 


sn 


79 


034E- 


?0 


6V 


0351- 


40 


4? 


0354- 


AH 




0355- 


Ml 


79 


0358- 


70 


AV 


035B- 


AH 


F9 


035E- 


DO 


OB 



1000 
1010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
10A0 
1070 
1080 
1090 
1100 
1110 
1120 
1130 
1140 
1150 
1 160 
1170 
1130 
1190 
1200 
1210 
1220 
1230 
1240 
1250 
1260 
1270 
1230 
1290 
1300 
1310 
1320 
1330 
1340 
1350 
1360 
1370 
1330 
1390 
1400 
1410 
1420 
1430 
1440 
1450 
1460 
1470 
1430 
1490 
1500 
1510 
1520 
1530 
1540 
1550 
1560 
1570 
1530 
1590 
1600 
1610 
1620 
1630 
1640 
1650 
1660 
1670 
1630 
1690 
1700 
1710 
1720 
1730 
1740 
1750 
1760 
1770 
1780 
1790 
1300 
1310 
1320 
1330 
1340 
1350 
1360 
1870 
1330 
1390 
1900 
1910 
1920 
1930 
1940 
1950 
1960 
1970 
1980 
1990 
2000 
2010 
2020 



6522 REGISTER EQUATES 



i 

* MX-80 PRINTER DRIVER 

* DJG 3/81 

* MODIFIED BY NUR FOR USE WITH JOHN BELL CARD 

* NORMAL MODE ECHOES ON SCREEN 

* CNTL-H (BACK ARROW) ABORTS SCREEN ECHO SO 

* BASIC LISTINGS WILL USE FULL 80 COLUMNS 

* CNTL-G (BELL) IS ALWAYS SENT TO SCREEN ONLY 

* 

* 

SLT1 

0RA 

DDRA 

PCR 

IFR 

* 

* 
* 

CH 
HCNT 



,EQ $C300 

.EQ SLT1+1 

,EQ SLT1+3 

• EG SLTH$C 

,EQ SLT1+1D 



SLOT 3 6522 REGISTERS 
OUTPUT REGISTER A 
DATA DIRECTION REGISTER 
PERIPHERAL CONTROL REGISTER 
INTERRUPT FLAG REGISTER 



PR0GRAH EQUATES 



.EG $24 
•EQ $0479 
FLAG .EG $04F9 



SCREEN H0R. CURSOR POSITION 
CHARACTER COUNTER IN SLOT 1 RAM 
FLAG FOR ECHOING ON SCREEN 
ACC .ED $0579 ACCUMULATOR STORAGE 
ENBL ,E0 $11 ENABLE PRINTER CHARACTER 
CNTX .EG 152 CONTROL X CHARACTER 
SCRN .EG $FDF0 SCREEN SUBROUTINE 
DHOK .EG $36 OUTPUT HOOK LOCATION 
HOOK .EG $3EA DOS HOOK ROUTINE 
BELL .EQ $37 BELL CHARACTER 

EG $8 CONTROL-H ECHO ON PRINTER ONLY 
EG $D CARRIAGE RETURN 
EQ $AO SPACE CHARACTER 



SLNT 

CAR 

SPAC 



,0R $0300 START IT HERE 
,TF MX30. BELL. OBJ 



* 
* 

* 

MX80 LDA «FF 
STA DDRA 
LDA *$0A 
STA PCR 
LDA *ENBL 
STA CRA 
LDA tCNTX 
STA ACC 
JSR POUT 
LDA IPRNT 
STA DHOK 
LDA ,'PRNT 
STA DHOK+1 
JSR HOOK 
LDA #00 
STA HCNT 
STA FLAG 
RTS 



MXSO INITIALIZATION 

CALL THIS PORTION OF THE ROUTINE TO 
SET UP THE PRINTER DRIVER TO SEND 
CHARACTERS TO THE PRINTER 



SET PORT A FOR 

OUTPUT 

CA1 ON NEGATIVE EDGE 

CA2 GIVES PULSE 

ENABLE PRINTER (SO IFR1 WILL 

BE SET FOR FIRST CHARACTER) 

CNTL X ERASES BUFFER 

SAVE IT 

SEND IT 

ADDRESS OF NEW OUTPUT ROUTINE 

SAVE IT 

ADDRESS OF NEW OUTPUT ROUTINE 

SAVE IT 

HOOK NEW OUTPUT ROUTINE TO DOS 

GET INITIAL VALUE 

ZERO HORIZONTAL CHARACTER POSITION 

SCREEN ECHO ON 

DONE WITH INITIALIZATION 



OUTPUT ROUTINE 



1$7F 



* 
* 
* 
* 

* 

PRHT CMP tBELL 
BEG TV 
AND 
PHA 
CMP ISLNT 
BNE CR 
STA FLAG 
CMP *CAR 
BNE TAB 
LBA *$FF 
STA HCNT 
LDA HCNT 
CMP CH 
BCS CHAR 



CR 



TAB 



A BELL CHARACTER?? 

YES» AVOID PRINTER'S RACKET 

REMOVE MSB 

SAVE ACCUMULATOR 

DISABLE SCREEN ECHO?' 

NO 

PUT NON-ZERO IN FLAG 

CARRIAGE RETURN? 

NO 

COUNTER WILL BE ZERO AFTER CR 

RELOAD HORIZONTAL CHARACTER-1 

COMPARE COUNTER WITH SCREEN 

HOR. POSITION 

BRANCH IF IN PROPER POSITION 



OUTPUT SPACES UNTIL PRINTER IS AT THE PROPER 
HORIZONTAL CHARACTER POSITION 



LDA ISPAC 
STA ACC 
JSR POUT 
JMP TAB 
CHAR PLA 

STA ACC 
JSR POUT 
LDA FLAG 
BNE RET 



GET A SPACE 

SAVE AS PRINT CHARACTER 

PRINT IT 

CHECK HOR. POSITION AGAIN 

GET CHARACTER 

SAVE AS PRINT CHARACTER 

GO PRINT IT 

ECHO ON SCREEN? 

NO 



Listing 1 continued on page 422 



420 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 272 on inquiry card. 



A 



MITSUBISHI 
FLEXIBLE DISK DRIVE 



Circle 314 on inquiry card. 



SETTING NEW STANDARDS FOR 
RELIABILITY AND DURABILITY 

• FULLY IBM AND SHUGART SA850R COMPATIBLE 

• DOUBLE SIDED. DOUBLE-DENSITY 

• 16 MBYTE/DISK 

■ SOFTOUCH™ PROPRIETARY HEAD LOAD 
MECHANISM 

• 3 MS TRACK-TO-TRACK ACCESS TIME 

• HIGH QUALITY, ALL FERRITE MnZn HEADS 

• PRECISION BUILT/MODULAR CONSTRUCTION 

• 6 MONTH WARRANTY 



LZZ] 



$525.00 Available from stock. Terms: cash, check, 
money orders. VISA, MasterCharge. Tax: 6% if California resi- 
dent. 'Price subject to change without notice. 

U 
Z 

1333 Lawrence Expressway, Suite 408 

Santa Clara, California 95051 

(408) 247-3450/TWX 910-338-7442 

AUTHORIZED SALES AND SERVICE AGENT 

FOR INFORMATION CONTACT HOLLY SAUER 

OEM INQUIRIES INVITED 



TRISWATCH 

Keeps your TRS-80 Mod II 
up with the times. 

The Triswatch, formally known as the CCB-II, 
is a clock, calendar, and audio alarm rolled 
into one! 

■ For TRSDOS users, the CCB-II eliminates 
the hassle of setting the time and date 
when you reset your Mod II. 

■ The P&T CP/TVT 2 system date and time 
are synchronized to the CCB-II each time 
the system is reset. 

■ The CCB-II is directly accessible from any 
language that allows direct port input 
and output. 

■ A pacemaker battery is included, which 
provides over 8 years of continuous 
timekeeping. 

Keep up with the times and order 
the CCB-II for $175 plus shipping. 




TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corp. 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research Inc. 

PICKLES & TROUT 

P.O. BOX 1206, GOLETA. CA 93 11 6. {805)685-4641 



Warning: Installation requires opening the Model II, which may void its warranty. 
We suggest wailing until the warranty period has expired before installing the CCB-II. 



TERMINALS 

J^ADDS^ 
VIEWPOINT 



SDPDC 




IQ 
120 



FACTORY 
WARRANTY 

Oft CRT hxI Jioylyi. 
All ohm imcunditia 



HS900 



DISKETTE 
«SALE» 

Wabash: 

$24.90 

8inch — 
SS/SD : More Avail. 
QTY. PRICE AVAI 



SPECIALS 

ZENITH ZVM-121 
Villi Mmlii (Green II 

IZnet ,_> 

I5»Hi A/* 

* 118.50 

8255— "5.95 
B748-8 — '3L0O 
3341PC -»2.00 
MM5060 — 35c 
MC6800— '7.75 
MC6802 - *1495 
MC6850 — *4.50 
MC6821 —'4.95 



82 

l.C. 
MASTER 

S 59.95 

CARDS 

MICBOSOfT 

Z»* 

*295°° 
16KRAM 

*160°° 

EX 

VtDEOTERM 

**295°° 



REAL-TIME CLOCK 
CALENDAR (MSM5832) 

D*k'«''« moo,, Matal Gat* CMOS I C 

F|tWH 

Time, Month, Data. Yaa< 
'Day ot WMk 
-But Or»«ntod 
'I Bit Dai* Bus 
'(Bit Addrou 
•"/wHold Sake 
•intar Signal XTAL 

•32 768Khj Mai Control * 

'5v Pow Sop 
' Low Pqw#< Disupation 



*745 

•/snci 



2.85 




GLOBAL 
LPK-1: 

Logic Probe 

Kit- complete 

nothing extra 

to buy. Min. turns an ordinary 

pulse width outlet into a com 

SOOnsec. 



10 Sit'iit ii liiiiiinici" 

THE MPD 117 



na95 



rolled power source 

J 79.50 



0UV-T8/2 "^LOGICAL DEV. 

"EPR0M- Eraser" 

•Eraseupto15EPROMS 
$69.85 



in 30min. 



COMPUTERS 

ATARI" 800™ 
COMPUTER SYSTEM 

4O0W16K *350 00 
80Ow/16K *69900 
"800 Computer w/48K 
53 **$ $825.00 

ATARI PERIPHERALS: 




Printer-825-- 650PO 

Disk Dr"810- 485°° 

Record "410"- 82P° 

Paddlelprt 

Joystick(pr.) 

32k RAM- 17995 

Basic Cart - 49.°° 



^> 16.95 



Asteroids . 
Missle Com>> 32 50 
Sup. Brk Out 
Assem Edit - 49°° 
Star Raiders- 45PO 
8asketball- 28°° 
Chess -32P° 



♦ MONITORS* 



ZENITH CD 
12in. 15MHz. 

j.cs. rn 

12in 18MHz 

amdekH] 

12in,12MHz. 
13in Color, — , 

M 



1 Green Phos a 

Hi-Res. — •118.50 £ 

2 Green Phos. *,_„_» . 
Hi-Res. — -'ISS-SO £ 
Non glare 

3 Hi^T 105 "** 155 - 50 * 

3.,Lo-Res. — jjg&fiQJj 




1971 SO STATE COLLEGE 
ANAHEIM. CALIF. 92806 

(714(937-0637 *■&. >n a rt 

CHECK — M/O WMP" " 

NO COO C 

'10.MIN ORDER. CA RES ADO 6-v 



COMPONENTS 74 S00 



SN7400N 
SN7402N 
SNM04N 
SN MOHN 
SN74ION 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
SN7414N 
SN7416N 
SN741 7N 
SN7420N 
SN742SN 
SN7430N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7440N 
SN7442N 
SN7443N 
SN744SN 
SN7451N 
SN7454N 
SN7474N 
SN74 75N 



SN7482N 

SN7492N 

SN74Q3M 

SN7495N 

SN7498N 

SN74122N 

SN74136N 

SN74141N 

SN74151N 

SN74153N 

SN74154N 

SN74155N 

SN74157N 

SN74160N 

SN7416IN 

SN74I63H 

SN74164') 

SN74165N 

SN74174N 

SN74175N 

SN74180N 

SN74181 N 

SN74393N 



74LS00 



74LSOO 


2B 


74LS158 


74LS02 


28 


74LS161 


74LS03 


28 


74LS162 


74LS04 


28 


74LS163 


74LS06 


22 


74LS184 


74LS06 


29 


74LS1B5 


74LS09 


26 


74LS169 


74LS10 


26 


74 LSI 70 


74LS14 


89 


74 LSI 74 


74LS20 


22 


74 LSI 75 


MLS21 


26 


74LS190 


74LS26 


40 


74LS191 


74LS27 


27 


74LS196 


74LS28 


37 


74LS197 


74LS30 


29 


74LS221 


74LS32 


31 


74LS240 


74LS36 


31 


74 LS241 


74LS42 


63 


74 LS243 


MLS4S 


77 


74 LS244 


74LS74 


38 


74LS245 


74LS75 


55 


74 LS251 


74LS86 


45 


MLS253 


74LS90 


Ui 


74LS257 


74LS03 


85 


74 LS259 


741 SO* 


SO 


74LS20O 


74LS107 


43 


74 LS273 


74 LS1 13 


45 


74 LS279 


74LS122 


45 


74 LS2BO 


74LS123 


89 


74 LS293 


MLS125 


89 


74 LS365 


74LS126 


79 


74LS367 


74 LSI 38 


84 


74LS373 


74 LSI 39 


59 


74LS3M 


74LSI51 


49 


74LS377 


74LS153 


4B 


74LS889 


74 LSI 5 7 


89 


74 LS870 



74SOO 


39 


74S138 


75 


74S02 


45 


74 S 140 


1 OC 


74S03 


38 


74S168 


76 


74S04 


39 


74SI74 


1 35 


74S05 


39 


74S175 


1 35 


74S10 


39 


74S182 


75 


74S15 


45 


74 S 189 


4 25 


74S20 


55 


74S201 


6 75 


74S22 


55 


74S240 


2 75 


74S30 


75 


74S244 


2 95 


74S37 


55 


74S251 


2 75 


74S50 


65 


74S287 


? 96 


74S51 


49 


74S288 


2 96 


74S64 


56 


74S299 


5 75 


74S74 


65 


74S4 70 


9 25 


74S86 


96 


74S4 71 


9 50 


74S112 


1 95 


74S4 73 


960 


74S132 


i 45 


74S4 74 


960 




EPHOMS 




2708 


3.25m 


8 tor 2.96m 


2716 


sjso m 


8 toe 


5.00m 


2732 


12.96 m 


4 tar 11.00 m 


4116 200ns. 


lav 





s 1.85ea.; *149° 



2111 450MS 2.5OMl0tor 2.00m 



2.96 



MISC 
2102 

450WS 
8036 
HE 556 

AY5 W13A 4.25 

1488 96 

V489 .96 

8T26 1.30 

BT26 1.30 

8212 1.96 

82W 1.96 

IS4WSCR .85 

IT4KJTRIAC 85 

7905 .85 

7908 .86 

7915 .86 

7918 .86 

7806 .86 

7806 .85 

7806 86 

7812 .86 

MC1330A1P 1.60 

MC1350P 1.15 

MC1358P 1.50 

LM380 1.10 

LM565N .95 

LM741 .25 

MC1458P 56 



cont'd 



1103A 

LtP0765 
ftoppyda* 
control I* 

ULM2001 

TMS44O0 

MC4O08P 

MH0026 

03624 

D3001 

D3O02 



1.40 
1.50 
1.56 
1.96 
1.96 
1.96 



SOCKETS 



10/5.3O 
XV5.70 
XV8.70 
XV9.70 



8 10/120 

14 W/1.30 

16 MV1.40 

18 10' 1.80 

20 KW2.70 



KV12.70 22 XW2.70 

KW13.70 24 10/2.70 

tt/U.70 28 KV3.00 

1071770 40 10/3.90 



Bare Bones APPLE I ll 



CPU! 



w/o Keyboard 
W/o Pwr. Supply 



Yfm 



2 80 

BOACTC 

BOA CPU 

80 002 1664K 
8086A 
2901A 
MC68O0 



7.96 
10.50 
10 50 
129.00 
13.50 
7.50 
9.50 



Circle 106 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



421 



SOFTWARE 

DEVELOPMENT 

TOOLS FOR 

INDUSTRY 



CP/M CROSS-ASSEMBLERS 

Fast, comprehensive cross-assemblers 
to run under CP/M.* Extensive pseudo- 
ops Include full listing control, nested 
conditionals, mnemonic synonyms, 
and Inclusion of external source files. 
Generate object file, assembly listing, 
and symbol table from source code for 
nine popular microprocessor families. 

XASM05 6805 

XASM09 6809 

XASM18 1802 

XASM48 8048/8041 

XASM51 8051 

XASM65 6502 

XASM68 6800/6801 

XASMF8 F8/3870 

XASM400 COP400 

Assemblers . . . $200.00 each 
Manual only... $ 25.00 

8048 DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE 

Now you can use the 8048 family of 
single-chip microcomputers without 
buying expensive equipment. Develop 
8048 software with the XASM48 cross- 
assembler. Then plug our EPR-48 board 
into your S-100 system to program the 
8748 EPROM version. 
8048 Development Package . . . $574.00 
EPR-48 alone $449.00 

EPROM SIMULATOR BOARD 

Debug dedicated systems quickly. Our 
PSB-100 PROM Emulator is an S-100 
board with up to 8K of RAM. Cable with 
24-pln plug replaces 2708 or 2716 
EPROM(s) in your target system for ins- 
tant program testing 
PSB-100 EPROM Simulator . . . $445.00 

w/2K RAM 

• Trademark ol Digital Research 




804 SOUTH STATE ST 
DOVER. DEL. 19901 
302-734-0151 



Visa and Mastercharge accepted. We ship 8" single- 
density and Softcard + 5.25" diskettes. Ask us 
about other formats. OEM AND DEALER INQUIRES 
INVITED. 

+ Trademark of Microsoft 



Listing 1 continued: 



0360- 


AD 79 


05 


2030 


LDA ACC GET CHARACTER AGAIN 


0363- 


09 SO 




2040 


0RA «80 SET MSB FOR SCREEN 


0365- 


4C FO 


FD 


2050 TV 


JMP SCRN OUTPUT TO SCREEN 


0368- 


60 




2040 RET 
2070 * 
2080 * 
2090 * 
2100 * 
2110 * 
2120 * 
2130 * 
2140 * 


RTS NORMAL RETURN 

POUT SUBROUTINE 

HANDLES OUTPUT TO PRINTER 
CHARACTER TO BE PRINTED IS IN ACC 


0369- 


A9 02 




2150 POUT 


LDA *02 LOAD COMPARE MASK 


036B- 


2C OB 


C3 


2140 


BIT IFR IS PRINTER READY?' 


036E- 


F0 F9 




2170 


BEQ POUT NO » WAIT 


0370- 


AD 79 


05 


2130 


LDA ACC GET CHARACTER TO PRINT 


0373- 


8D 01 


C3 


2190 


STA ORA PRINT IT 


0376- 


EE 79 


04 


2200 


INC HCNT BUMP CHAR, COUNTER 


0379- 


60 




2210 
22*^0 


RTS RETURN 
.EN 


SYMB0L TABLE 






0579- 


ACC 








0087- 


BELL 








OCOIi- 


CAR 








0024- 


CH 








0354- 


CHAR 








0098- 


CNTX 








0339- 


CR 








C303- 


[IBRA 








0036 


DH0K 








0011- 


ENBL 








04F9- 


FLAG 








047"- 


HCNT 








03EA- 


HOOK 








C30D- 


IFR 








0300- 


KX80 








C301- 


0RA 








C30C- 


PCR 








0369 


POUT 








032B 


PRNT 








■ ''63 


SET 








roFo- 


SCRN 








0003- 


SLNT 








£300- 


SLT1 








:;-oa .) - 


SPAC 








3342 


TAB 








0365- 


TV 









Listing 2: This routine uses the parallel board as a real-time clock. The time will be con- 
tinuously displayed on the screen. 

Mt SYNTAX ERROR 

:asm 



1000 
1010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
1040 
1070 
1030 
1090 
1100 
1110 
1120 
1130 
1140 
1150 
1160 
1170 
1130 
1190 
1200 
1210 
1220 
1230 
1240 
1250 
1260 
1270 
1230 
1290 
1300 
1310 
1320 
1330 
1340 
1350 
1360 
1370 
1330 
1390 
1400 
1410 
1420 
1430 
1440 
1450 
1460 
1470 
1430 
1490 



DOSCL0CK — REAL TIME CLOCK WITH CORRECTION 
FOR BISK USE. THIS PROGRAM USES THE JOHN BaL 
ENGINEERING PARALLEL BOARD AS A REAL TIME DIGITAL 

CLOCK. 

NOTE — THIS ROUTINE IS ASSEMBLED TO START NEAR 
THE END OF THE INPUT LINE BUFFER. THIS MEANS THAT 
YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO ENTER REALLY LONG LINES 

OF TEXT. THIS ROUTINE IS NOT C0MPATABLE HITH 
THE PROGRAM LINE EDITOR BECAUSE THAT PROGRAM USES 
LOCATION $45 WHICH IS WHERE THE MONITOR STUFFS 
THE ACCUMULATOR DURING INTERRUPT PROCESSING. 

BECAUSE THE 6522 IS ATTACHED TO THE APPLE 
BUSS, THE PUSHING OF THE RESET BUTTON HILL RESET THE 
6522 AS WELL AS THE APPLE. THAT MEANS THAT YOU WILL 
HAVE TO RESTART THE CLOCK EVERY TIME RESET IS PUSHED. 

IN ORDER TO USE THIS ROUTINE WITH THE JBE BOARD, YOU 
HAVE TO ENABLE TIMER T2 TO COUNT THE NUMBER OF TICKS 
OF TIMER Tl. THIS IS ACCOMPLISHED BY JUMPERING PINS 
7 AND 8 ON J2 TOGETHER 



RAM VERSION FOR SLOT 3 

DJG 4/31 (DERIVED FROM AN AIM CLOCK ROUTINE 

BY DE.J0NG IN HICRO ) 
NUR 8/81 (MODIFIED FOR SLOT 3 AND THE 
JBE PARALLEL BOARD) 



PROGRAM ADDRESSES! 

ENTRY POINT (TO START CLOCK)! 
*0230 (CALL 640) 

TO CONTROL SCREEN TIME DISPLAY: 
J77F (POKE 1919.X ) 
(NON-ZERO VALUE DISPLAYS TIME CONTINUOUSLY) 



TO stop clock: 



LOAD LOCATION *C30E WITH «40 
(POKE -15602,64) 



Listing 2 continued on page 424 



ill March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



BITE 

TOLL-FREE 
SUBSCRIPTION LINE 

1-800-258-5485 

New Hampshire Residents Dial 924-9281 

The Quickest Way To 

• Order a Subscription 

• Renew a Subscription 

• Change or Correct an Address 

• Give a Friend a Gift Subscription 

• Inquire about a Subscription 

We are waiting to help you. Call us between: 

8:30-4:00 Mon.-Thurs. 
8:30-1 2:30 Fridays 

(Eastern Time) 

Bill 



the small systems l ournal 



Circle 324 on inquiry card. 







r *0: 



*C7. 



*CH A 



SING 

*°« tor 






(4 * S ^%&**8 





Building Blocks for 
Microcomputer Systems, 
Dedicated Controllers 
and Test Equipment. 



R 2 l/0 

-100 ROM, 

RAM & I/O 

BOARD 




ECT's R 2 l/0 is an S-100 Bus I/O Board with 3 Serial 
O Ports (UART's), 1 Parallel I/O Port, 4 Status Ports, 
:K of ROM with the 8080 Apple Monitor Program and 
K of Static RAM. 

$295.00 




RM-10 
S-100 

RACK MOUNT 
CARD CAGE 



ECT's RM-10 is a rack mount 10 slot Card Cage with 
Power Supply, consisting of an ECT-100 rack mount 
Card Cage (19"W x 12.25"H x 8"D), the MB-10 Mother 
Board (with ground plane and termination) all 10 
connectors and guides and the PS-15A Power Supply 
(15A@8V, 1.5A@ ± 16V). $295 00 



Specializing in Quality Microcomputer Hardware 

Industrial • Educational • Small Business • Personal 

Card Cages, Power Supplies, Mainframes, CPU's, Memory, IIO, OEM Variations 



763 Ramsey Ave., Hillside, NJ 07205 



(201) 686-8080 



le 148 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



423 



Circle 90 on inquiry card. 



We will meet or 
beat any price 
in the U.S.A. on 




MICROCOMPUTERS 

In fact, no matter what price 

you see advertised by Micro 
Management, Perry Oil, Pan 
American, or any authorized 
Radio Shack dealer for TRS- 
80 Computers with pure fac- 
tory installed memory and 
full warranty, we'll beat it! 



ATARI 

MICROCOMPUTERS 



®/ 



Listing 2 continued: 



We have consistently offered 
the complete TRS-80, ATARI, 
EPSON, APPLE, and MAXELL 
lines at the best prices in the 
U.S.A. And we offer the best 
delivery from the largest 
inventory in the Northeast. 
If you're looking for the best 
prices in the U.S.A., check 
the others but call Computer 
Discount of America. 

TRS-80 and Radio Shack aie trademarks ol Tandy Co 



CALL TOLL FREE: 
800-526-5313 



Computer 



of America 



COMPUTER DISCOUNT OF AMERICA. INC. 
15 Marshall Hill Road. West Milford Mall 
West Milford. New Jersey 07480-2198 
In New Jersey Call 201-728-8080 



0345- 

0420- 
047F- 
047F- 
04FF- 
057F- 
05FF- 
067F- 
06FF- 
077F- 
03FE- 



C300- 
C300- 
C304- 
C305- 
C309- 
C309- 
C30B- 
C30D- 
C30E- 



0230- 
0281- 
0283- 
0286- 
0239- 



023B- 
028D- 
0290- 
0292- 



0295- 
0297- 
029A- 
029C- 
029F- 
02A1- 
02A4- 
02A6- 
02A9- 
02AB- 
02AE- 
02AF- 



02B0- 
02B3- 
02B5- 
02B7- 
02BA- 
02BD- 
02BF- 
02C2- 
02C4- 
02C7- 
02C9- 
02CB- 



02CE- 
02D1- 
02D4- 
02D6- 
02D3- 
02DA- 
02DD- 
02E0- 
02E3- 
02E5- 
02E7- 
02E9- 
02EC- 
02EF- 
02F2- 
02F4- 
02F6- 
02F9- 



A9 BO 
8H FE 
A9 02 
8B FF 



A9 CO 
8D OE 
A9 EO 
8B OB 



A9 20 
8B 04 
A9 F9 
8D 05 
A9 03 
3D 09 
A9 00 
8D 09 
A9 FO 
8ti 7F 
53 
SO 



EE 7F 
DO 70 
A9 FO 
8D 7F 
AD 00 
10 03 
EE 7F 
A9 20 
2C OH 
DO 42 
A9 OS 
3D 09 



EE FF 
AD FF 
C9 3C 
90 23 
A9 00 
8D FF 
EE 7F 
AD 7F 
C9 3C 
90 14 
A9 00 
8D 7F 
EE FF 
AD FF 
C9 18 
90 05 
A9 00 
3D FF 



1500 
1510 
1520 
1530 
1540 
1550 
1560 
1570 
1530 
1590 
1600 
1610 
1620 
1630 
1640 
1650 
1660 
1670 
1680 
1690 
1700 
1710 
1720 
1730 
1740 
1750 
1760 
1770 
1730 
1790 
1300 
1310 
1320 
1330 
1340 
1850 
1860 
1370 
1880 
1890 
1900 
1910 
03 1920 
1930 

03 1940 
1950 
1960 
1970 
1980 
1990 

!000 
!010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
2050 
2040 
2070 
2080 
2090 
2100 
2110 
2120 
2130 
1140 
1150 
!160 
J170 
2180 
:190 
2200 
2210 
2220 
2230 
2240 
2250 
2260 

04 2270 
2230 
2290 

04 2300 

C3 2310 

2320 

04 2330 

2340 

C3 2350 

2360 

2370 

1330 

!390 

2400 

2410 

2420 

2430 

04 2440 

04 2450 

2460 

2470 

2430 

04 2490 

05 2500 
05 2510 

2520 

2530 

2540 

05 2550 

05 2560 

05 2570 

2530 

2590 

2600 

05 2610 

2620 

2630 

2640 



* 

* 

ACC 

SCRN 

FREE 

FRAC 

SEC 

MIN 

HOUR 

TMPL 

TMPH 

FLAG 

IRQ 1 .' 

t 

* 

DS1 

PB 

TIL 

T1H 

T2L 

T2H 

ACR 

IFR 

IER 



C3 

C3 



C3 
C3 



04 



PROGRAM EQUATES 



.EO $0045 MONITOR SAVE ACC HERE ON IRQ 

.EQ $0420 RIGHT HAND TOP LINE OF SCREEN 

.EO $047F SLOT 7 SCRATCH RAH — SEE APPLE REFERENCE MANUAL 

.EO FREE INTERRUPT COUNTER 

.EO FREEtOO SECONDS COUNTER 

.EO FREE+J100 HINUTES COUNTER 

• EO FREE+U30 HOURS COUNTER 

.EQ FREEH200 TEHP STORAGE 

.EO FREEH280 TEHP STORAGE 

.EO FREEH300 DISPLAY FLAG 

.EQ 103FE IRO VECTOR 



6222 REGISTER EQUATES 



.EQ *C3O0 

.EO DS1 

.EQ DS1+4 

.EO DS1+5 

.EQ DS1+8 

EQ DS1+9 



SLOT 3 65 
PORT B 



ADDRESSES 



TIMER 1 LOW LATCH 

Tl HIGH 

TIMER 2 LOW LATCH 

T2 HIGH 
.EQ DS1UB CONTROL REG 
,E0 DSHHi INTERRUPT FLAGS 
•EQ DS1+*E INTERRUPT ENABLE 



.OR $0280 START IT HERE 
.TF DOSCLQCK. BELL. OBJ 



CLOCK ENTRY POINT 



SET UP IRQ VECTOR AND START THE CLOCK 



CLOK SEI DISABLE IRQ 

LDA *ISR ADDRESS OF INTERRUPT SERVICE ROUTINE 

STA IRQV SAVE IN IRQ 

LDA /ISR LAST HALF OF ADDRESS 



STA IRQV+1 SAVE IT 



SET UP THE 6522 



LDA «CO ENABLE Tl INTERRUPT 

STA IER BY LOADING THIS LOCATION 

LDA #$E0 Tl FREE RUN MODE 

STA ACR AND T2 COUNTS PB6 



YOU CAN PLAY WITH THE VALUE IN TIL AND T1H TO 
CORRECT TIME INACCURACIES. 



LDA 4$20 SET Tl TO F920 

STA TIL WHICH IS 1/16TH OF 

LDA «F9 A SECOND 

STA T1H START Tl 

LDA *$08 T2 OVERFLOWS AFTER 1 SECOND IF 

STA T2L DOS TURNED OFF IRO INTERRUPT 

LDA *00 $800 IS ONE SECOND 

STA T2H T2 COUNTS Tl 

LDA «F0 COUNT 16 INTERRUPTS 

STA FRAC PRELOAD THE LOCATION 

CLI ENABLE IRQ 

RTS RETURN 

it INTERRUPT SERVICE ROUTINE 

ISR 



C3 



INC FRAC 

BNE UNDO 

LDA *$F0 

STA FRAC 

LDA PB 

BPL TOUT 

INC FRAC 

TOUT LDA #$20 

BIT IFR 

BNE CORR 

LDA *$08 

STA T2L 



* 

SECS INC SEC 

LDA SEC 

CMP *60 

BCC SHOW 

LDA 100 

STA SEC 

MINS INC MIN 

LDA MIN 

CMP *60 

BCC SHOW 

LDA 400 

STA MIN 

INC HOUR 

LDA HOUR 

CMP 124 

BCC SHOW 

LDA *00 

STA HOUR 



BUMP COUNTER 

NOT A FULL SECOND 

RESET INTERRUPT COUNTER 

SAVE IT HERE 

IF Tl HAS ALREADY TICKED 

WE HAVE TO ADD 

ONE TO THE COUNT 

GET MASK 

T2 TIMED OUT?? 

NO 

RESET T2 COUNTER 

WITH A $800 



HRS 



INCREMENT THE SOFTWARE CLOCK 



BUMP SECONDS 

GET CURRENT SECONDS 

60 SECONDS?? 

NO 

RESET SECONDS 

TO ZERO 

BUMP MINUTES 

GET CURRENT MINUTES 

60 MINUTES?? 

NO 

RESET MINUTES 

TO ZERO 

BUMP HOURS 

GET CURRENT HOUR 

24 HOURS?? 

NO 

RESET HOURS 

TO ZERO 



DISPLAY THE TIME IF DESIRED 



Listing 2 continued on pagi 



424 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 385 on Inquiry card. 



CATCH THE S-100 INC. BUS! 

A 






Move up to an 
8MHZ 8086 Super System 



System Support Board 

1 serial 11 parallel port, 8 MHZ 8086 CPU (16 Bit Processor) 
86 DOS Disk Operating System 
Realtime Clock 
Timers 

Monitor EPROM 

86 DOS Disk Operating System 

64K byte (32k word) Static RAM (70 NS) 

Double Density DMA Disk Controller 

10 Slot Mainframe w/2 Qume Data Irak 8 drives 

Assembled & Tested 

LIST PRICE OVER $4300 

SPECIAL CASH PRICE $3499 

Assembly and check out available for $200 extra 

Offer Expires March 31, 1982 

Subject to Available Quantities • Prices Quoted Include Cash Discounts 
Shipping & Insurance Extra. 

S-IDD,inc. 

14425 North 79th Street, Suite B 

Scottsdale, Arizona 85260 
Order Number 800-528-3138 
Technical 602-991-7870 



the POWER 



Of Your HP-85 or Commodore Pet/CBM With TNW's IEEE- 
System Building Blocks... 



Bus 




TNW-2000 



TNW's RS-232 SERIAL INTERFACES 

Connect your PET/CBM to any RS-232 Serial Printer. Plotter, CRT 



Terminal. Modem, or other device 

TNW-1000 
TNW-2000 
TNW-232D 



ONECHANNEL 
OUTPUTONLY 



ONECHANNEL 
INPUT AND OUTPUT 



TWO CHANNELS. INPUT & OUTPUT, 
12 RS-232 CONTROL SIGNALS 



$129 
$229 
$369 



TURN YOUR PET INTO A TERMINAL 

Access Timesharing Systems and Bulletin Boards with TNW's Pterm 
Software and full service telephone modem: 



TNW-103 



AUTO ANSWER/AUTO DIAL 
USEWITH DAA 



$389 



Pterm also works with acoustical couplers and other modems interfaced 
to the PET with the TNW-2000 or TNW-232D. Electronic mail and TWX 
Terminal programs also available. All units are addressable IEEE-488 
devices, complete with power supply cabinet, full documentation and one 
year warranty. 

TNW CORPORATION 

3351 Hancock St. • San Diego, CA., 92110 (714) 225-1040 

TWX910-335-1194 

Visa/Mastercharge Welcome • Dealer inquiries invited 



PRODUCTS FOR YOUR RADIO SHACK 






MICROTEXT COMMUNICATIONS VIA YOUR MODEM! 

Now you can use your printer with your modem! Your computer can be an 

intelligent printing terminal. Talk to timeshare services or to other personal iiim ,,; jijhr: H (1 li M ! O.ME 

computers; print simultaneously through a second printer port; and re-display ' 

text stored in memory. Download text to Basic programs; dump to a cassette 

tape, or printer, or both. Microtext can be used with any printer or no printer at 

all. It features user-configurable duplex/parity for special applications, and can 

send any ASCII character. You'll find many uses for this general purpose 

module! Available in ROM PACK, ready-to-use, for $59.95. 



SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM 

The Micro Works Software Development System (SDS80C) is a complete 6809 
editor, assembler and monitor package contained in one Color Computer program 
pack! Vastly superior to RAM-based assemblers/editors, the SDS80C is non- 
volatile, meaning that if your application program bombs, it can't destroy your 
editor/assembler. Plus it leaves almost all of 16K or 32K RAM free for your 
program. Since all three programs, editor, assembler and monitor are co-resident, 
we eliminate tedious program loading when going back and forth from editing to 
assembly and debugging! 

The powerful screen-oriented Editor features finds, changes, moves, copys and 
much more. All keys have convenient auto repeat (typamatic), and since no line 
numbers are required, the full width of the screen may be used to generate well 
commented code. 

The Assembler features all of the following: complete 6809 instruction set; 
complete 6800 set supported for cross-assembly; conditional assembly; local 
labels; assembly to cassette tape or to memory; listing to screen or printer; and 
mnemonic error codes instead of numbers. 

The versatile ABUG monitor is a compact version of CBUG, tailored for debugging 
programs generated by the Assembler and Editor. It features examine/change of 
memory or registers, cassette load and save, breakpoints and more. SDS80C 
Price: $89.95 



Star Blaster — Blast your way through an asteroid field in this action-packed 

Hi-Res graphics game! Available in ROMPACK; requires 16K. Price; $39.95 

Pac Attack — Try your hand at this challenging game by Computerware, with 

fantastic graphics, sound and action! Cassette requires 16K. Price: $24.95 

Berserk — Have fun zapping robots with this Hi-Res game by Mark Data 

Products. Cassette requires 16K. Price: $24.95 

Adventure — Black Sanctum and Catixto Island by Mark Data Products. Each 
cassette requires 16K. Price: $19.95 each. 



ROMLESS PAK I — is an empty program pack capable of holding two 2716 or 

2732 EPROMs, allowing you up to 8K of program! The PC board inside comes 

with sockets installed, ready to go with the addition of your custom EPROMs. 

Price: $24.95 

2-PASS DISASSEMBLER — with documentation package. 16K; cassette. 80C 

Disassembler Price: $49.95 

CBUG — Machine language monitor. CBUG Cassette Price: $29.95 

CBUG ON 2716 EPROM: Can plug into Romless Pak I. CBUG ROM Price: 

$39.95 

PARALLEL PRINTER INTERFACE — serial to parallel converter allows use of all 

standard parallel printers. PI80C Price: $69.95 

Assembly Language Programming, by Lance Leventhal. Price: $16.95 

MEMORY UPGRADE KITS: 4-1 6K Kit Price $39.95. 16-32K (requires soldering 

experience) Price: $39.95 

PARTS & SERVICES: SAMs, 6809ES, RAMs, PIAs. Call for prices. 



THE 



WE SHIP FROM STOCK! 

A A\ 1 1 (C7 I °^Q) *£**Sv GOOD STUFF! Mas ter Charge/Visa and COD Accepted 

^©[^CSS 3 P.O. BOX 1 11 DEL MAR, CA 92014 714-942-2400 



Circle 249 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



425 



Circle 92 on inquiry card. 




SITTING 
PRETTY 

You can use just about any desk for a 
computer terminal stand. But with 
CF&A, you're sitting pretty. Our full 
range of desks, workstations, and ter- 
minal stands are designed to accom- 
modate a variety of computer equip- 
ment. Choose from our Classic Series 
desks, DR Series desks and enclo- 
sures, specialty items likeour Apple II 
desk, or a universal printer stand. 
You'll be sitting pretty with attractive 
color selections, durable construc- 
tion, versatile configurations, useful 
options, competitive prices, quick 
delivery, and personal service. It's our 
way of doing business. 

CF*A 

Computer Furniture and 

Accessories, Inc. 

1441 West 132nd Street 

Gardena, CA 90249 

(213) 327-7710 



Listing 2 continued: 












2650 


* 










2660 


* 






02FB- 


AD 7F 07 


2670 


SHOU 


LDA FLAG 


DISPLAY TIME?? 


02FE- 


F0 20 


2630 




BE0 DONE 


HO 


0300- 


3E 7F 06 


2690 




STX ThPL 


SAVE X 


0303- 


3C FF 06 


2700 




STY TMPH 


SAVE Y 


0306- 


A2 00 


2710 




LDX 100 


CLEAR X 


0303- 


AD FF 05 


2720 




LDA HOUR 


GET THE CURRENT HOUR 


030B- 


20 84 03 


2730 




JSR DSPL 


PRINT IT 


030E- 


AD 7F 05 


2740 




LDA BIN 


GET CURRENT MINUTE 


0311- 


20 7C 03 


2750 




JSR DC0L 


PRINT IT 


0314- 


AD FF 04 


2760 




LDA SEC 


GET CURRENT SECONDS 


0317- 


20 7C 03 


2770 




JSR BC0L 


DISPLAY IT 


031A- 


AE 7F 06 


2780 




LDX THPL 


RESTORE X 


031D- 


AC FF 06 


2790 
2300 
2310 


* 


LDY TMPH 


RESTORE Y 






2320 


* 


INTERRUPT 






2330 


* 










2840 


* 






0320- 


A9 00 


2850 


DONE 


LDA 100 


GET A ZERO 


0322- 


3D 09 C3 


2360 




STA T2H 


START T2 


0325- 


AD 04 C3 


2370 


UNDO 


LDA TIL 


CLEAR INTERRUPT FLAG 


0328- 


A5 45 


2880 




LDA ACC 


RESTORE ACCUM. 


032A- 


40 


2890 
2900 
2910 


* 
* 


RTI 


INTERRUPT RETURN 






2920 


* 


CORRECTIOt 






2930 


* 










2940 


* 






032B- 


38 


2950 


C0RR 


SEC 


SAVE 2'S COMPLEMENT OF T2 


032C- 


A9 00 


2960 




LDA #00 


BY SUBTRACTING 


032E- 


ED 03 C3 


2970 




SBC T2L 


FROM ZERO 


0331- 


3D 7F 06 


2980 




STA THPL 


SAVE PARTIAL RESULT 


0334- 


A9 00 


2990 




LDA *00 


ANOTHER ZERO 


0336- 


ED 09 C3 


3000 




SBC T2H 


AND THE SUBTRACT 


0339- 


3D FF 06 


3010 
3020 
3030 


* 
* 


STA TMPH 


SAVE IT 






3040 


* 


DO THE 


CORRECTION 






3050 


* 










3060 


* 






033C- 


AD 7F 06 


3070 


SETF 


LDA TMPL 


SET FRACTION 


033F- 


29 07 


3080 




AND *t07 


TO CORRECT 


0341- 


0A 


3090 




ASL 


1/16 


0342- 


6D 7F 04 


3100 




ADC FRAC 


OF A SEC 


0345- 


8D 7F 04 


3110 




STA FRAC 


SAVE IT BACK 


0348- 


29 OF 


3120 




AND 4$0F 


CORRECT T2 


034A- 


4A 


3130 




LSR 


TO THE PARTIAL 


0348- 


49 FF 


3140 




E0R «FF 


NUMBER OF 


034D- 


IS 


3150 




CLC 


OF TICKS 


034E- 


69 09 


3160 




ADC #$09 


LEFT IN ITS INTERVAL 


0350- 


3D 03 C3 


3170 




STA T2L 


AND SAVE BACK 


0353- 


4E FF 06 


3180 




LSR TMPH 


DIVIDE BY EIGHT 


0356- 


6E 7F 06 


3190 




R0R TMPL 


TO GET NUMBER 


0359- 


4E FF 06 


3200 




LSR TMPH 


OF FULL SECONDS 


035C- 


6E 7F 06 


3210 




R0R TMPL 


TO ADD TO THE 


035F- 


4E FF 06 


3220 




LSR TMPH 


TIME TO CORRECT 


0362- 


6E 7F 06 


3230 




R0R TMPL 


FOR DOS BEING ON 


0365- 


18 


3240 




CLC 


SETUP THE CARRY 


0366- 


AD FF 04 


3250 




LDA SEC 


ADD THE FULL 


0369- 


69 01 


3260 




ADC #01 


SECONDS 


0368- 


6D 7F 06 


3270 




ADC TMPL 


AND STORE IN 


036E- 


8D FF 04 


3280 




STA SEC 


SECONDS COUNTER 


0371- 


38 


3290 




SEC 


CHECK FOR GREATER 


0372- 


E9 3C 


3300 




SBC #60 


THAN 60 SECONDS 


0374- 


90 85 


3310 




BCC SHOU 


TO SEE IF A MINUTE 


0376- 


3D FF 04 


3320 




STA SEC 


UPDATE IS 


0379- 


4C DD 02 


3330 

3340 
3350 


* 


JMP MINS 


REHUIRED 






3360 


* HI 


SPLAY SUBR0U" ■ 






3370 


* 










3380 


* 






037C- 


A3 


3390 


DC0L 


TAY 


SAVE COUNT 


037D- 


A9 BA 


3400 




LDA #tBA 


GET A COLON 


037F- 


9D 20 04 


3410 




STA SCRN. 


X SHOU IT 


0382- 


E8 


3420 




I NX 


BUMP COUNTER 


0383- 


98 


3430 




TYA 


RESTORE COUNT 


0334- 


A0 FF 


3440 


DSPL 


LDY *$FF 


DISPLAY TIME 


0386- 


C8 


3450 


CNTY 


INY 


Y WILL CDUNT BY 10 


C33 T - 


38 


3460 




SEC 


SET CARRY 


0388- 


E9 0A 


3470 




SBC #10 


MINUS 10 


038A- 


B0 FA 


3480 




BCS CNTY 


GET RIB OF TENS 


038C- 


69 0A 


3490 




ADC #10 


RESTORE REMAINDER 


C38E- 


48 


3500 




PHA 


AND SAVE 


038F- 


93 


3510 




TYA 


DISPLAY TENS DIGIT 


0390- 


09 B0 


3520 




CRA #$B0 


MAKE IT ASCII 


0392- 


9D 20 04 


3530 




STA SCRN. 


X SHOU IT 


0395- 


E8 


3540 




INX 


BUMP X 


0396- 


63 


3550 




PLA 


GET ONES DIGIT 


0397- 


09 B0 


3560 




0RA #$B0 


MAKE IT ASCII 


0399- 


9D 20 04 


3570 




STA SCRNt 


X SHOU IT 


039C- 


E8 


3530 




INX 


BUMP THE COUNT 


039B- 


60 


3590 
3600 




RTS 
,EN 


RETURN 


SYMB0L TABLE 










0045 


- ACC 




:30B 


IFR 


■.'■FF TMPH 


C30B 


- ACR 




;)3FE 


JRGV 


C-A7F- THPL 


0230 


- CL0K 




■io 


1SR 


02C1- TOUT 


0336 


- CNTY 




057F 


■ KIN 


032^.- UNDO 


032B 


- C0RR 




,:''BD 


■ MINS 




037C 


- DC0L 




1.300 


- PB 




C320 


DONE 




:42C 


SCRN 




"300 


nsi 




I4FF 


SEC 




: •■■,84 


DSPL 




.?cr 


SECS 




077F 


- FLAG 




33C 


SETF 




04 7 F 


- FRAC 




■?y\< 


SHOU 




047" 


■ FREE 




c:>05 


T1H 




:5F ; - 


!I0UR 




f 30* 


- TIL 




02EC 


- HRS 




(309 


T2H 




C30E 


- IER 




',03 


T2L 





426 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 144 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 156 on Inquiry card. 



I Interchange) 
I Interchange) is a general purpose file maintenance program for use 
with the CP/M™ operating system. Since it is a single program 
written in optimized Z-80™ code, it is much faster and easier to use 
than other file maintenance programs. Features include: DIR as usual 
plus listing all files excluding those with a specified character(s). ERA 
as usual plus exclusive erases. Also, a "Q" switch can be used to query 
each erase, a "W" allows erases of R/0 files without query (normally 
you are queried), and an "R" switch if system files are to be included, 
LIST permits listings and uses TAB, WIDTH. LINES and WRAP for 
control, COPY as usual plus exclusive copies and supports the "Q", 
"W" and "R" switches plus an "E" switch for query on existing files, 
STAT with ambiguous, unambiguous and exclusive listings and produ- 
ces an alphabetized listing with file length, total directory entries and 
space used and unused, START-END allows for copying contiguous 
data files, and RENAME as usual plus ambiguous renames. Other 
commands include: QT, DATE. TIME and SETIT (for the QT clock 
board) plus CLEAR, RESET. HELP and TYPE. Disk copies can even be 
continued after a disk full condition by simply inserting a new disk. All 
of this in one program without ever having to leave l(nterchange) and 
wait until you see the speed improvement . . . 
The price for (Interchange) is $59.95 and the manual is available for 
S 1 0.00 (credited towards purchase). I(nterchange) is recommended 
for 32K or larger systems using CP/M™ 2.0 or later. It will not run on 
an 8080 CPU and only User is supported. 
All programs are available on 8" SD or North Star 5V<" disk. 
Microstat is available for North Star Basic, Microsoft's Basic-80 (Rel. 
5.0 or later) or compiler Systems CBasic2. Please specify when 
ordering. 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. 



ECOSOFT, INC. 

P.O. BOX 68602 

INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46268-0602 

(317) 283-8883 



EPISODE 



THE 
VERSATILE 
COMPUTER 



JUST ADD 
PERIPHERALS 



EPISODE is a CP/M s comput- 
er with 1.6 M byte of disk 
storage on dual 5V4 flop- 
pies. Its compact design 
provides a wide range of 
standalone or network appli- 
cations including data base 
sharing. 

EPISODE gives you total 
flexibility. You can add your 
own CRT and Printer, what- 
ever brand and price range 
you choose. All the logic in- 
cluding the 64K RAM mem- 
ory is contained on a single 
6" x 8" circuit board ensur- 
ing maximum reliability. 



•Supervyz is a trademark of Epic Computer 
Corporation, CP/M is a trademark ot Digital 
Research. 




EPISODE includes a unique 
software system called 
SUPERVYZ™ - a menu 
based software control sys- 
tem that allows the user to 
integrate application pro- 
grams. 

Dealer inquiries invited, 
foreign and domestic. 




Epic Computer Corporation 
7542 Trade Street 
San Diego, CA 92121 
Tel: 714-695-3560 



SAVE $600. 00 
On TRS-80® 48K Model III 



TRADEMARKS: 

TRS 80 and TRSDOS/Radio Shack/Tandy Corp 
L.DOS/L.ogical Systems Inc. 
Kit Ill/Morgan Products Inc 




Limited Supply Now Available 
For The Low-Low Price Of $1895. 00 

Includes all the standard basic features of the TRS-80® 
Model III with 48K of RAM and disk expansion Kit III™ 
with two 40 track double density disk drives. 

Also available — TRS-80® Model III same as above with 
two 80 track disk drives for only •2145. 00 

If You Own A 16K Model III. 

You can easily expand your capabilities with our low 
cost disk expansion Kit III™ 

Completely compatible with TRSDOS™ and LDOS™ the 
Kit III™ single drive assembly includes: One 40 track 
5'/t" double density disk drive, power supply, floppy 
disk control card, mounting hardware, applicable 

^nsTctl, ONLY $599. 00 

Also available — Kit III™ same as above with 
one 80 track disk drive for only '724. 00 

LDOS™ disk operating system 

Printers available . . . call for more information. 

Call TOLL FREE (800)851-4614 

In Illinois Call (618) 233-0018 

We accept: Visa. Master Charge. Certified Checks (Personal checks 
MoDfiAN require three weeks clearance). Money Orders, and COD. 

Morgan Products Incorporated 104 Berkshire Drive Belleville. Illinois 62223 



Circle 265 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



427 



Circle 191 on inquiry card. 



Main/Frames 



• 30 Models of Enclosures 

• Assembled and tested 

• Quasl-Coox Motherboards 

• Power Supply 

• Card cage and guides 

• Fan, line, cord, luse, power 
& reset switches 




8" Floppy Main/Frame 





8" Disc Enclosure 



Phase/80 8" Floppy Mainframe 



III i 

2191 



Phase/80 Desk + Mainframe 

Write or call for our 

brochure which includes our 

application note: 

"Building Computers — 

A Recipe" 

INrEGMMD 

8620 Roosevelt Ave. • Vlsalla, CA 93291 

209/733-9288 

We accept BankAmericard/Visa 

and MasterCharge 



Text continued from page 418 

clocks data into the printer's internal 

buffer. Again, the MX-80 requires a 

negative-going pulse for the data 

strobe; use control pin CA2 for this 

function. 

The 6522 allows you to choose a 
negative- or positive-going pulse for 
either of two signals; inform the 6522 
of the desired polarity by loading the 
Peripheral Control Register (PCR). 
With the MX-80, hexadecimal 0A is 
the proper code. This bit pattern is 
determined by consulting the coded 
values on the data sheet. We enable 
the printer by sending it a Control Q 
(hexadecimal 11) and then a Control 
X to clear the internal buffer. 

The actual output routine is quite 
simple. First, check the horizontal 
character position and compare it 
with the current character position in 
the output line. If they differ, output 
spaces until reaching the proper char- 
acter position. To print characters, 
check bit 2 in the Interrupt Flag 
Register (IFR) to see if the printer has 
sent its data-ready flag. This bit will 



be set if the 6522 has detected a 
negative edge on control pin 1 (CA1), 
which is the ready line. 

If the printer is busy or has yet to 
send the ready pulse, keep testing the 
bit until the printer is ready. When 
the printer is ready to receive data, 
store the character to be printed in the 
output register for port A. As you 
place the character in the output 
register, it's clocked into the printer's 
internal register because pin CA2 
goes low and acts as the data strobe. 
The printer becomes busy while ac- 
cepting the character. Once it's pro- 
cessed, the ready pulse is given and 
the printer will accept another 
character. 

Time-of-Day Clock. Listing 2's 
routine is a time-of-day clock that 
continuously displays the time on the 
screen. The routine uses interrupts so 
that the clock runs while you develop 
and run BASIC programs. The 
routine is compatible with DOS 3.3; 
DOS disables the IRQ interrupt while 
it does I/O and then re-enables the in- 
terrupt when finished. (I haven't tried 



Listing 3: This BASIC routine will load and initialize the clock. It will also protect the 
time display. 



IPRtO 

>LIST 

10 

''0 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

SO 

90 

100 

110 

120 

130 

140 

150 

140 



REM 

REM ROUTINE TO LOAD AND START THE D0SCL0CK 

REM 

REM 

PRINT "BL0AD D0SCL0CK. BELL. OBJ" 

POKE 34.0! CALL -936 

PRINT "THE CURRENT TIME IS -- >"! POKE 34,2 

VTAB 10 

INPUT "ENTER HH,MM,SS ",H,M,S 

POKE 1535, H! REM HOURS 

POKE 1407, M! REH MINUTES 

POKE 1279, S! REM SECONDS 

CALL 640! REM START THE CLOCK 

POKE 1919,1! REM DISPLAY TIME 

END 



Make America smarter. 
Give to the college 
of your choice, fillfe 



CI* 

mm? Council lor Financial Aid to Education. In. 
HE) 680 Fiflh Avenue. New York. NY. 10019 

1 1 A Public Service of This Magazine 
& The Advertising Council. 




428 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 52 on Inquiry card. 



It 



Sucksye 



DESK TOP ENCLOSURES 

ASK ABOUT OUR NEW BRACKET MOUNTING SYSTEM FOR DWC CASES 




DWC-1-0850 T $54.70 

DWC-1-1133 60.60 

DWC-1-1600 68.80 



BKS-2-0850 $41.50 

BKS-2-1133 44.80 

BKS-2-1600 48.30 



Send check for case in width desired. 

Call or write for detailed literature 

The Buckeye Stamping Co. 

555 Marion Rd„ Columbus, OH 43207 614/445-8433 



Circle 193 on Inquiry card. 




ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 



ADALAB is a small lab computer system with LARGE capabilities from 
Interactive Microware, Inc. 

ADALAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER. . .for collecting data and con- 
trolling your laboratory instruments. It includes a 12-blt analog voltage Input, a 
12-bit analog voltage output, 8 digital sense Inputs, 8 digital control outputs, a 
32-blt real-time clock and two 16-bit timers/counters. . .ALL ON A SINGLE 
APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/O SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY. . .Simple commands in BASIC give 
you control of all hardware features of ADALAB. Sample programs and sasy-to- 
use manuals will enable you to start using your ADALAB system right away. Ad- 
ditional software for laboratory applications Is available at extra cost. A com- 
plete self-test diagnostic program Is Included to assure you that all of the hard- 
ware Is working properly and accurately. 

ft • Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

n • Is easy to use because the manuals and software are complete and well 

V written. 

A • Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older instruments. 

L • Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data. 

A • Is versatile; It works with many different Instruments. 

n • Is more accurate than a meter or chart recording. 

° • Is fully supported by a dedicted team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE. . .the ADALAB Add-on Package with Inter- 
face card, cables, self-test module, QUICKI/O™ software and manuals is 
available today for ONLY $405. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system In your laboratory FOR ONLY 
S3295, Including a 48K APPLE II + * computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and ADALAB Add-on Package. 

Send for FREE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals. For fastest service, call in your VISA/Master Card order NOW. 
Dealer Inquiries Invited! „ . , . , „ 

Trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 

-m- INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

| lljl P.O. Box 771, Dept. B State College, PA 16801 
V ■*■ CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



TRS-80 DISCOUNT - BUY DIRECT 

WE SELL THE FULL LINE OF TRS-80'S AT WHOLESALE PRICES 



MODEL II 

26-4002 64K I Drive S3279 

Ask About Hard Drives 

MODEL III 

26-1062 16K $839 

26-1066 48K with 

2 Drives, RS232 S2059 

COLOR COMPUTER 

26-3001 4K $318 

26-3002 16K Ext. Basic S469 

26-3003 32K Ext. Basic $569 

POCKET COMPUTER 

26-3501 Pocket Computer $188 

TRS-80 COLOR COMPUTER 
DISK DRIVES* 

26-3022 Disk Drive #1 **98 

26-3023 Disk Drive #2,3,4 $338 

LEARN TO 
"DO IT YOURSELF" 
AND SAVE MONEY 




THOUSANDS OF 

SATISFIED 

CUSTOMERS 



WRITE FOR YOUR 
FREE CATALOG 

ORDER TOLL FREE 

1-800-841-0860 

•LARGE INVENTORY 
•FAST DELIVERY 

TM - TANDY CORPORATION 
FREE COPY OF WARRANTY UPON REQUEST 

MICRO 
MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEMS, INC. 

DEPT. NO. 1 
H5C SECOND AVE. S.W. 
CAIRO, GA. 31728 
GA. 912-377-7120 



Circle 243 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 429 




EIGHTY/ 

APPLE 

COMPUTER 

SHOW 

(Formerly the Nat'! TRS-80 Show) 

FOR APPLE* and 

TRS-80* COMPUTER 

SYSTEMS 

April 2-4, 1982 

New York Statler 

7th. Ave. & 33rd. Street 

New York, NY 

The EIGHTY/APPLE COMPUTER 
SHOW will feature over 100 exhibitors 
of equipment, supplies, books, maga- 
zines, parts, software and accessories 
for the TRS-80 and Apple Computer 
systems. There will be demonstrations 
of new and exciting products for the 
TRS-80 and Apple systems, for the 
businessman, professional, educator 
and hobbyist. In addition, most exhibi- 
tors will be selling their products at the 
show for immediate delivery. If you 
own a TRS-80 or Apple Computer, or 
have been thinking of purchasing one 
of these two exciting systems, don't 
miss the Eighty/Apple Computer Show. 
SAVE $2.00 on admission by bringing 
in the coupon below! 

SHOW HOURS 
Friday April 2 11AM to 7 PM 
Saturday April 3 11AM to 7 PM 
Sunday April 4 11AM to 5 PM 

REGISTRATION $5.00 Day 

Children under 12 ■ $1.00 

FOR EXHIBITOR INFORMATION 
CONTACT 

Kengore Corporation 

3001 Route 27 

Franklin Park. NJ 08823 

(201) 297-2526 

'TRS-HO is a Trademark of Tandy Corp. and Applets 
a Trademark of Apple Computer Co. 

■ — — — ■• SAVE $2.00 ™ ™ ™ ■ ■ 



This coupon is good for Two Dollars 
($2.00) off the regular daily registration 
fee of $5.00. Limit one coupon per per- 
son, not applicable to children's admis- 
sion. Only original copies of this cou- 
pon will be accepted. 

EIGHTY/APPLE SHOW 
April 2-4. 1982 
NY Statler 
(NO CASH VALUE) n 



the routine with earlier DOS ver- 
sions. If you plan to, back up your 
disks in the event of failure.) 

My method of implementing the 
clock involves both timers on one 
6522 and a couple of tricks. First, set 
up timer Tl to interrupt (tick) every 
Vi6 second. Simultaneously, enable 
timer T2 to count the number of times 
that Tl ticks by simply installing a 
jumper wire to feed the output of Tl 
to the input of T2. T2 is now counting 
the number of times Tl ticks. If DOS 
turns off the IRQ interrupt (for I/O), 
when it is re-enabled T2 will contain 
the number of clock ticks you missed. 

The interrupt service routine for 
the clock keeps the hours, minutes, 
and seconds in dedicated locations. 
Whenever the seconds count is 
changed, the top line of the screen is 
updated with the current time. The 
BASIC routine in listing 3 will set up 
the current time of day and protect 
the top line. From then on, time will 
be displayed continuously. The clock 
routine can determine execution times 
of routines or schedule other events at 
certain times during the day. Because 
no two Apples have identical time 
bases, some correction factors may 
have to be used. The listing indicates 
where to apply those factors. 



Conclusions 

• The Apple parallel board may be 
used for all interfacing projects where 
parallel I/O is needed or where tim- 
ing or counting is required. 

• The board contains two 6522 sup- 
port chips for input or output, timing 
or counting, and serial-to- 
parallel/parallel-to-serial operations. 

• The board is available fully 
assembled, as a kit, or alone. The kit 
is easy to build, but you must be able 
to read a circuit diagram. 

• Documentation is sparse, though all 
required information for use of the 
6522 is included. The manufacturer 
does not hold your hand, relying in- 
stead on the user community to 
publish software that uses the board. 

• The Apple parallel board is a good, 
inexpensive way to enhance the Ap- 
ple with the power of the 6522 Ver- 
satile Interface Adapter. ■ 




430 



m m — SAVE $2.00 — . 
March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



HELP IS COMING 
FOR ALL PERSONAL 
COMPUTER OWNERS: 

Stop going broke buying software 
and hardware to find out it's not 
what you want! 

The Personal Computer Owners 
Directory can eliminate a lot of 
wasted time and aggravation. 
Through the use of the directory, 
you can become aware of people 
in your area and nationally who 
have the same system or 
interests. Find out what is worth 
buying before spending your 
$$$$. The directory will be listed 
by cities and interests (e.g.) 
Games, business, art, robotics, 
education, etc.) 

To have your information listed 
and place your order for the 
Directory, SEND $19.95 ppd 
(check or money order) plus the 
following: 

Name, Address, Computer Type, 
Interests, will you help others, are 
you willing to trade information? 
Plus any other vital information. 

If you want your name entered, 
but do not wish to receive a 
directory, send $1.00 and the 
above info. 

The directory will be open for 
listings until May 1, 1982, at 
which time it will go to print. 

MASS. residents add 5% sales 
tax. 

PERSONAL 
COMPUTER OWNERS, 
INC. 

P.O. BOX 426 

FEEDING HILLS, MASS. 

01030 

(413) 789-1555 




ATTENTION S-100 
USERS, OEMs & ISOs! 

MM-103 IS THE ONLY MODEM 
FOR YOUR NEEDS! 

In previous issues, we listed more than 50 reasons why PMMI MM-103 modems 

are superior, along with a list of satisfied users that is now too long to print. 

Quality, integrity and low cost have made the MM-103 America's most popular modem. 

PMMI was the first to gain FCC approval and meet IEEE-696 S-100 standards. 

You won't find another modem for the S-100 bus with a wider range of Baud rates, 

more extensive and controllable software and such an unbeatable warranty. 

And since PMMI has eliminated the need for an acoustic coupler or an RS 232 adapter, 

your connection is more reliable and you buy no unnecessary hardware. 

SO DON'T DELAY! 

GO WITH THE MODEM WITH EXPERIENCE! 



tfrp> 



COMMUNICATIONS 

[POTOMAC MICRO-MAGIC, INC.) 



For further information, call or write: 

Three Skyline Place 

5201 Leesburg Pike, Suite 604 

Falls Church. VA 22041 

|703|379-9660 

Of dial tnio our 24 hour a-day Modem Test Center 

[7031379-0303 |300 Baud) 



AFTER ALL... 

ALL MODEMS ARE NOT 

CREATED EQUAL! 



Circle 229 on inquiry card. 



XCEL MICROCOMPUTER 
RETROFIT GRAPHICS 



512 x 240 
RESOLUTION 



FOR COMPUSTAR® 
SUPERBRAIN® 
TRS-80® MODEL II 
Z-89 

HARDWARE RETROFIT 
from $895.00 




SOFTWARE 
SUPPORT PROGRAMS 



•Symbol Generator ^| 


^ $175.00 


•Graph Plotter 


$175.00 


•3D Generator 


$345.00 


•Surface Plotter 


$395.00 


•Graphics Terminal Emulator 


$395.00 


•Screen Printer 


$65.00 


ANADEX 




EPSON 




ids tan 


tt 421-1423 



IN CALIFORNIA CALL 

>v\ (213) 320-6604 

Z5Z\mAXTEK,INC. 2908 Oregon Court, Torrance, CA 90503 
Available in Europe from Micronex Ltd., Chew Magna, England 3042 (STD 027-589 3042) 



v Corn * Supiirurai'i-l'aiK'mnih Inlrrluc Uala SySle' 
atom* Irtt CPM regisleretl traaem.irk Uig.lal Rpsoa 



YOU'VE PROBABLY HEARD IT BEFORE! 
BUT NOW EVERYONE KNOWS IT! 

We Definitely Have The Lowest 



EPSON 



Prices In The World! 



Our Volume Sales Are So High 
That Absolutely No One Can Get Close! 



7 DAYS A WEEK 

CALL 1 (800) 525-7877 



THE WORLD'S FIRST 

EPSON 

HOTLINE 



COMPARE! 



Drives For / With Controller $459 
Apple / Add-On $389 



IN COLORADO (303) 279-2727 



ALSO CCS, VISTA, APPLE II, PLUS LOBO, NEC, XEROX, ZENITH, HAYES, IBM. 
ALL AT EQUALLY COMPETITIVE PRICES. 




COMPirrenWORID INT€RNFlTIONAl., INC. (303) 279-2727 

SUITE 133, P.O. BOX 81, WHEAT RIDGE, COLORADO, U.S.A. 80034-0081 

TERMS: MAIL ORDER/VISIT BY APPOINTMENT, WE WILL SHIP UPS FREIGHT COLLECT OR ADD 3% FOR SHIPPING. 
COLORADO RESIDENTS ADD APPROPRIATE SALES TAX. MASTERCHARGE/VISA ACCEPTED. 



Circle 103 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



431 



Books Received 



Aircraft Electricity and 
Electronics, 3rd edition, 
Ralph D. Bent and James L. 
McKinley. New York: Gregg/ 
McGraw-Hill, 1981; 359 
pages, 27.5 by 20.5 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-07-004793-6, 
$19.95. 

The Complete Problem 
Solver, John R. Hayes. 
Philadelphia, PA: The Frank- 
lin Institute Press, 1981; 255 
pages, 25 by 17.5 cm, hard- 
cover, ISBN 0-89168-028-4, 
$19.50. 

The Computers Are Com- 
ing, Irv Brechner. Livingston, 
NJ: Irv Brechner (POB 453), 
1981; 92 pages, 22.5 by 14.5 
cm, softcover, ISBN none, 
$4.95. 

Digital Circuits and Micro- 
processors, Herbert Taub. 
New York: McGraw-Hill, 



1982; 541 pages, 23.5 by 16.5 
cm, hardcover, ISBN 0-07- 
062945-5, $28.95. 

The Electronic Cottage, 
Joseph Deken. New York: 
William Morrow and Com- 
pany, 1982; 344 pages, 23.5 
by 16 cm, hardcover, ISBN 
0-688-00664-7, $14.95. 

50 More Programs in 
BASIC for the Home, School 
& Office, 2nd edition, Jim 
Cole. Woodsboro, MD: Arc- 
soft Publishers, 1981; 96 
pages, 21 by 13.5 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-86668-502-2, 
$9.95. 

The Handbook of Artifi- 
cial Intelligence, Volume 1, 
Avron Barr and Edward A. 
Feigenbaum, eds. Los Altos, 
CA: William Kaufmann, 
1981; 409 pages, 23.5 by 15.5 
cm, hardcover, ISBN 0-86576- 



005-5, $30. 

Handbook of Semiconduc- 
tor and Bubble Memories, 
Walter A. Triebel and Alfred 
E. Chu. Englewood Cliffs, 
NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982; 401 
pages, 23 by 18.5 cm, hard- 
cover, ISBN 0-13-381251-0, 
$24.95. 

How to Break into the 
Computer Field, L. Peter Car- 
ron. Easton, PA: L. P. Car- 
ron Publishers (205 Ridge- 
wood Rd.), 1981; 138 pages, 
22.5 by 14.5 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-9607242-0-6, $7.95. 

Introduction to Micropro- 
cessors, Charles M. Gilmore. 
New York: Gregg/McGraw- 
Hill, 1981; 310 pages, 27.5 by 
21 cm, softcover, ISBN 0-07- 
023301-2, $14.96. 

Learning Digital Electron- 
ics Through Experiments, Ed- 



ward J. Pasahow. New York: 
Gregg/McGraw-Hill, 1982; 
215 pages, 22 by 14.5 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-07-048622-7, 
$8.95. 

The Making of the Micro, 
A History of the Computer, 
Christopher Evans. New 
York: Van Nostrand Rein- 
hold, 1981; 118 pages, 26 by 
18.5 cm, hardcover, ISBN 
0-442-22240-S, $14.95. 

Mathematics into Type, re- 
vised edition, Ellen Swanson. 
Providence, RI: American 
Mathematical Society (POB 
6248), 1979; 90 pages, 24.5 
by 17.5 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-8218-0053-1, $12.40. 

Murder in the Mansion, 
And Other Computer Ad- 
ventures in Pocket-BASIC 
for the TRS-80, 2nd edition, 
Jim Cole. Woodsboro, MD: 



(213) 891-5705 

Complete product line for Apple, NEC, S-100, IBM. 

Low Prices, high quality, and Just delivery. 



Apple: Add-on Mini-floppy $375 



Apple: 5 M Byte Hard Disk System $2250 



Apple: 128K RAM Card $700 



Apple: Double-density 8" Floppy Controller 



. $400 



IBM: Add-on Mini-floppy $275 



S-100: 64K Low Power Static RAM Card $475 



S-100: Sierra Data SBC, 4MHz Master $825 



NEC PC-8000 System New Low Prices 



Epson MX-100 $685 



ADDS Viewpoint - Green $545 



TandonThinlineS" -Double Sided $510 



5'A" Diskettes $22/Bo.\ of 10 



All items new, guaranteed. On-site sit vice renter. 

We claim to have more satisfied customers per square inch of ad space 

than any other Byte advertiser. 




Mail: P.O. BoxQ, Sherman Oaks, CA 91423 

Store: 16709 Roscoe Blvd., Sepulveda, CA 91343 

(213)891-5705 



BDOS ERROR 

ON B:BAD SECTOR 



I© 






o ° o 




Before disk errors ruin your work again order BADLIM. 

■ BADLIM assures the reliability of your CP/M 
computer. 

■ You can use your disks 10 times longer without 
losing your data AND your time. 

■ BADLIM checks thoroughly your disk marking all 
the blocks which have defective sectors. The 
operating system will know that those sectors 
should be skipped. 

■ BADLIM is the only program that gives protection 
for soft and hard errors. 

■ The first time BADLIM will list which files in your 
disk are on bad sectors, so you can take action to 
correct it. 

■ But thereafter the bad areas in your disk will be 
automatically by-passed. 

• For CP/M 1.4 single density and for CP/M 2.xx of 
any format and density. It is a must for Winchester 
as the media cannot be replaced. 

BADLIM cost only $73. Whatever the reason you have 

to use a computer you need BADLIM. Contact your 

dealer or call us today: 

BLAT R&D Corp., 8016 188th. St SW, Edmonds 

WA 98020. Phone: [2061 771 -1 408 _ _ .p^- __ -. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. KA I J\ ,1 M 



432 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 46 on inquiry card. 



Circle 47 on inquiry card. 



Everybody's making money 

selling microcomputers. 

Somebody s going to make money 

servicing them. 

New NRI Home-Study Course Shows You How to Make Money Servicing, Repairing, 
and Programming Personal and Small Business Computers 



Seems like every time you turn around, some- 
body comes along with a new computer for home or 
business use. And what's made it all possible is the 
amazing microprocessor, the tiny little chip that's 
a computer in itself. 

Using this new technology, the industry 
is offering compact, affordable computers 
that handle things like payrolls, billing, 
inventory, and other jobs for businesses of 
every size. . .perform household functions 
including budgeting, environmental sys- 
tems control, indexing recipes. And thousands 
of hobbyists are already owners, experiment- 
ing and developing their own programs. 
Growing Demand 
for Computer Technicians 

This is only one of the growth factors influenc- 
ing the increasing opportunities for qualified com- 
puter technicians. The U.S. Department of Labor 
projects over 100% increase in job openings for the 
decade through 1985. Most of them new jobs created 
by the expanding world of the computer. 
Learn at Home 
in Your Spare Time 

NRI can train you for this exciting, rewarding 
field. Train you at home to service not only mi- 
crocomputers, but word processors and data termi- 
nals, too. Train you at your convenience, with clearly 
written "bite-size" lessons that you do evenings or 
weekends, without going to classes or quitting your 
present job. 

Your training is built around the latest model 
of the world's most popular computer. It's the amaz- 
ing TRS-80™ Model III, with capabilities and 
features to perform a host of personal and busi- 
ness functions. No other small computer has 
so much software available for it, no other is used 
and relied on by so many people. And it's yours 
to keep for personal or business use. 



(TRS-80 is a trademark 
of the Radio Shack 
division of Tandy Corp.) 





You get plenty 
of practical experience. 
Using the NRI Discovery "<• - 

Lab® that also comes as part 
of your course, you build and study circuits ranging 
from the simplest to the most advanced. You analyze 
and troubleshoot using the professional Beckman 
LCD digital multimeter you keep to use later in your 
work. Then you use the lab and meter to actually 
access the interior of your computer. . . build special 
circuits and write-programs to control them. You 
"see" your computer at work and demonstrate its 
power. 

Become the 
Complete Computer Person 
You're also trained in writing and debugging 
both BASIC and advanced machine language pro- 
grams. ..gain hands-on experience in the operation 
and application of computers to 
business and personal jobs. You're 
trained to become the fully 
rounded, new breed of technician 



who can interface with the operational, program- 
ming, and service facets of today's computers. You're 
ready to take your place in the new electronic age. 

Other Opportunities 

NRI has been giving ambitious people new 
electronic skills since 1914. Today's offerings also 
include TV/ Audio/Video Systems servicing with 
training on our exclusive computer-programmable 
25" diagonal color TV. .. Communications Elec- 
tronics for servicing and installing microwave, 
broadcast, CB, radar, etc. ..and other state-of-the- 
art courses. 

Free Catalog . . . Mail Card 
No Salesman Will Call 

Send the postage-paid card for our 100-page 
catalog showing all courses with equipment and 
complete lesson plans. There's no obligation other 
than to yourself. See how NRI can help you grow 
with the most exciting and important new field of 
the 80's. If card has been removed, please write to us. 



NRI SCHOOLS 

McGraw-Hill Continuing 

Education Center 
3939 Wisconsin Ave. 
Washington, DC 20016 



m 



We'll give you tomorrow. 



Circle 418 on inquiry card. 



REPAIR PCB'S ANYWHERE. 

With the NEW Pace Micro! 

Perform power desoldering and soldering 

anywhere. Depot. 

Service center. 

Mobile van. On-site. 

Anywhere! 

Operates on 

AC or 12 VDC. 

Write or call 
today for a FREE 
brochure. 





QX3S 



Micro Portable 



Systems for PCB Repair Anywhere " 

9893 Brewers Court 
Laurel, Md. 20707, U.S.A. 
(301)490-9860. 
Telex 87446. 



DEC 



TERMINALS FROM TRANSNET 



PURCHASE PLAN • 12-24 MONTH FULL OWNERSHIP PLAN • 36 MONTH LEASE PLAN 

PURCHASE PER MONTH 

DESCRIPTION PRICE 12 MOS II MOS 36 MOS 

LA36 DECwriler II $1,095 S1DS S 58 $40 

LAM DECwriler IV 995 95 53 36 

LAM DECwriler IV Forms Ctrl. . . 1,095 105 58 40 

LA120 DECwriler III KSR 2,295 220 122 83 

LA120 DECwriter III R0 2,095 200 112 75 

VT100 CRT DECscope 1,695 162 90 61 

VT101 CRT DECscope 1,195 115 67 43 

VT125 CRT Graphics 3,295 315 185 119 

VT131 CRT DECscope 1,745 167 98 63 

VT1 32 CRT DECscope 1,995 190 106 72 

VT18XAC Personal Computer Option 2,395 230 128 86 

TI745 Portable Terminal 1,595 153 85 58 

TI765 Bubble Memory Terminal . 2,595 249 138 93 

Tl Insight 10 Terminal 695 67 37 25 

TI785 Portable KSR, 120 CPS. 2.395 230 128 86 

TI787 Portable KSR, 120 CPS . . . 2,845 273 152 102 

TI810 R0 Printer 1,695 162 90 61 

TI820 KSR Prinler 2,195 211 117 80 

ADM3A CRT Terminal 595 57 34 22 

ADM5 CRT Terminal 645 62 36 24 

ADM32 CRT Terminal 1.165 112 65 42 

ADM42 CRT Terminal 1 ,995 190 106 72 

DT80/1 CRT Terminal 1,695 162 90 61 

DT80/3 CRT Terminal 1,295 125 70 48 

DT80/5L APL 15" CRT 2,295 220 122 83 

920 CRT Terminal 895 86 48 32 

950 CRT Terminal 1,075 103 57 39 

Letter Duality, 7715 R0 2,895 278 154 104 

Letter Duality, 7725 KSR 3.295 316 175 119 

2030 KSR Printer 30 CPS 1.195 115 67 43 

2120 KSR Printer 120 CPS 2,195 211 117 60 

Tr^CTTr?TTr«B lucrative 80 20 1,345 127 75 49 

UiluSllU^B Executive 80/30 1 ,695 162 90 61 

_ MX-80 F/T Printer 745 71 42 27 

* MX-100 Printer 895 86 46 32 

FULL OWNERSHIP AFTER 12 OR 24 MONTHS • 10% PURCHASE OPTION AFTER 36 MONTHS 



TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 



LEAR SIEGLER 



DATAMEDIA 



TELEVIDEO 



NEC SPINWRITER 



GENERAL ELECTRIC 



MICROCOMPUTERS 
APPLE • COMMODORE • HP85 • DEC LS1 11 



ACCESSORIES AND PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT 

ACOUSTIC COUPLERS • MODEMS • THERMAL PAPER • RIBBONS ■ INTERFACE MODULES ■ FLOPPY DISK UNITS 



ransNeti 



K AIM 31 TC/ CORPORATION 
1945 ROUTE 22 • UNION. N.J. 07083 • (201) 688-7800 
TWX 710-985-5485 800-526-4965 OUTSIDE N.J. 



Books Received. 



Arcsoft Publishers, 1981; 96 
pages, 21 by 13 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-86668-501-4, 
$6.95. 

Nonlinear System Theory, 
The Volterra/ Wiener Ap- 
proach, Wilson J. Rugh. 
Baltimore, MD: The Johns 
Hopkins University Press, 
1981; 325 pages, 23 by 18.5 
cm, hardcover, ISBN 0-8018- 
2549-0, $32.50. 

Optimization: A Simplified 
Approach, William Conley. 
Princeton, NJ: Petrocelli 
Books, 1981; 248 pages, 23.5 
by 15.5 cm, hardcover, ISBN 
0-89433-121-3, $20. 

Programs for Beginners on 
the TRS-80, Fred Blechman. 
Rochelle Park, NJ: Hayden 
Book Company, 1981; 150 
pages, 17.5 by 24.5 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-8104-5182-4, 
$8.95. 

Real Time Programming — 
Neglected Topics, Caxton C. 
Foster. Reading, MA: Addi- 
son-Wesley, 1981; 190 pages, 
23 by 15.5 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-201 -01937-X, $9.95. 

RPG & RPG II Primer, A 
Modem Approach, H. Mullish 
and R. Kestenbaum. New 
York: Holt, Rinehart and 
Winston, 1982; 189 pages, 
27.5 by 20.5 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-03-056918-4, $17.95. 

Standard BASIC Program- 
ming for Business and Man- 
agement Applications, James 
S. Quasney and John Maniotes. 
San Francisco, CA: Boyd & 
Fraser Publishing Company, 
1980; 408 pages, 17.5 by 25 
cm, softcover, ISBN 0-87835- 
081-0, $13.95. 

VLSI Systems and Com- 
putations, H. T. Kung, Bob 
Sproull, and Guy Steele, eds. 
Rockville, MD: Computer 
Science Press, 1981; 415 
pages, 23.5 by 16 cm, hard- 
cover, ISBN 0-914894-35-8, 
$29.95. 

Webster's Microcomputer 
Buyer's Guide, Tony Web- 
ster. Rochelle Park, NJ: Hay- 
den Book Company, 1981; 
326 pages, 26.5 by 21 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-9594624- 
2-2, $25. 



Without Me You're Noth- 
ing: The Essential Guide to 
Home Computers, Frank 
Herbert and Max Barnard. 
New York: Pocket Books, 
1981; 304 pages, 20.5 by 13 
cm, softcover, ISBN 0-671- 
43964-2, $5.95. ■ 



This is a list of books 
received at BYTE Publica- 
tions during this past 
month. Although the list is 
not meant to be exhaustive, 
its purpose is to acquaint 
BYTE readers with recently 
published titles in computer 
science and related fields. 
We regret that we cannot 
review or comment on all 
the books we receive; in- 
stead, this list is meant to be 
a monthly acknowledgment 
of these books and the pub- 
lishers who sent them. 



BYTE's Bugs 



Inflated Bug 

Joe Hadleman's inflation 
calculator program in the 
July 1981 BYTE has a bug in 
line 440, page 302. (See 
"Computing Inflation with 
the Consumer Price Index," 
page 300.) If: 

STR$(P2-INT(P2)) 

is less than 0.01 (in other 
words, if the rounding error 
is less than a penny), the cal- 
culation is handled in scien- 
tific notation and the output 
is garbage. To correct this, 
insert: 

ORIF(P2-INT(P2)X.01 

before the "THEN" of line 
430. 

Michael D. Decker, MD 
5869 North Glenwood #1 
Chicago, IL 60660 



434 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 386 on inquiry card. 



Circle 139 on inquiry card. 




LINE VOLTAGE" 
TRANSIENT SUPPRESSORS 



Features Parallel Operation 



Cfytfruf and $%*£* 



5000 Hits/Second 

TM 



PROTECTS AGAINST: 

• High Energy Voltage 

Transients 
•On-Otl Switching 
•Lightning Induced Transients 
•Inrush of On/Ott Power 



PROTECTS: 

•Computers 

• Micro-Computer Systems 
•Word Processors 
•Cash Registers 
•Power Supplies 

dVm arc 

INDUSTRIES, INC 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED LISTED LISTED 

7133 Rutherford Rd. Baltimore, Md. 2120 
(301 ) 298-31 30 800-638-9098 



Clipstrip Clipper 
977E 678F 

® <S> 



Circle 157 on Inquiry card. 



START YOUR OWN 
COMPUTER CO. 



HOW TO START YOUR OWN SYSTEMS HOUSE g36. 

7th edition, November 1981 

Written by the founder ol a successful systems house, this fact-filled 220-page 
manual covers virtually all aspects of starting and operating a small systems com- 
pany. It is abundant with useful, real-life samples contracts, proposals, agree- 
ments and a complete business plan are included in full, and may be used im- 
mediately by the reader Proven, field-tested solutions to the many problems 
facing small turnkey vendors are presented 

HOW TO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL COMPUTER CONSULTANT $28. 

by Leslie Nelson, 4th revised edition, December 1981 

Independent consultants are becoming a vitally important factor in the micro- 
computer field, filling the gap between the computer vendors and commercial/ 
industrial users The rewards of the consultant can be high freedom, more satis- 
fying work and doubled or tripled income. This manual provides comprehensive 
background information and step-by-step directions for those interested to ex- 
plore this lucrative field 

FREE-LANCE SOFTWARE MARKETING $30. 

by B.J Korites, 3rd edition, June 1980 

Writing and selling computer programs as an independent is a business where • 
you can get started quickly, with little capital investment •you can do it full time or 
part time • the potential profits are almost limitless. This best-seller by Dr Korites 
explains how to do it 

SOFTWARE VENDOR DIRECTORY $59.95 

5th edition. October 1981 

Essential for every developer, distributor and user of microcomputer software. In 
this unique reference directory, software vendors and program categories are 
cross referenced by every major hardware brand and operating system. • Over 
1400 software vendors • Over 100 hardware vendors and operating systems • 
• Languages • Utilities • DBMS • Accounting • Scientific • Engineering • Appli- 
cations by Industry • and much more. 

Send check, money order. VISA, Master Charge or American Express N and exp 
date. Publisher pays 4th class shipping. Add S 1 00 per book for UPS shipping 
(USA only). NJ residents add 5% sales tax. For faster shipment on credit card 
orders call (201) 783-6940 

ESSEX PUBLISHING CO. Dept 2 

285 Bloomfield Avenue • Caldwell. N.J 07006 



S-100 HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS 



16 colors, 640 x 512 resolution$3,175* 




High speed: up to 500,000 dots per second 
with 8 bit processor, even faster 
with 1 6 bit processor 
Lightpen option 

Bit plane write protect option for overlays 
Gray levels and monochrome systems 
Full user's guide, separate Service Guide 
Compatible printers and monitors 
"includes hardware, basic software package, 
1 60 K bytes of graphics memory 



CAMBRIDGE DEVELOPMENT 
LABORATORY 

36 Pleasant St., Watertown, MA 02172 
_ (617)926-0869 




Graphics Software 




Program in BASIC, FORTRAN, PASCAL, or 

assembler 
Programmable characters with 

80 characters per line 
Graphical BASIC interpreter with 

PEEK and POKE 
Logo TURTLE graphics, relative coordinates 
Tektronix emulator 
Cartesian plotting package 
3-D perspective with rotation 
Hidden line processing 
Screen dump to matrix printer or pen plotter 
Screen dump to disk and replay 



Circle 68 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



435 






News and Speculation about Personal Computing 

Conducted by Sol Libes 



Imandom Rumors: IBM 

is rumored to be increasing 
production of its personal 
computer system, with 
175,000 units expected to be 
sold before Christmas 1982. 
IBM will probably soon an- 
nounce a graphics package 
and X.25 communications op- 
tions for the personal com- 
puter. . . . Epson America is 
expected to introduce several 
video terminals, including 
one with a flat screen. The 
rumor is that they will be 
shown at the NCC (National 
Computer Conference) in 
June; look for Sinclair, Sony, 
and Hitachi to introduce 
similar products at NCC. Also 
due at NCC are 80- and 
160-megabyte 8-inch Win- 
chester hard-disk drives from 
Micropolis and 16- and 
30-megabyte 514 -inch Win- 
chesters from Control Data 
Corp. . . . Reportedly, a 
15-inch flat-screen monitor is 
due from Japan shortly. . . . 
DEC (Digital Equipment Cor- 
poration) is expected to intro- 
duce a PDP-8 replacement, a 
16-bit version of its recently 
introduced personal-com- 
puter board for the VT-100 
terminal, and a complete per- 
sonal computer. Incidentally, 
DEC is budgeting $500 million 
for research and develop- 
ment, with half going to soft- 
ware development and its 
2000-member software devel- 
opment team. . . . Hearsay 
has it that Centronics is work- 
ing on a ribbonless dot-matrix 
printer. . . . NEC (Nippon 
Electric Company) is sup- 
posedly about to introduce 
two new systems in the U.S., 
both of which are already on 
the market in Japan: the 
PC6000, a consumer-oriented 
machine, and the PC8800, an 
8086-based machine for the 



business market. . . . Com- 
modore is said to be working 
on a new version of the VIC 
computer for introduction 
early next year. The unit 
should have 256K bytes of 
memory and 80-column black 
and white or color video 
display. . . . Look for the 
upgrade of the Osborne-I to 
be introduced later this year. 
It's rumored to have an 
80-character-wide display 
(versus the current 52-column 
unit), double-density floppy- 
disk drives, a built-in modem, 
and a communications pack- 
age. A significant jump in 
price will probably accom- 
pany it. . . . Toshiba is also ex- 
pected to introduce into the 
U.S. a product it's already sell- 
ing in Japan — a Z80-based 
system that runs CP/M, 
T-Basic, and UCSD Pascal. 



R. 



andom Bits: At the re- 
cent Comdex show held for 
dealers, emphasis changed 
from the hobbyist to a busi- 
ness orientation, with Apples 
and TRS-80s all but replaced 
by integrated business sys- 
tems. This change should be 
reflected in computer stores 
shortly. . . . NEC, Toshiba, 
and Okidata Corporation are 
currently supplying samples 
of 256K-bit dynamic memory 
devices and expect to start 
volume delivery in June. 
These ICs should begin show- 
ing up in equipment by the 
middle of 1983. . .. S D Sys- 
tems will introduce yet an- 
other local-network system 
called MARS/NET. . . . Mitsu- 
bishi is supplying samples of 
its 514 -inch Winchester disk 
drives and half-wide floppy- 
disk drives; Toshiba is also 
considering sale of its 514 -inch 
Winchester in the U.S. 
Shugart's half-height 514 -inch 



SA210 floppy-disk drive will 
make its first appearance in 
Xerox's new Sabre line of 
electronic typewriters. . . . 
WD (Western Digital) is ex- 
pected to shortly introduce a 
single-chip Winchester con- 
troller that replaces 25 TTL 
(transistor-transistor logic) 
parts. Also due from WD is a 
new floppy-disk drive con- 
troller IC that incorporates the 
data separator, comparator, 
and write-precompensation 
circuits missing from current 
controllers. . . . IBM recently 
opened its tenth computer 
store; more are in the 
works. . . . Seagate has intro- 
duced a 6-megabyte, 5VS- 
inch Winchester with remov- 
able media. . . . Emulog of 
Freemont, California, has in- 
troduced a full-feature video 
terminal with a $465 list 
price. ... HP (Hewlett-Pack- 
ard) has separated its per- 
sonal-computer operation 
from the calculator division 
and created a Personal Com- 
putation Croup. HP has also 
increased dealer discounts on 
models 80, 85, and 125 sys- 
tems by as much as 25 per- 
cent over previous 
discounts. . . . Radio Shack 
has beaten Apple into the 
16-bit market with the intro- 
duction of its new Model 16, 
68000-based microcomputer. 
For more details on this ma- 
chine and other new prod- 
ucts, see page 40. Radio 
Shack has also established an 
online videotex-information 
data-base system for sub- 
scribers in the Forth Worth 
area. 



u. 



' nix Royalty Fees Cut: 

Western Electric recently in- 
troduced its Unix System III 
update which combines Ver- 



sion 7 Unix and the PWB 
(Programmer's Workbench) 
into a single system. Some en- 
hancements have also been 
added. They raised the source 
code license fee to $43,000 
but lowered the distribution 
deposit from $50,000 to 
$25,000 against royalties. The 
royalty fees have been re- 
duced to $100 for a single 
user and $250 for systems for 
2 to 16 users. (Previously, a 
license cost $1500 plus $250 
per user.) 

Royalties prepaid under the 
old rates will not be refunded. 
Licensees will, in effect, start 
with a clean slate. Hence, 
Microsoft will lose the 
$200,000 it had prepaid to ob- 
tain a discount advantage, an 
advantage it no longer has. 

The reduction in royalty 
fees removes what has been a 
significant deterrent for peo- 
ple wishing to use Unix, 
namely that it was very ex- 
pensive. This should increase 
competition among Unix and 
its look-alikes. More impor- 
tant, it puts Unix in a much 
better position to compete 
with other single- and multi- 
user operating systems such 
as CP/M-86 and MP/M-86. 
Microsoft's president, Bill 
Gates, indicated that despite 
his unhappiness about the lost 
royalty payment, the royalty 
change would help his com- 
pany sell copies of Xenix, its 
version of Unix. 



Jr^da Update: Ada is 

finally becoming available as 
a working language. Telesoft 
Incorporated of San Diego, 
California, released its Ada 
package for 68000 systems 
last August, and RR Software 
of Madison, Wisconsin, in 
November released Janus, a 



436 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



version for Z80 computers 
running CP/M. Both compile 
subsets of the Ada language. 
The Telesoft Ada compiler 
retails at $2400, while Janus 
sells for $250. 

The DOD (Department of 
Defense) holds the trademark 
on the name "Ada" and 
stipulates that commercial 
companies can use the name 
only if they have or are 
developing a full-language 
compiler. To acquire legal ac- 
cess to the name "Ada," a 
company must submit its 
product to a DOD Ada- 
validation office for approval. 
Validation will ensure that 
programs written with the 
compiler will be fully portable 
between computers. Por- 
tability of that type doesn't ex- 
ist for system-oriented 
languages such as Pascal, 
FORTH, and C. 

Western Digital, based in Ir- 
vine, California, has also 
demonstrated its microAda 
and expects to be the first 
company to submit a com- 
plete Ada compiler to the 
DOD for validation. WD plans 
to submit it within the next 3 
to 4 months. The WD Ada 
will run only on WD's new 
PAL 16-bit computer; a WD 
microAda license will cost 
$2000. 

SuperSoft Associates of 
Champaign, Illinois, has dem- 
onstrated its Ada compiler for 
Z80 systems, also expected to 
be ready for submission to the 
DOD for validation sometime 
this year. SuperSoft intends to 
release Intel 8086/8088, 
Motorola 68000, and Zilog 
Z8000 versions, with the Z80 
version to sell for under $300. 

Telesoft is developing ver- 
sions of its Ada compiler to 
run on the 8086, DEC VAX, 
and IBM 370 machines. Intel 
has developed an Ada com- 
piler for its iAPX432 32-bit 
microcomputer currently run- 
ning at beta test sites. Intel is 
preparing to submit the com- 
piler for DOD validation. 



^^nd Ethernet's Fate? 

A report issued by Strategic 
Incorporated, a market- 
research firm in San Jose, 
California, predicts Xerox 
Corporation's Ethernet local- 
area network will be a total 
failure within two years. Ac- 
cording to Strategic's presi- 
dent, Michael Killen, "Xerox 
is headed for the worst 
failure in the company's 
history." He believes that 
Xerox lacks technological 
and price advantages, sales 
force, and customers in- 
terested in buying large sys- 
tems. Further, he contends 
that Ethernet's baseband ap- 
proach to local networking 
will prove inferior over the 
long haul to the broadband 
approach taken by Xerox's 
competitors. He points out 
that broadband systems are 
better suited to carry video, 
heavy voice and data 
transmissions, among other 
applications. 

In response to the report, 
Xerox issued the following 
statement: "Based on the 
level of customer satisfaction 
with our existing network in- 
stallations, the backlog of 
orders for network products 
and service, and the interest 
in Ethernet on the part of ma- 
jor accounts, we are confi- 
dent that Xerox will be a lead- 
ing vendor in office automa- 
tion." 



B. 



tell Set to Move Into 
Computer-Related Mar- 
kets: AT&T (American Tele- 
phone and Telegraph) is un- 
dergoing a major manage- 
ment reorganization to com- 
ply with the FCC-required 
separation of regulated and 
deregulated activities. As a 
result, look for the Bell Sys- 
tem to become an unbridled 
competitor in computer-re- 
lated markets. It will prob- 
ably begin marketing ter- 
minals and business comput- 
ers soon, competing directly 



with companies such as IBM, 
Wang, Xerox, and DEC in the 
intelligent-terminal and work 
station markets and with 
Tymnet and Telenet in the 
communications-processing 
field. It is unlikely that Bell 
will compete directly with 
IBM in the mainframe busi- 
ness. 

The Bell System itself pre- 
sents a large, captive market 
for computer products. Ac- 
tually, the Bell System is 
IBM's biggest customer out- 
side of the U.S. government. 
Bell is expected to sell 
business and personal com- 
puters through its many 
Phone Center stores. 

AT&T has also agreed to 
provide CBS (Columbia 
Broadcasting System) with 
home-computer terminals, 
data-entry equipment, and 
transmission facilities for a 
joint teletext experiment 
scheduled to begin this fall in 
New Jersey. 



^« National Amateur 
Computer Society: The 

Japan Microcomputer Club is 
well organized, registers close 
to 4000 members, and has 
chapters in every major city in 
Japan. Hobbyists in England 
also work together through 
one central organization, pro- 
viding an excellent base for 
the computer industry. 

Computer hobbyists have 
long been the backbone of 
technological growth, but in 
the U.S., the hobbyist com- 
munity is fragmented into 
several hundred independent 
clubs. A handful of clubs have 
over 1000 members, but most 
include fewer than 100. 
While some attempts have 
been made to found a na- 
tional organization, none has 
succeeded. 

Personal computing as a 
hobby is a breeding ground 
for computer professionals of 
tomorrow. Therefore, it's vital 
that we organize a national 



amateur computer society 
while we are still the world's 
technological leader in com- 
puting. 



VPfM Goes Into Firm- 
ware: Digital Research has 
signed an agreement with In- 
tel which will allow the latter 
to sell ROMs encoded with 
the CP/M-86 operating 
system. The ROM will also 
contain timers and some 
logic; it should be available by 
mid-year. The ROM is intend- 
ed for use in a CP/net system 
where systems containing 
CP/M in firmware don't have 
any disk but must com- 
municate with a CP/M or 
MP/M server. 

Intel will also sell CP/M-66 
and MP/M-86 on disk for its 
single-board and 86/330 sys- 
tem. Intel has contracted with 
Microsoft for its MS-DOS 
(used on the IBM personal 
computer). Intel will sell its 
own RMX-86 DOS and plans 
to acquire Unix from Western 
Electric. Hence, Intel users 
and systems houses will be 
able to select among a wide 
variety of operating systems. 
Intel also expects to market 
applications software. 



ft^lgltal Research Buys 
MT Microsystems: Digital 
Research has acquired its 
second software company in 
less than three months by 
purchasing MT MicroSystems 
Incorporated of San Diego, 
California, supplier of 
Pascal/MT. Previously, 
Digital Research had pur- 
chased Compiler Systems In- 
corporated, supplier of 
CBasic. 



E xxon Buys Out Zllog: 

Over the years, Exxon Cor- 
poration has moved from a 
minor investor in Zilog Incor- 
porated, supplier of the Z80, 
to a major investor, owning 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 437 



BYTELINES, 



90 percent of the stock. Zilog 
has bought the remaining 10 
percent and will become a 
wholly owned Exxon subsi- 
diary. One result is that 
Exxon will no longer be re- 
quired to break out Zilog's 
quarterly earnings for share- 
holders. Zilog, incidentally, 
has yet to report a profit. In 
fact, the Exxon Enterprises 
operation, which includes all 
of Exxon's electronics sub- 
sidiaries, incurred a loss of 
$51 million in the first nine 
months of 1981. 



M 



Icroprocessor 
Trends: Did you know that 
there are currently 51 dif- 
ferent general-purpose micro- 
processors in production, that 
17 are 4-bit devices, 14 are 
8-bit devices, 6 are 16-bit 
devices, 4 are 32-bit devices 
with 16-bit I/O, 4 are bipolar, 
and 5 are microframe or 
special (e.g., Intel iAPX432)? 
Futher, did you know that 
seven more have been an- 
nounced but are not yet in 
production, and that 42 com- 
panies currently manufacture 
microprocessors? 

The microprocessor re- 
cently celebrated its tenth 
birthday. Credit for creating 
the microprocessor goes to In- 
tel. (See this month's Editorial 
on page 6.) Ten years ago, the 



companies that designed 
micros were mostly small, 
freewheeling organizations 
employing a great deal of in- 
genuity. Today, it is a totally 
different ballgame. Most of 
those early pioneers were 
either swallowed up by large 
companies (e.g., Zilog and 
MOS Technology) or are now 
very large companies (e.g., In- 
tel, AMD, and National Semi- 
conductor). Furthermore, 
leadership in design and pro- 
duction appears to be pass- 
ing to the Japanese. 

The microprocessor scene 
has changed a lot over these 
ten years. The question now 
is: what are the current trends 
and directions of the new 
micros? First of all, suppliers 
are making micros easier to 
program. National and Zilog 
already have micros with 
software-in-silicon. They each 
provide single-chip com- 
puters that execute BASIC 
statements directly in an inter- 
pretive mode. Futhermore, 
Intel is developing one micro 
with the capability to execute 
MP/M and another with a 
sophisticated on-board 
operating system. Also, there 
are rumors of a one-chip 
FORTH computer. There's no 
doubt that both National and 
Zilog have been successful 
with BASIC-processing ICs. 



Second, microcomputer 
ICs are getting more so- 
phisticated, having floating- 
point capability, multi- 
ply/divide functions, en- 
hanced interrupt handling, 
and the like. 

The most glamorous 
changes will occur in the 
16/32 bit micros. All of these 
devices are getting coproces- 
sors to extend their capa- 
bilities into the minicomputer 
field. Incidentally, Zilog has 
disclosed that it's working on 
a 32-bit micro. If the 8-bit unit 
is a Z80, the 8/16-bit device is 
a Z800, and the 16-bit micro is 
the Z8000, what will its 
32-bitter be called? You 
guessed it! The Z80000! 
Maybe Zilog would be better 
off calling it the Z8X10 4 . 



M 



I emory Trends. . . 
or. What Is Turbo and 
Parity? I occasionally look 
back with fondness to my first 
micro. It had 256 bytes of 
memory and used an Intel 
8008. That was only 8 years 
ago. The next year, I grad- 
uated to an Altair 8800 that 
had an 8080, six printed-cir- 
cuit cards containing 4K bytes 
of RAM, an I/O channel, and 
a huge power supply. How 
times have changed! 

The most significant change 



has been in memory. Today 
the 16K-bit, single-voltage 
RAMs dominate the market- 
place, providing cost savings 
(mostly by shrinking power- 
supply requirements), 
yielding faster operation, and 
making the 64K-byte com- 
puter memory nearly stan- 
dard. The 64K-bit RAM ICs 
are just starting to appear, and 
we find that computer mem- 
ory sizes of 128K bytes and 
256K bytes are becoming 
more common and will prob- 
ably become the standard 
microcomputer memory size 
by the end of 1983. The 
256K-byte RAM chips are 
now going into production. I 
expect that by 1985 1 
megabyte will probably be 
the typical microcomputer 
memory size. Also, as the 
volumetric memory space de- 
creases, the associated access 
time decreases, resulting in in- 
creased system performance. 
Some of the most interest- 
ing changes in memory de- 
sign are improving memory 
reliability and speed. Memory 
manufacturers are beginning 
to introduce multifunction 
memory systems that perform 
parity or error-checking and 
correction functions previous- 
ly handled by a computer's 
processor, if they were done 
at all. In fact, National 




(5ECAU5E, 






^%£&v -^fr"*"" - 




KU§ 


fir! 5Ui 


r — 



438 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Semiconductor has intro- 
duced an IC (the DP8400) that 
performs all the memory 
error checking and correcting 
so that the processor is not 
bothered with this task. Error 
checking and correction is 
particularly important with 
dynamic RAM since these 
devices are prone to soft (tran- 
sient) errors due to noise and 
radio-frequency interference, 
alpha particles, cosmic rays, 
and voltage fluctuations. 

Manufacturers are also in- 
troducing on-board batteries 
to protect RAM during power 
failure. With the use of CMOS 
RAM, an on-board battery can 
protect data for over a hun- 
dred hours, and lithium- 
iodine batteries have been 
shown to be able to provide 
as much as one year of data 
retention. 



The demand for faster com- 
puter access to disk drives has 
generated new cache tech- 
niques to reduce seek time 
and rotational latency delays 
that account for about 60 per- 
cent of throughput bottle- 
necks. This technique is called 
the "turbo disk file cache" or 
"turbo" for short. The turbo 
eliminates disk seeks to fre- 
quently used data by trans- 
ferring such data to a cache 
memory (typically 128K bytes) 
and accessing the data from 
the cache instead of the disk. 
The data in the cache is kept 
current using an algorithm 
such that the block of data 
that has gone unaccessed the 
longest is replaced by the next 
nearest-in-use block of data. 
The turbo algorithm considers 
past use and the probability 
for future use. Software 2000 



Incorporated of Arroyo 
Grande, California, for exam- 
ple, sells TurboDOS, which it 
claims runs CP/M software 
three to five times faster. The 
company has adapted its soft- 
ware to run on most of the 
popular S-100 systems, the 
Xerox 820, TRS-fiO Model II, 
and others. 



^^Buote of the Month: 

"By the end of the century, 
analysts predict, computers 
and information processing 
will be the world's biggest 
business after petroleum." 
Wall Street journal, 
November 10, 1981. 



APOLOGY DUE: I regret 
that in my November 1981 
column I erroneously re- 



ported that Canon was mar- 
keting the CX-1 computer via 
distributors responsible for 
software support. Canon has 
informed me that it markets 
the CX-1 directly to dealers 
and provides software sup- 
port. 



MAIL: I receive a large 
number of letters each month 
as a result of this column. If you 
write to me and wish a re- 
sponse, please include a self- 
addressed, stamped enveope. 

Sol Llbes 
POB 1192 
Mountainside, NJ 07092 




8" DUAL DENSITY CONTROLLER 

• UP TO 4 MEGABYTES ON LINE 

• DOS 3.2, 3.3 COMPATIBLE 

• PASCAL'" 1 AND CP/M lm DUAL DENSITY 
NOW AVAILABLE 

• IBM' m 3740 or SYSTEM 34 FORMATTED 

• SHUGART, QUME, SIEMENS COMPATIBLE 

• IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 

Available at your local APPLE Dealer: $595. 



£SVA> 



SORRENTO VALLEY ASSOCIATES 

11722 SORRENTO VALLEY RD. 

SAN DIEGO, CA 92121 TWX 910-335-2047 



TANTALUM CAPACITORS | 

22UF 10V - S 



j;uf 2w vs 

.«JUF3',V <y$ 
1UF35V 5/S 



LINEAR CIRCUITS 



NEDGEBOARDCQNN 

JJHICiHT ANGLE CONN. 
H RIGHT ANGLE CONN 



RS232 CONNECTORS 

DB25Pmale $2.75 

DB 25S lemiale ... 3.75 

HOODS ,. 1.50 



UART's 



AY5 1013 
TR1G02B 
PT1482B 
M8B68A 
COM2017 



i_M3oa 

LM32' 
LM339 
LF351 - 
LF353 
LF355 - 
LF356 - 



LM358 

LM377 
LM3S0 



^555 - 



CA758 - 1. 
CA301B - 1 
CA3078 1 



CA3094 2 25 



INTERFACE &DRIVERS 




31-95 8130 3.50 8834.2 00 
.90 8830 2 50 883? 2 00 
I HI 8833 2 50 8838 2.00 



TOGGLE 
SWITCHES 

1060 - SPDT 

1.10 
206D - DPDT 



3.000 5.000 8.000 
3 579 6.000 10.000 
4.000 6.144 18.000 



■ REGULATORS 
LM337 52 50 

79HGKC-5Vai5A 56.95 



723 



.50 



78M05 . . 5 .35 

78105 s .45 

LM305G. S .75 

320T5.12.15or24 S .90 
340K-12. 15oi24V51.50 
340T 5. 6. 8, 9, 12, 

15. 18of 24V S ,B5 
LAS14T2 • 12V3AS3.95 



CPU'S& SUPPORT CHIPS! 



74LS SERIES 



AMD2901 


8.95 


8202 


- 35.00 


8212 


- 2.25 


8214 


- 3.60 


8216 


- 2.90 


8224 


- 3.25 


MM5307 


- 9.95 



8228 

8255 

8259 

8257IAM9517) - 

Z80ACPU 

Z80A S10 

8275 



RAM's 



ROM's 



82S23 
82Slt2 
825115 



3C528A-3 
AM921HC 

8256-517416 



THIS MONTHS SPECIALS 



8080A-$3.75 

Z80ACPU - 5.75 

8264 14164-2) 64K RAM - 14 00 

TMS9927NL *9.95 

8275 CRT CONTROLLER - 16.95 
41162 - 1.85 

2114L-3 $2.50 

FD1791 - 34.95 

FD1771 - 19.95 

2732 32K ROM - 14.95 



MLS03 - 
4LS04 
'4LS05 
'4LSQ8 - 
'■1LSD9 



'4LS20 

■1LS21 

MLS22 

4LS26 

4LS27 - 

'4LS28 

MLS30 

MLS32 

'4LS37 - 

'4LS38 

'4LS40 

'4L573 - 



iLS83 - 
4LS85 - 
4LS86 
'4LS90 ■ 
MLS92 



| 74LS96 

1 74LS10/ 

74LSI09 



.22 74LS123 

.20 74LS124 

.22 74LS125 

23 74LSI26 

+0 ■ 74LST36 
•35 | 74LST3B 
'8 74L5139 
.18 74LS151 
74LS153 
74LS156 



74LS243 
I 74LB244 
74LS2.1'j 
7HSJ4! 
74LS248 
74LS251 



.28 



!LS156 
I 74LSI57 



1 74LS169 

i 7-ILSlfl) 
74LS173 



' 74LS192 
'■* 74LS193 
5 | 74LS194 



TERMS:FOB CAMBRIDGE, MASS. SEND CHECK 
OR MONEY ORDER. MINIMUM TELEPHONE, 
COD. PURCHASE ORDER OR CHARGE 520.00 
MINIMUM MAIL ORDER $5.00. 



SEND $.25 FOR OUR CATALOG 
FEATURING TRANSISTORS & 
RECTIFIERS. 145 HAMPSHIRE 
ST.. CAMBRIDGE. MASS. 02133 



SOLID STATE SALES 

P.O. BOX 74 B 

SOMERVILLE, MASS. 02143 



TEL. (617) 547-7053 
TOLL free 1-800-343-5230 

FOR ORDERS ONLY 



Circle 356 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 439 



Clubs and Newsletters 



Apple Group 
In Little Rock 

The Little Rock Apple Ad- 
dicts publish a newsletter and 
hold meetings and program 
swaps. Guest speakers have 
shown members how to diag- 
nose ailing Apples and have 
demonstrated programs and 
peripherals. Contact Little 
Rock Apple Addicts, POB 
55215, Little Rock, AR 72205. 

Free Newsletter 

The Softwaire Newsletter is 
a free bimonthly publication 
of the Softwaire Store in Los 
Angeles, California. It fea- 
tures news about personal and 
business CP/M software. Also 
included are reviews of micro- 
computer books, magazines, 
and games. Contact the Soft- 
waire Store, 11768 West Pico 



Blvd., West Los Angeles, CA 
90064, (213) 473-1136. 



Llano Estacado 
Computer Club 

Llano Estacado Computer 
Club would like to exchange 
ideas with other computer 
clubs. Members are interested 
in all microcomputers. Write 
to John L. Peters, Llano 
Estacado Computer Club, 
1509 Fairway Terrace, Clovis, 
NM 88101. 



Computer 
Association In 
Central Texas 

The Central Texas Com- 
puter Association (CTCA) 
meets on the fourth Monday 
of the month at the Farm & 
Home Savings Building in 



Maxell Floppy Disks 

The Mini-Disks 
with maximum quality 





Dealer inquiries 
invited. C.O.D's 
accepted. Call 
FREE (800) 235-4137. 



PACIFIC EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd., San Luis 
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401. 
In Cal. call (800) 592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037. 



Austin, Texas. Club meetings 
include short demonstrations 
or informal talks on a variety 
of subjects relating to personal 
computers. A monthly jour- 
nal, PRINT-OUT, has infor- 
mation on hardware and soft- 
ware, new equipment cri- 
tiques, and a classified ad sec- 
tion free to members. The 
CTCA is active in community 
service, with a number of 
projects underway for the 
deaf. Membership dues are 
$15. Contact CTCA, POB 
17303, Austin, TX 78760. 



HUGs In Pittsburgh 

The Pittsburgh Heath Users 
Group (HUG) meets the third 
Tuesday of every month at 
the Heathkit store (3482 
William Penn Hwy.) from 7 to 
9 p.m. For more information, 
call (412) 824-3564. 



Computer 
Dealers Society 

The American Society of 
Computer Dealers (ASCD) is 
a new group devoted to pro- 
moting sound business prac- 
tices in the used-computer in- 
dustry. ASCD intends to 
cooperate fully with the Com- 
puter Dealers and Lessors 
Association in promoting 
ethical conduct standards. A 
code of ethics for ASCD 
members has been adopted. 
Meetings will be held twice a 
year, in February and July. 
For further details, contact 
ASCD, 3500 Southland 
Center, Dallas, TX 75201, or 
call Jerry Roberts at (313) 
689-6200. 



Magazine 
for War Gamers 

The War Machine is a bi- 
monthly magazine dedicated 
to fans of computer war 
games. It features news, 



reviews of complex games for 
all microcomputers, and ad- 
vice for independent software 
writers. The latest issue can be 
obtained for $3 from Emjay, 
17 Langbank Ave., Rise Park, 
Nottingham NG5 5BU, 
England. 



Two New 
Groups In Munich 

Two new microcomputer 
groups have been organized in 
Munich, West Germany. The 
European Branch of the Pascal 
Z Users Group has been 
formed in association with 
the American Pascal Z Users 
Group. And the second, the 
Ithaca Intersystems/S-100 
Users Group plans to coor- 
dinate Ithaca users' efforts in 
Europe and to form a program 
exchange. Both groups can be 
contacted by writing George 
Brooke, Sebastian Bauer- 
strasse 20c, 8000 Munich 83, 
West Germany. 



Dental 
Computer News 

The Dental Computer 
Newsletter is a publication 
serving an international group 
of dentists, physicians, and of- 
fice-management personnel 
who share a common interest 
in office computers. Members 
also have access to a software 
exchange and a computer 
bulletin board. Dues are $15 
domestic, $23 overseas. Con- 
tact Dental Computer News- 
letter, c/o E. J. Neiburger, 
1000 North Ave., Waukegan, 
IL 60085. ■ 



440 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 299 on inquiry card. 



Software Received 



Apple 

Adventure in Time, an 

adventure game for the Ap- 
ple II. Floppy disk, $29.95. 
Phoenix Software Inc., 64 
Lake Zurich Dr., Lake 
Zurich, IL 60047. 

Birth of the Phoenix, a 
tutorial adventure for the 
Apple II. Floppy disk, 
$14.95. Phoenix Software 
Inc. (see address above). 

Circuit Design System, a 
digital electronics design and 
simulation package for the 
Apple II. Floppy disk, $149. 
Smart Software Co., POB 
1292, Orem, UT 84057. 

Comma Usage/Semicolon 
and Colon Usage, a punctua- 
tion usage tutorial for the Ap- 
ple II. Cassette, $20; floppy 
disk; $25. LARA Software, 
980 Hunting Valley PL, 
Decatur, GA 30033. 

Context Connector, a 
Visicalc utility program for 
the Apple II. Floppy disk, 
$180. Context Management 
Systems Inc., 23864 Haw- 
thorne Blvd., Torrance, CA 
90505. 

Datalink, a telecommuni- 
cations package in Pascal for 
the Apple II. Floppy disk, 
$100. Link Systems, 1655 
26th St., Santa Monica, CA 
90404. 

Linkdisk, a disk-utility 
package in Pascal for the Ap- 
ple II. Floppy disk, $70. Link 
Systems (see address above). 

Linkindex, a rapid key 
data-file retrieval system in 
Pascal for the Apple II. Flop- 
py disk, $150. Link Systems 
(see address above). 

Linksampler, a tutorial 
package in Pascal for the Ap- 
ple II. Floppy disk, $60. Link 
Systems (see address above). 

Linkvideo, a screen utility 
in Pascal for the Apple II. 
Floppy disk, $55. Link Sys- 
tems (see address above). 

Red Alert, an arcade-style 
game for the Apple II Plus. 
Floppy disk, $29.95. Broder- 
bund Software Inc., 2 Vista 



Wood Way, San Rafael, CA 
94901. 

Shadow Hawk One, an ar- 
cade-style game for the Apple 
II. Floppy disk, $49.95. Hori- 
zon Simulations, 107 East 
Main #2, Medford, OR 
97501. 

Zoom Grafix, a graphics/ 
printer control package for 
the Apple II. Floppy disk, 
$39.95. Phoenix Software 
Inc. (see address above). 



Atari 

Easytext Word Processor, 

a word-processing system for 
the Atari 800. Floppy disk, 
$50. Dataworks Inc., 97 Jack- 
son St., Cambridge, MA 
02140. 

The I Ching, a program for 
casting and displaying hexa- 
grams for the Atari 800. Flop- 
py disk, $44.95. Alternate 
Reality Software, 2111 West 
Arapahoe Dr., Littleton, CO 
80120. 

Shadow Hawk One, an ar- 
cade-style game for the Atari 
400/800. Floppy disk, 
$49.95. Horizon Simulations, 
107 East Main #2, Medford, 
OR 97501. 



CP/M 

Office System 80, a utility 
system for the CP/M operat- 
ing system. 8-inch floppy 
disk, $195. The Information 
People, 443 Hudson Ave., 
Newark, OH 43055. 

Quickscreen, a screen-for- 
matting program for the 
CP/M operating system. 
8-inch floppy disk, $149. Fox 
and Geller Associates Inc., 
POB 1053, Teaneck, NJ 
07666. 

The Formula, a multifunc- 
tioned, business-oriented 
data-processing package for 
CP/M. 8-inch floppy disk, 
$595. Dynamic Microproces- 
sor Associates, 545 5th Ave., 
New York, NY 10017. 

XLT86, an assembly-lan- 



guage conversion utility to 
convert CP/M programs to 
CP/M-86. 8-inch floppy disk, 
$150. Digital Research Inc., 
801 Lighthouse Ave., POB 
579, Pacific Grove, CA 
93950. 

TRS-80 

LOG, a simple database 
management program for the 
TRS-80 Models I and III. 
Floppy disk, $44.95 (Model 
I), $49.95 (Model III). KSoft, 
318 Lakeside Dr., Brandon, 
MS 39042. 

Modem 80, a telecommuni- 
cations software package for 
the TRS-80 Models I and III. 
Floppy disk, $39.95. The 
Alternate Source, 1806 Ada 
St., Lansing, MI 48910. 

Smart Terminal, a telecom- 
munications software pack- 
age for the TRS-80 Models I 
and III. Cassette, $69.95. 



Howe Software, 14 Lexing- 
ton Rd., New City, NY 
10956. 

Uniterm, a telecommunica- 
tions software package for 
the TRS-80 Models I and III. 
Floppy disk, $29.95. BT En- 
terprises, 171 Hawkins Rd., 
Centereach, NY 11720. 

Other Computers 

Quadcube, an extended 
graphics simulation of the 
Rubik cube puzzle for the 
Texas Instruments TI-99/4. 
Cassette, $14.95. Linear Aes- 
thetic Systems, POB 23, West 
Cornwall, CT 06796. 

The ZX80 Business Pack- 
age, a business-oriented pro- 
gram package for the ZX80 
and Micro Ace computers. 
Cassette, $9.95. Lamo-Lem 
Laboratories, POB 2382, La 
Jolla, CA 92038. ■ 



This is a list of software packages that have been received by 
BYTE Publications during the past month. The list is correct to the 
best of our knowledge, but it is not meant to be a full description 
of the product or the forms in which the product is available. In 
particular, some packages may be sold for several machines or in 
both cassette and floppy-disk format; the product listed here is 
the version received by BYTE Publications. 

This is an all-inclusive list that makes no comment on the quality 
or usefulness of the software listed. We regret that we cannot 
review every software package We receive. Instead, this list is 
meant to be a monthly acknowledgment of these packages and 
the companies that sent them. All software received is considered 
to be on loan to BYTE and is returned to the manufacturer after a 
set period of time. Companies sending software packages should 
be sure to include the list price of the packages and |where appro- 
priate) the alternate forms in which they are available. 



BYTE's Bugs 



Closer Look Spies Bug 



PC: The Independent 
Guide to the IBM Personal 
Computer is a bimonthly 
publication, not a monthly as 
stated on page 60 of Gregg 
Williams' article "A Closer 
Look at the IBM Personal 
Computer" (January 1982 
BYTE). Subscriptions to the 



magazine cost $12 for six 
issues. 

Please note that the new 
address for PC: The Indepen- 
dent Guide to the IBM Per- 
sonal Computer is 1239 21st 
Ave., San Francisco, CA 
94122, (415) 753-8088. ■ 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 441 



Ask BYTE 



Conducted by Steve Ciarcia 



Speech Synthesizer 
Application 

Dear Steve, 

I read with great interest 
your article, "Build an Un- 
limited-Vocabulary Speech 
Synthesizer" (September 1981 
BYTE, page 38), and have 
found a possible use for it. I 
have a Perkin-Elmer 3220 
computer and would like to 
use the synthesizer to answer 
telephone calls into the com- 
puter, mainly to respond to 
salesmen who have phoned 
orders into the computer. 
The synthesizer would re- 
spond with appropriate mes- 
sages, telling the salesmen if 
transmission was successful 
or what problem occurred. 
Could the synthesizer feasi- 
bly be used in this capacity 
on my computer, with or 
without modifications, and 
what modifications would be 
necessary, if any? 
Derek Pitcher 
Highland Park, NJ 



The speech synthesizer re- 
quires only a Centronics- 
compatible parallel output 
port commonly used for 
printers. The port comprises 
9 output lines and 2 input 
lines. If your computer has 
this capability, then the syn- 
thesizer can be easily inter- 
faced as described in the art- 
icle. 

Your application is an ex- 
cellent one. Many com- 
panies, including Ma Bell, use 
speech synthesizers on the 
telephone. Listen carefully 
the next time you dial a 
phone number that has been 
changed. . . . Steve 



Problems with 
EPROM 

Dear Steve, 

I was very glad to see your 



article, "Build an Intelligent 
EPROM Programmer," in the 
October 1981 BYTE (see page 
36). For the past several 
months, I have been trying to 
build a circuit to program 
EPROMs (erasable program- 
mable read-only memory) 
using my homebrew 6809 
computer and three output 
ports from 6820 Peripheral 
Interface Adapters. It was a 
bit of a surprise to see that 
my circuit is almost the same 
as yours. Mine does not 
work, however, and I can't 
figure out why. 

I am using the 5-volt-only 
version of the 2716 EPROM, 
and my timing is done by a 
wait loop in software rather 
than by the one-shot TTL 
(transistor-transistor logic) 
device that you used. When I 
try to program a "known- 
good" 2716, it comes out with 
about one-fourth the bytes 
programmed (the rest are 
hexadecimal FF), and those 
bytes that are programmed 
are not necessarily right. 

I checked all the address 
lines and data lines over and 
over again. I even single- 
stepped through the pro- 
gram, monitoring all the 
voltages as I went. Every pin 
is what it should be, but it 
just doesn't work right. I was 
wondering if you knew of 
any little idiosyncrasies of the 
2716 that may cause such a 
symptom. Did you run into 
any such trouble with your 
circuit? 

Matthew G. Cimbala 
State College, PA 

It sounds as if you have a 
software problem in which 
the addresses are not being 
placed on the EPROM in the 
right sequence. Perhaps your 
address-incrementing routine 
is resetting too soon. 

The fact that you are get- 
ting data into the EPROM 



(assuming that all bytes were 
hexadecimal FF prior to pro- 
gramming) indicates that the 
program timing loop is okay. 
The 2716 is a very reliable 
EPROM and I am not aware 
of any idiosyncrasies that 
would cause this problem. I 
suggest you leave it alone for 
a few days and then walk 
through the software, paying 
close attention to your index- 
ing instructions. . . . Steve 



Modem Interface 

Dear Steve, 

I acquired an acoustically 
coupled modem made by 
Multi-tech Systems from 
New Brighton, Minnesota. 
This is the model FM 30; it 
has a full- or half-duplex 
switch on the bottom and 
also what appears to be an 
RS-232C input connector. I 
was wondering if you could 
provide any information on 
interfacing this with my 
Apple II Plus. Would one of 
the commercial interfaces 
work, such as the Apple 
Communications board or 
Mountain Computer's CPS 
Multifunction card? Any in- 
formation would be greatly 
appreciated. 
Steven M. Babick 
Dolton, IL 



Any board that provides 
an RS-232C serial input will 
be adequate to interface your 
modem to the Apple II Plus. 
The commercial interfaces 
that you mentioned are fine 
for this purpose. 

For an explanation of how 
modems work, and some of 
the terminology associated 
with them, refer to my arti- 
cle, "A Build-It-Yourself 
Modem for Under $50, " in 
the August 1980 BYTE, page 
22. . . . Steve 



High-speed Printers 

Dear Steve, 

I would like to build a 
16-bit microcomputer system 
to drive a 600-line-per-minute 
printer. Printers like that are 
advertised in BYTE, but I 
have my doubts that any- 
thing can actually print at 
that speed. What do you 
think? 

Colin Morris 
New York, NY 



Six-hundred-line-per-min- 
ute printers do indeed exist. 
Your doubts as to anything 
printing that fast are natural, 
especially if you are used to 
seeing a dot-matrix or daisy- 
wheel printer printing one 
character at a time. The 
higher-speed printers print a 
whole line at a time (like the 
old mechanical adding 
machines) and can be driven 
much faster. 

I think the ultimate in 
printers is the IBM laser 
printer. It is capable of 1800 
lines per minute. It works by 
having the laser, acting like 
the electron beam of a TV 
screen, scan a metal plate. 
The plate becomes charged, 
and the image is transferred 
to paper much like a xero- 
graphic photocopier. The 
problem with this type of 
printer is the manpower nec- 
essary to load and unload the 
boxes of paper that are 
used. . . . Steve 



Level I Tape Format 

Dear Steve, 

I wrote a program that 
brought data from the tape 
and stored them in memory 
of my TRS-80 Model I so that 
I could examine them. But 
the data format did not 
match any listed in my refer- 



442 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 269 on inquiry card. 



ences. Part of the problem 
was that I was using a Level I 
BASIC machine and reading 
programs like Eliza, Micro- 
movie, and Pyramid 2000. 

So I modified my program 
to read Level II tapes and sure 
enough, the formats were 
correct. Can you tell me 
where to find the format for 
Level I tapes? 
Bob Fabiano 
EI Cajon, CA 

Radio Shack has machine- 
language programs for con- 
verting your Level I BASIC 
programs and data files into 
the Level II format. They are 
called CONV and DCONV, 
respectively, and are fur- 
nished free of charge when a 
Level I machine is upgraded 
to Level II. See your local 
Radio Shack dealer. 

The Level I cassette-tape 
format can be found in The 
Custom TRS-80 and Other 
Mysteries by Dennis Kitsz. 
. . . Steve 



Computer Lab 
Essentials 

Dear Steve, 

I am a sometime practition- 
er of simple chip and micro- 
processor designs. I am ap- 
proaching retirement in a few 
years and I'd like to build 
more ambitious projects. To 
do that I'd like to set up a lab 
of sorts. Accordingly, I 
would value your recommen- 
dations about the kinds of 
test instruments I should be 
thinking about getting. I 
should tell you also that I 
have a 35-year-old degree in 
electrical engineering and, in 
the mid-fifties, I worked in 
hardware. The point being 
I'm not worried about my 
ability to use dual-trace 
scopes, voltmeters, and the 
like. 



I'll probably try to build a 
computer from scratch. I was 
particularly intrigued by 
your article, "Build a Com- 
puter-Controlled Tank," in 
the February 1981 BYTE, 
page 44. Maybe I'll try to tie a 
specially built computer to a 
complex model railroad lay- 
out. I tell you this to give you 
an idea of what I think I'd 
like to do. I'm not especially 
worried about the price of the 
test instruments, but natural- 
ly I'd like to avoid buying the 
fanciest Tektronix scope. I'm 
an experienced kit builder, so 
if you think a particular 
Heath scope is a good value 
and desirable, that might be 
best. 

B. H. Kramer 
St. Louis, MO 

The two instruments that 
are absolute musts for a com- 
puter lab are an oscilloscope 
and a DVM (digital volt- 
meter). The 'scope should 
have a 15 to 25 MHz band- 
width with dual trace and a 
time-base range between 
200 nanoseconds and 
0.5 seconds (without having 
to use the time-base mag- 
nifier). Vertical sensitivity 
should be at least 10 milli- 
volts per division. Delayed 
sweep and trigger view are 
not necessary. I just pur- 
chased a Tektronix 2215 
($1400), and it is very good 
for the money. As for the 
DVM, any 3V2 digit model 
should suffice. 

Other useful equipment 
would be a function gen- 
erator and variable-voltage 
power supply with short-cir- 
cuit and overload protection. 

The above recommenda- 
tions should suffice for the 
application that you describe. 
In any event, this represents 
the foundation of a good lab 
system and will require only 
a modest investment. Enjoy 
your retirement. . . . Steve 



XENIX -BASED WORK STATION 

Here is the complete, no-compromise UNIX™-based package that 
gives you full UNIX power at truly minimal cost. Your investment is 
protected against obsolescence because we use industry standard 
components. Unlike other UNIX or "UNIX-act-alike" systems, this is 
a true, complete UNIX Version 7 running on a PDP-1 1 . This is exactly 
as it was meant to be in the original design and conforms to Bell 
Laboratories UNIX Version 7 documentation. 

MSD Corporation is making a special offer on our 
XENIX-based 23/256 Work Station: 

■ LSI-11/23 based processor with floating point, 256Kb random 
access memory, 4 port serial interface, 5 quad slots for expansion. 

■ Dual floppy subsystem, single sided (double sided may be 
specified at additional cost), bootstrap loader, formatting and 
diagnostic software. ■ 20.8 Mb Winchester disk with integrated 
cartridge tape backup. ■ One (1) VT-100 terminal with advanced 
video option. 

■ One (1) LA38-HA tractor feed printer with keyboard, numeric 
keypad and stand. ■ One (1) Auto-Answer, Auto-Dial 300 Baud 
Modem. ■ Cables for the above. ■ XENIX Operating System, a 
true UNIX Version 7, configured for 4 users. ■ Complete manual 
set and 1 year telephone support. 

This system is expandable up to 8 users and 83.2 
Mb of disk storage. Multiple work stations, termi- 
nals, other UNIX systems, or non-UNIX systems 
can be networked together with no additional soft- 
ware. 

Price: $23,256. Terms: 25% Down with purchase order, balance 
75% upon delivery. 



M 



E> 



MSD Corporation 

2449 Camelot Court, SE 
Grand Rapids, Ml 49506 
(616) 942-5060 



MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT 

UNIX and XENIX are trademarks of Bell Laboratories and Microsoft respectively. 



reformaTTer 




GETS FILES ACROSS! 



With REFORMATTER disk utilities you can read and write 
IBM 3740 and DEC RT-11 single density formatted diskettes on your 
CP/M " system. 

REFORMATTER enables you to access large system databases, 
improve data exchange with other organizations, increase program 
development capabilities, and use your micro in distributed processing. 

REFORMATTER programs feature bi-directional data transfer 
and full directory manipulation. ASCII/EBCDIC conversion provided 
with CP/M «-» IBM. MPIM is now fully supported. 

Program Data Sheets, Application Guides, and Machine Compati- 
bility Cuides available. 

Each program $195.00 from stock. Specify CP/M ** IBM or 
CP/M -— DEC. Order from MicroTech Exports, Inc., 467 Hamilton 
Ave., Suite 2, Palo Alto, CA 94301 □ Tel: 415/324-9114 □ TWX: 
910-370-7457 MUH-AUOS □ Dealer and OEM discounts available. 

hh CP/M* is a registered trademark of Digital Research ^Wl 



Circle 256 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 443 



FOR MANUFACTURERS 



MCS-2 



Capacity 
Planning 



Inventory 
Control 



Job 
Costing 



Material 

Requirements 

Planning 



General 
Ledger 



Bill of 
Material 



Accounts 
Receivable 



Order 
Entry 



Accounts 
Payable 



Micro Manufacturing Systems has been develop- 
ing and supplying manufacturing software directly to 
manufacturers for several years and is now offering 
its MCS-2 system to dealers and OEM's. 

MCS-2 is the most comprehensive manufactur- 
ing control system designed for the CPM based 
micro computer. MCS-2 consists of nine separate 
modules which can be purchased as a complete sys- 
tem or individually as required. 

For more information contact: 

MICRO MANUFACTURING 
SYSTEMS 



MM 



1670 Norma Rd. • Columbus, Ohio 43229 
Phone: (614) 885-0738 



Ask BYTE. 



STOCK ORDERS SHIPPED IN 24 HOURS 



ADDS 
VIEWPOINT 



^^UHqtyi 



TERMINAL 



Tha I sit [quipped Printer for the Monayl 
MODEL 8BG 

88G FEATURES 

FriclionFeed 
Adjustable Tractor Feed 
Partiiit'i interlace 
Senal inter (ace 
Dala Butter 

Cotrespondence Font ll x 7 
Print Speed 
Number of Columns 
Variable Forms length 




$649 



DISC DRIVES 



QUME: DT-8...$525.00 „, 

8 DSDD <M IPI 

TANDON: TM-100-2...$335.00\ 

5'A" DSDD dfi IIP 

TM-848-1... $475.00' 

8" SSDD IHINLINE 

TM-602... $995.00' „ 



DT-5...$310.00'„.,, 
TM-10O-4...$425.00\ 



5Vj" DSQD 96 11 



TM-848-2...$550.00\m 

8" DSDD IHINLINE 

TM-603...$U75.00*..„, 

SB" OMBVTf WINCHESTER 



QUME LETTER QUALITY 
PRINTERS 

SPRINT 9/45 $2245* 



OTHIB MODEt ANP C ONE I GUP At IONS ft 



(408) 438-5454 

I SCOnS VALLEY DR., SCOTTS VALLEY, CA 95066 
TERMS: Cashiers Check, VISA, M/C, COD 
Shipping charges added to all orders A 

* Quantity Discounts Available 



/flEDIK DISTRIBUTING 



Programming the 
RS- 232C Serial Port 

Dear Steve, 

I have been unable to find 
any information on program- 
ming the RS-232C serial port 
on the Radio Shack Color 
Computer. A call to the "hot 
line" indicated that Radio 
Shack consultants were 
somewhat in the dark, 
although they tried to be 
helpful. Can you shed any 
light on this topic? 
Martin F. Rooney 
Troy, NY 



The RS-232C serial port on 
Radio Shack's Color Com- 
puter consists of 3 bits of 3 
addresses of a Motorola 
MC6821 Peripheral Interface 
Adapter (PIA). At address 
hexadecimal FF20, bit 1 rep- 
resents the RS-232C Data 
Output and is brought out to 
pin 4 of connector P2. Ad- 
dress hexadecimal ¥¥21, bit 1, 
is the Status Input line, con- 
nected to pin 1 of P2. Ad- 
dress hexadecimal ¥¥22, bit 0, 
is the RS-232C Data Input 
and is connected to pin 2 of 
P2; pin 3 of P2 is ground. 

In software, the only RS- 
232C device supported by the 
8K-byte BASIC is a serial 
printer, so pin 1 of P2 is not 
used. Pin 2 is intended to be 
connected to the printer 
status or busy line, and pin 4 
is the output to the printer. 
To program the MC6821, a 
rather elaborate discussion 
must ensue. An article from 
EDN magazine, September 
20, 1980, "Understanding 
PIA Operations Increases 
Your Design Options" by 
Randy Hutcheson, explains 
this rather well. 

The TRS-80 Color Com- 
puter Technical Reference 
Manual (Cat. No. 26-3193) 
explains all the input/output 
ports and has a complete 
memory map. It is available 
through any Radio Shack 
store. . . . Steve 



Build Your Own 

Dear Steve, 

I have read some of your 
articles and especially liked 
"Build the Disk-80" (see the 
March 1981 BYTE, page 36), 
but I was sorry that it was not 
designed to work with 8-inch 
disk drives. I would like to 
build a computer, perhaps 
based on Zilog's Z80, with 
provisions for four 8-inch 
disk drives and with the abili- 
ty to directly address 128K 
bytes of nonvolatile memory. 
Do you have any sugges- 
tions? 

W. Edward Kelsey 
New London, NH 



I'm glad to see that there 
are still some people who en- 
joy building computers rather 
than buying them. Your idea 
of a Z80-based system sounds 
fine, but I don't plan any- 
thing like it in the near future. 
Below are a few suggestions 
that may help. 

You don't say what your 
experience level is, but at the 
risk of sounding like a com- 
mercial I would recommend 
my book, Build Your Own 
Z80 Computer (a McGraw- 
Hill publication available 
from BYTE Books, Peter- 
borough, NH 03458). It con- 
tains the necessary informa- 
tion to build a complete com- 
puter and configure it any 
way that you wish. 

As for the disk controller 
and memory, I would suggest 
that you buy them either as 
bare boards or assembled and 
tested. Configure your Z80 to 
an S-100 bus and save your- 
self a lot of grief. You will 
have your fun building the 
7.80 and you will save a lot of 
headaches by using prewired 
boards for the rest of the 
system. 

You then can use bank- 
selectable memory boards 
and can easily have your 
128K bytes of memory. 
. . . Steve 



444 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 232 on inquiry card. 



Circle 210 on inquiry card. 



Radio Frequency 
Interference 

Dear Steve, 

I have been reading your 
column in BYTE since I first 
picked up an issue about four 
months ago. I am writing this 
on my newly acquired Vector 
Graphic System B and would 
deeply appreciate a reply to a 
nagging question. 

The Vector System B in- 
stalled for word processing in 
my home is about 15 feet 
from our TV antenna 
(located on rafters in the 
garage — our elevation pre- 
cludes an external antenna). 
The system kills channel 2 
and distorts 5 and 7. The 
dealer suggested a Radio 
Shack filter, which did 
nothing. I learned from 
another dealer that the Sys- 
tem B uses a crystal oscillator 
with a frequency near televi- 
sion channel 2. 

Please suggest what course 
of action I should take or 
what remedies I might initiate 
myself, such as a radio-fre- 
quency filter a novice could 
install in or around the com- 
puter case. 
Jacob D. Pottgen 
New Lenox, IL 



I'm glad to hear that 
you've been reading my col- 
umn for the past four 
months. Had you read the 
January 1981 BYTE on page 
48, you would have seen my 
article on "Electromagnetic 
Interference. " After reading 
it, you should have enough 
information to solve your 
radio-frequency interference 
problems. 

It is important to under- 
stand what causes the prob- 
lem and to recognize that it is 
difficult to determine what 
may be radiating the interfer- 
ing signal. . . . Steve 



Plotting with the 
TRS-80 

Dear Steve, 

I would like to find a pro- 
gram that will allow me to 
make x-y plots of graphs of 
linear and logarithmic equa- 
tions and data points. I have 
a TRS-80 Model III and an 
IDS-560 printer with graphics 
capability. I don't need to see 
the plots on the screen; I only 
need to be able to print them 
out on the IDS-560. 

Any help you could give 
me would be most appreci- 
ated. Thanks a lot. 
Donald M. Lammers 
Wexford, PA 

Programs for x-y plotting 
are available at your local 
Radio Shack store. The fol- 
lowing two books are quite 
thorough in the explanation 
of equations and data points 
and are directed, naturally, 
toward Radio Shack BASIC: 
TRS-80 Programs, Cat. No. 
62-2064, and TRS-80 Graph- 
ics, Cat. No. 62-2063. 
. . . Steve 



A Matter of 
Environment 

Dear Steve, 

I've taken instructions 
from a page from your recent 
book, Build Your Own Z80 
Computer, and modified 
them to "Build Your Own 
Z8000," which is the source 
of my problem. The S-100 
system I'm designing uses a 
Zilog Z8001 segmented 
microprocessor with a 
4 MHz 9511 arithmetic pro- 
cessor. Hardware design is a 
snap so far. (I plan to pur- 
chase the Disk-1 floppy-disk 
controller from Godbout and 
build all other boards that I 
need.) The problem will be 
software; specifically, I need 
an operating system such as 
Unix or Unix-compatible 
Coherent. But Coherent is 
written in unsegmented code. 



SUPRBRAIN 

5 MB Plus 
(K System Five) 



5 MB 
' Hard Disk 



Single or 

Double-Sided 

Floppy 




Now available INTERTEC'S amazing SUPER- 
BRAIN with a built-in 5MB Hard Disk Storage. The 
K SYSTEM FIVE looks and operates like a normal 
SUPERBRAIN but with the advantage of 5 MB of 
hard disk storage and hard disk speed that are im- 
mediately available to the operator. 

Kramer Systems International, Inc. has suc- 
cessfully installed COMPUSTARTM and SUPER- 
BRAINTM Systems worldwide. 

Dealer and International inquiries invited. 
Available on the GSA schedule. 

Kramer Systems International, Inc. 

f 8403 Dixon Avenue 

. Silver Spring, Maryland 20910 

It (301) 585-7480 

Call today for additional information 



AT LAST 

AN AFFORDABLE HARD DISK SYSTEM 
DESIGNED EXCLUSIVELY FOR THE APPLE II® 

HDS-520 

HARD DISK SYSTEM 

HDS-520 FEATURES: 

• 5 Megabytes of formatted storage 

• Self-contained (with controller and power supply) 

• Uses one computer board slot (number 1 thru 7) 

• Compatible with Apple'"' DOS 3.3 and other Apple 1 " software 

• Manufactured by the same company that designed and 
manufactures the Winchester Production Test System currently 
used by Seagate Technology and their major OEM's 

■ Registered Trademark 



5 MEGABYTE VERSION - $2,795.00 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



Discount Available 
for Quantity Orders 





Industrial Resources 

2701 SATURN STREET • BREA, CALIFORNIA 92621 



Circle 187 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 445 



Circle 161 on inquiry card. 



Complete 
AIM 65 
Expansion 




For complete AIM 65 
expansion, Fore- 
thought Products 
brings you the AIM- 
Mate Series, quality 
expansion products with 
price, performance and versa- 
tility that puts them in a class of 
their own. 

AIM-Mate Series expansion, including RAM (to 48K), 
PROM, I/O, video and floppy disk interface, STD BUS 
interface, parity protection and more, lets you con- 
figure the kind of system you need. 

The compact AIM-Mate case puts it all together in a 
sturdy, portable, desk top unit. 

Write today for complete details on the AIM-Mate 
System- AIM 65 expansion products for the 
professional. 

I FORETHOUGHT 
l^=PRODUCTS 

87070 Dukhobar Road, Eugene, Oregon 97402 (503) 485-8575 




WARNING! 

Electric Power Pollution. 

Spikes & Lightning 

HAZARDOUS to 

MICROCOMPUTERS!! 

Patented ISOLATORS provide , , 

protection from . . . *^ | 

• Computer errors caused by 
power line interference 

• Computer errors due to system 
equipment interaction 

• Spike damage caused by 
copier/elevator/air conditioners 

• Lightning caused damage p at . #4, 259.705 ^^^ lso 2 

** FULLY GUARANTEED** 

• ISOLATOR (ISO-1) 3 isolated 3-prong sockets; Spike Suppression; 
useful for small offices, laboratories, classrooms $69.95 

• ISOLATOR (ISO-2) 2 isolated 3-prong socket banks; (6 sockets 
total); Spike Suppression; useful for multiple equipment installa- 
tions $69.95 

• SUPER ISOLATOR (ISO-3) similar to ISO-1 except double isolation 
& oversize Spike Suppression; widely used for severe electrical 
noise situations such as factories or large offices $104.95 

• SUPER ISOLATOR (ISO-1 1) similar to ISO-2 except double isolated 
socket banks & Oversize Spike Suppression; for the larger system 
in severe situations $104.95 

• MAGNUM ISOLATOR (ISO-17) 4 Quad Isolated Sockets; Multiple 
Spike Suppressors; For ULTRA-SENSITIVE Systems in extremely 
Harsh environments $181.95 

• CIRCUIT BREAKER, any model (Add-CB) Add $9.00 

• CKT BRKPJSWITCH/PILOT (-CBS) Add $17.00 

AT YOUR DEALERS MasterCard, Visa, American Express 

ORDER TOLL FREE 1-800-225-4876 (except AK, HI, PR & Canada) 



L*U Electronic Specialists, Inc. 

171 South Main Street. Natick. Mass. 01760 

Technical & Non-800: 1-617-655-1532 






Ask BYTE. 



Where can I get an operating 
system? 

This sort of operating sys- 
tem is not the type usually 
advertised in BYTE; and you 
know how much good my 
beautiful hardware is going 
to be without it. (I'd prefer 
Unix if available.) The com- 
puter is intended as a multi- 
user, multitasking system, 
preferably with a FORTRAN 
compiler, as well as an 
assembler/editor/debugger. 
Frank Barresi 
Woodhaven, NY 

Your problem is somewhat 
sticky. The problem is not al- 
together in the operating sys- 
tem. Unix, like CP/M, does 
not contain the primitives 
(software subroutines) for 
any I/O (input/ output). Like 
CP/M's BIOS (basic input/ 
output subsystem) , these are 
totally hardware dependent. 

In other words, you might 
be able to use Unix if you can 
write the subroutines for the 
I/O primitives. Be wary, 
however; Unix may use some 
strange hardware-dependent 
software, but I'm not an ex- 
pert on Unix and can't be sure 
of this. 

Two good sources of infor- 
mation about Unix are: The 
July-August 1978 issue of the 
Bell System Technical Jour- 
nal, devoted to Unix, avail- 
able for $2.98 from Bell Lab- 
oratories Circulation Group, 
Whippany Road, Whippany, 
NJ 07981; and Using the Unix 
System by Richard Gauthier, 
Reston Publishing Co., 
Reston, VA, 1981. 

Get as much information 
on Unix as you can and study 
the various implementations 
of Unix. Pay special attention 
to system environmental re- 
quirements and I/O require- 
ments. 

What it all boils down to is 
this: if you can make your 
hardware as much like the 
proper environment for Unix 
as possible, it should work. 
(By the way, I'll let you know 
when I do anything with the 



Z8000. Remember what hap- 
pened to Colossus in the se- 
quell) Good luck in any 
event. . . . Steve 



Feasibility Study 

Dear Steve, 

I am presently studying 
electronics at a technical 
school. I have a technical 
writing course in which we 
are assigned to do some sort 
of feasibility study. I have 
chosen to do mine on the fea- 
sibility of purchasing a 
microcomputer for home use. 

I am hoping that you could 
give me some references and, 
if possible, pass along some 
information which would 
help me in my study. This 
would be most appreciated. 
Douglas E. Sprague 
Hancock, ME 

There is a wealth of infor- 
mation available on purchas- 
ing a computer for home use. 
The field of home computing 
is rapidly expanding and 
makes an excellent choice for 
a feasibility study. 

The following are some ref- 
erences that should be quite 
helpful: Popular Computing, 
November 1981; Personal 
Computing — Home Profes- 
sional and Small Business 
Applications by Daniel R. 
McGlynn, John Wiley and 
Sons, 1979; and Your Own 
Computer by Mitchell Waite 
and Michael Pardee, Howard 
W. Sams & Co. . . . Steve 



VIP Expansion 

Dear Steve, 

I have an RCA COSMAC 
VIP with the 20K-byte mem- 
ory upgrade so that I can use 
the VIP Floating Point (VIP 
711). What I would like is to 
add a printer. Is it possible to 
do this with the VIP 7117 I 



446 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Die 



Circle 149 on inquiry card. 



Circle 145 on inquiry card. 



know very little about the 
1802 microprocessor. 

I also have a TRS-80 with 
48K bytes of memory, one 
disk drive, and a printer, and 
I have a Quick Printer 2. I 
would like to hook up the 
Quick Printer 2 to the VIP, 
but I don't even know how to 
start. I have no knowledge of 
electronics at all. Is this proj- 
ect possible? If so, where 
would I get the driver for the 
printer? (I have looked for 
1802-based software to drive 
a printer, but so far, no 
soap.) Can you help me? 
Nicholas Mulchin 
Meadville, PA 



The RCA COSMAC VIP is 
a powerful single-board com- 
puter. Unfortunately, there is 
little support for it in the 
computer magazines. It does, 
however, have expansion 
capability in the form of a 
44-line I/O (input/ output) 
interface that will allow 
almost anything to be added, 
including up to 32K bytes of 
programmable memory. It 
requires a fair amount of 
technical skill to accomplish 
the interface. 

I doubt if there exists a 
printer interface such as you 
are looking for that would 
simply "plug in" to your VIP. 
The two manufacturers listed 
below make interface boards 
for the 1802 processor, and 
they may have the necessary 
information to connect with 
the VIP: Netronics Research 
& Development, Ltd., 333 
Litchfield Road, New Mil- 
ford, CT 06776, (203) 
354-9375; and RCA Solid 
State, Box 3200, Somerville, 
N] 08876. 

Any software must first 
test the "printer busy" signal. 
If it is active, the computer 
must not send data to the 
printer, or it will not be seen. 
When the busy signal is low, 
the 8-bit data character may 
be sent from the output port 



which will cause the printer 
to print it. When the next 
character is ready, the process 
must begin again. . . . Steve 



TTL Data Books 

Dear Steve, 

I am looking for a TTL 
(transistor-transistor logic) 
data book that has descrip- 
tions and pinouts for the ma- 
jority of the manufactured 
ICs (including the special and 
less frequently used ICs). 
Your suggestions are appre- 
ciated. 
Paul Russo 
Naples, FL 

Every manufacturer of in- 
tegrated circuits publishes a 
data book for its product 
line. One of the most readily 
available data books is pub- 
lished by National Semicon- 
ductor and is available at 
your local Radio Shack store 
or through Jameco Electron- 
ics, 1355 Shoreway Rd., Bel- 
mont, CA 94002, (415) 
592-8097. Price lists for 
various data books can also 
be obtained by writing direct- 
ly to the manufacturers. 
. . . Steve ■ 



In "Ask BYTE," Steve Gar- 
cia answers questions on 
any area of microcomput- 
ing. The most representative 
questions received each 
month will be answered 
and published. Do you have 
a nagging problem? Send 
your inquiry to: 

Ask BYTE 

c/o Steve Garcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury CT 06033 
If you are a subscriber to 
The Source, send your ques- 
tions by electronic mail or 
chat with Steve |TCE317) 
directly. Due to the high 
volume of inquiries, per- 
sonal replies cannot be 
given. Be sure to include 
"Ask BYTE" in the address. 



New, Unique Products 

Alternate Energy, Telescopes, 
Optics, Weather, Magnets, 
Microscopes & More! 

^>— - In One Giant FREE Catalog 









Biggest Catalog! 
Finest Quality! 

Since 1 941 , thousands of 
engineers, craftsmen & hobby- 
ists nationwide have been 
coming directly to the Edmund 
Scientific Catalog for quality 
products. . .fully guaranteed! 



FREE ! Simply fill in below, mail today, and your Edmund 
Scientific Catalog will be on its way to you. 

□ Send FREE Catalog 

Name 

Address 

City 



_State_ 



-Zip_ 



Edmund Scientific 

Dept. 8211 KH06 Edscorp Bldg. 
Barrington, N.J. 08007 

No. 3484 e 1982 Edmund Scientific Co. 



Some T.L.C. 




It may be the 
best reason to 
switch to Opus. 



We know how important 
personal service is. As 
well as attention to detail 

and guaranteed quality and performance. 

Plus 48-hour delivery turn-around. We're just 

the right size for you. Large 

enough to fill your every 

need: Small enough so 

you never get lost in the 

shuffle. So dial 

800/321-9330. 

Or write to Computer 

Resources, Inc., 4650 

West 160th Street, 

Cleveland, OH 44135. And 

begin to enjoy T.L.C. 





Quality Flexible Diskettes, Single-Disk Cartridges, 
Multi-Level Disk Packs, and Magnetic Tape. 



Circle 96 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 447 



Event Queue 



March 1982 



March 

Courses and Seminars from 
George Washington Universi- 
ty, Amsterdam, Netherlands; 
London, England; Long Is- 
land, NY; San Diego, CA; 
and Washington, DC. Among 
the courses and seminars to be 
presented are "Microcomput- 
ers in Control Systems," 
"Comparative Database Man- 
agement Systems," and 
"Structured Programming and 
Software Engineering." For 
further information, contact 
The Director, Continuing En- 
gineering Education, George 
Washington University, 
Washington, DC 20052, (800) 
424-9773; in Washington, DC, 
(202) 676-6106. 



March 

Courses in Structured Sys- 
tems, various sites throughout 
the U.S. Courses in "Struc- 
tured Systems Design" and 
"Structured Requirements 
Definition" are being offered 
by Ken Orr and Associates. 
For information on meeting 
times, places, and fees, con- 
tact Ken Orr and Associates 
Inc., 715 East 8th, Topeka, KS 
66607, (800) 255-2459; in Kan- 
sas (913) 233-2349. 



March-April 

Computer Network Design 
and Protocols, various sites 
throughout the U.S. Partici- 
pants in this workshop will 
learn to determine network- 
system requirements and to 
perform design trade-offs, im- 
plement network-communica- 
tion and control protocols, 
use packet- and message- 
switching techniques, evaluate 
network hardware and soft- 
ware components, interface 
local systems to networks, 
and design and build private 
networks. The course fee is 



$845. Contact Ruth Dordick, 
c/o Integrated Computer Sys- 
tems, 3304 Pico Blvd., POB 
5339, Santa Monica, CA 
90405, (800) 421-8166; in Cali- 
fornia, (800) 352-8251. 



March-April 

Fundamentals of Data Pro- 
cessing for Administrative As- 
sistants and Office Support 
Staff, various sites throughout 
the U.S. The American Man- 
agement Associations (AMA) 
has designed this three-day 
course for secretaries, assis- 
tants, supervisors, and other 
personnel desiring to learn the 
fundamentals of data process- 
ing and its use in offices. 
Computer hardware, soft- 
ware, programming lan- 
guages, and technology will 
all be covered. The team fee 
for AMA members is $470 per 
individual and $550 for non- 
members. Individual fees are 
$550 for AMA members and 
$630 for nonmembers. For a 
schedule of dates and loca- 
tions, contact the AMA, 135 
West 50th St., New York, NY 
10020, (212) 586-8100. To 
register by phone, call (212) 
246-0800. 



March-May 

Courses from Boeing Com- 
puter Services, various sites 
throughout the U.S. Boeing 
Computer Services is offering 
a wide variety of computer- 
related courses at its regional 
service centers. Course topics 
range from "Introduction to 
Data Processing" to "Struc- 
tured Program Development 
in FORTRAN." For a com- 
plete schedule of times, loca- 
tions, and fees, contact Boeing 
Computer Services Co., Edu- 
cation and Training Div., 
POB 24346, Seattle, WA 
98124, (206) 575-7700. 

March-May 

Seminars and Conferences 



from Datapro Research, vari- 
ous sites throughout the U.S. 
Among the topics to be pre- 
sented are "IBM's Systems 
Network Architecture," "Data 
Dictionary/Directory Sys- 
tems," and "Data Processing: 
Fundamental Concepts." En- 
rollment fees are $640 for 
Datapro subscribers and $690 
for nonsubscribers. For a 
complete catalog with descrip- 
tions, dates, and locations, 
contact Datapro Research 
Corp., 1805 Underwood 
Blvd., Delran, NJ 08075, (800) 
257-9406; in New Jersey, (609) 
764-0100. 



March-June 

Datamation Institute Semi- 
nars on Information Manage- 
ment, various sites through- 
out the U.S. Databases and 
communications, systems per- 
formance, data-processing 
management, word process- 
ing, office automation, com- 
puter graphics, and topics of 
general interest are among the 
areas to be covered by these 
two-day seminars. Fees range 
from $495 to $595. For sched- 
ules of times and places, con- 
tact Karen Smolens, c/o the 
Center for Management Re- 
search, Datamation Institute 
Seminar Coordination Office, 
850 Boylston St., Chestnut 
Hill, MA 02167, (617) 
738-5020. 



March-]une 

National Computer Graphics 
Association Seminar, various 
sites throughout the U.S. The 
National Computer Graphics 
Association's (NCGA) 
Winter/Spring 1982 Seminar 
program covers such topics as 
"Computer Graphics: Tech- 
nology and Applications," 
"Successful Business Graph- 
ics," and "Applications of 
Computer Graphics to Trans- 
portation Problems." Seminar 
fees are $395 for association 



members and $425 for non- 
members. For complete de- 
tails, contact Eloise Wenker, 
NCGA Seminar, 2033 M St. 
NW, #300, Washington, DC 
20036, (202) 466-4102. 



March-June 

Intensive Two-day Seminars 
for Professional Develop- 
ment, various sites through- 
out New England. Among the 
seminars to be offered by 
Worcester Polytechnic In- 
stitute are "Fundamentals of 
Data Processing," "Distri- 
buted Systems: The Architec- 
ture and Utilization of this 
Revolutionary Technology," 
and "Microprocessors: Hard- 
ware, Software, and Applica- 
tions." Registration fees range 
from $445 for a two-day pro- 
gram to $990 for a 7-day exe- 
cutive institute. For complete 
details, contact Ms. Ginny 
Bazarian, Office of Continu- 
ing Education, Worcester 
Polytechnic Institute, Wor- 
cester, MA 01609, (617) 
793-5517. 



March-June 

One- and Two-day Profes- 
sional Development Seminars, 

various sites in the greater 
Boston area. Among the 
courses being offered by 
Boston University are "Busi- 
ness Writing for Results," "Im- 
proving Customer Service," 
and "Assertive Management." 
Registration fees range from 
$295 for a one-day program to 
$445 for a two-day program. 
These seminars can be con- 
ducted within your company. 
For details, contact Ms. Joan 
Merrick, Center for Manage- 
ment Research, 850 Boylston 
St., Chestnut Hill, MA 02167, 
(617) 738-5020. For informa- 
tion on the in-company semi- 
nars, contact Ms. Elaine Dee 
at the same address. 



448 March 1982 © BYTE Publicaeions Inc 



March-June 

Courses and Seminars from 
Sira Institute, various sites 
throughout England. Sira In- 
stitute is sponsoring seminars 
on a wide variety of subjects 
ranging from microprocessor 
familiarization to design and 
development of microproces- 
sor-based equipment. For de- 
tails, contact Conferences & 
Courses Unit, Sira Institute 
Ltd., South Hill, Chislehurst, 
Kent BR7 5EH, England. 



March-July 

Technical Classes from Zilog, 

Campbell, CA. Zilog is offer- 
ing a series of one- to five-day 
technical classes at its Cali- 
fornia-based training facility. 
Topics range from "Micropro- 
cessors: A General Introduc- 
tion" to "Zeus/System 8000 
User." Contact Zilog, Train- 
ing Dept., 1315 Dell Ave., 
Campbell, CA 95008, (408) 
446-4666. 



March 9-11 

The 1982 International Zurich 
Seminar on Digital Communi- 
cations, Zurich, Switzerland. 
The theme of this seminar is 
'Man-Machine Interaction." 
Its aim is to present recent ad- 
vances in theory and applica- 
tion of digital-communication 
systems. Services, facilities, 
ergonomics, and their impact 
on peripheral equipment, sys- 
tems architecture and design, 
as well as I/O (input/output) 
concepts and principles will be 
covered. For details, contact 
Secretariat '82 IZS, Ms. M. 
Frey, EAE, Siemens-Albis 
AG, POB CH-8047, Zurich, 
Switzerland. 



March 9-11 

Understanding and Using 
Computer Graphics, Dallas 
Hilton Inn, Dallas, TX. This 
seminar is designed for those 
needing information about in- 
teractive computer graphics, 
including hardware, software, 
and applications. Headed by 



Carl Machover, the seminar 
provides a comprehensive 
overview of the state of the art 
in graphics systems. For de- 
tails, contact Bob Sanzo, c/o 
Frost & Sullivan Inc., 106 Ful- 
ton St., New York, NY 10038, 
(212) 233-1080. 



March 9-12 

Digital Image Processing and 
Analysis, San Diego, CA. In- 
tegrated Computer Systems' 
course in digital-image pro- 
cessing is designed for engi- 
neers, scientists, technical 
managers, and other profes- 
sionals responsible for the 
specification, design, imple- 
mentation, or application of 
digital-image processing sys- 
tems. Among the topics to be 
covered are image acquisition, 
image-processing software 
and database structures, inter- 
active two- and three-dimen- 
sional image processing and 
display, and real-time arrays. 
Some of the applications ex- 
amples to be presented are 
quality assurance and robot 
vision. The course fee is $795; 
on-site courses can be ar- 
ranged. Contact Ruth Dor- 
dick, c/o Integrated Com- 
puter Systems, 3304 Pico 
Blvd., POB 5339, Santa 
Monica, CA 90405, (800) 
421-8166; in California, (800) 
352-8251. 



March 9-12 

VIO-Voice Input/Output for 
Computers, Los Angeles, CA. 
This four-day course is de- 
signed for product develop- 
ment and design engineers, 
systems analysts, program- 
mers, and technical managers 
involved in the planning, de- 
sign, and implementation of 
voice input/output systems. 
The topics to be covered in- 
clude voice-processing algo- 
rithms and software, evaluat- 
ing VIO hardware compo- 
nents and systems, utilizing 
speech-synthesis techniques, 
and designing voice-recogni- 
tion techniques. Participants 



will have the opportunity to 
work with devices that permit 
online generation of comput- 
er-voice output, data entry by 
means of voice input, and 
voice input for system con- 
trol. The course fee is $795; 
on-site courses can be ar- 
ranged. For information, con- 
tact Ruth Dordick, c/o Inte- 
grated Computer Systems, 
3304 Pico Blvd., POB 5339, 
Santa Monica, CA 90405, 
(800) 421-8166; in California 
(800) 352-8251. 



March 10-12 

Cincinnati Business Show, 

Cincinnati Convention Cen- 
ter, Cincinnati, OH. The Cin- 
cinnati Business show features 
the latest in business techno- 
logy, office systems, and 
products. Seminars will also 
be presented. For information, 
contact Ray G. Nemo, 5679 
Creek Rd., Cincinnati, OH 
45242, (513) 531-5959. 



March 12-13 

The Fifth Annual Computers 
in Education Conference, Se- 
attle Pacific University, Seat- 
tle, WA. Sponsored by Seattle 
Pacific University and the Na- 
tional Council for Computers 
in Education, this conference 
features concurrent talks, 
workshops, and discussions. 
Special emphasis will be 
placed on curricular uses of 
microcomputers in kindergar- 
ten through 12th grade. Con- 
tact Tony Jongejan, Everett 
High School, Everett, WA 
98201. 

March 12-14 

FantasyLair '82, Ponca City, 
OK. The Northern Oklahoma 
Dungeoneers will be sponsor- 
ing tournaments and games in 
role-playing, war simulation, 
and many other card and 
board games. Admission is 
$10 per day. Contact Shelby 
Cooper, c/o Northern 
Oklahoma Dungeoneers, 
POB 241, Ponca City, OK 
74602, (405) 762-6077. 



March 15-17 

Microprocessor Background 
for Management Personnel, 

Albuquerque, NM. This 
course is sponsored by the 
Electrical and Computer Engi- 
neering Department of the 
University of New Mexico. 
The course fee is $375. For de- 
tails, contact Dr. Martin Brad- 
shaw, Engineering Continuing 
Education, University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 
87131, (505) 277-4354. 

March 15-19 

Short Course from UCLA, 

Boelter Hall, University of 
California-Los Angeles 
(UCLA), Los Angeles, CA. 
"Mechanical Reliability, De- 
sign by Reliability, Prob- 
abilistic Design — The Stress/ 
Strength Interference Ap- 
proach to Reliability Predic- 
tion" is a short course being 
presented by UCLA. The 
course fee is $795, which in- 
cludes comprehensive course 
notes. For details, contact Dr. 
Dimitri Kececioglu, Aero- 
space and Mechanical Engi- 
neering Dept., University of 
Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, 
(602) 626-2495 or (602) 
626-3901. In California, call 
Robert Rector at UCLA, (213) 
825-1295 or (213) 825-3334. 

March 16-18 

Software /expo -West, 
Anaheim Convention Center, 
Anaheim, CA. This confer- 
ence and show is devoted to 
packaged software. Exhibitors 
will display a wide range of 
software products. For addi- 
tional information, contact 
Software/expo-West, Suite 
400, 222 West Adams St., 
Chicago, IL 60606, (312) 
263-3131. 

March 16-19 

Digital Filters and Spectral 

Analysis, Boston, MA. Inte- 
grated Computer Systems 
(ICS) is presenting this four- 
day course for project and de- 
sign engineers, programmers, 
and technical managers re- 
sponsible for implementing 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 449 



Circle 240 on inquiry card. 



PRINTERS 

C. ITOH MODEL 8510 




PRINT FEATURES 

Characters: 8 sizes, 5 different al- 
phabets, upper/lower case descen- 
ders. 

Print Mode: 9xN, exceptional qual- 
ity combined with proportional 
spacing. 

Graphics: 144x144 dots/in. and block 
graphics. 

Print Head: 9 pins, heavy duty 
designed with air-cooled fans. 
Number of Columns: 136 max. 
Print Speed: 100 CPS. 
Print Direction: Bidirectional logic 
seeking. 

Throughput: From 44 to 52 in./min. 
Line Spacing: Variable to 1/144 in. 
Print Width: 8 in. max. 
Form: Folded/Sheet. 
Form Feed: Tractor and friction, 
bidirectional. 
Width: 4.5 in. to 10 in. 
Number of Copies: Original plus 3. 

PRICE 

Parallel Interface $550.00 

RS232-C Interface 650.00 

Apple II Interface 632.00 

EPSON 

MX-80 $449.00 

MX-80F/T 550.00 

MX-100 750.00 

INTERFACE 

Available for 8510/Epson with Apple/ 
Atari/I BM/Osborne/PET/TRS-80. 



SOFTWARE 
MICROPRO 

CP/M Version List Price Our Price 

WordStar $495.00 $297.00 

MailMerge 150.00 90.00 

SpellStar 250.00 150.00 

DataStar 360.00 210.00 

SuperSort I 250.00 150.00 

SuperSort II 200.00 120.00 

WordMaster 150.00 90.00 

CalcStar 295.00 177.00 

Apple Version List Price Our Price 



WordStar 
MailMerge 
SpellStar 
DataStar 
SuperSort I 



$375.00 $225.00 

125.00 75.00 

200.00 120.00 

295.00 177.00 

200.00 120.00 



SYSTEM PLUS 

Accounting Plus — CP/M Version. 
Apple Accounting Plus. 



MDT 

MICRO DATA TEK 

A Division of Electronique California. Inc. 

2630 California Street 

Mountain View, CA 94040 

(415) 941-7914 

TWX 910-373-8500 "INTERAX PTVY" 



APPLE™ 
EXPANSION BOARDS 

PROMETHEUS 

• MEM-1: Memory expansion mod- 
ule with quality 16K RAM. Fully 
buffered. Compatible with Micro- 
soft Softcard'" CP/M"" and all 
Apple software. 

List Price Our Price 
$169.00 $110.00 

• VERSAcard": Serial/Parallel In- 
terfaces, Quartz Clock/Calendar; 

BSR Control. 

List Price Our Price 
$249.00 $199.00 

ANTEX DATA SYS 

• ADS PRT-1: Parallel interface 
card allows you to interface your 
Apple computer to any printer 
that has Centronics compatible 
interface. 

List Price Our Price 
$120.00 $60.00 

ADVANCE LOGIC SYS 

• SMARTERM'": 80 column card. 
Expand your Apple to a full 80 col- 
umns with the software com- 
mands. 

Automatic 80 to 40 and 40 to 80 
column switching. 
Fully compatible with Apple, Pas- 
cal and CP/M software. 
Lowest power consumption of all 
presently available 80 column 
cards on the market. 
9 extra characters included that 
are not provided on the Apple 
keyboard: Back Slash, Underline, 
Accent, Left/Right Brace, Logical 
OR, Tide, Delete, Bracket, Carrot. 





List Price 


Our Price 




$360.00 


$288.00 


Z-CARD: 


Z-80 CPU 


with CP/M 


software. 








List Price 


Our Price 




$269.00 


$220.00 



VIDEX 

• Videoterm: 80 column display 
board. Expand your Apple to a full 
80 columns with the software 
commands. 

List Price Our Price 
$345.00 $270.00 

• Soft Video Switch. 

List Price Our Price 
$35.00 $30.00 

ORANGE MICRO 

• Grappler List Price Our Price 

$165.00 $140.00 

PLOTTERS 

HOUSTON INSTRUMENT 
HIPLOT™ 

List Price Our Price 

DMP-3 $1085.00 $ 922.00 

DMP-4 1385.00 1177.00 

DMP-5 1485.00 1262.00 

DMP-7 1965.00 1687.00 

DMP-6 1685.00 1432.00 

DMP-8 2185.00 1857.00 

PEN EXCHANGE KIT 

DMP-442 6 PEN $356.00 

DMP-593 8 PEN 456.00 

Phone orders accepted. 

Payment: 

□ Check enclosed □ Visa 

□ Master Charge n C.O.D. 

California residents, please add 6% sales tax 
All unit prices are f.o.b. Mountain View. 
California. 



Event Queue 



advanced digital signal-pro- 
cessing systems and for others 
who must understand them 
and their potential. Funda- 
mentals of digital signal pro- 
cessing, fast Fourier trans- 
form (FFT) algorithms, and 
special- and general-purpose 
LSI/VLSI (large-scale and 
very large-scale integration) 
devices are among the topics 
to be addressed. The course 
fee is $795; on-site courses 
can be arranged. Contact 
Ruth Dordick, c/o ICS, 3304 
Pico Blvd., POB 5339, Santa 
Monica, CA 90405, (800) 
421-8166; in California, (800) 
352-8251. 

March 17 

Evaluating Decision Support 
Software: A Managerial 
Perspective, Suffolk Universi- 
ty School of Management, 
Boston, MA. This conference 
is sponsored by the local 
chapters of six management 
and computer associations. It 
will examine the managerial 
issues involved in choosing 
decision-support software. 
The focus will be on end-user 
characterization, problem 
diagnosis, needs assessment, 
and the implications of the 
evaluation and selection pro- 
cess. Industry experts will 
speak. Contact DSS Confer- 
ence, 215 First St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142, (617) 
547-5061. 

March 19 

The Eleventh Annual Interna- 
tional Computer Programs 
Awards Ceremony and Exe- 
cutives' Conference, Savoy 
Hotel, London, England. The 
annual International Com- 
puter Programs (ICP) awards 
ceremony honors super soft- 
ware salespeople, advertising 
agencies, public relations 
firms, and achievements in the 
industry. The executive con- 
ference is one and a half days 
of discussion of the major 
issues and concerns of the in- 
dustry. The fee for the execu- 
tive conference is $250. For in- 
formation, contact Carol 



Stumpf, c/o ICP, 9000 Key- 
stone Crossing, POB 40946, 
Indianapolis, IN 46240, (800) 
428-6179; in Indiana, (317) 
844-7461. In England, contact 
International Computer Pro- 
grams Inc., 2 Deanery St., 
Park Lane, London WIY 5LH, 
England, Tel: 01 499 6621. 

March 19-21 

The Seventh West Coast 
Computer Faire, Civic 
Auditorium and Brooks Hall, 
San Francisco, CA. Atten- 
dance this year is expected to 
reach 35,000. More than 300 
exhibitors and a wide assort- 
ment of seminars make this 
one of this largest annual 
computer shows. For more in- 
formation, contact The Com- 
puter Faire, 333 Swett Rd., 
Woodside, CA 94062, (415) 
851-7075. 

March 22-23 

Oasis Level Two Training 
Seminars, Phase One Sys- 
tems, Oakland, CA. Using a 
step-by-step approach to de- 
veloping applications soft- 
ware with the multiuser Oasis 
operating system, this seminar 
begins with program design 
and proceeds to a careful 
study of the Oasis system. 
Topics to be covered are the 
Oasis BASIC interpreter and 
compiler, program segments, 
file structures and I/O (in- 
put/output), matrices and 
matrix I/O, multiline branch- 
ing structures, and subroutine 
and error handling. 

The registration fee for this 
three-day session is $350. 
Some background in BASIC 
programming is recom- 
mended. Contact Phase One 
Systems, Suite 830, 7700 
Edgewater Dr., Oakland, CA 
94621, (415) 562-8085. 

March 22-25 

Interface '82 Conference and 
Expo, Dallas Convention 
Center, Dallas, TX. Cospon- 
sored by McGraw-Hill's Busi- 
ness Week and Data Com- 
munications magazines, Inter- 



450 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



face '82 is aimed at users of 
data-communication equip- 
ment, distributed-data pro- 
cessing, and various net- 
works. For details, contact 
The Interface Group, 160 
Speen St., POB 927, Fram- 
ingham, MA 01701, (800) 
225-4620; in Massachusetts, 
(617) 879-4502. 

March 22-26 

Computers/Graphics in the 
Building Process, Washing- 
ton, DC. This international 
conference is sponsored by the 
Advisory Board on the Built 
Environment (ABBE) of the 
National Academy of Sciences 
and by the World Computer 
Graphics Association 
(WCGA). The conference fea- 
tures tutorials, technical paper 
sessions, and exhibits that 
reflect the state of the art of 
computers and computer- 
graphics technology in the 
building industry. Sessions on 
case studies, current achieve- 
ments, and research and de- 
velopment of computer hard- 
ware, software, and database 
programs will be presented. 
Conference topics include 
computer aids to manage- 
ment, computer technology, 
and computer-aided analysis 
in design development and 
construction documents. For 
further details, contact the 
WCGA, Suite 250, 2033 M St. 
NW, Washington, DC 20036, 
(202) 775-9556. 

March 22-26 

Tutorial Week East '82, Or- 
lando Marriott Inn, Orlando, 
FL. Tutorial Week East is 
sponsored by the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics En- 
gineers (IEEE) and will consist 
of 15 tutorials arranged in 
three tracks: VLSI (very large- 
scale integration) micropro- 
cessor interfacing techniques 
and graphics; aspects of soft- 
ware design, analysis, and 
techniques; and data com- 
munications, computer net- 
working, and databases. Fees 
are $90 per tutorial, $400 all 



week, for IEEE members, and 
$110 per tutorial, $500 all 
week, for nonmembers. For 
information, contact Tutorial 
Week East '82, POB 639, 
Silver Spring, MD 20901, 
(301) 589-3386. 

March 23-25 

Southcon '82, Sheraton Twin 
Towers Hotel, Orlando Hyatt 
Hotel, and Holiday Inn Inter- 
national Drive, Orlando, FL. 
Among the topics to be pre- 
sented at Southcon '82 will be 
artificial intelligence and 
robotics, office automation, 
computers and microproces- 
sors, and software. For com- 
plete details, contact Robert 
Myers, c/o Electronic Con- 
ventions Inc., Suite 410, 999 
North Sepulveda Blvd., El 
Segundo, CA 90245, (213) 
772-2965. 

March 26-28 

The 1982 Computer Showcase 
Expo, Atlanta, GA. The 
Computer Showcase is de- 
signed for small-business 
owners, independent profes- 
sionals, and corporate 
managers. Admission is $7.50. 
For further details, contact 
The Interface Group, 160 
Speen St., POB 927, Framing- 
ham, MA 01701, (800) 
225-4620; in Massachusetts, 
(617) 879-4502. 

March 27-28 

Amateur Radio and Com- 
puter Hobbyists (ARCH) 
Convention, Chase Park- 
Plaza Hotel, St. Louis, MO. 
This convention features ex- 
hibitions, workshops, forums, 
and a flea market. For details, 
contact Gateway Amateur 
Radio Association, POB 8432, 
St. Louis, MO 63132, (314) 
361-4965. 

March 29-30 

Information Utilities '82, Rye 
Town Hilton Hotel and Con- 
ference Center, Rye, NY. The 
Information Utilities confer- 
ence will focus on videotex, 
transactional services, elec- 



tronic publishing, online data- 
base services, cable advertis- 
ing, and regulations concern- 
ing copyright, censorship, and 
communications. More than 
60 speakers are scheduled. For 
details, contact Online Inc., 
11 Tannery Ln., Weston, CT 
06883, (203) 227-8466. 

March 29-April 1 

INFOCOM '82, Las Vegas, 
NV. INFOCOM '82 is spon- 
sored by the Institute of Elec- 
trical and Electronics Engi- 
neers (IEEE) Computer and 
Communications Societies. 
The conference theme is "Data 
Processing — Data Communi- 
cations: The Illusory Boun- 
dary." Focusing on the con- 
vergence of computer and 
communication technology, 
this conference will attempt to 
bridge the boundary between 
the two disciplines. Discus- 
sions on programming-lan- 
guage and operating system 



design, performance evalua- 
tion and analysis of computer- 
communication networks and 
protocols, standards, and the 
design of distributed comput- 
ing and database management 
systems will be held. Exhibits 
and tutorials are planned. 
Write to INFOCOM '82, POB 
639, Silver Spring, MD 20901, 
(301) 589-3386. 

March 30-April 2 

Digital Image Processing and 
Analysis, Washington, DC. 
For details, see March 9-12. 



April 1982 



April 

Courses from George Wash- 
ington University, Hampton, 
VA; Salem, NH; Washington, 
DC; London, England; and 
Berlin, West Germany. 



In Less Than 3 Minutes 

Your IBM Model 50, 60, or 75 

Electronic Typewriter 

can be an RS232C PRINTER or TERMINAL 




CALIFORNIA MICRO COMPUTER Models 5060 and 
5061 can be installed easily and require NO modifications 
to the typewriter. 

For additional information contact: 

CALIFORNIA MICRO COMPUTER 
9323 Warbler Ave., Fountain Valley, CA. 
92708 (714)968-0890 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 451 



Event Queue 



Among the courses scheduled 
are "Voice Input/Output," 
"Microwave Systems Plan- 
ning," "Writing Professional 
and Technical Communica- 
tions," and "Computer 
Graphics Systems: Design and 
Applications." For further in- 
formation, contact Continu- 
ing Engineering Education, 
School of Engineering and 
Applied Science, George 
Washington University, 
Washington, DC 20052, (800) 
424-9773; in the District of 
Columbia, (202) 676-6106. 

April 

Courses in Structured Sys- 
tems, various sites throughout 
the U.S. "Structured Systems 
Design," "Structured Require- 
ments Definition," and 
"Management Overview of 
Data Structured Systems 
Development" are being of- 
fered by Ken Orr and Asso- 
ciates. For information on 
meeting times, places, and 
fees, contact Ken Orr and As- 
sociates Inc., 715 East 8th, 
Topeka, KS 66607, (800) 
255-2459; in Kansas, (913) 
233-2349. 

April 

Knowledge Engineering in the 

1980s, Boston, MA. Expert 
Systems are computer pro- 
grams that reason in tasks that 
require considerable human 
expertise, such as locating 
computer malfunctions, mon- 
itoring intensive-care patients, 
analyzing noisy signal data, 
and diagnosing medical prob- 
lems. This one-day executive 
briefing provides an introduc- 
tion to the potential benefits 
and costs of Expert Systems. 
For further information, con- 
tact Dina Barr, c/o Teknowl- 
edge, 151 University Ave., 
Palo Alto, CA 94301, (415) 
326-6827. 

April 1-2 

The Eleventh Annual Interna- 
tional Computer Programs 
Awards Ceremony and Exe- 
cutive Conference, Marriott 



Mountain Shadows Resort, 
Scottsdale, AZ. The annual 
awards ceremony honors 
super software salespeople, 
advertising agencies, public 
relations firms, and micro- 
computer software achieve- 
ments. The executive confer- 
ence discusses the main issues 
and concerns of the industry, 
such as productivity through 
proper use of people and 
machines, new software- 
piracy solutions, and how to 
get the most out of advertising 
dollars. The fee for the execu- 
tive conference is $250. For 
detailed information, contact 
Carol Stumpf, c/o ICP, 9000 
Keystone Crossing, POB 
40946, Indianapolis, IN 
46240, (800) 428-6179; in In- 
diana, (317) 844-7461. 



April 2-3 

Educational Computing — 
The Future Is Now, An- 
chorage, AK. The Educational 
Computing Conference is 
sponsored by the Alaska As- 
sociation for Computers in 
Education. Invited speakers, 
exhibits, and demonstrations 
of microcomputer products 
for educational purposes will 
be featured. Admission to the 
exhibition area is free of 
charge. For further details, 
contact Pat Stowers, '82 Edu- 
cational Computing, Drawer 
129, Healy, AK 99743, (907) 
683-2278. 



April 2-4 

The Second Annual Eighty/ 
Apple Computer Show, New 
York Statler Hotel, New 
York, NY. The Eighty /Apple 
Computer Show features 
products and services for 
TRS-80 and Apple computer 
systems. More than 100 ex- 
hibitors of hardware, soft- 
ware, books, magazines, sup- 
plies, services, and accessories 
will attend. For more informa- 
tion, contact Kengore Corp., 
3001 Rte. 27, Franklin Park, 
NJ 08823, (201) 297-2526. 



April 4-7 

The Seventh Annual Deltak 
International Training Con- 
ference, Access 82, Hyatt 
Regency, Chicago, IL. More 
than 1000 training and elec- 
tronic data-processing profes- 
sionals are expected to attend 
35 workshop sessions. Former 
president Gerald R. Ford will 
deliver the keynote address. 
The registration fee is $525. 
Information is available from 
Gail Bohan, c/o Deltak Inc., 
1220 Kensington Rd., Oak 
Brook, IL 60521, (312) 
920-0700. 

April 5-7 

The Third Annual Office 

Automation Conference, 

George R. Moscone Conven- 
tion Center, San Francisco, 
CA. This conference is spon- 
sored by AFIPS (American 
Federation of Information 
Processing Societies). Exhibits 
and workshops will be fea- 
tured. For details, contact 
Betty Lou Cooke, c/o AFIPS, 
1815 North Lynn St., Arling- 
ton, VA 22209, (703) 
558-3612. 



April 6-8 

The Sixth Annual Computer- 
ized Office Management Ex- 
po-Midwest '82, O'Hare Expo 
Center, Chicago, IL. This con- 
ference and exhibition features 
business-oriented equipment 
for word and data processing, 
information management, 
record storage and retrieval, 
and micrographics. A three- 
day high-technology sym- 
posium, "Business Automa- 
tion and Communications" 
will highlight Midwest '82. For 
details, contact Cahners Ex- 
position Group, 222 West 
Adams St., Chicago, IL 
60606, (312) 263-4866. 



April 13-16 

Digital Image Processing and 
Analysis, Boston, MA. For 
details, see March 9-12. 



April 14-18 

Electronic Home Entertain- 
ment Show, Arlington Park 
Race Track Exposition Hall, 
Arlington Heights, IL. This 
show will feature audio and 
video equipment, video 
games, home computers, and 
citizen-band radio systems. It 
will run concurrently with the 
Fourth Annual Energy & 
Home Improvement Faire. 
Contact Expo Management 
Inc., Suite S2-132 Arcade, 
The Apparel Center, Chicago, 
IL 60654, (312) 329-1191. 

April 15-17 

The 1982 Computer Showcase 
Expo, St. Louis, MO. For de- 
tails, see March 26-28. 

April 15-18 

The Second Southwest Com- 
puter Show and Office Equip- 
ment Exposition, Market Hall, 
Dallas Market Center, Dallas, 
TX. This features mini- and 
microcomputers for business, 
education, government, in- 
dustry, home, and personal 
use. Data- and word-process- 
ing equipment, office ma- 
chines, computer peripherals, 
and office supplies will be dis- 
played. General admission is 
$5. Contact National Com- 
puter Shows, 824 Boylston 
St., Chestnut Hill, MA 02167, 
(617) 739-2000. 

April 16-17 

The Twelfth Annual Virginia 
Computer Users Conference, 

Marriott Hotel, Blacksburg, 
VA. This conference is spon- 
sored in cooperation with the 
ACM (Asssociation for Com- 
puting Machinery). Topics of 
interest are artificial intelli- 
gence, office automation, and 
database management. Con- 
tact Deidre Maskaleris or 
Wesley Braudaway, 562 Mc- 
Bryde Hall, Virginia Polytech- 
nic Institute & State Universi- 
ty, Blacksburg, VA 24061, 
(703) 961-6931. 

April 19-21 

Open Systems Interconnec- 



452 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



tion with X.25 and Other Re- 
lated Protocols, Denver Mar- 
riott Hotel-City Center, 
Denver, CO. Sponsored by 
DataCommunications , a 
McGraw-Hill publication, this 
seminar will present a thor- 
ough treatment of the basic 
OSI (Ohio Scientific) Refer- 
ence Model, describing the 
seven-layer structure, service 
definitions, and emerging pro- 
tocols. Detailed presentations 
of the X.25 packet protocol 
will be included. The seminar 
fee is $690. For further details, 
contact the McGraw-Hill 
Conference & Exposition Cen- 
ter, Rm. 3677, 1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 
10020, (212) 997-4930. 

April 20-22 

D-COM, Hynes Auditorium, 
Boston, MA. D-COM will 
bring DEC (Digital Equipment 



Corporation) vendors to- 
gether with DEC users. For in- 
formation, contact Ron 
Davies, D-COM Inc., 7312 
Burdette Court, Bethesda, 
MD 20817, (301) 469-7650. 



April 20-23 

VIO— Voice Input/Output 
for Computers, Boston, MA. 
For details, see March 9-12. 



April 21-28 

Hanover Fair '82, Hanover, 
West Germany. The annual 
Hanover Fair is one of the 
world's largest industrial and 
trade exhibitions. More than 
330 American firms are ex- 
pected to exhibit products, 
services, and technology at 
the Fair. Contact M.A. Delia, 
Hanover Fairs Information 
Center, POB 338, White- 
house, NJ 08888, (800) 



526-5978; in New Jersey, (201) 
534-9044. 

April 22 

California Computer Show, 

Hyatt Hotel, Palo Alto, CA. 
This show is for OEMs (ori- 
ginal equipment manufactur- 
ers), knowledgeable users, dis- 
tributors, and dealers. More 
than 60 computer manufac- 
turers will be exhibiting main- 
frames, mini- and microcom- 
puters, and peripherals. Con- 
tact Carol Reimer, c/o Norm 
De Nardi Enterprises, 289 
South San Antonio Rd. #204, 
Los Altos, CA 94022, (415) 
941-8440. 

April 22-25 

New York Computer Show 
and Office Equipment Exposi- 
tion, Nassau Coliseum, 
Uniondale, NY. For details, 
see April 15-18. 



April 23-25 

The 1982 Computer Showcase 
Expo, Miami, FL. For details, 
see March 26-28. 

April 24 

Computer Swap America, 

Santa Clara County Fair 
Grounds, San Jose, CA. This 
high-technology flea market 
features everything from 
home satellite-receiving sta- 
tions to floppy disks. Admis- 
sion is $3. Contact Computer 
Swap America, POB 52, Palo 
Alto, CA 94302, (415) 
494-6862. 

April 27-28 

The Eighth Annual National 
Computer Security and Pri- 
vacy Symposium: Top Secret 

'82, Washington, DC. Spon- 
sored by Honeywell, approxi- 
mately 22 national authorities 
on computer security and 



APPLE ^ S-100 

PRINTERS — IN STOCK 

/IX-80 S 470.00 MX-80FT S 590.00 

/IX-100 750.00 NEC8023A 595.00 



DISK DRIVES — 5 1 /4" 

Add on for Apple 

Apple Disk w/controller 

MPI-B51— Sgl/Dbl 

Tandom — Sgl/Dbl 

SA400-Sgl/Dbl 

DISK DRIVES — 8" 

Shugart801R— Sgl/Dbl 

QumeDT-8 — Dbl/Dbl 

DISK PACKAGES 

2-80lRCabinetPowerSupply 

2-DT-8 Cabinet PowerSupply 

CabinetPowerSupply 

All Assembled and Tested 



910Televideo 
950Televideo 



TERMINALS 

,S 599.00 920Televideo . . 
919.00 AddsViewpoint 



.$ 370.00 

485.00 

. 250.00 

. 230.00 

250.00 



,$ 390.00 
. 500.00 



.$1100.00 
. 1300.00 
. 300.00 



.$ 740.00 
599.00 



SINGLE CABINETS 

PwrSply8" S 200.00 PwrSplySW S 90.00 

OT SYSTEMS + 8" FLOPPIES 

SYS + SS(6) $3415 SYS + DS(6) S4270 

OT MINI-SYSTEMS — 5W FLOPPIES 

SYS + SS(6) $2745 SYS + DS(6) $3045 

We carry much, much more, call 



Computer 
Components 
Unlimited 



ORDER DESK CALL 
(213)644-3311 

Send Mall Order— VISA/ MC, 
Check, wire Transfer 



P.O. Box 1936 / Hawthorne, CA 90250 



BITE 

Back Issues For Sale 

The following issues are available: 



$2.00 ea. 


$2.75 ea. 


$2.75 ea. 


$3.25 ea. 


July 76 


May 78 


Oct. 79 


Feb. 81 


Apr. 77 


June 78 


$3.25 ea. 


Mar. 81 


May 77 


July 78 


Nov. 79 


Apr. 81 


June 77 


Aug. 78 


Dec. 79 


May 81 


July 77 


Sept. 78 


Jan. 80 


July 81 


Aug. 77 


Oct. 78 


Mar. 80 


Aug. 81 


$2.75 ea. 


Dec. 78 


Apr. 80 


Oct. 81 


Sept. 77 


Jan. 79 


May 80 


Nov. 81 


Nov. 77 


May 79 


June 80 


Dec. 81 


Dec. 77 


June 79 


July 80 




Feb. 78 


July 79 


Aug. 80 




Mar. 78 


Aug. 79 


Oct. 80 




Apr. 78 


Sept. 79 


Dec. 80 





The above prices include postage in the US. Please add $.50 
per copy for Canada and Mexico; and $2.00 per copy to 
foreign countries (surface delivery). 

Send requests with payment to: 

BYTE Magazine 

70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458 
Attn: Back Issues 

* Payments from foreign countries must be made in US funds payable at a US bank. 
* Please allow 4 weeks for domestic delivery and 8 weeks for foreign delivery. 



Circle 443 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 453 



Event Queue 



privacy will speak on a varie- 
ty of topics. Training work- 
shops in security planning and 
risk analysis, disaster recovery 
and contingency planning, 
and computer fraud investiga- 
tion will be held. The fee for 
the symposium is $525; dis- 
counts on multiple registra- 
tions are available. Contact 
the Security Symposium 
Registrar, Honeywell Inc., 
M/S T-99-4, POB 6000, 
Phoenix, AZ 85005; or call 
Jerome Lobel, (602) 249-5370. 



May 1982 



May-June 

Sensors & Systems '82, vari- 
ous sites throughout the cen- 
tral and western regions of the 
U.S. This series of three-day 
conferences will cover all 
aspects of sensor technology 
from temperature sensors 
through to displacement, 
velocity, acceleration, 
magnetic field, and moisture. 
Other topics to be covered in- 
clude signal conditioning, 
digital interfaces, and system 
interfaces. Contact Network 
Exhibitions, 785 Harriet Ave., 
Campbell, CA 95008, (408) 
370-1661. 

May 6-9 

The Southern California 
Computer Show & Office 
Equipment Exposition, Los 

Angeles Convention Center, 
Los Angeles, CA. This show 
features mini- and microcom- 
puters for business, education, 
government, industry, home, 
and personal use. Word- and 
data-processing equipment, 
office machines, and com- 
puter peripherals will be 
displayed. Admission is $5. 
For details, contact National 
Computer Shows, 824 
Boylston St., Chestnut Hill, 
MA 02167, (617) 739-2000. 

May 7-9 

The 1982 Computer Showcase 
Expo, Anaheim, CA. For de- 
tails, see March 26-28. 



May 10-12 

Dexpo 82, Marriott Hotel, 
Atlanta, GA. This exposition 
features DEC- (Digital Equip- 
ment Corporation) compati- 
ble hardware, software, and 
services. Contact Expoconsul 
International Inc., 19 Yeger 
Rd., Cranbury, NJ 08512, 
(609) 799-1661. 

May 10-14 

The Twentieth Annual Con- 
vention of the Association for 
Educational Data Systems 
(AEDS), Sheraton Twin 
Towers, Orlando, FL. This 
convention includes presenta- 
tions on the state of the art in 
educational computing. Ad- 
ministrative and instructional 
computing applications will 
presented, and new ways of 
improving educational pro- 
cesses will be explored. Con- 
tact Shirley Easterwood, c/o 
AEDS, 1201 Sixteenth St. 
NW, Washington, DC 20036. 

May 14-15 

The Second Annual Southern 
California Computers-in-Edu- 
cation Conference, University 
High Scool, Irvine, CA. This 
conference covers the applica- 
tion of computers in educa- 
tion from kindergarten 
through two-year college. All 
areas of curriculum will be 
touched upon, including read- 
ing, mathematics, science, 
language, and special educa- 
tion. Hands-on workshops 
and field trips are planned. 
Contact Craig Walker, Ar- 
rowview Intermediate School, 
2299 North G St., San Bernar- 
dino, CA 92405, (714) 
886-9118. 



May 14-16 

Applefest/Boston, Hynes 
Auditorium, Boston, MA. 
This show will feature more 
than 200 displays and booths 
of Apple-compatible products 
and accessories. Seminars and 
panel discussions will be held. 
Ticket prices are $6 per day or 
$15 for a three-day pass. Con- 
tact National Computer 
Shows, 824 Boylston St., 
Chestnut Hill, MA 02167, 
(617) 739-2000. 

May 15-16 

The North American Com- 
puter Othello Championship, 

Learning Resources Center, 
Andersen Hall, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL. This 
two-day tournament is spon- 
sored by the United States 
Othello Association. Cham- 
pions will be determined in 
three categories: microcom- 
puter systems (located on 
site), mainframe systems (tele- 
phone hookup), and special- 
purpose Othello machines. 
For complete tournament de- 
tails, write to Professor Peter 
W. Frey, Dept. of Psychol- 
ogy, Northwestern Univer- 
sity, Evanston, IL 60201. 

May 18-20 

Microcomputers — A New 
Tool for Foresters, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, 
IN. Sponsored by Purdue 
University's Department of 
Forestry and Natural Re- 
sources and by the Inventory 
and Systems Analysis Work- 
ing Groups of the Society of 
American Foresters, this con- 
ference seeks to advance the 
professional forester's knowl- 



In order to gain optimal coverage of your organization's com- 
puter conferences, seminars, workshops, courses, etc, notice 
should reach our office at least four months in advance of the 
date of the event. Entries should be sent to: Event Queue, BYTE 
Publications, POB 372, Hancock, NH 03449. Each month we 
publish the current contents of the queue for the month of the 
cover date and the two following calendar months. Thus a given 
event may appear as many as three times in this section if it is sent 
to us far enough in advance. 



edge of microcomputers and 
to introduce currently avail- 
able microcomputer applica- 
tions in forestry. Session 
themes include hardware and 
software considerations as 
well as information-process- 
ing and forest-inventory sys- 
tems. Contact John W. Moser 
Jr., Dept. of Forestry and 
Natural Resources, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, 
IN 47907, (317) 494-3596. 

May 19-21 

Computer Hong Kong 82, 

Regent Hotel, Hong Kong. 
This three-day program, 
which embraces the Fifth 
Hong Kong Computer Con- 
ference, will focus on the elec- 
tronic data-processing 
market. For further details, 
contact Kallman Associates, 5 
Maple Court, Ridgewood, NJ 
07450, (201) 652-7070. 

May 21-23 

The 1982 Computer Showcase 
Expo, Boston, MA. For de- 
tails, see March 26-28. ■ 



BYTE's Bits 



Computer Camps 

The 1982 National Com- 
puter Camp for boys and 
girls ages 10 to 18 will be held 
July 11 to August 6 in 
Simsbury, Connecticut, and 
Atlanta, Georgia. The kids 
will learn on mini- and micro- 
computers in small groups 
with ample hands-on time. 
The camp director, Professor 
Michael Zabinski of Fairfield 
University, is assisted by 
elementary and secondary 
school teachers. For more in- 
formation, contact Michael 
Zabinski, POB 624, Orange, 
CT 06477, (203) 795-3049. ■ 



454 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Collector "Edition 
T 






The Byte covers shown below are available as beautiful Col- 
lector Edition Prints. Each full color print is 11" x 14", including 
1 W border, and is part of an edition strictly limited to 500 prints. 
The artist, Robert Tinney, has personally inspected, signed and 
numbered each print. A Certificate of Authenticity accompanies 
each print guaranteeing its quality and limited number. 

The price of a Collector Edition Byte Cover is $25, plus $3 per 
shipment for postage and handling ($8 for overseas airmail). 
Collector Prints 9, 10, 11 and 12 can be purchased as a set for 
$80, as can Prints 13, 14, 15 and 16. 

Collector Edition Byte Covers are also available in the beauti- 
ful mat and frame shown above for $60 each (if Set 9-12 or Set 
13-16 is ordered framed and matted, the price per set is $200). 
The mat is a neutral gray which blends with most decors, and the 

black 12" x 16" frame is trimmed in 
silver. The print is mounted under 
non-glare glass. 

Framed and matted prints are 
shipped UPS — no delivery to P.O. 
boxes. Because of expense and 
breakage, no framed prints are 
shipped overseas. Please allow 4- 
B^ ^8 g 6 weeks delivery for framed prints. 

m k td v To order use the coupon be- 




en 

(D 



W 
i 

o> 

</» 

00 

o 



FUTURE COMPUTERS 
Print 13 -$25 



SMALLTALK 
Print 14 - $25 



SOFTWARE 
Print 15- $25 



CHIP BUILDING 
Print 16 -$25 



J 



low; Visa and Master Charge 
orders may call Toll Free. 





WW'Sbc^*^ 





I 

JO 

a> 

o 




SOFTWARE PIRACY THE PROGRAMMING ROUTE 

Print 9 -$25 Print 10 -$25 



FORTH 
Print 1 1 - $25 



FUTURE PAST 
Print 12 - $25 



TOTAL ECLIPSE 
Print 6 - $25 



COMPUTER HARDWARE 
Print 7 - $25 




PERSPECTIVES 
Print 8 - $25 




COMPUTER CHESS 

Oct. 1978 

$7.95 



THROUGH THE 

TRAP DOOR 

Mar. 1979 

$35.00 



BREAKING THE 

SOUND BARRIER 

Sapt. 1977 

$35.00 



ALSO AVAILABLE are the prints 
shown at left. "Computer Chess" is 
an 18" X 22" full color poster. 

"Through the Trap Door" and 
"Breaking the Sound Barrier" are 
limited editions of 750 prints each, 
signed and numbered by the artist. 
Each print Is 18" X 22", and is 
accompanied by its own Certificate 
of Authenticity. If both "Door" and 
"Barrier" are ordered, a special 
price of $55 applies. 

All three prints shown at left are 
shipped first class in heavy duty 
mailing tubes. 



Please send me the following Prints: 
QTY TITLE 



Frames — $35 each 



□ Set 9-12 or D 13-16- 



Both "Trap Door" and "Barrier" — $55 



AMOUNT 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 



poslage & handling $3.00 (Overseas $8.00) $^ 
TOTAL IS - 



□ I have enclosed check or money order. 

□ Visa □ MasterCard 

Card # 

Expiration Date 

SHIP MY PRINTS TO: 

Name 

Address 

City 

State 



-Zip- 



Mail this coupon to: 

robert tinney graphics 

1864 N. Pamela Drive 
Baton Rouge, LA 
70815 

1-80O432. 



ORDERS 



24 



HOURS 



A DAY! 



7257/ 



days 



Ext 910 



WEEK! 



The Computer Toolbox 



Mark Bernstein 

Department of Chemistry 

Harvard University 

12 Oxford St. 

Cambridge, MA 02138 



Scientists everywhere are learning 
to detest small computers. They hate 
the things with a special passion 
reserved for anything that interferes 
with their research. Although re- 
searchers were among the first to em- 
brace the promise of small, inexpen- 
sive computers, many now avoid 
using microcomputers in their labs. 

It oughtn't to be so. Scientists need 
computers to monitor, coordinate, 
and control their experiments. Com- 
municating rapidly and reliably with 
many different instruments, a com- 
puter can read and record data while 
responding swiftly to any problems 
that develop. The computer cannot 
grow bored or tired, nor will it object 
to uncomfortable or dangerous work- 
ing conditions. 

Above all, experimenters need the 
flexibility and adaptability that com- 
puters promise. Labs are exciting, dis- 
organized, chaotic places. Cables run 
everywhere to connect instruments 
piled on tables and stacked on the 
floor. New equipment and new pro- 
cedures are commonplace; ideas and 
plans are in continual flux. Even 
when everything works perfectly, the 
results of a few hours' work may call 
for a complete redesign of the entire 
experiment. 

The modern microcomputer is easy 
and inexpensive to reprogram, so it 
ought to be a superbly flexible lab 
assistant. But it is this promise that 
small computers have betrayed. 
Microcomputers, expected to help 
scientists manage the constantly 
changing laboratory environment, 
implacably oppose every change and 
trivial modification. 

Each change in the experiment calls 
for new software. Each new instru- 
ment needs new software. Every 
modification of hardware or tech- 



nique demands new software. The 
computer's constant hunger for new 
and revised programs may be so 
daunting that promising experiments 
aren't even attempted. Laboratory 
computers have to be intimately 
involved with many aspects of the 
experiment, but this intimacy 
demands that they change and adapt 
constantly. Unfortunately, common 
programming techniques often pro- 
duce programs that are obscure to 
read and tedious to modify. 

The Computer Toolbox 

Rather than design an inflexible 
computer for a specific job, our 
research group has tried to build a 
general-purpose laboratory assistant 



that can be carried, like a toolbox, 
from one experiment to another. It is 
an integrated, consistent package of 
hardware and software tools for the 
experimenter, who should be able to 
patch together a working system in a 
few days. 

Just as a regular toolbox includes 
many wrenches and screwdrivers of 
various sizes, the computer toolbox 
contains many different "inlets" and 
"outlets" for information and a col- 
lection of interfaces of various sorts. 
Few experiments use every part in the 
toolbox; we tried to provide enough 
interfaces of each type for any experi- 
ment we expect to do. 

The toolbox includes not only 
many types of interfaces but also 









Suggested Quantity 


Device Type 


Useful For 


Relative Cost 


and Comments 


parallel input port 


reading digital devices 


inexpensive 


many 


parallel output port 


controlling digital devices 
on/off controls 


inexpensive 


many 


keyboard 


input from people 


moderate 


1 


video display 


output to people 


expensive 


use extra displays for 
graphics 


serial interface 


interface printers, 
computers 


moderate 


1-5 


printer 


permanent records 


expensive 


1 


plotter 


permanent records 


expensive 


1 


telephone interface 


report emergencies 


moderate 


1 if experiment must 
run unattended 


analog-to-digital 


analog input 


inexpensive 


some 


converter 








digital-to-analog 


analog output 


moderate 


some 


converter 








sound generator 


alarms and warnings 


inexpensive 


many distinct noises 
can be invaluable 


digitizing tablet 


input from charts and 
graphs 


expensive 


if required 


joystick 


input from people 


inexpensive 


sometimes convenient 


stepping motor 


moving things 


inexpensive 


very useful 


AC controller 


power control 


moderate 


several 


arithmetic 


arithmetic 


expensive 


for demanding 


processor 






calculations 


Table 1: Widely useful equipment for computer toolboxes. 





456 March 1982 © BYTE Publications tnc 



Circle 16 on inquiry card. 



many interfaces of each different type 
(see table 1). Redundant facilities add 
little to the cost or complexity of the 
toolbox and greatly enhance its use- 
fulness. Because several interfaces of 
each type are available, adding new 
apparatus to an experiment is easy. 
Scientists will not be forced to choose 
between one instrument and another, 
because they are free to connect lots 
of instruments at once. 

If an interface circuit is accidentally 
damaged, redundant interfaces allow 
work to continue. The computer need 
not be repaired immediately, and the 
damaged interface can be fixed at the 
scientist's convenience. Redundancy 
makes the system robust, despite the 
hazards of the laboratory environ- 
ment. 

Software Design in the Lab 

Most laboratory programs live 
only a few weeks or months. Indeed, 
many programs are modified so often 
that they are really never "finished." 
To make matters worse, laboratory 
software is written by scientists, i.e., 
by ingenious, amateur, and relatively 
unschooled programmers. The lab 
computer must emphatically en- 
courage clean, comprehensible, mod- 
ifiable programming. 

Lab programmers face a diverse 
and confusing array of complicated 
devices, each posing distinct pro- 
gramming problems. Although the 
procedures for each instrument may 
be simple, the entire repertoire of 
communications methods for a com- 
plete experimental setup can easily 
baffle and dismay the programmer. 
Programs degenerate to an ill-struc- 
tured network of procedure calls, 
timing loops, and code conversions, 
as a profusion of detail overwhelms 
the program's overall design. 

Debugging these tangled, baroque 
routines is terribly frustrating. The 
toolbox restores clarity and explicit- 
ness to program structure by treating 
all devices on an equal footing. 
Toolbox programs never talk directly 
with any outside instrument. Instead, 
they communicate with small pro- 
grams called device drivers that, in 
turn, communicate with the experi- 
ment's instruments and sensors. 

Device drivers make programs 




STRIKE A 

PERFECT 
MATCH . . . 

Wed a Data General Eclipse to the 
ALPS Word Processing System 

Plus these options: 

■ Foreign language capability 
for rapid translation and word 
processing in any Romanized 
alphabet. 

■ Dictionary look-up of words 
and phrases to improve trans- 
lation production. 

For complete information on 
any ALPS system, contact ALPS, 
750 North 200 West, Suite 104, 
Provo, Utah 84601. Telephone 
801/375-0090. 

alps 

I AUTOMATEI 
| PROCESSUS 



Marry ALPS word processing 
software with Data General 
terminals for a complete text 
entry, editing, formatting and 
text output system. 

The wedding costs about 
$4,000. 

You get all standard word 
processing features with: 

■ Fast response. 

■ "Short Stroke" dictionary facil 
ity that provides user defined 
shorthand and spelling correc- 
tions. 

■ Ease of use for minimal 
training. 

■ Search and replace feature 
yields quick replacement of 
selected characters or strings. 



AUTOMATED LANGUAGE 
PROCESSING SYSTEMS 



MULTIPROGRAMMER 



KITS AW 



SYSTEM-10 



PROGRAMS 
OVER 100 
POPULAR 
PROMS & A 
EPROMS 



Standard Features: 
~ RS232 Serial Port - Standard 
Formats 

• 5K Bytes RAM (Expandable) 
Device Read, Compare & Verify 

• Editing & Special Functions 

• Less Than $ 1 ,000 for 
Programmer 

• Less Than $400 for Module and 
Adapter 

• Attractive OEM Prices 

REP AREAS A VAILABLE 




mm 



COMPUTER SYSTEMS CORPORATION 



100 E. Linton Blvd 
Delray Beach, Fla 33444 



Phone (305) 272-2051 



Circle 61 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 457 



Circle 312 on inquiry card. 



Lwovst HP prutx* 
awquohewel if **&> 
WPf f BEAT EM 



Wlipl HEWLETT 
mLUM PACKARD 

HP-85. 



$12^ 




NewHP-125 

CP/M' based.. . 



$2195 



Limited lime only 



HP-85 Accessories 

5V4 Dual Master Disk Drive List, $2500. . . $1895 
8 Dual Master Disk Drive $5459 

WINCHESTER HARD DISKS 

5'/4 WIN. 5mg. Hard Disk List $4500 .... $3599 
5% WIN. w/5%DSDD floppy. List $5500. $4399 

7225 One Pen Plotter $1979 

16K Ram Mem. Mod $159 

ROM Drawer $35 

HP Standard Applic. Pacs List, $95 $95 

Serial (RS232CI Interface Mod. List, $395 . . $353 
GPIO Interface Module List, $495 $445 



HP-41CVwith five times more 
memory built in. 







List $325 

$249 



HP-41 C 

List $250 

$189 



HP-41 CV Printer $289.00 

HP-41 CV Quad Mem $83.95 

HP-41 CV CardReader $167.95 

HP82160A HP-IL Mod. List $125 $99.00 

HP82161 A Dig.Cass.Dr.List $550 $449.00 

HP11C List $135 $107.95 

HP12C List $ 150 $119.95 

HP33C $74.95 

HP34C $117.95 



ATARI®800 



$689 

* Limited time only 




ATARI 400 $349 

Atari 830 Acoustic Modem $145 

Atari 825 80 Col. Impt. Ptr $565 

Atari 16K Ram Mem. Mod $69 

Atari 410 Prog. Recorder $69 

Atari 810 Disk Drive $419 



P 



crsonal 
omp titer 
ystems 



c$ 



P.O. Box 1073 
Syracuse.N.Y. 13201 

(315)475-6800 

{8001 448-5259 For Placing Orders Only 

Prices do not include shipping bt UPS. All prices and 
offers are subject to change without notice 

458 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



easier to understand and modify. 
Programmers can concentrate on the 
experiment without undue distraction 
from the computer's idiosyncrasies. 
Device drivers clarify program struc- 
ture, since irrelevant details need not 
be represented explicitly. Programs 
are easier to understand, use, and 
revise. Documentation is easier to 
write, and its completeness is less 
crucial. 

Communications between the pro- 
grammer and the various device 
drivers are simple and standardized; 
all device drivers "look" pretty much 
the same. The device driver, in turn, 
understands and accommodates the 
special requirements of each device or 
instrument. Device drivers shield and 
protect the toolbox programmer from 
his confusing and ill-behaved array of 
instruments (see figures 1 and 2). 

For example, different printers may 
require different character codes, sig- 
nal levels, and control signals. None- 



theless, all printers are logically 
equivalent — they all accept charac- 
ters from a computer and print them 
on paper. A toolbox program that 
uses a printer need not consider the 
details of the printer's interface or 
timing. Whenever a number must be 
printed, the program invokes the 
device driver { PRINT! }. If I replace 
the printer with a different model, I 
just revise { PRINT 1 }. All my pro- 
grams will still work. If, on the other 
hand, every program communicated 
directly with the printer, I would 
have to modify every program. In- 
deed, I might need to modify every 
printer command in every program! 
Device drivers help adapt the com- 
puter to the changing needs of its 
peripherals. To plot results on a chart 
recorder instead of printing them, for 
example, we need to make only slight 
changes. Chart recorders are logically 
equivalent to printers; they just ac- 
cept numbers from the computer and 















/ 


TOOLBOX 




/ DISPLAY 


LASER 


/ CRT 






/ 










i 


i 








DOOR 
SWITCH 





DOOR PSHUT 

IF 

LASER ON 

ELSE 
ABORT 

ENDIF 



Figure Is Many scientists defeat the safety interlocks on their equipment because 
they simply get in the way too often. Simple additions to toolbox programs can help 
restore protection. Here, a few words prevent the laser from firing if the door is 
open. 







TOOLBOX 










PRINTER A 


METER 














i 














SENSOR 


LASER 









: POWER. 



POWER® 
PRINT!; 



Figure 2: This short program reads the laser's power and prints it. If I buy a new 
printer, I simply redefine { PRINT! } to work with the new machine. The old pro- 
gram still works with the new printer. 



Circle 425 on inquiry card. 



put them onto paper. So, to use the 
chart recorder we simply replace 
{ PRINT } with { PLOT } and, in- 
stead of printing a list of numbers, the 
computer will draw a graph of the ex- 
periment's results. 

Device drivers can exchange data 
with instruments, other toolboxes, 
even with other computers. In fact, 
the (still hypothetical) device driver 
{ TELEPHONE! } could connect an 
experiment to thousands of printers 
and computers throughout the world. 

Programmers don't need to know 
all the details of every device's design 
and operation. Of course, the author 
of the device driver must understand 
these details, but, since device drivers 
are all used in pretty much the same 
way, anyone else can use the device 
driver. 

Tables 2 and 3 describe several 
device drivers. Drivers that send a 
single number or character to an in- 
strument have names that end in an 
exclamation point (!), like 
{ PRINT! }. Drivers that receive a 
single number or character have 
names followed by an at sign (@). 
Device drivers that receive data from 
an instrument and display it im- 
mediately have names ending in a 
question mark (?), while device 
drivers that test an instrument's 
status, and that abort if an error has 
been detected, have names that begin 
with a question mark. 

In fact, knowing the name of the 
device driver is often all that a pro- 
grammer needs to know to use an in- 
strument. 

The FORTH Language 

Many computer languages might 
be suitable for use in the toolbox. The 
language chosen must be imple- 
mented efficiently, especially because 
small computers tend to be slow and 
their memory space is often 
restricted. Invocation, the ability to 
execute a subprogram by naming it, is 
required for implementing the device 
drivers. Other features are conve- 
nient, but efficiency and invocation 
are not expendable. 

These considerations exclude the 
two methods most commonly used to 
program small computers. BASIC 
does not support invocation, except 



ATTENTION GOVERNMENT D P 
USERS AND PURCHASERS 

We represent many fine micro products and manufacturers 
on the U.S. Government's GSA Schedule, including 

Apple, Cromemeo, Micropolis, NorthStar, 
Osborne and Seequa Computers 

Purchasing from the Schedule will save you the time 
consumed by the bid process. Products shipped throughout 
the United States and world-wide. Visit or write any of our 
stores for more information or to receive our catalogue of 
products represented. 

Computers. 



the dependable store 



257 West Street, Annapolis, MD 21401 - (301) 268-6505 

13A Allegheny Avenue, Towson, MD 21204 - (301) 296-0520 

9330 Georgia Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910 - (301) 588-3748 

6671 Backlick Road, Springfield, VA 22150 - (703) 644-5500 

Plaza 38. 2442 Route 38, Cherry Hill, NJ 08002 - (609) 779-0023 

Callers outside metropolitan areas served by our stores 

Please call (301) 268-5801 

Career' Opportunities Available * An Equal Opportunity Employer 



m* 



when you request y og 
Computer Suppw^ -^-sasa 



\ 






fcSSSSS* 8 **" " 



■y 




Catalog Group 

MOORE 

BUSINESS 

CENTER 

A Divs-on ot Moorr Business Fnrms 

Moore Computer Supplies Catalog 
Department 1 19 
RO. Box 20 

Wheeling. Illinois 60090 



Company _ 



Address. 



City. 



-Zip_ 



Mail this coupon today! 



Circle 264 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 459 



Circle 255 on inquiry card. 



1981 

MICRO-TAX 

Microcomputer Taxsystems, Inc. 

Are you looking for the best 
tax package in the USA? Call 

MICRO-TAX 

For the 1981 Tax System 



INDIVIDUAL PACKAGES 

Level 1 : 23 Schedules and Forms 

: Multiple Clients 
$250 : Prints IRS Approved Forms 

Level 2: 30 Schedules and Forms 

: Multiple Clients 

: Prints IRS Approved Forms 
$1,000 : Prints on IRS Forms or Overlays 

: Depreciation System 

: State Tax Interface 

: Integrated Data Base 

: Batch Compute and Print 

PARTNERSHIP PACKAGE 

Level 3: 20 Partnership Schedules and 
Forms 

$750 : Multiple Clients 

: Prints IRS Approved Forms 

: Prints on IRS Forms or Overlays 

: Depreciation System 

: Integrated Data Base 

: Batch Compute and Print 

Levels 2 and 3 are discounted to a total 
of $1,500 if purchased at the same time. 

Updates: Annual Updates are available. 

Demonstration Package: Demonstration 
Packages are available for S50. 

State Systems: Information on Individual 
State Tax Systems is available 
upon request. 

Transparent Overlays: Transparent Over- 
lay sets are available. 

All levels operate under most CP/M* 
formats including Apple*. 
Compiled Microsoft Basic. 

Consider the advantages this 

State-of-the-Art package 

can bring you: 

• Complete System 

• Versatility 

• Complete In-Offire Security 

• Time Saving 

• Pre Year-end Tax Planning 

MICRO-TAX 

Mk roc omputn faxsy-vtetm, Inc. 

22713 Ventura Blvd., Suite F 

Woodland Hills, CA 91364 

(213) 704-7800 

Available at most 
Professional Computer 
Retailers 

'CP/M is a TM of Digital Researcii 
'Apple is a TM of Apple Computer. Inc. 



in a most primitive and unsatisfac- 
tory manner. Common BASIC inter- 
preters, moreover, are too slow for 
many laboratory situations. Assem- 
bly language does not intrinsically 
support invocation either, although 
macroassemblers (which support in- 



vocation quite satisfactorily) are now 
available for many machines. Unfor- 
tunately, extensive use of macro- 
instructions only exacerbates the 
propensity of assembly language to 
produce very long programs. Few 
microcomputer assemblers can com- 



Device Type 


Quantity 


Total Channels 


parallel port 


6 


96 data bits 

12 control signals 


serial port 


1 


1 (300 bps) 


AC power control 


4 


4 100-W channels 


ADC 


1 


2 bipolar inputs 
2 voltage inputs 
4 resistor inputs 
8 unbuffered inputs 


DAC 


2 


2 


IEEE-488 control bus 




15 


sound generator 




1 


graphics display 




1 


scratchpad memory 




128 bytes 


plotter 




1 (uses DACs) 


motor controller 




1 


Table 2: The hardware complement of the 


author's computer toolbox. 





Driver 


Device 


Purpose 


! 


memory 


stores number in specified location in memory 


Data- 


PRINT! 


printer 


sends number to printer 


Transmitting 


EMIT! 


printer 


sends character to printer 


Drivers 


DAC! 


DAC 


sends number to digital-to-analog converter 




VID! 


TV camera 


sends instruction to camera 




PLOT! 


plotter 


moves pen to specified coordinate 








@ 


memory 


retrieves number from specified location in 








memory 


Data- 


THUMB® 


thumbwhee 


retrieves current thumbwheel setting 


Receiving 


VID® 


memory 


retrieves current TV camera programming in- 


Drivers 






structions 




ADC® 


ADC 


requests measurement from analog-to-digital 
converter 




POINT® 


digitizer 


requests one coordinate-pair from the digitizer 








TALK 


IEEE bus 


transmits "talk" to an instrument 


IEEE-488 


UNTALK 


IEEE bus 


transmits "untalk" 


Bus Device 


LISTEN 


IEEE bus 


transmits "listen" to an instrument 


Drivers 


UNLISTEN 


IEEE bus 


transmits "unlisten" 




IEEE® 


IEEE bus 


receives data byte from bus 




IEEE! 


IEEE bus 


transmits data byte over bus 








R/W 


disk 


reads and writes disk files 




CMOVE 


memory 


moves blocks of data in memory 




EDIT 


disk/screen 


creates and modifies disk files 


Special 


HOME 


screen 


returns cursor to top of screen 


Device 


FORWARD motor 


advances stepping motor 


Drivers 


ON 


AC control 


supplies power to outlet 




OFF 


AC control 


disconnects outlet 




TIME! 


clock 


sets the clock 


Table 3: Sor 


TIME® 


clock 


reads the clock 


ne typical device drivers, based on the author's system. 



460 March 1982 © BYTE Publications he 



fortably develop programs compris- 
ing over a thousand instructions, but 
experiment controllers often exceed 
this size. 

Several higher-level languages are 
suitable for programming the tool- 
box. APL's extraordinary facility for 
array and matrix calculation easily 
outweighs its handicaps. Pascal, C, 
or Ada might also be attractive. Even 
FORTRAN would be adequate, 
especially since many scientists 
already know FORTRAN; this con- 
sideration also applies to ALGOL-60 
and its descendants. 

Unfortunately, currently available 
microcomputers are rather slow, and 
thus they demand exceptional effi- 
ciency from the toolbox language. 
Compilers and interpreters for com- 
mon languages do not now produce 
sufficiently fast programs and cannot 
be used. This situation will change as 
the power and speed of micro- 
computers improve. 

We have used the FORTH language 
in our toolbox, with very satisfactory 
results. FORTH has been described in 
several articles in the August 1980 
BYTE, in Ronald Loeliger's Threaded 
Interpretive Languages (BYTE Books, 
1981), and in FORTH Inc.'s Using 
FORTH. More advanced but in- 
valuable information is available 
from FIG (the FORTH Interest 
Group), which publishes assembly- 
language implementations of FORTH 
for many common microprocessors. 
The FIG implementation of 
FORTH is extremely efficient in both 
space and speed. Although some 
common programming tasks are dif- 
ficult to express clearly in FORTH, 
the language adapts unusually well to 
laboratory programming. In fact, 
FORTH was originally designed for 
just this application. FORTH inter- 
preters are uniquely simple to test and 
to modify. Several writers report suc- 
cessful implementations of significant 
subsets of FORTH in only a few 
weeks. While FORTH is now com- 
mercially available for many com- 
puters, its easy implementation 
makes it a practical choice even if a 
commercial version is not available. 
FORTH procedures communicate 
with each other by using a first-in, 
last-out stack (see figure 4). Toolbox 



routines use the stack to exchange in- 
formation. For example, the routine 
ADC@ measures the input to the 
analog-to-digital converter, leaving 
the result on the stack. DAC! sends 
the number on top of the stack to the 
digital-to-analog converter, which 
produces a corresponding voltage. 

ADC@ can talk to DAC! by using 
the stack; the program 

ADC@ DAC! 

reads a voltage at the analog input 
and transmits it to the analog output. 
Other programs transform data on 
the stack, accepting information from 
one routine, transforming it, and 
leaving the results for another 
routine. LOG, for instance, takes a 
number off the stack, calculates its 
logarithm, and leaves the result on 
the stack. The sequence 

ADC® LOG DAC! 

sets the output voltage to the log- 
arithm of the input signal. 

In FORTH, numbers are simply 
procedures that put their value onto 
the stack. "273" is the name of a pro- 
cedure that leaves the value 273 on 
top of the stack. FORTH can work in 
any common base; the procedure 
HEX instructs FORTH to treat 
numbers as hexadecimal quantities, 
DECIMAL tells FORTH to use base 
ten, and BINARY makes FORTH use 
base two. 

Building Toolbox Commands 

A scientist controls an experiment 
by typing commands into the tool- 
box. Consider, for example, the sim- 
ple problem of turning equipment on 
and off during the course of an ex- 
periment. 

In Harvard's picosecond laser 
facility, toolbox hardware includes 
four 117-V AC outlets controlled by 
the computer. An experimenter might 
plug an oscilloscope into socket 
number 1, a meter into outlet 2, a 
signal generator into outlet 3, and a 
laser into outlet 4. At various times 
during the experiment, the computer 
must supply and remove power to 
these devices. 

The device drivers for the AC 



power controller are named ON and 
OFF. ON and OFF connect and dis- 
connect power to a specified outlet; 
the command 

ION 

supplies power to socket number one. 
For flexibility and convenience, we 
might define a new command called 
SCOPE: 

; SCOPE 1 ; 

Whenever SCOPE is invoked, it 
leaves the value 1 (the scope's socket 
number) on the stack, so the com- 
mand 



A Note About FORTH 

FORTH uses punctuation in some of 
its words, which makes representing 
them in text a difficult problem. For ex- 
ample, one FORTH word is ("), which 
could be taken to mean one of several 
character combinations. (For your in- 
formation, the word has three charac- 
ters and is made from a left parenthesis 
followed by a double quote mark and a 
right parenthesis.) 

To decrease the chance of confusion 
while trying not to clutter text unneces- 
sarily, we have used pairs of braces, 
{ }, to isolate the character string 
within as a FORTH word or phrase. 
For example, the above word would be 
written { (") } . Braces have been used 
only in the following situations: 

• when the material being quoted is a 
phrase of FORTH words (e.g., { 26 
LOAD } or{ 35 + } ) 

• with the FORTH words { . } 
(period), { , } {comma), { : } 
(colon), { ; } (semicolon), { ? } 
(question mark), { ! } (exclamation 
point), { ' } (single quote mark), and 
{ " } (double quote mark) 

• with any word using the above punc- 
tuation marks (e.g., { $. } or [ ." }). 

All other FORTH words are set 
apart by a space on either side of the 
word. So, in this article, braces always 
signal a FORTH word or phrase. The 
braces are not part of the word or 
phrase, and FORTH words never use 
braces within the body of a figure or 
listing. . . . GW 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



461 



3 a 



SCOPE ON 

energizes the oscilloscope. If we 
decide to plug the oscilloscope into 
some other socket, we simply change 
the definition of SCOPE. This "in- 
forms" all our programs of the 
change, so we don't have to hunt 
through every procedure, looking for 
references to socket number 1. 

Commands can be issued singly or 
in a large burst. Several commands 
can be put on one line, or a single 
command can spread over many 
lines. Extra spaces, carriage returns, 
and tabs are harmless and make pro- 
gram listings more attractive and 
easier to follow. Part of an experi- 
mental session might read: 

METER ON SCOPE ON 
LASER ON 
5 MINUTES 
LASER OFF 

This set of commands turns on the 
meter, oscilloscope, and laser, waits 
for five minutes, and then turns off 
the laser. 

If I need to perform this sequence 
often, it is simple and convenient to 
group these commands into a single 
command: 



JOHN'S 
PROGRAM 




STEVE'S 
PROGRAM 




JEANNE'S 
PROGRAM 










' 














MARK'S 
SUBROUTINE 




















' 1 





































BASIC 



ASSEMBLER 



HARDWARE 



3b 



JOHN'S 




STEVE'S 






JEANNE'S 


PROG 


3AM 




PROGRAM 




PROGRAM 






►•■« 








DEVICE 










DRIVER 









FORTH 



FORTH 



HARDWARE 



: TEST 

METER ON SCOPE ON 
LASER ON 5 MINUTES 
LASER OFF ; 

Typing TEST tells the computer to 
perform the entire sequence. This 
particular sequence might be used to 
check whether all the instruments are 
working, and procedures called 
ALIGN, COLLECT-DATA, and 
SHUT-DOWN could be used for 
other parts of the experiment. In fact, 
TEST can be included as a part of 
another procedure. 

Toolbox commands are easy to 
create. New commands cost only a 
few bytes of memory. Powerful and 
subtle commands can be built up 
from simpler ones. The toolbox ac- 
tually encourages programmers to 
write convenient and comprehensible 
programs. Toolbox programs that are 
easy to write and modify are in- 



Figure 3: In conventional environments, replacing one hardware device can require 
many software changes. If the plotter is replaced, many programs must be altered. In 
figure 3a, John and Jeanne must rewrite parts of their programs, and Mark has to 
rewrite the assembly-language subroutine Steve and Jeanne both use. If Mark leaves 
for a new job, Steve and Jeanne may be in serious trouble! As shown in figure 
3b, the toolbox insulates users from software changes. If the plotter is replaced, the 
device driver has to be rewritten, but user programs don't need to be changed. 



DUP 



TOP OF STACK 



3 




5 




8 




8 




3 




8 



















Figure 4: Reverse Polish notation and the computation stack. Reverse Polish makes 
arithmetic look strange but can be perfectly natural for controlling machines. 



462 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 33 on inquiry card. 



herently easy to use; man-machine 
dialogue is instrinsic in the program's 
structure, not tacked on as an after- 
thought. 



Amenities 

Scientists work in a number-filled 
world. Contrary to popular myth, 
though, most scientists have no 
special facility for arithmetic. In one 
Cambridge poker game, the regular 
players include three chemists, a 
physicist, a stock broker, and a 
lawyer. To rapidly count and split 
pots, all defer to the seventh 
player— an artist. 

Since scientists generally can't do 
arithmetic any better than other peo- 
ple, lab computers should be able to 
do it for them. When an unexpected 
question comes up, the lab computer 
ought to double as a pocket cal- 
culator. Our toolbox provides this 
facility within the FORTH language, 
because FORTH can do arithmetic 
very much like any reverse-Polish 
calculator. 

For example, to add 3 to 7 and 
print the result, we can simply type 

3 7 + . 

to which FORTH responds 

10 OK 

{ . } is the FORTH command to dis- 
play the top value from the stack. 
FORTH's ability to use any common 
base is often very useful; to translate, 
say, hexadecimal 4AF to base ten, we 
simply type 

HEX 4AF DECIMAL . 

Clocks and timers are often useful. 
The command SECONDS instructs 
the toolbox computer to pause for a 
specified period. The time-of-day 
clock may be used (through its device 
drivers) to ascertain or set the current 
time. For example, 

5 47 TIME! 

sets the clock to 5:47. The command 
TIME® reads the time, leaving the 



According to 
ARBAGATOR 

ARBA Register 
puts teeth 
into your 
inventory 
control program 
and takes the 
bite out of 
the cost. 



ARBA Register: 

the electronic 

cash register 

that interfaces with 

virtually any computer on the 

market and doesn't cost 

more than 

your system. 




FINE BUSINESS COMPUTING 

6340 C AMERICANA DRIVE #315C 

WILLOWBROOKJL 60514 

312-749-7444 



— Do real time point ot sale inventory control. 
-RS232C interface at 300 baud. 

— Standard asynchronous ASCII code. 

— Time tested LSI circuitry. 

—$1295 suggested retail— dealer pricing available. 



The Birth of UNIX™ for CP/M™! 



The... 
• POWER of UNIX 

►POPULARITY OF CP/M 




ITlicrcStiell 



Available for adoption by: CP/M SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS 

CP/M SOFTWARE USERS 



CP/M 
Compatibility 



Console 

Input/Output 

Redirection 



Automatic 
Command File 
Search Path 



Multiple Commands 
Per Line 



Direct 

Command File 
Execution 



Additional 
Features 



• Loads and Executes as a normal program under CP/M, 
installing itself under the CP/M operating system 

•Other CP/M programs - editors /word processors/application programs/compilers/ 
assemblers - may Ihen be run using all MicroShel! features 

• CP/M compatibility is generally not affected by MicroSheli's presence 

• Adds UNIX Power without losing CP/M Compatibility 



• Send Console Output lo a File instead of or in addition to the screen 
Example: stat *.* > status - sends "stat" output to file "status" 

• Take Console Input from a File instead of the Keyboard 

Example: ed filename < script - takes "ed" commands from the file "script" 
■ Indispensable for: graphic debugging, saving exact Screen Output for documentation, etc. 



• MicroShell finds your program. User concentrates on the big tasks, MicroShell does the details 
Permits development or data files on one drive and all programs on another 

• User-specified file types for Automatic Search. Example: ".com", ".Int", etc. 
■ User-specified Search Path. Example: Current Drive 1st, then Drive A, etc. 



• User types a logical group of commands to be executed 
Example: compile file; link file; file 

• MicroShell executes the commands one at a time 



• Files of CP/M or MicroShell commands are executed by MicroShell simply by typing file name 

• User-specified Command Filetypes. Example: ".sh", ".sub", etc. 

• Argument substitution ($1, $2, etc.) as with CP/M SUBMIT/XSUB 



■ User definable prompt with Disk Drive and/or User Number optional 

■ Install program to customize MicroShell to user's needs & system 
« Others - ORDER MANUAL FOR FULL DETAILS 



• ADOPTION FEE: $150.00 

Manual Only: $ 25.00 

(VA residents add 4% sales tax) 

VISA. NIC, Check or Money Order 



NEW 
<H GENERATION 
Xj SYSTEMS, inc. 



Mail or Phone Adoption Requests to: 
2153 Golf Course Drive 
Reston, VA 22091 
(703)476-9143 

CP(M - TM 01 Dioilal Research Co 



Circle 280 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 463 



Circle 87 on inquiry card. 










c 



TODAY'S just another good reason to be a subscriber to the 
CompuServe Information Service. Because TODAY is a magazine 
published free-of-charge for our customers and also offered to 
others interested in the latest developments in the growing 
videotex industry. 

TODAY includes new and current product and service 
offerings on the System, technological developments at 
CompuServe and in the industry, customer profiles, features on 
information providers and announcements of special events. An 
extensive subject index appears in each issue. 

Ask for a demonstration of the 
CompuServe Information Service at a 
Radio Shack® Computer Center. Videotex 
software is available for various brands 
of personal computers. CompuServe 
Information Service, 5000 Arlington 
Centre Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43220. 
(614) 457-8650 



CompuServe 




WICAT 

system 150 



A new standard of excellence and 
price/performance. Motorola 68000 
processor, large memory, hard 
disk and complete system software 
included. 

Excellent system for business and 
scientific applications, software 
development, or personal use. 

Full service is available including 
nationwide on-site maintenance, 
usually within four hours. 

Concurrent Corporation can help 
you select the proper configuration. 
To discuss your application, please 
write or call (513) 281-1270. 




$8500 

Powerful Motorola 68000 processor 

(32 bit processor with 16-bit data paths) 

256K bytes of memory with parity checking 

10 MB 5%" Winchester disk 

960 KB 5%" floppy disk 

Video terminal 

Two RS232C serial and one 16-bit parallel port 

Operating system, full screen editor, file 

system with hierarchial directories 

Choice of Pascal, C, FORTRAN, COBOL, 

BASIC or Assembler 

A wide variety of configurations and options 




Concurrent 

1870 Madison Road Cincinnati, Ohio 45206 



Corporation 



current time on the stack. CLOCK? 
prints the time on the TV screen, 
using an attractive format. Special 
functions are easy to add; for exam- 
ple, CAL-TIME might print the time 
in California. 

Interestingly enough, our toolbox 
"clock" is actually a small machine- 
language program. The device drivers 
for the clock are "driving" a com- 
pletely mythical device! In practice, 
the clock's device drivers manipulate 
a few bytes of memory in which the 
clock program leaves the current 
time, but the user is free to believe 
that the clock is a hardware device in- 
side the toolbox! 

Someday we might just install an 
integrated circuit to replace the 
"clock" routine. To do that, we'd 
simply rewrite the device drivers. If a 
user did not notice the new integrated 
circuit inside the computer, he might 
never know about the new clock cir- 
cuit. 

The Toolbox Development System 

The toolbox approach lets scien- 
tists apply computers to laboratory 
problems that tend to resist conven- 
tional design and programming meth- 
ods. Moreover, developments in 
computer technology will substan- 
tially augment the potential of the 
toolbox in the next few years. Trends 
in microprocessor architecture favor 
designs that emphasize the toolbox 
virtues of modularity and invocation. 
A microprocessor designed specifi- 
cally for efficient FORTH implemen- 
tation, for example, is now under 
development. The toolbox relies 
heavily on its abundant input and 
output devices, and these, too, are 
subject to constant improvement. 

Computer toolboxes are also 
uniquely suited to incorporate new 
advances in integrated-circuit tech- 
nology. New parts can be plugged in- 
to the toolbox, often simply by con- 
necting their pins to the appropriate 
signals on the system bus. New device 
drivers are easy to write and can use 
all the existing toolbox facilities. 

For example, our toolbox currently 
includes programs to calculate log- 
arithms. This job could be performed 
more effectively by an integrated-cir- 
cuit arithmetic processor. Physically 



464 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 107 on inquiry card. 



installing such a device would require 
only a few additional integrated cir- 
cuits. To install the processor in the 
toolbox software, we would write 
device-driver programs to control the 
math processor's operations. These 
programs could be written on the 
toolbox, using the existing toolbox 
software, and tested by comparing 
the results of the new and old log- 
arithm routines. 

Once a new device has been tested, 
existing toolbox programs may be 
modified to take advantage of the 
toolbox's new capabilities. This 
unusual flexibility suggests that the 
toolbox, designed to apply small 
computers to the scientific 
laboratory, may be a useful tool for 
developing computer systems! The 
toolbox makes no distinction between 
devices that happen to be inside or 
outside its box; everything is handled 
by device drivers. The toolbox, 
designed specifically to control many 
external devices, can also configure 
and control its own internal struc- 
ture. 

The toolbox may, like a snake, 
shed its skin of peripheral controllers, 
using them in the end only to create 
and test a new set of more powerful 
devices. If a better terminal becomes 
available, the old terminal can be 
used to write the new terminal's 
device drivers. An instrument 
designed this way could design and 
test its own successor — in fact, the 
new model could retain many of the 
old machine's parts and programs! 

The toolbox is easy to customize 
and simple to modify. It can revise its 
own language and extend its 
vocabulary to meet the requirements 
of its user. It can be connected to 
many devices and can help test new 
interfaces and new instruments. In 
short, the toolbox is a very personal 
computer. ■ 



Acknowledgments 

I'd like to express my gratitude and 
appreciation to Professor Kevin S. 
Peters, who patiently supported this 
work, and to the Merck Corporation 
for the honor of a Merck Corporation 
Foundation Fellowship. 



Circle 152 on inquiry card. 



68000 MINI-SYSTEMS 

IEEE-696 S-100 Compatible 

Special Offer 



ERG-I $7995 - CPU, 4 RS232 SERIAL PORTS, 64K STATIC RAM 10 SLOT 
BACK PLANE, 2 8" DOUBLE DENSITY, DOUBLE SIDED FLOPPIES OR A 
5MB 51/4" WINCHESTER, 68KFORTH' SYSTEMS LANGUAGE WITH 
MACROASSEMBLER, ALL INTEGRATED INTO DESK TOP CABINET 
BURNED-IN AND TESTED. 

ERG-II $9795 - SAME AS ERG-I EXCEPT FOR MASS STORAGE; ERG-II 
HAS A 5MB 5'/4" WINCHESTER AND ONE 8" DOUBLE DENSITY, DOUBLE 
SIDED DRIVE. 

ERG-HI $12995 — CPU, 4 RS232 SERIAL PORTS, 256K DYNAMIC RAM, 10 
SLOT BACK PLANE, 5MB 5'/ 4 " WINCHESTER AND ONE 8" DOUBLE DEN- 
SITY, DOUBLE SIDED DRIVE, IDRIS 2 MULTI-USER, MULTI-TASKING 
OPERATING SYSTEM AND C COMPILER, ALL INTEGRATED INTO 
DESK TOP CABINET, BURNED-IN AND TESTED. 

ERG-IV $18995 — CPU, 8 RS232 SERIAL PORTS, 512K DYNAMIC RAM, 10 
SLOT BACK PLANE, 24MB 8" WINCHESTER AND 20 MB 'A" TAPE CAR- 
TRIDGE, IDRIS 2 MULTI-USER, MULTI-TASKING OPERATING SYSTEM 
WITH BOTH C AND PASCAL COMPILERS, ALL INTEGRATED INTO 
DESK TOP CABINET, BURNED-IN AND TESTED. 

8MHz CPU Standard. 10MHz Optional; OEM Pricing for CPU, Card Sets and 
Integrated Systems Available. 

Trademark ' ERG; ! WHITESMITHS LTD. 

30 Day Delivery for Integrated Systems with valid purchase order 



United Kingdom 
MicroAPL LTD. 
London 834-2687 



EMPIRICAL RESEARCH 
GROUP, INC. 

POB 1176 

MILTON, WA 98354 

206-631-4855 



Australia/ New Zealand 

S.I. Microcomputer 

Prod. LTD. 

Sydney 231-4091 



Software Breakthrough! 



THE WORD HANDLER 

BY SILICON VALLEY 

THE ONLY WORD PROCESSOR IN THE WORLD 
FOR THE APPLE THAT: 

• Gives you full line capability on the screen, no boards nee. 

• Two character formats to choose from at all times! 

RUNS WITHOUT ANY HARDWARE MODIFICATIONS! 



HIGH POWER 

Simplicity of 
Operation! 



LARGE SCALE 

Direct to disk! 



All functions seen on the screen! 



• Lower and uppper case 
underlining 

• Superscript, bold, and 
unlimited tabs 

• Proportional spacing 



tasssA 




• Even and normal justification 

• Other functions seen on 
turnkey systems in the 
$13-$20,000 range 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
1625 EL C AMINO REAL, SUITE 4 
BELMONT.CA 94002 
C415) 593-4344 



Circle 351 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 465 



Skip Sequential: A New File 
Structure for Microcomputers 



Jack Purdum 

Ecosoft 

POB 68602 

Indianapolis, IN 46268 



I still remember that fall day almost 
three years ago at Ecosoft, when we 
got our first floppy-disk drive up and 
running. Compared to the cassette 
system we had been using, it was the 
greatest thing since fire. It was at that 
point we began to think that the use 
of a microcomputer in serious busi- 
ness and research applications was a 
viable concept. It wasn't much longer 
before we were sure of it. 

Like most disk systems, ours sup- 
ported both random-access and se- 
quential file structures. Depending 
upon the intended function, each has 
certain advantages and disadvan- 
tages. Sequential files use disk space 
very efficiently (an important con- 
sideration even with the increased 
storage capacity of double-density 
drives), but they are progressively 
slower on disk accesses as the file size 
grows. Random-access files are much 
faster on disk access, regardless of file 
size, but they require a fixed record 
length set to the maximum antici- 
pated (i.e., "worst case") size. This 
often results in a considerable amount 
of wasted disk space. 

The purpose of this article is to 
discuss a "new" file structure that we 
developed to help overcome some of 
the disadvantages associated with 
random-access and sequential files. 
The new file structure, which we have 
named Skip Sequential, is based on 
such a simple idea that many comput- 
erists will wonder why they didn't 
think of it. It is easy to use, adds little 
programming overhead, and offers 
significant advantages over conven- 
tional file structures. Although the 



text discusses Skip Sequential and its 
use in terms of North Star BASIC, we 
have also included listings for Micro- 
soft's BASIC-80. Those familiar with 
BASIC-80 should have little difficulty 
implementing Skip Sequential. 

Sequential and 
Random-Access Files 

Before discussing Skip Sequential, 
it's important to understand the dif- 
ferences between random-access and 



We needed to over- 
come some of the 
disadvantages 
associated with 
random-access and 
sequential files. 

sequential files. For purposes of il- 
lustration, let's assume that you need 
a program that will store: (1) the 
customer's name; (2) the amount paid 
for an item; (3) the date of the pur- 
chase; (4) the invoice number of the 
sale; and (5) a flag variable to reflect 
whether or not the invoice has been 
paid. Let's assume that the variables 
are: 

D = Date Sold 
N = Invoice Number 
A = Amount of the Sale 
N$ = Customer's Name 
F = "Paid" flag 

(F = l is "Not Paid") 

This data could be easily stored using 



either sequential or random-access 
files. Let's examine these two possibil- 
ities. 

An Example Using Sequential Files 

The program in listing 1 is an ex- 
ample of storing data with sequential 
files. It is assumed that the values of 
the variables were determined else- 
where in the program. (If these were 
actual subroutines, the END state- 
ments would be RETURNS.) Line 230 
opens the file to be read, while line 
240 looks for an end-of-file mark us- 
ing the TYP command. In North Star 
BASIC, a unique type will be associ- 
ated with the data: if it is a string 
variable, TYP returns a value of 1; if 
it is a numeric variable, TYP will 
equal 2; and, if it is an end-of-file 
mark, TYP returns with a 0. If line 
240 finds that TYP is not equal to 0, it 
falls through to line 250 and reads the 
data in the file into a set of dummy 
variables. (Dummy variables must be 
used so that we don't destroy the new 
data that we want to add to the file.) 
Once the end-of-file is found, the 
branch in line 240 is executed and we 
write the new data to the file (line 
270). 

Note that as new transactions are 
entered, more and more time is spent 
in the loop formed by lines 240 
through 260 looking for the end-of- 
file mark. Because sequential files re- 
quire that the entire data file be read 
before any new data can be written, 
the time lost looking for the end-of- 
file is a major limitation of sequential 
files. On the other hand, a sequential 
file is a "dense" file (i.e., there are no 



466 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



wasted gaps in the file). Each new 
piece of data is tightly packed against 
the previous piece of data, so disk 
space is used very efficiently. How- 
ever, the programmer must decide be- 
tween optimal use of disk space or 
faster operation: a choice that usually 
dictates use of random-access files. 

An Example Using 
Random-Access Files 

Listing 2 presents the same type of 
program as that shown in listing 1, 
but using random-access files. A ma- 
jor difference between the two pro- 
grams is that random-access files 
must use a fixed record length (i.e., 
each transaction will use exactly the 
same number of bytes in all instances). 
The programmer must decide this 
length, and in making that determina- 
tion needs to know the following: 
how many bytes are required to store 
a numeric variable; how many bytes 
should be allocated to store string 
data (including any "overhead" bytes 
associated with such string variables); 
and how many numeric and string 
variables will be used in each record. 
In our example, we use four numeric 
variables (D, N, A, and F) and one 
string variable (N$). 

The first task is to determine how 
many bytes are needed for each float- 
ing-point number stored in the nu- 
meric variables. For North Star 
BASIC, this can be determined by the 
following equation: 



B = (P/2) + 1 



/here: 



B = the number of 

bytes in a 

floating-point 

number 

P = the precision 

of the BASIC 

For the standard version of North 
Star BASIC (8-digit precision 
BASIC), each floating-point number 
requires 5 bytes. 

To determine the requirements for 
the name field, the programmer must 
decide on a string length that will be 
long enough to hold most customer 
names, but not so long as to waste 



Listing 1: This routine, written in North Star BASIC, adds a record to the end of c 
isting sequential file. 



100 REM= 

110 REM 

120 REM 

130 REM 

140 REM 

150 REM 

160 REM 

170 REM = 

180 REM 

190 REM 

200 REM 

210 REM 

220 REM 

230 OPEN #0,"BYTE"\REM 

240 IF TYP(0)=0 THEN 270 

250 READ #0,D1,N1,A1,N1S,F\REM 

260 GOTO 240 

270 WRITE #0,D,N,A,N$,F\REM 

280 CLOSE #0 

290 !"END"\END 



This is an example of a sequential file for North Star DOS 
and Basic 

10-15-80 
Purdum 
Ecosoft 

This program is treated as a subroutine where the values of the 
variables are determined before entering it. 



Activate file 

Read dummies if data present 

Found E.O.F., write new values 



Listing 2: This routine adds a new record to a random-access file. The number of 
records in this file is stored at the beginning of the file and updated after each write 
operation. 



100 REM= 
110 REM 
120 REM 
130 REM 
140 REM 
15 REM 
160 REM 
17 REM 
180 REM= 



This is an example of a random access file for North Star 
DOS and Basic 



10-15-80 
Purdum 
Ecosoft 



190 REM This program is also treated as a subroutine where the values 

200 REM of the variables are determined before entering it 

210 REM 

220 REM 

230 OPEN #0,"BYTE" 

240 READ #0,R\REM 

250 WRITE #0% (52*R+5) ,D,N,A,NS,F 

260 R=R+1\REM 

27 WRITE #0%0,R,NOENDMARK 

280 CLOSE #0 

290 END 



R contains # of records on disk 
Update record count 



riable 


Type 


D 


Numeric 


N 


Numeric 


A 


Numeric 


N$ 


String 


F 


Numeric 



Bytes 


Overhead 


5 


-0- 


5 


-0- 


5 


-0- 


30 


2 


5 


-0- 



Totals: 



50 



Record Length: 52 

Table 1: To calculate the fixed record length for a random-access file, simply sum 
the number of bytes required by each variable (or field) within a record. 



unnecessary disk space. In our exam- 
ple, we selected 30 bytes for the name 
string (N$). It should be noted that 
North Star BASIC requires 2 over- 
head (or housekeeping) bytes for each 
string that is less than 255 bytes long 
(3 bytes are required if the string is 
longer than 255 bytes). We can now 
determine the fixed record length for 
the random-access file, as shown in 
table 1. 



Having determined the fixed record 
length, the programmer can proceed 
to write the program (see the example 
shown in listing 2). We have assumed 
that the programmer ha's written a 
(zero) to the file for R (the variable 
that informs the program of how 
many previous transactions have 
been written to the disk). Since R is a 
floating-point number, the file has 5 
bytes in it before it is even used. The 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 467 



percent sign ( % ) in line 250 of listing 
2 is interpreted to mean "jump the 
following number of bytes" and write 
the new record. If this is the first en- 
try, the program will jump over X 
52 bytes, plus 5 more bytes. Since 
X 52 is 0, the program jumps over 5 
bytes (jumps over the R variable) 
and writes the new data. Line 260 in- 
crements the record count in R and 
writes the new value of R at the 
beginning of the file (the %0 says to 
jump over bytes, hence rewriting 
R). The NOENDMARK command in- 
forms the interpreter not to write an 
end-of-file mark after updating R. If 
the end-of-file mark was written after 
R, the program would think that the 
file ended after the first 5 bytes. 

The advantage of random-access 
files is that we don't have to read 
through the entire file to perform a 
write operation. By simply reading R 
and jumping the correct number of 
bytes (lines 240 and 250 in listings 2), 
we know exactly where the new data 
should be written. There is a price to 
pay for the increased speed, however. 
If a customer's name is "W. Oz", 
which is only 5 bytes long including 
the blank, we must still allocate 30 
bytes because of the fixed record re- 
quirement of random-access files. We 
have wasted almost 50% of the 
record space, a circumstance that is of 
particular importance when working 
with the smaller capacities of 5-inch 
floppy disks. Even the end user might 
get a little cranky if he knew that half 
of his disk space was going to waste. 

Skip Sequential: The Best 
of Both Worlds 

The main advantage of a Skip Se- 
quential file is that it has the same 
speed as a random-access file, but 
does not require the use of fixed 
record lengths. This means that it can 
write data to the disk with the same 
speed as random access, but does so 
without wasting disk space. If a 
customer's name is 5 bytes long, it 
will use only 5 bytes. We've been us- 
ing Skip Sequential for almost three 
years and have virtually eliminated 
sequential files from our program- 
ming choices. In all but the most 
trivial cases, Skip Sequential beats se- 
quential files, hands down. 



Listing 3: Initializing a Skip Sequential file requires that a single number be written to 
the file. Since this number will serve as the file byte counter, and is itself 5 bytes long, it 
is set to 5 on initialization. 



100 REM= 
110 REM 
13 REM 
140 REM 
15 REM 
160 REM 



Initialization routine for Skip Sequential prior to use 



10-15-80 
Purdum 
Ecosof t 



17 REM 

190 REM This program write a single number to a SS data file, the value 

200 REM of which is equal to the number of bytes/floating point number. 

210 REM 

220 REM 

230 OPEN #0,"BYTE" 



240 X=5\REM 
250 WRITE #0,X 
260 CLOSE #0 
270 END 



We're assuming 8-digit precision 



Skip Sequential is easy to use and 
requires little programming over- 
head. Essentially, it is a random- 
access file with a fixed record length 
of 1 byte: all we have to do is keep 
track of the number of bytes already 
written to the file. To this end we 
must provide a byte counter when the 
file is initialized (before using Skip Se- 
quential). The program in listing 3 il- 
lustrates this process. 

When preparing a file for Skip Se- 
quential, you must first write a single 
number to the file. The value of that 
number depends upon the number of 
bytes required for a floating-point 
number. North Star BASIC, for ex- 
ample, uses 5 bytes for such numbers, 
so X in line 240 of listing 3 is set to 5. 
Line 250 writes the number 5 to the 
file, and the program ends. Why do 
we have to write this number? Since 
we must keep track of the number of 
bytes written to the file, and the 
counter is a number which is 5 bytes 
long, 5 bytes are written to the file 
when we write the byte counter in 
line 250. The program in listing 3 has 
done what it's supposed to do: keep 
track of the number of bytes in the 
file — exactly 5. Having initialized the 
byte counter, we are now ready to 
use the file. 

The program in listing 4 can be 
used to implement the sample pro- 
gram discussed earlier. Line 240 reads 
the byte counter, while line 260 says 
to "skip over" B bytes and then write 
the new data to the disk. The first 
time through, B will equal 5 bytes, 
since only the byte counter is in the 
file. Note that North Star BASIC 
"skips" with respect to the beginning 



of the data file; some operating sys- 
tems may do this with respect to the 
disk head after reading B. If this is 
true, the byte counter must be in- 
itialized to in listing 3. Once the 
skip is performed in line 260, the new 
data is written to the disk in the con- 
ventional manner. 

Disk space is saved through line 
270, which sets L equal to the length 
of N$. Line 280 increases the byte 
counter to reflect the number of bytes 
written to the disk. Since there are 
four numbers of 5 bytes each, this is 
added to B, plus the length of the 
string, L, plus the 2 overhead bytes 
associated with each string. If the 
name were "W. Oz", L would equal 
5, and the total number of additional 
bytes would be 27. The byte counter 
would reflect 32, the total number of 
bytes in the file (27 new bytes plus 
5 for the byte counter itself). Line 300 
then writes the new value of the byte 
counter to the beginning of the file. 

Note what happens in listing 4 
when a second entry is made to the 
file. Line 240 returns with 32 in B. 
The program then skips over 32 bytes 
in line 260 and writes the new trans- 
action in the proper place in the file. 
The disk-write operation is actually 
performed faster than the random- 
access example given earlier, since B 
does not have to be calculated. Fixed 
record lengths are not used, so we 
save the difference between the actual 
string length and the worst case string 
length that would have been used 
with random-access files. As the file 
grows longer, the savings can be 
substantial. 

It is quite simple to read the file 



468 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 259 on inquiry card. 



Listing 4: New records may be added to a Skip Sequential file with this routine. The 
length of each record varies with the length of N$, the string variable containing a 
customer name. 

100 REM========================================== ===== == =================== 

110 REM This is an example of a Skip Sequential file for North Star 

12 REM • DOS and Basic 

130 REM 

140 REM 

150 REM 10-15-80 

160 REM Purdum 

170 REM Ecosoft 

180 REM =========== = ================================ === = = ======= ========== = = 

190 REM This program is also treated as a subroutine where the values 

200 REM of the variables are determined before entering it 

210 REM 

220 REM 

230 OPEN #0,"BYTE" 

240 READ #0,B\REM B contains # of BYTES written to disk 

250 REM 

260 WRITE i0%B,D,N,A,N?,F\REM Skip over the bytes already on disk 

270 L=LEN(N5) 

280 B=B+(5*4)+L+2\REM Up B by number of new bytes written 

290 REM 

300 WRITE #0%0,B,NOENDMARK\REM Now update byte counter 

310 CLOSE JO 

320 END 



Listing 5: Each record of a Skip Sequential file is read by calculating the individual 
record lengths as they are read and adding this value to the current byte count. 

110 REM This program reads a Skip Sequential file using North Star DOS 

and Basic 



120 


REM 


130 


REM 


140 


REM 


150 


REM 


160 


REM 


170 


REM 


180 


REM 


190 


REM 


200 


REM 



10-15-80 
Purdum 
Ecosoft 



210 REM 

220 DIM NS(30) 

230 E=5\REM 

240 REM 

250 OPEN #0,"BYTE" 

260 READ #0,B 

270 READ #0,D,N,A,NS,F 

280 !D,TAB(10) ,N,TAB(20) ,A,TAB(30) ,NS,TAB(65) ,F 

290 L=LEN(N?) 

300 E=E+(5*4)+L+2 

310 IF E<B THEN 270 

320 !\!"END OF LISTING" 

330 CLOSE #0 

340 END 



Must set a variable, E, equal to the number 
of bytes per floating point number. 



using sequential techniques. An ex- 
ample is given in listing 5. Note that E 
is equal to 5 in line 230. By using this 
variable in the same manner as B in 
listing 4, a comparison of E and B (as 
in line 310) is equivalent to testing for 
an end-of-file mark. Since E is up- 
dated in line 300, we know that we 
have read all of the data in the file 
when E is equal to B. 

The program in listing 5 does point 
out one potential problem. In those 
cases where N$ might be empty, line 
270 expects to see an N$ in the file. 
The simplest way to avoid a type 
error on a read operation is to set N$ 
equal to one blank before writing it to 
the disk in listing 4. While this does 
waste 3 bytes, the loss is trivial com- 
pared to the other savings of the Skip 
Sequential method. 



Updating a Skip Sequential File 

Another advantage of Skip Se- 
quential over sequential files is that 
they can be updated almost as easily 
as random files. Suppose that we 
want to use the flag variable (F) to 
reflect whether or not the transaction 
is paid. Assuming the F equaled 1 
when the transaction was originally 
written, we now want to update it to 
a paid status. We will further assume 
that the new value of F will reflect the 
date it was paid (although it could be 
a check number or any other numeric 
data). Listing 6 contains an example 
of updating a Skip Sequential file. 

Line 250 again sets the end-of-file 
counter, E. Lines 270 through 310 read 
the data and update E. Line 330 asks 
if this is the proper invoice number. If 
it isn't, line 350 is executed: this tests 



MAR. SPECIAL SALE ON PREPAID ORDERS 

(CHARGE CARDS. C00 OR P S NOT AVAILABLE! 

MIKOS WIRE WRAP PROTOTYPE BOARO. ROOM FOR 5 
REGULATORS. GLASS FILLED EP0XY, SI 00, OVER 3000 
HOLES. PLATED THROUGH HOLE. ALL EDGE CONNECTOR 
PINS NUMBERED AND LABELED. 
PCBD $27.95. 5 FOR SI29.95 



•1 



CALIFORNIA CDMPOTEH SYSTEMS 

S100 
2032 32K STATIC RAM A & T, 200 NSEC 
2065 64K DYNAMIC RAM A & T 

2200 S-100 MAIN FRAM A & T 

2422 FLOPPY DISC WITH CP/M 2.2" 

2810AZ80 CPU A & T 

27I0A4 SERIAL 1/0 A&T 

27IBA 2 SERIAL, 2 PARALLEL A&T $305.95 

2720A 4 PARALLEL A&T S214 95 

PBOTO BOARDS WW S39.95 

APPLE PRODOCTS 

7114A 12K R0M/PR0M 

7424A CALENDAR/CLOCK 

7440A PROGRAMMABLE TIMER 

7470A A TO CONVERTER 

7490A GPIB (IE 488) INTERFACE S265 95 

77I0A ASYNC SERIAL £125.95 

7712ASYNC SERIAL S15395 

7720A PARALLEL STANDARD S98 95 

7720B PARALLEL CENTRONICS S98 95 

7811 B ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR W/DISC. . S342 95 
781 1 C ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR W'ROM . S342.95 

7500A WW BOARD S22 95 

75I0A S0LDERTAIL BOARD S23 95 



.$629 00 
S548.95 
S379 95 
S329 95 
S249 95 
S291 95 



S68.50 

S106 95 

S98 50 

S105 95 



sam 



MICROCOMPUTER PRODUCTS 



S100 PRODUCTS 
CB-2 280 PROCESSOR BOARD 
KIT $19895. A& T 



VBIC 64 x 
KIT... 



16 VIDEO. PCBD 
. . . S153.95. 



A& T 



S269 95 

S32.95 

S199 95 



S425 95 

S32.95 

S194 95 



S185 95 



V83 80 CHARACTER VIDEO 4MHZ 
KIT . S345.95. A& T 

104 2 PARALLEL. 2 SERIAL. PCBD 
KIT $155.95. A& T 

PB-1 2708. 2716 PROGRAMMER BOARD 
KIT . S135.95. A&T. 

APPLE PRODUCTS 

AIO SERIAL/PARALLEL INTERFACE 

KIT S12595, A& T S15595 

ASIO SERIAL I/O 

KIT S87 95. A& T . S97 95 

APIO PARALLEL 10 W/0 CABLES 

KIT $67.95 A&T $87.95 



W777C 



inc. WAMECO INC. 



ROARDS WITH MIKOS PARTS 

MEM-3 32K STATIC RAM. PCBD $36 95 

KIT LESS RAM $95.95. A&T $135.95 

CPU-2 Z80 PROCESSOR. PCBD $32.95 

KIT LESS ROM S109.95, A&T $149.95 

EPM-2 16K/32K EPR0M, PCBD $32.95 

KIT LESS ROM $65.95. A & T . $99 95 

FPB-I FRONT PANEL. PCBD $48.50 

KIT S144.95. A&T $184.95 



QMB-12 13 SLOT MOTHER BOARD. PCBD 
KIT $95.95. A&T 



$39.95 
S135.95 



w 




MONDAY-FRIDAY, 8:00 TO 12:00, 1:00 TO 5:30 
THURSDAYS, 8:00 TO 9:00 P.M. 
(415) 728-9121 
P.O. BOX 955 • EL GRANADA, CA 94018 

PLEASE SEND FOR IC, XIST0R AND COMPUTER PARIS LIST 
VISA or MASTERCHARGE Send account number, interbank number, 
expiration date and sign your oider Apptox postage will be added 
Orders with check or money order will be sent post paid in US It you are 
not a regular customer, please use charge, cashier's check or postal 
money order Otherwise there will be a two-week delay tor checks to 
clear. Calif residents add 6% tax. Money back 30-day guarantee We 
cannot accept retur ned IC's that have been soldered to. Prices subject to 
change without notice $20.00 minimum ordir. $2 00 tinrice ehinji on 
orders Im thin 520 00 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



469 



Circle 291 on inquiry card. 



VTA 



ryx 
software 

GUARANTEED LOWEST PRICES! 

To celebrate our opening, we are 
matching any advertised price. Just 
show us the ad. 



ORDER TOLL FREE - Outside Wl 
1-800-826-1589 



ACCESSORIES 

Apple II Dual Thermometer w/software 260.00 

Mountain Expansion Chassis 625.00 

CPS Multifunction ', 199.00 

Mountain Music Systom 395.00 

100,000 Day Clock 375.00 

Mountain Clock 252.00 

Supertalker SD 2000 199.00 

A/D + 0/A 299.00 

CCS 12K R0M/PR0M Board 99.00 

CCS A/D Converter Board 99.00 

CCS Serial Asynch. Board 139.00 

CCS Calendar/Clock Board 99.00 

V0TRAX Type-n-Talk 375.00 

ADALAB Package 495.00 

DOSDater 49.00 

ABT Numeric Keypad 125.00 

ABTSollkey 150.00 

ABTBarwand 195.00 

ABT Cash Box 295.00 

ABT Pascal Tools I or II 75.00 

Scitronic Remote Controller 249.00 

Scitronic Energy Watcher 1 Ph 349.00 

Apple Speed Controller 69.00 

Applescope (your Apple as an Oscilloscope) 595.00 

Scope Driver 49.00 

VidBx Videoterm 319.00 

Videx Enhancer II 149.00 

KSD Enhancer 115.00 

Videx Character Sets 29.00 

Echo SpBBCh Synthesizer 225.00 

Upper/Lower Character 39.50 

Joysticks 4 59.00 

ALS Smarterm 379.00 

ALS Z-Card 269.00 

SSM A10 s/p interface + cable 195.00 

Scott Instrument VET (2) 795.00 

ALF Music Card MC1 195.00 

ALF Music Card MC16 245.00 

ALF Game I/O 16.00 

ALF Timing Mode I/O 18.00 

ALF Ear Training 49.95 

ALF Albums 14.95 

Microspeed II 495.00 

. ..AND MANY MORE! 



• Programs lor Apple, Commodore, TRS and any CP/M 
computer. 

Quoted prices valid for stock on hand and sub- 
ject to change without prior notice. 

Call for price information: 

Printers ■ Epson, Okidata, Microline, 

C. ITOH, Qume, Diablo, Anadex, IDS, 

Microtek, Printek. 

Monitors - Amdek, Sanyo, Hitachi, 

Kaga/TSK. 

Modems - Novation, Hayes. 

Disk Drives ■ Percom, Corvus, Morrow, CCS 

etc. 

Plotters - Watanabe. 



NEC, 
MPI, 



NEC, 



Ask for our FREE catalog. 

For Software see our other ad, page 376 



Please: 

• Wisconsin residents - add 4% sales tax 

• Foreign orders - please add 15% 

• Add $2.50 for shipping per software and 
small item. Call regarding others. 

We Welcome: 

• Visa, MasterCharge - (Add 4%) 

• Checks (Allow 1-2 weeks for clearing) 

• COD (Add 4%) 

TOLL FREE - Outside Wisconsin: 
1-800-826-1589 

For Technical Info & in Wisconsin: 
715-848-2322 
Oryx Software 

P.O. Box 1961 • Wausau, Wl 54401 



B 



Listing 6: In order to update a Skip Sequential file, each record must be searched until 
the proper one is located. A new value of the same length must then be written into that 
record. 



100 

110 
120 

130 
140 
150 
160 
17 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
3 40 
350 
360 
370 
380 
390 
400 
410 
420 
430 
440 
450 
460 



REM====================================================== 

REM This program updates a variable in a Skip Sequential files using 

REM North Star DOS and Basic 

REM 

REM 

REM 10-15-80 

REM Purdum 

REM Ecosoft 

rem =================================================================== 

REM This program assumes we want to set the flag variable, F, to 

REM equal the current date, which is held in variable Y. The trans- 

REM action to be updated has an invoice number that must match Nl . 

REM 

REM 

DIM NS (30) 

E=5\REM 

REM 

OPEN #0,"BYTE" 

READ #0,B 

READ #0,D,N,A,N$,F 

L=LEN(N?) 

E=E+(5*4)+L+2\REM 

REM 

IF N=N1 THEN 430\REM 

REM 

IF E<B THEN 290XREM Compare to B to see if we've read all bytes 

!\1 "CANNOT FIND A MATCH FOR INVOICE NUMBER", N 

CLOSE #0 

END 

r£j^ ********** Update Flao *********** 

REM Since F is the last variable read and E con- 

REM tains the number of bytes read, back up 5 

REM bytes and write the date paid. 

WRITE #0% (E-5) ,Y,NOENDMARK 

CLOSE #0 

!" INVOICE MARKED 'PAID' WITH TODAY'S DATE."\! 

END 



Must set a variable, E, equal to the number 
of bytes per floating point number. 



Update number of bytes read, variable E 
Is it the one we're looking for? 



Listing 7: Microsoft BASIC-80 version of the initialization routine for a Skip Sequential 
file. 

110 REM Skip Sequential files for Digital Research's CP/M operating system and 

120 REM Microsoft's Baslc-80. 

130 REM 

140 REM 10-15-80 

150 REM Purdum, ECOSOFT 

160 REM ======================================================================= 

17 REM 

180 REM 

190 REM 

200 REM 

210 REM 

220 OPEN 

23 REM 

240 FIELD #1,8 AS Y5 

250 M=1:REM 

260 LSET Y$=MKD?(M) 

270 PUT #1,1: CLOSE #1:END 



The function of this program is to initialize the data file 
called BYTE for use as a Skip Sequential data file. It assumes 
double-precision numbers are used in the data file. 



"R",#1,"BYTE",8:REM 



A random file with 
length of 8 bytes. 



a fixed record 



One record will be in it 



for an end-of-file condition. If we 
haven't read all of the data, we go to 
290 and read some more. If the prop- 
er match is in 330, control is sent to 
430 to write today's date (assumed to 
be in Y) in place of F. Note how this is 
accomplished. Upon finding a match 
in 330, E contains the number of 
bytes read thus far. Since F is a 5-byte 
number, we need to back up 5 bytes 
before writing Y in place of F. For this 
reason, five is subtracted from the 
variable E in line 430. The rest of the 
line writes the date, Y, with no end- 
of-file mark, to the file. We are, of 
course, assuming that Y is also a 
number. 



Skip Sequential for BASIC-80 

We have also included a program 
similar to the above but modified for 
Microsoft's BASIC-80. The program 
listings are similar to the North Star 
BASIC versions, but the differences 
between interpreters do require some 
changes. 

One of the major differences be- 
tween North Star BASIC and BASIC- 
80 is that BASIC-80 requires that 
record length be given when the file is 
opened. Listing 7 shows how a Skip 
Sequential file is initialized using 
BASIC-80. Since we use dollar 
amounts as one of the variables in the 
data file (i.e., A), the programmer will 



470 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 270 on inquiry card. 



Listing 8: BASIC-80 routine to add a record to a Skip Sequential file. Note that this 
routine uses an 8-byte record length instead of the 1-byte length used in North Star 
BASIC. 



100 REM= 
110 REM 
120 REM 
130 REM 
140 REM 
150 REM 
160 REM= 



Writing data to a Skip Sequential data file 
CP/M and Basic-80 

Purdum, Ecosoft 
10-15-80 



17 REM 

180 REM The function of this program is to write the data to the SS file 

190 REM called BYTE. It assumes values are given upon enterinq the routine. 

200 REM 

210 REM 

220 IF LEN(NS)=0 THEN NS=SPACES ( 8) :REM If no name wanted, write 8 blanks 

23 REM 

240 REM Begin file write 

250 REM 

260 OPEN "R",il,"BVTE",8:FIELD #1,8 AS YS 

27 REM 



280 GET #1,1:U=CVD(Y5) :U=INT(U) :REM 

290 U=U+1:REM 

300 REM 

310 LSET YS=MKDS(D) : PUT fl,U:REM 

320 U=U+1 

330 LSET YS=MKDS(N) : PUT #1,U:REM 

340 U=U+1 

350 LSET YS=MKDS(A) : PUT #1,U:REM 

360 U=U+1 

370 REM *** Now find how many records needed for NS *** 

380 REM 

390 IF LEN(NS)/8>INT(LEN(NS)/8) THEN X=INT (LEN (NS) / 8) +1 ELSE X=INT (LEN (NS ) / 8) 

400 REM 



Get # of records already in file in U 
Up counter 

Write a new one, D 

Another one, N 

Yet another, A 



410 LSET YS=MKDS(X) : PUT #1,U:REM 

420 REM 

43 REM 

440 FOR J=l TO X 

450 LSET YS=MIDS (NS,8*J-7,8) 

460 PUT #1,J+U 

470 NEXT J 

480 REM 

490 U=U+X 

500 F=1:REM 

510 U=U+1 

520 LSET Y$=MKDS(F) : PUT #1,0 

530 LSET YS=MKDS(U) : PUT #1,1:REM 

540 CLOSE *1 

550 END 



Save number of records, X 

Now write N$ as 8-byte records 



Add flag variable, F=l=active 
Update counter for new records added 



Listing 9: BASIC-80 program to read data in a Skip Sequential file. 



100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
370 
380 



REM ============================================================ 

REM This program reads the Skip Sequential file for CP/M and 

REM Basic-80 

REM 

REM 10-15-80 

REM Purdum, ECOSOFT 

REM This is also treated as if it were a subroutine 

REM 

OPEN "R" ,#1,"BYTE",8:FIELD #1,8 AS YS 



GET *1,1:U=CVD(YS) :REM 

REM 

M=2:REM 

GET #1,M:D=CVD(Y$) :REM 

M=M+1 

GET #1,M:N=CVD(YS) :REM 

M=M+1 

GET #1,M:A=CVD(Y5) :REM 

M=M+1 

GET #1,M:X=CVD(Y5) :REM 

REM 

FOR J=l TO X 

GET *1,M+J:NS=NS+YS:REM 
NEXT J 
M=M+X:REM 
M=M+1 

GET #1,M:F=CVD(YS) : REM 
IF MOU THEN 200 
CLOSE #1:END 



probably want to use double-preci- 
sion numbers. In BASIC-80, 8 bytes 
are required for each numeric vari- 
able. Lines 220 and 240 inform the in- 
terpreter that we will be using a fixed 



Get record counter in U 

We want second record 
Get date 

Get Invoice number 

Get amount 

Get byte-lenght of customer name in 
terms of 8-byte records into X 

Stuff name in NS 

Bump read counter for NS length 

Get flag and we're done 



record length of 8 bytes instead of the 
1-byte record in the North Star 
BASIC version of Skip Sequential 
(Microsoft BASIC-80 does not allow 
a record length of 1). Line 260 con- 



Mil stocks 9 em all 
for faster delivery. 



Ask about our " QED " discounts. 
VISA and MasterCard orders accepted. 

MTI 

VIDEO TERMINALS Price 

VTIOO DECscope $ 1595 

VT101 DECscope 1215 

VT131 DECscope 1785 

VT 1 32 DECscope 1995 

ADM 3A Idumb terminal) 595 

ADM 5 (dumb with visual attributes).. 645 

ADM 31 (two page buffer} 1095 

ADM 32 (ergonomic ADM 31) 

ADM 42 eight page buffer avail " 

Tl 940 (two page buffer) 1 795 

Tl "Insight Series 10" personal term. . 695 

Hazeltine Executive 80 Model 20 1495 

Hazeltine Executive 80 Model 30 1715 

1410 (Hazeltine dumb terminal) 825 

1421 (Consul 580 & ADM 3A comp.) 850 

1500 (dumb terminal) 1045 

1510 (buffered) 1145 

1520 (buffered, printer port) 1395 

1 552 IVT52 compatible) 1 250 

Hazeltine Esprit 645 

GRAPHICS TERMINALS 

VT100 with graphics pkg 3250 

VT 125 (DEC graphics) 3280 

ADM 3A with graphics pkg 1795 

ADM 5 with graphics pkg 1845 

300 BAUD TELEPRINTERS 

LA34-DA DECwriter IV 995 

LA34-AA DECwriter IV 1095 

LA36 DECwriter II 1095 

Teletype 4310AAG 1045 

Teletype 4320AAK 1 195 

Diablo 630 RO 2295 

Diablp 1640 KSH 2775 

Diablo 1650 KSR 2835 

Tl 743 (portable! 1190 

Tl 745 (port/built-in coupler) 1485 

Tl 763 (port/bubble memory! 2545 

Tl 765 Iport/bubble/b.i. coupler! 2595 

Tl "Insight Series 10/1" pers. term. ... 695 
600 BAUD TELEPRINTERS 

Epson MX-80 645 

Tl 825 KSR impact 1570 

Tl 825 KSR pkg 1795 

Tl 840 RO impact 895 

Tl 840 KSR impact 1145 

Tl 840 KSR pkg 1635 

1200 BAUD TE LEPRINTERS 

Epson MX-100 995 

LA 120 RA (receive only) 2095 

LA 120 AA (forms package! 2295 

Tl 783 (portable) 1645 

Tl 785 (port/built-in coupler] 2270 

Tl 787 (port/internal modem! 2595 

Tl 810 RO impact 1545 

Tl 810 RO pkg 1795 

Tl 820 RO impact 1850 

Tl 820 RO pkg 2025 

Tl 820 KSR impact 2025 

Tl 820 KSR pkg 2195 

Lear Siegler 310 ballistic 1945 

2400 BAUD 

Dataproducts M200 (2400 baud) 2910 

DATAPRODUCTS LINE PRINTERS 

6300 (300 LPM band) 5260 

B600 (600 LPM band) 6776 

B900 [900 LPM band) 10220 

BP1500 11500 LPM band! 19700 

2230 1300 LPM drum] 8148 

2260 (600 LPM drum) 9979 

2290 (900 LPM drum] 13098 

ACOUSTIC COUPLERS 

A/J A242-A (300 baud origl 242 

A/J 247 (300 baud origl 315 

A/J 1234 (Vadic compatible! 795 

Vadic VA 341 3 1300/1 200 orig) 845 

Vadic VA3434 11200 baud orig) 845 

MODEMS 

GDC 103A3 (300 baud Bell) 395 

GDC 202S/T (1200 baud Bell) 565 

GDC 212-A (300/1 200 baud Bell) 810 

A/J 1256 (Vadic compatible) 825 

VA 1 03 I 300 baud modemphone) .... 235 

VA 3451 (orig/ans triple modem) 885 

VA 3455 (1200 baud orig/ans] 770 

CASSETTE STORAGE SYSTEMS 

Techtran 816 (store/forward) 1050 

Techtran 817 (store/for/speed up) 1295 

Techtran 818 (editing) 1795 

TechtrBn 822 (dual) 2295 

FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS 

Techtran 950 (store/forward) 1395 

Techtran 951 (editing) 1995 

"Please call for quote 



mti 



Distributors, New York, New Jersey and Ohio. 

New York: 

516/482-3500, 212/895-7177, 518/449-5959 

Outside N. Y.S.: 800/645-8016 

New Jersey: 201/227-5552 

Ohio: 216/464-6688 

March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 471 



verts the value of M into a string for 
writing to the disk. This is essentially 
identical to the use of random-access 
files in North Star BASIC to this 
point. 

Listing 8 illustrates how the data is 
written to the Skip Sequential file. 
The only unusual part of the program 
occurs betweens lines 390 and 480. 
Line 390 makes the name held in N$ 
an even multiple of 8 bytes. The value 
of X tells us how many multiples 
there are, and since we need to know 
this X value later to read N$, line 410 
saves it in the file as part of the trans- 
action. Lines 440 through 480 save N$ 
to the disk as 8-byte records. The re- 
mainder of the program is the BASIC- 
80 equivalent of writing the flag vari- 
able and the updated record counter. 

Listing 9 is the program to read the 
Skip Sequential file. The only unusu- 
al segment is the reconstruction of N$ 
in lines 310 through 330. The updat- 
ing need not be discussed, since it 
would be identical to updating any 
other random file in BASIC-80. 

Several improvements could be 
made to the BASIC-80 version. For 



example, X could be "packed" with 
the date, given the double-precision 
numbers of BASIC-80 and the fact 
that X will never exceed four in the 
sample program. We also think that 
there may be a way to trick the inter- 
preter into accepting a 1-byte record 
length instead of 8 bytes, but we 
haven't experimented sufficiently. 
Still, Skip Sequential can save disk 
space over conventional random- 
access files, albeit the savings aren't 
quite as great. 

Concluding Thoughts 

Skip Sequential files do offer many 
advantages to the programmer and, 
indeed, the end user. In general, Skip 
Sequential files may be used for the 
following: in almost any application 
where ordinary sequential files are 
appropriate; in any situation where 
data is archival in nature (e.g., data 
backups, transactions, or historical 
entries); and where only limited up- 
dating is required (e.g., setting flags). 
As a general rule, Skip Sequential 
strings cannot be updated unless the 
new and old string lengths are the 



same. For this reason, data sets that 
require frequent updating, such as 
mail or customer lists, are better 
suited to random-access files. 

Finally, Skip Sequential files can be 
used in a way that simulates ISAM 
(indexed-sequential access method) 
files. For example, if a separate file 
holds the byte-counter values that 
exist for the first entry of each month, 
those byte-counter values can be 
read first and used to jump to the first 
entry of the month in the Skip Se- 
quential file. This will further en- 
hance the speed of data retrieval. 

While the documentation for the 
Skip Sequential method has been 
copyrighted, and we have applied for 
a trademark on the name, I encourage 
you to make use of the files. If you 
plan to make commercial use of the 
Skip Sequential method, I'd ap- 
preciate it if you would contact us 
first. ■ 



Acknowledgments 

/ would like to thank my business associate 
and friend, Dr. ]. B. Orris, for his comments on 
an earlier draft of this article. 




WHAT 

FITS 
WHAT, 




Just our little effort to remove some of the vast confusion 
from the data processing, word processing and office products world. You 
can match up hardware model numbers with disc cartridges, disc packs, 
or diskette model numbers. 

Send for our free 145-page guide. One handy T *" fl;s 'ai\, A 

book covers entire DP and WP industry usage — _ ZSfcf"''' 3 lA/ij 

of magnetic memory media. How can you do ^s^r— ; . W^m fc!^£"AT , 

wi.hou.it? %/j^* ajs 

NASHUA =^^Sl 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS DIVISION 

Nashua Corporation. Dept. A3. 

Nashua. NH 03061 

We make everything to fit anything 



TELEPHONE 

Nt;w England ana New York (800) 258 1555 

Ensl al me Mississippi (8001 2581 /26 

Wesl Dl mi,. Mississippi 1800) 2581340 

TELEX 943406 



(T 



A Message 
to our Subscribers 



From time to time we make 
the BYTE subscriber list 
available to other companies 
who wish to send our 
subscribers promotional 
material about their products. 
We take great care to screen 
these companies, choosing 
only those who are reputable, 
and whose products, services, 
or information we feel would 
be of interest to you. Direct 
mail is an efficient medium 
for presenting the latest 
personal computer goods and 
services to our subscribers. 

Many BYTE subscribers 
appreciate this controlled 
use of our mailing list, and 
look forward to finding 



information of interest to 
them in the mail. Used are 
our subscribers' names and 
addresses only (no other 
information we may have is 
ever given). 

While we believe the 
distribution of this 
information is of benefit to 
our subscribers, we firmly 
respect the wishes of any 
subscriber who does not want 
to receive such promotional 
literature. Should you wish to 
restrict the use of your name, 
simply send your request to 
BYTE Publications Inc, Attn: 
Circulation Department, 
70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
03458. Thank you. 



*5s- 



472 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 433 on inquiry card. 



Programming Quickie 



Finding Words That Sound Alike 

The Soundex Algorithm 



Jacob R. Jacobs 

1903 Fordham Way 

Mountain View, CA 94040 



The name I am searching for is "Johnson." But is it 
spelled "Johnson," "Johnsen," "Jonson," "Jonsen," or 
"Johanson"? The Soundex algorithm can help find words 
that sound alike by reducing a string to a Soundex code 
string consisting of a letter and up to three digits. 

Alphabetic strings that sound alike generate identical 
Soundex code strings. The Soundex system is used in the 
Whatsit data-management system (from Computer 
Headware, POB 14694, San Francisco, CA 94114) that 
runs on the Apple, but the program presented here is my 
own. In the Whatsit program, you can ask, "WHAT 
SOUNDS (LIKE) JOHNSON?" Whatsit then lists every 
word it "knows" that sounds like the word "Johnson." 

The Soundex algorithm was recently described by 
P.A.V. Hall and G.R. Dowling ( "Approximate String 
Matching," ACM Computing Surveys, 12, 4, December 
1980, p. 388), and it works as follows. We will call the 
entry-name string E$ and the reduced output code string 
R$. The first character of R$ is merely the first character 
of E$. The remaining letters of the E$ string are replaced 
by their group code numbers as shown in table 1. Then 
all zeros are removed, and consecutive occurrences of the 
same digit are reduced to a single digit. Finally, the code 
is truncated on the left to leave one letter and up to three 
digits. 

The Soundex program in listing 1 is written in 
Applesoft BASIC. To simplify conversion to other 
BASICs, I will give examples of the Applesoft MID$ and 
LEFTS functions. A$ = MID$(B$,6,4) will set the string 
variable A$ to a four-character substring of B$ starting at 
the sixth character. A$ = LEFT$(B$,2) will set A$ to the 
first two (i.e., leftmost) characters of B$. 

The Soundex subroutine beginning at line 1000 of 
listing 1 will accept the input string E$ and return the 
reduced-code string R$, and it will throw away 



nonalphabetic characters. Lines 10 through 40 dimension 
the arrays E$ and R$, which are used for demonstration 
purposes only. The array W(N) is initialized to the group 
number corresponding to the Nth letter of the alphabet. 



Listing 1: Written in Applesoft BASIC, this program accepts a 
character string E$ as input, converts it to the Soundex code 
string R$, and prints out all words that have the same code 
string. 



10 J = 




20 DIM E$(99),R$(99) 




30 DIM W(26) 




1)0 FOR I = 1 TO 26: READ W(I): NEXT 




50 PRINT : INPUT "INPUT STRING: ";E$: PRINT 




60 GOSUB 1000 




70 J = J + 1 




80 R$(J) = R$ 




90 E$(J) = E$ 




100 FOR M = 1 TO J 




110 IF R$(M) = R$ THEN PRINT E$(M) 




120 NEXT 




130 GOTO 50 




1000 REM SOUNDEX SUBROUTINE 




1010 L = LEN (E$) 




1020 S$ = "" 




1030 R$ = LEFT$ (E$,1) 




1040 ST = 




1050 IF L < 2 THEN RETURN 




1060 FOR I = 2 TO L 




1070 C = ASC ( MID$ (E$,I,1)) 




1080 IF C < 65 OR C > 90 GOTO 1120 




1090 C = C - 64 




1100 W = W(C) 




1110 IF W < > THEN S$ = S$ + CHR$ (W + 48) 




1120 NEXT 




1130 L = LEN (S$) 




1140 IF L = GOTO 1210 




1150 FOR I = 1 TO L 




1160 C = ASC ( MID$ (S$,I,1)) 




1170 IF C < > ST THEN R$ = R$ + MID$ (S$,I,1) 




1180 ST = C 




1 1 90 NEXT 




1200 IF LEN (R$) > 4 THEN R$ : LEFT$ (R$,4) 




1210 RETURN 




1220 DATA 0,1,2,3,0,1,2,0,0,2,2,4,5,5,0,1,2,6,2,3,0,' 


1,0,2,0,2 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 473 



Programming Quickie. 



For example, W(3) contains the number 2 corresponding 
to the assignment of the letter C (i.e., the third letter of 
the alphabet) to the group 2. This initialization occurs in 
line 40, using the data statement in line 1220, and should 
be done once at the beginning of your main program. 

Lines 50 through 130 form a simple demonstration pro- 
gram that stores each word as it is typed in together with 
its code word. The original word and the code word are 
stored in arrays E$( ) and R$( ), respectively. Each time 
you add a word, the program prints out all words that 
have the same code word, finding them by doing a linear 
search through the code words. 

The Soundex Subroutine 

The Soundex subroutine appears in lines 1000 through 
1220. Lines 30 and 40 are also needed to initialize array 



W. The first letter of E$ is put into R$. If the length of E$ 
is (null string) or 1, then the subroutine terminates (line 
1050). Otherwise each character of E$, starting at the sec- 
ond character, is scanned and its group code is put into 
the intermediate string S$ unless the character is not a let- 
ter or the letter falls in group 0. For example, if we type 
SOMMERSET, when the program gets to line 1130, S$ 
will contain S55623. Next, consecutive occurrences of the 
same group number will be reduced to a single occurrence 
of that number. Thus the 55 in S55623 will become a 
single 5. When the program gets to line 1200, the string 
R$ will be S5623. Line 1200 truncates the string R$ to four 
characters, becoming S562, which is the code word for 
SOMMERSET. Let's take another look at the steps, 
shown before the execution of each line: 





Group 


Letters 







A E I U H W Y 




1 


B F P V 




2 


C G J K Q S X Z 




3 


D T 




4 


L 




5 


M N 




6 


R 


Table 1 







line 



S$ 



R$ 



Stocking genuine 

DEC computer 

spares 



Spare Parts for: 

DEC PDP Computer Family 

DEC Line Printers 

DEC Video Screens 

LSI-11 

Others 



Call Radgo. We handle genuine DEC parts manu- 
factured by DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION. 
We sell at factory prices with FACTORY WARRAN- 
TY Radgo is stocked and staffed to help you with 
your requirements for most general purpose K & M 
series and many COMPUTER SPARE MODULES 
and COMPONENTS. We also stock a large assort- 
ment of COMPUTER SUPPLIES. 

Radga 5sIes Cn. 

To order or for free catalog call: 

1-800-543-1986. Ohio customers phone 

1-51 3-7 52-6880. 

3988 McMANN RD.. CINCINNATI. OH 45245 



1030 


null 


S 


1130 


55623 


S 


1200 


55623 


S5623 


1210 


55623 


S562 



This algorithm has some serious limitations. Although 
our "Johnson" examples work fine, with the resulting 
code for the different spellings being J525, "phone" and 
"fone" do not give the same code because they start with 
different letters; "Rogers" and "Rodgers" do not work 
because the d is not in the same code group as g. And 
words like "tough" and "tuff" do not translate to the same 
code because g and / are in different code groups. But the 
Soundex algorithm works well for most words and 
proper names. 

To try the Soundex algorithm, enter the program in 
listing 1 and run it. Type in some names. Every time you 
type a new name, the program will list on the screen all 
the words entered that have the same Soundex code. If 
you add the line 

65 PRINT R$ 

the Soundex code will also be printed. 

Applications 

The Soundex subroutine has many applications. If you 
have a card-file program that searches for items by 
matching a "key" string, rather than returning the 
message 

MATCH NOT FOUND 

or some such, your program could jump into the 
"Soundex mode," look for matches that sound similar to 
the key, and then list them. You could then look through 
the list of near matches to see if the word sought is in the 
list. This short Soundex subroutine can add a lot of 
"flash" to what might otherwise be a mundane 
program. ■ 



474 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 434 on inquiry card. 



What's New? 



SYSTEMS 




Multifunction 
Desktop Computers 

The AWS family of multi- 
function work stations 
offer 0.5 megabyte of stor- 
age. These desktop work 
stations are based on the 
1 6-bit Intel 8088 micropro- 
cessor and carry a com- 
bination of floppy- and 
Winchester hard-disk 
drives in the same enclo- 
sure as the processor and 
the display screen. Each 
AWS work station sup- 
ports up to 512K bytes of 
RAM (random-access 
memory) based on 64K- 
byte RAM integrated cir- 
cuits, an 80-character by 
28-line video-display unit, 
and an optional mass-stor- 
age unit. The units can 
function as stand-alone ter- 
minals or as members of a 
local network by means of 
a high-speed data link, 
sharing peripherals and 
databases. 

In single-units, the AWS 
work station ranges in 
price from $3990 to ap- 
proximately $11,500, de- 
pending on optional equip- 



ment. For additional de- 
tails, contact Pauline Alker, 
Convergent Technologies, 
2500 Augustine Dr., Santa 
Clara, CA 95051, (800) 
538-7560; in California 
(408) 727-8830. 
Circle 550 on inquiry card. 




Single-Board 

Computer Can 

Support 56K Bytes 

of Memory 

The Flexi Plus is a 
6809-based single-board 
microcomputer that can 
accommodate up to 56K 
bytes of on-board RAM 
(random-access read/write 
memory), ROM (read-only 
memory), and EPROM 
(erasable programmable 
ROM) in any combination. 
Flexi Plus features extensive 
serial and parallel I/O (in- 



put/output) capabilities, a 
20-milliampere current- 
loop TTY (teletypewriter) 
port, and a universal cas- 
sette interface. When used 
without its 6809 option, 
the Flexi Plus can serve as 
an expansion board for 
most 6502-, 6800-, or 
6809-based systems. 

Optionally, the Flexi Plus 
can be expanded to in- 
clude an IBM-format-com- 
patible floppy-disk con- 
troller that can support up 
to four 8-inch drives or 
three 5'/4-inch drives. Addi- 
tional options include an 
IEEE-488 bus controller 
and a fully buffered RS- 
232C communications 
port with programmable 
data formats and transfer 
rates from 50 to 19,500 
bps (bits per second). 

The Flexi Plus costs 
$320. The 6809 and the 
RS-232C options are avail- 
able for $75 each. Both the 
floppy-disk and the 
IEEE-488 bus controllers 
cost $125. Literature is 
available on request. Con- 
tact Robert M. Tripp, The 
Computerist Inc., 34 
Chelmsford St., Chelms- 
ford, MA 01824, (617) 
256-3649. 
Circle 551 on inquiry card. 



STD Bus 
Controller Card 

The ZT7805 controller 
card for the STD bus fea- 
tures an 8085A micropro- 
cessor, IK bytes of pro- 
grammable memory, up to 
8K bytes of ROM (read- 
only memory), IEEE-488 
I/O (input/output) and two 
serial RS-232C ports, and a 
control monitor with I/O 
subroutines. The board 



costs $650. Contact Zia- 
tech Corp., 2410 Broad St., 
San Luis Obispo, CA 
93401, (805) 541-0488. 
Circle 552 on inquiry card. 



Modular 
Microcomputer 

The Sintel-85 is a modu- 
lar microcomputer training 
system based on the Intel 
8085 microprocessor. It has 
2K bytes of ROM (read- 
only memory) with ex- 
pandable monitor, 256K 
bytes of RAM (random-ac- 
cess read/write memory), 
three programmable I/O 
(input/output) ports, a 
6-digit display with both 
address and data fields, 
and a 24-key keyboard 
with eight command keys 
and 16 hexadecimal keys. 

Sintel-85 can be ex- 
panded to include up to 
64K bytes of memory and 
256 I/O ports. A wide 
range of expansion and in- 
terface boards are avail- 
able, including A/D 
(analog-to-digital) and D/A 
(digital-to-analog) con- 
verters, cassette interface, 
an immediate expansion 
board, and audio-visual I/O 
ports interface. The im- 
mediate expansion board 
augments the basic system 
with additional RAM, 4K 
bytes of EPROM (erasable 
programmable ROM), two 
counter/timers, and 44 pro- 
grammed I/O lines. It in- 
cludes two 8156 units, 
two 2114 static RAMs, and 
sockets for two 2716 
ROMs. Also available is an 
I/O expansion board that 
lets you exercise and 
simulate I/O instructions, 
external systems operation, 
and program debugging. 
An oscillator lets you oper- 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 475 



What's New? 



ate a small speaker. For 
more details, contact Beth 
Belkin, Government of 
Israel Trade Center, 350 
Fifth Ave., New York, NY 
10118, (212) 560-0661. In 



Israel, contact Sintel Sys- 
tems Ltd., 13 Ovadia St., 
POB 9209, Haifa, Israel 
34564, (04) 334944; Telex: 
46400 BXHAIL, ext. 8134. 
Circle 553 on inquiry card. 




Business System 
Has Three Z80s 



The ARCmicro is a small- 
business microcomputer 
system with three separate 
Z80 microprocessors: the 
system processor, the disk 
processor, and the terminal 
processor. The system sup- 
ports two 5'/4-inch Win- 
chester disks for a total of 
20 megabytes of formatted 
storage and four 5 'A -inch 
double-sided, double-den- 
sity floppy-disks totaling 3.2 
megabytes of storage. Sys- 
tem memory is expandable 
from 64K bytes to 256K 
bytes. The terminal proces- 
sor controls all video-dis- 
play units, printers, and 
communications links with 
the system processor, 
which frees the system pro- 
cessor from interrupts and 
increases communications 
throughput. 

Other features of the 
ARCmicro include a 
shadow ROM (read-only 
memory) that contains self- 



diagnostics and bootstrap 
programs that execute dur- 
ing system initialization. 
The self-diagnostic pro- 
grams perform memory 
and peripheral device tests 
to assure integrity each 
time the system is initial- 
ized. The ROM then "dis- 
appears" from the address 
space and is available for 
use by the program mem- 
ory. 

The ARCmicro is current- 
ly available as a complete 
microcomputer system 
called the ARCmicro/PAC, 
which includes a DEC 
(Digital Equipment Cor- 
poration) VT-101 video dis- 
play, a DEC LA-34 printer, 
and either the CP/M 2.2 or 
the MP/M II disk operating 
system. Contact ARC 
Automation Group Inc., 
POB 1009, Bryan, TX 
77805, (713) 693-6122. 
Circle 554 on inquiry card. 



SOFTWARE 

Step FORTH to RPL 

RPL is a FORTH-like lan- 
guage that runs on PET 
and CBM (Commodore 
Business Machines) com- 
puters. RPL (Reverse Polish 
Language) uses the Com- 
modore BASIC screen 
editor for program entry 
and editing, but does not 
inhibit the use of BASIC 
throughout a software de- 
velopment session. The 
RPL Compiler and the 
screen-oriented, object- 
level Symbolic Debugger 
reside in the top 8K bytes of 
memory and can be called 
directly from BASIC com- 
mands. Source code is 
saved to disk or cassette 
and is compiled memory- 
to-memory. 

RPL has special key- 
words and symbols that let 
you nest multiline IF. . . 
THEN. . .ELSE constructs 
and FOR. . .NEXT loops. 
Other special keywords 
and symbols offer named 
subroutines and functions 
of arbitrary length, 16-bit 
integer arithmetic and log- 
ical manipulations, built-in 
character-string handling, 
stack-management direc- 
tives that include n-index 
and n-rotate, access to 
machine language, prede- 
fined arrays with numeric 
and string contents, local 
and global symbols, and 
forward and backward 
symbolic references, includ- 
ing GOTO. Also provided 
are GET, INPUT, and 
PRINT operators. 

The RPL Compiler, in- 
cluding a 60-page user's 
manual, is available on disk 
for $49.95 or on cassette 
for $44.95. The complete 



Compiler and Symbolic De- 
bugger costs $80.91 on 
disk or $71.91 on cassette; 
manuals are available for 
$10 and $4, respectively. 
For details, contact Samurai 
Software, POB 2902, Pom- 
pano Beach, FL 33062, 
(800) 327-8965, ext. 2; in 
Florida (305) 782-9985. 
Circle 555 on inquiry card. 



Take Your Projects 
to Task 

Task is a management 
tool to help you schedule a 
project. It combines the pro- 
cedures of PERT (Perfor- 
mance, Evaluation, and Re- 
view Techniques) and the 
Critical Path Method, which 
divides a complex project in- 
to assignments and deter- 
mines which are critical to 
the overall completion of 
the project. Task determines 
the scheduled start and 
completion dates for each 
assignment in a project, 
which tasks cannot be 
delayed if the project is to 
be completed on time, and 
the amount of time each 
noncritical task can be de- 
layed without affecting the 
completion date of a pro- 
ject. Among the options in- 
cluded with Task are the 
ability to create a calendar 
to work with a particular 
work schedule, an ex- 
panded Gantt diagram, and 
a management report that 
can detail each task, includ- 
ing its start and finish times. 

Task is a compiled pro- 
gram running under CP/M. 
It costs $329 and is avail- 
able from AMSI, Suite 200, 
1 935 Cliff Valley Way NE, 
Atlanta, GA 30329, (404) 
634-9535. 
Circle 556 on inquiry card. 



476 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



Overlay Compiler 

An overlay structure is 
now possible with North 
Star BASIC under an exten- 
sion to the Comstar com- 
piler. Overlay structures dif- 
fer from program chaining 
in that a root program seg- 
ment and selected program 
variables remain intact 
when a new program seg- 
ment is introduced. Over- 
lay structures permit large 
programs to be executed. 

The Overlay extension is 
suitable for menu-driven 
programs and includes a 
Comstar-CP/M capability. 
The Overlay extension is 
available to registered 
owners of the Comstar 
compiler for $75 from Allen 
Ashley, 395 Sierra Madre 
Villa, Pasadena, CA 
91107, (213) 793-5748. 
Circle 557 on inquiry card. 



Smartkey for CP/M 

and Software 

Applications 

The Smartkey is a key- 
board utility for the CP/M 
operating system that 
solves the problem of in- 
compatibility between the 
console keyboard hard- 
ware and applications soft- 
ware. The program acts as 
an interface between the 
keyboard and CP/M by al- 
lowing the user to "rede- 
fine" the keyboard. Codes 
generated by individual 
keys can be changed at 
will or made to generate a 
sequence of characters at 
each keystroke. The key- 
board's layout can be im- 
proved or customized for 
particular applications soft- 
ware, and sets of key de- 
finitions can be saved to 



disk for later use. Defini- 
tions can be altered at any 
time. 

Smartkey does not re- 
quire hardware or soft- 
ware knowledge to install 
or use. It's available for S39 
from FBN Software, 1111 
Sawmill Gulch Rd., Pebble 
Beach, CA 93953, (408) 
373-5303. 
Circle 558 on inquiry card. 



Mail-List Manager 

The One-Disk Mail-List 
Manager is a mailing-list 
management and a label- 
printing utility for Radio 
Shack's TRS-80 Models I 
and III. The program disk 
can hold 430 records that 
include name, company, 
address, and zip code. 
Records can be sorted al- 
phabetically or by zip code 
using machine language at 
a speed of 100 records 
every 3.5 seconds. Entries 
are made on a first-name- 
first basis, and multiple en- 
tries are handled by single- 
keystroke repetition of the 
address. Labels can be 
printed from sorted or un- 
sorted lists and by any 
combination of selection 
fields. Other features in- 
clude a label-selecting Print 
Key that can print labels for 
any geographic area (i.e., 
city, state, or zip code). 

The One-Disk Mail-List 
Manager requires 32K 
bytes of memory; conver- 
sion to Model III DOS is 
necessary. It costs S 34.95 
and is available from Man- 
hattan Software, POB 
1063, Woodland Hills, CA 
91365. MasterCard or Visa 
holders can order by calling 
(213) 704-8495. 
Circle 559 on inquiry card. 




Continuous Wave 
Interface for TRS-80 

MFJ Enterprises' CW 
(continuous wave) Trans- 
ceive Program and Hard- 
ware Interface lets you 
send CW on your key- 
board and receive CW on 
your video-display screen. 
It features a tri-split screen 
for received messages, 
transmit buffer, and pro- 
grammable message index. 
Its text buffer can hold 
3295 characters when 
used with a 16K-byte ma- 
chine, and it can be pre- 
loaded while receiving 
messages. The package 
has ten 1 99-character pro- 
grammable message mem- 
ories with on-screen mes- 
sage index. Messages can 
be repeated or combined, 
and speed is adjustable 
from 12 to 55 words per 
minute (wpm). For group- 
code practice, up to 2200 
characters can be stored. 
The package automatically 
receives up to 100 wpm 
and allows you to store up 
to five screens of received 
CW. When the transmit 
buffer is empty, the mode is 
automatically changed to 
receive. 

MFJ's hardware inter- 
face plugs between the 
transceiver and the com- 
puter without modifica- 
tions. The cassette-based, 
disk-compatible program 
and the hardware-interface 
package run on a 1 6K-byte 



TRS-80 Model I or III. The 
Transceiver and Hardware 
Interface costs $99.95, plus 
a $4 shipping charge. Con- 
tact MFJ Enterprises Inc., 
POB 494, Mississippi State, 
MS 39762, (601)323-5869. 
MasterCard or Visa holders 
can order by calling (800) 
647-1800. 
Circle 560 on inquiry card. 



Let Your Modem 
Do the Talking 

The automated sales 
force at Telephone Soft- 
ware Connection delivers 
its products at any time of 
the day or night over tele- 
phone lines. The Connec- 
tion's Apple-compatible 
software comes with com- 
plete documentation em- 
bedded in the programs. 
The Connection presently 
offers telecommunications 
software, games, and edu- 
cational programs, as well 
as utilities for the Apple II. 
Several free programs are 
offered by means of the 
telecommunications hook- 
up. 

For more information, 
contact Telephone Soft- 
ware Connection Inc., 
POB 6548, Torrance, CA 
90504, (213) 51 6-9430. 
The telephone number for 
the modem connection is 
(213) 516-9432. Payment 
is by credit card. 
Circle 561 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 477 



What's New? 



Educational 
Game Show 

The Game Show is a 
multiplayer educational 
game program featuring 
animated color graphics. It 
comes with games in vo- 
cabulary, history, algebra, 
sailing, and computer 
terms. An authoring sys- 
tem that lets you add your 
own topics is provided. 

The Game Show runs 
on the Apple computer. It 
costs S45, which includes 
documentation, a one-year 
warranty, and a backup 
disk. Available at computer 
dealers or directly from 
Computer-Advanced Ideas 
Inc., Suite 341, 1442A 
Walnut St., Berkeley, CA 
94709, (415) 526-9100. 
Circle 562 on inquiry card. 



Profile ill + 

The Profile III + is a data- 
base management pack- 
age for Radio Shack's 
TRS-80 Model III computer. 
It can communicate with 
Personal Software's Visi- 
calc financial-modeling pro- 
gram and with Radio 
Shack's Superscripsit word- 
processing program. This 
combination gives the 
Model III owner a complete 
management-information 
tool. 

Profile 111+ is menu- 
driven with user options 
appearing at the bottom of 
the screen. Customized or 
special limited menus can 
be created. The system's 
screen editor lets database 
designers visually organize 
an input screen, and fields 
and user prompts can be 
moved by means of func- 
tion keys. Screens can be 
password-protected. Up to 



99 fields per record can be 
defined, and as many as 
64,000 records are al- 
lowed. Maximum record 
size is 1020 characters. Up 
to 36 fields can be 
searched or sorted, and 
wild cards containing 
partial-field values are per- 
mitted. 

Profile III + requires a 
48K-byte TRS-80 Model III 
with a single disk drive. It 
costs S300, which includes 
manufacturer-supplied up- 
dates. Contact The Small 
Computer Company Inc., 
40 West Ridgewood Ave., 
Ridgewood, NJ 07450, 
(201) 445-5643. 
Circle 563 on inquiry card. 

Integrate Real-Time 
Software Tasks 

The Multi-Tasking Kernel 
is a tool for integrating 
multiple real-time software 
tasks in 8085-, Z80-, 6502-, 
6800-, and 6809-based 
microcomputer products. 
The package includes 
source code for a basic 
multitasking organization 
in which tasks self-sched- 
ule in a round-robin fash- 
ion. The package pro- 
vides the user with guides 
through a series of en- 
hancements for carrying 
out sophisticated, interrupt- 
initiated, preemptive priori- 
ty dynamic-task schedul- 
ing. Also included are 
descriptions of dedicated 
and shared resource sched- 
uling, time-slice scheduling, 
and intertask communica- 
tion schemes. 

The Multi-Tasking Kernel 
costs $ 1 95, which includes 
assembly-language source- 
code implementations for 
the 8085, Z80, 6502, 
6800, and 6809 micropro- 



cessors. Contact US Soft- 
ware, 5470 Northwest In- 
nisbrook PI., Portland, OR 
97229, (503) 645-5043. 
Circle 564 on inquiry card. 



BASIC Editor for 
TRS-80S 

EDIT is a full-screen 
BASIC editor for Radio 
Shack's TRS-80 Models I 
and III. It features a floating- 
point cursor with auto- 
matic repeat functions and 
a Scripsit-like control struc- 
ture for easy handling. 
More than 30 commands 
permit professional-quality 
editing of BASIC text at the 
character, word, line, or 
block level. 

EDIT was developed in 
England by Southern Soft- 
ware. It costs $40 and is 
being distributed in the U.S. 
by Allen Gelder Software, 
POB 1 1 72 1 , Main Post Of- 
fice, San Francisco, CA 
94101. 
Circle 565 on inquiry card. 



Insurance 
Rating Programs 

Orion Business Systems' 
Orionrater programs could 
make the insurance 
agent's rating book a piece 
of the past. This series of 
property and casualty rat- 
ing programs can quickly 
compare and print out 
quotes. They are simple to 
operate and do not require 
insurance or technical 
backgrounds. Among the 
programs available are 
Auto insurance, Home- 
owners/Condo Owners 
and Renters insurance. 
Commercial Truck insur- 
ance, and Commercial 
Liability insurance. 



Most Orionrater pro- 
grams run on 48K-byte 
Apple II Plus computers 
equipped with a disk drive 
and controller, a monitor, 
and a printer. Prices range 
from $475 to $750. For 
complete specifications, 
contact Orion Business Sys- 
tems, Suite 102, 1 1777 Ber- 
nardo Plaza Court, San 
Diego, CA 92128, (714) 
485-8580. 
Circle 568 on inquiry card. 



C/80 Compiler 

C/80 is a compiler for the 
C programming language 
that provides random-ac- 
cess file I/O (input/output) 
and Macro-80 compatibili- 
ty. It generates 8080 as- 
sembly-language code for 
the assembler or for Micro- 
soft's Macro-80 relocatable 
assembler and linking 
loader. All C language con- 
trol statements and arith- 
metic and logical operators 
are supported as well as 
character and 16-bit in- 
teger data, pointers, arrays, 
strings, data initialization, 
inline assembly language, 
conditional compilation, 
and most preprocessor 
functions. C/80's run-time 
library provides standard C 
I/O functions and features 
dynamic storage alloca- 
tion, I/O redirection, and a 
run-time execution-profile 
facility for easy program 
optimization. 

C/80 lacks structures, 
pointers to pointers, and 
long and floating data 
types. Available on 8-inch 
CP/M disks and on 
5 'A -inch Heath/Zenith 
CP/M or HDOS disks, C/80 
costs $39.95. Contact The 
Software Toolworks, 



478 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



14478 Glorietta Dr., Sher- 
man Oaks, CA 91423, 
(213) 986-4885. 
Circle 569 on inquiry card. 



Atari Graphics 
Composer 

The Graphics Composer 
is a joystick/paddle graphics 
software package for Atari 
400/800 microcomputers. 
With it you can draw the 
outline of a picture in high- 
resolution screen mode 8 
or 7 using a joystick or pad- 
dle; then you can use color 
fill-in, color brushes, and 
text to complete your 
graphics scheme. The 
graphics can then be saved 
to disk or cassette. 

Graphics Composer is 
supplied with a Geometric 
Figures program that 
allows you to define circles, 
triangles, polygons, paral- 
lelograms, and trigonomet- 
ric curves. Graphics Com- 
poser is available in both 
cassette and disk versions 
for S39.95. It requires 32K 
bytes of programmable 
memory. Contact Versa 
Computing Inc., Suite 104, 
3541 Old Conejo Rd„ 
Newbury Park, CA 9 1 320, 
(805) 498-1956. 
Circle 570 on inquiry card. 



New C Compiler 

Phase One Systems has 
unveiled a C compiler for 
its Oasis operating system. 
Oasis C supports most 
Unix Version Seven C fea- 
tures. It produces Z80 as- 
sembler code and is pro- 
vided with an optimizer 
that reduces compiled 
code between 30 and 
50%. Among the attri- 
butes of Oasis C are 



pointers, structures, assign- 
ment operators, a full I/O 
(input/output) library, and 
compile options. A version 
of Oasis C for the 16-bit- 
compatible Oasis- 1 6 will be 
available. 

Oasis C costs S250. For 
complete details, contact 
Phase One Systems Inc., 
Suite 830, 7700 Edgewater 
Dr., Oakland, CA 94621, 
(415) 562-8085. 
Circle 571 on inquiry card. 

PERIPHERALS 

Model III 

Cash-Register 

Expansion System 

The CR-180 is a cash 
register/point-of-sale ex- 
pansion system for the 
TRS-80 Model III microcom- 
puter. It stores transactions 
for up to 100 employees, 
saves eight methods of 
payments, and provides in- 
ventory control and com- 
plete reporting. The 
CR-180 can produce daily 
sales and cash reports by 
employee and by type of 
transaction, inventory 
usage reports, and gross 
profit computation. Also, 
price and shelf labels can 
be printed. 

The CR-180 expansion 
system is supplied with an 
electronic cash drawer and 
a receipt printer which plug 
directly into the TRS-80 
Model III. Audio has been 
added for keystroke confir- 
mation. Prices range 
from S900 to S 1 900. Con- 
tact Integrated Cash Reg- 
ister/Futuresoft, Southern 
Region, Suite 203, 2301 
Park Ave.. POB 1446, 
Orange Park, FL 32073, 
(904) 269-1918. 
Circle 572 on inquiry card. 




Draft- and Letter- 
Quality Printer 

Printer Systems' Model 
1800 printer can produce 
both correspondence- and 
draft-quality printouts. It is 
plug-compatible with IBM 
Series I or System 34/38 
computers as well as Uni- 
vac, Burroughs, Honey- 
well, DEC (Digital Equip- 
ment Corp.), and Data 
General computers. In the 
draft mode, the Model 
1800 prints at 200 cps 
(characters per second) 
with a 7 by 9 dot-matrix 
format. In the corre- 
spondence mode, it prints 
at 50 cps in a 40 by 1 8 for- 
mat. The Model 1800 
features a forms-length 
selector switch and quiet 
operation. 

The Model 1800 printer 
is available for S2695 from 
Printer Systems Corp., Suite 
104, 1 West Deer Park Rd„ 
Gaithersburg, MD 20760, 
(301) 840-1070. 
Circle 573 on inquiry card. 

I/O Control Card 

The G5 1 91/0 card is an 
interface between the 
Multibus and Gordos 
industry-standard PB- 
1 6/PB-24 I/O (input/output) 
module boards. The card 



can control up to 72 AC or 
DC input or output 
modules in any combina- 
tion or position on the I/O 
module board. It can also 
serve as a general-purpose 
TTL (transistor-transistor 
logic) interface card for 
control of up to 72 bidirec- 
tional I/O lines. 

Gordos International 
also has interface cards for 
the RM-65, the Exorcisor II, 
and STD bus. The G519 
I/O card is priced at $500. 
For details, contact Gordos 
Corp., 250 Glenwood 
Ave., POB 100, Bloomfield, 
NJ 07003, (201) 743-6800. 
Circle 574 on inquiry card. 




Analog Peripheral 

The Analog Peripheral is 
a self-contained 8-bit A/D 
(analog-to-digital) con- 
verter that can connect to 
any computer. It has a 
switch-selectable RS-232C 
output line with data trans- 
mission rates from 1 10 to 
9600 bps (bits per second). 
Other features include a 
26-pin parallel output, four 
input channels, conversion 
speeds of 100 microsec- 
onds, power supply, and 
plug-in sensors for 
temperature, light and 
other analog signals. For 
complete details on the 
Analog Peripheral, contact 
Cambridge Development 
Laboratory, 36 Pleasant St., 
Watertown, MA 02172, 
(617) 926-0869. 
Circle 575 on inquiry card. 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 479 



What's New? 





Genius Display System 



The Genius is an Apple- 
compatible, full-page 
video-display terminal. The 
15-inch Genius displays 57 
lines of text by 80 charac- 
ters, or optionally 66 lines 
by 80 characters. The 
Genius is compatible with 
the Wordstar word-pro- 
cessing system and many 
CP/M-based programs. 
Large sections of code can 
be displayed at one time, 
which is a plus for software 



developers, and the high- 
resolution display has an 
87 MHz bandwidth and 6K 
bytes of high-speed buffer 
memory. 

The Genius is supplied 
with an Apple interface 
card. It is available for 
S 1 795 from Micro Display 
Systems Inc., 514 Vermil- 
lion St., Hastings, MN 
55033, (612) 437-2233. 
Circle 576 on inquiry card. 



Single-Pen 

The Complot CPS-20 is a 
single-pen, 1 1 -inch drum 
plotter that can interface 
with most computers. The 
only alteration needed to 
use the CPS-20 with dif- 
ferent computers is the 
switching of a single inter- 
face card. The high-effi- 



Drum Plotter 

ciency CPS-20 operates at 
3 inches per second at a 
resolution of 0.005 inch. It 
costs S3995. Contact 
Houston Instrument, One 
Houston Square, Austin, 
TX 78753, (512)837-2820. 
Circle 577 on inquiry card. 



Line Controller Adds 
Voice Synthesis 

The SLC-II is a serial line 
controller that combines 
microprocessor intelligence 
with a versatile voice-syn- 
thesis capability. The con- 
troller can automatically 
dial telephone lines and 
talk by means of its elec- 
tronically synthesized 
voice. It can listen and re- 
spond to incoming mes- 
sages that originate at a 
remote terminal or are gen- 
erated by a telephone key- 
pad. The SLC-ll's vocab- 
ulary includes more than 
300 words as well as the 
complete alphabet and 
numerals, and it will spell 
any word it cannot say. 

The SLC-II provides ASCII 
input/output, Touch-Tone 
input, printer output, exter- 
nal amplifier output, and 
synthesized voice output. 
A built-in power backup is 
provided by rechargeable 
batteries. In addition, the 
SLC-II features an auto- 
dial/auto-answer modem; 
16K, 32K, or 80K bytes of 
programmable memory; 
and automatic time and 
date entry with day, 
month, and year. Applica- 
tions include data collec- 
tion and transmission, tele- 
phone access to large data- 
bases, alarm signaling, and 
security or facility monitor- 
ing. Connections to exist- 
ing computer systems are 
made by standard RS-232C 
or 20 mA serial-loop inter- 
face. 

In single-unit quantity, 
the SLC-II costs S1975. 
Contact Digital Pathways 
Inc., 1260 L'Avenida, 
Mountain View, CA 
94043, (415) 969-7600. 
Circle 578 on inquiry card. 





Dot-Matrix Printer 

NEC Home Electronics' 
PC-8023A dot-matrix 
printer can bidirectionally 
print the upper- and lower- 
case ASCII (American Stan- 
dard Code for Information 
Interchange) character set 
featured on the PC-8001A 
microcomputer. In addi- 
tion, the printer provides 
many Greek, mathemat- 
ical, and graphics symbols. 
The high-speed PC-8023A 
is equipped with a stan- 
dard parallel interface and 
features the ability to print 
dot-graphics screens on 
paper. Up to three copies 
of fanfold, roll, or cut-sheet 
paper and originals are 
possible using either pin- or 
friction-feed delivery. Paper 
widths range from 11.5 to 
25 cm (4/2 to 10 inches). 

The PC-8023A's matrix 
options include 7 by 9 
English or 8 by 8 graphic 
and dot graphic, ranging 
from 40 columns by 4 
characters per inch to 136 
columns by 1 7 characters 
per inch. Print speed is 100 
cps (characters per 
second), and all fonts fea- 



480 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



ture fixed- or proportional- 
spacing format options at 6 
or 8 lines per inch, plus 
|/J 44-inch incremental line 
feed. 

The PC-8023A printer 
costs $795. Contact NEC 
Home Electronics USA, Per- 
sonal Computer Division, 
1401 Estes Ave., Elk Grove 
Village, IL 60007, (312) 
228-5900. 
Circle 579 on inquiry card. 



Apple II ROM Board 

The Andromeda ROM 
(read-only memory) Board 
lets you plug utility pro- 
grams into your Apple II 
and access them without 
loading from disk. The 
Board has space for 2K- or 
4K-byte PROMs (program- 
mable read-only memories) 
and it can accommodate 
2K-byte programmable 
memory devices. (This 
gives you read/write capa- 
bilities for developing cus- 
tom PROM programs.) 
Two 2732 PROMs allow a 
total of 8K bytes of mem- 
ory on the ROM Board. 

The ROM Board is sup- 
plied with a utility ROM 
that gives you five options 
with your Applesoft pro- 
grams: you can perform 
automatic line numbering, 
alphabetize a disk catalog, 
control a program list with 
a page mode, restore 
crashed Applesoft pro- 
grams in memory, and 
create a disk without using 
the disk operating system. 
The ROM Board with utility 
ROM costs S 1 25 and is dis- 
tributed by Computer Data 
Services, POB 696, Am- 
herst, NH 03031, (603) 
673-7375. 
Circle 580 on inquiry card. 




Heavy-Duty Printer 



The Model MPI50 
matrix printer has a heavy- 
duty print head, rated for 
continuous duty, with an 
expected life in excess of 
100 million characters. 
Characters are formed bidi- 
rectionally in a logic- 
seeking mode to optimize 
system throughput. Nine 
print wires provide clear 
characters with true de- 
scenders and underscores. 
The MP 150 can print 136 
characters per line at 10 
characters per inch, or up 
to 226 columns can be 
printed by selecting the 1 2- 
or 16.7-character-per-inch 
density. Double-width 
characters are software- 
selectable. A 7 by 9 matrix 
font is used for high-speed 
data printing and an 1 1 by 
9 serif-style matrix font can 
be used for high-quality 
printouts. The MP 150 fea- 
tures the standard 96-char- 
acter ASCII (American Stan- 
dard Code for Information 
Interchange) set with four 
strap-selectable foreign 
fonts. 

The MP 150 is capable of 
high-resolution dot-ad- 
dressable graphics for plot- 
ting, printing of screen 
graphics, and drawing of il- 
lustrations. Forms handling 



is carried out by a stepper- 
motor-drive tractor paper 
feed that can be adjusted 
to accept forms from 7.5 to 
38 centimeters (3 to 15 
inches) in width. Eight 
user-selectable forms 
lengths, skip-over-per- 
foration, and six user- 
selectable character den- 
sities are featured. 

The MP150's IK-byte 
buffer is expandable to 8K 
bytes, and its Centronics- 
type interface can accept 
parallel TTL (transistor-tran- 
sistor logic) level data at 
over 1000 characters per 
second. Optionally, an RS- 
232C serial interface can be 
added to the MP 1 50. The 
RS-232C interface can ac- 
cept data at any one of 
seven rates up to 9600 bps 
(bits per second) and it sup- 
ports X-ON/X-OFF and 
ETX/STX protocols. An- 
other option is an EEE-to- 
Centronics interface 
adapter card for connect- 
ing devices with an IEEE- 
488-bus output port. 

The Model MP150 
printer costs $1095. Con- 
tact MPI, 4426 South Cen- 
tury Dr., Salt Lake City, UT 
84107, (801) 263-3081. 
Circle 581 on inquiry card. 



Universal Systems 
Interface 

The Shugart Associates 
Systems Interface (SASI) is a 
universal interface that 
allows streaming-tape car- 
tridge and floppy- and 
Winchester-disk drives to 
use a standard system in- 
terface. SASI eliminates 
having to develop new 
controllers, host adapters, 
and software drivers each 
time a new memory device 
is integrated into a system. 
Other SASI operating fea- 
tures include the ability to 
attach up to eight host pro- 
cessors and controllers per 
SASI bus, a search capa- 
bility to assist file-manage- 
ment systems in locating 
key parameters, multiple 
command types, and self- 
arbitration for control of 
the SASI bus on a memory- 
device-priority basis. 

SASI is already available 
on Shugart's SA1400 Series 
of disk-drive controllers. 

In OEM (original equip- 
ment manufacturer) quan- 
tities, the price for Shugart's 
SA 1 400 series of disk-drive 
controllers with an SASI in- 
terface begins at $565. For 
complete details, contact 
Shugart Associates, 475 
Oakmead Parkway, Sun- 
nyvale, CA 94086, (408) 
733-0100. 
Circle 582 on inquiry card. 



Scorpio Family 

The Scorpio family of 
8-inch Winchester disk 
drives from Ampex have 
an average access time of 
30 milliseconds with a 
data-transfer rate of 1.2 
megabytes and an average 
latency of 8.3 milliseconds. 
This is achieved by means 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 481 



What's New? 



of a linear voice-coil ac- 
tuator in a closed-loop ser- 
vo system. All critical com- 
ponents are enclosed in a 
sealed module to assure 
long-term reliability and 
data integrity. Additional 
features ensuring data in- 
tegrity include head-land- 
ing zones, module shock 
mounting, and self-actuat- 
ing head-carriage and disk- 
spindle locks. Mean time 
between failures is 10,000 
hours. 

The Scorpio family is 
available in two versions: 
Model 48 with 49.7 mega- 
bytes of storage and the 



Model 80 with 82.9 mega- 
bytes of unformatted stor- 
age capacity and 20,160 
bytes per track over 823 
cylinders. The Model 80 is 
interface-compatible and 
software-transparent to 
any host system using 
industry-standard 80- 
megabyte disk drives, such 
as the Ampex DM-980. 

For further details on the 
Scorpio family, contact 
Ampex Corporation, Mem- 
ory Products Division, 200 
North Nash St., El Segun- 
do. CA 90245, (2I3J 
640-0150. 
Circle 583 on inquiry card. 




Wireless 
Building Automation 

The Telebrain RS-232C is 
a wireless computer inter- 
face that can communicate 
programmed, automated- 
switching decisions 
throughout an entire facili- 
ty using the existing AC 
wiring. It can transmit 
switching decisions ema- 
nating from a host com- 
puter, per software devel- 
oped by the facility, to any 
one of 1600 independent- 
control points, or Tele- 
switches. The Teleswitch 
recieves and identifies the 
command and performs 
the necessary switching. 



Telebrain incorporates 
National Energy's Solution 
1 00 and Solution 1 600 pro- 
grams and the Telegain 
amplifier. The Solution 100 
software includes indepen- 
dent programmable con- 
trol of up to 83 unique 
points allowing for 7-day 
programming, daily start- 
up, shut-down, and duty 
cycling. Telebrain can inter- 
face with any computer 
that has an RS-232C serial 
output port. 

Applications include 
facility management and 
automation including light- 
ing control, activation of 
security systems, materials 



handling, and energy man- 
agement encompassing 
load scheduling, demand 
limiting, duty cycling, opti- 
mum start-up, and so on, 
based on analog input. For 
complete details, contact 
National Energy Corp., 
1795 Williston Rd.. South 
Burlington, VT (800) 
451-3410; in Vermont 
(802) 658-6445. 
Circle 584 on inquiry card. 



Color Word- 
Processing System 

NEC Home Electronics' 
color word-processing sys- 
tem features a self-teach- 
ing program and a 1 2,000- 
word dictionary. The sys- 
tem is menu-driven, which 
reduces the possibility for 
errors, and features all- 
green text, instructions in 
yellow or blue, and violet- 
highlighted potential dele- 
tions. The system provides 
automatic page number- 
ing, draft printing without 
leaving the document, 
stock-paragraph and form- 
letter appending to any 
document, automatic disk- 
overflow routine, user- 
oriented document name 
listing, unlimited headers 
and footers, disk-supply in- 
dicator, single-key com- 
mands, and block move, 
copy, delete, write, print, 
and justification capabili- 
ties. 

When combined with 
NEC's PC-8001A micro- 
computer, color monitor, 
printer, I/O (input/output) 
unit, and a disk drive, the 
color word-processing sys- 
tem adds the final touch to 
a complete computer sys- 
tem that costs less than 



$6000. Contact NEC 
Home Electronics USA, 
Personal Computer Div., 
1401 Estes Ave., Elk 
Grove Village, IL 60007, 
(312) 228-5900, for com- 
plete details. 
Circle 585 on inquiry card. 



Portable Terminal 

Has Modem and 

Printer 

Business people will find 
the Lex-2! portable print- 
ing and communications 
terminal useful in providing 
access to remote comput- 
ing services, in field service, 
for inventory checks, ac- 
counting systems, elec- 
tronic mail, and up-to-the- 
minute price quotations. 
Lex-2 1 features a 59-key 
ASCII (American Standard 
Code for Information Inter- 
change) keyboard and a 
40-column thermal printer 
with upper- and lowercase 
descenders and a 5 by 7 
dot-matrix character for- 
mat. It has a built-in full- 
duplex 300 bps (bits per 
second) modem with 
originate or answer modes, 
Bell 103A compatibility, 
and an FCC-approved 
handset connection. Its 
industry-compatible asyn- 
chronous communications 
protocol allows transmis- 
sion at 10 or 30 characters. 
Its battery-backed memory 
includes a IK-byte receive 
buffer and 2K bytes of 
compose and edit 
memory. 

The Lex-2 1 costs SI 195. 
For details, contact Lexicon 
Corporation, 1541 North- 
west 65th Ave., Fort 
Lauderdale, FL 33313, 
(305) 792-4400. 
Circle 586 on inquiry card. 



482 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 




Video 

The Archer Video Selec- 
tor is a compact, push-but- 
ton video-switching and 
control center designed to 
eliminate the need to re- 
peatedly change cable 
connections. It simplifies 
signal routing even for 
complex home video sys- 
tems. Two banks of push 
buttons provide the neces- 
sary switching and signal 
routing between four 
75-ohm coaxial inputs and 
one phono jack to three 
75-ohm coaxial outputs. 
The inputs permit the con- 
nection of any combina- 
tion of five video sources, 
such as cable television, an 



Selector 

antenna, a videocassette 
or videodisc player, a 
camera, and a small com- 
puter. The three outputs 
allow simultaneous view- 
ing and recording of a 
selected input. 

The Archer Video Selec- 
tor offers a signal-path 
bandwidth from 50 to 900 
MHz. No power is re- 
guired. The Archer Video 
Selector costs S 79.95 and is 
available at Radio Shack 
stores and participating 
dealers. Contact Radio 
Shack, 1800 One Tandy 
Center, Fort Worth, TX 
76102, (8I7J 390-3300. 
Circle 587 on inquiry card. 



ROM Simulator 

Lamar Instruments' 
ROM (read-only memory) 
simulator is designed to re- 
side in an Apple ll-based 
development system for 
use in developing software 
for another, "target" com- 
puter. The device can take 
the place of a ROM, PROM 
(programmable ROM), or 
EPROM (erasable program- 
mable ROM) normally 
located in the target com- 
puter and is useful for de- 
veloping software eventu- 
ally destined to be placed in 
ROM. The ROM simulator 
connects to the target 
computer by means of a 
24-pin dual-inline package 



(DIP) and a ribbon cable. 

The double-sided ROM 
simulator has plated- 
through holes, silk- 
screened legends, gold- 
plated contact fingers, and 
is solder-masked. It has 2K 
bytes of high-speed, low- 
power, CMOS (comple- 
mentary metal-oxide semi- 
conductor) static program- 
mable memory that resides 
in hexadecimal C800 to 
CFFF in the Apple II mem- 
ory map. It contains the 
necessary logic to automat- 
ically switch control of the 
address and data bus from 
the Apple II to Lamar In- 
struments' Superkim (i.e., 
target) ROM sockets. The 



price is S295. Contact 

Lamar Instruments, 2107 

Artesia Blvd., Redondo 

Beach, CA 90278, (213) 

374-1673. 

Circle 588 on inquiry card. 



Options Package 
for DS180 Printer 

Datasouth Computer's 
special package of options 
for its DS180 matrix printer 
includes graphics, com- 
pressed print, display 
mode, an expanded buffer, 
and a dot-addressable ras- 
ter-scan feature that lets 
you print computer-gener- 
ated charts and graphics. 
Under program control, six 
print wires can be ad- 
dressed to print high-den- 
sity output at a resolution 
of 75 by 72 dots per inch. 

In the compressed print 
mode, the package permits 
manual or program selec- 
tion of print sizes including 
10, 12, and 16.5 characters 
per inch as well as ex- 
panded modes of 5, 6, and 
8.25 characters per inch. 
This permits the DS180 to 
print from 132 columns on 
an 8!/2-inch form to 217 
columns on a 14 7 / a -inch 
form. 

The display mode lets 
you print out or "display" 
the nonprinting ASCII 
(American Standard Code 
for Information Inter- 
change) control codes. 

The package of options 
costs $150. The DS180 
printer, which operates at 
1 80 characters per second, 
costs S595. Contact Data- 
south Computer Corp., 
4740-A Dwight Evans Rd., 
Charlotte, NC 282 10, (704) 
523-8500. 
Circle 589 on inquiry card. 



MISCELLANEOUS 




Wire-Wrap Tool 

The Model OK-729 
pneumatic wire-wrapping 
tools feature precision steel 
drive components en- 
closed in a Lexan-re- 
inforced case. A positive in- 
dexing mechanism with 
adjustable stop location 
and a 6-foor (2-meter) flex- 
ible air hose are provided. 
The OK-729 is available in 
two versions: a 5000 RPM 
(revolutions per minute) 
version and a model with a 
higher torgue and a speed 
of 3000 RPMs for cut/strip/ 
wrap applications. Both 
versions are designed to 
operate at 80 to 100 
pounds per square inch 
and are fully rated for 
heavy-duty applications on 
wire as large as 18 AWG 
(American Wire Guage) or 
for more delicate work on 
wire as small as 30-32 
AWG. 

The OK-729 wire-wrap 
tool is available for 
S 188.57. Contact OK 
Machine and Tool Corp., 
3455 Conner St., Bronx, 
NY 10475, (212)994-6600. 
Circle 590 on inquiry card. 



New EEPROM 

The ER5716 EEPROM 
(electrically erasable pro- 
grammable read-only 
memory) is the newest 
member of General Instru- 
ment Microelectronics' line 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 483 



What's New? 



. 



of electrically alterable 
nonvolatile memories. It's 
based on N- (negative-) 
channel silicon-gate 
MNOS (metal-nitride-oxide 
semiconductor) tech- 
nology and is designed for 
applications that require a 
large (16K-bit) memory, 
such as microprocessor- 
program storage, where 
nonvolatility is essential 
but occasional data 
changes must be made. 
The ER5716 features im- 
proved access time and in- 
finite read capabilities. It is 
bulk-erasable and can be 
electrically reprogrammed. 
The ER5716 EEPROM is 
available in single units at 
General Instrument deal- 
ers. In OEM (original 
equipment manufacturer) 
quantities, it costs $35.70. 
Contact General Instru- 
ment Corp., Microelec- 
tronics Div., 600 West 
John St., Hicksville, NY 
11802, (516) 733-3107, 
for additional information. 
Circle 591 on inquiry card. 



Cope with Scopes 

The XYZs of Using a 
Scope will not only show 
you how an oscilloscope 
works, but how to make 
one work for you. Divided 
into two sections, the 
primer first covers the nuts 
and bolts and oscilloscope 
control functions, then ex- 
pands to demonstrate 
waveforms, waveshapes, 
and measurement tech- 
niques. 

The XYZs of Using a 
Scope is available free 
from Tektronix Inc., POB 
4828, Portland, OR 
97208, (800) 547-671 1; in 
Oregon (800) 452-6773. 
Circle 592 on inquiry card. 




Robotics Arm for 

Education and 

Hobby 

Colne Robotics of 
England recently intro- 
duced the Armdroid I, an 
educational and hobbyist 
manipulating arm. The arm 
has five axes of rotation 
(base, shoulder, elbow, 
wrist up and down, and 
wrist rotate), a three-finger 
gripper, and is completely 
stepper-motor-driven. The 
Armdroid I will operate 
with any microcomputer, 
requiring only a latched 
8-bit parallel port to inter- 
face. The arm has a 17- 
inch reach, can lift 10 
ounces, has a gripping 
force of 5 pounds and a 
resolution of 0.15 inch. 

Colne Robotics intends 
to produce a newsletter for 
owners of the arm, as well 
as introduce new products 
to enhance the arm, such 
as tactile sensors for closed- 
loop operations. The Arm- 
droid I can be easily modi- 
fied to accept experimental 
devices such as alternate 
gripper devices, tactile sen- 
sors, micro switches, and 
potentiometers. 

The Armdroid I is avail- 



able in kit form for $595 
and includes Z80 machine- 
language driver software 
for the TRS-80 Model I and 
the power/interface board 
kit. An assembled version is 
also available for $695. For 
further information, con- 
tact Colne Robotics Inc., 
207 Northeast 33rd St., Ft. 
Lauderdale, FL 33334 or 
Colne Robotics Co. Ltd., 1 
Station Rd., Twickenham, 
Middlesex TW1 4LL, Eng- 
land, 1-892-7044; Telex: 
8814066 GCIC. 
Circle 593 on inquiry card. 




High-Density 

Memory Requires 

Less Space 

Electronic Designs' 
EDH-4816 is a 128K-byte 
high-density memory that 
requires only one fifth the 
area of an equivalent DIP 
(dual inline package). The 
EDH-48 1 6 consists of eight 



industry-standard 16K by 
1-bit random-access read/ 
write memories in carriers 
mounted on a 32-pin SIP 
(single inline package). The 
EDH-4816 has all standard 
operating modes. Access 
time is 200 ns (nanosec- 
onds); cycle time is 375 ns. 
In single-unit quantities, 
the EDH-4816 costs $68. 
In 100-unit quantities, the 
price is $59. Contact Elec- 
tronic Designs Inc., 230 
Eliot St., Ashland, MA 
01721, (617) 881-5244. 
Circle 594 on inquiry card. 



TRS-80 Network 

Radio Shack will use 
ARCNET to provide a low- 
cost, high-speed local net- 
work for the TRS-80 Model 
II microcomputer. ARCNET 
is the local network com- 
ponent of Datapoint's ARC 
(Attached Resource Com- 
puter) system. ARCNET 
provides an inexpensive, 
efficient means to link a 
large number of computers 
together. Each computer in 
the ARCNET can access 
common databases, such 
as accounting, word-pro- 
cessing information or elec- 
tronic filing systems, and 
share peripherals (printers, 
for example) throughout 
the network. In addition to 
Datapoint's new LSI inte- 
grated-circuit network in- 
terface. Radio Shack will 
use ARCNET protocols and 
software for cost-effective, 
high-speed common-re- 
source networking. The 
ARCNET will permit as 
many as 255 Model lis and 
their peripherals to be inter- 
connected. 

Datapoint processors 
and peripherals, such as its 



484 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Why use their flexible discs: 

Athana, BASF, Control Data, Dysan, IBM, Maxell, Nashua, 
Scotch, Shugart, Syncom, 3M, Verbatim or Wabash 

when you could be using 

MEMOREX 

for as low as $1.94 each? 

Find the flexible disc you're now using on our cross reference list... 
then write down the equivalent Memorex part number you should be ordering. 



KMueHfeMi, 


P, DDu r.l Kmwkm 


P ' ( 3; N o>T' 


CE quanl. 
100 price 
per disc (S) 


M(ulu 


BASF 


D 


IBM 


MUWH 


Ni.hu, 


stolen 


snu 


S ncom 




W.B.lh 


ConUol 




IBMCOT. Bi l1,lll (I ll?BB;S Mi Sutlunl 


3060 


1.99 


473071 


BM2D 


BOOK* 


J3BM30 


(01 -12H 


ru i 


t4D 


"/A 100 


1 5UU? 


FO31B0OO 


FllllltX 


.1,60? 


Flo.tjlr Out It 


IliU Co ill luimie 1 1 ?B B'S 76 SotlOft] "'WI'N 


TOW 


2.04 
2.39 














,wa 






FM.-TO 


" 






EEEHEE'^:::::; 


W 


3.19 
2.04 
1.99 
1.99 
1.99 
249 
269 


:E: 


;z 


E' 


ES 


-L, 


„,",„ 


£ZL 


„;,., 


E 


EE 


F37A4UX 


„i. 


FlMhM Dke i<! 


ni"toM|, luinys SKSBMclII 


3090 


2.69 


men 


G4tes 


J/.U'ID 


U. I?B/U?IQ0 FO ID 


741 






FD34 BOO0 


FI3..1I* 


4 23002 


Sinylr Mtaaml D.,vr 5 


SUI Baffin MM D/S 26 ScclO.lP 111 WIS.RLE 


3093 


3.69 


















_ 




- 




DouMt-MnMir UMM 


Bbuflltl &<IIM»to 3? Hard Sector 


3091 


2.69 
3.09 


410801 


B4EM 


I0VID 




rm 3?o 




M..33 


s * ,o:i 


110/6 


FD3J-BOJO 


F33A4,,. 


423322 


FIMIM DM ti 


5oriS«»rlfSBB*S i S»a aB ».ri 


31M 


3.09 




S44M 


BOOS. 4 


1/668/0 








a/*- iso 


15.53 


FD1Q-4MH 


FI2I.I.X 


- 


DoubH Hn.deoo.i.es 


So«SKto((SSeO/S, tSSBCIDttl 


a.oa 


3.09 


ii3'i: 


H>» 


aoosu 


sia&tae 


FOZ-2560 




/420 




15154 


FOIO -4UI6 


F122111X 


424612 


UngM Dtruu* htaAl 
































FtoMtOtteM 


SMlSKMrlUnlommdl 


UP! 


3.09 


•nuns 




DvtflO 


_ 


FDS-X0M 


FU-2D 


f4M 




16.03 


0034-4001 


_ 


425002 


Mt ■IIb..(I.-i! D.i.« 


Soli Socio, 1 liBtVS.ze Sector :,> 


aits 


3.09 








- 








S/A 160 


- 


- 


- 


- 




EEr'"'*'""" 


E 


3.09 
3.09 
309 
309 
3.09 
3 49 
3.39 


:z 


::::: 


EE 


:°,z: 


r,™ 




::;*z 


»;,* 


i:E 


Sz 


;:::;::; 


:E 


nui«ii|Hfl) 
































"wr"^'!.'.''^'..^^'""" 


, " VIW| "" JK "" 1 


3QT1M03 


2.69 


4K0&1 




ruiv 






FD-T65 


:,ii-o 




.so™ 


FDB5.I000 


F61A1.1K 




iurmukki. 


hmsKiwiumonMiiM] 


3401 


1.94 


47S0O1 


54JM 


104/1 




MO. 


MO, 


M4-0 


S/A-104 


15300 


M0525.OI 


U11A2.1X 


4.1002 


IV Singu. HMOM 


IDNMS«I« 


3.03 


1.94 


•TOOtfi 


S4?6! 


1 Oh"/ 1 






HO 110 


:nio 


S/A-107 


153:6 


MD525-10 


U41AJ1H 


441102 


BMSteOfMM, MM. 


z^zzz"i:r f "" v 


5 


1.94 
2.14 
2.14 
2.14 


'-_ 




1 










" 


^ 


«; 


: 


- 


--- - 


Ezr:r:r a ^ 


E 


2 14 
2.14 
2.14 
2.34 
2.3d 
2.34 




::::: 


:z 




1 


1 




" 


; 


EEE 


1 


: 




«-^^»- 


n.'3 


2.59 
259 


- 


"™ 


107/20 


- 


" 


" 




S/A-,57 


- 


MD550.0, 


- 


- 


Bout* DMM» MWM 


EBS^zsr""" 08 


«" 


2.59 
2 79 

2.79 




,«* 


" 


- 


" 






" 


- 


MD650-.B 


- 


- 



Memorex Flexible Discs.. .The Ultimate in Memory Excellence 



Quality 

Memorex means quality products that you can depend on. 
Quality control at Memorex means starting with the best 
materials available. Continual surveillance throughout the 
entire manufacturing process. The benefit of Memorex's years 
of experience in magnetic media production, resulting, for 
instance, in proprietary coating formulations. The most sophis- 
ticated testing procedures you'll find anywhere in the business. 

100 Percent Error Free 

Each and every Memorex Flexible Disc is certified to be 100 
percent error free. Each track of each flexible disc is tested, 
individually, to Memorex's stringent standards of excellence. 
They test signal amplitude, resolution, low-pass modulation, 
overwrite, missing pulse error and extra pulse error. They are 
torque-tested, and competitively tested on drives available 
from almost every major drive manufacturer in the industry 
including drives that Memorex manufacturers. Rigid quality 
audits are built into every step of the manufacturing process 
and stringent testing result in a standard of excellence that 
assures you, our customer, of a quality product designed for 
increased data reliability and consistent top performance. 

Customer-Oriented Packaging 

Memorex's commitment to excellence does not stop with a 
quality product. They are proud of their flexible discs and they 
package them with pride. Both their packaging and their 
labeling have been designed with your ease of identification 
and use in mind. The desk-top box containing ten discs is 
convenient for filing and storage. Both box labels and jacket 
labels provide full information on compatibility, density, sec- 
toring, and record length. Envelopes with multi-language care 
and handling instructions and color-coded removable labels 
are included. A write-protect feature is available to provide 
data security. 

Full One Year Warranty — Your Assurance of Quality 

Memorex Flexible Discs will be replaced by Memorex if they 
are found to be defective in materials or workmanship within 
one year of the date of purchase. Other than replacement, 
Memorex will not be responsible for any damages or losses 
(including consequential damages) caused by the use of 
Memorex Flexible Discs. 



Quantity Discounts Available 

Memorex Flexible Discs are packed 10 discs to a carton and 
10 cartons to a case. Please order only in increments of 100 
units for quantity 100 pricing. We are also willing to accom- 
modate your smaller orders. Quantities less than 100 units are 
available in increments of 10 units at a 10% surcharge. 
Quantity discounts are also available. Order 500 or more 
discs at the same time and deduct 1%; 1,000 or more saves 
you 2%; 2,000 or more saves you 3%; 5,000 or more saves you 
4%; 1 0,000 or more saves you 5%; 25,000 or more saves you 
6%; 50,000 or more saves you 7% and 1 00,000 or more discs 
earns you an 8% discount off our super low quantity 100 price. 
Almost all Memorex Flexible Discs are immediately available 
from CE. Our warehouse facilities are equipped to help us get 
you the quality product you need, when you need it. If you need 
further assistance to find the flexible disc that's right for you, 
call the Memorex compatibility hotline. Dial 800-538-8080 
and ask for the flexible disc hotline extension 0997. In California 
dial 800-672-3525 extension 0997. 

Buy with Confidence 

To get the fastest delivery from CE of your Memorex Flexible Discs, send 
or phone your order directly to our Computer Products Division. Be sure 
tocalculate your price using theCE prices in this ad. Michigan residents 
please add 4% sales tax. Written purchase orders are accepted from 
approved government agencies and most well rated firms at a 10% 
surcharge for net 10 billing. All sales are subject to availability, 
acceptance and verification. All sales are final. Prices, terms and 
specifications are subject to change without notice. Out of stock items 
will be placed on backorder automatically unless CE is instructed 
differently. Minimum order S50.00. International orders are invited with 
a $20.00 surcharge for special handling in addition to shipping charges. 
All shipments are F.O.B. Ann Arbor. Michigan. No COD'S please. Non- 
certified and foreign checks require bank clearance. 

Mail orders to: Communications Electronics, Box 1002. Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48106 U.S.A. Add SS.00 per case or partial-case of 
100 8-inch discs or S6.00 per case of 100 5'A-inch mini-discs for 
U.P.S. ground shipping and handling in the continental U.S.A. If you 
have a Master Card or Visa card, you may call anytime and place 
a credit card order. Order toll-free in the United States. Call 
anytime 800-521-4414. If you are outside the U.S. or in Michigan, 
dial 313-994-4444. Dealer inquiries invited. All order lines at 
Communications Electronics are staffed 24 hours. 
Copyrlght c 1981 Communications Electronics" 



-_ MEMBER 



(MasterCard) 



Order Toll-Free! 
(800) 521 -441 4 

In Michigan (313) 994-4444 




For Data Reliability — Memorex Flexible Discs 



G 



COMMUNICATIONS 
ELECTRONICS™ 



Computer Products Division 

854 Phoenix D Box 1002 D Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 U.S.A. 

Call TOLL-FREE (800) 521-441 4 or outside U.S.A. (3. 3) 994-4444 



Circle 84 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 485 



What's New? 



! 37-megabyte disk mem- 
ory and 900-line-per-min- 
ute printers, will be com- 
patible with the TRS-80 
ARCNET. Also, Radio 
Shack's bisynchronous 
communications software 
packages for the Model II 
will permit certain IBM and 
DEC (Digital Eguipment 
Corporation) and other 
mainframe equipment to 
link with ARCNET. 

Each computer in the 
TRS-80 ARCNET requires 
an interface card that in- 
stalls in an existing card slot 
on the TRS-80 Model II. The 
card will be made by Texas 
Peripherals and will sell for 
approximately $400. Other 
required components are a 
coaxial cable and a junc- 
tion box. For further infor- 
mation, contact Tandy 
Corporation, 1 800 One 
Tandy Center, Fort Worth, 
TX 76102, (817)390-3300. 
Circle 595 on inquiry card. 



Formatted 

Languages for the 

VT180 

Digital Research has 
made available formatted 
language packages for 
DEC'S (Digital Equipment 
Corporation's) CP/M-based 
VT180 microcomputer. 
Among the packages be- 
ing offered are CBASIC, 
CB80, and PL/1-80. CBASIC 
is a compiler-interpreter 
dialect of BASIC. CB80 is a 
fast-executing compiler ver- 
sion of CBASIC that pro- 
vides full support for MP/M. 
PL/1-80 is an implementa- 
tion of subset G of the PL/I 
programming language. 
These products are avail- 
able at Digital Research 
dealers or directly from 



Digital Research, 1 30 Cen- 
tral Ave., Pacific Grove, CA 
93950, (408) 649-3896. 
Circle 596 on inquiry card. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Planning 
Guide for Educators 

A Planning Guide to 
Successful Computer In- 
struction is an aid for plan- 
ning and evaluating the 
use of computers in the 
classroom. Written for 
teachers and administra- 
tors, the guide suggests 
criteria for assessing avail- 
able computer and micro- 
computer hardware and 
software for instructional 
purposes. Among the 
topics covered are com- 
puter instruction site devel- 
opment and manage- 
ment and sources of hard- 
ware and software for ed- 
ucation use. 

A Planning Guide to 
Successful Computer In- 
struction costs $19.95. 
Contact Electronic Course- 
ware Systems, POB 2374, 
Station A, Champaign, IL 
61820, (217) 359-7099. 
Circle 597 on inquiry card. 

Educational 
Software Catalog 

Aquarius Publishers is a 
new company that pub- 
lishes and distributes edu- 
cational software oriented 
toward junior and senior 
high-school students. 
Most of the programs run 
on TRS-80 and Apple II 
microcomputers. For a free 
catalog, contact Aquarius 
Publishers, POB 128, In- 
dian Rocks Beach, FL 
33535, (813) 595-7890. 
Circle 598 on inquiry card. 




Compatibility Guide 



Nashua Corporation's 
new pocket-sized Com- 
patibility Guide contains 
a complete list of all disk 
drives in use and the 
Nashua Corporation disk 
products developed for 
each. The guide provides 
a description of the disk 
pack and cartridge charac- 



teristics, a comparison 
table, and an illustration of 
a disk layout. 

The Compatibility 
Guide is available from 
Nashua Corporation, 
Computer Products Divi- 
sion, 44 Franklin St., 
Nashua, NH 03061. ■ 
Circle 600 on inquiry card. 



Trade-A-Computer 

Trade-A-Computer is a 
monthly classified maga- 
zine dedicated to selling, 
buying, and trading new 
and used computer prod- 
ucts. Trade-A-Computer 
has an online data-entry 
service called Ad-Line, a 
300-bit-per-second soft- 
ware system that asks a 
series of questions con- 
cerning your ad, then 
composes the ad after 
completing its inquiry. 
There are no additional 
charges for this service. 

Classified ads cost $ 1 
per line; display ad rates 
are available. Ad-Line can 
be accessed by calling 
(215) 462-4415. Subscrip- 
tions cost $10 per year. 
Contact Trade-A-Com- 
puter, POB 15842, 
Philadelphia, PA 19103, 
(215) 462-4416. 
Circle 599 on inquiry card. 



Where Do New 

Products Items 

Come From? 

The information printed in 
the new products pages of 
BYTE is obtained from "new 
product" or "press release" 
copy sent by the promoters 
of new products. If in our 
judgment the information 
might be of interest to the 
personal computing ex- 
perimenters and home- 
brewers who read BYTE, we 
print it in some form. We 
openly solicit releases and 
photos from manufacturers 
and suppliers to this 
marketplace. The informa- 
tion is printed more or less 
as a first-in first-out queue, 
subject to occasional priority 
'• modifications. While we 
would not knowingly print 
untrue or inaccurate data, 
or data from unreliable com- 
panies, our capacity to 
evaluate the products and 
companies appearing in the 
"What's New?" feature is 
necessarily limited. We 
therefore cannot be respon- 
sible for product quality or 
company performance. 



486 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 



SPECIALS or INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 



6502 


7.45 


10/6.95 


50/6.55 


100/6.15 


6502A/6512A 


8.40 


1 0/7.95 


50/7.35 


100/6.90 


6520 PIA 


5.15 


10/4.90 


50/4.45 


100/4.15 


6522 VIA 


6.45 


10/6.10 


50/5.75 


100/5.45 


6532 


7.90 


10/7.40 


50/7.00 


100/6.60 


2114-L200 




3.75 


25/3.50 


100/3.25 


2114-L300 




3.15 


25/2.90 


100/2.65 


2716 EPROM 




7.00 


5/6.45 


10/5.90 


2532 EPROM 








14.50 


61 IB Hllackl 2K 


> CMOS HAW 




14.50 


4116 








6 for 1 7 


Zero Insertion Force 24 pin 


Socket 




2.00 


6550 RAM (PET 8K) 






12.70 


S-100 Wire Wrap Socket 






2.40 



A P Products 15% OFF 
APHobby-Blox 15% OFF 






MODEM SPECIAL $99 

SIGNALMAN Mk1 from Anchor Automation 
DIRECT CONNECT Modem with RS232 Cable and Connector 
included Fully compatible with all Bell 103 modems. to 
300 bps. lull duplex. Irequency shift keyed modulation, auto- 
matic ANSW/0RIG selection, direct connect, audible tone 
carrier delect indicator, self-contained battery powered, 

PET/CBM Version (Mk1 P) $1 69 

For Commodore Computers, the Signalman Mk1P includes 
connector, cable, and machine language software (parallel 
port) 



STAR MODEM 

RS232 MODEM 
IEEE 48B MODEM 
RSZ32 CCITT 
IEEE 468 CCITT 



Prentice/Livermore Data Systems 

SALE $128 

SALE $199 

$170 

$270 



We carry Apple 11+ from 
Bell & Howell 




CASH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM $45 

Easy to use. Keeps track of cash disbursements, cash 
receipts, cash transfers, expenses for up to 50 categories. 

FORTH lor PET by Cargile/Riley $50 

Full FIG model with all 79 Standard extensions. 
Miticamillir lor FORTH for independent object code 30 

KMMM PASCAL for PET/CBM $85 

Includes translator for true machine language object code. 

EARL lor PET/CBM 65 

Editor, Assembler, Relocator, Linkeditor. 

SuperGnphlcs - BASIC Language Extensions 30 

Fast Machine Language Graphics routines for PET/CBM. 

SM-KIT - Super PET/CBM ROM based Utilities 40 



252 Bethlehem Pike 



Colmar, 



H commodore 




CBM-PET SPECIALS 

8023 Printer - 1 36 col, 1 50 cps bi-directional 
8300 (Diablo 630) Daisy Wheel - 40 cps 

bi-directional 
8032 80 x 25 CRT. business keyboard 
Super Pet 

8096 Board (extra 64 K RAM for 8032) 
8050 Dual Disk Drive - 1 megabyte 
8250 Dual Disk Drive - 2 megabyte 
CBM IEEE Modem 
4016 full size graphics keyboard 
4032 full size graphics keyboard 
4040 Dual Disk Drive - 330,000 bytes 
2031 Single Disk Drive - 165,000 bytes 
4022 Tractor Feed Printer 
C2N External Cassette Deck 
VIC 20 Color Computer 
VIC 1515 Graphic Printer 
Used CBM/PET Computers 
8024-7 High Speed Printer 



list SALE 

(995) 775 

(2250) 1750 
(1495) 1100 
(1995) 1650 
400 
1345 
1760 
199 
795 
999 
999 
550 
630 
65 
259 
335 
CALL 
1345 



(500) 

(1795) 

(2195) 

(395) 

(995) 

(1295) 

(1295) 

(695) 

(795) 

(75) 

(299) 

(395) 

(1995) 



WE WILL MATCH ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 
*** EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS *** 

Buy 2 PET/CBM Computers, receive 1 FREE 



WordPro 3 Plus - 32K CBM. disk, printer 215 

WordPro 4 Plus - 8032, disk, printer 325 

027 Data Base System for CBM 8032 335 

VISICALC for PET, ATARI, or APPLE 155 

SM-KIT • Super PET ROM Utilities 40 

Programmers Toolkit - PET ROM Utilities 35 

PET Spacemaker II ROM Switch 36 

2 Meter PET to IEEE or IEEE to IEEE Cable 40 

Dust Cover for PET 7 

IEEE-Parallel Printer Interlace for PET 110 

IEEE-RS232 Printer Interface for PET 120 

The PET Revealed 1 7 

Library of PET Subroutines 1 7 



RAM/ROM for PET/C8M 

4K or 8K bytes of soft ROM with optlinsi Cittery Bickup. 
Adds extra RAM which can be write protected like ROM. 
4K Version - $85 8 K Version - SI 20 Battery Backup - S3 

EPROM Programmer for CBM/PET 79 

Branding Iron with software/hardware for 2716 and 2532. 



Watanabe 

Intelligent 

Plotter 



WATANABE WX4671 hotter 
WATANABE WX4B75 6 pee Plotter 




DISK 
SPECIALS 




SCOTCH (3M) 5" 
SCOTCH (3M) 8" 
Verbatim 8" Double Dens. 
Verbatim 5" Datalife 
(add 1.00 for Verbatim 5" 
BASF 5" soft 
Wabash 5" in Plastic Box 
Wabash 8" in Plastic Box 



10/2.75 50/2.65 100/2.60 

10/2.80 50/2.70 100/2.65 

10/3.45 50/3.35 100/3.20 

10/2.45 50/2.40 100/2.35 
' plastic storage box) 

10/2.40 20/2.35 100/2.30 

10/2.70 50/2.60 100/2.50 

10/2.75 50/2.65 100/2.55 

WE STOCK MAXELL DISKS 

Diskette Storage Pages 1 for 3.95 

Disk Library Cases 8" - 2.85 5" - 2.15 

Disk Hub Rings 8" - 50 for 7.50 5" - 50 for 6.00 



CASSETTES- AGFA PE-6 11 PREMIUM 

High output, low noise, 5 screw housings. 
C-10 10/.56 50/.50 100/48 

C-30 10/73 50/.68 100/66 

All other lengths available. Write for price list. 



SPECIALS 



EPSON MX-80 Prletor 
EPSON MX-80 F/T Prioter 
EPSON MX-70 Prletor 
EPSON MX-100 Prletor 

Centronics 739 Printer with dot graphics 
STARWRITER Daisy Wheel Prletor 
Zenith ZVM-121 Green Phosphor Monitor 
Amdek Color Monitor 



675 
1445 

119 
355 



ALL BOOK and SOFTWARE PRICES DISCOONTED 

OSBORNE/McGraw-Hill, HAYDEN, SYBEX,etc. 



Synertek Systems 

SYM-1 Microcomputer SALE 199 

SYM BAS-1 BASIC or RAE 1/2 Assembler 85 

KTM-2/80 Synertek Video and Keyboard 349 

KTM-3/80 Synertek Tubeless Terminal 385 



Ymmith I data 

| systems 



Z90-80 64 K 

Z90-82 64 K, 1 double dens, drive 

Z89-0 48K 

Z89-1 48K, 1 drive 

Z67 1 Megabyte + Floppy Drive 

Z37 1.3 Megabyte Dual Floppy 

Z25 High Speed Printer 

Z1 9 Video Terminal (VT-52 compatible) 

ZVM-121 Green Phosphor Monitor 

All Zenith Software discounted 



2170 
2395 
1950 
2150 
4495 
1495 
1195 
670 
119 




ATARI* 

SPECIALS 



800 Computer 
400-16K 
810 Disk Drive 
825 Printer 
850 Interface 
822 Printer 
Paddle Pair 
Joystick Pair 
16K RAM 
Assembler/Editor 
TeleLink 

Write for 



695 

339 

449 

629 

175 

359 

17 

17 

85 

46 

20 



410 Recorder 69 

Pilot 68 

Microsoft BASIC 68 

Educ. Series 20% ofl 

MISSILE COMMAND 32 

ASTEROIOS 

STAR RAIDERS 

Space Invaders 

Music Composer 

Chess 

Super Breakout 



prices on other Atari items. 



WRITE FOR CATALOG 

Add $1 .25 per order lor shipping We pay balance ol UPS surface 
charges on all prepaid orders. Prices listed are on cash discount 
basis. Regular prices slightly higher. Prices subject to change. 



Circle 3 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



487 



Circle 147 on Inquiry card. 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 

SPECIAL!!!!!!!! QUME DATATRAK 8 

Virtually the industry standard. High quality/ 
reliability. Full featured, double sided, double 
density. 

1-5 $499 

6-9 $485 

10 $475 

TANDON DOUBLE SIDED, DOUBLE DENSITY MINIS 

TM100-2 . . . . 48 TPI (500 KBYTES) $325 

Compatible with Northstar, Cromemco, TRS-80 

TM100-4 .... 96 TPI (1000 KBYTES) $425 

Compatible with Zenith, Heath, etc. 

TANDON 5%" HARD DISKS 

TM 602 (5MB) $1195 

TM 603 (10MB) $1295 




CONTROLLERS 

Tarbell single density kit $195 

Tarbell single density A & T $310 

Tarbell double density A & T $425 

CCS 2422 w/CPM 2.2 $350 

Godbout Disk 1 $450 

MDA MXV-21 LSI-11 controller (RX-01 , RX-02 compatible) 




$1050 



MISCELLANEOUS 

2 Disk drive enclosure $ 95 

(fits Siemens, Shugart, Qume) 

CP-206 power supply $110 

(powers two floppies) 

Mini-Enclosure with power supply 

1 drive $ 85 

2 drives $120 



Cable Kits 2 drives $ 35 

3 drives $ 40 

4 drives $ 45 

Diskettes ss $39/10 - ds $59/10 



CPU 

CCS 2810 $ 275 

Godbout Z-80A S 275 

Godbout 8085A $ 295 

MEMORY 

CCS 2065 64K dynamic $ 595 

CCS 2116 32K static $ 625 

Godbout RAM 1 7 64K $ 675 

I/O 

CCS 2710 4 SIO $ 325 

Godbout Interfacer 1 $ 225 

Godbout Interfacer 2 $ 225 



Elect rolabs 



POB 1608, Palo Alto, CA 94302 (415) 321-5601 



NEW !!!! 

Qume Sprint 9 
DAISY WHEEL PRINTER . . $2395 

45 CPS, RO. Available in KSR version. 
Call for further particulars. 
Ribbons: $125/case 
Bidirectional tractor feed $225 

NEW !!!! 

ABM 85 Video Terminal . . $ 895 

— Detachable keyboard 

— Televideo 920, ADM 3A compatible 

— High resolution green phosphor (23 MHZ) 

— Extra multi-bus or S-100 slot for stand-alone 
capability 



Terms of sale: cash or checks, MC/ 
VISA. Min. order $25. CA residents 
add 6% tax. Prices subject to change 
without notice. All goods subject to 
prior sale. 



SUNNY LOW LOW COST 



POWER SUPPLIES 

FOR S-100, FLOPPY DISKS. 




KIT 1, 2 & 3 For S-100 



R3 



For Three 8" or 
5Va" Disk Drives 

S-100 POWER SUPPLY KITS (open frame with base plate, 3 hrs. assy, time) 

ITEM USED FOR @ + 8 Vdc @ -- 9 Vdc @f16Vdc @ - 16 Vdc @ + 28 Vdc SIZE W x D x 



S3 2 in 1 Unit for S-100 and 
two 8" or 5V<" Disk Drives. It fits 
most Disk System Mainframes. 

PRICE 



KIT 1 15 CARDS SOURCE 15A 

KIT 2 SYSTEM SOURCE 25A 

KIT 3 DISK SYSTEM 15A 



1A 



2.5A 
3A 
2A 



2.5A 
3A 
2A 



4A 



12" x 5" 
12" x 5" 
14" x 6" 



AW 
AW 
AW 



54.95 
61.95 
69.95 



DISK DRIVE POWER SUPPLY "R3" regulated, open frame, assy. & tested 69.95 

SPECS + 5V @ 5A OVP. -5V @ 1A + 24V@ 5A, SHORTS PROTECT 2 SIZES AVAIL ,1)9" (W) x 6Kt" (D) x AW (H), 2) 9" (W) x 4'a" (D) x 5V (H) 

OPTION 1 ) REPLACE + 24V BY + 12V. 2 ) FOR SIZE 1 ONLY, ADD +. 12V @ 1A, AT AN ADDITIONAL S12 00 

IDEAL FOR THREE 8" or 5V< FLOPPY DISK DRIVES, SUCH AS SHUGART 801/851 SIEMANS FDD 100-8/200-8 OR 100-5 ETC 

DISK SYSTEM PWR SUPPLY "S3" open frame, assy. & tested, compact size: ioiwj * 6 (o; x 5 (H) 97.95 

REGULATED OUTPUTS FOR DISK DRIVES +5V @ 4A. 5V @ 1A, +24V @ 4A (OR + 12V @ 4A) SHORTS PROTECT 

UNREGULATED OUTPUTS FOR S-100 +8V @ 14A, +. 16V @ 3A ( OPTION ADD OVP FOR + 5V. ADD $5.00 ) 

A COMPLETE UNIT FOR DISK SYSTEM WITH THE MAINFRAME CONTAINING 12 SLOTS & TWO 8" or 5'.." DISK DRIVES 

POWER TRANSFORMERS (with mounting brackets) 

ITEM PRIMARY SECONDARY #1 SECONDARY #2 SECONDARY #3 SIZE W x D x H PRICE 



Tl 

T 2 

T 5 



110/120 
110/120 
110/120 
110/120 
110/120 



2x8 Vac, 15A 
2x8 Vac, 25A 
2x8 Vac, 15A 
2x8 Vac, 6A 
2x8 Vac, 6A 



28 Vac, CT, 2.5A 
28 Vac, CT, 3.5A 
28 Vac, CT, 2.5A 
28 Vac, CT, 1.5A 
28 Vac, CT, 2A 



48 Vac, CT, 2A 
48 Vac, CT, 3A 



3V x 3 5 /a" 

3¥a" x AW 

3%" x 4%" 

3%" X 3 5 /a" 

3" x 3" x 



x 3V 8 " 
x 3Vs" 
x 3Va" 
x 3Va" 

21/2" 



22.95 
28.95 
30.95 
23.95 
15.95 



SHIPPING For each power supply $5.50 in 
Calif., $8.00 in other states, $18.00 in Canada. 
For each Transformer $5.00 in all States, 
$12.00 in Canada. Calif. Residents add 6% 
Sales Tax. 



MAILING ADDRESS: 
P.O. BOX 4296 
TORRANCE, CA 90510 

TELEX: 830-5010 

ANSWER BACK FOR TELEX SUNYCO TRUC 



SUNNY INTERNATIONAL 

(TRANSFORMERS MANUFACTURER) 
(213) 328-2425 MON-SAT 9-6 



SHIPPING ADDRESS: 
22129V2 S. VERMONT AVE 
TORRANCE, CA 90502 



488 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 364 on inquiry card. 



CRT CONTROLLER 




This intelligent CRT Controller 
uses an 8085A CPU & an 8275 In- 
tegrated CRT Controller, it 
features: 

• 25lines(80char./line) 

• 5x7 dot matrix 

• Upper Slower case 

• Two 2716's (controller & char, 
generator) 

• Serial interface RS232 & TTL 

• Baud rates of 11 0,150,300,600, 
1200, 2400, 4800 and 9600 

• Keyboard scanning system 

• Unencoded keyboard required 

• Uses +5V& ± 12V Power Sup- 
plies 

• Does not have graphic 
capabilities. 

Documentation includes program 
listing and composite video cir- 
cuit. 
Bare Board only 

(withdocj $39.95 

2716Char.Gen.A7 $19.95 

2716 Program A 12 $19.95 



AD CONVERTER 



it* 



J BEs 16 channel A-D Converter plugs In- 
to your Apple II computer. It uses an 
ADC0817 which lncorporatesa18£han- 
nel multiplexer and an 8 bit A-D Con- 
verter. The 16 inputs are high Im- 
pedance and the voltage range is to 
5.12 volts. Conversion time is OOQ^sec. 
The resolution is 8 bits or 256 steps, 
linearity is ± 1/2 step. Two 16 pin DIP 
sockets are used for input, GND & 
reference voltage connections. There 
are3singlebitTTLinputs.DOC. Includes 
sample program, 

81-132AAssm. $89.95 

81-132KKit $69.95 

81-132B Bare Board $29.95 



EPROM PROGRAMMER 




JBE'sEPROM Programmer is designed 
to program 5V2516's,2532's&2716'8. It 
interfaces to trie JBE Parallel I/O card 
using four ribbon cables. An LED In- 
dicates when the EPROM Is being pro- 
grammed. A textool zero insertion force 
socket Is used for the EPROM. Comes 
with complete documentation for 
writing and reading EPROM's in the Ap- 
ple II or Apple II Plus. Cables available 
separately. 

80-244AAssm. $49.95 

80-244KKI1 $39.95 

80-244B Bare Board $24.95 



PARTS 



6502 MPU 

6522 VIA 

Z-80MPU 

Z-80PIO 

TW02114RAM 

2716 

50 pin conn. 

DipJumper2ft. 



$9.95 
$9.95 
$9.95 
$9.95 
$9.95 
$14.95 
$5.95 
$4.95 



6522 APPLE II INTERFACE 



The JBE6522 Parallel Interfacefor 
the Apple II Computer, plugs 
directly into any slot 1 through 7 In 
the Apple. This card has 2 6522 
VIA's that provide: 

• Four 8 bit bi-directional I/O 
ports 

• Four 16 bit programmable 
timer/counters 

• Serial shift registers 

• Handshaking 

A 74LS05 is fortiming. Four 16 pin 
sockets provideeasy connections 
to other peripheral devices. (Dip 
jumpers with ribbon cables are 
also available from J BE) The 6522 
Parallel I/O card interfaces to the 
JBE EPROM programmer. 
Understanding of machine 
language required to use this 
board. I nputs and outputs are TTL 
compatible. 

79-295A $89.95Assembled 

79-295K $59.95 Kit 

79-295B $19.95 Bareboard 



SPEECH SYNTHESIZERS 




JBEs Speech Synthesizers use 
the Votrax SC-01 Phoneme Syn- 
thesizer chip. The SC-01 
phonetically synthesizes con- 
tinuous speech of unlimited 
vocabulary. The SC-01 contains64 
different phonemes and 4 levels of 
inflection accessed by an 8 bit 
code. It requires 10 Bytes per se- 
cond for continuous speech. Both 
boards have an audio amp for 
direct connection to an 8 ohm 
speaker. 

Documentation includes basic 
user programs, a phoneme chart 
and listing of coded words to help 
you get started. Documentation 
for the Apple II® Speech Syn- 
thesizer includes a disk with many 
user programs. 

81-088 Apple II Speech 

Synthesizer $139.95 

81-120 Parallel Input Speech 

Synthesizer $149.95 

Prices include the SC-01 Chip 
SC-01 sold separately for $ 75.95 



EPROM EXPANSION CARD 




JBE EPROM Expander for the Apple II 
holds six 5V 2716s for a total of 12K 
bytes of EPROM. This board takes the 
place of the on board ROM in the Apple. 
It is software switchable by the same 
technique used by the Apple II firmware 
card. Solder jumpers are for reset to the 
Apple ROM or EPROM Expansion Card. 
Use JBE EPROM Programmer and 
Parallel I/O to program your EPROMs. 
EPROMs sold separately. 



81-085AAssm. 
81-085KKit 
81-085BBare Board 



$59.95 
$49.95 
$39.95 



81-260 "SLIM" 




Single board large scale Integra- 
tion Microcomputer. This 4.5 x 6.5 
board uses the 6502 
Microprocessor, two 6522 VIA's, 
four 2114 RAM's, 2516, 2716 or 
2532 EPROM. The fully buffered 
22/44 pin bus is similar to the 
KIM® , SYM® , and AIM® expan- 
sion connector. The four 8 bit I/O 
ports connect through 16 pin dip 
sockets. This board was designed 
for control and is ideal for Per- 
sonal and OEM use. 

• 6502 MPU 

• Two 6522 VIA's 

• Four2114 RAM's (2K bytes) 

• One EPROM 2516 or 2532 

• Crystal clock 1 Mhz 

• Requires 5V 1 AMP Power 

• 4.5x6.5 card 

• Power on reset 

• Fully buffered-expandable 

• Solder mask-both sides 

Use your Apple II Computer, JBE 
6522 Parallel Interface card and 
EPROM Programmer as a 
development system for SLIM. 

Prices: 

81-260A $199.95Assembled 

81-260K $149.95 Kit 

81-260B $ 39.95 Bare Board 



6502 MICROCOMPUTER 




6502 MPU, 8622 ViA, 2716 EPROM, 21 14 
RAM single board computer. Single 5 
volt power supply at 400 Ma. Two in- 
dependent 8 bit I/O ports with hand- 
shake lines. RCcontrolledl Mhz clock. 
Complete documentation. I/O lines use 
50 pin edge connector. Data and ad- 
dress lines are not accessible. Mod. for 
2532 is included. EPROM Is not Includ- 
ed. 1 K RAM, 2K EPROM, 2 I/O ports. 

80-153Assm. $110.95 

80-1 53 Kit $ 89.95 

80-1 53 Bare Board $ 19.95 



Z-80 MICROCOMUTER 




Z-80 MPU, Z-80 PIO, 2716 EPROM, 21 14 
RAM single board computer. Single 5 
ydlt power supply at 300 Ma. Two in- 
dependent 8 bit I/O ports with hand- 
shake lines. RC controlled 2Mhz clock. 

Complete documentation. I/O lines use 
50 pin edge connector. Data and ad- 
dress lines are not accessible. Mod. for 
2532 is included. EPROM is not includ- 
ed. 1 K RAM, 2K EPROM, 2 I/O ports. 



80-280Assm. 
80-280 Kit 
80-280 Bare Board 



$129.95 
$119.95 
$ 19.95 



JBE I MICROCOMPUTER 




JBE's 7.75 x 11.75 6502 base 
Microcomputer has the 
capacity for 16K of EPROM, 
4K of RAM, 8 Parallel Ports 
and 1 Serial Port. Monitor and 
Tiny Basic are also available. 
The fully populated version 
includes: 

• 16502 CPU 

• 4 6522 VIA (8 Parallel I/O 
Ports) 

• 1 A Y5-T013 (Serial I/O 
Ports) 

• 8 2114 RAM (4K) 

• 2 2716 EPROM (Monitor & 
Tiny Basic) 

The partially populated ver- 
sion includes: 

• 16502 CPU 

• 1 6522 VIA (2 Parallel I/O 
Ports) 

• 1 AY5-1013 (Serial I/O Port) 

• 22114 RAM (1K) 

• 1 2716 EPROM (with 
Monitor) 

Both versions include 
sockets for 2716s or 2532s, 8 
16 pin sockets for I/O interfac- 
ing and a DB25 connector for 
RS232. 

All address and data lines are 
brought off the board to the50 
pin edge connector, (similar 
to the Apple II bus) 

This board also features 
power on reset and cassette 
interface. 



81-030 C Fully 




Populated 


$349.95 


81-030M Partially 




Populated 


$249.95 


81 -030B Bare Board 


$ 89.95 


2716 EPROM 




(with Monitor) 


$ 19.95 


2715 EPROM 




(withTinyBasic 


$ 19.95 



John Bell Engineering, Inc. 



MC 



ALL PRODUCTS AREA VAILABLE FROM JOHN BELL ENGINEERING • P.O. BOX 338 • REDWOOD CITY, CA 94064 
ADD SALES TAX IN CALIFORNIA • ADD 5% SHIPPING & HANDLING 3% FOR ORDERS OVER $100 
SEND FOR CATALOG (415)367-1137 10% OUTSIDE U.S.A. 



VISA 



$GOLD DISKS 

CP/M® Compatible 

Z-80 Software 

Z-80 DISASSEMBLER 
easy to use 



An 

program to create 

source (.ASM) files 

from executable 

(.COM) files ppp 

EZ-TEXT WORDPROCESSOR 
EZ-TEXT will format * 
your text file the 
way you want It 

5-8" SD/DD PPD 

Bower-Stewart 
& Associates 

POST OFFICE BOX 1389 
HAWTHORNE. CALIFORNIA 90250 



•175 

PPD 

■SSOR 

75 



■213-532-1237 

H Trademark Digital Research 






You can pay more — 
But you can't get more! 




Model III 16K 

$839 

Model Ml 48K 
2 disc & RS232C 

$2100 




Color Computer 4K 

$310 

w/16KExt. Basic 

$459 



BUY DIRECT. These are just a few of our great 
offers which include Printers, Modems, Com- 
puters, Peripherals, Disc Drives, Software and 
more, call toll free 1 -800-343-8124 

comp uter 

Write lor your plUS 



We have the lowest 
possible fully 
warranteed prices 



Circle 50 on inquiry card. 



a " d „ ' M ""Wr 1 ""SL. Road 
of Radio Shack Software. U nT etoni ma 01460 

L^ 617 • 486 • 3193 - 



Circle 94 on inquiry card. 



PLOTTING SOFTWARE 
Calcomp compatible, for 

EPSON and HIPLOT with 
CPU, FORTRAN, and BASIC 



BBsd 



PLOTWARE-z 8" 
Manuals only 
PLOTWARE-z samples 
* Refundable on order 



.399 
. .35 
6 



ENERCOUP 

P.O.BOX 28014 

Lakewood, Colo. 

8022B 

303-988-1848 



PLOTWARE- 




opnoNa 

Uapa, Chart* 

DrtfUni 

Sclsnuflc 

Char&elora, 

Tormlaal 
Emulation 



PLOTWARE 



Circle 154 on inquiry card. 



HERE A" I* 
AT LAST 1 

"SUPERNET" 1 




THIS IS THE MOST UNIQUE S-100 COMPUTER BOARD: 
64K of memory, ZflOA CPU, Double Density Floppy Disk Con- 
troller. 2 Serial & Parallel I/O, monitor (EPROM) ALL on a 
single S-100 Computer Board from ADVANCED Micro Digital 
Corp. ' 

SUPERNET $900. 

Serial Adapter Cable $35. 

PaiallelAdapler Cable $40. 

ShugartSA801R $455. 

Televideo 912C S 750. 

Enclosure wilh 1 slots, power supply. 

cutouts lor two 8 " floppies S 650. 

Z-80ACPU $5.50 4164RAMChips $10.00 

Z-80ACTC S5.50 2716EPROM $5,50 



• MICRO SPOT ELECTRONICS 

14221 Edwards, Suite 72 

Westminster, CA 92683 

(714)891-0382 



Pre-Paymenl or C.O.D. up to $250. (Cashior's check) Allow one 
week lor chocks lo clear belore shipping. Add S5 shipping and 
handling charge lo your order. Calif. Residerils add 6% sales tax 



\ferbatim 9 

Floppy Discs 

SAVE 40% complete' list' 

51/ " Specify soft. Price/ 10 
/* 1 or 1 6 sector 

MD525 1 side/dbldens $27.30 

MD550 2 sides/dbl dens 44.20 

MD577 1 side/77 track 32.50 

MD557 2 sides/77 track 44.20 

81 r Critically Certified 
Soft sector 

FD34-9000 1 side/sgldens 33.80 

FD34-8000 1 side/dbl dens 39.00 

FD34-4001 2 side/dbl dens 46.20 

CHECKS - VISA - MC - C.O.D. 
(313! 777-7780 ADD $2 SHIPPING 

LYBEN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

27204 Harper Ave. 

St. Clair Shores, Ml 48081 



A 

ATARI 



400 168 - - - - 

400 YOURS TO 32K 
300 1 6'K - - - - 

4 10 RECORDER - - 
810 DISK DRIVE - 
850 INTERFACE 
8 30 MODEM - - - 
825 PRINTER - - 
AHA COMMUNICATOR 
ITT Cordless phon 
2EIJITI1 CRN. F1I05. 
EPSON PRINTERS - 
SOFTWARE - - - - 
SHARP CALCULATORS 



specials: ------- cai 

Prices subject to change without notice. 
Shipping extra. No tax out of state. Ca. 
residents add appropriate taxes . 

WE ARE AN AUTHORIZED ATARI SALES AND 
SERVICE CENTER 

^^ COMPUTERIZE. INC. 

I PO BOX 216 

^gpr KENTFIELD, CA 94914 

CALL TOLL-FREE BOO- 2 2 7 - 2 5 20 
In California 600-772-4064 



Circle 250 on inquiry card. 



Circle 220 on inquiry card. 



Circle 102 on inquiry card. 



'&, 



CHlPSx 

'DALE u 

THE INFLATION FIGHTERSI 
_RAM — 
4116 250ns 8/$ 11. 00 
4116 200ns 8/S13.00 
4116 150ns 8/$ 16.00 
2114L 300ns 8/S16.25 
21 14L 200ns 8/S17.00 
4164 200ns S9.00 
6116 200ns $10.00 

— EPROM — 

2716 (5V)450ns8/$3.90ea.$4.15 ea. 
2732 (5V)450ns 8/$9.75 ea. S 1 0.25 ea. 
2532 (5V)450ns 8/$ 1 0.50 ea. $ 1 2.00 ea. 

Please allow up to 3 wks. for personal checks to 

Add S2.50 Shipping & Handling 

C.O.D. 53.00. Wash, residents add 5.4°!, Sales Tax 

CHIPS S DALE 

P.O. Box 3 1607 

Seattle. Wash. Zip 98103 Master Charge 
1-206-524-9126 VISA accepted. 



MEMOREX 

FLEXIBLE DISCS 



WE WILL NOT BE UNDER- 
SOLD!! Call Free (800)235-4137 

for prices and information. Dealer 
inquiries invited and CO.D.'s 
accepted 




PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 In Cat. call 
(800)592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037 



NEW 23K 
PERSONAL 
COMPUTER 

$OQQ00 FACTORY SALE 
£m\Ji? PRICE 



You get the NEW APF-IM-1 Full Size Powerful 
Computer: Includes 14K ROM with Level II BASIC 
built in, 9K User RAM, Color, Sound, Professional 
53 keyboard, Two controllers. Two 10 key numer- 
ic pads, High speed cassette, A.C. adapter. RF 
modulator. T.V. switchbox. Accepts TAPE-DISK- 
PLUG IN CARTRIDGES. It is PLUG IN EXPAND- 
ABLE al low cost. 90 day parts and labor warran- 
ty, owners guide, BASIC language manual. All 
this in a beautiful black and white console case 
for only s 239 00 . 

15 DAY FREE TRIAL Return within 15 days com- 
plete and undamaged for refund of purchase 
price. 

PROTECTO ENTERPRIZES 
BOX 550, BARRINGTON, IL 60010 
TO ORDER PHONE 312/382-2192 



Circle 74 on inquiry card. 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 



Circle 322 on inquiry card. 




Qcommodore 

VIC20 $259 

f 



I 



Personal Computer 

Color * Sound ' Graphics 
Call or write for more info. 
Disk drives available soon! 




IBM 

ACCESSORIES 
BY TECMAR 

256 K Dynamic Ram Card 

Hi-Speed Parallel I / O Card CALL 

Hl-Speed Serial I/O Card FOH 

ReBl-Tlme System Clock BEST 

Card Expansion Chassis PRICES 

And Many More Accessories! 



A ATARI 




ATARI 800 16K 

CALL FOR BEST PRICE 

Atari 400 w/16K 349 

410 Program Recorder 65 

810 DisU Drive 449 

825 80 col . 7x8 Dot matrix impact printer 699 

822 40 col. Quiet Thermal Printer 349 

850 Interface Module 159 

Atari 16K Ram Muilulc 69 

Axlon Ramcram 32K Module 189 

Asteroids, Missile Command and Star Raiders . . . 35 ea. 
SPECIAL ATARI CATALOG AVAILABLE 



Video Monitors 

Amdek.' Leedex Video 100 12" B&W 129 

Amdek/ Leedex Video 100G 12" Green Phospher 149 

Amdek (Hitachi) 13" Color or/audio output 389 

NEC 12" Green Phospher Display JB-1201M . .CALL 

NEC 12" Lo-Res Color Display CALL 

NEC 12" Hi-Res RGB Color Display CALL 

Sanyo 9" B&W Display 185 

Sanyo 9" Green Display CALL 

Sanyo 12" B&W Display 269 

Sanyo 12" Green Phospher Display 285 

Sanyo 13" Color Display 449 

Zenith 12" Green Phospher Display 139 




ZENITH 

12" 
GREEN 

$139 



lgS-100 

California Computer 
Systems 

Floppy Disk Controller .... 339 
64 K Dynamic Ram Board, 

200 ns 469 

Z-80 CPU board 

w/ monitor ROM 269 

S-100 12 Slot Mainframe . . . 399 
2 -Port Serial /2-Port 

Parallel Interface 249 



16K RAMBOARD by ConComp 

for Apple II Computers 



FOR ONLY 



$ 



129 




AVAILABLE NOW 



Printers 



Epson 
MX-80 or 
MX-80 FT 

CALL 




Anadex 9501 w/2K Buffer 1349 

C. Itoh Starwriter 25 CPS dalsywheel 1449 

C. Itoh Starwriter 45 CPS dalsywheel 1649 

Epson MX-70 CALL 

Epson MX-80 & MX-80 FT CALL 

Epson MX-100 CALL 

NEC 8023 Impact Dot Matrix 629 

NEC Spinwriters (Latest models) CALL 

Paper Tiger IDS-460G w graphics 899 

Paper Tiger IDS-560Gw/ graphics 1099 

Qume Spring Dalsywheels (Latest models) . . .CALL 
Dlable 630 Dalsywheel 40 CPS 1795 



ORDER TOLL FREE 

800-854-6654 

In California and 
outside continental U.S. 

(714) 698-8088 

Telex 695-000 Beta CCMO 




NEC 

Microcomputer 



CALL FOR 
BEST PRICES 

If you're considering a computer, consider this: 

4 Mhz Z-80A Operation 

80 or 40 column modes STANDARD 
Built-in Centronics printer port 
Full ASCII keyboard with Shift lock 
Real Time Clock STANDARD 
RGB Color Output 
Mixed text and graphics 
Numerica Keyboard STANDARD 
CP/M Compatibility 

5 programmable Function keys 

24K Microsoft NBASIC In ROM with enhanced 

color graphic commands 

The NEC PC-8001A has all these features and much 
more. Expandlbility you want, expandability you get. 
Through the use of the PC-8012A I/O unit, total system 
RAM can be extended to 160K. The PC-8031 Dual Disk 
Drive puts 286K of floppy disk storage at your com- 
mand. 

The NEC PC-8001A has so many things that are op- 
tions on other computers built right in that you may 
never have to buy another accessory! The quality that the 
NEC name has come to stand for has been built-in, too. 

Compare the competition, and then call Consumer 
Computers for the NEC PC-8001. 

NEC COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE 

CP/M Operating system with graphics control. . .CALL 
SUPERCALC Financial & Scientific Modeling (requires 

CP/M) CALL 

WORDSTAR Word Processing System (requires CP/M) 

CALL 

SYSTEMS PLUS Complete Accounting System (requires 

CP/M) CALL 

MICROSOFT BASIC-80 (requires CP/M) CALL 

MICROSOFT FORTRAN-80 (requires CP/M) . CALL 

MICROSOFT COBOL-80 (requires CP/M) CALL 



Ordering information: Phone orders using VISA, 
MASTERCARD, AMERICAN EXPRESS. DINER'S 
CLUB. CARTE BLANCHE, bank wire transfer, 
cashier's or certitfied check, money order, or per- 
sonal check (allow ten days to clear). Unless prepaid 
with cash, please add 5% for shipping, handling and 
insurance (minimum 5.00). California residents add 
6% sales tax. Foreign customers please add 10% for 
shipping. OEM's, Institutions and corporations 
please send for a written quotation. All equipment is 
subject to price change and availability without 
notice. All equipment Is new and complete with 
manufacturer's warranty (usually 90 days). 
Showroom prices may differ from mall order prices. 

Send Orders To: 

G®DQ§0D[m]®[F 

G®Dffl[p[]Dft©ffg Mail Order 

8314 Parkway Drive 
La Mesa, Calif. 92041 



Circle 109 on inquiry card. 



QUARTZ CRYSTALS 




special +f*P 



HP-85'5 




$254000 


HP-83's 




$1450.00 


HP-9895 Dual 8" Drives 




$5300.00 


HP-8292 Dual 5" Drives 




$1960.00 


HP-7225B Ploller 




$1720 00 


LOBO Disc Drives 




$ 395.00 


IDS 445G Punters 




X 699.00 


NEC Spinwriters 






with Tractors 




$2560.00 


IDS 460G Printers 




$1099.00 


IDS 560G Printers 




$1330 00 


C ITOH Starwriter 25's 




$1300 00 


CCS 300 Dual 8" Drive 


computer with 


64K RAM. OASIS. 


CP/M 2 4MB Disc 


memory, 2 serial ports. 


1 parallel 


port and a Televid 


?o 




9'0CRT . 




Call for price 


CDC Lark Subsystems 




.Call for price 



eade's 

DATA SYSTEMS 

"THE COMPLETE SYSTEMS AND SUPPORT TEAM" 



APPLE EXTENDER CARD 

$29.95 

Extends Apple Cards 

Above Computer for 

Servicing and Debugging 

APPLE EXTENDER CARD . . . .$29.95 

IBM EXTENDER CARD $34.95 

IBM Prototyping Board $34.95 

RS-232 Board for TRS-80 

Model III $94.95 

32K Memory Exp. Board for 

TRS-80 Color Computer 

(Adds16K) $79.95 

(Colo. Residents Add 3% Sales Tax) 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

IMAGE TECHNOLOGY, INC. 

P.O. BOX 1S456 
LAKEWOOD, COLORADO 80215 



Circle 326 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 231 on inquiry card. 



Circle 184 on inquiry card. 



EPSON 



DOT MATRIX PRINTERS 
SUPER DISCOUNTS ON 

MX-80F/T L( S NOW 
MX-80 lo Tr, IN 

MX-100 lo^r, STOCK 

We also stock direct connect cables for 
TRS-80, Apple, Atari, Pet or RS 232 

CALL TOLL FREE 

1 -800-344-7493 

In CA and for service (209) 667-2888 



© 



GRAPHICS ROM'S 
AVAILABLE 



AMCROTRONICS, inc. . 

I?e> N GoKlwi Stole Bwd 
moc* CoUo>r*a953SQ 



EPROM-32 

The only EPR0M programmer you need! 

• IEEE-696 IS-100] EPROM programmer lor single-supply 
( + 5V) EPROMs. 

• Programs current IK through 8K (byte) EPROMs plus future 
16K and 32K EPROMs. 

■ Personality Modules adapt hoard to different EPROM types: 

PM-1 -2508. 2758 PM-4-2564 
2516.2716 PM-5-2764 
PM-2-2532 PM-6- 68764 

PM-3-2732 PM-7-2528ITI-16K) 

• Zero-insertion-lorce socket accommodates both 24-pin and 
28-pin EPROM packages. 

• DIP switch selection of programming ports and EPROM 
address for verification and/or use. 

• On-boatd DC-to-DC converter with adjustable regulator lor 
programming voltage. 

■ Programming voltage switched by software. 

• Double-sided PC board with solder masks, silkscreen and 
gold-plated contact fingers. 

• Documentation includes source listing of 8080/Z80 soft- 
ware for programming and verification. 



$269.95 

(assembled & tested) 



Micro Dynamics 

Corporation Prrce includes EPROM-32, documentation 

PO Box 17577 and lwo i )e ' sona l i 'V modules (specify). Ad- 

Wlpmnhic: TN *W117 flilional ™uJJles-S795. Programming/ 

l,V£cnc?n verification software on 8 inch single density 

l9U1Kbb-(Jbiy CP/M-compaticle diskette -S9 95 

MASTERCARD & VISA-TN residents add 6% sales tax. 



SOFTWARE 
AUTHORS 



DEVELOPMEN" 
D hardware z 



20% Royalty! 



We give you personalized servfee, offer a non- 
exclusive .marketing agreement, plus other 
specialized services. We seek: high level 
language compilers, cross-assemblers, utili- 
ties, DMBS, new OS, educ. and businfess ap- 
plications, and any other marketable program. 
We offer full development and documenta- 
tion. Don't hesitate, contact us immediately. 
Michael L. Dean, V. P. R&D 
InfoSoft Computer Systems 

J1L 

2699 Clayton Rd. 

Concord. CA 94519 jjjjj (415)680-0202 

Single Source Solution 



Circle 224 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 251 on inquiry card. 



Circle 188 on inquiry card. 



VOLTAGE SURGE & 
TRANSIENT SUPPRESSOR 




Protects 
Most 
Electronic 
Equipment 

The SUPPRESSOR electronically re- 
moves or reduces suciuen voltage changes. 
It simply plugs into a power receptical on 
the same circuit as the equipment being 
protected. 

END POWER LINE SPIKES, SURGES, 
HASH . . . Only $29.95 ea. Dealer Inquiries 



Invited. 

a 



CUESTA SYSTEMS, INC. 

3440 Roberto Courr 

5on Luis Obispo. California 93401 

C805J 541-4160 



1EMORY EXPANSE 

FOR APPLE® rh.comp.nyfh.f 



|-MI 
1 FC 

1 brought you the first 32K RAM board for 
" Apple //® and Apple »+® now offers: 



• 128K RAM ALL FOR ONLY $599 

Includes 1 MOVEDOS (relocates DOS) 

5 2 RAMEXPANO (for Applesoft*. Integer" 

comprehensive 3 PSEUDO-DISK lor DOS 3 3 or 3.2 
software 4 PSEUDO-DISK lorCRM* 

packages 5 PSEUDO-DISK lor PASCAL 



• 64K RAM $425 



A medium range memory expansion board wnich can be 
upgraded lo 128K a! a faier dale (Upgrade kit sold 
tor $175) Includes all 5 software packages ottered 
with the 128K board 



• 32K RAM smi. only $239 

The old lavorite tor Apple users Includes our tirsi 3 
software packages (above) with CP/M* and PASCAL 
pseudo-disks now offered as options (139 each) 



• VC-EXPAND™ 

ONLY $100 



MEMORY EXPANSION 
FOR VtslC»lc T 



Expand memory available lo Personal Software's 

16 sector VtsCalc* Add 32K. 64K, or even I28K lo 

your present workspace (even it you already have a 

16K card in use 1 ) with this 

program plus one or more 

Saturn boards ■■■ miwun 

Simple operation ».o *>■ *m Ann **», hi wo? 



<?. 



Smartmodem 




• Auto-Answer • Auto-Dial • Repeat 

• Programmable • Use Any Language 

• Touch-Tone and Pulse Dialing 

• Audio Monitor - Listen to Connection 

• FCC-Approved Direct-Connect 

• Full or Half Duplex. 0-300 Baud 

• RS-232C Interface • 7 Status LED's 

• Two Year Limited Warranty 

$249 

Send certified check or money order 
Allow two weeks for personal check 
Florida residents add 4% sales tax 

flC€ COMPUT€R PRODUCTS 

of Florida Inc. 

1640 N.W. 3rd STREET 
DEERFIELD BEACH, FLA. 33441 
VOICE: 305-427-1 257/DAT A: 305-427-6300 



4 



Circle 115 on inquiry card. 



Circle 346 on inquiry card. 



Circle 5 on inquiry card. 



WE WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD 



CP/M " Software Software/Manual only 



Computer Pathways 




Pearl (level 1) 


$ 99/S25 


Pearl (level 2) 


$299/$40 


Pearl (level 3) 


$549/$50 


Digital Research 




PL/l-80 


$459/$35 


BT-80 


$179/$30 


Mac 


$ 85/S15 


Sid 


$ 65/S15 


Z-Sid 


$ 90/$15 


Tex 


$ 90/$15 


DeSpool 


$ 50/S10 


Micropro 




WordStar 


$319/560 


Customization Notes 


$ 89/$na 


Mail-Merge 


$109/$25 


WordStar/Mail-Merge 


$419/$85 


DataStar 


$249/$60 


WordMaster 


$119/$40 


SuperSort I 


$199/$40 


Spell Star 


$175/$40 


Microsoft 




Basic-80 


$289/$na 


Basic Compiler 


$329/$na 


Fortran-80 


$349/$na 


Cobol-80 


$574/$na 


M-Sort 


$124/$na 


Macro-80 


$144/$na 


Edit-80 


$ 84/$na 


MuSimp/MuMath 


$224/$na 


MuLisp-80 


$174/$na 


Organic Software 




Milestone 


$269/$30 


Supersoft 




Diagnostic I 


$ 49/$20 


Diagnostic II 


$ 84/S20 


Disk Doctor 


$ 84/S20 


Forth (8080 or Z80) 


$149/$30 


Fortran 


$219/$30 


Fortran w/Ratfor 


$289/$35 


Other 


less 10% 


Unicorn 




Mince 


$149/$25 


Scribble 


$149/$25 


Both 


$249/$50 


Data Base 




FMS-80 


$649/$45 


dBASE II 


$595/$50 


Access/80 


$699/$50 


Pascal 




Pascal/MT+ 


$429/$30 


Pascal/M 


$189/$20 


Miscellaneous 




SpellGuard 


$299/$25 


The Last One 


$549/$na 


SuperCalc 


$259/$50 


CBASIC-2 


$ 98/S20 


MicroStat 


$224/$25 


StatPak 


$449/$40 


Micro B + 


$229/$20 


Apple Software (Business) 


Micropro 




Wordstar 


$239 


MailMerge 


$ 89 


Wordstar/MailMerge 


$349 


SuperSort I 4 


$159 


Spellstar I 


$175 


Personal Software 




Visicalc 3.3 1 


$229 


CCA Data Mgr ^ 


$ 99 


Desktop/Plan II 


$229 


Visiterm 


$139 


Visidex 


$229 


Visiplot 


$185 



Personal Software (cont.) 

Visitrend/Visiplot 

Zork 

Miscellaneous 

Micro Courier 

Super-Text II 

ASCII Express 

Apple Software (Entertainment) 

Wizard & Princess 

Mystery House jf 

Flight Simulator 

Raster Blaster 

Space Eggs 

Sargon II 

ABM 

Micropainter 

Apple Panic 

Pool 1.5 

Apple Accessories 

Z-80 Softcard 

Keyboard Enhancer 

Apple Joystick 

Sup-r Mod 

CPS Multifunction Card 

Videx Board 

16K Card 

Sup-r Fan 

ALF9 Voice Board 

CCS Cards 

CCS Parallel Model 7720 

CCS Serial Model 7710D 

CCS Centronics Model 7728 

Disk Drives For TRS-80* Model 1 
CCI-100 5V4", 40 Track 
Add-ons for Zenith Z-89 
CCI-189 5V«", 40 Track 
Z-87 Dual 5Va" system 
Drives for Z-90 

External card edge and power supply 
included. 90 day warranty/one year on 
power supply. 

Corvus 5M 
Corvus 10M 
Corvus 20M 
Corvus Mirror 

Shugart 8" 801R Raw Drive 
TANDON 5V*" Raw Drive 
Power Supplies 
Diskettes— Box of 10 

Maxell 5 1 /." $ 40 

Maxell 8" $ 45 

BASF/Verbatim 5 1 /." $26.95 

BASF/Verbatim 8" $ 36 

Plastic File BOX — Holds 50 5'/4"dskls. $ 19 

Plastic Library Case 5 1 /T $ 3 

Plastic Library Case 8" $ 4 

Head Cleaning Diskette $ 25 

Floppy Saver $10.95 

Floppy Saver Rings $ 6.95 

16K RAM Kits 

One Kit $13.95 

Two Kits $25.00 

200ns for TRS-80*, Apple II, 

(specify): Jumpers $ 2.50 

Computer Systems 

Altos ACS8000 Series 

Atari 400 

Atari 800 

Call for other Atari products 

Zenith Z89, 48K $ Call 

Zenith Z90, 64K $ Call 

Call for other Zenith products 

For fast delivery, send certified checks, money orders or 

call to arrange direct bank wire transfers. Personal or 

company checks require one to three weeks to clear. All 

prices are mail order only and are subject to change 

without notice. Call for snipping charges. 



1 



$275 
$ 34 

$219 
$127 
$ 59 

$ 28 
$ 24 
$ 29 
$ 26 
$ 18 
$ 29 
$ 22 
$ 29 
$ 28 
$ 26 

$299 
$110 
$ 49 
$ 25 
$199 
$249 
$159 
$ 39 
$149 
$Call 
$Call 
$Call 
$Call 

$299 

$389 
$995 
$Call 



$3089 
$4489 
$5429 
699 

399 
Call 
Call 



$ 



$ 



$ 



Call 
359 
789 



m£Jp 



Terminals 

Adds Viewpoint 

Zenith Z-19 

Televideo 910 

Televideo 920C 

Televideo 950 

S-100 California Computer Systems 

Mainframe 

Z80 CPU 

64K RAM 

Floppy Disc Cntrl 

Integrated Sys. w/int. cables, tstd. 

2P + 2S I/O 

4 Port Serial I/O 

4 Port Parallel I/O 

Casio Calculators 

Pocket Comp. FX702 

Desk Printr/Calc. FR100 



Scientific Calc. 
Game Watch 
Game Watch 
Calendar Watch 
Printers 



$ Call 
$ Call 
$ 519 
$ 729 
$ 929 

$ 349 
$ 239 
$ 569 
$ 339 
$1975 
$ 269 
$ 249 
$ 179 

$185.00 
$ 79.95 
$ 49.95 
$ 49.95 
$ 69.95 
$ 59.95 




FX8100 
CA90 Plastic 
CA901 Steel 
AX210 
NEC Spinwriter 
7710 R.O. Ser $2395 
7710 Ser w/tr. $2595 
7720 KSR w/tr. $2795 
7730 R.O. Par $2395 
7730 R.O. Par w/tr. $2595 
NEW 3500 Series $ Call 
Epson MX-70 $ Call 

Epson MX-80 $ Call 

Epson MX-80FT $ Call 

Epson MX-100 $ Call 

PaperTiger 445 Gr. & 2K $ Call 

PaperTiger 460 Gr. & 2K $ Call 

PaperTiger 560 Gr. $ Call 

IDS Prism 80 $ Call 

IDS Prism 132 $ Call 

PaperTiger Access. $ Call 

Anadex DP-8000 $ 849 

Anadex DP-9500/01 $1389 

Okidata Microline 80 Frio. & pin feed 
Okidata Microline 82A Fric. & pin feed 
Okidata Microline 83A 120 cps 
Okidata 84 200 cps 
Centronics 739 

C.ltoh Starwriter I 25 cps, par. 
C.ltoh Starwriter I 25 cps, ser. 
C.ltoh Starwriter II 45 cps, par. 
C.ltoh Starwriter II 45 cps, ser. 
Axiom GP-80M 
Data South 180 cps 
Olivetti DY 211 Daisy Wheel 
Monitors 
Leedex 12" B&W 
Leedex 12" Green Screen 
Leedex 13" Color 
Sanyo 9" B&W 
Sanyo 9" Green Screen 
Sanyo 12" Green Screen 
Sanyo 12" B&W 
Sanyo 13" Color 
Zenith 13" Color 
Zenith 12" Green Screen 
Telecommunications 

Prentice Star Modem 1-yr. guar. $ 125 

Univ. Data System UDS103LP $ 135 

Univ. Data System UDS103JP $175 

Novation Cat $ 139 

Novation D-Cat $ 149 

Novation Auto-Cat $ 199 

Novation Apple Cat II $ 299 

D.C. Hayes Smart. Modem $ 249 

D.C. Hayes Micro-Modem II $ 295 

CCI Telnet Com. Package $ 135 



Call 

Call 

Call 

Call 

739 

$1525 

$1620 

$1950 

$2075 

$ 319 

$ Call 

$ Call 



$ 



129 

139 

329 

149 

189 

$ 249 

$ 239 

$ 449 

$ 349 

$ 129 



dealer (national/international) inquiries invited Send for FREE Catalogue 



The CPU SHOP 



TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-343-6522 

TWX: 710-348-1796 Massachusetts Residents call 617/242-3361 



420-423 Rutherford Ave., Dept. B03M 
Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129 
Hours 9 AM- 8 PM (EST) Mon.-Fri. (Sat. til 



Technical Information call 617/242-3361 
Massachusetts Residents add 5% Sales Tax 
5) Tandy Corporation Trademark/" Digital Research 

Circle 112 on inquiry card. 



master charge 



VtSA 



APPLE, TRS80, Tl, IBM, PET... 
TRY! OUR $99 SELECTOR SWITCH 

Available for RS232, IEEE 488, BNC... 



v\\\\\\\v\\vow^ 



nsww^s^s^ 




Our $99|- S8AB) switch will save you monoy and aggravation. Share your 
printer, modem elc. The selection is made Dy turning the front panel 
knot). Eliminate Ihe aggravation ol connecting and disconnecting cables. 
Our -S8AB two position unit can connect one printer ro two CPU's. It 
can also be used to connect one CPU to either a printer or a modem. We 
also have 3. A. 5, S 6 posilion units. In fact we have aboul 30 models to 
satisfy all ihe common applicalions. Our products are the most popular 
units on the market. We sold over 10.000 units. We offer a 5 YEAR WAR. 
RANTY. OUR UNITS HAVE AN EXCLUSIVE MONITORING OPTION. We 
have distributors and dealers in most cities. If your favorlle computer 
dealer does not carry a Glllronix Swilcti please have him call us, We offer 
the greatest discounts as well as evaluation samples. Call us for a FREE 
colorful catalog. 




UNIVERSAL INTERFACE PRODUCTS 



450 San Antonio Ave., Palo Alto. CA 94306 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED! 

Call (415)493-1300 



TRS 80 USER 

OILTRONIX SOLVED YOUR SWITCHING PROBLEM 



A. OUR S169.00 ■'GTRS■2AB■AP2 , ■ SWITCHING UNIT, WILL CONNECT 
THE OUTPUT OF VOUR TRS 80 TO TWO (2) DEVICES [LINE PRINTERS, 
DAISY WHEEL PRINTERS ETC). TO SELECT DEVICE 1 OR 2, SIMPLY 
TURN THE KNOB TO THE DESIRED POSITION. NO MORE MESSING 
WITH CABLES! EASY TO INSTALL EASY TO OPERATEI £ YEAR WAR- 
RANTY! 



ALL FOUR UNITS ARE AVAILABLE FROM STOCK. 

OTHER SWITCHING PRODUCTS ARE ALSO AVAILABLE. WE HAVE 
OVER 30 MODELS OF MANUAL, REMOTE AND AUTOMATIC UNITS SEE 
NEXT COLUMN FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

CONTACT GILTRONIX OR OUR LOCAL DISTRIBUTORS. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED! 

Call (415)493-1300 



UNIVERSAL INTERfACE PRODUCTS 



Circle 168 on inquiry card. 



Circle 169 on inquiry card. 



Analog and Power 

Control I/O in a 

Single Board Computer 




EROM, 128 RAM, timer. 8 12-bit 
analog inputs, 8-bit analog 
output, 8 AC or DC inputs or 
outputs, serial I/O, digital I/O, 
watchdog timer, power supply. 



wixtii; 



Wlntek Corp, 
1601 South Street 
Lafayette, IN 47904 
317-742-6428 



Circle 417 on inquiry card. 



Screens in seconds 



QUICKSCREEN 



• ITEM IDi 12345 • 
FINANCIAL QUANTITIES 



1 PRICE $8 I 

I COST S< 1 



I MTD $200 I 
I KTD $800 I 



I ON HAND 193 1 

! ON ORDER 50 I 

I ALLOCATED 6 I 

I REORDER 220 ! 

+■ + 

1 MTD SOLD 25 I 

( KTD SOLD 100 I 



Microsoft BASIC, CB ASIC, dBASEII, 

Or F MS 80 ( f °" r separate versions) 56K CP/M 

$ 149 (user manual: $20) plus shipping - 
Fox A Geller Associates. Inc. I (201)837-0142: 
RO. Box 1053 I Credil Cards 

Teaneck.N.J. 07666 I Accepted 

fW80 Is a tradBflBTK <rf DJR ABmciatos 
dEKB II la a trademark of Aflfrtni-Tste 
OVSIC/3VM, are tradomrks of Digital Research 



H Dysan 

^CORPORATION 



Solve your dbc problem*, buy 100% surface 
tested Dyaan rlekrftei All order* shipped 
from stock, wtthm 24 hour*. Call toll FREE 
(800) 2354137 for prices and information. 
Vtaa and Master Card accepted. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (InCal. call 
(805)543-1037) 




HOW TO RELOAD 

Multi-Strike Daisy Wheel 
PRINTER RIBBONS 

You can profitably reload 
$96 Richos for S36 
S90 Diablos for $24 
$84 Wangs for $24 
$76 NECs for $24 
$36 Qumes for $12 
or less 
This comprehensive book provides 
full instructions on how to make as 
much as S180 an hour reloading 
multi-strike ribbons in your home. 
Send S.A.S.E. to 
WILLIAM WALKER 

Box 16-J-B 

164-30 Hillside Ave. 

Jamaica. NY 11432 

suoqqu 3>|U)s-!i|niii pcoiaj pue ||as a/v\ 

Prices sent on request. 



Circle 162 on inquiry card. 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 



Circle 405 on Inquiry card. 




NEW! for 
the '89 from 



MAGNOLIA fl 

MICROSYSTEMS 



DOUBLE DENSITY 
DISK CONTROLLER 

for both 5 1 /4" & 8" drives 

onlyvpvDyU complete 

including CP/M™2.2 

MAGNOLIA MICROSYSTEMS, INC. 

281 2 Thorndyke W., Seattle 98199 

(206) 285-7266 C800) 426-2841 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 



LABELS 




15/16"x3 1 /i" white pressure 

1 up - pin feed sensitive 

PRICE INCLUDES SHIPPING 

Packed 5M per box - Min. order 1 box -$14.95 
Check with order - Mass Residents add 5% Sales Tax 

ICHECK-MATE 

P.O. Box 103, Randolph, MA 02368 
Telephone: 617-963-7694 



""""Heath 
Users 




Double Your 
5%" disk storage 
capacity without adding a drive. 

Get twice as much from your H88 or 
H89 microcomputer. Our FDC-880H 
floppy disk controller, in conjunction 
with your 5'/J" drives, for example, 
expands memory capacity from 256 
bytes to 512 bytes per sector. 

And it handles single and double- 
sided, single and double-density. 8" and 
5'/," drives — simultaneously. 

Call 714/275-1272 today 
or write for details. 



m 



C.O.R. Systems Inc. 

Controlled Data Recording Systems, Inc. 
76fi7 Vickers St.. Ran Diego, CA 92111 



Circle 225 on inquiry card. 



Circle 71 on inquiry card. 



Circle 69 on inquiry card. 



f 



HANLEY ENGINEERING CORP. 

We Will Beat All Competitor's Prices!!! 

Guaranteed to ship within 24 hours on all 
telephone orders or YOUR ORDER FREE!! 



800-426-2668 

206-643-0792 



74LS00 



4000CMOS 



4K STATIC RAM 

8/$20.00 

16 K Memory 
8/ $16.00 



74LS00 

74LS01 

74LS02 

74LS03 

74LS04 

74LS05 

74LS08 

74LS09 

74LS10 

74LS11 

74LS12 

74LS13 

74LS14 

74LS15 

74LS20 

74LS21 

74LS22 

74LS26 

74LS27 

74LS28 

74LS30 

74LS32 

74LS35 

74LS37 

74LS38 

74LS40 

74I.S42 

74LS47 

74LS48 

74LS49 

74LS51 

74LS54 

74LS55 

74 LS63 

74LS73 

74LS74 

74LS75 

74LS76 

74LS78 

74LS83 

74LS85 

74LS86 

74LS90 

74LS91 

74LS92 

74LS93 

74LS95 

74LS96 

74LS107 

74LS109 

74LS112 

74LS113 

74LS114 

74LS122 



.25 74LS123 

.25 74LS124 

-25 74LS125 

.25 74LS126 

.25 74LS132 

.25 74LS136 

.30 74LS138 

.25 74LS139 

.25 74LS145 

30 74LS147 

30 74LS148 

40 74LS151 

.75 74LS153 

.30 74LS155 

25 74LS156 

.30 74LS157 

.25 74LS158 

.30 74LS160 

.35 74LS161 

.35 74LS162 

.25 74LS163 

.35 74LS164 

.55 74LS165 

.50 74LS166 

,35 74LS168 

.25 74LS169 

.50 74LS170 

.75 74LS173 

.75 74LS174 

75 74LS175 

.25 74LS181 

.35 74LS189 

.35 74LS190 

120 74LS191 

35 74LS192 

40 74LS193 

.50 74LS194 

.40 74LS195 

.50 74LS196 

75 74LS197 

110 74LS221 

.40 74LS240 

.60 74LS241 

.80 74LS242 

.66 74LS243 

60 74LS244 

.80 74LS245 

.80 74LS247 

.40 74LS248 

.40 74LS249 

.40 74LS251 

.40 74LS253 

.50 74LS257 

45 74LS258 



.90 74LS259 

2.95 74LS260 

.90 74LS261 

.80 74LS266 

.75 74LS273 

.50 74LS275 

.75 74LS279 

.75 74LS280 

1.10 74LS283 

2.25 74LS290 

1.25 74LS293 

75 74LS295 

.75 74LS298 

.90 74LS299 

.90 74LS323 

75 74LS324 

.75 74LS347 

.90 74LS348 

.90 74LS352 

.90 74LS353 

.90 74LS363 

.90 74LS365 

.90 74LS366 

2.00 74LS367 

1.70 74LS368 

1.70 74LS373 

1.70 74LS374 

.75 74LS375 

.90 74LS377 

.90 74LS3B5 

2.10 74LS386 

9.95 74LS390 
74LS393 
74LS395 

.80 74LS399 

.90 74LS424 

95 74LS447 

.90 74LS490 

.80 74LS630 

60 74LS640 

1.15 74LS641 

1.15 74LS642 

1.15 74LS645 

1.85 74LS668 

1,85 74LS669 

1 .00 74LS670 

1,95 74LS674 

75 74LS682 

1 20 74LS683 

.95 74LS684 

125 74LS685 

.80 74LS688 



.95 



.80 



74LS689 
74LS152 



74S00 



74S00 


.40 


74S02 


.46 


74S03 


45 


74S04 


75 


74S05 


.75 


74S08 


.45 


74S09 


.75 


74S10 


.66 


74S11 


HO 


74S15 


BS 


74S20 


.65 


74S22 


75 


74S30 


45 


74S32 


.95 


74S37 


185 


74S38 


1.65 


74S40 


.40 


74S51 


.75 


74S64 


75 


74S65 


1.20 


74S74 


65 


74S85 


2.35 


74S86 


140 


74S112 


156 


74S113 


1.95 


74S114 


1.45 


74S124 


2 75 



74S132 
74S133 
74S134 
74S135 
74S138 
74S139 
74S140 
74S151 
74S153 
74S157 
74S158 
74S161 
74S162 
74S163 
74S168 
74S168 
74S174 
74S175 
74S181 
74S182 
74S186 
74S189 
74S194 
74S195 
74S196 
74S197 



74S201 
74S225 
74S240 
74S241 
74S251 
74S253 
74S257 
74S258 
74S260 
74S274 
74S275 
74S280 
74S287 
74S288 



1.15 
1.15 
1.15 
1.40 
2.80 
370 

3.70 - 

4 60 74S289 

540 74S301 

106 74S373 

1 05 74S374 

4 45 74S381 

2.90 74S387 

390 74S412 

14.90 74S471 

290 74S472 

1 85 74S474 

485 74S482 

4 20 74S570 
74S572 



2.60 

.60 
245 

.50 
1.60 
3.30 

.50 
1.95 

.95 
1.20 
1.80 
1.00 

.95 
2.50 
3.95 
1.75 
1.95 
1.95 
1.50 
1.50 
1.35 



.65 
.65 

1.15 
1.75 



1.90 
75.00 
3.00 
3.00 
3.00 
3.00 
1.65 



3.15 
2.25 
2.35 
2.35 
2.35 
2.35 
1.25 



1490 
8.90 
395 
3.70 
1.85 
7.40 
1.35 
1.45 



4.70 
4.40 
6.95 
6.90 
3.40 
340 
7.90 
5.70 
2.95 
9.90 
16.80 
17.60 
15.50 
7.75 
7.75 



4000 
4001 
4002 
4006 
4007 
4006 
4009 
4010 
4011 
4012 
4013 
4014 
4015 
4016 
4017 
4018 
4019 
4020 
4021 
4022 
4023 
4024 
4025 



4029 
4030 
4031 
4032 
4033 
4034 
4035 
4037 



7812CT 
7815CT 

7805K7 
781 2KT 
781 5KT 
76L05 
78L12 
7905CT 
791 2CT 
7915CT 

7905K 
7912K 
79L05 
79L12 
79L15 



74C00 
74C02 
74C04 
74C08 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C32 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 
74C76 
74C83 
74C86 
74C89 
74C90 
74C93 
74C95 
74C107 
74C150 
74C151 
74C154 
74C157 
74C160 



.95 4043 

.35 4044 

.95 4046 

45 4047 

.45 4048 

.35 4049 

35 4050 

.45 4051 

.95 4052 

.95 4053 

.45 4055 

.95 4056 

.95 4059 

.45 4060 

.95 4066 

.95 4068 

.95 4069 

.35 4070 

.75 4071 

.35 4072 

1.95 4073 

.65 4075 

.80 4076 



1.50 4082 

2.75 4085 

2.75 4086 

2.75 4093 



95 4501 

.95 4502 

.75 4503 

.85 4505 

.85 4506 

.95 4507 

.95 4508 

.75 4510 

.55 4511 



2.75 4518 
2.75 4519 
9.95 4520 



.40 4527 
40 4528 



30 4553 

.95 4555 

.50 4556 

.40 4558 

.40 4568 

.95 4581 

95 4582 

.95 4584 

395 4585 

1.75 4702 



LINEAR 



.85 LM301V 
LM308V 
.85 LM309K 
.95 LM311V 
LM317T 
140 LM317K 
1.40 LM318N 
1.40 LM323K 
.65 L.M324N 
.65 LM337K 
.95 LM339 
.95 LM377 
1.15 LM380 

LM386V 
1.50 

1.50 LM555V 
.75 LM556 
75 LM565 
.75 LM566V 



.95 

.65 



2.25 
225 
1.50 
125 
1.25 
1.25 
1.25 
1.25 
1.75 
1.25 
.95 
1.75 
1.75 
1.95 
4.95 
.95 
.95 
225 
595 
1.95 
1.95 



.75 LM567V 

.75 LM723 

1.50 LM733 

.60 LM741V 

1.90 LM747 

3.75 LM748V 

1.50 LM1414 

3.75 LM1458V 

.60 DS1488N 

395 DS1489D 

.75 LM1889 

2.25 LM3900 

1.25 LM3909 

1.25 LM3914 
LM3915 

.40 LM3916 

.70 DS75451 

95 DS75452 

1.50 DS75453 



.30 

.75 
.60 
150 
.65 
1.00 
1.00 
2.45 



375 
3.75 
3.75 



74C00 CMOS 



.35 74C161 

35 74C162 

.35 74C163 

.35 74C164 

,35 74C165 

1 45 74C173 

35 74C174 

,35 74C175 

.50 74C192 

1,70 74C193 

2.05 80C97 

65 82C19 

.85 74C195 

1 .90 74C221 

1 .90 74C240 

.90 74C244 

4.50 74C373 

1.70 74C374 

170 74C901 

1.70 74C902 

.95 74C903 

5.70 74C904 

2.20 74C905 

320 74C906 

1.75 74C907 
1.95 



1.95 74C908 

1.95 74C909 

1.95 74C910 

196 74C911 

196 74C912 

1.95 74C914 

2.20 74C915 

2.20 74C917 

2.20 74C918 

2.20 74C920 

.90 74C922 

4 95 74C923 

2.20 74C925 

2 20 74C926 

2.20 74C927 

2 20 74C928 

2 70 74C929 

2.70 74C930 

,80 74C932 

.80 74C941 

,80 74C989 

,80 80C95 

10.90 B0C96 

90 88C30 

.90 B8C29 



2.00 
2,70 
9.90 
9.90 
9.90 
1.90 
1.90 
2.70 
1.90 
16.00 
5.90 
5.90 
6.70 
7.90 
7.90 
7.90 
7.90 
7.90 
1.95 
2.75 
9.90 
.85 
.90 
3.95 



8200 



8080A 


3.95 


8085A 


8.95 


8085A-2 


11.95 


8066 


99.95 


8036 


39.95 


8155 


11.25 


8185 


29.95 


8202 


45.00 


8205 


3.95 


6212 


1.90 


8214 


3.85 


8216 


1.80 


8224 


2.50 


8226 


1.80 


8228 


4.90 


8238 


4.90 


8243 


4.50 


8251A 


5.45 


8253 


9.80 


8255A-5 


5.20 


8257- 5 


8.95 


8259A 


6.95 


8271 


60.00 


8272 


39.95 


8275 


29.95 


8279-5 


10.00 


8282 


6.60 


8283 


6.60 


8284A 


5.75 


8286 


6.60 


8287 


6.60 


8288 


2500 


8289 


49.95 


8755A 


45.00 


8748 


30.00 



HITACHI 

2K x 8 CMOS RAM 150NS 

Pin Compatible with 2716 

HM6116P-3 

$13.00 

8 For $88.00 



4118 
STATIC RAM 

1K x8 
$15.00 



6800 



AUGAT LOW PHOFILE SOCKETS 



4164 

64K Dynamic Ram 

200 NS 16 pin 

$15.00 



These Are High 


Reliability Industry 


Standard Sockets 


SPIN 


208-AG29D 


14PIN 


214-AG29D 


16PIN 


216-AG29D 


18PIN 


218-AG29D 


20PIN 


220-AG29D 


22PIN 


222-AG29D 


24PIN 


224-AG29D 


28PIN 


228-AG29D 


40P1N 


240-AG29D 



3242 

3480 

6B00 

6802 

6809 

6BB09 

6809E 

6810 

6821 

6340 

6843 

6845 

6847 

6850 

6852 

6875 

6880 

68B2 



8.00 

9.00 

5.75 

11.00 

25.00 

45.00 

36.00 

3.50 

3.50 

9.00 

41.00 

22.00 

12.25 

3.50 

3.50 

7.00 

1.60 

4.70 

1.80 

1.80 

1.80 

12.50 



ZB 

Z6132 
Z80 
Z80A 



280A 
Z80B 



280A 

230 

ZS0A 

Z80 

Z80A 

230 

Z80A 



Z80 



PIO 
PIO 
PIO 
CTC 
CTC 
CTC 
DMA 
DMA 
SIO/0 
SIO/0 
SIO/1 
SIO/1 
SIO/2 
SIO(2 



50.00 
40.00 
6.70 
7.25 
19.00 
6.00 
7.10 
15.50 
6.00 
7.10 
15.50 
18.50 
22.50 
18.50 
22.50 
18.50 
22.50 
18.50 
22.50 



6502 



6502 

6502A 

6504 

6504A 

6512 

6512A 

6520 

6521 

6521A 

6522 

6522A 

6532 

6532A 

6545-1 

6545A- 

6551 

6551 A 



Microprocessor Crystals 
$3.00 Each 



EPROMS 



3579545MHZ 

4.0MHZ 

4.0MHZ 

5.0MHZ 

6.0MH2 

6.144MHZ 

80MHZ 

10.0MHZ 

15.0MHZ 

18.0MHZ 

18.431MHZ 

48.0MHZ 



Parallel 
Parallel 
Series 
Parallel 
Parallel 
Parallel 
Series 
Series 
Series 
Series 
Series 
Series 



2708 

2716 

2716 

2716 

2716-1 

2716 

2716 

2732 

2732 

2732 

2732A 

2732A ■ 2 

2732A-2 

2532 



AMD 

Hitachi 

National 

Intel 

Intel 

T.I. 

Motorola 

NEC 

Mitsubish 

Intel 

Intel 

Intel 

Intel 

Hitachi 



3 Supply 
3 Supply 
+ 5 
+ 5 
+ 5 
+ 5 



460NS 
450NS 
450NS 
450NS 
350NS 
450NS 
450NS 
450NS 
450NS 
450NS 
250NS 
300NS 
200NS 
450NS 



10-00 
8.45 

9.30 
9.20 
10.00 
4.40 
6.15 
6.70 
8.75 
11.70 
11.25 
12.40 
22.50 
2895 
1196 
1295 



350 
700 
7.00 
7.00 
950 
750 
7.50 
1600 
1600 
1700 
1700 
1601 
20.00 
1800 



We reserve the right to substitute manufacturers. 

Prices subject to change without notice. 

Our inventory is completely managed by computer. 



HANLEY ENGINEERING CORP. 

13400 Northup Way #20 

Bellevue, WA 98005 

800-426-2668 

206-643-0792 

Minimum Order 15.00 

Include 4.00 for UPS Blue 

Include 3.00 for UPS Ground 

Include 4.00 for 1st Class Mail 

Include 12.00 for Foreign Country Orders 

Washington State add 5.4% Sales Tax 



Circle 174 on Inquiry card. 



^ScoteK 



DISKETTES 



SAVE 40% £%££ 

51/ 11 Specify soft, Price/10 
/4 1 or 1 6 sector 

#744 1 side/sgl dens $26.70 

#744D 1 side/dbi dens 33.20 

#745 2 sides/dbl dens 40.30 



8i i Specify soft 
or 32 sector 

#740 1 side/sgl dens 27.30 

#741 1 side/dbi dens 35.80 

#743 2 sides/dbl dens 43.60 

CHECKS - VISA - MC - C.O.D. 
(313) 7 7 7-7780 ADD $2 SHIPPING 

LYBEN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

27204 Harper Ave. 

St. Clair Shores, Ml 48081 

Authorized Distributor «■■ 

Information Processing Products «3flV| 



Circle 221 on inquiry card. 



ELIZA IS HERE! 



arogra 



FULL IMPLEMENTATION of the original ELIZA 
ow available lo run on your microcomputer' 



Created at MIT in 1966, ELIZA has become the world's most 
celebrated artificial intelligence demonstration program ELIZA is 
a non-directive psychotherapist who analyzes each slatemenl as 
you type n in and ihen responds with her own comment or question 
— and her remarks are oflen starthngly appropriate! 

Designed to run on a large mainframe. ELIZA has hitherto been 
unavailable to personal computer users except in greatly Stripped 
down versions lacking ihe sophistication which made the original 
program so fascinating 

Now. our new microcomputer version possessing the FULL power 
and range of expression of the original is being offered at the 
introductory price of only $25 And it you want lo find out how she 
does it (or teach her to do morel we will include the complete 
Source Program lor only S20 additional 

Order your copy of ELIZA today and you'll never agai 
to respond when you hear someone say "Okay, let'; 
computer ot yours can actually do 1 " 

ELIZA IS AVAILABLE IN THE FOLLOWING DISK FORMATS: 



■ nderhow 
what this 



S25 1or Protectee 

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH GROUP 

921 NORTH LA JOLLA AVENUE 
m^^mt LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA 90046 
WW I (213)656-7368 (213) 654-22V 

MC, VISA and CHECKS ACCEPTED 



C^^^^rf 



SUPER E-Z80 KIT 

64K-Z80A-CP/M™ Compatible 

Micro-Computer 

Features: Z80A CPU-CTC and PIO • 64K 
Dynamic Ram • 4K Monitor EProm • 54 Key 
Keyboard (Detachable) • 3 Fully Buffered 
S-100 Spaces • Intergrated Circuit Sockets • 
RS232-C Asynch. Modem Control (Program- 
mable Baud' Ratel • Composite Video • CP/M'" 
Operating System Compatible • Epson or 
Centronics Printer Compatible Parallel Port 
• 8272 Floppy Controller Device - 3740 and 
3741 Comp. - 8" &. 5'/4" Drives - up to 4 
Drives • Z80 Programming Card • As- 
sembly Instructions • Monitor Listing • 
Block Diagram. 

PRICE: $1195.00 

TERMS: Certified check or 

money order 

(Texas lies. Add Sales Tas) 

KIT-80 INC. 

I860! LBJ Fwv. • Mesquitx, Texas 75150 
• 800-527-1593 

A Subsidiary of Patrick Computer Systems, Inc. 

Manufacturer of the ic436 

integrated business computer 

™Trademark of Digital Research 



Circle 208 on inquiry card. 




APPLE, IBM, TRS-80, CP/M 

SOFTWARE 

Westico is a publisher and distributor of 
professional software for microcomputers. 
If you have a new program ready for 
distribution or wantyourexisting programs 
to reach a larger market, contact: 

Phillip Wbellhof, V.P. Mktg. 

Westico, Inc. 

25 Van Zant Street 

Norwalk, CT 06855 

(203) 853-6880 
To increase your profits, take advantage 
of Westico's worldwide promotion and 
distribution. 

WESTICO 

The Software Express Service 



STATISTICAL 
SOFTWARE 

ELF — Stepwise regression, fac- 
tor analysis, correlation coeffi- 
cients, crosstabs, simple statistics, 
t-tests, ANOVA, stepwise discrimi- 
nant analysis, all BASIC transfor- 
mations and more. $200.00 

TWG/ARIMA - Box-Jenkins for 
seasonal and non-seasonal models, 
identification, estimation and fore- 
casting. Price: $300.00. 

Each includes a database 
manager, numeric software key- 
pad, and is menu-driven. Each re- 
quires an Apple II with Applesoft, 
48K, and DOS 3.3. 

For further information, write 

3907 Lakota Road 

P.O. Box 10114 

Alexandria, VA 22310 

"Apple II and Applesoft are trademarks of 
the Apple Computer Company 



Circle 415 on inquiry card. 



ANALOGS DIGITAL 
DIGITALS ANALOG 

CONVERSION MODULES 

SOFTWARE 
GAIN CONTROL 



__.d tost - S-100 - 9 10 15 kh; 

smon rime - mixabie high end low inputs - gain 

_.n 1 to 1024 — lj?-bir - '.nrnplf. and hold omphlinr 

■channel difff.rp.ntiol — 16-chonncl — onnloq to cJiqitol 

nqh accuracy - programmable gain instrumentation 

- ""-- - custom boorrJ it-si - S-100 - 2 to 15 khz 

1 time — mixabir high find low inputs - Qcnfi 

Tom i to i0P'i - 12-bit - sample and hold amplifier 

8-channel differential — 16-chan<v.i - analog to digital 

high accuracy - programmable qain instrumentation 

nmnlifiRf — custom board t("->t - S-100 - 9 to IS kh/ 



For additional details about the ad-ioo-4 and other 
fine California Data corporation ioo?o individually 
tested, high reliability products, circle the reader 
service card number below or for faster response 
write or call us. 

CALIFORNIA DATA 
CORPORATION 

3475 Old Conejo Road. Suite C-10 
Newbury Park. CA 91320 

(805) 498-3651 



Circle 35 on inquiry card. 



Circle 410 on inquiry card. 



Circle 64 on inquiry card. 



RS-232 
Got ya 
down? 




The RS-232 Monitor/Controller will 
help get ya up again. It simply connects 
in series with any RS-232 interface and 
allows you to Monitor and Control The 
RS232 control and data lines. Operates 
on 9 volt transistor batteries or without 
batteries when monitoring. Complete in- 
structions included along with helpful in- 
terfacing tips. 

Price/Terms $59.95/money order, 
check, C.O.D., Master Charge or Visa. 
Alabama Residents add 6% sales tax, 
shipping included in price. 

IflRRV engineering 

IHUDI associates 

P.O. Box 509 Pelham, AL 35124 
(205) 987-0997 

Leaders in computer interfacing 



PERSONAL 

COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

for 

EXECUTIVES and MANAGERS 

• Name/ Address/Key Information 

• Personal Schedule 

• Corporate Schedule 

• Document Tracking 

• File Indexing Schema 

• Tickler File 

• Questionaire Tabulating 

Any three for $150 - All seven for $250. 
Functional, well engineered software in 
the Pascal programming language for 
Apple II and TRS-80 Model II com- 
puters. 

SOFTWARE CONSULTING SERVICES 

901 Whiiiier Drive. Allentown. Pa. 18103 

(215) 797-9690 

ATT. Martha Cicholli 



"C'COMPILERS FOR MC6809 

• Generates re-entrant/relocatable, efficient, 'rom'able 
assembly language 

• Supports full "C" except: long, floats, doubles, 
initializers, and bil fields 

• Includes object code linker, library manager, and 
6809 assembler 

• All user program I/O easily configured to target 
hardware environment 

• Available as flex-compatible, resident compiler or 
CP/M-compatible, cross-compiler 



FC 6809 . 
CC 6809 . 



. FLEX VERSION $300.00 

. CP/M VERSION $350.00 



CP/M-68XX CROSS-ASSEMBLERS 

{INCLUDING SOURCE CODE IN "C") 
A6800 ... MC 6800, MC 6802, MC 6808 ...$125.00 

A 6801 MC 6801, MC 6803 $125.00 

A 6809 MC 6809 $1 25 00 

CP/M FORMATS: 8" SOFT SECTORED, 

5" NORTHSTAR 
FLEX FORMATS: 8" SOFT SECTORED 

*Flex Trademark of Technical Systems Consultants, Inc. 
*CP/M Trademark of Digital Research 



inTrol 



CORP. 



647 W. Virginia St. 
Milwaukee, Wl. 53204 
(414) 276-2937 



Circle 207 on inquiry card. 



Circle 354 on inquiry card. 



Ptprtronir rnmnonpnts 



Belmont, California 94002 



One-Stop Component Center ® 

This is a partial listing of over 600 items available 
from 600 authorized Jim-pak Distributors: 



fflfff 



TTL 



7400 2/.85 

1402 2/.B5 

7404 2/.S5 

7406 2/1.19 

7407 2/1.19 

7408 2A89 

7410 2/.85 

7414 99 

7417 2/1.10 

7420 2/.8S 

7447 1.19 

7474 69 

7475 79 

7476 69 

7485 1.19 

7486 2/1.19 

7489 2.99 



7490 85 

7493 85 

74100 2.25 

74109 2/1.19 

74121 69 

74123 99 

74150 1.95 

74154 1.95 

74157 99 

74151 1.19 

74164 1.59 

74174 1.59 

74175 1.49 

74192 1.19 

74193 1.19 

74367 99 

74393 1.95 



POTENTIOMETERS 




2 Watt © 70°C 

7/8" Slotted Shaft 

Linear Taper 

1K, 5K. 10K, 25K, 50K. 

100K, 1 Meg 

CMU $2.95 




3/4 Watt @ 70°C 

16 Turn Pot. 

Linear Taper 

100 Ohm. 500 Ohm, 

1K. 5K, 10K, 50K, 

100K, 500K, 1Mog 

830P $1.79 



5-WAY DC VOLTAGE ADAPTER 
With Universal Plug & 9V Battery Snap 

a a Selective voltage: 6,9,12VDC. 

I I Pol. selection ( + /-). 6' 

line — adapter to 
plugs. 6" line — 
adapter to batt. snap. 
120V/60HZ. 300mA. 
DC6912 $9.95 




WW 



4000 
4001 
4002 
4006 
4009 
4010 
4011 
4013 
4016 
4017 
4018 
4020 
4023 
4024 
4027 



CMOS 

.55 4030 



^^W 



.55 

.59 

1.49 

.79 

.79 

.55 

.79 

.79 

1.39 

1.39 

1.39 

.49 

1.19 

.79 



4040 
4044 
4046 
4047 
4049 
4050 
4051 
4066 
4069 
4070 
4071 
4081 
4093 
4511 



.75 

1.79 

1.39 

1.95 

2.75 

.79 

.89 

1.59 

.95 

.69 

.75 

.69 

.59 

1.19 

1.95 



CONNECTORS 




DB25P D-Submlnlature Plug 3.95 

DB25S D-Submlnlature Socket 4.95 

DB51226 Cover for DB25P/S 2.25 

22/44SE P.C. Edge 2.95 

UG88/U BNC Plug 2.19 

UG89/U BNC Jack 3.95 

UG175/U UHF Adapter .59 

S0239 UHF Panel Recp. 1.49 

PL258 UHF Adapter 1.95 

PL259 UHF Plug 1.95 

UG260/U BNC Plug 2.39 

UG1094/U BNC Bulkhead Recp. 1.49 



one ■im.mm& 



REPLACES THE TELEPHONE RINGER BELL WITH 
A SELECTION OF 30 FAMILIAR TUNES 






Telephone 



PT030 Wall Jack 



1 ^ 



FEATURES 

Replaces monotonous telephone ringer bell. Easily connects 
to any standard phone. Use alongside regular phone or replace 
remote ringer elsewhere in building or outside. FCC approved. 
Use on any phone system — worldwide. Use different tune to 
identify extension phones. Microprocessor controlled. Adjust. 
vol. control and variable tune speed control. Operates on 2-9V 
batteries or AC Adapter (not incl.). 

PT030 Phone Tunes $49.95 

AD30 AC Adapter $8.95 




JE215 Adjustable 
Dual Power Supply 

General Description: The JE215 is a Dual Power 
Supply with independent adjustable positive and nega- 
tive output voltages. A separate adjustment for each 
of the supplies providesthe user unlimited applications 
for IC current voltage requirements. The supply can 
also be used as a general all-purpose variable power 

SUPPiV- FEATURES: 

• Adjustable regulated power supplies, 
pos. and neg. 1.2VDC to 15VDC. 

V ■ Power Output {each supply): 

5VDC S> 500mA, 10VOC®> 7 50mA, 
12VDC@500mA, and 
15VDC@> 1 75mA. 
•Two, 3-terminal adj. IC regulators 
with thermal overload protection. 

• Heat sink regulator cooling 

• LED "on" indicator 

• Printed Board Construction 

• 120VAC input 

• Size: 3-1/2"w x 5-1/16"L x 2"H 

JE215 Adj. Dual Power Supply Kit (as shown) . . $24.95 

(Picture not shown but similar in construction to above) 
JE200Reg. Power Supply Kit (5VDC, 1 ampl . . $14.95 
JE205AdapterBrd.(toJE200l±5,+ 9 & ±12V. . $12.95 
JE210Var.Pwr.Sply.Kit,5-15VDC,to1.5arnp. . $19.95 




DESK TOP ENCLOSURES 




DTE-8 (Pictured) $31.95 

DTE-11 (Pictured) 34.95 

DTE-14 (Pictured) 36.95 

DTE-HK (Case for JE600) 47.95 

DTE-AK (Case for JE610) 52.95 






WW LINEAR WW 



LM301N. 

LM305H. 

LM307N. 

LM308N. 

LM309K. 

LM310N. 

LM311N. 

LM317T . 

LM318N. 

LM319N. 

LM320K-5 

LM7905T 

LM7912T 

LM7915T 

LM323K. 

LM324N. 

LM337T. 

LM339N. 



.59 
1.39 

.75 
1.19 
2.25 
2.69 
1.49 
2.29 
2.95 
2.95 
2.25 
1.75 
1.75 
1.75 
5.95 
1.29 
2.29 
1.29 



LM7805T 
LM7812T 
LM7815T 
LM380N. 
LM384N. 
LM555N. 
LM556N. 
LM565N. 
LM566N. 
LM567N. 
LM723N. 
LM741N. 
LM1310N 
LM1458N 
LM1488N 
LM1489N 
LM1800N 
76477N. . 



1.75 
1.75 
1.75 
1.49 
2.49 

.69 
1.49 
1.95 
1.95 
1.79 

.79 

.65 
2.95 

.99 
1.59 
1.59 
4.49 
3.95 



Sun Power Your Electronics! 
SOLAR CELL PANEL KIT 



• Output: 10VDC, to 100mA in Series 

SVDC, to 200mA in Parallel 

• Panel may be easily connected for 
Series or Parallel out 

• Over 1 1 square inches of active cell 
surface 

• Voltage line tap @ 0.5V increments 

• Provision for charging batteries 

• Overall panel size: 
4 3 /4"L x 4 1 /a"H x 1 /a"D 



The JE305 Solar Cell Panel Kit contains 20 ea. solar cells. On 
the panel board are power line taps which allow the user to 
select voltages (1 voltage at a time) from 0.5VDC to 10VDC. 
The applications of each panel can be further expanded by 
coupling additional panels in series for more voltage or in 
parallel for more current. The premium grade solar cells pro- 
vide the current necessary for the operation of most portable 
transistor radios, small battery powered cassette tape 
players & unlimited experimental solar projects. 

JE305 $39.95 




WW LS Schottky ffi?^ 

74LS00 55 74LS109 . . . 

74LS02 55 74LS123 . . . 

74LS04 69 74LS138 . . . 

74LS08 55 74LS139 . . . 

74LS10 55 74LS154 . . . 

74L.S14 1.09 74LS157 . . . 

74LS30 55 74LS161 . . . 

74LS32 69 74LS174 . . . 

74LS38 69 74LS175 . . . 

74LS42 1.29 74LS192 . . . 

74LS47 1.29 74LS193 . . . 

74LS48 1.79 74LS221 . . . 

74LS73 75 74LS244 . . . 

74LS74 69 74LS245 . . . 

74LS75 75 74LS367 . . . 

74LS85 1.49 74LS374 . . . 

74LS90 89 81LS97. . . . 

SOCKETS 



, .75 
1.49 
1.29 
1.29 
1.95 
1.19 
1.29 
1.19 
1.19 
1.49 
1.49 
1.49 
1.89 
3.49 
.89 
1.95 
2.29 



Low Profile 

8 pin LP . 
14 pin LP . 
16 pin LP . 
18 pin LP . 
20 pin LP . 
22 pin LP. 
24 pin LP . 
28 pin LP . 
36 pin LP . 
40 pin LP . 



2/.59 

2/.69 

2/. 79 

2/. 89 

2/.99 

2/1.09 

.79 

.82 

.99 

1.19 



Wire Wrap 

14 pin WW tin .75 
14 pin WW gold 1.09 
16 pin WW tin .79 
16 pin WW gold 1.19 
24 pin WW gold 1.69 

AQ nln \AI\M haI 




24 p. piuy/cover j,.so 
Also, The MolexLlne 



DIODES & TRANSISTORS 

IN751 2/.59 2N2219A. . . .2/1.19 

IN757 2/.59 2N2222A. . . . 2/.B9 

IN1188 2.69 2N2907A. . . . 2/.89 

IN3600 5/.99 2N3055 99 

IN4001 4/.59 2N3772 2.25 

IN4004 4/.69 2N3904 2/.69 

IN4007 4/.79 2N3906 2/.69 

IN4148 10/.99 2N4401 2/.79 

IN4733 2/.69 2N4403 2/. 79 

IN4734 2/.69 2N5129 2/.69 

IN4735 2/.69 2N5139 2/.69 

IN4742 2/.69 2N5210 2/.79 

IN4744. ■ . . . 2/.69 2N5951 2/1.29 



CAPACITORS 

Dipped Tantalum ELECTROLYTIC 



lmfd@35V 
.47mfd@35V 
lmfd@35V 
2.2mfd@25V 
3.3mfd@25V 
4.7mfd@25V 
10mfd@25V 
33mfd@>25V 



2/. 89 

2/.89 

2/.89 

2/1.09 

2/1.19 

2/1.39 

1.19 

3.95 



100V MYLAR 



.001-.01mfd 
.022mfd 
.047m fd 
.lmfd 
.22mfd 



4/. 79 

4/. 89 

4/.99 

4/1.19 

4/1.29 



lmfd@50V 

4.7mfd@50V 

10mfd@50V 

22mfd@50V 

47mfd@50V 

100m fd@ 50V 

220mfd@50V 

1000mfd@25V 

2200mfd@16V 

50V CERAMIC 
10pf-.022mfd 4/.59 
.047mfd 4/.69 

.lmfd 4/.79 



3/.69 

2/. 59 

2/. 69 

2/. 79 

2/.89 

.59 

.69 

1.19 

1.39 



MICROPROCESSORS 

280A CPU (4MHz) 13.95 

MC6800 8 Bit MPU 8.95 

8080A CPU 6.95 

8212 8 Bit I/O Port 3.95 

8216 Bl-Dlrectional Bus Driver 4.49 

2513/2140 Character Generator 12.95 

8T97 Trl-State Hex Buffer 2.25 

AY-5-1013 30K Baud UART 6.95 

AY-5-2376 88-Key Keyboard Encoder 11.95 

2114-2 4K Static RAM (200ns) 3.95 

MK4116 16K Dynamic RAM (250ns) 3.95 

2708 8K EPROM 5.95 

2716 16K EPROM (+5V) 9.95 



Function Generator Kit 

, Mi !2os» ~ ~, Provides 3 basic 

<,,-.. »„„ hgg*t*,m waveforms: sine, 

I triangle and square 
>,- ,..j»^., | wave. Freq. range 
J ■.« from 1 HztolOOK 

*-' ■ "S~ Hz. Output ampli- 

- y tude from volts 

to over 6 volts 
(peak to peak). 
Uses a 12V supply 
or a ±6V split sup- 
ply. Includes chip, 
P.C. Board, com- 
ponents & instruc- 
tions. 

JE2206B ..$19.95 




Circle 204 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



497 



KIT-80 INC. 




"7| % --"BBB 

E-Z-80 ENTRY KIT 

A Z-80 Micro Computer with CPU: CTC: 
PIO: Prom Programmer: Read Outs: Key 
Pad: Onboard ROM & RAM: Wire Wrap: 
DC Regulator: Manual & Instructions. 

Kit Price *390i 

18601 LBJ FwyMesqulte, Texas 75150-800-527-1593 
WINNIPEG (204-632-1687)-VANOOUVER (604-224*620) 
CALGARY (403-236-3040) 'TORONTO (416-281-3454) 
MONTREAL (514-286-4034) 

A Subsidiary of Patrick Computer Systems, Inc., man- 
ufacturer of the ic436 integrated business computer. 



FOR 
YOUR 



[apple 



HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE 

FREE CATALOG 

OVER 350 PRODUCTS 

SPECIAL OFFER 
wabash® diskettes 

Unique SR-3000 Formulation - 100% Certified 
Error Free - Hub Rings Installed on SW 

5 1 A"SS/SD $21 .95/bx DS/DD $29.95/bx 

8" SS/SD S23.75/BX DS/DD $36.75/bx 
ONE TIME ONLY- ONE BOX/CUSTOMER 



Ask For Our S-100and Related Products Catalog 



2.4MB 



NEC 8" FLOPPY DISKS 
SUBSYSTEM $1675 



FETCH COMPUTER PRODUCTS DIVISION OF: 

ALMALY TRADING CORPORATION 

8135 S.W. 17 STREET, MIAMI, FL 33155 
TELEX: 51-9602 "ALMALY MIA" 



800-327-2251 



Apple is a RegisteredTrademarkof Apple Computers 



\ferbatim 

flexible disks 

Call Free (800) 235-4137 for 

prices and information. Dealer 
inquiries invited. C.O.D. and 
charge cards accepted. 




VISA- 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo, CA 
93401. In Cal. c 
(800) 592-5935 or 
(805) 543-1037 



Circle 209 on inquiry card. 



Circle 12 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 




EIA RS-232-C 

• Quality Cables 

• Immediate Delivery 

• Low Prices 



*16-25 conductor (M or F) 15.85 & .50/ft 

13-15" " 13.90 & .40/ft 

9-12 " " 12.90 & .30/ft. 

5-8 " " 12.10 & .25/tt. 

1-4 " " 11.30 & ,15/ft. 

SPECIFY: Male or female connectors 
Length of cable 
Pins to be connected 

*Plus Shipping -All orders pre-paid or C.O.D. 



Communication 

Cable 

Company 



(215) 964-9404 
319 Louella Ave. 
Wayne, PA 19087 



command your own 

STARSHIP 



with 

Fleet Maneuvers 

19Q2's hottest new 

play by mail game. 



by 



Fqrrrqyric ^imuLqrnom 

p. o. box 24566 
dciwGr Colorado 80224 



Inside the 

IBM 
Personal Computer 
This collection of usefull information sup- 
plements the IBM Manuals to show how to: 

• Program the system DMA and Interrupt 

Controller 

• Design expansion slot add-in boards 

• Program add-in boards using BASIC, 

assembler, and DOS 

• Use DOS and BIOS functions from user 

programs 
PLUS technical data including: 

• System operation and timing diagrams 

• Using the extra ROM and co-processor 

sockets 

• Expansion slot signals and timing dia- 

grams 

• Expansion slot physical dimensions 
ILLUSTRATED with example schematics 
and programs for D/A converters, Parallel 
I/O, Clock/Calendar 

Send check or money order for $10.00 
(D.C. residents add 6% tax). 

TENLEY DESIGN 

P.O. Box 39155 
Washington, D.C. 20016 



Circle 83 on inquiry card. 



Circle 159 on inquiry card. 



TYPESETTING 

from your own 

COMPUTER 



Type your manuscripts, catalogs, or 
other text into your word processing com- 
puter. 

Send it to us on a diskette or via- a 
modem transmission and we'll send you 
camera ready film copy. 

Computer typesetting provides high 
quality, easy to read copy at a fraction of 
the cost of conventional typesetting. 

Call or write for instructional brochure 
that includes typestyle selections, format- 
ting instructions, and examples. 



Dream Electronics 

131 N.W. 2 nd. St. 1-503-7524833 
Corvallis, Oregon 97330 



UCSD 
p-System™ IV.1 



IBM Personal Computer 
North Star Horizon 
North Star Advantage 
ALTOS 8000, 8000-10 
Operating System $300.00 
Compiler $300.00 
Extended memory and hard disk 
supported. Turnkey prices avail- 
able on request. 

Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



"The Regents of the University of California 



Network Consulting Inc. 

A106 - 1093 W. Broadway 

Vancouver, Canada V6H 1E2 

604-738-3500 



DISKETTES 
CASSETTES 



Error-Free 5V4-inch Diskettes (MD- 
5) single-sided, soft sector, single or 
double density, reinforced hub. 



Item 



Qty 10 



Qty50 



MD-5 



$25.00 



$110.00 



C-10 
C-20 
C-60 
C-90 



$ 7.50 

9.00 

11.50 

15.00 



32.50 
39.00 
50.00 
70.00 



UPS SHIPPING INCLUDED 

in Continental USA 

CA Customers add taxes 



MICROSETTE 

475 Ellis St., Mt. View, 
CA 94043 (415) 968-1604 



Circle 136 on inquiry card. 



Circle 279 on inquiry card. 



Circle 253 on inquiry card. 



We Have It All I. .Now at an extra 5% off 



AFTER INVENTORY CLEARANCE 



# 






being discounted 



-fc \K 



&M" :C 






Included Is Most, But Not All 
Products In MlniMicroM art's 



Current Inventory. Call Or Send 



For Our Special Price List And 
Catalog. 



Special price applies to current inventory, which is subject to prior sale. 
Offers on most items will terminate on April 30, 1982 



Mini Micro Mart, Inc. 



Circle 263 on inquiry card. 



I I »'iV 



943 W.Genesee St. P.O. Box 2991 B 
Syracuse, NY. 13220 315-422-4467 

BYTE Marrh 1982 499 



FLOPPY DISKS 

NEW Shugart. SA400 $333.00 

NEW Shugart SA450 3E5.DO 

NEW Shugart SAB01FI.- 333.00 

NEW Shugarc SAB51 H 520.00 

Oual B" enclosure, wired. powBr. rack 
mount slides, remote AC power 

control &49.00 

EncloBure, B" desk top. bare, unwired 75.00 
ENCLOSURE DUAL MINI WITH 

POWER, DESK TOP 90.00 



DIMOn 

1 year warranty. 10 per plastic library case. 
B" ..Bingle Bide-single density S&.AO 

S" ..singls side-double deneity 39.90 

8" ..double sided-dcuble density 45.7D 

514" REINFORCED HUB 10/PLASTIC 
LIBRARY CASE SOFT SECTORED. 
10 OR 16 HOLES 

Bingle sids-aingls denBity 2S."70 

Bingle side-double density 36. 1 

double Bidsd-doubls dansity 43.90 

TRACTOR FEED PAPER 

914 x 1 1 blank. 3"7CO sheats. psrf 27.22 

&Vm x 11 blue bar. 3700 Bhsets 24.72 

OTHER TYPES OF MEDIA AVAILABLE . . . 
CALL FOR PRICE 

□ METAVAN, INC. 

J 1B05 East Dyer Road. Suite 3D7 
Santa Ana. CA 92705 
(-714|540-2427 



PRINTER SOLUTION 




Handsomely crafted ol heavy-duty '/<" Plexiglas 
Permits easy, convenient storage ol paper, 
checks, invoice forms, plus direct feed from shelf 
or surface below A Programs Unlimited exclusive 1 

Regular Size $29.95 

13" x 15" (Epson MX-80. Okidata u82. u83) 

Large Size $39.95 

13" x 17" (Epson MX-100. Okidata u84| 

X-Larqe Size $59.95 

(Includes Shell) 13" x 22" (Dalaroyal. Paper Tiger) 
Optional Shelf $14.95 

PROGRAMS 
UNLIMITED 

COMPUTER CENTERS 

800-645-6038 In NY 516-997-8668 






68000 

MACSBUG & OMNIBYTE 
users 

DEBUGGING DISASSEMBLER 
Res , in 4 2716's 

DISPLAYS:'^> 

-ADDRESS 
-MNEMONICS 
-DATA 
-ASCII Equiv. 

$165 (ca. res. add 6.5%) 

SYSTEM 300 

486 Thompson ave 

MT. View Ca. 94042 



Circle 235 on inquiry card. 



Circle 321 on inquiry card. 



Circle 369 on inquiry card. 



RIBBONS 



CARTRIDGE RIBBONS 

FOR COMPUTERS, 
WORD PROCESSORS, e ,c 



PRICED FROM 




S 



EACH IN 
LOTS OF 12 

PRICES INCLUDE SHIPPING 

WRITE FOR PRICE LIST 

CHECK-MATE 

P. 0. BOX 103. RANDOLPH. MA 02368 
TELEPHONE: 617-963-7694 



"G 



]L_l_OL=R 



ompuPro" 

CPU Z 6MHz CSC 308 CPU Z A&T 221 
CPU 8085/88 CSC 391 CPU 8085/88 319 
DISK 1 AST 371 CPM*2,2 135 
INTERFACE!? 1, 1 1 187 INTERFACER 3 467 
RAM 17 64K AST 597 RAM 16 AST 671 
6MHz CPU Z SYSTEM 64K DUAL 8" DRS 3595 
8MHz CPU 8085/88 SYSTEM 64K (2)8" 3695 

Seattle Computer 

SEATTLE SYSTEM 1 64K, SER, PAR 2519 

SEATTLE SYSTEM 2 128K SER, PAR 3325 

8086 & SUPPORT 596 BASIC 86 235 

B1K STATIC 8/16 716 RASIC 86 COM 235 

PASCAL 86 349 FORTRAN 86 349 

MORROW DESIGNS 

MORRCW DECISION 1 1295 65K STATIC AST 581 
DMA DISK JOCKEY CPM 356 MULTI I/O 269 

SWITCHBOARD I/O 195 M/OS MULTI-USER 371 

DBASE II & SPELLBINDER TOGETHER (LIST 1195) 749 

CPM is TRADEMARK of DIGITAL RESEARCH OF CA 



pd qa L-E^nMsrrR up 

7IM BRErPMb 



•s. 



NEW.' s 795 




Typrinter T35*KSR 
DAISYWHEEL 

• Integral parallel interface KSR version 

bSWd on the Olivetti PRAXIS Model 35 electronic daisy wheel 

• 10 12 15 characters per inch suae >ng 
Now software and manually selectable 

• Local and online modes 

• Fine line spacing adjustment 

• Beautiful case 

TRS BO PRINTER PORT CABLE $20.00 

TRS80 KEYBOARD INTERFACE $49.95 

INTELLIGENT ASCII RS 232 CONTROLLER $889.00 

"HO from S649 TRS BO Af)|ile Software Driver Now Av.iildl.lt- 

SYSTEIVED CORP. — 

P 0. BOX IB. MOUNTAIN CUV. TENNESSEE 3T6B3 PHONE IB1SI 12? E000 



Circle 72 on inquiry card. 



Circle 352 on inquiry card. 



Circle 370 on inquiry card. 



C compilers 

and 

Cross compilers 

Available for: 

PDP-11 RT-11/RSX-11 

6809 SDOS/FLEX 

8080 CP/M 

8085 CP/M 

Z80 CP/M 

8086 

8088 

OTHERS PENDING 
The full C language, as described in 
"The C Programming Language" by 
Kernighan and Ritchie. 

UNIX version 7 compatible. 



RTlVRSXn.iemdem.rki of 

SDOS is . it.demjik ol Sollw. 
CP/M n i ir.dem.ik ol DigiN 
HEX n j lildenuik of T 



TELECON SYSTEMS 

90 E. Gish Road. Suite 25 

San Jose, California 95112 

408-275-1659 



CENTRONICS 
739 




-Color 



l Underlining. Subscript 

> Printer BLACK and RED & Super Script 

> Proportional Spacing > Single Sheet Paper Feed 

> Hi-Resolution Graphics > Suitable lor Word Processing 

#B-P739 (Parallel) $59988 De| ivered 
#B-S739(RS-232C) $699 88 Delivered 

HIGH TECHNOLOGY AT AFFORDABLE PRICES 

TO ORDER 
CALL TOLL FREE 
l-800-2?8-3900 



I— ®m 



, , For Technical Details 

12 Johnson Street. Milford NH 03055 1-603-637-8B57 



Software For 

IBM 

Personal Computer 

• General Ledger (48K) $395 

• Accounts Payable (48K) $395 

• Accounts Receivable 

(48K) 4/1/82 

• Payroll (48K) 4/1/82 

• Star Trek (32K) $24.95 

• Complete with comprehensive 
users guide 

ZETA Products 

Box 147 Georgetown, TX 78626 
(512)863-3079 




rffl B 











Circle 379 on inquiry card. 



Circle 49 on inquiry card. 



Circle 420 on inquiry card. 



PffiitersPlus 

...computers, peripherals, 
accessories and supplies! 




APPLE ACCESSORIES 



Apple II & 48K CALL 

Disk II w/controller DOS 3.3 CALL 

Disk II Add-On CALL 

Microsoft Z80 Softcard 299. 

16K Ram Card 159. 

CCS Parallel Card 109. 

Async Serial Card 1 39. 

Clock/Calendar Card 99. 

IEEE Card 239. 

AD Card 99. 

Mountain Comp. Romplus 139. 

KB Filter ROM 49. 

CPS Multifunction Card 199. 

Supertalker 259. 

Paymar L/C Adapter • New 39. 

- Old 49. 

M&R Super Mod 25. 

Superterm 319. 

Videx Video Term 309. 

APPLE SOFTWARE 

Personal S/W Desktop Plan II $ 1 59. 

CCA Data Mgmt 85. 

Visicalc 159. 

Visiplot 1 59. 

Visitrend/Visiplot 219. 

Visidex 169. 

Visiterm 129. 

Micropro Wordstar 299. 

Super-Sort 159. 

Mail-Merge 99. 

Data Star 239. 

Spell Star 199. 

Muse Super Text II 1 29. 

Address Book 44. 

Form Letter Module 79. 

Stoneware-DB Master II 1 99. 

Microcom-MicroCourier 239. 

Infotory 199. 

RIBBONS 

NEC $77.00/Doz. 

Qume 45.00/Doz. 

Diablo 66.00/Doz. 

Anadex 1 35.00/6 ea. 

Tritel 95.00/Doz. 

TI/DEC/TTY 45.00/Doz. 

Epson 1 3.95/ea. 

MPl/Axiom/Base 2 1 0.00 ea. 

MAGNETIC MEDIA 

Premium Quality At Bargain Prices 

5'M" Diskettes, all Formats 

100% Certified with hub rings, box of 10 

Single sided, single density 26.95 

Single sided, double density 29.95 

Double side, double density 38.95 

8" Diskettes, All Formats, 100% Certified 

Single sided, single density 29.95 

SSSD Error Free 32.95 

Single sided, double density 39.95 

Double sided, double density 49.95 



ePSONS 

Complete Stock of MX-80, MX-80 F/T 

MX- 100 Printers, Graphics Chip Sets 

Cards and Cables 




NEC-8023 A, 1 00 cps Matrix Printer 

Hi-Rer. dot graphics, proportional spacing. 

correspondent quality printing, bi-directional 

tractor and friction feed. 80. 132 col. Greek & 

Math symbols. Everything you need in a small 

printer. 

List $840 $599. 




MODEMS 

(JDS 1 03 LP, direct * 169. 

1 03 JLP Auto Answer 209. 

202 LP 1200 BAUD 259. 

NOVATION CAT, acoustic 145. 

D-CAT. direct 155. 

Auto Cat 219. 

Apple Cat 339. 

HAYES SlOOMicromodem $349. 

Apple Micromodem 299. 

Smart Modem 249. 

VIDEO MONITORS 

Zenith 1 2" Green $ 11 9. 

NEC 12" Green $185. 

Amdex 12" B/W (Leedex) $139. 

Amdek 1 3" Color Lo-Res $439. 

VIDEO TERMINALS 

Ampex Dialog 80 $995. 

Ampex Dialog 30 795. 

Televideo 920C 845. 

Televideo 950 995. 



SEC 

PC-8000 Series 
Microcomputer System. 

INTRO 

PRICING 

$ 1099.00 



• Z-80A CPU 4 MHz 

• 5 user programmable function keys • 82 Keys with numeric 
keypad • 1 60 x 1 00 resolution • 80 character screen 

PC-8001A Microcomputer w/32K RAM 899. 

PC 80 1 2A I/O Unit w/32K RAM 

Expansion slots 599. 

PC-8031 A Dual Mini-Disk Drive Unit 899. 

PC-8032A Add-On Dual Mini Disk 

Drive Unit 799. 






MPI 88G / 99G MATRIX 

High resolution dot-addressable graphics for 
Apple. Enhanced "correspondence quality" 
printing. Tractor and friction feed. Serial and 
Parallel Input. 100 cps Bidirectional printing. 
80. 96 and 132 column widths! 

88 G List $749 $589. 

99 G List $849 $660. 

Apple Parallel I/O Card/Cable/Disk . . $ 1 10. 

with Graphics Prom (Ap-Pak) $ 145. 

IEEE I/O Card $55. 

Single Sheet Feeder $25. 

QT Cover $35. 




NEC SPINWRITERS 



5510/5530 RO w/tractor $2,550. 

7710/7730 RO w/tractor $2,595. 

5520 KSR w/tractor $2,850. 

7720 KSR w/tractor $2,895. 

3510/3530 RO $1,895. 

Bi-directional tractor $225. 

Pusher tractor $350. 



^ 



.^ 





OLYMPIA 

Letter quality. Daisy wheel printer typewriter 
interfaces to Apple. Atari. NEC, TRS80 and 
RS232 Serial ports. A truly cost effective letter 
quality printer that functions as a typewriter. 
ESI 00 RO Computer printer 

List $1690 CALL 

ESI 00 Typewriter only CALL 

Interface Card Only CALL 

(specify serial or parallel) 
I/O Cable (specify serial or parallel) . CALL 

Apple Serial Card CALL 

Print Wheels & Ribbons CALL 



TO PLACE YOCJR ORDER CALL: 

TELEPHONE Tl 1 EX 

(714)744-7314 697120 

or write to: 

PALOMAR 

Computer Products 

910-105 W. San Marcos Blvd., San Marcos. CA 92069 
TERMS OF SALE: Cdsh check monev order bank wirp transfer 

credit ' ard or purchase order-, (rom qualified firms an,: 
tnstjluijons Please m< lude telephone numher with order and 
expiration date on < redit i ard orders ( alrt'xrua residents add 69 
sales tax Advertised pn< es are for prepaid orders M > B shipping 
point Add V foi shipping ir (J S Pn< mq and a\ailabilit\ sub|e<i '" 
change without notice 



Circle 305 on Inquiry card. 



YOU CAN SAVE $S$ 
ON RIBBONS FOR 

Anadex DP 9500 $14.00 

Centronics 700 Series 

Zip Pack (Box of 3) $ 8.25 

Cartridge $ 8.50 

D.E.C. LA-34 $ 6.90 

Diablo 630 $ 6.00 

Epson MX 70-80 $12.95 

NECSpinwriter(Boxof 3) $14.25 

OkidataMicroline80(Boxof 3) ...$ 8.90 

Radio Shack LP II ■ IV $ 8.50 

Teletype 33 (Box of 3) $ 6.00 

Teletype 43 $ 7.50 

Tl Silent 700 Thermal 

Paper (Case) $48.00 

Plus Many Others ■ Call for Inlormation 
on Ribbons, Thermal Paper and Diskettes. 

Add $3.00 for Shipping & Handling 
Illinois Res. Add 6% Sales Tax 

ILLINOIS COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS CO. 

P.O. Box 112 

Mt. Prospect, IL 60056 (312) 228-5590 



Scotch Diskettes 

Rely on Scotch* diskettes to keep your valu- 
able data safe. Dependable Scotch diskettes 
are tested and guaranteed error-free. The low 
abrasivity saves your read/write heads. 
They're compatible with most diskette drives. 




(800)235-4137 



Dealer Inquiries 

invited 




RS-232 PROBLEMS? 

We have a large assortment of prob- 
lem solvers at B & B ELEC- 
TRONICS, send for our new Catalog. 

RS-232 TESTER. Seven LED'S dis- 
play the status of RS-232 lines: $39.95 

RS-232 DATA TAP. Lets you tap 
data off a RS-232 line: $34.95 

RS-232 NULL MODEM. Replaces a 
set of modems for testing: $19.95 

RS-232 GENDER REVERSERS. Con- 
vert a male connector to female or a 
female to male. Either one: $19.95 
Set of both Reversers: $34.95 

B & B ELECTRONICS 

BOX 475 / MENDOTA, IL 61342 

IL Residents add 5% Tax 



Circle 183 on inquiry card. 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 



Circle 43 on inquiry card. 



UV EPROM ERASER 

4T 



$49.95 




• ERASES ALL UV ERASABLE EPROMSI2708. 2716.2564. elC i 

• QUICK FIFTEEN MINUTES ERASE TIME 

■ ERASES OVER FIFTEEN EPROMS AT A TIME 
•LAMP LIFE, 7700 HOURS 

■ INDUSTRIAL MODEL $68.50 

• INDUSTRIAL MODEL WITH TIMER & SAFETY INTERLOCK SWITCH 197.50 

IRugqed strpl enclosure wMi boltom rSravterj 



THE BEST 6809 SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER AVAILABLE 

■ floflfjy Can trtilei • SWTPC complete 

• Printer FVri • RunsTSCFIct CZQQ tlf\ 

• RSP.VFvrt • Full Oacumcntitim PRICE: JJ0.7.UU 
FOR THE SS-50 AND S100 BUS 

ASSFMPl FD TESTED. 4fi HOUII BUflN i-lN. 90 DAY WARRANTY 





STRAIGHT FROM 





















STEftCARO. CO.fi . CHECKS 



PHONE ORDERS (305)9744)967 
LOGICAL DEVICES INC. 

781 W OAK! AND PARK SLVD • FT LAUDERDALE FLORIDA 33311 



Circle 218 on inquiry card. 



1802 
fig- FORTH 

high-level compiler language 

10- 20X faster than BASIC 

ELFII/SuperELF/VIP 
RCA Microboard 

w editor, strings 
macro-assembler 
floating-point $90 

plus tiny pascal add $35 

on cassette/requires 16k+RAM 



P.O. Box 8403 

Austin, T»xo* 78712 

512-477-2207 



Circle 164 on Inquiry card. 



THE 
MISSING LINK 



^^ $249 




Adapt IBM ET50, 60, or 75 to Apple tl or I 
with our Missing Link for word processing 
quality output. 

• Does iwt affect normal typewriter operation 

• Typewriter still qualified for IBM maintenance con- 
tract 

• Interface isolates the Apple from the typewriter 
See our full pacje ad in Mity 1980 BYTE 

Check with your local Apple dealer or to 
order call: 1 800-845-2712 (In S.C.. call 
1-800-922-5528) 

If you need word processing software, we offer 
ManuScnpter in two versions Beginner S95. 
Advanced $195 



*S C residents arid 4".. sales tax 



H 



n 



mm 



Systems 



?301 DEVINE STREET ■ PO BOX ft 
"OLUMBIA SC ?9?ft0- 18031 ?M-0K0-l 



Circle 88 on inquiry card. 





FOR UCSD PASCAL* SYSTEMS 

S650 - PDBASE an Entity Relational 
Data-base. Complete with 
English query language, for- 
mated screen, procedure lan- 
guage, data security, multiple 
users, validity checking and 
example relations. 

$300 - Program interface for 
PDBASE 

$ 25 - PDBASE users manual 

$125 - Interactice spelling checker 

$100 - Complete LISP interpreter. 
IOTC Inc. 
910 Sully/Laramie, WY 82070 

"Trademark Regents Univ. of Calif. 

(307) 721-5818 



YORK lO 

BASF-DPS 

WORLD STANDARD TAPE 



DATA 
TRAC 
C-10 
C-20 

BUNK COMPUTER CASSETTES 
UNIVERSAL INDUSTRY ACCEPTANCE 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE 

LENGTH 1 DOZEN 2 DOZEN" 
C-10 8 00 14.40 k 



C-20 10.00 18.00 

Shipping: 1 doz $2 2 doz. $3.50 addt'l. doz.. $1. 
Calif residents, add 5% sales lax 

For IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT on Credll Card Order*. Call: 213(710-1430 



VORK lO Computerware 

24573 Kittridge St., #B-1, Canoga Park. CA 91307 



IEEE-696 S-100 HARDWARE 


CP/M" SOFTWARE 




WORDSTAR lor CP/M . 


$299 


SPELI.STAR (requires WORDSTAR) . . 


$169 


MAILMERGE (requires WORDSTAR) 


S99 


dBASE II 


$549 


32K STATIC RAM 




IEEE-696 S-100, 8/16 bit data. 




Extended Addressing 24 bits. 




Bonk Select 2716 EPROM Mix 




Battery backup option. 




150 ns CMOS. AST 


S379 


NEC 12" green phosphor monitor . . 


$179 


TELEVIDEO 925 


$799 


COMPLETE S-100 CP M MICROCOMPUTER 




Z80 CPU 4Mhz, 64KRAM 




Floppy dbl den controller 




2 parallel. 2 serial interfaces 




28' floppy drives. 1 2 MB storage 




CP M 2 2 and utilities 


)2,899 


1 - YEA& GUARANTEE on all boards 




Outside California CALL TOLL FREE 




800-854-6413 




In Calif, call 714-497-5777 




COTTON ASSOCIATES 




1278 Glenneyre. suile 505 




Laguna Beach. CA 92651 




I -Wtranr-mrjiv , t I ., Q .'a. Sr-s.-1'rr. 









Circle 196 on inquiry card. 



Circle 431 on inquiry card. 




FULL LINE ALL PARTS & COMPUTER PRODUCTS 



P.O. Box 4430X 
Santa Clara, CA 95054 
'Will calls: 2322 Walsh Ave. 
(408) 988-1640 

Same day shipment. First line parts only. Factory tested. Guaranteed 
money back. Quality IC's and other components at factory prices. 

INTEGRATED CIRCUITS Phone orders only (800) 538-8196 



(ELECTRONICS 



T4O0TTL 

74O0N 

7402!) 

7404N 

7409H 

74 ION 

74! iH 

7420N 

7 WON 

7M2N 

7445N 

T4A7H 

744BN 

7474N 

7475N 

7-IB5N 

74S9N 1 

7J90N 

7495H 

74100N 1 

74107N 

74123N 

74125N 

74 MSN 

74I50N I 

74151N 

74154N 1 

7-1157N 

74 161 N 

74162N 

74I63N 

74174N 

74175N 

7419QN 1 

74192N 

74I93N 

74221N 1 

7429BN 

7J365N 

74366N 

74367N 

741S00TTL 

74LS00N 

74LSD2N 

74LS04N 

74LS05N 

74LS0BS 

74LS10N 

74LS13K 

74LS14N 

MIS20N 

7JLS22N 

74LS28N 

74LS30N 

74LS33N 

74LS38N 

74LS74N 

74LS75N 

7JLS90N 

74LS93N 

74LS95N 

74LS107H 

74LS112H 

741S113M 

74LSI32M 

74LS136N 

74LS151N 

74LS155N 

74LS1S7N 

74LS162N 

74LS163N 

74LS174H 

741S190N 1 

74LS221N 1 

74LS2S8H 

74LS367N 

LINEAR 
CA3045 
CA3046 1 
CA30B1 1. 

CA3082 1 
CA3089 3. 
LM301ANAH 
LM305H 
LM307N 
IM308N 
LM309K 1 
IMJltHN 



LM31B 1 49 

IM320K-S 1 35 

LM320K-12 I 35 

LM320K-15 1 35 

LU3201-5 B5 

LM320T-B 85 

IM32DT-12 85 

LM320T-15 85 

LM323K-5 4 9S 

LM324N 59 

LM339N 99 

LM340K-5 1 35 

LM340K-8 1 35 

LM340K-12 135 

LM340K-15 1 35 

LM340K-24 I 35 

LM340T-5 75 

LM340I-8 75 

IM340M2 75 

LM340T-1S 75 

1.M340T-1B 75 

IM340T-24 75 

I.M350 S SO 

LM377 2 29 

LM3S0N 1 00 

LM3S1 1 60 

IM382 1 60 

LM709H 59 

IM723H N 49 

LM733N 85 

LM741CH 35 

LM741N 35 

LM747H N 75 

LM748N SO 

IM1303N 1 75 

LM1304 1 10 

L Ml 305 127 

LM1307 1 10 

IM1310 2 75 

LMM58 55 

LM1812 8 25 

LM1BB9 2 49 

LM2111 175 

LM2902 2 25 

LM3900N 59 

LM3905 1 25 

LM3909N 95 

MCI 458V 55 

NE550N I 30 

NE555V 39 

NE556A 65 

NES65A 1 00 

NE566V 1 50 

NE567V l 00 

NE570B 4 75 

7BL05 60 

78108 60 

78M05 85 

75108 t 49 

7549 1CN 50 

75492CN 55 

75494CN 89 



8700CJ 13 95 

8701CN 22 00 

B750CJ 13.95 

LD130 9.95 

9400CJV.T 7.40 

ICL7103 9 50 

ICL7107 14 25 

CMOS 

CD4000 25 

C040O1 35 

C04002 35 

CD4006 95 

CD4007 25 

CDJ008 95 

CC40D9 45 

CD4010 45 

CO401I 35 

CD4012 25 

C04013 45 

CD4014 95 

CD4015 95 

C04016 45 



CD4017 
CD40I8 
CD4019 
CD4Q20 
CD4021 
CD4022 
CO4023 
CD4024 
CD4Q25 
CD4Q26 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CD4Q30 
CD4035 
CD4Q40 
CD40J2 
CDJ043 
CDJ044 
CD4I546 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD4051 
CD4060 
CO4066 
CQ405B 



UAHT.FIFO 
AY5-1D13 
AV5-10I4 



2101-1 

2102-1 

2I02AL-4 

2102AN-2L 

2104A-4 

2107B-4 

2111-1 

2112-2 

2114 

2114L300tis 2 50 

21141450ns 237 

4118 200ns 2 50 

B-4ME 200ns. 15 40 

MM5280 3 00 

MM5321 9 95 

MM5330 5 94 

P5101L 6 95 

4200A 1 1 50 



299 ; 
2 24 | 



1 2708 2 9 

' 2716TI 8 5 

1 2716 5 Volt 5 5 

1 82716 5 VdII 39 

1 2732 16 5 



DE9S 1 i 

WISP ? I 

DA15S 3 i 

Complete Set 9 ! 

Stepwatch Kit H.I 

Au:o Cluck Kit 17. i 

DI|Hil Clock K.i !!>' 
RESISTORS 'i«»1l 5' 
10 per type 
100 per typE 
1O0O pe - type 
5O00 per type 



39 K:; 

39 95 

34 95 
49 95 



ISO ft 






015 IK 

012 MASTER 
DOBS CLOSEOUT 
$59.95 



CD4063 


.35 


1MM2016 


16 95 


CD4070 


.35 


HM6116 


16 50 


CD4072 


30 


CLOCKS 




CO4073 


35 


MM5311 


4 95 


CD4075 


30 


MM5312 


390 


CD4075 


95 


MM5314 


3 90 


CD407B 


30 


MM5369 


1 95 


CD4081 


30 


MM5841 


14 45 


CD4082 


30 


MM5865 


7 95 


CD41I6 


47 


CT7010 


8.95 


CD4J90 


5.50 


CT7015 


a. 95 


CD45Q7 


99 


MM5375AA/N 3 90 


CD450B 


1 95 


MM5375AGiN 4 90 


CD4510 


95 


7205 


16 50 


CD45H 


94 


7207 


750 


CD4515 


2 25 


7206 


15 95 


CD4516 


1 10 


7209 


4.95 


CD451B 


1 25 






CU4520 


1 02 


MICROPROCESSOF 


CD4527 


1 SI 


6502 


G.95 


CD4528 


1 25 


6502A 


S.50 


CD4553 


3.50 


5504 


6.95 


CD4566 


2.46 


B522 


875 


CC45B3 


2 35 


B530 


9 50 


CD4585 


95 


5533 


14 95 


CD40192 


300 


5551 


11 85 


74C00 


35 


5800 


5 70 


74C04 


35 


6B02 


1195 


74C10 


35 


6820 


4 95 




. 75 


6850 


3 50 


74C20 


35 


S080A 


3 95 


74C30 


35 


8085A 


8.50 


74C4B 


1.95 


ZBDA 


6 00 


74C74 


85 


Z80B 


1895 


74C76 


.BO 


280 P10 


6.50 


74C90 


1 25 


ZBDA P10 


5 95 


74C93 


1 25 


*80 CTC 


5.95 


74C154 


3 25 


Z80A CTC 


8 65 


74C160 


1.69 


280 DART 


15.25 


74C175 


1 19 


Z80A DART 


1875 


74C192 


1.65 


Z80 DMA 


17.50 


74C221 


1.90 


Z80A DMA 


27.50 


74C905 


600 


ZBOS10 


23 95 


74C906 


75 


nm Sinn 


28.95 


74C914 


1.95 


2B0S1C1 


15 00 


74C922 


500 


ZBOA S10 1 


23 90 


74C923 


5 50 


Z80 S10 2 


23 95 


74C925 


6 75 


280AE10 2 


28 95 


74C926 


6 95 


ZBOB CTC 


17 95 


74C927 


6 95 


Z80B PIO 


17 95 


IHTEHFACE 




8212 
8214 


1 B5 
3.75 


8095 


65 


8216 


1 80 


8096 


65 


8224 


2.50 


B097 
8098 


65 

65 


8228 
B251 


4.95 

4 75 


BT09 


1.25 


B253 


8 95 


8T10 


1 75 


a?55 


4 75 


8T13 


• ■•■': 


8257 


875 


BT20 
8T23 
8T24 
8T25 


4 95 

1 75 
175 
3 20 


B259 

H02CE til,' 
1802E pias 
1*61 P 


6 90 
13 95 
17 95 

5 95 



B748-B 

8755A 

N82S23 

N82S123 

N82S126 

NB2S129 

N82S131 

N82S136 

NH2S137 

DMB577 

8223 
CONNECTORS 

30 pin edge 

44 pin edge 

86 pin edge 
100 pin edge 
inn pin eiige V 



IC SOCKETS 
Solder Tin Low Profile 
PIN 1UP PIN 1UP 

8 13 22 30 



5 per lype 
'iwiti 5°. pet typt 05 

DIP SWITCHES 



KEYBOARDS 

56 key ASCII Keyboard 

Fulry assembled 

Enclosure Plastic 

Metal Enclosure 

LEDS 

Red 1018 

SrWI V'ellDwTOlB 

Jumbo Red 

fifetn Orange ^»Mita Jumbo 25 

CNpllle LED Mounting Clips 4 80 
isptc red. amber, green yellow clear) 
COHTINENTAL SPECIALTIES In stock 
Complete line Ol breaflboird test equip. 



S74 95 
84 50 
19.95 
69 95 



20 



25 



20 29 40 49 
WIRE WRAP LEVEL 3 



SPECIAL PRODUCTS 
I 5 MHt Freq Counter K 
30 HHl Freq Counier KS 



CRVSTAIS 
t MH: 
2 MHl 
4 MH: 
5MH* 



OMHl 
IS MHi 
20 MH; 
32 MH: 
327DB Hi 

1 B432 MH: 
3 5795 MH: 

2 0100 MH: 
2 097152 MH: 

2 4576 MH: 

3 2768 MH: 
5 0688 MH: 
5 185 MH: 

5 7143 MH: 

6 5536 MHz 
14 3181BMH: 
IB 432 MH: 
22 11 84 MH; 

KEYBOARD ENCODERS 
AYS-2376 1195 

AY5-3GOOPR0 17 95 
74C922 5 49 

74C923 5 SO 

HD0165-5 7 95 

D Connectors RS232 
OB25P 2 95 

DB25S 3 SO 

Cover 1 25 



WALL PLUG 
S4 00 IOV?imp S7 95 
". 4 60 12V 250 ma 2 95 
1 95 12VC1250ma375 

4 95 12V 500 ma 4 50 

5 95 12V 1 amp 5 95 
"30 I2V2 amp 7 95 

..JOB, 9 12V0C 
n 24V CT 100 ma 3 95 300 ma 8 95 
g 24V CT 600 ma 4 95 9 VOC 500 ma 3 75 

11 Conslanl VollageTranslormon 12V. 11 amp. 
" 5V. 21 amp, 24V 11 amp 15 00 



6V 500 m. 

6 37 CT 600 rr 
, 12V 250 m. 
12 6VCT60X 
12 6VCT2 3...-., 

12 6V CI 4 amp 
12 6VCT8amp 



395 



DISPLAY LEDS 

MAN?2 74 

DL704 

DL707 DL707R 

DL727 728 

01747 750 

FND359 

FNII.TO507 

FNDS03 51Q 

FN0800 807 

10 d'5'T display 

7520 ClSirei photocells 

TI131I Hei 

MAW610 

MAN4640 

MAN47IO 

MAN4740 

MAN6G40 

MANE710 

MAN674D 



CA CA 300 75 

CC 300 1 25 

CA 300 1 00 

CA CC 50O 1 90 



CCCA ! 
CCCA ! 
CCCA I 



4116 200ns Dynamic RAM 8/S15.40 



ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS KITS 

Apple Peripheral Kits 

SERIAL I/O INTERFACE to 30.000 baud. 
D.T.R., Input & output from monitor or basic, or 
use Apple as intelligent terminal, Bd only (P/N 2) 
$14.95, Kit (P/N 2A) $51.25, Assembled (P/N 
2C) $62.95. 

PROTOTYPING BOARO (P/N 7907) $21.95. 
PARALLEL TRIAC OUTPUT BOARO 8 triacs, 
each can switch 110V, 6A loads, Bd only (P/N 
210) $19.20, Kit (P/N 210A) $119.55. 
OPTO-ISOLATEO INPUT BOARD 8 inputs, can 
be driven from TTL logic, Bd only (P/N 120) 
$15.65, Kit (P/N 120A) $69.95. 
Interface Kits 

SERIAL/ PARALLEL INTERFACE Bidirectional, 
Baud rates from 110 to 19. 2K, sw selectable 
polarity of input and output strobe, 5 to 8 data 
bits, 1 or 2 stop bits, parity odd or even or none, 
all characters contain a start bit, +5 & -12V 
required. Bd only (P/N 101) $11.95, Kit (P/N 
101 A) $42.89. 

RS-232/TTL INTERFACE Bidirectional, re- 
quires ±12V. Kit (P/N 232A)$9.95. 
RS-232/20mA INTERFACE Bidirectional, 2 
passive opto-isolated circuits, Kit (P/N 7901A) 
$14.95. 

PROM Eraser 

Will erase 25 PROMs in 15 minutes. Ultraviolet, 
assembled. 25 PROM capacity $37.50 (with 
timer $69.50). 6 PROM capacity OSHA/UL ver- 
sion $78.50 (with timer $108.50). 

I NiCad Battery Fixer/Charger Kit 

Opens shorted cells that won't hold a charge and 
then charges them up, all in one kit w/full parts 
and instructions. No PC board. $8.95 



Z80 Microcomputer 

16 bit I/O, 2 MHz clock, 2K RAM, ROM Bread- 
board space. Excellent for control. Bare Board 
$28.50. Full Kit $99.00. Monitor $20.00. Power 
Supply Kit $35.00. Tiny Basic $30.00. 

Modem Kit $60.00 
State of the art, orig., answer. No tuning neces- 
sary. 103 compatible 300 baud. Inexpensive 
acoustic coupler plans included. Bd. only 
S17.00. Article in June Radio Electronics. 

60 Hz Crystal Time Base Kit $4.40 

Converts digital clocks from AC line frequency to 
crystal time base. Outstanding accuracy. 

Video Modulator Kit $9.95 

Convert TV set into a high quality monitor w/o 
affecting usage. Comp. kit w/full instruc. 

Multi-volt Computer Power Supply 

8v 5 amp, ±18v .5 amp, 5v 1.5 amp. -5v 
.5 amp, 12v .5 amp, - 12v option. ±5v, ±12v 
are regulated . Basic Kit $35.95. Kit with chassis 
and all hardware $51.95. Add S5.00 shipping. Kit 
of hardware $16.00. Woodgrain case $10.00. 
$1.50 shipping. 

Type-N-Talk by Votrax 

Text to speech synthesizer with unlimited vocabu- 
lary, built-in text to speech algorithm. 70 to 100 
bits per second speech synthesizer. RS232C 
interface $359.00. Speech IC $79.95. 

1802 16K Dynamic RAM Kit $149.00 

Expandable to &4K. Hidden refresh w/clocks up to 
4 MHz w/no wait slates. Addl. 16K RAM $25.00. 
S-100 4-slot expansion $ 9.95 

Super Monitor VI. I Source Listing $15.00 




RCA Cosmac 1802 
Super Elf Computer $106.95 

The Super Elf is a small single board computer that 
does many big things. It's an excellent computer 
for training and for learning programming with its 
machine language and yet it's easily expanded 
with additional memory, Full Basic, ASCII 
Keyboards, video character generation, etc. 
ROM monitor; State and Mode displays; Single 
step; Optional address displays; Power Supply: 
Audio Amplifier and Speaker; Fully socketed for all 
IC's; Full documentation. 

The Super Elf includes a ROM monitor for pro- 
gram loading, editing and execution with SINGLE 
STEP for program debugging which is not in- 
cluded in others at the same price. With SINGLE 
STEP you can see the microprocessor chip oper- 
ating with the unique Quest address and data bus 
displays before, during and after executing in- 
structions. Also. CPU mode and instruction cycle 
are decoded and displayed on 8 LEO indicators. 
An RCA 1861 video graphics chip allows you to 
connect to your own TV with an inexpensive video 
modulator to do graphics and games. There is a 
speaker system included for writing your own 
music or using many music programs already 
written. The speaker amplifier may also be used to 
drive relays for control purposes. 
A 24 key HEX keyboard includes 16 HEX keys plus 
load, reset, run, wait, input, memory protect, 
monitor select and single step. Large, on board 
displays provide output and optional high and low 
address. There is a 44 pin standard connector slot 



Quest Super Basic V5.0 

A new enhanced version of Super Basic now 
available. Quest was the first company worldwide 
to ship a full size Basic for 1802 Systems. A 
complete function Super Basic by Ron Cenker 
including floating point capability with scientific 
notation (number range +.17E 38 ), 32 bit integer 
+2 billion: multi dim arrays, string arrays; string 
manipulation; cassette I/O; save and load, basic, 
data and machine language programs; and over 
75 statements, functions and operations. 
New improved faster version including re- 
number and essentially unlimited variables. 
Also, an exclusive user expandable command 
library. 

Serial and Parallel I/O routines included 
Super Basic on Cassette $55.00. 



for PC cards and a 50 pin connector slot for the 
Quest Super Expansion Board. Power supply and 
sockets for all IC's are included plus a detailed 
127 pg. instruction manual which now includes 
over 40 pgs. of software info, including a series of 
lessons to help get you started and a music pro- 
gram and graphics target game. Many schools 
and universities are using the Super Elf as a 
course of study. OEM's use it for training and 
R&O. 

Remember, other computers only offer Super Elf 
features at additional cost or not at all. Compare 
before you buy. Super Elf Kit $106.95, High 
address option $8.95, Low address option 
$9.95. Custom Cabinet with drilled and labelled 
plexiglass front panel $24.95. All metal Expansion 
Cabinet, painted and silk screened, with room for 
5S-100 boards and power supply $57.00. NiCad 
Battery Memory Saver Kit $6.95. All kits and 
options also completely assembled and tested. 
Questdata, a software publication for 1802 com- 
puter users is available by subscription for S1 2.00 
per 12 issues. Single issues $1.50. Issues 1-12 
bound $16.50. 

Moews Video Graphics $3.50, Games and Music 
$3.00, Chip 8 Interpreter $5.50, Starship 4K cas- 
sette $14.95. Exciting and challenging space 
game. Complete manual included. 

Free 14 page brochure 

of complete Super Elf system. 



Super Expansion Board with Cassette Interface $89.95 



This is truly an astounding value! This board has 
been designed to allow you to decide how you 
want it optioned. The Super Expansion Board 
comes with 4K of low power RAM fully address- 
able anywhere in 64K with built-in memory pro- 
tect and a cassette interface. Provisions have 
been made for all other options on the same board 
and it fits neatly into the hardwood cabinet 
alongside the Super Elf. The board includes slots 
for up to BK of EPROM (2708, 2758, 2716 orTI 
2716) and is fully socketed. EPROM can be used 
for the monitor and Tiny Basic or other purposes. 
A 1K Super ROM Monitor $19.95 is available as an 
on board option in 2708 EPROM which has been 
preprogrammed with a program loader/editor and 
error checking multi file cassette read/write 
software, (relocatable cassette file) another exclu- 
sive from Quest. It includes register save and 
readout, block move capability and video graphics 
driver with blinking cursor. Break points can be 
used with the register save feature to isolate pro- 



gram bugs quickly, then follow with single step. If 
you have the Super Expansion Board and Super 
Monitor the monitor is up and running at the push 
of a button. 

Other on board options include Parallel Input and 
Output Ports with full handshake. They allow easy 
connection of an ASCII keyboard to the input port. 
RS 232 and 20 ma Current Loop for teletype or 
other device are on board and if you need more 
memory there are two S-100 slots for static RAM 
or video boards. Also a 1K Super Monitor version 
2 with video driver for full capability display with 
Tiny Basic and a video interface board. Parallel 
I/O Ports $9.85, RS 232 S4.50, TTY 20 ma l/F 
S1.95, S-100 S4.50. A 50 pin connector set with 
ribbon cable is available at $18.95 for easy con- 
nection between the Super Elf and the Super 
Expansion Board. 

Power Supply Kit for the complete system (see 
Multi-volt Power Supply below). 



Rockwell AIM 65 Computer 

6502 based single board with full ASCII keyboard 
and 20 column thermal printer. 20 char alphanu- 
meric display ROM monitor:, fully expandable 
$419.00. 4K version $449.00 4K Assembler 
$35.00, 8K Basic Interpreter $65.00. 

Special small power supply 5V 2A 24V ,5A 
assem. in frame $59.00. Molded plastic 
enclosure to fit both AIM 65 and power supply 
$52.50. AIM 65 1K in cabinet with power supply, 
switch, fuse, cord assem. $559.00. 4K $579.00. 
A65/40-5000 AIM 65/40 W/16K RAM and monitor 
$1295.00. RAM Board Kit (16K, $195) (32K. 
$215) VD640 Video Interface Kit $119.00. A8J 
$149.00. Complete AIM 65 in thin briefcase with 
power supply $518.00. Special Package Price: 4K 
AIM. 8K Basic, power supply, cabinet 5629.00 

AIM 65/KIM.SYMiSuper Elt 44 pin expansion 
board, board with 3 connectors $22.95. 



Elf II Adapter Kit $24.95 

Plugs into Elf II providing Super Elf 44 and 50 pin 
plus S-100 bus expansion. (With Super Ex- 
pansion). High and low address displays, state 
and mode LED's oplional $18.00. 




Super Color S-100 Video Kit $129.95 
Expandable to 256 x 192 high resolution color 
graphics. 6847 with all display modes computer 
controlled. Memory mapped. 1K RAM expand- 
able to 6K. S-100 bus 1802, 8080, 8085. Z80, 
etc Dealers: Send for excellent pricing/margin 
program. 



TERMS: $5.00 min. order U.S. Funds. Calif, residents add 6% tax. prices 

$10.00 min. VISA and MasterCard accepted. $1.00 insurance optional. subject 
Shipping: Add 5%; orders under $25.00—10%. <° change 



FREE: Send for your copy of our NEW 1982 
QUEST CATALOG. Include 88c stamp. 



Circle 330 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 503 



"BASF 

DISKETTES 

BASF Diskettes at compe- 
titive price. Call TOLL FREE 
(800) 235-4137 for prices and 
information. Visa and Master 
Card accepted. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (InCal ca 
(805) 543-1037 




Z-80 and 8086 FORTH 

Z-BU" FORTH — a complete projjrarn developmont system. Uses 
standard CP/M* compatible random access disk tiles tor screen 
storage. Package Includes: Inleipreter/compltei with virtual mem- 
ory management, line editor, screen editor. Z-80 Assembler, de- 
compiler, utilities, demonstration programs, and 80 page user 
manual. System requirements; 2-80 microcomputer, 48 kbytes 
RAM,CP»M2.2orMP/M I 1.1. $50.00 

Z-B0 FORTH WITH NAUTILUS SYSTEMS CROSS-COMPILER. 
Extend/modify the FORTH runtime system, recompile on a hoBt 
computer lor a different target computer, generale headerless 
code, generate ROMabie code with Initialized variables. Supports 
forward referencing to any word or label. Produces load map and 
list of unresolved symbols 107 page manual System require- 
ments as for Z-80 FORTH above. S200.00 

8086 FORTH with line editor, screen editor, assembler, and 
utilities. Uses standard CPIM compatible random access files for 
screen storage. Requires 80B6 or 80B8 microcomputer, 64 kbytes 
RAM, and CP'M.86 operating system. 5100.00 

MACHINE TEST PROGRAM PACKAGE for Z-80 systems. Includes 
memory, floppy disk, printer, and terminal tests with all source 
code. Requires CP/M 2.2. S50.00 

All software distributed on eight-inch solt sectored single density 
diskettes. Prices Include shipping by first class or UPS within USA 
or Canada. COD charges extra. Purchase orders accepted al our 
discretion. (CPfM and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digital 
Research. Inc. Z-80 Is a registered trademark ot Zllog, Inc.) 

Laboratory Microsystems 

4147 Beethoven Street 

Los Angeles, CA 90066 

(213) 390-9292 



GUI CK 




Guaranteed to solve any Rubik's 
Cube (TM> or triple your money 
back. Enter 54 color -faces of 
cube or let program set up 
random pattern to be solved. 
Program run can be interupted 
to allow user to enter his/her 
own moves. Interesting program. 
Send »19.95 plus 41.50 postage & 
handl ing toi 

Alpha Queue Systems 
Dept. B 

P. O. Box 20885 
Dallas, TX 75220 

Texas residents add 57. <*1.00> 
sales tax. Checks only please. 

# Trademark o-f Tandy Corp. 

TM Trademark o-f Ideal Toy Corp. 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 



Circle 211 on inquiry card. 



J RAM 

New 51 2K RAM card for the IBM 
Personal Computer. Parity and 
paging hardware. Up to one and 
a half megabytes per system 
using 3 JRAM's. Included is flop- 
py with software to allow any por- 
tion of memory to be used as 
simulated floppy drive. All RAM 
locations are socketed and par- 
tially stuffed cards are available 
on special request. 

$1500 

Tall Tree Systems 

1036 Los Altos Avenue 

Los Altos, CA 94022 

(415)941-8748 



Mill 








'( 


W We're it for your 
— hardware and 
software needs. 
MARCH 
SPECIAL 

SuperCalc™ 
$ 236 

THE APPLICATIONS GROU 


? 








1 r 




















214)749-5513 








I I I I I I 
PO Box 99? Can-oWon TX 75006 





ATLANTIC CABINET 
P.O. Box 100, 
Wllllamsport, 
Maryland 21795 



Design Line 
Micro Work 



v—m 


Stations 


IrEI 






H 


bs-jS 


■ 1 


^yj/M 


H 



• A range of work stations designed specifically to house 
all micro-computers. 

• Delivered heavily packed, in self-assembly form 
needing only a Philips screwdriver and a few minutes of 
your time to assemble. 

• Manufactured from 1" all wood particleboard surfaced 
with hard-wearing melamine veneer, In either Oak or 
Walnut. 

DEALER AND DISTRIBUTOR PRICES ON REQUEST 
FOR MORE INFORMATION WRITE OR CALL 301-223-6900 



Circle 375 on inquiry card. 



Circle 30 on inquiry card. 



Circle 391 on inquiry card. 



RAM:64K-200ns<i2firefr« 



8/$79 



Color R.F. Modulator Kit: 



$13.79 



14AS-100 Power Supply Kit-$29.95 

(for line cord and circuit breaker, add $8.95) 
47-63 Hz, 95-250 VAC with HFI filter included. 



Disk Power Kit— 24V/5A - $19.95 



New! RGB belays 



• 320x525 lines 
■ 15.7 KHz 

• Black SlripeTube 

• 90 Day Warranty 

• Perfect for: 
IBM 

CAT- 100 
Microangelo 

13"-$329°° 
19".$369°° 



EBB 




MM 



lit' nl in 1 Electronics 

735 Loma Verde, Paid Alto, CA 94303 • 415-493-5930 
Please send 40 ct. SASE lor our flyer. 



SCR SUPER-BUYS 



$10.00 MIN. ORDER HANDLING/SHIPPING. . . J5.00 

UPS ANYWHERE IN CONTINENTAL U.S. 
© FREE DECODER PLANS plus a brochure 
describing our new UHF-VHF Conversion Kit 
are yours just by sending us your name, 
address and a 20c stamp. 
© UHF-VHF CONVERSION KIT. Complete 
with PC board; all required components; 
jumper wire; cabinet with speaker; and com- 
prehensive brochure incl. schematic, board 
layout, mounting and hook-up diagrams, 
parts list, and assembly and set-up instruc- 
tions. All parts are industrial prime quality. 
© 9-INCH BUCK AND WHITE CRT MONI- 
TOR. Ideal tor microcomputer or security 
use. 22 transistors. Designed tor excel- 
lent resolution. Frequency response — 
12 MHz. Continuous DC restoration tor 
superior contrast. 

Ult Price S225.no tun. 

C^*ITI i 71 ") «"-2554 • (213)596-7553 

OLK ELECTRONICS INC. 

9533 Valley View Street. Cypress, CA 90630 

Pay by CHECK, M.O., VISA, MIC, C.O.D. 
For Free Buyers Guide Circle Number Shown Below 



FREE 



Our 

Own 

Famous 

Kit 

'119" 

Our 

Factory 
Direct 
Price 

J 165»° 



NEW! S-lOO BUS COMPATIBLE 

SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER WITH VIDEO OUTPUT 







FEATURES: 

»WtZZ-aDA'.upio9KiH£PROM,wit(i4KSum FMMJwmS-BTT input pom on* a Ml 
ampul petti, one s HIT term mptu poti mull nwnupt, comptwi udra ouipui |8*%24J, 

PRICK 

Bjii- htwrd w.ilh rip.iiiTH-rilJli.in W*>9i 

Monilei ..rid ndeo ItfiTniiul Mitlw.it..' im EPRUMl . MS 00 

SouK* Istin9s.lu.-1th Mural... puKhu*) H5.0Q 

Hjrd to Imd Paris Kit (ttyttal and lte» In* PHOM'h . . . Hi 00 

^_— _ CALIf OMNIA Hi >l!l|M> ittJUI II. 



Circle 124 on inquiry card. 



Circle 349 on inquiry card. 



Circle 146 on inquiry card. 



INCREDIBLE? believe m 



Washington Computer Services 

anamnateo, («^^g^») est. 1912 

CUSTOM COMPUTER ROOM WIRING SINCE 1960 

97 Spring Street, New York, New York 10012 TELEX #12-5606 

TO ORDER: CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBER: (800) 221-5416 In N.Y. State and for technical information: (212) 226-2121 

HOURS: 9 AM-5:30 PM (EST) Monday- Friday 



PRINTERS 




150 cps bidirectional • 9x9 dot matrix, quietized 

case, 136 col, vertical form control and many 

other functions $1195 

We feel this printer offers <J>ii3d 

the best price/performance ratio available. 

RS-232 serial to 19.200 baud x-on, x-off add $40 

NOVELL 800 SCALL 

f y-W \ Teletype 40, 300 LPM-typewriter quality, RS- from Only 

" 232 interface. This quality printer is available in many $2928 

configurations including forms access, quietized case, etc. 

Teletype 43 



Teletype AP-200, 340 cps dot matrix (similar to Data Prod. M-200) 

NEC Spinwriter-55 cps, bidirectional, letter quality 
R. 0.7710 $2560 KSR7720 

DIABLO 630-40 cps, bidirectional, daisy wheel, plot/graph 

QUME Sprint 9/45 cps, daisy wheel 

C. ITOH Starwriter, 25 cps, daisy wheel 

C. ITOH Starwriter, 45 cps, daisy wheel 

EPSON MX-80, 100, 80 cps, 9x9 dot matrix 

ANADEX 9500/9501 , up to 200 cps, high resolution dot 

OKIDATA Microline 80, 80 cps, 9x7 dot matrix 

Microline82A, bidirectional, friction /pin feed 
Microline 83A, bidirectional, 120 cps, uses 15" paper 

Tl— 810. 150 cps, Basic 

Package-Compressed print, vertical form control 

MANNESMANN MT 1705 200 cps, 7x9, 132 col 

TALLY MT 1805 200 cps, 7x9 + NLQ 40x18 matrix 

CENTRONICS 704-9, 180 cps, 9x9 dot matrix, 132 col 

739 100 cps, nx9 dot matrix, Full Graphics 

DEC LA-34 

IDS 4606 

S-100 SPECIALTIES 



58000 16 bit multi-user UNIX V.7 



from $995 
$2799 

$2799 

$2349 

$2228 

$1575 

$1725 

$CALL 

$1325 

$399 

$525 

$799 

$1449 

$1630 

$CALL 

SCALL 

$CALL 

$700 

$1085 

$892 



$CALL 



8 DISK DRIVE SALE 

8"SHUGARTSA801R $450 8"SHUGARTSA851R $669 2for$1289 

QUMEDATATRACK8 $589 2for$1110 

VISTA Industrial grade enclosure for 2 drives with PS. $420 

MORROW Discus 20 + CP/ M® MICROSOFT BASIC, CONT. $950 

Discus 2 + 2 + CP/ M® MICROSOFT BASIC, CONT. $1195 

Enclosure, power supply for 2 8" drives A & T $350 

HARD DISK SPECIALS List only 

i CORVUS 10MB and controller $5358 $CALL 

20MB and controller $6450 $CALL 

Constellation Network Multiplexer and Mirror Video Tape Disk Backup 
MORROW 26MB + controller + CP/M 2.2®, M basic $4495 $3821 

«liAfro controller, CDC Hawk Drive (5 fix, 5 rem) $7995 $6795 

controller, Western Dynex (5 fix, 5 rem) $5995 $5099 

Ik^ Winchester 5 1 A drives complete with case, cable, 

J f software, S-100 controller. Adapter avail, for use with 

XCOJVIP any 2-80 system. Cartridge drive controllers avai 



Iter 8086 16 bit, 

Group 



high 



$3499 

quality 2nd 



ll 



128K RAM, Syst. #2 
Call us for best prices on these 
generation boards and systems. 
California These high quality, reliable products have made CCS 
Computer defacto industry standard for S-100 products 
Assembled and tested: list 



Systems 



only 
$359 
$580 
$259 
$345 
SCALL 



INTI iiNATiONA 



2200 H.D. Mainframe, 20a. P. S., 12 slot MB $434 

2065C 64K dynamic RAM /Bank Select $720 

2810A Z-80 CPU, serial port, ROM monitor $310 

2422A floppy Cont, CP/M 2.2 ROM monitor $425 
18000 SX, multi-user, multi-processor, turbo DOS 
_ ;CPM 2.2. FULL 2 YEAR WARRANTY! 

r^?^ (A) L^D CI3 CS3 00 fr* We 0,,er 9 enerous discounts on the Compupro line of 
I5J ELECTBmiciVlVMfast, quality 8 and 16 bit boards 

\j ADVANTAGE SCALL 

NorthStar' & horizon 

Similar savings on the full lines of CCS, SSM, NNC, MORROW, DELTA, 
NORTHSTAR, ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS, GODBOUT, NEC, TELEVIDEO, IMS 
ZENITH, ADDS, DEC, DATA GEN., ATARI, DYNABYTE, TECMAR, DUAL 



OEM discounts available.! 



List 
ZS9 $2898 

R.S. MOD. II 



S-100 



$3398 



5MB AmE 
10MB XER0X 

ALTOS 

|U^^3| PRIAM 8" and 14" Winchester/tape subsystems avail. 

WORDSTAR $300 DBASE II $525 

MBASIC80 $235 SUPERCALC $221 

FULLY CONFIGURED BUSINESS SYSTEMS 

The following are some examples of the fully assembled and tested business 
and scientific computer -systems which we offer. All include 64K bytes 
RAM, Z-80A, 4mh CPU. We offer a full line of quality, tested software. 

OoofeO'^ySSfeODE fine computers $CALL 

Delta S-4500 10 User, Multi-Processor, 40 MB hard 17 MB tape SCALL 

CC 2210Aw/lloppy controller, 1 serial port $1849 

CCS300-1Aw/1.2MBfloppydrives, 2 serial, 2 parallel ports $4849 

CCS 400-1A w/10 MB hard disc, 2 serial. 2 parallel ports $6999 

NNC 80W W/5MB floppy, 8.4 MB hard disc, (OASIS optional) S6693 

ALTOS single and multi-user systems SCALL 

MORROW Decision 1, CP/M Microsoft Basic, UNIX SCALL 

VCDHV 82u Desktop computer-64K, 2 floppys. (CP/M avail.) 
AtKUA, List $2995 SCALL 

We offer multi-user networks by DELTA PRODUCTS, DISCOVERY, TELEVIDEO, 
MUSYS, IMS, DIGITAL MICROSYSTEMS 

TERMINALS pmmi modem $359 

AMPEX DIALOGUE 30, 80 SCALL 

TELEVIDEO 910 C (multi-terminal) $610 

925C $795 

950C S950 

S0ROCIQ120 $729 

HAZELTINE ESPRIT $669 

DECVT-100 $1575 

Similar savings for our HAZELTINE and LEAR SIEGLER lines 

LOOK HERE! AMPEX 

Call us for ALL your softwear needs Dialogue 80™ 

Systems Houses, Educational Institutions, & 
Government Agencies Given Special Consideration 




ALL OF OUR PERIPHERALS CAN BE CONFIGURED FOR RADIO SHACK® MODEL II 



DEALER and INTERNATIONAL INQUIRIES WELCOME 



For fast delivery, send certified check, money order or call to arrange direct bank wire transfer. Personal or company checks require two to three 

weeks to clear. All prices are mail order only. Prices subject to change without notice; call for latest prices. Prices include 3% cash discount. N.Y. _ 

residents add sales tax. Qantex is a trademark of North Atlantic Industries, Inc. Radio Shack™ is a trademark of the Tandy Corp. CP/M® is a HBjjtj 

trademark of Digital Research. All sales subject to our standard sale conditions (available on request). ^^ppi 

Circle 407 on Inquiry card. BYTE March 1982 505 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 



S-100 CPU 




CPU-Z - GODBOUT ^»\ 

2/4 MHZ Z80 CPU 24 Bit Addressing * \ 
IPflRT HO. DEScniFTiOH LIST FBICE WjnTOj 

8CGBT 160A A & T S295.00 . . S199.00<^ 

BC6BT 160C CSC 3-6 MHZ $395.00 . . . $375.00 

DUAL PROCESSOR 8085-8088 ■ GODBOUT 

6 or 8 MZ Provides true 16 Bit Power with a standard 8 

bit S-100 bus. 

BCGBT 1612A A & T 6 MHZ. $425.00 ... S399.O0 

BC6BTI612C CSC 6/8 MHz S525.00 ... .$490.00 

SOLID STATE DISK DRIVE, 3500% FASTER! 
Not Realty. But the Next Best Thing For Godbout 
8085/88 Users. Call for Details on M-Drive. See Page 
340 of November BYTE 

BCGBT MO 128K $1,550.00 

BCGBT MO 25BK $3,000.00 

2810 Z80 CPU-CA. COMP. SYST. 
2/4 MHZ Z80A CPU with RS232C Serial I/O Port 
complete with Monitor PROM lor 2422 Disk Controller 

BCCCS 28I0A A&T $350.00 . . . $280.00 

CB2 Z80 CPU ■ S.S.M. 

2/4 MHZ will accept 2716, or 2732, or RAM 

RUN/STOP and single step switches 

BCSSMCB2K Kit $280.00 

BCSSMCB2A A & T. $344.00 . . . .$310.00 

BCSSMZBOM SSMZ80 Monitor $89.00 

CBIA 8080 CPU - S.S.M. 

8080 CPU, IK RAM, Holds 1 2708, 

1 Bit parallel input port. 

BCSSMCBIK Kit $183.00 

BCSSMCBIA A&T $252.00... .$225.00 

BCSSM8080M SM 8080 Monitor. $59.00 

S-lOO I/O BOARDS 

SYSTEM SUPPORT 1 - GODBOUT 

Serial port (software prog baud), 4K EPROM OR RAM 

provision, 15 levels of interrupt, real time clock, 

optional math processor 

PAST NO. DESCRIPTION LIST PRICE OUR PRICE 

DCGDTI82A Assembled & Tested $399.00 $300.00 

BCGBTI62C CSC J495.00 $480.00 

BCGBT823I Math Chip $195.00 

BCGBT8232 Math Chip $195.00 

BCGBT162AM1 A&T with 8231 Math Chip $555.00 

BCGBT162CMI CSC with 8231 Math Chip $655.00 

BCGBTI62AM2 A&T with 8232 Math Chip $555.00 

BC6BT162CM2 CSC with 8232 Math Chip $655.00 

MPX CHANNEL BOARD - GODBOUT 

I/O Multiplexer, using 8085A-2 CPU on board 

BCGBT166A A&T $495.00 $450.00 

BCBBT166C CSC $595.00 $550.00 

INTERFACE!) I - GODBOUT 

Two Serial I/O 

BC6BT133A A&T $249.00 $219.00 

BCGBTI33C CSC $324.00 $298.00 

INTERFACE!) II ■ GODBOUT 

Three parallel, one serial I/O board 

BCGBTI50A A&T $249.00 $219.00 

BCGBTI50C CSC $324.00 $289.00 

INTERFACE!) Ill - GODBOUT 

Eight channel multi-use serial I/O board 

BCGBT1748A A&T $699.00 $829.00 

BCGBT1748C CSC 200 hr. Burn In $849.00 $750.00 

INTERFACER 3 WITH 5 SERIAL PORTS 

BCGBTI745A A&T $599.00 $559.00 

BCGBTI745C CSC 200 hr. Burn In $699.00 $629.00 

MULT! I/O - MORROW DESIGNS 

Three Serial. Two parallel 

BCMOSMB3200 A&T $359.00 $329.00 

SWITCHBOARD - MORROW DESIGNS 

Two serial I/O, four parallel I/O, 

one status port, one strobe port 

6CM0SSD241I $299.00 $209.00 

1/04 ■ SSM 

Two serial I/O, two parallel I/O 

BCSSMI04K Kit $210.00 

BCSSMI04A A&T $290.00 $260.00 

I/O 5 ■ SSM 

2 Serial, 3 Parallel including 1 Centronics 

DCSSMI05I A&T $329.00 $309.00 

I/O 8 - SSM 

8 Port Serial I/O with Timer 

BCSSMI08A A&T $550.00 $495.00 

2710 4 PORT SERIAL - CCS 
4 Full handshaking RS232 ports and optional 2K ROM 
BCCCS27I001 A&T $360.00 $310.00 

2718 2 SERIAL & 2 PARALLEL - CCS 

2 RS232 C ports, 2 8 bit parallel ports, & optional2K ROM 

BCCCS271801 A&T $360.00 $325.00 

2720 4 PORT PARALLEL ■ CCS 

4 8 bit parallel ports and optional 2K ROM 

BCCCS272001 A&T $250.00 $225.00 



S- 100 10 MHZ STATIC RAM 

NEW LOW PRICES! 

RAM 20 - 32K 
SALE $299.00 




32K STATIC RAM - GODBOUT 

RAM 20 10 MHZ. 4K byte block disable, bank select 
or 24 bit addressing available 8, 16, 24 or 32K 



IPABTHO. 



oeScrIHIoh 



LIST PRICE — otmncTi 



BCGBT1B4AAB UK A&T 
BCGBT184AC8 8K CSC 
BCGBTIS4AAI6 nth A&T 
BCGBT1B4AC16 16KCSC 
BCGBTI64AA24 24KA&T 
BCGBTI64AC24 24K CSC 
BCGBTI84AA32 32KA&T 
BCGBTIB4AC32 32K CSC 



$210.00 $190.00 

S280.00 $260.00 

$36500 $260.00 

$355.00 $325.00 

$355.00 $325.00 

$425.00 $305.00 

$425.00 $299.00 

$495.00 $450.00 



CMOS STATIC RAM 

For a complete analysis of the advantages of CMOS 
memory, see the "Product Description' 'on page 41 6 of 
the January Issue of BYTE. 

64K CMOS STATIC RAM - GODBOUT 

RAM 17, 10 MHZ, 2 Watt, DMA Compatable 

24 Bit Addressing 

BCBBT175A48 48K A&T $650.00 $619.00 

BCBBTI75C48 48K CSC 200hr. $750.00 $710.00 

BCBBT175A64 64KA&T $795.00 $755.00 

BCGBT175CB4 64KCSC20Ohr. $895.00 $850.00 

NEW! 32K X 14 BIT CMOS STATIC RAM ■ GODBOUT 

RAM 1B 10 MHZ, 32K x 16 or 64K x 8 

IEEE/696 76 BIT 2 Watt, 24 Bit Addressing 

BCGBTI80A 64KA&T $895.00 $050.00 

BCGBT180C 64KCSC $995.00 $945.00 

NEW! 128K NMOS STATIC RAM - GODBOUT 

RAM 21 10MHZ 128K X 8 OR 64K x 76 

IEEE/696 8 or 16 Bit 1.2 Amps 24 Bit Addressing 

DCGDTI67A 128KA&T $1695.00 $1610.00 

BCGBT167C I28KCSC $1895.00 $1795.00 



S-100 PROM 



PBI PROM PROGRAMMER - SSM 

Programs 2708 or 2776's, operates as a 

4K/8K EPROM BOARD AS WELL. 

BCSSMPB1K Kit $179.00 

BCSSMPB1A A&T $265.00 $220.00 

ECONOROM 2708 - GODBOUT 

16K x 8 EPROM Board using 2708, Power on 

jump to any 256 byte 

BCGBTI25A A&T $135.00 $120.00 

BCGBT125C CSC $195.00 $175.00 

MB8A - SSM 
1 K/1 6K 2708 EPROM board, disable in 1K increments 
BCSSMMBBAK Kit $114.00 

BCSSMMBBAA A&T $179.00 $159.00 

S-100 VIDEO BOARDS 

SPECTRUM - GODBOUT 

Color Graphics board with Parallel I/O 

BCGBTI44A A&T $399.00 $349.00 

BCGBT144C CSC $449.00 $390.00 

BCGBT2D Sublogic Universal $35.00 

Graphics Interpreter Software 

VB - 3 S.S.M. 

80 x 25 or 50 character video display Memory 

Mapped, Parallel Keyboard port 

BCSSMVB3K24 80 X 24 Kit $425.00 

BCSSMHB3A24 80 X 24 A&T $499.00 $440.00 

BCSSMVB3UP 80 x 50 Line Upgrade $ 39.00 

VB2-S.S.M. 
I/O Mapped Video Board, with Parallel Keyboard port 

64 x 76 

BCSSMVD2K Kit $199.00 

BCSSMVB2A A&T $269.00 $229.00 

VBBB ■ S.S.M 

Memory Mapped Video Board 64 x 16 character 

display or 64 x 16 graphics display 

BCSSMVBIK Kit $179.00 

BCSSMVBIA AS I $242.00 $220.00 

S-100 MOTHERBOARDS - GODBOUT 

Active termination, 6-12-20 slot 

DCGBTI53A A&T 6 slot, 2 lbs $140.00 $126.00 

BCGBT153C CSC 6 slot. 2 lbs. $190.00 $175.00 

BCGBTI54A A&T 1 2 slot, 3 lbs. $175.00 $155.00 

BCGBTI54C CSC 12 slot, 3 lbs. $240.00 $220.00 

BCBBT155A A&T 20 slot, 4 lbs. $265.00 $235.00 

DCGTBI55C CSC 20 slot. 4 lbs. S340.00 $310.00 



S-lOO DYNAMIC RAM 



'^''.,. C -., '■''... ■•>...., -\. - : .. ^.. ;•■ : 



. ■ ■ : ; : . ■■ ; ■ ■■ 



THE EXPANDABLE 1 
PRIORITY 1 ELECTRONICS 

THE EXPANDABLE 1" 64K Dynamic Ram board 
provides your S-1 00 system with 64K of reliable, high- 
speed dynamic RAM. Compatable with most of the 
major S-100 systems on the market, including those 
with front panels, it supports DMA operations and 
requires no Wait states with current microprocessors. 

• User expandable from 16 to 64K • Supports DMA 

• Designed to IEEE proposed S-1 00 bus standards • 2 or 
4 MHz operation • Operates with either an 8080 or Z-80 
based S-100 system, providing processor-transparent re- 
freshes with both • Supports IMSAI-type front panels 

• Jumper-selectable Phantom input • Uses Popular 
41 16 RAMS • All ICsin sockets • Any 16K block can be 
made bank-independent • Fully buffered address and 
data lines • Fail-safe refresh circuitry for extended Wait 
slates • Board configuration with reliable, easy-to-con- 
figure Berg jumpers 

BCPRIEXP11G 16K Assembled & Tested $299.00 

BCPRIEXP132 32K Assembled & Tested $339.00 

BCPBIEXPM8 48K Assembled & Tested $319.00 

BCPRIEXP164 64K Assembled & Tested $409.00 

S-100 DISK CONTROLLERS 

2422A ■ CA. COMP. SYST. 

I/O Mapped, controls 8", single or 
double density A&T with CPM 2.2 8" S.D. 

I LIST PRICE OUR PRICE | 

BCCCS2422A $4 75.00 $3)5.60 

DISK JOCKEY 2D - MORROW 

Memory Mapped, controls 8", single or 

double density, serial I/O 

BCMDIDJ2208 A&T with CP/M 2.2 $399.00 $375.00 

S-100 DISK SUBSYSTEMS 

DJ2B DISCUS SINGLE SIDED MORROW 

8" DBL Density drives with cabinet, power supply 

controller, with CP/M 2.2 and Microsoft Basic 

DCMDSFI210 Single Drive System $1095.00 $950.00 

BCM0SF1228 Dual Drive System $1875.00 $1598.00 

DJ2B DISCUS DOUBLE SIDED - MORROW 

8" DSL Density/sided drives with cabinet Power 

supply controller, with CP/M 2.2 and Microsoft Basic 

BCM0SF22I8 Single Drive System $1395.00 $1250.00 

BCMDSF2228 Dual Drive System $2495.00 $2050.00 

S-lOO HARD DISK - MORROW 




5.25" 5MB, 8" 70 & 20MB, 14" 26MB formatted 

hard disk complete with cabinet, P.S.. Controller, 

CP/M 2.2 and Microsoft MBASIC 80 

LIST PRICE SALE PRICE 

BCMDCMAM5 5 MB $2495.00 .$1995.00 

BCM0SMI0S 10 MB $3695.00 m JZ $2950.00 



BCMDSM26S 26 MB 



$4495.00 



$3495.00 



VIDEO MONITORS 

VM121 -ZENITH 

;5 MHz 12" P3I Green phospher 40 or 80 

characters per line 

BCZVMI21 20 lbs. $159.00 $139.00 

VM4509 ■ SANYO 

10MHz, 9" 16 x 64 P4 B&W monitor 

DCSV0VM4509 75 lbs. {235.00 $198.00 

DM5012 ■ SANYO 

18MHz. 72" 24 x 80 P4 B&W monitor 

DCST0DM5012 24 lbs. $340.00 $310.00 

DM5112- SANYO 

18MHz. 12" 24 x80 P31 Green on Black display 

0CSY05II2 24 lbs. $360.00 $325.00 

VM6013 - SANYO 

COLOR 13" 16 line x 64 character monitor 

0CSYDVM6013 35 lbs $550.00 S495.00 



Circle 317 on inquiry card. 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 



GODBOUT DMA DISK 1 

WITH FREE CP/M 2.2 

SALE $450.00 




SAVE $220.00 

Priority 1 Electronics is pleased to oiler the GODBOUT 
DISK 1 High Performance Disk Controller at our reg- 
ular low price with CP/M 2.2 and BIOS at no additional 
cost. That's a savings ot $220.00 ol the manutacturer's 
list price. 

• Third generation INTEL 8272/NEC 765A LSI floppy 
disk controller. 

• High speed cycle stealing DMA interlace lor proc- 
essor independent data transfer between system 
memory and flexible disk. 

• Handles up to lour 8 or 5.25 inch floppy disk drives 

• Single or double density/single or double sided 

capability. 

• Supports IBM 3740 soft sectored formats. 

• 24 bit DMA addressing with data transfer across 
64K boundaries for data transfer throughout the 
16Mbyte memory map. 



DESCHIFTIOH 



LIST PRICE Ol 



ssss.oo 

$175.00 



$500.00 
$050.00 



BCPDB171ACPM A&T w/CP/M 2.2 8. BIOS S670.00 
BCGBT17IC CSC $595.00 

BCEBTCPMBO* CP/M 2.2 for Z80/8085 with 
manuals & BIOS 8" S/D disk 
BCGBT0AS8S Oasis 8 bit single user 8" S/D disk 
BCGBT0AS8M Oasis 8 bit multiuser 8" S/D disk 

S-lOO SYSTEMS 

SUPERSIXTEEN - GODBOUT 

HERE IS WHAT EACH PACKAGE INCLUDES: 

BCGBT16I2A 6 MHz 8085/8088 Dual Processor Board 

BCGHT171A High Speed DMA Disk Controller 

BCGBTI62A System Support 1 Multi-Function Board 

BCGBT133A Interfacer 1 Dual Serial I/O 

BC128K lOHHz Low Power Static Ram 

BCEBTCP/M B6 16 Bit Operating System Ready to Load & Go 

Cables and Documentation Three interfacer cables one disk I/O 

cable, complete documentator tor all hardware, and manuals 

tor both CP/M operating systems. 

Compu Pro'! famous I Year limited warranty. 

Now to the best part of all. If purchased separately, these 

quality components would list for $4,344.00. BUTSuperSlxteen's 

low package price li an amazing S3.495.00. You save $849.00!(For 

boards qualified under the Certified System Component 

high-reliability program - with extended 2 year warranty, 

200 hour burn-in and 8 MHz processors - add $600.00 to 

the package price. Sh. Wt. 15 lbs. 

BCPOBGBTSJ SuperSixteen A&T $3495.00 

BCPDBGBTSK SuperSixteen CSC $4095.00 



PRINTERS 



BEST 
PRICE! 




MICROLINE - OKIDATA 

WITH FRICTION AND TRACTOR FEED 

• BI-DIRECTIONAL - 120 CPS • Parallel and Serial I/O 
*9x9 Matrix (Alphanumeric) 

• 6x9 or 12 Matrix lorGraphics 

• 5,8.3, W,ieCharactrsp/lnch 

• 6 or 8 Lines per Inch 



• SOCPLiafOCP/ for 82/1 

• J 32 CPL01O CPI lor 83 A 



• 100 Thru 1200 Baud 

• Sell Test 
*Outol Paper Switch 

• Friction or Tractor Feed 

• 3 " to 14" Top ol Form 
ISwilch Selectable) 

• tO Dilferent Character Sets 
LIST PRICE SALE PRICE 

910 CPI S 799.00 $539.00 
HO CPI S1 195.00 



PART NO. DESCRIPTION 

BC0KIDAT82AT[26lbs|8 HO CPI. 

BC0KIDAT83AT (37 lbs) 132 CPL@10 CPI $1195.00 $750.00 

BC0KISER2KBF 9600 baud with 2K Serial $159.00 

Buffer upgrade with X-on Y-off 
BC0KI6RAPH High Resolution Graphics Prom $99.00 

CALL FOR THE NEW MICROUNE 84 

MX80 - EPSON 
NEED WE SAY MORE? 

BCEPHHUM Tracloi Feed 1 7 lbs $645.00 $450.00 

PRINTER INTERFACES - MICROBYTE 

RS232 Serial Conversion lor MX80 
BCMBSSEII A&T $55.00 

Apple Centronics 8 bit parallel interlace 

lor Centronics. Epson & OKIDATA printers 

BCMBSAEII Ail $55.00 

BCMBSAECI Cable lor above $14.95 

Printer interlaces & cables sold only with printer purchase 



S-lOO MAINFRAMES 




S-lOO MICROFRAME - TEI 

1 10V 60HZ CVT Mainframes, the best money can buy! 

12 Slot ±8V I7A±16V@ 2A 

22 Slot ±8V SB 30A± 16V <«> 4A 



PART NO 



BCTEIMCS 112 12 Slot Desk 

BCTEIMCS 122 22 Slot Desk 

BCTEIRH 12 12 Slot Rackmounl 

BCTEIRH 22 22 Slol Rackmounl 



OUR PRICE 
LIST PRICE 1-9 1024 



S685.OOS6I5.00 $570.00 

S825 .00 S760.00 $705.00 

S725.00S720.00 $619.00 

$8 75.00 $850.00 $750.00 



Shipping Weight: On 12 Slot Mainlrame 45 lbs. 
On 22 Slot Mainframes 55 lbs. 

TEI S-lOO FRAMES 
3-5" DISK CUTOUTS 

±8V <S> 17±16V @ 1.2A Internal Cables 

1-9 10-24 

BCTEITFI2 12 Slol desk S675.OO$625.00 $580.00 

BCTEIRF12 12 Slol Rackmounl S795.0OS715.00 SBB5.00 

Shipping Weight: On 12 Slot Desk 40 lbs. 

On 12 Slot Rackmounl 45 lbs. 

DUAL 8" DISK DRIVE CHASSIS - TEI 

For Shugart 800/801 R or 850/85 1 R with internal power 

cables provided 

+24V @> 1.5A+5V 6> 1.0A - 5V @ .25/4 

1-9 10-24 

BCTEBCFDO DeskTop S535.OOS485.00 $455.00 

BCTEIHFDO Rack Mount $ 720.00 $870.00 $830.00 

BCP0BDFD0SI DFDO with 1 Shugart 801 R $$070.00 

IICFODDFD0S? DFDO with 2 Shugart 801 Rs $1375.00 

BCPBBBFBDSI RFDO with 1 Shugart 801 R $1095.00 

BCPDBRFD0S2 RFDO with 2 Shugart 801 Rs $1495.00 

BCPRI50P6CE2 Internal Dala Cable .50 pin $34.95 

plug connector to 2 Card Edge 
Due to UPS shipping regulations, disk drives will be shipped 
separately irom the cabinet. Don't forget to include shipping 
for each drive. (Shipping Weight. 16 lbs each.l 

CALL FOR NEW TEIPRICES MARCH 1st 

S-lOO MAINFRAME - GODBOUT 

110V 60HZ CVT Mainlrame uses famous 20 slot 
GODBOUT Motherboard. 55 lbs. 

BCGBTENC20RM 20 Slol Rack Mount S89S.00 S825.00 

BCGBTENC200K 20 Slol Desk Top S825.00 $760.00 

S-lOO MAINFRAME - CCS 

12-slol motherboard with removable termination card 
BCCCS220BBI Office Cream 35 lbs S5 75 00 $535.00 

BCCCS220002 Blue 35 lbs $S 75.00 $535. 00 

SOFTWARE - MICROPRO 

All software is supplied on 8" Single Density IBM 

3740 CP/M Compatable Diskettes 

WORDSTAR 

Screen-Oriented, integrated word processing system 

specifically designed lor non-lechmcat personnel 

BCMPRWRBSTAI $495 OO S300.00 

MAIL MERGE WORD STAR OPTION 

Powerful file merging tool 

BCMPBMLMRBAI IReguires Word Star 2. 1 or lalerl$250 OO SI 00.00 

SPELLSTAR WORD STAR OPTION 
One Step "Proofreader" with cnmpressnd 20.000 word 

dictionary and user-created siipplemeiii.il dictionaries 
8CMPBSPLSTAI (Requires Word Star 3.0 or later) 1260.00 $150.00 

SUPERSORT 
Sophisticated program that will select and re-anuiuie 

variable length information from data liles 
BCMPRSPRSRAI $250.00 $150.00 

CALC STAR 
Sophisticated, easy-to-use. electronic spin 

sheet and financial planner 
BCMPRCLCSTAI S295.00 $200.00 

DATA STAR 
Ollice-Oriented Data Entry, rctnval. and 

updating system 
BCMPB0ATSTA1 S350.00 $200.00 



PRIORITY 



FLOPPY DISC DRIVES 



Tandon TM-800 Thinline is 
exactly halt the size 
of conventional 8" 
floppy disk drives. „ 




/•« 



Exactly one-half the height ot any other model. 
Propietary, high-resolution, read-write heads 

patented by Tandon 
D.C. only operation - no A.C. required 
Industry standard interlace. 

Three millisecond track-to-track access time 9 lbs. 
BCTHBTM8481 Single Sided $495.00 2 or more $470.00 
BCTNDTM84S2 Double Sided $625.00 2 or more S600.00 
BCTNDTM8M Manual ■ not included with drive $10.00 

80IR - SHUGART 
Single sided double density most popular 8" drive 
BCSH080IR $425.00 ea or 2 or more (16 lbs) lor $395.00 ea. 
BCSHUSA60IRM Manual lor 80IR drives $ 10.00 




Dala track 8 double sided, double density 8" 



GCgMEDTS 



BC0MEDT8M 

BCTN0TM1DOI 
BCTNDTM1002 
BCTHDTMI003 
BCTNDTMI004 
DCTNDTM5M 



Sh. Wt. 1 6 lbs 



$525.00 ea. 



2 or more $499.00 each 

Manual for DT-8 
5'A" DRIVES - TANDON 

Single Sided, 250KB (5 lbs) 

Double Sided. 500KB 

Single Sided, 500KB 

Double Sided, 1000KB 

Manual, not included with drive 

DISK CABINETS 



$ 10.00 




V-IOO- VISTA 

• Desk or rack mountable* Internal power and data cables 

• Drives pull out lor easy service and maintenance 

BCVISV100 Disk Drive Cabinet (43 lbs) $495 00 $440.00 

SINGLE 8" - Q.T. 

Single 8" cabinet with power supply 

BCOTCODCB |22 lbs) $249.00 $22500 

DUAL 8" - Q.T. 

Dual 8' cabinet with power supply 

BC0TCDDCB8 (24) $395.00 $349.00 

5" CABINETS ■ VISTA 

BCVIS980! Single 5" with P.S. $75.00 

BCV1S9802 Dual 5" with P.S. $95.00 



TERMINALS 





VT200 - VISUAL TECHNOLOGY 

THE MOST RELIABLE TERMINAL WE'VE EVER USED! 
Detachable keyboard, RS232C or 20MA interface, 
110 to 19200 baud, 12" non glare 80 x 24 display, 

RS232 Aux. port and composite video out. 
BCVSL200 Shipping Weight 55 lbs. $995.00 

VIEWPOINT - ADDS 
Detachable keyboard, RS232 interlace and auxiliary 

port, 80 x 24 display, tiltable screen 
BCAD0VWPR Shipping Weight 40 lbs SALE $599.00 



ELECTRONICS 



916 1-B DEERING AVE • CHATSWORTH, CA 91311 
ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 CA, AK, HI CALL (213) 709-5464 

TermsUS V1SA.MG BAG Check Money Ordei U.S fMndsOniy CA residents add 6% Sales Tax MINIMUM PREPAID ORDERS 15 00 
Include MINIMUM SHIPPING & HANDUNCof 52.60 tor Iheltrsl 3 lbs plus .IV lor each additional pound. Orders over 50 lbs. sen! 
freight collect. Jusl incase, please include your phone no Pricessubjecl to change without notice. We will do our best to maintain 
prices through March, 1982 Credit i a rd orders will tx*oharp>xi appropriate tretghl See November BYTE for 60 page Catalog or 
send SI 00 for your copy today Sale prices rtrf (or prepaid on terns only 



Circle 317 on Inquiry card. 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 




m 



SAVE $1,000.00 ON 

(E 2.4 MEGA-BYTE S-100 DUAL 8" 

California Computer Systems DISK COAAPUXER SY5XE1VI 

HERE'S WHAT YOU GET: 
2210 MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEM 

• 2 or 4 MHZ operation • Z-80CPU • 65,536 
bytes of dynamic RAM • RS-232-C serial port 

• Accepts 8" and 5 1 A" floppy disk drives • 12-slot, 
cream colored mainframe • Internal cabling 
installed • CP/M 2.2 (on diskette) Operating System 

The Model 2210 Computer System is a Z-80 based system containing 65,535 bytes 
of dynamic RAM memory and floppy disk controller mounted in a 12 slot mainframe. 
The system is ideally suited for applications where user defined peripheral devices 
are to be used and a high degree of system flexibility and expandability is desirable. 

The system components are the Models 2810 CPU. 2065 64K Byte Memory 
Module. 2422 Floppy Disk Controller and 2200 Mainframe. Also included in the 
system are internal cables interconnecting the DPU serial channel, disk controllers" 
disk channel and disk controller 5'A" disk channel to the mainframe back panel. This 
permits connecting user peripherals directly to the system without the need of 
opening the mainframe. 

Of the 12 slots available in the main frame, only three are used for the basic system 
components. 9 slots are available for user options or other CCS products such as 
memory (expandable up to 512K bytes (serial and parallel I/O boards). 

System software is provided using the CCS version of the CP/M Operating 
System, Version 2.2. The system is totally linked to permit auto-boot start-up with the 
CP/M on diskette. 

The system is completely integrated and tested prior lo shipment from CCS to 
assure proper configuration and system integrity. 

BCCCS221001 $2350.00 

We add two REMEX 4000 Double Density, Double Sided 3ms 8" drives 

and a Q.TCDDC88 Dual 8" disk enclosure with power supply 

data cable and documentation 

SALE MOOn f\f\ This is a complete system, 

PRICE V^tOU . UU just add a terminal 




ORDER PART NO BCPDBCCSSA 
INCLUDE $30.00 FOR SHIPPING 



IF THAT'S NOT A GOOD ENOUGH DEAL FOR YOU, WE WILL SELL YOU THE BCOKIDAT82AT 
FOR $475.00 OR THE BCOKIDAT83AT FOR $700.00 WHEN YOU BUY THIS SYSTEM 

AT THE SAME TIME! 

DIRECT CONNECT MODEM PRICE BREAKTHROUGH! 



THE SIGNALMAN MK I 

Mee! Ihedirect-connect SIGNALMAN MKl ... the smallest, light- 
est, most compact modem available today Its long lite 9 volt 
sell-contained battery and exclusive audible Carrier Detect 
Signal allows you to install the SIGNALMAN anywhere... outoi 
he way. and out ot sight Now. there is no need tor messy 
cables, and no need to look at an LED to verify carrier. 
Anchor's SIGNALMAN has been designed for transmitting 
both voice and dala signals over all common telephone lines. 
And when you're in Ihe data position, your SIGNALMAN 
automatically changes tram ORIGINATE to ANSWER and 
back again as Ihe need anses — encung all that confusion. 
Your SIGNALMAN is tuiy compatible with all BELL 103 modems 
— putting your computer in instanl communications with 
thousands of other computers 

Anchor Automation has taken the FUSS out of commun- 
ications Tor business or lun. SIGNALMAN is Ihe ideal modem 
PRODUCT FEATURES 

• Direcl Conned Modem 

• Built-in RS232C Cable and Conneetoi 

• Self-contained 9V flattery Wdll plug transformer available 

• Audible corner detect sgntil 

• Automatic mode selection 

• Talk/ Data switch 

• CONNECTS IN SERIrS WIIHMO»UJAHHAWDScT.JACK ON TELEPHONE 

• Complete witti RS232C and Modular Handsel Cables, eliminates need lobuy 
cables — save $20 00 %'itt ML assures coned fit 




• Uses low cost 9Vbattery. Bimi nates unsightlycords and need tor "another" 

• AC outlet Optional plug-in transformer available. 

• Audio Transducer eliminates need to view LED to confirm connection — can 
be placed anywliere (veicro tape provided). 

• Advanced IC Circuitry eliminates confusion of who is originator — ends 
need to manually switch from Originate to Answer and Vice/Versa 

• Permits you to listen/ talk on phone or switch to data communications mode. 

• Permits you to communicate with most other computer networks. 

• Small size, light weight permits you to install the SIGNALMAN anywhere. 

• Lowest priced modem available. 



mssm $1 29.00 

Circle 318 on Inquiry card. 

RS232C SPECIFICATIONS 

Data Format: Serial, binary, asynchronous. Operate Mode: 
Manual dial. Automatic ANSW/ ORIG selection Data Rate: lo 
300 bps. full duplex. Modulation: Frequency shift keyed (FSK) 
Line Interface: Direcl Conecl Data Interface: RS232C. Cable 
to Computer Built-in. 

Transmit Frequency: ORIG ANSW 

MARK 1270 Hz 2225 Hz 

SPACE 1070 Hz 2025 Hz 

Transmit Frequency Accuracy: 1 % Transmit Level: - !2dbm 
Receive Frequency ORIG ANSW 

MARK 2225 Hz 1270 Hz 

SPACE 2025 Hz 1070 Hz 

Carrier Detect Threshold: -44 dbm, plus or minus 2 dbm 
(ORIG). / -46 dbm, plus or minus 2 dbm (ANSW). Canter Detect 
indicator Audible Tone. Power Requirement: Sell-Contained 
- 9V Transistor Battery' / 1 1 VAC Through Adapter' . Mech- 
anical: 8" x 4" x 1" 'Not Included 

BCANCMKl $129.00 



ORDERING INFORMATION 



ARD DISK FOR LESS THAN FLOPPIES 




DISCUS M5 by MORROW OE5IGN5 



PRIORITY 



ELECTRONICS 



3RRUW UESIBNS ^-| QQ |- nn 

INTRODUCTORY PRICE: * » & O ,UU 



PRIORITY 1 ELECTRONICS is pleased to an- 
nounce Morrow Designs' DISCUS M5, the lowest 
cost 5 megabyte Winchester sub-system and the 
fastest. Now you can afford a hard disk for the 
price of floppies. Morrow Designs is the largest 
supplier of hard disk sub-systems to the S-100 
market. With the new DMA Hard Disk Controller 
and the ST506 mini-Winchester drive, Morrow 
has attained speeds over 600,000 bytes per 
second. 

As with all Morrow Designs' systems, Morrow 
delivers it complete. Drive, controller, cabinet, 
power supply, fan, transformer, cables, CP/M 2.2" 
operating system, Microsoft'" Basic 80 and a 
ninety day warranty. 

The DISCUS M5 regularly sells for $2495.00. 
Priority 1 Electronics is proud to offerthe DISCUS 
M5 for a limited time at only $1 995.00. Winchest- 
er speed, 5Mb capacity and reliability for only 
$1 995.00. Three additional drives may be daisy- 
chained to the controller for future expansion. 
Perfect to back up each other at the end of each 
day. Takes seconds, is more reliable than tape 
and with the outside lock can be unplugged and 
removed (after the locking screw has been put in 
place.) 

A few facts about the ST506 drive which is being 
used in the Discus M5: 
Key Features 

• Storage Capacity of 6.38 megabytes unform- 
atted, 5.0 megabytes formatted as shipped 

• Winchester design reliability, 9.5 gram head 
load force, 19 micro-inch flying height 

• Same physical size and mounting as the mini- 
floppy 

• Same DC voltages as the minifloppy 

• Band actuator and stepper motor head 
positioning 

• 5.0 megabit/second transfer rate 

• Same track capacity as a double density 8 inch 

floppy 

• 1 70 millisecond random average access time, 
reduceable to 95 ms via a simple software 
algorithm 

This is the hard disk controller that the S-100 bus 

has been waiting for. Please allow us to introduce 

you! 

A few interesting facts 

• The only single S-1 00 DMA Hard disk control- 

ler board on the market today 

CPM is a registered Trademark of Digital Research. 



• Fully compatable with high speed 6MHz and 8 

MHz CPUs of today and tomorrow 

• DMA bus arbitration as outlined by the IEEE 
696 standard 

• Controls 1 to4soft sectored Winchesterdrives 

• Supports both 5V>" and 8" drives 

• ST506 or SA 1000 interface compatable 

• Variable sector length (256, 512, 1024, or 
2048 byte sectors) 

• Automatic CRC generation and checking 

• Addresses 1 to 16 heads 

• Addresses an infinite number of tracks 

• Contains its own on-board microprocessor 

• 24-bit address burst DMA transfers 

• Channel driven 

• All disk driver routines resident on the controller 

• Variable format 

• No buffering required 

• Maximum transfer rate 5,000,000 bits per 
second 

Pure Speed 

The speed of this Winchester controller is en- 
hanced by Morrow's channel driven concept. 
This DMA hard disk controller (DMAHDC) picks 
up its commands from the host processor via 
memory on the system bus. The host processor 
writes commands into memory and then picks 
them up during DMA cycles from this memory. 
The channel, commands and transfers may be 
located anywhere in the 24-bit address range. At 
the completion of the command, the controller 
returns appropriate status and can generate an 
interrupt. Commands may be chained together 
by the CPU to allow the controller to execute 
many commands in succession, generating an 
interrupt at the end of each command and/or at 
the end of the completed command chain. 
Communications 

An imbedded microprocessorenablesthe userto 
easily communicate with this intelligent device. 
All low level disk drive routines are resident on 
the controller itself. 
These include: 

format 

seek 

read a header 

read a sector Circle 318 on Inquiry card. 

write a sector 

return status 

set DMA address 

set channel address 



LIST PRICE: $2495.00 

Variable sector lengths are available. On Mor- 
row Designs system products 512 byte sector 
lengths are standard. This is being done to maxi- 
mize the capacities available on current drive 
units but may be varied by independent system 
integrators when desired. 

The DMAHDC has been designed for expansion. 
One to four drives can be attached directly and 
controlled. One to sixteen drive heads may be 
addressed. Any number of tracks may be speci- 
fied during the seek routine by specifying one to 
two hundred and fity-six tracks one or more times. 
Each of the expansion abilities prepare the user 
to upgrade his system as technology advances to 
additional platters and tracks. 

The controller has no peer today in the S-1 00 bus 
market. 



Systems interfaced: 

1. North Star 

2. Cromemco 

3. Vector Graphics 

4. Dynabyte 

5. Micromation 



6. Exidy 

7. Imsai 

8. Sol 

9. California Computer 

10. Godbout 

11. Ithaca Intersystem 



Look to Morrow for answers! 

Look to PRIORITY 1 for the best price! 

Priority 1 Electronics, as the world's largest 
stocking distributor of Morrow Designs' products 
committed to buy an entire production run of 
DISCUS M5 sub-systems so we can offer them at 
a special introductory low price. The DISCUS M5 
is a good buy at the list price of $2495.00. The 
DISCUS M5 is an excellent value at our intro- 
ductory low price of: 

$1995.00 

ORDER PART NO. BCMDSDMAM5 




ELECTRONICS 



ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 

£ OS 03 



Include $10.00 tor UPS Ground Shipping "■■«« 
Sale prices are for prepaid orders only. Orders on open 
account will be accepted at $2250.00 each. 



ORDERING INFORMATION 






COMPARE HITACHI SCOPES TO ANY OTHER 



100 MHz Scope $1595.00 
50 MHz Scope $1250.00 

. . . and we're not joking! 
— HITACHI 




No one can match the features or performance at our 

MARKET-SHATTERING PRICES! 

Buy with confidence from the nation's largest Hitachi distributor. 
BCHITV1050 100 MHz, List $2375.00 BCHITV352 35 MHz, List $1150.00 



Sale $1595.00 

BCHITV550B 50 MHz, List $1745.00 

Sale $1250.00 



> X-Y Operation Convenient lor 
observation of two types of waves 

> Delayed sweep permits 1,000 x 
magnification 

> Variable Hold-off circuitry 
facilitates pulse measurement 

> Single Sweep capability 

» 10 x sweep magnification facili- 
tates precision measurement 

> Delayed sweep jitter held 
below 1/20,000 

• 2 probes and cover included 
' 2 year warranty 



6" Square CRT with internal 
graticule (illuminated scale) 
High-accuracy voltage axis and 
time axis set at ±3% (certified at 
10~ to 34^ C) 
High-sensitivity 1mV/div. 
Low drift 
2 Year Warranty 



Dynamic range 8 div. 

TV sync-separator circuit 

Built-in signal delay line (V-352) 

X-Y operation 

Sweep-time magnifier (10 times) 

Trace rotation system 

Fine-adjusting, click-positioning 

function 

2 probes included 



• 6" square CRT with internal 
graticule (illuminated scale) 

• High sensitivity; ImV/div. 
(10 MHz) VSSOB 

• High sensitivity; .bmv/div. 
(10 MHz) V1050 

• Automatic focus eliminates lag 

• Trace rotation for easily adjusting 
brightline inclination caused by 
terrestial magnetism 

• Third Channel Display (Trigger 
View) V550B 

• Fourth Channel Display (Trigger 
View) V1050 

Until now, if you wanted a50MHz or 100MHz dual trace oscilloscope of un- 
compromising quality, there was only one choice. Now there is a second... out- 
standing new delay sweep with an established name — the Hitachi V550B and 
the V1 050. 

The HITACHI V550B (50MHz) and V1050 (100MHz) offer all the J i 

capabilities you might demand from a lab grade oscilloscope. Cap- r^ J 

abilities such as a max. sweep rate of 2ns/div(V1 050) 5ns/div V550B). 1 / 

Also features you may not expect, like sensitivity of 1 mv/div (V550B) | / 

.5mv/div(V1050) @ 10MHz,automaticfocuscorrection,andabuilt-in / I 

TV sync separator circuit. / I 

The cost? Remarkably reasonable, expecially when you ^} L considering measuring processes and operation frequency. The layout 

i3u e I! '? t ' he othe ; , leadincj l omzo < PRIORITY [_ONE_J ELECTRONICS 

100MHz Dual trace oscilloscopes. Its a price 

breakthrough made possible by using up-to- 9161 Deering Ave<>, ChatSWOrth,CA 91311 

date production techniques and a design 

backed up by over 20 years of flgh ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 

oscilloscope experience. l||p«K CA, AK, HI CALL (21 3) 709-5464 



Sale $795.00 

BCHITV202 20 MHz, List $850.00 

Sale $595.00 



HITACHI Oscilloscopes are innovative oscilloscopes designed and manu- 
factured by Hitachi Denshi Ltd. The wide experience gained by HITACHI 
electronic specialists in producing oscilloscopes has resulted in this line of 
modern oscilloscopes featuring wider band width, more compact design and 
light weight. Through adopting circuitry with linear IC's and logic IC's 
plus modern manufacturing techniques, including automatic com- 
ponent-insertion machines. These oscilloscopes offer increased stabil- 
ity, improved reliability, excellent performance and enhanced operating 
ease. 

The panel layout is designed to create maximum operating ease by 
es and operation frequency. The layout 
is divided into three blocks according to 
respective functions identified by dif- 
ferent colors. This convenience-orient- 
ed design for users improves daily 
controllability and drastically reduces 
^H operating errors. 

TERMS U.S.: VISA, MC. BAC, Check. Money Order. U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6% Sales Tax. INCLU0E SIS. 00 FOR EACH OSCILLOSCOPE lor UPS Surface Snipping and Handling. Jusl in case, include your phone number. Prices 
subject to change without notice. We will do our best to maintain these prices through March, 1982. For complete specifications, see our 60 page catalog in the November issue of BYTE or send St 00 for your copy today Sale Prices are lor 
prepaid orders only. 



HITACHI — THE MEASURE OF QUALITY 



Circle 319 on Inquiry c 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 



GSC 



PROTECT YOUR INVESTMENT 
PROTECT YOUR DATA WITH 



•"^fcvj 



a a 



^"^ ISOBAR 

With Built-in Noise Filters and 
Surge Suppressors 



55)* *m 







ISOLATES SENSITIVE AND VALUABLE EQUIPMENT FROM: 

Equipment interaction - Damaging High Voltage Spikes -AC 
line noise and hash. 

PROTECTS AGAINST: Voltage transients caused by light- 
rung, contact swilching. turn-ofl ol inductive components, 
noise due to electromagnetic coupling. 
USE THE GSC ISOBAR TO ISOLATE: Microprocessor from 
peripherals - Lab instruments from noisy equipment - Sensi- 
tive pre-amp or tape deck from power amplifier. 
THE GSC ISOBAR ELIMINATES: Equipment interaction - 
Equipment damage from power line spikes and surges - 
Errors - False prinlouts - Disk Skips - Audio or video hash. 
FEATURES: Inuctive isolated ground - Sockets individually 
filler isolaled - Circuil breaker protected at 15A 
VOLTAGE TRANSIENT SPIKE PROTECTION: 2000 A peak for 
up lo 6 Sec duration spikes. 1000A. 8/20 Sec protection 
from repealed spikes. 

LOAD HANDLING: 1875 W max. total load: 15A per socket. 
INPUT: 125 VAC. 15 amps; standard 3-prong plug. 

Three common outlets built-in circuit breaker, pilot light, 
hang-up bracket and a 6 foot cord. 

LIST PRICE OUR PRICE 
BCGOFIBAR3 SH. WT. 3 lbs. S59.95 $39.95 

D3AR 46 • Fcur independently isolated outlets. Built-in 15A 
circuit breaker, pilol light, switch, and 6 foot cord. 
BCGOFIBAR46 SH WT. 4 lbs. S79.95 $49.95 

IBAR 86 • 8 outlets, grouped lo form 4 independently isolaled 
sets of two Built in 1 5A circuit breaker, on/oil switch, pilot light. 
BCGOFTBAR86 SH. WT. 5 lbs. S84.95 $54.95 

IBAR 9RM - Eight rear-mounled outlets grouped to form lour 
independently isolated sets of two. plus one non-isolated con- 
venience ouNet on front face. 1 9" rack mount cabinet. Built in 
15A circuit breaker, pilol light, on/ott switch, and 6 foot cord. 
BCGOFTBAR9RM SH. WT 6 lbs. S99.95 $74.95 

RS232 Breakout Box 




. : :3 Sl-lij I 




A must for every technician, repair man 
or systems integrator 

The Breakout Box contains 24 Dua'1-In-Une Switches which 
allow any ot the inlerface signals (except Pin 1. which is not 
used) to be interrupted. The switches are located in the center 

01 Ihe main control panel. A 25 way female connector for 
connecting the box to the DTE is fitted to the left hand side via a 
ribbon cable and a 25 way male connector for connection to 
the DCE is similarly connected to the right hand side. 

DTE and DCE interface connection pins are located on both 
sides of the Dual-In-Line switches. Using the jumpers supplied, 
these pins permit monitoring ot any of the interface lines with 
either or both Ihe positive and negative test indicators on Ihe 
front panel. These pins also permit cross-patching or the 
connection of an external test meter or oscilloscope. 

The Breakout Box contains indicators which monitor the 
following signals: 
Pin Function 

2 Transmitted Data 

3 Received Data 

4 Request to Send 

5 Ready for Sending (clear to send) 

6 Data Set Ready 

8 Data Channel Received Line Signal Detector 

15 Transmitter Signal Element Timing 

17 Receiver Signal Element Timing 

20 Connect Data Set to Line/Data Terminal Ready 

21 Signal Quality 

22 Ring Indicator 
25 Busy 

Dalabox is contained in a lough plastic case and is powered 
by two, 1 5 volt penlight batteries. No power is consumed by 
Ihe lesler when not in use. Dimensions: 2.9" x 5.55" x 1.45". 
Weight 10 ounces, with batteries. 
BCDNW232BOX S 199.00 $ 159.00 

GLOBAL 

SPECIALTIES 

LOGIC PROBES 

SPECIFICATIONS 




Shipping Wt. 2 lbs 



Response 



LP1 



50 ns 80 ns 
-.ingle shot 
event. 10MHz 
pulse train 



300 ns; 1.5MHz 
pulse train 



LP3 



6 ns typical, 
tested at 10 ns. 
70MHz pulse 
train 



Pulse Mode] 



High Speed Train or Single Even! 



Description 



List Price Our Price 



BC056SCIP1 


standard 10MHz w/Memory 


S5O.0O 


$45.00 


BCObeSClP? 


Economy 1 £ jMHz 


S32.00 


$30.00 


KMttOH 


High Spesd r/)MHz w/Memory 


S77.0O 


$69.00 


BC6SC0PI 


High speed Digital hilser 
1 00 PPS or single-shot 


S83.00 


$76.00 


BCBSCLTCI 


l.i'l.DPI andl.MI in 
molded case 


S240.00 


$220.00 


BCGSCL7C2 


LP3, DPI and I.MI in 
molded case 


S27000 


$245.00 



MICROCOMPUTER PRODUCTS 



MEMORY 



8080 SERIES 



PAKTNO. 



PRICE PART NO. 



PRICE 



BC4116AC20 

BC2016P3 

BC2114N3L 

BC5257N3L 

BC2732 

BC2716 

BC2708 



8/$20.00 

8/S72.00 
8/528.00 
8/S50.00 
8/S120.00 
8/$S0.00 
8/$20.00 



Z80 SERIES 


BCZ80A 


$14.95 


BCZ80AP10 


$14.95 


BCZ80ACTC 


$13.95 


BCZ80ADMA 


$45.00 


BCZ80AS100 


$59.95 


BCZ80AS101 


$59.95 


BCZ80AS102 


$59.95 


UARTS 




BCAY51013A 


$5.95 


BCTR1602B 


$5.95 


BCTR1863 


$6.95 


BCIM6402 


$7.95 



BCINS 8080A $5.50 

BCINS 8085A $19.95 

BCDP8212N $2.95 

BCDP8214N $5.25 

BCDP8216M $2.95 

BCDP8224M $3.25 

BCDP8224-4N $9.95 

BCDP8226N $3.50 

BCDP8228N $5.55 

BCDP8238N $5.55 

BCINS8250N $15.00 

BCINS8251N $7.50 

BCINS8253N $17.95 

BCIN58255N $6.80 

BCINS8257N $16.45 

BCINS8259N $18.00 

BCINS8275N $59.95 

BCINS8279N $49.95 

FLOPPY DISC 
CONTROLLER 

BCFD1771B-01 $24.95 

BCFD1791B-01 $44.95 




KEITH LEY 



Handheld DMMs For Every 
Application and Budget 

Easy-to-use Rotary Switches 

Large 0.6" LCD displays 

dc Voltage 

ac Voltage 

dc Current 

ac Currenl 

Resistance 

Diode Test 

3 l /2 or 4 l /2 Digit Accuracy 

Overload Protection 

Externally Accessable Ballery & Fuse 

Rugged 0.1" ABS Plastic Case 

Shock-Mounted PC Board 

BCKTH130 ±0.5% DCV accuracy. 10M ft input $124.00 
impedence aulo polarity and current 
measurement through 10A 

BCKTH131 Same as BCKTH 130 excepl 0.25% ac- $139.00 
curacy and enhanced band with on 
lop ACV ranges 

BCKTH128 See/hear display includes both over/ $139.00 
under threshold indicator arrows, aud- 
ible lone that operales on all ranges & 
functions, and adjustable threshold 

BCKTH135 4 1 /; digit. 005% accuracy $235.00 

BCKTH870 Thermocoup!e(TC)basedlhemomeler $199.00 

BCKTH1304Soft Carrying Case & Standfhandheids) $ 10.00 

BCKTH13060e!uxe Carrying Case (handhelds) $ 25.00 

LCD & LED Bench DMMs 

BCKTH169 3V 2 Digit, LCD Display $189.00 

BCKTH176 4M Digit. LCD Display $269.00 

BCKTH179A 4 'A Digil, LED Dispay, TRMS $359.00 

BCKTH1793 1EEE-488 Interface(Model 179-20A) $325.00 
See pp 42-43 ot our Engineering Selection Guide in the 
November BYTE for a complete list ol specifications and 
accessories. 

SPECIAL PURCHASE 

GOLD 

16 PIN LOW PROFILE IC. 

C95 SOCKETS 



b ■- -i i r 

i t 

S 1 



BCTIG16LP pkg ol 100 $ 16.00 

BCTIG1 6LP pkg of 1000 $ 120.00 

OEMS Stock up at this LOW PRICE! 



ZERO INSERTION 
FORCE TEST SOCKETS 




1-9 10-24 

BCZIP16DIP $ 5.50 $5.35 

BCZIP24 DIP $ 7.50 $7.25 

BCZIP40 DIP $10.25 $9.85 




PRIORITY 



D-SUBIYIINIATURE CONNECTORS 



.*.««"" 




INSULATION DISPLACEMENT TYPE 

P = Plug. Male Type • S = Socket, Female Type - C = Cover Hood 



war ho. 



NO. OF 
PINS 



25-99 



100-249 



BCI0CDE9P 

BCIDC0E9S 

BCI0CDE9C 

BCIDCDAI5P 

BCIDCDA15S 

BCIDCDAI5C 

BCIDCDB25P 

BCIDCDB25S 

BCIDCDB25C 

BC1DCDC37P 

BCI0CBC37S 

BGI0COC37C 



9 


4.20 


4.00 


3.60 


320 


9 


4.50 


4.20 


3.60 


3.40 


9 


1.25 


1.10 


1.00 


.95 


15 


4.35 


4.20 


3.75 


3.40 


15 


5.00 


4.65 


4.35 


3.90 


15 


1.40 


1.25 


1.10 


.95 


25 


0.25 


6.00 


5.20 


4.70 


25 


6.60 


6.35 


5.60 


5.00 


25 


1.60 


1.50 


1.35 


1.20 


37 


6.60 


6.00 


7.20 


6.40 


37 


11.00 


10.25 


9.20 


8.20 


37 


2.25 


2.20 


1.60 


1.60 



SOLDER TYPE 



PRICE 

-US 10-24 25-99 



BCCN0DE9P 


9 Pin Male 


$2.10 $1.90 


$1.70 


BCCNBDE9S 


9 Pin Female 


$2.70 $2.40 


$2.10 


BCCNO0E9C 


9 Pin Cover 


$1.50 $1.25 


$1.10 


BCCNDDA15P 


15 Pin Male 


$2.75 $2.45 


$2.15 


BCCND0A15S 


15 Pin Female 


$3.95 $3.60 


$3.20 


BCCNDBA15C 


15 Pin Cover 


$1.50 $1.30 


$1.10 


BCCND0B25P 


25 Pin Male 


$3.00 $2.75 


$2.25 


+BCCNDDB25P 100 pes 


at $1.95 ea * 


BCCN0DB25S 


25 Pin Female 


$4.00 $3.75 


$3.00 


• BCCNDDB25S 1 00 pes at $2.95 ea • 


BCCN0DB51226 


2 Pc. Black Hood 


$1.90 SI. 65 


$1.45 


BCCNDDB512I2 


1 Pc. Grey Hood 


$1.60 $1.45 


$1.30 


BCCN0P25H 


2 Pc. Grey Hood 


$1.50 $1.25 


$1.10 


BCCNDDC37P 


37 Pin Male 


$5.80 $5.10 


$4.45 


BCCN0OC37S 


37 Pin Female 


$8.70 $7.70 


$6.70 


BCCND0C37C 


37 Pin Cover 


$1.60 $1.55 


$1.30 


BCCN0BD5OP 


50 Pin Male 


$8.75 $7.75 


$6.70 


BCCNDDD50S 


50 Pin Female 


$11.65 $10.25 


$6.90 


BCCND0D50C 


50 Pin Cover 


$2.00 $1.80 


$1.60 


BCCNDD204I8 


Hardware Set 2 Pr. 
RS232, DB25P, EIA 


$1.00 $ .60 


$ .70 


BCCN0RS2328F 


Class 1 Cable 8 Con 8 Fi$l9.95 $17.95 


$15.95 


BCCNB5730360 


Cenl. 700 Series/Epson 
Primer Conn. 


$9.00 $7.50 


$6.00 


BCIDC5730360 


IDC Version of Above 


$9.95 $9.00 


$6.00 




IHE STAR 
MODEM 
from 
PRENTICE 

FEATURE 

FITS GTE HANDSETS 

1 YEAR WARRANTY 

EXCLUSIVE ACOUSTIC CHAMBERS: 

The exclusive triple seal of Prentice's new flal mounted cups 
locks the handsel into the acoustic chamber yielding superior 
acoustic isolation and mechanical cushioning Designed to 
adapt to most common handsets used throughout the world 

self test; 

The self test learure on the STAR allows the user to verify total op- 
eralion of the acoustic modem by using the terminal in the lull 
duplex mode No need tor remote assistance in diagnosing 
terminal or modem problems 

SPECIFICATIONS: 

• Data Hate: to 300 baud 

• CompatabUltviBell 103 and 1 13: COTT 

• Frequency StabUlty:±0.3 percent. Crystal controlled 

• Receiver SensltlvltY: 50 dBm ON -53 dBm OFF 

• Modulatlon:Frecruency shift keyed (FSK) 

• Carrier Detect Delay: 1 2 seconds ON: 1 20 sec OFF 

• EIA Terminal InterfaceiCompatable with RS232 specs 

• Teletype lnterfa ce:20 mUliampere current loop 

• International (CcrTT) frequencies available. 

• Swttchei:Originate/Off/Answer:FuU duplex/Test/-Hail Duplex 

• Indlcators:Transmit Data. Receive Data. Carrier Ready. Test 
PART NO. DESCRIPTION LIST PRICE SALE PRICE 
BCPRNSTAB RS232. TTL 200 Ma S19900 C190nn 

Currenl Loop »1^Y.UU 

ELECTRONICS S '«j || ^ 



9161-B DEERING AVE • CHATSWORTH, CA 9131 1 
ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 CA, AK, HI CALL (2 1 3) 709-5464 

Terms U S VISA. MC. BAC, Check. Money Order. US Funds Only CA residents add 6% Sales Tax. MINIMUM PREPAID ORDER S 15.00. 
Include MINIMUM SHIPPING & HANDLING of S2 50 (or the first 3 lbs. plus 25c lor each additional pound Orders over 50 lbs. sent 
freight collect Just in case, please include your phone no. Prices subject to change without notice We will do our best to maintain 
prices through March. 1 982 Credit Card orders will be charged appropriate freight. See November BYTE tor 60 page Catalog or 
send S 1 00 for your copy today Sale prices are for prepaid orders only. 



wm 



Circle 319 on Inquiry card. 



Sunnyvale 



Printers 



Computer 
Products 

Woodland Hills • Hawthorne • San Diego 



Accessories for Apple | Single Board Computer 




BETTER THAN EPSON ! - Okidata 

Microline 82A 80/132 column, 120 CPS, 9 x 9 dot 

matrix, friction feed, pin feed, adjustable tractor feed 
(removable), bandies 4 part forms up to 9.5" wide, rear & 
bottom feed, paper tear bar, 100% duty cycle/ '200, 000, 000 
character print head, bi-directional/ logic seeking, both 
serial & parallel interfaces included, front panel switch & 
program control of 10 different form lengths, uses 
inexpensive spool type ribbons, double width & condensed 
characters, true lower case descenders & graphics 
PRM-43082 with FREE tractor .... $544.95 

Microline 83A 132/232 column. 120 CPS, handles 
forms up to 15" wide, plus all the features of the 82A. 
PRM-43083 with FREE tractor .... $774.95 

Microline 84 132/232 column, 200 CPS, full dot 
graphics built in. handles forms up to 15" wide, plus all the 
features of the S3A. 
PRM-43083 with FREE tractor ... $1249.95 

PRA-27081 Apple card $39.95 

PRA-27082 Apple cable $19.95 

PRA-27087 TRS-80 cable $24.95 

PRA-43081 Hi speed 2 K serial board $169.95 
PRA -43080 Extra ribbons pkg. of 2 ... $9.95 

INEXPENSIVE PRINTERS - Epson 

MX-70 HO column. 80 CPS, 5 x 7 dot matrix, adjustable 

tractor feed, & graphics 

PRM-27070 List $459 $399.95 

MX-80 80 column. 80 CPS, bidirectional /Ionic seeking 
printing, 9 x 9 dot matrix, adjustable tractor feed, & 6<l 
graphics characters 
PRM-27080 List $645 $469.95 

MX-80FT same as MX-80 with friction feed added. 
PRM-27082 List $745 $559.95 

MX-100 132 column, correspondence quality, graphics, 
up to 15" paper, friction feed & adjustable tractor feed, 9x9 
dot matrix. 80 CPS. 
PRM-27100 List $945 $759.95 

PRA-27084 Serial interface $69.95 

PRA-27088 Serial intf & 2K buffer . . $144.95 

PRA-27081 Apple card $74.95 

PRA-27082 Apple cable $22.95 

PRA-27086 IEEE 488 card $52.95 

PRA-27087 TRS-80 cable $32.95 

PRA-27085 Graftrax II $95.00 

PRA-27083 Extra ribbon $14.95 



Modems 



SMARTMODEM - Hayes 

Sophisticated direct-connect auto-answer /auto-dial modem, 
touch-tone or pulse dialing, RS-232C interface, programmable 

IOM-5400A Smartmodem $249.95 

IOK-1500A Hayes Chronograph ... $199.95 

CAT MODEMS - Novation 

CAT 300 baud, acoustic, answer/ orginate 
IOM-5200A List $189.95 $149.95 

D-CAT 300 baud direct connect, answer /orginate 
IOM-5201A List $199.95 $169.95 

AUTO-CAT Auto answer orginate. direct connect 
IOM-5230A List $299.95 $239.95 

Apple-CAT - Novation 

Software selectable 1200 or 300 baud, direct connect, auto- 
answer autodial, auxiliary 3-icire RS232C serial port for 
printer. 
IOM-5232A Save $50.00!!! $325.00 



16K MEMORY UPGRADE 

Add 16K of RAM to your TRS-80, Apple, or Exidy in just 
minutes. We've sold thousands of these 16K RAM 
upgrades which include the appropriate memory chips fas 
specified by the manufacturer), all necessary jumper 
blocks, fool-proof instructions, and our 1 year guarantee. 

MEX-16100K TRS-80 kit $25.00 

MEX-16101K Apple kit $25.00 

MEX-16102K Exidy kit $25.00 

16K RAM CARD - for Apple II 

Expand your Apple to 64K, 1 year warranty 
MEX-16500A Save $70.00 !!! $129.95 



Z-80* CARD for APPLE 

Two computers in one, Z-80 & 0502, more than doubles the 
power & potential of your Apple, includes Z-80* CPU card, 
CP/M 2.2, & BASIC-80 
CPX-30800A A&T $299.95 



8" DISK CONTROLLER 

New from Vista Computer, single or double sided, single or 
double density, compatible with DOS 3.2/3.3. Pascal, & CPM 
2.2, Shugart & Qumc compatible 
IOD-2700A A&T $499.95 

2 MEGABYTES for Apple II 

Complete package includes: Two H" double-density disk 

drives, Vista double-density 8" disk controller, cabinet, power 

supply. & cables. DOS 3.2/3.3, CP/M 2.2, & Pascal 

compatible. 

1 MegaByte Package (Kit) $1495.00 

1 MegaByte Package (A&T) $1695.00 

2 MegaByte Package (Kit) $1795.00 

2 MegaByte Package (A & T) .... $1995.00 

DISK DRIVES - Micro Sci 

Inexpensive disk drives for your Apple 
A2 Direct replacement for Apple Disk II, works with 
Apple IS controller as first or second drive. 
MSM-123101 Micro Sci A2 $429.95 

A40 10 track drive for Apple II. Improved storage 
capacity and speed over Apple Brand drives - requires 
Micro Sci controller. 
IOD-2340A Micro Sci A40 $399.95 

A70 70 track drive for Apple II. Twice the storage 
capacity and three times faster than Apple Brand drives - 
requires Micro Sci controller 
1OD-2370A Micro Sci A70 $499.95 

Micro Sci Controller Disk controller for up to two 
Micro Sci A40 or A70 disk drives, DOS 3.2, 3,3, Pascal, and 
Z-80 Soft-Card compatible, includes utility disk and 40 70 
track patch. 
IOD-2300A Micro Sci controller $95.00 



VISION 80 - Vista Computer 

HO column x 24 line video card for Apple II, 128 ASCII 
characters, upper and lower case, 9 x 10 dot matrix with 8 dot 
descenders, standard data media terminal control codes. 
CP/M Pascal & Fortran compatible, 50/60 Hz 
IOV-2400A Vista Vision 80 $375.00 

AIO, ASIO, APIO - S.S.M. 

Parallel & serial interface for your Apple (see Byte pg I IJ 

IOI-2050K Par&Serkit $139.95 

IOI-2050A Par&SerA&T $169.95 

IOI-2052K Serial kit $89.95 

IOI-2052A Serial A&T $99.95 

IOI-2054K Parallel kit $69.95 

IOI-2054A Parallel A&T $89.95 

CPS MULTICARD - Mtn. Computer 

Three cards in one! Real time clock calendar, serial interface. 
& parallel interface - all on one card. 

IOX-2300AA&T $199.95 

Circle 200 on Inquiry card. 



Z-80 STARTER KIT - SD Systems 

Complete Z-80 microcomputer with RAM. RUM. 1 O. 
keyboard, display, kludge area, manual, & workbook 

CPS-30100K KIT $299.95 

CPS-30100A A&T $469.95 

SYM-1 - Synertek Systems 

Single hoard computer with IK of RAM. 4Kof ROM. key-pad. 
LED display. 20ma & cassette interface on board. 
CPK-50020A A&T $249.95 

VIC 20 - Commodore 

Complete personal computer with SK RAM, full color. 61 key 
keyboard, 4 dual special-function keys, serial ports, cassette 
port, composite video output (connects to standard color TV 
set!, BASIC language. & expansion port. 
COM-VIC20 VIC-20 Under $300.00 

PERSONAL COMPUTERS 

Also available from Jade ■ Call for Price and Info 

AIM-65, Altos, Apple II, Atari, 

Commodore, California Computer Sys 

Hewlett-Packard, Intersystems 

Jade, NEC, Novell, SD Systems 

SYM-1, Xerox, and more... 



Video Monitors 



HI-RES 12" GREEN - Zenith 

IS MHz bandwidth, 700 lines/inch, P31 green phosphor, 
switchable 40 or 80 columns, small, light-weight & portable. 
VDM-201201 List price $150.00 .... $118.95 

12" GREEN SCREEN - NEC 

20 MHz, P31 phosphor video monitor with audio, 
exceptionally high resolution - A fantastic monitor at a 
very reasonable price 

VDM-651200 Special Sale Price $199.95 

12" COLOR MONITOR - NEC 

Hi-res monitor with audio & sculptured case 
VDC-651212 Color Monitor $479.95 

NEC-1202D RGB color monitor ... $1045.00 



Leedex / Amdek 

Reasonably priced video monitors 

VDM-801210 Video 100 12" B&W . . $139.95 

VDM-801230 Video 100-80 12" B&W $179.95 

VDM-801250 12" Green Phospor .... $169.95 

VDC-801310 13" Color I $379.95 

VDC-801320 Color II $895.00 

IOV-2300A DVM board for Apple . . $199.95 



Video Terminals 



TELEVIDEO 910 

Full featured • inexpensive terminal 
VDT-901210 List 795.0(1 $695.00 

TELEVIDEO 950 
VUT-901250 List $1195.00 $995.00 

AMBER SCREEN - Volker Craig 

Detachable keyboard, amber on black display. 7 X 9 dot 
matrix, 10 program function keys. 1-1 key numeric pad. 12" 
non-glare screen, 50 to 19,200 baud, direct cursor control, 
auxiliary bi directional serial port 
VDT-351200 List $795.00 $645.00 

VIEWPIONT - ADDS 

Detachable keyboard, serial RS2.'i2( , interface, baud rates 
from I HI to 19.200. auxiliary serial output port. 21 x SO display, 
VDT-501210 Sale Priced $639.95 

DIALOGUE 80 - Ampex 

VDT-230080 List $1 195.00 $895.00 




y 



Computer 
Products 



FREE 1982 CATALOG 



Just circle our reader service number on the 
information request card located near the index. 



S-100 CPU Boards S-100 RAM Boards 



Disk Drives 



THE BIG Z* - Jade 

2 or 4 MHz switchable Z-80' CPU with serial I/O, 
accomodates 2708, 2716, or 2732 EPROM, baud rates from 
75 to 9600 

CPU-30201K Kit $139.95 

CPU-30201A A&T $189.95 

CPU-30200B Bare board $35.00 



2810 Z-80* CPU - Cal Comp Sys 

3 I MHz Z-80 A * CPU with RS-232C serial I/O port andon 
hoard MOSS 2.2 monitor PROM, front panel compatible 
CPU-30400A A&T $269.95 

CB-2 Z-80 CPU - S.S.M. 

2 or 4 MHz Z-80 CPU board with provision for up to 8Kof 
ROM or 4K of RAM on hoard, extended addressing, IEEE 
S-100) front panel compatible. 

CPU-30300K Kit $239.95 

CPU-30300A A&T $299.95 



S-100 PROM Boards 



PROM-100 - SD Systems 

2708. 2716. 2732 EPROM programmer w/software 

MEM-99520K Kit $189.95 

MEM-99520A A&T $249.95 

PB-1 - S.S.M. 

2708. 2716 EPROM board with built-in programmer 

MEM-99510K Kit $154.95 

MEM-99510A A&T $219.95 

EPROM BOARD - Jade 

16K or 32K uses 2708's or 2716's, IK boundary 

MEM-16230K Kit $79.95 

MEM-16230A A&T $119.95 



S-100 Video Boards 



VB-3 - S.S.M. 

80 characters x 24 lines expanda ble to 80 x 48 for a full page 
of text, upper & lower case, 256 user defined symbols, 160 x 
192 graphics matrix, memory mapped, has key board 
input. 

IOV-1095K 4 MHz kit $349.95 

IOV-1095A 4 MHz A&T $439.95 

IOV-1096K 80 x 48 upgrade $39.95 

VDB-8024 - SD Systems 

80 x 24 I/O mapped video hoard with keyboard I/O. and 
onboard Z-80 A*. 

IOV-1020A A&T $459.95 

VIDEO BOARD - S.S.M. 

64 characters x 16 lines. 128 x 48 matrix for graphics, full 
upper lower case ASCII character set. numbers, symbols, 
and greek letters, normal/reverse/ blinking video, S-100. 

1OV-1051K Kit $149.95 

IOV-1051A A&T $219.95 

IOV-1051B Bare board $34.95 



S-100 Motherboards 



ISO-BUS - Jade 

Silent, simple, and on sale ■ a better motherboard 
6 Slot (5W X 8W) 

MBS-061B Bare board $19.95 

MBS-061K Kit $39.95 

MBS-061A A&T $49.95 

12 Slot (9W x 8W) 

MBS-121B Bare board $29.95 

MBS-121K Kit $69.95 

MBS-121A A&T $89.95 

18 Slot (14'/j" x 8%") 

MBS-181B Bare board $49.95 

MBS-181K Kit $99.95 

MBS-181A A&T $139.95 



MEMORY BANK - Jade 

4 MHz. S-100. bank selectable, expandable from 16Kto 64 K 

MEM-99730B Bare Board $49.95 

MEM-99730K Kit no RAM $199.95 

MEM-32731K 32K Kit $239.95 

MEM-64733K 64K Kit $279.95 

Assembled & Tested add $50.00 

64K RAM - Calif Computer Sys 

4 MHz bank port / bank byte selectable, extended 
addressing. 16K bank selectable. PHANTOM line allows 
memory overlay. 8080 / Z-80 / front panel compatible. 
MEM-64565A A&T $575.00 

64K STATIC RAM - Mem Merchant 

64K static S-100 RAM card. 4-16K banks, up to 8MHz 
MEM-64400A A&T $789.95 

32K STATIC RAM - Jade 

2 or 4 MHz expandable static RAM board uses 2114L's 

MEM-16151K 16K4MHzkit $169.95 

MEM-32151K 32K 4 MHz kit $299.95 

Assembled & tested add $50.00 

16K STATIC RAM - Mem Merchant 

4 MHz 16K static RAM board. IEEE S-100. bank selectable. 
Phantom capability, addressable in 4K blocks, "disable-able" 
in 1 K segments, extended addressing, low power 
MEM-16171A A&T $164.95 



S-100 Disk Controllers 



DOUBLED - Jade 

Double density controller with the inside track, on- board Z- 
80A*. printer port, IEEE S-100, can function on an 
interrupt driven buss 

IOD-1200K Kit $299.95 

IOD-1200A A&T $375.00 

IOD-1200B Bare board $59.95 

DOUBLE DENSITY - Cal Comp Sys 

5'A" and 8" disk controller, single or double density, with 
on-hoard boot loader ROM. and free CP/M 2.2* and 
manual set. 
IOD-1300A A&T $374.95 



S-100 I/O Boards 



S.P.I.C. - Jade 

Our new I O card with 2 SIO's, 4 CTCs. and I PIO 
IOI-1045K 2 CTCs, 1 SIO, I PIO . . $179.95 

IOI-1045A A&T $239.95 

IOI-1046K 4 CTCs, 2 SIO's, 1 PIO $219.95 

IOI-1046A A&T $299.95 

IOI-1045B Bare board w/ manual ...$49.95 

1/0-4 - S.S.M. 

2 serial I/O ports plus 2 parallel I/O parts 

IOI-1010K Kit $179.95 

IOI-1010A A&T $249.95 

IOI-1010B Bare board $35.00 



S-100 Mainframes 



MAINFRAME - Cal Comp Sys 

12 slot S-100 mainframe with 20 amp power supply 

ENC-1 12105 Kit $329.95 

ENC-112106 A & f $399.95 

EPROM ERASER - Spectronics 

Ultra-violet EPROM erasers 

XME-3100A With out timer $69.50 

XME-3101 With timer $94.50 

XME-3200 Economy Model $39.95 

Circle 200 on inquiry card. 




Handsome metal cabinet with proportionally 
balanced air flow system • Rugged dual drive 
power supply • Power cable kit • Power switch, 
line cord, fuse holder, cooling fan • Never-Mar 
rubber feet • All necessary hardware to mount 2- 
8" disk drives, power supply, and fan • Does not 
include signal cable 

Dual 8" Subassembly Cabinet 

END-000420 Bare cabinet $59.95 

END-000421 Cabinet kit $225.00 

END-000431 A&T $359.95 

8" Disk Drive Subsystems 
Single Sided, Double Density 
END-000423 Kit w/2 FD100-8Ds . $924.95 
END-000424 A & T w/2 FD100-8Ds $1124.95 
END-000433 Kit w/2 SA-801Rs . . . $999.95 
END-000434 A & T w/2 SASOlRs $1195.00 

8" Disk Drive Subsystems 
Double Sided, Double Density 

END-000426 Kit w/2 DT-8s $1224.95 

END-000427 A & T w/2 DT-8s . . . $1424.95 
END-000436 Kit w/2 SA-851Rs .. $1295.00 
END-000437 A & T w/2 SASSlRs $1495.00 



5W Disk Drives 

Shugart SA400L sngl-sided dbl-density 40 track 
MSM- 104000 .. $234.95 ea 2 for $224.95 ea 

Shugart SA450 dbl-sided dbl-density 70 track 
MSM-104500 . . $349.95 ea 2 for $329.95 ea 

Qume DT-5 dbl-sided dbl-density 80 track 
MSM-750050 . . $359.95 ea 2 for $349.95 ea 

MP1 B-Sl sngl-sided dbl-density 40 track 
MSM-155100 , . $234.95 ea 2 for $224.95 ea 

MPl B-S2 dbl-sided dbl-density 40 track 
MSM-155200 ,. $344.95 ea 2 for $334.95 ea 

MPI B-91 sngl-sided dbl-density 77 track 
MSM- 155300 .. $369.95 ea 2 for $359.95 ea 

MPI B-92 dbl-sided dbl-density 77 track 
MSM-155400 .. $469.95 ea 2 for $459.95 ea 



8" Disk Drives 

Shugart SA801R single-sided double-density 
MSF-10801R . . $394.95 ea 2 for $389.95 ea 
Shugart SA851R double-sided double-density 
MSF-10851R.. $554.95 ea 2 for $529.95 ea 

Qume DT-8 double-sided double-density 
MSF-750080 . . $524.95 ea 2 for $499.95 ea 

Siemens FDD 100-8 sngl-sided dbl-density 
MSF-201120 .. $384.95 ea 2 for $349.95 ea 



BUS PROBE - Jade 

S-100 diagnostic analyzer board, dynamic visual display o/ 
all 96 IEEE S-100 signals, aids in real time analysis of faulty 
harduvre and software 

TSX-200B Bare Board $59.95 

TSX-200K Kit $119.95 

TSX-200A A&T $149.95 



SD Systems ExpandoRAM III 

256K RAM $879.95 



Single User System 

SBC-200, MK ExpandoRAM II. Versafloppy II. CP/M2.2 

$1095.00 

4 MHz Z-80A CPU, 64K RAM, serial I/O port, 
parallel I/O port, double-density disk controller, 
CP/M 2.2 disk and manuals, system monitor, 
control and diagnostic software. 
Add $100.00 for upgrade to ExpandoRAM 111 64K 
(expandable to 256K) 

-All boards are assembled and tested- 

SBC-200 



2 or 4 MHz single board computer 




• S-100 bus compatible • Powerful 4MHzZ-80A 
CPU • Synchronous/asynchronous serial I/O 
port with RS-232 interface and software 
programmable baud rates up to 9600 baud • 
Parallel input and parallel output port • F'our 
channel counter/timer • Four maskable, vectored 
interrupt inputs and a non-maskable interrupt • 
1 K of on-board RAM • Up to 32K of on-board 
ROM • System monitor PROM included 

The SBC-200 is an excellent CPU board to base a 
microcomputer system around. With on-board 
RAM, ROM, and I/O, the SBC-200 allows you to 
build a powerful three-board system that has the 
same features found in most five-board 
microcomputers. The SBC-200 is compatible with 
both single-user and multi-user systems. 

CPU-30200A A & T with monitor $299.95 

Versafloppy II 

5'/i" & 8" double density controller 




• S-100 bus compatible • IBM 3740 compatible 
soft isectored format • Controls single and double- 
sided drives, single or double density, o'/i" and 8" 
drives in any combination of four simultaneously 
• Drive select and side select circuitry • Analog 
phase-locked loop data seperator • Vectored 
interrupt operation optional • Standard CP/M 2.2 
disk operating • Control/diagnostic software 
PROM included 

The Versafloppy II is faster, more stable and 
more tolerant of bit shift and "jitter" than most 
controllers. All control and diagnostic software 
included. 

IOD-1160A A&T $359.95 

For CP/M 2.2 and manual set add $99.95 



ExpandoRAM III 

64K to 256K expandable RAM board 




IT 

SD Systems has duplicated the famous 
reliability of their ExpandoRAM I and II boards 
in the new ExpandoRAM III, a board capable of 
containing 256K of highspeed RAM. Utilizing the 
new 64K x 1 dy manic RAM chips, you can 
configure a memory of 64K, 128K, 192K, or 256K, 
all on one S-100 board. Memory address decoding 
is done by a programmed bipolar ROM so that the 
memory map may be dip-switch configured to 
work with either COSMOS/MPM-type systems or 
with OASIS-type systems. 

Extensive application notes concerning how to 
operate the ExpandoRAM III with Cromemco, 
Intersystems, and other popular 4 MHz Z-80 
systems are contained in the manual. 

MKM-65064A 64K A & T $495.00 

MEM-65128A 12HK A & T $639.95 

MEM-65192A 192K A&T $769.95 

MKM-65256A 256K A&T $879.95 

ExpandoRAM II 

16K to 64K expandable RAM board 




,->. 

• S-100 bus compatible • Up to 4M Hz operation • 
Expandable from 16K to 64K • Uses 16 x 1 41 16 
memory chips • Page mode operation allows up to 
8 memory boards on the bus • Phantom output 
disable • Invisible on-board refresh 

The ExpandoRAM II is compatible with most S- 
100 CPUs. When other SD System' series II 
boards are combined with the ExpandoRAM II, 
they create a microcomputer system with 
exceptional capabilities and features. 

MEM-16630A ItiK A & T $345.00 

MEM-32631A 32K A&T $365.00 

MEM-48632A 48K A&T $385.00 

MEM-64633A 64K A&T $399.9 5 

PROM-100 

Versatile EPBOM Programmer 

• S-100 bus compatible • Programs 2708, 2758, 
2716,2732,2516 EPROMs • DIP switch selection 
of EPKOM type • 25 VDC programming pulse 
generated on-board • Very fast programming and 
verification • Zero insertion force socket • 
Programming software included on 8" diskette 

MEM-99520K Kit if software $189.95 

MKM-99520A A & T w/software . . , $249.95 



Multi-User System 

SBC-200, 256K ExpandoRAM III. Versafloppy II. MPC-4 
COSMOS Multi-User Operating System. C BASIC II 

$1995.00 

Two Z-80A CPUs (4 MHz), 256K RAM, oserial I/O 
ports with independently programmable baud 
rates and vectored interrupts, parallel input port, 
parallel output port, 8 counter/timer channels, 
real time clock, single and double sided single or 
double density disk controller for 5'/i" and 8" 
drives, up to 36K of on-board ROM, CP/M 2.2 
compatible COSMOS interrupt, driven multi-user 
disk operating system, allows up to 8 users to run 
independent jobs concurrently, C BASIC II, 
control and diagnostic software in PROM 
included. 

-All boards are assembled and tested- 

MPC-4 

Intelligent communications interface 




• Four buffered serial I/O ports • On-board Z- 
80A processor • Four CTC channels • 
Independently programmable baud rates • 
Vectored interrupt capability • Up to 4K of on- 
board PROM • Up to 2K of on-board RAM • On- 
board firmware 

This is not just another four-port serial 
I/O board! The on-board processor and firmware 
provide sufficient intelligence to allow the MPC-4 
to handle time consuming I/O tasks, rather than 
loading down your CPU. To increase overall 
efficiency, each serial channel has an 80 character 
input buffer and a 128 character output buffer. 
The on-board firmware can be modified to make 
the board SDLC or BISYNC compatible. In 
combination with SD's COSMOS operating 
system (which is included with the MPC-4), this 
board makes a perfect building block for a multi- 
user system. 
1OI-1504A A & T with COSMOS . . $495.00 



Place Orders Toll Free 

Continental U.S. Inside California 

800-421-5500 800-262-1710 

For Technical Inquires or Customer Service call: 

213-973-7707 



'■■ 



Computer Products 

4901 W. Rosecrans, Hawthorne, Ca 90250 

TERMS of SALE: Cash, checks, credit cards, or 
Purchase Orders from qualified firms and institutions. 
Minimum Order SI 5.00. California residents add 6% 
tax. Minimum shipping &. handling charge $3.00. 
Pricinu & availihilitv subject to chance 



Circle 201 on inquiry card. 



THE WAVE MATE " TJULLCT - ( SBC ) " is 
the STATE-OF-THE-ART Single Board Computer. 

Never before has there been so much technology 



contained on ONLY ONE Single Board Computer. 





Standard size 8x10.7 inches 



COMPARE THESE FEATURES: . 

• 4MHzZ-80ACPU 

• 128 K byte RAM with bank select 

• Single/Double density floppy disk controller for both 5V4 inch and 8 inch drives 

• DMA floppy disk operation with optional high speed RAM track buffer 

• General purpose external DMA I/O 

• 2 serial ports with transmission rates to 38.4 K baud with optional DMA operation 

• Centronics printer port with optional DMA operation 

• Hard disk interface with optional DMA operation 

• Vectored interrupts 

• Real time clock 
5 volts only 



THE WAVE MATE ENHANCED C-BIOS PROVIDES SEVERAL 
POWERFUL ADDITIONS TO THE INDUSTRY STANDARD 
OPERATING SYSTEM. THESE ARE AS FOLLOWS: 

• Optimized disk track interlacing 

• Full disk track buffering 

• Keyboard type-ahead 

• Optional multi-user operation 

• Disk write verification 

• Real time clock 

• Various soft sectored mini floppy diskette formats 



a** $995.22 



single quantity 
price includes 
WAVE MATE'S 
enhanced C-BIOS. 



m fj„ i i t m jit. 

■ I BB ■ I 

■! „„-.. I ■;i;---r. 







The Wave Mate "BULLET," fast, compact and powerful; is a 
completely integrated Z-80A, CP/M based microcomputer 
system packed in an attractive dual mini floppy drive 
enclosure. Connect any serial terminal and Centronics 
i compatible printer and you are in business with an I 
i ' unbeatable PRICE /PERFORMANCE ratio. A 



'] is 1 

I ■ 

- i ■ 4 A, 



Circle 65 on inquiry card. 



WAVE MATE INTERNATIONAL 

159, chee de Vleurgat 

1050 Brussels, Belgium 

Tel.: (02) 649 10 70 Telex: 24050 



WAVE MATE INC. 

DISTRIBUTED 
BY: 




CaUFornIa DiqiTAl 

4738 156th Street 
Lawndale, Calif. 90260 

(213) 679-9001 



DEALER, OEM & INTERNATIONAL INQUIRIES WELCOME 



CAufoRIMIA DlGITA 



Post Office Box 3097 B • Torrance, Califor 



•L u fJ 



California Digital 

STATIC* 64 



Sixteen Bit Memory 

SI 





I»II1»I4I II 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ( I M 1 1 lllTl I 

RELIABILITY OF STATIC ... PRICE OF DYNAMIC 



February Price $ 850 

30% Price Reduction 

UUIizing the new Hitachi 5167/2167 ran. chip, the Static 6-1 is the most 
current technology available is S-100 memory products. 
2-1 bit extended addressing, Dor 16 bit data paths along with 16 bit re- 
quest and acknowledge make tliis unique board completely computable 
with the IEEE' 696 S-100 buss standard. 

The Static 64 !uis been engineered to allow each 16K segment of mem- 
ory to be bank selectable supporting multiuser systems. Ciher select- 
able features allow the board to fully integrate with all current bank 
Selecting schemes including Cromex and Alpha-Micro. Operates with 
all 16 bit computers including Seattle Computers. Tecmar and Lomas. 
Designed for DMA operations at clock frequencies in excess of 10 MHz. 
Standby power consumption Less than one Amp. 

To add to the total integrity of the product, each board is subjected to 
extensive high temperature burn- in and test procedures. CA1-.-Q40Q 







EPSON MX80 NEC PC-8023A 



$. 



450 



$ 



535 



Epson MX80FT triction/ir $505.00 
Epson MX 100 132 column 

Graft rax HO option 70.00 

Apple I/O f. cable (ai3i) 120,00 

Serial Inlerftiee (HUD 70.00 

Serial Inter. ,2Kbu£.(BlSl) 115.00 

Cable for THS-B0 35.00 

IEEE 4bb interface (ami) 6S.00 

Replacement head 15.00 

Replacement Ribbon 14.00 

Paper 3500 sheets 3 1/2" 35.00 



Den -matrix, bi-directional, lojjic- 
leektngi friction or tractor feed. 
Impact printer. Complete uraphics, 
upper and lower case ASCII. Greek, 
mathematics idong with the ability 
to print dot graphic screen images 



din 



Uyo 



i. i. ;i pei 



Proportional spacing and 1 32 column 
compressed print make this low 
coal machine the best value in to- 
days printer market. 




RINTRONIX 

P-300 '4500 
P-600 '6150 



PRINTERS 



Epson MX30 


FREMX80 


S475 


Epson MX80.Fr 


PRfcMX801 


595 


Epson MX100 


PRE MX 10C 




Anadei 9:.oo 


PR<\<t. r .0Q 


1295 


Anadex BS01 


PRAU501 


1295 


Anacom 150 


PRA150 


1075 


IDS Paper Tgr. 


PRG4G0G 


10Q5 


IDS Tiger tifJO 


PRGadOG 


1350 


Diablo CUD 


PRDG30 


2150 


Diablo lfi'iO 


PRD1650 


2850 


Diablo 1640 


PRD1640 


2496 


Datasouth 180 


PRD180 


1350 


Prtntronix 300 


PRPJ00 


4500 


Printronlx 600 


PRP600 


6150 



NEC/Seliuni 1 

NI-X/Sm 16K 
TEC/Starwrit, 

Okidata 80 
Okidata 82 
Okidata 83 
Teletype 43K 
Texas Ins. 810 
Tex. Lis 810C 
Centronics 730 
Centronics 737 
Centronics 739 
Centrnx 704-9 
Centra*. 704-11 



PRN5510ps 

PRN5516ps 

PRV300 

PRO80 

PRO02 

PR 08 3 

PTT4320K 

PRTH10H 

PRT810C 

PRC730P 

PRC737P 

PRC739P 

PRC704-9 

PRC704-11 



2695 
2795 
1395 
419 
619 
895 
1095 
1450 
1795 
529 
695 
795 



SYSTEMS 




m 



HEWLETT 
mLTM PACKARD 
§P85 COMPUTER 

BELOW OUR COST 



[apple 

48K Memory 

*1150 




===== 3101 

E =—. =V= Display 
= ^ =- = " = Terminal 

IBM Direct Price '1395, 
California Digital 



discount 
price 



1295 





AMPEX 

DIALOGUE 80 
REDUCED PRICE 



$ 



795 



Ampex Corporation. The Dialogue 80 features removable keyboard, 
dlsplayable iivo pages (tour optional) dual program keys, half Intensity protected 
fields and status line. Transmits data either block, line or character mode. 
Excellent value. VDT-DflO shipping 47 lba. 

VIDEO TERMINALS 

ADDS Viewpoint VDT-HVP 595 

ADDS Regent 25 numeric cluster VDT-R25 850 

ADDS Regent 30 25th status line VDT-R30 950 

ADDS Regent 40 limited graphics VDT-R40 1195 

ADDS Regent 60 Block mode VDT-R60 1495 

Ampex Dialouge 80 two page.detatch VDT-D80 

Digital Equipment VT-1 00 VDT-V100 1595 

Digital Equipment VT-1 32 VDT-V132 1895 

IBM 3101-10 character mode green VDT-3101 1195 

IBM 3101-20 block mode VDT-31012 1395 

Visual 200 VDT-V200 995 

Televideo 910C (new) VDT-T910 595 

Televideo 912C VDT-T912 665 

Televideo 920C ' VDT-T920 745 

Televideo 950C detachable keybd. VDT-T950 985 

Zenith Z-19 VDT-Z-19 



VIDEO MONITORS 




BMC KG-12C 20 MHz 
P31 green phosphor S 169 

NEC gm. 1201 189 

Zenith gm ZVM121 119 

BMC color composit _ 339 

Zenith color 13" 395 

NEC RGB1202DH 695 



EPROM ERASER 

Ultra Vilot Products 



* 



65 



UVP-11E 




tSmhwSllikmmmSmmmmm 



lerchandise sold by California Digital is premium grade. 

al add $.40 
_ _ efunded. 
arnia residents add 6% sales tax. COD's discouraged. 

'-•-i supported educational Institu- 
ting I->un & Bradstreet. " 
house: 15608 Inglewood Blvd. Visitors by appointment. 

Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



GREEN PHOSPHOR MONITOR 

The new Zenith ZVM-121 monitor features 
a P-31 green phosphor tube along with 15 
MHz bandwidth. 

Switch selectable for 40 and 80 character 
per line screen formats. 

Accepts composite video and is fully corn- 
Pliable with 80 column Apple cards. 
VDM-121 20 lbs. 



ACCESSORIES FOR THE 



COMPUTER 




CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEM 
Arithmetic Processor ?8tl B/C 
Asynchronous serial Interface 7710 
Centronics Interface card 7728 
12K PROM Module 7114 
Calender/Clock. Bat. back-up 7424 
i'nr.-dlel Interface 7720A 
Proflraniable Timer 7740A 
Analog/Digital converter 7470A 
MICROSOFT PRODUCTS 
Apple to Z-Q0 CPU card 
D.C. HAYES PRODUCTS 
Mlcromodem for Apple 
COMPUTER STOP PRODUCTS 
Double Vision / BO Column Video 
INTERACTIVE STRUCTURES 
1U Channel A/0 card AlO/2 



MOUNTAIN COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
Intro X-10 system for HSR $23 

Intro X-10 card oftlv 16 

16 channel AH/ DA B bit 31 

Apple Clock battery back-up 22 

Supertalker SD200 24 

ROM Plus with filter 16 

ROM Writer/ Pracnimmer 1 1 

APPLE BRAND PRODUCTS 
Apple LiUiguafje card 45 

Floppy disk with controller 56 

Floppy disk without controller 49 

Apple parallel Interface 17 

SSM MICROCOMPUTER 
Dual serial parallel Interface AIO 
SORRENTO VALLKY ASSOCIATES 
a" floppy controller (Pascal) 36 



S-100 BOARDS 

Assembled • Tested • Burned-in 




.IDA 7.-80 
4 Mil/ HDC-C2B10 

7.-80 24 bit. JAW* 

HDC-G7.B0 
H0HV808B dual 16 bit 

BDC 



1 Syal 



-*u 



I/O ports BUC-5BC2 

CPU '■ flugjpv ilibk comrollei 
plus I/O BUC-FDC1 



VIM 1UMI.S 



nptttar 2200 A 12 slot 
wpply ENM-C22O0 
ot tabic ENM-T12 
01 table ENM-TZ2 
idnfrtr. ENM-OMF 



KX6 4 

MHSW5 
M6100 



BDM-IJP.T2 
-100 
liD.M-PIOt) 



Cidif. c 

2. 2 CP M 

Godboul "Dl! 

NEC "ISTj 

arbitratk 



Me 



HiH-GDt M 

ma 765 chip. 
single & doable density. Error 



single density HDl-ii.il 

Morrow Design Disk Jockey II 

double density BDF-DJ2 



INTERFACE BOARDS 
C:dtf. Computer 2718 I/O 

2 serial/ 2 pur l SDT-C27ia 
Morrow Designs Switchboard 

2 serial/4 pari BDT-MSB 
Morrow Designs Multiboard 

3 serial/ HI*.*" HIH'-MMB 

Godbeui Intertoeor ' He 
2 serial/ 2 par'l iins-t.i-i 

Uodbout Inter racer rwo 
i aerial/3 pur I BD8-GB2 



SPECIALITY BOABO 



Mullen Produci 



BDS-AOP 
n eolor 

UUS-GSC 
in Micro- 

UDS-HM1 
extender board 
R1 BDS-MTB1 

BOS-MCC 



Rotron Muffin Fan 



14 77 



$12.00 <S 100 
10.50 & 1000 



115 VAC. 7 Watts WR2A1 
Factory freah Muffin fails 
NOT pull-outs. EMF-4M 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL & CALIFORNIA 

(213)679-9001 

TWX 910325-6212 



CAliFORNiA DigitaI 

Post Office Box 3097 B • Torrance, California 90503 



FREE PLASTIC LIBRARY CASE INCLUDED WITH 
THE PURCHASE OF EVERY BOX OF DISKETTES 



$ 



24?* 

Private labeled for California Digital by one of 
the most respdctod producers of ma^ciic m«dl 
K.icli diskvltc is certified double density at 40 
tracks. To insure extended ir,edi, - i life each dis 
kelte is maim fact 11 red with n reinforced hub-hol> 
And of course, a plastic library case is includei 
with evi-ry bax nf diskettes. MMD-CD5(01 ){10> 



sp^-ify 



requir 



Ten boxes '22.75 One hundred boxes s 21.50 




5 l A" DISKETTES 

WITH LIBRARY CASE 

26. 50 



Soft Sector 



Your Choice 

SCOTCH 
MEMOREX 
VERBATIM 

10 Sector 16 Sector 



Single Side Double Density 



| DYSAN 1 104/1P 1 107/1D~ 



NA 



45.00 



Double Side Double Density 



SCOTCH 745-0 



DYSAN 104/2D 



DYSAN 96 204/2D NA 



745-10 



107/2D 



745-16 



NA 



NA 



42.50 



49.50 



59.50 





EIGHT INCH DISKETTES 






Single Side Single Density 


Single Side Double Density 


SCOTCH 


740-0 


29.50 


SCOTCH 


741-0 


39.00 


MEMOREX 


3060 


29.50 


MEMOREX 


3090 


35.00 


DYSAN 


3740/1 


39.50 


DYSAN 


3740/0 


57.50 


Thirty Two Sector 


Double side Double Density 


SCOTCH 1 740-32 1 29.50 


SCOTCH 743-0 1 47.50 


Scotch Hud QtiningKei S'llI" '24,95 
PUilCbtfirYCjui y.lS" 2.95 


MEMOREX 3114 39.50 


Dili (tie Ftp Tub 
DiHttWtpTub 


»£?' 


2435 
29.95 


DYSAN | 3740/2D | 65.00 



\PLEASE PHONE FOR VOLUME PRICING. 




,enew IJSK tn .. 

le your away fron 
istinR System X-10 devices. 
BSR Timer eight channel >£ 

Master control console 2 

Ultrasonic Controller 1 



Appliance Module 500 W. S13.G5 
Lamp Module .100 Watts 13.95 

NEW full ctintrol wall switch 14.50 



WINCHESTER SUBSYSTEM 



$ 



1250 



Includes seven megabyte Winchester hand 
disk, dual enclosure and power supply. 
Floppy backup drive '199.00 additional. 




VISA 



SCOTCH 


744-0 


744-10 


744-16 


s 26.50 


MEMOREX 


3401 


3403 


3405 


26.50 


VERBATIM 


525-01 


525-10 


NA 


26.50 


DYSAN 


104/1 


107/1 


NA 


39.50 



MEMORY 




64K DYNAMIC 
$ 9> 95 

4164 100. 


16K STATIC 

$ 13. 95 

2167 70ns. 


16K DYNAMIC 

$2.io 

4116 100. ! 1.85 


2716EPR0M 
$ 4> 95 

100-M.50 1K-M.00 




2732 EPROM 

SALE *7.95 



STATIC 



32+ 



1K+ 



21L02 IK 1.19 1.09 

2114 300ns. 2.95 2.75 

4044-4 450ns. 4. 50 4. 13 

4044-2 250ns. 4. 95 4.65 

6116 16k 24 pin 7. 95 7.50 

2167/6167 20 pin 11. 95 10.75 



1.05 
2. 50 
4. 00 
4.50 
6. 75 
9. 65 



. 99 
1. 99 

3. 75 

4. 25 

5. 45 
9. 25 



EPROM 



2708 450ns. 3.95 

2716 5V. 4.95 

2716 tri-volt 8.50 

2732 Intel/Pitac. 7. 95 

2532 Texas Inst 12. 95 

2764 64K Eprom29. 95 



3.50 3.25 

4. 00 3. 75 

7.95 7.65 

7.50 7.00 

11.50 10.00 9.50 

27.00 25.00 23.50 



3. 00 

3. 30 
7. 25 




direct connect Your choice 

MODEM $169 



ie Universal Data .Systems 10 J LP is switch selectable between answer and ortq- 
ile mod"S. l-ullv I. "11 10:; computable. Hii'rctly connects to the new modular 
ephone jack. 100";. powered from Hie teleplloneHne. Nit need to locate modem 111 
oxlmitv to AX. power receptiele. MOU-133U? 3 pound,-;. 



SWITCHES 




CONNECTORS 







El 



$2.9 



GOLD EDGE CONNECTOR. 

S-100 .125" centers 

Imsai solder .250' re 

Imsai wiM wrap (TO 

Sullins Hi-fiel. .250" 4. SO 4,1 

Sullins lii-Hel. W/W 5.35 4.! 

Sullins /Altair . 140" 4.96 4. 

.156" Centers (standard) 

22/44 Kirr Eyelet 2.50 2. 

36/72 Digital Group S/T 5.95 5. 

36/72 Digital Group WAV 6.60 G. 

43/86 Motorola GHO0 SIT 6.60 6. 

43/86 Moto. GtlOQ W/W 7.00 B, 

INTEGRATED CIRCUIT SOCKETS 
Low Profile Wire Wrap 
each LOO H each 100+ 



18 pin 
24 pin 
40 pin 



$1.40 Si. 30 

2. 00 1.80 

1.35 1.30 

2.15 2.00 

3.10 2.80 

i.aa i.3o 

3.15 3.05 

1.15 1.05 



"D Type each 

Dtap male Si. HO 

DE9S female 2.25 
DE hood 1.50 

DAlfiP male 2.35 



DC37P male -1.20 
DC37S fem.de G.00 
DC hood 2 IP 2.25 
1JD50P male 5.50 
DDS0S female 9.40 

DOS0 linod 2/1' 2.60 



RIBBON CABLE CONNECTORS 
17/34 5" disk 4.85 1.15 3.9 

20/40 TKS-IJO 5. 65 5.05 4.7 



All merchandise sold by California Digital is premium grade. 
Shipping: First five pounds $2.00; each additional add $.40 
Foreign orders 10% shipping. Excess will be refunded. 
California residents add 6% sales tax. COD's discouraged. 
Open accounts extended to state supported educational institu- 
tions and companies with a "Strong Dun & Bradstreet. " 
Warehouse: 15608 Ingle wood Blvd. Visitors by appointment. 



NEW 

OLIVETTI 801 *295 



Eight Inch Disk Drive 







ONE 


TWO 


TEN 


• OLIVETTI 801 


single 


$ 319 


309 


295 


• OLIVETTI 802/851 


double 


425 


419 


410 


SHUGART 801 /Ft 


single 


395 


385 


375 


SHUGART851/R 


double 


525 


495 


475 


QUME DATA TRACK 8 


double 


525 


495 


475 


■k The 8" Olivetti drives are aprox. W wider than the Shugarts. 


Five Inch Disk Drives 


OLIVETTI 501/400 


single 


199 


185 


175 


OLIVETTI 502/451 


double 


235 


225 


215 


Upon request, all drives are supplied with power 
connectors and one manual per order. 

230 volt 50Hz. 8" add $50.00 per drive. 




Eight Inch Subsystem 



Two Olivetti 801 disk drives with power supply, 4" exhaust fan 
complete in dual enclosure with all necessary power cables. 
Documentation included. 50 Lbs. CAL-2801 
Signal cable add s 35.00 WCA-650D 

Same as above but with: 
Shugart 001H MSD2801 '1195 ! Olivetti 802 CAL2801 '1250 

Sliugart 85111 MSD2851 1450 I Oume DT8 MSD8DT 1450 



SPECIAL 



$ 



895 



Circle 66 on Inquiry card. 



Volumn Pricing 
Upon Request 

Seagate Compatable 
7.5 MEGABYTE 

Winchester Hard Disk Drive 

We have priced this so low that the manufacturer has asked not to use 
their brand name in our advertising. 

Industry standard Seagate plug compatable. Drive fits into the same space 
as a 5 'A" floppy disk drive. CAL-561/2 

S-lOO MOTHER BOARD 

*35 

IMSAI 

18 Slot 

CAL-M18 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

(800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL & CALIFORNIA 

(213)679-9001 

TWX 910325-6212 




m SB? 8^ micro 

IVP.J1I. *!$f!r 



7&3S7 CHEMICAL LANE • HUNTINGTON BEACH, CA 92649 

* (714) 891-2677* 

TERMS: Prepayment - C.O.D. up to $100.00 - M/C Visa 

$5.00 Processing and Handling added to each order PLUS 

Shipping Charges — 15% Restocking Fee 

Please allow personal check to clear before shipment 



OPEN FRAME POWER SUPPLIES 



DISK POWER SUPPLIES 




PRIAM-SHUGART-CENTURY-MICROPOLIS 




+5V@9A |-5V@.8A |+24V(S>7A | US-384 


89.00 




SHUGART-SIEMANS- MPI 5V»" 




+5V@.5A 


+ 12V@.9A 




US- 340 


33.50 




+5V@2A 


+ 12V@4A 




US-323 


56.25 




SHUGART - SIEMANS - CDC 8" 




+5V@1A 


-5V@.5A 


+24V@1.5A 


US-205 


52.50 




+5V@2A 


-5V@.5A 


+24V@3A 


US-206 


69.00 




+5V@3A 


-5V@.6A 


+24V@5A 


US-162 


89.00 




+5V@ 1.7A 


-5V@1.5A 


+24V @ 2A 


US-2'72 


69.00 




+5V@2A 


+ 12V@.4A 


-12V@.4A 


US-HTAA 


37.50 






If you can beat these 
prices we will be truly 
amazed. OEM's at 500 
lot pay more than this. 
Call or write for full 
spec, sheets. 



BREAK THE COST BARRIER! 

NO ONE ANYWHERE CAN TOUCH 
THIS GRAND OPENING SPECIAL!! 

YOU CAN BUY A COMPLETE 

S-100 12 SLOT 
COMPUTER SYSTEM 

(less drives and terminal) FOR ONLY 

$975.00 

Assembled and Tested! 



HERE'S WHAT YOU GET!! 

• 4MHZ CPU with 2 Programmable 

Serial Ports and 3 8. Bit Parallel Ports 

• 64K Dynamic Ram Card with 8 

Extended Address Lines and I.O. Port 
40 Bank Select 

• 8" and 5" Double Density Double Sided 

Disk Controller 

• S1-MOD 30 Amp Integrated Power 

Supply with Regulated Power for Four 
8" or 5" Floppy Drives 

• Attractive Metal Cabinet Similar to 

CCS Unit Shown at Right 



TERMINAL 



S- 100-8 



Feather Touch Capacitance Keyboard 



INCLUDING CP/M 2.2® 
AND WORDSTAR® 

• 60 Key Standard ASCII 

plus + Hex Keypad WITH: 8" SS/DD Drives Only $2850.00 

P, L n^i?r ial F ^f °" Ke y s 5 1 /4" SS/DD Drives Only $2700.00 

PLUS + 20 Screen Editing Keys J 



• SOROC Type Screen Attribute Set 

• Half Intensity 

COMPUTER 

• 8 Slot S-100 

• 64K Dynamic Ram 

• 4MHZ Z-80 

• Double Density Disk 

Controller 

• Programmable Baud Rate 

• Programmable Keyboard Set 

• Serial Printer Port (150-19.2K) 

518 BYTE March 1982 




CALL FOR 
QUOTE ON 
DIFFERENT DRIVE 
OPTIONS 




WORDSTAR is a TM of Micropro Inc. - CP/M 2.2 is a TM of Digital Research Inc. 

Circle 389 on inquiry card. 



PRINTERS 



C-ITOH 

PROWRITER $625.00 

C-ITOH Comet I 

9x7 Dot Matrix . . .$450.00 

C-ITOH Comet II. . .$810.00 

132 Column Printer 

9x7 Dot Matrix 

MPI-88G $725.00 

EPSON MX 80 CALL 

EPSON MX 100 CALL 

Anadex9501 $1,235.00 

Graphic Printer 



DISK DRIVES 



Shugart 801 's — $395.00 

Shugart 851 's — $575.00 

Qume DT-8's — $540.00 

Shugart 400's — $255.00 

Tandom 5 1 /t — $255.00 

Qume DT5 5Va — $350.00 
DSDD 48TPI 



TERMINALS 



• Televideo 910 — $575.00 

• Televideo 91 2C — $665.00 

• Televideo 920C — $720.00 

• Televideo 950 — $950.00 

• Ampex Dialog 80— $895.00 

• Hazeltine Esprit — $690.00 

• Zenith Z19 — $725.00 



9.9 



• CPU Serial Cabl 

• Z80 CPU — 

• DP Dsk Cont 

• DP 64K — 

• 32K (Kit) — 



e — $30.00 

$250.00 

- $275.00 

$400.00 

$250.00 



Z-80A — $6.95 

Z-80A SUPPORT 

CTC — $6.55 

SIO — $25.50 

PIO — $6.50 



2716— $6.75 
2708— $3.95 
4116— $2.50 
2114— $2.75 




11 EDISON DRIVE * NEW LENOX * ILLINOIS 60451 

CALL TOLL FREE: 1-800-435-9357 • MONDAY thru SATURDAY 

(ILLINOIS RESIDENTS CALL: 815-485-4002) * 8:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. 

TERMS: Prepayment — C.O.D. up to $100.00 - M/C Visa 

$5.00 Processing and Handling added to each order PLUS 

Shipping Charges. Please allow personal check to clear before shipment. 

15% Restocking Charge 



€ 



California 
Computer 
Systems 

• 2810 CPU 

Only — $250.00 

• 2422 Dsk Cont 

Only — $319.00 

• 2065C64K 

Only — $510.00 

• 2200A Mainframe 

Only — $349.00 

• CCS Apple Boards 

Call for prices 



• SPECIAL # SPECIAL • SPECIAL • 



• CCS 2200 System 
Tested and Assembled 

Only — $1,600.00 



MONITORS 



ZENITH VIDEO MONITOR — 
ZVM $145.00 

AMDEK MONITORS— 

AMDEK Color 1 . ..$399.00 
AMDEK Video 300 .$229.00 
w/Green Screen 



DUAL DRIVE 
SUBSYSTEM 




FEATURES 

• Power One CP-206 

• 2-801 R Shugart Drives 

• Data, AC & DC Cables 

All for only $1,045.00 

• 2-851 R Subsystem . .$1,395.00 

• 2-DT8's Subsystem .$1,295.00 

• W/no Drives $245.00 

(Tested and Assembled) 

* * * 

• Vertical Enclosures 

5 V4" $595.00 . .. .8" $1,045.00 



HAYES MODEMS 

SMART MODEM $244.00 

MICRO MODEM 100 .$349.00 
MICRO MODEM II . ..$319.00 
(For Apple II) 



PMMI MODEMS 

300-450-600-710 Baud Rates 

Auto Dial Auto Answer 

$349.00 

Communication's Packages Available 



S-100-MOD(Kit) $199.00 

Complete S-100 12 Slot Main Frame. Ample 
system power with regulated power for 
drives. Excellent for Subsystem or Hobby use. 
Four hours to build. (6 conn., incl., less fans) 

POWER RATING — 30AOF ± 8V 
6A0F±16V 



CCS DATA BASED 
SOFTWARE 

AP/AR/GL/PR . Only — $450.00 

Mail List Only — $ 69.95 

Calendar Only — $ 44.50 



Zenith 

data systems 

CALL 
FOR PRICES 



***************** 

+ THE MICRO BILLBOARD + 

.jl. U.S. Micro Sales now open 7 days a meek — 24 hours a day. .jl. 

. Now you can simply dial up your computer and get into our . 

specially priced merchandise. CALL 1-81 5-485-4002 

BILLBOARD OPEN FROM 6:30 P.M. TIL 8:00 A.M. 



Novation 




CAT $150.00 

D-CAT $165.00 

AUTOCAT $235.00 

APPLECAT $350.00 

SUPERMIKE $11.50 



Circle 389 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



519 



1 6K Memory 

ALL MERCHANDISE 100% GUARANTEED! 



4116-200ns 



8/15.95 



CALL US FOR VOLUME QUOTES 









EPROMS 




Each 


8 pes 


1702 




256 X8 




(1ns) 




4.95 


4.50 


2708 




1024 x8 




(450ns) 




2.99 


2.75 


2758 




1024 X 8 




(5V) (450ns) 




9.95 


8.95 


TMS2516 


2048 X 8 




(5V) (450ns) 




6.95 


5.95 


2716 




2048 x 8 




5V) (450ns) 




5.50 


4.95 


2716-1 




2048 x 8 




5V) (350ns) 




9.00 


8.50 


TMS2716 


2048 X 8 




(450ns) 




9.95 


8.95 


TMS2532 


4096 X 8 




(5V) (450ns) 




12.95 


11.95 


2732 




4096 x 8 




5V) (450ns) (200ns 




CALL 


2764 




8192x8 




5V) (450ns) 






CALL 






DYNAMIC RAMS 




100 pes 


4027 




4096 x 1 




(250ns) 




2.50 


2.00 


4116-120 




16,384 x 1 




(120ns) 


8/29.95 


CALL 


4116-150 




16,384 x 1 




(150ns) 


8/18.95 


1.95 


4116-200 




16,384 x 1 




(200ns) 


8/15.95 


1.80 


4116-300 




16,384 x 1 




(300ns) 


8/14.95 


1.75 


4164 




64,536 x 1 




(200ns) 






CALL 






STATIC RAMS 






100 pes 


2101 




256x4 




(450ns) 




1.95 


1.85 


2102-1 




1024 x 1 




(450ns) 




.89 


.85 


21L02-4 




1024 x 1 




LP) 450ns) 




1.29 


1.15 


21L02-2 




1024 x 1 


(LP) 




1.69 


1.55 


2111 




256x4 




(450ns) 




2.99 


2.49 


2112 




256x4 




(450ns) 




2.99 


2.79 


2114 




1024 x 4 




(450ns) 


8/16.95 


1.95 


2114L-2 




1024 x 4 




LP) (200ns) 


8/19.95 


2.35 


2114L-3 




1024 x 4 




LP) (300ns) 


8/18.95 


2.25 


2114L-4 




1024 x4 




LP) (450ns) 


8/17.95 


2.10 


2147 




4096 x 1 




(55 ns) 




9.95 


CALL 


TMS4044-4 


4096 x 1 




(450ns) 




3.49 


3.25 


TMS4044-3 


4096 x 1 




(300ns) 




3.99 


3.75 


TMS40L44-2 


4096 x 1 




LP) (200ns) 




4.49 


4.25 


TMM2016 


2048 x 8 




(200ns) (150ns 




CALL 


HM6116 




2048 x 8 




(200ns) (150ns) (120n 


S) CALL 






LP = 


LOW POWER 






74LS00 


SERIES 




















74LS166 


2.40 


74LS293 1.85 


74LS00 


.25 


74LS85 


1.15 


74LS168 


1.75 


74LS295 1.05 


74LS01 


.25 


74LS86 


.40 


74 Li 169 


1.75 


74LS298 1.20 


74LS02 


.25 


74LS90 


.65 


74LS170 


1.75 


74LS324 1.75 


74LS03 


.25 


74LS91 


.89 


74LS173 


.80 


74LS352 1.55 


74LS04 


.25 


74LS92 


.70 


74LS174 


.95 


74LS353 1.55 


74LS05 


.25 


74LS93 


.65 


74LS175 


.95 


74LS363 1.35 


74LS08 


.35 


74LS95 


.85 


74LS181 


2.15 


74LS364 1.95 


74LS10 


.25 


74LS96 


.95 


74LS189 


9.95 


74LS365 .95 


74LS11 


.35 


74LS107 


.40 


74LS190 


1.00 


74LS366 .95 


74LS12 


.35 


74LS109 


.40 


74LS191 


1.00 


74LS367 .70 


74LS13 


45 


74LS112 


.45 


74LS192 


.85 


74LS368 .70 


74LS14 


.00 


74LS113 


.45 


74LS193 


.95 


74LS373 99 


74LS15 


.35 


74LS114 


.50 


74LS194 


1.00 


74LS374 1.75 


74LS20 


.25 


74LS122 


.45 


74LS195 


.95 


74LS377 1.45 


74LS21 


.35 


74LS123 


.95 


74LS196 


.85 


74LS378 1.18 


74LS22 


.25 


74LS124 


2.99 


74LS197 


.85 


74LS379 1.35 


74LS26 


.35 


74LS125 


.95 


74LS221 


1.20 


74LS385 1.90 


74LS27 


.35 


74LS126 


.85 


74LS240 


.99 


74LS386 .65 


74LS28 


.35 


74LS132 


.75 


74LS241 


.99 


74LS390 1.90 


74LS30 


.25 


74LS136 


.55 


74LS242 


1.85 


74LS393 1.90 


74LS32 


.35 


74LS137 


99 


74LS243 


1.85 


74LS395 1.65 


74LS33 


.55 


74LS138 


.75 


74LS244 


.99 


74LS399 1.70 


74LS37 


.55 


74LS139 


.75 


74LS245 


1.90 


74LS424 2.95 


74LS38 


.35 


74LS145 


1.20 


74LS247 


.76 


74LS447 .37 


74LS40 


.35 


74LS147 


2 49 


74LS248 


1.25 


74LS490 1.95 


74LS42 


.55 


74LS148 


1.35 


74LS249 


.99 


74LS668 1.69 


74LS47 


.75 


74LS151 


.75 


74LS251 


1.30 


74LS669 1.89 


74LS48 


.75 


74LS153 


.75 


74LS253 


.85 


74LS670 2.20 


74LS49 


.75 


74LS154 


2.35 


74LS257 


.85 


74LS674 9.65 


74LS51 


.25 


74LS155 


1.15 


74LS258 


.85 


74LS682 3.20 


74LS54 


.35 


74LS156 


.95 


74LS259 


2.85 


74LS683 2.30 


74LS55 


.35 


74LS157 


.75 


74LS260 


.65 


74LS684 2.40 


74LS63 1.25 


74LS158 


.75 


74LS266 


.55 


74LS685 2.40 


74LS73 


.40 


74LS160 


.90 


74LS273 


1.65 


74LS688 2.40 


74LS74 


.45 


74LS161 


.95 


74LS275 


3.35 


74LS689 2.40 


74LS75 


.50 


74LS162 


.95 


74LS279 


.55 


81LS95 1.69 


74LS76 


.40 


74LS163 


.95 


74LS280 


1.98 


81LS96 1.69 


74LS78 


.50 


74LS164 


.95 


74LS283 


1.00 


81LS97 1.69 


74LS83 


75 


74LS165 


.95 


74LS290 


1.25 


81LS98 1.69 



r CRYSTALS ^ 


r Ai 


Dril 


Sd 


eei 


als 




' 6502 




32.768 KHZ 


3.95 1 


m i 


°H 


wwl 


Blw 




6502 


6.95 


1.0 MHZ 


4.95 1 


Z80B 


CPU 6MHZ 


17.95 




6502-A 


12.95 


1.8432 
2.0 


4.95 1 
3.95 1 


Z80A 


CPU 4MHZ 


6.00 




6504 
6505 
6507 


6.95 
8.95 
9.95 


2.097152 


3.95 I 


Z80A 


PIO 4MHZ 


6.00 




2.4576 


3.95 1 


68000 


CPU 4-10MHZ 


call 




6520 


4.35 


3.2768 
3.579545 


3.95 1 
3.95 1 


6802 


MPU, CLK 


RAM 


9.95 




6522 
6532 


9.95 
14.95 


4.0 
5.0 


3.95 1 
3.95 1 


6845 
6502A 


CRT CONTROLLER 15.95 

/"» nil nlllll n r\r- 




.6551 


11.85. 


5.0688 

5.185 

5.7143 


3.95 1 


CPU 2MHZ 


B.»3 








3.95 
3.95 1 


6502B 
8086 


CPU 3MHZ 
16 BIT CPU 


15.95 
59.95 




Z80 




6.5536 

8.0 

10.0 


3.95 1 
3.95 1 
3.95 


8088 


8 BIT CPU 


34.95 




Z80-CPU 


8.95 


8089 


8/16 BIT PROC 


89.95 




Z80A-CPU 


6.00 


14.31818 

18.0 

18.432 


3.95 1 
3.95 1 
3.95 1 


14 Pin 
16 Pin 


Gold Wirewrap Sockets .49ea 
Gold Wirewrap Sockets .59ea 




Z80-P10 

Z80A-P10 

Z80-CTC 


6.50 
6.00 
5.95 


20.0 
22.1184 

^L 32.0 


3.95 1 
3.95 1 
3.95 A 


SUPER SPECIAL 

Hitachi HM6116LP 2048 x 8 CMOS 




Z80A-CTC 
Z80-DART 
Z80A-DART 


8.65 
15.25 
18.75 






Static 

2716 


Ram p 
= PROM 


in com 
. Super 

racteris 


satible 

low DO 


with the 
ver data 
volts at 




Z80-DMA 
Z80A-DMA 


17.50 




27.50 






I retention cha 


tics: 2.0 




Z80-S10/0 


23.95 


MISC 

1 AY5-2376 


12.50 


only 50ua yes 


50 microamps. 






Z80A-S10/0 
Z80-S10/1 


28.95 
23.95 


1 11C90 
1 XR2206 


13.95 
4.95 








i-ji pes. 


32 pes. 




Z80A-S10/1 


28.95 


HM6116LP-2 


120ns 


19.95ea 


18.95ea 




Z80-S10/2 


23.95 


1 3242 


7.95 


HM6116LP-3 


150ns 


16.95ea 


15.95ea 




Z80A-S10/2 


28.95 


1 3480 


9.00 


HM6116LP-4 


200ns 


15.95ea 


14.95ea 




Z80-S 10/09 


17.95 


I MC4024 
1 MC4044 


3.95 
4.50 


STANDARD POWER RAMS 




Z80A-S10/9 


22.95 


1 7103 


9.50 


HM6116P-2 


120ns 


18.95ea 


17.95ea 




Z80B-CPU 


18.95 


1 7106 


9.95 


HM6116P-3 


150ns 


11.95ea 


10.95ea 




Z80B-CTC 


17.95 


1 7107 


12.95 


HM6116P-4 


200ns 


10.95ea 


9.95ea 




Z80B-P10 


17.95 


1 76477 

1 6038 

■ 95H90 


3.95 
3.95 
7.99 1 

1.50 


Specials end 


April 30, 


19B2. Please state 




Z8671 


39.95 


L "April Specials" when 


ordering 






.Z6132 


34.95^ 


I 9602 
























CMOS 








1 DISC CON- 


74C00 


.35 


74C374 


2.75 


4019 


45 


4098 


2.49 


TROLLERS 


74C02 


.35 


74C901 


.80 


4020 


95 


4099 


1.95 


1771 


24.95 


74C04 


.35 


74C902 


.85 


4021 


35 


14409 


12.95 


1791 


36.95 


74C08 


.35 


74C903 


.85 


4022 1. 


5 


14410 


12.95 


1793 
1797 
UPD765 


44.95 


74C10 


.35 


74C905 


10.95 


4023 


35 


14411 


11.95 


54.95 
39.95 


74C14 


1.50 


74C906 


.95 


4024 


75 


14412 


12.95 


74C20 


.35 


74C907 


1.00 


4025 


35 


14419 


4.95 


74C30 


.35 


74C908 


2.00 


4026 1.65 


4502 


.95 


UARTS 


74C32 


.50 


74C909 


2.75 


4027 


35 


4503 


.65 






74C42 


1.75 


74C910 


9.95 


4028 


30 


4508 


1.95 


AY3-1014 


6.95 


74C48 


2.10 


74C911 


10.00 


4029 


95 


4510 


.95 


AY5-1013 


3.95 


74C73 


.65 


74C912 


10.00 


4030 


15 


4511 


.95 


TR1602 


4.95 


74C74 


.85 


74C914 


1.95 


4034 2.95 


4512 


.95 


IM6402 


7.95 


74C76 


.80 


74C915 


2.00 


4035 


35 


4514 


1.25 






74C83 


1.95 


74C918 


2.75 


4040 


35 


4515 


2.25 


INTERFAC 


74C85 


1.95 


74C920 


17.95 


4041 1.25 


4516 


1.55 






74C86 


.95 


74C921 


15.95 


4042 


75 


4518 


1.25 


8T26 


1.69 


74C89 


4.50 


74C922 


5.95 


4043 


35 


4519 


1.25 


8T28 


2.49 


74C90 


1.75 


74C923 


5.95 


4044 


35 


4520 


1.25 


8T95 


.99 


74C93 


1.75 


74C925 


6.75 


4046 


35 


4522 


1.25 


8T96 


.99 


74C95 


1.75 


74C926 


7.95 


4047 


35 


4526 


1.25 


8T97 


99 


74C107 


1.00 


74C927 


7.95 


4049 


35 


4527 


1.95 


8T98 


.99 


74C150 


5.75 


74C928 


7.95 


4050 


55 


4528 


1.25 


DM8131 


2.95 


74C151 


2.25 


74C929 


19.95 


4051 


35 


4531 


.95 


DS8836 


1.29 


74C154 


3.25 


74C930 


19.95 


4053 


35 


4532 


1.95 


*"»i /**/"» 




74C157 


1.75 


4000 


35 


4060 145 


4538 


1.95 


CLOCr\ 


74C160 


2.00 


4001 


.35 


4066 


rs 


4539 


1.95 


CIRCUITS 


74C161 


2.00 


4002 


.25 


4068 


10 


4543 


2.70 






74C162 


2.00 


4006 


.95 


4069 


15 


4555 


.95 


MM5369 


3.95 


76C163 


2.00 


4007 


.29 


4070 


35 


4556 


.95 


MM5375 


3.95 


74C164 


2.00 


4008 


.95 


4071 


30 


4581 


1.95 


MSM5832 


7.45 


74C165 


2.00 


4009 


.45 


4072 


30 


4582 


1.95 


7207 


7.50 


74C173 


2.00 


4010 


.45 


4073 


30 


4584 


.95 


7208 


15.95 


74C174 


2.25 


4011 


.35 


4075 


30 


4585 


.95 






74C175 


2.25 


4012 


.25 


4076 


35 


4702 


12.95 






74C192 


2.25 


4013 


.45 


4078 


30 


4724 


1.50 


CONVERlhHS 


74C193 


2.25 


4014 


.95 


4081 


30 


80C07 


.95 






74C195 


2.25 


4015 


.95 


4082 


30 


80C95 


.85 


MC1408 L8 


4.95 


74C200 


5.75 


4016 


.45 


4085 


35 


80C96 


.95 


DAC-0800 


4.95 


74C221 


2.25 


4017 


1.15 


4086 


35 


80C97 


.95 


AOC-0804 


4.95 


74C373 


2.75 


4018 


.95 


4093 


35 


80C98 


1.20. 



HOURS: Mon. - Fit, 9 to 5; Sat., 11 to 3 



^■M^LV 


I I 


mjatf charge] 


VISA 


„ ^" ^ V J» W ■ ^J 



JDR MICRODEVICES, INC. 

1224 So. Bascom Ave. 

San Jose, C A 95128 

800-538-5000 • 800-662-6279 (CA) 

(408)995-5430 • Telex 171-110 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE! 

TERMS: For shipping include $2.00 for UPS ground, $3.00 
for UPS Blue Label air. $10.00 minimum order. Bay Area 
residents add 6V4% sales tax. California residents add 6% 
sales tax. We reserve the right to limit quantities and sub- 
stitute manufacturer. Prices subject to change without 
notice. Send SASE for complete list. 



520 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 203 on inquiry card. 



2716 EPROMS 450NS (5V) 



8/4.95 ea 



ALL MERCHANDISE 100% GUARANTEED! 



CALL US FOR VOLUME QUOTES 



8000 



8200 



8035 

8039 

8080A 

8085 

8085A-2 

8086 

8088 

8155 

8156 

8185 

8185-2 

8741 

8748 

8755 



16.95 
19.95 
3.95 
12.95 
16.95 
99.95 
39.95 
11.95 
11.95 
29.95 
39.95 
39.95 
29.95 
44.95 



6800 



6800 

6802 

6808 

6809 

6809E 

6810 

6820 

6821 

6828 

6834 

6840 

6843 

6844 

6845 

6847 

6850 

6852 

6860 

6862 

6875 

6880 

68 BOO 
68B21 
68B50 



5.70 

10.95 

9.95 

24.95 

29.95 

4.60 

4.95 

4.95 

14.95 

16.95 

14.95 

42.95 

44.95 

16.95 

15.95 

4.75 

5.75 

10.95 

11.95 

6.95 

2.95 

10.95 
12.95 
12.95. 



LEDS 

Jumbo Red 
Jumbo Green 
Jumbo Yellow 
5082-7760 ,43'CC 
MAN74 ,3'CC 
k MAN72 .3'CA 



8202 
8205 
8212 
8214 
8216 
8224 
8226 
8228 
8237 
8238 
8239 
8243 
8250 
8251 
8253 
8253-5 
8255 
8255-5 
8257 
8259 
8272 
8275 
8279 
8279-5 
8282 
8283 
8284 
8286 
8287 
8288 
.8289 



10/1.00 

6/1 .00 

6/1.00 

.79 



45.00 
3.50 
1.85 
3.85 
1.80 
2.50 
1.80 
4.90 

19.95 
4.95 
4.85 
4.45 

14.95 
4.75 
9.25 
9.85 
4.75 
5.25 
8.75 
6.90 

39.95 

29.95 
9.50 

10.50 
6.65 
6.65 
5.70 
6.65 
6.50 

25.00 

49.95J 



TV 
CIRCUITS 




EPROM ERASERS 

PE-14 78.50 

PE-14T (with timer) 108.50 

PE-24T (with timer) 154.50 

ALL ARE HIGH QUALITY UNITS ENCLOSED IN 
A BLACK ANQDIZED ALUMINUM ENCLOSURE. 



800-538-5000 
800-662-6279 

(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS) 

CALL JDR BEFORE YOU BUY! 
WE WILL BEAT ANY COMPETITORS' PRICES 



VOLTAGE REG's 



LINEAR 



7805T 
7808T 
7812T 
7815T 
7824T 

7805K 
7812K 
7815K 
78L05 
78L12 
78L15 

LM309K 
LM317T 



.79 
.99 
.79 
.99 

.99 

1.39 
1.39 
1.39 
.69 
.69 
.69 

1.49 
1.95 



7905T 
791 2T 
791 5T 
7924T 



7905K 
7912K 
79L05 
79L12 
79L15 

LM317K 
LM323K 
LM337K 



.89 
1.19 
1.19 



1.49 
1.49 
.79 
.79 
.79 

3.95 
4.95 
3.95 



.T=TO-220 K=TO-3 



74S00 SERIES 



74S00 


.44 


74S74 


.69 


74S163 


3.75 


74S257 


1.39 


74S02 


.48 


74S85 


2.39 


74S168 


4.65 


74S258 


1.49 


74S03 


.48 


74S86 


1.44 


74S169 


5.44 


74S260 


1.83 


74S04 


.79 


74S112 


1.59 


74S174 


1.09 


74S274 


19.95 


74S05 


.79 


74S113 


1.98 


74S175 


1.09 


74S275 


19.95 


74S08 


48 


74S114 


1.50 


74S181 


4.47 


74S280 


2.90 


74S09 


.98 


74S124 


2.77 


74S182 


2.95 


74S287 


4.75 


74S10 


.69 


74S132 


1.24 


74S188 


3.95 


74S288 


4.45 


74S11 


.88 


74S133 


.98 


74S189 


14.95 


74S289 


6.98 


74S15 


.70 


74S134 


.69 


74S194 


2.95 


74S301 


6.95 


74S20 


.68 


74S135 


1.48 


74S195 


1.B9 


74S373 


3.45 


74S22 


.98 


74S138 


1.08 


74S196 


4.90 


74S374 


3.45 


74S30 


.48 


74S139 


1.25 


74S197 


4.25 


74S381 


7.95 


74S32 


.98 


74S140 


1.45 


74S201 


14.95 


74S387 


5.75 


74S37 


1.87 


74S151 


1.19 


74S225 


8.95 


74S412 


2.98 


74S38 


1.68 


74S153 


1.19 


74S240 


3.98 


74S471 


9.95 


74S40 


.44 


74S157 


1.19 


74S241 


3.75 


74S472 


16.85 


74S51 


.78 


74S158 


1.45 


74S244 


3.98 


74S474 


17.85 


74S64 


.79 


74S161 


2.85 


74S251 


1.90 


74S482 


15.60 


74S65 


1.25 


74S162 


3.70 


74S253 


7.45 


74S570 
74S57I 


7.80 
7.80 



LM301V 
LM308V 
LM309K 
LM311 
LM317T 
LM317K 
LM318 
LM323K 
LM324 
LM337K 
LM339 
LM377 
LM380 
LM386V 
LM555V 
LM556 
LM565 
LM566V 
LM567V 
LM723 
LM/33 
LM741V 
LM747 
LM748V 
LM1310 
MC1330V 
MC1350V 
MC1358 
LM1414 
LM1458V 
LM1488 
LM1489 
LM1800 
LM1889 
LM3900 
LM3909V 
LM3914 
LM3915 
LM3916 
75451V 
75452V 
L.75453V 



.34 

.98 
1.49 

.64 
1.95 
3.95 
1.49 
4.95 

.59 
3.95 

.99 
2.29 
1.29 
1.50 

.39 

.69 

.99 
1.49 
1.29 

.49 

.98 

.29 

.79 

.59 
2.90 
1.89 
1.29 
1.79 
1.59 

.69 

.99 

.99 
2.99 
2.49 

.59 

.98 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 

.39 

.39 

.39. 



APPLE FAN $69.00 

EXTRA PLUG-IN CARDS CAN 

CAUSE YOUR APPLE TO 

OVERHEAT 

ULTRA-QUIET APPLE FAN 

DRAWS COOL AIR THROUGH 

YOUR COMPUTER 

ELIMINATES DOWN TIME 

SAVES REPAIR CHARGES 

INCREASES RELIABILITY 

CLIPS ON — NO HOLES OR 

SCREWS 

COLOR MATCHES APPLE 

LONG LIFE, LOW NOISE 

MOTOR 



IC SOCKETS 



8 pin ST 
14 pin ST 
16 pin ST 
18 pin ST 
20 pin ST 
22 pin ST 
24 pin ST 
28 pin ST 
40 pin ST 



.15 
.17 
.20 
.29 
.30 
.30 
.40 
.49 



.12 
.13 
.18 
.27 
.27 
.27 
.32 
.39 



ST = SOLDERTAIL 




8 pin WW 
14 pin WW 
16 pin WW 
18 pin WW 
20 pin WW 
22 pin WW 
24 pin WW 
28 pin WW 
40 pin WW 



.59 

.69 

.69 

.99 

1.09 

1.39 

1.49 

1.69 

1.99 



.49 

.52 

.58 

.90 

.98 

1.28 

1.35 

1.49 

1.80 



'APPLE IS A TRADEMARK 
OF APPLE COMPUTER INC. 



WW = WIREWRAP 

CONNECTORS 



TRANSISTORS 



PN2222 
2N2222 
2N2907 
2 N 3055 
2 N 3904 
2 N 3906 
1N4148(1N914) 
11N4004 



10/1.00 

.25 

.25 

.79 

10/1.00 

10/1.00 



100/ 
50/1 
50/1 
10/ 
100/ 
100/ 
25/ 
10/ 



7400 
7401 
7402 
7403 
7404 
7405 
7406 
7407 
7408 
7409 
7410 
7411 
7412 
7413 
7414 
7416 
7417 
7420 
7421 
7422 
7423 
7425 
7426 
7427 
7428 
7430 
7432 
7433 
7437 
7438 
7440 
7442 
7443 
7444 
7445 
7446 
7447 
7448 
L 7450 



.19 
.19 
.19 
.19 
.19 
.22 
.22 
.22 
.24 
.19 
.19 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.55 
.25 
.25 
.19 
.35 
.29 
.29 
.29 
.29 
.29 
.45 
.19 
.29 
.45 
.29 
.29 
.19 
.49 
.65 
.69 
.69 
.59 
.69 
.69 
.19 



8.99 
0.99 
0.99 
6.99 
8.99 
8.99 
1.00 
1.00, 



RS232 MALE 
RS232 FEMALE 
RS232 HOOD 
S-100 ST 
S-100 WW 



3.25 
3.75 
1.25 
3.95 
4.95 



DIP SWITCHES 



4 POSITION 

5 POSITION 

6 POSITION 

7 POSITION 

8 POSITION 



7400 SERIES 



7451 

7453 

7454 

7460 

7470 

7472 

7473 

7474 

7475 

7476 

7480 

7481 

7482 

7483 

7485 

7486 

7489 

7490 

7491 

7492 

7493 

7494 

7495 

7496 

7497 

74100 

74107 

74109 

74110 

74111 

74116 

74120 

74121 

74122 

74123 

74125 

74126 

74128 

74132 



.23 

.23 
.23 
.23 
.35 
.29 
.34 
.35 
.49 
.35 
.59 
1.10 
.95 
.50 
.65 
.35 
4.95 
.35 
.40 
.50 
.49 
.65 
.55 
.70 
2.75 
1.00 
.30 
.45 
.45 
.55 
1.55 
1.20 
.29 
.45 
.55 
.45 
.45 
.55 
.45 



74136 
74141 
74142 
74143 
74144 
74145 
74147 
74148 
74150 
74151 
74152 
74153 
74154 
74155 
74156 
74157 
74159 
74160 
74161 
74162 
74163 
74164 
74165 
74166 
74167 
74170 
74172 
74173 
74174 
74175 
74176 
74177 
74178 
74179 
74180 
74181 
74182 
74184 
74185 



.50 

.65 

2.95 

2.95 

2.95 

.60 

1.75 

1.20 

1.35 

.65 

.65 

.55 

1.40 

.75 

.65 

.55 

1.65 

.85 

.70 

.85 

.85 

.85 

.85 

1.00 

2.95 

1.65 

5.95 

.75 

.89 

.89 

.89 

.75 

1.15 

1.75 

.75 

2.25 

.75 

2.00 

2.00 



74186 
74190 
74191 
74192 
74193 
74194 
74195 
74196 
74197 
74198 
74199 
74221 
74246 
74247 
74248 
74249 
74251 
74259 
74265 
74273 
74276 
74279 
74283 
74284 
74285 
74290 
74293 
74298 
74351 
74365 
74366 
74367 
74368 
74376 
74390 
74393 
74425 
74426 
74490 



.85 
.90 
.90 
.95 
.95 



18.50 

1.15 

1.15 

.79 

.79 

.85 

.85 

.79 

.75 

1.35 

1.35 

1.35 

1.35 

1.25 

1.85 

1.95 

.75 

2.25 

1.35 

1.95 

1.25 

.75 

2.00 

375 

3.75 

.95 

.75 

.85 

2.25 

.65 

65 

.65 

.65 

2.20 

1.75 

1.35 

3.15 

.85 

2.55 



HOURS: Mon. - FrL, 9 to 5; Sat. 11 to 3 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE! 




JDR MICRODEVICES, INC. 

1224 S. Bascom Ave. 

San Jose, CA 95128 

800-538-5000 • 800-662-6279 (CA) 

(408)995-5430 • Telex 171-110 



TERMS: For shipping include $2.00 lor UPS Ground, $3.00 
for UPS Blue Label Air. $10.00 minimum order. Bay Area 
residents add 6Vi% sales lax. California residents add 6% 
sales tax. We reserve the right to limit quantities and sub- 
stitute manufacturer. Prices subject to change without 
notice. Send SASE for complete list. 



Circle 203 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 




74LSQ0 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74L50S 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74L521 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74 L 533 
74LS37 
74LS3S 
74LS40 
74LS42 
74L547 
74L548 
74 L 549 
74LS51 
74LSS4 
74LSS5 
74LS73 
74LS74 
74LS7S 
74LS76 
74LS78 
74LS83 
74LSB5 
74L586 
74 L 590 



74S00 
74S02 
74503 
74S04 
74505 
74508 
74509 
74510 
74S11 
74S15 
74S20 
74522 
74530 
74532 
74S38 
74540 
74S51 
74564 
74S65 
74S74 
74586 
745112 
745113 
74S114 



7400 



74LS 



74L592 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS96 
74LS107 
74LS109 
74L5112 
74LS113 
74LS114 
74L5122 
74 L 5 123 
74L5125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS133 
74LS136 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS151 
74LS153 
74LS1S4 
74 L 5155 
74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74L5162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74L-S165 
74LS168 
74L5169 
74LS170 
74LS173 
74 LSI 74 
74LS175 
74LS181 
74LS190 
74LS191 



74LS192 
74LS193 

74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS197 
74LS221 

74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS242 
74LS243 
74 L5244 
74LS245 
74LS247 
74 LS248 
74LS249 
74L5251 
74 LS2S3 
74 L 5257 
74LS258 
74 L 5260 
74LS266 
74LS273 
74LS279 
74LS283 
74LS290 
74LS293 
74LS298 
74LS3S2 
74L5353 
74LS36S 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74L5368 
74LS373 
74LS374 
74LS375 
74 L 5386 
74LS393 
74LS399 
74LS670 
81LS95 
81LS97 



74S 



74S124 
745133 
745134 
745135 
74S136 
74S138 
74SI39 
745140 
74S151 
745153 
74S157 
74S15S 
74S160 
745174 
745175 
74 S 188 
74S194 
74S195 
745196 
745240 
74S241 
745242 



2.95 
1.95 
1.95 
1.95 

2.95 



74S243 
74S244 
74S251 
74S2S3 
745257 
745258 
74S260 
745280 
745287 
74S288 
745373 
74S374 
74S387 
745471 
74S472 
745473 
74 54 74 
74S475 
745570 
74S571 
745572 
74S573 
745940 
745941 



CA3010H 
CA3013H 
CA3023H 
CA3035H 
CA3039H 
CA3046N 
CA3059N 



2.15 
3.25 
2.49 
1.35 
1.30 



CA-LINEAR 



CA3060N 
CA3080H 
CA3081N 
CA3082N 
CA3083N 
CA3086N 



CD4000 

CD40O1 
CD4002 
CD4O06 
CD4007 
CD40O9 
CD4010 
CD4011 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD4014 
CD4015 
CO '.016 
CD4017 
CD4018 
CD4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CO4026 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CD4034 
. CD4035 
L CD4040 



CD-CMOS 



CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD4048 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD4051 
CD4052 
CD4053 
CD4056 
CO4059 
CO4060 
CD4056 
CD4068 
CD4069 
CD4070 
CD4071 
C D4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD4078 
CD4081 
CD4082 
CD4093 



CD 4098 

CD4506 

C D4507 

CD4508 

CD4S10 

CD451J 

CD4512 

CD4514 

C D4515 

C D4516 

CD4518 

CD4S19 

CD4520 

CD4526 

CD4528 

CD4529 

CD4543 

CD4562 

CD4566 

C D4583 

CD4584 

CD4723 

CD4724 

MC144D9 

MC14410 

MC14411 

MC14412 

MC14419 

MC14433 

MC 14538 

MC14541 



2.49 

2.49 
2.49 



£95 
3.2S 

2.75 



2.95 
10.95 
10.95 
10.95 
12.95 
12.95 
5.95 
5.95 
9.95 
9.95 



CA3089N 
CA3Q96N 
CA3130H 
CA3140H 
CA3160H 
CA34Q1IN 
CA3600N 



1.95 

2.79 
11.95 
2.79 
2.49 



17.95 
18.95 
15.95 
15.95 

7.95 
15.95 

2.49 



Bulova Quartz Ladies Watches fH 



ONE YEAR FACTORY WARRANTY 




M3SS5Y Sum »•" 



YOUR CHOICE — 50%-OFF SUGG. RETAIL PRICE 

CALL OR SEND ORDER IN REFERENCING TO THIS AD FOR SPECIAL PRICE 

Because of Limited Supply, please provide a second and third choice 
EXAMPLE: 82395-5Y, SUGG. RETAIL $140.00, 50% OFF— YOUR COST $70.00 



LITRONIX Stick Display Sale 



SAUL 



vH' 


r, 


— 


asm, 


DTI..UWI 


"•SB" 


""saggr* 


'=S' 


... 


2 FOR 
SALE 






... 


— 




... 





_'^ZZ., 


• 


"»■! .... 


'"""i;;"' 










» 






2 1 2.BS 


1.71 


2 / 2.B6 












1U 


2 1 2.65 



...-..,,...,, 


„ [.. kh 


„„ :„,,... .<- 








a 




.■: 




,11 


21 M 


























in. _»„..„ 




































213.49 



NATIONAL Stick Display Sale 



-SALE! 



1121. 

_2i=59_ 







Mill n [)i.,i 


LED NUMEIUCDISI'LAVS 










NSN1P] 


I HO D«.m.( 


INI 


C C 3 U-itiT D»«i 


HI ,. HI H 


i*"u 


t 99 


Z/.7B 




J Z 5U*£ 


r :i 


i a ;!,,.!■:.■. 


!f.j«" 


:ii::z- 




2/.W 














21 l.ti 










2I1.TB 












2 1 \.?a 


j™™. 


"l 


68 




I7L..»«. JD 


l» 


2 1 1.95 


hSUDI 


, 


euuu 


C C • o»i ■*.„«..« 


!»!"»! 


' "^ 


~ n — 


21.88 








K :°z~:~:~z 












2/1. 1B 








2 / 3.BS 






tVn 








































2 / 3.US 






Im!!f 


i»b ~ 


"Hi - 


2(5.95 






tn.ts 










2/3.49 


"I,— 


-! 


»itzi 




.'7iD,.„ 


Hr~ 


2I3.AH 

2 1 4.95 



WVPC PRICE 



COMPUTER GRADE CAPACITORS 



r.soo 

3.D0D 
3.600 



wvoc i-nicF. 



24.000 
27.000 
32.500 
40.QQ0 
0,000 
50,000 



B2O0 OTHEft VALUES AVAILABLE - CALL OH WRITE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENT 



WVDC PRICE 



LOW PROFILE 
(TIN) SOCKETS 



Spin LP 
14 pin LP 
16 pin LP 
18 pin LP 
20 pin LP 
22 pin LP 
24 pin LP 
28 pin LP 
36 pin LP 
40 pin LP 



SOLDERTAIL (GOLD) 
STANDARD 



8 pin SG 
14 pin 5G 
16 pin 5G 
18 pin SG 
24 pin 5G 
28 pin SG 
36 pin SG 
40 pin SG 



SOLDERTAIL 

STANDARD (TIN) 



14 pin ST 
16 pin ST 
18 pin ST 
24 pin ST 
28 pin ST 
36 pin ST 
40 pin ST 






8 pin WW 
10 pin WW 
14 pin WW 
16 pin WW 
18 pin WW 
20 pin WW 
22 pin WW 
24 oln WW 
28 pin WW 
36 pin WW 
40 pin WW 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 
(GOLD} LEVEL #3 



1/4 WATT RESISTOR ASSORTMENTS -5% 



ASST 


1 


Sea. 


10 Ohn 
2/ ohn 


12 Ohrr 
33 Ohrr 


15 Ohr 
39 Ohn 


18 Ohn 
l 47 Ohn 


22 Ohm 
56 Ohm 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


2 


5ea. 


68 Ohn 
1B0 Ohn 


82 Ohrr 
220 Ohrr 


100 Ohn 
270 Ohn 


120 Ohn 
330 Ohn 


ISO Ohm 
390 Ohm 


SOpcs, 


$1.95 


ASST 


3 


5ea. 


470 Ohr 
1.2K 


560 Ohrr 
1.5K 


680 Ohn 
1.8K 


820 Ohn 
2.2K 


IK 
2.7K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


4 


5ea. 


3.3K 
8.2K 


3.9K 
10K 


4.7K 
12K 


5.6K 

15K 


6.8K 
1SK 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


5 


5ou. 


22 K 
56K 


27K 
68K 


33K 

82K 


39K 
100 K 


47K 

120K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


6 


5ea. 


15QK 
390K 


1B0K 

470K 


220K 
560K 


270 K 
680 K 


330 K 
820K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


7 


5ea. 


1M 

2.7M 


1.2M 

3.3M 


1.5M 

3.9M 


1.8M 
4.7M 


2.2M 

5.6M 


50pcs. 


$1.95 



ASST. 8R 



Includes Resistor Assts. 1-7 (350 pes.) 



$10.95 ea. 



$10.00 Minimum Order — U.S. Funds Only 
California Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 
Postage — Add 5% plus $1.50 Insurance 
Send S.A.s.E. for Monthly Sale Flyer! 




Spec Sheets — 25c 
Send 68c Postage (or your 
FREE 1982 JAMECO CATALOG 
Prices Subject to Change 



GEaEssna 

1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 
PHONE ORDERS WELCOME — (415) 592-8097 



Part No. Function Price 

7045IPI CMOS Precision Timer 14.96 

7045EV/KI1- Stopwatch Chip, XTL 24.95 

7106CPL 3Vj Digit A/D (LCD Drive) 16.95 

7106EV/KU* IC, Circuit Board, Display 34.95 

7107CPL 3Vi Digit A/D (LED Drive) 15.95 

71Q7EV/Kit» IC, Circuit Board, Display 29.95 

7116CPL 3Vi Digit A/D LCD DIs. HLD. 18.95 

7117CPL 3Vi Digit A/D LED DIS. HLD. 17.95 

7201IDR Low Battery Volt Indicator 2.25 

7205IPG CMOS LED Stopwatch/Timer 12.95 

7205EV/Kit* Stopwatch Chip, XTL 19.95 

7206CJPE Tone Generator 5.15 

7206CEV/Kit- Tone Generator Chip, XTL 12.95 

7207AIPD Oscillator Controller 6.50 

7207AEV/KIC Freq. Counter Chip, XTL 13.95 

7208IPI Seven Decade Counter 17.95 

7209IPA Clock Generator 3.95 

7215IPG 4 Func. CMOS Stopwatch CKT 13.9S 

721SEV/KU* 4 Func. Stopwatch Chip, XTL 19.95 

7216AIJI 8-Dlglt Univ. Counter CA. 32.00 

7216CUI B-Dlglt Freq. Counter CA. 26.95 

7216DIPI 8-Dlglt Freq. Counter CC. 21.95 

7217IJI 4-Dlglt LED Up/Down Counter 12.95 

7218CIJI 8-Dlglt Univ. LED Drive 10.95 

7224IPL LCD 4Vj Digit Up Counter DRI 11.25 

7226AIJL 8-Dlgit Univ. Counter 31.95 

7226AEV/Klt* 5 Function Counter Chip, XTL 74.95 

7240IJE CMOS Bin Prog. Timer/Counter 4.95 

7242IJA CMOS Dlvide-Dy-256 RC Timer 2.05 

7250IJE CMOS BCD Prog. Timer/Counter 6.00 

7260IJE ■ CMOS BCD Prog. Timer/Counter 5.25 

7555IPA CMOS 555 Timer (8 pin) 1.45 

7556IPD CMOS 556 Timer (14 pin) 2.20 

76HBCPA CMOS Op Amp Comparator 5MV 2.25 

7612BCPA CMOS Op Amp Ext. Cmvr. SMV 2.95 

7621BCPA CMOS Dual Op Amp Comp. SMV 3.95 

7631CCPE CMOS Trl Op Amp Comp. 10MV 5.35 

7641CCPD CMOS Quad Op Amp Comp. 10MV 7. SO 

7642CCPD CMOS Quad Op Amp Comp. 10MV 7.50 

7660CPA Voltage Converter 2.95 

8038CCPD Waveform Generator 4.95 

8048CCPE Monolithic Logarithmic Amp 21.60 

8059CCQ 50ppm Band— GAP Volt Rel. Diode 2.50 

B211CPA Volt Ref/lndlcator 2.95 

8212CPA Volt Ref/lndlcator 2.9S 



74CQ0 
74C02 
74C04 
74C08 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 
74C85 
74C86 
74C89 
74C90 
74C93 



74C 



1.29 



LH0002CN 6.85 
LM10CLH 4.50 
LM11CLH 4.75 
LH0070-OH 4.95 
TL071CP .79 

TL072CP 1.39 
TL074CN 2.49 
LH0OB2CD 35.80 
TL082CP 1.19 
TL084CN 
LH0094CD 
LM300H 
LM301CN 
LM302H 
LM304H 
LM305H 
LM307CN 
LM308CN 
LM309H 
LM309K 
LM310CN 1.75 
LM311J/CN .90 
LM312H 2.49 

LM317MP LIS 
LM317T 1.75 

LM317K 3.95 

LM318CN 1.95 
LM319N 1.95 

LM320K-5 1.35 
LM320K-12 1.35 
LM320K-15 1.35 
LM320T-5 1.25 
LM320T-I2 1.25 
LM320T-15 1.25 
LM323K 
LM324N 
LM329DZ 
LM331N 
LM334Z 
LM335Z 
LM336Z 
LM337T 
LM337MP 
LM338K 
LM339N 
LM340K-S 1.35 
LM340K-12 1.35 
LM340K-15 1.35 



2.19 



1.95 



5.95 



6.95 



74C95 


1.59 


74 C 107 


1.89 


74C151 


2.95 


74C1S4 


3.95 


74C157 


2.25 


74C160 


1.69 


74 C 161 


1.60 


74 C 162 


1.49 


74 C 163 


1.69 


74 C 164 


1.59 


74C173 


1.39 


74 C 174 


1.39 


74C17S 


1.19 


74 C 192 


1.69 


74C193 


1.69 


74 C 195 


1.59 


LINEAR 


LM340T-5 


1.25 


LM340T-12 


1.25 


LM340T-15 


1.25 


LM341P-5 


.75 


LM34IP-12 


.75 


LM341P-15 


.75 


LM342P-5 


.69 


LM342P-12 


.69 


LM342P-15 


.69 


LM34BN 


1.25 



74C221 

74 C 240 

74C244 

74 C 373 

74C374 

74C901 

74C903 

74C9U 

74C912 

74C915 

74C917 

74 C 922 

74C923 

74C925 

74C926 

80C95 

80C97 



1.95 
2.25 
2.25 
2.49 
Z.59 



10.95 
5.49 
5.75 
7.50 



LM350K 

LF351N 

LF353N 

LF355N 

LF356N 

LM358N 

LM359N 

LM370N 

LM373N 

LM377N 

LM380N 

LM3B1N 

LM382N 

LM384N 

LM386N-3 

LM387N 

LM389N 

LM392N 

LF398N 

LM399H 

TL494CN 

TL496CP 

NE510A 

NE529A 

NE531H 

NE536H 

NE540H 

NE544N 

NE550A 

NE555V 

LM556N 

NE564N 

LM565N 

LM566CN 

LM567V 

NE570N 



LM702H 

LM703CN 

LM709N 

LM710N 

LM711N 

LM723N 

LMJ33N 

LM739N 

LM741CN 

MC1741SCG 

LM747N 

LM748N 

LM1014N 

LM1310N 

LM1458CN 

LM1488N 

LM1489N 

LM1496N 

LM1S56V 

LM1800N 

LM1871N 

LM1872N 

LM1B77N-9 

LM1889N 

LM1B96N 

LM2002T 

LM2877P 

LM2878P 

LM2896P-1 

LM3189N 

LM3900N 

LM390SCN 

LM3909N 

LM3914N 

LM3915N 

LM3916N 

RC4136N 

RC4151NB 

RC4194TK 

RC419STK 

LM4500A 

ICL8038B 

LM13O80N 

LM13600N 

75138N 

754 50N 

75451 CN 

7S492 



CAPACITOR CORNER 



50 VOLT CERAMIC DISC CAPACITORS 



10 pf 
22 pf 
47 pi 
100 pf 
220 Pf 
470 pf 



1-9 10-99 100+ 



1-9 10-99 100+ 



Value 
-OOluF 

.0047/jF .08 .06 .05 

.QljiF .08 .06 .05 

.022*1 F .09 .07 .06 

,047uF .09 .07 .06 

AfiF .15 .12 .10 
100 VOLT MYLAR FILM CAPACITORS 

.OOlmf .12 .10 .07 I .022m! .13 .11 .08 

,0022mf .12 ,10 .07 .047ml .21 .17 .13 

,0O47mf .12 .10 .07 .lmf .27 .23 .17 

,01mf .12 .10 .07 | .22mf .33 .27 .22 
+20% DIPPED TANTALUMS (Solid) CAPACITORS 



J/35V 
. 15/35 V 
.22/35V 
-33/35V 
.47/35V 
.68/35V 
1.0/35V 



.39 .34 



.29 



1.5/3SV 
2. 2/35 V 
3.3/2SV 
4.7/25V 
6.8/2SV 
15/25V 
22/6V 



1.39 1.25 .95 



MINI. ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC CAPACITORS 
1-99 100-499 500+ Radial 1-99 100-499 500+ 



.47/50V 

1.0/50V 

3.3/50V 

4. 7/25 V 

10/25V 

10/50V 

22 /25V 

22/50V 

47/25V 

47/50V 

100/25V 

I00/50V 

220/2SV 

220/5OV 

470/2SV 

1000/16 V 

2200/16V 



.25 .21 .19 



.49 .45 .41 



.89 .79 .69 



.4J/25V 
.47/SOV 
1.0/ 16 V 
1.0/25V 
1.0/50 V 
4.7/16V 
4. 7/25 V 
4.7/50V 
10/ 16 V 
10/25 V 
10/50V 
47/50V 
100/16V 
100/2SV 
100 /50V 
220/16V 
4 70/26 V 



.15 .13 .12 
.16 .14 .13 



.21 .17 .14 



522 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 202 on inquiry card. 



Semiconductor 




Clock Modules 



12V DC 

AUTOMOTIVE/ 

INSTRUMENT 

CLOCK 

APPLICATIONS: 

• In-dash autoclocks 
■ After-market auto/ 

RV clocks 

• Aircraft-marine elks. 

• 12VDC oper. Instru. 

• Portable/battery 

Features:Bright 0.3" green display. Internal crystal time- 
base. ±0.5 sec. /day accur. Auto, display brightness control 
logic. Display color filterable to blue, blue-green, green fit 
yellow. Complete— just add switches and lens. 

MA1003 Module (3.05"Lxus'Hx.9B"D). $16.95 



CLOCK MODULES 

MA1Q23 .7" Red Digital LED Clock Modulo 8.95 

MA1026 .7" Dig. LEDAIorm Clock/Thermometer 18.95 

MA5036 .3" Red Digital LED Clock/Timer 6.95 

MA1002 .5" Red Digital LED Clock & Xformer 9.95 

MA1010 .8" Red Digital LED Clock 7.95 

MA1032 CBA ,5" Digital LCD Clock 1 7.95 

MA1043 .7" Green Digital LED Clock 8.95 

TRANSFORMERS 

102-P20 XformerforMAI 023, 1043 & b036 Mods. 3.49 

102-P22 Xformer for MA1026 Clock Modules 3.49 

102-P24 Xformer for MA1010 Clock Modules 3.49 




2 National Semiconductor 

; RAM SALE 

STATIC RAMS 
MM2114N-24K(200NS) $2.49 each 

[8 EACH $16.95'lot) (100 EACH $195.95Mot) 

MM2114N-2L 4KI200NS) Low Power $2.95each 

(8 EACH $19.95/lo!> (100 EACH $225.00/lot| 

MM2147N 4K (70NSJ $4.95 each 

(B EACH $3-f.95'lot| (100 EACH $419.95/101) 

MM6116P-4 16KI200NS) $14.95 each 

|8 EACH S99.95/lot) (J00 EACH $1195.00/lol} 

DYNAMIC RAMS 
MM4164N-20 64KI200NS) $14.95each 

(8 EACH S99.9S)Ol) (100 EACH $1 195.00/lQl) 

MM5290N-2 16K (150NS) 4116 $2.95 each 

(8 EACH S19.95Alo1) (100 EACH S225.00/IO1) 

MM5290N-4 16K (250NS)4116 $1.95 each 

(8 EACH S14.95(tot) (100 each S175.00/IQ1) 

EPROM Erasing Lamp 




• Erases 2708, 2716, 1702A, 5203Q, 5204Q, etc. 

• Erasas up to 4 chips within 20 minutes. 

• Maintains constant exposure distance of one inch. 

• Special conductive foam liner eliminates static build-up. 

• Built-in safety lock to prevent UV exposure. 

• Compact - only 7-5/8" x 2-7/8" x 2" 

• Compteta with holding tray for 4 chips. 
UVS-11EL Replacement Bulb S16.95 

UVS-11E $79.95 



JOYSTICKS 





JS-5K 5K Linear Taper Pots $5.25 

JS-100K 100K Linear Taper Pots S4.95 

JVC-40 40K (21 Video Controller in case . . . $4.95 




MUFFIN® FAN 

Uu dependable, low cost, largest selling 
Ian lor commercial cooling applications. 

■ 105cfm free air delivery 

• 4.6a" sq. x 1.50" depth. Weight ■ 17 oz. 

■ acoustical rating as low as NC-38 

• more than 10 yrs. cont. duly at 10°C 

• impedance protected 

■ lor arnDienls to 70X 

■ UL yellow card recognized & 
CSA approved 

Model No. MU2A1, Part No. 02821, Boar- 
ing— Sleeve. 115V. 50760Hz, 14 Watts. 
105cfm 

MU2A1 . . . ,$9.95ea. 



JE215 Adjustable 
Dual Power Supply 

General Description: The JE215 is a Dual Power 
Supply with independent adjustable positive and nega- 
tive output voltages. A separate adjustment for each 
of the supplies provides the user unlimited applications 
for IC current voltage requirements. The supply can 
also be used as a general all-purpose variable power 

Supply. FEATURES: 

• Adjustable regulated power supplies, 
pos. and neg. 1.2VDC to 15VDC. 
- • Power Output (each supply): 

— > . ._-' 5VDC @ 500mA, 1 OVDC @ 750m A, 

12VDC@500mA, and 
15VDC@ 175mA. 
Two, 3-terminal adj. IC regulators 
with thermal overload protection. 
Heat sink regulator cooling 
LED "on" indicator 
Printed Board Construction 
120V AC input 
Size: 3-1/2"w x B-1/16"L x 2"H 

JE215 Adj. DualPowerSupply Kit(asshown) . . $24.95 




(Picture not shown but similar in construction to above) 

JE200Reg. Power Supply Kit (5VDC.1 amp) . . $14.95 

JE205 Adapter Brd.(to JE200) ±5,^9 & ^12V. $12.95 

WJE210Var.Pwr.Sply. Kit, 5-15VDC, to 1.5amp. SI 9.95 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



DPBJ12 
DPB214 
DPB216 
DPB22* 
DP8226 
DP8ZZS 
DPS228 
IN 58243 
INS825Q 
PPS251 
DPB253 
DP825S 
DPB257 
□ PB39 
OPB27S 

DP8303 
DPB304 
DPB307 
DP8308 
DP8310 
DP63I1 



System Contn 
Syilem Conln 
I/O Exoanaer 
Asynchionaui 



Octa 






I Drive 



6800/6B00 SUPPORT DEVICES - 

MC6800 MPU 

MC6802CP MPU wiin Ciock ind RAM 

MC6810API 1;8kB Static HAM 

MC6821 Peripheral Inter. Adapt (MCtiSZOJ 

MC682S 

MC6830U 

MC6B50 

MC6BS2 

MC6360 

MCS8S2 



1Q2J*( 



2400tJPi 



Interrupt Cont 

t ROM (MC6SA30-8) 



DEM 



Trans. (MCBT26) 

MICROPROCESSOR CHIPS 

Z80 (JB0C) CPU (MK3SS0N) (2MHi) 

Z80A (7B0-1) CPU tMK358JN.4] |«MHI) 
CDP1602 CPU 



2650 



NS8035N-6 
NS8039N-6 
N5S04QN-6 



"(CO! 



MM506H 
MM51QH 
MM1WN 
MMS013N 



Dual M-S 
Dual 



Oynar 
0-Blt Stal 



2M-BU Dynamic 
IMJ-BIt Dynamic/* 
500/512-Bit Oynaml 
Octal 80-Bit 
Octal 10-Bit 
2iWV(14WA) irjJ4-B.lt Dynamic 



-DATA ACQUISITION- 



LM1MZ 
LM135Z 
LF3S6N 



-DATA ACQUISITION (CONTINUED)- 



AUC0B1JCCN 

DAC1M0LCN 

DAC10O8LCN 

DAC1020LCN 

DAC1022LCN 

OACI222LCN 

CD405IN 

A V -5-1013 



B-BltA/D Converter (l&Cri. h 
10-Blt O/A Conv. Micro. Com 
10-BUD/AConv. Micro. Com: 
10-BHD/A Converter {0.05% L 
10-Blt D/A Converter (0.20% L 
12-Blt D/A Converter (0.2OV. L 
8-Channal Multiplexor 
30K BAUD UART 

RAM'S 



256x1 Stalk 
1024 k! Dym 



21I4L-2 
74S200 
4116N-1! 1 



1024x4 Static 450ns 
1024x4 Static 450ns Low Power 
1024x4 Static 200ns 
1024x4 Static 20Qns Low Power 
256x1 Static 
H16) 16K Dynamic 250ns (MM5M0N-4 
■; Dynamic 200ns 



4096x1 



5101 256x4 Static 

MM5261 1024x1 Dynamic Fully Decoded 

MM52S2 SKxl Dynamic 

MM52B0/2101 4096x1 Dynamic 

MM5230N-2 (4116) 16K Dynamic lions (UPD416C-31 
IM5298J-3A BKDyn. 203ns (lower ^olMM52MJ) 



-I MSI 16 



•;(2Kx8) Sta 



:200m 



1 [16x«0C) 
4K Dynamic 16-pln 
4K Static 
1024x4 Static 

-PROMS/EPROMS- 



TMS2716 
2716lntol(2516)TI 
2J32lntel Tl 
2756 

2764 Q 



2K L 

BK EPROM 



PROM 



5203 

82523(745188) 

82S115 

B2S123(74S2Bi| 

S251B5 

— Over 33 M 



2048 PROM 
32x8 PROM [ODen 
4036 Bipolar PROJv 
32x8 Tribute Blpi 
8K PROM 
ire PROMS Listed ll 

■ROM'S- 



2513(2)40) Cnaracter Ger 

2513(3021) Character Generator (Lower Cass 

NMOS READ ONLY MEMORIES- 

MCM66710P 128x9x7 ASCII Shifted w/Greex 

MCM6674QP 12Bx9x7 Math SymDol L Pictures 

MCM6S750P 128x9x7 Alpna. Control Char. Gen. 

MICROPROCESSOR MANUALS- 



D50025CN 
DS0026CN 
INS1771N- 



- SPECIAL FUNCTION - 



AY-5-9100 
AY- 5-9200 
AY -5-9500 
AY- 5-2376 
HD0165-5 
74C922 
74C923 
MM53190N 
MM57493N 



i Direct LED Drive w/N Buis Int. 
12-Seg.VAC Fluor. Driver (20-pln pie 

-TELEPHONE/KEYBOARD CHIPS" 






1.95 




24D0-1D 

Part No. Pas. Canliguration 



EECO Rocker DIP Switch — "Mlni-DipTM" 2400 Series 

THE MOST UNIQUE DIP SWITCH AVAILABLE! 

MINI -DIP is designed to retrofit all maioi Lrartds of Dip switches Unique Icalures include locking 

[oa design Id prevent accidental actuation and gold sell-wiping contact. Ono-plccc housing and 
pr en- in terminals proven! contamination 2-10 station Form "A" and 1-5 station Form "C." 
• Tormtnali on .100 > J(lo (2.54 x 1. 62) canters • PCB or dip socket mounlahle • Positive 
cleaning/wiping action with gold contact • Total seal and bottom seal 
Socket Price Pa rt Ho. Pos. ConllQuraltan Socket Price 



2. -100-2 
2400-3 

2400-4 

2400-AIltn 

2400-5C 



B pin 


TB 


10/ 6.95 


2400 G 


6 123456 


14 pin 


B pin 


DA 


10/ 7.95 


2400-7 


7 1234567 


14 pin 


B pin 


m 


10/ S.95 


2400-B 


6 1234567B 


16 pin 


B pin 


.99 


10/ 8.95 


2400-9 


9 123455789 


18 pin 


4 pin 


1.U9 


10/ 9.95 


2400-10 


0123456789 


20 pin 



- 10/ 9.95 

- 10/10.95 

- 10/11.95 

- 10/12.95 

- 10/13.95 




JE608 PROGRAMMER 

2704/2708 EPROM PROGRAMMER 

GENERAL APPLICATIONS: 

• To program EPROMS 2704 and 2708. 

• Developmental system lor microcomputer circuits 

• To read the contents at a pro- prog ram marl EPROM 

• To compare EPROM(e) lor contain differences 

• To smulato a programmed EPROM 

• To slore program In RAMS lor alterations 

• Three separate Display Registers: 8 LEO's lor Hex 
Key entrlee, 10 LED's (2 , -2'( for Address Register and 8 
LED's for Data Memory Reglstar. The Data Memory 
Register displays the content ol Ihe RAMa from the EPROM Chip. Development of microprocessor systems by 
moans ol a ribbon cable from Ihe programmer panel test socket lo the EPROM socket on Ihe microprocessor 
board. Rapid checking verification ol programmed data changes. User may move dele from a master to RAM'a 
or write Into RAM's with keyboard entries. Allows manual stepping manipulation (up end down) at any address 
location. Slend-alone EPROM Programmer consisting of: A 1B-key Hexadecimal Keyboard assembly, Program- 
mer Board assembly wllh 4 power supplies and a LED/Test Socket Panel Board assembly. The Test Socket Is 
zero lores Insertion type. Power requirements: 11SVAC, 60Hz. BW. Compact desk-lop enclosure: Color- 
coordinated designer's esse with light tan penele end molded ond pieces In mocha brown. Size: 3V<"H x 11"W 
xB'/TD. Weight: 5 lb*. 

The JE608 EPROM Programmer is a completely sell-contained unit wrjich Is independent ol computer control and requires no 
additional systems lot iis operations. The EPROM can be programmed from the Hexadecimal Keyboard or from a pre- 
programmed EPROM. The JE608 Programmer can emulate a programmed EPROM by the use ol its internal RAM circuits. 
This will allow the user to test or pretest a program for a system, prior toprogiamming a chip. Any changes in the program cen 
be enteied directly into ihe memory circuits with the Hexadecimal Keyboard so that rewriting the entire program will not be 
necessary. The JE608 Programmer contains a Programmer/ Board w/25 IC's Ef includes power supplies of: -5V, 
+ 5V. + 12V and + 26V. The Hexadecimal Keyboard and LED/Test Socket Penel bosrd are separate assemblies within the 
system. 

JE608K Kit $399.95 

JE608A Assembled and Tested $499.95 



JE608-16K ADAPTER BOARD 

FOR 2716/2758 EPROMS 

ie JE808 Programmer to be mc-dilleo for the eddi 



programming of tho 2716 and 
for ihu 2" bit and also for selecting the proper power and 
laiing tha 2716 116K) EPROM is done separately to each 
iscity in the JE808 Programmer. 



GENERAL DESCRIPTION 

The JE60B-18K Adapter Boar 

2758 EPROMS, The adapter provides for adding an aooressswi 

timing pulses to ba applied to the EPROM. Programming and t 

half (1024x81 ol the EPROM because of the existinrj BK RAM 

JE608-16K Adapter Board Kit $29.95 

JE608-Upgrade (Send assembled JE608 to factory for adapter installation $99.95 

of the JE608-16K Adapter Board Kit) 
JE608A-16K Mod. Assembled JE608 w/AdaptBr (JE608-16K) Installed $599.95 



$10.00 Minimum Order — U.S. Funds Only 
California Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 
Postage — Add 5% plus $1.50 Insurance 
Send S.A.S.E. for Monthly Sale Flyer! 



Spec Sheets — 25c 
Send 88c Postage for your 
FREE 1982 JAMECO CATALOG 
Prices Subject to Change 




M 



JB S EBHl l ffi iiHl 



■ 0, 



ameco 



ELECTRONICS 



1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 
PHONE ORDERS WELCOME — (415) 592-8097 



BOOKS > 

National Semiconductor — Intersil — Intel 

30001 National CMOS Data Book 16.96 

1640 pages) 74C, CD4000, and A/D Converters 

30002 National Interface Data Book K.96 

1704 pages) DP, DS8000, DS3600, DS75000, etc. 

30003 National Linear Data Book $8.96 

(1376 pages) LM, LF, ADC, DAC, LH Series 

30004 National Sorias 80- BoardLevol Computer (224pagnsl ,.,$4.96 

30005 National TTL Logic Data Book $8.96 

1624 pages) 740Q,LS,L,H,S, and DMB0Q0 Series 

30006 Buy above 13) 30001,3,6 es a set $19.96/lot 

30009 Intersil Data Book (1074 pages) $6.96 

010400 Intel Component Data Catalog $10.00 

Full data sheets for Intel's products incl. memory devices, 
microproc, peripherals & Indust./mil. products (1328 pages) 

205610 Intel Peripheral Design Handbook $7.50 

Full data sheets, appl. notes for Intel peripheral device 
components (644 pages) 

AC and DC Wall Transformers 

10 lol With Universal Plug and 

■*^^^^^^^^^^ 9V Batlery Snap 

VtB MLV Selective voltages: 6,9,12VDC. 

IkM SB Polarity selection { + !■). six-loot 

a'^Bv S9 lino from adaptor 10 plugs — six- 

v!l HJ HH Inch line from adapter to battery 

v ■MLV snap. 120W60H2. 300mA. 

Part No. Input Output Price 

AC 250 117W60HZ 12VAC 250mA EJUS 

AC 500 I17V/60HZ 12VAC 500mA $4.95 

AC1000 117W60HZ 12VAC 1 amp S5.95 

AC1700 117V/60HZ 9VAC 1.7 amp $3.95 

DC6912 (above) 120W60Hz 6,9,12VDC 300mA $9.95 

DV9200 117V/60HZ 9VDC 200mA $3.25 

DC900 120V/60HZ 9VDC 500mA $3.95 

DC12Q0 120V/60HZ 12V0C 300mA $3.95 

CONNECTORS 



DB25P D-Subminiature Plug S2.95 

DB25S D-Subminiature Socket $3.50 

D20418-2 Scram Lock Hdwr. (2) DB25S/P 2/S.99 

DB51226 Cover for DB25P/S $1.75 

22/44SE P.C. Edge 122/44 Pin) $2.95 

UG88/U BNCPlug $1.79 

UG89/U BNC Jack $3.79 

UG175/U UHF Adapter $ .49 

S0239 UHF Panel Beep $1.29 

PL258 UHF Adapter $1.60 

PL259 UHF Plug $1.60 

UG260/U BNC Plug $1.79 

UG1094AJ BNC Bulkhead Recp $1.29 

TRS-8Q 
16K Conversion Kit 

Expand your 4K TRS-BO System to 16K 
Kit comes complete with: 

• 8ea. MM5290(UPD416/4116)16KDyn. Ram(-ns) 

• Documentation for conversion 

TRS-16K2 *150ns 19.95 

TRS-18K3 *200ns '5.95 

TRS-16K4 '250ns 14.95 

JE610 ASCII 
Encoded Keyboard Kit 




The JE6T0 ASCII Keyboard Kit can be interfaced into 
most any computer system. The kit comes complete 
with an industrial grade keyboard switch assembly 
(62-keys), IC's, sockets, connector, electronic compo- 
nents and a double-sided printed wiring board. The 
keyboard assembly requires +5V @ 150mA and -12V 
@ 10 mA for operation. Features: 60 keys generate the 
126 characters, upper and lower case ASCII set. Fully 
buffered. Two user-define keys provided for custom 
applications. Caps lock for upper-case-only alpha charac- 
ters, Utilizes a 2376 (40-pln) encoder read-only memory 
chip. Outputs directly compatible with TTL/DTL or 
MOS logic arrays. Easy interfacing with a 16-pin dip or 
18-pin edge connector. Size: 3)4" H * 14JV'W x 8%"D 

JE610/DTE-AK £pKgg^ . ..$124.95 



ir C1n |/- t 62-Key Keyboard, PC Board, * -7Q qc 

JE610 Kit & Components (no case} $ 79.95 

K62 62-Key Keyboard (Keyboard only) . . .$ 34.95 

DTE-AK (case only — 3V*"Hxll"Wx8¥«"D)$ 49.95 



JE212 - Negative 12VDC Adapter Board Kit 
for JE610 ASCII KEYBOARD KIT 

Provldes-12VDC from lncoming5VDC . .$9.95 



JE600 
Hexadecimal Encoder Kit 




FULL 8-BIT 
LATCHED OUTPUT 
19-KEY KEYBOARD 



The JE600 Encoder Keyboard Kit provid 
hexadecimal digits produced from sequen 
to allow direct programming for 8-bit 
or 8-bit memory circuits. Three addition 
vided for user operations with one ha> 
output available. The outputs are latched ar 
with 9 LED readouts. Also included Is a key 
Features: Full 8-bit latched output for mi 
use. Three user-define keys with one b 
operation. Debounce circuit provided for 
9 LED readouts to verify entries. Easy inti 
standard 16-pln IC connector. Only +5V 
for operation. Size: 3'/i"H x 8%"W x 8%"D 
(After assembled 



J E600/DT E-H K SS5 



two separate 

icroprocassor 
keys are pro- 
lg a bistable 
id monitored 

entry strobB. 

coprocessor 
elng bistable 

all 19 keys, 
srfaclng with 
DC required 

. $99.95 



$59.95 

K19 19-Key Keyboard (Keyboard only) .... $14.95 
DTE-HK (case only — 3Vj ,, Hx8V. , 'wx8¥."D) $44.95j 



Circle 202 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



523 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

800-854-8230 






EPSON/VISTA MX-80 




SAVE S300 






ELPAC FD206 8" 


1 


LIST 


ACP 


Apple Board Sei 


LIST 


ACP 


Floppy Disk Power Supply 




si Best seller S645 00 


$42900 


Z80 Sodcard (Microsoft) 


S3 95 00 


S289 00 


Drives 2 Drives LIST 


ACP 


LOWEST PUBLISHED PRICE 




16K Ramcard (Microsoft] 


195 00 


169 00 


■24V (a 3A -5V (S 2 5 A SV w 5A S 1 59 00 


S99 00 


Note: Supply Limned 




Vision 80 display card (Vislai 
ALL THREE ONLY $679 save S306 


395 00 


299 00 







524 BYTE March 1982 



Circle 8 on inquiry card. 



BECKMAN DIGITAL MULTIMETERS IC SPECIAL PURCHASE 



tech 300 Digital Mutli 

TECH 3lOOrgi1al Mullt 
tech 330 Oigital Muin 
VC-201 Vinyl Carrying i 
DC-202 Delu.eCarrym 

RP-221 RP Probe 

CT-23! AC Current Clamp 

OL-24) Deluxe" 





B2S09 64*9 RAM 




DPB304 Ocial Dnva 




DAC86EX O/A Con, 


10 00 


MCI650 Mi Speed A 


24 00 


SN75136 


35 00 


MC10210 


35 00 


LM339 


42 00 


LM7I0CN 




2 or 4 MM; Eipindible 


uiei 21I4LI 


16K 4 MHz Kil 




16K 4MHz Ail 




32K MH; K,l 




T^-T2K 4 MHz Ail 




Bare Board 




Bare Bd * all Paris 




f«i«a 


81S5/0156 I/O 




8755 I/O w/EI'llOM 




B202 Dyn RAM Corn 




B205/74S 138 Decoder 




8212 8 bit O 




8214 Priority Inl 




8216 Bus Driver 




8224 Cioc* Gen 




ISSfl 4 MH; 




8226 Bus Driver 




8T26 Bus Driver 




8225 Sys Con 




8238 Sys Con 




8243l<OE>p 




8250 Asyn Com 




8251 Proq I/O 




8253 fnl Tm.iT 




8255 Prog I/O 




8257 Prog DMA 




8259 Prog Inl 




8275 CRT Con 




8279 Prog Keyboard 






280- PtO 


2 5 MHz 


Z8GA-PIO 


4 MHz 


Z80-CTC 


2 5 MHz 


Z80A-CTC 


4 MHz 


Z80-DMA 


2 5 MHZ 


28QA-OMA 


4 M H; 


ZBu-SIO/0 


2 5 MHz 


ZBOA-SlO/0 


4 MH( 


Z80-SIO<1 


2 5 MHz 


280A-SIO 1 


4 MM; 


ZB0SIO 2 


2 5 MHz 


ZBUA-SIO 2 


4 MHZ 


■fl.TWUM^VMa : . 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

800-854-8230 

TWX: 910-595-1565 



Mail Order: P.O. Box 17329 Irvine, CA 92713 (800) 854-8230 

Retail: 1310 B E. Edinger, Santa Ana. CA 92705 (714) 558-8813 
542 W. Trimble. San Jose. CA 95131 (408) 946-7010 



KffirMNCEDi . 
COMPUXE^ 



Circle 8 on inquiry card. 



BYTE March 1982 



525 



Unclassified Ads 



FOR SALE: BYTE. May 1978 Through May 1981 (37 issues). 
Kilobaud Microcomputing, #1 1 through #29 and #37 through 
#54 (37 issues). Creative Computing, January 1978 through Ju- 
ly 1981 [34 issues). onComputmq, Summer 1979 through 
Spring 1981 (8 issues). Each issue for S 1 .75 or all of them for 
S 1 50. I will pay postage. Joe. 3503 Berkeley PI. NE, Albuquer- 
que, NM 87106. |505| 266-2344 

FOR SALE: 16-coiumn calculator printer. Works, but little 
documentation. S25 plus shipping (5 pounds). Hex keypad and 
display, obviously homemade; S20. Fifty Tn-state bipolar ROMS 
that decode and drive eight S-100 signals directly from 280. No 
external buffering necessary. Derives sMEMR, MWRT. sINP. 
sOUT. pSYNC. INTA. sWO, and pWR. S6 each. Mark Derthick. 
7 Fraternity Row. St. Louis. MO 63130. |314J 721-9093. 



FOR SALE: Heath H-89 all-in-one microcomputer. Built in 
July 1981. Floppy-disk drive. 48 K programmable memory, 
cassette interface, HDOS 2 .0 DOS. Microsoft a nd BH BASIC. 1 5 

disks of club programs, and ail documentation S3000 value for 
S 1 700. Also have Heath ET-3400 trainer. EE-340 1 
microprocessor self-instruction course, and final exam; SI95. 
Will pay shipping in U.S. Gary Bagby, 2520 Childs Rd., Omaha, 
NE 68147. [402] 731-1871. 

FOR SALE: Ohio Scientific Challenger III (Model C3-SI) with 
three processors (6502A. 68B00, Z80A) and 56 K memory. 
Double-sided 8-mch floppies for 1 .2 megabytes storage. CP/M 
operating system with FORTRAN and COBOL compilers. 
Manuals and documentation included. S4800. Ron Hopson, 
POB 7929 |NI73), Philadelphia, PA 19101 



FOR SALE: Interac computer— not used, still in the package. 
With 16 K RAM. 2 K ROM. cassette. 1 500 bps. eight colors. 
and sound; S284. Write for more details. Steve Buhk. 109 East 
Kentucky Ave.. Deland. FL 32720. 



FOR SALE: Centronics 730 printer, same as Radio Shack 
Lineprmter II, New, only tested. Full documentation. Extra rib- 
bons. S600 UPS COD. D. Dingley. 417 Liberty St.. Pamesviile. 
OH 44077. |2I6) 354-5759. 



FOR SALE: SSM CB 1 A 8080 S- 1 00 processor board with I K 
RAM, 2 K video monitor in ROM, and parallel I/O port. 
Assembled and tested. Virtually unused. S 125. Craig One. 40 
Creighton St., Cambridge. MA 02140. (617) 661-3966. 



UNCLASSIFIED POLICY: Readers who are soliciting or giving advice, or who have 
equipment to buy, sell or swap should send in a clearly typed notice to that effect. To be 
considered for publication, an advertisement must be clearly noncommercial, typed double 
spaced on plain white paper, contain 75 words or less, and include complete name and 
address information. 

These notices are free of charge and will be printed one time only on a space available 
basis. Notices can be accepted from individuals or bona fide computer users clubs only. We 
can engage in no correspondence on these and your confirmation of placement is ap- 
pearance in an issue of BYTE. 

Please note that it may take three or four months for an ad to appear in the magazine. 



BOMB 


Dnqoina Monitc 


>r Box 

Author|s) 


BYTE 


S< 


Article # 


Page 


Article 


1 


26 


Commodore 4022 Printer 


Holmes 


2 


44 


Integral Data Systems' Prism Printer 


Umlor 


3 


50 


Use Voiceprints to Analyze Speech 


Garcia 


4 


68 


Apple Panic 


Williams 


5 


70 


Missile Command 


Wszola 


6 


74 


Dino Wars 


Stewart 


7 


80 


The Atari Tutorial, Part 7. Sound 


Eraser 


8 


100 


Build a Half-year Clock for the Color 








Computer 


Barden 


9 


126 


The Input/Output Primer, Part 2: Intertupts 








and Direct Memory Access 


Leibson 


10 


142 


A BASIC Plotting Subroutine, Sophisticated 








Plotting with Your MX-80 


Bregoli 


1 1 


158 


Modify Your Paper Tiger for Different 








Paper Thicknesses 


Sarna 


12 


172 


Graphics II by Selanar, High-Resolution Hard 








Copy from a DECwriter 


Macero, 
Holmes, 
Banks, 
Burgess 


13 


198 


Custom and Standardized Forms for the 








Microcomputer User 


Lemmons 


14 


218 


The Fill Forms System, CP/M Programs to Cut 








Down on Paperwork 


Roch 


15 


206 


Base 2 Printer 


Jeffries 


16 


248 


Lowercase Descenders for the Epson MX-70 


Piggott 


17 


262 


Text Editing with Compuview's VEDIT 


Thompson 


18 


278 


BYTE Printer Directory 


Feigel 


19 


316 


Four Implementations of Pascal 


Woteki, 
Sand 


20 


358 


Microsoft's BASIC Compiler for the TRS-80 


Kelly 


21 


372 


LDOS— Disk Operating System for the TRS-80 


Daneliuk 


22 


384 


COBOL for the TRS-80 Models l/lll 


Archer 


23 


414 


John Bell Engineering's Apple II Parallel 








Interface Board 


Rhodes 


24 


456 


The Computer Toolbox 


Bernstein 


25 


466 


Skip Sequential: A New File Structure for 








Microcomputers 


Purdum 



FOR SALE: Linear programming package for Hewlett- 
Packard 9825 computer. Complete package consisting of 
manual and three cartridges in binder. Originally cost S450 and 
used only a couple of times. Will sell fo f S 1 25 or exchange for 
HP-85 software Pacs I don't have. Will also consider HP-85 
ROMs. CJ. Kanak. POB 28206. Tempe. AZ 85282. [602| 
968-6542. 



FOR SALE: Apple II with 64 K Pascal language system, two 
disk drives, software, and other accessories: S 2000 Zenith Z 1 9 
terminal: S600. Heath H-!4 printer, assembled: S500. All items 
in good working order, Thomas McDonnell, 1 738 Orchard Dr . 
Canton, Ml 48188, |3I3J 326-3047 weekends or after 6 p.m. 
weekdays. 



FOR SALE: Texas Instruments TI-745. Like new. Under con- 
stant maintenance by Tl. Must sell. Asking S 1000 or best offer. 
OP. Apt, 25102 Friar Lane. Southfield. Ml 48034. 



FOR SALE: TEC V-300 daisy-wheel printer. Brand new. 
Bidirectional printing at 25 cps/136 print positions wide. Pro- 
portional spacing: l/20-inch horizontal and 1/48-inch vertical. 
Centronics parallel interface. Listed at S 1 595; will sell for S 1 000 
FOB. R.G. Lathrop, 810 Rush Court, Chico. CA 95926. |9I6] 
343-7098. 



FOR SALE OR SWAP: TRS-80 4 K Color Computer, pair 
of joysticks, and three cartridges of games. Will send in original 
carton via U.P.S. $325 or will swap for a Model I mini-disk drive 
Jack Liskey, 360 Mae Rd„ Glen Burnie, MD 21061. 



Garcia Wins BOMB 
by Remote Control 

Steve Ciarcia's project on using 
your computer for remote control 
earned him first place in the 
December BOMB contest. Now if 
we could only send him the S 1 00 
cash prize by remote control. 
Senior editor Gregg Williams took 
second place with his photo essay, 
"The Coinless Arcade." Though 
Gregg is a gamesman, he's not a 
gambler and when playing video 
games he can't afford to lose 
because as a staff member he is in- 
eligible for the second-place S50 
prize. Third place went to William 
Barden Jr.'s "Color Computer from 
A to D, Make Your Color Com- 
puter 'See' and 'Feel' Better," the 
first installment in a series devoted 
to Radio Shack's TRS-80 Model I, 
Model III, and Color Computer. 



526 March 1982 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Reader Service 






Inquiry No. Page No. 


Inquiry No. Page No. 


Inc 


uiryNo. Page No. 


1 


47th STREET PHOTO 351 


86 


COMPULINK CORP. 35 


166 


GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 111 


2 


A.S.T. RESEARCH 176 




COMPUMART 120, 121 


167 


GENSTAR RENTAL ELECTR 128 


3 


AB COMPUTERS 487 




COMPUPRO/GODBOUT 78, 79 


168 


GILTRONIX.INC. 494 


4 


ABM PRODUCTS 386 


87 


COMPUSERVE 464 


169 


GILTRONIX.INC. 494 


5 


ACE COMP. PROD. 492 


88 


COMPUSYSTEMS 502 


170 


GNOSIS 328 


6 


ACKERMAN DIGITAL SYS. 235 


443 


COMPUTER COMPONENTS453 


171 


GNT AUTOMATIC INC 412 


7 


ACTION COMPUTER 73 


90 


COMPUTER DISC.OF AM. 424 


172 


H&E COMPUTRONICS 315 


8 


ADV.COMP.PROD. 524. 525 


91 


COMPUTER EXCHANGE 297 


173 


H&E COMPUTRONICS 317 


9 


ADV. MICRO DIGITAL CORP. 193 


92 


COMPUTER FURN.& ACCSS. 426 


174 


HANLEY ENGNRING 495 


10 


ADVENT PRODUCTS 132 


93 


COMPUTER MAIL ORDER 212, 213 


175 


HAYDEN BOOK CO INC 393 




ALF PRODUCTS, INC. 412 


94 


COMPUTER PLUS 490 


176 


HAYES MICROCOMP.PROD. 127 


11 


ALL ELECTRONICS CORP 415 




COMPUTER PROFESSNAL 288. 289 


177 


HAZELTINE CORP 163 


12 


ALMALY TRADING CORP. 498 


96 


COMPUTER RESOURCES 447 




HEATH COMPANY 247 


13 


ALPHA BYTE COMP.PROD. 38, 39 


284 


COMP SHOPPING CNTR 298. 299 


32 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 57 


14 


ALPHA BYTE COMP.PROD. 179 


97 


COMPUTER SPCLTIES. 273 


178 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 207 




ALPHA QUEUE SYS 504 


438 


COMPUTER TOOLBOX 405 


179 


HOUSTON INSTRUMENTS 59 


16 


ALPS 457 




COMPUTER WRHSE. 131 


180 


HOUSTON INSTRUMENTS 59 


17 


ALSPA COMP.SYS. 217 


98 


COMPUTERS ETC. 94 


181 


HUNTINGTON COMPUTING 341 


18 


ALTOS COMP.SYS. 136, 137 


99 


COMPUTERS ETC. 282 


53 


HYPERTEK, INC 72 


19 


AMDEK CORP. 81 


425 


COMPUTERS ETC. 459 


182 


IBM 103 


20 


AMER.SQUARE COMP. 124, 125 


101 


COMPUTERS WHOLESALE 149 


183 


ILLINOIS COMP.PROD. 502 


21 


ANADEX 190 


102 


COMPUTERTIME INC. 490 


184 


IMAGE TECH. INC 492 


22 


ANADEX 191 


79 


COMPUTERWARE 417 


185 


IMPRINT SOFTWARE 388 


23 


ANCRONA 311 


103 


COMPUTERWORLD INTL. 431 


186 


IMS INTERNATIONAL 241 


24 


ANDERSON JACOBSON 322 


104 


COMPUTEX CORP 86 


187 


INDUSTRIAL RESOURCES 445 


25 


ANDERSON JACOBSON 419 


105 


COMPUVIEW PROD. INC. 66 


188 


INFOSOFT COMP.SYS. 492 


26 


ANN ARBOR TERMINALS 181 




COMPUVIEW PROD. INC. 67 


189 


INTL.MICRO SYS. 211 


27 


ANSWER CORP. 96 


106 


CONCORD COMP.PROD. 421 


190 


INTEGRAL DATA SYS. 104, 105 


28 


APPARAT INC 233 


107 


CONCURRENT CORP. 464 


191 


INTEGRAND 428 


29 


APPLE COMPUTER INC 84, 85 


108 


CONSUMER COMP. 387 


192 


INTEL CORP 184, 185 


30 


APPLICATIONS GROUP.THE 504 


109 


CONSUMER COMP. 491 


193 


INTERACTIVE MICROWRE. 429 


31 


APPLIED ANALYTICS 420 


110 


CONTEXT MANGMNT.SYS. 23 


194 


INTERMEDIA SYSTEMS 76 


33 


ARBA 463 




COTTON ASSOC. 502 


195 


INTERTEC DATA SYS. 119 


35 


ARTIFICIAL INTL.RESRCH 496 


112 


CPU SHOP, THE 493 


* 


INTROL CORP 496 


36 


ASAP COMP.PROD. INC 276, 277 




CROMEMCO CV II 


196 


IOTC 502 


37 


ASAP COMP.PROD. INC. 353 


113 


CROMEMCO 1 


197 


IPEX INT'L. 352 


38 


ASHTON-TATE 301 


114 


CROMEMCO 2 


198 


ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS 8 




ASPEN SFTW.CO. 60 


115 


CUESTA SYSTEMS 492 


199 


ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS 9 


39 


ATARI 201 




CYBERNETICS INC 187 


200 


JADE COMP.PROD. 512, 513 


391 


ATLANTIC CABINET CORP 504 


116 


D & W DIGITAL 170 


201 


JADE COMP.PROD. 514 


40 


AUTOCONTROL INC 180 


117 


DATA ROYAL INC. 197 


202 


JAMECO ELECTR. 522, 523 


41 


AUTOMATED EQUPMNT. 189 


118 


DATA-ED 18 


203 


JDR MICRODEVICES 520, 521 




AVOCET422 


119 


DATA-RX INC. 366 


204 


JIM-PAK 497 


42 


AXIOM CORP 313 


120 


DATA-TYPE INC. 37 


205 


KADAK PRODUCTS 339 


43 


B&B ELECTR. 502 


121 


DATAFACE 98 




KENGORE CORP. 430 


435 


BBI MAIL ORDER 405 


122 


DATASOUTH COMP.CORP. 77 


206 


KERN PUBLISHING 222 


44 


BASF SYSTEMS 355 


123 


DATASOUTH COMP.CORP. 418 


207 


KIRBY ENG. ASSOC. 496 


45 


BAY TECHNICAL ASSOC. 415 


124 


DEALIN' ELECTR. 504 


208 


KIT-80 INC. 496 




BELL.JOHN ENGR. 489 


125 


DELMART-DELUX CHK.PRNTRS. 


209 


KIT-80 INC. 498 




BETA COMP. DEVICES 107 




138 


210 


KRAMER SYS INTL. 445 


46 


BISON PRODUCTS 432 


126 


DELPHIC SYSTEMS 234 


211 


LABORATORY MICROSYS. 504 


47 


BLAT RESRCH & DEVELP. 432 


128 


DELTA PRODUCTS 250, 251 


212 


LEADING EDGE PROD Clll 


48 


BMC INTERNATIONAL 75 


129 


DIABLO SYS INC 343 


214 


LEXICON CORP. 90 


49 


BOTTOM LINE.THE 500 




DIGITAL EQUIPMNT.CORP. 307 


215 


LIFEBOAT ASSOC. 359 


50 


BOWER-STEWART 490 


130 


DIGITAL GRAPHIC SYS 150 


216 


LJK ENTERPRISES INC. 331 


51 


BRIDGE COMPUTER 246 


131 


DIGITAL MARKETING 6 


217 


LNW RESEARCH 231 


52 


BUCKEYE STAMPING CO. 429 


132 


DIGITAL RESEARCH 24, 25 


218 


LOGICAL DEVICES 502 


54 


BUSINESS OPERATING SYS 239 


276 


DIGITAL RESEARCH 280, 281 


219 


LOMAS DATA PRODUCTS 361 


55 


BWJ TECHNOLOGY INC. 32 


134 


DISCOUNT SOFTWARE 398 


220 


LYBEN COMP.SYS. 490 


56 


BYTE BOOKS 91 


135 


DMA 333 


221 


LYBEN COMP.SYS. 496 


57 


BYTE BOOKS 279 


136 


DREAM ELECTRONICS 498 


223 


MACROTECH INTL. 223 


58 


BYTE BOOKS 287 


137 


DUAL SYS.CONTROL CORP. 32 


224 


MACROTRONICS 492 


59 


BYTE BOOKS 411 


444 


DUAL SYS.CONTROL CORP. 34 


225 


MAGNOLIA MICROSYS. 494 


60 


BYTE BOOKS 413 


445 


DUAL SYS.CONTROL CORP. 36 


226 


MARK OF THE UNICORN 237 




BYTE BACK ISSUE 453 


138 


DUPRE ENTERPR. 417 


227 


MARYMAC INDUSTRIES 261 




BYTE SUBSCRIBER 472 


139 


DYMARC IND. 435 


228 


MAXELL DATA PRODUCTS 183 




BYTE WATS 66, 423 


140 


DYNABYTE BUSN.COMP. 70 


229 


MAXTEK 431 


61 


BYTEKCOMP. SYS. 457 


141 


DYNACOMP 308, 309 


111 


MCGRAW-HILL BOOKSTORE 210 


62 


C. ITOH ELECTR. INC. 349 


142 


DYSAN CORP. 264, 265 


* 


MCGRAW-HILL MAG. 123 


63 


CALICO SYSTEMS 310 


143 


ECLECTIC SYSTEMS 324 


230 


MCGRAW-HILL RESEARCH 409 


436 


CALDISK 405 


144 


ECOSOFT 427 




MCMILLAN BOOK CLUBS 337 


64 


CALIF DATA CORP 496 


145 


EDMUND SCIENTIFIC CO 447 


231 


MEADE'S DATA SYS. 492 


65 


CALIF. DIGITAL 515 


146 


EDUCATIONAL MICROCOMP. 504 


232 


MEDIA DISTRIBUTING 444 


66 


CALIF. DIGITAL 516. 517 


147 


ELECTROLABS 488 




MEDIAMIX 192 




CALIF. MICRO COMP. 451 


148 


ELECTRONIC CONTROL 423 


233 


MEMORY MERCHANT 225 


68 


CAMBRIDGE DEVEL LABS 435 


149 


ELECTRONIC SPCLISTS 446 


234 


META COMPANIES.THE 27 




CAWTHON SCIENTF.GRP. 178 


150 


ELECTRONIC SYS.FURN 242 


235 


METAVAN INC. 500 


69 


CDR SYSTEMS 494 


151 


ELLIS COMPUTING 10 


236 


MFJ ENTERPRISES INC 148 


70 


CENTRONICS 199 


152 


EMPIRICAL RESRCH GRP. 465 


237 


MICRO AGE COMP.STORE 113 


71 


CHECK-MATE 494 


153 


EMULOG 209 


334 


MICRO BUSINESS WORLD 147 


72 


CHECK-MATE 500 


154 


ENERCOMP490 


238 


MICRO BUSN.ASSOC 352 


73 


CHECKS-TO-GO 200 


155 


EPIC COMPUTER CORP. 139 


239 


MICRO DATA BASE SYS 325 


74 


CHIPS & DALE 490 


156 


EPIC COMPUTER CORP. 427 


240 


MICRO DATA-TEK 450 


75 


CHRISLIN INDUSTRIES 327 




EPSON AMERICA 194, 195 


241 


MICRO EXCHANGE.THE 338 


76 


CMC, INTL. 115 


157 


ESSEX PUBLISHING 435 


242 


MICRO FOCUS 133 


77 


CMC.INT'L 171 


158 


EXPOTEK 64 


" 


MICRO MAGAZINE 395 


78 


CMC.INT'L. 381 


159 


FANTASTIC SIMULATIONS 498 


243 


MICRO MANAGEMENT SYS. 429 


80 


COLUMBIA DATA PROD. 357 


160 


FORD MOTOR CO. 389 




MICRO MFG SYS. 444 


437 


COLUMBIA MICRO SYS. 405 


161 


FORETHOUGHT PRODUCTS 446 


244 


MICRO MINT 407 


81 


COMMODORE BUSN.MACH. 97 


162 


FOX & GELLER ASSOC 494 


245 


MICRO PRINTER MRKTG 101 


83 


COMMUNICATION CABLE 498 


163 


FSS 419 


246 


MICRO PRO INT'L. 285 


84 


COMMUNICATIONS ELECTR. 485 


164 


FSS 502 


247 


MICRO SCI 61 


85 


COMP TRANSCEIVER 378 


165 


FUTRA CO. 20 


248 


MICRO TERM 157 




To get further information on 


the products advertising in BYTE, fill 


outt 


he reader service card with ; 


y 


our name and address. Then ci 


rcle the appropriate numbers for th« 


■ adv 


ertisers you select from the 


li 


;t. Add an 1 8-cent stamp to the 


card, then drop it in the mail. Not oi 


ily d( 


5 you gain information, but 





ur advertisers are encouraged t< 


3 use the marketplace provided by BY 


TE.T 


his helps us bring you a big- 


g 


;r BYTE. The index is provided ; 


is an additional service by the publis 


*ier, who assumes no liability for 


errors or omissions. *Correspon< 


i directly with company. 







Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



249 MICRO WORKS, THE 425 

250 MICRO-SPOT ELECTR. 490 

251 MICRODYNAMICS 492 

• MICROHOUSE 159 

252 MICROMAIL396 

253 MICROSETTE INC. 498 

254 MICROSOFT (CPD) 323 

255 MICROTAX 460 

256 MICROTECH EXPORTS 443 

257 MICROTEK INC. 363 

259 MIKOS 469 

260 MILLER MICROCOMP. SERV. 228 

313 MILWAUKEE COMP.INC 329 

261 MIN MICROCOMP SFTW 362 

262 MINI COMP.SUPPLIERS 110 

263 MINI MICRO MART 184, 499 

264 MOORE BUSN. FORMS 459 

265 MORGAN PRODUCTS 427 

266 MORROW DESIGNS 143 

267 MOUNTAIN COMPUTER 19 

268 MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS 303 

269 MSD 443 

270 MTI.INC. 471 

271 MULTI BUSN. COMP.INC. 174 

433 NASHUA CORP 472 
" NCC/AFIPS 397 

272 NCL DATA INC. 421 

273 NEBS 318 

274 NEC HOME ELECTR. USA 135 

275 NEECO305 

277 NET PROFIT COMP. 182 

278 NETRONICS 252, 253 

279 NETWORK CONSULTING CORP 498 

280 NEW GENERATION SYS. 463 

281 NORTH STAR COMP. 244, 245 

282 NORTHROP 295 

• NRI SCHOOLS ELECTR. DIV. 433 

• OASIS SYSTEMS 22 

283 OLYMPIC SALES 417 

285 OMIKRON 321 

286 OMNI RESOURCES 383 

288 ORANGE MICRO 220, 221 

289 ORANGE MICRO 227 

290 ORYX SOFTWARE 376 

291 ORYX SOFTWARE 470 

292 OSBORNE COMPUTERS 31 

293 OSBORNE/MCGRAW-HILL 116 

294 OSBORNE/MCGRAW-HILL 117 

295 OSBORNE/MCGRAW-HILL 118 

296 OSBORNE/MCGRAW-HILL 208 

297 OSM COMPUTER 161 

• OWENS ASSOC. 268, 269 
418 PACE 434 

298 PACIFIC COMP BRK. 216 

299 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 440 

300 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 490 
300 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 494 
300 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 498 
300 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 502 
300 PACIFIC EXCHANGES 504 

305 PALOMAR COMP.EQUIP. 501 

306 PAN AMERICAN ELEC INC. 326 

307 PCD SYSTEMS INC. 243 
' PERCOM DATA 7 

308 PERCOM DATA 167 

309 PERCOM DATA 167 

310 PERCOM DATA 167 

311 PERISOFT INC. 368 

• PERSONAL COMP. OWNERS 430 

312 PERSONAL COMP.SYS. 458 

• PERSONAL S/W— VISICORP 89 

427 PHASE ONE SYS.INC. 367 

314 PICKLES & TROUT 421 

315 P.M. K. ASSOCIATES 87 

• POPULAR COMPUTING 257 

' POTOMAC MICRO-MAGIC 431 

316 PRACTICAL PERIPH. 15 

317 PRIORITY ONE 506, 507 

318 PRIORITY ONE 508, 509 

319 PRIORITY ONE 510, 511 

321 PROGRAMS UNLTD. 500 

322 PROTECTO ENTERPR. 490 

323 PURCHASING AGENT.THE 270 

324 PURCHASING AGENT.THE 423 

325 QUADRAM CORP. 267 

326 QUALITY COMP. PARTS 492 

327 QUALITY COMPUTER 399 

328 QUALITY SOFTWARE 173 

329 QUASAR DATA PROD. INC. 369 

330 QUEST ELECTR. 503 

331 QUME CORP. 17 

332 R.C. ELECTRONICS 224 

333 R.R.SOFTWARE 154 

428 RACET COMPUTERS 370 

429 RACET COMPUTERS 370 

434 RADGO SALES 474 

335 RADIO SHACK CIV 
222 RANA SYSTEMS 12, 13 

336 RANDOM HOUSE 408 

337 RCA 130 

338 RCA SOLID STATE 62, 63 

339 RCE415 

341 SC DIGITAL 226 

• S-100INC425 

342 S.P.C.TECH.INC. 160 

343 SANDHU MACHINE DESN. 319 



March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 527 



Reader Service, 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



344 SANTA CRUZ SFTW.SERV. 236 

345 SANYO COMMUNICATIONS 95 

346 SATURN SYSTEMS INC. 492 

347 SCION CORP 5 

348 SCITRONICS 332 

• SCOTTSDALE SYSTEMS 202 

349 SCR ELECTR. 504 

350 SEATTLE COMP PRODS 155 
430 SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 335 

351 SILICON VALLEY SYS.INC. 465 

■ SINCLAIR 92, 93 

352 SLUDER 500 

353 SOFTECH MICROSYS 401 

354 SOFTWARE CONSLTG.SERV. 496 

355 SOFTWARE DISTR. 371 
34 SOFTWARE HOWS 271 

• SOLID STATE SALES 439 

356 SORRENTO VALLEY ASSOC 439 

■ SOURCE EDP 346 
' SOURCE EDP 347 

■ SOURCE TELECOMM.CORP. 375 
441 SOUTHERN COMP. SYS 405 

357 SSM MICRO COMP PROD 11 

358 STANDARD MICROSYS. INC. 390 

359 STANDARD SFTW.CORP. 394 

360 STATCOM CORP. 33 



Inquiry No. Page No. 



426 STATIC MEMORY 379 

361 STRAWBERRY TREE COMP. 110 

362 STREET ELECTR CORP 373 

• SUBARU OF AMERICA 291 

363 SUBLOGIC 306 

364 SUNNY INT'L. 488 

365 SUPERSOFT99 

366 SUPERSOFT 203 

367 SUPERSOFT 314 

368 SYBEX 263 

369 SYSTEM 300 500 

370 SYSTEMED 500 

371 SYSTEMS GROUP, THE 29 

372 SYSTEMS GROUP, THE 29 

373 SYSTEMS PLUS INC. 403 

374 TAB BOOKS 385 

375 TALL TREE SYSTEMS 504 

376 TARBELL ELECTR. 377 

• TECHNICAL SYS CONS 129 

377 TECMAR INC 83 

378 TECMAR INC 275 

• TEKTRONIC 364 

379 TELECON SYSTEMS 500 

380 TELEVIDEO INC 65 

381 TELEVIDEO INC 152. 153 

382 TERMINALS TERRIFIC 164 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



• TENLEY DESIGN 498 

383 TERRAPIN INC. 283 

384 TEXAS COMP.SYS. 293 

■ TINNEY.RBT.GRAPHICS455 

385 TNW CORP. 425 

3B6 TRANSNET CORP. 434 

387 TRAXX COMP.CORP. 215 

' TRISTAR DATA SYS. 122 

389 U.S. MICRO SALES 518, 519 

390 U.S. ROBOTICS 360 

392 UNISOURCE ELECTR. INC 274 
439 UNITED CONTROLS 405 

• UNITED SFTW.OF AMER. 109 

393 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

394 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

395 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

396 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

397 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

398 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

399 VECTOR ELECTR. 410 

400 VECTOR GRAPHICS 175 

401 VERBATIM CORP 255 
432 VICTOR DATA PROD. 365 

402 VIDEX 21 

403 VISIBLE COMP.SUPPLY 354 

404 VISTA COMPUTER CO 177 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



• VOTRAX 330 
' VR DATA 345 

440 VYNET CORP. 405 

405 WALKER, WILLIAM 494 

406 WARN ELECTRONICS 352 

407 WASHINGTON COMP.SERV. 505 

408 WESPER MICRO SYSTEMS 168 

409 WESPER MICRO SYSTEMS 169 

• WESTICO INC. 165 

410 WESTICO INC. 496 

411 WESTWARE 145 

• WHITESMITHS LTD 141 

• WICAT SYSTEMS 71 

412 WIGGLESWORTH.C.J. 408 

413 WILD FIRE PUBLISHING 260 

414 WILD HARE COMP.SYS. 219 

415 WINCHENDON GRP.THE 496 
417 WINTEK CORP. 494 

340 WINTERHALTER & ASSOC. 160 

419 XAVAX CORP. 196 
431 YORK-10 502 

420 ZETA PRODUCTS 500 

421 ZILOG COMP.SYS. 402 

422 ZOBEX151 



*Correspond directly with company. 



National Advertising Sales 


Representatives: 


Northwest (41 5) 964-0706 


Northeast (617) 444-3946 


Southeast (305) 628-3525 


AK, HI, WA, OR, ID, MT, WY, 


ME, NH, VT, MA, CT, Rl, DE, MD, 


NC, SC, GA, FL, AL, MS, TN, KY 


Northern California, Nevada Except 


VA, WV, OK, TX, Upstate NY, 
Eastern Canada 


Hajar Associates 
Dlplomate Bldg. 


Las Vegas, Western Canada 
Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


5400 Dlplomate Circle 


1 000 Elweli Ct. 


280 Hillside Ave. 


Suite 272 


Suite 1 24 


Needham Heights, MA 02194 


Orlando, FL 32810 


Palo Alto, CA 94303 


Mid Atlantic (201) 741-7744 


Midwest (312) 966-0160 


Southwest (714) 540-3554 


NY, NYC, NJ, PA 


MN, Wl, Ml, IA, IL, IN, OH, 


UT, CO, AZ, NM, Las Vegas, 


Hajar Associates 


MO, NE, KS, ND, SD, AR 


Southern California 


321 Broad St. 


Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


Red Bank, NJ 07701 


5225 Old Orchard Rd. 


3303 Harbor Blvd. 




Suite 50 


Suite H-4A 




Skokle, IL 60076 


Costa Mesa, CA 92626 



European Advertising Sales Representatives: 


Michael Sales 






1 7 rue Georges Bizet 


Simon Smith 


Hans Csokor 


F 751 16 Paris, France 


34 Dover St. 


Publimedia 




London W1X 3RA 


Velthgasse 6/3 


A. Fabio Guarnleri 


England 


A-1037 Vienna, Austria 


Via Bracchini 1 
20123 Milan, Italy 


Andrew Karnig 


Fritz Krusebecker 




Andrew Karnig & Associates 


Lieblgstrasse 27c 


Mrs. Gurit Gepner 


Kungsholmsgatan 10 


D-6000 Frankfurt/Main 1 


115 Yosephtal St. 


1 12 27 Stockholm, Sweden 


West Germany 


Bat Yam, Israel 



528 March 1982 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Elephant™ floppies. 

They're guaranteed to meet or beat every indus- 
try standard for quality. They come standard with 
reinforced hub rings at no extra cost. They come 
in every popular 5Va "model, in both hard and 



soft sector. And they sell at some of the lowest 

prices in the business. 

Elephant Flexible Disks. 

They're heavy duty. They work for peanuts. 

They never forget. Get yourself a trunkful. 



HEAVY DUTY DISKS. 

Distributed Exclusively by Leading Edge Products, Inc., 225 Turnpike Street, Canton, Massachusetts 02021 
Call: toll-free 1-800-343-6833; or in Massachusetts call collect (617) 828-8150. Telex 951-624. 



Circle 212 on Inquiry card. 




Get More Than 
Just a Computer! 

Get Radio Shack's 
TRS-80 Model II 
Multi-Purpose 
Workstation. - 



Professional Applications I Management Assistant 



Radio Shacks top-of-the-line TRS-80® Model II is 
more than a computer. It's a versatile, stand-alone 
system that's the heart of a multi-purpose worksta- 
tion. You can use the Model II by itself, or with a 
printer and other peripherals to accomplish a wide 
variety of tasks. 

Professional Business Applications. A complete 
Model II business system has the storage capacity 
and expandability to streamline your accounting, 
inventory control, order entry, and many other tasks. 
We also have ready-to-run software for legal, medi- 
cal, and other specialized applications. Best of ail, 
every Radio Shack software program can be put to 
work without formal operator training, thanks to our 
easy-to-understand documentation. 

Management Assistant. The TRS-80 Model II is also 
for managers. It can help with planning and model- 
ing, word processing, electronic filing, statistical 
analysis, and much more. You can do jobs that are 
too "hot" to wait for shared computer time or too 
small for cost-effective handling by your company's 
mainframe. Putting a Model II by your desk is one of 
the easiest ways to boost your personal productivity. 




Program Development. To meet your specific re- 
quirements, Radio Shack offers you a choice of 
Model II programming languages. We have BASIC 
interpreter and compiler, COBOL, FORTRAN and 
ASSEMBLER. In addition, Model IFs sophisticated 
Disk Operating System has many powerful features, 
yet it's easy to use. It gives you a full set of library 
commands, utility programs and useful system rou- 
tines that can be called directly by user programs. 

Bi-Sync Communications. The TRS-80 Model II is 
ideal for use in existing data processing operations 
because it offers the versatility that a mere terminal 
lacks. With our bi-sync communications packages, 
Model II provides low-cost access to large main- 
frame computers. With our exclusive TRS-80 VIDEO- 
TEX software, you can also access data base net- 
works and information services. 

It's Affordable. Model II systems start as low as $3899. 
Let us show you what the TRS-80 Model II can do 
for you! Drop by a Radio Shack Computer Center 
or the expanded computer department of selected 
Radio Shack stores and dealers nationwide for a 
personal demonstration. 



Radio Jhaek 

The biggest name in little computers™ 

A DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION 

Retail prices may vary at individual stores and dealers. 
Optional-extra equipment required for some applications. 



I 1 

Tell me more! Send me a free TRS-80 Computer Catalog. 

Radio Shack, Dept. 82-A-128 
1300 One Tandy Center, Fort Worth, Texas 76102 



COMPANY . 
ADDRESS. 



I 



1 



Circle 335 on inquiry card. 



