8 & me A 8) HN Supreme Court, U.S. 
FILED 
No. 88- 
1988 
IN THE JOSEPH shai JR. 
CLERK 


Supreme Court of the Gnited Srates 


OCTOBER TERM, 1988 


SHOSHONE TRIBE AND NORTHERN ARAPAHO TRIBE 
OF THE WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, 
Cross-Petitioners, 


¥. 


THE STATE OF WYOMING, et al., 
Cross-Respondents. 


CROSS-PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WYOMING 


Of Counsel: BRICE M. CLAGETT* 
SAUL B. GOODMAN 
CHARLES F. WILKINSON MARC S. MAYERSON 


School of Law Covington & Burling 
University of Colorado 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Boulder, CO 80309 P.O. Box 7566 

Washington, DC 20044 
DALE T. WHITE (202) 662-5316 
Whiteing, Thompson & White 
6684 Gunpark Drive Attorneys for Cross-Petitioner 
Boulder, Colorado 80301 Northern Arapaho Tribe 


B. KEVIN GOVER 
CATHERINE B. STETSON 
SUSAN M. WILLIAMS 

Gover, Stetson & Williams, P.C. 
1225 Rio Grande Blvd., N.W. 
Albuquerque, NM 87104-2630 


Attorneys for Cross-Petitioner 
Shoshone Tribe 


September 21, 1988 *Counsel of Record 


PRESS OF BYRON S. ADAMS, WASHINGTON, D.C. (202) 347-8203 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


1. Whether, under the Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 
pursuant to which the Wind River Indian Reser- 
vation was established, the amount of water re- 
served for the Indians is to be quantified solely by 
reference to the irrigation needs of the Reservation 
or rather, in light of the Treaty’s express purpose 
of creating a “‘permanent home’’ for the Indians, 
by reference to all uses necessary to develop a 
permanent homeland for the Indians on the Res- 
ervation. 


2. Whether, under the Treaty, the water rights of 
the Tribes relate only-to surface-water sources or 
rather to both surface-water and groundwater ‘ 
sources. 


3. Whether, under the Treaty, the Tribes are re- 
stricted from exporting their reserved water off 
the Reservation for use by themselves or by others 
or rather, consistently with the rights enjoyed by 
all other water users in Wyoming, they may export 
their reserved water off the Reservation. 


4. Whether, under 25 U.S.C. § 194, which governs 
the burden of proof in disputes regarding Indian 
property, the Wyoming courts erred in assigning 
the Tribes, after a prima facie case had been made, 
the burden of proof in establishing their reserved 
water rights for the irrigation needs of currently 
and previously irrigated Reservation lands without 
state water certificates and of two proposed irri- 
gation projects. 


il 


5. Whether the Wyoming courts erred in computing 
the amount of water reserved for the irrigation 
needs of currently and previously irrigated Reser- 
vation lands by using a water-use efficiency rate 
substantially higher than the average efficiency 
rate currently achieved by all irrigators in the re- 


gion. 


6. What priority date should be accorded to practi- 
cably irrigable Reservation lands owned by non- 
Indians who have claimed a reserved right? 


ili 
LIST OF PARTIES 


The parties to the proceedings below were the cross- 
petitioners, the Shoshone and Northern Arapaho 
Tribes of the Wind River Indian Reservation, and the 
cross-respondents, the State of Wyoming, the United 
States of America, Mary O. Ahlborn, Eva M. Barnett, 
Owen Barnett, Bradford Bath, Donald Bath, Black 
Butte Livestock Company, Campbells, Inc., City of 
Riverton, Wyoming, Kenneth Ward Crandall, Phyllis 
L. Crandall, DHB & Co., Barbara J. Daniels, Billie 
M. Daniels, Deaver Irrigation District, Carl Dockery, 
Carol Dockery, Clyde R. Fisher, Gloria A. Fisher, 
Charles Goldben, Grace Graboski, Griffin Brothers, 
Incorporated, Olga J. Harvey, Robert W. Harvey, Al- 
bert Hornecker, Hornecker Livestock Co., Inc., Ber- 
tha Jones, Brenda Joyce Kellogg, Gary V. Kellogg, 
Irene M. Long, Russell E. Long, Elsie Martin, Rich- 
ard Martin, William A. Matthews, Arthur D. Mc- 
Cumber, Marvin W. Meyer, Ernestine S. Meyer, 
Midvale Irrigation District, Carolyn R. Nelson, Vern 
Nelson, Norwest Bank of Omaha, N.A., Norris Edwin 
Odee, F. Louise Odee, William Okie, Kenneth Out- 
land, Iona Outland, Owl Creek Irrigation District 
members, PLB & Co., Sylvia Paulsen, Red Creek Cat- 
tle Company, Red Lane Watershed Improvement Dis- 
trict, Jerry D. Redding, Sheila C. Redding, Charles 
Richardson, Riverton Valley Irrigation District, C. 
Duane Rush, Kathryn C. Rush, Brian F. Sanford, 
Kathleen Sanford, Norman L. Sanford, Daisy E. Ses- 
sions, Newell S. Sessions, Barbara Smith, Robert 
Stewart, Town of East Thermopolis, Wyoming, Ralph 
Floyd Urbigkit, V E Bar Livestock Company, Barbara 
Webber, Landis Webber, Delores J. Weese, Raymond 


iv 


C. Weese, Willwood Irrigation District, and Ruth 
Clare Yonkee. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


UTI FUE RUDD sccscicinassncstasonssanacsasbasscnsanonis 
gee I Ir haa seises cssciseccnansandacindescssoedunatbesnnnpnerila 
EE PAP IIIT. snitsinssrisconsnsatizenincmineciuaninses 
Cr SENN RENIIUN  Sccisitincscinosvesnnsnibnnnbotdccussadaacshenmianninats 
Pa PIEE ocautdetisbatnininnsiiidsinieddstiaupsnsnboceecentinaiocdiniiss 
PE ELT TED painctntisnlnnseinsnbnenisvecesniabaticxaesouiehaise 
RAR RMAMEMEETE GOR BRR CRUE scssctcniscscecceionsovenniascncscass 
REASONS FOR GRANTING THE WRIT ..................... 


I. 


IT. 


III. 


IV. 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming’s Ruling 
that the Amount of Water Reserved Under 
the Treaty Is Limited to That Necessary Only 
for the Irrigation Needs of the Reservation 
Is Erroneous and Inconsistent with This 
Court’s Decision in United States v. Shoshone 
E PUM ~ dicsncthevecssasanesencaadnc aaa uonaunadunties 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming Erred in 
Failing To Recognize the Rights of the Tribes 
Under the Treaty with Respect to Ground- 
WIDE | ccccéistcnesndipualionaniaecnaaiieidasiamaianciins 


The Tribes Are Not Restricted Under the 
Treaty from Exporting Their Reserved 
Water off the Reservation for Use by Them- 
i kt SE UR eC NO 


The Wyoming Courts Improperly Assigned 
the Tribes the Burden of Proof in Establish- 
ing Their Reserved Water Rights for the Ir- 
rigation Needs of Two Proposed Irrigation 
Projects and of Historic Lands Without State 
WIE SIE seerniccstanichccdcunmiciiiatiicictsaes 


The Wyoming Courts Erred in Computing 
the Quantity of Water Reserved for the 
Tribes’ Irrigation Needs on the Historic 
Lands by Using a Water-Use Efficiency Rate 
Higher than the Average Rate Achieved by 
Irrigators in the Region .................:::eceeeeeee 


11 


18 


26 


vl 


VI. The Priority Date for Reservation Lands 
Owned by Non-Indians Should Be No Earlier 
than That for Reservation Lands Reacquired 
by the Tribes from Non-Indians _ .........-.:s00+ 


CONCLUSION ......:cssssccsssssceesseenseeesnenesnnnessnnncsccnnennnes eeeas 


29 
30 


vii 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 


CASES: 


Alaska Pacific Fisheries v. United States, 248 U.S. 
Te EDD sihccedilsdatctisdensdbaksensuahshiauealghinialimamusias 


Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe, 463 U.S. 545 
EEE ‘ chsschcaisdshiepionisoebaadidenadenemmaiasceiangieaeaa 


Cappaert v. United States, 426 U.S. 128 (1976) .... 


Choctaw Nation v. Oklahoma, 397 U.S. 620 
CREE ciseiitcaininsinntsdealenss deme ia ieee ber 


Colorado River Water Conservation District v. 
United States, 424 U.S. 800 (1976) ................ 


Colville Confederated Tribes v. Walton, 647 F.2d 42 
(9th Cir.), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1092 
EOI siicaihsailinsabseiainiadusnblichiunestaaateasantamemiaiennagaaolss 


Farmers Highline Canal & Reservoir Co. v. City of 


Golden, 129 Colo. 575, 272 P.2d 629 (1954) .. 


Nevada ex rel. Shamberger v. United States, 165 F. 
Supp. 600 (D. Nev. 1958), affd on other 
grounds, 279 F.2d 699 (9th Cir. 1960) ........... 


New Mexico ex rel. Reynolds v. Aamodt, 618 F. 
ee Ges, BD cnnietnvteinscenctntenvebeceesese 


Oneida Indian Nation v. County of Oneida, 414 U.S. 
BOE ED sobeensscicenicnsscmasipieicadsibaiapienimansinciastaicnindameaseiiiiin 


Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 85 Ct. Cl. 331 
(1937), affd, 304 U.S. 11 (1938) .......... 


Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 299 U.S. 476 
CIEE ccicuncsdacciscshustiacsecndsainsiidcdccakdtaaiaitel cath ieiiag eo 


CHEE enctcssssconenesecensisenseveniiasnesineniedsisieiiiasibistiinsiiin 
The Kansas Indians, 72 U.S. (5 Wall) 737 (1867). 


Tweedy v. Texas Co., 286 F. Supp. 383 (D. Mont. 
EUNOD <sisisscsisisicsceisaspiiaiasetcaccihebeclenciaiaiaiamasdannamen 


1] 


19-20 


17 


vill 


United States v. Cappaert, 508 F.2d 313 (9th Cir. 
1974), aff'd un other grounds, 426 U.S. 128 


PEIISIEN sh sochncisuandciaidastianichienancshansmabiociuacsianhidatiniicens 19-20 
United States v. District Court in and for the County 

of Eagle, 401 U.S. 520 (1971) ..........ccscccsceeeees 8 
United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111 

STE iar udicinininnasissansccnlindslannediiapaghianss 2,3,15-18,22,24 
Wilson v. Omaha Tribe, 442 U.S. 653 (1979) ....... 27-28 
Winters v. United States, 207 U.S. 564 (1908) ..... 14 
Worcester v. Georgia, 31 U.S. (6 Pet.) 515 

SIIEED ctbsictndasdenninniswindddéatsasanenabbaepincndaudanssseosensase 17 


STATUTES AND BILLS: 
1977 Wyo. Sess. Laws Ch. 2, § 1, Wyo. Stat. § 1- 


I sa icluseeeninaenine 4 
ee ees A I IIIT ctiinceascccentnsssncannnsnsesmeacsoes 
Act of June 30, 1834, ch. 161, 4 Stat. 733 (codified 

"@ Bt i - S F, Reece 27 
First Treaty of Fort Bridger, 18 Stat. 685 (Part 3) 

UIT iis ca doaalthasciaan widactatenien leaden ido neiibecmianseabiainniesd 
McCarran Amendment, 43 U.S.C. § 666 (1982) .... 4,23 
Non-Intercourse Act, 25 U.S.C. § 177 (1982) ........ 23-24 


Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community Water 
Rights Settlement Act of 1988, S. 2153, 100th 


See I TE 1 cccniiclicnatcennesesieniahinsitendemneise 24 
Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 15 Stat. 673 
CUISUTEED cinckstensnestnscuininisiepsigninubasesnaiianmeninensiiinebanee passim 


Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act of 
1982, Pub. L. No. 97-293, §§ 306(c) & (d), 96 


Us BD ait hacia tical en crctineaesncasbeaiiies 24 
Ute Indian Water Settlement Act of 1988, H.R. 

5029, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. § 7 .............0.0.0 24 
Wyo. Stat. §§ 41-3-103, 104 (1977) .........000. eee 25 
ee 5, Penner aeons 19 


eel 


ix 


MISCELLANEOUS: 


Comment, Leasing Indian Water Off the Reserva- 
tion: A Use Consistent With the Reservation’s 
Purpose, 76 Calif. L. Rev. 179 (1988) ............ 


F. Cohen, Handbook on Federal Indian Law 
SEE denlateindnaniusiebieraietr tn 


Getches, Water Use Efficiency: The Value of Water 
in the West, 8 Public Land L. Rev. 1 
FRED sit ensiasodeindllaicciclinintinirenids dit sins okemicecsas 


National Water Commission, Water Policies for the 
Pm 


Trelease, Conjunctive Use of Groundwater and Sur- 
face Water, 27B Rocky Mtn. Min. L. Inst. 1853 
SMI “pdaeithic ui Aiiedesscacelsiasliatiabigsiteniocatiacesuesedissccns. ce 


Western Governors’ Association, Western Water: 
Tuning the System (1986) .........ccccccccecccesecceseee. 


CROSS-PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WYOMING 


The cross-petitioners, the Shoshone and Northern Ara- 
paho Indian Tribes, respectfully request that a writ of 
certiorari issue to review the judgment of the Supreme 
Court of Wyoming entered on February 24, 1988, on the 
questions presented herein if this Court grants the petition 
in Wyoming v. United States, No. 88-309. 


OPINIONS BELOW 


The opinions below are reproduced in the appendix to 
the petition of the State of Wyoming in No. 88-309, as 
described in the State’s petition at page 1. 


JURISDICTION 


The decision of the Supreme Court of Wyoming was 
rendered on February 24, 1988, and timely motions for 
rehearing were denied by that court on April 22, 1988. 
On July 7, 1988, the State of Wyoming obtained an ex- 
tension of time to file its petition for a writ of certiorari 
through August 20, 1988. Cross-petitioners received the 
State’s timely-filed petition on August 22, 1988. This cross- 
petition is filed pursuant to Rule 19.5, and jurisdiction is 
proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1257(8). 


TREATY INVOLVED 


The provisions of the Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 
15 Stat. 673 (1868), are set forth in the appendix to the 
petition (‘‘Pet. App.’’) of the State of Wyoming in No. 88- 
309. Pet. App. at 793a-803a. 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


This cross-petition concerns the reserved water rights 
of the Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes under the 


Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 15 Stat. 673, pursuant to 
which the United States set apart the Wind River Indian 
Reservation as the permanent homeland originally for the 
Shoshone Tribe and, later, for both the Shoshone and 
Northern Arapaho Tribes (the “‘Tribes’’). 


History of the Wind River Indian Reservation 


In 1863, five years before the Wind River Indian Res- 
ervation was established, the United States and the Shosh- 
one Tribe, which were military allies and had long 
maintained friendly relations, entered into the First Treaty 
of Fort Bridger, 18 Stat. 685 (Part 3) (1863). Pet. App. 
at 9a. That treaty declared ‘‘a firm and perpetual peace 
. . . between the Shoshonee nation and the United States” 
and recognized as ‘‘Shoshonee country” a tract of 
44,672,000 acres of land located in what are now the states 
of Wyoming, Colorado and Utah. First Treaty of Fort 
Bridger, arts. 1, 4; Pet. App. at 9a. 


In 1868, as westward expansion increased following the 
end of the Civil War, the United States and the Shoshone 
Tribe—then ‘‘consisting of full blood blanket Indians, un- 
able to read, write or speak English,” United States v. 
Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111, 114 (1938)—entered into the 
Second Treaty of Fort Bridger (the ‘“‘Treaty’’). 15 Stat. 
673; Pet. App. at 793a. Under the terms of the Treaty, 
the Shoshone Tribe agreed to “relinquish all title, claims, 
or rights” to the vast tract of land previously recognized 
as ‘“‘Shoshonee country” under the First Treaty of Fort 
Bridger. Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, art. 2. In return, 
the United States agreed to “set apart” a much smaller 
tract of land—now known as the Wind River Indian Res- 
ervation (the ‘‘Reservation’’)—in what was later to become 
the State of Wyoming ‘‘for the absolute and undisturbed 
use and occupation of the Shoshonee Indians.’ Jd. Under 


‘Under the Treaty, the United States set apart a tract of 3,054,182 
acres for the Shoshone Tribe, United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 


the terms of the Treaty, the Tribe agreed to make the 
Reservation its ‘‘permanent home.” Jd. at art. 4. 


The Shoshones, whose “loyalty ... to the people of 
the United States has been conspicuous and unfaltering,”’ 
Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 299 U.S. 476, 486 (1937), 
had been permitted to select the lands comprising the Res- 
ervation. Pet. at 4. The tract of land selected by the Sho- 
shones was then “known to contain valuable mineral 
deposits—gold, oil, coal and gypsum [and to include] more 
than 400,000 acres of timber, extensive well-grassed bench 
lands and fertile river valleys conveniently irrigable.” 
United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111, 114 (1938). 
Moreover, the tract selected by the Shoshones ‘‘was well 
protected by mountain ranges and a divide, and was the 
choicest and best-watered portion of Wyoming.” Jd. These 
lands were reserved by the Treaty for the permanent 
homeland of the Shoshones before the United States had 
created the Territory of Wyoming, and more than twenty- 
one years before Wyoming was admitted to the Union in 
1890. 


Although originally set apart for only the Shoshone 
Tribe, the Reservation has since become the permanent 
homeland of both the Shoshone and Northern Arapaho 
Tribes. The two Tribes have jointly occupied the Reser- 
vation since 1878. Pet. App. at 9a-10a. 


Procedural History of the Adjudication 


This adjudication began more than a decade ago when 
the State of Wyoming sued the United States for a dec- 
laration of federal and Indian water rights in the Big Horn 
River Drainage Basin (the ‘“‘Big Horn Basin’’), in which 


U.S. 111, 113 (1938), of which approximately two-thirds currently re- 
main part of the Wind River Indian Reservation. Under the Treaty, 
the United States also agreed to set apart a reservation, later known 
as the Fort Hall Reservation, for the Bannock Tribe. Second Treaty 
of Fort Bridger, art. 2. 


the Reservation is located. The State sought this decla- 
ration of federal and Indian water rights in its own state 
courts in connection with an adjudication of all water rights 
in the Big Horn Basin. This proceeding was filed pursuant 
to a state statute—enacted two days before the action was 
filed—establishing a procedure for determining all rights 
to water in river systems within the state. 1977 Wyo. Sess. 
Laws Ch. 2, § 1, Wyo. Stat. § 1-37-106 (1977); Pet. App. 
726a. 


On the same day the proceeding was filed, the state 
district court ruled that the joinder of the United States 
in the state proceeding was proper under the McCarran 
Amendment, 43 U.S.C. § 666 (1982). The United States 
thereafter removed the proceeding to federal district court, 
but that court remanded the proceeding to state court, 
largely in light of this Court’s ruling in Colorado River 
Water Conservation District v. United States, 424 U.S. 800 
(1976). Pet. App. at 720a. Thereafter, the United States, 
supported by an amicus brief from the Tribes, moved to 
dismiss the state proceeding on the ground that the state 
court lacked jurisdiction to resolve the federal and Indian 
water rights. Id. at 1la-12a. The state district court denied 
the Government’s motion to dismiss. Jd. at 12a. The Tribes, 
having depended on the waters of the Big Horn Basin for 
more than a century, intervened in the state adjudication 
to protect their water rights under the Treaty. 


Pursuant to the statute authorizing the general adju- 
dication, the State moved to certify the proceeding to a 
state administrative agency, the Board of Control, to con- 
duct the adjudication. Jd. at 396a. The United States and 
the Tribes opposed this motion, arguing that the Board of 
Control had no special expertise to resolve the federal-law 
issues of reserved water rights because the water law of 
Wyoming, which the agency administers, is based on prior- 
ity of historical, actual beneficial use of water (‘‘prior ap- 
propriation”’), whereas the federal law of reserved water 
rights is based on the implicit reservation of water by the 


Se eed 


United States to accomplish the purposes of the federal 
enclave or Indian reservation, even if such water has not 
as yet been put to beneficial use. 


The state district court denied the State’s motion and, 
in May 1979, appointed a Special Master approved by all 
the parties. The Special Master divided the general ad- 
judication into three phases. The first phase—the only 
phase at issue here—was a determination of Indian re- 
served water rights. 


On December 15, 1982, after extensive pretrial discovery 
and a lengthy trial, the Special Master signed his Report 
and proposed Decree regarding the water rights reserved 
for the Tribes under the Treaty. Pet. App. at 367a. 


The Rulings Below 


The Special Master ruled that, when the United States 
established the Reservation pursuant to the Treaty in 1868, 
water rights were reserved on behalf of the Indians to 
satisfy the purpose of the Treaty. Jd. at 432a. The Special 
Master further ruled that ‘“‘the principal purpose for en- 
tering into this Treaty was to provide the Indians with a 
homeland where they could establish a permanent place 
to live and develop their civilization.”’ Jd. at 442a. In light 
of this purpose, the Special Master held that the amount 
of water reserved by the Treaty was that necessary for 
the development of the Reservation as a permanent home- 
land for the Indians. Jd. This amount included that ‘‘nec- 
essary to provide for the Indians not only in their 
agricultural development, but also in the raising of live- 
stock, the assurance that fish and wildlife will also be 
available for their use, the development of the minerals 
that may be found on the Reservation, the growth and 
provision for municipal and industrial civilization, and for 
protection and preservation of the aesthetic natural con- 
ditions found on the Reservation.” Id. 


On May 10, 1983, the state district court ruled on the 
parties’ objections to the Special Master’s Report. Jd. at 


202a. The court ruled, as a matter of law, that the purpose 
of establishing the Reservation was not, as the Special 
Master held, to provide a permanent homeland for the 
Tribes, but rather to convert the Indians into “an agrarian 
people whose livelihood would be earned by farming.”’ Jd. 
at 217a. Having concluded that ‘‘the sole purpose of the 
Reservation was agriculture,’ id. at 220a, the court re- 
_ duced the total amount of reserved water quantified by 
the Special Master and awarded only the amount necessary 
to irrigate the Reservation lands found to be practically 
irrigable. 


The district court rejected the Special Master’s rulings 
on several other issues. Although the Special Master had 
granted the Tribes certain reserved rights to groundwater 
under the Treaty, id. at 607a-611a, the district court flatly 
rejected all claims for reserved rights to groundwater. Jd. 
at 238a-243a. Indeed, the court held that ‘‘the State of 
Wyoming owns all groundwater, even that which flows 
beneath the reservation.” Jd. at 242a. In addition, with 
respect to the issue of exportaticn, the Special Master had 
held that the Tribes were permitted in certain circum- 
stances to export reserved surface water off the Reser- 
vation for use by themselves or by others. Jd. at 580a- 
582a. By contrast, the district court ruled that the Tribes’ 
use of their reserved water ‘“‘is confined to the reserva- 
tion,” id. at 269a, and that any leasing of the Tribes’ 
reserved water rights ‘‘cannot be for exportation off of 
the reservation.”’ Id. 


Moreover, the district court affirmed the denial of re- 
served water rights for the irrigation needs of the Tribes 
for two future irrigation projects (Stagner Ridge and Big 
Horn Flats Extension) and for various tracts of currently 
or historically irrigated Reservation lands (“historic lands’’) 
without state water certificates. Id. at 246a-250a, 259a. 
Finally, in determining the amount of water reserved by 
reference to the Tribes’ irrigation needs for the historic 
lands, the district court affirmed the use of an efficiency 


rate for water use of 40 percent, whereas the average 
rate achieved by all irrigators in the region is only 35 
percent. Jd. at 250a; 508a-512a. 


After the district court entered a final amended judg- 
ment and decree on May 24, 1985, id. at 168a, the parties 
appealed to the Supreme Court of Wyoming. 


That court affirmed the district court’s decision on the 
issues presented in this cross-petition. Contrary to the Spe- 
cial Master’s finding that the Reservation was created to 
provide a permanent homeland for the Indians, the state 
supreme court concluded, by a vote of three to two, that 
“the intent at the time [of the Treaty was] to create a 
reservation with a sole agricultural purpose.” Jd. at 38a. 
In light of this conclusion, the state supreme court ma- 
jority affirmed the district court’s reduction of the amount 
of water reserved for the Tribes to that necessary only 
for the irrigation needs of the Reservation.? Jd. at 32a- 
43a. 


With respect to groundwater, the state supreme court, 
while acknowledging that “[t]he logic which supports a 
reservation of surface water to fulfill the purpose of the 
reservation also supports reservation of groundwater,” id. 
at 44a, affirmed the district court’s denial of a reserved 
right to groundwater. Jd. at 44a-45a. With respect to ex- 
portation, the state supreme court declined to address the 
merits of the appeals by the Tribes and the United States 
of the district court’s ruling that the Tribes were not per- 
mitted under the Treaty to export their reserved water. 
Id. at 45a. With respect to the burden of proof, the state 
supreme court affirmed the placement of the burden on 
the Tribes to establish their reserved water rights for the 
irrigation of certain Reservation lands, id. at 49a, 60a-62a, 


? The state supreme court held that there was ‘a reserved water 
right for municipal, domestic, and commercial use,’’ Pet. App. at 43a, 
but that the amount of water reserved for such use, as well as that 
for livestock use, was subsumed in the amount necessary to irrigate 
the practicably irrigable acreage on the Reservation. /d. at 42a-43a. 


the result of which was to deny the Tribes reserved water 
rights for the irrigation of 11,916 acres of historic lands 
and of 9,970 acres of land in the proposed Stagner Ridge 
and Big Horn Flats Extension projects. Jd. at 58a-59a, 
65a-68a. Finally, with respect to the water-use efficiency 
rate to be used in quantifying the Tribes’ reserved water 
rights in connection with the historic lands, the state 
supreme court affirmed the district court’s use of a rate 
substantially higher than the average rate for irrigation 
projects in the region. Jd. at 68a-69a 
Presentation of Federal Questions 

The questions presented in this cross-petition, which in- 
volve the reserved water rights of the Shoshone and 
Northern Arapaho Tribes under the Second Treaty of Fort 
Bridger, are questions of federal law, see, e.g., United 
States v. District Court in and for the County of Eagle, 
401 U.S. 520, 526 (1971), and were properly raised below.* 


*In the proceedings below, the Tribes asserted that the amount of 
water reserved under the Treaty is that necessary for the development 
of the Reservation as a permanent homeland, including the agricultural 
and non-agricultural development of the Reservation. See Special Mas- 
ter’s Report (Pet. App. at 441a); Opening Brief of Appellants Shoshone 
and Northern Arapaho Tribes (Type Two Issues) at 18-57 (Dec. 16, 
1985) (‘‘Tribes’ Type Two Brief’). The Tribes also asserted reserved 
rights to groundwater. See Special Master’s Report (Pet. App. at 602a); 
Tribes’ Type Two Brief at 58-66. When the district court limited all 
uses of the Tribes’ reserved water to the Reservation, Pet. App. at 
222a, the Tribes requested the Supreme Court of Wyoming to overturn 
this ruling. See Tribes’ Type Two Brief at 80-82. In addition, the Tribes 
asserted below that the Wyoming courts had erred in assigning to the 
Tribes the burden of establishing their reserved rights under the Treaty. 
Opening Brief of Appellants Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes 
(Type One Issues) at 26-28 (Dec. 16, 1985) (‘‘Tribes’ Type One Brief’); 
see also Brief for the Appellant United States at 33-43 (Dec. 1985). 
Finally, with respect to the quantification of the reserved water right 
for the historic lands, the Tribes sought the use of a water-use efficiency 
rate equal to the rate actually achieved by irrigators in the region, 
Special Master’s Report (Pet. App. at 509a-510a), and sought to have 
the use of the higher rate overturned. Tribes’ Type One Brief at 54- 
55. 


ORR le BAK Gabi al Aa: ANES, ht hl la bs tha inlA NN DEA Nh? gna AAIS at. ole, 


MCAD oe ite, Iya bead MA 


REASONS.-FOR GRANTING THE WRIT 


This cross-petition presents substantial questions of fed- 
eral law regarding the reserved water rights of the Sho- 
shone and Northern Arapaho Tribes. The Tribes seek 
review by this Court of these questions in the event that 
the State of Wyoming’s petition in Wyoming v. United 
States, No. 88-309, is granted. 


The Wyoming state courts erroneously limited the re- 
served water rights of the Tribes under the Second Treaty 
of Fort Bridger, pursuant to which the United States es- 
tablished the Wind River Indian Reservation. Contrary to 
the provisions of the Treaty, the state courts concluded 
that the Reservation was created for a sole agricultural 
purpose and thereby improperly restricted the amount of 
water reserved under the Treaty to that necessary only 
for irrigation needs on the Reservation. Thus, even though 
the Treaty expressly provides that the Reservation was 
established as a “permanent home’’ for the Indians, the 
state courts allotted no water for any of the other uses 
necessary to develop a permanent homeland for the In- 
dians on the Reservation. 


The state courts also erred in failing to recognize any 
treaty rights of the Tribes with respect to groundwater, 
even the right to substitute the use of groundwater to 
satisfy the Tribes’ reserved rights in circumstances where 
such use would not increase the Tribes’ total water con- 
sumption. The state supreme court apparently left undis- 
turbed the district court’s erroneous ruling that, under the 
Treaty, the Tribes may not export their water off their 
land, a right enjoyed by every other water user in Wyo- 
ming. Contrary to the federal statute governing the burden 
of proof in disputes involving Indian property, the state 
courts erred in assigning the Tribes, after a prima facie 
case had been made, the burden of proof in establishing 
their reserved water rights for the irrigation needs of cer- 
tain Reservation lands, the result of which was to deny 


———————— 


10 


the Tribes reserved rights for the irrigation of more than 
21,000 acres of the Reservation. Finally, in determining 
the amount of reserved water for the irrigation needs of 
the Tribes on the historic lands, the state courts erred in 
applying a water-use efficiency rate substantially higher 
than the average rate for irrigation projects in the region, 
the result of which was to reduce the total award of water 
for these lands by 12.5 percent. 


The resolution by this Court of the questions presented 
here—involving Treaty purposes, groundwater, exporta- 
tion, burden of proof, and efficiency—would be of great 
importance to the Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes. 
But even more important to the Tribes would be a prompt 
end to this adjudication initiated by the State more than 
a decade ago. The Tribes desperately need to develop the 
economy on the Reservation, where the unemployment rate 
currently exceeds 70 percent, alcoholism and substance 
abuse are rampant, and the suicide rate is tragically high. 
During the past ten years, the efforts of the Tribes to 
develop the Reservation economy have been largely 
thwarted by this adjudication, for, until it is finally re- 
solved, the Tribes cannot make meaningful decisions re- 
garding how best to use their most valuable resource, 
water, for the benefit of their members. It would be a 
devastating blow to the Tribes if, as the State urges, this 
Court were to revise the well-established standards for 
quantifying Indian water rights for agricultural purposes 
based on practicably irrigable acreage and remit the Tribes 
to another decade of uncertainty in litigation. Accordingly, 
for these reasons and those stated in their Opposition Brief, 
the Tribes urge this Court not to review any of the rulings 
of the state courts. 


But, in the event that the Court decides to review the 
questions presented by the State, the Court should also 
review the questions presented in this cross-petition, all 
of which were erroneously resolved against the Tribes and 
the United States by Wyoming’s own state courts. The 


—e 


1] 


Tribes and the United States objected to the jurisdiction 
of the Wyoming courts in this matter. But these objections 
were overruled in light of Colorado River Water Conser- 
vation District v. United States, 424 U.S. 800, 809-13 
(1976), in which this Court held that the adjudication of 
Indian water rights, unlike all other rights possessed by 
Indian Tribes, should occur in state, not federal, court. In 
Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe, 463 U.S. 545 (1983), 
this Court, recognizing that it had become the only federal 
forum available to Indian Tribes to protect these important 
treaty rights, accepted a special responsibility to review 
state-court rulings alleged to infringe on Indian reserved 
water rights: 


[A]ny state-court decision alleged to abridge In- 
dian water rights protected by federal law can 
expect to receive, if brought for review before 
this Court, a particularized and exacting scrutiny 
commensurate with the powerful federal interest 
in safeguarding those rights from state encroach- 
ment. 


463 U.S. at 571. The Shoshone and Northern Arapaho 
Tribes look to this pledge in seeking review of the ques- 
tions raised in this cross-petition in the event that the 
Court grants the State’s petition. 


I. The Supreme Court of Wyoming’s Ruling that the 
Amount of Water Reserved Under the Treaty Is Lim- 
ited to That Necessary Only for the Irrigation Needs 
of the Reservation Is Erroneous and Inconsistent 
with This Court’s Decision in United States v. Sho- 
shone Tribe. 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming erroneously restricted 
the amount of water reserved under the Treaty to that 
necessary only to irrigate the practicably irrigable lands 
on the Reservation. The Supreme Court of Wyoming cor- 
rectly held that “Congress intended to reserve water for 
the ... Reservation when it was created in 1868, and. . . 


— 
to 


the amount of water impliedly reserved is determined by 
the purposes for which the reservation was created.’’ Pet. 
App. 33a. But the court erred in ruling, by a vote of 3 
to 2, that the Reservation was created “with a sole ag- 
ricultural purpose,”’ id. at 38a, and thus in determining 
the amount of reserved water by reference only to the 
irrigation needs of the Reservation. Jd. at 32a-43a. 


The proper interpretation of the Treaty, as the Special 
Master ruled, is that the Reservation was created not solely 
for an agricultural purpose, but rather “‘to provide a per- 
manent homeland for the Indians so that they may, in 
whatever way most suitable to their development, establish 
a permanent civilization on the Wind River [ndian Reser- 
vation.”’ Pet. App. at 441a-442a. Thus, as the Special Mas- 
ter held, the amount of water reserved under the Treaty 
is that necessary for the development of the Reservation 
as a permanent homeland. Jd. at 442a. This amount in- 
cludes that necessary not only for the agricultural devel- 
opment of the Reservation, such as for irrigated farming, 
but also for its non-agricultural development, such as for 
raising livestock, extracting minerals, ensuring adequate 
supplies of fish and wildlife, protecting the natural aes- 
thetic condition of the Reservation, and for municipal, do- 
mestic, commercial, and industrial uses. Jd. 


The provisions of the Treaty reveal that the Reservation 
was created to provide a permanent homeland for the 
Indians. Under the Treaty, the United States agreed that 
the Reservation “shall be and the same is set apart for 
the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the 
Shoshonee Indians.” Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, art. 
2; Pet. App. at 795a. In return, the Indians agreed to 
make the Reservation their “permanent home.” Art. 4; 
Pet. App. at 796a. The Indians further agreed to “‘relin- 
quish all title, claims, or rights in and to any portion of 
the territory of the United States, except such as is em- 
braced withi (the Reservation].”” Art. 2; Pet. App. at 796a. 
The Treaty sought to “insure the civilization of the tribes 


ee eet ee 


a Eee a hemlock teats x 


——" 


iesieedinteestiniesemetenmeemneeeteretinnim ee tiie daha rae a ee ee 


13 


entering into this treaty”’ and obligated the United States 
to furnish schools and teachers. Art. 7; Pet. App. at 798a. 
The United States further agreed to provide the Indians 
with a physician, carpenter, miller, engineer, and black- 
smith. Art. 10; Pet. App. at 800a. As the Special Master 
held, “‘the reasonable interpretation [of these provisions] 
can only lead one to conclude that the purpose of the 
Treaty was to provide a permanent homeland for the In- 
dians.”” Pet. App. at 442a. 


The contrary ruling of the Supreme Court of Wyoming 
rests on a cramped and erroneous reading of the Treaty 
that Justice Thomas, joined in dissent by District Judge 
Hanscum, rejected because ‘“‘it assumes that the Indian 
peoples will not enjoy the same style of evolution as other 
people, nor are they to have the benefits of modern civ- 
ilization.’’ Jd. at 83a. In finding a sole agricultural purpose 
for the Reservation, the court relied on the fact that the 
Treaty contains several provisions promoting agricultural 
development on the Reservation.‘ Jd. at 39a. That the 


‘In concluding that the Reservation had a sole agricultural purpose, 
the district court had seized upon the phrase ‘‘said agricultural reser- 
vations” in Article 7 of the Treaty. Pet. App. at 217a. Article 7 pro- 
vides: 

In order to insure the civilization of the tribes entering into this 
treaty, the necessity of education is admitted, especially of such 
of them as are or may be settled on said agricultural reserva- 
tions... . 


Pet. App. at 798a. The district court concluded that this phrase ‘‘con- 
firms the Reservation’s singular, and hence primary, purpose as an 
agricultural reservation.’’ Pet. App. at 217a. 


In their briefs to the Suprerme Court of Wyoming, the Tribes and 
the United States argued that, when read in context, the phrase ‘‘said 
agricultural reservations” referred not to the two Indian Reservations 
created or to be created by the Treaty (Wind River for the Shoshones 
and Fort Hall for the Bannocks), see supra note 1, but rather to the 
320- and 80-acre tracts of land made available in Article 6 of the Treaty 
to individual Indians expressly for agricultural development. The State 


14 


Treaty contains these provisions shows only that agricul- 
tural development was an important objective in estab- 
lishing the Reservation, not that agricultural development 
was the only objective. As even the state supreme court 
acknowledged, the Treaty ‘‘clearly contemplates that other 
activities would be permitted (hunting is mentioned in Ar- 
ticle 4, lumbering and milling in Article 3, roaming in 
Article 9).’’ Id. at 40a. Indeed, the court held that there 
was “a reserved water right for municipal, domestic, and 
commercial use,” id. at 43a, but then declined to award 
an additional amount of reserved water for these uses.° 
Id. at 42a-43a. In short, the ruling that the Reservation 
was created for a sole agricultural purpose is simply in- 
correct.® 


of Wyoming argued that the phrase referred to the two Indian Re- 
servations and thus revealed that the Treaty had a sole agricultural 
purpose. 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming concluded that the phrase was 
susceptible of both meanings. Pet. App. at 39a. This conclusion means 
that—certainly from the vantage point of the Shoshones, who were 
unable to read, write, or speak English when the Treaty was negoti- 
ated—the phrase ‘“‘said agricultural reservations” was at the very least 
ambiguous. It is well settled that ‘‘ambiguities occurring [in Indian 
treaties] will be resolved from the standpoint of the Indians.’’ Winters 
v. United States, 207 U.S. 564, 576 (1908); see also infra authorities 
cited in note 9. 


‘The state supreme court held that the amount of water reserved 
for these uses was subsumed in the amount necessary to irrigate the 
practicably irrigable acreage on the Reservation. Pet. App. at 42a-43a. 
The Special Master had correctly awarded the Tribes an additional 
amount of reserved water for their municipal, domestic, commercial, 
and livestock needs. Pet. App. at 607a-608a. The Supreme Court of 
Wyoming’s ruling that the Tribes are not entitled to an additional 
amount for these needs means that the Tribes will not even be able 
to irrigate all the practicably irrigable acres on the Reservation unless 
the Tribes forego using any of their reserved water for these other 
needs. 


* The district court overturned the Special Master’s findings of fact 
in support of the Tribes’ claim for reserved water for various non- 


15 


The ruling below is also inconsistent with this Court’s 
own interpretation of the Treaty in United States v. Sho- 
shone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111 (1938). Shoshone Tribe involved 
a claim for compensation by the Shoshones against the 
United States based on the federal government’s taking 
of a one-half interest in the Reservation when, in 1878, 
it permanently relocated the Northern Arapahos, ancestral 
foes of the Shoshones, on the Reservation. In defending 
against the claim, the United States argued that the Treaty 
provided the Shoshones only with the use and benefit of 
the surface of the land on the Reservation, nothing more. 
As a result, the Government asserted that the Tribe’s 
claim was limited to the value of the surface estate and 
did not include the value of minerals or timber. Jd. at 115. 
Essentially, the United States argued, as the Supreme 
Court of Wyoming ruled below, that the purpose of the 
Reservation was solely to turn the Indians into farmers.’ 


agricultural uses. In so doing, the district court noted that these find- 
ings of the Special Master were “inapplicable . . . as a result of the 
Court taking a different position . . . on certain conclusions of law.”’ 
Pet. App. at 209a. These contrary legal positions included the district 
court’s rulings that: ‘‘(1) . . . the Tribes’ reserved water rights, if they 
exist, are limited to that amount of water necessary to fulfill the pri- 
mary purpose of the reservation which was agriculture. . . . [and] (2) 
To accomplish the purpose of the reservation, Congress did not reserve 
water for mineral development, municipal needs, industrial develop- 
ment, fisheries, wildlife nor protection of aesthetic natural conditions.” 
Id. at 209a-210a. Thus, to the extent that the district court erred in 
its interpretation of the Treaty, it also erred in overturning the Special 
Master’s factual findings, and both such rulings should be vacated. The 
same is true of the District Court’s rulings regarding groundwater. /d. 
at 209a-210a, 238a-243a, 261a, 263a-264a, 268a-269a. 


’ As described by the Court of Claims, Shoshone Tribe v. United 
States, 85 Ct. Cl. 331, 360 (1937), the Government’s position was that 
the only rights for which the Shoshones were entitled to compensation 
were ‘‘the rights to live upon the reservation, to use such materials 
thereon as might be necessary for building and farming purposes and 
for the purpose of carrying on farming operations thereon. . . .”’ 


16 


This Court flatly rejected the Government’s argument, 
ruling instead that the Treaty granted the Tribe beneficial 
ownership of the timber and mineral resources within the 
Reservation. United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 
111, 116-118 (1938). In reaching this conclusion, the Court 
relied on the provisions of the Treaty setting apart the 
Reservation for ‘‘the absolute and undisturbed use and 
occupation”’ of the Shoshones and making the Reservation 
their ‘‘permanent home.” Jd. at 118, 116. These provisions 
were to be construed in accordance with the well-estab- 
lished rules of Indian treaty interpretation: 


[F]riendly and dependent Indians are likely to 
accept without discriminating scrutiny the terms 
proposed. They are not to be interpreted nar- 
rowly, as sometimes may be writings expressed 
in words of art employed by conveyancers, but 
are to be construed in the sense in which nat- 
urally the Indians would understand them. 


Id. at 116. Moreover, the Court noted that when the 
Shoshones entered into the Treaty, the Reservation was 
‘“‘known to contain valuable mineral deposits—gold, oil, coal 
and gypsum”’ and “‘included more than 400,000 acres of 
timber, extensive well-grassed bench lands and fertile river 
valleys conveniently irrigable,’’ all located in “‘the choicest 
and best-watered portion of Wyoming.” 7d. at 114. In light 
of these considerations, the Court rejected the Govern- 
ment’s arguments and held that: 


The principal purpose of the treaty was that the 
Shoshones should have, and permanently dwell in, 
the [Wind River Indian Reservation]. To that end 
the United States granted and assured to the 
tribe peaceable and unqualified possession of the 
land in perpetuity. 


Id. at 116 (emphasis added). In essence, this Court ruled 


17 


that the purpose of the Reservation was to establish a 
permanent homeland for the Indians.* 


The ruling below is inconsistent not only with this 
Court’s prior interpretation of the Treaty, but also with 
this Court’s ruling in Shoshone Tribe that the terms of the 
Treaty are to be ‘‘construed in the sense in which naturally 
the Indians would understand them.’ Jd. at 116. There 
can be little doubt how the Shoshones “naturally ... would 
[have] under{stood]” the Treaty. In 1868, when the Sho- 
shones—then unable to read, write, or speak English— 
entered into the Treaty, the Tribe and the United States 
had long enjoyed friendly relations and were even military 
allies. In return for ceding their rights previously recog- 
nized by treaty to a tract of land larger than the State 
of Missouri, the Shoshones agreed to make their “per- 
manent home’”’ on the Reservation, which the United States 
agreed to ‘‘set apart for [their] absolute and undisturbed 
use and occupation.” The Reservation was a much smaller 
tract of land than that ceded, but one that the Tribe had 
selected and that was known to contain valuable mineral 
resources, extensive timberlands, and fertile river valleys 


* This Court reached a similar conclusion with respect to the Miami 
Tribe in 1867, one year before the United States and the Shoshones 
signed the Second Treaty of Fort Bridger. The Kansas Indians, 72 U.S. 
(5 Wall.) 737, 760-761 (1867) (‘‘The object of the Treaty was to hedge 
the lands around with guards and restrictions, so as to preserve them 
for the permanent homes of the Indians.”’’). 


* This Court has consistently followed the rules of Indian treaty inter- 
pretation applied in Shoshone Tribe. E.g., Choctaw Nation v. Oklahoma 
397 U.S. 620, 631 (1970) (‘this Court has often held that treaties with 
the Indians must be interpreted as they would have understood them, 

. . and any doubtful expressions in them should be resolved in the 
Indians’ favor’’) (citing Alaska Pacific Fisheries v. United States, 248 
U.S. 78, 89 (1918)); Worcester v. Georgia, 31 U.S. (6 Pet.) 515, 582 
(1832) (“The language used in treaties with the Indians should never 
be construed to their prejudice. . . . How the words of the treaty were 
understood by this unlettered people, rather than their critical meaning, 
should form the rule of construction.’’). 


18 


conveniently irrigable, and was located in the best-watered 
area in the region. In these circumstances, the Shoshones 
“naturally ... would [have] under{stood]’’ that the Tribe 
would be entitled to use all water necessary to develop a 
permanent homeland on the Reservation. 


In sum, the ruling below that the Reservation was cre- 
ated for a sole agricultural purpose is inconsistent with 
the provisions of the Treaty itself, this Court’s interpre- 
tation of the Treaty in Shoshone Tribe, and the well-settled 
rules governing Indian treaty interpretation applied by this 
Court in Shoshone Tribe. The Supreme Court of Wyoming 
has abridged the water rights of the Tribes under the 
Treaty by erroneously restricting the amount of water re- 
served for the Tribes to that necessary only for the irri- 
gation needs of the Reservation. 


II. The Supreme Court of Wyoming Erred in Failing 
To Recognize the Rights of the Tribes Under the 
Treaty with Respect to Groundwater. 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming failed to recognize the 
treaty rights of the Tribes with respect to groundwater. 
The Special Master held that the Tribes had a reserved 
right to groundwater from the Reservation’s shallow 
aquifers for domestic, livestock, and commercial uses, Pet. 
App. at 607a-608a, and that the deeper aquifers on the 
Reservation were ‘‘the proper sources of water for said 
future industrial activities.” Jd. at 608a. But the district 
court denied altogether the Tribes’ claim to a reserved 
right to groundwater, finding that ‘‘the State of Wyoming 
owns all groundwater, even that which flows beneath the 
reservation.” Id. at 242a. The Supreme Court of Wyoming 
affirmed this ruling, holding that ‘t]he district court did 
not err in deciding there was no reserved groundwater 
right.”” Id. at 45a. 


The distinction drawn by the Supreme Court of Wyo- 
ming between surface water and groundwater is illusory. 
Most groundwater is directly related to some surface wa- 


19 


tercourse; either the watercourse feeds the aquifer or vice 
versa.’° A stream, for example, is literally the surface flow 
of one integrated hydrologic resource that includes the 
underlying aquifer. As this Court has put it, ‘‘“groundwater 
and surface water are physically interrelated as integral 
parts of the hydrologic cycle.’’ Cappaert v. United States, 
426 U.S. 128, 142 (1976). See generally National Water 
Commission, Water Policies for the Future 233 (1973). The 
fiction of maintaining separate surface-water and ground- 
water systems has increasingly been criticized because it 
results in the inefficient use of water, and because re- 
source-management practices should comport with scien- 
tific realities. See, e.g., Trelease, Conjunctive Use of 
Groundwater and Surface Water, 27B Rocky Mtn. Min. L. 
Inst. 1853 (1982). The State of Wyoming has also recog- 
nized these hydrologic facts and requires conjunctive man- 
agement of surface-water and groundwater supplies when 
the two are connected. Wyo. Stat. § 41-3-916 (1977). 


The federal courts have consistently recognized the hy- 
drologic relationship between surface flows and ground- 
water in decisions involving federal and Indian reserved 
water rights. In Cappaert v. United States, 426 U.S. 128, 
138-143 (1976), this Court upheld an injunction prohibiting 
groundwater pumping from land near Devil’s Hole, a na- 
tional monument set apart to preserve a unique under- 
ground pool, to the extent that the groundwater pumping 
interfered with the federal reserved water right to main- 
tain the level of the surface water in the underground 
pool. Moreover, the lower federal courts have repeatedly 
held that federal and Indian reserved rights extend not 
only to surface water, but also to groundwater.!! 


'°The Special Master recognized this interrelationship, noting that 
certain “‘shallow aquifers [on the Reservation]. . . depend directly upon 
the Wind River for their life.’’ Pet. App. at 605a. 


'' United States v. Cappaert, 508 F.2d 313, 317 (9th Cir. 1974) (‘‘the 
United States may reserve not only surface water, but also underground 


In accordance with these federal decisions, the Tribes, 
supported by the United States, sought three rulings with 
respect to groundwater. The first of these requested rul- 
ings—that the State may not authorize groundwater pump- 
ing that would interfere with or impair the decreed treaty 
rights of the Tribes to reserved water from surface flows— 
follows directly from this Court’s ruling in Cappaert. The 
second requested ruling—that the Tribes may satisfy their 
reserved rights out of groundwater rather than surface 
flows, subject to the limitation that such substitution would 
not increase the Tribes’ consumptive use of water—would 
permit the Tribes the flexibility to draw some of their 
reserved water from wells rather than to divert all of their 
water from surface flows. Neither of these requested rul- 
ings would result in an additional award of water, and the 
State itself acknowledged that the Tribes were entitled to 


water’), aff'd on other grounds, 426 U.S. 128 (1976); Nevada ex rel. 
Shamberger v. United States, 165 F. Supp. 600 (D. Nev. 1958) (up- 
holding the federal government’s pumping of groundwater without a 
state-awarded permit), aff'd on other grounds, 279 F.2d 699 (9th Cir. 
1960); Tweedy v. Texas Co., 286 F. Supp. 383, 385 (D. Mont. 1968) 
(‘The Winters case dealt only with surface water, but the same im- 
plications which led the Supreme Court to hold that surface waters 
had been reserved would apply to underground waters as well. The 
land was arid—water would make it more useful, and whether the 
waters were found on the surface of the land or under it should make 
no difference.’’); New Mexico ex rel. Reynolds v. Aamod, 618 F. Supp. 
993, 1010 (D.N.M. 1985) (‘‘The Pueblo water rights appurtenant to their 
lands are the surface waters of the stream systems and the ground- 
water physically interrelated to the surface water as an integral part 
of the hydrologic cycle. . . . The Pueblos have the prior right to the 
use of this water.’’). See also Colville Confederated Tribes v. Walton, 
647 F.2d 42, 45-47 (9th Cir.) (upholding the reserved right of the 
Indians to surface flows and groundwater), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1092 
(1981). 


All of these cases were cited by the Tribes or the United States in 
their briefs to the Supreme Court of Wyoming. Brief of Appellant 
United States at 89-94 (Dec. 1985); Tribes’ Type Two Brief at 60-66; 
Reply Brief of Appellants Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes (Type 
Two Issues) at 49-51 (May 23, 1986). 


21 


these rulings.'? Nonetheless, the Wyoming courts erro- 
neously failed to incorporate either of these requested rul- 
ings in their decisions or the decree. 


The Wyoming courts further erred in rejecting the third 
requested ruling regarding groundwater, pursuant to which 
the Tribes sought an additional amount of reserved water 
under the Treaty from groundwater sources for certain 
industrial, domestic, municipal, commercial, livestock and 
mineral development needs. The Supreme Court of Wyo- 
ming flatly rejected this claim for reserved groundwater 
for the sole reason that “‘not a single case applying the 
reserved water doctrine to groundwater is cited to us.”’ 
Pet. App. at 44a. Such cases had in fact been cited below; 
see supra note 11. But, even if there had been no such 
precedent, the Supreme Court of Wyoming erred in de- 
nying the claim, for it readily conceded that ‘“‘[t]he logic 
which supports a reservation of surface water to fulfill the 
purpose of the reservation also supports reservation of 
groundwater.” Id. at 44a. In short, the Supreme Court of 


In its brief to the Supreme Court of Wyoming, the State noted 
that: 


At the conclusion of the groundwater portion of their brief, the 
Tribes ask that this Court require the District Court to include in 
its decree three provisions. Tribes’ Appellant’s (Type 2) Brief, 
p. 66. The State has no objection and has never taken a position 
contrary to either of the first two conditions: 


(i) that the State cannot authorize groundwater pumping that 
interferes with or impairs the Tribes’ decreed rights to surface 
flows; (ii) that permits the Tribes to satisfy their reserved rights 
out of groundwater instead of surface water provided that such 
substitution would not adversely affect other water users. ... 


Brief of Appellee State of Wyoming In Response to the Appellants’ 
Briefs of the United States and Tribes (Type 2 Claims) at 115. (Feb. 
24, 1986) (‘““Wyoming’s Type Two Brief’’). 


22 


Wyoming erred in concluding that there is no reserved 
right to groundwater under the Treaty.” 


III. The Tribes Are Not Restricted Under the Treaty 
from Exporting Their Reserved Water off the Res- 
ervation For Use by Themselves or by Others. 


The decision of the Supreme Court of Wyoming appar- 
ently leaves undisturbed the district court’s erroneous rul- 
ing that the Tribes are restricted under the Treaty from 
exporting their reserved water off the Reservation. The 
Special Master held that the Tribes are permitted in cer- 
tain circumstances to export their reserved surface water. 
Pet. App. at 582a. The district court, however, while rec- 
ognizing that it could not “dictate to the Tribes how they 
must use water that comes under a reserved water right,” 
nonetheless ruled that “the Court can restrict any use of 
said water to within the boundaries of the reservation,” 
id. at 264a, and decreed that “‘the use [as well as the sale 
of reserved water] is confined to the reservation.” Jd. at 
269a. The Tribes and the United States appealed the dis- 
trict court’s ruling, but the Supreme Court of Wyoming 
declined to address the merits of these appeals." 


‘3 The reserved rights of the Tribes under the Treaty to groundwater 
extend not only to the shallow aquifers that are hydrologically related 
to surface flows, but also to the deep aquifers that are not so related. 
The reserved rights of the Tribes to this deep groundwater are 
to their mineral rights under the Treaty. See United States v. Shoshone 
Tribe, 304 U.S. 111 (1938). 


There is no merit to the ruling of the district court that thé Tribes 
have no reserved rights to groundwater under the Treaty because ‘‘the 
State of Wyoming owns all groundwater, even that which flows beneath 
the reservation.” Pet. App. at 242a. This Court has’rightly termed 
state ownership of water a “legal fiction.’’ Sporh v. Nebraska ex. 
rel. Douglas, 458 U.S. 941, 951 (1982). ve 


'‘* The Supreme Court of Wyoming’s entire discussion of the ground- 
water issue is as follows: 


The district court held that ve an can sell or lease any 


23 


The district court erred in interpreting the Treaty to 
restrict the Tribes from exporting their reserved water off 
the Reservation. There is no case support whatsoever for 
this ruling, and it conflicts with the general rule that In- 
dian tribes are entitled to lease, encumber and alienate 
their property, subject to federal supervision.’* Just as this 


part of the water covered by their reserved water rights but the 
said sale or leaSe cannot be for exportation off of the Reservation.’ 
The Tribes did not seek permission to export reserved water, and 
the United States concedes that no federal law permits the sale 
of reserved water to non-Indians off the reservation. Because of 
our holding on the groundwater issue, we need not address the 
separate constitutional attack on the prohibition of exportation of 
groundwater. 


Pet. App. at 45a. The court’s observation that the Tribes did not seek 
permission to export reserved water is incorrect; both the Tribes and 
/ the United States repeatedly asserted that the Tribes are not restricted 
under the Treaty from exporting reserved water off the Reservation 
for use themselves or by others. E.g., Decision of the District Court, 
May 10, 1983 (Pet. App. at 222a); Tribes’ Type Two Brief at 80-82; 
Brief for the Appellant United States at 103-105 (Dec. 1985). 


Moreover, the court’s observation regarding the “‘concession’’ by the 
United States refers not to the treaty question properly presented in 
this proceeding—whether the Tribes are restricted under the Treaty 
from exporting their reserved water off the Reservation for use by 
themselves or by others—but rather to a statutory question not pre- 
sented here: whether, under the federal statutes regulating the sale 
and leasing of Indian trust assets, Congress has presently authorized 
the Tribes to export reserved water off the Reservation for sale or 
leasing. This statutory question was not litigated in the Wyoming courts, 
and indeed the Wyoming courts lacked jurisdiction under the McCarran 
Amendment, 43 U.S.C. § 666, to resolve that federal statutory question, 
because, under the McCarran Amendment, the United States did not 
waive its sovereign immunity with respect to that question. 


In view of the state supreme court’s apparent belief that no ex- 
portation issue was in the case, it may be open to the Tribes to argue 
to the district court on remand that its holding on the point should be 
vacated. 


's Transfers of Indian property interests have always been subject to 
federal supervision. In 1790, the first Congress adopted the Non-In- 


24 


Court in United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111, 
117 (1938), construed the Treaty as implicitly reserving 
for the Tribes the mineral resources on the Reservation— 
the rights to which the Tribes have since leased to third 
parties—so, too, should the Treaty be interpreted to afford 
the Tribes the right to export their water resources re- 
served under the Treaty for use off the Reservation by 
others. See generally Comment, Leasing Indian Water Off 
the Reservation: A Use Consistent with the Reservation’s 
Purpose, 76 Calif. L. Rev. 179, 199-200 (1988) (‘‘Off-re- 
servation leases of Indian water rights further 
congressional policies and thus are a use consistent with 
the purposes of the reservation.’’). 


tercourse Act, 25 U.S.C. § 177 (1982), requiring congressional approval 
of any transfers of Indian land. Since then, Congress has continued to 
occupy the field of Indian land transactions by maintaining a ccmpre- 
hensive statutory scheme on the subject. See Oneida Indian Nation v. 
County of Oneida, 414 U.S. 661 (1974). In addition, Congress has 
adopted omnibus legislation authorizing the leasing of various tribal 
resources, such as the leasing of mineral rights. See generally F. Cohen, 
Handbook of Federal Indian Law, ch. 9 (1982). Indeed, Congress has 
specifically approved the transfer of Indian water rights in connection 
with the Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act of 1982, Pub. 
L. No. 97-293, § 306(c) & (d), 96 Stat. 1280 (affording Papago Tribe 
the right to use water “within or outside the Papago Reservation” and 
to “‘sell, exchange or temporarily dispose of water, but the tribe may 
not permanently alienate any water right.’’). Congress is also now ac- 
tively considering several bills concerning Indian water transfers. See, 
e.g., Ute Indian Water Settlement Act of 1988, H.R. 5029, 100th Cong. 
2d Sess. § 7 (Water provided under the settlement may be devoted to 
all types of uses, including “municipal, industrial, recreational, in-stream 
uses, sale, lease, or any other use whatsoever. . . .’’); Salt River Pima- 
Maricopa Indian Community Water Rights Settlement Act of 1988, 
S. 2153, 100th Cong. 2d Sess. § 8 (providing that the community “‘shall 
lease’ up to 13,300 acre feet to the City of Phoenix, but limiting other 
leases or transfers of water). In short, interests in Indian land and 
other natural resources are inherently transferable, subject to federal 
supervision. 


25 


Transfers of water play a central role in ensuring the 
efficient use of this scarce resource in the American West. 
A smoothly operating market system assures that water 
can be moved from outmoded uses to new, more cost- 
effective ones. See, e.g., Western Governors’ Association, 
Western Water: Tuning the System (1986); Getches, Water 
Use Efficiency: The Value of Water in the West, & Public 
Land L. Rev. 1, 17-23 (1987). The western water market 
is expanding rapidly, and this Court has facilitated these 
developments by recognizing that “‘water is an article of 
commerce. . . .” Sporhase v. Nebraska ex rel. Douglas, 
458 U.S. 941, 954 (1982). 


Wyoming has recognized the importance of water trans- 
fers, and such transfers are expressly permitted under 
Wyoming law. Wyo. Stat. §§ 41-3-103, 104. Indeed, the 
Tribes are not seeking any greater right to transfer water 
than that enjoyed by all other water users in the State." 
The rigid limitations imposed by the district court would 
disadvantage the Indians who, like their fellow citizens in 
Wyoming, should as a matter of fairness be in a position 
to maximize the development potential from their re- 


‘* The State conceded below that it “‘would not be discomfited if this 
Court were to holc that the Tribes may obtain changes in use or places 
of use of reserved water rights [in accordance with the provisions of 
Wyoming law]."" Wyoming’s Type Two Brief at 159. 


The Tribes acknowledge that, as a matter of fairness, transfers of 
water should be consistent with restrictions similar to those imposed 
by state law. See Tribes’ Type Two Brief at 81. This is a recognition 
of the fact that other water users may depend on the return flow from 
tribal water uses; thus transfers can only include an amount equal to 
the beneficial consumptive use, not the total amount diverted. See, e.g., 
Farmers Highline Canal & Reservoir Co. v. City of Golden, 129 Colo. 
575, 272 P.2d 629 (1954). In the context of Indian reserved rights not 
previously used, this means that the Tribes’ entitlement to export water 
should be limited only if such exportation would cause other water 
users to be “worse off than they would have been if the rights had 
been exercised for their original use at the original place.” See F. 
Cohen, Handbook of Indian Law 592 (1982 ed.). 


26 


sources. The district court’s ruling would also negatively 
affect the economy in the region, for the ruling precludes 
the transfer of water to its most efficient use. 


In the absence of an explicit limitation on the use of 
water in the Treaty itself, the Treaty should be construed 
to permit the Tribes to export their reserved water off 
the Reservation for use by themselves or by others, subject 
to federal supervision. Permitting such transfers not only 
would ensure that a scarce resource is put to its best use, 
but also would provide the Tribes with a source of critically 
needed funds to hasten the economic development of the 
Reservation. 


IV. The Wyoming Courts Improperly Assigned the 
Tribes the Burden of Proof in Establishing Their 
Reserved Water Rights for the Irrigation Needs of 
Two Proposed Irrigation Projects and of Historic 
Lands Without State Water Certificates. 


The Wyoming courts placed the burden of proof on the 
Tribes in establishing a reserved water right for historic 
lands without state water certificates, Pet. App. 60a-61a,"’ 
and for lands not previously irrigated but asserted to be 
practically irrigable (“future lands’’). Jd. at 49a. As a re- 
sult, the Tribes were denied reserved water rights for 
11,916 acres of historic lands,"* and also for 9,970 acres 
of future lands (the proposed Stagner Ridge and Big Horn 
Flats Extension projects) that were conceded to be arable 
and practically irrigable from an engineering standpoint.'* 


‘*In contrast, lands subject to uncancelled state water certificates 
were correctly presumed to be practically irrigable, Pet. App. 60a-61a. 
with the burden placed on the State to show the contrary. 


* See Pet. App. at 65a (6,298 acres), 67a (1,675 acres), 68a (3,943 
acres). The last category includes some Indian fee lands which have 
not been irrigated but which the Tribes demonstrated are substantially 
similar to lands that have been irrigated. 


* See Pet. App. at 58a-59a, 585a. 


27 


The assignment of the burden of proof to the Tribes 
with respect to these lands was reversible error. The Act 
of June 30, 1834, Ch. 161 § 22, 4 Stat. 733, as codified 
at 25 U.S.C. § 194 (1982), provides: 


In all cases about the right of property in which 
an Indian may be a party on one side, and a 
white person on the other, the burden of proof 
shall rest upon the white person, whenever the 
Indian shall make out a presumption of title in 
himself from the fact of previous possession or 
ownership. 


In Wilson v. Omaha Tribe, 442 U.S. 653 (1979), this 
Court noted that “‘{[sjection 194 is triggered once the tribe 
makes out a prima facie case of prior possession or title 
to the particular area under dispute.’’ Jd. at 668 (emphasis 
in original).° 

This case presents the novel question of how the Section 
194 presumption applies to property consisting of water 
rights. A prima facie case would seem to require the fol- 
lowing: (1) a showing that the land (the “‘area’’) is owned 
by the Tribes, and (2) a showing that the land for which 
water is claimed either (a) currently is or historically has 
been irrigated or (b) is arable and practically irrigable from 
an engineering standpoint. 

As already noted, the Tribes concededly made those 
showings; yet more was demanded of them because of the 


* In Wilson, the Court held that Section 194 does not operate against 
a sovereign state involved in litigating title to property ‘“‘to which it 
claims ownership, particularly where its opposition is an organized In- 
dian tribe litigating with the help of the United States of America.” 
Id. at 668. The present case does not involve those circumstances. First, 
the non-Indian claimants to property rights in the water of the Big 
Horn system are individual water users; the State of Wyoming claimed 
no interest in the water for itself. Second, with respect to the Tribes’ 
claim for water for the two proposed irrigation projects on future lands, 
the Tribes were not litigating with the help of the United States, which 
did not support the Tribes in that claim. 


28 


state courts’ incorrect assignment of the burden of proof. 
The state courts held that the Tribes had not sustained 
the burden of proving that the lands were irrigable from 
an economic point of view. They should have held, instead, 
that the State had the burden both of introducing evidence 
that the lands are not irrigable because of economic factors 
and of sustaining a burden of persuasion to that effect by 
a preponderance of the evidence. Wilson, supra, 442 U.S. 
at 669. 


V. The Wyoming Courts Erred in Computing the Quan- 
tity of Water Reserved for the Tribes’ Irrigation 
Needs on the Historic Lands by Using a Water-Use 
Efficiency Rate Higher than the Average Rate 
Achieved by Irrigators in the Region. 


The Supreme Court of Wyoming erred with respect to 
the water-use efficiency rate to be used in quantifying the 
water reserved under the Treaty for the irrigation needs 
of the Tribes on the historic lands.24 The Supreme Court 
of Wyoming erroneously used a water-use efficiency rate 
of 40 percent, whereas the average rate achieved by all 
irrigators in the region is only 35 percent. Pet. App. at 
68a-69a. The result of this ruling was to reduce the total 
award of water to the Tribes for these lands by 12.5 
percent. 


The Wyoming courts sought to justify this use of a 
higher efficiency rate as a means of encouraging water 
conservation on the historic lands. Laudable as that ob- 
jective may be, the practical effect of the ruling is to 
discriminate against the Indians by quantifying only their 
water rights under a higher efficiency rate, a rate that 
the Indians can meet only through expensive modifications 


* The water-use efficiency rate used in quantifying a reserved water 
right has a direct, inverse relationship to the total amount of an award, 
because the more efficient the use of water for irrigation or any other 
use, the less total water needs to be diverted. 


29 


of existing irrigation facilities (including irrigation canals 
shared by non-Indian irrigators on the Reservation). In 
justifying this disparity, the state supreme court noted that 
the Special Master ‘‘had no power to order an efficiency 
increase for non-Indian users.” Jd. at 69a. Thus, in the 
context of a general stream adjudication of the rights of 
all water users in the Big Horn Basin, the Wyoming state 
courts have quantified only the Indian water rights by 
reference to a higher efficiency rate than the average now 
achieved by all irrigators in the region. 


The Wyoming courts erred in reducing the total award 
of water by quantifying the reserved right of the Tribes 
for the irrigation needs of the historic lands by using the 
40 percent efficiency rate. The proper efficiency rate in 
this context should be no higher that that achieved by 
similarly situated water users. The disparate burden im- 
posed by the Wyoming courts on the federal treaty rights 
of the Tribes is both unfair and incorrect. 


VI. The Priority Date for Reservation Lands Owned by 
Non-Indians Should Be No Earlier than That for 
Reservation Lands Reacquired by the Tribes from 
Non-Indians. 


The Tribes present a final issue simply as a matter of 
fairness. The State has raised the question of the appro- 
priate priority date to be accorded a reserved water right 
for practicably irrigable Reservation lands reacquired by 
the Tribes from non-Indians. Pet. at 28-29. The State has 
apparently raised this question only as it applies to lands 
that have been reacquired from non-Indians by the Tribes, 
without raising the question of the appropriate priority 
date for lands that remain in non-Indian ownership and 
for which reserved rights have been claimed. In the pro- 
ceedings below, the State opposed the reserved-water-right 
claims of such non-Indians, see Pet. at 9, but here the 
State seems to have addressed its challenge only against 
the Tribes. Surely, in this context, the non-Indians—who 


30 


are direct competitors with the Indians for water on the 
Reservation—should have no earlier priority date or more 
favorable treatment in determining that date than the In- 
dians on whose behalf the water rights were reserved pur- 
suant to the Treaty. Accordingly, in the event that the 
Court decides to hear this issue, it should address the 
question as it pertains to both Indians and non-Indians. 


CONCLUSION 


In the event that the petition of the State of Wyoming 
in Wyoming v. United States, No. 88-309, is granted, this 
cross-petition for a writ of certiorari should also be granted. 


is Respectfully submitted, 
Of Counsel: BRICE M. CLAGETT* 


SAUL B. GOODMAN 
CHARLES F. WILKINSON MARC S. MAYERSON 


School of Law Covington & Burling 
University of Colorado 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Boulder, CO 80309 P.O. Box 7566 

- Washington, DC 20044 
DALE T. WHITE (202) 662-5316 
Whiteing, Thompson & White 
6684 Gunpark Drive Attorneys for Cross-Petitioner 
Boulder, Colorado 80301 Northern Arapaho Tribe 


B. KEVIN GOVER 
CATHERINE B. STETSON 
SUSAN M. WILLIAMS 

Gover, Stetson & Williams, P.C. 
1225 Rio Grande Blvd., N.W. 
Albuquerque, NM 87104-2630 


Attorneys for Cross-Petitioner 
Shoshone Tribe 


September 21, 1988 *Counsel of Record 


(9 
No. 88-492 2) 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1988 


SHOSHONE TRIBE and NORTHERN ARAPAHO TRIBE OF THE 
WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, 
Cross-Petitioners, 
THE STATE OF WYOMING, et al., 
Cross-Respondents. 


On Cross-Petition for a Writ of Certiorari 
for the Supreme Court of Wyoming 


MEMORANDUM OF CITY OF RIVERTON, ET AL., 
CROSS-RESPONDENTS, OPPOSING CROSS-PETITION 
FOR CERTIORARI 


DONALD P. WHITE * 

WHITE, WHITE & KEENAN, P.C. 
420 E. Washington 

Riverton, Wyoming 82501 
(307) 856-2207 


C. EDWARD WEBSTER, II 
1226 11th Street 

Cody, Wyoming 82414 
(307) 587-6216 


RUTH CLARE YONKEE 
627 Fremont 
P. O. Box 1324 
Thermopolis, Wyoming 82443 
(307) 864-2517 
November 21, 1988 * Counsel of Record 


—- 


As 5 ID 


IN THE 
Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1988 


No. 88-492 


SHOSHONE TRIBE and NORTHERN ARAPAHO TRIBE OF THE 
WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, 
Cross-Petitioners, 


THE STATE OF WYOMING, et al., 
Cross-Respondents. 


On Cross-Petition for a Writ of Certiorari 
for the Supreme Court of Wyoming 


MEMORANDUM OF CITY OF RIVERTON, ET AL., 
CROSS-RESPONDENTS, OPPOSING CROSS-PETITION 
FOR CERTIORARI 


This matter arises from the Federal reserved water 
right claims of the United States of America and the 
Shoshone and Arapaho Tribes for the Wind River Indian 
Reservation in Wyoming. The Wyoming Supreme Court 
issued its decision in part granting and denying the 
claims of the United States and Tribes on February 24, 
1988. The Tribes, by cross-petition for certiorari, now 
seek this Court’s review of the decision, alleging that 
the Wyoming Supreme Court improperly: (1) limited 
the purpose of the Reservation, (2) denied the Tribes a 
Federal reserved water right to use groundwater, (3) 
denied the Tribes’ right to export reserved water for uses 
outside the Reservation, (4) misassigned the burden of 


2 


proof, (5) imposed an overly restrictive water use effi- 
ciency upon the Tribes’ reserved water right uses, and 
(6) awarded an incorrect priority date to the reserved 
water right for certain reacquired lands. 


These issues do not merit this Court’s review upon 
certiorari. The decision of the Wyoming Supreme Court 
on the questions presented by the cross-petition is not in 
conflict, indeed it is consistent, with the decisions of this 
and other appropriate courts. In addition, the questions 
presented were not properly raised or decided below and 
involve factual issues relating solely to the Wind River 
Reservation. The cross-respondent State of Wyoming has 
filed a thorough and carefully documented brief in op- 
position to the Tribes’ Cross-Petition. The undersigned 
parties adopt the positions and the arguments of the 
State of Wyoming and, for the reasons stated in its 
brief and in this memorandum, respectfully request that 
this Court deny the Cross-Petition for Writ of Certiorari 
filed by the Tribes herein. 


Respectfully submitted this 21st day of November, 
1988. 


DONALD P. WHITE * 

WHITE, WHITE & KEENAN, P.C. 
420 E. Washington 

Riverton, Wyoming 82501 
(307) 856-2207 


C. EDWARD WEBSTER, II 
1226 11th Street 

Cody, Wyoming 82414 
(307) 587-6216 


RUTH CLARE YONKEE 
627 Fremont 
P. O. Box 1324 
Thermopolis, Wyoming 82443 
(307) 864-2517 
November 21, 1988 * Counsel of Record 


+ Buprpmra Court, US. 
EILED — 


NOV 21 1988 


PANIOL, JR, 


0H 2 
Nos. 88-309, 2 and 88-553 


Jn the Supreme Court of the Gui 


OCTOBER TERM, 1988 


STATE OF WYOMING, PETITIONER 
v. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ET AL. 


SHOSHONE TRIBE AND NORTHERN ARAPAHO TRIBE OF THE 
WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, CROSS-PETITIONERS 


V. 
STATE OF WYOMING, ET AL. 


CITY OF RIVERTON, WYOMING, ET AL., CROSS-PETITIONERS 
V. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ET AL. 


ON Pc1ITION AND CROSS-PETITiIONS FOR A WRIT OF 
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WYOMING 


BRIEF FOR THE UNITED STATES IN OPPOSITION 


CHARLES FRIED 
Solicitor General 


ROGER J. MARZULLA 
Assistant Attorney General 


EDWARD J. SHAWAKER 
ROBERT L. KLARQUIST 
Attorneys 


Department of Justice 
Washington, D.C. 20530 
(202) 633-2217 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED ' 


1. Whether the “water proviso” of the Act of March 3, 
1905 (33 Stat. 1020)— which provides that the remaining 
balance of an $85,000 sum to be obtained from the sale of 
certain lands of the Wind River Indian Reservation shall, 
following a per capita distribution of $50 per Indian, 
“become available and shall be devoted to surveying, plat- 
ting, making of maps, payment of the fees, and the per- 
formance of such acis as are required by the statutes of the 
State of Wyoming in securing water rights from said State 
for the irrigation of such lands as shall remain the prop- 
erty of said Indians, * * * ”—demonstrates that no federal 
reserved water rights were created when that Reservation 
was Set aside in 1868 by the Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 
or, alternatively, whether that water proviso terminated all 
reserved water rights created by the 1868 Treaty. ' 

2. Whether the Act of March 3, 1905, which provided 
for the sale of certain reservation Jands of the Wind River 
Indian Reservation and further provided that the Indians 
were to be compensated out of the sales proceeds as the 
lands were sold, terminated the federal reserved water 
rights attaching to lands that were never sold. 

3. Whether this Court should reconsider its holding in 
Arizona v. California, 373 U.S. 546 (1963), that the 
amount of water reserved for agricultural purposes when 
an Indian reservation is established is that quantity of 
water that is required to irrigate the practicably irrigable 
acreage within the reservation. 


' This summation of the questions presented encompasses only 
those questions raised in the petition filed by the State of Wyoming in 
No. 88-309 and the cross-petition filed by the City of Riverton, 
Wyoming, et al., in No. 88-553. As discussed in the text below, the 
United States suggests that the Court grant review of the additional 
questions presented in the conditional cross-petition filed by the 
Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes in No. 88-492, in the event 
that the Court grants the State’s petition. 


(1) 


I] 


4. Whether the Wyoming Supreme Court erred by 
failing to use the discount rate formula established pur- 
suant to Section 80(a) of the Water Resources Develop- 
ment Act of 1974, 88 Stat. 34, 42 U.S.C. 1962d-17(a), to 
determine whether certain reservation lands that have 
never been irrigated are practicably irrigable. 

5. Whether the Wyoming Supreme Court correctly 
resolved issues concerning the status of water rights for 
lands that had at some previous time been conveyed to 
non-Indians. 

6. Whether the United States may be estopped in this 
case from asserting reserved water rights on behalf of the 
Indian Tribes pursuant to a federal treaty. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Page 
SE Sr a l 
a al a 2 
a EIS A 2 
I here ee oy so ocd eee eekce. en. 10 
ee ne 0s ors 6S eos hoe hbncd ncne 29 
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 
Cases: 
Antoine v. Washington, 420 U.S. 194 ey IA ee 16 
Arizona v. California, 373 U.S. 546 en eee ir 
18, 21 
Arizona v. California, 460 U.S. 605 | BGR ere eee 19, 21 
Arizona vy. San Carlos Apache Tribe, 463 US. 545 
MN a a Oe ee oe vs neces 28 
Ash Sheep Co. v. United States, 252 U.S. 159 (1920) ..... 16 
California Oregon Power Co. v. Beaver Portland Cement 
Gee mwe ere. CG000085),........,....:..:........ 27-28 
Cappaert v. United States, 426 U.S. 128 | pena a 12, 20 
Colville Confederated Tribes vy. Walton, 647 F.2d 42 (9th 
Cir.), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1092 EA es ae 24, 25, 26 
Heckler v. Community Health Services of Crawford 
County, Inc., 467 U.S. §1] AL Aperertsen 27 
Johnston v. Davis, 698 F.2d 1088 (10th Cir. 1983) ....... 23 
Menominee Tribe v. United States, 391 U.S. 404 (1968) .. 15 
Northwestern Band of Shoshone Indians v. United States, 
ny oh SL”) A a 4 
Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367 (1969). . 13 
Rosebud Sioux Tribe v. Kneip, 430 U.S. 584 977)... 17 
Russello v. United States, 464 U.S. 16 LC FAIRE eco Renae 12 
Solem v. Bartlett, 465 U.S. 463 | ea ee 14, 16 
United States v. Adair, 723 F.2d 1394 (9th Cir. 1983), cert. 
Gented, 467 U.S. 1252(1984)....................... 21 
United States v. Ahtanum Irrigation District, 236 F.2d 32) 
(9th Cir. 1956), cert. denied, 352 U.S, 988 ibaa) 21 
United States v. Anderson, 736 F.2d 1358 (9th Cir. 
Me ise eyes ees. ess 24, 25, 26 
United States y. Brindle, 110 U.S. 688 (| Ae Sar ee ea 16 


(III) 


IV 


Cases — Continued: Page 
United States v. Dion, 476 U.S. 734 a eaarrey ne 14 
United States v. New Mexico, 438 U.S. 696 1 2 11, 12, 

18, 19, 20, 25 
United States v. Price, 361 U.S. 304 (1960) .......-----: 12 
United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111 (i530). s+. 4 
United States v. Walker River Irr. Dist., 104 F.2d 334 
Le A, on eee eee ee ee Rane 21 
Ute Indian Tribe v. State of Utah, 773 F.2d 1087 (10th 
Cir. 1985), cert. denied, 479 U.S. 994 ‘| eee oe 16 
Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger 
Fishing Vessel Ass’n, 443 U.S. GSB CIGTF) nc cece ses 18, 19 
Winters v. United States, 207 U.S. 564 1 ee 6, 10, 
11, 13, 25 


Treaties and statutes: 


First Treaty of Fort Bridger, July 2, 1863, 18 Stat. 685... 4 
Ast. TV, 10 Saat. GOO . 2... oc erent ass ceecnnees 4 
Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, July 3, 1868, 15 Stat. 

SOT e TT TOR Perey Terre rr eT tere passim 
Ast. U1, 19 Stat. 676 . 2. 0 wees ccc enc cweneccens 4, 18 
Art. IV, 15 Stat. 674-675 ........ 22. eee e eee eee 4 
Ast. VE, 15 Stat. G78... 22 wen e scr c cn sancconeces 4 
Art. VIII, 15 Stat. 675-676 ........------ eee eee: 3,4 

Act of Dec. 15, 1874, ch. 2, 18 Stat. 291 .........---5-- 5 
Act of June 7, 1897, ch. 3, § 12, 30 Stat. _: re Syrre 5 
Act of Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1452, 33 Stat. | PRR Sey 4, 5, 11, 
12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 26 
Ast. 1, 33 Stat. 1O1G 2... oc ccc cece see eenees 5, 15 
Art. I], 33 Stat. 1016-1017 ........----++-+5> .5, 16, 18 
Art. 111, 33 Stat. 1017 .. 2... 26 ee ect ene eees 5. 43 
Ast. 1X, 33 Stat. 1018 . 2... 2.22 ee eee teens: 5, 14, 16 
Ast. X%, 33 Stat. 1008... wo. ccc cn teen ness 14 
Indian Reorganization Act, ch. $76, 46 Srat. 964 ....-..-. 6 
McCarran Amendment, 43 U.S.C. 666 .....-.-.----->> 3 
National Environment Policy Act of 1969, 42 USL. 
MET 06 BOR. nore has cack ets nos ee se ere ease - 23 
Water Resources Development Act of 1974, § 80(a), 42 
A oe | ee ee eee see 22, 23 


Wyo. Stat. § 1-37-106 (1977) ....--. 660s eee etree 2 


V 


Statutes — Continued: Page 
POET SS. GR oe Ca ce eae eres Catan 6 
Miscellaneous: 
H.R. Rep. 3700, 58th Cong., 3d Sess. (1905) ......... 13 
S. Rep. 4263, 58th Cong., 3d Sess. (1905) ............ 13 


Jn the Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1988 


No. 88-309 
STATE OF WYOMING, PETITIONER 
£ 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ET Al 


No. 88-492 


SHOSHONE TRIBE AND NORTHERN ARAPAHO TRIBE OF THI 
WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, CROSS-PETITIONERS 


V. 
STATE OF WYOMING, ET AI 


No. 88-553 
CITY OF RIVERTON, WYOMING, ET AL.. CROSS-PETITIONERS 
V. 


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. ET AI 


ON PETITION AND CROSS-PETITIONS FOR A WRIT OF 
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WYOMING 


BRIEF FOR THE UNITED STATES IN OPPOSITION 


OPINIONS BELOW 


[he opinion of the Wyoming Supreme Court (Pet. App. 
la-119a) is reported at 753 P.2d 76. The district court’s 
amended judgment and decree (Pet. App. 168a-184a), 
order ruling On motions to alter or amend the decision 


(1) 


2 
(Pet. App. 185a-210a), and decision (Pet. App. 202a-279a) 
are not yet reported. The report and decree of the special 
master (Pet. App. 367a-708a) are also unreported. 


JURISDICTION 


The decision of the Wyoming Supreme Court (Pet. 
App. la) was entered on February 24, 1988. Timely peti- 
tions for rehearing were denied on April 22, 1988 (Pet. 
App. 120a). On July 7, 1988, Justice White extended the 
time for filing a petition for a writ of certiorari to August 
20, 1988. The petition for a writ of certiorari was filed on 
August 18, 1988. The cross-petitions in Nos. 88-492 and 
88-553 were filed on September 21, 1988, and are timely 
under Rule 19.5 of the rules of this Court. The jurisdiction 
of this Court over the petition and cross-petitions is in- 
voked under 28 U.S.C. 1257(3). 


STATEMENT 


The State of Wyoming petitions for a writ of certiorari 
to review the Wyoming Supreme Court’s decision, in the 
first phase of a general stream adjudication, recognizing 
the reserved water rights of the Shoshone and Northern 
Arapaho Indian Tribes. The Indian Tribes and certain 
non-Indian respondents have filed cross-petitions for a 
writ of certiorari. 

1. In 1977, Wyoming enacted legislation authorizing 
its Attorney General to “inisiitute an action to have deter- 
mined in a general adjudication the nature, extent, and 
relative priority of the water rights of all persons in any 
river system and all other sources * * *” (Wyo. Stat. 
§ 1-37-106 (1977) (Pet. App. 726a-728a)}. The State then 
promptly commenced this action in the Wyoming District 
Court for the Fifth Judicial District. The complaint sought 
a general adjudication of the rights to use water in Water 


a 


Division No. 3, which consists primarily of that portion of 
the Big Horn River drainage system located within Wyom- 
ing, including the Wind River Indian Reservation.2 The 
complaint requested, in essence, a determination of all 
water rights within Water Division No. 3. The United 
States was joined under the McCarran Amendment, 43 
U.S.C. 666. 

The state district court, after granting intervention for 
the Shoshone Tribe and the Northern Arapaho Tribe of 
the Wind River Reservation, referred the case to a special 
master.? The special master divided the case into three 
phases. Phase i—the phase at issue here — encompasses 
water rights reserved by federal law and held by the 
Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes or by the United 
States on their behalf, and Indian reserved rights claimed 
by non-Indian successors to Indian allottees.4 

a. The Wind River Indian Reservation was established 
on July 3, 1868, by the Second Treaty of Fort Bridger, 15 
Stat. 673 (Pet. App. 793a-803a), which was entered into by 
the United States and the Shoshone and Bannock Tribes.’ 


* Water Division No. 3 also included the Clark’s Fork of the 
Yellowstone River (Pet. App. 9a). 

> The United States had initially removed the action to the United 
States District Court for the District of Wyoming, but that court 
remanded the suit back to state court (Pet. App. 718a-724a). 


* Phase II covers all non-Indian reserved water rights claimed by the 
United States in Water Division No. 3, while Phase III involves all 
water rights in that division not covered by Phases I and II. Phase III 
includes rights evidenced by state permits or certificates held by the 
United States, its agencies, and the Shoshone and Arapaho Tribes. 
Phase II was resolved by a stipulation and judgment, while Phase III 
is still pending (Pet. App. 13a-15a). 


* The Bannock Tribe, as provided in Article I] of the 1868 7 realy 
(15 Stat. 674), subsequently chose for itself the Fort Hali Reservation 
in what is now the State of Idaho. There is also a band of Shoshone 
Indians on the Fort Hail Reservation. 


| aaemtnaiaaan eae intent ined 


4 


Under the 1868 Treaty, the Shoshone Tribe relinquished to 
the United States all claims to more than 44 million acres 
in what are now the States of Colorado, Utah, Idaho, and 
Wyoming.® In return, the Shoshone Tribe accepted the 
Wind River Reservation in what is now Wyoming. The 
Reservation consisted of approximately 3 million acres 
“set apart for the absolute and undisturbed use and oc- 
cupation of the Shoshone Indians * * * and for such other 
friendly tribes or individual Indians as from time to time 
they may be willing, with the consent of the Uniied States, 
to admit amongst them” (art. II, 15 Stat. 674). The Indians 
agreed to make the Reservation their permanent home 
(art. IV, 15 Stat. 674-675). The Treaty provided for the 
allotment of reservation lands to individual Indians who 
“chall desire to commence farming” (art. VI, 15 Stat. 675) 


_ and further provided for seeds, implements, and 


agricultural instruction for Indians who commenced 
cultivation (art. VIII, 15 Stat. 675-676). In 1878, the Nor- 
thern Arapaho Tribe was settled on the Wind River Reser- 
vation without the consent of the Shoshone Tribe. See 
United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U.S. 111, 114 (1938). 

By an agreement signed in 1904 and approved with 
modification by the Act of March 3, 1905, ch. 1452, 33 
Stat. 1016 (Pet. App. 769a-781a), the Shoshone and 
Northern Arapaho Tribes agreed to “cede, grant, and re- 
linquish to the United States, all right, title, and interest 
* * *” in the portion of the Reservation located north of 
the Wind River, as well as the portion located east of the 


© The boundaries of the “Shoshone country” were described in Arti- 
cle IV of the First Treaty of Fort Bridger, concluded on July 2, 1863, 
18 Stat. 685, 686. The First Treaty of Fort Bridger was one of sev eral 
treaties concluded in 1863 between the United States and the various 
bands of Shoshone Indians. See Northwestern Band of Shoshone In- 
dians v. United States, 324 U.S. 335 (1945). 


5 


Popo Agie River (art. I, 33 Stat. 1016).? The ceded lands, 
which amounted to approximately 1,480,000 acres (Pet. 
App. 10a), were to be disposed of “under the provisions of 
the homestead, town-site, coal and mineral land laws, or 
by sale for cash,” and the United States agreed to pay to 
the Indians the proceeds derived from the sales of the 
lands (art. II, 33 Stat. 1016-1017). The United States, how- 
ever, did not guarantee to find purchasers for the lands 
but, rather, agreed to “act as trustee for said Indians to 
dispose of said lands and to expend for said Indians and 
pay over to them the proceeds received from the sale 
thereof only as received, as herein provided” (art. IX, 33 
Stat. 1018). 

Article III of the 1904 Agreement provided that $85,000 
of the sum derived from the sale of the subject lands 
would be devoted to making a per capita cash payment of 
$50 dollars to each Indian (33 Stat. 1017). Following this 
per capita payment, the remaining balance Of the $85,000 
sum “shall at once become available and shall be devoted 
to surveying, platting, making of maps, payment of the 
fees, and the performafice df such acts as are required by 
the statutes of the State of Wyoming in securing water 
rights from said State for the irrigation of such lands as 
shall remain the property of said Indians, whether located 
within the territory intended to be ceded by this agreement 
or within the diminished reserve” (33 Stat. 1017). 

By 1914, approximately 129,000 acres of the 1,480,000 
acres covered by the 1904 Agreement (and 1905 Act) had 
been sold. See Pet. App. 412a. In 1915, however, the Sec- 


’ The Indians had made two earlier cessions of lands included 
within the Wind River Indian Reservation as established by the 1868 
Treaty. These were the “Lander Purchase” or “Brunot Agreement” ex- 
ecuted on September 26, 1872, and ratified on December 15, 1874, 18 
Stat. 291 (Pet. App. 409a), and the “Thermopolis Purchase” or “First 
McLaughlin Agreement” executed on April 21, 1896, and ratified on 
June 7, 1897 (30 Stat. 93 (Pet. App. 410a)). 


6 


retary of the Interior temporarily postponed further sale 
of the ceded lands, and from 1915 through 1934 only a few 
acres were sold. See id. at 412a-413a. In 1934, Congress 
enacted the Indian Reorganization Act, ch. 576, 48 Stat. 
984, which, among other things, authorized the Secretary 
of the Interior to restore fully to permanent tribal owner- 
ship the remaining surplus lands of any Indian reservation 
previously opened to sale or other forms of disposal. See 
25 U.S.C. 463(a). Later that same year, the Secretary tem- 
porarily withdrew from further disposition the remaining 
land ceded under the 1904 Agreement (Pet. App. 413a). 
Subsequently, under a series of restoration orders ap- 
proved by Congress (id. at 731a-752a), all of the remaining 
undisposed lands ceded by the 1904 Agreement were fully 
restored to permanent tribal ownership. See id. at 413a. In 
addition, numerous parcels of land on the Reservation 
that had once passed into non-Indian ownership, either by 
sale under the 1905 Act or by purchase from Indian allot- 
tees, have been reacquired on behalf of the Tribes. See id. 
at lla. 

b. The special master issued his report and recom- 
mended final decree on December 15, 1982 (Pet. App. 
367a-708a).® The special master found that the purpose of 
the 1868 Treaty was to establish a permanent homeland 
for the Indians and that this purpose included, but was not 
limited to, agricultural development of the reservation 
lands suitable for that purpose (Pet. App. 442a-443a, 
643a). Applying the doctrine announced by this Court in 
Winters v. United States, 207 U.S. 564 (1908), the special 


’ We describe here only those rulings of the special master, the 
district court, and the state supreme court that are the most pertinent 
to the issues raised in the petition. The special master and state courts 
also entered various other rulings that are discussed in the cross- 
petition filed by the Tribes. 


> 


master found that “Congress, by ratification of the Treaty 
of 1868, impliedly created a reserved right for water on the 
Wind River Indian Reservation to satisfy the purposes of 
that Treaty” (Pet. App. 641a). The special master then 
determined that the reserved water rights created by the 
1868 Treaty had not been terminated by the 1904 Agree- 
ment and that the Tribes continue to hold reserved water 
rights with an 1868 priority date for lands that were never 
sold pursuant to the 1904 Agreement (id. at 411a-420a, 
638a-639a). He further ruled that the United States was 
not estopped from asserting federal reserved water rights 
on behalf of the Indians (id. at 623a-627a, 687a-688a). 
The special master recommended the award of an 1868 
priority date with regard to all tribal, allotted, or indian 
fee land within the reservation that has never left Indian 
ownership or that had left Indian ownership but had been 
reacquired by the Tribes prior to the date of his report, 
provided that the lands were shown to be practicably irri- 
gable (Pet. App. 424a-425a, 639a, 641a-642a). The special 
master also ruled that non-Indians who purchased land 
from Indian allottees did not acquire a share of the In- 
dians’ reserved water rights (id. at 425a-431a, 640a). 
Turning to the task of quantifying the agricultural re- 
served water right, the special master ruled that the 
amount of water reserved for such purposes was that 
quantity required to irrigate those lands shown to be 
“practicably irrigable acres” (Pet. App. 534a). He defined 
“practicably irrigable acres” (in accordance with the use 
“agreed upon [in this case] by counsel for the State, the 
United States and the Tribes”) as defined to mean “those 
acres susceptible to sustained irrigation at reasonable 
costs” (ibid.). Applying this standard, the special master 
first addressed and resolved issues regarding the Reserva- 
tion’s “historic acres” — lands that are now irrigated or that 
have been irrigated in the past (id. at 463a-53la, 643a- 


8 


672a). He then addressed and resolved matters concerning 
the Reservation’s “future lands” — lands that have not been 
irrigated to date but that are claimed to be practicably ir- 
rigable (id. at 532a-59la, 672a-682a). In resolving the 
future lands issue, the special master accepted the testi- 
mony of the United States’ witnesses that a “real” discount 
rate of four percent — which excludes the effects of present 
or expected inflation—should be used in determining 
whether the future lands can be feasibly irrigated (id. at 
574a-580a, 680a). The special master ultimately recom- 
mended an award of 477,300 acre-feet per year for irriga- 
tion purposes.® The special master also recommended an 
award of additional reserved waters based on non-agri- 
cultural purposes (id. at 696a-702a).'° 

c. The district court accepted most of the recommen- 
dations of the special master (Pet. App. 12la-13la, 
168a-279a). The district court concluded, however, that 
the primary purpose of the 1868 Treaty was to create an 
agricultural reservation, and it therefore rejected the 
special master’s recommendations to confirm reserved 


9 This figure was based on a recommended award of 288,355 acre- 
feet needed to irrigate 54,389 acres of Indian lands, including Indian- 
owned fee lands, that have historically been irrigated, plus an addi- 
tional 188,937 acre-feet needed to irrigate 48,520 acres in “future pro)- 
ects” (Pet. App. 695a). The special master also recommended that the 
decree limit construction of any irrigation projects for the future lands 
to no more than ten percent of total awarded acreage for future pro)- 
ects in any given decade following 1982, unless sufficient replacement 
waters are-made available through upstream storage facilities so as to 
allow non-Indian water users to continue to use the same amounts as 
they are presently using (id. at 580a-584a). 


‘0 The special master subsequently issued a Supplemental and Final 
Report (Pet. App. 280a-366a) addressing primarily the claims of non- 
Indians holding former allotted lands. The special master ruled that 
“non-Indians who purchase from Indians do not receive superior 
rights stemming from the treaty” (/d. at 286a). 


9 


water rights for non-agricultural purposes (id. at 182a, 
216a-222a, 262a-263a). The district court also rejected the 
special master’s recommendation of an 1868 priority date 
for lands that had passed into non-Indian ownership and 
had since been reacquired. The court ruled that the priority 
date for such lands was to be the earliest of: 1) the date 
upon which the land left Indian ownership and was pur- 
chased by a non-Indian; 2) the date of the applicable state 
water permit; or 3) the date of first application of water to 
beneficial use (id. at 173a). The district court awarded a 
reserved right of 394,631 acre-feet annually with an 1868 
priority date (id. at 169a-172a) and a reserved right totalling 
84,800 acre-feet with varying priority dates (id. at 
172a-182a). In addition, the district court initially adopted 
that part of the special master’s recommendation that 
would condition the use of the portion of the 1868 reserved 
water right awarded with respect to the future lands upon 
the provision of storage facilities sufficient to provide 
replacement water to junior non-Indian water users (id. at 
234a-237a, 267a). Upon reconsideration, however, the 
court held that the water right could be exercised in the 
absence of any storage facilities to provide replacement 
water (id. at 194a-198a, 200a-201a). 

2. The Wyoming Supreme Court affirmed most of the 
rulings of the district court (Pet. App. la-119a). It found, 
however, that the district court had erred in adopting the 
special master’s recommendation of a ten percent reduc- 
tion in the Indians’ “future projects” land base to provide a 
margin of error (id. at 56a-58a). The court also ruled that 
the non-Indian appellants who acquired lands from Indian 
allottees must be awarded a reserved water right having an 
1868 priority date for any of those lands that they can 
show are practically irrigable and either were irrigated by 
their Indian predecessors or were put under irrigation 
within a reasonable time after the date upon which they 
passed from Indian ownership (id. at 75a). Finally, the 


10 


court agreed with the special master’s finding of an 1868 
priority date for the reserved water rights claimed for 
allotted lands that had passed into non-Indian ownership 
and that had subsequently been reacquired by the Tribes. 
Accordingly, the Wyoming Supreme Court reversed the 
district court’s holding of a later priority date for such 
lands (ibid.). 


ARGUMENT 


The State of Wyoming initiated this action to obtain a 
quantification of the Indian Tribes’ water rights in the Big 
Horn Basin. Now, after a decade of litigation, including 
review by that State’s highest Court, Wyoming has ob- 
tained what it sought—a definitive resolution of the 
Tribes’ entitlement. Here, as is usually the case in complex 
general stream adjudications, none of the parties has ob- 
tained everything that it sought. But the Wyoming 
Supreme Court’s decision is fundamentally fair, and the 
particular portions of the opinion below that petitioner 
and the non-Indian cross-petitioners now challenge are 
correct and do not conflict with any decision of this Court. 
To the contrary, they are consistent with this Court’s deci- 
sions concerning water rights claimed on behalf of Indian 
reservations. Nor has the Wyoming Supreme Court articu- 
lated legal principles in this case that conflict with those 
followed by other appellate courts in similar cases. Ac- 
cordingly, the petition for a writ of certiorari—and a for- 
tiori the Indian and non-Indian cross-petitions — should be 
denied. 

1. This Court held in Winters v. United States, 207 
U.S. 564 (1908), that when the United States reserves lands 
on behalf of an Indian tribe, the United States at the same 
time also impliedly reserves for the use of the Indians such 
previously unappropriated waters as are needed to fulfill 
the purposes of the reservation. As the Court has since ex- 
plained: “Winters concluded that the Government, when it 


a ee | 


11 


created [the] Indian reservation, intended to deal fairly 
with the Indians by reserving for them the waters without 
which their lands would have been useless.” Arizona v. 
California, 373 U.S. 546, 600 (1963) (Arizona I}. These 
Winters reserved water rights vested “as of the time the In- 
dian Reservations were created.” Arizona I, 373 U:S. at 
600. 

The language of the 1868 Treaty unambiguously indi- 
cates that one of the purposes of that treaty was to promote 
the establishment of agriculture on the Wind River Reser- 
vation. Furthermore, it is undisputed that the reserved 
lands require irrigation in order to produce crops (Pet. 
App. 26a). Thus, the special master, the district court, and 
the Wyoming Supreme Court all found, in accordance with 
the Winters doctrine, that the 1868 Treaty was intended to 
reserve water to carry out the agricultural purposes of the 
Reservation (id. at 26a-3la, 210a-222a, 431a-446a). Peti- 
tioner does not contend that the language of the Treaty 
itself or any documents or circumstances contemporaneous 
with its execution and ratification Suggest a contrary 
result.'' Rather, petitioner asserts (Pet. 12-18) that the 
“water proviso” to the 1905 Act somehow precludes the 
“judicial creation” of an implied reserved water right for the 
Reservation (Pet. 12), or, alternatively, that any reserved 
water rights created by the 1868 Treaty were subsequently 
extinguished by the water proviso to the 1905 Act. 


‘! Petitioner does suggest that the Winters doctrine has been under- 
mined by United States v. New Mexico, 438 U.S. 696 (1978). Peti- 
etioner relies On a passage from that opinion that states (id. at 700): 

Fach time this Court has applied the “implied-reservation-of- 
water doctrine,” it has carefully examined both the asserted water 
right and the specific purposes for which the land was reserved, 
and concluded that without the water the purposes of the reserva- 

tion would be entirely defeated. 


Petitioner, taking the words “entirely defeated” out of their context. 
maintains (Pet. 15-16) that the agricultural purposes of the Wind 


12 


The Wyoming Supreme Court properly rejected these 
contentions (Pet. App. 28a-32a). The 1905 Act does not, 
of course, shed any direct light on the intent of the parties 
to the 1868 Treaty. And even if that legislation provided a 
basis for inferring the 1905 Congress’s view of the 1868 
Treaty, such inferences would carry limited weight. It is 
“well settled” that “ ‘the views of a subsequent Congress 
form a hazardous basis for inferring the intent of an 
earlier one.’ ” Russello v. United States, 464 U.S. 16, 26 
(1983) (quoting United States v. Price, 361 U.S. 304, 313 
(1960)). 

The 1905 Act, in any event, provides no reasonable 
basis for inferring the 1905 Congress’s views on whether 
the 1868 Treaty created a reserved water right. The water 
proviso, which appears in Article III of the 1905 Act (Pet. 
App. 778a-779a), merely states that the remaining balance 
of an $85,000 sum to be obtained from the sale of certain 
Indian lands shall, following a per capita distribution of 
$50 per Indian, “become available and shall be devoted to 
surveying, platting, making of maps, payment of the fees, 
and the performance of such acts as are required by the 
statutes of the State of Wyoming in securing water rights 


River Indian Reservation would not have been “entirely defeated” 
without a federal reserved water right because the Indians could have 
obtained water rights to a portion of their lands by securing the rights 
under state law. The possible availability of a state-law water right for 
some lands, however, is not an appropriate basis for rejecting a 
federal reserved right. Rather, as the extract from New Mexico quoted 
above clearly indicates, the appropriate test focuses upon whether 
water is needed in the physical sense to attain the purposes of the 
reservation. If so, then the courts will find an implied federal reserved 
water right effective as of the date the reservation was established. 
Cappaert v. United States, 426 U.S. 128, 138-139, 145 (1976). In this 
case, that date is 1868, long before Wyoming was admitted to the 
Union arid therefore long before water rights could have been ac- 
quired pursuant to state law. . 


13 


from said State for the irrigation of such lands as shall re- 
main the property of said Indians * * * ” (33 Stat. 1017). 
This proviso provides no concrete basis for inferring a 
congressional understanding that the 1868 Treaty — despite 
its explicit contemplation of agricultural development — 
failed to reserve the water necessary for that development. 
The proviso indicates, af most, some doubt whether —or 
to what extent—such reserved water rights existed. The 
1905 Act, of course, predated this Court’s 1908 Winters 
decision. Thus, the contours of the federal reserved rights 
doctrine, and the quantities of water that might be claimed 
under that doctrine, were then unresolved. Congress, re- 
sponding to this uncertain state of the law, presumably 
elected to assist the Tribes in securing water rights in order 
to ensure that the Tribes would receive sufficient water for 
their land even if federal law did not already secure the 
necessary water rights. Petitioner’s further inference that 
Congress’s actions should be taken as an affirmative 
denial by Congress of the existence of a reserved water 
right is unwarranted.!? 


'2 Petitioner is mistaken in suggesting (Pet. 12-13, 17) that Con- 
gress’s rejection of proposals that would have expressly created a re- 
served right for the Wind River Reservation demonstrate that Con- 
gress wished to deny the Tribes such rights. The proposal to amend the 
1905 Act to give the Indians a grace period in which to sectire their 
own permits for allotments on the ceded portion of the Reservation 
(see H.R. Rep. 3700, 58th Cong., 3d Sess. 7-9 (1905)) does not in- 
dicate a congressional belief that there never was any prior intent to 
reserve water for the Indians. This proposal was rejected because it 
was feared that the statutory grace period would delay settlement of 
the opened area. See S. Rep. 4263, 58th Cong., 3d Sess. 2 (1905). As 
for the 1914 proposal, it was not enacted because it was introduced as 
an amendment to an appropriations bill and was ruled out of order. 
See Pet. App. 31a. In either instance, Congress’s inaction is entitled to 
little weight in interpreting the 1868 Treaty. See, e.g., Red Line Broad- 
casting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367, 381-382 n.11 (1969). 


14 


A fortiori, the water proviso of the 1905 Act cannot 
reasonably be read as impliedly terminating the reserved 
water rights conferred by the 1868 Treaty.'? This Court 
has required that “Congress’s intention to abrogate Indian 
treaty rights be clear and plain.” United States v. Dion, 
476 U.S. 734, 738 (1986). See also, e.g., Solem v. Barilett, 
465 U.S. 463, 472 (1984). Petitioner falls far short of 
meeting that standard. The water proviso of the 1905 Act, 
which was essentially an appropriations measure concern- 
ing the disposition of a part of the funds to be generated 
by the land sales contemplated in the 1904 Agreement, 
does not expressly or impliedly surrender any water rights 
for the unsold lands that the Tribes held prior to the enact- 
ment of that statute. Nor has petitioner advanced any 
legisiative history or surrounding circumstances showing a 
clear congressional intent to diminish existing treaty water 
rights for lands remaining in Indian ownership.'* Indeed, 
Article X of the 1904 Agreement stated that nothing in 
that Agreement would deprive the Indians “of any benefits 
to which they are entitled under existing treaties or agree- 


'3 We address here petitioner’s argument (Pet. 15-18) that the water 
proviso terminated all of the 1868 Treaty reserved water rights, without 
distinction as to the lands made subject to disposition under that Act 
and the lands of the “diminished” Reservation. We deal below with 
petitioner’s separate argument (Pet. 26-28) concerning the lands that 
were made subject to sale under the 1905 Act but that never passed in- 
to non-Indian ownership and were later restored to the Indians. 


'4 Petitioner incorrectly asserts (Pet. 17) that “the Wyoming 
Supreme Court failed even to address the fact that Congress carefully 
considered and refused to enact a limited reserved water right for the 
Wind River Indian Reservation * * *.” The Wyoming Supreme Court 
considered (Pet. App. 29a-3la) these congressional inactions (see n.12, 
supra) and determined that they do not reflect any intent concerning 
any water rights that were created by the 1868 Treaty. Consequently, 
the court concluded, those inactions failed to demonstrate that the 
1905 Act terminated the Tribes’ treaty water rights (Pet. App. 31a). 


15 


ments, not inconsistent with the provisions of this agree- 
ment” (Pet. App. 774a). Petitioner would read the 1904 
Agreement as effecting a termination of all of the Tribes’ 
treaty water rights, including those for lands that were not 
subject to disposition under the Agreement and for which 
no compensation whatsoever was to be provided. This 
Court should decline petitioner’s invitation to construe the 
water proviso as a “backhanded way of abrogating the 
[treaty] rights of these Indians.” Menominee Tribe v. 
United States, 391 U.S. 404, 412 (1968).'° 

2. Petitioner alternatively maintains (Pet. 26-28) that 
the Wyoming Supreme Court erred by confirming an 1868 
priority date for the reserved water rights respecting lands 
that, although made subject to disposition under the 1905 
Act, were never sold and were later restored to the In- 
dians. Petitioner asserts that the 1904 Agreement effected 
an immediate relinquishment of the Indians’ reserved 
water rights for all of those lands. The Wyoming Supreme 
Court correctly rejected that contention. 

Article | of the 1904 Agreement provided that the Tribes 
agreed to “cede, grant, and relinquish to the United States, 
all right, title, and interest” in the subject lands (33 Stat. 
1016). The ceded lands were to be disposed of “under the 
provisions of the homestead, town-site, coal and mineral 
land laws, or by sale for cash,” and the United States 


\S If the parties to the 1904 Agreement had intended to effect a ter- 
mination of the Indians’ water rights, they were well aware of how to 
draft a provision reflecting such intent. The negotiator on behalf of 
the United States was the same Agent James McLaughlin who had 
negotiated the earlier “Thermopolis Purchase,” concluded in 1897, by 
which the Indians had ceded approximately $5,000 acres of the Wind 
River Reservation to the United States. Unlike the 1904 Agreement, 
however, the Thermopolis Purchase Agreement provided not only tor 
a cession of the subject lands, but also for cession of “the water rights 
appertaining thereunto +=" (Pet. App. 410a). Those water rights, 
of course, could only have been federal reserved water rights 


16 


agreed to pay to the Indians the proceeds derived from the , 
sales of the lands (art. II, 33 Stat. 1016-1017). Article 1X 
provided, however, that the United States did not 
guarantee to find purchasers for the lands but, rather, 
agreed to “aci as trustee for said Indians to dispose of said 
lands and to expend for said Indians and pay over to them 
the proceeds received from the sale thereof Only as re- 
ceived, as herein provided” (33 Stat. 1018). 

Statutes ratifying agreements with Indians are to be con- 
strued in favor of the Indians. Antoine v. Washington, 
420 U.S. 194, 199 (1975). Notably, the 1904 Agreement 
did not state, as did various other turn-of-the-century 
surplus lands acts, that the subject lands were being “con- 
veyed” to the United States. See Solem v. Bartlett, 465 
U.S. at 469 n.10. Rather, the United States was to hold the 
lands in trust for the Indians for the purpose of future 
sale. The Indians were not to receive a fixed amount in 
return for the lands; instead, they were to be compensated 
as the lands were sold. Indeed, the 1904 Agreement ex- 
pressly declined to guarantee that purchasers for all of the 
lands would ever be found. Under these circumstances, the 
unsold lands were not restored to the public domain but, 
instead, always retained their status as Indian lands. See 
Ash Sheep Co. vy. United States, 252 U.S. 159, 164-166 
(1920); United States v. Brindle, 110 U.S. 688, 693 (1884). 
See also Solem v. Bartlett, 465 U.S. at 473; Ute Indian 
Tribe v. State of Utah, 773 F.2d 1087, 1090 (10th Cir. 
1985) (en banc), cert. denied, 479 U.S. 994 (1986). Because 
the Indians would receive no compensation for any given 
parcel as long as that tract remained unsold, and because 
there was no assurance that the subject lands would ever 
be sold, the 1905 Act can be read in the manner petitioner 
suggests only by assuming an implied intent to effect an 
immediate, uncompensated termination of treaty water 
rights for lands that still retained their Indian Status and 


OO 


17 


that might retain that status indefinitely. Such an assump- 
tion would be contrary to the rule disfavoring the con- 
Struction of statutes ratifying agreements with the Indians 
to their prejudice. It would be illogical as well. The unsold 
lands themselves never lost their status as lands reserved 
for the benefit of the Indians, and, accordingly, they con- 
tinued to have a federal reserved water right as an inherent 
attribute of that status.'® 

3. This Court held in Arizona J that when Congress 
establishes an Indian reservation, the measure of water re- 
served for agricultural purposes is the amount sufficient 
“to irrigate all the practicably irrigable acreage on the 
reservation{ ]” (373 U.S. at 600-601). The Wyoming 
Supreme Court expressly applied that standard to quantify 
the amount of water reserved for the Wind River Indian 
Reservation (Pet. App. 47a). Petitioner now requests (Pet. 
18-26) this Court to reconsider the practicably irrigable 
acreage (PIA) standard. That request should be denied. 

Petitioner, after a decade of litigation, asserts that the 
PIA standard should be abandoned and the quantification 
process should begin anew using some other standard that 
would be determined by reference to the Indians’ reason- 
able needs. This Court, however, expressly rejected peti- 


'© Petitioner relies (Pet. 28) on Rosebud Sioux Tribe v. Kneip, 430 
U.S. 584 (1977), which concerned the question whether a reservation 
had been disestablished tor purposes of determining governmental 
jurisdiction over lands within the area in question. By contrast, the 
issue presented here is not whether the 1905 Act diminished the ex- 
terior boundaries of the Wind River Reservation for jurisdictional 
purposes, but rather a distinct question of property rights: whether 
that statute effected an immediate, implied termination of the Indians’ 
reserved water rights for such lands. As the Indians’ beneficial owner- 
ship of those lands continued up to the time of their sale, the Tribes’ 
reserved water rights — which were one of the incidents of their bene- 
ficial ownership — likewise remained in effect pending dispositinn and 
continued uninterrupted for those lands that were never sold 


18 


tioner’s substitute methodology in Arizona I, stating (373 
U.S. at 601): 


How many Indians there will be and what their future 
needs will be can only be guessed. We have conclud- 
ed, as did the Master, that the only feasible and fair 
way by which reserved water for the reservations can 
be measured is irrigable acreage. 


That reasoning is equally compelling here.!’ 

Petitioner asserts that the continuing validity of the PIA 
standard has been called into question by this Court’s 
subsequent opinions in such cases as United States v. New 
Mexico, 438 U.S. 696 (1978), and Washington vy. 
Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel 
Ass'n, 443 U.S. 658 (1979) (Fishing Vessel). Similarly, the 
non-Indian cross-petitioners contend (88-553 Cross-Pet. 
10-18) that the New Mexico decision created an “equitable 
device” (id. at 17), whereby a court must consider junior 


'? Petitioner attempts to distinguish Arizona I on the ground (Pet. 
19, 20, 23, n.25) that the reservations in question there had not been 
established for the use of any particular tribes specifically identified 
when those reservations were created. Nothing in this Court’s Arizona 
/ opinion, however, attributes any significance to that circumstance. 
Tne Court rejected a “future needs” standard in favor of the PIA 
standard because “[h]ow many Indians there will be and what their 
future needs will be can only be guessed” (373 U.S. at 601). The state- 
ment remains accurate even when only one Indian tribe is being con 
sidered. But even if petitioner’s suggestion were meritorious as a mat- 
ter of law, it would be unavailing here. Article II of the 1868 Treaty 
stated that the Wind River Indian Reservation was set aside for the use 
of the Shosnone and Bannock Tribes “and for such other friendly 
tribes or individual Indians as from to time they may be willing, with 
the consent of the United States, to admit amongst them.” 15 Stat. 
674. Hence, the 1868 Treaty contemplated the possible settlement ot 
additional, unspecified tribes on the Reservation. Subsequently, the 
Arapaho Tribe was settled upon the Wind River Indian Reservation 
without the consent of the Shoshone Tribe. See page 4, supra. 


19 


non-Indian uses of the common water supply and, 
depending upon ithe particular facts, limit the exercise of 
the Indians’ senior water rights in order “to protect 
[junior] state water users after the facts and law have been 
correctly applied” (Pet. App. 17a (emphasis in original)). 

This Court has previously declined to reconsider the 
PIA standard in light of New Mexico and Fishing Vessel. 
Arizona v. California, 460 U.S. 605, 625-626 (1983) 
(Arizona II). In any event, petitioner’s and cross- 
petitioners’ reliance upon New Mexico and Fishing Vessel 
is misplaced. The question considered by this Court in 
New Mexico concerned the purposes for which water is re- 
served when lands are set aside for a national forest, and 
Fishing Vessel involved the allocation of fisheries where 
the Indians hold a treaty right to fish “in common with all 
citizens of the Territory.” 443 U.S. at 659. Neither case 
concerned Indian water rights or addressed the PIA stand- 
ard. 

Furthermore, New Mexico does not, as the non-Indian 
cross-petitioners contend, furnish an “equitable device” 
for limiting the exercise of a federal reserved right once it 
has been determined such a right exists. Rather, New Mex- 
ico concerned only the issue of what circumstances are suf- 
ficient to give rise to a federal reserved water right in the 
first place. This Court stated (438 U.S. at 702): 

Where water is necessary to fulfill the very purposes 
for which a federal reservation was created, it Is 
reasonable to conclude, even in the face of Congress’ 
express deference to state water law in other areas, 
that the United States intended to reserve the neces- 
sary water. Where water is only valuabie for a secon- 
dary use of the reservation, however, there arises the 
contrary inference that Congress intended, consistent 
with its other views, that the United States would ac- 


20 


quire water in the same manner as any other public or 
private appropriator. 


The New Mexico decision does not announce any equi- 
table limitations on the recognition of a federal reserved 
water right. The decision simply holds that implication of 
a federally reserved water right to fulfill a reservation’s 
secondary purposes would be inconsistent with Congress’s 
policy of deferring to state water law. Indeed, this Court 
has expressly declined to adopt an “equitable balancing” 
approach in cases involving federal reserved water rights. 
The State of Nevada contended in Cappaert v. United 
States, supra, that this Court’s decisions involving federal 
reserved water rights established “an equitable doctrine 
calling for a balancing of competing interests” (426 U.S. at 
138). This Court, however, rejected that contention, 
noting that “an examination of those cases shows they do 
not analyze the doctrine in terms of a balancing test” 
(ibid.).'* Cross-petitioners’ contention here that the exer- 
cise of a federal reserved water right must be limited so as 
“equitably” to accommodate the demands of competing 
junior water users is indistinguishable in principle from 
the equitable balancing argument that this Court rejected 
in Cappaert.'9 


'§ This Court further stated (426 U.S. at 139 n.4): 


Nevada is asking, in effect, that the Court overrule Arizona v. 
California, 373 U.S. 546 (1963), and United States v. District 
Court for Eagle County, 401 U.S. 520 (1971), to the extent that 
they hold that the implied-reservation doctrine applies to all 
federal enclaves since in so holding those cases did not balance 
the “competing equities.” * * * However, since balancing the 
equities is not the test, those cases need not be disturbed. 

'? Moreover, the Wyoming Supreme Court demonstrated a “sensi- 
tivity” (88-553 Cross-Pet. 13) to the interests of other water users, 
Stating (Pet. App. 72a): 


In the case at bar, the purpose of the reservation for which 
water is reserved is narrow—agricultural only. The right was 


21 
In sum, petitioner and the non-Indian cross-petitioners 
have shown no adequate reason for now reconsidering the 
PIA standard.?° As this Court observed in Arizona I, the 
PIA standard is particularly well suited to quantification 
of the reserved water rights for the agricultural purposes 
of Indian reservations. It offers a comparatively objective 
means of quantifying such rights, whereas any standard 
based upon “foreseeable needs” would necessarily involve 
a high measure of subjective judgment. Here, as in 
Arizona II, reconsideration of the PIA standard would 
open a “Pandora’s Box” (460 U.S. at 625) and inject grave 
uncertainty into Indian water rights litigation.?! 


quantified based on PIA—the master and the [district] court re- 
jecting some 50,000 acres originally claimed by the United States 
and the Tribes. The Indians’ claim was further reduced by requir- 
ing an efficiency increase in historic lands. All of this evidences a 
sufficient sensitivity to the water needs of other water users. 


20 Petitioner maintains (Pet. 23-26) that the Wyoming Supreme 
Court’s use of the PIA standard conflicts with the decisions in United 
States v. Walker River Irr. Dist., 104 F.2d 334, 339-340 (9th Cir. 
1939), in which the court applied a “needs” standard, and United 
States v. Ahtanum Irrigation District, 236 F.2d 321, 337 (9th Cir. 
1956), cert. denied, 352 U.S. 988 (1957), in which the court found an 
implied reservation of such waters as were “required to provide for the 
reasonable needs of the Indians * * *.” Both of those Ninth Circuit 
decisions, however, preceded this Court’s decision in Arizona I. Thus, 
to the extent that they deviate from the PIA standard, they have no 
continuing precedential value, and in fact the Ninth Circuit has ap- 
plied the PIA standard since Arizona I was decided. See, e.g., United 
States v. Adair, 723 F.2d 1394, 1415-1416 (9th Cir. 1983), cert. 
denied, 467 U.S. 1252 (1984). 


21 Petitioner’s contention (Pet. 23-26) that the application of the 
PIA standard in this case resulted in a grossly excessive award Is merit- 
less. The Tribes relinquished their claims to vast aboriginal lands in 
exchange for the Wind River Reservation. The 1868 Treaty that et- 
fected this exchange recognized that the Tribes faced substantial 
cultural obstacles in developing an agricultural economy and that the 


to 
to 


4. The non-Indian cross-petitioners contend (88-553 
Cross-Pet. 19-22) that the Wyoming courts were obligated 
to use the discount rate established by the Water Re- 
sources Council (WRC) pursuant to Section 80(a) of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1974 (WRDA), 42 
U.S.C. 1962d-17(a), in considering whether lands on the 
Reservation can be feasibly irrigated in the future. 

The choice of an appropriate discount rate is one step in 
determining whether acreage is “susceptible to sustained 
irrigation at reasonable costs” (Pet. App. 47a). The 
Wyoming Supreme Court correctly held that the special 
master’s choice of a 4% discount was consistent with the 
expert testimony on the subject (Pet. App. 53a-54a). It is 
clear from the WRDA’s plain terms that the Wyoming 
courts were not required as a matter of law to disregard 
their Own assessment of the evidence and instead to 
employ the WRC discount-rate formula in quantifying In- 
dian water rights. Section 80(a) states that the interest-rate 
formula established pursuant to that provision is to be 


Tribes’ conversion from a nomadic to an agrarian existence would 
take time. Petitioner’s contention that the Tribes should now be 
restricted to their “historic” water usage —and prevented from realiz- 
ing further development of their practicably irrigable lands —is neither 
consistent with the Treaty nor fair. Indeed, given the special master’s 
finding that “[t]he history of the Reservation consistently shows a level 
of unemployment far in excess of the rest of Wyoming” (Pet. App. 
569a), it would appear that the Tribes have a compelling need to 
develop the agricultural potential of the Reservation. Thus, even if 
petitioner were correct that a court should attempt to calculate a 
reserved water right on the basis of its assessment of the Indians’ 
“needs” — unanchored in any determination of the amount of irrigable 
land that Congress set aside for their benefit —there is no reason to 
believe that the quantification of the reserved water right in this case 
would be different. This case accordingly would not present a suitable 
occasion to revisit the PIA issue even if the Court were otherwise 
disposed to do so. 


23 


used “in plan formulation for discounting future benefits 
and computing costs by Federal officers, employees, de- 
partments, agencies, and instrumentalities in the prepara- 
tion of comprehensive regional or river basin plans and the 
formulation and evaluation of Federal water and related 
land resources projects” (42 U.S.C. 1962d-17(a)). The 
WRDA requires federal agencies to use the WRC discount 
rate when making their feasibility studies concerning 
federal water-related projects. Such federal feasibility 
studies are specialized undertakings that often include a 
wide variety of public costs and benefits, such as flood 
control, effects on navigation, fish and wildlife, indirect 
economic benefits, and the like. They therefore may differ 
widely from other types of feasibility determinations, such 
as the one conducted here concerning the Tribes’ future 
lands. The WRC interest rate was adopted for federal 
water project cost-benefit analysis only and is not neces- 
sarily appropriate for other purposes. ?? 

§. Petitioner and the non-Indian cross-petitioners also 
Object (Pet. 28-29; 88-553 Cross-Pet. 22-24) to the Wyom- 
ing Supreme Court’s resolution of issues concerning the 
recognition of water rights when Indian lands pass into 
non-Indian ownership, as well as the recognition of water 
rights for such lands when they are reacquired by the 
Tribes. The Wyoming Supreme Court discussed these 
issues in a relatively brief portion (Pet. App. 72a-75a) of 


22 The non-Indian cross-petitioners are mistaken in urging (88-553 
Cross-Pet. 22 n.27) that the Wyoming Supreme Court’s decision con- 
flicts with the Tenth Circuit’s decision in Johnston v. Davis, 698 F.2d 
1088 (1983). Johnston holds only that a federal agency may use the 
WRC discount rate when preparing an environmental impact state- 
ment pursuant to the Nationa! Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seg. It yields no suggestion that a state court Must use 
the WRC discount rate when quantifying an Indian tribe’s reserved 
water rights. 


24 


its lengthy opinion, and, contrary to the contention of 
petitioner and the non-Indian cross-petitioners, it did not 
articulate any principles of law that conflict with those ex- 
pressed by the Ninth Circuit in Colville Confederated 
Tribes v. Walton, 647 F.2d 42, cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1092 
(1981), and United States v. Anderson, 736 F.2d 1358 
(1984). These issues therefore do not warrant review. 

In Walton, the Ninth Circuit held that the non-Indian 
successor to an allottee takes title to the allottee’s propor- 
tionate share of the reserved right, provided that the allot- 
tee had put the water to use or that the non-Indian pur- 
chaser does so within a reasonable time (647 F.2d at 51). 
Any such water right, moreover, must be maintained by 
continued use and not lost by non-use (ibid.). The Wyom- 
ing Supreme Court discussed Walton, with approval, in 
that portion of its opinion dealing with the water rights of 
the individual non-Indian appellants who are successors to 
Indian allottees (Pet. App. 72a-75a), stating that “[o]n re- 
mand, appellants [non-Indian successors] must be award- 
ed a reserved water right with an 1868 priority date for the 
PIA they can show were irrigated by their indian 
predecessors or put under irrigation within a reasonable 
time thereafter” (Pet. App. 75a). The court, however, did 
not expressly state, as did the Ninth Circuit in Walton, 
that any such rights must be continually maintained in 
order to protect them from loss through non-use. Unlike 
the non-Indian cross-petitioners (88-553 Cross-Pet. 24), 
however, we do not read the Wyoming Supreme Court’s 
failure expressly to spell out the consequences of non-use 
as creating a conflict with Walton. The Wyoming Supreme 
Court did not state that Walton rights held by non-Indians 
cannot be lost through non-use. Rather, the court simply 
failed to address that subject one way or the other, 
perhaps because further proceedings are contemplated on 


25 


the rights of non-Indians who claim Walton rights (Pet. 
App. 75a). Hence, the opinion of the Wyoming Supreme 
Court cannot reasonably be read as adopting the principle 
that Walton rights, once established, may not be lost 
through non-use. 

In Anderson, the Ninth Circuit further held that if a 
tribe reacquires formerly allotted lands, the “Winters 
rights appurtenant to allotted lands conveyed to a non- 
Indian purchaser will pass with title upon reacquisition by 
the Tribe and will retain their original priority date” (736 
F.2d at 1362). The Wyoming Supreme Court’s opinion in 
this case contains nothing indicating that it disagreed with 
the Ninth Circuit’s discussion in Anderson of the ap- 
propriate principles to be applied when an Indian tribe 
reacquires allotted lands. The Wyoming Supreme Court 
simply stated, after discussing the rights of the non-Indian 
purchasers of allotted lands (Pet. App. 72a-75a), that 
when such lands are reacquired by the Tribe, there “is no 
reason then to deny the same priority to an Indian or tribal 
purchaser” (Pet. App. 75a). Petitioner objects (Pet. 29) 
that the court did not expressly state that there must be a 
showing that the reserved right was not lost through non- 
use by the intervening non-Indian owner. However, the 
court made clear that the tribal purchaser succeeds to the 
“same priority” as a non-Indian purchaser, and it there- 
fore presumably would agree with the position of Ander- 
son—and of petitioner herein —that the Tribe does not ob- 
tain a reserved right to reacquired lands if the reserved 
right has already been lost by the intervening non-Indian 
owner. The court’s failure to address this issue explicitly 
may be due to petitioner’s failure to make a showing of 
such a loss by non-use with respect to particular parcels of 
reacquired allotted lands. 

Finally, the Ninth Circuit eid in Anderson that, as to 
former Indian lands that were disposed of to non-Indians 
under a surplus lands act (rather than by Indian allottees) 


26 


and were later reacquired on behalf of the Indians, the 
tribe obtains a water right with a priority date as of the 
time the non-Indian obtained a water right, if any (736 
F.2d at 1363). If no such state-law water right existed upon 
the date of reacquisition, then the tribe obtains a reserved 
water right with a priority date as of the date of reacquisi- 
tion (ibid.). In this case, the Wyoming Supreme Court did 
not separately address the existence of water rights for 
those reacquired lands that originally were disposed of to 
non-Indians under the 1905 Act, rather than by individual 
allottees. The court’s silence may be attributable to the 
fact that petitioner itself failed to urge that those lands 
should be treated differently and to lay a proper founda- 
tion for such an argument in the course of this litigation. 
Indeed, although the United States brought this aspect of 
Anderson to the attention of the Wyoming Supreme 
Court, petitioner urged that Court to disregard Anderson 
and to deny a reserved water right to a// reacquired lands, 
whether they were originally alienated by individual allot- 
tees Or pursuant to the 1905 Act. See generally Brief of 
Appellee State of Wyoming in Response to the Appellant’s 
Brief of the United States and Tribes (Type 1 Claims), at 
151-185. Against this background, the Wyoming Supreme 
Court’s failure to address the 1905-Act lands separately is 
understandable.?3 In any event, the Wyoming Supreme 
Court’s silence with respect to lands disposed of under a 
surplus lands act does not create a conflict with the Ninth 
Circuit’s discussion of that subject in Andersen. ?4 


?3 Petitioner did rely on this distinction in its brief in support of its 
petition for rehearing (at 46-50) in the Wyoming Supreme Court, but 
the court denied that petition without comment (Pet. App. 122a). The 
state court’s failure to address that issue at petitioner’s behest for the 
first time on rehearing does not raise an issue for this Court’s con- 
sideration. 

24 The district court, which—contrary to the Ninth Circuit’s 
holdings in Walton and Anderson—ruled (Pet. App. 224a-225a) that 


27 


6. The non-Indian cross-petitioners also assert (88-553 
Cross-Pet. 24-30) that the United States should be 
equitably estopped from asserting reserved water rights on 
behalf of the Tribes because the United States induced 
non-Indians to settle in the area knowing that the land 
could be profitably farmed only by irrigation, which, in 
turn, necessitated secure water supplies. The Wyoming 
Supreme Court correctly rejected that argument (Pet. 
App. 22a-23a). 

The United States would not be estopped here even 
under the rules generally applicable in cases involving 
wholly private parties. Equitable estoppel requires, as an 
indispensable element, a misrepresentation by the party 
against whom the estoppel is invoked. See Heckler v. 
Community Health Services of Crawford County, Inc., 
467 U.S. 51, 59 (1984). There is no showing here that the 
United States ever represented that there would be suffi- 
cient water to irrigate lands patented to non-Indian settlers 
under the general public land laws. It is well established 
that a federal patent does not carry with it any right to the 
use of water; rather, an entryman must look elsewhere to 
perfect a water right. California Oregon Power Co. v. 
Beaver Portland Cement Co., 295 U.S. 142, 158-164 


an Indian allottee’s non-Indian successor could not acquire a share of 
the reserved water right, did identify parcels that had passed into non- 
Indian ownership and that were subsequently reacquired on behalf of 
the Tribes (Pet. App. 173a-182a). The district court, however, did not 
differentiate between former allotted lands and former surplus-land- 
act lands. Notably, however, even under the district court’s holding, 
the great majority of the water rights associated with the reacquired 
lands would be awarded early priority dates, typically before 1920. 
Peiitioner has not asserted that the difference between such priority 
dates, as awarded by the district court, and the 1868 priority date 
awarded by the Wyoming Supreme Court, will, as a practical matter, 
have significant adverse effects upon water rights claimed by other 
parties. 


28 


(1935). Hence, the United States does not, by making 
lands available under the public land laws, represeni that 
sufficient water will be available to make the lands pro- 
ductive. Nor is there any showing here that the United 
States ever represented that it would not claim reserved 
water rights on behalf of the Tribes. In fact, the district 
court specifically held that there is “no evidence in the 
record to support a finding of affirmative misconduct by 
the Federal Government” (June 8, 1984, Order at 13). The 
lack of any misrepresentation concerning water rights is, 
alone, fatal to any equitable estoppel argument. 

7. The Shoshone Tribe and the Northern Arapaho 
Tribe of the Wind River Indian Reservation have filed a 
conditional cross-petition requesting that, if the Court 
grants Wyoming’s petition for a writ of certiorari, the 
Court also address six additional issues that the Wyoming 
Supreme Court decided against the Tribes. See 88-492 
Cross-Pet. i-ii. In our view, this Court should not under- 
take review of Wyoming’s claims of error in this complex 
water rights dispute without also considering those issues 
raised by the Tribes that are closely related. We therefore 
submit that if the Court grants Wyoming’s petition, the 
Court should have before it the Tribes’ issues as well. Cf. 
Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe, 463 U.S. 545, 571 
(1983). 


29 


CONCLUSION 


The petition and cross-petitions for a writ of certiorari 


should be denied. 


Respectfully submitted. 


NOVEMBER 1988 


CHARLES FRIED 
Solicitor General 


ROGER J. MARZULLA 
Assistant Attorney General 
EDWARD J. SHAWAKER 


ROBERT L. KLARQUIST 
Altorneys 


