BWOHMINIS  DEPT. 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  SAfJ  F&ANCi^w^ 

Department  of^ity  Planning  U©KARY 


COSTCO  WHOLESALE 
Final 

Environmental  Impact  Report 

89.469E 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  December  12,  1991 
Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  January  16,  1992 

Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  December  12,  1991  to  January  23,  1992 
Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  April  16,  1992 


This  report  has  been  printed  on  post-consumer  recycled  paper. 


II 


5/S 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


REFERENCE 
BOOK 


Not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library 


SAN  FRANCISCO  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  1223  03529  2458 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 
Department  of  City  Planning 


COSTCO  WHOLESALE 
Final 

Environmental  Impact  Report 

89.469E 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  December  12,  1991 
Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  January  16,  1992 

Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  December  12,  1991  to  January  23,  1992 
Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  April  16,  1992 


Changes  from  the  text  of  the  Draft  EIR  are  indicated  by  solid  dots  # 
at  the  beginning  of  each  revised  section,  paragraph,  graphic  or  table. 


This  report  has  been  printed  on  post-consumer  recycled  paper. 


REF  711 .4097  C8243 


Costco  Wholesale  : 
final,  environmental 
□1991 . 


C.r.  PU3LIC  LIBRARY 
3  1223  03529  2458 


•     CERTIFICATION  MOTION 


April  16,  1992. 


File  No.:  89.469E 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 
MOTION  NO.  13338 


ADOPTING  FINDINGS  RELATED  TO  THE  CERTIFICATION  OF  A  FINAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT 
REPORT  FOR  THE  COSTCO  WHOLESALE  PROJECT. 

MOVED,  That  the  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commission  (hereinafter 
"Commission")  hereby  CERTIFIES  the  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 
identified  as  case  file  No.  89.469E,  Costco  Wholesale  (hereinafter  "Project") 
based  upon  the  following  findings: 

1)    The  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  acting  through  the  Department  of 
City  Planning  (hereinafter  "Department")  fulfilled  all  procedural  requirements 
of  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (Cal.  Pub.  Res.  Code  Section  21000 
et  seq.,  hereinafter  "CEQA"),  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines  (Cal.  Admin.  Code 
TTtTe" 14,  Section  15000  et.  seq.,  (hereinafter  "CEQA  Guidelines")  and  Chapter 
31  of  the  San  Francisco  Administrative  Code  (hereinafter  "Chapter  31"). 

a.  The  Department  determined  that  an  EIR  was  required  and  provided 
public  notice  of  that  determination  by  publication  in  a  newspaper  of  general 
circulation  on  September  20,  1990. 

b.  On  December  12,  1991  the  Department  published  the  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report  (hereinafter  "DEIR")  and  provided  public  notice  in  a  newspaper 
of  general  circulation  of  the  availability  of  the  DEIR  for  public  review  and 
comment  and  of  the  date  and  time  of  the  City  Planning  Commission  public 
hearing  on  the  DEIR;  this  notice  was  mailed  to  the  Department's  list  of 
persons  requesting  such  notice. 

c.  On  December  12,  1991  copies  of  the  DEIR  were  mailed  or  otherwise 
delivered  to  a  list  of  persons  requesting  it,  to  those  noted  on  the 
distribution  list  in  the  DEIR,  to.  adjacent  property  owners,  and  to  government 
agencies. 

d.  Notice  of  Completion  was  filed  with  the  State  Secretary  of  Resources 
via  the  State  Clearinghouse  on  December  12,  1991. 

e.  Notices  of  availability  of  the  DEIR  and  of  the  date  and  time  of  the 
public  hearing  were  posted  within  the  project  site  by  Department  staff  on 
December  16,  1991 . 


Certification  Motion 


CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION  File  No.  89.469E 

Motion  No.  13338 
Page  Two 


2)  The  Commission  held  a  duly  advertised  public  hearing  on  said  Draft 
Environmental  Impact  Report  on  January  16,  1992,  at  which  opportunity  for 
public  comment  was  given,  and  public  comment  was  received  on  the  DEIR.  The 
period  for  written  comments  ended  January  23,  1992. 

3)  The  Department  prepared  responses  to  comments  on  environmental  issues 
received  at  the  public  hearing  and  in  writing  during  the  43  day  public  review 
period  for  the  DEIR,  prepared  revisions  to  the  text  of  the  DEIR  and  response 
to  comments  received  or  based  on  additional  information  that  became  available 
during  the  public  review  period,  and  corrected  errors  in  the  DEIR.  This 
material  was  presented  in  a  "Draft  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses," 
published  on  March  19,  1992,  was  distributed  to  the  Commission  and  to  all 
parties  who  commented  on  the  DEIR,  and  was  available  to  others  upon  request  at 
Department  offices. 

4)  A  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report  has  been  prepared  by  the  Department, 
consisting  of  the  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report,  any  consultations  and 
comments  received  during  the  review  process,  any  additional  information  that 
became  available,  and  the  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses  all  as  required  by 
1  aw. 

5)  Project  Environmental  Impact  Report  files  have  been  made  available  for 
review  by  the  Commission  and  the  public,  and  these  files  are  part  of  the 
record  before  the  Commission. 

6)  On  April  16,  1992  the  Commission  reviewed  and  considered  the  Final 
Environmental  Impact  Report  and  found  that  the  contents  of  said  report  and  the 
procedures  through  which  the  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report  was  prepared, 
publicized  and  reviewed  comply  with  the  provisions  of  CEQA,  the  CEQA 
Guidelines  and  Chapter  31. 

7)  The  City  Planning  Commission  hereby  does  find  that  the  Final  Environmental 
Impact  Report  concerning  File  No.89.469E:    Costco  Wholesale  is  adequate, 
accurate  and  objective,  and  that  the  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 
contains  no  significant  revisions  to  the  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report, 
and  hereby  does  CERTIFY  THE  COMPLETION  of  said  Final  Environmental  Impact 
Report  in  compliance  with  CEQA  and  the  CEQA  Guidelines. 

8)  The  Commission,  in  certifying  the  completion  of  said  Final  Environmental 
Impact  Report,  hereby  does  find  that  the  project  described  in  the 
Environmental  Impact  Report,  as  well  as  the  preferred  project  as  described  in 
Building  Permit  Application  No.  9123732S  which  most  closely  reflects  Alternate 
C,  and  Alternative  B,  which  is  also  under  consideration,  would  all  have  these 
significant  effects: 

a.  Would  have  a  project-specific  significant  effect  on  the  environment  by 
increasing  the  site  population  in  an  area  subject  to  seismic  hazard  in  a  major 
earthquake. 


Certification  Motion 


CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 


File  No,  89.469E 
Motion  No.  13338 
Page  Three 


b.  Would  have  a  project-specific  significant  effect  on  the  environment  by 
decreasing  the  Level  of  Service  at  the  intersection  of  Eleventh  and  Harrison 
Streets  from  C  to  E  during  the  peak  month. 

c.  Would  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  in  that  it  would 
contribute  to  cumulative  traffic  increases.    Such  cumulative  transportation 
impacts  could  cause  violations  to  particulate  standards  in  San  Francisco  with 
concomitant  health  effects. 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  Motion  was  ADOPTED  by  the  City 
Planning  Commission  at  its  regular  meeting  of  April  16,  1992. 


Linda  Avery 
Secretary 


AYES: 


Boldridge,  Fung,  Lowenberg,  Smith  and  Unobskey 


NOES: 


None 


ABSENT: 


Karasick,  Levine 


ADOPTED:    April  16,  1992 


SAR/359 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2014 


https://archive.org/details/costcowholesalef1619sanf 


COSTCO  WHOLES  ALE 
FINAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Page 

I.      SUMMARY  1 

A.  Project  Description  1 

B.  Main  Environmental  Effects  2 

C.  Mitigation  Measures  8 

D.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project  10 

E.      PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  14 

A.  Project  Sponsor's  Objectives  14 

B.  Project  Location  14 

C.  Project  Characteristics  14 

D.  Project  Schedule,  Cost  and  Approval  Requirements, 

and  Master  Plan  Policies  22 

III.  ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING  25 

A.  Land  Use  and  Zoning  25 

B.  Cultural  Resources  29 

C.  Transportation  31 

D.  Air  Quality  34 

E.  Hazardous  Materials  37 

IV.  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS  49 

A.  Land  Use  and  Zoning  49 

B.  Cultural  Resources  53 

C.  Transportation  53 

D.  Air  Quality  77 

E.  Construction  Noise  82 

F.  Geology  and  Seismicity  86 

G.  Hazardous  Materials  89 

H.  Growth  Inducement  94 

V.      MITIGATION  MEASURES  PROPOSED  TO  MINIMIZE 

POTENTIAL  ADVERSE  IMPACTS  OF  THE  PROJECT  96 

VI.      SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS  THAT 
CANNOT  BE  AVOIDED  IF  THE  PROPOSED 

PROJECT  IS  IMPLEMENTED  1 03 

VH.      ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  1 04 

A.  Alternative  A:  No  Project  104 

B.  Alternative  B:  Costco  Store  Only  105 

C.  Alternative  C:  Reduced  Parking  107 

D.  Alternative  D:  Housing  With  Public  Open  Space  109 


iii 


COSTCO  WHOLESALE 
•       FINAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  (Continued) 

Page 


VIII.      DRAFT  EIR  DISTRIBUTION  LIST  112 

•  IX.      SUMMARY  OF  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES  C&R.i 

•  X.      ADDENDUM  TO  THE  DEIR 

XI.  APPENDICES 

Appendix  A:  Initial  Study  A.l 

Appendix  B:  Transportation  A.33 

Appendix  C:  Air  Quality  A. 44 

Appendix  D:  Typical  Noise  Levels  A.45 

Appendix  E:  Hazardous  Materials  A.46 


XII.      EIR  AUTHORS  AND  CONSULTANTS;  ORGANIZATIONS 
AND  PERSONS  CONSULTED 

LIST  OF  TABLES 


1.  Project  Characteristics  16 

2.  Past  Potential  Sources  of  Contamination  on  Site  45 

3.  Estimated  Costco  Trip  Generation  Based  On  Register 

Transactions:  Existing  San  Francisco  Region  Stores  64 

4.  Project  Trip  Generation:  Rates  and  Totals  65 

5.  Weekday  P.M.  Peak  Hour  Intersection  Level  of  Service  69 

6.  Saturday  Peak  Hour  Intersection  Level  of  Service  70 

7.  Estimated  Peak  Parking  Demand  72 

8.  Existing  and  Projected  Curbside  Carbon  Monoxide 

Concentrations  at  Selected  Intersections  79 

9.  Projected  Daily  Transportation-Related  Pollutant  Emissions  80 

10.      Typical  Commercial  /  Industrial  Construction  Noise  Levels, 

50  Feet  from  Source  84 

LIST  OF  FIGURES 

1.  Project  Location  15 

2.  Level  1  Floor  Plan  17 

3.  Level  2  Floor  Plan  18 

4.  Level  3  Floor  Plan  19 

5.  Tenth  Street  Elevation  20 

iv 


COSTCO  WHOLESALE 
FINAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  (Continued) 
LIST  OF  FIGURES  (Continued) 

Page 

6.  Bryant  Street  Elevation  21 

7.  Land  Use  Map  26 

8.  Planning  Code  Use  Districts  and  Height  and  Bulk  Districts  28 

9.  Potential  Sources  of  Site  Contamination  42 

10.  Transit  Routes  and  Stops  in  the  Project  Area  68 

11.  Alternative  B:  Costco  Store  Only  106 

12.  Alternative  D:  Housing  With  Public  Open  Space  110 


v 


I.  SUMMARY 


A.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Costco  Wholesale  Corporation  proposes  to  construct  a  40  foot  tall  mixed-use 
development  containing  retail  and  residential  components  on  the  project  site  located  at 
454-470  Tenth  Street.  The  project  architect  is  Heller  &  Leake  of  San  Francisco. 

The  225,500  square  foot  (sq.  ft.)  site  is  Lots  18,  24,  32,  63,  64  and  65  of  Assessor's 
Block  3524.  The  project  block  is  bounded  by  Harrison  Street  on  the  north,  Tenth 
Street  on  the  east,  Bryant  Street  on  the  south  and  Eleventh  Street  on  the  west.  The  site 
is  located  five  blocks  south  of  Market  Street,  and  is  adjacent  to  the  U.S.  101  Freeway. 
The  project  would  replace  a  46,250  sq.  ft.  paved  surface  parking  lot  containing 
approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking  spaces  and  a  179,250  sq.  ft. 
paved  vacant  lot  which  was  used  by  the  San  Francisco  Police  Department  as  a  storage 
lot  for  impounded  vehicles  through  September  1990.  As  there  are  no  existing 
buildings  on  the  site,  the  project  would  not  require  the  demolition  of  any  structures. 

The  proposed  project  would  consist  of  two  major  components:  a  Costco  Wholesale 
store  and  a  residential  complex.  Each  would  have  its  own  associated  off-street 
parking.  The  retail  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  southern  portion  of  the 
site  (along  Bryant  Street)  would  contain  approximately  198,450  sq.  ft.  of  parking 
(about  430  spaces)  at  ground  level.  The  Costco  Wholesale  store,  consisting  of 
approximately  118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  and  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  would  be 
elevated  approximately  ten  feet  above  ground  level  on  a  podium  along  with  an 
additional  68,570  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  120  spaces).  A  partial  third  level  over  the 
podium  would  contain  79,950  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  170  spaces).  There  would  be  a 
total  of  approximately  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  off-street  parking  (about  720  spaces)  serving 
the  retail  use  including  customer,  employee  and  accessory  parking.  The  structural 
system  of  the  project  would  be  designed  so  that  a  fourth  level  of  parking  could  be 
added  at  a  later  date  (unspecified  at  this  time),  so  that  there  could  be  a  total  of 
approximately  890  off-street  parking  spaces  serving  the  retail  use.  Approximately 
480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space  containing  benches,  trees,  ground  cover  and  art  work  would 
be  located  along  Tenth  Street  adjacent  to  the  building  entry. 


1 


I.  Summary 


The  residential  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  northern  portion  of  the  site 
(along  Harrison  Street)  would  be  a  40  foot  tall  building  containing  60  to  80  affordable 
dwelling  units  above  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces  at  ground  level.  The 
residential  portion  of  the  project  would  be  either  sold  or  ground-leased  by  the  project 
sponsor  and  could  be  operated  by  a  separate  owner  in  the  future. 

The  site  is  in  the  SLI  (Service  /  Light  Industrial)  Use  District  and  the  40-X  Height  and 
Bulk  District.  The  permitted  floor  area  ratio  (FAR)  for  commercial  use  in  the  SLI  Use 
District  is  2.5:1.  The  FAR  of  the  retail  component  of  the  project  would  be 
about  0.55: 1 .  Maximum  dwelling  unit  density  allowed  would  be  one  unit  per 
200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  in  the  SLI  district;  the  dwelling  unit  density  of  the  residential 
component  of  the  project  would  be  approximately  one  unit  per  325-435  sq.  ft.  of  lot 
area. 

•       Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory 
spaces )  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the 
operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional, 
non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code. 
Dwelling  units  would  require  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  affordable  housing  in 
the  SLI  district.  The  project  sponsor  expects  environmental  review,  project  review  and 
detailed  design  to  be  completed  by  early  1992.  If  the  project  were  approved  and 
building  permits  issued,  construction  would  take  about  10-12  months.  Total 
construction  cost  would  be  about  $7,500,000  (1989  dollars). 


B.  MAIN  ENVIRONMENTAL  1 

LAND  USE  AND  ZONING  (pp.  49  to  52) 

The  site  is  in  the  SLI  (Service  /  Light  Industrial)  Use  District  and  the  40-X  Height  and 
Bulk  District.  The  proposed  project  would  require  the  removal  of  a  46,250  sq.  ft. 
paved  surface  parking  lot  containing  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term 
parking  spaces  and  a  179,250  sq.  ft.  paved  vacant  lot  which  was  used  by  the 
San  Francisco  Police  Department  as  a  storage  lot  for  impounded  vehicles  through 
September  1990.  The  proposed  project  would  increase  the  density  of  development  on 
the  site,  adding  about  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area, 
480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space,  and  60  to  80  dwelling  units.  At  project  completion,  there 
would  be  a  net  increase  of  about  300,720  sq.  ft.  of  parking  area  (590  spaces)  over  the 
46.250  sq.  ft.  of  the  site  (130  spaces)  presently  operated  as  a  public  parking  lot. 


2 


I.  Summary 


The  project  would  require  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  residential  use  in  the  SLI 
district. 

CULTURAL  RESOURCES  (p.  53) 

The  project  site  was  historically  situated  near  the  edge  of  Mission  Bay,  within  the 
marshy  drainage  of  Mission  Creek,  until  the  1860s.  Available  archival  documentation 
suggests  that  the  proposed  project  area  remained  in  a  relatively  undeveloped  state 
through  the  Later  Gold  Rush  Period  (1853  -  1860).  Archival  sources  indicate  the 
subject  parcel  was  filled  and  subsequently  graded  at  some  point  during  the  late  1860s 
and  early  1870s.  It  is  likely  that  a  diverse  quantity  of  cultural  refuse  may  have  been 
deposited  within  the  project  site  during  filling  and  grading  activities.  The  character  of 
the  project  site  remained  essentially  unchanged  until  the  Earthquake  and  Fire  of  1906. 
Following  this  event,  the  project  site  became  home  to  a  variety  of  structures,  including 
numerous  dwellings,  storage  and  office  spaces,  and  auto  garage  and  industrial  uses. 
All  of  these  structures  have  since  been  demolished. 

TRANSPORTATION  (pp.  53  to  77) 

Retail -related  trip  generation  for  the  proposed  project  would  be  about  5,840  weekday 
trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under  normal  circumstances  and  about 
7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday  trips  during  the  peak  month. 
Residential-related  trip  generation  would  be  about  210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle 
trips. 

The  project  would  remove  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking  spaces 
and  would  provide  about  720  retail-serving  spaces  ([if  approved,]  an  additional  170 
spaces  could  be  provided  at  a  later  date)  and  60  to  80  residential-serving  parking 
spaces.  Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217 
accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by 
the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved 
conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning 
Code.  Estimated  peak  retail  parking  demand  from  the  project  would  be  for  about 
790  spaces  during  the  peak  month  on  a  Saturday  (peak  day).  The  peak  parking 
demand  would  not  be  met  by  the  proposed  720  spaces.  This  unmet  demand  would 
result  in  a  combination  of  spillover  parking  onto  on-street  spaces  and  queuing  of 
vehicles  at  the  entrance  to  the  parking  garage  by  customers  waiting  for  an  on-site 
parking  space  rather  than  walking  the  distance  from  an  off-site  parking  space  to  the 
store.  The  spillover  into  on-street  spaces,  however,  would  not  be  an  impact  because 


I.  Summary 


on-street  parking  occupancy  on  Saturdays  is  about  55%  in  the  project  area.  At  the 
•        later  date  when  Costco  could  expand  the  parking  garage,  peak  parking  demand  would 
be  met  by  the  proposed  890  retail  spaces.  The  residential  component  of  the  project 
would  provide  one  off-street  parking  space  per  dwelling  unit  as  required  by  the  City 
Planning  Code. 

The  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  a  large  number  of  pedestrian  trips  as  most 
retail  trips  are  expected  to  be  in  automobiles.  It  is  estimated  that  just  over  20%  of  the 
80  weekday  p.m.  peak-hour  trips  generated  by  the  residential  units  would  be  walking 
trips. 

Sidewalk  detours  and  curb  lane  closures  on  the  Harrison,  Tenth,  Eleventh  and  Bryant 
Street  project  frontages  would  be  necessary  during  construction.  Construction  truck 
traffic  would  be  limited  to  the  period  between  9:00  a.m.  and  3:30  p.m.  Construction 
traffic  would  slow  traffic  movements  along  Tenth,  Eleventh,  Harrison  and  Bryant 
Streets,  including  those  of  SamTrans  and  MUNI  buses. 

Cumulative  development,  including  that  from  the  proposed  project,  by  the  year  2000 
would  be  expected  to  worsen  existing  (1990)  weekday  p.m.  peak-hour  vehicle  Level  of 
Service  (LOS)  A  conditions  at  the  Ninth  /  Bryant  Streets  intersection  to  LOS  B; 
LOS  B  conditions  at  the  Tenth  /  Harrison  Streets  intersection  to  LOS  C;  LOS  C 
conditions  at  the  Eleventh  /  Bryant  /  Division  Streets  intersection  to  LOS  D;  LOS  C 
conditions  at  the  Tenth  /  Bryant  Streets  intersection  to  LOS  E;  and  LOS  C  conditions 
at  the  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  intersection  to  LOS  F.  Saturday  peak-hour  vehicle 
Level  of  Service  conditions  are  currently  (1990)  at  LOS  A  at  all  intersections  studied, 
except  at  the  Tenth  /  Bryant  Streets  intersection,  which  operates  at  LOS  B  during  the 
Saturday  peak  hour.  Saturday  peak-hour  operations  with  cumulative  development, 
including  the  project,  in  the  year  2000  would  be  expected  to  remain  the  same  at  the 
study  intersections,  except  at  the  Eleventh  /  Bryant  /  Division  Streets  and  Eleventh  / 
Harrison  Streets  intersections,  which  would  worsen  from  LOS  A  to  LOS  A/B. 

Traffic  generated  by  the  project  would  increase  total  traffic  on  major  freeways  during 
the  p.m.  peak  period  by  less  than  0.5%.  Such  increases  would  not  be  measurable 
against  day-to-day  fluctuations  in  traffic  volumes. 


4 


I.  Summary 


AIR  QUALITY  (pp.  77  to  82) 

Project-related  vehicular  traffic  would  add  to  cumulative  regional  pollutant  emissions, 
and  contribute  to  the  continued  failure  of  the  Bay  Area  to  attain  federal  ozone  arid  CO 
standards.  Project-related  traffic  alone  would  contribute  less  than  one  percent  of 
transportation  related  emissions  resulting  from  development  in  the  County,  and  thus 
would  not  pose  a  potentially  significant  effect  on  air  quality.  However,  emissions  of 
particulates  generated  by  the  project  together  with  cumulative  development  would 
increase  particulate  concentrations,  which  would  increase  the  frequency  of  fine 
particulate  matter  standard  (PMjq)  violations  in  San  Francisco,  with  concomitant 
health  effects. 

Project  emissions  alone  would  not  cause  any  air  quality  standards  to  be  violated,  and 
local  CO  concentrations  are  predicted  to  be  less  in  2000  than  in  1985,  because  the 
effects  of  emission  controls  on  new  vehicles  would  offset  increases  in  traffic  volumes 
and  congestion. 

CONSTRUCTION  NOISE  (pp.  82  to  86) 

Project  construction  would  temporarily  increase  noise  and  vibration  levels  in  the  area 
of  the  site  during  the  10-  to  12-month  construction  period.  Highest  average 
construction  noise  levels  experienced  in  residences  or  light  industrial  facilities 
(depending  on  whether  pile-driving  were  to  occur  at  night  or  during  daytime  hours) 
near  the  site  could  interfere  with  rest  and  speech.  Pile  driving  and  the  operation  of 
construction  equipment  could  temporarily  raise  the  noise  level  to  as  high  as  99  dBA 
with  windows  open  and  89  dBA  with  windows  closed  in  buildings  across  the  street 
from  the  site.  Pile  driving  would  cause  vibrations,  which  are  more  irritating  to  some 
people  than  noise,  in  adjacent  and  nearby  buildings. 

GEOLOGY  AND  SEISMICITY  (pp.  86  to  89) 

The  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  like  other  parts  of  San  Francisco  and  the  Bay  Area,  is 
subject  to  potentially  large  earthquakes  from  the  San  Andreas  and  Hayward  faults. 
Employees,  customers  and  residents  of  the  project  would  be  exposed  to  associated 
hazards  during  an  earthquake.  Since  new  buildings  are  subject  to  more  stringent 
building  and  structural  standards  than  are  older  buildings,  persons  occupying  buildings 
such  as  the  proposed  project  would  be  relatively  safer  than  those  in  some  older 
buildings. 

5 


I.  Summary 


HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  (pp.  89  to  94) 

At  present,  the  property  is  fenced,  paved,  and  used  as  a  parking  lot.  In  the  past, 
however,  the  site  held  a  variety  of  commercial  and  industrial  uses  that  dated  from  the 
1880s.  A  number  of  such  uses  could  have  caused  contamination  of  the  site  with 
hazardous  wastes.  Potential  concerns  include  contamination  from  underground 
storage  tanks,  coal  yards,  foundry  wastes,  metal  works  wastes,  storage  yards, 
manufacturing  wastes,  and  possible  tainted  fill.  Contamination  from  the  industries 
could  have  occurred  through  materials  leaks,  carelessness,  accidents,  or  poor  waste 
handling  techniques. 

The  project  site  is  situated  outside  of  the  designated  area  of  San  Francisco  where  a 
soils  testing  report  would  be  required  by  law  (i.e.  under  the  "Maher"  ordinance). 
Prompted  by  concerns  over  possible  health  threats  from  development  of  the  potentially 
contaminated  site,  the  Department  of  City  Planning  requested  that  soil  samples  be 
collected  and  tested  for  hazardous  wastes.  The  chemical  test  results  available  now, 
coupled  with  the  additional  tests  and  procedures  developed  for  the  site  remediation 
plan/1/,  allow  for  more  accurate  forecasting  and  mitigation  of  project  impacts,  and 
facilitate  proper  resolution  of  public  health  and  safety  considerations  during  project 
implementation. 

Four  locations  on  the  property  were  selected  for  soil  sampling  and  chemical  analysis. 
Three  samples  were  taken  in  areas  of  shallow  fill  where  historic  industries  were  once 
located,  and  one  deeper  (composite)  sample  was  collected  close  to  the  location  of  the 
project's  proposed  elevator  pit. 

The  soil  samples  were  analyzed  for  a  full  spectrum  of  organic  and  inorganic 
parameters.  (Provisions  of  San  Francisco's  Maher  ordinance  were  used  as  a 
guideline.)  Three  contaminants  were  detected:  extractable  lead  and  polynuclear 
aromatic  hydrocarbons  (PNAs)  at  concentrations  deemed  by  the  State  of  California"to 
be  hazardous,  and  petroleum  hydrocarbons  at  a  concentration  that  typically  requires 
cleanup.  All  three  contaminants  were  found  in  a  single  sample  taken  at  the 
approximate  location  of  a  former  service  station.  The  extractable  lead  value  was 
12  mg/1.  The  total  PNA  concentration  was  120  mg/kg;  included  in  that  total  were 
hazardous  concentrations  of  two  carcinogenic  PNAs:  benzo(a)anthracene  at  14  mg/kg 
and  benzo(a)pyrene  at  10  mg/kg.  The  tainted  soil  sample  also  contained  petroleum 
hydrocarbons  at  1400  mg/kg.  A  petroleum  release  was  postulated  as  the  origin  of  the 
contamination. 

6 


During  field  work,  fill  pipes  for  underground  storage  tanks  were  noted  at  several 
locations  on  the  property.  The  underground  storage  tank  installations  might  also  pose 
an  environmental  hazard  for  project  construction. 

On  the  basis  of  the  early  test  results,  it  was  recommended  that  a  remediation  plan  be 
prepared  for  handling  and  cleanup  of  contaminated  soils  during  site  development;  that 
the  locations  of  underground  storage  tanks  and  associated  piping  be  surveyed;  and  that 
underground  storage  tanks  on  the  site  be  remediated  in  accordance  with  San  Francisco 
Department  of  Public  Health  guidelines,  under  the  supervision  of  the  Underground 
Storage  Tank  unit  and  the  San  Francisco  Fire  Department.  It  is  public  policy  that  any 
underground  storage  tanks  that  are  under  sidewalks  on  the  perimeter  of  the  project  be 
removed. 

A  remediation  plan  has  been  prepared  for  the  site,  and  provides  for  the  collection  of 
approximately  thirty  soil  samples,  spaced  in  a  grid  pattern  across  the  site  and  analyzed 
for  the  contaminants  of  concern.  Additional  samples  would  be  collected  and  tested  in 
areas  found  to  be  contaminated.  The  remediation  plan  includes  provisions  to  minimize 
threats  to  public  health  and  the  environment  that  might  result  from  handling  the 
hazardous  soil,  including  a  dust  control  program,  provisions  for  stockpiling,  testing, 
and  disposal  of  the  hazardous  soil,  and  verification  testing  of  soil  substrate.  At  the 
completion  of  remediation,  all  hazardous  wastes  identified  in  the  excavation  area 
would  have  been  relocated  and  properly  disposed,  and  any  hazardous  wastes  remaining 
in  the  underlying  soils  would  be  encapsulated  on  the  site./l/ 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT  (pp.  94  to  95) 

The  project  would  add  about  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  60  to  80  affordable 
dwelling  units,  and  780-800  parking  spaces  (720  spaces  for  the  retail  use  and  60-80 
spaces  for  the  residential  use)  to  the  site.  The  retail  portion  of  the  project  would  be 
expected  to  include  about  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part  time  jobs.  About 
125-225  persons  would  be  expected  to  live  in  the  residential  component  of  the  project. 
As  there  would  be  a  net  increase  in  employment  as  well  as  a  net  increase  in  residents, 
there  could  be  an  increase  in  the  demand  for  retail  goods  and  business  service  in  the 
project  area. 

The  project  could  have  growth-inducing  effects  by  demonstrating  a  market  for 
bulk-merchandise  type  retail  space  and/or  low-income  residential  housing  in  the  area; 
this  could  encourage  similar  development  on  lots  currently  vacant  or  occupied  by 
underused  buildings  in  the  area. 


I.  Summary 


C.  MITIGATION  MEASURES 


Some  of  the  measures  identified  that  would  mitigate  potentially  significant 
environmental  effects  are  presented  below.  A  full  recitation  of  mitigation  measures 
proposed  as  part  of  the  project  or  proposed  for  consideration  are  presented  on 
pp.  96-102. 

MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

During  the  construction  period,  construction  truck  movement  would  be  permitted 
only  between  9:00  a.m.  and  3:30  p.m.  Monday  through  Friday  to  minimize 
peak-hour  traffic  conflicts.  The  project  sponsor  and  construction  contractor 
would  meet  with  the  Traffic  Engineering  Division  of  the  Department  of  Parking 
and  Traffic,  the  Fire  Department,  MUNI  and  the  Department  of  City  Planning  to 
determine  feasible  traffic  mitigation  measures  to  reduce  traffic  congestion  during 
construction  of  this  project  and  other  nearby  projects.  To  minimize  cumulative 
traffic  impacts  due  to  lane  closures  during  construction,  the  project  sponsor  would 
coordinate  with  construction  contractors  for  any  concurrent  nearby  projects  that 
are  planned  for  construction  or  which  later  become  known. 

The  Tenth  Street  parking  lot  access  would  be  restricted  to  an  entrance  only  with 
no  exiting.  Through  traffic  on  Tenth  Street  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  is  often 
heavy,  whereas  Bryant  Street  is  relatively  free  flowing  during  this  period.  Exiting 
traffic  from  the  project  would  be  directed  to  use  the  Bryant  Street  exit. 

Adequate  space  would  be  provided  in  the  parking  lot  to  accommodate  all  project 
truck  maneuvers  on  the  project  site. 

•  A  Site  Remediation  Plan  has  been  prepared  to  manage  cleanup  of  soils 
contaminated  with  lead,  petroleum,  and  polynuclear  aromatic  hydrocarbons.  The 
remediation  plan  provides  for  collection  of  approximately  thirty  soil  samples, 
spaced  in  a  grid  pattern  across  the  site  and  analyzed  for  the  three  contaminants  of 
concern.  Additional  samples  would  be  collected  and  tested  in  areas  found  to  be 
contaminated,  especially  in  the  vicinity  of  test  sample  TB-2.  The  remediation 
plan  includes  provisions  to  minimize  threats  to  public  health  and  the  environment 
that  might  result  from  handling  the  hazardous  soil,  including  a  dust  control 
program,  provisions  for  stockpiling,  testing,  and  disposal  of  the  hazardous  soil, 
and  verification  testing  of  soil  substrate.  At  the  completion  of  remediation,  all 
hazardous  wastes  identified  in  the  excavation  area  would  have  been  relocated  and 
properly  disposed,  and  any  hazardous  wastes  remaining  in  the  underlying  soils 
would  be  slated  for  encapsulation  on  the  site  (paved  over).  The  remediation  plan 
has  been  submitted  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  for  review 
and  certified  by  an  independent  third  party  ./if 

•  A  site-specific  Health  and  Safety  Plan  has  been  prepared  and  would  be 
implemented  before  site  activities  would  proceed.  The  plan,  which  is  applicable 
to  all  activities  at  the  site  prior  to  completion  of  remediation,  establishes  policies 
and  procedures  to  protect  workers  from  potential  hazards  posed  by  hazardous 
wastes.  The  Health  and  Safety  Plan  has  been  prepared  according  to  National 
Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  guidelines;  it  has  been  submitted  to 
the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  for  their  examination  and 
incorporated  into  the  Site  Remediation  Plan. 


8 


I.  Summary 


•  A  geotechnical  survey  would  be  performed  during  site  preparation  to  locate  all 
underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  on  the  property,  including  those  under  the 
sidewalks.  In  accordance  with  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health 
regulations,  all  USTs  on  the  site  would  be  remediated  under  the  supervision  of  the 
Health  Inspector  for  underground  storage  tanks.  BAAQMD  Regulation  8, 

Rule  40,  "Aeration  of  Contaminated  Soil  and  Removal  of  Underground  Storage 
Tanks,"  would  apply  during  underground  storage  tank  removal  or  handling  of  soil 
contaminated  with  petroleum  or  other  volatile  organic  chemicals.  Tank  removal 
would  be  done  in  coordination  with  the  San  Francisco  Fire  Department. 

•  The  project  sponsor  would  employ  licensed  hazardous  waste  specialists  to  handle 
the  project's  hazardous  waste  disposal  needs  in  order  to  promote  application  of 
most  modem,  effective  and  efficient  methods  of  waste  treatment  and  disposal. 

•  A  closure  report  describing  the  remediation  process  and  certifying  completion  of 
remediation  would  be  prepared  by  a  Registered  Environmental  Assessor, 
registered  engineer,  or  registered  geologist.  The  closure  report  is  a  requirement 
of  the  remediation  plan.  The  report  would  contain  full  remediation 
documentation,  including  chain-of -custody  forms,  laboratory  analysis  reports,  and 
hazardous  waste  transport  manifests.  The  report  would  be  submitted  to  the 

San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health. 

MEASURES  THAT  COULD  BE  IMPLEMENTED  BY  PUBLIC  AGENCIES 

•  A  separate  left-turn  lane  would  be  required  in  the  westbound  direction  at  the 
intersection  of  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Street  to  facilitate  acceptable  LOS  operations 
(LOS  D)  at  this  location  during  the  period  of  peak-month  traffic.  This  separate 
left-turn  lane  could  be  accommodated  by  removing  parking  on  the  south  side  of 
Harrison  Street  for  200  feet  east  of  the  intersection  or  by  transitioning  eastbound 
Harrison  Street  from  two  lanes  to  one  lane  at  this  intersection.  Year  2000 
conditions  would  be  mitigated  by  this  measure  from  LOS  F  to  LOS  D/E 
(V/C=0.91),  with  operating  conditions  borderline  unacceptable. 

•  Coordinate  work  schedules  of  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company  and  other 
utilities  requiring  trenching,  so  that  street  disruption  would  take  place  during 
weekends  and  off-peak  hours.  This  should  be  done  through  the  San  Francisco 
Committee  for  Utility  Liaison  on  Construction  and  Other  Projects  (CULCOP). 
In-street  utilities  should  be  installed  at  the  same  time  as  the  street  is  opened  for 

•  construction  of  the  project  to  minimize  street  disruption.  It  is  public  policy  that 

any  underground  storage  tanks  that  are  under  sidewalks  on  the  perimeter  of  the 
project  be  removed. 

The  City  could  act  upon  or  endorse  the  implementation  of  transportation 
mitigations  described  in  the  Mission  Bay  EIR  Vol.  II,  Section  VI. E,  Mitigation, 
pp.  VI.E.214-VI.E.217  for  the  year  2000  and  VI.E.224-VI.E.231  for  2020,  and  in 
the  South  of  Market  EIR,  pp.  189-194.  The  measures  for  the  year  2000  include: 
constructing  and  maintaining  rail  rapid  transit  lines  from  downtown 
San  Francisco  to  suburban  corridors  and  major  non-downtown  centers  in 
San  Francisco;  increased  funding  for  Vehicle  Acquisition  Plans  for  San  Francisco 
and  regional  transit  agencies  to  expand  existing  non-rail  transit  service;  providing 
exclusive  transit  lanes  on  City  streets  and  on  freeways;  reducing  incentives  to 
drive  by  discouraging  long-term  parking;  encouraging  carpools,  vanpools,  and 
bicycle  use;  improving  pedestrian  circulation  within  downtown  San  Francisco; 
and  providing  transportation  brokerage  services.  The  Mission  Bay  EIR  describes 
various  types  of  measures  to  illustrate  the  magnitude  of  improvements  needed  to 
mitigate  the  impacts  of  regional  growth  in  2020. 


9 


I.  Summary 


D  ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 

ALTERNATIVE  A:  NO  PROJECT 

This  alternative  would  entail  no  change  to  the  site.  The  proposed  project  would  not  be 
built.  The  parking  lot  on  the  site  would  be  retained.  If  the  No  Project  Alternative  were 
implemented,  none  of  the  impacts  associated  with  the  project  would  occur.  This 
alternative  would  preserve  the  option  to  develop  a  similar  or  different  type  of  building 
on  the  site  in  the  future. 

ALTERNATIVE  B:  COSTCO  STORE  ONLY 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  the  retail  component  of  the  project,  and  would  not 
contain  any  housing.  The  site  would  be  developed  with  118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space, 
4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space,  and  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  parking 
(about  720  spaces).  As  with  the  proposed  project,  an  additional  170  parking  spaces 
could  be  constructed  at  a  later  date.  As  with  the  proposed  project,  parking  in  excess  of 
651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a 
principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or 
visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  As  this  alternative  would  not  contain  any 
housing,  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  residential  use  would  not  be  required.  As 
with  the  project,  the  Costco  Wholesale  store  would  be  elevated  on  a  podium  on  the 
southern  portion  of  the  site  (along  Bryant  Street)  with  parking  located  below  and 
adjacent  to  the  store.  The  FAR  of  this  alternative  would  be  0.55:1,  the  same  as  for  the 
retail  component  of  the  proposed  project. 

Visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views,  construction  noise  impacts, 
and  the  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous  materials 
or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  to  the  project.  As  with  the  project,  this 
alternative  would  provide  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part  time  jobs.  This 
alternative  would  have  the  same  retail -related  trip  generation  as  the  proposed  project 
(about  5,840  weekday  trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under  normal 
circumstances,  and  about  7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday  trips  during 
the  peak  month).  This  alternative  would  not  have  the  residential -related  trip 
generation  identified  for  the  project  (about  210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips). 
Consequently,  traffic  and  air  quality  effects  on  local  intersections  would  be 
incrementally  lower  under  this  alternative. 

10 


I.  Summary 

•  ALTERNATIVE  C:  REDUCED  PARKING 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  the  same  types  and  amounts  of  uses  as  the  proposed 
project  except  that  the  retail  component  of  the  project  would  include  about  650  rather 
than  720  parking  spaces.  The  square  footage  of  the  retail  component's  parking  area 
would  be  the  same  as  with  the  proposed  project,  but  the  configuration  of  parking 
spaces  within  the  area  would  yield  about  650  rather  than  720  spaces.  The  site  would 
be  developed  with  118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area, 
480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space,  and  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  parking.  The  site  would  also  be 
developed  with  60  to  80  dwelling  units  above  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces.  As 
with  the  proposed  project,  an  additional  parking  level  (containing  about  150  parking 

•  spaces  for  this  alternative)  could  be  constructed  at  a  later  date.  Such  additional 
parking,  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces),  could 
be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators, 
employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional, 

non -residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  As 
with  the  project,  the  Costco  Wholesale  store  would  be  elevated  on  a  podium  on  the 
southern  portion  of  the  site  (along  Bryant  Street)  with  parking  located  below  and 
adjacent  to  the  store.  The  FAR  of  this  alternative  would  be  0.55:1,  the  same  as 
for  the  proposed  project. 

Visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views,  construction  noise  impacts, 
and  the  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous  materials 
or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project.  As  with  the  project, 
this  alternative  would  provide  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part  time  jobs.  This 
alternative  would  have  the  same  retail-related  trip  generation  as  the  proposed  project 
(about  5,840  weekday  trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under  normal 
circumstances,  and  about  7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday  trips  during 
the  peak  month).  This  alternative  would  also  have  the  same  residential-related  trip 
generation  identified  for  the  project  (about  210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips). 

The  proposed  parking  supply  for  the  retail  component  of  the  project  of  about  650 
spaces  would  exceed  the  estimated  parking  demand  for  all  conditions  except  peak 
conditions  in  the  peak  month.  Peak  parking  demand  on  a  Saturday  during  the  peak 
month  (i.e.,  December)  would  create  an  approximate  140-space  deficit.  This  unmet 
demand  would  result  in  a  combination  of  spillover  parking  onto  on-street  spaces  and 
queuing  of  vehicles  at  the  entrance  to  the  parking  garage  by  customers  waiting  for  an 
on-site  parking  space  rather  than  walking  the  distance  from  an  off-site  parking  space  to 


11 


I.  Summary 


the  store.  The  spillover  into  on-street  spaces,  however,  would  not  be  an  impact 

•  because  on-street  parking  occupancy  on  Saturdays  is  about  55%  in  the  project  area. 

ALTERNATIVE  D:  HOUSING  WITH  PUBLIC  OPEN  SPACE 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  approximately  1,075  dwelling  units,  1,075 
residential-serving  parking  spaces,  and  10,000  sq.  ft.  of  publicly  accessible  open  space 
to  primarily  serve  residents  that  would  occupy  the  site  under  this  alternative.  This 
alternative  would  not  contain  any  retail  uses.  This  alternative  would  have  a  dwelling 
unit  density  of  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  (excluding  the  10,000  sq.  ft.  that 
would  be  used  for  public  open  space),  the  allowable  dwelling  unit  density  for  the  site. 
As  with  the  proposed  project,  residential  use  would  be  subject  to  Conditional  Use 

•  authorization. 

The  Recreation  and  Open  Space  Element  of  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan  identifies 
the  South  of  Market  area  as  a  "high  need  area"  for  public  open  space,  and  the  South  of 
Market  Plan,  an  Area  Plan  contained  within  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan,  identifies 
the  project  site  as  one  of  two  proposed  large  park  opportunity  sites  in  the  South  of 
Market  area./2/  The  10,000  sq.  ft.  of  publicly  accessible  open  space  included  in  this 
alternative  would  be  in  addition  to  private  open  space  required  for  residential  units  by 
Section  135(d)  of  the  City  Planning  Code,  and  could  serve  residents  in  areas  adjacent 
to  the  project  site. 

Visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views,  construction  noise  impacts, 
and  the  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous  materials 
or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  to  the  project.  This  alternative  would  provide 
approximately  1,075  dwelling  units,  about  995-1,015  more  than  the  proposed  project. 
Assuming  no  vacancies,  approximately  1,720-3,010  persons  would  be  expected  to  live 
in  housing  provided  in  this  alternative,  as  opposed  to  125-225  persons  expected  to  be 
accommodated  by  the  residential  component  of  the  proposed  project.  Trip  generation 
under  this  alternative  would  be  about  2,820  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips,  lower 
than  the  combined  retail  and  residential  vehicle  trips  identified  for  the  project  (about 
6,050  weekday  trips  and  about  6,850  Saturday  trips  under  normal  circumstances  and 


12 


I.  Summary 


about  8,010  weekday  trips  and  about  9,010  Saturday  trips  during  the  peak  month). 
Consequently,  traffic  and  air  quality  effects  on  local  intersections  would  be 
correspondingly  lower  under  this  alternative. 


NOTES  -  Summary 

III  The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  prepared  by  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  in  October  1991  and 
reviewed  and  certified  by  Levine-Fricke  in  November  1991,  is  on  tile  at  the 
Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister 
Street,  San  Francisco. 

Ill   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Recreation  and  Open  Space,  an 
Element  of  the  Master  Plan,  July  1987,  and  South  of  Market  Plan,  an  Area  Plan 
of  the  Master  Plan,  April  1990. 


13 


H.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


A.  PROJECT  SPONSOR'S  OBJECTIVES 

Costco  Wholesale  Corporation  proposes  to  construct  a  40  foot  tall  mixed-use 
development  containing  retail  and  residential  components  on  the  project  site.  The 
project  architect  is  Heller  &  Leake  of  San  Francisco.  The  project  sponsor's  objectives 
are  to  provide  a  Costco  store  accessible  to  residents  of  San  Francisco  neighborhoods 
and  to  construct  60  to  80  affordable  housing  units  in  an  area  that  could  benefit  from 
additional  affordable  housing. 


B.  PROJECT  LOCATION 


The  proposed  project  would  be  located  on  the  block  bounded  by  Tenth,  Eleventh, 
Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets,  Lots  18,  24,  32,  63,  64  and  65  of  Assessor's  Block  3524 
(See  Figure  1).  The  site  is  located  five  blocks  south  of  Market  Street  adjacent  to  the 
U.S.  101  Freeway.  The  U.S.  101  on-ramp  is  across  the  street  from  the  project  site  at 
the  southeast  corner  of  Tenth  and  Bryant  Streets,  and  the  South  Van  Ness  off-ramp 
overpass  borders  the  project  site  at  the  comer  of  Eleventh  and  Bryant  Streets.  The 
225,500  square  foot  (sq.  ft.)  site  currently  contains  a  46,250  sq.  ft.  paved  surface 
parking  lot  with  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking  spaces  and  a 
179,250  sq.  ft.  paved  vacant  lot  which  was  used  by  the  San  Francisco  Police 
Department  as  a  storage  lot  for  impounded  vehicles  through  September  1990.  The 
only  structure  existing  on  the  site  is  a  chain  link  fence  which  surrounds  the  property. 
The  site  is  in  the  SLI  (Service  /  Light  Industrial)  Use  District  and  the  40-X  Height  and 
Bulk  District.  Retail  uses  are  a  principal  permitted  use  in  the  SLI  district.  The 
permitted  floor  area  ratio  (FAR)  for  commercial  use  in  the  SLI  Use  District  is  2.5:1. 

C.  PROJECT  CHARACTERISTICS 


Project  characteristics  are  summarized  in  Table  1  on  p.  16.  The  project  would  consist 
of  two  major  components:  a  Costco  Wholesale  store  and  a  residential  complex.  Each 
would  have  its  own  associated  off-street  parking.  Floor  plans  and  elevations  are 
shown  in  Figures  2  through  6,  pp.  17  to  21 . 


14 


II.  Project  Description 


—  :  Costc  Wholesale  ■ 

SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 

Figure  1 

Project  Location 


15 


II.  Project  Description 


TABLE  1:  PROJECT  CHARACTERISTICS 


SIZE  OF  SITE:  225,500  sq.  ft. 


RETAIL  COMPONENT 
(202,950  sq.  ft.  of  site) 

Allowable  Height  40  ft. 

Proposed  Height  40  ft. 

Allowable  Parking  Spaces  651 

Proposed  Parking  Spaces/a/  720 

Floor  Area  (sq.  ft.) 

Retail  118,500 

Loading  4,500 

Parking  (720  spaces)  346,970 

Open  Space  480 

Allowable  FAR  2.5:1 

Proposed  FAR  0.55:1 


RESIDENTIAL  COMPONENT/b/ 
(22,550  sq.  ft.  of  site) 

Allowable  Height  40  ft. 

Proposed  Height  40  ft. 

Residential  Component  Use 

Residential  60  -  80  units 

Parking  60  -  80  spaces 


Allowable  Dwelling 
Unit  Density 

Proposed  Dwelling 
Unit  Density 


1:200  sq.  ft. 
1:325-435  sq.  ft. 


/a/    Retail -serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217 
accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for 
use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or 
approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the 
City  Planning  Code. 

fbl   Dwelling  units  would  be  subject  to  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  low-income 
housing  in  the  SLI  District,  pursuant  to  Section  817  of  the  City  Planning  Code. 

SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.,  and  Heller  &  Leake. 


The  retail  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  southern  portion  of  the  site  (along 
Bryant  Street)  would  contain  approximately  198,450  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about 
430  spaces)  at  ground  level.  The  Costco  Wholesale  store,  consisting  of  approximately 
1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  and  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  would  be  elevated 
approximately  ten  feet  above  ground  level  on  a  podium  along  with  an  additional 
68,570  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  120  spaces).  A  partial  third  level  over  the  podium 
would  contain  79,950  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  170  spaces).  There  would  be  a  total  of 
approximately  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  off-street  parking  (about  720  spaces)  serving  the  retail 
use  including  customer,  employee  and  accessory  parking.  The  structural  system  of  the 
project  would  be  designed  so  that  a  fourth  level  of  parking  could  be  added  at  a  later 
date  (unspecified  at  this  time),  so  that  there  could  be  a  total  of  approximately  890 
off-street  parking  spaces  serving  the  retail  use.  Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of 

16 


II.  Project  Description 


II.  Project  Description 


— =t- 


fc 

i 

2 


t 

i 

1 


i 


I 

 4" 


U  i 


rm 


I — tr 


3* 


■ 

■ 

p 

1 

1 

■ 

11 


dr  d«vy  '     no  ditva 


z  £ 


->  1Z  0  dPi  dWVd 


2  9  o 

O  ct 

X  «  — 

*  *  + 


— ,<  

0-.9D  .9-. If 


.9-. if 


J9-.1£ 


J9-.t£ 


O  U1 

%  S 

©  o 


j9-.ir 


J9-.1£ 


.9-. if 


j9-.l£ 


J9-.1E 


J9-.1C 


10-91 


13381S  NOSIdHVH 
jB-.Oit 


■  m  c 

a    U  On 

8  E 


o 


18 


II.  Project  Description 


— v 


1 

1  1  " 

O  i~n 

kg 
o  □= 

cr 


jtKilf  .9-. If  1  .9-.LC  f  .9-.IC  f  .9-.IC  f  .9-, If  j  .9-. If  1  .9-, If  1  .9-.tr  f  .9-. If  1  ^-.LC  1  .9-. If  f  .9-.  if  Tj0-.9t 


133RLS  NOSiyyVH 
.O-.Olt' 


-Si 
"3 

.a 


«-  a. 

M  o 


g 

3 


19 


II.  Project  Description 


20 


II.  Project  Description 


651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a 
principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or 
visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  Approximately  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space 
containing  benches,  trees,  ground  cover  and  art  work  would  be  located  along  Tenth 
Street  adjacent  to  the  building  entry.  The  FAR  of  the  retail  component  of  the  project 
would  be  about  0.55:1. 

The  residential  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  northern  portion  of  the  site 
(along  Harrison  Street)  would  be  a  40  foot  tall  building  containing  60  to  80  dwelling 
units  above  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces  at  ground  level.  Open  space  for  the 
units  would  be  required  to  be  provided  on-site.  Dwelling  unit  density  would  be  limited 
to  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  in  the  SLI  district;  the  dwelling  unit  density  of  the 
residential  component  of  the  project  would  be  approximately  one  unit  per  325-435 
sq.  ft.  of  lot  area.  Low-income,  affordable  housing  and  group  housing  are  the  only 
types  of  residential  uses  permitted  in  an  SLI  district,  subject  to  Conditional  Use 
authorization.  As  stated  in  Section  803.5(f)  of  the  City  Planning  Code,  in  order  to  be 
deemed  "low-income,  affordable  housing,"  the  dwellings  must  be  rented,  leased  or 
sold  at  rates  or  prices  affordable  to  a  household  with  an  income  no  greater  than 
80  percent  of  the  median  income  for  households  in  San  Francisco.  The  residential 
portion  of  the  project  would  be  either  sold  or  ground-leased  by  the  project  sponsor  and 
could  be  operated  by  a  separate  owner  in  the  future. 

As  there  are  currently  no  buildings  on  the  project  site,  the  project  would  not  require  the 
demolition  of  any  existing  structures. 

D.  PROJECT  SCHEDULE,  COST  AND  APPROVAL  REQUIREMENTS.  AND 
MASTER  PLAN  POLICIES 

PROJECT  SCHEDULE  AND  COST 

The  project  sponsor  expects  environmental  review,  project  review  and  detailed  design 
to  be  completed  by  early  1992.  If  the  project  were  approved  and  building  permits 
issued,  construction  would  take  about  10-12  months.  Total  construction  cost  would  be 
about  $7,500,000  (1989  dollars). 

APPROVAL  REQUIREMENTS 

Following  a  public  hearing  before  the  City  Planning  Commission  on  the  Draft  EIR, 
responses  to  written  and  oral  comments  will  be  prepared.  The  EIR  will  be  revised  as 


22 


II.  Project  Description 


appropriate  and  presented  to  the  City  Planning  Commission  for  certification  as  to 
accuracy,  objectivity  and  completeness.  No  project  approvals  or  permits  may  be 
issued  before  the  Final  EIR  is  certified. 

The  inclusion  of  low-income  housing  in  the  SLI  district  would  be  subject  to 
Conditional  Use  authorization.  The  City  Planning  Commission  would  hold  a  public 
hearing  to  consider  the  project's  application  for  Conditional  Use  authorization  in 
accordance  with  Section  303  of  the  City  Planning  Code  and  would  adopt  a  motion 
approving,  approving  with  conditions,  or  disapproving  the  project.  If  the  project  were 
to  be  approved  by  the  City  Planning  Commission,  the  project  sponsor  must  obtain 
building  and  related  permits  from  the  Central  Permit  Bureau  of  the  Department  of 
Public  Works.  An  application  for  a  Site  Permit  for  the  project  has  not  been  filed  to 
date. 

On  November  14,  1986,  the  voters  of  San  Francisco  passed  Proposition  M,  the 
Accountable  Planning  Initiative,  which  established  eight  Priority  Policies.  These 
policies  are:  preservation  and  enhancement  of  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses; 
protection  of  neighborhood  character;  preservation  and  enhancement  of  affordable 
housing;  discouragement  of  commuter  automobiles;  protection  of  industrial  and 
service  land  uses  from  commercial  office  development  and  enhancement  of  resident 
employment  and  business  ownership;  earthquake  preparedness;  landmark  and  historic 
building  preservation;  and  protection  of  open  space.  Prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for  any 
project  which  requires  an  Initial  Study  under  CEQA  or  adopting  any  zoning  ordinance 
or  development  agreement,  the  City  is  required  to  find  that  the  proposed  project  or 
legislation  is  consistent  with  the  Priority  Policies.  The  City  Planning  Commission,  in 
its  decision  regarding  the  proposed  request  for  conditional  use  required  for  project 
approval  or  disapproval  would  make  a  determination  of  the  project's  confomiance 
with  the  Priority  Policies. 

MASTER  PLAN  POLICIES 

The  San  Francisco  Master  Plan  contains  objectives  and  policies  which  would  apply  to 
the  proposed  project.  The  following  objectives  and  policies  of  the  Commerce  and 
Industry  and  Residence  Elements  of  the  City's  Master  Plan,  and  the  South  of  Market 
Plan,  a  part  of  the  Master  Plan,  apply  to  the  proposed  project. 


23 


II.  Project  Description 


Objective  2  of  the  Commerce  and  Industry  Element  "maintain  and  enhance  a  sound 
and  diverse  economic  base  and  fiscal  structure  for  the  city"  and  Policy  1  of  Objective  2 
"seek  to  retain  existing  commercial  and  industrial  activity  and  to  attract  new  such 
activity  to  the  city"  would  apply  to  the  project,  because  the  project  would  provide 
about  170  full  and  part  time  jobs  as  well  as  provide  space  for  commercial  activities. 
The  project  would  address  Policy  1  of  Objective  3  which  states  "promote  the 
attraction,  retention  and  expansion  of  commercial  and  industrial  firms  which  provide 
employment  improvement  opportunities  for  unskilled  and  semi-skilled  workers."  The 
proposed  warehouse-type  retail  use  would  provide  entry  level  employment 
opportunities  for  unskilled  and  semi-skilled  workers. 

The  project  would  address  Residence  Element  Objective  1,  "provide  new  housing  for 
all  income  groups  in  appropriate  locations,"  Residence  Element  Objective  5  "provide 
housing  affordable  by  all  income  groups,  particularly  low  and  moderate  income 
households,"  and  South  of  Market  Plan  Objective  3  "encourage  the  development  of 
new  housing,  particularly  affordable  housing."  The  project  would  provide  60  to  80 
low -income,  affordable  dwelling  units,  which  are  defined  as  units  affordable  to 
households  with  incomes  no  greater  than  80  percent  of  the  median  income  for 
households  in  San  Francisco. 

The  project  site  is  noted  as  a  "Proposed  Large  Park  Opportunity  Site"  in  the  South  of 
Market  Plan;  the  project  would  foreclose  that  opportunity  for  development  of  a  park 
on  the  site  for  the  foreseeable  future. 


24 


HI.  ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING 


A.  LAND  USE  AND  ZONING 

LAND  USE 

The  project  site  occupies  the  block  bounded  by  Tenth,  Eleventh,  Harrison  and  Bryant 
Streets.  The  site  is  located  five  blocks  south  of  Market  Street  adjacent  to  the  U.S.  101 
Freeway.  The  U.S.  101  on-ramp  borders  the  site  at  Tenth  and  Bryant  Streets;  the 
South  Van  Ness  off-ramp  overpass  borders  the  site  at  Eleventh  and  Bryant  Streets. 
The  project  site  is  located  near  the  western  border  of  the  South  of  Market  Area,  and  is 
just  north  of  the  Showplace  Square  Area. 

The  225,000  square  foot  (sq.  ft.)  site  currently  contains  a  46,250  sq.  ft.  paved  surface 
parking  lot  with  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking  spaces  and  a 
179,250  sq.  ft.  paved  vacant  lot  which  was  used  by  the  San  Francisco  Police 
Department  as  a  storage  lot  for  impounded  vehicles  through  September  1990.  The 
only  structure  existing  on  the  site  is  a  chain  link  fence  which  surrounds  the  property. 

Land  uses  in  the  project  site  vicinity  are  shown  in  Figure  7.  Building  space  in  the  area 
is  a  mixture  of  light-industrial,  institutional,  commercial  and  multi-family  residential 
uses.  Automotive  repair  and  paint  shops  dominate  the  area  north  of  the  project  site. 
Across  the  street  from  the  site  at  1440  Harrison  Street  is  the  San  Francisco  Department 
of  Social  Services,  where  food  stamps  are  distributed  and  applications  for  other  county 
social  services  are  accepted.  This  facility  is  one  of  the  area's  few  institutional  uses. 
Businesses  adjacent  to  the  site  include  the  American  Brenner  Brush  Company,  the 
McGuire  Company  and  the  Veteran  Cab  Company. 

Residential  structures  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  are  located  along  Dore  Street 
between  Folsom  and  Bryant  Streets,  along  Tenth  Street  between  Folsom  and  Harrison 
Streets,  and  on  Folsom,  Isis  and  Bemice  Streets  between  Twelfth  and  Thirteenth 
Streets.  These  buildings  are  typically  three-story  flats  and  apartments.  Occasionally, 
residential  units  are  found  in  structures  above  ground-story  commercial  uses. 
Buildings  in  the  project  vicinity  are  generally  one-  to  three-story  structures  of 
concrete,  brick,  and  wood  materials  of  various  colors.  Most  are  built  to  property  lines 


25 


III.  Environmental  Setting 


FOLSOM  STREET 


400 


3  Office 


Parking  E^~3  Railroad  Uses 

Retail/Restaurant  rt::=Xr::]  Light  Industrial  I    V    I  Vacant 

Institutional  HHH   Multi-Family  I  UC 

Residential 


Feet 


—  •  —  -  —    Project  Site 


Under 

Construction 


SOURCE  Envjpowncnul  Science  Amociiim,  Inc.,  ind  Lee  &  Pntzker 


-  Costco  Wholesale  ■ 

Figure  7 

Land  Use  Map 


26 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


and  contain  relatively  little  or  no  landscaping.  Some  of  the  buildings  share  common 
architectural  elements  including  scale  and  proportion,  texture,  patterns  of  facade  and 
window  treatments.  The  project  area  also  has  some  vacant  buildings,  due  largely  to 
the  decline  in  industry  in  the  high -cost  Bay  Area.  The  Showplace  Square  Area 
(roughly  bounded  by  Bryant,  Seventh  and  Division  Streets)  is  located  approximately 
two  blocks  southeast  of  the  site,  and  has  been  developed  with  wholesale  and 
showroom  type  activities. 

ZONING 

The  project  site  is  in  the  Service  /  Light  Industrial  (SLI)  Use  District  (see  Figure  8). 
The  surrounding  area  includes  both  SLI  and  Service  /  Light  Residential  (SLR)  Use 
Districts.  Permitted  uses  in  SLI  districts  include  retail,  general  commercial,  personal 
and  business  service,  light  industrial,  institutional,  cultural  arts,  artisan  and  parking 
uses.  SLR  districts  contain  all  of  the  permitted  uses  found  in  SLI  districts  plus 
residential  uses. 

The  permitted  Floor  Area  Ratio  (FAR)  for  commercial  use  in  the  SLI  district  is  2.5: 1. 
FAR  is  the  ratio  of  gross  floor  area  of  buildings  on  a  site  to  the  size  of  the  lot.  Certain 
types  of  building  area  are  exempt  from  the  calculation  of  gross  floor  area  and  therefore 
would  not  count  towards  the  FAR  limit;  parking  and  residential  space  is  included  in 
this  category.  Low-income,  affordable  housing  and  group  housing  are  the  only  types 
of  residential  uses  permitted  in  an  SLI  district,  subject  to  Conditional  Use 
authorization.  In  order  to  be  deemed  "low-income,  affordable  housing,"  the  dwellings 
must  be  rented,  leased  or  sold  at  rates  or  prices  affordable  to  a  household  with  an 
income  no  greater  than  80  percent  of  the  median  income  for  households  in 
San  Francisco  (City  Planning  Code  Section  803.5(f))-  Maximum  dwelling  unit  density 
allowed  would  be  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  (City  Planning  Code 
Section  817.03). 

The  site  is  in  the  40-X  Height  and  Bulk  District  in  which  the  maximum  allowable 
height  is  40  ft.  (see  Figure  8).  In  the  X  bulk  district  there  are  no  building  bulk  limits. 
Certain  rooftop  structures  such  as  mechanical  penthouses  are  exempt  from  the  basic 
40-foot  height  limit.  These  exempt  structures,  however,  cannot  exceed  ten  feet  in 
height. 


27 


III.  Environmental  Setting 


m.  Environmental  Setting 


Off-street  parking  is  required  for  projects  in  the  SLI  district  based  upon  use  or 
activity.  The  off-street  parking  requirement  for  retail  use  is  one  parking  space  per 
500  sq.  ft.  of  occupied  floor  area  up  to  20,000  sq.  ft.,  plus  one  space  for  every 
250  sq.  ft.  of  occupied  floor  area  in  excess  of  20,000  sq.  ft.  (Section  151  of  the  City 
Planning  Code).  Additional  parking  up  to  50  percent  of  the  required  number  of 
parking  spaces  could  be  provided  as  accessory  parking  as  per  Section  204.5  of  the  City 
Planning  Code.  Parking  beyond  this  amount  could  be  provided  as  a  principal 
permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors 
of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  The  requirement  for  dwelling  units  is  one 
space  per  unit. 

Open  space  is  required  for  projects  in  the  SLI  district  based  upon  use  or  activity.  The 
open  space  requirement  for  commercial  use  in  the  SLI  district  is  one  sq.  ft.  of  open 
space  per  250  sq.  ft.  of  commercial  development,  as  per  Section  135.3  of  the  City 
Planning  Code.  The  requirement  for  dwelling  units  in  the  SLI  district  is  36  sq.  ft.  of 
usable  open  space  per  unit  (Section  153  of  the  City  Planning  Code). 

B.  CULTURAL  RESOURCES 

Archival  research  was  conducted  regarding  the  possibility  of  encountering  artifacts  on 
the  project  site./l/  The  project  site  was  historically  situated  near  the  edge  of  Mission 
Bay,  within  the  marshy  drainage  of  Mission  Creek,  until  the  1860s.  The  history  of  the 
project  site  is  one  of  almost  continuous  commercial  and  industrial  development  since 
the  late  19th  century. 

During  the  Prehistoric  Period  (ca.  6000  B.C.  -  A.D.  1775),  the  portion  of  the  project 
site  that  was  located  above  the  original  shoreline  of  Mission  Bay  may  have  represented 
a  favorable  setting  for  encampments  of  aboriginal  hunters  and  gatherers.  A  number  of 
prehistoric  sites  have  been  recorded  in  the  South  of  Market  area  within  a  one  mile 
radius  of  the  project  site.  Analysis  of  the  locations  and  characteristics  of  these 
prehistoric  deposits,  particularly  an  evaluation  of  their  proximity  to  the  marshes 
bordering  Mission  Bay  and  Mission  Creek,  suggests  that  similar  prehistoric  cultural 
materials  may  exist  within  or  adjacent  to  the  proposed  project  site. 

During  the  Spanish  and  Mexican  Periods  (1776  -  1845),  it  is  unlikely  that  there  was 
any  activity  that  would  regularly  have  brought  anyone  to  the  project  site  or  its 


29 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 

immediate  surroundings.  During  the  Early  American  and  Early  Gold  Rush  Periods 
(1846  -  1852),  available  archival  documentation  suggests  that  the  proposed  project 
area  remained  in  a  completely  natural  state.  The  1852  U.S.  Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey 


29a 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


Map  shows  that  there  was  no  development  within  the  subject  parcel  during  the  Early 
Gold  Rush  Period.  Both  Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets  extended  only  half  a  block  west 
of  Third  Street,  and  the  southern  comer  of  the  project  site,  bordered  by  Bryant  and 
Eleventh  Streets,  was  transected  by  Mission  Creek  near  its  outlet  into  Mission  Bay. 
The  remainder  of  the  site  was  unclaimed  riparian  marshlands  adjacent  to  Mission 
Creek.  The  likelihood  of  encountering  deposits  of  cultural  resources  from  these  eras 
appears  remote. 

During  the  Later  Gold  Rush  Period  (1853  -  1860),  in  spite  of  intensive  development  to 
the  east  of  the  proposed  project  site  in  the  early  and  mid-1 850's,  the  present  subject 
area  remained  in  a  relatively  undeveloped  state.  The  1857  and  the  1859  editions  of  the 
U.S.  Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey  maps  of  San  Francisco  show  that  the  project  site  was 
occupied  by  a  few  structures  of  varying  shapes  and  dimensions  between  Harrison 
Street  and  Mission  Creek. 

Archival  sources  indicate  the  subject  parcel  was  filled  and  subsequently  graded  at 
some  point  during  the  late  1860s  and  early  1870s.  It  is  likely  that  a  diverse  quantity  of 
cultural  refuse  may  have  been  deposited  within  the  project  site  during  filling  and 
grading  activities.  The  1887  Sanborn  Insurance  Company  map  shows  the  project 
block  completely  sectioned,  with  the  addition  of  Juniper  Street,  running  parallel  to 
Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets,  bisecting  the  block.  This  map  shows  the  project  site 
developed  with  dwellings  of  various  sizes,  stables,  a  coal  and  wood  yard,  and  the 
Milwaukee  Brewery. 

The  character  of  the  project  site  remained  essentially  unchanged  until  the  Earthquake 
and  Fire  of  1906.  Following  this  event,  the  project  site  became  home  to  a  variety  of 
structures.  The  1913  Sanborn  Insurance  Company  map,  updated  to  1929,  shows  the 
project  site  developed  with  numerous  dwellings,  storage  and  office  spaces,  as  well  as 
an  auto  garage  and  various  industrial  uses.  The  Milwaukee  Brewery  was  rebuilt  on  a 
portion  of  the  site.  All  of  these  structures  have  since  been  demolished. 

NOTE  -  Cultural  Resources 

/l/   An  archaeological  resources  report  titled  Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation 
of  the  Proposed  Costco  Development  Project,  San  Francisco,  California  was 
prepared  for  the  proposed  site  by  Allen  G.  Pastron,  Ph.D.,  of  Archeo-Tec, 
February  1990,  and  is  on  file  at  the  Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department 
of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister  Street,  San  Francisco. 


30 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


C.  TRANSPORTATION 

The  entire  square-block  site  has  been  used  for  long-term  parking  or  vehicle  storage. 
The  northwestern  portion  of  the  site  is  currently  a  public  parking  facility  of 
approximately  130  spaces  (this  number  varies  somewhat  depending  on  placement  of 
signs  and  storage  of  vehicles  on-site).  The  public  parking  facility  is  an  unattended 
self-park  facility  with  numbered  spaces  and  a  "parking  bank"  with  numbered  slots  for 
collecting  parking  fees.  Access  to  the  parking  facility  is  provided  from  both  Eleventh 
Street  and  Harrison  Street.  This  facility  was  observed  to  be  less  than  50  percent 
utilized  during  both  weekday  and  Saturday  peak  periods. 

The  southern  portion  of  the  site  was,  until  recently,  being  used  by  the  San  Francisco 
Police  Department  as  a  storage  lot  for  impounded  vehicles.  This  operation  had  been  in 
place  for  approximately  18  months  and  was  established  to  store  abandoned  vehicles. 
Police  Department  personnel  indicate  that  the  lot  capacity  is  about  800  spaces  and  that 
duration  of  stay  ranged  from  two  weeks  to  several  months.  The  impounding  operation 
was  phased  out  and  moved  in  September  1990  to  a  new  location  situated  at  Pier  50  in 
San  Francisco. /I/ 

The  site  is  served  by  local  streets  and  by  portions  of  the  regional  freeway  system  (see 
Figure  I,  p.  15).  Access  to  the  freeway  and  the  East  Bay  via  the  Bay  Bridge  is 
provided  by  an  on-ramp  at  Bryant  and  Eighth  Streets  (about  1,700  ft.  east  of  the  site). 
Access  to  the  freeway  and  the  Peninsula  is  provided  by  an  on-ramp  at  Bryant  and 
Tenth  Streets  (at  the  southeastern  comer  of  the  site).  Traffic  headed  to  the  North  Bay 
generally  travels  along  Van  Ness  Avenue  (U.S.  101)  and  Franklin  Street.  Access  from 
the  freeway  system  to  the  project  site  is  provided  by  off-ramps  at  Bryant  and  Ninth 
Streets  (about  800  ft.  east  of  the  site)  and  at  Harrison  and  Eighth  Streets  (about 
1 ,500  ft.  east  of  the  site). 

The  Loma  Prieta  earthquake  of  October  1989  had  notable  effects  on  the  regional 
transportation  network;  repairs  to  most  facilities  have  yet  to  be  effected,  with  the 
exception  of  the  Bay  Bridge,  where  one  span  of  the  upper  deck  collapsed  in  the 
earthquake.  Repairs  were  completed  one  month  later  and  operations  have  returned  to 
pre -earthquake  patterns. 

Within  San  Francisco,  major  damage  to  State  Route  480  (the  Embarcadero  Freeway), 
the  1-280  extension  north  of  U.S.  101,  and  the  U.S.  101  ramps  between  Fell  and  Turk 


31 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 


Streets  caused  closure  of  these  routes.  The  section  of  1-280  between  Army  Street  and 
Fourth  Street  was  repaired  and  has  reopened.  The  section  of  1-280  between  Army 
Street  and  U.S.  101  is  scheduled  to  be  repaired  by  1994./2/ 

In  April  1990,  Mayor  Agnos  proposed  that  the  City  demolish  the  elevated 
Embarcadero  Freeway.  Demolition  of  the  structure  was  approved,  initiated  in 
February  1991  and  completed  in  October  1991.  Mayor  Agnos  has  proposed 
constructing  a  depressed  roadway  within  the  same  right-of-way.  The  feasibility  of 
implementing  this  roadway  and  the  sources  of  funding  that  would  be  required  are 
being  studied  by  City  staff  at  the  Mayor's  direction  and  will  be  subject  to  separate 
environmental  review. 

In  addition,  the  "terminal  separation  structure,"  the  elevated  connector  between  the 
Bay  Bridge  and  the  Embarcadero  Freeway,  will  be  demolished,  as  will  as  its  on-  and 
off-ramps  at  Folsom  Street.  Caltrans  District  4  plans  to  replace  the  terminal  separation 
with  a  new  structure  (which  would  be  lower  in  height  than  the  existing  structure)  to 
enable  traffic  flow  between  the  Bay  Bridge  and  whatever  roadway  replacement  is 
constructed  within  the  Embarcadero  right -of -way. /3/ 

Caltrans  also  is  proceeding  with  demolition  of  the  U.S.  101  elevated  structure  (the 
Central  Skyway)  north  of  the  Oak/Fell  Street  on-  and  off -ramps.  This  demolition, 
which  will  result  in  removal  of  the  Gough/Turk  Streets  on-ramp  and  the  Franklin 
Street/Golden  Gate  Avenue  off-ramp,  began  in  July  1991  and  is  expected  to  be 
completed  by  the  end  of  1991.  The  effects  on  surface  streets  of  removing  this  portion 
of  the  freeway  from  service  will  depend  on  what  replacement  facility,  if  any,  is  agreed 
upon  by  Caltrans  and  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  but  could  include  alterations  in  local 
traffic  patterns  in  the  vicinity  of  Civic  Center  and  the  area  around  Market  Street  and 
South  Van  Ness  Avenue.  Street  improvements,  including  new  signalization,  would 
likely  be  made  to  surface  streets  designated  as  replacements  for  the  demolished 
elevated  portion  of  U.S.  Highway  101. 

Finally,  in  Oakland,  the  Cypress  Structure  of  1-880,  demolished  following  its  partial 
collapse  in  the  Loma  Prieta  earthquake,  is  proposed  to  be  rebuilt  to  the  west  of  the 
original  route  ./2/ 

In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  Eleventh,  Bryant  and  Harrison  Streets  are  designated 
as  Transit  Preferential  Streets,  on  which  priority  is  given  to  transit  vehicles  over  autos 


32 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 

during  commute  and  business  hours  on  weekdays./4/  Tenth,  Ninth,  Bryant  and 
Harrison  Streets  are  designated  as  Primary  Vehicular  Streets,  which  the  Master  Plan 
defines  as  "major  routes  for  automobile  and  truck  movements  into  and  out  of  the 
Downtown  area."  Ninth  and  Tenth  Streets  are  proposed  Commuter  Bike  Streets. 

Harrison  Street  is  two-way  west  of  Tenth  Street,  with  two  lanes  in  each  direction. 
Adjacent  to  the  site,  eastbound  traffic  on  Harrison  Street  is  required  to  merge  into  one 
lane  and  turn  right  onto  Tenth  Street.  East  of  Tenth  Street,  Harrison  is  one-way 
westbound  and  carries  five  lanes  of  traffic.  Bryant  Street  is  one-way  eastbound  and 
carries  five  lanes  of  traffic.  Eleventh  Street  is  a  two-way  street  with  two  lanes  in  each 
direction.  Tenth  Street  is  one-way  southbound  with  four  travel  lanes.  Ninth  Street  is 
one-way  northbound  with  five  travel  lanes. 

The  site  is  served  by  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway  (MUNI)  motor  coach  lines, 
providing  radial  service  to  and  from  the  downtown  area,  and  community  service 
routing  around  the  periphery  of  downtown.  MUNI  bus  lines  operate  on  Eleventh, 
Bryant  and  Harrison  Streets  near  the  project  site.  The  closest  MUNI  bus  stops  to  the 
project  site  are  on  Eleventh  Street  at  Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets,  serving  the 
9-San  Bruno,  and  on  Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets  at  Tenth  Street,  serving  the 
27-Bryant  and  42-Downtown  Loop.  MUNI  Metro  light-rail  vehicle  lines  are 
accessible  via  the  Van  Ness  Station  located  four  blocks  north  of  the  project  site  on 
Market  Street  accessible  via  the  9-San  Bruno  and  42-Downtown  Loop.  Transit  routes 
and  bus  stops  in  the  project  vicinity  are  shown  in  Figure  10,  p.  68. 

Regional  transit  service  is  provided  to  and  from  the  East  Bay  by  the  Bay  Area  Rapid 
Transit  District  (BART)  at  the  Civic  Center  Station  on  Market  Street,  four  blocks 
north  and  two  blocks  east  of  the  site.  Service  to  the  Peninsula  is  provided  by  the  San 
Mateo  County  Transit  District  (Samtrans),  with  bus  routes  and  stops  along  Ninth  and 
Tenth  Streets. 

The  RIDES  carpool  program,  operating  as  a  nonprofit  publicly  funded  corporation, 
provides  consulting  and  matching  services  to  help  establish  Bay  Area  carpools  and 
vanpools. 

Parking  surveys  of  on-street  parking  indicate  that  approximately  1,830  spaces  are  in  a 
two-block  radius  from  the  proposed  Costco  site,  which  are  close  to  or  fully  utilized  on 
weekdays./5/  The  parking  area  designated  as  "primary"  (i.e.,  within  one  block  of  the 


33 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 

site  and  on  the  same  [north]  side  of  the  U.S.  101  freeway)  contains  about  640  spaces 
and  was  found  to  be  94%  occupied  on  a  typical  weekday  and  55%  occupied  on  a 
Saturday.  Outside  the  "primary"  area,  there  are  about  1,190  spaces,  and  weekday 
occupancy  was  at  101%;  Saturday  occupancy  was  at  62%.  Surveys  of  the  existing 
public  parking  lot  on  the  site  indicate  usage  levels  of  about  45%  on  a  weekday  and 
about  20%  on  a  Saturday. 

NOTES  -  Transportation 

III   Frank  Pardella,  Traffic  Administration,  San  Francisco  Police  Department, 
telephone  conversation,  October  4,  1990. 

Ill   Lisa  Murphy,  Public  Information  Officer,  California  Department  of 

Transportation,  telephone  conversations,  April  23,  1991  and  October  15,  1991. 

13/   Greg  Bayol,  Public  Information  Officer,  California  Department  of  Transportation, 
telephone  conversation,  June  13,  1991. 

14/   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Transportation,  an  Element  of  the 
Master  Plan,  November  1984,  and  Downtown  Plan,  an  Area  Plan  of  the  Master 
Plan,  December  1987. 

15/   Based  on  surveys  at  the  project  site  conducted  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  on 
Saturday,  December  2,  1989,  and  Wednesday,  December  6,  1989.  See 
Appendix  B,  pp.  A.33-43  for  a  summary  of  the  parking  inventory  and  usage 
surveys  conducted  for  this  analysis. 


D.  AIR  QUALITY 

The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  operates  a  regional 
monitoring  network  which  measures  the  ambient  concentrations  of  six  air  pollutants: 
ozone  (O3),  carbon  monoxide  (CO),  fine  particulate  matter  (PMjq),  lead  (Pb), 
nitrogen  dioxide  (NO2),  and  sulfur  dioxide  (SO2X  On  the  basis  of  the  monitoring 
data,  the  Bay  Area,  including  San  Francisco  is  designated  a  non-attainment  area  with 
respect  to  the  federal  ozone  and  CO  standards.  In  addition,  San  Francisco  occasionally 
experiences  violations  of  state  eight -hour  CO  and  PMj q  standards.  A  three -year 
summary  of  the  data  collected  at  the  BAAQMD  monitoring  station  nearest  the  project 
site  (about  0.7  miles  southeast  at  10  Arkansas  Street)  is  shown  in  Appendix  C,  p.  A. 44, 
together  with  the  most  stringent  corresponding  state  and/or  federal  ambient  air  quality 
standards  in  San  Francisco.  During  1989,  there  were  no  violations  of  the  state  or 
federal  eight-hour  CO  standards,  and  there  were  13  violations  of  the  state  24-hour 
average  PMjq  standard.  During  1988,  there  was  one  violation  of  the  state  and 


34 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 


federal  eight-hour  CO  standard  and  five  violations  of  the  state  24-hour  average  PMjq 
standard  in  San  Francisco.  In  1987,  there  was  one  violation  of  the  state  and  federal 
eight-hour  average  CO  standard  and  four  violations  of  the  state  PMjq  standard./l/ 

CO  concentrations  are  monitored  from  both  the  10  Arkansas  Street  areawide 
monitoring  station  and  from  939  Ellis  Street,  which  is  located  along  Van  Ness  Avenue, 
a  heavily  traveled  corridor. 

In  December  1985,  the  City  of  San  Francisco  monitored  CO  and  counted  traffic  at  the 
intersection  of  Sixth  and  Brannan  Streets.  This  data,  along  with  CO  background  data 
from  the  Potrero  District  air  quality  station,  was  used  to  correlate  the  relationship 
between  traffic  and  CO  emissions.  Data  from  these  two  monitoring  locations  indicate 
that  areas  in  San  Francisco  near  streets  with  high  traffic  volumes  and  congested  flows 
may  experience  violations  of  the  eight-hour  CO  state  and  federal  standard  under 
adverse  meteorological  conditions. 

Comparison  of  these  data  with  those  from  other  BAAQMD  monitoring  stations 
indicates  that  San  Francisco's  air  quality  is  among  the  least  degraded  of  all  the 
developed  portions  of  the  Bay  Area.  Three  of  the  four  prevailing  winds  blowing  off 
the  Pacific  Ocean,  west,  northwest,  and  west-northwest,  reduce  the  potential  for 
San  Francisco  to  receive  pollutants  from  elsewhere  in  the  region. 

Data  from  air  quality  monitoring  within  San  Francisco  show  that  there  have  been 
occasional  local  violations  of  state  and  federal  CO  and  state  (but  not  federal)  fine 
particulate  standards,  due  largely  to  pollutant  emissions  from  within  the  City.  CO  is  a 
non-reactive  air  pollutant  and  its  major  source  is  motor  vehicles.  CO  concentrations 
are  generally  highest  during  periods  of  peak  traffic  congestion.  Particulate  levels  are 
relatively  low  near  the  coast,  increase  with  increasing  distance  from  the  coast,  and 
peak  in  dry,  sheltered  valleys.  The  primary  sources  of  particulates  in  San  Francisco 
are  demolition  and  construction  activities,  and  motor  vehicle  travel  on  paved  roads. 

San  Francisco,  like  all  other  sub-regions  in  the  Bay  Area,  contributes  to  regional  aif 
quality  problems,  primarily  ozone  in  other  parts  of  the  Bay  Area.  Ozone  is  not  emitted 
directly  from  sources,  but  is  produced  in  the  atmosphere  over  time  and  distance 
through  a  complex  series  of  photochemical  reactions  involving  hydrocarbon  (HC)  and 
nitrogen  oxide  (NOx)  emissions,  which  are  carried  downwind  as  the  photochemical 
reactions  occur.  Ozone  standards  are  violated  most  often  in  the  Santa  Clara, 


35 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


Livermore,  and  Diablo  Valleys,  because  local  topography  and  meteorological 
conditions  favor  the  buildup  of  ozone  and  its  precursors  there. 

In  1983,  emissions  from  motor  vehicles  were  the  source  of  87  percent  of  the  CO, 
39  percent  of  the  HC,  62  percent  of  the  total  suspended  particulates  (TSP),  9  percent  of 
the  sulfur  oxides  (SOx),  and  54  percent  of  the  NOx  emitted  in  San  Francisco./2/  These 
percentages  are  expected  to  apply  reasonably  well  to  current  conditions. 

In  response  to  the  Bay  Area's  ozone  and  CO  non- attainment  designations,  the 
Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments  (ABAG),  B AAQMD,  and  the  Metropolitan 
Transportation  Commission  (MTC)  prepared  and  adopted  the  1982  Bay  Area  Air 
Quality  Plan  (1982  Plan). 13/  The  1982  Plan  established  schedules  and  strategies  to 
comply  with  federal  ozone  and  carbon  monoxide  standards  established  under  the  Clean 
Air  Act  by  December  31 ,  1987.  The  deadline  has  now  passed,  and  the  Bay  Area 
remains  a  non- attainment  area  for  ozone  and  CO  (standards  are  occasionally  violated). 
The  Clean  Air  Act  Amendments  of  1990  require  that  within  three  years  of  enactment 
(November  15,  1990)  the  State  submit  to  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA) 
a  revised  State  Implementation  Plan. 

Effective  January  1,  1989,  the  California  Clean  Air  Act  provides  for  the  designation  of 
districts  by  pollutant  into  three  classes:  moderate  (defined  as  a  district  that  the 
California  Air  Resources  Board  (ARB)  determines  can  attain  the  state  air  quality 
standards  by  December  31,  1994),  serious  (a  district  that  the  ARB  detenriines  cannot 
attain  the  state  air  quality  standards  until  after  December  31,  1994  but  by  no  later  than 
December  31,  1997),  and  severe  (a  district  that  the  ARB  determines  cannot  attain  the 
state  air  quality  standards  until  after  December  31,  1997  or  is  unable  to  specify  an 
attainment  date).  In  each  case,  the  Act  specifies  strategies  that  must  be  adopted.  In  all 
cases,  plans  are  required  to  demonstrate  a  five  percent  reduction  per  year  in 
district-wide  emissions  for  each  non-attainment  pollutant  or  its  precursors  unless  the 
ARB  determines  that  the  alternative  emission  reduction  strategy  is  equal  to  or  more 
effective  than  district-wide  emission  reductions  in  improving  air  quality  or  that  despite 
inclusion  of  every  feasible  measure  and  an  expeditious  adoption  schedule,  the  district 
is  unable  to  achieve  a  five  percent  reduction  per  year.  The  Bay  Air  Basin  has  been 
designated  as  severe,  due  to  its  inability  to  attain  state  standards  by  1997./4/ 


36 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


NOTES  -  Air  Quality 

III   State  standards  for  paniculate  matter  changed  in  1983  and  federal  standards 

changed  in  1987  to  concentrate  on  respirable  particulate  matter  (PMjq)  which  has 
been  demonstrated  to  have  health  implications  when  inhaled.  The  previous  state 
and  federal  particulate  standards  were  100  micrograms  per  cubic  meter  (ug/m^) 
and  260  ug/nr  of  particulates,  respectively.  The  present  state  and  federal  PMjq 
standards  are  50  ug/nr  and  150  ug/m  ,  respectively,  of  respirable  particulate 
matter.  Although  both  the  previous  and  present  particulate  standards  are 
measured  in  ug/nr ,  under  the  PMi  q  standards  only  those  particulates  10  microns 
or  less  in  size  are  measured.  The  BAAQMD  (Thomas  Perardi)  has  stated  that 
TSP  includes  about  50%  to  60%  of  particulates  of  10  microns  or  less;  thus,  the 
TSP  standards  are  generally  equivalent  to  the  PMjq  standards.  BAAQMD  is 
presently  monitoring  PM  j q  at  seven  Bay  Area  monitoring  stations,  including  the 
station  at  16th  and  Arkansas  Streets  in  San  Francisco. 

HI   Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD),  "Base  Year  1983 

Emissions  Inventory,  Summary  Report,"  San  Francisco,  California,  August  1987. 

131   Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments  (ABAG),  BAAQMD,  and  MTC,  1982  Bay 
Area  Air  Quality  Plan,  Berkeley,  California,  December  1982. 

14/   Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments,  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management 

District,  and  Metropolitan  Transportation  Commission,  Bay  Area  '91  Clean  Air 
Plan  (CAP),  Draft,  April  1991. 


E.  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

BACKGROUND 

Although  the  project  site  is  paved  and  used  only  for  vehicle  parking  now,  the  property 
and  surrounding  neighborhood  have  a  history  of  industrial,  manufacturing,  and 
commercial  land  uses.  Soils  tests  (described  in  this  section  under  "Test  Results")  have 
confirmed  that  storage,  use  or  disposal  of  hazardous  materials  from  past  and  current 
activities  have  affected  soils  and  groundwater  at  the  project  site.  Development  of  the 
site  could  result  in  excavation  or  discovery  of  such  materials. 

Certain  chemical  and  physical  properties  of  a  substance  may  cause  it  to  be  considered 
hazardous.  Under  state  law,  hazardous  properties  are  grouped  into  four  general 
categories:  toxic,  ignitable,  corrosive,  and  reactive  ./I/  As  defined  in  the  California 
Code  of  Regulations  (CCR),  Title  22,  Section  66084,  a  "hazardous  material"  is  a 
"substance  or  combination  of  substances  which,  because  of  its  quantity,  concentration, 
or  physical,  chemical,  or  infectious  characteristics,  may  either  (1)  cause,  or 
significantly  contribute  to,  an  increase  in  mortality  or  an  increase  in  serious 


37 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


irreversible,  or  incapacitating  reversible  illness;  or  (2)  pose  a  substantial  present  or 
potential  hazard  to  human  health  or  environment  when  improperly  treated,  stored, 
transported  or  disposed  of  or  otherwise  managed." 

According  to  the  California  Health  and  Safety  Code,  Section  25124,  and  for  purposes 
of  this  EIR,  a  "hazardous  waste"  is  any  hazardous  material  that  is  abandoned, 
discarded  or  in  storage  prior  to  recycling.  The  categories  that  apply  to  hazardous 
materials  also  apply  to  hazardous  wastes:  toxicity,  ignitability,  corrosivity,  or 
reactivity.  For  example,  soil  that  is  excavated  from  a  site  containing  hazardous 
materials  would  be  a  hazardous  waste  if  it  exceeded  specific  CCR  Title  22  criteria. 

Environmental  contaminants  are  not  necessarily  hazardous  materials  or  hazardous 
wastes.  For  purposes  of  this  EIR,  soil  or  water  is  considered  to  be  contaminated  if  it 
contains  elevated  (above-background)  levels  of  a  chemical  substance,  and  if  the 
resulting  soil  or  water  has  the  potential  to  cause  human  health  effects  or  adversely 
affect  the  natural  environment  pursuant  to  established  regulatory  criteria.  Remediation 
(clean-up)  of  such  materials  is  invariably  required. 

HAZARDOUS  WASTE  REGULATORY  FRAMEWORK 

The  generation,  storage  and  handling  of  hazardous  materials  and  wastes  are  regulated 
by  various  federal,  state  and  local  laws  and  regulations  aimed  at  the  protection  of 
public  health  and  the  environment.  A  brief  summary  of  regulations  follows;  a  more 
detailed  discussion  of  federal  and  state  regulations  is  presented  in  Appendix  E, 
pp.  A.46-54. 

Federal  and  State 

At  the  federal  level,  the  primary  laws  governing  hazardous  wastes  and  hazardous 
substances  are  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  of  1976  (RCRA),  and  the 
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  of  1980 
(CERCLA).  Generally,  these  laws  require  that  responsible  parties  report  any  known 
hazardous  waste  contamination  of  soil  or  groundwater  to  the  U.S.  EPA. 

At  the  state  level,  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law  (HWCL)  is  the  state 
equivalent  of  RCRA.  California  regulations  incorporate  federal  standards,  but  in  many 
respects  are  stricter.  The  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control  of  the  California 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  enforces  state  hazardous  waste  regulations  in 


38 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


•  California,  independently  of  the  Federal  EPA,  which  enforces  federal  hazardous  waste 
regulations.  When  hazardous  waste  is  transported  for  treatment  or  disposal,  hazardous 
waste  manifests  must  be  prepared  by  the  generator.  A  hazardous  waste  manifest  lists  a 
description  of  the  waste,  its  intended  destination,  and  regulatory  information  about  the 

•  waste.  A  copy  of  each  manifest  must  be  filed  with  the  Department  of  Toxic 
Substances  Control. 

The  Project  Area  is  located  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Regional 
Water  Quality  Control  Board  (RWQCB),  which  has  the  authority  to  require 
groundwater  investigations  and  to  remediate  the  site  when  the  quality  of  the  waters  of 
the  state  are  threatened.  Clean-up  standards  employed  by  the  RWQCB  can  be  more 

•  stringent  than  those  used  by  EPA  or  the  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control./2/ 
If  soils  containing  hazardous  materials  are  excavated,  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality 
Management  District  (BAAQMD)  may  impose  specific  requirements  on  such 
activities  to  protect  ambient  air  quality  from  dust  or  airborne  contaminants.  Among 
them,  the  BAAQMD  Regulation  8,  Rule  40  would  apply  during  underground  storage 
tank  removal  or  handling  of  soil  contaminated  with  petroleum  or  other  volatile  organic 
chemicals. 

Local 

The  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health,  the  San  Francisco  Department  of 
Public  Works,  and  the  San  Francisco  Fire  Department  are  involved  directly  in  the 
management  of  hazardous  materials  and  wastes  within  the  City  and  County  of 
San  Francisco. 

The  Department  of  Public  Health  is  designated  by  the  State  Water  Resources  Control 
Board  to  enforce  the  state  Underground  Storage  Tank  (UST)  program.  Permitting  of 
underground  storage  tank  installation  and  removal  is  overseen  by  the  Department  of 
Public  Health.  The  Department  of  Public  Health  also  issues  permits  to  businesses  that 
store  hazardous  materials  and  conducts  inspections  on  a  regular  basis  to  ensure 
compliance  with  regulatory  requirements.  The  Department  of  Public  Health,  the  State 
Department  of  Health  Services  and  RWQCB  jointly  oversee  subsurface  investigations 
and  remediation  at  sites  containing  hazardous  wastes. 

The  Department  of  Public  Works  administers  Article  20,  Ordinance  No.  253-86,  of  the 
Public  Works  Code.  This  ordinance,  entitled  "Analyzing  the  Soil  for  Hazardous 
Wastes,"  requires  soils  testing  for  projects  in  San  Francisco  that  involve  excavation  in 
areas  underlain  by  artificial  fill.  The  ordinance  applies  to  properties  in  San  Francisco 

39 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


located  on  the  San  Francisco  Bay  side  of  the  original  high  tide  line  (or  any  other  sites 
designated  by  the  Director  of  Public  Works,  who  has  the  authority  to  specify 
additional  sites  for  study  on  an  individual  basis).  The  project  site  lies  outside  the 
designated  high-tide  zone,  and  does  not  fall  under  the  authority  of  this  ordinance./3/ 

The  San  Francisco  Fire  Department  issues  permits  for  the  storage  of  flammable 
liquids.  Permitting  and  other  records  associated  with  the  storage  of  flammable  liquids 
on  file  at  the  Fire  Department  date  back  to  the  early  1900s,  prior  to  state  and  federal 
involvement  in  hazardous  material  and  waste  management. 

Site  remediation  or  development  may  be  subject  to  regulation  by  other  agencies.  For 
example,  if  extraction  of  contaminated  groundwater  or  construction  dewatering  of  a 
hazardous  waste  site  were  required,  subsequent  discharge  of  such  waters  to  the 
stormwater  /  sewer  collection  system  could  require  a  permit  from  the  Department  of 
Public  Works  Industrial  Waste  Division. 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIAL  WORKER  SAFETY  REQUIREMENTS 

Properties  found  to  be  contaminated  are  subject  to  special  worker  safety  requirements 
both  to  protect  construction  workers  during  demolition  and  excavation  and  to  protect 
site  investigation  and  cleanup  workers  who  are  perfoiming  site  studies  or  site 
remediation  activities.  In  both  instances,  site  safety  plans  would  be  required  in 
compliance  with  federal  and  state  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
(OSHA)  requirements.  The  site  safety  plan  includes  provisions  for  safety  training, 
safety  equipment,  accident  and  illness  prevention  programs,  hazardous  substance 
exposure  warnings,  and  emergency  response  and  fire  prevention  plan  preparation.  A 
site  safety  plan  has  been  prepared  for  the  proposed  project  and  appears  as  an  appendix 
to  the  project's  remediation  plan./4/  Additional  information  on  hazards-related  safety 
requirement  is  presented  in  Appendix  E,  pp.  A. 46-54. 

INFORMATION  SOURCES 

Information  evaluated  in  this  report  was  gathered  from  available  records  and  from  a 
soil  testing  survey  done  at  the  site  concurrent  with  this  EIR.  Past  and  current  owners 
and  occupants  of  the  Project  site  were  not  consulted.  Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting 
Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists  prepared  two  study  reports  for  the  project  site: 
an  Environmental  Site  Assessment  that  presented  infonnation  on  site  history,  past  land 
uses,  underground  storage  tanks,  and  agency  listings;  and  a  Foundation  Assessment 

40 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


that  provided  geotechnical  information  regarding  subsurface  conditions ./5 ,6/  In 
response  to  information  presented  in  those  two  assessments,  a  soil  sampling  and 
testing  survey  was  carried  out./7/  The  assessment  reports  and  the  soil  survey  were  the 
primary  sources  of  information  on  hazardous  materials. 

In  evaluating  the  potential  for  contamination  of  the  project  site  and  adjacent  areas,  the 
Environmental  Site  Assessment  utilized  information  from  historical  archives,  such  as 
fire  insurance  maps  prepared  by  the  Sanborn  Insurance  Company,  and  database 
records  of  federal,  state,  and  local  regulatory  agencies.  Files,  maps,  data  bases,  and 
other  information  sources  reviewed  for  the  preparation  of  the  Environmental  Site 
Assessment  are  documented  in  that  report./5/ 

While  the  information  presented  here  is  believed  to  be  accurate,  no  certifications  or 
guarantees  can  be  made  to  that  effect.  Because  of  the  imprecise  nature  of  the  original 
information  sources,  no  representation  is  made  that  the  sites  discussed  below  are  the 
only  potentially  contaminated  areas,  nor  that  the  possible  contaminants  discussed 
represent  the  sole  hazardous  waste-related  problems  at  a  particular  site.  Furthermore, 
because  public  agency  records  are  sometimes  incomplete,  it  is  possible  that 
remediation  of  environmental  contamination  has  already  occurred  at  one  or  more  of 
the  sites  discussed  below. 

HISTORIC  SITE  USES  AND  POTENTIAL  SOURCES  OF  CONTAMINATION 

Excluding  parked  vehicles,  no  obvious  sources  of  contamination  are  visible  at  the 
project  site.  All  remnants  of  previous  buildings  have  been  removed,  and  the  existing 
asphalt  pavement  gives  the  property  a  relatively  clean  appearance. 

Historic  land  uses  at  the  site  were  evaluated  in  the  Lee  and  Praszker  Environmental 
Site  Assessment  for  their  potential  to  contaminate  the  site  with  hazardous  wastes./5/ 
Industrial  site  uses  started  prior  to  the  turn  of  the  century.  Contamination  of  site  soil 
or  groundwater  could  have  occurred  by  material  spills,  leaks,  carelessness,  accidents, 
or  poor  waste  handling  processes.  Potential  concerns  at  the  project  site  include 
contamination  from  underground  storage  tanks,  coal  yards,  foundry  wastes,  metal 
works  wastes,  storage  yards,  carbon  paper  manufacturing  wastes,  and  possible 
contaminated  fill.  Areas  of  potential  sources  of  contamination  are  shown  on  Figure  9. 
The  following  discussion  refers  to  each  area  by  letter  (off-site  uses)  or  number  (on-site 
uses)  as  identified  in  Figure  9. 


41 


III.  Environmental  Setting 


FOLSOM 


STREET 


m  SHERIDAN  STREET 

m  ~ 


A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 
I 

J 

K 

L 

M 

N 

P 


Junk  Yard 
Metal  Plating  Works 
Discount  Complete  Auto  Repair 
Shell  Service  Station 
Iron  Works 

Barnes  Construction  Company 
Print  Shop 
Metal  Works 
Service  Station 
Chevron  Service  Station 
Associated  Limousines 
ABC  Towing  and  Storage 
Speck  Cab  /  Veterans  Cab 
Patrick  J.  Ruane,  Inc. 
C  and  G  Muffler 


ON  PROJECT  SITE 


1  Pacific  Carbon  and  Ribbon 

2  Michel  and  Pfeffer  Iron  Works 

3  Service  Station 

4  Milwaukee  Brewery 

5  Peninsula  Motor  Express 

6  Pacific  Meter  Works 

7  Burgermeister  Brewing 

8  American  Brass  and  Bronze  Works 


STREET 


8f 


DO  RE 

w 

— H 

E 

F 

G 

r  i  ■ 
K 

STREET 


SOIL  SAMPLE  BOREHOLE  LOCATIONS 

TB-1 
TB-2 
TB-3 
TB-4 

Project  Site  ^1 


40C 


Feel 


SOURCE:  Environment*!  Science  Associates,  Inc.,  and  Lee  &  Praszker 


Costco  Wholesale 


Figure  9 

Potential  Sources  of 
Site  Contamination 


42 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 


In  the  late  1880s,  the  Milwaukee  Brewery  at  474  Tenth  Street  (Area  4)  had  an  engine 
room  powered  by  coal.  By  the  mid- 1900s,  the  engines  were  powered  by  fuel  oil. 
While  specific  records  were  not  found,  it  is  likely  that  fuel  storage  tanks  existed  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  engine  room,  possibly  underground.  Similarly,  the  Pacific  Carbon  and 
Ribbon  Manufacturing  Plant  located  at  1451  Harrison  Street  (Area  1)  is  indicated  as 
having  fuel  oil  steam  power  in  1929.  Although  no  documentation  for  a  tank  at  that 
address  was  found,  the  carbon  paper  plant  could  also  have  had  an  underground  fuel 
tank./5/ 

At  least  three  heavy  industries  present  on  the  site  in  1929  had  potential  to  cause  soil 
contamination,  primarily  from  heavy  metals:  the  American  Brass  and  Bronze  Works 
foundry  at  124  Juniper  (Area  8);  the  Michel  &  Pfeffer  Iron  Works  at  1415  Harrison 
Street  (Area  2);  and  the  Pacific  Meter  Works  at  499  Eleventh  Street  (Area  6),  where  an 
incinerator  was  located./5/ 

Several  underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  were  on  the  project  site  at  one  time  or 
another.  Much  soil  and  groundwater  contamination  in  industrial  and  commercial  areas 
can  be  attributed  to  leaking  USTs,  which  are  one  of  the  most  common  causes  of 
environmental  contamination  in  California.  Storage  of  hazardous  materials  such  as 
gasoline  or  diesel  fuel  below  ground  mitigates  the  potential  fire  hazard  posed  by  the 
presence  of  large  quantities  of  fuel.  However,  if  a  tank  leaks,  the  escaping  contents 
will  contaminate  soil  adjacent  to  the  leak.  If  not  detected,  contaminants  from  a  leaking 
UST  could  migrate  through  the  soil  and  reach  the  groundwater.  Contamination  of  the 
groundwater  with  fuel  is  considered  a  serious  environmental  problem,  causing 
contamination  of  soil  and  groundwater  that  can  extend  beyond  the  leak  site. 

Evidence  was  found  of  at  least  three  historic  UST  installations  on  the  project  site:/5/ 

Service  Station,  400  Tenth  Street  (Area  3).  Station  was  shown  on  maps  in  1949 
and  1950s;  gone  in  1965.  No  other  documentation.  Disposition  of  tank(s) 
unknown. 

Peninsula  Motor  Express  Co.,  1212  Bryant  Street  (Area  5).  A  550-gallon 
gasoline  UST  was  permitted  in  1944.  A  note  attached  to  the  permit  in  1966  states 
that  "no  evidence  of  the  tank  remains."  No  other  documentation.  Actual 
disposition  of  tank  unknown. 

Burgermeister  Brewing  Corporation,  470  Tenth  Street  (Area  7).  A  1000-gallon 
gasoline  UST  was  permitted  in  1969.  The  tank  was  located  under  the  Eleventh 
Street  sidewalk  approximately  200  feet  north  of  Bryant  Street.  No  other 
documentation.  Disposition  of  tank  unknown. 


43 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 


Table  2  lists  the  site  uses  identified  as  being  possible  sources  of  soil  or  groundwater 
contamination.  The  approximate  locations  of  potential  sources  of  contamination  are 
shown  on  Figure  9  on  p.  42;  locations  are  keyed  to  references  in  Table  2,  following, 
and  in  Appendix  E,  pp.  A.46-54,  where  potential  sources  of  contamination  from 
off-site  origins  are  discussed. 

Prior  to  human  settlement,  this  part  of  San  Francisco  bordered  the  Mission  Creek 
drainage,  a  marshy,  low-lying  area  that  drained  into  Mission  Bay,  a  former  cove  of  San 
Francisco  Bay  near  the  present  China  Basin.  Original  soils  were  windblown  sands. 
Beginning  in  the  late  1850s,  the  project  area  was  progressively  filled  with  brick,  wood, 
metal  fragments,  concrete,  other  rubble,  and  sand  from  nearby  dunes. /6/  Other  than 
observations  made  on  the  test  borings,  the  exact  quality  of  the  fill  throughout  the 
project  site  is  unknown.  Heterogeneous  fill  has  been  implicated  as  a  source  of 
persistent  soil  contamination  (especially  lead  and  other  metals)  at  several  development 
sites  in  San  Francisco. 

Finally,  buildings  constructed  prior  to  the  mid-1970s  often  contained  asbestos.  The 
Lee  and  Praszker  report  speculates  that  demolition  of  buildings  on  the  property  could 
have  left  asbestos  fibers  in  the  upper  soil  layer. 

TEST  RESULTS 

The  project  site  is  not  situated  within  the  designated  area  of  San  Francisco  where  a 
"Maher"  soils  testing  report  is  required;  i.e.  soils  testing  for  this  project  is  not  required 
by  City  ordinance.  Prompted  by  concerns  over  possible  health  impacts  from  site 
development  within  potentially  contaminated  areas,  the  Department  of  City  Planning 
requested  that  soil  samples  be  collected  and  tested  for  hazardous  wastes. 

Soil  samples  were  collected  at  four  borehole  locations  at  the  Costco  project  site  on 
March  19,  1991  (see  Figure  9,  p.  42).  Borehole  TB-1,  near  Tenth  Street  was  placed  at 
the  location  of  the  proposed  elevator  pit,  where  the  deepest  excavation  is  planned. 
Boreholes  TB-2,  TB-3,  and  TB-4  were  placed  at  three  widely  spaced  locations 
expected  to  contain  several  feet  of  relatively  shallow  fill  that  might  be  removed  during 
construction.  Sanborn  maps  indicated  the  historic  businesses  that  once  operated  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  three  shallow  borehole  locations  were  an  old  service  station  and  the 
Michel  and  Pfeffer  Iron  Works  (Areas  3  and  2  in  Figure  9;  borehole  TB-2),  the 
American  Brass  and  Bronze  Works  (Area  8;  TB-3),  and  the  Pacific  Meter  Works  and 


44 


HI.  Environmental  Setting 


TABLE  2:   PAST  POTENTIAL  SOURCES  OF  CONTAMINATION  ON  SITE 


Map 

Key /a/  Historic  Industry 

1  Pacific  Carbon  &  Ribbon, 
1451  Harrison  St. 

2  Michel  &  Pfeffer  Iron 
Works,  1415  Harrison  St. 

3  Service  Station 
400  Tenth  St. 

4  Milwaukee  Brewery, 
474  Tenth  St. 

5  Peninsula  Motor  Express 
1212  Bryant  St. 

6  Pacific  Meter  Works 
499  Eleventh  St. 

7  Burgermeister  Brewing 
470  Tenth  St. 

8  American  Brass  &  Bronze 
Works,  124  Juniper  St. 


Type  of  Use 

Manufacturing; 
fuel  oil  tanks 

Foundry 

UST/b/ 

Boiler;  coal, 
fuel  oil  tanks 

UST 

Incinerator 

UST 

Foundry 


Potential  Contaminants 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
other  organic  compounds 

Heavy  metals 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
other  organic  compounds 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Heavy  metals  and  organic 
hydrocarbons 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Heavy  metals 


/a/    Approximate  locations  of  potential  sources  of  contamination  are  shown  on 

Figure  9  on  p.  42. 
fbl    Underground  storage  tank. 

SOURCE:  Lee  and  Praszker,  Environmental  Site  Assessment,  1990;  Environmental 
Science  Associates,  Inc. 


the  Burgermeister  Brewery  (Areas  6  and  7;  TB-4).  One  sample  was  taken  near  the 
base  of  the  relatively  shallow  fill  at  each  of  those  three  boreholes,  at  approximately 
four  feet  at  TB-2,  five  feet  at  TB-3,  and  at  three  feet  TBA./7/ 

Test  parameters  for  the  Costco  soil  samples  were  based  on  the  comprehensive 
analytical  guidelines  of  San  Francisco's  Maher  ordinance./3/  (The  Maher  ordinance 
identifies  54  toxic  or  otherwise  hazardous  materials  to  be  analyzed.)  Because  of  the 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


several  potential  sources  of  contamination  at  the  site,  polynuclear  aromatic 
hydrocarbons  were  added  to  the  list  of  parameters  to  be  analyzed  at  locations  TB-2, 
TB-3,  and  TB-4,  the  three  sampling  locations  where  historic  industries  were  situated./7/ 

Given  the  history  of  the  project  site,  chemical  testing  found  relatively  few  indications 
of  contamination,  but  did  identify  the  presence  of  extractable  lead,  polynuclear 
aromatic  hydrocarbons,  and  petroleum  contamination  in  one  sample. 

Total  concentrations  of  heavy  metals  were  either  not  detected  or  were  present  near 
background  concentrations  in  all  soil  samples  collected  at  the  site.  None  of  the 
samples  contained  metal  concentrations  exceeding  their  Total  Threshold  Limit 
Concentrations  (TTLCs),  the  concentrations  above  which  the  soils  would  be 
considered  hazardous  wastes  in  California. 

Only  one  metal,  lead,  was  present  at  concentrations  high  enough  to  warrant 
supplementary  testing  for  extractability  (i.e.,  solubility  under  certain  environmental 
conditions).  When  extractable  lead  tests  were  done  on  the  project  site  samples,  one 
sample  (TB-2)  had  a  value  of  12  mg/1.  The  California  standard  for  extractable  lead 
(the  Soluble  Threshold  Limit  Concentration  or  STLC)  is  5  mg/1.  Soils  having 
concentrations  of  metals  exceeding  the  STLC  values  must  be  considered  hazardous 
wastes  upon  excavation.  (Additional  discussion  of  conditions  at  borehole  TB-2  is 
presented  below.) 

Priority  pollutant  semivolatile  organic  compounds  were  not  found  in  two  of  the  three 
samples  analyzed,  but  in  one  sample,  TB-2,  seven  polynuclear  aromatic  compounds 
(PNAs)  were  detected,  four  of  them  carcinogenic.  PNAs  are  a  group  of  toxic  organic 
compounds  that  occur  naturally  and  are  also  produced  as  by-products  when  petroleum 
products  are  incompletely  burned.  They  are  often  associated  with  leaks  or  spills  of 
petroleum  products. 

The  PNAs  detected  at  the  project  site  were  found  only  in  sample  TB-2,  collected  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  former  service  station  at  400  Tenth  Street  (the  comer  of  Tenth  Street 
and  Harrison  Street,  Area  3  on  Figure  9,  p.  42).  TB-2  is  the  same  sample  that 
exhibited  the  positive  test  for  extractable  lead.  Probable  sources  of  both  lead  and 
PNAs  at  this  location  would  be  leaks  or  spills  of  petroleum  products  at  the  service 
station  garage,  or  possibly  from  the  underground  storage  tanks.  Soil  sample  TB-2  had 
an  oily  quality.  A  supplementary  petroleum  analysis  ordered  for  sample  TB-2  yielded 
a  test  result  of 

46 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


1400  mg/kg  for  total  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  which  supports  the  assumption  that 
petroleum  products  are  the  source  of  the  contaminants.  In  San  Francisco,  petroleum 
contamination  at  any  concentration  is  undesirable. /8/ 

The  total  PNA  presence  was  spread  among  seven  individual  compounds.  Four  known 
carcinogens,  benzo(a)pyrene,  benz(a)anthracene,  benzo(b)flouranthene,  and  chrysene, 
were  detected.  The  total  concentration  of  the  seven  PNAs  measured  in  the  soil  at  TB-2 
was  1 20  mg/kg,  and  the  concentration  of  the  four  cancer-causing  agents  totaled 
54  mg/kg 

No  hazardous  threshold  concentration  has  been  defined  for  PNAs  as  a  class,  but  in 
California  the  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control  as  a  matter  of  practice  uses 
guidelines  of  100  ppm  for  total  PNA  concentration,  and  1  ppm  for  PNAs  known  to 
cause  cancer./9/  The  PNA  concentrations  measured  at  location  TB-2  exceeded  both 
levels,  indicating  that  soils  excavated  from  this  location  would  have  to  be  treated  as  a 
hazardous  waste. 

On  the  basis  of  this  preliminary  testing,  a  site  remediation  plan  has  been  developed 
that  incorporates  further  extensive  analysis  and  remediation  that  would  be  conducted 
as  site  preparation  would  be  carried  out./4/ 

NOTES  -  Hazardous  Materials 

III   Toxic  Substances  may  cause  short-term  or  long-lasting  health  effects,  ranging 
from  temporary  effects  to  permanent  disability,  or  even  death.  Carcinogens 
(substances  known  to  cause  cancer)  are  a  special  class  of  toxic  substances. 

Ignitable  substances  are  hazardous  because  of  their  ability  to  bum.  Gasoline, 
hexane  and  natural  gas  are  examples  of  ignitable  substances. 

Corrosive  materials  can  cause  severe  bums  or  damage  materials;  these  include 
strong  acids  and  bases,  such  as  lye  or  sulfuric  (battery)  acid. 

Reactive  materials  may  cause  explosions  or  generate  toxic  gases.  Explosives, 
pure  sodium  or  potassium  metal  (which  react  violently  with  water),  and  cyanide 
are  examples  of  reactive  materials. 

121  The  RWQCB  water  quality  protection  objectives  and  goals  for  the  San  Francisco 
Bay  Region  are  contained  in  the  Water  Quality  Control  Plan,  San  Francisco  Bay 
Basin,  Region  (2),  December  1986. 

13/   Provisions  of  San  Francisco's  "Analyzing  the  Soil  for  Hazardous  Waste" 

ordinance  (the  "Maher  ordinance")  call  for  a  site  history  and  soils  investigation  to 
be  conducted  prior  to  issuance  of  building  permits  for  development  involving 
excavation  of  more  than  50  cubic  yards  of  soil.  If  any  subsurface  material 

47 


EI.  Environmental  Setting 


exceeding  hazardous  waste  standards  is  discovered  during  soil  sampling 
activities,  additional  investigations  and/or  site  remediation,  overseen  by 
appropriate  state  and  local  agencies,  can  be  required  before  issuance  of  a  building 
permit. 

14/   The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  prepared  by  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  in  October  1991  and 
reviewed  and  certified  by  Levine-Fricke  in  November  1991,  is  on  file  at  the 
Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister 
Street,  San  Francisco. 

151  Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists, 

Environmental  Site  Assessment:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison 
Streets,  San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  California,  June,  1990. 

161   Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists,  Foundation 
Investigation:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets, 
San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  Cdifornia,  June,  1990. 

HI   Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.,  Costco  Wholesale  Soil  Sampling  and 
Analysis  Report,  September  1991. 

/8/   Leslie  Lum,  Health  Inspector,  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of 
Public  Health,  Underground  Storage  Tanks,  telephone  conversation,  May  31, 
1991. 

191   Beth  Burton,  Toxic  Substances  Control  Division,  California  Department  of 
Health  Services,  telephone  conversation,  June  17,  1991. 


48 


IV  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS 


An  application  for  environmental  evaluation  for  a  development  proposal  on  the  site 
was  filed  on  August  25,  1989.  On  September  20,  1990,  on  the  basis  of  an  Initial  Study, 
the  Department  of  City  Planning,  Office  of  Environmental  Review,  determined  that  an 
Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  was  required.  Issues  determined  as  a  result  of  the 
Initial  Study  to  require  no  further  environmental  analysis  included:  Visual  Quality, 
Glare,  Population  and  Housing,  Operational  Noise,  Construction  Air  Quality,  Shadow 
and  Wind,  Utilities  /  Public  Services,  Biology,  Water  Quality,  and  Energy  /  Natural 
Resources.  Therefore,  this  document  does  not  discuss  these  topics  (see  Appendix  A, 
pp.  A.  1  -32,  for  the  Initial  Study).  A  discussion  of  Land  Use  and  Zoning  is  included  to 
provide  an  informational  context  for  better  understanding  of  impacts  of  the  project. 

A.  LAND  USE  AND  ZONING 

CUMULATIVE  CONTEXT 

In  2000,  there  would  be  about  30,000  workers  in  the  South  of  Market  (SOM)  rezoning 
area  within  which  the  project  site  is  located.  Employment  is  forecast  to  grow  by  about 
6,850  jobs  between  1985  and  2000.  Total  building  space  in  the  SOM  is  forecast  to 
increase  from  17.3  million  sq.  ft.  (which  includes  building  space  that  had  already  been 
approved  but  not  yet  constructed)  to  18.6  million  sq.  ft.  Most  growth  in  the  SOM  in 
terms  of  both  employment  and  space  use  is  expected  in  office  activities.  Employment 
in  service  and  sales  activities  are  expected  to  show  moderate  employment  growth. 
Manufacturing  and  distribution  activities  employment  is  expected  to  remain  constant 
or  to  decline. 

An  increase  of  less  than  ten  percent  in  total  building  space  is  forecast  in  the  SOM  area 
for  the  Year  2000.  The  limited  increase  in  space  during  this  timeframe  reflects  the  fact 
that  there  is  a  considerable  amount  of  building  space  (primarily  for  office  use)  that  has 
been  approved  but  is  either  under  construction  or  yet  to  be  built,  in  addition  to  the 
effects  of  the  proposed  reduction  in  commercial  FAR  and  building  heights,  and  the 
limitations  on  further  new  office  development  contained  in  the  SOM  controls.  It  also 
reflects  the  current  supply  of  vacant  space  that  is  available  for  absorption  by 
employment  growth.  Much  of  this  vacant  space  consists  of  former  industrial  space 


49 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


that  has  been  converted  to  potential  office  space.  Consequently,  the  net  addition  of 
building  space  to  the  SOM  area,  beyond  existing  and  already  approved  space,  would 
be  minimized. 

As  most  of  the  forecast  employment  growth  in  the  area  is  expected  to  be 
accommodated  in  rehabilitated  or  converted  space  rather  than  newly-constructed 
space,  and  the  controls  generally  reduce  the  maximum  allowable  building  envelope, 
physical  building  form  in  the  SOM  area  is  not  expected  to  change  substantially. 

The  controls  adopted  by  the  City  Planning  Commission  in  April  1990  reduce  overall 
development  potential  and  limit  office  uses  in  the  area.  The  result  will  be  less  pressure 
to  convert  existing  occupied  space  to  higher-rent-paying  office  uses  than  would 
otherwise  occur.  This  is  likely  to  benefit  service  uses  with  a  downtown  client  base, 
which  value  proximity  to  the  central  business  district  and  would  otherwise  be 
competing  with  office  uses  for  comparable  space.  It  would  also  benefit  newer 
production  activities,  "cottage  industries"  such  as  film  and  video  production  which 
would  be  more  likely  to  expand  in  the  area  under  the  Plan  than  under  existing 
controls.  Large  space  users  with  older  facilities  in  the  area,  such  as  manufacturing  and 
certain  distribution  activities,  may  remain  in  the  area  longer  due  to  less  competition  for 
space  from  other  uses  and  reduced  incentive  for  resale.  In  the  longer  term,  however, 
older  manufacturing  and  distribution  businesses  will  continue  to  relocate  outside  the 
SOM  and  downtown  due  to  the  economic  advantages  of  outlying  areas  for  this  kind  of 
activity,  including  less  expensive  space  for  expansion,  and  convenient  access  to 
markets. 


LAND  USE 


The  proposed  project  would  require  the  removal  of  a  paved  surface  parking  lot 
containing  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking  spaces  and  a  vacant 
lot.  The  proposed  project  would  increase  the  density  of  development  on  the  site, 
adding  about  118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  480  sq.  ft.  of 
open  space,  and  60  to  80  dwelling  units.  At  project  completion  there  would  be  a  net 
increase  of  about  300,720  sq.  ft.  of  parking  area  (590  spaces)  over  the  46,250  sq.  ft.  of 
the  site  (130  spaces)  presently  operated  as  a  public  parking  lot. 

The  project  would  add  additional  bulk-merchandise  type  retail  uses  in  the  area,  similar 
to  the  Canned  Foods  Grocery  Outlet  located  two  blocks  west  of  the  site  on  Harrison 


50 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Street  between  Thirteenth  and  Alameda  Streets.  The  project  would  also  add 
multi-family  residential  use  to  an  area  presently  containing  a  number  of  multi-family 
residential  structures. 

ZONING 

The  City  Planning  Code  contains  controls  regarding  scale,  intensity,  and  location  of 
growth  in  San  Francisco's  South  of  Market  Area.  The  relationship  of  the  project  to 
selected  sections  of  the  City  Planning  Code  is  discussed  below. 

The  proposed  project,  located  within  the  SLI  Use  District,  would  be  consistent  with 
the  permitted  principal  and  conditional  uses  designated  for  this  district.  Retail  uses  are 
a  principal  permitted  use  in  the  SLI  district,  with  a  maximum  allowable  floor  area  ratio 
(FAR)  of  2.5: 1  (FAR  is  the  ratio  of  gross  floor  area  of  buildings  on  a  site  to  the  size  of 
the  lot).  The  FAR  of  the  retail  component  of  the  project  would  be  about  0.55:1. 

Low- income,  affordable  housing  and  group  housing  are  the  only  types  of  residential 
uses  permitted  in  an  SLI  district,  subject  to  Conditional  Use  authorization.  In  order  to 
be  deemed  "low-income,  affordable  housing,"  the  dwellings  must  be  rented,  leased  or 
sold  at  rates  or  prices  affordable  to  a  household  with  an  income  no  greater  than 
80  percent  of  the  median  income  for  households  in  San  Francisco.  Maximum  dwelling 
unit  density  would  be  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  in  the  SLI  district;  the 
dwelling  unit  density  of  the  residential  component  of  the  proposed  project  would  be 
approximately  one  unit  per  325-435  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  or  60  to  80  low-income, 
affordable  dwelling  units  on  the  project  site. 

The  proposed  project  is  located  in  the  40-X  Height  and  Bulk  District.  Structures  in 
this  district  are  allowed  a  maximum  height  of  40  feet,  excluding  certain  rooftop 
structures  such  as  mechanical  penthouses  which  are  exempt  from  the  basic  40-foot 
height  limit.  These  exempt  structures  cannot  exceed  ten  feet  in  height.  There  are  no 
controlling  bulk  limits  in  this  district.  The  project,  excluding  exempt  rooftop 
structures,  would  be  within  the  40-foot  height  limit. 

For  retail  use,  Section  151  of  the  City  Planning  Code  requires  one  parking  space  for 
each  500  sq.  ft.  of  occupied  floor  area  up  to  20,000  sq.  ft.,  plus  one  space  for  every 
250  sq.  ft.  of  occupied  floor  area  in  excess  of  20,000  sq.  ft.  Additional  parking  up  to 
50  percent  of  the  required  number  of  parking  spaces  are  permitted  as  accessory 


51 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


#  parking  under  Section  204.5  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  Based  on  the  1 18,500  sq.  ft. 
of  retail  space  contained  in  the  project,  434  parking  spaces  would  be  required; 

•  720  spaces  are  proposed.  Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required 
spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if 
available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or 
approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City 
Planning  Code. 

For  residential  use,  Section  151  of  the  City  Planning  Code  requires  one  parking  space 
for  each  dwelling  unit.  The  project  would  provide  one  parking  space  for  each  of  the 
proposed  60  to  80  dwelling  units. 

In  the  SLI  Use  District,  freight  loading  spaces  are  required  for  retail  uses  over 
50,000  sq.  ft.  at  the  ratio  of  one  space  per  25,000  sq.  ft.  of  gross  floor  area  (City 
Planning  Code  Section  152).  Based  on  the  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  contained  in 
the  project,  five  freight  loading  spaces  would  be  required.  The  project  would  provide 
five  freight  loading  spaces  in  an  area  about  60  feet  wide  and  60  feet  deep,  which  would 
be  accessed  from  a  shared  parking  and  loading  entrance  along  Eleventh  Street.  The 
freight  loading  area  would  exceed  the  minimum  dimension  standards  specified  in  the 
Code  (Section  154(b))  for  that  number  of  loading  spaces.  The  proposed  freight 
loading  spaces  would  exceed  City  Planning  Code  minimum  dimension  standards  in 
order  to  meet  Costco 's  needs. 

Section  135.3  of  the  City  Planning  Code  requires  usable  indoor  or  outdoor  open  space, 
accessible  to  the  public,  as  part  of  commercial  development  in  the  South  of  Market 
Area.  The  ratio  of  usable  open  space  to  new  building  space  is  one  sq.  ft.  of  open  space 
for  every  250  sq.  ft.  of  general  commercial  development.  Trie  project  would  contain 
118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  resulting  in  an  open  space  requirement  of  about 
480  sq.  ft.  The  project  would  provide  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space  containing  benches, 
trees,  ground  cover  and  art  work  along  Tenth  Street  adjacent  to  the  building  entry. 

Section  135(d)  of  the  City  Planning  Code  specifies  that  36  sq.  ft.  of  private  usable 
open  space  are  required  for  each  dwelling  unit  in  the  SLI  Use  District.  Common 
usable  open  space  may  be  substituted  for  private  open  space  in  the  ratio  of  1.33  times 
the  required  amount  of  private  open  space.  The  project  would  contain  60  to  80 
dwelling  units,  therefore  2,160-2,880  sq.  ft.  of  private  open  space  or  2,873-3,830  sq.  ft. 
of  common  open  space  would  be  required  for  the  project.  The  project  would  include 
required  open  space  for  dwelling  units  as  part  of  the  residential  component  design. 

52 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 

B  CVLTVRAL  RESOURCES 

Am  au  mm  <iiiif.ii  d  h.  m—  i  l  report  was  prepared  for  the  project  site  and  \iciniry  by 
AMem  G_  Paw,  Fh-D..  Archeo-Te: .  ronsnmng  archaeologists.  The  repon  is  on  file 
a  are  r»er  a-rtr.-er:  ::  Z:~-  ?'. iruur ?ff::e  if  Err-  urrnrrertal  Review.  450  McAllister 
Srre-e-  5arrrart_>;:   -    raserl  tr.  the  rarrlar as  ::  artlnval  research .  there  is  = 
t>:  •  j . r  _ . ~-   alrrr_£r  r>  r. :  —  earj  i.  :  truarr rea  cer.air.ry.  that  rrehistrr.t  ar.d  ?r 
|iuaufauaodc  archaeological  icmaiBS  may  exist,  or  may  once  hav  e  existed,  within  the 
_   rrrrie ;  :*  are  rr:  err  sre 


exist 

:r:e  heer  suhr.-eraerl  hereath  the  waters  •:: 

mr  of  me  hnHair  era.  Doe  to  the  geological  process  of 
i  hanginc  levels  of  me  bay  overtime,  it  is  conceivable  that  a  Native 
-_— e r : ar  : re :  _r. r  r.  a-  exist  ::~i;  trie  ha.  e  existed  -rchar  the  htur.rlar.es  :: 
me  ialijii.  I  parcel  Whflc  mere  is  a  possibility  of  encountering  prehistonc  or 

re: :  _rte:  -  lurar  tre  t :  rranes  tt  tire  art  •ert  area  r :  firrr. 

has  been  found.  The  project 
to  cultural  resources  (see  mitigation, 
pp  96-97). 


S"  .  -  -  -  ulrura  r  e: :  _rie 

-_-  a-iraet  lt  artal  res  turret  rer:  rt  tire  :  -r: r.  Z^'.r^z.  ?.e:;-ur:c:  £-. s'.uar.: »: 
cftke  Proposed  Costco  Development  Project.  San  Francisco  California  was 
prepared  for  me  proposed  sat  by  .Allen  G.  Pastron.  Ph  D  .  of  Archeo-Tec. 
r*l**M\  1990.  and  is  on  fife  at  the  Office  of  Eirvuonmeotal  Review.  Department 
of  dry  Plaonuri  -51  McALaattr  Street.  SanFranrwro. 

C  TRANSPORTATION 

r*."? r. "_-.T7-~z  ::nte>:t 


The  tramportarion  auikaas  of  me  Mission  Bcry  and  Spjfrt  of  Market  Area  Plan  EIR5 
aJJweas  uritm  aegaaaul  !■  aii|wl  liiiwi  inywHft  in  2000  (me  Mission  Ba  >  EIR  also 
arualyzes  transportation  impacts  m  2020).  Toe  Mission  Bay  transportation  impact 
a-  a    e  r  al_r.e  ra  el  r  ere  rate;  r  >ui:::tr  Ba  _r  trie  tarter:  ::  arc  war  ar  travel 


53 


IV.  Eivir 


prcected  for  the  rest  ::  the  Chry  and  Bay  .Area.   The  5  ruth  ::  NIarxet  analyses  a:  the 
same  for  that  area.  It  is  gtowili  in  the  City  and  region  that  would  result  in  the  greatest 
mrnract  :r.  most  :f  the  transp  :nat::r.  systems  sradaed 

Using  slightly  efferent  analysis  methodologies,  the  two  hiKs  ernpley  the  same  has:: 
screerlme  approach  to  s racy  re gional  transpcnanor:  impacts  cf  San  Francis:: 
employment  growth.  Res-alts  differ  seme -rat  rased  :r.  me  tamferences  m  frrecasnng 
techmcues.  rat  generally  by  less  mart  five  t:  ten  percent,  this  darrferer.ee  is  ~  eh  mm 
me  range  cf  acciiracy  of  ten  year  forecasts   The  re  f  ere.  the  mm  sets  :f  results  are 

from  the  Mission  Bay  EIR,        dram  :f  Mz EJR  re  salts  mrlaaea  ••  here  mere  is 
reticle  relevant  mfrrmanm 


In  snmmary.  r  :th  EZRs  sn :~  mat  m  2 1 1 1  congested  r_gr.~  a;-  ;  :na_t. :ns    :a:  re  salt 
in  a  shift  mom  aatcs  t:  higher  ase  cf  ransit  ana  naesnarmg  ry  ravel  ers  from  me 
Downtown  dc  x"t:mam   The  Fast  Fay  -  calf  re  the  mcst  congested  crmrn::  the 
Peninsula  would  re  the  least   By  1111  ravel  demand  -  rale  exceed  me  capacity  cf 
regional  tr an sp cn at: :n  systems   To  seme  regional  grmmm  expanded  ransit  ana 
freeway  systems  would  be  required. 

The  rrmcsea  project  is  expected  tc  re  ccmpletea.  oc  cap  tea  ana  me  amcant  cf  net  ne  ■■ 
space  attributable  to  the  project  absorbed  by  2000.  Therefore,  the  ina/aits  of  the 
project  and  its  contribution  to  cumulative  transportation  unpads  would  occur 
primarily  m  the  l0>5O>lv  context   The  anfrrm.aror  mem  the  M::s:zr  F.r  F.'F  for 
1111  ••••  as  prepared  for  the  p-arpeses  cf  anal;-  zmg  fell  f  add  cat  mracts  cf  Mission  F 
m  a  proper  cumulative  context,  and  :s  mere  specmlanve  ma  s  a  meet  tc  c  range   It  :s 
presented  for  the  reader's  inforrnabon. 


The  .Analysis  Years 


The  Mission  Bay  EIR  analysis  includes  studies  of  transportation  conditions  in  the  year 
2000.  and.  in  order  to  account  for  buildout  of  the  Mission  Ba>  planning  area.  m.  the 
year  2020.  .Analyses  for  the  19S5-2000  timeframe  can  rely  on  reasonably  f-i-if-r-M-i 
estimates  of  regional  transportation  capacity  improvements  as  defined  by  the  regional 
agencies'  highway  and  transit  planners    mere  are  no  regional  ranspvnatior  mans  m 
policies  for  2020  Therefore,  the  Mission  Bay  EJR  uses  a  different  approach  for  this 
longer-term  analysis   For  the  2020  analysis,  rather  than  rervnm.g  the  impacts  o:  fa  rare 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


travel  on  transportation  systems  as  is  the  analytical  approach  for  2000,  the  estimates  of 
2020  travel  conditions  use  the  transportation  system  capacities  developed  for  2000  as  a 
base  and  identify  the  types  of  transportation  improvements  likely  to  be  necessary  to 
serve  growth  in  travel  between  2000  and  2020. 

Effects  of  the  Loma  Prieta  Earthquake 

While  many  of  the  downtown  streets  and  intersections  have  experienced  changes  in 
traffic  volumes  as  a  result  of  closure  of  damaged  freeway  segments,  most  of  them  are 
expected  to  be  only  temporary.  As  freeway  repairs  are  completed,  traffic  is  expected 
to  return  to  its  pre-quake  patterns.  Although  not  all  repair  plans  have  been  finalized,  it 
has  been  necessary  to  make  certain  assumptions  about  the  transportation  system  that 
would  be  in  place  by  the  year  2000  to  provide  a  reasonable  assessment  of  future 
conditions.  The  following  two  future  scenarios  were  the  basis  for  the  transportation 
analysis: 

Freeway  Down  Scenario  A.  The  Embarcadero  Freeway,  and  the  Washington  and  Clay 
Street  ramps,  are  assumed  to  be  removed  and  replaced  with  a  surface  roadway.  This 
roadway  would  be  readily  accessible  from  intersecting  streets,  similar  to  what  will 
occur  once  all  freeway  demolition  is  completed,  and  all  roadway  obstructions 
removed.  Given  this  level  of  access,  this  surface  roadway  scenario  would  provide 
substantially  less  travel  capacity  than  that  of  the  elevated  freeway.  The  Mission 
Street  /  Main  Street  and  Mission  Street  /  Beale  Street  ramps,  or  a  comparable  facility, 
may  or  may  not  be  restored  at  its  pre-earthquake  location.  The  section  of  1-280 
between  the  U.S.  101  interchange  and  Army  Street  are  assumed  to  be  repaired  or 
replaced  with  facilities  of  comparable  capacity.  U.S.  101  ramps  at  Turk  Street  and 
Golden  Gate  Avenue  are  assumed  to  be  demolished.  While  no  definitive  replacement 
facility,  if  any,  has  been  selected,  the  effects  of  this  demolition  are  expected  to  be 
limited  to  some  alteration  of  local  traffic  patterns  in  the  general  vicinity  of  Market 
Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  the  Civic  Center. 

The  primary  effect  of  this  scenario  would  be  that  traffic  patterns  on  San  Francisco's 
local  street  system  that  served  the  Embarcadero  Freeway  operate  and  would  operate 
differently  in  the  future  than  before  the  earthquake;  cumulative  travel  impacts  as  they 
would  affect  the  regional  highway  screenlines  reported  in  the  Mission  Bay  and  South 
of  Market  EIR  analyses  may  be  the  same  or  possibly  lower  to  the  extent  access  to 
freeway  screenlines  is  delayed  by  longer  travel  times  associated  with  surface  street 


55 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


travel.  Therefore,  the  "Regional  Travel"  discussion  below  regarding  impacts  on 
highways  would  still  be  applicable,  if  not  an  overstatement  of  cumulative  impacts  on 
the  regional  highway  system  serving  San  Francisco./l/ 

Freeway  Down  Scenario  B  -  Limited  Access.  This  scenario,  also  assumes  demolition 
of  the  Embarcadero  Freeway  and  the  Washington  and  Clay  Street  ramps.  This 
scenario  is  reflective  of  the  type  of  travel  thoroughfare  forwarded  for  further  study  by 
Mayor  Agnos.  This  replacement  roadway  may  or  may  not  include  subterranean 
segments,  but  would  have  more  limited  access  (i.e.  fewer  access  points  to  The 
Embarcadero)  than  the  Freeway  Down  Scenario  A  surface  roadway  described  in  the 
preceding  paragraphs.  The  result  of  this  limited  access  would  be  that  the  roadway 
would  have  a  higher  travel  capacity  (because  there  would  be  fewer  access  points  to 
impede  through  traffic)  than  the  Freeway  Down  Scenario  A;  capacity  of  this  limited 
access  scenario,  however,  may  still  be  somewhat  lower  than  that  formerly  provided  by 
the  elevated  Embarcadero  Freeway.  The  Mission  Street  /  Main  Street  and  Mission 
Street  /  Beale  Street  ramps  may  or  may  not  be  restored  at  its  pre -earthquake  location. 
The  section  of  1-280  between  the  U.S.  101  interchange  and  Army  Street  are  assumed  to 
be  repaired  or  replaced  with  facilities  of  comparable  capacity.  U.S.  101  ramps  at  Turk 
Street  and  Golden  Gate  Avenue  are  assumed  to  be  demolished.  While  no  definitive 
replacement  facility,  if  any,  has  been  selected,  the  effects  of  this  demolition  are 
expected  to  be  limited  to  some  alteration  of  local  traffic  patterns  in  the  general  vicinity 
of  Market  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  the  Civic  Center. 

Because  it  is  assumed  the  travel  capacity  of  this  replacement  scenario  would  approach 
that  formerly  provided  by  the  Embarcadero  Freeway,  future  travel  conditions  at  the 
highway  and  transit  screenlines  reported  in  the  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Marker  EIR 
analyses  would  continue  to  be  applicable  for  describing  cumulative  impacts. 

Regional  Travel 

Regional  travel  was  analyzed  for  each  of  the  three  major  approaches  to  San  Francisco: 

the  North  Bay  via  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge;  the  East  Bay  via  the 

San  Francisco-Oakland  Bay  Bridge;  and  the  Peninsula  via  the  U.S.  101  and  1-280 

freeways. 

The  regional  travel  forecasts  assume  that  where  severe  congestion  is  projected  for  the 
highway  system  and  where  parallel  transit  and  ridesharing  systems  are  available, 


56 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


travelers  would  choose  to  shift  from  their  autos  to  fill  the  capacity  available  in  transit 
and  ridesharing  systems.  Those  shifts  are  assumed  to  be  made  by  travelers  from  the 
Downtown  &  Vicinity  only,  because  they  would  have  more  transit  and  ridesharing 
options  than  travelers  from  other  parts  of  the  City  or  region.  The  shift  to  transit  and 
ridesharing  would  be  greatest  for  travel  to  the  East  Bay,  somewhat  less  to  the 
North  Bay,  and  none  would  be  expected  for  travelers  to  the  Peninsula  by  2000. 
(Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.76-79;  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR,  pp.  109-1 12, 
C-38-40.) 

Growth  in  the  entire  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  including  the  South  of  Market  and 
Mission  Bay,  and  the  rest  of  the  region  would  be  the  primary  source  of  travelers  trying 
to  cross  the  Golden  Gate  and  Bay  Bridges,  and  to  use  the  U.S.  101  and  1-280  freeways 
at  peak  hours.  (Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.71-83;  South  of  Market  EIR, 
pp.  C-46-47.) 

North  Bay  Corridor 

The  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  EIRs  found  that  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge  and  its 
approaches  operated  with  moderate  congestion  (driving  speeds  of  about  35  to  45  mph) 
in  peak  hours  in  1 985.  By  2000,  heavy  congestion  on  the  bridge  (a  driving  speed  of 
about  30  mph)  would  last  about  two  hours  during  the  p.m.  commute  period  if 
additional  transit  capacity  between  downtown  and  the  North  Bay  were  provided,  and  a 
substantial  shift  from  autos  to  transit  and  ridesharing  were  made  by  travelers  from  the 
Downtown  &  Vicinity.  If  no  shift  from  1985  transit  use  levels  were  to  occur,  the 
period  of  heavy  congestion  on  the  Bridge  would  last  for  about  four  hours  in  2000. 

Golden  Gate  Transit  indicates  that  it  would  be  able  to  increase  its  bus  and  ferry 
capacity  between  downtown  and  the  North  Bay  by  2000  in  response  to  the  demand 
generated.  Golden  Gate  Bus  ridership  would  almost  double,  with  projected  Levels  of 
Service  (LOS)  of  D  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  and  LOS  C  during  the  p.m.  peak  period. 
Golden  Gate  ferry  ridership  would  grow  by  about  60%  from  1985  to  2000  and  operate 
at  LOS  B  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  and  period.  Ridesharing  is  projected  to  increase 
by  7  to  15%  between  1985  and  2000  in  the  North  Bay. 

By  the  year  2020,  heavy  congestion  on  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge  could  last  about 

four  hours,  assuming  the  levels  of  transit  and  ridesharing  used  in  2000,  if  there  were  no 

additional  transportation  improvements  between  2000  and  2020.  The  Mission  Bay  EIR 


57 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


indicates  that,  by  that  time,  the  need  to  consider  major  new  transportation 
infrastructure  and  transit  systems  will  have  become  apparent.  The  Mission  Bay  EIR 
provides  examples  to  illustrate  the  magnitude  of  improvements  that  could  be 
necessary;  those  mitigation  measures  therefore  are  not  prescriptive,  but  indicative  of 
the  level  of  investment  required  to  respond  to  future  travel  demand,  which  would 
require  in-depth  review  and  analysis  in  the  next  phase  of  regional  transportation 
planning.  Those  mitigation  measures  include  adding  a  second  deck  to  the  Golden  Gate 
Bridge  to  provide  transbay  capacity  for  new  bus  and  carpool  lanes,  or  a  light-rail  line, 
either  of  which  would  extend  between  downtown  San  Francisco  and  Sonoma  County. 
{Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  H,  pp.  VI.E.31-34,  39, 41,  71-92,  94-125,  129-134,  214-215, 
and  225-226;  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  pp.  98-105,  and  111-124.) 

East  Bay  Corridor 

There  currently  is  virtually  no  room  for  additional  vehicle  traffic  on  the  eastbound 
Bay  Bridge  approaches  between  4:00  p.m.  and  6:00  p.m.  While  the  growth  in  travel 
demand  on  the  Bay  Bridge  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  could  be  served  by  shifting 
those  commuters  from  autos  to  transit  and  increased  ridesharing,  trips  to  or  from  other 
areas  of  the  region  generally  are  not  well  served  by  transit  and  would  continue  to  be 
made  primarily  in  private  vehicles. 

Even  with  the  substantial  shift  to  transit  and  ridesharing  assumed  in  the  analysis  for 
travelers  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  the  Bay  Bridge  would  operate  at  capacity  for 
about  4.5  hours  in  2000,  resulting  in  severe  congestion  on  the  San  Francisco 
approaches  to  the  bridge,  travel  speeds  of  less  than  30  miles  per  hour,  and  heavy 
congestion  on  the  bridge  itself  every  weekday  afternoon.  Were  the  shift  to  transit  and 
ridesharing  from  1985  levels  not  to  occur,  the  period  of  severe  congestion  in  2000 
would  extend  for  more  than  5.5  hours. 

By  2000,  the  numbers  and  proportion  of  commuters  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  on 
BART  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  would  be  substantially  higher.  The  number  of  trips 
on  AC  Transit  would  increase  by  about  65%  based  on  the  service  available  and  the 
need  to  accommodate  some  riders  that  would  otherwise  use  BART  if  ridership 
conditions  were  less  crowded  by  2000. 

The  ratio  of  passengers  to  seats  on  BART  would  increase  from  1.30  in  1985  to  1.63  in 
2000  (LOS  F).  AC  Transit  ridership  would  increase  from  0.85  passengers  per  seat  in 


58 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


1985  to  1 .30  in  2000  (LOS  E).  The  capacity  of  BART  is  based  on  the  maximum 
capacity  of  BART's  computer  system  to  track  trains.  The  crowding  projected  for 
BART  could  not  be  fully  mitigated  during  the  peak  period  because  of  the  system's 
technical  operating  limits. 

An  increase  of  seven  percent  in  ridesharing  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  across  the 
Bay  Bridge  is  projected  for  2000.  Even  with  substantial  shifts  to  transit  and 
ridesharing  by  commuters  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  by  2020  severe  congestion 
on  the  Bay  Bridge  and  its  approaches  would  last  for  more  than  five  hours.  The  number 
of  regional  vehicle  trips  which  could  not  be  served  by  the  Bay  Bridge  during  the  p.m. 
peak  period  (4:00-6:00  p.m.)  would  grow  from  about  3,100  vehicles  in  2000  to  about 
5,800  in  2020. 

Mitigating  those  levels  of  congestion  would  require  consideration  of  major  changes  to 
the  regional  transbay  transportation  system  connecting  the  West  Bay  and  East  Bay. 
Virtually  all  of  the  concepts  would  require  the  City  to  work  with  MTC,  Caltrans,  and 
local  government  agencies  to  undertake  the  regional  planning  needed  to  expand 
transbay  transportation  capacity.  (Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.31-34,  37-41, 
71-92,  94-124,  126-127,  129-133,  215-216,  and  226-230;  South  of  Market  EIR 
pp.  98-105,  and  111-124.) 

Peninsula  Corridor 

Between  1985  and  2000,  traffic  would  increase  on  U.S.  101  and  Interstate  280,  the 
freeways  serving  the  Peninsula.  However,  there  would  be  less  congestion  on  those 
routes  at  the  San  Mateo  County  Line  than  on  the  Golden  Gate  and  Bay  Bridges.  Both 
U.S.  101  and  1-280  were  only  moderately  congested  at  the  San  Mateo  County  line  in 
1985.  In  or  near  San  Francisco,  the  capacity  of  local  streets,  U.S.  101,  and  1-280 
would  be  sufficient  to  handle  future  travel  demand;  the  switch  from  highway  to  transit 
modes  by  Downtown  &  Vicinity  commuters  assumed  for  the  Golden  Gate  and 
Bay  Bridges  would  not  be  required  for  the  routes  serving  the  Peninsula.  The  transit 
analysis  for  2000  and  2020  in  this  regional  corridor  therefore  uses  the  same  amount  of 
transit  capacity  as  in  1985. 

U.S.  101  at  the  San  Mateo  County  line  would  operate  at  capacity  for  about  three  hours 
in  2000,  with  heavy  congestion  and  speeds  of  30  miles  per  hour  occurring  during  that 
afternoon  peak  period.  By  2020,  heavy  congestion  on  U.S.  101  would  last  for  over 


59 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


three  afternoon  hours.  1-280  would  operate  with  only  moderate  congestion  at  the 
county  line  in  2000  and  2020  with  speeds  averaging  35  to  45  miles  per  hour 
throughout  the  peak  period.  The  congestion  projected  in  2020  would  be  reduced  if 
commuters  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  chose  to  increase  their  use  of  transit  or 
ridesharing  above  the  1985  levels. 

Transit  ridership  to  the  Peninsula  would  grow,  although  not  to  the  extent  that  transit 
capacity  would  have  to  be  increased  above  the  1985  levels.  In  2000,  the  level  of 
service  on  transit  would  remain  high  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  (LOS  B  or  C  for  all 
carriers),  as  there  would  be  no  system  where  ridership  would  be  greater  than  available 
seats.  Use  of  BART  and  SamTrans  would  grow  by  about  40%  while  CalTrain 
ridership  would  grow  by  just  5%  (assuming  the  CalTrain  station  remains  at  Fourth  and 
Townsend  Streets).  In  2020,  CalTrain,  BART  and  SamTrans  would  carry  even  larger 
loads,  but  would  continue  to  operate  below  capacity  (LOS  B  or  C).  (Mission  Bay  EIR, 
Vol.  H,  pp.  VI.E.31-34,  37-38, 42-43,  61-62,  71-92,  94-124,  127-133,  216-217,  and 
230-231;  South  of  Market  EIR  pp.  98-105,  and  111-124.) 

Regional  Highway  Constraint  Points 

As  a  result  of  growth  in  regional  travel  demand,  the  following  freeway  segments  lying 
beyond  the  screenlines  in  the  transportation  analysis  could  constrain  San  Francisco 
travel:  the  1-80/5 80/1-8 80  interchange  in  Oakland;  the  Caldecott  Tunnel  on  State 
Route  24  1-80  in  Alameda  and  Contra  Costa  Counties,  U.S.  101  in  Marin  County,  and 
U.S.  101  south  of  1-380  in  San  Mateo.  (Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.133-140.) 

Local  Transit  and  Streets 

MUNI 

To  analyze  cumulative  impacts  on  MUNI,  individual  MUNI  routes  were  grouped  on 
the  basis  of  the  location  of  their  alignments  and  stops  into  the  "Northeast," 
"Northwest,"  "Southwest,"  and  "Southeast"  areas  of  San  Francisco,  referred  to  as 
"screenlines."  By  2000,  ridership  would  generally  be  accommodated  on  the  MUNI 
screenlines.  Slight  overcrowding  (LOS  E)  would  occur  on  the  Northwest  screenline 
during  the  p.m.  peak  hour,  and  on  the  Northeast  screenline  during  the  p.m.  peak 
period.  However,  by  2020,  all  but  the  Southwest  screenline  would  be  operating 
beyond  MUNI's  load  standard  (an  overall  average  of  1.25  passengers  per  seat). 


60 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Additional  service  required  could  include  new  light  rail  service  to  the  Geary  Boulevard 
corridor  to  the  northwest,  and  to  the  Bayshore  corridor  in  the  southeast  area  of  the 
City.  {Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.34-35,  93-99,  103-104,  114-124,  129-133, 
217,  and  231;  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR,  pp.  98-102,  112-117,  C-19-21,  and  C-37.) 

Local  Streets 

The  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  EIRs  assumed  the  transportation  network  that 
existed  before  the  Loma  Prieta  earthquake  to  be  in  place  in  the  future.  The  following 
discussion  is  based  on  that  assumption,  modified  to  account  for  the  fact  that  the 
Embarcadero  Freeway  is  being  demolished. 

Severe  congestion  would  continue  to  occur  in  both  2000  and  2020  on  several  of  the 
James  Lick  (1-80)  freeway  approaches  in  the  South  of  Market  Area.  Those  streets  and 
freeway  ramps  serve  traffic  destined  for  the  Bay  Bridge  and  Peninsula.  Several  of 
those  streets  are  heavily  congested  now.  The  number  of  severely  congested  1-80 
approach  intersections  would  increase  by  2000  and  increase  again  by  2020,  and  this 
congestion  would  be  worse  than  was  projected  by  the  Mission  Bay  and  South  of 
Market  EIRs  because  the  roadway  that  eventually  replaces  the  Embarcadero  Freeway 
would  likely  have  less  travel  capacity  than  did  the  elevated  freeway. 

The  First  /  Harrison  Street,  Fifth  /  Bryant  Street,  and  Sixth  /  Brannan  Street 
intersections  presently  operate  at  LOS  F  and  would  continue  to  do  so  in  the  future. 
Other  intersections  at  or  near  freeway  ramps,  such  as  Fourth  and  Harrison,  would 
likely  deteriorate  in  the  future.  In  particular,  the  queue  for  the  Fourth  /  Harrison 
on-ramp  has  increased  noticeably  in  the  p.m.  peak  hour  since  the  earthquake. 
Intersections  near  freeway  ramps  are  often  affected  by  freeway  access  queues,  as  cars 
waiting  to  enter  the  freeway  back  up  to  or  through  these  intersections.  This  affects 
local  traffic  attempting  to  use  streets  in  these  areas.  Some  traffic  will  shift  and  use 
less  congested  routes  in  the  future  as  this  problem  increases.  Continued  enforcement 
of  the  ordinance  passed  in  1987  prohibiting  blocking  an  intersection  should  help  to 
limit  this  problem. 

By  2000,  certain  improvements  to  the  local  street  network  are  planned  to  be  in  place, 
which  would  facilitate  traffic  circulation  and  access  to  1-280  by  travelers  from  the 
Downtown  &  Vicinity.  As  a  result  of  the  1-280  Transfer  Concept  Program  and 
Mission  Bay  Plan,  King  Street  would  be  improved  to  function  as  a  major  roadway, 


61 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


with  new  on-  and  off -ramps  to  1-280.  With  cumulative  development,  the  new  major 
intersections  at  Third  /  King  Streets,  and  Fourth  /  King  Streets  are  projected  to  operate 
at  LOS  D  in  year  2000,  and  LOS  E  and  F  in  2020,  respectively.  Mitigation  measures 
to  provide  for  more  left-turn  lanes  and  towaway  lanes  during  commute  periods  would 
reduce  congestion.  {Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II,  pp.  VI.E.,  140-148,  166-175,  200-201, 
and  218-219;  South  of  Market  EIR,  pp.  105-106,  and  124-126.) 

It  is  expected  that  operating  conditions  on  other  local  South  of  Market  streets  and 
intersections  not  serving  freeway  ramps  (or  near  freeway-serving  intersections)  would 
continue  to  operate  in  a  generally  free  flowing  manner  in  the  future,  at  least  to  2000. 

For  the  local  street  system  to  operate  at  the  level  described  above,  there  would  have  to 
be  a  high  level  of  public  transit  use  in  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity.  In  1985,  about 
55  percent  of  all  afternoon  peak -hour  outbound  trips  from  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity 
were  on  public  transit.  That  level  of  transit  could  grow  to  about  70  percent  of  all  trips, 
based  on  the  increased  capacity  of  transit  systems  expected  to  be  available  by  2000, 
and  the  congestion  levels  estimated  to  occur  in  the  future. 

As  described  on  p.  32,  the  Embarcadero  Freeway  has  been  demolished.  Given  this 
fact,  the  local  street  system  serving  The  Embarcadero  roadway  will  operate  differently 
than  the  mariner  in  which  it  served  the  Embarcadero  Freeway.  Generally,  queues  and 
delays  at  intersections  will  be  lengthened  along  the  street  corridors  leading  to 
remaining  Bay  Bridge  ramps  during  the  afternoon  commute.  Also,  an  increase  in 
average  delays  on  the  Bay  Bridge  would  be  expected  during  the  morning  commute 
period.  Any  proposal  for  the  construction  of  a  new  roadway  along  The  Embarcadero 
will  be  subject  to  separate  environmental  review. 

PROJECT  IMPACTS 

Travel  Demand 

The  proposed  project  consists  of  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  discount  retail  of  a  type  which 
sometimes  is  referred  to  as  "membership  wholesale"  or  "big  box  retail."  At  the  time 
that  the  following  transportation  analysis  was  performed,  the  retail  component  of  the 
project  contained  120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space.  This  difference  in  retail  area  (about 
one  percent)  would  not  affect  the  basic  conclusions  of  the  following  analysis;  if 
anything  the  analysis  would  slightly  overstate  project  impacts.  Costco  maintains 


62 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


detailed  records  of  register  transactions  by  time  of  day  and  day  of  week  for  each  store 
during  the  pre-Christmas  peak  and  of  monthly  variations  in  sales  that  were  used  in  the 
estimation  of  trip  generation.  Trip  generation  rates  for  the  proposed  residential 
component  (60  to  80  dwelling  units)  were  obtained  from  the  Institute  of  Transportation 
Engineers  (l  i  t),  Trip  Generation./!/ 

Table  3  on  p.  64  presents  a  summary  of  weekday  p.m.  peak-hour  and  Saturday 
peak-hour  traffic  based  on  cash  register  activity  at  Costco's  eight  San  Francisco 
Region  stores  during  the  pre-Christmas  peak  in  1988.  Costco  surveys  indicate  that 
there  is  a  virtual  one-to-one  ratio  between  vehicles  visiting  Costco  and  cash  register 
transactions,  and  actual  counts  and  observations  conducted  in  1987-89  tend  to  support 
this  finding./3/  It  was  assumed  that  each  cash  register  transaction  equalled  one 
inbound  and  one  outbound  trip.  It  was  further  assumed  that  a  San  Francisco-based 
Costco  store  would  attract  customers  at  a  rate  above  the  Bay  Area  Region  average,  due 
to  higher  population  density.  In  order  to  present  a  worst-case  scenario  for  the 
proposed  San  Francisco  store,  the  Santa  Rosa  Costco  trip  generation  data  (the  region's 
highest)  was  used  to  calculate  potential  vehicle  trip  generation  for  an  average  and  peak 
month.  According  to  this  data,  trips  generated  by  the  Santa  Rosa  store  averaged 
5.97  one-way  trips  per  thousand  square  feet  during  the  peak  hour  of  existing  1989-90 
traffic  in  the  peak  month  of  activity  (December).  Based  on  data  on  monthly  sales 
variation,  4.52  trips  per  thousand  square  feet  are  estimated  to  occur  during  the  peak 
hour  in  an  average  month.  Similar  data  collected  on  Saturdays  indicate  that  Saturday 
peak-hour  trip  generation  is  9.50  trips  per  thousand  square  feet  in  the  peak  month  of 
the  year,  and  7.20  trips  per  thousand  square  feet  during  the  peak  hour  in  an  average 
month. 

Table  4  on  p.  65  shows  the  vehicle  trip  generation  potential  for  the  proposed  Costco 
store  for  an  average  and  peak  month.  During  an  average  month,  trip  generation  for  the 
proposed  120,000  sq.  ft.  Costco  store  is  estimated  to  be  about  5,840  weekday  trips,  of 
which  about  540  trips  would  occur  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  of  background  traffic, 
and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips,  of  which  about  860  would  occur  during  the  midday 
peak  hour.  For  the  peak  month,  weekday  trip  generation  is  estimated  to  be  about 
7,800  trips,  of  which  about  720  trips  would  occur  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  of 
background  traffic,  and  Saturday  trip  generation  is  projected  to  be  about  8,800  trips,  of 
which  about  1 ,140  would  occur  during  the  midday  peak  hour. 


63 


\  .    1 1 

0"\  r~ ~  r—  C\l  LD  ^>0  r— 

CO 

r***      co  c3  lo  cvi  cr^  vo 

,   ^ 

rvi  rvi  rvi  "Tt"  ^rt-  rn  rvl  rvl 

CD 

I  u_ 

—i 

■  j 

Q_  u— 

■~ 

'       l '  /   vi    i   #          ■*  l     ■    ^  >j 

*_ 

■r-+-        ro  r— \       ^.f~>  \.o  ro 

~~ 

O 

i—  r—           CNJ  CSI  r—  f—  r— 

23 

CO  CU 

O  CL 

dl 

D 

*r 

CL  U_ 

QJ 

D" 

-.-r 

^■L 

CO 

1—  I—          r—  CNl  r—  r—  i 

Q_ 

n 

O 

h— 

CO 

^_ 

S—  -Q 

C_) 

j^* 

XJ           t  sj  LI  J  U 

LlJ 

CNJ  C>J  I       tXJ  \U          >J  1 

T5 

r—  CO 

V\J             V>J    I*  J    K     1    vNJ    ^Nl    V.  NJ 

C-J 

O  S— 

D_ 

1/1 

< 

n 

Q_u_ 

r-y 

■  f—  CO 

^j-  ^  co  ,xf  ^*  ro  cd  r^- 

u_ 

»— f— ovoo>roooo 

JZ 

1  > 

CO  CD 

CO 

o_ 

Q 

_ 

"Z. 

1  ' 

•> 
.> 

~~ 

I — 

Q 

•r—  CO 

CZ)  O  CO  Cj  CnJ  '      CD  LT) 

CO 

— ' 

r—  r—  u          r^*  \  *  J 

1— I 

X 

LlJ 

rV 

CO 

CO 

o 

J— 1 

-t—  _Q 

I — 

i—  N. 

LO  CO  Li)  Oi  n*"-  CD  CD 

CJ 

1—  Li_ 

<c 

ft 

nJ  C\l  CTi  PO  O^i  "n^" 

r_  \^ 

'T* 

iTJ  tTJ  lTJ   UJ  LlJ    VJ    ( "  J  t'J 

<c 

Jr* 

Ct 

O  1 

1 — 

-O 

i —  o_ 

fc 

CX 

d 

LlJ 

CJ 

1 — 

cu 

O  i  i 

CO 

Q 

•r-  CO 

l-H 

i- 

cooor^vn-—  •—  ■—  r- 

1 — 

UJ 

_C 

i- 

•—  i—  •—  cnjoocvioji— 

or 

C0  0J 

c 

o  o_ 

o 

O 

2: 

to 

o 

Q_U_ 

UJ 

ft 

•i-  CO 

c?s     co  * —  i —  rocTio 

CO 

01 

i- 

n     >a     co  ' —  r-^ 

< 

Q_ 

CD 

r—  i—  r—  CNICMCSji—  i— 

CD  CL 

t— 1  o_ 

o 

I— I 

I— 

< 


on 

i-  CO 

co 

U3 

— 

-U  \ 

CNJ 

■—  CO 

CNI 

ro 

CNJ 

CNJ 

UJ 

O 

c  co 

CM 

CNJ  I— 

CO 

ro 

CNI 

CNJ 

CNJ 

C5 

ro 

o  o 

X 

D. 

in 

1— 1 

O  CJN 

cn 

r- 

OL 

1 

(TJ  ~\ 

CNJ 

o 

CD 

C\l 

cn 

1— 

o 

a>  m 

Q.  1— 1 

CNI 

CNJ  I— 

00 

ro 

CNJ 

CNJ 

o 

ro 

1— 

U~l 

O 

o 

o 

■=3- 

CJ 

CD 

en  ^ 

ro 

LO 

LO 

r5 

QJ  U_ 

ro 

en 

CNJ 

CO 

ro 

Q 

o 

N  CO 

UJ 

•  r-  CD 

ro 

i —  i£)  o  O  VD 

1— 

CO  • — ■ 

CNJ 

i—  O 

CNI 

O  O  CNI 

< 

^ 

»— i 

EA 

i— 

CL 

o 

CO 

re 

o 

\ 

UJ 

X 

QL 

c. 
rd 

dr 

sa 

o 

~o  c 

N 

o 

<u 

c 

on 

>- 

(_) 

c  ro 

<D 

DC 

10 

Z3 

4J 

< 

o  cu 

C 

o 

!_ 

c 

UJ 

a 

ai 

ro 

E  -J 

rO 

CD 

o 

_i 

c 

*J 

+J 

j-> 

E 

CD 

UJ 

o 

C 

o  c 

J_ 

C 

c 

C 

a' 

< 

UJ 

rO 

■r-  ro 

ro 

(0 

ro 

ro 

j_ 

1— 

3: 

CO 

CO 

Oi  CO 

21 

CO 

co 

CO 

u_ 

rocncNJunooo'— 

CNI 

o  en      co  cni 

■—  i—  o 

ID 

PO 

lo  Tf-  \o 

io  uo  in 

LO 

^  i—  LO  CNI 

o\D  ro 

ro 

irHflM'^inOV'T 

CNiCNiCNirororocNicNi 

CNI 

r- 

ONr—  ^OCOO'f  CO 

ON 

m 

i-ioin 

IS 

CNjcNjcNirororocNJCNj 

CNI 

oo 

r~>—  cNiLnro'^rrocn 

r» 

LO 

oococncooN'— o 

CNI 

■^■■^rroLnLn'^r'^-rt 

ro 

OOCOCOCO,3"CT\C7\ 

CNI 

CNI  CNI  i—  CNI  CNJ 

CNJ  r—  r— 

CNI 

co 

CNI  LO  VXD  LO  CO 

•—  Nt  CT> 

VO 

CNI 

o  o>  o>  n  o> 

LO  * —  CD 

CNI 

r— 

CNJ  r—  —  CNJ  CNI 

CNI  CNJ  CNI 

CNJ 

, — 

m'JrO'Toioroo 

CO 

CNI 

v»0  LD  CNI  CD  LO 

CD  r-»  \o 

CNI 

vCvOUJ^C^COvOvO 

r- 

iriUJ^tiXl'JvOiriO 

rorooLn^cncNiCNi 

VD 

roror/)'?^ 

ro  ro  ro 

ro 

co  co  co  co  *D  co  co  o 

CO 

O 

CNI^r-Tg-cOO'^'^r 

CNJ 

W  M  M  f 

ro  ro 

• 

wj 

£2 

ro  LO  ^  r—  1— 

■—  r»  co 

r—  f~-  CNI  LO  i— 

CNI  ^  O 

CNJ 

tj  ro  ro  mm 

ro 

o 

o 

ld  lo  en  cni  lo 

T  cni  ro 

o 

ro 

ro 

o  in  ro  ^  ro 

ro  ro 

CNI 

CNJ 

1 

M"  ro  ro  in  io 

^  ro 

o 

LO 

CNI 

NT  v£>  r~-  CD  o 

^ 

LO 

CNJ 

cd  en  ^  T  ro 

r*.  lo  id 

CNJ 

ro  \o      en  i— 

cni  oo  ro 

Oi 

ZD 

ro  i—  \o  o  o 

lOUDN 

•^r 

o 

CNJ  i—  O  CNI  •— 

O  O  CNJ 

< 

u 

UJ 

ro        O  "v. 

o_ 

1-        1_  ro 

> 

ro     "O  t/i 

o 

> 

< 

>- 

• —  ~a  c  n  o 

QJ  C 

< 

< 

u  c  m  dice 

1/1  J-J 

o 

O  OJ  c 

O  i-  c 

Z 

O 

Oi 

ro  E  — I  -r-  re 

i-5  m  o 

o 

t — t 

Z3 

j->          *j  *j 

E 

»— 1 

LP 

1— 

C    U   C    !-  C 

C   C  QJ 

o 

UJ 

< 

ro  »r-  rO  ro  ro 

ro  ro  »- 

UJ 

cc 

CO 

co  or  co  2:  co 

CO  CO  u_ 

Oi 

VI.  Environmental  Impacts 


[ — 

O 

■■- 

to 

^ 

ID 

U 

to 

*r~ 

"O 

cu 

QJ 

CO 

LJ 

CO 

J 

o 

i_ 

Q. 

■o 

QJ 

o 

S- 

^* 

<  i 

Q 

to 

' 

ro 

"O 

p- 

,f~ 

"D 

QJ 

to 

CD 

to 

r0 

o 

o 

CJ 

zl 

to 

o 

o 

C-J 

C_J 

1 1 

ro 

o 

Oi 

QJ 

',— 

fO 

i — 

Cl 

c 

Cl 

j->  ro 

QJ  CO 

to 

CU 

t*-  J-) 

to 

ro 

u 

QJ 

J-  ro 

ro  QJ 

to 

3  C. 

' r— 

cr  ro 

•*-J 

to 

r0 

L. 

O  O 

to 

o  o 

O  r— 

c 

*> 

o 

>*- 

~o 

1/1 

II  o 

Oi 

01 

to 

1_ 

U- 

re 

3 

CO  QJ 

Oi^  QJ 

<*- 

* 

to 

TS  QJ 

QJ 

10 

C  i- 

J-> 

<u 

3  re 

(0 

O  3 

•'~ 

-Q  CT 

U 

IA 

4->  to 

o 

ID 

to 

o 

o  o 

to 

u 

CD 

<; 

II  O 

10 

-C 

o 

CD  —  • 

*J 

<_> 

o  c 

i.  o 

E 

ON 

•  -    QJ  -r- 

CO 

co 

o  a-u 

cy> 

C  <0 

i_ 

3  to  c 

O  QJ  ro 

XI 

c 

_o  jJ 

o 

c  it  a 

i— i    L.  X 

"O 

QJ 

QJ 

II  CL 

to 

ro 

co  i-  o 

UJ 

CD 

>— i  i—  t*- 

t_) 

Oi 

— 

ZD 

ro 

JO  u 

o 

64 


VI.  Environmental  Impacts 


-at  r— 

o 

o 

TO  ro 

o 

o 

CNJ 

ID  j~> 

CD 

CO 

■T 

, — 

CO 

CNJ 

Q.  O 

CO 

CTi 

p 

- 

I— 

. — 

■ — 

>s 

ra 

CNJ 

CO 

o 

co 

LO 

T3  Z> 

CNJ 

ro 

CO 

LO 

ro 

CT> 

L.  O 

« 

in 

LO 

3 

TO  C 

CNJ 

ro 

CNJ 

LO 

CO  I— ( 

CO 

CO 

CNJ 

LO 

CO 

-a 

• 

TO  — 

ID  TO 

o 

■^J 

^o 

O 

vD 

TO 

a.  ■*-> 

■«? 

co 

CNJ 

r— 

co 

ON 

o 

LO 

cO 

r-» 

r~- 

• 

■ 

x:  v- 

CD 

c 

a. 

lm 

■ 

-4-> 

CO 

o 

CO 

o 

ON 

o 

o 

>>  3 

CO 

ro 

ro 

o 

+J 

TO  O 

CNJ 

ro 

ro 

1^1 

1/) 

Q 

o 

CD  C 

CD 

o 

cO 

o 

p«. 

CJ 

L 

CD  »— ( 

LO 

LO 

o 

CO 

LO 

00 

4J 

CNJ 

ro 

ro 

ro 

10 

O 

CJ  • 

>• 

• 

TO  CO 

to 

CD 

10  C3N 

cD 

o 

CO 

CD 

o 

CO 

VI 

O  f— 

u 

ro 

o 

ro 

<^ 

o 

3 

on 

CO 

CO 

r-^ 

oo 

m 

-t-> 

, — 

ro  c 

CO 

r» 

co 

ON 

TO 

-U  o 

—  CO 

C  •(- 

TO  J-J 

TO  > 

C 

CO  -i- 

O  TO 

o 

o 

o 

o 

CD 

T3 

"O 

o 

«* 

o 

o 

o 

•a 

OILU 

J£ 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CD 

c 

(1) 

IA 

•i-  _c 

CD 

LO 

CD 

r- 

00 

CD 

s_ 

W  L. 

■•-  3 

u 

X  O 

o 

<D  U_ 

<4- 

CD  « 

-4-J 

-£=  C 

JC  i — 

o 

o 

-•->  o 

TO  <TS 

CNJ 

o 

LO 

o 

c 

Ol  *-> 

D 

O) 

a.  o 

r— 

C7N 

O  TO 

c 

t— 

u 

U 

>-, 

CNJ 

■^r 

ai 

a> 

c 

TO  ■>-> 

LD 

rt 

CD 

^3- 

D_ 

TO  c 

c 

X!  D 

±i  CD 

TO 

C  O 

ro 

o 

o 

■a 

TO  CD 

3 

c: 

■o 

Q_ 

4J 

CO 

ro 

CD 

ro 

TO 

Q_ 

TO  C 

co 

LD 

CO 

LO 

>> 

CO  M 

• 

CD 

*->  u 

J-> 

TO 

ro 

o 

^3" 

o 

•r-  |— 

o 

> 

<_> 

■i-> 

v\ 

J£ 

CO 

81 

to  i — 

CNJ 

r~ 

U  L. 

o 

*J 

CD  n3 

LO 

o 

c^ 

o 

o 

TO  CD 

TO 

u 

CD 

QC 

o 

,  

LO 

,  

-u 

T3  C 

c 

C 

CD 

Q_ 

CO 

o 

TO  Ol 

o 

ro 

ro 

c_) 

c 

+j 

3n  3 

10  LU 

i_ 

ro  O 

CNJ 

o 

ro 

o 

L. 

ro 

to 

o 

C  C 

Q. 

ro 

ro 

l  

ro 

3  O 

CD 

CD 

ID  c 

vO 

CO 

CD 

O  -r- 

CO 

-»-> 

U 

 1 

<D 

CNJ 

CNJ 

o 

CD 

TO 

o 

<£ 

CD 

u  ■*-> 

CJ 

i — 

u- 

■  r-  L. 

to 

o 

Q 

4-  O 

t— 

X 

<D  U_  Q. 

CJ 

L 

n> 

I- 

TO  10 

c 

Q 

t— 

"O 

ro 

ro 

m 

L-  C 

TO 

z 

i_ 

3 

-4->  TO 

L. 

< 

3 

CD 

o 

ro 

o 

cr 

U 

Lc 

r~ 

10 

u 

OO 

>,  ft) 

C 

cu 

, —  CO 

o 

J-  <4- 

TO 

»— 

o 

o  o 

CO 

TO 

o 

D  > 

</l  CD 

"O 

TO 

o 

•r- 

c 

T3 

JZ  3 

TO 

oo 

o 

in 

o 

u 

-l-> 

z 

CD 

CO 

CD 

C 

CO 

o 

0) 

Cl 

O  *J 

CD 

1— 1 

31 

V) 

*J 

I— 

in 

4J 

IA 

<D 

-o  c 

TO 

< 

U- 

-4-> 

u- 

L, 

CD  t— 1 

TO 

U 

LU 

CT 

c 

cr 

c 

TO  E 

O 

z 

IA 

3 

on . 

3 

in  D  O 

10 

UJ 

CD 

L. 

10 

o 

CD 

O 

o 

4J 

O  H- 

< 

CD 

o 

CO 

 1 

o 

co 

TO 

M 

o 

< 

o 

< 

U 

t— 

TO  CD 

oc 

co 

o 

O 

o 

o 

c 

C  *J 

(— 

CNJ 

t— 

CNJ 

t— 

o 

CD  TO 

E 

U  J- 

LO 

>— 

4J 

1/1 

CJ 

\ 

\ 

TO 

L. 

LU 

.O 

X) 

»»» 

Im 

CD  TO 

3 

X 

"V 

u 

\ 

CJ 

CD 

on  •.- 

-O 

o 

t— 

aj 

CD 

c 

TO  -i-> 

a: 

z 

L 

s_ 

CD 

w  c 

Ol 

o 

o 

TO 

X 

o 

TO 

CD 

1  CD 

'5 

E 

j-> 

t— 

-t-> 

-i->  -a 

ai 

CO 

z 

CO 

*J 

Q_ 

10  ■(- 

LU 

10 

c 

o 

C 

J- 

ZD 

o 

a> 

o 

CD 

s. 

O  CD 

LU 

LU 

< 

(J 

T3 

u 

T3 

CJ 

_l 

Qg 

-o 

4J 

41 

ac 

CD 

LU 

c 

lO 

IA 

< 

IA 

10 

\  ~\ 

ZD 

< 

> 

(TJ 

o 

CD 

LU 

O 

CD 

TO  -O  O 

O 

1— 

< 

cj 

Cd 

Q. 

C_J 

OC 

CO 

65 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


The  person-trip  generation  rate  for  the  residential  component  during  the  weekday  is 
based  on  an  average  of  ten  trips  per  dwelling  unit,  with  the  p.m.  peak  hour  accounting 
for  ten  percent  of  the  daily  rate  (i.e.,  one  trip  per  dwelling  unit).  Traffic  directional 
distribution  is  estimated  to  be  63%  inbound  and  37%  outbound  during  the  p.m.  peak 
hour.  The  peak-hour  trip  rate  on  a  Saturday  is  approximately  the  same  as  for  the 
weekday  rate  with  a  directional  split  of  53%  inbound  and  47%  outbound.  Traffic 
directional  distributions  are  based  on  ITE  data./2/ 

The  residential  component  of  the  project  would  produce  up  to  an  estimated 
800  weekday  person  trips,  with  80  occurring  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour.  Based  on 
1980  Census  Tract  joumey-to-work  data  for  the  project  area,  it  was  estimated  that  a 
total  of  about  20  of  the  80  peak-hour  trips  for  both  the  weekday  and  Saturday  periods 
would  be  made  by  automobile.  Combined  project-generated  vehicle  trips  would  total 
up  to  about  560  during  the  weekday  p.m.  peak  hour  and  about  884  during  the  Saturday 
peak  hour  for  an  average  month,  and  about  740  during  the  weekday  p.m.  peak  hour  and 
about  1,160  during  the  Saturday  peak  hour  for  a  peak  month. 

For  purposes  of  analyzing  traffic  impacts  from  the  project,  it  was  assumed  that  all 
Costco  customers  would  arrive  by  automobile,  as  would  be  expected  for  a  "big  box 
retail"  store.  It  is  expected  that  most  trips  to  this  Costco  Store  would  originate  in  San 
Francisco,  as  several  other  Costco  Stores  exist  in  the  Bay  Area.  Trips  were  assigned  to 
various  locations  of  the  city  based  on  existing  residential  patterns  and  current  traffic 
volumes.  It  was  assumed  that  30%  of  the  trips  would  use  U.S.  101  South,  30%  would 
originate  north  of  Market  Street,  and  the  remaining  40%  would  originate  in  the 
western  part  of  San  Francisco. 

A  modal  split  and  distribution  was  developed  for  vehicle  trips  generated  by  the 
residential  component  of  the  project  based  on  work  location  data  from  the  1980 
Census.  The  Census  data  indicated  that  22%  of  the  trips  would  have  the  central 
business  district  as  a  point  of  origin/destination,  and  an  additional  60%  would  be  San 
Francisco  based.  Trips  were  assigned  to  the  five  intersections  analyzed  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  site,  based  on  the  locations  of  the  parking  lot  access,  the  one-way  street  system 
and  the  assumed  origins/destinations.  As  shown  in  Figure  2,  p.  17,  access  to  the 
parking  lot  would  be  provided  from  Bryant,  Tenth,  and  Eleventh  Streets  with  access  to 
the  residential  complex  located  on  Harrison  Street.  The  Tenth  Street  access  location 
would  be  restricted  to  vehicles  entering  the  parking  garage;  vehicles  would  not  be 
allowed  to  exit  onto  Tenth  Street  from  this  access  location. 


66 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Transit 

There  are  five  MUNI  routes  with  stops  within  one  block  of  the  project  site.  MUNI 
Metro  and  BART  service  in  the  Market  Street  subway  are  accessible  via  the  Van  Ness 
Avenue  station  (four  blocks  north  of  the  site).  Figure  10  shows  current  transit  routes 
in  the  project  area.  Additional  MUNI  service  has  been  proposed  as  part  of  the  Mission 
Bay  project  which,  if  implemented,  would  include  re-routing  of  the  47 -Van  Ness  line 
along  Eleventh  Street  adjacent  to  the  project  site. 

The  project  would  produce  a  minimal  increase  in  transit  ridership.  It  is  estimated  that 
approximately  35%  of  the  Costco  employees  (representing  approximately  50  round 
trips  daily)  would  use  public  transit,  and  virtually  none  of  the  customers  would  use 
transit.  Arrival  and  departure  times  of  employees  would  be  dispersed  over  a  two-  to 
three  hour  time  period,  as  would  origins  and  destinations.  The  proposed  residential 
complex  of  80  dwelling  units  would  generate  approximately  30  transit  trips  during  the 
p.m.  peak  hour.  Based  on  1980  Census  data,  it  was  determined  that  over  80%  of  the 
peak-hour  transit  trips  would  be  made  within  the  City  of  San  Francisco. 

As  the  project  would  have  vehicular  access  to  and/or  from  Bryant,  Tenth,  Eleventh  and 
Harrison  Streets,  and  transit  routes  operate  on  each  of  these  streets,  there  could  be 
some  potential  for  additional  vehicular  conflicts  with  transit  vehicles. 

Traffic 

Local  Intersection  Traffic 

Impacts  of  the  project  were  assessed  for  five  local  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
site.  A  discussion  of  the  methodology  used  in  the  analysis  of  the  study  intersections 
appears  in  Appendix  B,  pp.  A. 3 3 -43.  Currently,  all  of  these  intersections  operate 
satisfactorily  (LOS  D  or  better)  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour.  As  shown  in  Table  5  on. 
p.  69,  project-generated  traffic  would  affect  the  LOS  at  two  of  the  intersections  during 
an  average  month  and  at  three  intersections  during  the  peak  month.  Intersection 
operations  at  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  would  degrade  from  LOS  C  to  LOS  D  during 
an  average  month,  and  to  LOS  E  during  the  peak  month.  LOS  E  represents  capacity 
and  is  not  within  the  acceptable  LOS  range.  Intersection  operations  at  Tenth  / 
Harrison  Streets  would  be  affected  by  project-generated  traffic,  but  would  remain  in 
the  acceptable  LOS  range.  The  LOS  at  the  two  remaining  intersections  would  not  be 
affected  by  project-generated  traffic. 

67 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


I 
c 


68 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


TABLE  5:   WEEKDAY  PM  PEAK  HOUR  INTERSECTION  LEVEL  OF  SERVICE  (LOS) 


Existing  Plus  Project 
(Average  (Peak 


Existing/a/ 

Month) 

Month) 

Year  2000 

Intersection 

V/C* 

LOS 

V/C* 

LOS 

v/c* 

LOS 

v/c* 

LOS 

1 1  th/Harrison 

0.77 

C 

0.89 

D 

0.99 

E 

1.02 

F 

1  lth/Bry  ant/Division 

0.75 

C 

0.79 

C 

0.80 

C/D 

0.87 

D 

lOth/Harrison 

0.66 

B 

0.70 

B/C 

0.72 

C 

0.76 

C 

9th/Bryant 

0.52 

A 

0.58 

A 

0.59 

A 

0.63 

B 

Project 
Percent/b/ 
(Average 

Month) 

48% 
26% 
84% 
67% 


Intersection  Serving 

Freeway  On-Ramp         S/V*    LOS    S/V*    LOS  S/V*    LOS    S/V*  LOS 
lOth/Bryant  19.5       C     21.4       C    23.4       C     43.5       E  48% 


*  V/C  =  Volume  to  Capacity  Ratio;  S/V  =  Seconds  of  Delay  per  Vehicle 


/a/    Existing  LOS  based  on  counts  conducted  in  November  and  December,  1989,  and 

January  and  July,  1990. 
/b/   Project  percent  is  the  percentage  of  Year  2000  traffic  growth  that  would  be  generated  by 

the  Project. 

SOURCE:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


Table  6  on  p.  70  shows  existing  and  projected  LOS  for  the  Saturday  peak  hour.  As 
shown,  none  of  the  intersections  would  be  affected  by  project-generated  traffic  with 
the  exception  of  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  which  would  operate  at  LOS  A/B  during 
the  peak  month. 

Cumulative  traffic  growth  in  the  area  will  result  from  development  occurring  in  the 
downtown  area,  the  Civic  Center  area,  and  the  South  of  Market  area.  The  localized 
aspects  of  cumulative  development  on  streets  and  intersections  were  analyzed  using 
underlying  growth  factors.  It  is  estimated  through  this  method  that  traffic  at 
intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  will  increase  by  ten  percent  by  the  Year 
2000  without  the  project.  Tables  5  and  6  on  pp.  69-70  show  the  effects  of  Year  2000 
conditions  at  the  intersections  analyzed  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project  for  the 
p.m.  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  peak  hour.  Existing  volumes  have  been  increased  by 


69 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


TABLE  6:   SATURDAY  PEAK  HOUR  INTERSECTION  LEVEL  OF  SERVICE  (LOS) 


Existing  Plus  Project 
(Average  (Peak 


Existing/a/ 

Month) 

Month) 

Year  2000 

Intersection 

V/C* 

LOS 

V/C* 

LOS 

V/C* 

LOS 

V/C* 

LOS 

1  lth/Harrison 

0.40 

A 

0.57 

A 

0.61 

A/B 

0.61 

A/B 

1  lth/Bry  ant/Division 

0.52 

A 

0.56 

A 

0.57 

A 

0.61 

A/B 

lOth/Harrison 

0.43 

A 

0.52 

A 

0.55 

A 

0.56 

A 

9th/Bryant 

0.37 

A 

0.43 

A 

0.45 

A 

0.46 

A 

Project 
Percent/b/ 
(Average 

Month) 

75% 
34% 
57% 
59% 


Intersection  Serving 

Freeway  On-Ramp  S/V*    LOS    S/V*    LOS  S/V*    LOS    S/V*  LOS 

lOth/Bryant  6.8       B       8.7       B    10.2       B      11.7       B  57% 


*  V/C  =  Volume  to  Capacity  Ratio;  S/V  =  Seconds  of  Delay  per  Vehicle 


/a/    Existing  LOS  based  on  counts  conducted  in  November  and  December,  1989,  and 

January  and  July,  1990. 
lb  I   Project  percent  is  the  percentage  of  Year  2000  traffic  growth  that  would  be  generated  by 

the  Project. 

SOURCE:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


ten  percent  at  all  intersections  to  reflect  background  growth.  In  addition, 
project-generated  traffic  for  an  average  month  has  been  added  to  the  background 
growth  to  deteimine  Year  2000  conditions  if  the  project  were  approved. 

These  tables  also  show  the  project  percent  of  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  at  the 
intersections  analyzed.  In  the  Year  2000  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour,  the  intersection  of 
Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  would  operate  at  LOS  F.  LOS  F  represents  a  jammed 
condition  in  which  traffic  demand  exceeds  capacity  and  is  unacceptable.  The 
intersections  of  Eleventh  Street  /  Bryant  Street  /  Division  Street  would  operate  at 
LOS  D,  and  the  remaining  two  intersections  would  operate  at  LOS  C  or  better.  Year 
2000  Saturday  peak-hour  conditions  would  continue  to  be  at  LOS  B  or  better  for  all 
intersections. 


70 


IV.  Environmental  Impact: 

Freeway  On-Ramp  Analysis 

Traffic  operations  at  Tenth  Street  /  Bryant  Street,  serving  the  freeway  on-ramp  nearest 
the  project  site,  are  shown  in  Tables  5  and  6  on  pp.  69-70.  This  intersection  currently 
operates  at  LOS  C  and  B,  on  weekdays  and  Saturdays,  respectively ./3 ,4/  The  addition 
of  project  traffic  would  not  affect  the  service  levels  during  an  average  month  or  the 
peak  month.  Year  2000  conditions  would  be  at  LOS  E  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour. 
Year  2000  Saturday  peak-hour  conditions  would  continue  to  be  LOS  B. 

Freeway  Corridor  Analysis 

The  project  would  contribute  to  increases  in  traffic  on  the  major  freeways  serving 
downtown  San  Francisco.  Traffic  generated  by  the  project  would  increase  total  traffic 
on  major  freeways  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  and  the  p.m.  peak  hour  by  less  than 
0.5%.  Such  increases  would  not  be  measurable  against  the  day-to-day  fluctuations  in 
traffic  volumes. 

Pedestrian  Movements 

Pedestrian  volumes  in  the  area  surrounding  the  site  are  relatively  light.  The  project 
would  not  result  in  a  large  number  of  pedestrian  trips  as  most  trips  are  expected  to  be 
in  automobiles.  It  is  estimated  that  just  over  20%  of  the  80  weekday  p.m.  peak-hour 
trips  generated  by  the  residential  units  would  be  walking  trips. 

OFF-STREET  PARKING  AND  LOADING  REQUIREMENTS  AND  DEMAND 

Parking 

Parking  demand  was  projected  for  the  Costco  Store  project  on  the  basis  of  the 
estimated  vehicle  traffic  generated  by  the  project.  Table  7  presents  a  summary  of 
projected  peak  parking  demand  for  the  proposed  Costco  Store.  The  estimate  for 
customer  parking  demand  was  made  on  the  basis  of  the  same  historic  Costco 
transaction  data  utilized  for  development  of  traffic  generation  rates.  It  represents 
peak-hour  parking  demand  associated  with  Costco  store  activities  occurring  at 
approximately  12:00  noon  to  1:00  p.m.  rather  than  the  peak  hour  of  non-project  traffic, 
which  occurs  at  4:30  p.m.  to  5:30  p.m.  during  the  weekday  commute.  It  was  assumed 
that  all  customers  would  arrive  by  car,  as  would  be  expected  for  a  "big  box  retail" 


71 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 

4 


■  NO '. 

+j 

10 

3 

u 

o 

in 

m 

O 

t— 

QJ 

m 

CL 

u 

CL 

4- 

CM 

o 

rO 

i- 

0) 

tu 

a 

3 

£3 

to 

oo 

RKII 

u 
c 

PA 

rki 

> 

^ 

re 

re 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Q 

CL 

> 

o 

o 

o 

o 

:ase 

u 

CO 

CO 

00 

00 

O 

cu 

a 

>+- 

a 

CRE 

CO 

Ef 

Su 

z 

VI 

-4-> 

ficiency  factor  of  90%. 

Wholesale  Corporation. 

1/1 

3 

u 

o 

in 

m 

o 

4- 

CD 

■^r 

CNJ 

QJ 

o 

U 

rcL 

4- 

u 

re 

Ol 

C 

+j 

Q 

3 

Q 

re 

to 

,  , 

to 

to 

o 

1 — 

>■> 

o 

t_> 

cr 

JO 

UJ 

c 

>1 

l~) 

-o 

-0 

o 

QJ 

QJ 

Of 

> 

re 

-a 

CL 

re 

o 

o 

o 

o 

QJ 

CL 

> 

in 

LO 

LO 

CL 

o 

p — 

tO 

vo 

tO 

o 

ai 

a 

CL 

4- 

a 

CL 

4- 
UJ 

3 

to 

g  supply  mu 

3 

to 

10 

u 

4-> 

1/1 

-t-> 
re 

1 — 

t — 1 

c 

St 

(_J 
1 — I 

rk 

c 

b_ 

re 

o 

UJ 

CL 

Q 

"\ 

Dl 

ua  1 

ased 

tO 

c 

■o 

-4-> 

JD 

ZD 

c 

u 

_J 

re 

o 

LO 

m 

O 

re 

CL 

re 

S- 

E 

CNI 

to 

ry 

<D 

re 

OJ 

LO 

\o 

r- 

to 

QJ 

Z3 

CL 

ex. 

a 

-u 

to 

en 

re 

L9 

t/l 

u 

Z 

QJ 

o 

i— i 

L. 

to 

^ 

CL 

1/1 

at 

QJ 

< 

< 

>, 

L. 

CL 

re 

da 

>■> 

th 

O 

-o 

>» 

UJ 

J£ 

3 

>, 

re 

CL 

i 

1— 

0) 

re 

-o 

CL 

to 

< 

OJ 

re 

u 

3 

3 

to 

3 

l/l 

L. 

i — i 

-•-J 

3 

t— 

-C 

JZ 

QJ 

re 

QJ 

JO 

to 

-lj 

J-> 

to 

> 

UJ 

c 

c 

-o 

o 

o 

-C 

-C 

o 

SL 

71 

-U 

-l> 

U 

C 

c 

QJ 

si 

<d 

ge 

QJ 

cn 

Mo 

Mo 

4- 
4- 

LU 

UJ 

Q- 

re 

re 

UJ 

(_J 

_j 

!_ 

s_ 

J* 

Oi 

GO 

<D 

QJ 

re 

re 

< 

> 

> 

QJ 

QJ 

re 

O 

1 — 

< 

< 

CL 

CL 

to 

•  72 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 

store.  This  assumption  is  somewhat  conservative,  since  there  may  be  a  relatively 
small  amount  of  transit  access  to  the  store  by  customers. 

According  to  information  received  from  Costco,  the  typical  Costco  store  employs 
approximately  150  employees.  Although  some  shift  staggering  is  expected  to  occur, 
virtually  all  employees  would  be  on-site  during  the  store's  mid-day  peak  activity 
period.  An  additional  25  seasonal  employees  would  be  hired  during  the  pre-Christmas 
peak.  Mode  split  characteristics  for  employees  were  based  on  City  guidelines  for 
South  of  Market  employ ees./4/  It  was  assumed  that  47%  of  employees  would  drive 
alone  to  work,  16.3%  would  carpool  (with  half  of  this  number  requiring  parking 
on-site)  and  1.1%  would  vanpool,  with  one-fourth  of  this  number  parking  on  site. 
Combining  these  figures,  it  was  estimated  that  approximately  55%  of  employees 
would  require  parking  on-site. 


#        The  proposed  project  would  include  a  total  of  720  parking  spaces  in  a  three-level 

parking  structure  on  the  site.  The  parking  structure  would  be  designed  so  that  a  fourth 
level  of  parking  could  be  added  at  a  later  date  (unspecified  at  this  time),  so  that  there 
could  be  a  total  of  approximately  890  parking  spaces  within  applicable  height  and  bulk 
limits  of  the  site.  Parking  demand  and  the  surplus/deficit  under  four  conditions 
(average  month  weekday,  average  month  Saturday,  peak  month  weekday,  and  peak 
month  Saturday)  for  the  project  (provision  of  720  parking  spaces)  and  for  the  potential 
increased  parking  option  (provision  of  890  parking  spaces)  are  shown  in  Table  7.  An 
efficiency  factor  of  90%  has  been  applied  to  the  number  of  parking  spaces  provided 
with  the  project  under  both  scenarios.  In  the  analysis  of  parking  conditions  in 
relatively  high- volume  garages,  the  parking  supply  is  often  discounted  by  a  five  to  ten 
percent  efficiency  factor  to  account  for  practical  impediments  to  full  utilization  of  a 
high-volume,  high-turnover  parking  facility.  This  is  particularly  true  for  retail  parking 
with  high  turnover,  and  for  relatively  large  facilities  where  empty  spaces  on  the  upper 
floors  are  difficult  to  access.  The  application  of  this  efficiency  factor  yields  an 
effective  parking  supply  of  about  650  parking  spaces  for  a  720-space  project  and  about 
800  effective  spaces  for  the  increased  parking  option  with  890  spaces. 


•       As  shown  in  Table  7,  for  the  proposed  project,  based  on  an  effective  parking  supply  of 
about  650  parking  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  140  space  surplus  for  an 
average  month  weekday,  a  surplus  of  about  25  spaces  for  an  average  month  Saturday, 


72a 


IV.  environmental  Impacts 


a  surplus  of  about  5  spaces  for  a  peak  month  weekday,  and  a  deficit  of  about  140 
spaces  for  a  peak  month  Saturday.  For  the  increased  parking  option,  based  on  an 
effective  supply  of  about  800  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  290  space  surplus 
under  average  month  weekday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  175  spaces  under  average 
month  Saturday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  155  spaces  under  peak  month  weekday 
conditions,  and  a  surplus  of  about  10  spaces  under  peak  month  Saturday  conditions. 
For  the  proposed  project,  parking  demand  would  exceed  on-site  supply  during  peak 
month  Saturday  conditions;  for  the  increased  parking  option  parking  demand  would 
not  exceed  supply  under  any  of  the  four  analyzed  conditions. 

During  weekend  and  holiday  periods,  on-street  parking  in  the  area  of  the  project  is 
estimated  at  55%  occupied  indicating  that  an  estimated  825  on-street  spaces  are 
available  in  the  study  area.  For  the  proposed  project  (provision  of  720  spaces),  a 
deficit  of  about  80  parking  spaces  could  be  accommodated  within  one  block  of  the 
project  site,  should  shoppers  choose  to  park  on-street.  Further  parking  deficit  would 
likely  cause  some  Costco  patrons  to  park  up  to  two  blocks  from  the  site,  wait  within 
the  parking  lot  for  spaces  to  become  available,  or  queue  on  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets 
to  enter  the  parking  lot.  This  condition  would  prevail  for  weekends  between 
Thanksgiving  and  New  Year's  as  well  as  for  other  relatively  heavy  shopping  weekends 
scattered  throughout  the  year,  and  could  contribute  to  short-term,  temporary  reductions 
in  area  intersection  LOS.  The  above-described  parking  deficit  for  the  proposed  project 
(provision  of  720  spaces)  and  resultant  off-site  queuing  and  traffic  disruption  would 
not  constitute  a  significant  environmental  impact,  due  the  limited  times  of  year  when 
parking  demand  would  exceed  on-site  supply. 


•  72b 


IV.  Environmental  Impact 


The  residential  component  of  the  project  would  provide  one  off-street  parking  space 
per  dwelling  unit  as  required  by  the  City  of  San  Francisco.  Based  on  surveys  of 
automobile  ownership  at  condominium  developments  in  San  Francisco,  the  one 
parking  space  per  unit  rate  would  be  adequate  to  meet  demand  from  residents  of  the 
project's  housing  component.  The  Department  of  City  Planning  is  in  the  process  of 
conducting  a  survey  of  parking  demand  specific  to  affordable  housing  projects;  the 
results  of  that  survey  are  not  yet  available.  Additional  parking  demand  would  be 
generated  by  visitors  to  the  residential  portion  of  the  project.  This  demand  would  be 
highest  in  the  evening  hours  when  on-street  parking  would  be  available  in  the  project 
vicinity. 

Project  area  parking  usage  surveys  were  conducted  on  Saturday,  December  2  and 
Wednesday,  December  6,  1989  from  noon  to  5:00  p.m.  These  surveys  included  an 
inventory  and  hourly  parking  accumulation  studies  at  all  on-street  facilities  within  a 
two-block  radius  from  the  site  and  at  the  existing  parking  lot  on  the  site.  There  were 
no  public  off-street  parking  facilities  located  within  the  study  area,  other  than  the 
1 30-space  lot  located  on  the  project  site,  at  the  time  of  the  parking  survey. 
Appendix  B,  pp.  A. 33-43,  contains  a  summary  of  these  surveys. 

Drivers  using  the  existing  130  parking  spaces  provided  in  the  public  lot  on  the  site 
would  be  displaced  by  the  project.  This  lot  was  observed  to  be  less  than  50%  occupied 
on  both  the  weekday  and  Saturday  survey  days,  thus  only  about  65  cars  would  be 
affected.  These  displaced  drivers  would  have  to  compete  with  other  drivers  for 
on-street  parking  or  other  public  parking  in  the  area.  As  indicated  in  Chapter  HI, 
Environmental  Setting,  pp.  31-34,  on-street  parking  facilities  are  operating  at  effective 
capacity  (more  than  90%  occupied)  during  the  weekday  midday  peak  period,  and  there 
are  not  many  off-street  parking  lots  in  the  project  vicinity.  The  impact  of  the  displaced 
parkers  would  be  an  increased  shortage  of  parking  spaces  in  the  area. 

According  to  Section  151  of  the  City  Planning  Code,  the  Costco  portion  of  the  project 
would  be  required  to  provide  a  total  of  434  parking  spaces  and  may  provide  150%  of 
the  requirement  (a  total  of  651  spaces)  as  an  accessory  use.  Retail -serving  parking  in 


73 


IV.  Environmental  Impact 


excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be 
provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees, 
clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in 
the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  The  residential  portion  of 
the  project  would  be  required  to  provide  one  space  per  unit. 

Loading 

Under  Section  152  of  the  City  Planning  Code,  the  project  would  be  required  to  provide 
five  off-street  freight  loading  docks  with  a  minimum  width  of  12  feet  and  minimum 
length  of  35  feet.  The  project  would  provide  five  freight  loading  spaces  in  an  area 
about  60  feet  wide  and  60  feet  deep,  (see  Figure  2,  p.  17).  This  would  be  adequate  to 
meet  both  the  demand  of  large  trucks  and  vans  and  the  Code  requirement  for  the 
number  of  loading  docks.  The  freight  loading  area  would  satisfy  the  minimum 
dimensions  specified  in  the  Code  (Section  154(b))  for  that  number  of  loading  spaces. 

Project  truck  loading  docks  would  be  accessed  from  a  shared  parking  and  loading 
entrance  along  Eleventh  Street.  Costco  has  indicated  that  deliveries  would  occur 
between  5:00  a.m.  and  11:00  a.m.  This  would  include  deliveries  by  Costco  trucks  as 
well  as  deliveries  by  local  area  vendors  and  subcontractors. /5/  This  time  period  would 
overlap  with  morning  peak  period  (5:30  a.m.  to  9:00  a.m.)  activity  at  the  Veterans  Cab 
Company  located  across  from  the  site  on  Eleventh  Street.  At  present,  83  cabs  are 
operated  from  the  Eleventh  Street  location./6/  The  potential  for  conflict  between 
Costco  delivery  trucks  and  cabs  on  Eleventh  Street  would  be  relatively  minimal 
because  both  the  truck  loading  docks  and  truck  maneuvering  space  would  be  located 
completely  on-site.  The  delivery  period  would  also  overlap  with  store  hours  (opening 
time  would  be  10:00  a.m.).  Conflicts  at  the  shared  parking  and  loading  entrance  would 
occur.  This  impact  would  not  be  significant  because  there  would  be  three  other 
parking  entrances  available  to  customers.  The  number  of  Costco  delivery  trips  is 
estimated  at  20  per  day.  Of  these  20  daily  trips,  approximately  six  or  seven  would  be 
trailer  trucks.  The  trailer  trucks  would  range  in  size  from  20  to  40  feet  in  length. 
Approximately  50  percent  of  daily  delivery  trips  would  originate  in  San  Leandro.  The 
remaining  trips  would  originate  throughout  San  Francisco,  involving  primarily  local 
area  vendors  and  subcontractors.  It  is  anticipated  that  delivery  trucks  from 
San  Leandro  would  use  the  Harrison  Street  /  Eighth  Street  1-80  off-ramp  and  the 
Bryant  Street  /  Fifth  Street  1-80  on-ramp  for  primary  access  to  and  from  the  project 
site./7/  Delivery  trucks  returning  to  San  Leandro  might  also  use  the  Bryant  Street  / 
Eighth  Street  on-ramp. 

74 


IV.  Environmental  Impact; 

Traffic  impacts  to  local  1-80  ramps  from  Costco  delivery  trucks  would  be  relatively 
minimal.  As  stated  above,  about  ten  delivery  trips  (from  San  Leandro)  are  expected  to 
use  the  freeway  ramps  between  5:00  a.m.  and  1 1:00  a.m.  The  effect  on  traffic  flow 
from  this  level  of  truck  volume  spread  over  the  delivery  hours  would  be  relatively 
minimal. 

DEMOLITION,  EXCAVATION,  AND  CONSTRUCTION  TRAFFIC/8/ 

During  the  projected  12-month  construction  period,  transportation  impacts  would 
result  from  truck  movements  to  and  from  the  site  during  demolition,  excavation,  and 
building  construction  activities.  Demolition  and  excavation  would  require 
approximately  six  weeks  and  would  generate  an  average  of  12  to  18  truck  round  trips 
per  day  in  and  out  of  the  project  site  between  9:00  a.m.  and  3:30  p.m.  The  maximum 
number  of  truck  round  trips  during  the  first  six  weeks  of  construction  is  estimated  to 
be  20  per  day.  Steel  erection  and  exterior  masonry  work  would  generate  an  average  of 
five  truck  round  trips  per  day.  Concrete  pours  would  generate  up  to  30  round  trips  per 
day.  The  maximum  number  of  truck  round  trips  during  other  phases  is  estimated  to  be 
between  25  and  30  per  day.  It  is  anticipated  that  excavation  spoils  would  be  hauled  to 
a  disposal  site  south  on  the  Peninsula.  The  disposition  of  contaminated  soils  would 
likely  be  to  a  Class  I  or  II  disposal  site  in  Bakersfield.  Trucks  would  be  expected  to 
use  Harrison  Street  and  other  surface  streets  to  the  south. 

Primary  construction  truck  access  to  the  proposed  site  would  be  from  Harrison  Street 
and  Bryant  Street  with  secondary  access  from  Ninth  Street  and  Tenth  Street.  It  is 
anticipated  that  project  construction  trucks  would  use  the  U.S.  101  /  Bryant  Street 
ramps  for  primary  freeway  access.  During  the  construction  period,  the  sidewalks 
fronting  the  project  site  on  Harrison,  Bryant,  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets  would  be 
closed,  with  the  parking  lanes  on  Tenth,  Eleventh  and  Bryant  Streets  also  closed  to 
provide  pedestrian  walkways.  Closure  of  the  parking  lanes  would  displace 
approximately  60  unmetered  one-  and  two-hour  parking  spaces.  Lane  and  sidewalk 
closures  are  subject  to  review  and  approval  by  the  Department  of  Public  Works. 

During  the  construction  period,  the  MUNI  bus  stop  located  at  Eleventh  Street  near 
Bryant  Street  would  be  displaced.  This  stop  services  the  9-San  Bruno  inbound  bus  and 
would  have  to  be  moved  during  construction.  The  stop  would  be  restored  to  the 
present  location  once  the  project  is  completed.  Bus  stop  relocations  are  subject  to 
review  and  approval  by  MUNI. 


75 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Materials  storage  is  proposed  to  be  on-site,  and  would  therefore  not  generate 
construction  vehicle  trips  to  the  site.  Parking  for  construction  workers'  vehicles  would 
occur  on-site,  and  would  therefore  not  affect  project  area  parking  conditions.  Impacts 
on  local  intersections  from  construction  worker  traffic  would  occur  in  proportion  to  the 
number  of  construction  workers  who  would  use  automobiles.  The  maximum  number 
of  construction  workers  on-site  at  any  one  time  is  estimated  to  be  approximately 
80  people. 

The  impact  of  construction  truck  traffic  would  be  a  lessening  of  the  capacities  of 
access  streets  and  haul  routes  because  of  the  slower  movements  and  larger  turning 
radii  of  construction  trucks  compared  to  passenger  vehicles.  Lane  blockage  on  Tenth, 
Eleventh,  Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets  by  queued  trucks,  if  it  were  to  occur,  would 
reduce  the  capacity  of  these  streets.  The  following  MUNI  lines  could  be  affected: 
9-San  Bruno,  27 -Bryant  and  42-Downtown  Loop.  SamTrans  buses  on  Tenth  Street 
would  also  be  affected. 

Blockage  during  times  of  peak  traffic  flow  would  have  greater  potential  to  create 
conflicts  than  during  non-peak  hours  because  of  the  greater  peak-hour  numbers  of 
vehicles  in  adjacent  lanes  and  vehicles  (autos  and  buses)  that  would  have  to  maneuver 
around  the  queued  trucks.  Any  truck  traffic  from  7:00  a.m.  to  9:00  a.m.  or  from 
4:00  p.m.  to  6:00  p.m.  would  coincide  with  peak-hour  traffic,  and  would  serve  to 
worsen  service  levels.  As  noted  above,  truck  traffic  would  be  restricted  to  the  hours  of 
9:00  a.m.  to  3:30  p.m.  which  would  avoid  such  peak-period  effects. 

NOTES  -  Transportation 

/l/   This  general  information  is  based  on  impact  analysis  carried  out  in  the  1-280 

Transfer  Concept  EIR,  84.385E,  May  23,  1985,  which  examined  different  surface 
route  alternatives  along  The  Embarcadero  right-of-way.  Any  new  roadway 
designs  proposed  for  The  Embarcadero  would  be  subject  to  additional,  separate 
environmental  review. 

12/   Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers,  Trip  Generation,  Fourth  Edition,  1987. 

/3/   Counts  and  observations  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  1987,  1988  and  1989. 

/4/   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Guidelines  for  Environmental 
Impact  Review:  Transportation  Impacts,  September  1983,  p.  19. 

/5/   Ali  Moayeri,  Construction  Manager,  Costco  Wholesale  Corporation,  telephone 
conversation,  September  30,  1991. 


76 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


/6/   Mary  Ann  Pont,  Operations  Manager,  Veterans  Cab  Company,  telephone 
conversation.  July  17,  1990. 

PI   Thomas  Walker,  Vice  President  of  Construction,  Costco  Wholesale,  telephone 
conservation,  January  22,  1991. 

/8/   Cal  Roberts,  Roberts  Managing  Contractors,  Inc.,  telephone  conservation, 
January  22,  1991. 

D.  AIR  QUALITY 

CUMULATIVE  CONTEXT 

The  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  Plan  EIRs  analyzed  cumulative  effects  of 
development  in  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  on  regional  air  quality  in  the  future.  This 
material  is  incorporated  by  reference  and  summarized  here.  The  analyses  in  those 
EIRs  describe  the  continued  failure  of  the  Bay  Area  to  attain  federal  ozone  and  carbon 
monoxide  standards,  a  problem  to  which  the  project  would  contribute.  (For  more 
detail  on  air  pollutant  emissions  and  their  impacts,  see  Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  II, 
pp.  VI.F.13-18.) 

Motor  vehicle  exhaust  emissions  would  continue  to  be  the  primary  source  of  air 
pollutants  in  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity.  These  emissions  would  affect  local  and 
regional  air  quality.  Ozone  and  carbon  monoxide  concentrations  occasionally  violate 
air  quality  standards  at  some  locations  in  the  Bay  Area.  Emissions  of  hydrocarbons 
and  nitrogen  dioxide,  precursors  of  ozone,  would  contribute  to  regional  ozone 
concentrations.  Emissions  would  also  add  to  carbon  monoxide  concentrations  at 
congested  intersections. 

Computer  modeling  of  cumulative  carbon  monoxide  concentrations  at  eight  congested 
intersections  analyzed  in  the  Mission  Bay  EIR  (five  of  which  are  intersections  adjacent 
to  freeway  ramps)  suggests  that  prior  to  the  Loma  Prieta  earthquake,  state  and  federal 
standards  for  eight-hour  average  concentrations  (9  parts  per  million  [ppm])  were 
violated  on  occasion  at  the  intersection  of  Sixth  and  Brannan  Streets  (13.4  ppm)  anci  at 
the  intersection  of  Third  and  Berry  Streets  (9.2  ppm).  With  the  temporary  closure  of 
1-280  for  repairs,  these  two  intersections  are  not  currently  congested;  both  the  normal 
traffic  and  the  resulting  air  quality  effects  have  been  dispersed  to  other  intersections. 
When  1-280  is  re-opened,  traffic  at  the  study  intersections  is  expected  to  return  to 
pre-quake  levels,  resulting  in  air  quality  similar  to  pre-quake  conditions.  None  of  the 
eight  intersections  violate  state  or  federal  one -hour  standards  (20  ppm  and  35  ppm, 


77 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


respectively).  Carbon  monoxide  concentrations  are  expected  to  improve  throughout 
the  region  due  primarily  to  better  vehicle  emission  controls.  Carbon  monoxide 
concentrations  at  the  eight  intersections,  even  with  Mission  Bay  and  cumulative 
growth  in  traffic,  are  projected  to  decrease.  No  violations  of  state  or  federal  carbon 
monoxide  standards  are  expected  at  those  intersections  in  2000  (or  at  buildout  of 
Mission  Bay  in  2020).  (For  more  detail  on  intersection  carbon  monoxide 
concentrations  in  the  South  of  Market  area,  see  Mission  Bay  EIR,  Volume  n, 
pp.  VLF.9-10  and  17-18,  and  Table  VI.F.4,  p.  VI.F.19;  South  of  Market  EIR 
pp.  140-142  and  Table  10,  p.  143.) 

The  1982  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Plan  (1982  Plan)  established  schedules  and  strategies 
to  comply  with  federal  ozone  and  carbon  monoxide  standards  established  under  the 
Clean  Air  Act  by  December  31,  1987.  The  deadline  has  now  passed,  and  the  Bay  Area 
remains  a  non-attainment  area  for  ozone  and  carbon  monoxide  (standards  are 
occasionally  violated).  The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  has 
required  that  the  1982  Plan  be  updated  by  1991. 

Effective  January  1,  1989,  the  California  Clean  Air  Act  provides  for  the  designation  of 
districts  into  three  classes:  moderate  (defined  as  an  area  which  can  attain  state  and 
federal  air  quality  standards  by  December  31,  1994),  serious  (areas  which  can  attain 
the  standards  by  December  31,  1997),  and  severe  (areas  that  cannot  specify  an 
attainment  date).  In  each  case,  the  Act  specifies  strategies  that  must  be  adopted.  In  all 
cases,  plans  are  required  to  demonstrate  a  five  percent  per  year  reduction  in  the 
emissions  of  pollutants  or  precursors,  unless  the  California  Air  Resources  Board 
(ARB)  determines  that  all  feasible  measures  are  being  employed.  The  Bay  Air  Basin 
has  been  designated  as  severe,  due  to  its  inability  to  attain  state  standards  by  1997./1/ 

PROJECT  EFFECTS 

Upon  completion,  the  project  would  affect  localized  air  quality  in  two  ways. 
Emissions  would  be  generated  by  project-related  traffic,  and  by  combustion  of  natural 
gas  for  building  space  and  water  heating.  Transportation  sources  would  account  for 
over  90%  of  project-related  emissions. 

Curbside  CO  concentrations  at  selected  intersections  that  would  be  affected  by 
project-generated  traffic  and  by  cumulative  development  traffic  were  projected  for 
conservative  conditions  and  are  compared  with  ambient  standards  in  Table  8. 


78 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


TABLE  8:  EXISTING  AND  PROJECTED  CURB  SIDE  CARBON  MONOXIDE 
CONCENTRATIONS  AT  SELECTED  INTERSECTIONS/a/ 


 Concentrations  (ppm) 

Intersection  Averaging  Time  1990  2000/b/ 


Eleventh  and  Harrison 

1  -hour 

9.3 

8.3 

8 -hour 

6.5 

5.8 

Tenth  and  Bryant 

1  -hour 

9.5 

8.7 

8-hour 

6.6 

6.1 

Tenth  and  Harrison 

1  -hour 

10.0 

8.5 

8-hour 

7.0 

6.0 

Ninth  and  Bryant 

1-hour 

9.7 

8.3 

8 -hour 

6.8 

5.8 

/a/   Calculations  for  all  scenarios  were  made  using  a  revised  version  of  the  Modified 
Linear  Rollback  (MLR)  method  described  in  the  Downtown  Plan  EIR,  EE81.3, 
certified  October  18,  1984,  Appendix  O.  Background  concentrations  were 
calculated  to  be  5.8  ppm  for  eight  hours  in  1990,  and  5.0  ppm  for  eight  hours  in 
2000.  Any  underlined  values  would  be  in  violation  of  the  state  or  federal  CO 
standards.  The  one-hour  State  standard  is  20  ppm,  the  one-hour  federal  standard 
is  35  ppm,  and  the  eight-hour  State  and  federal  standards  are  9  ppm.  Emission 
rates  were  derived  from  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  EMFAC7D  computer 
model,  from  the  BAAQMD's  Guidelines,  revised  April  1988. 

lb  I   Based  on  rate  of  traffic  growth  derived  from  forecasts  in  the  Mission  Bay  EIR. 
The  project  would  be  contained  within  this  forecast. 

SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 


Currently  (1990),  the  eight-hour  CO  concentrations  at  the  four  selected  intersections 
are  not  estimated  to  violate  air  quality  standards.  CO  concentrations  are  predicted  to 
be  less  in  2000  than  in  1990  and  would  not  violate  the  standards  at  these  intersections 
in  this  future  scenario.  Carbon  monoxide  levels  are  expected  to  be  lower  in  the  future 
due  to  emission  controls  on  new  vehicles,  which  would  offset  increases  in  traffic 
volumes  and  congestion. 

Table  9  shows  projected  daily  emissions  of  pollutants  in  the  year  2000  from 
project-generated  traffic,  and  compares  them  with  San  Francisco  County 
transportation-related  emissions  (Year  2000)  and  total  transportation-related  emissions 


79 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


TABLE  9:  PROJECTED  DAILY  TRANSPORTATION-RELATED  POLLUTANT 
EMISSIONS 


 Emissions  (tons  per  dayVa/  

Pollutant  Project  2000/a.b/       SF  County  2000/c/     Bay  Area  2000/c/ 


Hydrocarbons  0.01  14  160 

Nitrogen  Oxides  0.03  22  270 

Carbon  Monoxide  0.37  120  1,400 

PM10  0.05  28  310 

Sulfur  Oxides/d/  0.01  28  83 


/a/    Project  emissions  were  calculated  using  BAAQMD  EMFAC7D  vehicle  emission 
factors.  Emissions  of  HC,  NOx,  and  CO  include  an  assumed  six  minutes  of  idling 
time  per  vehicle  trip.  Emissions  of  particulates  include  dust  disturbed  from 
roadway  surfaces. 

/b/  .  Based  upon  a  weighted  daily  average  of  21,819  vehicle-miles  traveled. 

/c/    San  Francisco  County  and  Bay  Area  emissions  correspond  only  to 

transportation-related  emissions  based  on  BAAQMD  Emissions  Inventory 
Summary  Report  (August  1987),  and  year  2000  emissions  inventory  for  the  Bay 
Area  provided  by  Tirlochan  Mangat,  Manager,  Special  Projects  Section, 
BAAQMD. 

/d/   Sulfur  oxides  and  sulfur  dioxides  are  assumed  to  be  interchangeable. 
SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 


in  the  Bay  Area.  The  project  would  contribute  less  than  0.1%  to  the 
transportation-related  emissions  inventory  for  San  Francisco  in  2000,  which  is  below 
the  one  percent  threshold  established  by  the  BAAQMD  defining  a  potentially 
significant  impact  on  air  quality. 

Emissions  of  particulates  resulting  from  construction  and  from  vehicle  trips  generated 
by  the  project  and  cumulative  development  would  increase  particulate  concentrations, 
which  could  increase  the  frequency  of  particulate  standard  violations  in  San  Francisco, 
with  concomitant  health  effects. /2/ 

CO  concentrations  in  the  area  may  also  be  affected  by  CO  generated  by  vehicular 
traffic  along  U.S.  101,  which  is  located  approximately  400  feet  southwest  of  the 
proposed  residential  units.  CO  concentrations  were  modeled  near  the  proposed 
residential  area  with  the  CALINE-4  dispersion  model  developed  by  the  California 


80 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Department  of  Transportation  using  existing  and  projected  Year  2000  traffic  volumes 
along  U.S.  101. /3/  Maximum  one-hour  and  eight-hour  roadside  CO  concentrations  at 
the  intersection  of  Eleventh  and  Harrison  Streets  (near  the  proposed  housing)  were 
projected  using  peak-hour  traffic  volumes  at  that  intersection  (consisting  of  project 
plus  cumulative  trip  increases)  and  worst-case  meteorological  assumptions. /4/  The 
carbon  monoxide  contribution  of  traffic  on  U.S.  101  on  CO  concentrations  at  the 
Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  intersection  (the  intersection  at  the  proposed  residential 
units  closest  to  U.S.  101)  was  the  same  under  existing  and  Year  2000  conditions.  This 
would  occur  because  U.S.  101  is  currently  operating  at  capacity  conditions  during  the 
peak  hour,  and  traffic  volumes  would  not  be  able  to  increase  beyond  this  condition  in 
the  future ./5/  Under  future  conditions,  this  capacity  condition  would  occur  for  a  period 
longer  than  the  one-hour  peak  period. 

Motor  vehicle  exhaust  generated  inside  the  parking  garage  would  contain  CO 
emissions.  Any  adverse  health  effects  of  CO  generated  inside  the  garage  on  residents 
of  the  proposed  dwelling  units  would  be  minimal  because  the  residential  units  (along 
Harrison  Street)  would  be  separated  from  the  parking  garage  (along  Bryant  Street)  by 
the  Costco  store. 

Bread  bakeries  are  generators  of  organic  compounds.  As  yeast  in  the  bread  ferments, 
organic  compounds  are  released.  According  to  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management 
District  (BAAQMD)  Regulation  8,  Organic  Compounds,  Rule  42,  Large  Commercial 
Bread  Bakeries,  appropriate  measures  must  be  made  to  limit  and  reduce  the  emissions 
of  precursor  organic  compounds  from  bread  ovens.  However,  this  rule  does  not  apply 
to  bakeries  producing  less  than  100,000  pounds  of  bread  per  day  averaged  over  all 
operating  days  in  any  one  month. /6/ 

The  bakery  that  would  be  contained  within  the  proposed  project  would  produce 
approximately  9,100  pounds  of  bakery  products  each  day,  seven  days  a  week./7/ 
About  one  fifth  of  this  amount  contains  yeast.  Because  less  than  100,000  pounds  of 
bread  would  be  baked  per  day,  Regulation  8  would  not  apply  to  the  proposed  bakery. 

NOTES  -  Air  Quality 

HI   Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments,  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management 

District,  and  Metropolitan  Transportation  Commission,  Bay  Area  '91  Clean  Air 
Plan  (CAP),  Draft,  April  1991. 


81 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


12/   State  standards  for  particulate  matter  changed  in  1983  and  federal  standards 
changed  in  1987  to  concentrate  on  respirable  particulate  matter  which  has  been 
•    demonstrated  to  have  healm  implications  when  inhaled  (PMiq).  Only  those 
particulates  10  microns  or  less  in  size  are  measured  under  the  FMjq  standard. 
The  BAAQMD  (Thomas  Perardi)  has  stated  that  TSP  includes  about  50-60%  of 
particulates  of  10  microns  or  less;  thus,  the  TSP  standards  are  generally 
equivalent  to  the  PMj q  standards.  BAAQMD  is  presendy  monitoring  PMj q  at 
seven  Bay  Area  monitoring  stations,  including  the  station  at  16th  and  Arkansas 
Streets  in  San  Francisco. 

13/   California  Department  of  Transportation,  1989  Traffic  Volumes  on  California 
State  Highways,  1989.  The  existing  (1989)  peak  hour  traffic  volume  along 
U.S.  101  between  Junction  Route  80  and  Mission  Street  /  South  Van  Ness  Avenue 
connections  is  12,000  vehicles.  Future  traffic  volumes  are  assumed  to  be  at 
capacity  conditions  during  the  evening  peak  hour.  This  assumption  is  based  upon 
future  traffic  volumes  projected  for  U.S.  101  and  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Bridge  in 
the  Mission  Bay  EIR. 

/4/   Worst-case  meteorological  conditions  include  stable  atmospheric  conditions,  low 
wind  speed,  and  the  wind  angle  producing  the  highest  CO  concentration. 
EMFAC-7D  emission  factors  were  used. 

15/   As  a  rule  of  thumb,  capacity  condition  is  considered  to  be  2,000  vehicles  per  lane 
per  hour.  U.S.  101  near  the  project  site  has  six  lanes  or  12,000  vehicles  during 
the  peak  hour. 

/6/  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District,  Rules  and  Regulations,  Regulation  8, 
Organic  Compounds,  Rule  42,  Large  Commercial  Bread  Bakeries. 

HI   Papadopulos,  Pete,  Wahl  &  Associates,  fax  transmittal,  August  14,  1990. 


E.  CONSTRUCTION  NOISE 


Ambient  noise  in  the  project  vicinity  is  typical  of  urban  settings,  where  noise  levels 
are  dominated  by  vehicular  traffic.  The  San  Francisco  Master  Plan  indicates  a 
day -night  average  noise  level  (L^)  of  about  74  dBA,       near  the  site  in  1974./1,2/ 
One  short-term  noise  measurement  was  made  during  the  evening  peak-hour  traffic 
period  during  the  weekday  to  characterize  the  ambient  noise  in  the  project  area.  The 
noise  measurement  was  taken  in  front  of  a  residence  on  12th  Street,  east  of  Bemice 
Street,  and  northwest  of  Harrison  Street.  The  ambient  noise  level  at  that  area  was 
70  dBA,  LeQ./3/  The  predominant  noise  source  was  auto  and  truck  traffic. 


Project  construction  would  take  place  over  about  10-12  months,  and  would  increase 
noise  levels  in  surrounding  areas.  Construction  noise  levels  would  fluctuate  depending 
on  construction  phase,  equipment  type  and  duration  of  use,  distance  between  noise 
source  and  listener,  and  presence  or  absence  of  barriers  between  noise  source  and 
listener.  To  estimate  probable  noise  impacts,  this  analysis  assumes  typical  equipment 


82 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


and  construction  techniques.  Table  10  shows  typical  exterior  noise  levels  associated 
with  the  different  phases  of  construction  (see  Appendix  D,  p.  A.45,  for  a  table  of 
typical  noise  levels  found  in  the  everyday  environment).  Interior  noise  levels  at  50  ft. 
from  the  noise  source  would  be  about  10  to  15  dBA  less  than  those  shown  in  Table  10. 
Closed  windows  would  reduce  noise  levels  by  about  20  to  25  dBA  below  those  shown 
in  the  table. 

Construction  noise  is  regulated  by  the  San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance  (Article  29  of 
the  City  Police  Code).  The  ordinance  requires  that  sound  levels  of  construction 
equipment  other  than  impact  tools  not  exceed  80  dBA  at  a  distance  of  100  ft.  from  the 
source.  Impact  tools  (jackhammers,  pile-drivers,  impact  wrenches)  must  have  both 
intake  and  exhaust  muffled  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Director  of  Public  Works. 
Section  2908  of  the  Ordinance  prohibits  construction  work  at  night,  from  8:00  p.m.  to 
7:00  a.m.,  if  noise  would  exceed  the  ambient  noise  level  by  five  dBA  at  the  project 
property  line,  unless  a  special  permit  is  authorized  by  the  Director  of  Public  Works. 

The  retail,  parking  garage  and  housing  components  of  the  project  would  all  require 
pile -driving.  Pile-driving  would  occur  intermittently  over  about  eight  weeks; 
hammering  would  occur  during  a  five-  to  eight-minute  period  for  each  pile. 
Conventional  unmuffled  and  unshielded  pile-drivers  emit  noise  levels  of  100  to 
1 10  dBA  at  a  distance  of  100  ft.  each  time  the  driver  strikes  the  pile.  The  Department 
of  Public  Works  allows  pile-driving  operation  under  certain  conditions,  which  may 
include  specifying  relatively  quiet  equipment,  predrilling  pile  holes,  and/or  specifying 
hours  of  operation  to  reduce  the  number  of  people  exposed  to  noise  effects. 

Vibrations  from  the  impact  during  pile-driving  would  be  felt  in  adjacent  and  nearby 
buildings.  These  vibrations  have  been  found  to  be  more  disturbing  to  some  people 
than  high  noise  levels.  Noise  at  levels  greater  than  60  dBA  can  interfere  with  normal 
speech  and  concentration,  noise  levels  greater  than  70  dBA  would  require  workers  to 
close  windows  or  shout  to  communicate.  General  stress  reaction  has  been  observed  in 
humans  exposed  to  brief  sounds  of  75  dB A./4/  At  noise  levels  of  85  dBA,  normal 
conversation  is  extremely  difficult,  and  sleep  or  rest  virtually  impossible.  Intermittent 
noises,  such  as  pile-driving  noise,  reduce  perception  of  control  over  the  environment. 
This  perceived  loss  of  control  frequently  results  in  a  depressed  mood  and  depressed 
motivation.  It  has  also  been  shown  that  high  noise  levels  can  lead  to  elevated  blood 
pressure./5/  Repeated  impulse  and  intermittent  sounds  of  high  level  appear  more 
likely  to  disrupt  performance  than  continuous  or  steady  sounds  of  comparable  level./6/ 


83 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


TABLE  10:  TYPICAL  COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL  CONSTRUCTION  NOISE  • 
LEVELS,  50  FEET  FROM  SOURCE 


Construction  Phase  Duration  of  Phase/a/  (weeks)  Average  Noise  Level  (dBA) 

Ground  clearing  4  84 

Foundations/b/  16  78 

Erection  8  85 

Exterior  Finishing  8  89 


/a/    Manus,  Clark,  Project  Architect,  Heller  &  Leake,  telephone  conversation, 
October  9,  1990.  Some  phases  of  construction  would  overlap. 

fbf  Time  includes  about  eight  weeks  of  pile-driving;  noise  level  is  for  activities  other 
than  pile-driving.  Exterior  noise  levels  during  pile-driving  could  reach  105  dBA 
at  50  ft.  from  the  source. 

SOURCE:  Bolt,  Beranek  and  Newman,  December  31,  1971,  Noise  from  Construction 
Equipment  and  Home  Appliances,  Environmental  Protection  Agency 


If  pile-driving  were  to  occur  during  the  daytime,  employees  and  other  occupants  of  the 
adjacent  commercial  and  industrial  uses  would  be  affected.  In  buildings  across  the 
street  from  the  site,  interior  noise  levels  during  pile-driving  could  reach  99  dBA  with 
windows  open  and  89  dBA  with  windows  closed.  The  nearest  residences  to  the 
intersection  are  approximately  350  feet  away  on  12th  Street,  northwest  of  Harrison 
Street.  They  would  experience  noise  levels  of  about  74  dBA  with  windows  closed  and 
about  84  dBA  with  windows  open  during  pile-driving.  These  noise  levels  would  result 
in  occupants  having  to  shout  to  communicate  and  would  make  telephone  conversations 
difficult.  These  noise  levels  would  require  windows  to  be  closed  and  normally  would 
require  noise  barriers  to  be  erected  between  the  construction  noise  source  and  the 
receptor. 

The  project  sponsor  would  require  that  the  construction  contractor  limit  pile-driving 
activity  to  result  in  the  least  disturbance  to  neighboring  uses,  and  would  consult  with 
the  Public  Works  Department  to  determine  the  least  disruptive  time  for  pile-driving. 
Pile  holes  would  be  predrilled,  which  would  reduce  the  duration  of  pounding  for  each 
pile. 

The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  has  determined  that  noise  levels  of 
70  dBA,  Leq  over  a  24-hour  day,  assuming  a  40-year  exposure  period,  are  the 

84 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


maximum  level  at  which  conservation  of  hearing  is  ensured  for  virtually  all  of  the 
population./?/  Assuming  that  actual  piledriving  would  occur  for  about  45  minutes  per 
day,  the  maximum  suggested  non-occupational  noise  exposure  level  would  be  about 
93  dBA,  Leq./8/  This  noise  level  would  be  four  dBA  greater  than  the  maximum  noise 
levels  of  89  dBA  expected  during  piledriving  in  buildings  across  the  street  from  the 
project  site  with  windows  closed. 

Noise  generated  during  pile-driving  could  be  reduced  by  erecting  barriers  around  the 
project  site.  Barriers  may  include  such  items  as  berms,  walls,  etc.,  that  would  affect 
sound  propagation  by  interrupting  it  and  creating  an  "acoustic  shadow  zone."  The 
more  solid,  high  and  wide  a  noise  barrier  were,  the  more  effectively  it  would  attenuate 
noise.  A  wall  may  provide  maximum  noise  reductions  up  to  20  dBA,  while  a  berm 
may  reduce  noise  levels  a  maximum  of  23  dBA./9/  Typically,  a  reduction  of  about 
five  dBA  would  be  expected. 

In  summary,  during  the  majority  of  construction  activity,  noise  levels  would  be  above 
existing  levels  in  the  area.  There  would  be  times,  particularly  during  the  operation  of 
pile-drivers  or  impact  wrenches,  when  noise  would  interfere  with  indoor  activities  in 
nearby  commercial  and  light  industrial  facilities.  These  impacts  would  be  temporary 
in  nature  and  limited  to  the  period  of  construction. 

NOTES  -  Construction  Noise 

/l/   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Environmental  Protection,  an 
Element  of  the  Master  Plan,  Transportation  Noise  Section,  December  1987. 

Ill   dBA  is  a  measure  of  sound  in  units  of  decibels  (dB).  The  "A"  denotes  the 
A-weighted  scale,  which  simulated  the  response  of  the  human  ear  to  various 
frequencies  of  sound. 

L^,  the  day-night  average  noise  level,  is  a  noise  measurement  based  on  human 
reaction  to  cumulative  noise  exposure  over  a  24-hour  period,  taking  into  account 
the  greater  annoyance  of  nighttime  noises;  noise  between  10  p.m.  and  7  a.m.  is 
weighted  10  dBA  higher  than  daytime  noise. 

131   LeQ  is  the  equivalent  steady-state  sound  level  which  in  a  stated  period  of  time 
woald  contain  the  same  acoustic  energy  as  the  time-varying  sound  level  during 
the  same  time  period.  In  urban  noise  environments  dominated  mainly  by  traffic 
noise,  the  24-hour       level  is  typically  about  the  same  as  the  peak-hour  Leq. 

/4/  The  Central  Institute  for  the  Deaf,  Effects  of  Noise  on  People,  U.S.  EPA,  1971 . 

15/   Sheldon  Cohen,  et  al.,  "Cardiovascular  and  Behavioral  Effects  of  Community 
Noise,"  American  Scientist,  Volume  69,  October  1981. 


85 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


/6/   National  Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health,  Occupational  Exposure  to 
Noise,  U.S.  Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare,  1972. 

HI   U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Information  on  Levels  of  Environmental 
Noise  Requisite  to  Protect  Public  Health  and  Welfare  with  an  Adequate  Margin 
of  Safety,  March  1974. 

/8/   Cohen,  A.,  J.  Antioaglia,  and  H.  H.  Jones,  "Sociocucsis  —  Hearing  Loss  From 
Non-occupational  Noise  Exposure,"  Sound  and  Vibration  4(1 1)  12-20, 
November  1970,  in  Cornett,  C.  L.  and  C.  Hina,  Methods  for  Predicting  Noise  and 
Vibration  Impacts,  January  31,  1979. 

191   U.S.  Department  of  Transportation,  Federal  Highway  Administration,  Highway 
Noise,  December  1978. 

F.  GEOLOGY  ANT)  SHISMTCITY 

The  project  site  is  at  about  13  feet,  San  Francisco  City  Datum  (SFD)./1/  Surficial  fill 
soils  at  the  site  are  composed  of  human -made  sandy  fill  with  rubble  including  bricks, 
cobbles,  metal,  and  wood  fragments. /2/  This  fill  ranges  in  thickness  from  about  3  to 
9-1/2  feet.  Remnants  of  concrete  foundations  and  slabs  of  buildings  which  occupied 
the  site  in  the  past  are  also  found  near  the  surface.  This,  in  turn,  is  underlain  by  less 
than  10  feet  to  over  50  feet  of  medium  dense  to  very  dense  windblown  sands.  These 
deposits  are  underlain  by  a  layer  of  soft  to  firm  marine  clay  deposits  known  as  "bay 
mud,"  10  to  84  feet  thick.  Bedrock  is  encountered  at  the  site  at  depths  ranging  from  35 
to  over  130  feet  below  the  ground  surface.  Groundwater  levels  are  expected  to  be 
encountered  at  about  0.5  feet  to  -1.0  feet,  SFD./2/ 

Excavation  for  the  project  foundation  would  be  needed.  Elevator  pits  would  require 
five  feet  of  excavation  (to  eight  feet  SFD)./3/  Dewatering  would  be  required  during 
excavation  if  elevator  pits  reached  groundwater  levels.  Dewatering  could  cause  some 
settlement  of  adjacent  buildings.  The  project  includes  measures  to  mitigate  this 
potential  impact  (see  mitigation,  pp.  100-101).  A  driven  pile  foundation,  supported  in 
the  bedrock  and/or  dense  soils  overlying  the  bedrock,  would  probably  be  required. /4/ 
See  pp.  82-86  for  a  discussion  of  construction  noise  and  vibration  impacts. 

Excavation  walls  would  be  shored  up  to  prevent  lateral  movement  during  excavation. 
The  bunding  contractor  must  comply  with  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code  and  the 
Excavation  Standards  of  the  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Agency. 
Additionally,  lowering  of  the  local  water  table  by  project  dewatering  could  result  in 
rotting  of  wooden  piles  in  the  site  vicinity.  Measures  to  mitigate  such  an  impact 


86 


IV.  Environmental  Impact: 


would  be  included  as  part  of  the  project  (see  pp.  100-101).  If  appropriate,  a 
preconstruction  survey  of  adjacent  buildings  and  streets  would  be  made  to  establish 
existing  elevations. 

The  closest  active  faults  to  San  Francisco  are  the  San  Andreas  Fault,  about  nine  miles 
southwest  of  Downtown;  the  Hayward  Fault,  about  nine  miles  northeast  of  Downtown; 
the  San  Gregorio  Fault,  about  20  miles  west  of  Downtown;  and  the  Calaveras  Fault, 
about  22  miles  east  of  Downtown.  The  project  area  would  experience  Violent 
(Intensity  Level  B,  fairly  general  collapse  of  brick  and  frame  structures  when  not 
unusually  strong,  serious  cracking  of  better  buildings,  lateral  displacement  of  streets, 
bending  of  rails  and  ground  Assuring)  groundshaking  during  a  major  earthquake ./5/ 
The  building  would  be  required  to  meet  current  seismic  engineering  standards  of  the 
San  Francisco  Building  Code. 

The  Downtown  Plan,  South  of  Market  Plan  and  Mission  Bay  EIRs  include  information 
on  Seismic  Safety  issues  in  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  of  which  the  South  of  Market 
area  is  a  part.  In  summary,  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity,  like  other  parts  of 
San  Francisco  and  the  Bay  Area,  is  subject  to  potentially  large  earthquakes  from  the 
San  Andreas  and  Hayward  faults.  Relatively  more  of  the  land  in 
Downtown  &  Vicinity  is  subject  to  violent  groundshaking  intensity  than  the  rest  of  the 
City  because  the  eastern  edge  of  the  area  is  built  on  filled  land.  Employment  growth, 
such  as  that  expected  in  the  proposed  new  building,  would  result  in  larger  numbers  of 
persons  being  exposed  in  the  future  to  earthquake  hazards  if  a  seismic  event  occurred 
during  the  work  day.  New  buildings  are  subject  to  more  stringent  building  and 
structural  standards  than  are  older  buildings.  Therefore,  persons  working  or  residing 
in  buildings  such  as  the  proposed  project  would  be  relatively  safer  than  those  in  some 
older  existing  buildings.  The  bridges  leading  to/from  San  Francisco  are  expected  to  be 
closed  for  over  three  days  due  to  damaged  access  ramps.  The  same  would  be  true  of 
the  freeways  heading  south  to  the  Peninsula.  MUNI  and  Caltrain  would  be  out  of 
service  for  some  time,  and  power  outages  would  occur  for  at  least  one  or  two  days. 
(See  Downtown  Plan  EIR  pp.  IV.K.l-17a;  Mission  Bay  EIR,  Vol.  n,  pp.  VI.K.11-15 
and  33-43;  South  of  Market  EIR,  pp.  154-174.) 

An  earthquake  with  an  estimated  magnitude  of  7.1  on  the  Richter  Scale  occurred  in  the 
Bay  Area  in  October  1989.  The  earthquake  lasted  about  15  seconds  and  caused 
damage  in  the  epicentral  region  in  Santa  Cruz,  Watsonville,  Hollister  and  Los  Gatos. 
San  Francisco  and  other  areas,  as  far  as  50  miles  from  the  epicenter,  were  also 
damaged. 

87 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Casualties  and  damage  were  caused  by  falling  objects,  collapsed  structures,  fire  and 
miscellaneous  injuries  (such  as  heart  attacks).  Most  of  the  casualties  and  damage  were 
a  result  of  ground  shaking  which  caused  the  Cypress  structure  of  1-880  to  collapse,  as 
well  as  collapse  of  a  section  of  the  Bay  Bridge  which  rendered  it  closed  to  traffic  for 
one  month.  The  Cypress  structure  has  since  been  demolished.  Other  structural 
damage  was  incurred  on  the  Embarcadero  Freeway  and  portions  of  1-280  and  U.S.  101 
(a  further  description  of  the  damage  is  provided  on  pp.  31-32).  In  addition,  several 
masonry  structures  (including  brick  chimneys)  failed.  Wood-frame  buildings  were 
jolted  off  their  foundations  in  areas  near  the  epicenter  as  well  as  in  San  Francisco  and 
other  Bay  Area  cities. 

Ground  failure  also  occurred,  most  notably  in  the  Santa  Cruz  area  near  the  epicenter. 
Landslides  resulted  in  road  closures  and  damage  to  structures.  Liquefaction  and 
ground  settlement  occurred  in  places  further  from  the  epicenter  (for  example,  in  the 
Marina  District  and  the  area  south  of  Market  Street  in  San  Francisco,  and  the  Oakland 
International  Airport).  Fires  resulted  from  ruptured  utility  lines.  The  type  of  damage 
caused  by  the  earthquake  is  typical  of  moderate  sized  earthquakes.  Damage  that 
occurred  at  distances  up  to  50  miles  from  the  epicenter  is  evidence  that  the  project  area 
may  be  adversely  affected  by  earthquakes  occurring  on  any  of  the  region's  major  faults. 

Damage  in  the  South  of  Market  area  was  basically  confined  to  buildings  constructed 
prior  to  1970.  An  earthquake  of  similar  magnitude  to  (or  larger  than)  the  1989 
earthquake  could  occur  again  on  the  San  Andreas,  Hayward,  or  Calaveras  faults.  The 
Mission  Bay  EIR  analyzes  seismic  impacts  for  an  8.4  magnitude  earthquake  on  the 
Richter  scale  on  the  San  Andreas  Fault,  a  6.9  magnitude  on  the  Hayward  Fault,  a 
7.3  magnitude  on  the  Calaveras  Fault,  and  a  7.1  magnitude  on  the  San  Gregorio  Fault 
and  describes  damage  conditions  that  generally  are  greater  than  what  were  experienced 
in  October  1989.  Other  active  faults  in  the  region  could  produce  smaller  earthquakes. 

An  evacuation  and  emergency  response  plan  would  be  developed  as  part  of  the 
proposed  project  (see  mitigation,  p.  101).  The  project's  emergency  plan  would  be 
coordinated  with  the  City's  emergency  planning  activities. 

NOTES  -  Geology  and  Seismicity 

III   San  Francisco  City  Datum  establishes  the  City's  zero  point  for  surveying 
purposes  at  approximately  8.6  ft.  above  mean  sea  level. 


88 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


/2/    Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists, 

Environmental  Site  Assessment:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison 
Streets,  San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  California,  June,  1990. 

/3/   Goryl,  Bill,  Heller  &  Leake,  project  architect,  personal  communication,  August 
23,  1990. 

/4/   Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists,  Foundation 
Investigation:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets, 
San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  California,  June,  1990. 

/5/   URS/John  A.  Blume  and  Associates,  San  Francisco  Seismic  Safety  Investigation, 
1974.  Groundshaking  intensities  that  would  result  from  a  major  earthquake  were 
projected  and  classified  on  a  five-point  scale  ranging  from  E  (Weak)  through  A 
(Very  Violent). 


G.  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

On  the  basis  of  information  presented  in  Chapter  III,  Environmental  Setting,  there  are 
three  potential  sources  of  contamination  at  the  project  site:  residual  soil  or 
groundwater  contamination  from  past  site  activities,  potentially  contaminated 
groundwater  migrating  onto  the  site  from  other  properties  in  the  vicinity,  and  possible 
contaminated  fill.  Of  these,  the  first  is  most  important  at  this  site,  and  the  only  source 
likely  to  produce  impacts.  The  city  block  that  comprises  the  project  site  has  a  history 
of  industrial  use,  and  the  potential  for  site  contamination  exists  through  misuse  or 
improper  disposal  of  hazardous  materials,  or  from  possible  fuel  spills  or  leaks  from 
underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  known  to  be  present. 

Because  of  the  relatively  shallow  depth  of  excavation  proposed  for  this  project, 
groundwater  contamination  is  not  a  threat  and  poses  relatively  little  concern,  except 
possibly  in  the  area  of  the  elevator  pit.  At  that  spot  the  base  of  the  excavation  would 
be  near  the  top  of  the  water  table. 

Prior  to  the  soil  sampling  program,  little  was  known  of  the  quality  and  nature  of  the  fill 
at  the  project  site;  in  addition  to  the  materials  such  as  bricks,  cobbles,  metal,  and  wood 
fragments  found  in  the  geotechnical  soil  borings,  other  refuse  might  be  present 
throughout  the  area./l/  Fill  is  often  associated  with  elevated  levels  of  a  variety  of  soil 
contaminants,  especially  persistent  contaminants  such  as  metals.  The  soils  sampling 
report,  however,  found  little  evidence  of  widespread  contaminants  in  the  fill./2/ 


89 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Hazardous  materials -related  impacts  of  development  at  a  paved  urban  site  of  the  type 
seen  at  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets  are  typically  related  almost  entirely  to  excavation 
and  disposal  of  contaminated  soils.  Excavation,  if  improperly  managed,  could  directly  • 
expose  site  workers,  the  public,  or  the  environment  to  those  contaminants.  Such 
exposure  would  be  the  principal  threat  of  the  project  to  public  health  and  safety.  A 
relatively  small  amount  of  excavation  is  planned  as  part  of  the  project.  In  addition  to 
the  elevator  pit  excavation,  relatively  shallow  amounts  of  fill  (two  to  eight  feet)  would 
be  excavated  and  removed  from  the  site.  Additional  material  might  be  removed  if  the 
fill  proves  to  be  unsuitable  for  structural  support./l/  The  geotechnical  properties  of  the 
fill  are  not  completely  defined,  so  the  extent  of  such  excavation  would  not  be  known 
until  construction  begins.  As  the  entire  site  is  paved  and  covered,  no  routes  of 
exposure  for  hazards  associated  with  contaminated  fill  currently  exist  at  the  project 
site.  Impacts  could  occur  only  when  the  fill  is  disturbed.  Without  excavation,  no 
impacts  would  be  anticipated.  The  potential  impacts  of  excavation  of  contaminated 
fill  in  any  amounts  can  be  mitigated  (see  mitigation,  pp.  101-102). 

Activities  that  could  lead  to  discovery  and  exposure  of  contaminated  soils  include  site 
investigation,  site  remediation,  excavation,  and  underground  storage  tank  (UST) 
removal.  Each  of  these  activities  could  involve  exposure  of  workers,  the  public  and/or 
the  environment  to  contaminated  soils  or  other  media.  The  discussion  that  follows  is 
limited  to  specific  project  impacts  of  excavation  and  related  earth-moving  and  site 
preparation  activities,  such  as  grading.  Site  investigation,  site  remediation,  and  UST 
removal  are  mitigation  actions;  impacts  of  those  activities  are  discussed  in  Chapter  V, 
Mitigation  Measures,  pp.  101-102. 

SPECIFIC  PROJECT  IMPACTS 

Analysis  of  collected  soil  samples  conducted  to  date  has  determined  that  contaminated 
fill  is  present  in  at  least  one  location  on  the  project  site.  In  addition,  historic  records 
and  field  observations  indicated  that  leaking  or  intact  USTs  could  be  encountered  at 
the  project  site  during  excavation.  Further  testing  and  appropriate  site  remediation 
would  be  carried  out  as  part  of  the  project. 

Health  and  Safety 

The  following  hazardous  materials  descriptions  are  intended  to  provide  basic 
information  about  toxicological  characterization  of  the  contaminants  of  concern;  as  to 


90 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


the  actual  risk  posed  by  the  presence  of  such  materials  at  the  project  site,  only  an 
appropriate  risk  assessment  could  determine  the  actual  risk,  if  any,  posed: 


Polynuclear  aromatic  hydrocarbons  (PNAs).  PNAs  are  a  group  of  closely  related 
organic  compounds  having  chemical  structures  made  up  of  two  or  more 
associated  aromatic  rings.  All  PNA  compounds  are  toxic  at  particular 
concentrations,  and  several  are  carcinogenic.  PNAs  are  produced  as  by-products 
when  petroleum  compounds  are  incompletely  burned;  they  also  occur  naturally  as 
products  of  plant  biosynthesis.  Potential  routes  of  exposure  are  inhalation  and 
ingestion.  Acute  toxicity  does  not  appear  to  be  a  characteristic  of  PNAs,  but 
several  of  the  compounds  are  known  to  cause  cancer./3/  Department  of  Health 
Services  guidelines  specify  10  mg/kg  and  100  mg/kg  to  be  cleanup  levels  for 
carcinogenic  and  noncarcinogenic  PNAs,  respectively ./4/  PNA  levels  on  portions 
of  the  site  violated  the  standards;  available  information  about  PNA  contamination 
is  described  in  Chapter  EI,  Environmental  Setting,  pp.  37-48.  The  most  likely 
sources  of  PNA  contamination  would  be  petroleum  residues  associated  with 
leaking  tanks  or  other  industrial  activities. 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons.  Petroleum  contamination  results  from  spills  or  leaks  of 
fuels  such  as  gasoline,  diesel,  or  waste  oil,  or  from  spillage  or  improper  disposal 
of  oils,  tar,  or  asphalt.  The  most  common  source  of  petroleum  contamination  is 
leaking  underground  storage  tanks.  Several  USTs  are  known  to  be  present  on  the 
site  and  other,  undocumented  USTs  might  also  be  present.  A  previously 
unknown  UST  uncovered  or  disturbed  during  excavation,  could  threaten  the 
health  and  safety  of  site  workers.  Hydrocarbon  vapors  can  irritate  the  eyes  and 
respiratory  system.  Fuels  such  as  gasoline  and  diesel  are  flammable  and  would 
pose  a  potential  fire  hazard  if  present  at  relatively  high  concentrations  in  soil.  A 
leaking  UST  could  pose  additional  threats  to  groundwater  resources  and  the 
environment,  and  could  also  pose  a  possible  explosive  hazard  as  well.  Cleanup 
criteria  are  site  specific  and  variable,  but  cleanup  of  petroleum  hydrocarbons 
found  at  concentrations  above  100  mg/kg  is  generally  required  for  this  type  of  site. 

Lead.  Lead,  a  heavy  metal,  is  a  widespread  environmental  toxin.  Lead  has  many 
metallurgical  and  other  applications  in  industry,  such  as  use  in  piping,  tanks, 
solder,  glass,  and  batteries;  in  the  past  it  was  used  widely  as  a  component  of 
paints  and  gasoline.  Routes  of  exposure  include  inhalation  and  ingestion  of 
lead-contaminated  particulates  or  dust,  and  skin  and  eye  contact.  Symptoms  of 
lead  poisoning  include  fatigue,  sleep  disturbance,  headache,  muscle  aches, 
digestive  upset,  abdominal  pain,  and  loss  of  appetite.  Lead  poisoning  is  chronic 
and  becomes  more  severe  as  lead  builds  up  in  body  tissues  and  bones.  Long-term 
effects  include  anemia,  loss  of  strength,  kidney  damage,  and  serious  disorders  of 
the  central  nervous  system.  Severe  cases  of  chronic  lead  poisoning  can  result  in 
delirium,  coma,  and  death.  Some  lead  compounds  are  carcinogens./3/  The  lead 
levels  seen  in  soils  at  the  project  site  were  very  near  background  levels  and  could 
have  come  from  any  number  of  sources. 


Underground  Storage  Tanks  . 

As  noted  earlier,  at  least  three  underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  are  known  to  be  on 
the  project  site,  and  other  unknown  tanks  could  be  present.  Caution  regarding  USTs  is 


91 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


warranted  because  the  property  is  in  the  area  of  San  Francisco  that  has  a  history  of 
UST  use  and  abandonment.  Any  of  the  industries  known  to  have  occupied  the  site 
could  have  used  USTs  for  fuel  storage. 

All  USTs  found  at  the  property  during  construction  activities  would  have  to  be  closed 
in  place  or  removed  as  part  of  the  project.  Closure  of  a  UST  in  place  would  likely 
cause  relatively  minimal  exposure  of  workers  and  the  public  to  potential  hazards.  A 
UST  left  in  the  ground,  however,  could  present  a  long-term  source  of  potential 
contamination  to  the  environment.  UST  removal  could  pose  both  health  and  safety 
risks,  such  as  the  exposure  of  workers,  tank  handling  personnel,  and  the  public  to  tank 
contents  or  vapors.  Risks  would  be  minimized  by  following  required  procedures  for 
UST  cleaning  and  removal.  In  San  Francisco,  both  the  Fire  Department  and 
Department  of  Public  Health  supervise  UST  removals  to  enforce  enactment  of 
appropriate  safety  procedures  and  soil  sampling  and  testing  provisions.  Removal  of  a 
tank,  if  found,  would  be  done  under  the  guidance  of  those  agencies,  as  required  by  law. 

Site  Remediation 

For  the  project  site,  site  remediation  would  be  required  by  the  San  Francisco 
Department  of  Public  Health  for  areas  of  contaminated  soils.  Site  remediation  would 
be  guided  by  a  Site  Remediation  Plan,  as  called  for  in  the  soils  testing  report ./2/  The 
remediation  plan  would  include  the  following:  further  testing  of  soils  as  site 
preparation  and  excavation  is  carried  out,  proposed  methods  of  treating  hazardous  soils 
in  a  manner  that  would  render  them  nonhazardous  or  otherwise  protect  public  health 
and  safety,  and  plans  for  final  disposal  of  soils,  treated  or  otherwise.  To  minimize 
possibilities  of  remediation  impacts,  worker  and  public  health  and  safety  requirements 
described  in  Appendix  E,  pp.  A.46-54,  would  apply  during  remediation  activities. 

Potential  impacts  of  remediation  would  be  mitigated,  in  part,  by  legally  required  safety 
and  hazardous  waste  handling  and  transportation  precautions.  For  hazardous  waste 
workers,  federal  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA)  regulations 
mandate  an  initial  40-hour  training  course  and  subsequent  annual  training  review. 
Additionally,  site-specific  training  would  be  required  for  some  workers.  In 
responsible  agency  review  of  mitigation  plans,  procedures  for  protection  of  the  public 
during  remediation  would  be  evaluated.  These  measures,  along  with  application  of 
clean-up  standards,  would  serve  to  protect  human  health  and  the  environment  during 
site  remediation,  thus  minimizing  remediation  impacts. 


92 


IV.  Environmental  Impact 

Additional  site  investigation  would  be  performed  as  part  of  site  remediation. 
Additional  investigation  would  include  collection  of  about  30  soil  samples  at  the  site, 
transportation  of  the  samples  to  an  analytical  laboratory,  and  analysis  and  reporting. 
Because  relatively  small  amounts  of  materials  are  collected  as  samples,  exposure  to 
potential  hazards  during  site  investigation  would  be  limited,  and  associated  impacts 
would  be  localized.  Contaminated  soil  would  be  temporarily  stockpiled  and  tested 
prior  to  disposal. 

The  remediation  plan  for  the  project  site  has  been  reviewed  by  an  independent 
consultant.  The  consultant  has  certified  that  if  the  remediation  measures  are  carried 
out  as  described,  then  health,  safety,  and  environmental  risks  will  be  mitigated.  The 
remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation  Plan/1/,  is 
summarized  and  cited  in  the  EIR  on  pp.  40, 47,  101,  and  102,  and  is  on  file  and 
available  for  review  at  the  Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City 
Planning,  450  McAllister  Street,  San  Francisco. 

CUMULATIVE  IMPACTS 

If  contaminated  fill  were  to  be  removed  from  the  site  during  project  implementation, 
the  project  would  contribute  to  cumulative  impacts  on  the  region's  hazardous  waste 
handling  capacity.  Treatment  and  disposal  of  hazardous  wastes  are  issues  of  national 
importance.  Federal  and  state  legislation  is  attempting  to  address  those  issues.  At  the 
Federal  level,  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  Hazardous  and  Solid 
Waste  Amendments  of  1984  prohibit  the  land  disposal  of  untreated  wastes  as  of  May, 
1990  (the  "land  ban").  EPA  currently  has  promulgated  treatment  standards  for  the 
applicable  hazardous  wastes.  Wastes  that  meet  the  standards  are  not  subject  to  the 
prohibition  and  may  be  land  disposed.  The  law  states  that  if  there  is  insufficient 
treatment  capacity  nationwide,  the  ban  date  may  be  extended  for  up  to  two  years.  In 
addition,  the  EPA  may  grant  a  petition  to  allow  land  disposal  of  an  untreated  waste  at 
any  specific  site  upon  demonstration  that  no  migration  of  any  hazardous  constituents 
can  occur  from  the  site./5/ 

California  law,  the  Hazardous  Waste  Management  Act  of  1986,  is  similar  to  Federal 
land  ban  law.  It  specifies  that  after  May,  1990,  hazardous  wastes  must  be  treated  to 
adopted  standards  for  disposal  within  the  state  and  land  disposal  is  restricted. 
California  law  also  encourages  recycling  and  reuse,  and  allows  shipment  out-of-state 
for  hazardous  wastes  that  cannot  meet  treatment  standards./5/ 


93 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


Landfill  space  for  hazardous  waste  is  relatively  limited.  As  of  mid- 1989,  there  were 
twenty-four  hazardous  waste  landfills  in  the  United  States  that  were  open  to 
commercial  hazardous  waste  generators.  Of  these,  seven  are  located  in  western 
states. /6/  On  a  national  level,  hazardous  waste  landfill  space  is  relatively  limited  and 
will  grow  even  more  limited  as  landfill  capacities  gradually  become  exhausted.  The 
intent  of  the  land  ban  legislation  is  to  address  the  fundamental  error  of  reliance  on  land 
disposal  by  forcing  waste  generators  and  handlers  to  seek  alternatives.  Because 


93a 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


hazardous  waste  landfill  space  is  limited  and  efficient  and  environmentally  acceptable 
hazardous  waste  treatment  technologies  have  yet  to  be  developed  fully,  handling  of 
hazardous  waste  is  becoming  an  increasingly  important  problem. 


NOTES  -  Hazardous  Materials 

/l/   Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists,  Foundation 
Investigation:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets, 
San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  California,  June,  1990. 

HI   Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.,  Costco  Wholesale  Soil  Sampling  and 
Analysis  Report,  May  1991. 

Ill  Marshall  Sittig,  Handbook  of  Toxic  and  Hazardous  Chemicals  and  Carcinogens, 
Second  Edition,  Noyes  Publications,  Park  Ridge,  New  Jersey,  1985,  pp.  118-119, 
739-742. 

/4/  Bufton,  Beth,  Toxic  Substances  Control  Division,  California  Department  of 
Health  Services,  telephone  conversation,  January  12,  1990. 

151    California  Department  of  Health  Services,  "Land  Disposal  Restriction 

Newsletter,"  Toxic  Substances  Control  Division,  Alternative  Technology  Section, 
January,  1988. 

/6/   EI  Digest,  Industrial  Hazardous  Waste  Management,  Environmental  Information, 
Limited,  February,  1989. 

HI   The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  prepared  by  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  in  October  1991  and 
reviewed  and  certified  by  Levine-Fricke  in  November  1991,  is  on  file  at  the 
Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister 
Street,  San  Francisco. 


H.  GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

The  project  would  add  about  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  60  to  80  affordable 
dwelling  units,  and  780-800  parking  spaces  (720  spaces  for  the  retail  use  and  60-80 
spaces  for  the  residential  use)  to  the  site.  An  additional  170  retail-serving  parking 
spaces  could  be  added  to  the  site  at  a  later  date.  There  are  currently  four  persons 
employed  on  the  project  site;  employment  with  the  project  would  increase  to  about 
75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part  time  jobs. 

The  project  would  add  additional  bulk-merchandise  type  retail  uses  in  the  area,  similar 
to  the  Canned  Foods  Grocery  Outlet  located  two  blocks  west  of  the  site  on  Harrison 
Street  between  Thirteenth  and  Alameda  Streets.  The  project  would  also  add 
multi-family  residential  use  to  an  area  presently  containing  a  number  of  multi-family 
residential  structures. 

94 


IV.  Environmental  Impacts 


About  125-225  persons  would  be  expected  to  live  in  the  residential  component  of  the 
project.  Occupants  of  the  proposed  project  could  include  tenants  relocating  from  other 
locations  in  the  South  of  Market  Area  and  tenants  relocating  from  other  areas  of 
San  Francisco.  If  the  project  were  fully  leased,  however,  and  the  residential  space  of 
the  project  did  not  create  permanent  vacancies  in  other  such  buildings,  the  number  of 
total  residents  in  San  Francisco  could  increase  by  about  125-225  persons  due  to  the 
project. 

The  project  could  have  growth-inducing  effects  by  demonstrating  a  market  for 
bulk-merchandise  type  retail  space  in  the  area;  this  could  encourage  similar 
development  on  lots  currently  vacant  or  occupied  by  underused  buildings  in  the  area. 

As  there  would  be  a  net  increase  in  employment  as  well  as  a  net  increase  in  residents, 
there  could  be  an  increase  in  the  demand  for  retail  goods  and  business  service  in  the 
project  area.  Some  of  the  project's  occupants  and  employees  could  be  relocating  from 
other  housing  or  jobs  in  the  area  and  thus  could  already  be  using  existing  services  in 
the  South  of  Market  area. 

The  project  would  be  built  in  a  developed  urban  area,  and  no  expansion  to  the 
municipal  infrastructure  not  already  under  consideration  would  be  required  to 
accommodate  new  development  due  to,  or  induced  by,  the  project. 


95 


V.    MITIGATION  MEASURES  PROPOSED  TO  MINIMIZE  POTENTIAL 
ADVERSE  IMPACTS  OF  THE  PROJECT 


In  the  course  of  project  planning  and  design,  measures  have  been  identified  that  would 
reduce  or  eliminate  potential  environmental  impacts  of  the  proposed  project.  Some  of 
these  measures  have  been,  or  would  be,  adopted  by  the  project  sponsor  or  project 
architects  and  contractors  and  thus  are  proposed;  some  are  under  consideration. 
Implementation  of  some  may  be  the  responsibility  of  public  agencies.  Measures  under 
consideration  may  be  required  by  the  City  Planning  Commission  as  conditions  of 
project  approval,  if  the  project  were  to  be  approved.  Each  mitigation  measure  and  its 
status  is  discussed  below. 

There  are  several  items  required  by  law  which  would  serve  to  mitigate  impacts,  and 
are  summarized  here  for  informational  purposes.  These  measures  include:  no  use  of 
mirrored  glass  on  the  building  to  reduce  glare,  as  per  City  Planning  Commission 
Resolution  9212;  provision  of  off-street  bicycle  storage  pursuant  to  Section  155  of  the 
Planning  Code,  limitation  of  construction-related  noise  levels,  pursuant  to  the 
San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance  (Article  29  of  the  San  Francisco  Police  Code,  1972); 
consultation  with  and  approval  from  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Works 
Industrial  Waste  Division  if  treated  groundwater  were  to  be  discharged  to  the  City 
sewer;  handling  and  transportation  of  hazardous  wastes  done  under  manifest  and 
restricted  to  persons  with  appropriate  training  and  licensing;  and  observance  of  federal 
and  state  OSHA  safety  requirements  for  hazardous  waste  sites  including  the  hazardous 
waste  site  safety  training  requirements  of  29  CFR  1910.120. 

Additional  measures  which  are  not  required  by  legislation  but  which  would  also  serve 
to  mitigate  environmental  impacts  appear  below.  Mitigation  measures  preceded  by  an 
asterisk  (*)  are  from  the  Initial  Study  (see  Appendix  A,  pp.  A.  1-32). 

CULTURAL  RESOURCES 

MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

•      The  sponsor  would  retain  the  services  of  an  archaeologist.  The  Environmental 
Review  Officer  (ERO)  in  consultation  with  the  President  of  the  Landmarks 
Preservation  Advisory  Board  (LPAB)  and  the  archaeologist  would  determine 


96 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


whether  the  archaeologist  should  instruct  all  excavation  and  foundation  crews  on 
the  project  site  of  the  potential  for  discovery  of  cultural  and  historic  artifacts,  and 
the  procedures  to  be  followed  if  such  artifacts  are  uncovered.  . 

Given  the  archival  history  of  the  project  site,  an  historical  archaeologist  would  be 
present  during  site  excavation  and  would  record  observations  in  a  permanent  log. 
The  ERO  would  also  require  cooperation  of  the  project  sponsor  in  assisting  such 
further  investigations  on  site  as  may  be  appropriate  prior  to  or  during  project 
excavation,  even  if  this  results  in  a  delay  in  excavation  activities. 

Should  archaeological  resources  be  found  following  commencement  of 
excavation  activities,  the  archaeologist  would  assess  the  significance  of  the  find, 
and  immediately  report  to  the  ERO  and  the  President  of  the  LPAB.  Upon 
receiving  the  advice  of  the  consultants  and  the  LPAB,  the  ERO  would 
recommend  specific  mitigation  measures,  if  necessary.  Excavation  or 
construction  activities  which  might  damage  the  discovered  cultural  resources 
would  be  suspended  for  a  maximum  of  four  weeks  (cumulatively  for  all  instances 
where  the  ERO  has  required  a  delay  in  excavation  or  construction)  to  permit 
inspection,  recommendation  and  retrieval,  if  appropriate. 

•      Following  site  clearance,  an  appropriate  security  program  would  be  implemented 
to  prevent  looting.  Any  discovered  cultural  artifacts  assessed  as  significant  by  the 
archaeologist  upon  concurrence  by  the  ERO  and  the  President  of  the  LPAB  would 
be  placed  in  an  appropriate  repository  as  determined  by  the  ERO.  Copies  of  the 
reports  prepared  according  to  these  mitigation  measures  would  be  sent  to  the 
California  Archaeological  Site  Survey  Office  at  Sonoma  State  University  along 
with  three  copies  to  the  ERO. 

TRANSPORTATION 


MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

•  During  the  construction  period,  construction  truck  movement  would  be  permitted 
only  between  9:00  a.m.  and  3:30  p.m.  Monday  through  Friday  to  minimize 
peak-hour  traffic  conflicts.  The  project  sponsor  and  construction  contractor 
would  meet  with  the  Traffic  Engineering  Division  of  the  Department  of  Parking 
and  Traffic,  the  Fire  Department,  MUNI  and  the  Department  of  City  Planning  to 
determine  feasible  traffic  mitigation  measures  to  reduce  traffic  congestion  during 
construction  of  this  project  and  other  nearby  projects.  To  minimize  cumulative 
traffic  impacts  due  to  lane  closures  during  construction,  the  project  sponsor  would 
coordinate  with  construction  contractors  for  any  concurrent  nearby  projects  that 
are  planned  for  construction  or  which  later  become  known. 

•  The  project  sponsor  would,  in  consultation  with  the  Municipal  Railway,  install 
eyebolts  or  make  provisions  for  direct  attachment  of  eyebolts  for  MUNI  trolley 
wires  on  the  proposed  building  wherever  necessary  or  agree  to  waive  the  right  to 
refuse  the  attachment  of  eyebolts  to  the  proposed  building  if  such  attachment  is 
done  at  City  expense. 

•  The  placement  of  paving,  landscaping  or  structures  in  the  sidewalk  area  (subject 
to  City  approval)  would  be  done  in  such  a  way  as  to  minimize  interference  with 
pedestrian  traffic. 


97 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


While  subsurface  sidewalk  vaults  are  discouraged,  the  project  sponsor  would 
design  subsurface  sidewalk  vaults  to  allow  for  possible  future  widening  of 
adjacent  streets.  Vault  design  shall  be  of  sufficient  strength  to  carry  maximum 
vehicular  live  and  dynamic  loads.  Design  of  the  vault  area  to  accommodate  street 
trees  could  also  be  made,  subject  to  Department  of  Public  Works  approval.  In 
addition,  should  vaults  exist  or  be  installed  as  part  of  the  project,  the  project 
sponsor  would  accommodate  and  pay  for  the  installation  of  all  subsurface 
footings,  supports  and  foundations  as  may  be  required  for  future  public 
improvements  such  as  street  lights,  street  trees,  trolley  wire  poles,  signs,  benches, 
transit  shelters,  etc.  within  project  vault  areas.  Placement  of  such  improvements 
is  entirely  within  the  discretion  of  the  City. 

The  Tenth  Street  parking  lot  access  would  be  restricted  to  an  entrance  only  with 
no  exiting.  Through  traffic  on  Tenth  Street  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  is  often 
heavy,  whereas  Bryant  Street  is  relatively  free  flowing  during  this  period.  Exiting 
traffic  from  the  project  would  be  directed  to  use  the  Bryant  Street  exit. 

Adequate  space  would  be  provided  in  the  parking  lot  to  accommodate  all  project 
truck  maneuvers  on  the  project  site. 


MEASURES  UNDER  CONSIDERATION  BY  PROJECT  SPONSOR 

•     .  The  project  sponsor  could  make  formal  arrangements  for  the  shared  use  of  project 
parking  by  employees  of  the  Social  Services  Department  located  across  Harrison 
Street  during  weekdays  and  by  club  patrons  in  the  project  vicinity  during  the 
evenings. 


MEASURES  THAT  COULD  BE  IMPLEMENTED  BY  PUBLIC  AGENCIES 

A  separate  left-turn  lane  would  be  required  in  the  westbound  direction  at  the 
intersection  of  Eleventh  Street  /  Harrison  Street  to  facilitate  acceptable  LOS 
operations  (LOS  D)  at  this  location  during  the  period  of  peak -month  traffic.  This 
separate  left-turn  lane  could  be  accommodated  by  removing  parking  on  the  south 
side  of  Harrison  Street  for  200  feet  east  of  the  intersection  or  by  transitioning 
eastbound  Harrison  Street  from  two  lanes  to  one  lane  at  this  intersection. 
Year  2000  conditions  would  be  mitigated  by  this  measure  from  LOS  F  to 
LOS  D/E  (V/C=0.91)  with  operating  conditions  borderline  unacceptable. 

Coordinate  work  schedules  of  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company  and  other 
utilities  requiring  trenching,  so  that  street  disruption  would  take  place  during 
weekends  and  off-peak  hours.  This  should  be  done  through  the  San  Francisco 
Committee  for  Utility  Liaison  on  Construction  and  Other  Projects  (CULCOP). 
In-street  utilities  should  be  installed  at  the  same  time  as  the  street  is  opened  for 
construction  of  the  project  to  minimize  street  disruption.  It  is  public  policy  that 
any  underground  storage  tanks  that  are  under  sidewalks  on  the  perimeter  of  the 
project  be  removed. 

•      The  City  could  act  upon  or  endorse  the  implementation  of  transportation 

mitigations  described  in  the  Mission  Bay  EIR  Vol.  II,  Section  VI. E,  Mitigation, 
pp.  VI.E.214-VI.E.217  for  the  year  2000  and  VI. E. 224- VI. E. 231  for  2020,  and  in 
the  South  of  Market  EIR,  pp.  189-194.  The  measures  for  the  year  2000  include: 
constructing  and  maintaining  rail  rapid  transit  lines  from  downtown 
San  Francisco  to  suburban  corridors  and  major  non-downtown  centers  in 


98 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


San  Francisco;  increased  funding  for  Vehicle  Acquisition  Plans  for  San  Francisco 
and  regional  transit  agencies  to  expand  existing  non-rail  transit  service;  providing 
exclusive  transit  lanes  on  City  streets  and  on  freeways;  reducing  incentives  to 
drive  by  discouraging  long-term  parking;  encouraging  carpools,  vanpools,  and 
bicycle  use;  improving  pedestrian  circulation  within  downtown  San  Francisco; 
and  providing  transportation  brokerage  services.  The  Mission  Bay  EIR  describes 
various  types  of  measures  to  illustrate  the  magnitude  of  improvements  needed  to 
mitigate  the  impacts  of  regional  growth  in  2020. 

Some  of  the  implementing  actions  would  require  approval  by  decision-makers 
outside  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  many  of  the  measures  would 
require  action  by  City  agencies  other  than  the  City  Planning  Commission,  such  as 
the  San  Francisco  Public  Utilities  Commission  and/or  Board  of  Supervisors.  All 
except  such  things  as  providing  transportation  brokers  would  require  funding 
from  or  approval  by  MTC.  These  measures  are  system-wide  measures  that  must 
be  implemented  by  public  agencies.  Other  than  project-specific  measures  such  as 
the  relevant  transportation  mitigation  measures  described  above  as  part  of  the 
project  or  such  measures  as  the  Transit  Impact  Development  Fee  assessment 
required  by  San  Francisco  ordinance  224-81  which  contribute  indirectly  to 
implementation  of  these  system- wide  measures,  it  is  not  appropriate  to  impose 
mitigation  at  system-wide  levels  on  individual  projects. 

AIR  QUALITY 


MEASURE  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

*•    The  project  sponsor  would  require  the  contractor  to  sprinkle  demolition  sites  with 
non-potable  water  continuously  during  demolition  activity;  sprinkle  unpaved 
construction  areas  with  water  at  least  twice  per  day;  cover  stockpiles  of  soil,  sand, 
and  other  material;  cover  trucks  hauling  debris,  soils,  sand  or  other  such  material; 
and  sweep  streets  surrounding  demolition  and  construction  sites  at  least  once  per 
day  to  reduce  particulate  emissions.  The  project  sponsor  would  require  the 
project  contractor  to  maintain  and  operate  construction  equipment  so  as  to 
minimize  exhaust  emissions  of  particulates  and  other  pollutants,  by  such  means 
as  a  prohibition  on  idling  of  motors  when  equipment  is  not  in  use  or  when  trucks 
are  waiting  in  queues,  and  implementation  of  specific  maintenance  programs  to 
reduce  emissions  for  equipment  that  would  be  in  frequent  use  for  much  of  the 
construction  period. 

NOISE 


MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

*•    As  recommended  by  the  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the  San  Francisco 
Master  Plan,  an  analysis  of  noise  reduction  measures  for  the  residential  units 
would  be  prepared  by  the  project  sponsor  and  recommended  noise  insulation 
features  would  be  included  as  part  of  the  proposed  multi-family  residential  units. 
For  example,  such  design  features  could  include  fixed  windows  and  climate 
control. 


99 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


The  project  sponsor  would  require  that  the  project  contractor  predrill  holes  (if 
feasible  based  on  soils  |  for  piles  to  the  maximum  feasible  depth  to  minimize 
noise  and  vibration  from  pile  driving.  The  actual  pounding  from  pile  driving 
would  occur  during  a  five-  to  eight-minute  span  per  pile. 

The  pro  ject  sponsor  would  consult  with  the  Department  of  Public  Works  to 
determine  the  time  when  pile  driving  would  cause  the  least  disturbance  to 
neighboring  uses.  The  project  sponsor  would  require  that  the  construction 
contractor  limit  pile  driving  activity  to  result  in  least  disturbance.  This  could 
require  a  work  permit  from  the  Director  of  Public  Works  pursuant  to 
San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance  Section  2908.  if  pile  driving  during  daytime  hours 
is  determined  to  be  less  disruptive  to  neighboring  uses. 

The  project  sponsor  would  require  the  general  contractor  to  construct  barriers 
around  the  site,  and  around  stationary  equipment  such  as  compressors,  which 
would  reduce  construction  noise  by  as  much  as  five  dBA.  and  to  locate  stationary 
equipment  in  pit  areas  or  excavated  areas,  as  these  areas  would  serv  e  as  noise 
barriers. 


GEOLOGY/TO  PQGRAPHY/HYDROLOGY 


MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

The  pro  ject  sponsor  and  contractor  would  follow  the  recommendations  of  the 
final  geotechnical  report!  s  |  regarding  any  excavation  and  construction  for  the 
project. 

*•    If  the  project  were  to  include  dewatering.  groundwater  pumped  from  the  site 

would  be  retained  in  a  holding  tank  to  allow  suspended  particles  to  settle,  if  this  is 
found  necessary  by  the  Industrial  Waste  Division  of  the  Department  of  Public 
Works,  to  reduce  the  amount  of  sediment  entering  the  storm  drain/sewer  lines. 

•      The  project  sponsor  would  require  the  general  contractor  to  install  and  maintain 
sediment  traps  in  local  stormwater  intakes  during  the  construction  period  to 
reduce  the  amount  of  sediment  entering  the  storm  drain/sewer  lines,  if  this  is 
found  necessarv  bv  the  Industrial  Waste  Division  of  the  Department  of  Public 

Works. 

The  final  soils  report  would  also  recommend  whether  or  not  watering  of  piles  of 
adjacent  structures  would  be  necessary .  If  it  were  found  to  be  necessary  to  water 
adjacent  piles,  the  project  sponsor  would  ensure  that  the  general  contractor 
complied  with  recommendations  of  the  soils  report. 

Should  dewatering  be  necessary,  the  final  soils  report  would  address  the  potential 
settlement  and  subsidence  impacts  of  this  dewatering.  Based  upon  this 
discussion,  the  soils  report  would  contain  a  determination  as  to  whether  or  not  a 
lateral  and  settlement  survey  should  be  done  to  monitor  any  movement  or 
settlement  of  surrounding  buildings  and  adjacent  streets.  If  a  monitoring  survey 
is  recommended,  the  Department  of  Public  Works  would  require  that  a  Special 
Inspector  (as  defined  in  Article  3  of  the  Building  Code)  be  retained  by  the  project 
sponsor  to  perform  this  monitoring.  Groundwater  observ  ation  wells  would  be 
installed  to  monitor  the  level  of  the  water  table  and  other  instruments  would  be 


100 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


used  to  monitor  potential  settlement  and  subsidence.  If,  in  the  judgment  of  the 
Special  Inspector,  unacceptable  subsidence  were  to  occur  during  construction, 
groundwater  recharge  would  be  used  to  halt  this  settlement.  The  project  sponsor 
would  delay  construction  if  necessary.  Cost  for  the  survey  and  any  necessary 
repairs  to  service  under  the  street  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

•  If  dewatering  is  undertaken  for  the  project,  the  groundwater  level  in  the  site 
vicinity  should  be  monitored.  If  lowering  of  the  groundwater  table  were  to 
threaten  wooden  pile  foundations,  groundwater  recharge  would  be  used  to 
stabilize  the  groundwater  level. 

•  In  order  to  reduce  potential  injury  to  building  occupants  during  an  earthquake  or 
other  catastrophic  emergency,  an  evacuation  and  emergency  response  plan  would 
be  developed  by  the  project  sponsor  of  building  management  staff,  in  consultation 
with  the  Mayor's  Office  of  Emergency  Services  to  ensure  coordination  between 
the  City's  emergency  planning  activities  and  the  project's  plan  and  to  provide  for 
building  occupants  in  the  event  of  an  emergency.  The  project  plan  would  be 
reviewed  by  the  Office  of  Emergency  Services  and  implemented  by  building 
management  insofar  as  feasible  before  issuance  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Works  of  final  building  permits. 

•  To  expedite  implementation  of  the  City's  emergency  response  plan,  the  project 
sponsor  would  prominently  post  information  for  building  occupants  concerning 
what  to  do  in  the  event  of  a  disaster. 


WATER  QUALITY 


MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

•      See  the  second  and  third  measures  under  Geology /Topography /Hydrology,  above, 
for  mitigation  proposed  to  prevent  sediment  from  entering  storm  sewers. 


HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 


MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

•      A  Site  Remediation  Plan  has  been  prepared  to  manage  cleanup  of  soils 

contaminated  with  lead,  petroleum,  and  polynuclear  aromatic  hydrocarbons.  The 
remediation  plan  provides  for  collection  of  approximately  thirty  soil  samples.  - 
spaced  in  a  grid  pattern  across  the  site  and  analyzed  for  the  three  contaminants  of 
concern.  Additional  samples  would  be  collected  and  tested  in  areas  found  to  be 
contaminated,  especially  in  the  vicinity  of  test  sample  TB-2.  The  remediation 
plan  includes  provisions  to  minimize  threats  to  public  health  and  the  environment 
that  might  result  from  handling  the  hazardous  soil,  including  a  dust  control 
program,  provisions  for  stockpiling,  testing,  and  disposal  of  the  hazardous  soil, 
and  verification  testing  of  soil  substrate.  At  the  completion  of  remediation,  all 
hazardous  wastes  identified  in  the  excavation  area  would  have  been  relocated  and 
properly  disposed,  and  any  hazardous  wastes  remaining  in  the  underlying  soils 
would  be  slated  for  encapsulation  on  the  site  (paved  over).  The  remediation  plan 
has  been  submitted  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  for  review 
and  certified  by  an  independent  third  party ./!/ 


101 


V.  Mitigation  Measures 


A  site-specific  Health  and  Safety  Plan  has  been  prepared  and  would  be 
implemented  before  site  activities  would  proceed.  The  plan,  which  is  applicable 
to  all  activities  at  the  site  prior  to  completion  of  remediation,  establishes  policies 
and  procedures  to  protect  workers  from  potential  hazards  posed  by  hazardous 
wastes.  The  Health  and  Safety  Plan  has  been  prepared  according  to  National 
Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  guideline s;/2/  it  has  been  submitted 
to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  for  their  examination  and 
incorporated  into  the  Site  Remediation  Plan. 

A  geotechnical  survey  would  be  performed  during  site  preparation  to  locate  all 
underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  on  the  property,  including  those  under  the 
sidewalks.  In  accordance  with  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health 
regulations,  all  USTs  on  the  site  would  be  remediated  under  the  supervision  of  the 
Health  Inspector  for  underground  storage  tanks.  BAAQMD  Regulation  8, 
Rule  40,  "Aeration  of  Contaminated  Soil  and  Removal  of  Underground  Storage 
Tanks,"  would  apply  during  underground  storage  tank  removal  or  handling  of  soil 
contaminated  with  petroleum  or  other  volatile  organic  chemicals.  Tank  removal 
would  be  done  in  coordination  with  the  San  Francisco  Fire  Department. 

•  The  project  sponsor  would  employ  licensed  hazardous  waste  specialists  to  handle 
the  project's  hazardous  waste  disposal  needs  in  order  to  promote  application  of 
most  modem,  effective  and  efficient  methods  of  waste  treatment  and  disposal. 

•  A  closure  report  describing  the  remediation  process  and  certifying  completion  of 
remediation  would  be  prepared  by  a  Registered  Environmental  Assessor, 
registered  engineer,  or  registered  geologist.  The  closure  report  is  a  requirement 
of  the  remediation  plan.  The  report  would  contain  full  remediation 
documentation,  including  chain-of-custody  forms,  laboratory  analysis  reports,  and 
hazardous  waste  transport  manifests.  The  report  would  be  submitted  to  the 

San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health. 

NOTES  -  Mitigation  Measures 

III   The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  prepared  by  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  in  October  1991  and 
reviewed  and  certified  by  Levine-Fricke  in  November  1991,  is  on  file  at  the 
Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister 
Street,  San  Francisco. 

Ill  National  Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health,  Occupational  Safety  and 
Health  Guidance  Manual  for  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Activities,  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services,  DHHS  Publication  No.  85-115,  October,  1985. 


102 


VI.  SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS  THAT  CANNOT  BE 
AVOIDED  IF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  IS  IMPLEMENTED 


mm 


In  accordance  with  Section  21067  of  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act 
(CEQA),  and  with  Section  15040,  15081  and  15082  of  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines,  the 
purpose  of  this  chapter  is  to  identify  impacts  that  could  not  be  eliminated  or  reduced  to 
an  insignificant  level  by  mitigation  measures  included  as  part  of  the  proposed  project, 
or  by  other  mitigation  measures  that  could  be  implemented,  as  described  in  Chapter  V. 
Mitigation  Measures,  pp.  96-102. 

Traffic  increases  resulting  from  the  proposed  project  would  cause  the  p.m.  peak  hour 
level  of  service  at  the  intersection  of  Eleventh  and  Harrison  Streets  to  decline  from 
LOS  C  to  LOS  D  during  the  average  month,  which  would  not  be  considered  a 
significant  impact.  However,  the  p.m.  peak  hour  level  of  service  at  this  intersection 
would  further  decline  to  LOS  E  during  the  peak  month,  which  would  be  considered  a 
significant  impact. 

Cumulative  development  in  the  South  of  Market  Area  would  have  a  significant  effect 
on  the  environment  in  that  it  would  generate  cumulative  traffic  increases.  This 
cumulative  transportation  impact  could  cause  violations  of  the  emission  standards  for 
fine  particulate  matter  in  San  Francisco  with  concomitant  health  effects.  The  proposed 
project  would  contribute  to  this  cumulative  effect. 

The  project  would  increase  the  population  on  the  site  above  existing  conditions  that 
would  be  subject  to  substantial  danger  during  a  major  earthquake.  Although  the 
project  would  meet  the  most  current  building  and  seismic  engineering  requirements  of 
the  San  Francisco  Building  Code,  greater  concentrations  of  people  would  be 
susceptible  to  injury.  Such  population  also  would  contribute  to  congestion  which, 
along  with  the  debris  in  the  streets,  would  impede  the  access  of  emergency  services 
responding  to  fire  and  other  earthquake-related  emergencies. 


103 


VII   ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 


This  chapter  identifies  alternatives  to  the  proposed  project,  discusses  environmental 
impacts  associated  with  these  alternatives,  and  gives  the  reasons  the  alternatives  were 
rejected  in  favor  of  the  project.  Regardless  of  the  sponsor's  reasons  for  rejection,  the 
City  Planning  Commission  could  approve  an  alternative  instead  of  the  proposed 
project  if  the  Commission  believed  the  alternative  would  be  more  appropriate  for  the 
site. 


A  ALTERNATIVE  A:  NO  PROJECT 


DESCRIPTION 

This  alternative  would  entail  no  change  to  the  site.  The  proposed  project  would  not  be 
built.  The  parking  lot  on  the  site  would  be  retained. 


IMPACTS 


If  the  No  Project  Alternative  were  implemented,  none  of  the  impacts  associated  with 
the  project  would  occur.  The  environmental  characteristics  of  this  alternative  would 
be  generally  as  described  in  the  Environmental  Setting  sections  of  this  report  (see 
Chapter  III.  Environmental  Setting,  pp.  25  to  48,  for  a  discussion  of  existing 
conditions).  Transportation  and  noise  impacts  associated  with  construction  of  the 
project  would  not  occur.  Transportation  and  air  quality  conditions  (as  described  in 
Chapter  IV.  Environmental  Impacts,  pp.  49  to  95)  as  base  conditions  with  cumulative 
development,  but  without  the  project,  would  continue  to  exist  around  the  site.  There 
would  be  no  change  in  energy  demand  on  the  site.  Employment  on  the  site  would  not 
increase  as  it  would  with  the  project.  Housing  would  not  be  developed  on  the  site 
under  this  alternative.  Land  uses  would  not  change.  This  alternative  would  contribute 
to  cumulative  impacts  on  transportation  at  local  intersections  and  to  additional  air 
quality  impacts  in  as  much  as  the  existing  public  parking  use  of  the  site  would 
continue.  However,  the  magnitude  of  impact  would  be  less  than  that  generated  by  the 
project.  This  alternative  would  preserve  the  option  to  develop  a  similar  or  different 
type  of  project  on  the  site  in  the  future. 


104 


VII.  Alternatives 


STATUS  OF  TfflS  ALTERNATIVE 

This  alternative  was  rejected  by  the  project  sponsor  because  it  would  not  use  the 
development  potential  of  the  site  allowable  under  the  South  of  Market  Plan. 

B.  ALTERNATIVE  B:  COSTCO  STORE  ONLY 

DESCRIPTION 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  the  retail  component  of  the  project,  and  would  not 
contain  any  housing.  The  site  would  be  developed  with  1 18,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space, 
4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space,  and  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  parking 
(about  720  spaces).  As  with  the  proposed  project,  an  additional  170  parking  spaces 
could  be  constructed  at  a  later  date.  As  with  the  proposed  project,  parking  in  excess  of 
651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a 
principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or 
visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  As  this  alternative  would  not  contain  any 
housing,  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  residential  use  would  not  be  required. 

As  with  the  project,  the  Costco  Wholesale  store  would  be  elevated  on  a  podium  on  the 
southern  portion  of  the  site  (along  Bryant  Street)  with  parking  located  below  and 
adjacent  to  the  store  (see  Figure  11).  The  FAR  of  this  alternative  would  be  0.55:1,  the 
same  as  for  the  retail  component  of  the  proposed  project. 

IMPACTS 

The  building  envelope  of  this  alternative  would  be  the  same  as  with  the  proposed 
project.  Therefore,  visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  project.  Construction  noise  impacts  for  this  alternative  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  proposed  project,  as  the  construction  duration  would  be  about  the 
same.  The  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous 
materials  or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  for  this  alternative  and  for  the 
proposed  project,  as  a  similar  amount  of  site  excavation  and  grading  would  be 
expected. 

This  alternative  would  have  the  same  retail -related  trip  generation  as  the  proposed 
project  (about  5,840  weekday  trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under  normal 

105 


VII.  Alternatives 


— — —  '  — —  Costco  Wholesale  ■ 

SOURCE  Heller  and  Leake 

Figure  11 

Alternative  B: 
Costco  Store  Only 


106 


VII.  Alternatives 


circumstances,  and  about  7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday  trips  during 
the  peak  month).  This  alternative  would  not  have  the  residential-related  trip 
generation  identified  for  the  project  (about  210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips). 
Consequently,  traffic  and  air  quality  effects  on  local  intersections  would  be 
incrementally  lower  under  this  alternative. 

As  with  the  project,  this  alternative  would  provide  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part 
time  jobs.  No  new  dwelling  units  would  be  added  to  the  site  under  this  alternative,  and 
thus  affordable  housing  would  not  be  added  to  the  area.  Growth-inducing  impacts  of 
this  alternative  would  be  similar  to  the  retail-related  impacts  identified  for  the  project. 

STATUS  OF  THIS  ALTERNATIVE 

The  project  sponsor  would  like  to  reserve  the  right  to  consider  this  alternative. 

C.  ALTERNATIVE  C:  REDUCED  PARKTNG 

DESCRIPTION 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  the  same  types  and  amounts  of  uses  as  the  proposed 
project  except  that  the  retail  component  of  the  project  would  include  about  650  rather 
than  720  parking  spaces.  The  square  footage  of  the  retail  component's  parking  area 
would  be  the  same  as  with  the  proposed  project,  but  the  configuration  of  parking 
spaces  within  the  area  would  yield  about  650  rather  than  720  spaces.  Although  the 
parking  area  would  only  accommodate  about  650  spaces  under  this  alternative  due  to 
planning  and  technical  considerations,  the  overall  building  envelope  of  the  parking 
structure  would  be  the  same  as  for  the  proposed  project.  The  site  would  be  developed 
with  118,500  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  4,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  480  sq.  ft.  of  open 
space,  and  346,970  sq.  ft.  of  parking.  The  site  would  also  be  developed  with  60  to  80 
dwelling  units  above  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces.  As  with  the  proposed 
project,  an  additional  parking  level  (containing  about  150  parking  spaces  for  this 
alternative)  could  be  constructed  at  a  later  date.  Such  additional  parking,  in  excess  of 
651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces),  could  be  provided  as  a 
principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or 
visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code. 


107 


VII.  Alternatives 


As  with  the  project,  the  Costco  Wholesale  store  would  be  elevated  on  a  podium  on  the 
southern  portion  of  the  site  (along  Bryant  Street)  with  parking  located  below  and 
adjacent  to  the  store.  The  FAR  of  this  alternative  would  be  0.55:1,  the  same  as  for  the 
proposed  project. 

IMPACTS 

The  building  envelope  of  this  alternative  would  be  the  same  as  with  the  proposed 
project.  Therefore,  visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  project.  Construction  noise  impacts  for  this  alternative  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  proposed  project,  as  the  construction  duration  would  be  about  the 
same.  The  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous 
materials  or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  for  this  alternative  and  for  the 
proposed  project,  as  a  similar  amount  of  site  excavation  and  grading  would  be 
expected. 

This  alternative  would  have  the  same  retail -related  trip  generation  as  the  proposed 
project  (about  5,840  weekday  trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under  normal 
circumstances,  and  about  7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday  trips  during 
the  peak  month).  This  alternative  would  also  have  the  same  residential-related  trip 
generation  identified  for  the  project  (about  210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips). 

The  proposed  parking  supply  of  650  spaces  for  the  retail  component  of  the  project 
would  yield  an  effective  parking  supply  of  about  585  effective  spaces  after  application 
of  the  90%  efficiency  factor  described  on  pp.  72-73  of  the  EIR.  Based  on  an  effective 
supply  of  about  585  parking  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  surplus  of  75  parking 
spaces  under  average  month  weekday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  40  spaces  under 
average  month  Saturday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  60  spaces  under  peak  month 
weekday  conditions,  and  a  deficit  of  about  205  spaces  under  peak  month  Saturday 
conditions. 

During  weekday  conditions,  on-street  facilities  in  the  project  area  are  operating  at 
effective  capacity  (more  than  90%  occupied)  during  the  midday  peak  period.  Spillover 
from  Costco  would  be  forced  to  compete  for  these  parking  spaces  and  would  impact 
parking  conditions  in  the  area.  The  estimated  weekday  spillover  of  60  spaces  would 
likely  result  in  queues  forming  at  the  access  points  to  the  project,  and  circling 
activities  as  vehicles  wait  for  parking  spaces  within  or  adjacent  to  the  project  to  vacate. 


108 


VII.  Alternatives 


During  weekend  and  holiday  periods,  on-street  parking  in  the  area  of  the  project  is 
estimated  at  55%  occupied  indicating  that  an  estimated  825  on-street  spaces  are 
available  in  the  study  area.  The  estimated  Saturday  deficit  of  about  205  spaces  would 
exceed  the  number  of  on-street  spaces  in  the  immediate  area  of  the  project  and  some 
Costco  patrons  would  likely  park  up  to  two  blocks  from  the  site,  wait  within  the 
parking  lot  for  spaces  to  become  available,  or  queue  on  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets  to 
enter  the  parking  lot.  This  condition  would  prevail  for  weekends  between 
Thanksgiving  and  New  Year's  as  well  as  for  other  relatively  heavy  shopping  weekends 
scattered  throughout  the  year.  The  queuing  and  circling  activities  described  above 
could  contribute  to  short-term,  temporary  reductions  in  area  intersection  LOS. 

During  peak  month  weekday  and  peak  month  Saturday  conditions,  when  parking 
demand  would  exceed  the  sum  of  on-site  supply  and  on-street  supply  on  adjacent 
blocks,  the  resulting  parking  spillover  would  impact  parking  conditions  at  existing 
uses  in  the  area.  On-street  parking  adjacent  to  the  Costco  would  be  full  and  patrons  of 
other  businesses  in  the  area,  who  compete  for  on-street  parking  spaces  during  existing 
weekday  conditions  and  park  with  little  difficulty  during  existing  Saturday  conditions, 
would  be  forced  to  share  the  existing  supply  with  Costco  patrons. 

The  above-described  parking  deficits  and  resultant  off-site  queuing  and  traffic 
disruption  would  not  constitute  a  significant  environmental  impact  due  to  its  small  size 
(in  the  case  of  average  Saturdays  and  peak  weekdays)  and  limited  times  of  year  (in  the 
case  of  greater  parking  deficits  on  peak  shopping  weekends). 


•  108a 


VTI.  Alternatives 


As  with  the  project,  this  alternative  would  provide  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part 
time  jobs.  Growth-inducing  impacts  of  this  alternative  would  be  similar  to  those 
identified  for  the  project. 

STATUS  OF  THIS  ALTERNATIVE 

The  project  sponsor  would  like  to  reserve  the  right  to  consider  this  alternative. 
D.  ALTERNATIVE  D:  HOUSING  WITH  PUBLIC  OPEN  SPACE 
DESCRIPTION 

This  alternative  would  consist  of  approximately  1,075  dwelling  units,  1,075 
residential -serving  parking  spaces,  and  10,000  sq.  ft.  of  publicly  accessible  open  space 
to  primarily  serve  residents  that  would  occupy  the  site  under  this  alternative  (see 
Figure  1 2).  This  alternative  would  not  contain  any  retail  uses.  This  alternative  would 
have  a  dwelling  unit  density  of  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  (excluding  the 
10,000  sq.  ft.  that  would  be  used  for  public  open  space),  the  allowable  dwelling  unit 
density  for  the  site.  As  with  the  proposed  project,  residential  use  would  be  subject  to 
Conditional  Use  authorization. 

The  Recreation  and  Open  Space  Element  of  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan  identifies 
the  South  of  Market  area  as  a  "high  need  area"  for  public  open  space,  and  the  South  of 
Market  Plan,  an  Area  Plan  contained  within  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan,  identifies 
the  project  site  as  one  of  two  proposed  large  park  opportunity  sites  in  the  South  of 
Market  area./l/  The  10,000  sq.  ft.  of  publicly  accessible  open  space  included  in  this 
alternative  would  be  in  addition  to  private  open  space  required  for  residential  units  by 
Section  135(d)  of  the  City  Planning  Code,  and  could  serve  residents  in  areas  adjacent 
to  the  project  site. 

IMPACTS 

The  building  envelope  of  this  alternative  would  be  the  same  as  with  the  proposed 
project.  Therefore,  visibility  of  this  alternative  in  mid-  and  long-range  views  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  project.  Construction  noise  impacts  for  this  alternative  would  be 
the  same  as  with  the  proposed  project,  as  the  construction  duration  would  be  about  the 


109 


VII.  Alternatives 


SOURCE:  Heller  wdLeike  :   Costco  ■ 

Figure  12 

Alternative  D: 
Housing  with  Public  Open  Space 


110 


VII.  Alternatives 


same.  The  potential  during  construction  for  encountering  subsurface  hazardous 
materials  or  cultural  resources  would  be  similar  for  this  alternative  and  for  the 
proposed  project,  as  a  similar  amount  of  site  excavation  and  grading  would  be 
expected. 

Trip  generation  under  this  alternative  would  be  about  2,820  weekday  and  Saturday 
vehicle  trips,  lower  than  the  combined  retail  and  residential  vehicle  trips  identified  for 
the  project  (about  6,050  weekday  trips  and  about  6,850  Saturday  trips  under  normal 
circumstances  and  about  8,010  weekday  trips  and  about  9,010  Saturday  trips  during 
the  peak  month).  Consequently,  traffic  and  air  quality  effects  on  local  intersections 
would  be  correspondingly  lower  under  this  alternative. 

This  alternative  would  provide  approximately  1,075  dwelling  units,  about  995-1,015 
more  than  the  proposed  project.  Assuming  no  vacancies,  approximately  1,720-3,010 
persons  would  be  expected  to  live  in  housing  provided  in  this  alternative,  as  opposed 
to  125-225  persons  expected  to  be  accommodated  by  the  residential  component  of  the 
proposed  project.  As  this  alternative  would  not  contain  any  retail  use,  it  would  not 
provide  the  75-85  full  time  jobs  and  75-85  part  time  jobs  associated  with  the  retail 
component  of  the  project. 

As  this  alternative  could  result  in  a  greater  increase  in  residents  on  the  site  than  the 
project,  there  could  be  an  increase  in  demand  for  retail  goods  and  business  service  in 
the  project  area  over  that  expected  for  the  project. 

STATUS  OF  THIS  ALTERNATIVE 

This  alternative  has  been  rejected  by  the  project  sponsor  because  it  would  not  further 
the  Costco  Wholesale  Corporation  goal  of  providing  a  Costco  store  in  San  Francisco 
and  thus  not  meet  the  project  objectives. 

NOTE  -  Alternatives 

l\l   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Recreation  and  Open  Space,  an 
Element  of  the  Master  Plan,  July  1987,  and  South  of  Market  Plan,  an  Area  Plan 
of  the  Master  Plan,  April  1990. 


Ill 


Vm.  DRAFT  EIR  DISTRIBUTION  LIST 


FEDERAL  AND  STATE  AGENCIES 

Northwest  Information  Center 
California  Archaeological  Inventory 
Department  of  Anthropology 
Sonoma  State  University 
Rohnert  Park,  CA  94928 
Attn:  Christian  Gerike 

California  Department  of  Transportation 

Transportation  Planning 

P.O.  Box  7310 

San  Francisco,  CA  94120 

Attn:  Gary  Adams 

California  Department  of  Transportation 

Public  Transportation  Branch 

P.O.Box  7310 

San  Francisco,  CA  94120 

Attn:  William  Chastain 

State  Office  of  Intergovernmental 

Management 
State  Clearinghouse 
1400  -  Tenth  Street 
Sacramento,  C A  95814 


REGIONAL  AGENCIES 

Association  of  Bay  Area 

Governments 
P.O.  Box  2050 
Oakland,  CA  94604 
Attn:  Sally  Germain 


CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF 
SAN  FRANCISCO 

Bureau  of  Building  Inspection 
450  McAllister  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Larry  Litchfield, 
Superintendent 


CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF 
SAN  FRANCISCO  (Continued) 

Landmarks  Preservation 

Advisory  Board 
450  McAllister  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Vincent  Marsh,  Secretary 

Alice  Ross  Carey 

Jean  E.  Kortum 

Ina  Dearman 

Anne  Bloomfield 

Hisashi  Bill  Sugaya 

Michael  F.  Crowe 

David  M.  Hartley 

Enid  Ng  Lim 

Ronald  A.  Dudum 

Mayor's  Office  of  Community 

Development 
10  United  Nations  Plaza 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Larry  Del  Carlo 

Mayor's  Office  of  Housing 
10  United  Nations  Plaza 
San  Francisco,  C A  94102 
Attn:  Barbara  Smith 

Mayor's  Office  of  Business  & 

Economic  Development 
100  Larkin  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  James  Ho 

Public  Utilities  Commission 
Bureau  of  Energy  Conservation 
1 10  McAllister  Street,  Room  402 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  John  Deakin,  Director 

Public  Utilities  Commission 
Room  287,  City  Hall 
San  Francisco,  C A  94102 
Attn:  Thomas  J.  Elzey,  General 
Manager 


112 


VET  Distribution  List 


C7TY  ANT  CUNTY  :?  5  AN  FRANCISCO  .Continued  I 


Recreation  &.  Park  Department 

McLaren  Lodge 

Golden  Gate  Park 

Pel!  ir.i  Star.-,  it.  Sreers 

San  Francisco  .  C  A  94117. 

Am  Deborah  Learner 

Police  Department 
Planning  Division 
Hall  Of  Justice 

5-  it.:  Sree: 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 
Attn:  Lt  Thomas  W  Suttemeier 

Sir.  rrirns::  C:r.  F.^rrir.z  Crrrrr>>::r. 
45  J  McAllister  Street 
5ir.  r:ir.  ::>::.  CA  jZ 
Attn:  Linda  Avery.  S\  ■  iilii  j 

Susan  J.  Biennan 

E  z'-'-  iri  >e~*  e_ 

Douglas  Engmann 

Wayne  Jackson  Hu.  President 

James  B  Morales 

Norman  Karasick.  Alternate 

Romanic  Boldndge.  Alternate 

San  Francisco  Department  of 

Public  Works 
Division  of  Streets  &  Mapping 
Cmy  Hall.  Room  359 
San  Francisco.  C A  94102 
Arm:  Tim  A  Molinare 

Division  of  General  Engineering 
.  6«  \  Mission  St..  2nd  Floor 
San  Francisco.  CA  94 1  [  3 
Ar.    ?.i yrr. 'A  :rz 

San  Francisco  Department  of 

Parking  and  Traffic 
Traffic  Engineering  Division 

:  M;Ali::t:  5 ret: 
San  Francisco.  CA  94102 
Attn:  Gordon  Chester 

San  Francisco  Fire  Department 
Division  of  Planning 

and  Research 
260  Golden  Gate  Avenue 
San  Francisco.  CA  94102 
Arm:  Howard  L.  Slater 


San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway 
MUNI  Planning  Division 
949  Presidio  Avenue.  Room  204 
San  Francisco.  CA  94115 
Ann:  Peter  Straus 

San  Francisco  Public  Utilities 

Commission 
425  Mason  St..  4th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  C A  94102 
Arm:  Bruce  Bemhard 

San  Francisco  Real  Estate 

Department 
25  Van  Ness  Avenue.  4th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Tony  Delucchi. 

Director  of  Property 

Water  Department 

Distribution  Division 

-25  Mason  Street 

San  Francisco.  CA  94102 

Ann:  Hans  Bruno.  Assistant  Manager 


GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS 
AIA 

San  Francisco  Chapter 

130  Sutter  Street 

San  Francisco.  CA  94104 

John  Bardis 

Sunset  Action  Committee 
1501  Lincoln  Way.  #503 
San  Francisco,  CA  94122 

Barkley  <k  Lee 

The  Mills  Building.  Suite  691 
220  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco.  CA  94104 
Arm:  Alice  Suet  Yee  Barkeley 

Bav  Area  Council 

200  Pine  Street,  Suite  300 

San  Francisco.  CA  94104-2702 

Albert  Beck 

c/o  Geography  Department 
California  State  University,  Chico 
Chico,  CA  95929 


113 


\TQ.  Distribution  List 


GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS  (Continued 

Bendrx  Environmental  Research.  Inc. 
1390  Market  Street.  Suite  418 
San  Francisco.  CA  94102 

Breitman  Companv 
120  Howard  Street,  Suite  440 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 
Attn:  Frank  Young 

Michael  Dyed 

Blayney-Dyett 

70  Zoe  Street 

San  Francisco.  CA  9410? 

Bruce  Breitman 
The  Breitman  Company 
120  Howard  Street.  Suite  440 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 

Georgia  Brittan 

870  Market  Street.  Room  1119 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Brobeck  Phleger  &  Harrison 
One  Market  Plaza 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 
Ann:  Susan  R.  Diamond 

Assemblyman  John  Burton 
711  Van  Ness  Avenue.  Suite  300 
San  Francisco.  CA  94102 
Attn:  Leanna  Dawydiak 

Cahill  Contractors.  Inc. 
425  California  St..  #2300 
San  Francisco.  C A  94104 
Attn:  Jay  Cahill 

Chic  a  so  Title 
388  Market  Street.  13th  Fl. 
San  Francisco.  C A  94111 
Attn:  Carol  Lester 

Chickering  &  Gregory 
2  Embarcadero  Center.  7th  Floor 
San  Francisco.  C A  94111 
Ann:  Kent  Soule 

Chinatown  Resource  Center 

1525  Grant  Ave. 

San  Francisco.  CA  94133 


David  Cincona 

1388  Sutter  St..  Suite  900 

San  Francisco.  C A  94102 

Coalition  for  San  Francisco 

Neighborhoods 
Mrs.  Donee  Murphy 
175  Yukon  Street 
San  Francisco.  C A  94114 

Coldwell  Banker 

275  Batten-  Street  #1300H 

San  Francisco.  C A  94111-3305 

Joseph  Cortiz 

2853  22nd  Street 

San  Francisco.  C A  94110 

Cushman  &  Wakefield  of  California.  I 
Bank  of  .America  Center 
555  California  Street.  Suite  2700 
San  Francisco.  CA  94104 
Attn:  Wayne  Stiefvater. 
Lawrence  Farrell 

DKS  Associates 

1956  Webster  Street.  «?00 

Oakland.  CA  94612 

Davis.  Reno  &  Courtney 
90  New  Montgomery  Street.  Suite  909 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105-3436 
Attn:  Vincent  J.  Courtney.  Jr 

Downtown  .Association 
582  Market  Street 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 
Attn:  Mr.  Lee  Dolson 

Economic  Opportunities  Council 
District  5 

759A  Minna  Street 

San  Francisco.  CA  04 103 

Attn:  Lee  Meyerzove 

EIP  Associates 
150  Spear  Street.  #1500 
San  Francisco.  CA  94105 
Attn:  Barbara  Phillip > 


114 


VIII.  Distribution  List 


GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS  (Continued) 

Fan  &  Associates 
Architecture  &  Planning,  Inc. 
580  Market  Street,  Suite  300 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Robert  Fan 

Farella,  Braun  &  Martel 
235  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn.  Sandra  Lambert 

Food  and  Fuel  Retailers  for 

Economic  Equality 
770  L  Street,  Suite  960 
Sacramento,  CA  95814 
Attn:  Doug  Stevens, 

State  Coordinator 

The  Foundation  for  San  Francisco's 

Architectural  Heritage 
2007  Franklin  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94109 
Attn:  Mark  Ryser 

Executive  Director 

Gensler  and  Associates 
550  Kearney  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn:  Peter  Gordon 

Goldfarb  &  Lipman 
One  Montgomery  Street 
West  Tower,  23rd  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Paula  Crow 

Greenwood  Press,  Inc. 
P.O.  Box  5007 
Westport,  Conn  06881-9990 
Attn:  Eric  LeStrange 

Gruen,  Gruen  &  Associates 

564  Howard  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

David  Heindel,  Real  Estate  Specialist 

Mayor's  Office  of  Business 

100  Larkin  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 


Valerie  Hersey 
Munsell  Brown 
950  Battery  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94111 

Sue  Hestor 

Attorney  at  Law 

870  Market  Street,  Room  1121 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

The  Jefferson  Company 
1700  California  Street,  #470 
San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

Kaplan/McLaughlin/Diaz 
222  Vallejo  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Attn:  Jan  Vargo 

Larry  Mansbach 

595  Market  Street,  Suite  2500 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

McGuire  Company 
1201  Bryant  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn:  John  McGuire 

Cliff  Miller 

970  Chestnut  St.,  #3 

San  Francisco,CA  94109 

George  Miers  &  Associates 
420  Sutter  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 
Attn:  Marty  Zwick 

Morrison  &  Foerster 
345  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94104 
Attn:  Jacob  Herber 

National  Lawyers  Guild 
558  Capp  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94110 
Attn:  ReginaSneed 

Nichols-Berman 

142  Minna  Street 

San  Francisco,  C A  94105 

Attn:  Louise  Nichols 


115 


VTQ.  Distribution  List 

GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS  (Continued) 


Pacific  Stock  Exchange 
301  Pine  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Dale  Carleson 

Page  &  Tumbull 

364  Bush  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Perini  Corporation 

75  Broadway 

San  Francisco,  CA  94111 

Attn:  Christopher  Scales 

Peftit  &  Martin 

101  California  Street,  35th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94114 
Attn:  John  M.  Sanger 

Pillsbury,  Madison  &  Sutro 
P.O.  Box  7880 
San  Francisco,  CA  94120 
Attn:  Marilyn  L.  Siems 

Planning  Analysis  &  Development 
530  Chestnut  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94133 
Attn:  Gloria  Root 

Mrs.  G.  Bland  Piatt 
362  Ewing  Terrace 
San  Francisco,  CA  94118 

RB  International  Services 
9  Boston  Ship  Plaza 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Attn:  RitaDorst 

Ramsay /Bass  Interest 
3756  Grant  Avenue,  Suite  301 
Oakland,  C A  94610 
Attn:  Peter  Bass 

Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney 
90  New  Montgomery  Street,  #909 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105-3436 
Attn:  Chris  Reilly 

Capital  Planning  Department 
UCSF 

145  Irving  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94122 

Attn:  Bob  Rhine 


David  Rhoades  &  Associates 
400  Montgomery  St.,  Suite  604 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Bruce  W.  Jones 

Rockerfeller  &  Assoc.  Realty  L.P. 
Four  Embarcadero,  Suite  2600 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 

Rothschild  &  Associates 
244  California  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Attn:  Thomas  N.  Foster 

Royal  Lepage  Commercial 

Real  Estate  Services 
353  Sacramento  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Attn:  Richard  Livermore 

Royal  Title 

1  California  Street,  Suite  2200 
San  Francisco,  CA  94 1 1 1 
Attn:  Jim  Garvin 

The  Rubicon  Group 
351  California  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  C A  94104 
Attn:  Kenneth  T.  Sproul 

San  Francisco  Beautiful 
41  Sutter  Street,  #709 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Donna  Casey, 
Executive  Director 

San  Francisco  Building  and 

Construction  Trades  Council 
2660  Newhall  Street,  Room  1 16 
San  Francisco,  C A  94124-2527 
Attn:  Stanley  Smith 

San  Francisco  Chamber  of  Commerce 
465  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Richard  Morten 

San  Francisco  Labor  Council 
510  Harrison  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105-3104 
Attn:  Walter  Johnson 


116 


Vm.  Distribution  List 


GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS  (Continued) 


San  Francisco  Planning  & 

Urban  Research  Association 
312  Sutter  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 


TRI 

100  Pine  Street,  Suite  2300 
San  Francisco,  OA  941 1 1 
Attn:  Bruce  Raful 


San  Francisco  Tomorrow 
942  Market,  Room  505 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Tony  Kilroy 

Sedway  Cooke  Associates 

101  Howard  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

Shartsis,  Freise  &  Ginsburg 
One  Maritime  Plaza,  18th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Attn:  Dave  Kremer 

Sierra  Club 

730  Polk  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

Attn:  John  Holtzclaw 

Skidmore  Owings  &  Merrill 
333  Bush  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 
Attn:  Jerry  Goldberg 

Solem  &  Associates 
545  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 
Attn:  Olive  Lewis 

South  of  Market  Business  Association 
520  Third  Street,  #505 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn   Trisha  James 

South  of  Market  Community  Association 
109  Minna  Street,  #439 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn:  Michael  Valerio 

Square  One  Film  &  Video 

725  Filbert  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

Steefel,  Levitt  &  Weiss 
199  First  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 
Attn:  Robert  S.  Tandler 


Jerry  Tone 

Montgomery  Capital  Corp. 
244  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94111 

Jon  Twichell  Associates 
143  Connecticut  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

Joel  Ventresca 

202  Grattan  Street 

San  Francisco,  C A  94117 

Steven  Weicker 

899  Pine  Street,  #1610 

San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Calvin  Welch 

Council  of  Community  Housing 

Organizations 
409  Clayton  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 17 

Whisler-Patri 
P.  O.  Box  7054 

San  Francisco,  CA  94120-7054 
Attn:  Marie  Zeller 

Wilbur  Smith  Associates 
360  22nd  Street,  Suite  600 
Oakland,  C A  94612 
Attn:  Mark  Wagner 

Eunice  Willette 
1323  Gilman  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Bethea  Wilson  &  Associates 
Art  in  Architecture 
2028  Scott,  Suite  204 
San  Francisco,  CA  94115 

ADJACENT  PROPERTY  OWNERS 

3525/063 

Epstein,  Harold 

Epstein  Harold  Trustee 

477  10th  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


117 


Vm.  Distribution  List 


ADJACENT  PROPERTY  OWNERS  (Continued) 
3519/017 

Kennedy,  Daniel  E.  &  Norma  M. 
Tenth  &  Harrison  Car  Wash 
1394  Harrison  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3520/013 

Kem,  Robert  B. 

Figone  Albert  J.  Jr. 

380  10th  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

3525/059 
Tingley,  Margery 
Mullinix,  Sally/John  Skor 
395 1  Sacramento  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94118 

3525/085 

Barnes,  Norman  &  Jeannett 

449  10th  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3523/012 
Levin,  Henry 
Grossman,  Mildred 
1204  Burlingame  Avenue 
Burlingame,  CA  94010 

3525/068 
Borg,  Marie 
Ramazzotti,  Arian 
1473  Vallejo  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

3520/015 

Jukich,  Frank  D.  &  Maria  T. 

Jukich,  Joseph  N. 

325  Ponderosa  Road 

So.  San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

3526/017 
State  Property 
Caltrans  Headquarters 
3333  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94118 

3520/019 

Lerer,  Laura 

201  Chestnut  Street 

San  Francisco,  C A  94103 


3525/057 
Plack,  Leslie 
Arge,  Doris 

1245  Broadway  Street,  #2 
San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

3528/001 

CAAC  Acquisition,  Inc. 

Alan  Shiftier  -  McGuire  Company 

1201  Bryant  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3523/001 

Borel,  Bank  &  Trust  Co.  TRSTEE 

Leroy,  Eugene  R. 

160  Boret  Road 

San  Mateo,  CA  94402 

3525/067 

Murray  Allan  and  Dolores 

415  10th  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3525/067 

Murray  Paul  and  Rita 

P.O.Box  77571 

San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

3520/051 

S.  F.  Unified  School  District 
135  Van  Ness  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  C A  94102 

3521/013 

Fred  Alexander  Company 

695  B  3rd  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  C A  94118 

3525/060 

Lobensteen  Judith  I  Trust 
McDonald  Elevator  Company 
260  Dore  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3525/056 

Cronin,  Patrick  &  Mary 
McKeon,  John  &  Mary 
1190  Bryant  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

3525/065 
Stoupe,  Yvonne 
2926  Pierce 

San  Francisco.  CA  94123 


118 


VIQ.  Distribution  List 


PROJECT  SPONSOR 


MEDIA  (Continued) 


Costco  Wholesale  Corporation 
10809  120th  Avenue,  N.E. 
Kirkland,WA  98033 
Attn:  JeffBrotman 


PROJECT  SPONSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVE 

Wahl  &  Associates 
710  Market  Place  Tower 
2025  First  Avenue 
Seattle,  WA  98121 
Attn:  Peter  Papadopulos 


PROJECT  ARCHITECT 

Heller  &  Leake 
222  Sutter  Street,  Suite  900 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 
Attn:  Clark  Manus 


San  Francisco  Chronicle 
925  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn:  IngfeiChen 

San  Francisco  Examiner 
P.O.  Box  7260 
San  Francisco,  CA  94120 
Attn:  Gerald  Adams 

The  Sun  Reporter 

1366  Turk  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94115 

Tenderloin  Times 
146  Leavenworth  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Rob  Waters 


LIBRARIES 


PROJECT  ATTORNEY 

Coblentz,  Cahen,  McCabe  &  Breyer 
222  Kearney  Street,  7th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 
Attn:  Pamela  Duffy 

Costco  Wholesale  Corporation 
10809  120th  Avenue,  N.E. 
Kirkland,  WA  98033 
Attn:  John  Osterhaus 


MEDIA 

Associated  Press 
1390  Market  Street,  Suite  318 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Bill  Shiffman 

San  Francisco  Bay  Guardian 
2700  -  Nineteenth  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 
Attn:  Patrick  Douglas,  City  Editor 

San  Francisco  Business  Times 
325  -  5th  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 
Attn:  Tim  Turner 


Document  Library 
City  Library  -  Civic  Center 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
Attn:  Faith  Van  Liere 

Environmental  Protection  Agency 

Library 
75  Hawthorne  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 
Attn:  Jean  Circiello 

Stanford  University  Libraries 
Jonsson  Library  of  Government 

Documents 
State  and  Local  Documents  Division 
Stanford,  CA  94305 

Government  Publications  Department 
San  Francisco  State  University 
1630  Holloway  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94132 

Hastings  College  of  the  Law  -  Library 

200  McAllister  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102-4978 

Institute  of  Government  Studies 
109  Moses  Hall 
University  of  California 
Berkeley,  CA  94720 


119 


IX.  SUMMARY  OF  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Page 

A.  INTRODUCTION  C&R.l 

B.  LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING  C&R.2 

C.  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES  C&R.3 

Project  Approval  Process  C&R.3 

Discretionary  Review  C&R.  3 

Housing  Component  of  the  Proposed  Project  C&R.4 

Project  Description  C&R.8 

Land  Use  and  Zoning  C&R.  1 2 

Land  Use       ~  C&R.  12 

Zoning  C&R.  13 

Large  Park  Opportunity  Site  C&R.  15 

Transportation  C&R.  18 

Cumulative  Context  C&R.  18 

Transportation  Analysis  /  Approach  C&R. 23 

Parking  C&R.30 

Air  Quality  C&R.39 

Hazardous  Materials  C&R. 40 

Employment  C&R. 43 

Economics  C&R. 45 

D.  STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  C&R.46 

LIST  OF  TABLES 

C&R-l.   Existing  Average  Daily  Traffic  (ADT)  Volumes  C&R. 29 

C&R-2.   Estimated  Parking  Surplus  /  Deficit  C&R. 32 

7.  Estimated  Parking  Surplus  /  Deficit  C&R. 36 


C&R.i 


A.  INTRODUCTION 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


This  document  contains  summaries  of  the  public  comments  received  on  the  Draft 
Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  prepared  for  the  proposed  Costco  Wholesale 
project,  and  responses  to  those  comments.  Also  included  are  staff-initiated  text 
changes. 

All  substantive  comments  made  at  the  Draft  EIR  public  hearing  before  the  City 
Planning  Commission  on  January  16,  1992,  and  all  written  comments  received  during 
the  Draft  EIR  public  review  period  from  December  12  to  January  23,  1992,  are 
presented  herein  by  direct  quotation,  edited  to  delete  repetition  and  nonsubstantive 
material  only. 

Comments  and  responses  are  grouped  by  subject  matter  and  are  arranged  by  topics 
corresponding  to  the  Table  of  Contents  in  the  Draft  EIR.  Each  group  of  comments  is 
followed  by  its  set  of  responses;  the  order  of  the  responses  under  each  topic  follows 
the  order  of  the  comments.  As  the  subject  matter  of  one  topic  may  overlap  that  of 
other  topics,  the  reader  must  occasionally  refer  to  more  than  one  group  of  comments 
and  responses  to  review  all  information  on  a  given  subject.  Where  this  occurs,  cross 
references  are  provided. 

While  some  comments  do  not  pertain  to  physical  environmental  issues,  responses  may 
be  included  to  provide  additional  information  for  use  by  decision  makers. 

These  comments  and  responses  will  be  incorporated  into  the  Final  EIR  as  a  new 
chapter.  Text  changes  resulting  from  comments  and  responses  will  also  be 
incorporated  into  the  Final  EIR,  as  indicated  in  the  responses. 


C&R.l 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


B.  LIST  OF  PERSONS  (COMMENTING 


Gary  Adams,  District  CEQA  Coordinator,  California  Department  of  Transportation 
(written  comments,  January  31,  1992) 

Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner  (DEIR  public  hearing  comments,  January  16, 
1992;  and  written  comments,  January  23,  1992) 

Mary  E.  Burns,  General  Manager,  San  Francisco  Recreation  and  Park  Department 
(written  comments,  December  30,  1991) 

Mr.  and  Ms.  Michael  Corban  (written  comments,  January  12,  1992) 

Vincent  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law 
(DEIR  public  hearing  comments,  January  16,  1992;  and  written  comments, 
January  16,  1992  and  January  23,  1992) 

Dino  DiDonato,  South  of  Market  Problem  Solving  Council  (DEIR  public  hearing 
comments,  January  16,  1992) 

Rebecca  Heesch,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law  (DEIR  public 
hearing  comments,  January  16,  1992) 

Wayne  Jackson  Hu,  Planning  Commission  President  (DEIR  public  hearing  comments, 
January  16,  1992) 

James  D.  Lowe,  Transit  Planner,  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway  (written 
comments ,  December  31,  1 99 1 ) 

James  Morales,  Planning  Commissioner  (DEIR  public  hearing  comments,  January  16, 
1992) 

Bill  Price,  California  State  Federation  of  Retired  Union  Members;  president  of 

Region  2  of  the  Congress  of  California  Seniors  (DEIR  public  hearing  comments, 
January  16,  1992) 

Edward  Sewell,  Planning  Commissioner  (DEIR  public  hearing  comments,  January  16, 
1992) 


C&R.2 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


C.  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES 


The  Draft  EIR  public  comment  period,  which  began  on  December  12,  1991,  was 
originally  scheduled  to  close  on  January  16,  1992.  At  the  public  hearing  on  the  Draft 
EIR,  which  was  held  on  January  16,  1992,  Vincent  Courtney  requested  an  extension  of 
the  comment  period.  In  response  to  his  request,  the  comment  period  was  extended  an 
additional  week,  and  written  comments  were  accepted  through  January  23,  1992. 

PROJECT  APPROVAL  PROCESS 

DISCRETIONARY  REVIEW 
Comment 

"...  we  are  asking  that  the  Commission  on  this  project  exercise  its  authority  to  have 
discretionary  review  of  the  project."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis, 
Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

"The  transportation  impacts  of  this  project  are  enormous.  So,  first  of  all,  I  would  think 
that  it's  important,  whether  or  not  there  is  a  CU,  that  this  be  involved,  if  need  be, 
through  discretionary  review,  for  any  part  of  the  project  that  goes  forward.  I 
personally  find  the  housing  an  important  part  of  what  this  document  talks  about." 
(Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"Just  on  the  issue,  not  on  the  impact  report,  but  on  the  merits,  I  guess,  even  though  we 
are  not  here  today  to  decide  the  merits,  I  believe,  as  Commissioner  Bierman  does,  that 
this  project  seems  to  have  been  evolving  as  one  project  that  contains  both  housing  and 
the  retail  use,  and  I  think  it  would  be  helpful  for  the  Department  and  certainly  for  the 
Commission,  if  it  decides  to  accept  discretionary  review,  to  take  a  look  at  all  aspects 
of  this,  the  use  of  this  site.  This  is  not  something  out  of  the  ordinary.  Whenever  we 
have  had  controversies  involving  the  use  of  one  site  or  several  sites  and  we  knew  that 
the  permits  were  going  to  be  coming  in  at  some  point  in  the  near  future,  we  have  asked 
that  we  take  a  look  and  review  the  entire  site,  the  entire  use  of  the  site  at  the  same  time. 


C&R.3 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


"I  think  that  this  case  warrants  it,  especially  in  light  of  the  fact  that  it  does  appear  that 
perhaps  the  housing  is  being  promoted  as  a  selling  point  for  the  other  parts  of  the 
proposed  use,  the  retail  use.  So,  I  think  that  would  be  sound  public  decision-making, 
to  take  a  look  at  both  permits  when  and  if  they  come  in."  (James  Morales,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

Response 

A  request  for  Discretionary  Review  of  the  project  was  tiled  with  the  Department 
of  City  Planning  by  the  Office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law,  on 
February  17,  1992.  The  decision  of  whether  or  not  to  take  Discretionary  Review 
of  the  project  will  be  made  at  a  regularly  scheduled  meeting  of  the  City  Planning 
Commission,  after  appropriate  notice.  If  the  Planning  Commission  were  to 
decide  to  proceed  with  Discretionary  Review  of  the  project,  the  Commission 
would  be  able  (from  a  CEQA  standpoint)  to  approve  any  project  falling  within  the 
parameters  of  the  alternatives  discussed  in  the  EIR.  Housing  development  is 
analyzed  in  the  EIR.  The  proposed  project,  without  housing,  conforms  to  the  City 
Planning  Code.  The  Discretionary  Review  process,  which  is  independent  of  the 
environmental  review  process,  gives  the  Planning  Commission  the  opportunity  to 
consider  issues  such  as  appropriate  land  use  and  social  and  economic  aspects  of 
the  proposal  as  related  to  the  possible  provision  of  housing.  The  Commission  has 
its  first  opportunity  to  take  approval  action  on  the  project  based  on  its  merits  at 
the  Discretionary  Review  public  hearing. 

A  Conditional  Use  request,  which  would  be  required  for  affordable  housing  on 
the  site,  or  a  portion  thereof,  has  not  been  filed.  At  such  time  as  a  hearing  occurs 
on  a  Conditional  Use  request,  all  of  the  code-mandated  criteria  found  in  City 
Planning  Code  Sections  303,  803.5(f)  and  817.14  regarding  affordable  housing  in 
this  zoning  district  would  be  considered.  Following  that  hearing,  the  Commission 
would  again  have  the  opportunity  to  decide  the  project  on  its  merits. 

HOUSING  COMPONENT  OF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 
Comment 

"The  first  comment  I  would  make  is  that  it's  disturbing  that  the  permit  that  has  been 
asked  for  is  just  for  the  store.  This  EIR  is  for  both.  And,  to  me,  the  most  attractive 


C&R.4 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


pan  of  the  project  with  the  least  impacts  environmentally  is  the  housing."  (Susan 
Bierman.  Planning  Commissioner) 

"One  thing  that  is  triggered  to  me,  on  page  2  of  the  document,  and  I  was  never  . 
reassured.  It  seems  to  me  this  document  really  is  about  the  store,  with  some  interest,  if 
somebody  is  interested  in  doing  some  housing.  But  to  those  of  us  who  are  struggling 
with  housing  issues,  this  document  needs  a  lot  more  about  that  issue,  or  they  should 
just  separate  it  out  if  it  isn't  real.  But  I  am  hoping  it's  real."  (Susan  Bierman, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

"On  page  107,  under  the  housing  alternative,  it  states  very  clearly  that  the  project 
sponsor  would  like  to  reserve  the  right  to  consider  this  alternative.  But  all  the  way 
through.  I  get  the  impression  the  housing  is  very  iffy,  in  which  case  I  am  not  nearly  as 
interested,  and  I  think  the  support  for  this  project  is  going  to  come  from  the  housing. 

"Now,  if  it's  the  case  that  Catholic  Charities  is  dealing  with  the  owners  of  the 
property,  but  not  the  owners,  not  the  developers  of  the  business,  the  retail,  that  needs  to 
be  clear  in  this  document.  From  everything  that  has  been  said  today,  I  don't  get  the 
impression  that  Costco  is  trying  to  develop  housing.  Now,  maybe  that  is  it  not  the 
case.  But  if  they  aren't  developing  it,  if  someone  else  owns  the  land,  it  shouldn't  be  in 
this  document.  I  think  it's  put  in  as  a  selling  point,  but  it  doesn't  seem  real.  I  hope  the 
Department,  Mr.  Macris,  will  really  look  serious  as  to  whether  it's  real  or  not  real. 
And,  if  so,  this  document  ought  to  be  rewritten  simply  as  a  retail  outlet,  which,  of 
course,  has  its  own  merit,  with  75  to  85  jobs  full  time  and  75  to  85  part  time.  But  it 
should  go  on  its  own  merit,  not  --  and  I  am  not  trying  to  discourage  the  housing.  I  am 
trying  to  push  the  housing,  in  case  that  is  not  clear."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

Response 

The  comments  are  noted.  The  question  of  whether  the  project  sponsor  intends  or 
is  able  to  cause  housing  to  be  built  on  the  site  as  compared  to  reserving  a  portion 
of  the  site  as  a  housing  opportunity  site,  raised  also  in  terms  of  the  request  for 
discretionary  review,  is  not  a  direct  environmental  issue.  Costco  proposes  to 
reserve  an  approximately  410  by  55  foot  site  fronting  Harrison  Street  for 
approximately  60  to  80  dwelling  units  and  accompanying  residential  parking  at 


C&R.5 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


ground  level.  Costco  investigated  this  possibility  at  the  request  of  Department  of 
City  Planning  staff  to  see  whether  or  not  Costco' s  project  could  be 
accommodated,  while  at  the  same  time,  making  an  affordable  housing  site 
available  for  60  to  80  residential  units.  Costco  agreed  to  undertake  an 
examination  of  the  feasibility  of  reserving  a  portion  of  the  site  for  housing 
development.  As  part  of  that  commitment,  a  housing  component  was 
incorporated  into  the  project  and  alternatives  for  environmental  review,  and 
Costco  conducted  a  preliminary  architectural  analysis  which  verified  the 
feasibility  of  such  housing  use  at  that  location.  In  addition,  Costco  has  negotiated 
terms  under  which  its  ground  lessor  will  subordinate  to  requisite  financing  for  the 
housing.  Finally,  as  part  of  the  certified  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site 
Mitigation  Plan,  Costco  will  undertake  the  remediation  of  the  entire  site, 
including  the  housing  opportunity  site. 

For  some  time,  Costco  has  been  in  direct  negotiations  with  Catholic  Charities  for 
its  acquisition  and  development  of  the  housing  opportunity  site.  However,  at  this 
time,  no  potential  developers  of  the  housing  have  proposed  to  develop  affordable 
housing  on  the  site.  The  SLI  zoning  district  in  which  the  project  would  be  located 
would  allow  only  lower  income  affordable  housing,  which  would  require 
Conditional  Use  authorization.  The  policy  issues  related  to  housing  could  be 
explored  in  the  hearing  before  the  City  Planning  Commission,  should  the 
Commission  choose  to  take  Discretionary  Review  of  the  project. 

Comment 

"Let  me  add,  I  think  that,  in  addition,  we  don't  think  there  is  going  to  be  60  to 

80  units.  I  don't  know  that  there  is  a  specific  plan  to  produce  the  actual  housing.  It 

didn't  sound  like  there  was  and  it  doesn't  look  like  there  is  from  the  report. 

"My  understanding  is  that  Costco  only  has  a  50-year  lease,  and  I  would  think  that  to 
produce  affordable  housing  in  that  area,  you  are  going  to  need  some  funding  source, 
probably  federal  funds,  and  to  get  the  federal  funds,  there  is  going  to  have  to  probably 
be  more  than  a  50-year  lease. 


C&R.6 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


"In  any  event,  I  would  think  to  qualify  for  those  funds,  you'd  have  to  [be]  a  nonprofit 
organization,  which  Costco  is  not.  I  don't  know  of  any  non-profit  organization  in  the 
city  that  is  planning  on  building  those  units.  That  is  something  we'd  like  you  to  take  a 
particularly  close  look  at."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  & 
Courtney.  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

The  comments  are  noted.  The  EIR  covers  all  of  the  impacts  of  the  proposed 
development  with  or  without  the  housing.  However,  it  is  not  the  function  of  the 
EIR  to  conduct  a  housing  economic  feasibility  analysis.  Should  the  Commission 
decide  to  take  Discretionary  Review,  the  issues  raised  by  the  comments  could  be 
addressed  within  that  framework. 

Comment 

".  .  .  two  years  ago  we  were  looking  at  that  site  as  a  potential  park  site  for  South  of 
Market.  When  we  heard  that  Costco  was  considering  going  in,  we  changed  our  plans 
and  began  to  lobby  for  the  affordable  housing  proposal  that  had  been  proposed  in  the 
EIR.  In  fact,  we  have  been  consulting  with  Catholic  Charities  to  develop  those  60  to 
80  units  on  Harrison  Street  and  have,  in  fact,  already  reviewed  a  preliminary 
architectural  plan  for  that  housing. 

"It  is  Catholic  Charities'  intention,  as  I  understand  it,  to  go  after  state  funding  for  that 
development.  And  it  also  is  my  understanding  that  they  are  attempting  to  negotiate  a 
separate  agreement  with  the  owner,  in  this  case  represented  by  Mr.  Bemie  Orsi.  The 
land,  as  you  probably  know,  is  still  owned  by  the  family  that  had  the  brewery  there, 
and  his  is  representing  their  interests.  So,  we  understand  there  is  a  hangup,  a  problem, 
with  final  negotiations  between  Catholic  Charities  and  Mr.  Orsi  for  that  land,  and  so 
what  we  would  be  asking  you  to  do,  if  there  was  any  way  to  do  that  is  to  simply  agree 
that,  we  feel  that,  first  of  all,  this  development  will  add  to  the  neighborhood  something 
in  the  vicinity  of  an  estimated  250  jobs  once  it  opens.  The  jobs  in  construction  we  find 
very  attractive."  (Dino  Dino  DiDonato,  South  of  Market  Problem  Solving  Council) 


C&R.7 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


Response 

The  comments  are  noted.  The  comments  are  informational,  do  not  address  the 
content  of  the  EIR,  and  no  response  is  necessary.  For  information  concerning  the 
Large  Park  Opportunity  Site  located  at  the  project  site,  please  see  the  comments 
and  responses  on  pp.  C&R.  15-17. 

Comment 

"I  have  also  consulted  with  Catholic  Charities  on  this  issue,  and  apparently  they  have 
informed  me  they  have  had  some  difficulties  in  obtaining  lease  agreements,  and  also 
issues  pertaining  to  financing  for  the  housing  project.  I  just  wanted  to  let  you  know 
that."  (Rebecca  Heesch,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

Comment  noted. 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Comment 

"I'd  like,  on  page  1,  if  they  would  do  a  little  more  explaining,  not  a  lot,  but  what  kind 
of  retail  it  is.  They  liken  it  through  the  document  to  the  food  retail  not  far  from  there, 
the  Canned  Goods  Outlet.  But  I  don't  know  myself  what  Costco  is,  so  I  think  anyone 
reading  the  document  could  use  a  little  more  information. 

"It's  on  page  50  that  they  talk  about  the  Canned  Foods  Grocery  Outlet  and  likens  this 
to  that.  We  just  need  more  information  about  what  their  store  is."  (Susan  Bierman, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

Costco  is  a  cash  and  carry  wholesaler  selling  general  merchandise,  food  and 
related  products  to  qualified  business  and  group  members.  Wholesale  (business) 
members  include  various  business  entities  which  include  duly  licensed  entities; 
stores  licensed  to  purchase  goods  for  resale;  and  businesses  purchasing  items  for 


C&R.8 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


consumption  in  their  business.  Group  members  include  government  employees, 
health  care  workers,  certain  public  utilities  and  common  carriers  as  well  as 
selected  employee  groups. 

Costco  is  a  high-volume,  low  price  and  margin  business.  Its  operating  strategy 
includes  earn  ing  a  wide  range  of  nationally  branded  product  categories  but  with  a 
narrow  selection  within  each  product  category  and  selling  only  the  most  popular 
brand  within  each  category;  no-frills  warehouse  display  of  merchandise;  and 
efficient  service.  All  sales  are  strictly  cash  and  carry.  Product  categories  include 
large  and  small  appliances,  hardware,  food,  perishables,  health  and  beauty  aids, 
candy,  cigarettes,  alcoholic  beverages,  soft  goods,  auto  supplies,  housewares, 
office  supplies,  books,  plants,  film  and  photo  processing.  Costco  currently  has 
approximately  9,000  wholesale  (business)  members  and  22,000  group  members  in 
the  city  of  San  Francisco. 

Comment 

"Pages  20  and  21  have  Tenth  Street  and  Bryant  Street  elevations,  nothing  for  Eleventh 
or  for  Harrison.  And  since  Harrison  is  the  housing,  that  troubled  me,  that  it  was 
missing."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

The  EIR  has  assumed  that  the  residential  component  of  the  project  would  be  a  40' 
tall  building  along  Harrison  Street  containing  60  to  80  affordable  dwelling  units 
above  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces.  While  the  residential  component  of  the 
project  has  not  been  designed  in  detail,  the  EIR  evaluates  the  environmental 
effects  of  a  project  including  a  residential  component  with  these  general 
characteristics.  The  Tenth  Street  elevation  of  the  project  shown  in  Figure  5  on 
p.  20  of  the  EIR  depicts  the  general  characteristics  of  the  residential  component 
including  location,  height  and  bulk.  The  facade  treatment  of  the  dwelling  units, 
when  designed  in  detail,  would  differ  from  what  is  shown  in  that  figure.  The  EIR 
therefore  does  not  present  any  detailed  illustrations  of  the  housing  component. 
Should  a  development  proposal  for  the  housing  opportunity  site  be  submitted  for 
Conditional  Use  consideration,  the  City  Planning  Commission  would  review  and 
have  jurisdiction  over  all  aspects  of  the  proposal,  including  design. 


C&R.9 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

The  elevations  shown  in  the  EIR  are  for  illustrative  purposes  only.  The  developer 
and  architects  for  the  housing  are  not  known  at  this  time,  and  only  schematic 
designs  can  be  shown  in  the  EIR. 

Comment 

"It  was  very  hard  for  me  in  reading  this  document  to  get  a  handle  on  what  it  compares 
to  in  terms  of  size  and  parking.  The  transportation  figures  are  really,  the  parking 
and  ~  the  street  congestion  is  a  problem.  Could  they  relate  it,  for  instance,  to  the  Sears 
site  or  some  site  we  are  familiar  with  as  to  size  and  as  to  traffic  generation  in  the  city 
so  that  we  have  some  idea  of  how  much  bigger  this  is  or  smaller.  I  just  couldn't  get  a 
feel  for  it."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

The  proposed  Costco  store  would  contain  approximately  120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail 
area  and  about  650  parking  spaces  on  the  approximately  203,000  sq.  ft.  portion  of 
the  site  identified  for  the  retail  use.  The  former  Sears  store  at  Geary  Boulevard 
and  Masonic  Avenue  contained  approximately  212,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  area  and 
about  600  parking  spaces  on  a  300,000  sq.  ft.  site.  For  comparative  purposes,  the 
square  footages  of  several  other  retail  uses  in  San  Francisco  follow.  The  Marina 
Safeway  is  approximately  39,000  sq.  ft.;  the  Webster  Street  /  Geary  Boulevard 
Safeway  is  approximately  48,000  sq.  ft.;  and  the  San  Francisco  Design  Center  at 
Ninth  Street  /  Bryant  Avenue  is  approximately  325,000  sq.  ft. 

It  is  not  possible  to  accurately  compare  the  proposed  Costco  project  to  other 
site-specific  San  Francisco  based  retail  uses  as  the  size  of  developments  vary 
greatly.  However,  it  is  possible  to  place  the  Costco  store  in  a  probable  range  in 
terms  of  vehicle  trip  generation  and  parking  demand  when  compared  to  other 
retail  and  commercial  uses  of  similar  size. 

The  proposed  Costco  project  would  be  expected  to  generate  about  the  same 
number  of  person  trips  as  a  Sears  type  retail  outlet  of  comparable  size 
(120,000  sq.  ft.)  during  the  afternoon  peak  hour  of  an  average  month,  according  to 
the  ITE  Trip  Generation  Manual  (Land  Use:  810  -  Retail  -  General 
Merchandise).  The  estimated  afternoon  peak  hour  rate  for  a  Sears-type  retail  use 
is  4.80  vehicle  trips  per  1,000  sq.  ft.  The  trip  generation  rate  developed  for  the 


C&R.10 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


proposed  Costco  store  is  discussed  in  detail  on  pp.  62-66  of  the  EIR.  The  Costco 
store  was  estimated  to  generate  about  542  p.m.  peak  hour  trips.  A  Sears  store 
would  generate  approximately  576  afternoon  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  in  a 
suburban  setting  and  fewer  vehicle  trips  in  an  urban  setting  such  as 
San  Francisco.  Transit,  walk,  and  other  modes  generally  account  for  substantial 
shares  of  person  trips  to  a  Sears-type  facility,  whereas  with  Costco,  it  has  been 
assumed  that  all  trips  would  be  made  by  vehicle.  Therefore,  while  the  overall 
number  of  person  trips  to  a  120,000  sq.  ft.  Costco  may  be  about  the  same  as  the 
number  of  person  trips  to  a  120,000  sq.  ft.  Sears,  the  number  of  vehicle  trips  to  a 
Costco  would  be  greater. 

A  supermarket  of  50,000  sq.  ft.  would  generate  approximately  the  same  number 
of  afternoon  person  trips  as  the  proposed  120,000  sq.  ft.  Costco  use.  The  ITE 
Trip  Generation  Manual  rate  for  a  supermarket  is  10.34  vehicle  trips  per 
1 ,000  sq.  ft.  (Land  Use:  850  -  Supermarket).  A  supermarket  in  a  suburban  setting 
would  generate  an  estimated  517  afternoon  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  compared  to 
the  542  vehicle  trips  for  the  Costco  store.  As  with  the  previous  example,  the 
number  of  vehicle  trips  to  a  supermarket  in  an  urban  setting,  such  as 
San  Francisco,  would  be  less  as  other  modes  of  transportation  would  be  used 
more.  A  Costco  would  generate  a  similar  number  of  person  trips  but  a  greater 
number  of  vehicle  trips  than  a  50,000  sq.  ft.  supermarket.  Parking  demand  would 
also  be  less  at  the  supermarket  due  to  more  people  utilizing  alternate  modes  of 
transportation. 

Comment 

".  .  .  it  talks  about  the  60  to  80  affordable  dwelling  units,  but  I  couldn't  find  in  the 
document  any  description  of  those  affordable  units,  what  level  of  affordability  —  50, 
80,  120  —  isn't  specified,  nor  is  the  size  of  the  units  specified."  (Susan  Bierman, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

As  stated  on  p.  22  of  the  EIR,  in  order  to  be  deemed  "low-income,  affordable 
housing,"  the  dwellings  must  be  rented,  leased  or  sold  at  rates  or  prices  affordable 
to  a  household  with  an  income  no  greater  than  80  percent  of  the  median  income 
for  households  in  San  Francisco.  At  this  time,  no  potential  developers  have 
proposed  to  develop  affordable  housing  on  the  reserved  housing  opportunity  site. 

C&R/i 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


LAND  USE  AND  ZONING 

LAND  USE 
Comment 

"We  oppose  this  project.  No.  1,  they  have  suggested  60  to  80  units  .  .  .  they  could  have 
built  in  a  lot  more  units  and  could  have  really  helped  the  people  of  our  city  and  given 
us  more  than  a  thousand  affordable  units,  or  at  least  a  greater  number  of  affordable 
units  than  they  have  suggested.  So,  we  are  greatly  opposed  to  it  and  hope  that  we  will 
be  able  to  use  that  land  for  housing."  (Bill  Price,  President,  California  State 
Federation  of  Retired  Union  Members;  President,  Region  2,  Congress  of  California 
Seniors) 

Response 

The  project  analyzed  in  the  Environmental  Impact  Report  includes  the  Costco 
store  and  60  to  80  housing  units  on  a  reserved  portion  of  the  project  site.  The 
potential  environmental  effects  of  the  store  and  housing  are  described  in  the  EIR. 
The  EIR  also  describes  the  potential  environmental  effects  of  a  number  of 
alternatives  to  the  proposed  project,  including  an  alternative  that  would  consist  of 
approximately  1,075  dwelling  units  and  no  Costco  store  on  the  site  (see 
Alternative  D,  Housing  with  Public  Open  Space,  on  pp.  109-111  of  the  EIR).  The 
EIR  provides  the  decision-makers  with  information  on  the  potential 
environmental  effects  of  the  project  and  alternatives  to  the  project,  and  the  City 
Planning  Commission  could  approve  an  alternative,  including  the  Housing  with 
Public  Open  Space  Alternative  or  the  No  Project  Alternative,  instead  of  the 
proposed  project  if  the  Commission  chose  to  review  the  project  and  believed  the 
alternative  would  be  more  appropriate  for  the  site. 

The  SLI  zoning  district  in  which  the  project  site  is  located  is  characterized  by 
industrial  uses  generating  more  noise,  truck  traffic,  dust  and  fumes  than  other 
SOM  areas.  Market  rate  housing  is  not  permitted  in  the  SLI  because  it  is 
considered  incompatible  with  such  existing  uses.  Because  lower  income 
residents  may  be  more  tolerant  of  proximate  industry,  only  lower  income 
affordable  housing  could  be  considered  in  the  SLI  district  and  it  requires 
Conditional  Use  authorization.  The  project  site  would  need  to  be  rezoned  to 


C&R.12 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


another  zoning  district  which  allows  market  rate  residential  use  as  a  principal 
permitted  use  in  order  for  housing  units  other  than  lower  income  affordable  units 
to  be  developed  on  the  site. 

ZONING 

Comment 

"There  is  another  confusing  thing,  page  22  .  .  .  It  talks  about  dwelling  unit  density  in 
this  district,  SLI  district,  is  limited  to  one  unit  per  200  square  feet.  Then  it  says  the 
dwelling  unit  of  housing  would  be  approximately  one  unit  per  325  to  435  square  feet. 
I  am  not  quarreling  with  the  larger  number.  I  would  hope  the  units  are  larger,  but  how, 
if  the  SLI  only  allows  200  square  foot  of  lot  area  —  I  just  didn't  understand  it  and  think 
we  need  to  know  if  a  conditional  use  would  be  need  for  variances  or  how  that  is 
handled."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"The  EER  states  that  the  size  of  the  residential  units  would  be  restricted  to  one  unit  per 
325-435  sq.  ft.  See,  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report,  p.  22. 
However,  it  does  not  specify  whether  these  units  will  be  studios,  one  bedrooms,  or 
multiple  bedroom  units.  As  noted,  the  EIR  is  unclear  and  somewhat  misleading  as  to 
the  intention  and  obligation  of  Costco  to  actually  provide  low  income  housing  as  part 
of  its  proposed  facility.  Obviously,  if  Costco's  offer  is  to  be  considered  seriously, 
more  detail  and  specification  regarding  the  proposed  units  is  required  to  ensure  that  the 
needs  and  goals  of  the  South  of  Market  community  are  met."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney, 
Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

As  stated  on  p.  22  of  the  EIR,  the  maximum  dwelling  unit  density  permitted  in  the 
SLI  district  would  be  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area,  or  1 13  units  on  the 
22,550  sq.  ft.  portion  of  the  site  indicated  for  possible  housing  use.  If  60  units 
were  to  be  developed  on  the  portion  of  the  site  indicated  for  possible  housing  use, 
the  density  would  be  about  one  unit  per  375  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area;  if  80  units  were  to 
be  developed  on  the  site,  the  density  would  be  about  one  unit  per  280  sq.  ft.  of  lot 
area.  Thus,  residential  density  on  the  site  would  range  from  one  unit  per 
280-375  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  rather  than  one  unit  per  325-435  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  as 


C&R.Ij 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


stated  in  the  Draft  EIR.  In  no  case  could  the  residential  component  of  the 
proposed  project  exceed  the  maximum  dwelling  unit  density  of  one  unit  per 
200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  that  is  allowed  on  the  site.  The  density  of  the  residential 
component  of  the  project  would  be  well  within  that  allowed  by  the  City  Planning 
Code  for  this  use  district.  In  other  words,  there  would  be  fewer  units  than 
allowable  by  Code  on  the  site. 

Actual  unit  size  can  be  constrained  by  economic  factors,  allowable  building  area, 
and  other  factors.  Allowable  building  area  includes  factors  such  as  dwelling  unit 
density,  building  height  and  bulk,  and  open  space  requirements.  The  proposed 
housing  component  of  the  project  would  not  exceed  the  allowable  dwelling  unit 
density  or  height  and  bulk  restrictions  of  the  site.  Because  the  developer  and 
architects  for  the  housing  are  not  known  at  this  time,  nor  can  it  be  known  with 
certainty  that  a  request  for  Conditional  Use  authorization  will  be  made  for  an 
affordable  housing  project,  it  is  not  possible  to  be  specific  about  aspects  of  the 
housing  such  as  whether  the  units  would  be  studios,  one-bedrooms,  or 
multi-bedroom  units.  Please  see  the  response  to  the  following  comment  for 
information  regarding  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  the  residential 
component  that  would  be  necessary  in  order  to  approve  the  project. 

Comment 

"Page  27, 1  think  you  need  an  explanation  that  the  housing  would  need  a  CU.  It  talks 
about  other  things,  but  it  doesn't  mention  that.  Again,  the  same  200  square  foot  of  lot 
area  is  discussed,  and  I  didn't  understand  it."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

Response 

As  stated  on  p.  23  of  the  EIR,  the  provision  of  low-income  housing  in  the  SLI 
district,  as  proposed  with  the  project,  would  be  subject  to  Conditional  Use 
authorization.  The  EIR  notes  on  p.  27  that  low-income,  affordable  housing  and 
group  housing  are  the  only  types  of  residential  uses  that  may  be  permitted  in  an 
SLI  district.  As  noted  in  the  response  to  the  comment  under  "Land  Use"  on 
p.  C&R.12,  the  SLI  zoning  district  was  not  established  with  the  intention  of 
encouraging  housing,  as  indicated  by  the  fact  that  only  affordable  housing  could 
be  considered  in  the  SLI  district  and  would  require  Conditional  Use 


C&R.14 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


authorization   At  this  time,  the  concerns  that  there  may  be  with  the  site  for 
affordable  family  housing  would  logically  be  explored  within  the  Discretionary 
Review  hearing,  should  the  Planning  Commission  take  Discretionary  Review  of 
the  project.  Please  refer  to  the  response  to  the  previous  comment  for  information 
on  the  dwelling  unit  density  limit  of  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  in  the  SLI 
use  district. 

LARGE  PARK  OPPORTUNITY  SITE 

Comment 

"We  have  had  a  little  discussion  today  about  the  park.  I  didn't  know  the  history.  On 
page  24.  it  talks  about  [al  proposed  large  park  opportunity  site.  If  it's  zoned  or  if  it's 
marked  as  a  proposed  park  site,  we  need  to  know  a  little  more,  in  the  document,  we 
need  to  know  who  proposed  it.  Did  the  Department  go  along  with  it?  And  if  so  —  or 
Rec  Park.  If  so,  are  we  passing  up  a  need  problem,  a  solution  to  open  space  need?" 
(Susan  Biennan,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"It  has  been  determined  that  the  South  of  Market  area  is  in  high  need  of  public  open 
spaces  by  the  Recreation  and  Open  Space  Element  of  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan. 
Furthermore  the  specific  site  Costco  has  proposed  for  its  facility  has  been  designated 
to  be  a  "large  park  opportunity  site"  by  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan.  A  park  on  this 
site  would  create  the  only  large  park  in  the  western  portion  of  the  South  of  Market 
community. 

"Building  and  maintaining  a  retail  outlet  on  this  site  is  contrary  to  these  earlier  studies 
which  recognize  and  promote  public  park  facilities  for  the  citizens  of  San  Francisco. 
The  South  of  Market  area  would  be  much  better  served  by  the  proposed  park  which  in 
turn  fosters  the  development  of  a  healthy  community  environment  for  both  residents 
and  workers."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney, 
Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

The  project  site  is  identified  as  one  of  two  "Large  Park  Opportunity  Sites"  in  the 
South  of  Market  Plan,  an  Area  Plan  of  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan.  The  other 
opportunity  site  is  located  two  blocks  to  the  northeast  of  the  project  site,  on  the 


C&R.15 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


southeast  portion  of  the  block  bounded  by  Harrison  Street,  Folsom  Street,  Eighth 
Street  and  Ninth  Street.  Neither  of  these  park  opportunity  sites  are  currently 
zoned  for  open  space  (the  project  site  is  located  within  .the  Service  /  Light 
Industrial  [SLI]  Use  District  and  the  other  opportunity  site  is  located  within  the 
Service  /  Light  Industrial  /  Residential  [SLR]  Use  District).  Policy  4  of 
Objective  8  of  the  South  of  Market  Plan  states  "create  new  parks  and  recreational 
facilities  for  the  enjoyment  by  area  residents,  workers,  and  visitors."  The  South  of 
Market  Plan  notes  the  following  (p.  11.10.25): 

"The  City  should  acquire  a  major  open  space/park  site  within  the  western 
SOM  and  develop  it  as  a  large  soft  surface  and  informal  park  with  enough 
space  for  active  turf  sports,  play  areas  for  pre-school  are  children,  and  green 
landscaped  spaces  for  teens,  adults,  and  seniors  in  different  social 
groupings.  The  park  and  park  use  program  should  be  developed  according 
to  the  stated  preferences  of  residents  and  should  complement  the  uses  of  the 
Sixth/Folsom  Street  park  and  recreation  facility." 

Recreation  and  Park  Department  staff  and  community  sentiment  (as  expressed  by 
the  South  of  Market  Problem  Solving  Council)  currently  favor  acquisition  of  a 
South  of  Market  parcel  adjacent  to  the  Bessie  Carmichael  School  at  Seventh  and 
Harrison  Streets  for  a  park,  rather  than  the  Costco  site.  The  Costco  site  is  at  the 
western  edge  of  SOM,  distant  from  the  more  residential  areas  of  mid-SOM  which 
would  most  use  and  benefit  from  a  park  in  closer  proximity.  Thus,  while  the 
project  would  not  allow  for  a  park  to  be  developed  on  the  site,  and  could  thus  be 
considered  in  conflict  with  the  SOM  Plan,  the  conflict  is  apparently  not  of 
concern  to  Recreation  and  Park  Department  or  City  Planning  staff  given  the 
above  factors. 


Comment 


"Given  the  limited  amount  of  public  open  space  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project, 
combined  with  the  introduction  of  a  new  residential  community,  the  Recreation  and 
Park  Department  strongly  urges  the  dedication  of  a  minimum  of  5,000  sq.  ft.  of  the 
project  housing  site  to  serve  as  a  public  park. 

"The  public  open  space  should  be  designed  to  suit  the  needs  of  the  future  residents 
(such  as  a  tot  lot  for  children,  seating  and  other  amenities  for  the  elderly,  and  disabled 
access)  and  located  on  a  comer  of  the  site  to  take  advantage  of  sunlight  and  air.  In 
addition,  the  development  and  maintenance  costs  should  be  borne  by  the  housing 
developer. 

C&R.16 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

"The  fact  that  the  nearest  public  recreation  centers  and  playgrounds  are  not  located 
within  walking  distance  of  the  proposed  residential  development  makes  it  unlikely  that 
the  future  residents  will  be  able  to  use  them,  particularly  children  and  the  elderly. 
Since  many  affordable  housing  residents  include  families  and  the  elderly,  it  is 
important  that  the  project  include  adequate  public  open  space  to  meet  their  recreational 
needs."  (Mary  E.  Bums,  San  Francisco  Recreation  and  Park  Department) 

Response 

The  portion  of  the  project  site  designated  for  the  residential  component  is 
approximately  22,550  sq.  ft.  The  maximum  dwelling  unit  density  allowable  in 
the  SLI  district  would  be  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area,  or  a  maximum  of  1 13 
units  on  the  possible  residential  area  of  the  site.  Sixty  to  eighty  units  are 
discussed  for  the  residential  component.  A  5,000  sq.  ft.  park  on  the  site  of  the 
residential  component  would  reduce  the  amount  of  area  available  for  housing. 
With  a  5,000  sq.  ft.  smaller  area  for  housing,  the  proposed  number  of  units  would 
need  to  be  decreased  in  order  to  maintain  their  proposed  size,  or  the  proposed  size 
of  the  units  would  need  to  be  decreased  in  order  to  maintain  the  proposed  number 
of  units. 

The  EIR  analyzes  potential  environmental  effects  of  an  alternative  to  the  project 
that  would  consist  of  approximately  1,075  dwelling  units  and  10,000  sq.  ft.  of 
publicly  accessible  open  space  on  the  project  site.  This  alternative  would  not 
contain  the  Costco  store  or  its  parking  lot  (See  Alternative  D,  Housing  with 
Public  Open  Space,  on  pp.  109-1 1 1  of  the  EIR).  The  open  space  in  this 
alternative  would  be  in  addition  to  private  open  space  required  for  residential 
units  on  the  site  by  Section  135(d)  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  While  the 
10,000  sq.  ft.  of  open  space  would  be  intended  to  primarily  serve  residents  that 
would  occupy  the  site  under  this  alternative,  it  could  also  serve  residents  in  areas 
adjacent  to  the  project  site. 

The  EIR  provides  the  decision-makers  with  information  on  the  potential 
environmental  effects  of  this  and  other  alternatives  to  the  project,  and  the  City 
Planning  Commission  could  approve  an  alternative  instead  of  the  proposed 
project  if  the  Commission  believed  the  alternative  would  be  more  appropriate  for 
the  site. 


C&R.17 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


TRANSPORTATION 

CUMULATIVE  CONTEXT 
Comment 

"On  page  62,  it  talks  about  freeway  demolition,  freeway  road  replacement,  and  some 
Bay  Bridge  information.  And  it's  all  pretty  iffy  and  negative.  It  seems  to  me  it  might 
be  helpful  if  in  the  EIR's  we  start  talking  about  what  is  planned  in  the  way  of 
roadway.  We  as  this  Commission  have  been  shown  plans  for  the  Embarcadero 
replacement  for  quite  a  long  time,  which  involves  both  the  Muni  Metro  extension,  and 
it  involves  the  E  Line  going  north  from  Market  Street,  both  of  which  are  meant  to 
solve  some  problems.  They  are  in  the  planning  stage,  but  it  seems  there  could  be  some 
information  about  that  so  that  at  least  it  shows  a  little  attempt  by  the  city  to  solve  the 
problem."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

The  Waterfront  Transportation  Program  has  been  defined  to  extend  from  Mission 
Bay  to  Fisherman's  Wharf.  The  Program  has  many  facets  and  is  intended  to 
improve  traffic  safety,  extend  rail  transit  service,  and  enhance  pedestrian  access 
to  the  waterfront.  The  Waterfront  Transportation  Program  has  the  following 
principal  components: 

•  1-280  freeway  touchdown  ramps  constructed  at  Fifth  Street  /  King  Street 
with  existing  ramps  at  Sixth  Street  /  Brannan  Street  to  remain  -  this  work  to 
be  performed  by  Caltrans; 

•  construction  of  King  Street  through  Mission  Bay  connecting  1-280  to  The 
Embarcadero; 

•  reconstruction  of  The  Embarcadero  from  King  Street  to  North  Point  Street; 
constmction  of  the  MUNI  Metro  Turnback; 

construction  of  the  MUNI  Metro  Extension  to  Mission  Bay; 

•  construction  of  the  F-Embarcadero  Extension  from  the  foot  of  Market 
Street  to  Fisherman's  Wharf. 

The  Embarcadero  and  King  Street  would  each  be  designed  with  medians  for 
transit  service.  The  Embarcadero  would  include  an  attractive,  continuous, 
waterside  pedestrian  promenade.  The  Waterfront  Transportation  Program  has 


C&R.18 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

been  segmented  into  several  phases.  Construction  south  of  Folsom  Street  will 
begin  in  mid- 1992  and  is  scheduled  for  completion  in  mid- 1994.  Construction 
north  of  Broadway  is  scheduled  to  start  in  mid- 1992  and  be  completed  in 
mid- 1994.  Trie  mid-Embarcadero  segment  between  Folsom  and  Broadway  is 
about  to  begin  preliminary  design  and  environmental  review.  A  definitive 
construction  schedule  has  not  been  established,  but  this  segment  is  expected  to  be 
completed  by  1996.  Progress  on  construction  of  King  Boulevard  is  dependent 
upon  Caltrans'  schedule  for  the  1-280  ramp.  King  Street  construction  is 
scheduled  to  begin  in  1993  and  end  in  mid- 1994. 

The  MUNI  Metro  Turnback  will  allow  the  capacity  of  the  MUNI  Metro  subway 
to  be  increased  and  improve  the  reliability  and  cost-effectiveness  of  Metro 
subway  operations  by  relieving  the  existing  bottleneck  at  the  Embarcadero 
station.  A  subway  tunnel  will  be  extended  east  and  south  of  the  existing 
Embarcadero  station,  coming  to  grade  in  an  Embarcadero  median  portal  between 
Howard  and  Folsom  Streets.  Construction  is  scheduled  for  1992  to  1995. 

Extension  of  the  MUNI  Metro  beyond  the  turnback  into  Mission  Bay  will  expand 
MUNI's  light  rail  system  by  nearly  two  miles  and  incorporate  four  new  stops.  An 
at-grade,  double-track  exclusive  transit-way  is  proposed,  beginning  in  the  median 
of  the  new  Embarcadero  and  continuing  within  the  median  of  King  Boulevard. 
Construction  is  scheduled  for  1993  to  1994  for  service  to  Fourth  and  King  only. 
Final  extension  to  Sixteenth  Street,  serving  parts  of  Potrero  Hill  and  Mission  Bay, 
will  be  built  in  the  mid- 1 990 's. 

The  F-line  historic  streetcar  service  will  consist  of  two  principal  segments: 
Market  Street  between  Castro  Street  and  the  Transbay  Terminal;  and  extension  to 
the  foot  of  Market  Street  and  along  The  Embarcadero  into  Fisherman's  Wharf. 
Market  Street  construction  east  of  Eleventh  Street  has  already  been  completed. 
Construction  west  to  Castro  will  proceed  in  two  phases  between  1992  and  1994. 
Service  from  Castro  and  Market  to  the  Transbay  Terminal  is  scheduled  to  begin 
in  January  1995.  Construction  of  the  F-line  to  the  foot  of  Market  Street,  along 
The  Embarcadero,  and  into  Fisherman's  Wharf  is  scheduled  to  occur  from  1994 
to  1996,  with  service  starting  in  January  1997.  Its  schedule  is  linked  to  the 
Central  Embarcadero  project. 


C&R.19 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


.   The  cumulative  transportation  analysis  for  the  proposed  Costco  project  is  derived 
from  the  analysis  for  the  greater  downtown  area  contained  in  the  Mission  Bay 
Final  EIR,  which  takes  these  transportation  improvements  into  account.  Even 
though  these  projects  may  improve  transit  accessibility  to  the  Costco  project  site, 
the  Costco  EIR  analysis  conservatively  assumes  no  customer  use  of  transit  and 
assigns  all  customer  trips  as  vehicle  trips. 

Comment 

"...  it  again  hits  one  particularly  in  South  of  Market,  where  the  freeways,  where  the 
streets  are  terribly  impacted  at  peak  time,  when  they  read  the  2000,  Year  2000  figures, 

when  you  read  2000  and  then  you  read  the  projections  to  2020  Because  the  way 

we  are  planning,  it's  going  to  be  pretty  bad.  And  that  is  something  the  city  has  to  keep 
looking  at.  You  keep  hearing  rumbles  of  business  community  not  liking  Prop  M  and 
not  liking  controls,  and  no  one  should  lose  sight  of  these  documents,  because  these 
documents,  these  EIR's  really  do  tell  the  story,  if  nobody  else  tells  the  story.  They 
really  certainly  tell  why  this  department  and  the  public,  going  even  further,  put 
controls  on  downtown  development.  It  wasn't  a  whim.  It  wasn't  a  joke.  It  was  real 
figures  of  housing  impacts  and  of  shadows  and  sunlight  lost,  but  essentially  terrible 
transportation  and  traffic  problems.  .  ."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

Comment  noted. 

Comment 

"I  was  confused  ...  but  where  it  talks  about  the  degrading  of  level  service  from  C  to 
D,  D  to  E,  and  in  some  places  E  to  F,  maybe  the  distinction  —  I  know  it  talks  about 
some  of  it  going  to  level  of  service  F,  which  —  and  E,  both  of  which  are  unacceptable. 

"If  it  is  not  acceptable,  it  says  here  level  of  service  E  represents  capacity  and  is  not 
within  the  acceptable  level  of  service  range.  F  is  worse.  And  if  it  isn't  acceptable, 
how  then  do  we  approve  a  project  of  this  size?  And  would  you  give  us  some 
information  on  that.  There  is  much  less  impact  from  the  housing  than  from  the  store. 
And  if  the  traffic  impacts  that  I  think  go  to  Level  F  are  that  great  for  this  area,  maybe 
there  should  be  a  smaller  store  and  more  housing.  I  just  think  it  bears  some  more 
discussion. 


C&R.20 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


"This  level  of  service  D  and  E.  There  is  one  table,  I  don't  know  what  page,  that 
doesn't  seem  to  show  Level  F.  And  in  the  text,  it  does  talk  about  Level  F.  Now, 
maybe  that  is  the  cumulative  figure  and  maybe  from  this  it  only  goes  to  Level  E.  But 
it  isn't  really  clear."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response 

Impacts  of  the  project  were  assessed  for  five  local  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  project  site,  for  the  weekday  p.m.  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  peak  hour,  for 
both  an  average  month  and  the  peak  month  (during  the  Christmas  season).  As 
shown  in  Table  6  on  p.  70  of  the  EIR,  during  the  Saturday  peak  hour  none  of  the 
intersections  would  be  substantially  affected  by  project -generated  traffic  with  the 
exception  of  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  which  would  operate  at  LOS  A/B  during 
the  peak  month.  During  the  Saturday  peak  hour,  operations  at  all  five  study 
intersections  would  operate  satisfactorily  for  average  month  and  peak  month 
conditions,  as  well  as  in  the  Year  2000. 

As  shown  in  Table  5  on  p.  69  of  the  EIR,  all  of  the  study  intersections  currently 
operate  satisfactorily  (LOS  D  or  better)  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour. 
Project-generated  traffic  would  affect  the  LOS  at  two  of  the  study  intersections 
during  an  average  month  and  at  three  intersections  during  the  peak  month. 
Intersection  operations  at  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  would  degrade  from  LOS  C 
to  LOS  D  during  an  average  month,  and  to  LOS  E  during  the  peak  month.  As 
noted  on  p.  67  of  the  EIR,  LOS  E  represents  capacity  and  is  not  within  the 
acceptable  LOS  range,  and  this  is  considered  a  significant  effect.  Intersection 
operations  at  Tenth  /  Harrison  Streets  would  be  affected  by  project-generated 
traffic,  but  would  remain  in  the  acceptable  LOS  range. 

With  cumulative  development,  in  the  Year  2000  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour,  the 
intersection  of  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  would  operate  at  LOS  F,  which 
represents  a  jammed  condition  in  which  traffic  demand  exceeds  capacity.  Traffic 
operations  at  Tenth  Street  /  Bryant  Street,  serving  the  freeway  on-ramp  nearest 
the  project  site,  would  operate  at  LOS  E.  Operations  at  the  other  three  study 
intersections  would  decline  but  would  continue  to  operate  satisfactorily  (LOS  D 
or  better).  As  noted  on  p.  69  of  the  EIR,  the  localized  aspects  of  cumulative 
development  on  streets  and  intersections  were  analyzed  using  underlying 


C&R.21 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

growth  factors.  It  is  estimated  through  this  method  that  traffic  at  intersections  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  will  increase  by  ten  percent  by  the  Year  2000.  The 
proposed  project  is  assumed  to  be  contained  within  these  underlying  growth 
factors,  and  therefore  these  Year  2000  levels  of  service  are  expected  to  occur 
regardless  of  whether  or  not  this  specific  project  is  approved.  As  noted  in  the  first 
mitigation  measure  under  "Measures  That  Could  Be  Implemented  By  Public 
Agencies"  on  p.  98  of  the  EIR,  a  separate  left-tum  lane  in  the  westbound  direction 
at  the  intersection  of  Eleventh  /  Harrison  Streets  would  facilitate  operating 
conditions  of  LOS  D/E  (borderline  unacceptable)  at  this  intersection  during  Year 
2000  conditions. 

As  noted  on  p.  103  of  the  EIR,  traffic  increases  resulting  from  the  proposed 
project  would  cause  the  p.m.  peak  hour  level  of  service  at  the  intersection  of 
Eleventh  and  Harrison  Streets  to  decline  from  LOS  C  to  LOS  D  during  the 
average  month  (which  would  not  be  considered  a  significant  impact),  and  to 
further  decline  to  LOS  E  during  the  peak  month  (which  would  be  considered  a 
significant  impact). 

Regarding  the  comment  on  approval  of  the  project,  the  characterization  of 
intersection  LOS  as  "unacceptable"  was  intended  to  refer  to  poor  or  jammed 
operating  conditions.  Such  conditions  (LOS  E  or  F)  are  normally  considered  less 
than  acceptable  in  urban  areas.  San  Francisco  Office  of  Environmental  Review 
policy  and  practice  define  a  project-related  decline  in  LOS  to  E  or  F  as 
constituting  a  significant  environmental  effect.  Nothing  in  CEQA  is  intended  to 
prevent  decision  makers  from  approving  a  project  despite  significant 
environmental  effects  (nor  disapproval  of  a  project  with  or  without  significant 
environmental  effects).  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15002(h)  states  that 
decision-makers  have  a  number  of  methods  at  their  disposal  for  protecting  the 
environment.  An  EIR  does  not  by  itself  control  the  way  in  which  a  project  can  be 
built  or  carried  out.  Rather,  when  an  EIR  shows  that  a  project  would  cause 
significant  impacts,  the  decision-making  agency  must  respond  to  the  information 
in  one  or  more  of  the  following  ways:  (1)  changing  the  proposed  project; 
(2)  imposing  conditions  of  approval  on  the  project;  (3)  adopting  plans  or 
ordinances  to  control  a  broader  class  of  projects  to  avoid  the  impacts; 
(4)  choosing  an  alternative  way  of  meeting  the  same  need;  (5)  disapproving  the 
project;  (6)  finding  that  changing  or  altering  the  project  to  mitigate  the  impact  is 


C&R.22 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

infeasible:  (7)  finding  that  the  unavoidable  impact  is  acceptable,  as  described 
below,  per  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15093. 

CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15043  states  that  a  public  agency  may  approve  a 
project  even  though  the  project  would  cause  a  significant  effect  on  the 
environment  if  the  agency  makes  a  fully  informed  and  publicly  disclosed  decision 
that  (a)  there  is  no  feasible  way  to  lessen  or  avoid  the  significant  effect  and 
(b)  specifically  identified  expected  benefits  from  the  project  outweigh  the  policy 
of  reducing  or  avoiding  significant  environmental  impacts  of  the  project.  As 
noted  in  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15093,  the  decision-makers  must  balance  the 
benefits  of  a  proposed  project  against  its  unavoidable  environmental  effects  in 
determining  whether  or  not  to  approve  the  project.  If  the  decision-makers 
conclude  that  the  benefits  of  a  proposed  project  outweigh  the  identified 
unavoidable  adverse  environmental  effects,  a  statement  of  overriding 
considerations  citing  the  specific  reasons  why  the  project  benefits  outweigh  its 
identified  significant  effects  would  be  prepared,  and  the  project  could  be 
approved. 

TRANSPORTATION  ANALYSIS  /  APPROACH 
Comment 

"The  report  makes  certain  assumptions  based  on  projections  of  increased 
transportation,  either  highway  improvements  or  public  transportation,  et  cetera.  And  I 
wonder  if  there  maybe  isn't  an  inappropriate  relationship  to  these  areas,  given  the 
unique  kind  of  retailer  that  Costco  is,  for  example  .  .  .  it's  pretty  tough  to  imagine  that 
average  Price  Club  shopper  to  take  public  transportation  to  cart  away  a  lot  of  the  stuff 
that  the  average  person  takes  out  of  the  Price  Club. 

"And.  obviously,  in  the  city,  people  will  cut  the  cloth  to  fit  the  shoe.  However,  I  think 
if  we  are  talking  about  a  very  similar  product,  to  assume  that  public  transportation  and 
some  plans  that  may  or  may  not  actually  happen  are  going  to  mitigate  what  is 
generally  a  very  intense  driver  use  might  be  a  little  shortsighted."  (Edward  Sewell, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

"The  nature  of  Costco 's  business  does  not  promote,  or  lend  itself  to  the  promotion  of, 
the  utilization  of  public  transportation.  Shopping  at  Costco  for  bulk  items  would  be 


C&R.23 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


nearly  impossible  if  shoppers  were  to  attempt  to  carry  these  bulk  items  home  on  the 
bus.  Attempts  to  mitigate  this  problem  with  additional  public  transit  lines  in  the 
vicinity  of  Costco  would  not  be  effective  as  Costco 's  customers  will  not  utilize  public 
transportation.  Thus,  increased  traffic  is  inevitable  if  the  Costco  project  is  approved. 
Along  with  the  increased  traffic  problem  comes  increased  air  pollution  and  increased 
noise  levels  for  the  people  who  reside  and  work  in  the  South  of  Market  area." 
(Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  EIR  notes  on  pp.  66,  67  and  71  that  the  transportation 
analysis  assumes  that  no  Costco  customers  are  expected  to  use  public  transit.  All 
analysis  of  trip  generation  in  the  EIR  assumes  that  each  Costco  customer  would 
drive  alone  to  the  project  site.  The  only  potential  transit  use  considered  is  that 
which  would  be  generated  by  employees  of  Costco  and  occupants  of  the 
residential  component  of  the  proposed  project. 

The  EIR  contains  analyses  of  potential  air  quality  and  noise  effects  of  the  project 
(pp.  77-82  and  82-86  of  the  EIR,  respectively).  These  analyses  are  based  on 
potential  transportation  impacts  of  the  project  and  are  also  based  on  the 
assumption  that  each  Costco  customer  would  drive  alone  to  the  project  site. 

Comment 

"Then  I  guess  maybe  there  is  one  other  question,  .  .  .  trying  to  determine  what  the 
market  share  is.  I  assume  Costco  has  analyzed  their  market  share.  I  assume  that 
demand  by  San  Francisco  in  this  region  might  be  measured  by  the  total  number  of 
members  that  are  at  Price  Club  and  Costco,  in  both,  or  at  least  the  San  Francisco 
members  that  had  San  Francisco  addresses  might  be  measured  by  that,  but  —  to  make 
some  assumptions  on  what  their  market  for  San  Francisco  might  be  in  relationship  to 
parking  and  trip  generation  rather  than  taking  averages  of  the  stores  that  are  there." 
(Wayne  Jackson  Hu,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response 

Due  to  its  proposed  location  in  San  Francisco,  there  could  be  more  customers  to  a 
San  Francisco  Costco  store  than  there  are  currently  Costco  and  Price  Club 


C&R.24 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


customers  with  San  Francisco  addresses.  Costco  currently  has  approximately 
9,000  wholesale  (business)  members  and  22,000  group  members  in  the  city  of 
San  Francisco.  Table  3  on  p.  64  of  the  EIR  presents  a  summary  of  weekday  p.m. 
peak  hour  and  Saturday  peak  hour  traffic  based  on  cash  register  activity  at 
Costco's  eight  San  Francisco  region  stores  during  the  pre-Christmas  peak  in 
1988.  The  trip  generation  used  in  the  EIR  assumes  that  a  San  Francs ico -based 
Costco  store  would  attract  customers  at  a  rate  above  the  Bay  Area  Region 
average,  due  to  higher  population  density.  In  order  to  present  a  conservative 
scenario  for  the  proposed  San  Francisco  store,  Santa  Rosa  Costco  store  trip 
generation  data  (the  region's  highest)  was  used  to  calculate  potential  vehicle  trip 
generation  for  an  average  and  peak  month.  It  was  further  assumed  that  all  Costco 
customers  would  arrive  by  automobile,  as  would  be  expected  for  a 
bulk-merchandise  type  store.  Therefore,  the  analysis  contained  in  the  EIR 
presents  a  reasonable,  conservative  scenario  of  potential  transportation  impacts  of 
the  project. 

Comment 

"In  this  document,  they  don't  have  the  usual  transit  photographs  that  show  the 
crowding  of  transit  vehicles  in  the  future  as  well  as  right  now.  I  was  just  curious  what 
EIR's  do  we  put  those  in  and  what  EIR's  do  we  not  put  them  in.  Maybe  it's  that  the 
transit  vehicles  in  this  area  aren't  that  badly  impacted  .  .  ."  (Susan  Bierman,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

Response 

On  noted  on  p.  66  of  the  EIR,  for  purposes  of  analyzing  traffic  impacts  of  the 
project,  it  was  assumed  that  all  Costco  customers  would  arrive  by  automobile,  as 
would  be  expected  for  a  bulk-merchandise  retail  store.  Thus,  because  the 
potential  effects  of  the  project  on  MUNI  would  be  so  minimal,  the  photographs  of 
peak  loading  conditions  on  MUNI  have  not  been  included  in  the  EIR  for  this 
project. 

Comment 

"Staff  would  however,  recommend  participation  in  the  'Commuter  Check'  program 
offered  by  several  bay  area  orgamzations  including  SF  Muni.  This  regional  transit 


C&R.2C 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


voucher  program  is  a  RTA/MTC  funded  project.  It  is  a  convenient  way  for  employers 
to  provide  a  tax-deductable  benefit  to  their  employees  and  support  transit."  (James  D. 
Lowe,  Transit  Planner,  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway) 

Response 

Comment  noted.  The  Commuter  Check  program  allows  employers  to  subsidize 
employee  use  of  public  transportation.  Through  this  program,  employers  may 
give  employees  twenty  dollars  per  month  in  tax-free  transit  vouchers  that  can  be 
redeemed  toward  any  transit  ticket  or  pass  purchase  of  twenty  dollars  or  more  on 
any  transit  system  in  the  Bay  Area.  This  is  one  of  several  systems  to  encourage 
transit  and  carpool/vanpool  use  by  commuters.  RIDES  is  another.  Planning 
Department  staff  do  not  generally  recommend  any  specific  individual  programs 
but  do  always  encourage  incentives  to  transit  use. 

Comment 

"South  of  Market  traffic  congestion  would  increase  significantly  with  the  opening  of  a 
Costco  outlet.  It  has  been  determined  by  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco, 
Department  of  City  Planning,  that  daily  traffic  to  Costco  would  increase  traffic  in  the 
area  by  approximately  5,840  to  6,050  cars  per  day  during  the  week.  Traffic  during 
Saturday  would  increase  by  approximately  6,640  to  6,850  cars  per  day.  During 
December,  these  levels  would  again  increase  by  approximately  7,800  to  8,010  car  trips 
per  day  during  the  week,  and  to  approximately  8,800  to  9,010  per  day  during 
Saturdays.  See,  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report,  pp.  63,  65,  111. 

"The  designated  site  for  this  project  lies  South  of  Market  and  runs  parallel  to  the  Bay 
Bridge,  1-280,  and  U.S.  101  corridor.  Freeway  on-ramps  leading  on  to  the  freeway  lie 
at  Bryant  and  8th  Streets,  and  at  Bryant  and  10th  Streets  directly  across  from  the 
proposed  site.  The  close  proximity  of  the  proposed  site  to  freeway  on-ramps  will 
create  severe  traffic  congestion  especially  during  the  already  congested  afternoon 
commute  hours. 

"Access  from  the  freeway  to  the  Civic  Center,  to  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge,  and  other 
areas  in  the  vicinity  has  been  reduced  by  the  demolition  of  the  Franklin  Street  exit  and 
the  Gough  Street  exit  due  to  the  1989  earthquake  damage  suffered.  This  has  had  an 
impact  on  local  street  traffic  in  general  through  the  South  of  Market  area.  Costco 's 


C&R.26 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


proposed  facility  will  again  add  to  the  already  congested  traffic  situation  of  the  area." 
(Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

As  noted  on  p.  63  of  the  EIR,  retail-related  trip  generation  for  the  proposed 
project  would  be  about  5,840  weekday  trips  and  about  6,640  Saturday  trips  under 
normal  circumstances  and  about  7,800  weekday  trips  and  about  8,800  Saturday 
trips  during  the  peak  month.  Residential-related  trip  generation  would  be  about 
210  weekday  and  Saturday  vehicle  trips. 

The  EIR  includes  an  analysis  of  traffic  operations  at  the  freeway  on-ramp  nearest 
the  project  site  (the  intersection  of  Tenth  Street  and  Bryant  Street)  and  a 
discussion  of  project  effects  on  freeway  corridors  serving  downtown 
San  Francisco.  As  noted  on  p.  71  of  the  EIR,  the  intersection  of  Tenth  Street  and 
Bryant  Street  currently  operates  at  LOS  C  and  B  on  weekdays  and  Saturdays, 
respectively.  The  addition  of  project  traffic  would  not  affect  these  levels  of 
service  during  an  average  month  or  the  peak  month.  The  EIR  further  notes  on 
p.  71  that  while  the  project  would  contribute  to  increases  in  traffic  on  the  major 
freeways  serving  downtown  San  Francisco,  traffic  generated  by  the  project  would 
increase  total  traffic  on  major  freeways  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  by  less  than 
0.5%.  Such  increases  would  not  be  measurable  against  the  day-to-day 
fluctuations  in  traffic  volumes. 

The  EIR  notes  on  p.  55  that  while  many  downtown  streets  and  intersections  have 
experienced  changes  in  traffic  volumes  as  a  result  of  the  closure  of  freeway 
segments  damaged  in  the  Loma  Prieta  earthquake  of  October  1989,  most  of  them 
aie  expected  to  be  only  temporary.  As  freeway  repairs  are  completed,  traffic  is 
expected  to  return  to  its  pre-quake  patterns.  Because  not  all  repair  plans  have 
been  finalized,  it  has  been  necessary  to  make  certain  assumptions  about  the 
transportation  system  that  would  be  in  place  by  the  year  2000  to  provide  a 
reasonable  assessment  of  future  conditions.  These  assumptions  are  presented  on 
pp.  55-56  of  the  EIR. 

Comment 

"A  project  of  this  magnitude,  and  its  close  proximity  to  State  Route  101,  will  have 
significant  traffic  impacts  on  local  streets,  the  Bryant  Street  On-Ramp,  and  the 

C&R.27 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

mainline  facility.  The  trip  generation  rates  used  are  reasonable.  However,  how  the 
generated  trips  are  distributed  should  be  addressed.  The  study  should  present  Average 
Daily  Traffic  (ADT),  AM  &  PM  peak  hour  traffic  volumes  on  diagrams  for  local 
streets  and  State  Route  101  in  the  vicinity  of  this  project  under  the  following 
conditions:  1.  Existing;  2.  Year  2000  without  this  project;  3.  Year  2000  with  this 
project;  and  4.  Year  2000  with  this  project,  plus  cumulative  projects."  (Gary  Adams, 
District  CEQA  Coordinator,  California  Department  of  Transportation) 

Response 

The  weekday  p.m.  peak  period  (4:00  p.m.  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  peak 
period  (12:30  p.m.  to  3:30  p.m.)  were  chosen  to  determine  existing  peak-hour 
levels  of  service  based  on  the  following  considerations.  During  weekday 
conditions,  Costco  related  traffic  would  be  highest  during  the  midday  period, 
however  overall  traffic  volumes  would  be  much  higher  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour 
selected  for  analysis.  The  a.m.  peak  period  was  not  analyzed  because  the  Costco 
store  would  not  be  open  during  this  period.  For  weekend  conditions,  the  existing 
traffic  volumes  are  relatively  light,  while  the  project  traffic  volumes  would  be 
heavy.  The  appropriate  analysis  for  weekend  conditions  would  be  expected  to 
coincide  with  the  project's  peak  traffic  generation  (12:30  p.m.  to  3:30  p.m.). 

Traffic  conditions  and  impacts  are  discussed  on  pp.  67-71  of  the  EIR  and 
intersection  levels  of  service  are  presented  in  Table  5  for  the  weekday  p.m.  peak 
hour  analysis  and  Table  6  for  the  Saturday  peak  hour  analysis.  Existing,  existing 
plus  project  and  Year  2000  conditions  are  presented.  San  Francisco's  Guidelines 
for  Environmental  Review:  Transportation  Impacts  requires  that  these  scenarios 
be  analyzed.  The  Year  2000  scenario  assumes  cumulative  growth  and  the  project 
to  be  part  of  that  cumulative  growth.  The  project's  percentage  of  cumulative 
growth  is  shown  in  both  Tables  5  and  6  for  weekday  and  Saturday  respectively. 

The  scope  of  the  traffic  study  did  not  include  a  full  analysis  of  Average  Daily 
Traffic  (ADT)  volumes.  ADT  volumes  for  existing  conditions  are  summarized  in 
Table  C&R-l.  It  should  be  noted  that  ADT  volumes  at  some  locations  have  been 
estimated  based  on  the  relationship  of  p.m.  peak  hour  trips  to  daily  trips  in  the 
area,  and  that  ADT  counts  are  not  available  for  the  mainline  U.S.  101  or  1-80 


C&R.28 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


TABLE  C&R-l:  EXISTING  AVERAGE  DAILY  TRAFFIC  (ADT)  VOLUMES 


LOCAL  STREETS 

Harrison  Street  westbound  between 
Ninth  and  Tenth  Streets 

Bryant  Street  eastbound  between 
Ninth  and  Tenth  Streets 

Ninth  Street  northbound  between 
Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets 

Tenth  Street  southbound  between 
Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets 

FREEWAY  RAMPS 

1-80  Seventh/Harrison  Streets 
westbound  off-ramp 

1-80  Eighth/Bryant  Streets 
eastbound  on-ramp 

U.S.  101  Ninth/Bryant  Streets 
northbound  off-ramp 

U.S.  101  Tenth/Bryant  Streets 
southbound  off-ramp 

MAINLINE 

U.S.  101  at  its  interchange  with  1-80 
1-80  at  its  interchange  with  U.S.  101 


14,981  daily  vehicles/a/ 


7,244  daily  vehicles 


25,744  daily  vehicles/a/ 


28,038  daily  vehicles/a/ 


9,773  daily  vehicles 
10,201  daily  vehicles 
14,282  daily  vehicles/a/ 
17,871  daily  vehicles/a/ 

167,000  daily  vehicles/b/ 
256,000  daily  vehicles/b/ 


/a/     ADT  volumes  estimated  based  on  the  relationship  of  p.m.  peak  hour  trips  to 

daily  trips  in  the  area, 
/b/     Estimated;  Caltrans'  {1990  Traffic  Volumes  on  California  State  Highways) 

extrapolations  from  counts  at  other  locations. 

SOURCE:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


C&R.29 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


freeway  facilities.  The  values  supplied  for  the  mainline  volumes  are  Caltrans' 
(1990  Traffic  Volumes  on  California  State  Highways)  extrapolations  from  counts 
at  other  locations  and  should  be  viewed  as  estimates,  not  as  fact.  Based  on  the 
San  Francisco  County  Transportation  Authority's  report  entitled  City  and  County 
of  San  Francisco  Congestion  Management  Program  (October  1991),  both 
U.S.  101  and  1-80  function  at  LOS  F  in  the  downtown  area  of  San  Francisco  for 
weekday  peak  period  conditions.  This  indicated  the  facilities  are  congested  and 
have  average  speeds  of  less  than  30  miles  per  hour.  While  precise  freeway  speed 
and  delay  data  is  not  available  for  weekend  conditions,  observation  indicates  that 
intermittent  LOS  F  conditions  exist  on  these  freeways  on  weekends  even  when 
surface  streets  are  free-flowing. 

The  project  would  add  an  estimated  6,644  average  month  weekday  and  8,600 
peak  month  weekday  daily  and  624  average  month  weekday  and  796  peak  month 
weekday  p.m.  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  to  the  surrounding  roadways.  During  an 
average  month  this  would  represent  a  six  percent  and  five  percent  increase  in 
traffic  at  the  Ninth/Bryant  Streets  off -ramp  and  Tenth/Bryant  Streets  on-ramp 
respectively.  The  increase  to  U.S.  101  mainline  volumes  is  estimated  at  one 
percent.  During  the  peak  month,  the  increases  are  estimated  at  eight  percent  and 
seven  percent  for  the  Ninth/Bryant  Street  off -ramp  and  Tenth/Bryant  Streets 
on-ramp  respectively  and  at  one  percent  for  the  U.S.  101  mainline.  The  project  is 
not  expected  to  heavily  impact  1-80  because  few  trips  would  be  traveling  to  or 
from  the  East  Bay  because  there  are  already  Costco  stores  in  several  East  Bay 
cities.  The  project's  impact  on  the  Seventh/Harrison  Streets  off-ramp, 
Eighth/Bryant  Streets  on-ramp  and  1-80  mainline  volumes  would  not  be 
significant. 

PARKING 

Comment 

"I  was  looking  at  the  .  .  .  trip  generation  tables  and  so  forth.  And  one  of  the  things  that 
might  be  missing,  ...  I  guess  in  relationship  to  similar  facilities,  whether  it  be  Costco 
and  Price  Club,  the  amount  of  parking  that  they  have  for  those  facilities.  One  of  the 
concerns  here  is, .  .  .  based  on  trip  generation,  there  seems  to  be  adequate  parking,  or  at 
least  calculations  assume  there  is  adequate  parking. 


C&R.30 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

"The  concern  .  .  .  when  there  is  not  available  parking,  the  amount  of  circulating  by  cars 
trying  to  find  parking  spaces  ...  In  the  Costco  facility,  I  guess  in  [South 
San  Francisco],  they  are  in  a  large  shopping  center  and  I  guess  there  is  overflow.  I 
guess  they  consume  more  of  that  parking,  whereas  in  the  Price  Club,  there  seems  to  be 
an  insufficient  amount  of  parking  spaces  at  times  and  not  enough  spaces  to  take  the 
overflow.  So,  I  don't  know  how  to  measure  that  .  .  .  maybe  one  way  is  to  look  at  the 
actual  number  of  parking  spaces  based  on  the  size  of  the  facilities.  So,  if  the 
information  is  available,  .  .  .  maybe  that  could  be  responded  to.  But  I  don't  believe  it's 
in  this  report."  (Wayne  Jackson  Hu,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response 

The  Costco  project  analyzed  in  the  EIR  includes  a  total  of  720  ret  ail -serving 
parking  spaces,  and  the  parking  analysis  on  pp.  71-74  of  the  EIR  was  based  on  the 
provision  of  that  number  of  parking  spaces.  The  project  application  that  has  been 
submitted  to  the  Department  of  City  Planning  is  most  similar  to  Alternative  C  to 
the  project,  which  is  analyzed  on  pp.  107-109  of  the  EIR.  This  alternative  would 
include  a  total  of  650  retail-serving  parking  spaces.  The  parking  impacts  of  this 
alternative  are  addressed  on  p.  108  of  the  EIR.  That  parking  analysis  is  expanded 
below  to  address  concerns  raised  in  the  comment  for  both  the  project  analyzed  in 
the  EIR  (provision  of  720  parking  spaces),  Alternative  C  to  the  project  (provision 
of  650  parking  spaces),  and  a  possible  future  increased  parking  option  (provision 
of  890  spaces)  as  noted  on  pp.  1,16,  and  73  of  the  EIR. 

Parking  demand  and  the  surplus/deficit  under  four  conditions  (average  month 
weekday,  average  month  Saturday,  peak  month  weekday,  and  peak  month 
Saturday)  for  the  project,  Alternative  C  and  the  increased  parking  option  are 
shown  in  Table  C&R-2.  An  efficiency  factor  of  90%  has  been  applied  to  the 
number  of  parking  spaces  provided  with  the  project  under  all  three  scenarios.  In 
the  analysis  of  parking  conditions  in  relatively  high-volume  garages,  the  parking 
supply  is  often  discounted  by  a  five  to  ten  percent  efficiency  factor  to  account  for 
practical  impediments  to  full  utilization  of  a  high-volume,  high-turnover  parking 
facility.  This  is  particularly  true  for  retail  parking  with  high  turnover,  and  for 
relatively  large  facilities  where  empty  spaces  on  the  upper  floors  are  difficult 


C&P.31 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


Q- 

o 


< 

CL 

o 

UJ 

z 


tu 
u 
ro 
a 
co 

D 

c 

re 


to  -i- 
3  U 


CO 


0) 

> 
-t-> 

U 
CD 


o 

tn 

Lf) 

o 

in 

CM 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

00 

CO 

CO 

CO 

LlJ 
O 


CL 


(J 
t — ' 

a: 
< 
a. 

Q 

UJ 


CO 


C\J 
I 


CD 
< 


^5 

o 

c 

10 

-i_> 

o> 

o 

01 

(/I 

u 

u 



,  

l+- 

r0 

in 

o 

o 

in 

o 

rO 

Q. 

n 

4- 

r-~ 

o 

s_ 

UJ 

CO 

S_ 

Q> 

CNJ 

o 

> 

Q 

o 

CL 

1 — 1 

cr 

CO 

+J 

!_ 

c 

u 

O 

< 

ro 

(_) 

M- 

DC 

s_ 

a) 

V. 

0) 

1 1  i 

re 

> 

rO 

>, 

1 — 

a. 

\ 

u 

ro 

_J 

>i 

in 

m 

in 

in 

c 

10 

< 

o 

w 

CO 

00 

CO 

00 

QJ 

QJ 

LT) 

QJ 

Q. 

m 

in 

m 

in 

<4- 

D, 

CJ 

o 

14- 

c 

UJ 

CO 

4- 

QJ 

o 

u 

C 

ro 

o 

>> 

(_) 

_Q 

>, 

x> 

ja 

■n. 

J-> 

0) 

10 

10 

<D 

3 

O 

QJ 

U 

o 

in 

in 

o 

Ol 

rC 

D. 

M- 

CSJ 

r_ 

Q, 

U 

aj 

-t-> 

CL 

CO 

Q 

.  

CL 

| — 

CO 

3 

3 

cr 

E 

10 

UJ 

c 

>> 

10 

o 

qj 

^> 

i — 

u 

u 

> 

ro 

CL 

CL 

re 

o 

o 

© 

o 

a. 

+J 

CL. 

> 

in 

in 

in 

in 

3 

10 

u 

uo 

LO 

lO 

to 

o 

CD 

a 

C\J 

tt- 

Q 

CD 

(0 

H- 

c 

-t-> 

UJ 

co 

•r— 

to 

i_ 

c 

ro 

o 

CL 

-o 

aj 

1o 

(0 

cn 

3 

ro 

c 

"O 

+J 

-£> 

C 

o 

m 

in 

o 

O 

r0 

CM 

re 

re 

l_ 

e 

i_n 

vD 

to 

re 

QJ 

10 

0) 

Q_ 

a_ 

O 

JJ 

-D 

c 

ro 

QJ 

•r— 

10 

U 

QJ 

o 

U 

to 

CL 

to 

QJ 

< 

>> 

lm 

>^ 

ITS 

r0 

>1 

4J 

T3 

L 

>> 

>> 

rO 

CL 

i 

0) 

-t-> 

ro 

X) 

CL 

CO 

QJ 

rfi 

-a 

u 

3 

:s 

CO 

3 

10 

L 

0) 

-P 

3 

-C 

QJ 

m  • 

0) 

JD 

+j 

-t-> 

CO 

> 

c 

c 

T=> 

o 

o 

-C 

JZ 

'5 

O 

s: 

3: 

-u 

+J 

u 

c 

c 

0) 

<D 

QJ 

o 

o 

M— 

ai 

en 

tn 

s: 

U- 

UJ 

Ca- 

ro 

ro 

LU 

<_J 

u 

l_ 

-i£ 

J* 

Di 

QJ 

QJ 

ro 

ro 

■v. 

=3 

> 

> 

<D 

OJ 

re 

O 

< 

< 

CL 

CL 

CO 

C&R.32 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

to  access.  The  application  of  this  efficiency  factor  yields  an  effective  parking 
supply  of  about  650  parking  spaces  for  a  720-space  project,  about  585  effective 
spaces  for  the  650-space  garage  associated  with  Alternative  C,  and  about  800 
effective  spaces  for  a  project  with  890  spaces. 

As  shown  in  Table  C&R-2,  for  the  project  analyzed  in  the  EIR,  based  on  an 
effective  parking  supply  of  about  650  parking  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated 
140  space  surplus  for  an  average  month  weekday,  a  surplus  of  about  25  spaces  for 
an  average  month  Saturday,  a  surplus  of  about  5  spaces  for  a  peak  month 
weekday,  and  a  deficit  of  about  140  spaces  for  a  peak  month  Saturday.  For 
Alternative  C  analyzed  in  the  EIR,  based  on  an  effective  supply  of  about  585 
parking  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  75  space  surplus  under  average 
month  weekday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  40  spaces  under  average  month 
Saturday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  60  spaces  under  peak  month  weekday 
conditions,  and  a  deficit  of  about  205  spaces  under  peak  month  Saturday 
conditions.  For  the  increased  parking  option,  based  on  an  effective  supply  of 
about  800  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  290  space  surplus  under  average 
month  weekday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  175  spaces  under  average  month 
Saturday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  155  spaces  under  peak  month  weekday 
conditions,  and  a  surplus  of  about  10  spaces  under  peak  month  Saturday 
conditions. 

During  weekday  conditions,  on-street  facilities  in  the  project  area  are  operating  at 
effective  capacity  (more  than  90%  occupied)  during  the  midday  peak  period. 
Spillover  from  Costco  would  be  forced  to  compete  for  these  parking  spaces  and 
would  impact  parking  conditions  in  the  area.  For  the  project  proposal  that 
resembles  Alternative  C  (provision  of  650  parking  spaces),  weekday  spillover  is 
estimated  at  60  spaces  during  the  peak  month.  Spillover  would  result  in  queues 
forming  at  the  access  points  to  the  project,  and  circling  activities  as  vehicles  wait 
for  parking  spaces  within  or  adjacent  to  the  project  to  vacate. 

During  weekend  and  holiday  periods,  on-street  parking  in  the  area  of  the  project 
is  estimated  at  55%  occupied  indicating  that  an  estimated  825  on-street  spaces  are 
available  in  the  study  area  (see  discussion  on  pp.  A.37-A.42  of  the  EIR).  For  the 
project  analyzed  in  the  EIR  (provision  of  720  spaces),  a  deficit  of  about  80 
parking  spaces  could  be  accommodated  within  one  block  of  the  project  site, 


C&R.33 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

should  shoppers  choose  to  park  on-street.  For  the  project  proposal  that  resembles 
Alternative  C  (provision  of  650  spaces),  the  Saturday  deficit  of  about  205  spaces 
would  exceed  the  number  of  on-street  spaces  in  the  immediate  area  of  the  project 
and  some  Costco  patrons  would  likely  park  up  to  two  blocks  from  the  site,  wait 
within  the  parking  lot  for  spaces  to  become  available,  or  queue  on  Tenth  and 
Eleventh  Streets  to  enter  the  parking  lot.  This  condition  would  prevail  for 
weekends  between  Thanksgiving  and  New  Year's  as  well  as  for  other  relatively 
heavy  shopping  weekends  scattered  throughout  the  year.  The  queuing  and 
circling  activities  described  under  weekday  peak  month  Alternative  C  conditions 
would  also  occur  during  weekend  conditions  when  parking  demand  exceeded 
capacity,  and  could  contribute  to  short-term,  temporary  reductions  in  area 
intersection  LOS. 

During  peak  month  weekday  and  peak  month  Saturday  conditions,  when  parking 
demand  would  exceed  the  sum  of  on-site  supply  and  on-street  supply  on  adjacent 
blocks,  the  resulting  parking  spillover  would  impact  parking  conditions  at 
existing  uses  in  the  area.  On-street  parking  adjacent  to  the  Costco  would  be  full 
and  patrons  of  other  businesses  in  the  area,  who  compete  for  on-street  parking 
spaces  during  existing  weekday  conditions  and  park  with  little  difficulty  during 
existing  Saturday  conditions,  would  be  forced  to  share  the  existing  supply  with 
Costco  patrons. 

The  above-described  parking  deficits  and  resultant  off-site  queuing  and  traffic 
disruption  would  not  constitute  a  significant  environmental  impact  due  to  its 
small  size  (in  the  case  of  average  Saturdays  and  peak  weekdays)  and  limited 
times  of  year  (in  the  case  of  greater  parking  deficits  on  peak  shopping  weekends). 

The  last  paragraph  on  p.  72  of  the  EIR,  through  the  first  six  lines  on  p.  73  of  the 
EIR,  is  replaced  by  the  following  text: 

"The  proposed  project  would  include  a  total  of  720  parking  spaces  in  a  - 
three-level  parking  structure  on  the  site.  The  parking  structure  would  be 
designed  so  that  a  fourth  level  of  parking  could  be  added  at  a  later  date 
(unspecified  at  this  time),  so  that  there  could  be  a  total  of  approximately 
890  parking  spaces  within  applicable  height  and  bulk  limits  of  the  site. 
Parking  demand  and  the  surplus/deficit  under  four  conditions  (average 
month  weekday,  average  month  Saturday,  peak  month  weekday,  and  peak 
month  Saturday)  for  the  project  (provision  of  720  parking  spaces)  and  for 
the  potential  increased  parking  option  (provision  of  890  parking  spaces)  are 
shown  in  Table  7.  An  efficiency  factor  of  90%  has  been  applied  to  the 


C&R.34 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

number  of  parking  spaces  provided  with  the  project  under  both  scenarios. 
In  the  analysis  of  parking  conditions  in  relatively  high-volume  garages,  the 
parking  supply  is  often  discounted  by  a  five  to  ten  percent  efficiency  factor  ' 
to  account  for  practical  impediments  to  full  utilization  of  a  high-volume, 
high-turnover  parking  facility.  This  is  particularly  true  for  retail  parking 
with  high  turnover,  and  for  relatively  large  facilities  where  empty  spaces  on 
the  upper  floors  are  difficult  to  access.  The  application  of  this  efficiency 
factor  yields  an  effective  parking  supply  of  about  650  parking  spaces  for  a 
720-space  project  and  about  800  effective  spaces  for  the  increased  parking 
option  with  890  spaces. 

"As  shown  in  Table  7,  for  the  proposed  project,  based  on  an  effective 
parking  supply  of  about  650  parking  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated 
140  space  surplus  for  an  average  month  weekday,  a  surplus  of  about  25 
spaces  for  an  average  month  Saturday,  a  surplus  of  about  5  spaces  for  a 
peak  month  weekday,  and  a  deficit  of  about  140  spaces  for  a  peak  month 
Saturday.  For  the  increased  parking  option,  based  on  an  effective  supply  of 
about  800  spaces,  there  would  be  an  estimated  290  space  surplus  under 
average  month  weekday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  175  spaces  under 
average  month  Saturday  conditions,  a  surplus  of  about  155  spaces  under 
peak  month  weekday  conditions,  and  a  surplus  of  about  10  spaces  under 
peak  month  Saturday  conditions.  For  the  proposed  project,  parking  demand 
would  exceed  on-site  supply  during  peak  month  Saturday  conditions;  for 
the  increased  parking  option  parking  demand  would  not  exceed  supply 
under  any  of  the  four  analyzed  conditions. 

"During  weekend  and  holiday  periods,  on -street  parking  in  the  area  of  the 
project  is  estimated  at  55%  occupied  indicating  that  an  estimated  825 
on-street  spaces  are  available  in  the  study  area.  For  the  proposed  project 
(provision  of  720  spaces),  a  deficit  of  about  80  parking  spaces  could  be 
accommodated  within  one  block  of  the  project  site,  should  shoppers  choose 
to  park  on-street.  Further  parking  deficit  would  likely  cause  some  Costco 
patrons  to  park  up  to  two  blocks  from  the  site,  wait  within  the  parking  lot 
for  spaces  to  become  available,  or  queue  on  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets  to 
enter  the  parking  lot.  This  condition  would  prevail  for  weekends  between 
Thanksgiving  and  New  Year's  as  well  as  for  other  relatively  heavy 
shopping  weekends  scattered  throughout  the  year,  and  could  contribute  to 
short-term,  temporary  reductions  in  area  intersection  LOS.  The 
above-described  parking  deficit  for  the  proposed  project  (provision  of  720 
spaces)  and  resultant  off-site  queuing  and  traffic  disruption  would  not 
constitute  a  significant  environmental  impact,  due  the  limited  times  of  year 
when  parking  demand  would  exceed  on-site  supply." 

The  estimated  parking  surplus  and  deficit  for  the  project  and  for  the  increased 
parking  option  appears  in  revised  Table  7,  which  replaces  Table  7  on  p.  72  of  the 
EIR 


The  first  five  sentences  of  the  last  paragraph  on  p.  108  of  the  EIR  are  replaced  by 
the  following  text: 


C&R.35 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


UJ 

o 


D- 

co 


s  2 

s  - 

<_j 
z 


-t-> 

1/1 

3 

o 

O 

in 

in 

o 

cn 

in 

a 

4- 

CM 

L. 

OJ 

a 

CO 

\ 

> 

\. 

o 

o 

o 

o 

>- 

o 

o 

o 

o 

U 

CO 

00 

00 

CO 

OJ 

a 

4- 

a 

4— 

3 

LU 

CO 

io 

(U 

u 

TO 

a 

co 

1— 

D 

UJ 

c 

m 

o 

-s: 

ce 

1_ 

Cl- 

TO 

Q_ 

O 

CM 

r> 

j-> 

U 

o 

in 

T 

CM 

CL 

4- 

L. 

o; 

Q 

to 

^» 

> 

TO 

O 

o 

+-> 

>• 

m 

in 

u 

CO 

CD 

CD 

a 

4- 

a 

4- 

3 

LiJ 

CO 

C  "D 
•r-  c 
TO 

v-  E 
to  ai 
a.  o 


in 

CM 
CD 


O 


O 

in 

U3 


O 

in 

CD 


in 

cd 


o 


< 

>> 

O- 

>i 
TO 

da 

Q 

T3 

!_ 

>-> 

UJ 

J* 

3 

TO 

(— 

0) 

-U 

TO 

-a 

< 

oj 

TO 

TS 

!_ 

3: 

CO 

J* 

3 

0J 

4-J 

1— 

-C 

J= 

0J 

m 

CO 

CO 

UJ 

c 

C 

T3 

o 

o 

-C 

j= 

O 

2: 

*j 

c 

c 

i_ 

a; 

at 

0 

0 

-  <u 

D> 

D) 

z: 

3: 

UJ 

CL 

m 

re 

_i 

s_ 

i_ 

m 

a; 

o> 

TO 

m 

< 

> 

> 

0) 

OJ 

< 

< 

Q- 

5-S 

CT* 

4_ 

+j 

O 

re 

i_ 

i_ 

0 

O 

Q_ 

4_J 

J_ 

CJ 

TO 

(_) 

4_ 

0j 

?s 

CJ 

re 

c 

ui 

(D 

0J 

CJ 

0 

Cf_ 

4— 

0J 

0 

u 

TO 

10 

0 

>, 

(_J 

jQ 

>, 

J3 

-^3 

_ 

0j 



4J 

r> 

Q. 

3 

3 

10 

>■ 

10 

u 

Q- 

Q- 

-L> 

3 

I/) 

10 

+J 

o> 

m 

c 

-»-> 

10 

j- 

c 

TO 

0 

CL 

-0 

oj 

'm 

10 

3 

re 

-t-> 

JQ 

O 

re 

10 

</> 

oj 

-i-> 

*j 

c 

re 

oj 

•r- 

</) 

O 

0J 

O 

s_ 

10 

D- 

10 

QJ 

< 

J. 

>> 

D_ 

'i 

Cl 

10 

3 

10 

!_ 

3 

0J 

-Q 

> 

-L> 

is 

CJ 

0) 

4-  . 

4- 

UJ 

UJ 

l_> 

CL 

\ 

ID 

re 

O 

CO 

C&R.36 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


"The  proposed  parking  supply  of  650  spaces  for  the  retail  component  of  the 
project  would  yield  an  effective  parking  supply  of  about  585  effective 
spaces  after  application  of  the  90%  efficiency  factor  described  on  pp.  72-73 
of  the  EIR.  Based  on  an  effective  supply  of  about  585  parking  spaces,  there 
would  be  an  estimated  surplus  of  75  parking  spaces  under  average  month 
weekday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  40  spaces  under  average  month 
Saturday  conditions,  a  deficit  of  about  60  spaces  under  peak  month 
weekday  conditions,  and  a  deficit  of  about  205  spaces  under  peak  month 
Saturday  conditions. 

"During  weekday  conditions,  on-street  facilities  in  the  project  area  are 
operating  at  effective  capacity  (more  than  90%  occupied)  during  the 
midday  peak  period.  Spillover  from  Costco  would  be  forced  to  compete  for 
these  parking  spaces  and  would  impact  parking  conditions  in  the  area.  The 
estimated  weekday  spillover  of  60  spaces  would  likely  result  in  queues 
forming  at  the  access  points  to  the  project,  and  circling  activities  as 
vehicles  wait  for  parking  spaces  within  or  adjacent  to  the  project  to  vacate. 

"During  weekend  and  holiday  periods,  on-street  parking  in  the  area  of  the 
project  is  estimated  at  55%  occupied  indicating  that  an  estimated  825 
on-street  spaces  are  available  in  the  study  area.  The  estimated  Saturday 
deficit  of  about  205  spaces  would  exceed  the  number  of  on-street  spaces  in 
the  immediate  area  of  the  project  and  some  Costco  patrons  would  likely 
park  up  to  two  blocks  from  the  site,  wait  within  the  parking  lot  for  spaces  to 
become  available,  or  queue  on  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets  to  enter  the 
parking  lot.  This  condition  would  prevail  for  weekends  between 
Thanksgiving  and  New  Year's  as  well  as  for  other  relatively  heavy 
shopping  weekends  scattered  throughout  the  year.  The  queuing  and 
circling  activities  described  above  could  contribute  to  short-term, 
temporary  reductions  in  area  intersection  LOS. 

"During  peak  month  weekday  and  peak  month  Saturday  conditions,  when 
parking  demand  would  exceed  the  sum  of  on-site  supply  and  on-street 
supply  on  adjacent  blocks,  the  resulting  parking  spillover  would  impact 
parking  conditions  at  existing  uses  in  the  area.  On-street  parking  adjacent 
to  the  Costco  would  be  full  and  patrons  of  other  businesses  in  the  area,  who 
compete  for  on-street  parking  spaces  during  existing  weekday  conditions 
and  park  with  little  difficulty  during  existing  Saturday  conditions,  would  be 
forced  to  share  the  existing  supply  with  Costco  patrons. 

"The  above-described  parking  deficits  and  resultant  off-site  queuing  and 
traffic  disruption  would  not  constitute  a  significant  environmental  impact 
due  to  its  small  size  (in  the  case  of  average  Saturdays  and  peak  weekdays) 
and  limited  times  of  year  (in  the  case  of  greater  parking  deficits  on  peak 
shopping  weekends)." 

Comment 


"With  the  increased  traffic  generated  by  the  Costco  facility  comes  an  increased  need 
for  parking  in  the  site  area.  Costco  has  proposed  a  parking  facility  on  the  site  to 
accommodate  approximately  650  parking  spaces  for  the  outlet  and  approximately  sixty 
to  eighty  spaces  for  the  residential  units. 


C&R.37 


DC.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

"To  accommodate  all  Costco  customer  parking  needs,  the  rate  at  which  parking  space 
turn  over  must  occur  is  approximately  nine  vehicles  per  space  per  day,  not  taking  into 
account  the  parking  utilized  by  employees.  In  an  eight  hour  span,  this  breaks  down  to 
less  than  one  hour  per  shopper  to  prevent  spill-over  parking  onto  the  adjacent  streets. 
An  even  faster  turn  over  rate  would  be  required  during  peak  hours  and  peak  months  to 
prevent  spill-over  parking  onto  the  streets. 

"Commuter  traffic  would  be  further  snarled  by  slow  moving  traffic  searching  for 
on-street  parking.  Customers  of  existing  small  businesses  in  the  vicinity  will  be 
required  to  compete  for  on-street  parking  which  could  further  affect  patronage  to  such 
businesses.  These  parking  problems  are  compounded  by  the  fact  that  the  bulk  types  of 
products  Costco  promotes  admittedly  requires  driving  to  the  facility."  (Vincent  J. 
Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

Please  see  the  response  to  the  previous  comment.  As  shown  in  Table  C&R-2  on 
p.  C&R.32,  parking  spillover  would  occur  during  average  month  Saturday,  peak 
month  weekday,  and  peak  month  Saturday  conditions  for  Alternative  C  to  the 
project,  which  is  currently  the  preferred  project.  As  stated  in  the  previous 
response,  the  spillover  would  result  in  queues  forming  at  the  driveways  as 
customers  wait  for  on-site  parking  spaces  to  vacate,  and  circling  of  the  block 
would  also  occur  as  customers  search  for  on-street  parking  in  the  area.  During 
Saturday  conditions,  the  spillover  could  be  accommodated  on-street  although  it 
would  necessitate  walks  of  up  to  three  blocks  during  the  peak  month.  During 
peak  month  weekday  conditions,  when  on-street  parking  in  the  area  is  effectively 
full,  spillover  would  be  forced  to  compete  for  on-street  parking  or  to  wait  within 
the  parking  lot  for  other  vehicles  to  leave.  During  these  periods,  when  parking 
demand  would  exceed  supply,  spillover  onto  adjacent  streets  would  impact 
parking  conditions  at  existing  uses  in  the  area  as  on-street  parking  would  be  filled 
on  those  block  faces  which  provide  the  easiest  access  to  the  Costco  store.  A 
measure  to  lessen  this  impact  would  be  to  provide  more  on-site  parking  for  the 
Costco  store. 

In  regards  to  the  question  of  duration  of  stay  for  Costco  customers,  an  average 
duration  of  one  hour  was  assumed  for  the  analysis  of  parking  conditions.  This 
number  is  consistent  with  parking  data  from  other  Costco  stores. 


C&R.38 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


Comment 

"One  of  the  points  we  are  concerned  about  that  I  don't  see  addressed  in  the  EIR  is  the 
use  of  the  parking  facility  late  at  night.  We  are  concerned  that  the  area  has,  as  you 
know,  a  very,  very  high  density  of  bars  and  clubs  and  restaurants  that  draw  probably 
something  in  the  vicinity  of  between  three  and  5,000  people  on  any  given  weekend  to 
that  particular  neighborhood.  At  the  moment,  they  use  that  site  or  a  portion  of  that  site 
for  parking.  This  is  really  pretty  much  a  bridge  and  tunnel  crowd.  They  do  arrive  in 
cars,  and  so  we  are  urging  the  developer  to  allow  the  parking  lot  to  be  used  late  at 
night,  until  2:00  o'clock  in  the  morning,  for  patrons  of  the  clubs  in  that  neighborhood 
so  we  can  get  keep  them  off  the  residential  streets  in  the  immediate  vicinity. 

"That  is  an  issue  there.  We  two  years  ago  have  thought  we  resolved  that  parking  issue 
by  having  the  B  of  A  keep  their  parking  lot  open  on  Eleventh  and  Market,  but  B  of  A 
has  since  closed  that  option,  so  we  see  this  as  a  way  to  resolve  that,  so  we  would  like 
to  see  that  included  in  any  agreement  between  you  and  the  developer."  (Dino 
DiDonato,  South  of  Market  Problem  Solving  Council) 

Response 

Page  98  of  the  EIR  notes  that  the  following  mitigation  measure  is  under 
consideration  by  the  project  sponsor: 

"The  project  sponsor  could  make  formal  arrangements  for  the  shared  use  of 
project  parking  by  employees  of  the  Social  Services  Department  located 
across  Harrison  Street  during  weekdays  and  by  club  patrons  in  the  project 
vicinity  during  the  evenings." 

If  this  mitigation  measure  were  to  be  adopted,  it  would  require  the  provision  by 
Costco  or  some  other  entity  of  security  lights  and  security  guards  within  the 
garage  and  insurance  coverage  for  such  use. 

AIR  QUALITY 

Comment 

"The  EIR  has  determined  that  the  traffic  congestion  generated  by  the  proposed  Costco 
facility,  and  the  fact  that  this  could  cause  violations  of  emission  standards  with 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

concomitant  health  effects,  are  significant  environmental  effects  that  cannot  be 
avoided  if  the  project  is  implemented.  See,  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report,  p.  103."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  & 
Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

As  noted  on  pp.  103  of  the  EIR,  it  has  been  determined  that  cumulative 
development  in  the  South  of  Market  area  and  resultant  cumulative  traffic 
increases  could  cause  violations  of  the  emission  standards  for  fine  particulate 
matter  in  San  Francisco,  with  concomitant  health  effects.  The  EIR  further  notes 
that  the  proposed  project  (like  all  potential  projects  in  the  South  of  Market  and 
elsewhere)  would  contribute  to  but  not  by  itself  cause  this  cumulative  effect. 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

Comment 

"On  the  Environmental  Impact  Report,  the  one  comment  I  have  relates  to  the  fact  that 
the  site  seems  to  have  some  toxic  contamination.  And  based  upon  the  samples  that 
were  done,  apparently  there  has  been  a  site  remediation  plan  that  has  been  developed. 
There  is  sort  of  a  general  outline  of  what  that  plan  provides  for  on  page  101 ,  but  I 
would  like  a  little  more  detail  in  the  responses  to  these  documents  about  that  plan.  In 
particular,  in  light  of  the  fact  that,  as  we  heard  testimony,  and  I  can  attest  to  this  from 
personal  observation,  that  there  are  a  large  number  of  people  who  visit  that  area  on  a 
nightly  basis.  And  I  wonder  if  the  site  remediation  plan  incorporates  sufficient  notice 
and  protection  of  that  large  number  of  people  that  would  be  using  sites  around  that 
area. 

"I  think  what  would  be  helpful  —  these  are  wonderful  documents.  However,  I  don't 
think  I  have  the  level  of  expertise  in  chemical  analysis  to  fully  understand  them.  So,  I 
would  like,  as  I  suggested,  sort  of  an  outline  or  summary  of  the  points  that  I  suggested, 
how  the  public  will  be  protected  and  what  exactly  will  be  going  on  in  terms  of  the 
remediation."  (James  Morales,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"The  EIR  has  noted  that  various  toxic  and  hazardous  wastes  have  been  found  on  the 
proposed  Costco  site  which  began  being  used  for  industrial  purposes  prior  to  the  turn 


C&R.40 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


of  the  century   See.  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report,  pp.  40-48. 
Additionally,  there  are  at  least  fifteen  potential  sources  of  toxic  contamination  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  South  of  Market  site.  See,  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report,  pp.  A51-A52.  Further  information  is  necessary  to  properly  assess  the 
extent  of  the  existing  toxic  waste  material  and  the  potential  for  seepage  onto  the  site 
from  the  surrounding  area. 

"The  EIR  makes  clear  that  landfill  space  for  hazardous  waste  throughout  the  country  is 
limited  and  that  effective  and  environmentally  acceptable  hazardous  waste  treatment 
technologies  have  yet  to  be  developed.  See.  Costco  Wholesale  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report,  pp.  93-94.  However,  the  EIR  does  not  specify  what  methods  will  be 
utilized  to  properly  and  safely  dispose  of  any  toxic  or  hazardous  waste,  and  has  to 
ensure  adherence  to  state  and  federal  laws  regulating  such  waste."  (Vincent  J. 
Courtney.  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno  &  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

The  following  paragraph  is  added  after  the  first  paragraph  on  p.  93  of  the  EIR: 

"The  remediation  plan  for  the  project  site  has  been  reviewed  by  an 
independent  consultant.  The  consultant  has  certified  that  if  the  remediation 
measures  are  carried  out  as  described,  then  health,  safety,  and 
environmental  risks  will  be  mitigated.  The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco 
Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site  Mitigation  Planfll,  is  summarized  and 
cited  in  the  EIR  on  pp.  40,  47,  101,  and  102,  and  is  on  file  and  available  for 
review  at  the  Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City 
Planning,  450  McAllister  Street,  San  Francisco." 

The  following  footnote  is  added  to  p.  94  of  the  EIR: 

"PI    The  remediation  plan,  titled  Costco  Wholesale  Hazardous  Waste  Site 
Mitigation  Plan,  prepared  by  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 
in  October  1991  and  reviewed  and  certified  by  Levine-Fricke  in 
November  1991 ,  is  on  file  at  the  Office  of  Environmental  Review, 
Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister  Street,  San  Francisco." 

The  remediation  plan  describes  measures  that  would  be  implemented  to  protect 
the  health  and  safety  of  workers  and  passers-by  at  the  site  during  remediation; 
provisions  for  supplementary  soil  testing  and  analysis  for  the  contaminants  of 
concern;  procedures  that  would  be  followed  during  remediation;  and  provisions 
for  the  safe  and  proper  disposal  of  hazardous  soil. 


C&R.41 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

As  described  on  p.  102  of  the  EIR,  the  remediation  plan  includes  a  site  specific 
Health  and  Safety  Plan,  which  is  required  to  protect  worker  health  and  to 
minimize  threats  to  public  health  and  the  environment  that  could  result  from  the 
handling  of  hazardous  soil  (see  also  EIR  Appendix  E,  p.  A.48).  A  site  safety  plan 
is  a  comprehensive  planning  document  that  provides  project  background 
information,  an  explanation  of  site  conditions,  and  measures  to  mitigate  potential 
health  and  safety  concerns,  including  provisions  for  OSHA  training  for  all 
persons  working  at  the  site.  The  site  safety  plan  is  included  as  Appendix  B  to  the 
remediation  plan. 

The  site  is  currently  fenced  and  would  continue  to  be  fenced  during  soil  sampling 
and  remediation  activities.  In  order  to  protect  worker  and  public  health  and 
safety,  the  remediation  plan  also  describes  procedures  that  would  be  followed 
during  remediation,  including  a  dust  control  program;  provisions  for  stockpiling, 
covering,  and  testing  excavation  soil;  safe  and  proper  disposal  of  hazardous  soil; 
and  verification  testing  of  soil  substrate.  These  steps  are  intended  to  protect  the 
health  and  safety  of  both  those  building  the  facility  and  the  public  working  or 
travelling  nearby  during  construction  in  addition  to  protection  for  future  users  of 
the  site. 

The  remediation  plan  provides  for  the  collection  of  soil  samples  spaced  in  a  grid 
pattern  across  the  site,  and  the  analysis  of  the  samples  for  the  contaminants  of 
concern.  Additional  samples  would  be  collected  and  tested  in  areas  found  to  be 
contaminated.  Excavated  soil  that  is  found  to  be  uncontaminated  would  be 
removed  from  the  property.  Contaminated  soils  would  be  isolated  on  the  site  and 
undergo  further  testing  to  determine  their  chemical  characteristics.  Several 
disposal  options  are  available  for  disposal  of  contaminated  soils,  depending  on 
the  types  and  levels  of  contaminants  present.  For  soils  that  contain  chemical 
concentrations  that  exceed  hazardous  waste  regulatory  thresholds,  the  primary 
disposal  option  would  be  shipment  to  a  Class  I  (hazardous  waste)  disposal  site. 
Contaminated  soil  would  be  transported  under  a  California  Hazardous  Waste 
Manifest  that  provides  extensive  documentation  for  each  load  sent  to  a  Class  I 
facility.  For  soils  with  chemical  concentrations  that  do  not  exceed  hazardous 
waste  regulatory  thresholds,  "designated  waste"  classifications  are  possible  that 
would  allow  disposal  at  landfills  other  than  Class  I.  Soils  classified  as 
"designated  waste"  could  be  moved  as  clean  fill,  but  could  be  disposed  of  in 
regulated  landfills.  All  soils  sent  off-site  as  "designated  waste"  would  require  a 
Non-hazardous  Manifest.  At  the  completion  of  remediation,  all  hazardous  wastes 

C&R.42 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


identified  in  the  excavation  area  would  be  relocated  and  properly  disposed,  and 
any  hazardous  wastes  that  might  remain  in  the  underlying  soils  would  be 
encapsulated  on  the  site,  under  building  foundations  or  pavement. 

There  is  no  evidence  that  contaminates  have  seeped  onto  the  site  from  the 
surrounding  area.  However,  should  that  have  occurred,  the  soil  sampling  would 
detect  it  and  the  remediation  plan  would  address  it. 

As  noted  by  the  commenter,  and  noted  on  p.  93  of  the  EIR,  landfill  space  for 
hazardous  waste  is  relatively  limited.  Excavated  materials  from  the  project  site 
disposed  of  in  hazardous  waste  landfills  would  decrease  the  total  capacity 
available  in  the  United  States  to  receive  such  waste. 

EMPLOYMENT 

Comment 

"We  are  asking  the  developer  to  complete  an  agreement  with  Mission  Hiring  Hall, 
South  of  Market  Employment  Center,  for  brokering  the  jobs  that  will  be  available 
there,  both  construction  and  post  construction."  (Dino  DiDonato,  South  of  Market 
Problem  Solving  Council) 

"Page  7  has  some  discussion  of  the  number  of  jobs,  75  to  85,  with  no  indication  about 
their  interest  in  working  with  the  community.  It  now  sounds  as  though  they  have 
talked  with  Mission  Hiring  Hall,  or  perhaps  they  have  talked  with  South  of  Market 
Council.  But  I  think  it  ought  to  allude  to  that.  It  doesn't  even  say  they  will  reach  out 
to  the  neighborhood  for  hiring,  so  that  should  be  dealt  with."  (Susan  Bierman, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

"Costco  will  have  an  immediate  negative  effect  on  a  wide  range  of  established  small 
businesses  in  the  area.  A  grocery  store,  or  hardware  store  alone  on  this  site  would  not 
offer  the  vast  array  of  goods  that  Costco  does,  and  thus,  would  not  pose  such  a  threat 
to  the  established  businesses  in  the  South  of  Market  area.  Larger  companies,  such  as 
Safeway  for  example,  will  also  be  adversely  affected  by  the  decline  in  patronage. 

"Furthermore,  a  significant  number  of  established  businesses  throughout 

San  Francisco  will  be  negatively  affected  as  customers  will  travel  from  all  areas  of  the 


C&R.43 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


City  to  purchase  all  their  needs  at  Costco  in  one  stop.  This  could  severely  impact  the 
employment  rate  in  the  City  and  add  to  the  threat  of  loss  of  employment  and  possibly 
homelessness  for  a  great  number  of  employees  in  San  Francisco,  and  especially  in  the 
South  of  Market  area. 

"As  it  stands  now,  Costco  proposes  to  offer  approximately  seventy-five  to  eighty-five 
full  time  positions  and  approximately  seventy-five  to  eighty-five  part  time  positions. 
The  number  of  San  Franciscans  who  will  face  the  threat  of  losing  their  job  due  to  this 
proposed  facility  could  easily  outnumber  these  projections.  The  closure  of  existing 
South  of  Market  businesses  will  destroy  the  economic  diversity  of  the  community 
which  has  been  established  and  stable  for  many  years.  Future  opportunities  for 
residential  ownership  of  small  businesses,  such  as  those  which  now  exist,  will  decline 
dramatically.  The  nature  of  Costco 's  business  makes  it  virtually  impossible  for  a 
small  neighborhood  business  to  compete. 

"The  EIR  makes  no  mention  of  where  Costco  proposes  to  recruit  employees,  whether 
they  will  make  efforts  to  hire  residents  of  the  South  of  Market  area  or  even  whether 
they  will  make  efforts  to  hire  San  Franciscans.  Nor  is  there  any  information  furnished 
as  to  the  wage  rates,  working  conditions,  or  employment  benefits  contemplated  for 
these  prospective  employees."  (Vincent  J.  Courtney,  Attorney,  office  of  Davis,  Reno 
&  Courtney,  Attorneys  at  Law) 

Response 

These  comments  do  not  address  the  content  of  the  EIR,  but  are  noted  here  for 
informational  purposes.  Comments  pertaining  to  the  potential  for  the  proposed 
project  to  result  in  the  loss  of  jobs,  the  closure  of  businesses  in  the  South  of 
Market  area,  and  an  increase  in  homelessness  are  not  supported  by  any  evidence 
presented  and  address  economic  and  social  concerns  rather  than  environmental 
concerns.  Economic  and  social  effects  of  projects  are  not  necessarily  required  for 
environmental  review  under  CEQA,  per  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15131. 
Impacts  that  are  too  speculative  for  evaluation  are  excluded  from  environmental 
review  per  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15145. 

As  stated  in  the  EIR,  the  project  would  create  approximately  75-85  full  time  and 
75-85  part  time  jobs.  Ensuring  that  a  portion  of  those  jobs  would  be  held  by 
San  Francisco  residents  is  a  policy  decision  that  would  be  addressed  by  the 


C&R.44 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


decision-makers  and  the  project  sponsor.  CEQA  requires  that  the  EIR  identify 
potential  physical  effects  of  the  given  project.  Determining  appropriate  hiring 
practices  is  not  a  potential  physical  impact.  As  such,  an  analysis  of  hiring 
practices  is  not  included  in  the  EIR. 

The  proposed  Costco  store  would  provide  goods  and  services  to  San  Francisco 
residents,  including  some  of  those  living  South  of  Market.  The  present  estimated 
31,000  San  Francisco  Costco  members  now  shop  at  Costco  stores  outside  of  the 
City  The  South  of  Market  area  currently  contains  a  variety  of  businesses, 
including  auto  repair,  print  shops,  nightclubs,  restaurants,  some 
neighborhood-serving  retail  uses  such  as  convenience  stores;  city-serving  retail 
uses  such  as  larger  specialty  stores;  and  businesses  serving  the  region,  such  as 
furniture  showrooms.  The  EIR  notes  that  most  trips  to  the  proposed  project  are 
expected  to  originate  in  San  Francisco,  as  several  other  Costco  stores  exist  in  the 
Bay  Area.  The  extent  to  which  the  proposed  Costco  store  might  pose  competition 
to  other  businesses  in  San  Francisco,  including  small  businesses  in  the  South  of 
Market  area,  is  not  known.  However,  because  Costco's  expected  patronage 
would  be  from  the  city  as  a  whole  (and  not  just  from  South  of  Market),  any 
project  effects  on  existing  businesses  would  most  likely  be  dispersed  throughout 
the  city.  As  noted  above,  such  effects  are  not  expected  to  result  in  physical 
changes  to  the  environment,  and  are  therefore  not  analyzed  in  the  EIR. 

ECONOMICS 

Comment 

"Our  present  financial  conditions  dictates  that  we  travel  to  San  Mateo  County  and  seek 
the  lowest  prices  available  for  consumer  items,  i.e.  Costco  and  Price  Club.  Building  a 
Costco  in  San  Francisco  will  allow  us  to  shop  where  we  live,  and  the  sale  tax  revenue 
will  remain  in  this  county."  (Mr.  and  Ms.  Michael  Corban) 

Response 

Comment  noted. 


C&R.45 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


Eh  STAFF  INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES 


The  following  sentence  is  added  at  the  end  of  the  second  paragraph  on  p.  7  of  the  EIR: 


"It  is  public  policy  that  any  underground  storage  tanks  that  are  under  sidewalks  on 
the  perimeter  of  the  project  be  removed." 

The  second  mitigation  measure  under  "Measures  That  Could  Be  Implemented  By 
Public  Agencies"  on  p.  9  and  p.  98  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows  (revisions  are 
underlined): 


"Coordinate  work  schedules  of  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company  and  other 
utilities  requiring  trenching,  so  that  street  disruption  would  take  place  during 
weekends  and  off-peak  hours.  This  should  be  done  through  the  San  Francisco 
Committee  for  Utility  Liaison  on  Construction  and  Other  Projects  (CULCOP). 
In-street  utilities  should  be  installed  at  the  same  time  as  the  street  is  opened  for 
construction  of  the  project  to  minimize  street  disruption.  It  is  public  policy  that 
any  underground  storage  tanks  that  are  under  sidewalks  on  the  perimeter  of  the 
project  be  removed." 

The  fourth  full  paragraph  on  p.  38  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows  (revisions  are 
underlined): 


"At  the  federal  level,  the  primary  laws  governing  hazardous  wastes  and  hazardous 
substances  are  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  of  1976  (RCRA), 
and  the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability 
Act  of  1980  (CERCLA).  Generally,  these  laws  require  that  responsible  parties 
report  any  known  hazardous  waste  contamination  of  soil  or  groundwater  to  the 
U.S.  EPA." 


The  last  sentence  on  p.  38  of  the  EIR,  which  continues  onto  p.  39  of  the  EIR,  is  revised 
as  follows  (revisions  are  underlined): 


"The  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control  of  the  California  Environmental 
Protection  Agency  enforces  state  hazardous  waste  regulations  in  California, 
independently  of  the  Federal  EPA,  which  enforces  federal  hazardous  waste 
regulations." 


C&R.46 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


The  last  sentence  of  the  first  partial  paragraph  on  p.  39  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows 
(revisions  are  underlined): 


"A  copy  of  each  manifest  must  be  filed  with  the  Department  of  Toxic  Substances 
Control." 


The  second  sentence  of  the  first  full  paragraph  on  p.  39  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows 
(revisions  are  underlined): 

"Clean-up  standards  employed  by  the  RWQCB  can  be  more  stringent  that  those 
used  by  EPA  or  the  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control." 

The  second  sentence  of  the  second  paragraph  on  p.  A. 46  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as 
follows  (deletions  are  bracketed  and  revisions  are  underlined): 


"The  primary  federal  hazardous  [materials  and]  waste  and  hazardous  substance 
laws  are  contained  in  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  of  1976 
(RCRA),  and  in  the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and 
Liability  Act  of  1980  (CERCLA)." 


The  first  sentence  of  the  third  paragraph  on  p.  A.46  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows 
(revisions  are  underlined): 


"Federal  regulations  pertaining  to  hazardous  substances  and  wastes  are  contained 

in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (40  CFR)." 


The  first  paragraph  on  p.  A. 47  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows  (revisions  are 
underlined): 


"There  arc  two  separate  hazardous  waste  programs  on  a  statewide  level  in 
California,  one  by  the  U.S.  EPA  and  one  by  the  California  EPA.  The  Department 
of  Toxic  Substances  Control  within  the  California  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  is  the  agency  empowered  to  enforce  state  hazardous  materials  and  waste 
regulations  in  California,  independent  of  the  U.S.  EPA." 

The  second  sentence  of  the  second  paragraph  on  p.  A.47  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as 
follows  (deletions  are  bracketed): 


"For  example,  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law,  the  state  equivalent 
of  RCRA,  contains  a  much  broader  definition  of  hazardous  [materials  and]  waste." 


C&R.47 


EX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


The  text  of  the  EIR  is  revised  throughout  to  reflect  that  off-street  parking  over  650 
spaces  would  be  possible  as  a  permitted  use  under  a  special  provision  in  the 
Service/Light  Industrial  district  (hereinafter  SLI).  The  Draft  EIR  indicated  that 
additional  parking  would  require  a  conditional  use  authorization.  The  maximum 
number  of  parking  spaces  that  could  be  accommodated  in  the  currently  proposed 
parking  structure  is  671.  However,  an  unlimited  quantity  of  "community  commercial 
parking"  may  be  provided  in  the  SLI  District  without  conditional  use  authorization,  so 
long  as  the  requirements  of  City  Planning  Code  Section  817.28  are  met.  This 
procedural  option  was  not  discussed  in  the  DEIR.  The  EIR  does  cover  the  effects  of 
providing  up  to  890  spaces  as  part  of  the  Costco  project.  The  option  of  providing 
additional  spaces  without  a  CU  procedure  does  not  change  that  analysis  and  does  not 
represent  a  significant  revision  to  the  DEIR. 

It  is  stated  throughout  the  DEIR  that  any  parking  provided  that  would  exceed  the 
required  (434  spaces)  plus  accessory  parking  (217  spaces)  as  allowed  by  City  Planning 
Code  Section  151  (Parking  Requirements  -  Retail  Uses),  and  Section  204.5  (Parking 
and  Loading  as  Accessory  Uses),  would  require  conditional  use  approval  by  the  City 
Planning  Commission.  This  would  be  true  only  if  the  parking  were  to  be  used  solely 
by  Costco  employees  and  customers.  However,  if  parking  should  be  provided 
according  to  Section  817.28,  community  commercial  parking  spaces  are  a  permitted 
use.  Thus,  Costco  may  provide  an  unspecified  additional  number  of  parking  spaces, 
"if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted, 
or  approved  conditional,  nonresidential  use  in  the  vicinity."  These  spaces  may  be  in  a 
garage  or  on  an  open  lot. 

To  include  all  options  available  for  the  provision  of  parking,  staff  is  recommending 
that  there  be  changes  in  the  text  of  the  Final  EIR  on  pages  1,  2,  3,  4,  10,  11,  16,  22,  23, 
29,  52,  73,  74,  105,  107,  and  108,  to  include  reference  to  the  provisions  of 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code.  In  all  appropriate  places,  the  Final  EIR 
would  have  language  inserted  that  makes  clear  that  according  to  the  provisions  of  City 
Planning  Code  Section  817.28,  additional  parking  could  be  provided  as  a  principal" 
permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors 
of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity. 
Specifically,  the  following  revisions  are  made  to  the  EIR: 

The  following  text  is  deleted  from  the  EIR:  the  second  to  last  sentence  on  p.  1;  the  last 
sentence  of  the  first  partial  paragraph  on  p.  12;  the  last  sentence  of  the  first  full 


•  C&R.48 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


paragraph  on  p.  12;  the  first  full  sentence  on  p.  52;  the  last  sentence  on  p.  108;  and  the 
last  sentence  of  the  third  paragraph  on  p.  109. 


The  first  sentence  of  the  third  paragraph  on  p.  2  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows 
(revisions  are  underlined): 


"Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217 
accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for 
use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or 
approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the 
dry  Planning  Code." 


The  first  sentence  on  p.  3  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows  (deletions  are  bracketed): 

"The  project  would  require  Conditional  Use  authorization  [for  retail-serving 
parking  use  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory 
spaces)  and]  for  residential  use  in  the  SLI  district." 

The  first  sentence  of  the  last  paragraph  on  p.  3  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows 
(deletions  are  bracketed  and  revisions  are  underlined): 


"The  project  would  remove  approximately  130  short-term  and  long-term  parking 
spaces  and  would  provide  about  720  retail -serving  spaces  ([if  approved,]  an 
additional  170  spaces  could  be  provided  at  a  later  date)  and  60  to  80 
residential-serving  parking  spaces.  Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651 
spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a 
principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients, 
and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the 
vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code." 


The  first  full  sentence  on  p.  4  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as  follows  (revisions  are 
underlined): 


"At  the  later  date  when  Costco  could  expand  the  parking  garage,  peak  parking 
demand  would  be  met  by  the  proposed  890  retail  spaces." 


The  third  and  fourth  sentences  of  the  second  paragraph  on  p.  10  of  the  EIR,  and  the 
third  and  fourth  sentences  of  the  second  paragraph  on  p.  105  are  revised  as  follows 
(deletions  are  bracketed  and  revisions  are  underlined): 


"As  with  the  proposed  project,  an  additional  170  parking  spaces  could  be 
constructed  at  a  later  date  [if  approved  by  the  City  Planning  Commission].  As 


•  C&R.49 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 


with  the  proposed  project,  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces 
and  217  accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if 
available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a 
permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code." 


The  fifth  and  sixth  sentences  of  the  first  paragraph  on  p.  11  of  the  EIR,  and  the  sixth 
and  seventh  sentences  of  the  last  paragraph  on  p.  107  are  revised  as  follows  (deletions 
are  bracketed  and  revisions  are  underlined): 


"As  with  the  proposed  project,  an  additional  parking  level  (containing  about  150 
parking  spaces  for  this  alternative)  could  be  constructed  at  a  later  date  [if 
approved  by  the  City  Planning  Commission].  Such  additional  parking,  in  excess 
of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217  accessory  spaces),  could  be  provided 
as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees f 
clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use 
in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code" 


The  following  sentence  replaces  footnote  /a/  in  Table  1  on  p.  16  of  the  EIR;  the  last 
partial  sentence  on  p.  16  which  continues  to  p.  22;  the  last  two  sentences  of  the  first 
partial  paragraph  on  p.  52;  and  the  last  partial  sentence  on  p.  73  continuing  though  the 
first  full  sentence  on  p.  74: 


"Retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217 
accessory  spaces)  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if  available  for 
use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or 
approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per  Section  817.28  of  the 
City  Planning  Code." 


The  first  sentence  of  the  first  full  paragraph  on  p.  23  is  revised  as  follows  (deletions 
are  bracketed  and  revisions  are  underlined): 


"[Parking  for  retail  use  in  excess  of  651  spaces  (434  required  spaces  and  217 
accessory  spaces)  and]  The  inclusion  of  low-income  housing  in  the  SLI  district 
would  be  subject  to  Conditional  Use  authorization." 


The  second  to  last  sentence  of  the  first  paragraph  on  p.  29  of  the  EIR  is  revised  as 
follows  (revisions  are  underlined): 


"Parking  beyond  this  amount  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted  use  if 
available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients,  and/or  visitors  of  a 
permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non-residential  use  in  the  vicinity,  per 
Section  817.28  of  the  City  Planning  Code." 


•  C&R.50 


IX.  Summary  of  Comments  and  Responses 

The  second  sentence  of  the  second  to  last  paragraph  on  p.  94  of  the  EIR  is  replaced  by 
the  following  sentence: 

"An  additional  170  retail-serving  parking  spaces  could  be  added  to  the  site  at  a 
later  date." 

The  third  sentence  of  the  fust  paragraph  of  the  response  on  p.  C&R.31  is  revised  as 
follows  (deletions  are  bracketed): 

"This  alternative  would  include  a  total  of  650  retail-serving  parking  spaces  [such 
that  no  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  excess  parking  would  be  necessary]." 

Finally,  the  title  of  Alternative  C,  which  appears  on  pp.  iii,  11  and  107  of  the  EIR,  is 
revised  to  be  "Alternative  C:  Reduced  Parking." 


•  C&R.51 


•      X.  ADDENDUM  TO  THE  DEER 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 
Department  of  City  Planning 


450  McAllister  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 


AOMMCTUTION 
Mtft)  IIHIW 

Crrr  PU&HtHG  COMMISSION 
KAMt  AND  MOONAUS 


DISCUSSION  OF  STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES: 

Add  the  following  to  the  summary  of  Comments  and  Responses  Staff 
initiated-text  changes  section  that  begins  on  page  C&R.46  (these 
comments  would  be  inserted  as  C&R48): 

The  text  of  the  FEIR  is  revised  throughout  to  reflect  that  off- 
street  parking  over  €50  spaces  is  possible  as  a  permitted  use 
under  a  special  provision  in  the  Service/Light  Industrial  district 
(hereinafter  SLI).  The  Draft  EIR  indicated  that  additional  parking 
would  require  a  conditional  use  authorization.    The  maximum  number 
of  parking  spaces  that  can  be  accommodated  in  the  currently 
proposed  parking  structure  is  671.    However,  an  unlimited  quantity 
of  "community  commercial  parking"  may  be.  provided  in    the  SLI 
District  without  conditional  use  authorization,  so  long  as  the 
requirements  of  Code  Section  817.28  are  met.  This  procedural 

option  was  not  discussed  in  the  DEIR.    The  EIR  does  cover  the 
effects  of  providing  up  to  890  spaces  as  part  of  the  Costco 
project.    The  option  of  providing  additional  spaces  without  a 
CU  procedure  does  not  change  that  analysis  and  does  not 
represent  a  significant  revision  to  the  DEIR. 

It  is  stated  throughout  the  DEIR  that  any  parking  provided  that 
would  exceed  the  required  (434  spaces)  plus  accessory  parking  (217 
spaces)  as  allowed  by  City  Planning  Code  Section  151  (Parking 
Requirements  -  Retail  Uses),  and  Section  204.5  (Parking  and 
Loading  as  Accessory  Uses),  would  require  conditional  use  approval 
by  the  Planning  Commission.    This  would  be  true    only  if  the 
parking  is  used  solely  by  Costco  employees  and  customers. 
However,  if  parking  should  be  provided  according  to  Section 
817.28,  community  commercial  parking  spaces  are  a  permitted  use  . 
Thus,  Costco  may  provide  an  unspecified  additional  number  of 
parking  spaces,  "if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees, 
clients  and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional, 
nonresidential  use  in  the  vicinity".    These  spaces  may  be  in  a 
garage  or  on  an  open  lot. 

To  include  all  options  available  for  the  provision  of  parking, 
staff  is  recommending  that  there  be  changes  in  the  text  of  the 
Final  EIR  on  pages  1,  2,  3,  4,  10,  11,  16,  22,  23,  29,  52,  73, 


MPLEMCWTATON  /  ZONING 
MUI6M-U77 


MEMORANDUM 


DATE: 
TO: 
FROM: 
RE : 

STAFF  CONTACT: 
REVIEWED  BY: 
RECOMMENDATIONS : 


April  9,  1992 

City  Planning  Commission 

Luc i an  Blazej ,  Planning  Director 

Costco  Wholesale  FEIR  Certification 

Sharon  A.  Rogers,  Planner  III 

Paul  Deutsch,  Planner  IV 

The  following  suggested  staff-initiated  text 
changes  should  be  added  to  the  Comments  and 
Responses  Document.  Following  your  review  and 
approval  of  these  changes,  staff  recommends 
adoption  of  the  attached  draft  motion  certifying 
the  Final  EIR. 


X.  Addendum  to  the  DEIR 


City  Planning  Commission 
Costco  Certification  of  FEIR 
April  9,  1992 
page  2 


74,105,  107,  and  108,     to  include  reference  to  the  Section  817.28 
City  Planning  Commissionprovisions .     In  all  appropriate  places, 
the  Final  EIR  would  have  language  inserted  that  makes  clear  that, 
according  to  the  provisions  of  City  Planning  Code  Section  817.28: 

Additional  parking  could  be  provided  as  a  principal  permitted 
use  if  available  for  use  by  the  operators,  employees,  clients, 
and/or  visitors  of  a  permitted,  or  approved  conditional,  non- 
residential use  in  the  vicinity. 


COSTFEIR. MEM 


XI.  APPENDICES 


APPENDIX  A:  Initial  Study 
APPENDIX  B:  Transportation 
APPENDIX  C:  Air  Quality 
APPENDIX  D:  Typical  Noise  Levels 
APPENDIX  E:  Hazardous  Materials 


XI.  Appendices 


APPENDIX  A:  INITIAL  STUDY 

NOTICE  THAT  AN 
ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 
IS  DETERMINED  TO  BE  REQUIRED 


Date  of  this  Notice:   September  20,  1990 


Lead  Agency:   City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning 
450  McAllister  Street,  6th  Floor,  San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Agency  Contact  Person:   Diane  Oshima  Telephone:  (415)558-6253 


Project  Tide:     Costco  Wholesale  Project  Sponsor.     Costco  Wholesale 

89.469E  Contact  Person:      Jeff  Brotman 

Telephone:  (206)  828-8100 


Project  Address:  454-470  Tenth  Street 

Assessor's  Block  and  Lots:  Block  3524,  Lots  18,  24,  32,  63,  64,  65 
City  and  County:  San  Francisco 


Project  Description:  Construction  of  a  40  foot  tall  mixed-use  development  containing 
retail  and  residential  uses.  The  retail  component  would  contain  approximately 
120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space,  2,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  332,880  sq.  ft.  of  parking 
(about  960  spaces)  and  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space.  The  residential  component  would 
consist  of  60  to  80  affordable  dwelling  units  and  60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces. 
Conditional  Use  authorization  would  be  required  for  residential  use  and  for 
retail-serving  parking  in  excess  of  150  percent  of  required  retail  parking.  The  project 
would  replace  an  existing  parking  lot  and  would  not  require  the  demolition  of  any 
existing  structures. 


THIS  PROJECT  MAY  HAVE  A  SIGNIFICANT  EFFECT  ON  THE  ENVIRONMENT 
AND  AN  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  IS  REQUIRED.  This 
detemiination  is  based  upon  the  criteria  of  the  Guidelines  of  the  State  Secretary  for 
Resources,  Sections  15063  (Initial  Study),  15064  (Determining  Significant  Effect),  and 
15065  (Mandatory  Findings  of  Significance),  and  the  following  reasons,  as  documented 
in  the  Environmental  Evaluation  (Initial  Study)  for  the  project,  which  is  attached. 


Deadline  for  Filing  an  Appeal  of  this  Determination  to  the  City  Planning  Commission: 
October  1,  1990. 

An  appeal  requires:     1 )  a  letter  specifying  the  grounds  for  appeal,  and; 

2)  a  $75.00  filing  fee. 


BARBARA  W:  SAHM,  Environmental  Review  Officer 


A.l 


ER5  6/85 


XI.  Appendices 


COSTCO  WHOLESALE 
INITIAL  STUDY 
89.469E 

T.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

The  project  site  is  bounded  by  Tenth,  Eleventh,  Harrison  and  Bryant  Streets  on  Lots  18, 
24,  32,  63,  64  and  65  of  Assessor's  Block  3524  (See  Figure  1).  The  site  is  located  five 
blocks  south  of  Market  Street  adjacent  to  the  U.S.  101  Freeway.  The  U.S.  101  on-ramp  is 
across  the  street  from  the  project  site  at  the  southeast  corner  of  Tenth  and  Bryant  Streets, 
and  the  South  Van  Ness  off-ramp  overpass  borders  the  project  site  at  the  corner  of 
Eleventh  and  Bryant  Streets.  The  225,500  square  foot  (sq.  ft.)  site  is  currently  developed 
with  a  paved  surface  parking  lot  divided  into  approximately  115  short-term  and  long-term 
parking  spaces  and  a  storage  lot  for  approximately  800  city-towed  vehicles.  The  only 
structure  existing  on  the  site  is  a  chain  link  fence,  which  surrounds  the  property  and 
divides  the  parking  uses. 

The  proposed  project  would  consist  of  two  major  components:  a  Costco  Wholesale  store 
and  a  residential  complex  (See  Figure  2).  Each  would  have  its  own  associated  off-street 
parking.  The  retail  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  southern  portion  of  the  site 
(along  Bryant  Street)  would  contain  approximately  196,760  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about 
540  spaces)  at  ground  level.  The  Costco  Wholesale  store,  consisting  of  approximately 
120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  and  2,500  sq.  ft.  of  loading  area,  would  be  elevated 
approximately  eight  feet  above  ground  level  on  a  podium  along  with  an  additional 
68,060  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  210  spaces).  A  partial  third  level  over  the  podium  would 
also  contain  68,060  sq.  ft.  of  parking  (about  210  spaces).  There  would  be  a  total  of 
approximately  960  off-street  parking  spaces  (subject  to  Conditional  Use  authorization 
from  the  City  Planning  Commission)  serving  the  retail  use  including  customer,  employee 
and  accessory  parking.  Approximately  480  sq.  ft.  of  open  space  containing  benches,  trees, 
ground  cover  and  art  work  would  be  located  along  Tenth  Street  adjacent  to  the  building 
entry . 

The  residential  component  of  the  project,  located  on  the  northern  portion  of  the  site  (along 
Harrison  Street)  would  be  a  40  foot  tall  building  containing  60  to  80  dwelling  units  above 
60  to  80  residential  parking  spaces  at  ground  level. 


A.2 


XI.  Appendices 


!  I 


A.4 


XI.  Appendices 


As  there  are  currently  no  buildings  on  the  project  site,  the  project  would  not  require  the 
demolition  of  any  existing  structures. 

The  site  is  in  the  SLI  (Service  /  Light  Industrial)  Use  District  and  the  40-X  Height  and 
Bulk  District.  Retail  uses  are  a  principal  permitted  use  in  the  SLI  district.  The  permitted 
floor  area  ratio  (FAR)  for  commercial  use  in  the  SLI  Use  District  is  2.5:1  (FAR  is  the  ratio 
of  gross  floor  area  of  buildings  on  a  site  to  the  size  of  the  lot).  The  FAR  of  the  retail 
component  of  the  project  would  be  about  0.53.  Parking  for  the  retail  use  in  excess  of 
660  spaces  (440  required  spaces  and  220  accessory  spaces)  would  be  subject  to 
Conditional  Use  authorization. 

Dwelling  unit  density  would  be  limited  to  one  unit  per  200  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  in  the  SLI 
district;  the  dwelling  unit  density  of  the  residential  component  of  the  proposed  project 
would  be  approximately  one  unit  per  325-435  sq.  ft.  of  lot  area  or  60  to  80  low-income, 
affordable  dwelling  units  on  the  project  site.  Low-income,  affordable  housing  and  group 
housing  are  the  only  types  of  residential  uses  permitted  in  an  SLI  district,  subject  to 
Conditional  Use  authorization.  In  order  to  be  deemed  "low-income,  affordable  housing," 
the  dwellings  must  be  rented,  leased  or  sold  at  rates  or  prices  affordable  to  a  household 
with  an  income  no  greater  than  80  percent  of  the  median  income  for  households  in 
San  Francisco.  The  residential  portion  of  the  project  would  be  either  sold  or 
ground-leased  by  the  project  sponsor  and  could  be  operated  by  a  separate  owner  in  the 
future. 

Project  construction  would  take  about  10-15  months;  total  construction  cost  would  be 
about  $7,500,000  (1989  dollars).  The  project  sponsor  is  Costco  Wholesale,  Inc.;  the 
project  architect  is  Heller  &  Leake. 

II  SUMMARY  OF  POTENTIAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 
A   EFFECTS  FOUND  TO  BE  POTENTIALLY  SIGNIFICANT 

The  Costco  Wholesale  project  is  examined  in  this  Initial  Study  to  identify  potential  effects 
on  the  environment.  The  cumulative  impacts  of  growth  in  the  South  of  Market  area  were 
analyzed  in  the  South  of  Market  Plan  and  Mission  Bay  EIRs.  Information  contained  in 
these  area-wide  EIRs  will  be  summarized  and  incorporated  by  reference  in  the  Costco  . 
Wholesale  EIR  as  appropriate.  Some  project-specific  potential  effects  have  been 
determined  to  be  potentially  significant,  and  will  be  analyzed  in  an  Environmental  Impact 


A.5 


XI.  Appendices 


Report  (EIR).  They  include:  land  use;  project-related  transportation  analysis; 
construction  noise;  traffic -generated  air  quality  effects;  seismic  and  geologic  issues;  and 
cultural  resources.  For  informational  purposes,  the  relationship  of  the  project  to  the 
Master  Plan  (including  the  South  of  Market  Plan)  and  the  City  Planning  Code  also  will  be 
picsented  in  the  EIR. 

B.  EFFECTS  FOUND  NOT  TO  BE  SIGNIFICANT 

The  following  potential  impacts  were  determined  either  to  be  insignificant  or  to  be 
mitigated  through  measures  included  in  the  project.  These  items  require  no  further 
environmental  analysis  in  the  EIR: 

Visual  Quality:  The  proposed  project  would  be  compatible  with  existing  development  in 
the  project  vicinity.  No  existing  structures  would  be  demolished  for  project  construction, 
and  the  project  would  be  reviewed  by  the  Department  of  City  Planning  and  the  City 
Planning  Commission  for  consistency  with  applicable  policies  of  the  Urban  Design 
Element  of  the  San  Francisco  Master  Plan. 

Glare:  Mirrored  glass  would  not  be  used. 

Population  and  Housing:  The  proposed  project  would  not  displace  any  existing  housing. 
The  residential  component  of  the  project  would  include  60  to  80  dwelling  units.  The  retail 
component  of  the  project  would  generate  75  to  85  full  time  jobs  and  75  to  85  part  time 
jobs.  Cumulative  and  indirect  effects,  including  those  of  the  project,  are  addressed  in  the 
Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  Plan  EIRs. 

Operational  Noise:  After  completion,  building  operation  and  project-related  traffic  would 
not  perceptibly  increase  noise  levels  in  the  site  vicinity.  Operational  noise  would  be 
regulated  by  the  San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance  and  the  project  would  conform  to  the 
Noise  Guidelines  of  the  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the  Master  Plan.  A 
mitigation  measure  supporting  noise  reduction  measures  is  included  as  part  of  the  project 
(see  mitigation  measure  on  p.  29). 

Construction  Air  Quality:  Project  construction  would  have  short-term  impacts  on  air 
quality  in  the  site  vicinity.  Mitigation  measures  to  reduce  particulate  and  hydrocarbon 
emissions  generated  during  construction  are  included  as  part  of  the  project  (see  p.  29). 


A.6 


XI.  Appendices 


Shadow  and  Wind:  The  height  of  the  proposed  project  would  conform  to  the  40-foot 
height  limit  for  this  district.  The  proposed  project  would  not  be  expected  to  significantly 
alter  the  shadow  or  wind  environment  of  the  project  vicinity. 

Utilities/Public  Services:  The  proposed  project  would  contribute  to  the  cumulative 
demand  for  public  utilities  and  services  in  the  South  of  Market  area.  Such  impacts 
anticipated  from  cumulative  downtown  development  were  analyzed  in  the  South  of 
Market  Plan  EIR  and  no  significant  impacts  were  identified. 

Biology:  The  project  site  is  completely  developed;  therefore,  the  project  would  not  affect 
vegetation  or  wildlife. 

Water:  The  site  is  completely  covered  by  impervious  surfaces;  therefore,  the  project 
would  not  affect  drainage  patterns  or  water  quality.  Measures  to  mitigate  potential 
impacts  associated  with  excavation  and  dewatering  are  included  as  part  of  the  project 

(see.  p.  29). 

Energy  /Natural  Resources:  The  project  would  be  designed  to  comply  with  performance 
standards  of  Title  24  of  the  California  Code  of  Regulations.  Its  annual  energy  budget 
would  be  about  74,000  Btu  per  sq.  ft.  Peak  electrical  energy  and  natural  gas  use  would 
coincide  with  PG&E's  systemwide  peaks.  Cumulative  and  indirect  effects,  including 
those  of  the  project,  are  addressed  in  the  EIR  prepared  for  the  South  of  Market  Plan. 


III.  ENVIRONMENTAL  CHECKLIST  AND  DISCUSSION 


Not 

A.  COMPATIBILITY  WITH  EXISTING  ZONES  AND  PLANS      Applicable  Discussed 

1 )  Discuss  any  variances,  special  authorizations,  or 

changes  proposed  to  the  City    X 

*  2)  Discuss  any  conflicts  with  any  adopted  environmental 

plans  and  goals  of  the  City  or  Region,  if  applicable.  X   


The  proposed  project  would  comply  with  the  bulk  and  height  requirements  of  the  City 
Planning  Code  for  this  zoning  district.  Under  the  Code,  the  proposed  retail  use  would  be  a 


♦Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.7 


XI.  Appendices 


principal  permitted  use.  Conditional  Use  authorization  for  the  proposed  residential  use 
and  excess  retail  parking  would  be  required.  The  relationship  of  the  proposed  project  to 
the  policies  of  the  Master  Plan,  including  the  South  of  Market  Plan,  and  provisions  of  the 
City  Planning  Code,  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR.  The  project  would  not  conflict  with 
other  adopted  plans  and  goals;  however,  issues  related  to  compatibility  with  zoning  and 
plans  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


B.  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 

DLand  Use.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Disrupt  or  divide  the  physical  arrangement 

of  an  established  community?    X  X 

*(b)   Have  any  substantial  impact  upon  the 

existing  character  of  the  vicinity?  _        X  X 

The  proposed  project  site  is  located  south  of  Market  Street,  in  the  SLI  (Service  /  Light 
Industrial)  District  as  set  forth  in  the  South  of  Market  zoning  controls.  The  City  Planning 
Code  was  amended  by  Ordinance  No.  1 15-90  on  March  5,  1990  to  incorporate  the  South 
of  Market  zoning  controls.  The  proposed  project  would  constitute  an  increase  in  the 
intensity  of  the  existing  land  use  on  the  site  and  in  the  surrounding  area.  Land  use  and 
zoning  issues  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


2)  Visual  Quality.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Have  a  substantial,  demonstrable 

negative  aesthetic  effect?    X  X 

(b)  Substantially  degrade  or  obstruct  any 
scenic  view  or  vista  now  observed  from 

public  areas?    X  X 

(c)  Generate  obtrusive  light  or  glare 

substantially  impacting  other  properties?    X  X 


The  Costco  store  project  site  is  currently  paved  with  asphalt  and  does  not  contain  any 
structures.  The  present  use  of  the  site  is  divided  between  a  public  parking  lot  and  a  Police 
Department  impound  lot  (See  Figures  3  to  5).  The  site  was  formerly  occupied  by  the 
Falstaff  brewery,  which  had  been  vacant  for  several  years  before  it  was  demolished  during 
1985  and  1986. 


^Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.8 


XI.  Appendices 


■  m  g 

J>    4>  o 


A.9 


XI.  Appendices 


I 


M 
3  O 

oc  o 


CO 


u 

5 

p 


c 

o.  £ 


8 


.53  ^ 

on 
U 


A.10 


XI.  Appendices 

Buildings  in  the  project  vicinity  are  generally  one-  to  four-story  structures  of  wood, 
concrete  and  brick.  The  tallest  building  in  the  area  is  the  former  Jackson. Brewing 
Company  building  located  at  Eleventh  and  Folsom  Streets.  The  five-story  tower  of  this 
building  is  the  dominant  feature  on  the  skyline  of  the  immediate  project  vicinity.  Most 
buildings  in  the  area  are  built  to  the  property  line,  with  little  or  no  landscaping.  Many  of 
the  buildings  share  common  architectural  elements  including  scale,  proportion,  texture, 
patterns  of  facade  and  window  treatments. 

Buildings  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project  site  include  the  one-story,  corrugated  metal 
Veteran's  Cab  Company  garage  and  parking  lot  across  Eleventh  Street,  a  three-story  brick 
building  across  Harrison  Street  occupied  by  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Social 
Services  food  stamp  distribution  center,  the  four-story  concrete  McGuire  Company 
furniture  factory  across  Bryant  Street,  and  several  smaller  concrete  and  brick  buildings 
housing  a  variety  of  related  businesses  and  services  across  Tenth  Street. 

A  number  of  buildings  in  the  project  vicinity  have  been  rated  for  architectural  and  historic 
significance  by  two  architectural  surveys:  the  1976  Department  of  City  Planning  (DCP) 
Architectural  Inventory  and  the  survey  contained  in  the  South  of  Market  Area  Plan  of  the 
Master  Plan.  In  the  1976  DCP  Inventory,  approximately  ten  percent  of  the  City's  entire 
stock  of  buildings  was  awarded  a  rating  for  architectural  merit  ranging  from  a  low  of  "0" 
to  a  high  of  "5."  The  total  number  of  buildings  which  were  rated  from  "3"  to  "5" 
represents  less  than  two  percent  of  the  City's  entire  building  stock.  The  South  of  Market 
Area  Plan  classifies  certain  buildings  in  the  plan  area  as  "significant"  or  "contributory" 
depending  upon  their  architectural  and  historic  merit  ./l/ 

The  highest  DCP  rated  structure  in  the  project  vicinity  is  the  former  Jackson  brewery  at 
Eleventh  and  Folsom  streets,  one  block  north  of  the  project  site.  This  building  was 
assigned  a  rating  of  "4"  by  DCP.  Its  tower  was  damaged  in  the  October  1989  earthquake 
and  its  owner,  Malvina  Coffee  Imports,  is  attempting  to  repair  the  structure./2/  The  South 
of  Market  Area  Plan  of  the  Master  Plan  lists  the  Jackson  Brewery  as  a  significant  Building 
located  outside  a  historic  district.  The  Jackson  Brewery  is  a  candidate  for  landmark 
status.  Other  nearby  rated  buildings  include  St.  Joseph's  Church  at  Tenth  and  Howard 
(DCP  rating  of  "3,"  designated  City  Landmark  No.  120,  two  blocks  north  of  site)  and  its 
parish  house  next  door;  the  fonner  James  Lick  Baths  at  165  Tenth  Street  ("3,"  two  blocks 
north);  the  Coca  Cola  building  at  Eleventh  and  Mission  ("3,"  three  blocks  north);  the  • 
Salvation  Army  Harbor  Light  Center  at  1275  Harrison  at  Ninth  ("2,"  one  block  east);  and 
599  Seventh  Street  at  Brannan  ("2,"  three  blocks  east). 


A.12 


XI.  Appendices 


The  San  Francisco  Unified  School  District  building  at  1440  Harrison  Street,  currently  used 
by  the  City's  Department  of  Social  Services,  is  designated  a  significant  building  in  the 
South  of  Market  Plan.  This  three-story  brick  structure  is  located  across  the  street  to  the 
north  of  the  project  site.  Another  building  designated  as  significant  is  located  across  the 
street  to  the  east  of  the  site,  at  465  Tenth  Street.  This  two-story  concrete  building, 
currently  occupied  by  the  Spiral  Binding  Company,  extends  to  four  stories  in  height  along 
its  southern  edge.  Other  buildings  designated  as  significant  in  the  South  of  Market  Plan 
include  four  brick  structures  surrounding  the  Jackson  brewery:  319  and  333  Tenth  Street, 
1477  Folsom  Street  and  1477-1479  Emberly  Alley.  Also  included  is  1400  Folsom  Street 
at  Tenth  (one  block  north),  a  two-story  brick  building  housing  a  Crocker's  Lockers  storage 
facility. 

The  project  site  and  vicinity  are  relatively  flat  in  contour.  Buildings  in  the  area  are  not 
generally  visible  from  beyond  the  block  on  which  they  are  located.  Exceptions  include  the 
Jackson  brewery  and  St.  Joseph's  Church,  the  top  portions  of  which  are  visible  on  the 
immediate  skyline. 

The  proposed  project  would  comply  with  the  40-foot  height  limit  for  this  district.  The 
walls  would  be  of  varying  textures  and  colors  of  concrete  block  compatible  with  the 
character  of  masonry  buildings  in  the  neighborhood.  Decorative  metal  grating  would  be 
installed  at  the  ground  floor  of  parking  areas  for  ventilation.  The  residential  portion  of  the 
project  would  have  a  design  distinct  from  that  of  the  Costco  store. 

The  proposed  project  would  not  be  large  enough  to  block  views  from  surrounding  areas. 
The  project  would  be  visible  from  Nob  Hill  to  the  north  and  from  Corona  Heights  and 
Twin  Peaks  to  the  west,  but  would  not  be  tall  enough  to  prominently  contrast  with  the 
surrounding  area. 

The  U.S.  101  South  Van  Ness  off-ramp  overpass  borders  the  project  site  at  the  corner  of 
Eleventh  and  Bryant  Streets,  where  the  ramp  is  approximately  39  feet  above  street 
level  /3/  The  proposed  project,  built  to  the  maximum  40-foot  height  limit,  would  reach  a 
level  just  below  that  of  the  freeway  guard  rails.  Drivers  on  U.S.  101  would  be  able  to  look 
down  onto  the  project's  roof,  and  would  be  able  to  see  rooftop  mechanical  equipment  and 
elevator  and  mechanical  penthouses  which  could  exceed  the  40  foot  height  limit  by  up  to 
ten  feet. 


A.13 


XI.  Appendices 


The  South  of  Market  Area  Plan  contains  policies  applicable  to  the  proposed  project. 
Policy  1  of  Objective  3  (encouragement  of  new,  particularly  low-income,  housing)  states, 
"Increase  the  supply  of  housing  without  adversely  affecting  the  scale,  density,  and 
architectural  character  of  existing  residential  or  mixed  use  neighborhoods  or  displacing 
light  industrial  and/or  business  service  activities."  Objective  7  includes  policies  to 
preserve  the  scale  and  character  of  the  South  of  Market  area.  The  project  would  include  a 
moderate -income  housing  component  of  comparable  density  to  many  nearby  multi-story 
residential  buildings.  The  project's  overall  scale  would  be  similar  to  the  existing  scale  of 
the  neighborhood.  The  project  would  be  similar  in  height  to,  although  larger  than,  many 
surrounding  structures.  Objective  8  includes  policies  to  enhance  neighborhood-serving 
retail  and  community  services.  While  the  Costco  store  would  serve  a  wide  customer  base, 
it  would  also  provide  nearby  residents  with  shopping  opportunities  not  currently  available 
in  the  South  of  Market  area.  Conversely,  the  project  site  is  noted  as  a  "Proposed  Large 
Park  Opportunity  Site"  in  the  South  of  Market  Plan;  the  project  as  proposed  would 
foreclose  that  opportunity  for  development  of  a  park  on  the  site  for  the  foreseeable  future. 

Mirrored  glass  that  could  generate  glare  affecting  other  properties  would  not  be  used  in  the 
project.  The  project  would  comply  with  City  Planning  Commission  Resolution  9212, 
which  prohibits  the  use  of  mirrored  or  reflective  glass. 

Urban  design  and  architectural/historic  resources  will  not  be  discussed  further  in  the  EIR. 
Urban  design  issues  and  compatibility  with  Master  Plan  policies  will  be  some  of  the  topics 
discussed  by  the  City  Planning  Commission  and  the  public  during  the  public  hearings  on 
the  necessary  Conditional  Use  application. 

NOTES  -  Visual  Quality 

HI   Marsh,  Vincent,  planner,  San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  telephone 
conversation,  May  3,  1990. 

IV   Young,  Kendall,  architect,  Kendall  Young  Associates,  telephone  conversation,  May 
2,  1990. 

13/   As-built  plans  of  file  at  California  Department  of  Transportation  offices, 
3333  California  Street,  San  Francisco. 


A.14 


XI.  Appendices 


3 )  Population.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)    Induce  substantial  growth  or 

concentration  of  population?    X  X 

*(b)   Displace  a  large  number  of  people 

(involving  either  housing  or  employment)?    X  X 

(c)   Create  a  substantial  demand  for 

additional  housing  in  San  Francisco,  or 

substantially  reduce  the  housing  supply?    X  X 

There  are  currently  four  persons  employed  as  parking  attendants  on  the  project  site  at  the 
existing  parking  lot.  The  retail  component  of  the  proposed  project  would  generate  75  to 
85  full  time  jobs  and  75  to  85  part  time  jobs.  The  employment  increases  estimated  for  the 
Costco  project  would  fall  within  the  forecasts  of  employment  presented  in  the  South  of 
Market  Plan  EIR  (85.463E,  Final  EIR  certified  December  1989)71/  Because  many  of 
these  retail  jobs  would  be  for  semi-  and  unskilled  workers  with  low  to  moderate  incomes, 
including  minorities,  many  of  the  new  jobs  are  expected  to  be  held  by  San  Francisco 
residents  who  are  now  either  unemployed  or  underemployed./2/  Thus,  the  project  would 
be  unlikely  to  increase  demand  for  housing  in  San  Francisco.  Project  construction  could 
generate  an  unknown  number  of  temporary  jobs.  Assuming  no  vacancies,  approximately 
125-225  persons  would  be  expected  to  live  in  the  residential  component  of  the  proposed 
project.  This  resident  population  is  not  analyzed  quantitatively  in  the  South  of  Market 
Plan  EIR.  In  general,  the  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  analysis  indicates  a  low  expectation 
for  substantial  amounts  of  new  subsidized  housing  to  be  built  in  the  Plan  area.  To  the 
extent  such  housing  can  be  produced,  however,  it  would  be  a  benefit,  since  there  is  and 
will  continue  to  be  in  the  foreseeable  future  a  chronic  shortage  of  affordable  housing./3/ 
Population  and  housing  will  not  be  analyzed  further  in  the  EIR. 

NOTES  -  Population 

/I/    San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  (85.463E), 
certified  December  1989.  The  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  analyzes  environmental 
impacts  associated  with  employment  and  population  changes  forecast  for  the  South 
of  Market  Plan  area  (of  which  the  Costco  project  site  is  a  part),  as  well  as  the 
relationship  of  Plan  Area  impacts  to  cumulative  city  and  regional  impacts.  The 
Mission  Bay  EIR  (86.505E,  Draft  EIR  published  August  1988)  also  evaluates 
cumulative  impacts,  incorporating  the  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  forecasts. 
Summaries  of  the  types  of  cumulative  impacts  (e.g.  transportation,  air  quality)  are 
presented  in  the  topical  sections  of  this  Initial  Study  or  will  be  presented  in  the 
Costco  EIR.  Both  the  South  of  Market  Plan  and  Mission  Bay  EIRs  may  be  examined 
at  the  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister  Street;  the  San  Francisco  Main 
Library;  and  various  branch  libraries. 


♦Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.15 


XI.  Appendices 


/2/   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Downtown  Plan  EIR  (EE81.3),  certified 
October  1984,  Vol.  2,  Appendices,  Table  1.9,  p.  1.37. 

/3/   See  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  (85.463E),  pp.  91-94. 


4)  Transportation/Circulation.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)  Cause  an  increase  in  traffic  which  is 
substantial  in  relation  to  the  existing 
traffic  load  and  capacity  of  the  street 

system?  X    X 

*(b)  Interfere  with  existing  transportation 
systems,  causing  substantial  alterations 
to  circulation  patterns  or  major  traffic 

hazards?  X    X 

(c)  Cause  a  substantial  increase  in  transit 
demand  which  cannot  be  accommodated  by 

existing  or  proposed  transit  capacity?    X  X 

(d)  Cause  a  substantial  increase  in  parking 
demand  which  cannot  be  accommodated  by 

existing  parking  facilities?    X  X 


Increased  employment  at  the  site  would  increase  demand  on  existing  transportation 
systems.  The  number  of  pedestrians  in  the  area  would  also  increase.  The  project  would 
not  alter  existing  circulation  patterns  (in  terms  of  direction  of  traffic  and  numbers  of  lanes 
on  adjacent  streets)  except  during  construction;  its  effects  on  circulation  during 
construction  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR.  The  project  would  increase  the  number  of 
parking  spaces  on  the  site  from  115  to  1,020-1,040  (960  retail  and  60-80  residential 
spaces).  Trip  generation  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR.  Traffic  would  enter  and  exit  the 
retail  component's  parking  area  on  Bryant,  Tenth  and  Eleventh  Streets,  and  could  affect 
traffic  on  those  streets.  Vehicular  access  for  the  housing  component  would  be  from 
Harrison  Street.  Localized  transportation  impacts  of  the  project  will  be  analyzed  in  the 
EIR. 


The  proposed  project  could  cause  traffic  circulation  problems  and  increases  in  traffic, 
transit  and  parking  demand.  The  EIR  will  discuss  traffic  increases  and  movement  as  they 
relate  to  the  operation  of  the  street  and  freeway  network  in  the  project  vicinity,  including 
the  1-80  and  US  101  ramps  in  the  vicinity. 

The  cumulative  transportation  effects  of  development  in  the  South  of  Market  area  are 
analyzed  in  the  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  Plan  EIRs.  The  cumulative  analysis 


*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.16 


XI.  Appendices 


contained  in  these  ELRs  regarding  transportation  will  be  summarized  in  the  Costco 
Wholesale  EIR,  and  the  project's  effects  in  relation  to  cumulative  impacts  will  be 

discussed. 

5)  Noise.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Increase  substantially  the  ambient  noise 

levels  for  adjoining  areas?  X    X 

(b)  Violate  Title  24  Noise  Insulation 

standards,  if  applicable?    X  X 

(c)  Be  substantially  impacted  by  existing 

noise  levels?  X  X 


Demolition,  excavation,  and  building  construction  would  temporarily  increase  noise  in  the 
site  vicinity.  The  construction  period  would  last  about  10-15  months.  Project 
construction  noise,  including  piledriving,  and  its  possible  effects  on  sensitive  receptors 
will  be  addressed  in  the  EIR. 


The  noise  environment  of  the  site,  like  much  of  the  South  of  Market  area,  is  dominated  by 
vehicular  traffic  noise.  The  U.S.  101  on-ramp  and  the  South  Van  Ness  off-ramp  overpass 
that  borders  the  project  site  at  the  comers  of  Tenth  and  Bryant  Streets  and  Eleventh  and 
B 17 ant  Streets  are  dominant  sources  of  traffic-generated  noise.  Noise  may  also  be 
generated  from  the  light-industrial,  manufacturing  and  commercial  uses  surrounding  the 
projecl  site.  The  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the  Master  Plan  indicated  a 
day-night  average  noise  level  (L^)  of  74  dBA  near  the  site  in  1974./1,2/ 

The  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the  Master  Plan  contains  guidelines  for 
determining  the  compatibility  of  various  land  uses  with  different  noise  environments.  For 
noise  levels  between  70  and  80  dBA,  the  guidelines  recommend  an  analysis  of  noise 
reduction  requirements  and  inclusion  of  noise  reduction  measures  in  commercial  building 
design.  Given  the  estimated  noise  level  near  the  project  site,  the  Environmental  Protection 
Element  indicates  that  residential  development  generally  should  be  discouraged.  If  such 
development  is  proposed,  however,  a  noise  reduction  study  must  be  conducted,  and  the 
recommended  noise  insulation  features  incorporated  into  the  project.  Title  24  of  the 
California  Code  of  Regulations  limits  interior  noise  levels  for  new  multi-family  residential 
developments  to  45  dBA.  Noise  reduction  measures  would  be  included  in  the  project  as 
pan  of  the  design  (see  p.  29). 


♦Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.17 


XI.  Appendices 

The  project  would  affect  noise  levels  over  the  long-term  through  generation  of  motor 
vehicle  trips.  Increases  in  noise  levels  would  occur  along  roads  serving  project-generated 
traffic.  The  project  would  generate  75  to  85  full  time  jobs  and  75  to  85  part  time  jobs. 
Three  to  four  thousand  persons  would  visit  the  site  on  a  daily  basis.  Also,  loading  and 
deliveries,  conducted  with  semi-trucks  with  trailers  and  some  vans,  would  take  place  from 
6  a.m.  to  12  noon  every  day  of  the  week.  There  would  be  approximately  40  deliveries  per 
day.  The  amount  of  traffic  generated  by  the  project  and  cumulative  traffic  increases  at  the 
time  of  project  completion  could  cause  traffic  noise  levels  to  increase  by  3  dBA  L^,  a 
noticeable  increase.  To  produce  a  noticeable  increase  in  environmental  noise,  a  doubling 
of  existing  traffic  volume  would  be  required./3/  Traffic  increases  of  this  magnitude  could 
occur  with  the  project  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  peak  hour  on  Eleventh 
Sheet  adjacent  to  the  project  site.  Potential  noise  associated  with  parking  garages, 
including  horns,  car  doors  slamming  and  tires  screeching,  are  not  expected  to  increase  the 
average  noise  level  by  more  than  3  dBA. 

The  nearest  residences  to  the  project  site  are  on  Twelfth  Street  northwest  of  Harrison 
Street,  approximately  350  feet  from  the  site.  A  short-term  noise  measurement  taken  at 
that  location  on  Tuesday,  August  14,  1990  during  evening  peak  traffic  volumes  (4  p.m.  - 
6  p.m.)  indicated  an  average  noise  level  of  70  dBA,  Leq./4/  The  existing  noise  level  near 
the  site  is  approximately  74  dBA./l/  Assuming  a  worst-case  scenario  of  traffic  doubling 
due  to  the  project  near  the  intersection  of  Eleventh  and  Harrison  Streets,  the  noise  level 
would  increase  by  3  dBA  to  77  dBA  at  50  feet  from  the  roadway.  Based  on  the  general 
rule  of  thumb  that  noise  from  a  line  source  attenuates  by  3  dBA  for  every  doubling  of 
distance,  the  noise  level  at  the  nearest  residence  due  to  the  project  would  be  approximately 
70  dBA,  similar  to  the  existing  level./5/ 

The  project  would  be  required  to  comply  with  the  San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance,  San 
Francisco  Police  Code  Section  2909,  "Fixed  Source  Noise  Levels,"  which  regulates 
mechanical  equipment  noise.  The  project  site  and  surrounding  area  are  within  the  SLI 
(Service  /  Light  Industrial)  Use  District.  The  Noise  Ordinance  has  not  yet  been  updated  to 
include  standards  for  this  recently  created  district.  However,  the  site  was  previously 
contained  in  the  M-l  Use  District,  within  which  the  Noise  Ordinance  limits  equipment 
noise  levels  at  the  property  line  to  70  dBA.  During  lulls  in  traffic,  mechanical  equipment 
generating  70  dBA  could  dominate  the  noise  environment  at  the  site.  The  project  engineer 
and  architect  would  include  design  features  in  the  building  to  limit  mechanical  equipment 
noise  levels  to  70  dBA.  Project  operations  include  the  use  of  a  mechanical  ventilation 


A.18 


XI.  Appendices 


system  for  the  parking  garage  adjacent  to  the  multi-family  residential  units.  The 
residential  units  would  be  subject  to  Title  24  noise  insulation  standards  which  limit 
interior  noise  levels  for  new  multi-family  residential  developments  to  45  dBA.  Due  to 
noise  levels  in  the  area,  relatively  large  amounts  of  insulation  and  relatively  stringent 
glazing  requirements  would  be  necessary  to  adequately  insulate  the  proposed  housing. 
Noise  reduction  measures  would  be  included  in  the  project  as  part  of  the  design  of  the 
residential  units.  Operational  noise  requires  no  further  analysis  and  will  not  be  included  in 
the  EIR. 


NOTES  -  Noise 

/l/   San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  San  Francisco  Master  Plan. 
Environmental  Protection  Element,  1974. 

Ill   dBA  is  a  measure  of  sound  in  units  of  decibels  (dB).  The  "A"  denotes  the 
A-weighted  scale,  which  simulated  the  response  of  the  human  ear  to  various 
frequencies  of  sound. 

L^.  the  day-night  average  noise  level,  is  a  noise  measurement  based  on  human 
reaction  to  cumulative  noise  exposure  over  a  24-hour  period,  taking  into  account  the 
greater  annoyance  of  nighttime  noises;  noise  between  10  p.m.  and  7  a.m.  is  weighted 
10  dBA  higher  than  daytime  noise. 

/3/   See  Downtown  Plan  EIR.  Vol.  1,  Section  IV. E  generally  and  pp.  IVJ.8-18.  Increases 
of  1  dBA  or  less  in  environmental  noise  are  not  noticeable  by  most  people  outside  a 
laboratory  situation  (National  Academy  of  Sciences,  Highway  Research  Board, 
Research  Report  No.  1 17  (1971)).  (See  also  FHWA  Highway  Traffic  Noise 
Prediction  Model.  Report  #FHWA-RD-77-108,  December  1978,  p.  8,  regarding 
doubling  of  traffic  volumes  producing  increases  of  3  dBA  or  more,  which  are  noticed 
by  most  people). 

141    Leq  is  the  equivalent  steady-state  sound  level  which  in  a  stated  period  of  time  would 
contain  the  same  acoustic  energy  as  the  time-varying  sound  level  during  the  same 
time  period.  In  urban  noise  environments  dominated  mainly  by  traffic  noise,  the 
24-hour       level  is  typically  about  the  same  as  the  peak -hour  Leq. 

151   U.S.  Department  of  Transportation,  Federal  Highway  Administration,  Noise  Barrier 
Cost  Reduction  Procedure  STAMINA  2.0/OPTIMA:  User's  Manual. 
FHWA-DP-58-1,  April  1982,  p.  2-2. 


A.19 


XI.  Appendices 


6)  Air  Quality/Climate.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Violate  any  ambient  air  quality  standard 
or  contribute  substantially  to  an  existing 

or  projected  air  quality  violation?  X .    X  . 

*(b)   Expose  sensitive  receptors  to 

substantial  pollutant  concentrations?   "        X  X 

(c)  Permeate  its  vicinity  with  objectionable 

odors?    X  X 

(d)  Alter  wind,  moisture  or  temperature 
(including  sun  shading  effects)  so  as  to 
substantially  affect  public  areas,  or 
change  the  climate  either  in  the 

community  or  region?    X  X 

Two  types  of  air  quality  impacts  could  be  expected  from  the  proposed  project:  long  term 
impacts  related  to  use  and  operation  of  the  project,  including  emissions  from  the  store, 
bakery,  parking  facilities  and  dwelling  units,  and  short  tenn  impacts  from  construction 
activities.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  regulates 
emissions  from  bakery  facilities  in  the  Bay  Area.  Emissions  expected  from  the  project's 
bakery  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR.  Project  related  traffic  and  cumulative  downtown 
traffic  can  be  expected  to  contribute  to  existing  air  pollution  near  the  project  site  and  will 
also  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 

Construction  activities  would  temporarily  affect  local  air  quality.  Demolition  and 
construction  activities  would  not  involve  burning  of  any  materials  and  would  not  create 
objectionable  odor.  Demolition,  grading  and  other  construction  activities  would 
temporarily  affect  local  air  quality  for  about  10-15  months,  causing  a  temporary  increase 
in  particulate  dust  and  other  pollutants.  Dust  emission  during  demolition  and  excavation 
would  increase  particulate  concentrations  near  the  site.  Dustfall  can  be  expected  at  times 
on  surfaces  within  200  to  800  feet.  Under  high  winds  exceeding  12  miles  per  hour, 
localized  effects  including  human  discomfort  might  occur  downwind  from  blowing  dust. 
Dust  emissions  would  vary  according  to  the  level  and  type  of  construction  activity,  silt 
content  of  the  soil,  and  prevailing  weather.  The  state  24-hour  standard  for  fine  particulates 
(PMjq)  could  be  violated  at  times  in  the  project  vicinity  during  construction,  and  visibility 
at  the  construction  site  may  be  affected  temporarily.  Relatively  large-sized  particulates, 
greater  that  30  microns  in  diameter,  are  characteristic  of  construction  particulates  and 
settle  out  of  the  atmosphere  rapidly  with  increasing  distance  from  the  site.  More  of  a 
nuisance  than  a  hazard  for  most  people,  this  dust  could  affect  persons  with  respiratory 
diseases,  as 


*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.20 


XI.  Appendices 


well  as  sensitive  electronics  or  communications  equipment.  The  project  sponsor  would 
require  the  contractor  to  wet  down  the  construction  site  twice  a  day  during  construction  to 
reduce  particulate  impacts  by  at  least  50  percent  (see  mitigation,  p.  29). 

Diesel -powered  equipment  would  emit,  in  decreasing  order  by  weight,  nitrogen  oxides, 
carbon  monoxide,  sulfur  oxides,  hydrocarbons  and  particulates.  This  would  increase  local 
concentrations  temporarily  but  would  not  be  expected  to  increase  the  frequency  of 
violations  of  air  quality  standards.  Trie  project  sponsor  would  require  the  project 
contractor  to  maintain  and  operate  construction  equipment  in  such  a  way  as  to  mmimize 
exhaust  emissions  (see  mitigation,  p.  29).  Construction  air  quality  effects  require  no 
further  analysis. 

The  cumulative  effects  on  air  quality  of  traffic  emissions  from  traffic  generated  by 
development  in  the  Downtown  &  Vicinity  are  analyzed  in  the  Mission  Bay  and  South  of 
Market  Plan  EIRs.  The  analysis  and  conclusions  of  these  EIRs  remain  current  regarding 
future  conditions.  The  cumulative  analysis  in  the  Mission  Bay  and  South  of  Market  Plan 
EIRs  regarding  air  quality  will  be  incorporated  by  reference  and  the  project's  effects  in 
relation  to  cumulative  effects  will  be  discussed. 

The  height  of  the  proposed  project  would  not  exceed  40  feet.  The  proposed  project  would 
not  be  expected  to  significantly  alter  the  shadow  or  wind  environment  of  the  project 
vicinity.  Shadow  and  wind  issues  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 

7 )  Utilities/Public  Services.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)    Breach  published  national,  state  or  local 
standard  relating  to  solid  waste  or  litter 

control?    X   

*(b)    Extend  a  sewer  trunk  line  with  capacity 

to  serve  new  development?  X   

(c)  Substantially  increase  demand  for  schools, 

recreation  or  other  public  facilities?    X   

(d)  Require  major  expansion  of  power,  water, 

or  communications  facilities?  X 


The  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  concluded  that  demand  for  utilities  and  public  services 
resulting  from  development  in  the  South  of  Market  area  under  the  South  of  Market  Plan 
would  not  be  significant.  The  project  would  fall  within  this  development  forecast.  The 


*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  nonnally  significant  effect. 

A.21 


South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  analysis  remains  current  and  valid  for  future  and  project 
conditions.  The  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  (85.463E,  Final  EIR  certified  December  7, 
1989)  may  be  examined  at  the  Department  of  City  Planning,  450  McAllister  Street;  the 
San  Francisco  Main  Library  and  various  branch  libraries.  This  topic  requires  no  further 
analysis  in  the  EIR. 

8)  Biology.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Substantially  affect  a  rare  or  endangered 
species  of  animal  or  plant  or  the  habitat 

of  the  species?    X   

*(b)   Substantially  diminish  habitat  for  fish, 
wildlife  or  plants,  or  interfere 
substantially  with  the  movement  of  any 
resident  or  migratory  fish  or  wildlife 

species?    X   

(c)   Require  removal  of  substantial  numbers 

of  mature,  scenic  trees?    X   


Because  the  site  is  covered  by  impervious  surfaces,  the  project  would  not  affect  plant  or 
animal  habitats.  This  topic  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


9)  Geology /Topography.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Expose  people  or  structures  to  major 
geologic  hazards  (slides,  subsidence, 

erosion  and  liquefaction).    X  X 

(b)   Change  substantially  the  topography  or 
any  unique  geologic  or  physical  features 

of  the  site?         -  XX 


A  geotechnical  investigation  would  be  made  for  the  project,  and  a  detailed  geotechnical 
report  would  be  prepared  by  a  California-licensed  civil  or  structural  engineer  prior  to 
commencement  of  construction.  The  project  sponsor  and  contractor  would  follow  the 
recommendations  of  the  final  report  regarding  any  excavation  and  construction  for  the 
project.  Site  specific  geologic  concerns,  including  seismic  considerations,  will  be 
discussed  in  the  EIR. 


*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.22 


XI.  Appendices 


10)  Water.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)   Substantially  degrade  water  quality,  or 

contaminate  a  public  water  supply?    X   

*(b)   Substantially  degrade  or  deplete  ground- 
water resources,  or  interfere  substantially 

with  groundwater  recharge?    X  X 

*(c)    Cause  substantial  flooding,  erosion  or 

siltation?  ^  X  X 


The  site  is  currently  covered  with  impervious  surfaces.  The  project  would  cover  the  site 
with  a  building  and  paved  area  and  therefore  would  not  alter  the  drainage  pattern  of  the 
site   Site  runoff  would  drain  into  the  City's  combined  sanitary  and  storm  drainage 
system.  Should  dewatering  of  the  site  be  required,  a  mitigation  measure  to  prevent 
sediment  from  entering  storm  sewers  is  proposed  as  part  of  the  project  (see  mitigation, 
p.  29).  The  project  would  not  affect  drainage  patterns  or  water  quality  because  the  site  is 
now  entirely  covered  with  impermeable  surfaces.  No  further  analysis  of  this  topic  is 
required  in  the  EIR. 


1 1 )  Energy/Natural  Resources.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)    Encourage  activities  which  result  in  the 
use  of  large  amounts  of  fuel,  water,  or 

energy,  or  use  them  in  a  wasteful  manner?    X  X 

(b)   Have  a  substantial  effect  on  the  potential 
use,  extraction,  or  depletion  of  a  natural 

resource?  _  X  X 


A  minimal  but  unknown  amount  of  energy  is  consumed  by  existing  parking  uses  on  the 
site.  Removal  of  existing  structures  would  require  a  minimal  but  unknown  amount  of 
energy.  Fabrication  and  transportation  of  building  materials,  worker  transportation,  site 
development,  and  building  construction  would  require  about  330  billion  Btu  of  gasoline, 
diesel  fuel,  natural  gas,  and  electricity ./l, 2/  Distributed  over  the  estimated  50-year  life  of 
the  project,  this  would  be  about  6.6  billion  Btu  per  year,  or  about  2  percent  of  building 
energy  requirements. 

New  buildings  in  San  Francisco  are  required  to  conform  to  energy  conservation  standards 
specified  by  Title  24  of  the  California  Code  of  Regulations.  Documentation  showing 
compliance  with  these  standards  is  submitted  with  the  application  for  the  building  permit 
and  is  enforced  by  the  Bureau  of  Building  Inspection. 


♦Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.23 


XI.  Appendices 


Table  1  shows  the  estimated  operational  energy  which  would  be  used  by  the  project. 
Project  demand  for  electricity  during  PG&E's  peak  electrical  load  periods,  July  and 
August  afternoons,  would  be  about  2:000  kW,  an  estimated  0.01  percent  of  PG&E's  peak 
load  of  17,600  MW./3/  Project  demand  for  natural  gas  during  PG&E's  peak  natural  gas 
load  periods,  January  mornings,  would  be  about  47,000  cu.  ft.  per  day,  or  about 
0.001  percent  of  PG&E's  peak  load  of  about  3.7  billion  cu.  ft.  per  day./4/  Annual  and 
peak  daily  electricity  and  natural  gas  consumption  are  shown  in  Figures  6  and  7. 

Projections  of  electrical  use  for  change  that  would  occur  in  the  South  of  Market  area,  as 
analyzed  in  the  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR,  indicate  a  decrease  of  about  32  million  kWh 
per  year  between  1985  and  2000  as  a  result  of  redevelopment.  Natural  gas  consumption  is 


TABLE  1:  ESTIMATED  PROJECT  ENERGY  USE/a,e/ 


Daily  Natural  Gas  Consumption/b/ 


Estimated  natural  gas  consumption  per  sq.  ft. 
Estimated  total  natural  gas  consumption 

Monthly  Electric  Consumption/b/ 

Estimated  electrical  consumption  per  sq.  ft. 
Estimated  total  electrical  consumption 

Annual  Consumption 

Estimated  total  annual  natural  gas  consumption 
Estimated  total  annual  electrical  consumption 
Estimated  total  annual  energy  consumption 


63.0  Btu/c/ 
140.0  Therms 


0.5  kWh  (5,300  Btu)/d/ 
250,000  kWh  (2.5  billion  Btu) 


51,000  Therms  (5.1  billion  Btu) 
3.0  million  kWh  (3 1 .0  billion  Btu) 
36.0  billion  Btu  (6,400  barrels  of  oil) 


/a/    Energy  use  includes  space  conditioning,  service  water  heating,  and  lighting  in 

accordance  with  allowable  limits  under  Title  24. 
AV    Electricity  and  natural  gas  consumption  was  based  on  billing  data  provided  by  PG&E 

for  a  similar  Costco  store  in  Stockton,  California, 
/c/    Btu  (British  thermal  unit):  a  standard  unit  for  measuring  heat.  Technically,  it  is  the 
quantity  of  heat  required  to  raise  the  temperature  of  one  pound  of  water  1  degree 
Fahrenheit  (251.97  calories)  at  sea  level, 
/d/    Energy  Conversion  Factors:         one  gallon  gasoline        =        125,000  BTU 

one  kilowatt  (kW)  =  10,239  BTU 
one  therm  =        100,000  BTU 

one  barrel  oil  =     5,600,000  BTU 

/e/    Monthly  and  annual  figures  may  not  match  due  to  rounding  to  three  significant  digits. 

SOURCE:  PG&E  and  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 


A.24 


XI.  Appendices 


JAN     FEB.   MAR    APR    MAY    JUN     JUL     AUG    SEP     OCT    NOV  DEC 

MONTH 

Annual  Consumption  of  Electricity  by  Month 

 !  1  '■  CostcoWholesale  ■ 

SOURCE:  PC  4  E  and  Environment*]  Science  Auociiies,  Inc. 

Figure  6 

Electricity-Peak  Day  Demand 
and  Annual  Consumption 


A.25 


XI.  Appendices 


S 

o 


1000 


800 


600 


M 

m  4oo 


200 


i 


1 


m 


■ 


: 

SSSS 


Mf$BL 


*  i » 


0     1     2    3     4    5    6    7    8    9    10  11    12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21   22  23 

HOUR 

Peak  Day  Natural  Gas  Load  Distribution  (January) 


1600 


8 


X 

3 


1200  - 


800  -  i 


400  -  { 


I     ' ' — I —   I —   I —  — I — " — I — " — I — ~ — l — " — I     1  '  I 

JAN     FEB     MAR    APR     MAY    JUN     JUL     AUG    SEP     OCT    NOV  DEC 

MONTH 

Annual  Natural  Gas  Load  Distribution 


SOURCE:  PG  Sc.  E  and  Environment*!  Science  Ajsouiles,  Inc. 


Costco  WhoUsale 


Figure  7 

Natural  Gas  Peak  Day  and 
Annual  Gas  Load  Distribution 


A.26 


XI.  Appendices 


expected  to  decrease  by  370  million  cu.  ft.  (about  four  million  therms)  per  year  during  the 
same  time  period.  151 

South  of  Market  energy  demands  to  the  year  2000  would  be  met  by  PG&E  from  nuclear 
sources,  oil  and  gas  facilities,  hydroelectric  and  geothermal  facilities,  and  other  sources 
such  as  cogeneration,  wind  and  imports.  PG&E  plans  to  continue  receiving  most  of  its 
natural  gas  from  Canada  and  Texas  under  long-term  contracts. 

Project-related  transportation  would  cause  additional,  off-site  energy  consumption. 
Annual  project-related  trips  (about  4,700  auto  vehicle  trip  ends  [vie]),  would  require  about 
300.000  gallons  of  gasoline  and  diesel  fuel  annually.  These  figures  were  calculated  based 
on  data  obtained  from  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  and  Caltrans.  The  total  annual 
transportation  energy  demand,  converted  with  at-source  factors  to  a  common  thermal 
energy  unit,  would  be  about  37.0  billion  Btu,  the  energy  equivalent  of  about  6,600  barrels 
of  oil.  This  projected  use  is  based  upon  the  mix  of  highway  vehicles  in  California  in 
1995.  Vehicle  fuel  is  expected  to  decrease  as  the  vehicle  fleet  becomes  more  efficient  and 
fuel  more  expensive. 

The  South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  concluded  that  energy  consumption  resulting  from 
development  in  the  South  of  Market  area  would  not  be  significant  and  that  conclusion 
remains  valid  for  the  future  and  project  conditions.  This  topic,  energy  impacts,  requires 
no  further  analysis  and  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 

NOTES  -  Energy /Natural  Resources 

/l/   The  British  thermal  unit  (Btu)  is  the  quantity  of  heat  required  to  raise  the  temperature 
of  one  pound  of  water  one  degree  Fahrenheit  at  sea  level;  all  references  to  Btu  in  this 
Initial  Study  are  at-sources  values.  The  term  "at-source"  means  that  adjustments 
have  been  made  in  the  calculation  of  the  thermal  energy  equivalent  (Btu)  for  losses  in 
energy  that  occur  during  generation,  transmission,  and  distribution  of  the  various 
energy  forms  as  specified  in:  ERCDC,  1977,  Energy  Conservation  Design  Manual  for 
New  Non-Residential  Buildings.  Energy  Conservation  and  Development 
Commission.  Sacramento,  California,  and  Apostolos,  J.A.,  W.R.  Shoemaker,  and  E. 
C.  Shirley,  1978  Energy  and  Transportation  System.  California  Department  of 
Transportation,  Sacramento,  California,  Project  #20-7,  Task  8. 

Ill    Harmon,  B.,  et  al,  1978,  "Energy  and  Labor  in  the  Construction  Sector,"  Science 
202:837-847. 

/3,    Hurler,  Jack,  Dispatcher  for  PG&E,  telephone  conversation,  May  3,  1990. 


A.27 


XI.  Appendices 


/4/   Grimm,  Robert,  Assistant  Chief  Gas  Dispatcher  for  PG&E,  telephone  conversation, 
January  30,  1990. 

/5/   South  of  Market  Plan  EIR  (85.463E,  Final  EIR  certified  December  1989)  Table  1 1 , 
p.  150. 


12)  Hazards.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 


*(a) 

Create  a  potential  public  health  hazard  or 
involve  the  use,  production  or  disposal  of 
materials  which  pose  a  hazard  to  people  or 
animal  or  plant  populations  in  the  area 

affected? 

X 

X 

*(b) 

Interfere  with  emergency  response  plans 

or  emergency  evacuation  plans? 

X 

X 

(O 

Create  a  potentially  substantial  fire 

hazard? 

X 

X 

The  project  would  not  create  a  potential  public  health  hazard  through  the  production  or 
disposal  of  harmful  materials. 

The  project  would  increase  the  daytime  population  in  the  South  of  Market  area. 
Employees  and  customers  of  the  retail  component  and  residents  of  the  residential 
component  of  the  proposed  project  would  contribute  to  congestion  if  an  emergency 
evacuation  of  the  area  were  required.  This  issue  and  any  appropriate  mitigation  measures 
will  be  addressed  in  the  EIR. 

The  increased  number  of  persons  using  the  site  would  not  substantially  increase  the  fire 
hazard  at  the  site  as  the  project  would  be  required  to  conform  to  the  Life  Safety  provisions 
of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code  and  Title  24  of  the  California  Code  of  Regulations. 

A  discussion  of  the  potential  for  encountering  toxic  materials  at  the  project  site  remaining 
from  prior  uses  of  the  site  will  be  included  in  the  EIR. 


♦Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.28 


XI.  Appendices 


1 3 )  Cultural.  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

*(a)    Disrupt  or  adversely  affect  a  prehistoric 
or  historic  archaeological  site  or  a 
property  of  historical  or  cultural 
significance  to  a  community  or  ethnic 
or  social  group;  or  a  paleontological 
site  except  as  a  part  of  a  scientific 

study?  _JL_    X 

(b)  Conflict  with  established  recreational, 
educational,  religious  or  scientific 

uses  of  the  area?    X  X 

(c)  Conflict  with  the  preservation  of 
buildings  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
Article  10  or  Article  1 1  of  the  City 

Planning  Code?    Jt_  X 

Subsurface  cultural  resources  could  be  encountered  on  the  project  site  during 
excavation./l/  The  possibility  of  encountering  subsurface  cultural  resources  will  be 
discussed  in  the  EIR. 


NOTE  -  Cultural 

HI    An  archival  resources  report  entitled  "Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the 
Proposed  Costco  Development  Project,  San  Francisco,  California,"  was  prepared  for 
the  proposed  site  by  Allen  G.  Pastron,  Ph.D.,  of  Archeo-Tec  in  February  1990  and  is 
on  file  at  the  Office  of  Environmental  Review,  Department  of  City  Planning, 
450  McAllister  Street,  San  Francisco. 


C.  OTHER  Yes       No  Discussed 


Require  approval  and/or  permits  from  City  Departments 
other  than  Department  of  City  Planning  or  Bureau  of 
Building  Inspection,  or  from  Regional.  State,  or 

Federal  Agencies?    _X 


D.  MITIGATION  MEASURES  Yes       No       N/A  Discussed 

1 )  If  any  significant  effects  have 
been  identified,  are  there  ways  to 

mitigate  them?  X      X 

2)  Are  all  mitigation  measures  identified 

above  included  in  the  project?  X    .   X 


*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 

A.29 


XI.  Appendices 


MITIGATION  MEASURES  INCLUDED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

The  following  are  mitigation  measures  related  to  topics  determined  to  require  no  further 
analysis  in  the  EIR.  The  EIR  will  contain  a  mitigation  chapter  describing  these  measures 
and  also  including  other  measures  which  would  be,  or  could  be,  adopted  to  reduce 
potential  adverse  effects  of  the  project  identified  in  the  EIR. 

Operational  Noise 

•      As  recommended  by  the  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the  San  Francisco 
Master  Plan,  an  analysis  of  noise  reduction  measures  for  the  residential  units  would 
be  prepared  by  the  project  sponsor  and  recommended  noise  insulation  features  would 
be  included  as  part  of  the  proposed  multi-family  residential  units.  For  example,  such 
design  features  could  include  fixed  windows  and  climate  control. 

Construction  Air  Quality 

The  project  sponsor  would  require  the  contractor  to  sprinkle  demolition  sites  with 
water  continuously  during  demolition  activity;  sprinkle  unpaved  construction  areas 
with  water  at  least  twice  per  day;  cover  stockpiles  of  soil,  sand,  and  other  material; 
cover  trucks  hauling  debris,  soils,  sand  or  other  such  material;  and  sweep  streets 
surrounding  demolition  and  construction  sites  at  least  once  per  day  to  reduce 
particulate  emissions.  The  project  sponsor  would  require  the  project  contractor  to 
maintain  and  operate  construction  equipment  so  as  to  mmimize  exhaust  emissions  of 
particulates  and  other  pollutants,  by  such  means  as  a  prohibition  on  idling  of  motors 
when  equipment  is  not  in  use  or  when  trucks  are  waiting  in  queues,  and 
implementation  of  specific  maintenance  programs  to  reduce  emissions  for  equipment 
that  would  be  in  frequent  use  for  much  of  the  construction  period. 

Water  Quality 

If  the  project  were  to  include  dewatering,  groundwater  pumped  from  the  site  would 
be  retained  in  a  holding  tank  to  allow  suspended  particles  to  settle,  if  this  is  found 
necessary  by  the  Industrial  Waste  Division  of  the  Department  of  Public  Works,  to 
reduce  the  amount  of  sediment  entering  the  storm  drain/sewer  lines. 


A.30 


XI.  Appendices 


E.  ALTERNATIVES 


Alternatives  to  the  proposed  project  would  include  the  following: 


A.  No  Project:  The  site  would  remain  in  its  existing  condition. 

B.  Costco  Store  Only:  The  site  would  be  developed  with  the  retail  component  of 
the  proposed  project,  including  parking  subject  to  Conditional  Use 
authorization  as  with  the  proposed  project. 

C.  Housing  Only:  The  site  would  be  developed  with  approximately  1,125 
dwelling  units  and  1,125  residential-serving  parking  spaces. 

D.  Ground-level  Costco  Store,  with  Housing:  The  site  would  be  developed  with 
120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  area  at  ground  level  adjacent  to  a  three-story  parking 
garage  containing  660  spaces.  Sixty  to  eighty  dwelling  units  would  also  be 
developed  on  the  site. 

E.  Ground-level  Costco  Store,  without  Housing:  The  site  would  be  developed 
with  120,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  area  at  ground  level  adjacent  to  a  three-story 
parking  garage  containing  660  spaces.  This  alternative  would  not  include  any 
housing. 


These  alternatives  and  their  potential  impacts  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


F.  MANDATORY  FINDINGS  OF  SIGNIFICANCE  Yes       No  Discussed 

*  1 )  Does  the  project  have  the  potential  to  degrade 
the  quality  of  the  environment,  substantially 
reduce  the  habitat  of  a  fish  or  wildlife 
species,  cause  a  fish  or  wildlife  population  to 
drop  below  self-sustaining  levels,  threaten  to 
eliminate  a  plant  or  animal  community,  reduce 
the  number  or  restrict  the  range  of  a  rare  or 
endangered  plants  or  animal,  or  eliminate 
important  examples  of  the  major  periods 

of  California  history  or  pre-history?  X   X 

*2)  Does  the  project  have  the  potential  to 

achieve  short-term,  to  the  disadvantage  of 

long-term,  environmental  goals?    X  __ 


*3 )  Does  the  project  have  possible  environmental 
effects  which  are  individually  limited,  but 
cumulatively  considerable.  (Analyze  in  the 
light  of  past  projects,  other  current 

projects,  and  probable  future  projects.)  X    X 

*4)  Would  the  project  cause  substantial  adverse 
affects  on  human  beings,  either  directly  or 
 indirectly?    X   

*Derived  from  State  EIR  Guidelines,  Appendix  G,  normally  significant  effect. 


A.31 


ai.  Appendices 


Subsurface  cultural  resources  could  be  encountered  on  the  project  site  during  excavation. 
The  possibility  of  encountering  cultural  resources  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


The  project  would  contribute  to  cumulative  impacts  of  South  of  Market  development, 
primarily  in  the  areas  of  transportation  and  air  quality.  Applicable  cumulative  impacts  will 
be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


G.  ON  THE  BASIS  OF  THIS  INITIAL  STUDY 


  I  find  that  proposed  project  COULD  NOT  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment, 

and  a  NEGATIVE  DECLARATION  will  be  prepared  by  the  Department  of  City 
Planning. 

  I  find  that  although  the  proposed  project  could  have  a  significant  effect  on  the 

environment,  there  WILL  NOT  be  a  significant  effect  in  this  case  because  the 

mitigation  measures,  numbers  ,  in  the  discussion  have  been  included  as  part  of  the 

proposed  project.  A  NEGATIVE  DECLARATION  will  be  prepared. 

X    I  find  that  the  proposed  project  MAY  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment,  and 
an  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  is  required. 


DATE:  J^^/A^/l//  /  ^  / 9^ 


BARBARA  W.  SAHM 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
for 


DEAN  L.  MACRIS 
Director  of  Planning 


A.32 


XI.  Appendices 


APPENDIX  B:  TRANSPORTATION 


INTERSECTION  ANALYSIS  METHODOLOGY 

Traffic  counts  were  undertaken  at  the  five  project  area  intersections  shown  in  Tables  5 
and  6,  pp.  69-70,  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  during  the  weekday  p.m.  peak  period 
(4:00  p.m.  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  peak  period  (12:30  p.m.  to  3:30  p.m.)  to 
determine  existing  peak-hour  levels  of  service  (see  Project  Key  Travel  Factors, 
pp.  A.42-43  of  this  appendix).  Counts  were  undertaken  on  November  28  and  29,  1989 
and  on  Saturday,  December  2,  1989.  Because  of  temporary  changes  in  the  circulation 
pattern  following  the  October  earthquake  (i.e.,  Eleventh  Street  was  one-way 
southbound  north  of  Harrison  Street),  two  intersections  (Harrison  Street  /  Eleventh 
Street  and  Harrison  Street  /  Tenth  Street)  were  re-counted  on  Wednesday,  January  3, 
1990.  (Saturday  counts  were  not  re-done  because  Saturday  traffic  was  found  to  be 
substantially  lower  than  weekday  traffic  and  was  not  a  critical  consideration  in  the 
analysis.) 

Four  of  the  five  intersections  surveyed  were  subjected  to  Level -of-Service  (LOS) 
analysis  based  on  the  1980  Circular  212  Planning  Method.  For  signalized 
intersections,  the  level  of  service  is  related  to  the  volume-to-capacity  ratio  (V/C).  To 
determine  the  V/C,  the  critical  volume  (the  sum  of  volumes  of  conflicting  movements 
on  a  per  lane  basis)  is  divided  by  the  operating  capacity  per  lane.  If  the  critical  volume 
is  equal  to  the  capacity,  the  V/C  ratio  is  1 .00,  and  the  LOS  is  between  E  and  F.  A  V/C 
ratio  of  0.80  indicates  a  LOS  between  C  and  D,  and  is  characterized  by  stable  flows 
with  reduced  mobility  and  speed,  and  moderate  delay  at  the  intersection.  V/C  ratios 
greater  than  0.80  are  characterized  by  further  reductions  in  mobility  and  speed  and 
greater  delays  at  the  intersection.  In  San  Francisco,  LOS  D  is  considered  the 
acceptable  threshold  level  of  service.  See  Table  B-l  on  p.  A. 35  for  descriptions  of 
service  levels  and  corresponding  V/C  ratios. 

The  intersection  at  Bryant  Street  /  Tenth  Street  was  re-counted  on  Tuesday,  July  17, 
1990  during  the  p.m.  peak  period  (4:00  p.m.  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  analyzed  using  the 
operational  analysis  procedure  defined  in  the  1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual  (HCM). 
The  reevaluation  of  this  intersection  was  done  on  the  basis  of  complexities  during  p.m. 
peak-hour  operations  at  this  intersection  (e.g.,  delays  for  freeway-bound  vehicles 
caused  by  congestion  from  US  101  onto  the  freeway  on-ramp  and  into  this 

A.33 


XI.  Appendices 


intersection).  This  procedure  results  in  the  determination  of  level  of  service  for  each 
lane  group  or  approach,  as  well  as  the  level  of  service  for  the  intersection  as  a  whole. 
The  HCM  method  estimates  intersection  level  of  service  based  on  average  vehicle 
delay.  In  order  to  calculate  delay,  data  describing  the  intersection's  physical 
characteristics  (e.g.,  lane  widths),  traffic  conditions  (e.g.,  percent  heavy  vehicles),  and 
control  devices  (e.g.,  signal  timing)  are  necessary. 

It  should  be  noted  that  there  were  phenomena  occurring  in  the  area  at  the  time  these 
counts  were  taken  which  could  possibly  result  in  inflated  service  levels.  November 
counts  used  at  intersections  may  represent  seasonally  high  activity  as  this  was  the 
Christmas  shopping  season.  Traffic  activity  on  local  streets  in  the  South  of  Market 
Area  have  been  observed  to  be  somewhat  high  since  the  October  1989  earthquake  due 
to  the  closure  of  the  Embarcadero  Freeway  and  the  partial  closure  of  1-280.  However, 
this  location  is  far  enough  away  from  the  Union  Square  shopping  district  and  the 
Embarcadero  freeway  that  these  phenomena  should  not  represent  a  substantial  effect. 
The  overall  intersection  peak-hour  traffic  volumes  for  the  Bryant  Street  /  Tenth  Street 
intersection  were  lower  by  approximately  350  vehicles  in  July  1990  than  those 
recorded  in  November  1989.  A  portion  of  this  volume  decrease  can  be  attributed  to 
the  absence  of  holiday  shopping  activity  in  the  area.  In  addition,  post-earthquake 
commuters  over  time  have  made  adjustments  in  their  commuting  routines.  Changes  in 
modal  choice  and  a  more  even  distribution  of  peak-hour  traffic  on  downtown  streets 
would  account  for  the  drop  in  overall  traffic  volumes  at  this  intersection  (see  Project 
Key  Travel  Factors,  pp.  A.42-43  of  this  appendix). 

The  overall  operation  of  the  Tenth  Street  /  Bryant  Street  intersection  is  estimated  at 
LOS  C  during  the  weekday  p.m.  peak  hour.  The  location  of  the  U.S.  101  southbound 
on-ramp  and  the  heavy  approach  volume  at  Tenth  Street  combine  to  create  some 
operational  problems  with  this  intersection.  Due  to  peak-hour  congestion  on  U.S.  101 , 
traffic  was  observed  backed  up  along  the  on-ramp  and  into  the  intersection.  This 
congestion  at  the  on-ramp  resulted  in  many  vehicles  from  the  Tenth  Street  approach 
making  sudden  and  illegal  lane  changes  in  order  to  avoid  the  ramp  congestion  and 
continue  in  a  southbound  direction  on  Tenth  Street.  Individual  lane  group  analysis  are 
as  follows: 

Eastbound  -  Through/Right:  Delay  17^8  (sec/veh),  LOS  C; 

Southbound  -  Left  (Bryant  Street):  Delay  8.6  (sec/veh),  LOS  B; 

•      Southbound  -  Left/Through  (101  on-ramp  /  Tenth  Street):  Delay  28.2  (sec/veh), 
LOSD. 

A.34 


XI.  Appendices 


TABLE  B- 1 :  VEHICULAR  LEVELS  OF  SERVICE  AT  SIGNALIZED  INTERSECTIONS 
(BASED  ON  VOLUME  TO  CAPACITY  [V/C]  RATIO) 


Level  of  Volume/Capacity 
Service  Description  (v/c)  Ratio/a/ 

A     Level  of  Service  A  describes  a  condition  where  the  approach  to        less  than  0.60 
an  intersection  appears  quite  open  and  turning  movements  are 
made  easily.  Little  or  no  delay  is  experienced.  No  vehicles  wait 
longer  than  one  red  traffic  signal  indication.  The  traffic  operation 
can  generally  be  described  as  excellent. 

B     Level  of  Service  B  describes  a  condition  where  the  approach  to  0.61-0.70 
an  intersection  is  occasionally  fully  utilized  and  some  delays  may 
be  encountered.  Many  drivers  begin  to  feel  somewhat  restricted 
within  groups  of  vehicles.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be 
described  as  very  good. 

C     Level  of  Service  C  describes  a  condition  where  the  approach  to  0.71-0.80 
an  intersection  is  often  fully  utilized  and  back-ups  may  occur 
behind  turning  vehicles.  Most  drivers  feel  somewhat  restricted, 
but  not  objectionably  so.  The  driver  occasionally  may  have  to 
wait  more  than  one  red  traffic  signal  indication.  The  traffic 
operation  can  generally  be  described  as  good. 

D     Level  of  Service  D  describes  a  condition  of  increasing  restriction  0.81-0.90 
causing  substantial  delays  and  queues  of  vehicles  on  approaches 
to  the  intersection  during  short  times  within  the  peak  period. 
However,  there  are  enough  signal  cycles  with  lower  demand  such 
that  queues  are  periodically  cleared,  thus  preventing  excessive 
back-ups.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be  described  as  fair. 

E     Capacity  occurs  at  Level  of  Service  E.  It  represents  the  most  0.91-1.00 
vehicles  that  any  particular  intersection  can  accommodate.  At 
capacity  there  may  be  long  queues  of  vehicles  waiting  upstream 
of  the  intersection  and  vehicles  may  be  delayed  up  to  several 
signal  cycles.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be  described  as 
poor. 

F     Level  of  Service  F  represents  a  jammed  condition.  Back-ups  1.01+ 
from  locations  downstream  or  on  the  cross  street  may  restrict  or 
prevent  movement  of  vehicles  out  of  the  approach  under 
consideration.  Hence,  volumes  of  vehicles  passing  through  the 
intersection  vary  from  signal  cycle  to  signal  cycle.  Because  of 
the  jammed  condition,  this  volume  would  be  less  than  capacity. 


/a/    Capacity  is  defined  as  Level  of  Service  E. 

SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  from  Transportation  Research  Circular 
No.  212,  Transportation  Research  Board,  1980. 


A.35 


XI.  Appendices 


TABLE  B-2:  VEHICULAR  LEVELS  OF  SERVICE  AT  SIGNALIZED  INTERSECTIONS 
(BASED  ON  AVERAGE  STOPPED  DELAY  PER  VEHICLE) 


Level  of  Average  Stopped 

Service  Description  Delay  /a/ 

A     Level  of  Service  A  describes  operations  with  very  low  delay.  This  0.0-5.0 
occurs  when  progression  is  extremely  favorable,  and  most  vehicles 
arrive  during  the  green  phase.  Most  vehicles  do  not  stop  at  all.  Short 
cycle  lengths  may  also  contribute  to  low  delay.  The  traffic  operation 
can  generally  be  described  as  excellent. 

B     Level  of  Service  B  describes  operations  with  low  delay.  This  generally  5.1-15.0 
occurs  with  good  progression  and/or  short  cycle  lengths.  More 
vehicles  stop  than  for  Level  of  Service  A,  causing  higher  levels  of 
average  delay.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be  described  as  very 
good. 

C     Level  of  Service  C  describes  operations  with  moderate  delays.  These 
higher  delays  may  result  from  fair  progression  and/or  longer  cycle 
lengths.  Vehicles  occasionally  may  have  to  wait  more  than  one  red 
traffic  signal  indication.  The  number  of  vehicles  stopping  is 
substantial  at  this  level,  although  many  still  pass  through  the 
intersection  without  stopping.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be 
described  as  good. 

D     Level  of  Service  D  describes  operations  with  moderately  high  delays. 
Congestion  is  more  noticeable.  Longer  delays  may  result  from  some 
combination  of  unfavorable  progression,  long  cycle  lengths,  or  high 
volume/capacity  ratios.  Many  vehicles  stop,  and  the  proportion  of 
vehicles  not  stopping  declines.  Some  vehicles  have  to  wait  more  than 
one  red  traffic  signal  phase.  The  traffic  operation  can  generally  be 
described  as  fair. 

E     Level  of  Service  E  describes  operations  at  the  limit  of  acceptable 
delay.  These  high  delay  values  generally  indicate  poor  progression, 
long  cycle  lengths,  and  high  volume/capacity  ratios.  Vehicles  may  be 
delayed  through  several  signal  cycles.  The  traffic  operation  can 
generally  be  described  as  poor. 

F     Level  of  Service  F  describes  operations  with  delay  unacceptable  to 
most  drivers.  This  condition  often  occurs  when  arrival  flow  rates 
exceed  the  capacity  of  the  intersection.  It  may  also  occur  at  high 
volume/capacity  ratios  below  1 .00  with  many  vehicles  having  to  wait 
more  than  one  red  traffic  signal  indicator.  Poor  progression  and  long 
cycle  lengths  may  also  be  major  contributing  causes  to  such  delay 
levels. 


/a/    Level  of  Service  criteria  are  stated  in  seconds,  in  terms  of  the  average  stopped  delay  per 
vehicle  for  a  15-minute  analysis  period. 

SOURCE:  Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc.  from  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  Special 
Report  209,  Transportation  Research  Board,  1985. 


15.1-25.0 


25.1-40.0 


40.1-60.0 


60.0+ 


A.36 


XI.  Appendices 


PROJECT  AREA  PARKING  INVENTORY  AND  PARKING  USAGE  SURVEY 

Parking  surveys  were  undertaken  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  on  Saturday, 
December  2,  and  Wednesday,  December  6,  1989  from  noon  to  5:00  p.m.  at  all 
on-street  spaces  within  the  two-block  radius  from  the  site  depicted  in  Figure  B-l. 
These  surveys  included  an  inventory  and  hourly  parking  accumulation  studies  at  all 
on-street  facilities  in  the  area  plus  the  existing  public  lot  on  the  site.  Parking  duration 
and  turnover  studies  were  also  undertaken  during  these  two  periods  at  all  curb  faces  on 
the  northeast  side  of  the  U.S.  101  freeway  within  one  block  of  the  site.  It  was  assumed 
that  the  psychological  barrier  of  the  freeway  plus  the  industrial  nature  of  some  of  the 
land  uses  on  the  other  side  of  the  freeway  would  make  spaces  southwest  of  the  freeway 
less  attractive  to  potential  retail  parkers. 

Table  B-3  presents  a  summary  of  existing  parking  supply  and  of  observed  usage  in 
December,  1989.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  parking  supply  listed  for  certain 
categories  represents  estimates,  such  as  in  locations  where  parking  spaces  are  not 
marked.  Also,  at  some  locations  curb  markings  for  loading  zones  or  red  zones  were 
observed  to  be  faded  and  apparently  ignored  by  parkers,  making  parking  space  counts 
a  matter  of  judgment.  Figure  B-l  shows  the  type  and  number  of  on-street  parking 
spaces  in  the  survey  area. 

The  parking  area  designated  as  "primary"  (i.e.,  within  one  block  of  the  Costco  site  and 
on  the  same  side  of  the  freeway)  contains  approximately  640  parking  spaces  including 
loading  zones  and  handicap  spaces.  Approximately  35%  of  these  spaces  are  nominally 
time-limited  to  one-hour  parking  or  less,  and  another  23%  of  spaces  are  limited  to 
two-hour  parking.  Outside  the  "primary"  area,  unlimited  spaces  prevail,  representing 
approximately  65%  of  spaces.  This  "secondary"  area  also  contains  the  largest  number 
of  metered  spaces,  primarily  along  Howard  Street,  and  Ninth  and  Tenth  Streets  north 
of  Harrison  Street. 

Figures  B-2  and  B-3  depict  categories  of  peak  parking  accumulation  for  the  surveyed 
weekday  and  Saturday;  this  information  is  also  summarized  in  Table  B-3.  Overall, 
more  than  98%  of  on-street  parking  spaces  were  occupied  during  the  early  afternoon 
peak  period,  with  accumulation  exceeding  the  capacity  of  legal  parking  spaces  in  the 
fringe  areas.  This  occurs  when  cars  park  in  illegal  spaces,  such  as  red  zones  and 
driveways,  and  when  long-term  parkers  park  closer  together  in  unmarked  curb  spaces 


A.37 


XI.  Appendices 


A-38 


XI.  Appendices 


TABLE  B-3:  EXISTING  PROJECT  AREA  PARKING  SUPPLY  AND  USAGE 


Tvpe  of  Space 

Primary 
Area/a/ 

Secondary 
Area/b/ 

Total 

30  Minute  Meters 

0 

7 

7 

1  Hour  Meters 

36 

87 

123 

2  Hour  Meters 

0 

0 

0 

1  Hour  Unmetered 

188 

99 

287 

2  Hour  Unmetered 

144 

150 

294 

Unlimited 

226 

776 

1,002 

oo 

1 1  ^ 

1 1  j 

TOTAL 

639 

1,187 

1,826 

Weekday  Parking  Accumulation 

602 

1,201 

1,803 

Percent  of  Capacity 

94.2 

101.2 

98.7 

Saturday  Parking  Accumulation 

351 

734 

1,085 

Percent  of  Capacity 

54.9 

61.8 

59.4 

/a/    Within  one  block  of  the  site  and  northeast  of  the  U.S.  101  freeway. 
fb/   Two  blocks  from  the  site  and/or  across  U.S.  101  Freeway, 
/c/    Includes  white,  yellow  and  green  zones  and  handicap  spaces. 

SOURCE:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


than  is  typical  for  parallel  parking.  As  seen  in  Figure  B-2,  more  than  50  curb  faces 
displayed  parking  accumulation  in  excess  of  100%  of  capacity,  and  a  number  of  otfTer 
curb  faces  reached  accumulations  of  85  to  100%  of  capacity.  Because  short  term 
parking  rarely  reaches  100%  of  capacity  (since  some  spaces  are  being  vacated  even 
while  other  vehicles  are  searching  for  spaces),  85  to  90%  of  theoretical  capacity  is 
frequently  considered  as  "practical"  capacity. 


A.39 


XI.  Appendices 


A-40 


XI.  Appendices 


The  saturated  peak  parking  situation  observed  on  the  weekday  suggests  usage  of  the 
on-street  spaces  for  long-term  parking.  Parking  duration  studies,  accomplished  by 
hourly  recording  of  license  plates,  confirm  this.  Over  the  five -hour  period  surveyed  on 
a  December  weekday,  nearly  one -third  of  the  curb  faces  displayed  average  parking 
duration  of  three  hours  or  more,  and  about  half  of  all  curb  faces  had  average  parking 
durations  of  two  to  three  hours.  About  one -fifth  of  curb  faces  in  the  "primary  area" 
(i.e.,  those  potentially  most  attractive  to  retail  shoppers)  displayed  average  parking 
duration  characteristics  typical  of  short-term  (under  two  hours)  parkers. 

As  Figure  B-3  and  Table  B-3  indicate,  observed  Saturday  parking  characteristics  were 
different,  with  about  60%  of  legal  spaces  occupied  during  the  area-wide  peak,  and 
even  less  in  the  "primary"  area  of  on-street  parking.  These  observations  indicate  that 
even  in  the  pre-Christmas  shopping  season,  the  pressure  on  the  parking  supply  is  far 
less  on  weekends  than  on  weekdays. 

As  noted  in  Figures  B-2  and  B-3,  the  existing  public  lot  on  the  Costco  site  reached 
peak  parking  accumulations  of  less  than  50%  of  capacity  on  both  the  weekday  and 
Saturday  survey  days.  Actual  observed  parking  usage  at  this  facility  was  59  of  130 
spaces  (45%)  on  the  weekday  and  25  of  130  spaces  (19%)  on  Saturday. 

PROJECT  KEY  TRAVEL  FACTORS 

PEAK  PERIODS 

The  weekday  peak  period  (4:00  p.m.  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  peak  period 
(12:30  p.m.  to  3:30  p.m.)  were  chosen  to  deteimine  existing  peak-hour  levels  of 
service  based  on  the  following  considerations.  During  weekday  conditions, 
Costco-related  traffic  would  be  highest  during  the  midday  period;  however,  overall 
traffic  volumes  would  be  much  higher  during  the  p.m.  peak  hour  selected  for  analysis. 
The  a.m.  peak  period  was  not  analyzed  because  the  Costco  store  would  not  be  open 
during  this  period.  For  weekend  conditions,  the  existing  traffic  volumes  are  light, 
while  the  project  traffic  volumes  would  be  heavy.  The  appropriate  analysis  for 
weekend  conditions  would  be  expected  to  coincide  with  the  project's  peak  traffic 
generation  (12:30  p.m.  to  3:30  p.m.). 


A.42 


XI.  Appendices 


INTERSECTIONS/FREEWAY  RAMPS 


The  five  intersections  surveyed  were  selected  for  analysis  on  the  basis  of  their 
proximity  to  the  project  and  the  high  probability  that  they  would  be  directly  affected 
by  the  proposed  project.  The  1-80  Bryant  /  Eighth  Streets  on-ramp  and  the 
Harrison  /Eighth  Streets  off-ramp  were  not  analyzed  because  the  project  would  not  be 
expected  to  attract  customers  from  the  East  Bay  due  to  the  availability  of  Costco  stores 
there.  The  1-80  Harrison  /  Seventh  Streets  on-ramp  was  not  analyzed  due  to  the  fact 
that  the  U.S.  101  Bryant  /  Tenth  Streets  on-ramp  provides  more  direct  access  to  the 
same  direction  of  freeway  travel. 


A.43 


XI.  Appendices 


APPENDIX  C:  AIR  QUALITY 


TABLE  C-l:  SAN  FRANCISCO  AIR  POLLUTANT  SUMMARY,  1987-1989 


Pollutant 

Standard 

1987 

1988 

1989 

Ozone  (03) 

T-IiO"!iPfcct  1  _hr  0  yoro  cr&   i~\i~\nr\  fr\  1 
rxlgllCol  1  III  dvci  a^C,  L>L/II1/  Uf 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0  00/r/ 

0  09 
0 

0 

W.V/O 

0 

Carbon  Monoxide  (CO) 
nigiicai  i-nr  average,  ppiii 

Number  of  standard  excesses 
Highest  8-hr  average,  ppm 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

on  n/r/ 

9.0/c/ 

17  0 

1  I  .\J 

0 

10.0 

1 

LD.yJ 

0 

12.8 
1 

1 A  0 

0 

9.0 
0 

l>lllUgCIl  J-^lUAlUC 

Highest  1-hr  average,  ppm 
Number  of  standard  excesses 

0.25/c/ 

0.15 
0 

0.12 
0 

0.14/e/ 
0 

Sulfur  Dioxide  (SO->) 
Highest  24-hr  average,  ppm 
Number  of  standard  excesses 

0.05/d,f/ 

0.01 
0 

0.01 
0 

0.02 
0 

Particulate  Matter- 10  Micron  (PMjq) 
Highest  24-hr  average,  ug/m^  /b/ 

Number  of  standard  excesses/g/ 
Annual  Geometric  Mean,  ug/nr 

50/c/ 
30/c/ 

65 
4 

21.7 

117 

5 

23.1 

101 
13 

31.6 

Lead  (Pb) 

Highest  30-day  average,  ug/rrr 
Number  of  standard  excesses 

1.5/d/ 

0.10 
0 

0.11 
0 

0.09 
0 

NOTES:  NR  =  Not  Recorded;  NA  =  Not  Applicable 

Underlined  values  indicate  violations  of  standards. 

/a/    CO  data  were  collected  at  the  BAAQMD  monitoring  station  at  939  Ellis  Street; 

all  other  data  were  collected  at  the  Arkansas  Street  station, 
/b/  ppm  -  parts  per  million;  ug/nr  -  micrograms  per  cubic  meter, 
/c/    State  standard,  not  to  be  exceeded, 
/d/   State  standard,  not  to  be  equaled  or  exceeded. 

/e/    Data  presented  are  valid,  but  incomplete  in  that  an  insufficient  number  of  valid 
data  points  were  collected  to  meet  EPA  and/or  ARB  criteria  for 
representativeness. 

HI    State  standard  applies  at  locations  where  state  1-hour  ozone  or  particulate 

standards  are  violated.  Federal  standard  of  365  ug/m^  applies  elsewhere.  . 
/g/   Measured  every  six  days. 

SOURCE:  California  Air  Resources  Board,  Air  Quality  Data  Summaries,  1987-1989. 


A.44 


XI.  Appendices 


APPENDIX  D:  TYPICAL  NOISE  LEVELS 


TABLE  D-l:  TYPICAL  NOISE  LEVELS 


Loud 


Very  Quiet 


Decibels 

110  Pile  driver  (from  50  feet) 


Very  Loud  100 

90 


80 
70 


60 

Quiet  50 


40 


30 


Light  helicopter  take-off  (from  125  feet) 

Diesel  truck  (from  50  feet) 

Radio  or  TV  playing  in  Living  Room 

Passenger  car  on  city  street  (from  sidewalk) 


Whisper 
Rustle  of  paper 


SOURCE:  Department  of  City  Planning,  "A  Proposal  for  Citizen  Review: 
Transportation  Noise,  Environmental  Protection  Element  of  the 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  San  Francisco,"  August,  1984. 


A.45 


APPENDIX  E:  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 


XI.  Appendices 


HAZARDOUS  WASTE  REGULATORY  FRAMEWORK 

Laws  and  regulations  govern  the  management  of  hazardous  materials  and  wastes  at  the 
federal,  state,  and  local  levels.  The  major  federal  and  state  laws  and  regulations  are 
discussed  below. 

FEDERAL 

The  United  States  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  is  responsible  for 
enforcing  regulations  at  the  federal  level  pertaining  to  hazardous  materials  and  wastes. 

•  The  primary  federal  hazardous  waste  and  hazardous  substance  laws  are  contained  in 
the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  of  1976  (RCRA),  and  in  the 
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  of  1980 
(CERCLA).  These  laws  require  that  responsible  parties  report  any  known  hazardous 
waste  contamination  of  soil  or  groundwater  to  the  EPA  pursuant  to  applicable 
regulations.  (State  and  local  agencies  also  must  be  involved.  In  San  Francisco, 
reporting  must  include  the  California  Department  of  Health  Services,  the  San 
Francisco  Bay  Area  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board,  or  the  San  Francisco 
Department  of  Public  Health,  depending  on  specific  circumstances.)  Any 
contamination  that  threatens  public  health  or  the  environment  must  be  remediated  by 
the  responsible  party  according  to  certain  standards  set  by  the  EPA. 

•  Federal  regulations  pertaining  to  hazardous  substances  and  wastes  are  contained  in  the 
Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (40  CFR).  Statues  that  authorize  these  regulations  are  set 
forth  in  the  United  States  Code.  The  regulations  contain  specific  guidelines  for 
determining  whether  a  waste  is  hazardous,  based  on  either  the  source  of  generation  or 
the  characteristics  of  the  waste.  Determination  of  standards  for  remediation  of  soil  and 
groundwater  contamination  is  performed  on  a  case-by-case  basis  by  the  agency  with 
lead  jurisdiction.  However,  extensive  federal  guidance  exists  for  determining 
acceptable  levels  of  residual  contaminants  in  soil  and  groundwater. 


A.46 


XI.  Appendices 

STATE 

•  There  are  two  separate  hazardous  waste  programs  on  a  statewide  level  in  California, 
one  by  the  U.S.  EPA  and  one  by  the  California  EPA.  The  Department  of  Toxic 
Substances  Control  within  the  California  Environmental  Protection  Agency  is  the 

•  agency  empowered  to  enforce  state  hazardous  materials  and  waste  regulations  in 

•  California,  independent  of  the  U.S.  EPA. 

California  hazardous  materials  and  waste  laws  incorporate  federal  standards,  but  in 
many  respects  are  stricter.  For  example,  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law, 

•  the  state  equivalent  of  RCRA,  contains  a  much  broader  definition  of  hazardous  waste. 
Some  substances  not  considered  hazardous  under  federal  law  are  considered  hazardous 
under  state  law.  The  California  Hazardous  Substance  Account  Act,  essentially  the 
equivalent  of  CERCLA,  contains  a  provision  for  designation  of  state  funds  to  clean  up 
sites  where  private  funding  is  unobtainable.  State  hazardous  materials  and  waste  laws 
are  contained  in  the  California  Code  of  Regulations  (CCR),  Titles  22  and  26. 

Regulations  implementing  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law  list  791 
hazardous  chemicals  and  20  to  30  more  common  materials  that  may  be  hazardous; 
establish  criteria  for  identifying,  packaging  and  labeling  hazardous  wastes;  prescribe 
management  of  hazardous  wastes;  establish  permit  requirements  for  hazardous  waste 
treatment,  storage,  disposal  and  transportation;  and  identify  hazardous  wastes  that 
cannot  be  disposed  of  in  landfills. 

Under  both  RCRA  and  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law,  hazardous  waste 
manifests  must  be  retained  by  the  generator  for  a  minimum  of  three  years.  A 
hazardous  waste  manifest  lists  a  description  of  the  waste,  its  intended  destination,  and 
regulatory  information  about  the  waste.  A  copy  of  each  manifest  must  be  filed  with 
the  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control.  The  generator  must  match  copies  of 
hazardous  waste  manifests  with  receipts  from  the  treatment  /  disposal  /  recycling 
facility  to  confirm  the  wastes  were  properly  handled. 

The  Project  Area  is  located  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Regional 
Water  Quality  Control  Board  (RWQCB).  The  RWQCB  is  authorized  by  the  State 
Water  Resources  Control  Board  to  enforce  the  provisions  of  the  Porter-Cologne  Water 


A.47 


XI.  Appendices 

Quality  Control  Act  of  1969,  which  incorporates  federal  water  protection  laws  and 
additional  state  law  provisions.  That  Act  gives  the  RWQCB  authority  to  require 
groundwater  investigations  when  the  quality  of  the  groundwaters  or  surface  waters  of 
the  state  have  been  or  could  be  threatened,  and  to  remediate  the  site  if  necessary. 

For  sites  requiring  remediation,  the  level  of  site  cleanup  is  determined  on  a 
case-by-case  basis.  The  California  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control,  the 
RWQCB,  or  a  local  agency  could  act  as  the  lead  state  agency  in  site  investigations  and 
remediation  projects.  The  state  determines  the  level  and  extent  of  required  clean-up, 
based  on  the  specific  site  conditions  and  surrounding  land  uses.  State  clean-up 
standards  can  be  more  restrictive  than  federal  standards;  both  state  and  federal 
standards  are  used  to  determine  clean-up  levels.  Clean-up  standards  employed  by  the 
RWQCB  can  be  more  stringent  than  those  used  by  EPA  or  the  Department  of  Toxic 
Substances  Control,  and  are  region-specific./l/  If  soils  containing  hazardous  materials 
are  excavated,  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  may 
impose  specific  requirements  on  such  activities  to  protect  ambient  air  quality  from 
dust  or  airborne  contaminants.  For  example,  BAAQMD  Regulation  8,  Rule  40  limits 
emissions  of  organic  compounds  from  soil  that  has  been  contaminated  by  organic 
chemical  or  petroleum  chemical  leaks  or  spills,  and  describes  acceptable  procedures 
for  controlling  emissions  from  such  soils  and  from  underground  storage  tanks  intended 
for  removal. 

HAZARDOUS  SUBSTANCE  WORKER  SAFETY  REQUIREMENTS 

The  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (Cal/OSHA)  and  the 
Federal  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (Fed/OSHA)  are  the  agencies 
responsible  for  assuring  worker  safety  in  the  handling  and  use  of  chemicals  in  the 
workplace.  Under  authority  of  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Act  of  1970, 
Fed/OSHA  has  adopted  numerous  regulations  pertaining  to  worker  safety  (contained 
in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  Title  29  [29  CFR  —  Labor]).  These  regulations  set 
standards  for  safe  workplaces  and  work  practices,  including  standards  relating  to 
hazardous  material  handling.  In  California,  Cal/OSHA  assumes  primary  responsibility 
for  developing  and  enforcing  workplace  safety  regulations.  Because  California  has  a 
federally  approved  OSHA  program,  it  is  required  to  adopt  regulations  that  are  at  least 
as  stringent  as  those  found  in  29  CFR.  Cal/OSHA  standards  are  generally  more 
stringent  than  federal  regulations. 


A.48 


Cal/OSHA  regulations  concerning  the  use  of  hazardous  materials  in  the  workplace 
(detailed  in  Title  8  of  the  California  Code  of  Regulations  [8  CCR])  include 
requirements  for  safety  training,  availability  of  safety  equipment,  accident  and  illness 
prevention  programs,  hazardous  substance  exposure  warnings,  and  emergency  action 
and  fire  prevention  plan  preparation.  Cal/OSHA  enforces  hazard  communication 
program  regulations,  which  contain  training  and  information  requirements,  including 
procedures  for  identifying  and  labeling  hazardous  substances,  communicating  hazard 
information  related  to  hazardous  substances  and  their  handling,  and  preparation  of 
health  and  safety  plans  to  protect  workers  and  employees  at  hazardous  waste  sites./2/ 
The  hazard  communication  program  requires  that  Material  Safety  Data  Sheets 
(MSDSs)  be  available  to  employees  and  that  employee  information  and  training 
programs  be  documented. 

POTENTIAL  SOURCES  OF  CONTAMINATION  FROM  OFF-SITE  ACTIVITIES 

Land  can  be  affected  by  spills  or  contamination  at  adjacent  properties.  Numerous 
historic  industries  that  were  potential  sources  of  contamination  operated  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  project.  Uses  of  hazardous  materials  or  production  of  hazardous  wastes  on 
parcels  adjacent  to  the  project  site  could  have  caused  contamination  affecting  the 
subject  property  ./3/  The  primary  route  of  migration  of  contaminants  from  one  site  to 
another  is  through  groundwater./4/  In  the  project  area,  shallow  groundwater  is  found 
about  ten  feet  beneath  the  ground  surface  and  is  assumed  to  flow  generally  to  the  east, 
toward  San  Francisco  Bay./3/  On  the  basis  of  Lee  and  Praszker's  Environmental  Site 
Assessment,  the  potential  for  site  contamination  from  neighboring  land  uses  can  be 
generally  assessed./5/ 

This  review  focuses  on  current  and  past  land  uses  that  would  be  most  likely  to  have 
caused  soil  and/or  groundwater  contamination  at  the  project  site  through 
contamination  of  properties  adjacent  to  the  site.  Discussions  of  sites  farther  away  than 
about  one-half  block  (less  likely  to  have  caused  contamination  on  the  site  because  of 
their  greater  distance)  can  be  found  in  Lee  and  Praszker's  Environmental  Site 
Assessment.  It  is  possible  that  other  contamination  due  to  identified  or  non-identified 
historic  land  uses  exists  in  the  vicinity.  However,  the  information  below,  as  well  as 
the  on-site  uses  noted  above,  would  be  representative  of  the  nature  of  the  potential  soil 
and  groundwater  contamination  in  the  area. 


A.49 


XI.  Appendices 


Table  E-l  on  p.  A.51  lists  sites  identified  as  being  possible  sources  of  soil  and/or 
groundwater  contamination  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project.  Locations  of  the  historic 
businesses  and  USTs  are  shown  on  Figure  9  on  p.  42. 


Two  active  businesses  that  are  potential  sources  of  contamination  were  noted 
nearby  :/3/ 


Discount  Complete  Auto  Repair,  398  Tenth  Street  (Area  C).  This  business  is  at 
the  west  corner  of  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets,  across  from  project  site.  The 
property  is  an  old  service  station  now  used  exclusively  for  auto  repair.  The  gas 
pump  island  (without  pumps)  is  still  present.  USTs  might  still  be  in  place.  The 
site  is  a  potential  source  of  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  solvents,  other  organic 
compounds,  and  heavy  metals. 

Speck  Cab  Company  /  Veterans  Cab  Company,  1501  Harrison  Street  (Area  M). 
Starting  at  the  south  comer  of  Eleventh  and  Harrison  Streets,  this  business 
occupies  the  entire  block  opposite  the  project  site  between  Harrison  and  Division 
Streets.  The  property  is  used  for  taxicab  repair,  service,  parking  and  storage,  and 
is  known  to  contain  gas  pumps,  USTs,  and  an  oil-dispensing  tank.  The  facility 
has  Department  of  Public  Health  hazardous  materials  storage  permits  for  greases, 
oils,  solvents,  and  USTs.  A  past  fuel  leak  has  been  reported,  as  discussed  below. 
The  site  is  a  potential  source  of  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  solvents  and  other 
organic  compounds,  chromium,  zinc  and  other  heavy  metals. 


Several  historic  businesses  neighboring  the  project  site  had  potential  to  cause  metal  or 
hydrocarbon  contamination  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project  site.  Those  businesses 
include  a  junk  yard  at  1498  Harrison  Street  (Area  A)  and  a  metal  working  facility  at 
491  Tenth  Street  (Area  H),  both  shown  on  a  1913  Sanborn  map,  and  a  metal  plating 
works  at  1420  Harrison  Street  (Area  B)  and  an  iron  works  at  447  Tenth  Street 
(Area  E),  both  in  operation  in  1949.  At  that  same  time,  a  printing  shop  was  situated  at 
465  Tenth  Street  (Area  G).  Printing  shops  of  that  period  used  oil-based  inks,  solvents, 
and  metallic  lead. 


Documentation  in  the  form  of  permits,  maps,  surveys,  and  other  records  were  found 
for  ten  historic  UST  installations  within  approximately  400  feet  of  the  project  site:/3/ 


Speck  Cab  Company  /  Veterans  Cab  Company,  1501  Harrison  Street  (Area  M). 
This  active  business  was  discussed  above.  The  property  has  three  permitted 
USTs,  7,000,  8,000  and  10,000  gallons,  respectively.  The  USTs  tested  sound  in 
recent  leak  checks.  The  Department  of  Public  Health  has  documentation  of 
leaking  500-gallon  tank  that  was  removed  in  February  1989.  Soil  tests  indicated 
concentrations  of  chromium  and  zinc  of  23  parts  per  million  (ppm)  and  oil  and 
grease  of  15  ppm  beneath  the  tank. 


A.50 


XI.  Appendices 


TABLE  E- 1 :   POTENTIAL  SOURCES  OF  CONTAMINATION  IN  THE  VICINITY 


Map      Source  and 

Key /a/  Distance  from  Site 

A  Junk  Yard, 

1498  Harrison  St. 
90  feet 


Type  of  Use 

Misc.  storage 
and  disposal 


Potential  Contaminants 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals, 
acids 


B  Metal  Plating  Works, 

1420  Harrison  St. 
90  feet 


Metal  handling 


Heavy  metals,  solvents, 
acids 


Discount  Complete  Auto 
Repair,  398  Tenth  St. 
90  feet 


Auto  repair,  UST 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  acids 


D  Shell  Service  Station  Auto  repair, 

1394  Harrison  St.  UST/b/ 
110  feet 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals, 
acids 


Iron  Works 
447  Tenth  St. 
90  feet 


Foundry 


Heavy  metals 


Joseph  L.  Barnes 
Construction  Co., 
449  Tenth  St. 
90  feet 


Three  USTs 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Print  Shop 
465  Tenth  St. 
90  feet 


Printing 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals, 


H  Metal  Works, 

491  Tenth  St. 
90  feet 

I  Service  Station 

501  Tenth  St. 
or  1198  Bryant  St. 
110  feet 


Foundry 


UST 


Heavy  metals 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Chevron  Station 
590  Tenth  St. 
310  feet 


Auto  repair,  at 
least  nine  USTs, 
fuel  leak 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals, 
acids 


(Continued) 


A.51 


XI.  Appendices 


TABLE  E- 1 :   POTENTIAL  SOURCES  OF  CONTAMINATION  IN  THE  VICINITY 
(Continued) 


Map      Source  and 
Key/a/  Distance  from  Site 


Type  of  Use 


Potential  Contaminants 
Petroleum  hydrocarbons 

Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals, 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons, 
solvents,  heavy  metals 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


Petroleum  hydrocarbons 


K         Associated  Limousines       10,000-gal  UST 
1398  Bryant  St. 
330  feet 

L  ABC  Towing  &  Storage  Auto  storage, 
498  Eleventh  St.  '  550-gal  UST 
90  feet 

M  Speck  Cab  Company/  Vehicle  service, 
Veterans  Cab  Company,  at  least  3  USTs, 
1501  Harrison  St.  UST  leak 

90  feet 

N         Patrick  J.  Ruane  Inc.  550-gal  UST, 

1617  Harrison  St.  fuel  leak 

450  feet 

P  C  and  G  Muffler  1 ,500-gal  UST 

340  Tenth  St. 
400  feet 


/a/    Approximate  locations  of  potential  sources  of  contamination  are  shown  on 

Figure  9  on  p.  42. 
/b I   Underground  storage  tank. 

SOURCE:  Lee  and  Praszker,  Environmental  Site  Assessment,  1990;  Environmental 
Science  Associates. 


ABC  Towing  and  Storage,  498  Eleventh  Street  (Area  L).  The  lot  is  now  part  of 
Speck  Cab  Co.  property.  A  permit  for  550-gallon  gasoline  UST  dating  from  1965 
is  on  file  with  SFFD.  (No  other  documentation.) 

Texaco  Service  Station,  398  Tenth  Street  (Area  C).  The  property  is  currently 
Discount  Complete  Auto  Repair,  discussed  above.  It  appears  on  Sanborn  Maps 
dated  1949,  1965,  and  1988.  The  USTs  were  apparently  abandoned  in  place.  (No 
other  documentation.) 

Shell  Service  Station,  1394  Harrison  Street  (Area  D).  The  station  is  located  at  the 
north  coiner  of  Tenth  and  Harrison  Streets.  It  dates  from  at  least  1949  through 
1957  but  was  gone  by  1965,  as  shown  on  Sanborn  Maps.  (No  other 
documentation.) 


A.52 


XI.  Appendices 


Joseph  L.  Barnes  Construction  Company,  449  Tenth  Street  (Area  F).  An  SFFD 
building  report  dated  1979  indicated  the  presence  of  two  1,000-gallon  gasoline 
USTs  and  one  6,000-gallon  gasoline  UST.  (No  other  documentation.) 

Service  Station,  501  Tenth  Street  or  1 198  Bryant  Street  (Area  I).  The  facility 
appears  on  1949  the  Sanborn  map.  The  site  is  currently  occupied  by  a  freeway 
ramp.  (No  other  documentation.) 

Chevron  Station  #95260,  590  Tenth  Street  (Area  J).  This  former  service  station 
had  a  known  fuel  leak.  It  is  cited  on  California's  list  of  contaminated  sites  (the 
"Cortese"  list).  At  least  nine  former  gasoline  USTs  with  permits  dating  from  the 
1930s  and  1940s  are  documented.  A  site  investigated  reported  2,900  ppm  of 
gasoline  in  groundwater.  Monitoring  wells  have  been  installed  on  site;  a 
groundwater  remediation  program  is  in  the  planning  stage. 

Patrick  J.  Ruane  Inc.,  1617  Harrison  Street  (Area  N).  A  permit  for  a  550-gallon 
liquid  petroleum  gas  UST  dates  from  1965.  The  property  is  noted  on  California's 
contaminated  sites  list  as  unspecified  tank  leak.  A  tank  cleaning  was  undertaken 
in  1987.  (No  other  documentation.) 

C  and  G  Muffler,  340  Tenth  Street  (Area  P).  A  permit  for  1,500-gallon  fuel  oil 
UST  dates  from  1967.  The  tank  apparently  was  located  along  Juniper  Street.  (No 
other  documentation.) 

Commercial  Truck  Garage  or  Associated  Limousines,  1398  Bryant  Street 
(Area  K).  A  permit  dated  1976  for  10,000-gallon  gasoline  UST  located  in  the 
parking  area  behind  building  is  on  file  with  SFFD.  (No  other  documentation.) 


SITE  REMEDIATION 


Soil  remediation  methods  could  include  excavation  and  site  treatment,  excavation  and 
off-site  treatment  or  disposal,  or  treatment  without  excavation.  Some  methods  of 
in-situ  treatment  of  soils  contaminated  with  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  solvents  and/or 
heavy  metals  include: 

•      Bioremediation.  Enhancement  or  introduction  of  microbial  organisms  in  in-situ 
soils  to  promote  degradation  of  organic  contaminants. 

Chemical  fixation.  Introduction  of  chemicals  that  will  bind  with  and  stabilize 
contaminants  in  soil. 

Soil  washing.  Introducing  water  solution  into  soil  in-situ  to  dissolve 
contaminants,  and  then  removing  and  treating  or  disposing  of  wash  water. 

Excavated  soils  can  be  treated  either  on-  or  off-site  as  described  above.  Excavated 
soils  can  also  be  air  stripped  by  introducing  forced  air  to  remove  volatile  contaminants 


A.53 


XI.  Appendices 


that  are  then  trapped  and  collected  in  a  filter  medium.  Excavated  soils  that  are  hauled 
off-site  may  be  similarly  treated  at  permitted  hazardous  waste  facilities. 


Remediation  alternatives  for  clean-up  of  contaminated  groundwater  could  include 
in-situ  treatment,  extraction  and  on-site  treatment,  or  extraction  and  off-site  treatment 
and/or  disposal.  Groundwater  is  extracted  by  pumping  it  out  of  wells  installed  on-site. 
Some  of  the  technologies  for  treatment  of  organic  contaminants  include  use  of  carbon 
adsorption,  filtration  systems  and  oil-water  gravity  separation.  Metal  precipitation  and 
subsequent  removal  of  a  solid  is  a  common  treatment  for  groundwater  contaminated 
by  heavy  metals.  Extracted  groundwater  may  also  be  hauled  off-site  for  treatment  at  a 
hazardous  waste  facility.  Discharge  of  treated  groundwater  to  the  publicly  owned 
treatment  works  would  require  regulatory  agency  permits. 


NOTES  -  Hazardous  Materials 

/[/   The  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board  (RWQCB)  water  quality  protection 
objectives  and  goals  for  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Region  are  contained  in  the  Water 
Quality  Control  Plan,  San  Francisco  Bay  Basin,  Region  (2),  December  1986. 

/2/   Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Guidance  Manual  for  Hazardous  Waste  Site 
Activities,  National  Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  (NIOSH)  and 
Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA),  NIOSH  Publication 
No.  85-115,  October,  1985. 

/3/   Lee  and  Praszker  Consulting  Geotechnical  Engineers  and  Geologists, 

Environmental  Site  Assessment:  Costco  Warehouse  Project,  Tenth  and  Harrison 
Streets,  San  Francisco,  California,  Lee  and  Praszker,  Inc.,  147  Natoma  Street, 
San  Francisco,  California,  June,  1990. 

/4/   The  rate  of  migration  of  a  substance  depends  on  its  chemical  and  physical 

properties  and  the  properties  of  the  media  through  which  it  flows;  e.g.,  gasoline 
can  migrate  readily  through  the  soil,  while  lead  attaches  to  soil  particles  and  is 
virtually  immobile. 

/5/   A  complete  site  history  conducted  for  each  individual  property  within  the  project 
vicinity  could  reveal  additional  potential  sources. 


A.54 


XII.   EIR  AUTHORS  AND  CONSULTANTS;  ORGANIZATIONS  AND  PERSONS 
CONSULTED 


EIR  AUTHORS 

San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning 

450  McAllister  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Environmental  Review  Officer:  Barbara  W.  Sahm 
EIR  Supervisor  and  Coordinator:  Sharon  A.  Rogers 


EIR  CONSULTANTS 


Environmental  Science  Associates,  Inc. 

301  Brannan  Street,  Suite  200 

San  Francisco,  C A  94107 

Associate -in-Charge:  Sally  E.  Maxwell 
Project  Manager:  Kevin  Beauchamp 


Wilbur  Smith  Associates 
(Transportation) 
360  22nd  Street,  Suite  600 
Oakland,  CA  94612 
Mark  Wagner 


Lee  and  Praszker 
(Geology  and  Hazards) 
147  Natoma  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 
Richard  Rogers 


Archeo-Tec 
(Cultural  Resources) 
5283  Broadway 
Oakland,  CA  94618 
Allen  Pastron 


PROJECT  SPONSOR 

Costco  Wholesale  Corporation 
10809  120th  Avenue,  N.E. 
Kirkland,  WA  98033 
Jeff  Brotman 


PROJECT  SPONSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVE 

Wahl  &  Associates 
710  Market  Place  Tower 
2025  First  Avenue 
Seattle,  WA  98121 
Peter  Papadopulos 


PROJECT  ARCHITECT 

Heller  &  Leake 
222  Sutter  Street,  Suite  900 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 
Clark  Manus 


XII.  Authors  and  Persons  Consulted 


PROJECT  ATTORNEY 

Coblentz,  Cahen,  McCabe  &  Breyer 
222  Kearney  Street,  7th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 
Pamela  Duffy 

Costco  Wholesale  Corporation 
10809  120th  Avenue,  N.E. 
Kirkland,WA  98033 
John  Osterhaus 


!  i 


