Berxsuire Hatnaway wc. 


1995 
ANNUAL REPORT 


Business Activities 


Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged 
in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these ts the 
property and casualty insurance business conducted on both a direct and 
reinsurance basis through a number of subsidiaries collectively referred to in this 
report as the Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group. On January 2, 1996, a 
subsidiary of the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of GEICO 
Corporation not then held by Berkshire subsidiaries. Accordingly, GEICO 
Corporation is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 
henceforth will be included in the Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group. 


Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include meaningful equity 
ownership percentages of other publicly traded companies. Such investments at 
the end of 1995 include approximately 10% of the outstanding capital stock of 
American Express Company, approximately 13% of the capital stock of Capital 
Cities/ABC, Inc., approximately 7% of the capital stock of Federal Home 
Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac’), approximately 11% of the capital 
stock of The Gillette Company, approximately 8% of the capital stock of The 
Coca-Cola Company, approximately 16% of the capital stock of The Washington 
Post Company, approximately 14% of the common stock of Wells Fargo & 
Company, and common and convertible preferred stock of Salomon Inc having 
approximately 18% of the total voting power of that company. Much 
information about these publicly-owned companies is available, including 
information released from Ume to time by the companies themselves. 


Additionally, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. publishes the Buffalo News, a daily 
and Sunday newspaper in Western New York. Other business activities 
conducted by nan-insurance subsidiaries include publication and distribution of 
encyclopedias and related educational and instructional material (World Book 
and Childcraft products), manufacture and marketing of home cleaning systems 
and related accessories (sold principally under the Kirby name), manufacture and 
sale of boxed chocolates and other confectionery products (Sees Candies), 
retailing of home furnishings (Nebraska Furniture Mart and R.C. Willey Home 
Furnishings), manufacture and distribution of untforms (Fechheimer Brothers 
Company), manufacture, import and distribution of footwear (AH. Brown Shoe 
Company, Lowell Shoe, Inc. and Dexter Shoe Company) retailing of fine jewelry 
(Borsheims and Helzberg’s Diamond Shops) and manufacture and distribution 
of air compressors, alr tools and painting systems (Campbell Hausfeld products). 
Berkshire also owns a number of other businesses engaged in a variety of 
activities, as identified in this report. 


Operating decisions for the various Berkshire businesses are made by 
managers of the business units. Investment decisions and all other capital 
allocation decisions are made for Berkshire and its subsidiaries by Warren E 
Buffett, in consultation with Charles T. Munger. Mr. Buffett is Chairman and 
Mr. Munger ts Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s Board of Directors. 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
1995 ANNUAL REPORT 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Business Activities ...0.... ahi cts aide ati inside Front Cover 
Owner-Related Business Principles ........ Eiaapeeoriacnace 2 
Corporate Performance vs. the S&P 500 2... eee eee 4 
Chairman's Letter® 2 gay qde thet ea ene eke wae Y Sates 
Acquisition Criteria... 2 2..0..0.. Ash led. nde renege dil ek AURA 23 
Independent Auditors’ Report... 2... eee 24 
Consolidated Financial Statements .....-..000....... ik Ras aD 
Business: Segment Data ..49 14.5.4 ee ia bak ota bag Mead aed Al 
Management’s Discussion .........00.-.0 20002000000 eevee eee 44 


Selecied Financial Data For The 
Past Five Years. cn. cagcea ce pe RES sahenerk enka dene dyn stat thew aes 53 


Shareholder-Designated Contributions .......0.000.... 00020008 54 


Combined Financial Statements — Unaudited — 


for Berkshire Business Groups ..... 0.02.00. 0000 eee ST 
Common Stock Data ......... Shien Siw & deans uke 6 .. 64 
Directors and Officers of the Company ......... . Inside Back Cover 


*Copyright © 1996 By Warren E. Buffett 
All Rights Reserved 


Cerlain OWNER-RELATED BUSINESS PRINCIPLES were included in the Chairman’s letter* to 
Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in the 1983 Annual Report. Because the materia] remains topical, 
it is reproduced on this and the following page. 


With so many new shareholders, it’s appropriate to summarize the major business principles we follow 
that pertain to the manager-owner relationship: 


@ Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger and [ think of our 
shareholders as owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners. (Because of the size of our 
shareholdings we also, are, for better or worse, controlling partners.) We do not view the company itself as 
the ultimate owner of our business assets but, instead, view the company as a conduit through which our 
shareholders own the assets 


@ In line with this owner-orientation, our directors are major shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway. In 
the case of at least four, over 50% of family net worth is represented by holdings of Berkshire. We cat our own 
cooking. 


@ Our jong-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications mentioned later) is to maximize the 
average annual rate of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not measure the economic 
significance or performance of Berkshire by its size; we measure by per-share progress. We are certain that 
the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future — a greatly enlarged capital base will see to that. But 
we will be disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the average large American corporation. 


@ Our preference would be to reach this goal by directly owning a diversified group of businesses that 
generate cash and consistently earn above-average returns on capital. Our second choice is to own parts of 
similar businesses, attained primarily through purchases of marketable common stocks by our insurance 
subsidiaries, The price and availability of businesses and the need for insurance capital determine any given 
year’s capital allocation. 


@ Because of this two-pronged approach to business ownership and because of the limitations of 
conventional accounting, consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about our true econemic 
performance. Charlie and I, both as owners and managers, virtually ignore such consolidated numbers. 
However, we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we control, numbers we consider of 
great importance. These figures, along with other information we will supply about the individual businesses, 
should generally aid you in making judgments about them 


@ Accounting cousequences do not influence our operating or capital-allocation decisions. When 
acquisition costs are similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not reportable by us under 
standard accounting principles than to purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable. This is precisely the choice 
that often faces us since entire businesses (whose earnings will be fully reportable) frequently sell for double 
the pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely unreportable). In aggregate and over time, 
we expect the unreported earnings to be fully reflected in our intrinsic business value through capital gains 


@ We rarely use much debt and, when we do, we attempt to structure it on a long-term fixed-rate basis. 
We will reject interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance sheet. This conservatism has 
penalized our results but it is the only behavior that leaves us comfortable, considering our fiduciary obligations 
to policyholders, depositors, lenders and the many equity holders who have committed unusually large portions 
of their net worth to our care. (As one of the Indianapolis “500” winners said: “To finish first, you must first 
finish.”) 


*Copyright © 1984 by Warren E. Buffett 
All Rights Reserved 


@ A managerial “wish list” will not be filled at shareholder expense. We will not diversify by purchasing 
entire businesses at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to our shareholders. We will 
only do with your money what we would do with our own, weighing fully the values you can obtain by 
diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the stock market. 


@ We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically against results. We test the wisdom of 
retaining earnings by assessing whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at least $1 of market value 
for each $1 retained. To date, this test has been met. We will continue to apply il on a five-year rolling basis. 
As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to use retained earnings wisely. 


@ We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in business value as we give. This rule 
applies to all forms of issuance — not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock-for-debt swaps, stock 
options, and convertible securities as well. We will not sell smal] portions of your company — and that is what 
the issuance of shares amounts to — on a basis inconsistent with the vaJue of the entire enterprise. 


@ You should be fully aware of one attitude Charle and I share that hurts our financial performance: 
regardless of price, we have no interest at allin selling any good businesses that Berkshire owns, and are very 
reluctant to sell sub-par businesses as long as we expect them to generate at least some cash and as long as 
we feel good about their managers and labor relations. We hope not to repeat the capital-allocation mistakes 
that led us into such sub-par businesses. And we react with great caution to suggestions that our poor 
businesses can be restored to satisfactory profitability by major capital expenditures. (The projections will be 
dazzling — the advocates will be sincere — but, in the end, major additional investment in a terrible industry 
usually is about as rewarding as struggling in quicksand.) Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior 
(discard your least promising business at each turn) is not our style. We would rather have our overall results 
penalized a bit than engage in it. 


@ We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the pluses and minuses important in appraising 
business value. Our guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to know if our positions were 
reversed. We owe you no less. Moreover, as a company with a major communications business, it would be 
inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of accuracy, balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves 
than we would expect our news people to apply when reporting on others. We also believe candor benefits us 
as managers: the CEO who misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in private 


@ Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our activities in marketable securities only to the extent 
legally requited. Good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject to competitive appropriation just as good 
product or business acquisition ideas are. Therefore, we normally will not talk about our investment ideas. This 
ban extends even to securities we have sold (because we may purchase them again) and to stocks we are 
incorrectly rumored to be buying. [f we deny those reports but say “*no comment” on other occasions, the no- 
comments become confirmation. 


Notes: 


Berkshire’s Corporate Performance vs. the S&P 500 


Annual Percentage Change 


in Per-Share in S&P 500 

Book Value of with Dividends Relative 

Berkshire Included Results 

Year QQ) @) (D-2) 
DOS: Eaeted peek dameraiage 23.8 0.0 13.8 
966» sabia ied was se ee oie ake 20.3 (11.7) 32.0 
DOF # asin iieboy eae aasieharinath 11.0 30.9 (19.9) 
DOGS. 23.3, 3.5 end dadhe dae gts 19.0 to 8.0 
GO saeicgs thine ase gt Sechelt 16.2 (8.4) 24.6 
DIO. gost Sette be wee Rae e die 12.0 3.9 8.1 
OPI ex. aeupcuics ae Sucpiivin arate a a 16.4 4.6 L.& 
De seieek Eilat dee ade aud a owes 21.7 8.9 2.8 
O78 hich ohaeM ea BART RY Hae 47 (14.8) 9.5 
DTA saath tere ett tte Be thet ao cde 5.5 (26.4) 31.9 
D7 Sr ccta leg thn pads aud sare 21.9 37.2 (15.3) 
OT Or 3 wicca latyis diteatant weet 59.3 23.6 35,7 
DED. seis Gah Oe Ea wie PRE tHe 31.9 7.4) 393 
OSS 28d shapers tah ca beh taey 24.0 64 7.6 
910. 3s: cindhinetineanat ened 35.7 8.2 ii) 
DSO sii 5 cheats OS Bie wae ’ 19.3 32.3 (13.0) 
DSI s faed 8 sg Lapbeapaee site Ayah 31.4 (5.0) 36.4 
NOB QS gate haiti Segue meee sdk 40.0 21.4 8.6 
ORB sols cane edlne dd HE sees 32.3 22.4 99 
hy ee ee thiayabideti ied [3.6 6. he 
O85: oa PauiesGieasieka heads 48.2 31:6 16.6 
OR8Gr Date esa eased ee aRee 26.1 18.6 TS 
O8F de ean Ohne Soopih a 19.5 5. 44 
OBS a Patek scam ot stta leah 20.1 16.6 3.5 
O80! ci, oat Gm dat ee RG a hE 44.4 31.7 Bed 
DOW! cesta aS thar Monch acag ope 74 (3.1) 0.5 
DON ak cdi widens tra Cideeedag Gite 3 39.6 30.5 9.1 
DOD, 8 A alae xe deere Aimee 20.3 7.6 2.) 
DOF edie tu dk hates Sedidee 14.3 10. 4.2 
DOF eal due sub bt cairn ee 13.9 | 2.6 
DOSY oss acaieg ieee eel tieo ty ie Beate ee 43.1 37.6 ai 

ata are for calendar years with these exceptions: 1965 and 1966, year ended 9/30; 1967, L5 months ended 12/3 L. 
Starting in 1979, accounting rules required insurance companies to value the equity securities they hold at market 


rather than at the lower of cost or market, which was previously the requirement. In this table, Berkshire’s results 
through 1978 have been restated to conform to the changed rules. 


In 1993, accounting rules changed so that all common equities, including those held by non-insurance entities, are 
now carried at market. The entire change was credited to 1993, since the restatement of the figures for eatlier 
years would have resulted in only minor adjustments. 


The S&P 500 numbers are pre-tax whereas the Berkshire numbers are after-tax. If a corporation such as Berkshire 
were simply to have owned the S&P 500 and accrued the appropriate taxes, its results would have lagged the S&P S00 
in years when that index showed a positive return, but would have exceeded the S&P in years when the index 
showed a negative return. Over the years, the tax costy would have caused the aggregate lag io be substantial. 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 


Our gain in net worth during 1995 was $5.3 billion, or 45.0%. Per-share book value grew by a little less, 
43.1%, because we paid stock for two acquisilions, increasing our shares outstanding by 1.3%. Over the last 
31 years (that is, since present management took over) per-share book value has grown from $19 to $14,426, 
or at a rate of 23.6% compounded annually. 


There’s no reason to do handsprings over 1995's gains. This was a year in which any fool could make 
a bundle in the stock market. And we did. To paraphrase President Kennedy, a rising tide lifts all yachts. 


Putting aside the financial results, there was plenty of good news at Berkshire last year: We negotiated 
three acquisitions of exactly the type we desire. Two of these, Helzberg’s Diamond Shaps and R.C. Willey 
Home Furnishings, are included in our 1995 financial statements, while our largest transaction, the purchase 
of GEICO, closed immediately after the end of the year. (1’l] tell you more about all three acquisitions later 
in the report.) 


These new subsidiaries roughly double our revenues, Even so, the acquisitions neither materially 
increased our shares outstanding nor owr debt. And, though these three operations employ over 11,000 
people, our headquarters staff grew only from || to 12, (No sense going crazy.) 


Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my partner, and I want to build a collection of 
companies — both wholly- and partly-owned — that have excellent economic characteristics and that are run 
by outstanding managers. Our favorite acquisition is the negotiated transaction that allows us to purchase 
100% of such a business at a fair price. But we are almost as happy when the stock market offers us the 
chance to buy a modest percentage of an outstanding business at a pro-rata price well below what it would 
take to buy 100%, This double-barrelled approach — purchases of entire businesses through negotiation or 
purchases of part-interests through the stock market — gives us an important advantage over capital- 
allocators who stick to a single course. Woody Allen once explained why eclecticism works: “The real 
advantage of being bisexual is that it doubles your chances for a date on Saturday night.” 


Over the years, we’ve been Woody-like in our thinking, attempting to increase our marketable 
investments in wonderful businesses, while simultaneously trying to buy similar businesses in their entirety. 
The following table illustrates our progress on both fronts. In the tabulation, we show the marketable 
securities owned per share of Berkshire at ten-year intervals. A second column lists our per-share operating 
eatnings (before taxes and purchase-price adjustments but after interest and corporate overhead) from all 
other activities. In other words, the second column shows what we earned excluding the dividends, interest 
and capital gains that we realized from investments. Purchase-price accounting adjustments are ignored for 
reasons we have explained at length in previous reports and which, as an act of mercy, we won’t repeat. 
(We'll be glad to send masochists the earlier explanations, however.) 


Pre-tax Earnings Per Share 
Marketable Securities Excluding All Income from 


Year Per Share Investments 
LOGS! sneha illing Go Ap Het ars isa ithe ache web ease $ 4 $ 4.08 
POTD: 2 sates ine ae eee fees free ee 159 (6.48) 
VOSS! ange cae Gita G-Sts craving staanteniathae’s 2,443 18.86 
LOOSE: a Bad oe weld giphn aisha ails glAle dtueh eg aes 22,088 258.20 
Yearly Growth Rate: 1965-95 2.0... 00,20... 33.4% 14.7% 


These results have not sprung from some master plan that we concocted in 1965. In a general way, we 
knew then what we hoped to accomplish but had no idea what specific opportunities might make it possible. 
Today we remain similatly unstructured: Over time, we expect to improve the figures in both columns but 
have no road map to tell us how that will come about. 


We proceed with two advantages: First, our operating managers are outstanding and, in most cases, have 
an unusually strong attachment to Berkshire. Second, Charlie and I have had considerable experience in 
allocating capital and try to go at that job rationally and objectively. The giant disadvantage we face is size: 
In the early years, we needed only good ideas, but now we need good big ideas. Unfortunately, the difficulty 
of finding these grows in direct proportion to our financial success, a problem that increasingly erodes our 
strengths. 


I will have more to say about Berkshire’s prospects later in this report, when I discuss our proposed 
recapitalization. 


Acquisitions 


It may seem strange that we exult over a year in which we made three acquisitions, given that we have 
regularly used these pages to question the acquisition activities of most managers. Rest assured, Charlie and 
Y haven’t lost our skepticism: We believe most deals do damage to the shareholders of the acquiring 
company. Too often, the words from HMS Pinafore apply: “Things are seldom what they seem, skim milk 
masquerades as cream.” Specifically, sellers and their representatives invariably present financial projections 
having more entertainment value than educational value. In the production of rosy scenarios, Wal] Street can 
hold its own against Washington. 


In any case, why potential buyers even look at projections prepared by sellers baffles me. Charlie and 
I never give them a glance, but instead keep in mind the story of the man with an ailing horse. Visiting the 
vet, he said: “Can you help me? Sometimes my borse walks just fine and sometimes he limps.” The vet's 
reply was pointed: “No problem — when he’s walking fine, sell him.” In the world of mergers and 
acquisitions, that horse would be peddled as Secretariat. 


At Berkshire, we have all the difficulties in perceiving the future that other acquisition-minded companies 
do. Like they also, we face the inherent problem that the seller of a business practically always knows far 
more about it than the buyer and also picks the time of sale — a time when the business is likely to be 
walking “just fine.” 


Even so, we do have a few advantages, perhaps the greatest being that we don’t have a strategic plan. 
Thus we feel no need to proceed in an ordained direction (a course leading almost invariably to silly purchase 
prices) but can instead simply decide what makes sense for our owners, In doing that, we always mentally 
compare any move we are contemplating with dozens of other opportunities open to us, including the 
purchase of small pieces of the best businesses in the world via the stock market. Our practice of making 
this comparison — acquisitions against passive investments — is a discipline that managers focused simply 
on expansion seldom use. 


Talking to Time Magazine a few years back, Peter Drucker got to the heart of things: “I will tell you 
a secret: Dealmaking beats working. Dealmaking is exciting and fun, and working is grubby. Running 
anything is primarily an enormous amount of grubby detail work . , . dealmaking is romantic, sexy. That’s 
why you have deals that make no sense.” 


In making acquisitions, we have a further advantage: As payment, we can offer sellers a stock backed 
by an extraordinary collection of outstanding businesses. An individual or a family wishing to dispose of a 
single fine business, but also wishing to defer personal taxes indefinitely, is apt to find Berkshire stock a 
particularly comfortable holding. I believe, in fact, that this calculus played an important part in the two 
acquisitions for which we paid shares in 1995. 


Beyond that, sellers sometimes care about placing their companies in a corporate home that will both 
endure and provide pleasant, productive working conditions for their managers, Here again, Berkshire offers 
something special. Our managers operate with extraordinary autonomy. Additionally, our ownership structure 
enables sellers to know that when I say we are buying to keep, the promise means something. For our part, 
we like dealing with owners who care what happens to their companies and people. A buyer is likely to find 
fewer unpleasant surprises dealing with that type of seller than with one simply auctioning off his business. 


In addition to the foregoing being an explanation of our acquisition style, it is, of course, a not-so-subtle 
sales pitch. If you own or represent a business earning $25 million or more before tax, and it fits the criteria 
listed on page 23, just give me a call. Our discussion will be confidential. And if you aren’t interested 
now, file our proposition in the back of your mind: We are never going to lose our appetite for buying 
companies with good economics and excellent management. 


Coneluding this little dissertation on acquisitions, { can’t resist repeating a tale told me last year by a 
corporate executive. The business he grew up in was a fine one. with a long-time record of leadership in 
its industry. Its main product, however, was distressingly glamorless. So several decades ago, the company 
hired a management consultant who — naturally — advised diversification, the then-current fad. (‘‘Focus” 
was not yet in style.) Before long, the company acquired a number of businesses, each after the consulting 
firm had gone through a long — and expensive — acquisition study. And the outcome? Said the executive 
sadly, “When we started, we were getting 100% of our earnings from the original business. After ten years, 
we were getting 150%.” 


Helzberg’s Diamond Shops 


A few years back, management consultants popularized a technique called “management by walking 
around” (MBWA). At Berkshire, we've instituted ABWA (acquisitions by walking around). 


In May 1994, a week or so after the Annual Meeting, I was crossing the street at 58th and Fifth Avenue 
in New York, when a woman called out my name. J listened as she told me she’d been to, and had enjoyed, 
the Annual Meeting. A few seconds later, a man who'd heard the woman stop me did so as well. He turned 
oul to be Barnett Helzberg, Jr, who owned four shares of Berkshire and had also been at our meeting. 


In our few minutes of conversation, Barnett said he had a business we might be interested in. When 
people say that, it usually turns out they have a ‘emonade stand — with potential, of course, to quickly grow 
into the next Microsoft. So I simply asked Barnett to send me particulars. That, I thought to myself, will 
be the end of that. 


Not long after, Barnett sent me the financial statements of Helzberg’s Diamond Shops. The company 
had been started by his grandfather in 1915 from a single store in Kansas City and had developed by the time 
we met into a group with 134 stores in 23 states. Sales had grown from $10 million in 1974 to $53 million 
in 1984 and $282 million in 1994. We weren’t talking lemonade stands. 


Barnett, then 60, loved the business but also wanted to feel free of it. In 1988, as a step in that 
direction, he had brought in Jeff Comment, formerly President of Wanamaker’s, to help him run things. The 
hiring of Jeff turned out to be a homerun, but Barnett still found that he couldn’t shake a feeling of ultimate 
responsibility. Additionally, he owned a valuable asset that was subject to the vagaries of a single, very 
competitive industry, and he thought it prudent to diversify his family’s holdings. 


Berkshire was made to order for him. It took us awhile to get together on price, but there was never 
any question in my mind that, first, Helzberg’s was the kind of business that we wanted to own and, second, 
Jeff was our kind of manager. In fact, we would not have bought the business if Jeff had not been there to 
run it. Buying a retailer without good management is like buying the Eiffel Tower without an elevator. 


We completed the Helzberg purchase in 1995 by means of a tax-free exchange of stock, the only kind 
of transaction that interested Barnett. Though he was certainly under no obligation to do so, Barnett shared 


a meaningful part of his proceeds from the sale with a large number of bis associates. When someone 
behaves that generously, you know you are going to be treated right as a buyer. 


The average Helzberg’s store has annual sales of about $2 million, far more than competitors operating 
similarly-sized stores achieve. This superior per-store productivity is the key to Helzberg’s excellent profits. 
ff the company continues its first-rate performance — and we believe it will — it could grow rather quickly 
to several times its present size. 


Helzberg’s, it should be added, is an entirely different sort of operation from Borsheim’s, our Omaha 
jewelry business, and the two companies will operate independently of each other. Borsheim’s had an 
excellent year in 1995, with sales up 11.7%. Susan Jacques, its 36-year-old CEO, had an even better year, 
giving birth to her second son at the start of the Christmas season. Susan has proved to be a terrific leader 
in the two years since her promotion. 


R.C. Willey Home Furnishings 


It was Nebraska Furniture Mart’s Irv Blumkin who did the walking around in the case of R.C. Willey, 
long the leading home furnishings business in Utah. Over the years, Irv had told me about the strengths of 
that company. And he had also told Bill Child, CEO of R.C. Willey, how pleased the Blumkin family had 
been with its Berkshire relationship. So in early 1995, Bill mentioned to Irv that for estate tax and 
diversification reasons, he and the other owners of R.C. Willey might be interested in selling. 


From that point forward, things could not have been simpler. Bill sent me some figures, and I wrote 
him a letter indicating my idea of value. We quickly agreed on a number, and found our personal chemistry 
to be perfect. By mid-year, the merger was completed. 


R.C. Willey is an amazing story. Bill took over the business from his father-in-law in 1954 when sales 
were about $250,000. From this tiny base, Bill employed Mae West’s philosophy: “It’s nat what you’ve got 
— it’s what you do with what you’ve got.” Aided by his brother, Sheldon, Bill has built the company to its 
1995 sales volume of $257 million, and it now accounts for over 50% of the furniture business in Utah. Like 
Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey sells appliances, electronics, computers and carpets in addition to 
furniture. Both companies have about the same sales volume, but NFM gets all of its business from one 
complex in Omaha, whereas R.C. Willey will open its sixth major store in the next few months. 


Retailing is a tough business. During my investment career, | have watched a large number of retailers 
enjoy terrific growth and superb returns on equity fora period, and then suddenly nosedive, often all the way 
into bankruptcy. This shooting-star phenomenon is far more common in retailing than it is in manufacturing 
or service businesses. In part, this is because a retailer must stay smart, day afler day. Your competitor is 
always copying and then topping whatever you do. Shoppers are meanwhile beckoned in every conceivable 
way to try a stream of new merchants. In retailing, to coast is to fail. 


In contrast to this have-to-be-smart-every-day business, there is what [ call the have-to-be-smart-once 
business. For example, if you were smart enough to buy a network TV station very early in the game, you 
could put in a shiftless and backward nephew to run things, and the business would still do well for decades. 
You'd do far better, of course, if you put in Tom Murphy, but you could stay comfortably in the black 
without him. For a retailer, hiring that nephew would be an express ticket to bankruptcy. 


The two retailing businesses we purchased this year are blessed with terrific managers who love to 
compete and have done so successfully for decades. Like the CEOs of our other operating units, they will 
operate autonomously: We want them to feel that the businesses they run are shefrs. This means no second- 
guessing by Charlie and me. We avoid the attitude of the alumnus whose message to the football coach is 
“T’m 100% with you — win or tie.” Our basic goal as an owner is to behave with our managers as we like 
our owners to behave with us. 


As we add more operations, I’m sometimes asked how many people I can handle reporting to me. My 
answer to that is simple: If 1 have one person reporting to me and he is a Jemon, that’s one too many, and 
if | have managers like those we now have, the number can be almost unlimited. We are lucky to have Bill 
and Sheldon associated with us, and we hope that we can acquire other businesses that bring with them 
managers of similar caliber. 


GEICO Corporation 


Right after yearend, we completed the purchase of 100% of GEICO, the seventh largest auto insurer 
in the United States, with about 3.7 million cars insured. I’ve had a 45-year association with GEICO, and 
though the story has been told before, it’s worth a short recap here. 


T attended Columbia University’s business school in 1950-51, not because I cared about the degree it 
offered, but because ] wanted to study under Ben Graham, then teaching there. The time I spent in Ben’s 
classes was a personal high, and quickly induced me to learn all I could about my hero. I turned first to 
Who's Who in America, finding there, among other things, that Ben was Chairman of Government Employees 
Insurance Company, to me an unknown company in an unfamiliar industry. 


A librarian next referred me to Best’s Fire and Casualty insurance manual, where I learned that GEICO 
was based in Washington, DC. So on a Saturday in January, 1951, ] took the train to Washington and 
headed for GE{CO’s downtown headquarters. To my dismay, the building was closed, but I pounded on the 
door until a custodian appeared. I asked this puzzled fellow if there was anyone in the office | could talk 
to, and he said he’d seen one man working on the sixth floor. 


And thus | met Lorimer Davidson, Assistant to the President, who was later to become CEO. Though 
my only credentials were that | was a student of Graham’s, “Davy” graciously spent four hours or so 
showering me with both kindness and instruction. No one has ever received a better half-day course in how 
the insurance industry functions nor in the factors that enable one company to excel over others. As Davy 
made clear, GEICO’s method of selling — direct marketing — gave it an enormous cost advantage over 
competitors that sold through agents, a form of distribution so ingrained in the business of these insurers that 
it was impossible for them to give it up. After my session with Davy, | was more excited about GEICO than 
I have ever been about a stock. 


When ! finished at Columbia some months later and returned to Omaha to sell securities, I naturally 
focused almost exclusively on GEICO. My first sales call — on my Aunt Alice, who always supported me 
100% — was successful. But I was then a skinny, unpolished 20-year-old who looked about 17, and my pitch 
usually failed. Undaunted, | wrote a short report late in 1951 about GEICO for “The Security I Like Best” 
column in The Commercial and Financial Chronicle, a leading financial publication of the time. More 
important, | bought stock for my own account. 


You may think this odd, but I have kept copies of every tax return I filed, starting with the return for 
1944. Checking back, | find that | purchased GEICO shares on four occasions during 1951, the last purchase 
being made on September 26. This pattern of persistence suggests to me that my tendency toward self- 
intoxication was developed early. { probably came back on that September day from unsuccessfully trying 
to sell some prospect and decided — despite my already having more than 50% of my net worth in GEICO 
~— to load up further. In any event, I accumulated 350 shares of GEICO during the year, at a cost of 
$10,282. At yearend, this holding was worth $13,125, more than 65% of my net worth. 


You can see why GEICO was my first business love. Furthermore, just to complete this stroll down 
memory Jane, I should add that | earned most of the funds | used to buy GEICO shares by delivering The 
Washington Post, the chief product of a company that much later made it possible for Berkshire to turn $10 
million into $500 million. 


Alas, I sold my entire GEICO position in 1952 for $15,259, primarily to switch into Western Insurance 
Securities. This act of infidelity can partially be excused by the fact that Western was selling for slightly more 


than one times its current earnings, a p/e ratio that for some reason caught my eye. But in the next 20 years, 
the GEICO stock I sold grew in value to about $1.3 million, which taught me a lesson about the inadvisability 
of selling a stake in an identifiably-wonderful company. 


in the early 1970's, after Davy retired, the executives running GEICO made some serious errors in 
estimating their claims costs, a mistake that led the company to underprice its policies — and that almost 
caused it to go bankrupt. The company was saved only because Jack Byrne came in as CEO in 1976 and 
took drastic remedial measures. 


Because | believed both in Jack and in GEICO’s fundamental competitive strength, Berkshire purchased 
a large interest in the company during the second half of 1976, and also made smaller purchases later. By 
yearend 1980, we had put $45.7 million into GEICO and owned 33.3% of its shares. During the next 15 
years, we did not make further purchases. Our interest in the company, nonetheless, grew to about 50% 
because it was a big repurchaser of its own shares. 


Then, in 1995, we agreed to pay $2.3 billion for the half of the company we didn’t own. That is a steep 
price. But it gives us full ownership of a growing enterprise whose business remains exceptional for precisely 
the same reasons that prevailed in 1951. In addition, GEICO has two extraordinary managers: Tony Nicely, 
who runs the insurance side of the operation, and Lou Simpson, who runs investments. 


Tony, 52, has been with GEICO for 34 years. There’s no one I would rather have managing GEIJCO’s 
insurance operation. He has brains, energy, integrity and focus. If we’re lucky, he’ll stay another 34 years. 


Lou runs investments just as ably. Between 1980 and 1995, the equitics under Lou’s management 
returned an average of 22.8% annually vs. 15.7% for the S&P Lou takes the same conservative, 
concentrated approach to investments that we do at Berkshire, and it is an enormous plus for us to have him 
on board. One point that goes beyond Lou’s GEICO work: His presence on the scene assures us that 
Berkshire would have an extraordinary professional immediately available to handle its investments if 
something were to happen to Charlie and me. 


GEICO, of course, must continue both to attract good policyholders and keep them happy. It must also 
reserve and price properly. But the ultimate key to the company’s success is its rock-bottom operating costs, 
which virtually no competitor can match. In 1995, moreover, Tony and his management team pushed 
underwriting and loss adjustment expenses down further to 23.6% of premiums, nearly one percentage 
point below 1994's ratio. In business, 1 look for economic castles protected by unbreachable “moats.” 
Thanks to Tony and his management team, GEICO’s moat widened in 1995. 


Finally, let me bring you up to date on Davy. He’s now 93 and remains my friend and teacher. He 
continues to pay close attention to GEICO and has always been there when the company’s CEOs — Jack 
Byrne, Bill Snyder and Tony — have needed him. Our acquisition of 100% of GEICO caused Davy to incur 
a large tax. Characteristically, he still warmly supported the transaction. 


Davy has been one of my heroes for the 45 years I’ve known him, and he’s never let me down. You 
should understand that Berkshire would not be where it is today if Davy had not been so generous with his 
time on a cold Saturday in 1951. I’ve often thanked him privately, but it is fitting that I use this report to 
thank him on behalf of Berkshire’s shareholders. 


Insurance Operations 
in addition to acquiring GEICO, we enjoyed other favorable developments in insurance during 1995, 
As we’ve explained in past reports, what counts in our insurance business is, first, the amount of “float” 
we generate and, second, its cost to us. Float is money we hold but don’t own. In an insurance operation, 


float arises because most policies require that premiums be prepaid and, more importantly, because it usually 
takes time for an insurer to hear about and resolve loss claims. 


10 


Typically, the premiums that an insurer takes in do not cover the losses and expenses it must pay. That 
leaves it running an “underwriting loss’? — and that loss is the cost of float. An insurance business is 
profitable over time if its cost of float is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain 
funds. But the business has a negative value if the cost of its float is higher than market rates for money. 


As the numbers in the following table show, Berkshire’s insurance business has been a huge winner. For 
the table, we have calculated our float — which we generate in exceptional amounts relative to our premium 
volume — by adding loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and 
unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting agents’ balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes 
and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. Our cost of float is determined by our underwriting 
loss or profit. In those years when we have had an underwriting profit, such as the last three, our cost of 
float has been negative, which means we have calculated our insurance earnings by adding underwriting profit 
to float income. 


a) (2) Yearend Yield 

Underwriting Approximate on Long-Term 

Loss Average Float Cost of Funds Govt. Bonds 

(in $ Millions) (Ratio of ] to 2) 

profit 17.3 ess than zero 5.50% 
profit 19.9 ess than zero 5.90% 
profit 23.4 ess than zero 6.79% 
0.37 32.4 1.14% 6.25% 
profit 52.5 ess than zero 5.81% 
profit 69.5 ess than zero 5.82% 
rofit 73.3 ess than zero 7.27% 
736 79.1 9.30% 8.13% 
1135 87.6 12.96% 8.03% 
profit 102.6 ess than zero 7.30% 
rofit 139.0 less than zero 7.97% 
profit 190.4 less than zero 8.93% 
profit 227.3 less than zero 10.08% 
profit 237.0 ess than zero 11.94% 
profit 228.4 less than zero 13.61% 
21,56 220.6 9.77% 10.64% 
33.87 231.3 14.64% 11.84% 
48.06 253.2 18.98% 11.58% 
44.23 390.2 11.34% 9.34% 
55.84 TITS 7.00% 7.60% 
55.43 1,266.7 438% 8.95% 
11.08 1,497.7 0.74% 9.00% 
24.40 1,541.3 1.58% 7.97% 
26.65 1,637.3 1.63% 8.24% 
119.59 1,895.0 6.31% 7.40% 
108.96 2,290.4 4.76% 7.39% 
profit 2,624.7 less than zero 6.35% 
profit 3,056.6 less than zero 7.88% 
profit 3,607.2 less than zero 5.95% 


Since 1967, when we entered the insurance business, our float has grown at an annual compounded rate of 
20.7%. In more years than not, our cost of funds has been less than nothing. This access to “free” money has 
boosted Berkshire’s performance in a major way. 


Any company’s level of profitability is determined by three items: (1) what its assets earn; (2) what its 
liabilities cost; and (3) its utilization of “leverage” — that is, the degree to which its assets are funded by 
liabilities rather than by equity. Over the years, we have done well on Point 1, having produced high returns 
on our assets. But we have also benefitted greatly — to a degree that is not generally well-understood — 
because our liabilities have cost us very little. An important reason for this low cost is that we have obtained 
float on very advantageous terms. The same cannot be said by many other property and casualty insurers, who 
may generate plenty of float, but at a cost that exceeds what the funds are worth to them. In those 
circumstances, leverage becomes a disadvantage. 


Since our float has cost us virtually nothing over the years, it has in effect served as equity. Of course, it 
differs from true equity in that it doesn’t belong to us. Nevertheless, let’s assume that instead of our having $3.4 
billion of float at the end of 1994, we had replaced it with $3.4 billion of equity. Under this scenario, we would 
have owned no more assets than we did during 1995. We would, however, have had somewhat lower earnings 
because the cost of float was negative last year. That is, our float threw off profits. And, of course, to obtain 
the replacement equity, we would have needed to sel] many new shares of Berkshire. The net result — more 
shares, equal assets and lower earnings — would have materially reduced the value of our stock. So you can 
understand why float wonderfully benefits a business — #f it is obtained at a low cost. 


Our acquisition of GEICO will immediately increase our float by nearly $3 billion, with additional growth 
almost certain. We also expect GEICO to operate at a decent underwriting profit in most years, a fact that will 
increase the probability that our total float will cost us nothing. Of course, we paid a very substantial price for 
the GEICO float, whereas virtually all of the gains in float depicted in the table were developed internally. 


Our enthusiasm over 1995’ insurance results must be tempered once again because we had our third 
straight year of good fortune in the super-cat business. In this operation, we sell policies that insurance and 
reinsurance companies buy to protect themselves from the effects of mega-catastrophes. Since truly major 
catastrophes occur infrequently, our super-cat business can be expected to show large profits in most years but 
occasionally to record a huge loss. In other words, the attractiveness of our super-cat business will take many 
years to measure. We know that the results of years like the past three will be at least partially offset by some 
truly terrible year in the future. We just hope that “partially” tums out to be the proper adverb. 


There were plenty of catastrophes last year, but no super-cats of the insured variety. The Southeast had 
a close call when Opal, sporting winds of 150 miles per hour, hovered off Florida. However, the storm abated 
before hitting land, and so a second Andrew was dodged. For insurers, the Kobe earthquake was another close 
call: The economic damage was huge — perhaps even a record — but only a tiny portion of it was insured. 
The insurance industry won’t always be that lucky. 


Ajit Jain is the guiding genius of our super-cat business and writes important non-cat business as well. In 
insurance, the term “catastrophe” is applied to an event, such as a hurricane or earthquake, that causes a great 
many insured losses. The other deals Ajit enters into usually cover only a single large loss. A simplified 
description of three transactions from last year will illustrate both what I mean and Ajit’s versatility. We insured: 
(1) The life of Mike Tyson for a sum that is large initially and that, fight-by-fight, gradually declines to zero over 
the next few years; (2) Lloyd’s against more than 225 of its “names” dying during the year; and (3) The launch, 
and a year of orbit, of two Chinese satellites. Happily, both satellites are orbiting, the Lloyd’s folk avoided 
abnormal] mortality, and if Mike Tyson looked any healthier, no one would get in the ring with him. 


Berkshire is sought out for many kinds of insurance, both super-cat and large single-risk, because: (1) our 
financial strength is unmatched, and insureds know we can and will pay our losses under the most adverse of 
circumstances; (2) we can supply a quote faster than anyone in the business; and (3) we will issue policies with 
limits larger than anyone else is prepared to write. Most of our competitors have extensive reinsurance treaties 
and lay off much of their business. While this heips them avoid shock losses, it also hurts their flexibility and 
reaction time. As you know, Berkshire moves quickly to seize investment and acquisition opportunities; in 
insurance we respond with the same exceptional speed. In another important point, large coverages don’t 
frighten us but, on the contrary, intensify our interest. We have offered a policy under which we could have lost 
$1 billion; the largest coverage that a client accepted was $400 million. 


We will get hit from time to time with Jarge losses. Charlie and I, however, are quite willing to accept 
relatively volatile results in exchange for better long-term earnings than we would otherwise have had. In other 
words, we prefer a lumpy 15% to a smooth 12%. Since most managers opt for smoothness, we are left with 
a competitive advantage that we try to maximize. We do, though, monitor our aggregate exposure in order to 
keep our “worst case” at a level that leaves us comfortable. 


Indeed, our worst case from a “‘once-in-a-century” super-cat is far less severe — relative to net worth — than 
that faced by many well-known primary companies writing great numbers of property policies. These insurers 
don’t issue single huge-limit policies as we do, but their smal! policies, in aggregate, can create a risk of 
staggering size, The “big one” would blow right through the reinsurance covers of some of these insurers, 
exposing them to uncapped losses that could threaten their survival. In our case, losses would be large, but 
capped at levels we could easily handle 


Prices are weakening in the super-cat field. That is understandable considering the influx of capital into the 
reinsurance business a few years ago and the natural desire of those holding the capital to employ it. No matter 
what others may do, we will not knowingly write business at inadequate rates. We unwittingly did this in the 
early 1970's and, after more than 20 years, regularly receive significant bills stemming from the mistakes of that 
era. My guess is that we will still be getting surprises from that business 20 years from now. A bad reinsurance 
contract is like hell: easy to enter and impossible to exit. 


I actively participated in those early remsurance decisions, and Berkshire paid a heavy tuition for my 
education in the business. Unfortunately, reinsurance students can’t attend school on scholarship. GEICO, 
incidentally, suffered a similar, disastrous experience in the early 1980's, when it plunged enthusiastically into the 
writing of reinsurance and large risks. GEICO’s folly was brief, but it will be cleaning things up for at least 
another decade. The well-publicized problems at Lloyd’s further illustrate the perils of reinsurance and also 
underscore how vital it is that the interests of the people who write insurance business be aligned — on the 
downside as well as the upside — with those of the people putting up the capital. When that kind of symmetry 
is missing, insurers almost invariably run into trouble, though its existence may remain hidden for some time. 


A small, apocryphal story about an insurance CEO who was visited by an analyst tells a lot about this 
industry. To the analyst’s questions about his business, the CEO had nothing but gloomy answers: Rates were 
ridiculously low; the reserves on his balance sheet weren’t adequate for ordinary claims, much less those likely 
to arise from asbestos and environmental problems; most of his reinsurers had long since gone broke, leaving 
him holding the sack. But then the CEO brightened: “Still, things could be a lot worse,” he said. “It could be 
ny money.” At Berkshire, it’s our money. 


Berkshire’s other insurance operations, though relatively small, performed magnificently in 1995. National 
Indeminity’s traditional business had a combined ratio of 84.2 and developed, as usual, a large amount of float 
compared to premium volume. Over the last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don Wurster, 
bas had an average combined ratio of 85.6. Our homestate operation, managed by Rod Eldred, grew at a good 
rate in 1995 and achieved a combined ratio of 81.4. Its three-year combined ratio is an amazing 82.4. 
Berkshire’s California workers’ compensation business, run by Brad Kinstler, faced fierce price-culting in 1995 
and lost a great many renewals when we refused to accept inadequate rates. Though this operation’s volume 
dropped materially, it produced an excellent underwriting profit. Finally, John Kizer, at Central States Indemnity, 
continues to do an extraordinary job. His premium volume was up 23% in 1995, and underwriting profit grew 
by 59%. Ajit, Don, Rod, Brad and John are al! under 45, an embarrassing fact demolishing my theory that 
managers only hit their stride after they reach 70 


To sum up, we entered 1995 with an exceptional insurance operation of moderate size. By adding GEICO, 
we entered 1996 with a business still better in quality, much improved in its growth prospects, and donbled in 
size. More than ever, insurance is our core strength. 


Sources of Reported Earnings 


The table below shows the main sources of Berkshire’s reported earnings. In this presentation, purchase- 
premium charges are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead aggregated and 
shown separately. This procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported 
had we not purchased them. This form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers 
than one utilizing GAAP, which requires purchase-premiumis to be charged off, business-by-business. The total 
earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our audited financial statements. 


(in_ millions) 
Berkshire’ Share 
of Net Earnings 
(after taxes and 
minority interests) 


Pre-Tax Earnings 


1995 1994 1995 1994 
Operating Earnings: 
nsurance Group: 

Underwriting ..4 acceso casa we eee eoss $ 20.5 $129.9 $ 11.3 $ 80.9 
Net Investment Income 3 501.6 419.4 417.7 350.5 
Buttalo News :cc2end ta ened eeacneeas ‘ 46.8 54.2 27,3 31.7 
Fechheimer:. cuss ces enaen yan 16.9 14.3 8.8 7A 
Finance Businesses . . 20.8 22.1 12.6 14.6 
Home Furnishings .. 00.2... 2.02 eee ee 2570 \7.4 16,7 8.7 
Jewelry 33.9% 3 19.1 —a 
HOY! seca tegen ae do neeute pace adt ces 50.2 42.3 32.1 27.7 
Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group 34.1 39.5 21,2 24.9 
See’s Candies 50.2 47.5 29.8 28.2 
Shoe Group . 58.4 85.5 37.5 55.8 
World Book . 8.8 24.7 7.0 17.3 
Purchase-Price Premium Charges . : (27.0) (22.6) (23.4) (19.4) 
Interest Expense 2.0... ee ; (56.0) (60.1) G4.9) (37.3) 
Shareholder-Designated Contributions ......... (11.6) (10.4) (7.0) (6.7) 
OUER gis a gas n 2 Ould edge ek Beis fdoweiesaied dente 37,4 35.0. 24.4 22.3 
Operating Earnings 2.0.2... 0... eee ee ee 814.7 839.4 600.2 606.3 
Sales of Securities 6.0.0... ee eee 194.1 91.3 125.0 61.1 
Decline in Value of USAir Preferred Stock ....... — (268.5) ae (172.6) 
Total Earnings - All Entities ........ wees eee. $1,008.8 $662.2 $725.2 $494.8 


Includes R.C. Willey from June 29, 1995. 
°) Includes Helzberg ’s from April 30, 1995. 


® Jewelry earnings were included in “Other” in 1994. 
*” Excludes interest expense of Finance Businesses. 


A large amount of information about these businesses is given on pages 41-52, where you will also 
find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. In addition, on pages 57-63, we have rearranged 
Berkshire’s financial data into four segments on a non-GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the 
way Charlie and I think about the company. Our intent is to supply you with the financial information that 
we would wish you to give us if our positions were reversed. 


At Berkshire, we believe in Charlie’s dictum — “Just tell me the bad news; the good news will take care 
of itself’ — and that is the behavior we expect of our managers when they are reporting to us. 
Consequently, [ also owe you — Berkshire’s owners — a report on three operations that, though they 
continued to earn decent (or better) returns on invested capital, experienced a decline in earnings last year. 
Each encountered a different type of problem. 


414 


Our shoe business operated in an industry that suffered depressed earnings throughout last year, and 
many of our competitors made only marginal! profits or worse. That means we at least maintained, and 
in some instances widened, our competitive superiority. So I have no doubt that our shoe operations will 
climb back to top-grade earnings in the future. In other words, though the turn has not yet occurred, we 
believe you should view last year’s figures as reflecting a cyclical problem, not a secular one. 


The Buffalo News, though still doing very well in comparison to other newspapers, is another story. 
In this case, industry trends are not good. In the 1991 Annual Report, I explained that newspapers had 
Jost a notch in their economic attractiveness from the days when they appeared to have a bullet-proof 
franchise. Today, the industry retains its excellent economics, but has lost still another notch. Over time, 
we expect the competitive strength of newspapers to gradually erode, though the industry should nevertheless 
remain a fine business for many years to come. 


Berkshire’s most difficult problem is World Book, which operates in an industry beset by increasingly 
tough competition from CD-ROM and on-line offerings. True, we are still profitable, a claim that perhaps 
no other print encyclopedia can make. But our sales and earnings trends have gone in the wrong direction. 
At the end of 1995, World Book made major changes in the way it distributes its product, stepped up its 
efforts with electronic products and sharply reduced its overhead costs. Jt will take time for us to evaluate 
the effects of these initiatives, but we are confident they will significantly improve our viability. 


All of our operations, including those whose earnings fell last year, benefit from exceptionally talented 
and dedicated managers. Were we to have the choice of any other executives now working in their 
industries, there is not one of our managers we would replace. 


Many of our managers don’t have to work for a living, but simply go out and perform every day for 
the same reason that wealthy golfers stay on the tour: They love both doing what they do and doing it 
well. To describe them as working may be a misnomer — they simply prefer spending much of their time 
on a productive activity at which they excel to spending it on Jeisure activities. Our job is to provide an 
environment that will keep them feeling this way, and so far we seem to have succeeded: Thinking back 
over the 1965-95 period, I can’t recall that a single key manager has left Berkshire to join another employer. 


Common Stock Investments 


Below we present our common stock investments. Those with a market value of more than $600 
million are itemized. 


12/31/95 
Shares Company Cost Market 
(dollars in millions) 

49,456,900 American Express Company ....... : er ee $ 1,392.7 $ 2,046.3 
20,000,000 Capital Cities/ABC, Inc... 2... ee eee eee 345.0 2,467.5 
100,000,000 The Coca-Cola Company .......0000. 00002. ee eee 1,298.9 7,425.0 
12,502,500 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (“Freddie Mac”)... .... 260.1 1,044.0 
34,250,000 GEICO Corp. ....-........000-. nt Sa 45.7 2,393.2 
48,000,000 The Gillette Company .........0...0.2 0000000220 eee 600.0 2,502.0 
6,791,218 Wells Fargo & Company .. 0... ee 423.7 1,466.9 
Others: eid eatin get teteeeee Pigs NolaeG Beta De 1,379.0 2,055.4 
Total Common Stocks 2202. eee $ 5,745.1 $22.000.3 


We continue in our Rip Van Winkle mode: Five of our six top positions at yearend 1994 were left 
untouched during 1995. The sixth was American Express, in which we increased our ownership to about 
10% 


In early 1996, two major events affected our holdings: First, our purchase of the GEICO stock we 
did not already own caused that company to be converted into a wholly-owned subsidiary. Second, we 
exchanged our Cap Cities shares for a combination of cash and Disney stock. 


15 


In the Disney merger, Cap Cities shareholders had a choice of actions. If they chose, they could 
exchange each of their Cap Cities shares for one share of Disney stock plus $65. Or they could ask for 
— though not necessarily get — all cash or all stock, with their ultimate allotment of each depending on 
the choices made by other shareholders and certain decisions made by Disney. For our 20 million shares, 
we sought stock, but do not know, as this report goes to press, how much we were allocated, We are 
certain, however, to receive something over 20 million Disney shares. We have also recently bought Disney 
stock in the market. 


One more bit of history: I first became interested in Disney in 1966, when its market valuation was 
less than $90 million, even though the company had earned around $21 million pre-tax in 1965 and was 
sitting with more cash than debt. At Disneyland, the $17 million Pirates of the Caribbean ride would soon open. 
Imagine my excitement — a company selling at only five times rides! 


Duly impressed, Buffett Partnership Ltd. bought a significant amount of Disney stock at a split-adjusted 
price of 31¢ per share. That decision may appear brilliant, given that the stock now sells for $66. But 
your Chairman was up to the task of nullifying it: In 1967 I sold out at 48¢ per share. 


Oh well — we're happy to be once again a large owner of a business with both unique assets and 
outstanding management. 


Convertible Preferred Stocks 


As many of you will remember, Berkshire made five private purchases of convertible preferred stocks 
during the 1987-91 period and the time seems right to discuss their status. Here are the particulars: 


Dividend Year of Market 
Company Rate Purchase Cost Value 
(dollars in millions) 
Champion International Corp. .......... 0.002000. wees GAM L989 $300 $388) 
First Empire State Corp 9% 199] 40 110 
The Gillette Company 8K% 1989 600 2,502 
Salomon Inc ....... te 9% 1987 700 F228 
USAT Groupy INCy. vosana ey cits weea hs ee hee ORL wa 94% 1989 358 215 


“ Proceeds fram sale of common we received through conversion in 1995, 
@ 12/31/95 value of common we received through conversion in 1991. 
® Includes $140 we received in 1995 from partial redemption. 


In each case we had the option of sticking with these preferreds as fixed-income securities or 
converting them into common. stock. Initially, their value to us came primarily from their fixed-income 
characteristics. The option we had to convert was a kicker. 


Our $300 million private purchase of American Express “Percs” — described in the 1991 Annual 
Report — is not included in the table because that secuniy was a modified form of common stock whose 
fixed-income characteristics contributed only a minor portion of its initial value. Three years after we bought 
them, the Percs automatically were converted to common stock. In contrast, the five securities in the table 
were set to become common stocks only if we wished them to — a crucial difference. 


When we purchased our convertible securities, | told you that we expected to ear after-tax returns 
from them that “moderately” exceeded what we could earn from the medium-term fixed-income securities 
they replaced. We beat this expectation — but only because of the performance of a single issuc. J also 
told you that these securities, as a group, would “not produce the returns we can achieve when we find a 


16 


business with wonderful economic prospects.” Unfortunately, that prediction was fulfilled. Finally, I said 
that “under almost any conditions, we expect these preferreds to return us our money plus dividends.” 
That’s one I would like to have back. Winston Church] once said that “eating my words has never given 
me indigestion.’ My assertion, however, that it was almost impossible for us to lose money on our 
preferreds has caused me some well-deserved heartburn. 


Our best holding has been Gillette, which we told you from the start was a superior business. 
Ironically, though, this is also the purchase in which I made my biggest mistake — of a kind, however, never 
recognized on financial statements. 


We paid $600 million in 1989 for Gillette preferred shares that were convertible into 48 million (split- 
adjusted) common shares. Taking an alternative route with the $600 million, | probably could have 
purchased 60 million shares of common from the company. The market on the common was then about 
$10.50, and given that this would have been a huge private placement carrying important restrictions, I 
probably could have bought the stock at a discount of at least 5%. | can’t be sure about this, but it’s likely 
that Gillette’s management would have been just as happy to have Berkshire opt for common. 


But | was far too clever to do that. Instead, for less than two years, we received some extra dividend 
income (the difference between the preferred’s yield and that of the common), at which point the company 
— quite properly — called the issue, moving to do that as quickly as was possible. If I had negotiated 
for common rather than preferred, we would have been better off at yearend 1995 by $625 million, minus 
the “excess” dividends of about $70 million. 


In the case of Champion, the ability of the company to call our preferred at 115% of cost forced a 
move out of us last August that we would rather have delayed. In this instance, we converted our shares 
just prior to the pending call and offered them to the company at a modest discount. 


Charlie and I have never had a conviction about the paper industry —- actually, I can’t remember ever 
owning the common stock of a paper producer in my 54 years of investing — so our choice in August was 
whether to sell in the market or to the company. Champion’s management had always been candid and 
honorable in dealing with us and wished to repurchase common shares, so we offered our stock to the 
company. Our Champion capital gain was moderate — about 19% after tax from a six-year investment — 
but the preferred delivered us a good after-tax dividend yield throughout our holding period. (That said, 
many press accounts have overstated the after-tax yields earned by property-casualty insurance companies 
on dividends paid to them. What the press has failed to take into account is a change in the tax law that 
took effect in 1987 and that significantly reduced the dividends received credit applicable to insurers. For 
details, see our 1986 Annual Report.) 


Our First Empire preferred will be called on March 31, 1996, the earliest date allowable. We are 
comfortable owning stock in well-run banks, and we will convert and keep our First Empire common shares. 
Bob Wilmers, CEO of the company, is an outstanding banker, and we love being associated with him. 


Our other two preferreds have been disappointing, though the Salomon preferred has modestly 
outperformed the fixed-income securities for which it was a substitute. However, the amount of management 
time Charlie and I have devoted to this holding has been vastly greater than its economic significance to 
Berkshire. Certainly | never dreamed | would take a new job at age 60 — Salomon interim chairman, that 
is — because of an earlier purchase of a fixed-income security, 


Soon after our purchase of the Salomon preferred in 1987, 1 wrote that I had “no special insights 
regarding the direction or future profitability of investment banking.” Even the most charitable commentator 
would conclude that | have since proved my point. 


To date, our option to convert into Salomon common has not proven of value. Furthermore, the Dow 
Industrials have doubled since | committed to buy the preferred, and the brokerage group has performed 
equally as well. That means my decision to go with Salomon because I saw value in the conversion option 


must be graded as very poor. Even so, the preferred has continued under some trying conditions to deliver 
as a fixed-income security, and the 9% dividend is currently quite attractive. 


Unless the preferred is converted, its terms require redemption of 20% of the issue on October 31 
of each year, 1995-99, and $140 million of our original $700 million was taken on schedule last year. (Some 
press reports labeled this a sale, but a senior security that matures is not “‘sold.”) Though we did not elect 
to convert the preferred that matured last year, we have four more bites at the conversion apple, and I 
believe it quite likely that we will yet find value in our right to convert. 


I discussed the USAir investment at length in last year’s report. The company’s results improved in 
1995, but it still faces significant problems. On the plus side for us is the fact that our preferred is 
structurally well-designed: For example, though we have not been paid dividends since June 1994, the 
amounts owed us are compounding at 5% over the prime rate. On the minus side is the fact that we are 
dealing with a weak credit. 


We feel much better about our USAir preferred than we did a year ago, but your guess is as good 
as mine as to its ultimate value. (Indeed, considering my record with this investment, it’s fair to say that 
your guess may be better than mine.) At yearend we carried our preferred (in which there is no public 
market) at 60% of par, though USAir also has outstanding a junior preferred that is significantly inferior 
to ours in all respects except conversion price and that was then trading at 82% of par. As | write this 
the junior issue has advanced to 97% of par. Let’s hope the market is right. 


Overall, our preferreds have performed well, but that is true only because of one huge winner, Gillette. 
Leaving aside Gillette, our preferreds as a group have delivered us after-tax returns no more than equal 
to those we could have earned from the medium-term fixed-income issues that they replaced. 


A Proposed Recapitalization 


At the Annual Meeting you will be asked to approve a recapitalization of Berkshire, creating two 
classes of stock. If the plan is adopted, our existing common stock will be designated as Class A Common 
Stock and a new Class B Common Stock will be authonzed. 


Each share of the “B” will have the rights of 1/30th of an “A” share with these exceptions: First, a 
B share will have 1/200th of the vate of an A share (rather than 1/30th of the vote). Second, the B will 
not be eligible to participate in Berkshire’s shareholder-designated charitable contributions program. 


When the recapitalization is complete, each share of A will become convertible, at the holder’s option 
and at any time, into 30 shares of B. This conversion privilege will not extend in the opposite direction. 
That is, holders of B shares will not be able to convert them into A shares. 


We expect to list the B shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where they will trade alongside the 
A stock. To create the shareholder base necessary for a listing — and to ensure a liquid market in the 
B stock — Berkshire expects to make a public offering for cash of at least $100 million of new B shares. 
The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. 


The market will ultimately determine the price of the B shares. Their price, though, should be in the 
neighborhood of 1/30th of the price of the A shares. 


Class A shareholders who wish to give gifts may find it convenient to convert a share or two of their 
stock into Class B shares. Additionally, arbitrage-related conversions will occur if demand for the B is strong 
enough to push its price to slightly above 1/30th of the price of A. 


However, because the Class A stock will entitle its holders to full voting rights and access to 
Berkshire’s contributions program, these shares will be superior to the Class B shares and we would expect 
most shareholders to remain holders of the Class A — which is precisely what the Buffett and Munger 
families plan to do, except in those instances when we ourselves might convert a few shares to facilitate 
gifts. The prospect that most shareholders will stick to the A stock suggests that it will enjoy a somewhat 
more liquid market than the B. 


18 


There are tradeoffs for Berkshire in this recapitalization. But they do not arise from the proceeds 
of the offering — we will find constructive uses for the money nor in any degree from the price at 
which we will sell the B shares. As I write this — with Berkshire stock at $36,000 — Charlie and I do 
not believe it undervalued. Therefore, the offering we propose will not diminish the per-share intrinsic value 
of our existing stock. Let me also put our thoughts about valuation more baldly: Berkshire is selling at 
a price at which Charlie and I would not consider buying it 


What Berkshire wiil incur by way of the B stock are certain added costs, including those involving the 
mechanics of handling a larger number of shareholders. On the other hand, the stock should be a 
convenience for people wishing to make gifts. And those of you who have hoped for a split have gained 
a do-it-yourself method of bringing one about. 


We are making this move, though, for other reasons — having to do with the appearance of expense- 
laden unit trusts purporting 10 be low-priced “clones” of Berkshire and sure to be aggressively marketed. 
The idea behind these vehicles is not new: In recent years, a number of people have told me about their 
wish to create an “all-Berkshire” investment fund to be sold at a low doliar price. But until recently, the 
promoters of these investments heard out my objections and backed off. 


I did not discourage these people because I prefer large investors over small. Were it possible, 
Charlie and J would love to turn $1,000 into $3,000 for multitudes of people who would find that gain an 
important answer to their immediate problems. 


In order to quickly triple small stakes, however, we would have to just as quickly turn our present 
market capitalization of $43 billion into $129 billion (roughly the market cap of General Electric, America’s 
most highly valued company). He cant come close to doing that. The very best we hope for is — on 
average — to double Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value every five years, and we may well fall far short 
of that goal. 


In the end, Charlie and | do not care whether our shareholders own Berkshire in large or small 
amounts. What we wish for are shareholders of any size who are knowledgeable about our operations, 
share our objectives and long-term perspective, and are aware of our limitations, most particularly those 
imposed by our large capital base. 


The unit trusts that have recently surfaced fly in the face of these goals. They would be sold by 
brokers working for big commissions, would impose other burdensome costs on their shareholders, and would 
be marketed e# masse to unsophisticated buyers, apt to be seduced by our past record and beguiled by the 
publicity Berkshire and J have received in recent years. The sure outcome: a multitude of investors 
destined to be disappointed. 


Through our creation of the B stock — a low-denomination product far superior to Berkshire-only 
trusts —- we hope to make the clones unmerchandisable. 


But both present and prospective Berkshire shareholders should pay special attention to one point: 
Though the per-share intrinsic value of our stock has grown at an excellent rate during the past five years, 
its market price has grown still faster. The stock, in other words, has outperformed the business. 


That kind of market overperformance cannot persist indefinitely, neither for Berkshire nor any other 
stock. Inevitably, there will be periods of underperformance as well. The price volatility that results, though 
endemic to public markets, is not to our liking. What we would prefer instead is to have the market price 
of Berkshire precisely track its intrinsic value. Were the stock to do that, every shareholder would benefit 
during his period of ownership in exact proportion to the progress Berkshire itself made in the period. 


Obviously, the market behavior of Berkshire’s stock will never conform to this ideal. But we will come 
closer to this goal than we would otherwise if our present and prospective shareholders are informed, 
business-oriented and not exposed to high-commission salesmanship when making their investment decisions. 
To that end, we are better off if we can blunt the merchandising efforts of the unit trusts — and that is 
the reason we are creating the B stock. 


19 


We look forward to answering your questions about the recapitalization at the Annual Meeting. 
Miscellaneous 


Berkshire isn’t the only American corporation utilizing the new, exciting ABWA strategy. At about 
[1:15 p.m. on July 14, 1995, Michael Eisner, CEO of The Walt Disney Company, was walking up Wildflower 
Lane in Sun Valley. At the same time, I was leaving a lunch at Herbert Allen’s home on that street to 
meet Tom Murphy, CEO of Cap Cities/ABC, for a golf game. 


That morning, speaking to a large group of executives and money managers assembled by Allen’s 
investment bank, Michael had made a brilliant presentation about Disney, and upon seeing him, 1 offered 
my congratulations. We chatted briefly — and the subject of a possible combination of Disney and Cap 
Cities came up. This wasn’t the first time a merger had been discussed, but progress had never before 
been made, in part because Disney wanted to buy with cash and Cap Cities desired stock. 


Michael and I waited a few minutes for Murph to arrive, and in the short conversation that ensued, 
both Michael and Murph indicated they might bend on the stock/cash question. Within a few weeks, they 
both did, at which point a contract was put together in three very busy days. 


The Disney/Cap Cities deal makes so much sense that I’m sure it would have occurred without that 
chance encounter in Sun Valley. But when I ran into Michael that day on Wildflower Lane, he was 
heading for his plane, so without that accidental meeting the deal certainly wouldn't have happened in the 
time frame it did. 1 believe both Disney and Cap Cities will benefit from the fact that we all 
serendipitously met that day. 


kok Ok RR RR OR 


It’s appropriate that I say a few words here about Murph. To put it simply, he is as fine an 
executive as I have ever seen in my long exposure to business. Equally important, he possesses human 
qualities every bit the equal of his managerial qualities. He’s an extraordinary friend, parent, husband and 
citizen. In those rare instances in which Murph’s personal interests diverged from those of shareholders, 
he unfailingly favored the owners. When | say that J like to be associated with managers whom I would 
love to have as a sibling, in-law, or trustee of my will, Murph is the exemplar of what | mean. 


If Murph should elect to run another business, don’t bother to study its value — just buy the stock. 
And don’t later be as dumb as | was two years ago when I sold one-third of our holdings in Cap Cities 
for $635 million (versus the $1.27 billion those shares would bring in the Disney merger). 


ree ok kk OR ok ae 


About 96.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire’s 1995 shareholder-designated contributions 
program. Contributions made were $11.6 million and 3,600 charities were recipients. A full description of 
the shareholder-designated contributions program appears on pages 54-55. 


Every year a few shareholders miss out on the program because they don’t have their shares registered 
in their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail to get their designation form back 
to us within the 60-day period allowed. That second problem pained me especially this year because two 
good friends with substantial holdings missed the deadline. We had to deny their requests to be included 
because we can’t make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing to make them for others. 


To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the 
actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August 31, 
1996, will be ineligible for the 1996 program. When you get the form, return it promptly so that it does not 
get put aside or forgotten. 

KKK RK RH RE HR OK 


20 


When it comes to our Annual Meetings, Charlie and I are managerial oddballs: We thoroughly enjoy 
the event. So come join us on Monday, May 6. Ac Berkshire, we have no investor relations department 
and don’t use financia] analysts as a channel for disseminating information, earnings “guidance,” or the like. 
Instead, we prefer direct manager-to-owner communication and believe that the Annua! Meeting is the ideal 
place for this interchange of ideas. Talking to you there is efficient for us and also democratic in that al] 
present simultaneously hear what we have to say. 


Last year, for the first time, we had the Annual Meeting at the Holiday Convention Centre and the 
logistics seemed to work. The ballroom there was filled with about 3,200 people, and we had a video feed 
into a second room holding another 800 people. Seating in the main room was a little tight, so this year 
we will probably configure it to hold 3,000. This year we will also have two rooms for the overflow. 


All in all, we will be able to handle 5,000 shareholders. The meeting will start at 9:30 a.m., but be 
warned that last year the main ballroom was filled shortly after 8:00 a.m. 


Shareholders from 49 states attended our 1995 meeting — where were you, Vermont? — and a 
number of foreign countries, including Australia, Sweden and Germany, were represented. As always, the 
meeting attracted shareholders who were interested in Berkshire’s business — as contrasted to shareholders 
who are primarily interested in themselves — and the questions were all good. Charlie and I ate lunch 
on stage and answered questions for about five hours. 


We feel that if owners come from all over the world, we should try ta make sure they have an 
opportunity to ask their questions. Most shareholders leave about noon, but a thousand or so hardcore 
types usually stay to see whether we will drop. Charlie and [ are im training to last at least five hours 
again this year. 


We will have our usual array of Berkshire products at the meeting and this year will add a sales 
representative from GEICO. At the 1995 meeting, we sold 747 pounds of candy, 759 pairs of shoes, and 
over $17,500 of World Books and related publications. In a move that might have been dangerous had our 
stock been weak, we added knives last year from our Quikut subsidiary and sold 400 sets of these. (We 
draw the line at soft fruit, however.) All of these goods will again be available this year. We don’t 
consider a cultural event complete unless a little business is mixed in. 


Because we expect a large crowd for the meeting, we recommend that you promptly get both plane 
and hotel reservations. Those of you who like to be downtown (about six miles from the Centre) may wish 
to stay at the Radisson Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but nice hotel, or at the much larger Red Lion 
Hotel a few blocks away. [n the vicinity of the Centre are the Holiday Inn (403 rooms), Homewood Suites 
(118 roams) and Hampton Inn (136 rooms). Another recommended spot is the Marriott, whose west 
Omaha location is about 100 yards from Borsheim’s and a ten-minute drive from the Centre. There will 
be buses at the Marriott that will leave at 7:30, 8:00 and 8:30 for the meeting and return after it ends. 


An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can obtain the card you will need for admission. 
to the meeting. A good-sized parking area is available at the Centre, while those who stay at the Holiday 
Inn, Homewood Suites and Hampton Inn wij) be able to walk to the meeting. As usual, we will have buses 
to take you to the Nebraska Furniture Mart and Borsheim’s after the meeting and to take you from there 
to hotels or the airport later. 


NFM’s main store, on its 64-acre site about two miles north of the Centre, is open from 10 a.m. to 
9 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays. Rose Blumkin — 
“Mrs. B” — is now 102, but will be hard at work in Mrs. B’s Warehouse. She was honored in November 
at the opening of The Rose, a classic downtown theater of the 20’s that has been magnificently restored, 
but that would have been demolished had she not saved it. Ask her to tell you the story. 


21 


Borsheim’s normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for shareholders and their guests from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. on May Sth. Additionally, we will have a special opening for shareholders on Saturday, the 
4th, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Last year, on Shareholders Day, we wrote 1,733 tickets in the six hours we 
were open — which is a sale every 13 seconds. Remember, though, that records are made to be broken. 


At Borsheim’s, we will also have the world’s largest faceted diamond on display. ‘Iwo years in the 
cutting, this inconspicuous bauble is 545 carats in size. Please inspect this stone and let it guide you in 
determining what size gem is appropriate for the one you love. 


On Saturday evening, May 4, there will be a baseball game at Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha 
Royals and the Louisville Redbirds. I expect to make the opening pitch — owning a quarter of the team 
assures me of one start per year — but our manager, Mike Jirschele, will probably make his usual mistake 
and yank me immediately after. About 1,700 shareholders attended Jast year’s game. Unfortunately, we 
had a rain-out, which greatly disappointed the many scouts in the stands. But the smart ones will be back 
this year, and I plan to show them my best stuff. 


Our proxy statement will include information about obtaining tickets to the game. We will also offer 
an information packet this year listing restaurants that will be open on Sunday night and describing various 
things that you can do in Omaha on the weekend. 


For years, l’ve unsuccessfully tried to get my grade school classmate, “Pal” Gorat, to open his 
steakhouse for business on the Sunday evening preceding the meeting. But this year he’s relented. Gorat’s 
is a family-owned enterprise that has thrived for 52 years, and if you like steaks, you’ll love this place. 
I've told Pal he will get a good crowd, so call Gorat’s at (402) 551-3733 for a reservation, You"ll spot me 
there — I’ll be the one eating the rare T-bone with a double order of hash browns 


Warren F. Buffett 
March 1, 1996 Chairman of the Board 


22 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
ACQUISITION CRITERIA 


We are eager to hear from principals or their representatives about businesses that meet al] of the following 
criteria: 


(1) Large purchases (at least $25 million of before-tax earnings), 

(2) Demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections are of mo interest to us, nor are 
“turnaround” situations), 

(3) Businesses earning good returns on equity while employing little or no debt, 

(4) Management in place (we can’t supply it), 

(5) Simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we won’t understand it), 

(6) An offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or that of the seller by talking, even 
preliminarily, about a transaction when price is unknown). 


The larger the company, the greater will be our interest: We would like to make an acquisition in the $3-5 
billion range. We are not interested, however, in receiving suggestions about purchases we might make in the 
general stock market. 


We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers, We can promise complete confidentiality and a very fast 
answer — customarily within five minutes — as to whether we’re interested. We prefer to buy for cash, but 
will consider issuing stock when we receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give. 


Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions that don’t come close to meeting our tests: 
We've found that if you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will call hoping to sell you their 
cocker spaniels. A line from a country song expresses our feeling about new ventures, turnarounds, or 
auction-like sales: “When the phone don’t ring, you’ll know it’s me.” 


23 


Deloitte & 
Touche LLP 


4N 2000 First National Center Telephone: (402) 346-7788 
Cae Omaha, Nebraska 68102-1578 Facsimile: (402) 346-0711 
(402) 344-0372 


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT 


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, and 
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 


We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the 
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our 
opinion. 


In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the 
financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and 
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1995 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 


As discussed in Note | to the consolidated financial statements, in 1993 the Company changed its 
method of accounting for income taxes and investments to conform with recent pronouncements of the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board. 


f fJoveks LLP 


March 8, 1996 


Deloitte Touche 

Tohmatsu 

International 

——— 24 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC, 
and Subsidiaries 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(dollars in millions except per share amounts) 


December 31 


1995 1994 
ASSETS 
Cash and cash equivalents .......0..0 0.0020 eee $ 2,703.8 $ 273.9 
Investments: 

Securities with fixed maturities... 2.2.0.0... 835.2 1,820.7 

Marketable equity securities ... 22,000.3 15,236.5 

Salomon Inc .............. ee eee ee 822.7 1,023.4 

Receivables..sc scales gece Serene bila hae gaset 7189 580.6 
Inventories ........... Ra eaae 601.1 425.4 
Properties and equipment ....... 3333 275.7 
Assets of finance businesses . . 756.7 717.1 
Other assets 2.2... 1,156.8 ___ 984.9 
$29,928.8 $21,338.2 
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities $ 4,629.7 $ 4,200.8 
Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities... 2.2... , 482.1 397.4 
TRC GING tAX ES: Sci Mid deine ie eM eR ica Cea eee Lah ek ald A bee RS 5,588.5 3,292.6 
Borrowings under investment agreements and other debt ......... sniiadg 1,061.7 810.7 
Liabilities of finance businesses ...... 0.00. ee eee 685.2 562.4 
12,447.2 9,263.9 
Minority shareholders’ interests: 406 cijcc epee pawn ag pis dy ed ok oe es 264.5 199 3 
Shareholders’ equity: 
Common stock of $5 par value. Authorized 1,500,000 shares; 

{issued 1,381,308 shares .........0........ Soi te cautrtteslingeat ns 69 6.9 
Capita] in excess of par value 26... ee ee 1,001.7 656.1 
Unrealized appreciation of investments, net... 0.2.0.0... eee 10,632.8 6,364.4 
Retained earnings ........-..... i Rien hhaw ak 5,610.4 4,885.2 

[7,251.8 11,912.6 

Less common stock in treasury, al cost 
(187,796 shares in 1995; 203,558 shares in 1994) 2.0.0.0... ..0.000.. 34.7 37.6 
Total shareholders” equity 2.0 .ah diode aya somos eR EES EROS 17,217.1 11,875.0 
$29,928.8 $21,338.2 


See accompanying Noies to Consolidated Financial Statements 


25 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


and Subsidiaries 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
(dollars in millions except per share amounts) 


Revenues: 


Sales and service revenues ©. ......00 0.0200 e cee eee 
Insurance premiums earned... 2.2.2... ee eee 
Interest and dividend income ....... 0.0... 00 eee eee 
Income from finance businesses ........ 

Realized investment gain ....... 


Cost and expenses: 
Cost of products and services sold ............--2.05. 
Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses ......... 
Insurance underwriting expenses... 6.0.0... 000000000. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses ............ 
PLETESL EXPENSE: occa can dak sae haa ee sided 
Other-than-temporary decline in value of investment in 
USAir Group, Inc. Preferred Stock 


Earnings before income taxes, minority interest and 
cumulative effect of accounting change . . 
Income taxes - 
Other than effect of change in income tax rate 
on deferred taxes applicable to unrealized 
APPKECIAON 4.) oer eee eee Eee ee Re ES 
Effect of change in income tax rate on deferred 
taxes applicable to unrealized appreciation ..... . 
Minority interest 0.0.2... cece ee eee eee 
Earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change. . . 
Cumulative effect of change in accounting for income 
taxes Pee ee ee ee eee ee ee eee er ae 


NGL CARNINGS ao. ee bake as tea eda a eA 
Average shares outstanding ............ 0.0.0 ..00000. 


Earnings per share: 
Before cumulative effect of accounting change .......... 
Curnulative effect of change in accounting for income 

WAXES) cohs w.dlnces ton enennt ein PEPE RG Fac Pi ke SND 


Net earnings .............. 


Year Ended December 31, 


1995 1994 1993 
$2,755.9 $2,351.9 $1,962.9 
957.5 923.2 650.7 
474.8 426.1 354.1 
78.8 30.1 63.0 
26.6 24.9 22.2 
194.1 91.3 546.4 
4,487.7 3,847.5 3,599.3 
1,706.7 1,450.0 1,180.6 
612.0 565.3 450.7 
325.0 228.0 169.1 
775.9 613.4 552.6 
59.3 60.1 56.6 

— 268.5 = 
3,478.9 3,185.3 2,409.6 
1,008.8 662.2 1,189.7 
270.3 158.7 345.3 
_ = 153 
13.3: 8.7 10.0 
725.2 494.8 759.1 
— = (71.0) 
$725.2 $_494.8 $_ 688.1 
1,187,102 1,177,750 1,156,243 

$611 $420 $656 

= — (61) 

$611 $420 $595 


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


26 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
and Subsidiaries 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(dollars in millions) 


Year Ended December 31, 


1995 1994 1993 
Cash flows from operating activities: 
NSU ANIGCOMIE: 2 isde.dcoiral a net cel eat Ste GORAMe ee A Rah teh ek $ 725.2 § 494.8 $ 688.1 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows 
from operating activities: 
Realized investment gain ..........0...022000..0.. (194.1) (91.3) (546.4) 
Other than temporary decline in value ‘of investment 
in USAir Group, Inc. Preferred Stock ........ — 268.5 — 
Depreciation and amortization ...... : done 62.5 $0.2 
Effect of change in income tax rate on deferred taxes — _ 75.3 
Cumulative effect of accounting change ......... _— _ 71.0 
Changes in assets and liabilities before effects from 
business acquisitions: 
Losses and loss adjustment expenses ....... 268.6 274. (22.8) 
Deferred charges re reinsurance assumed ... . 51.0 25.3 16.2 
Unearned premiums... 66.9 (8.5) 83.9 
Receivables ...........0.... G5.4) (49.8) 134.1 
Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities .. 228.2 210.5 35.0 
Income taxes G5.8)} (257.1) 107.9 
OUR 6 on. ch a SAA Re ERR e (22.4) 03 33.7 
Net cash flows from operating activities ........ 1,127.9 929. 726.2 
Cash flows from investing activities: 
Purchases of fixed maturity investments ...........-... (273.9) (2,485.8) (272.3) 
Purchases of marketable equity securities .............. (1,459.9) (3,050.0) (858.9) 
Proceeds from sales of fixed maturity investments ......, 669.7 L772: _ 
Proceeds from redemptions and maturities of fixed 
maturity investments ............2 0.00... gi 954.6 85.9 318.9 
Proceeds from sales of marketable equity securities ...... 1,352.7 1,466.8 1,188.5 
Loans and investments originated in finance businesses ... (381.2) (246.8) (866.8) 
Principal collection on Jeans and investments 
originated in finance businesses Aipins Zesebiong dy gina y 363.0 332.4 269.3 
Other oo... 0.0.0. eee. Serre 2a n8 Se ade sg (L4) (23.2) 19.6 
et cash flows from investing activities... . 1,213.6 (2,148.6) (204.7) 
Cash flows from financing activities: 
Proceeds from borrowings of finance businesses . . . 265.7 208.6 591.9 
Proceeds from other borrowings .......-... 1,232.7 1,225.3 1,265.0 
Repayments of borrowings of finance businesses . (232.1) (390.5) (316.3) 
Repayments of other borrowings .............- ea aees (4,151.7) (1,387.7) (1,399.95 
UCT: 8 coetk aS at a ant doce gt Matai falas neal ames jac arta Dee (1.5) (0.9) (2.9) 
Net cash flows from financing activities ........ 113.1 (345.2) 137.8 
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . 2,454.6 (1,564.7) 662.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year ........... 289.9 1,854.6 1,192.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year *.......-....... $2,744.5 $_ 289.9 $1,854.6 
* Cash and cash equivalents at end of year are comprised of the Following: 
Finance businesses . Sob eataes opiate 9 § 407 $ 160 Be Bad 
Other 0.0... 2,703.8 273.9 L817.5 
‘$2,744,5 3289.9 S7,854.6. 


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


27 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
and Subsidiaries 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
December 31, 1995 


TATEMENTS 


(1) Significant accounting policies and practices 


(@) 


() 


(ad) 


@ 


@ 


(g) 


7) 


Nature of operations and basis of consolidation 

Berkshire Hathaway Inc, (the “Company” or “Berkshire”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a 
number of diverse business activities. The most important of these is the property and casualty insurance 
business conducted on both a direct and reinsurance basis. Further information regarding this business and 
Berkshire’s other reportable business segments is contained in Note 18. 


The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Berkshire consolidated with accounts 
of all its subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 


Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements 

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during 
the period. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements. 


Cash equivalents 
Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in money market accounts and in investments with a 
maturity of three months or less when purchased. 


Investments 

Management determines the appropriate classifications of investments in securities with fixed maturities and 
marketable equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such designations as of each balance sheet 
date. Investments in securities with fixed maturities (except for such securities held by finance businesses) and 
marketable equity securities, are classified as available-for-sale. Securities with fixed maturities held by finance 
businesses are classified as held-to-maturity. Securities with fixed maturities are deemed to be held-to-maturity 
securities when the Company has the ability and positive intent to hold them to maturity. Held-to-maturity 
securities are carried at amortized cost. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized 
gains and losses, net of tax, reported in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses 
on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the consolidated 
statements of earnings. 


Goodwill of acquired businesses 
The difference between purchase cost and the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses 
is amortized on a straight line basis over forty years. The net unamortized balance is carried in other assets. 


Jnsurance premium acquisition costs 

For financial reporting purposes, certain costs of acquiring insurance premiums are deferred, subject 
to ultimate recoverability, and charged to income as the premiums are earned. Generally, the ultimate 
recoverability of premium acquisition costs is determined without regard to investment income. 


Deferred charges re reinsurance assumed 

The excess of estimated liabilities for claims and claim costs ultimately payable by the Insurance Group 
over consideration received with respect to retroactive property/casualty reinsurance contracts that provide for 
indemnification of insurance risk, other than structured settlements, is established as a deferred charge at 
inception of such contracts. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized using the interest method over 
the expected settlement periods of the claim liabilities. The unamortized balance of deferred charges is included 
in other assets. 


Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities 
Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities are comprised primarily of (1) unpaid losses and Joss 
adjustment expenses, (ii) unearned premiums, and (iii) funds held under reinsurance assumed. 


(1) Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued) 


(h) Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities (Continued) 

Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represents the aggregate of such obligations of 
members of the Insurance Group with respect to: (i) prospective property/casualty insurance and reinsurance 
contracts, (ii) retroactive property/casualty reinsurance contracts that provide for indemnification. of insurance 
risk, other than structured settlements, and (iii) reinsurance contracts providing for periodic payments with 
respect to settled claims (“structured settlements’’). Except for structured settlement liabilities which are stated 
at discounted present values, tbe lability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is at the aggregate of 
estimated ultimate payment amounts. 


Ultimate payment amounts with respect (o prospective contracts are determined from (i) individual case 
estimates, (ii) estimates of incurred but not reported losses, based on past experience, and (iii) reports of losses 
from ceding insurers. 


Ultimate payment amounts with respect to retroactive reinsurance contracts that provide for 
indemnification of insurance risk, other than structured settlements, are established for financial reporting 
purposes al maximum limits of indemnification under the contracts. (See also 1(g) above related to deferred 
charges re reinsurance assumed.) 


Liabilities under structured settlement contracts are established when the contracts are entered into, at the then 
present value of the actuarially determined ultimate payment amount discounted at the prevailing market 
interest rate. Annual accretions to the liabilities are charged to losses incurred. (This accounting policy also 
applies to annuity reserves which are included in the liabilities of finance businesses). 


Funds held under reinsurance assumed treaties include deposit balances refundable to insureds under 
contracts which, at inception, the Company believed did not meet the risk transfer requirements established 
by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 113, “Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of 
Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts”. 


G) Insurance premiums 
Insurance premiums for prospective insurance and non-property catastrophe reinsurance policies are recognized 
as Tevenues ratably over their terms with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro rata basis 
Premiums for catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance coverages are deferred until the earlier of a Joss 
occurrence or policy expiration. Consideration received for indemnification of risk under retroactive reinsurance 
contracts and structured settlements is accounted for as premiums earned at the inception of the contracts. 
Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. 


(k) Reinsurance 
Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of 
earnings after deducting estimates of recoveries under reinsurance contracts. Such recoveries totalled $14 
million, $61 million, and $34 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve 
the Insurance Group Members of their obligations to indemnify policyholders with respect to the underlying 
insurance and reinsurance contracts. Estimates of losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable under 
reinsurance contracts are included in receivables. 


(m) Accounting changes 

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“SFAS 109”). The adoption of SFAS 109 changed the Company’s 
method of accounting for income taxes from the “deferred method” to the “asset and liability method”. Under 
the asset and fiability method of SFAS 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax 
consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and 
liabilities and their respective tax bases. The provisions of SEAS 109 require that the effect on deferred taxes 
of a change in tax rates be recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 


In May 1993, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No 
115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” (“SFAS 115”). As permitted under the 
statement, the Company elected to adopt the statement’s provisions as of December 31, 1993. Among its 
provisions, the statement requires a change in the accounting for marketable equity securities held by non- 
insurance entities. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 115, such securities were carried at the lower of aggregate 
cost or market. Under the provisions of SFAS 115, these securities are now carried at market and accounted 
for in the same manner as marketable equity securities held by the Company's insurance subsidiaries. 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(2) Business acquisitions 

During 1995, the Company consummated mergers with Helzberg's Diamond Shops, Inc. (““Helzberg’s’’) and R.C. Willey 
Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”) by reissuing 15,762 shares of its common stock held in teasury in exchange for 100% of the 
common stock of each of these companies. Helzberg’s consists of a chain of 166 jewelry stores operating in 25 states and R.C. 
Willey, through its seven locations, is the dominant retailer of home furnishings in Utah. 


In 1993, the Company consummated a merger with the privately held Dexter Shoe Companies (“Dexter”) by reissuing 
25,203 shares of its common stock held in treasury in exchange for 100% of the outstanding common stock of Dexter. Dexter 
manufactures and distributes men’s and women’s dress, casual and athletic shoes. 


Each of these mergers was accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, the operating results of these 
businesses are included in the Company’s consolidated results of operations from the effective dates of the mergers (Dexter 
— November 7, 1993; Helzberg’s — April 30, 1995, R.C. Willey — June 29, 1995). Had the results of these businesses been 
included commencing with operations at the beginning of the year of their respective acquisition by Berkshire, the reported 
results would not have been materially affected. 


(3) Merger with GEICO Corporation 

On January 2, 1996, GEICO Corporation (“GEICO”) became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire as a result 
of the merger of an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire with and into GEICO. (The date of January 2, 1996 is 
hereafter referred to as the “Merger Date”.) The merger was consummated pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger 
(the “Agreement”) dated August 25, 1995. Pursuant to the Agreement, each issued and outstanding common share of GEICO 
on the Merger Date, except shares held by Berkshire’s subsidiaries and GEICO, was converted into the right to receive $70 
per share, or an aggregate amount of $2.3 billion (the “Merger Consideration”). The amount of the Merger Consideration was 
determined based upon 33,284,733 outstanding common shares held by the public on the Merger Date, 


As of the Merger Date, subsidiaries of Berkshire owned 34,250,000 common shares of GEICO which were acquired in 
1980 and earlier years for an aggregate cost of $45.7 million. Up to the Merger Date, neither Berkshire nor its subsidiaries 
had acquired any shares of GEICO’s common stock since 1980. However, Berkshire’s ownership percentage, due to intervening 
stock repurchases by GEICO, gradually increased from about 33% in 1980 to almost 51% immediately prior to the Merger 
Date. 


GEICO, through its subsidiaries, is a multiple line property casualty insurer, the principal business of which is writing 
private passenger automobile insurance. The condensed financial statements which follow are derived from GEICO’s audited 
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 1995 and for the year then ended. 


GEICO Corporation 
(dollars in mitlions) 
Condensed Balance Sheet Condensed Statement of Earnings 
as of December 31, 1995 For the year ended December 31, 1995 
Assets Revenues 
Cash and cash equivalents ..... Premiums: .. s2so5352 ps4 ees ceeee es  $2,787.0 
Investments: Net investment income .. a 226.8 
Securities with fixed maturities... .. - Realized investment gain es 21.6 
Equity securities ................. Other ........ Sok SUEY media eaghtish Bas 18.6 
Other ........ ane foes ao suhauatesiena 3,054.0 
: Cost and expenses 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Insurance losses and expenses ......... 2,711.3 
Property and casualty insurance Interest on debt ...... Leanne heaseee 34.4 
policyholder liabilities . 2.0... . ...  $3,025.8 
Debt .........-. ae 434.4 2785.7 
DEE Sea bategienalacinha ats Bay aoae Earnings before income taxes .... . : 308.3 
3,927.1 Income taxes ..,.... aan, Bere ataleneas 60.7 
Shareholders’ equity ......... 1,868.4 Neteamings ............00000- _ $247.6 
$5,795.5 


30 


(3) Merger with GEICO Corporation (Continued) 

The merger will be accounted for by the purchase method and, therefore, assets and liabilities of GEICO will be 
recorded in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements at fair value. The excess of the purchase cost over the fair value of 
het assets acquired at the Merger Date will be recorded as goodwill and subsequently amortized over 40 years. The following 
unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet results from combining GEICO’s condensed consolidated balance 
sheet with Berkshire’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1995 to give effect to the merger as if it had occurred 
on such date. 


Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet 
As of December 31, 1995 
(dollars in millions) 


Assets Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 
Cash and cash equivalents ............ $ 758.3 Property and casualty insurance 
Investments: policyholder liabilities 20h at She SD FOND SO' 
Securities with fixed maturities ...... 5,104.0 Income taxes, principally deferred ....... 4,873.6 
Marketable equity securities ........ 20,8129 Borrowings under investment agreements 
Receivables .....0....0 0.00000. Bons 1,213.9 and other debt .............-. 1,475.5 
GOGdWU ....a04.8 paeaPaganiniad were 2,293.7 Other liabilities... 20... et 1,607.8 
24 | 
Other assets) onic s de eee eead eee Lo. _ 2,432.9 15,6124 
$32,615.7 Minority shareholders’ terest... 02.2... 264.5 
Total shareholders’ equity .............. 16,738.8 
$32,615.7 


The preceding pro forma balance sheet reflects purchase accounting adjustments which result in the consolidation of 
Berkshire’s previously owned investments in GEICO on a “step-by-step” basis, in accordance with the provisions of Accounting 
Research Bulletin 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements” (“ARB 51”). Prior to the Merger Date the investment in GEICO 
common stock was classified as an available-for-sale security and carried at market value in accordance with the provisions of 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Secunties” (See 
Note 6). The change in accounting will result in a decrease in shareholders’ equity of about $478 million from the amount 
reflected on Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1995. 


During the fourth quarter of 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a proposed statement 
of financial accounting standards entitled “Consolidated Financial Statements: Policy and Procedures” (“Exposure Draft”) which 
would supersede ARB 51. The provisions of the Exposure Draft would require that Berkshire recognize, in earnings, the 
unrealized gains of such earlier GEICO investments. Therefore, if the purchase accounting adjustments had been recorded 
on the basis of the provisions of the Exposure Draft, shareholders’ equity would not have decreased. It is not currently 
known whether or not the Exposure Draft, in its present form, will be adopted by the FASB. 


(4) Realized investment gains (losses) 
Realized gains (losses) from sales and redemptions of investments are summarized below (in millions): 


1995 1994 1993 
Marketable equity securities — 
Gross realized gains ek $109.9 $185.7 $518.4* 
Gross realized losses ... BER EME eek ech Eee g Gib Pet ok et (14.2) (96.9) (11.9) 
Securities with fixed maturities — 
Gross realized gains : 100.8 68 40.1 
Gross realized losses .. . (2.4) (4.3) (0.2) 
$194.1 $ 91.3 $546.4 


* During the fourth quarter of 1993, a subsidiary of Berkshire sold 10,000,000 common shares of its investment in Capital 
Cities/ABC, Inc. in connection with that company’s offer to buy from its shareholders up to 20,000,000 of its common shares. 
Berkshire’ gross realized gain from this transaction was $457 $. 


3] 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(5) Investments in securities with fixed maturities 


The amortized cost and estimated fair values as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, of investments in securities with fixed 


maturities are as follows (in millions): 


December 31, 1995 Gross Gross Estimated 
Amortized — Unrealized — Unrealized Fair 
Cost Gains Losses Value 
Bonds: 
US. Treasury securities and obligations of 
U.S. government corporations and agencies ...... $ 80.9 $ 2.2 $ — $ 83.1 
Obligations of states, municipalities 
and political subdivisions .. 346.4 17.2 (0.5) 363.1 
Redeemable preferred stocks . : 122.5 125.4 (2.9) 245.0 
Mortgage-backed securities ............. 138.3 3.9 (0.25 144.0 
$ 688.1 $150.7 $3.6) $835.2 
December 31, 1994 Gross Gross Estimated 
Amortized — Unrealized — Unrealized Fair 
Cost Gains Losses Value 
Bonds 
US. Treasury securities and obligations of 
U.S. government corporations and agencies . . $ 733.5 $ — $ (16.7) S 716.8 
Obligations of states, municipalities 
and political subdivisions 601.0 22.3. (3.5) 619.8 
Corporate bonds ......... 8.0 25 oes 10.5 
Redeemable preferred stocks 423.0 15.0 (3.0) 35.0 
Morigage-backed securities ......... 40.0 == (1.4) 38.6 
$1,805.5 $ 39.8 $ (24.6) $1,820.7 


Amounts above exclude securities with fixed maturities held by finance businesses. See note &. 


Investments in securities with fixed maturities include 358,000 shares of USAir Group, Inc. Series A Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock (“USAir Preferred Shares”). The USAir Preferred Shares were acquired in 1989 for $358 million. 


If not called or converted prior to August 7, 1999, the USAir Preferred Shares are mandatorily redeemable by USAir Group, 
Inc. (“USAir”) at $1,000 per share ($358 million in the aggregate), plus accrued dividends. 


On September 29, 1994, US Air announced that it was deferring the regular quarterly dividend payments on the USAir 
Preferred Shares. Since that date, USAir has not paid any dividends on the USAir Preferred Shares. For several years 
prior to 1995, USAir incurred very significant losses. Consequently, during 1994, Berkshire management concluded that 
an other-than-temporary decline in the value of USAir Preferred Shares had arisen. The 1994 consolidated statement of 
earnings includes a pre-tax charge of $268.5 million to reflect the decline. 


During 1995, USAir returned to profitability, but continued the deferral of dividends on the USAir Preferred Shares. 
Berkshire management has estimated the fair value of the USAir Preferred Shares to be $214.8 million at December 31, 
1995. The increase of $125.3 million in the estimated fair value over the amount recorded at December 31, 1994, is included 
as a component of the increase during 1995 in unrealized appreciation of investments. 


Shown below are the amortized cost and estimated fair values of the above securities at December 31, 1995, by 
contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities 
retain early call or prepayment rights. Amounts ate in millions. 


Estimated 

Amortized Fair 

Cost Value 
Due in one year or less or $235.6 $241.0 
Due after one year through five years 279.6 409.3 
Due after five years through ten years 31.1 74 
Due after ten years... .....- 3.5 3.8 
549.8 691.2 
Mortgage-backed secuniti€S .0.63 cc sce cscs ceed ee ewes ede ee ee tee ered 138.3 144.0 
$688.1 $835.2 


32 


(6) Investments in marketable equity securities 


Aggregate data with respect to the consolidated invesiment in marketable equity securities are shown below (in millions): 


December 31, 1995 
Unrealized 


Cost Gains Market 

Common stock of- 
American Express Company ........ sid Saved darned $4,392.7 $ 653.6 $ 2,046.3 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ” 345.0 2,122.5 2,467.5 
The Coca-Cola Company Baghy 1,298.9 6,126.1 7,425.0 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation weeds as skies 260.1 783.9 1,044.0 
GEICO Corporation 20... lose goniestckcste ks eres 45.7 2,347.5 2,393.2 
The Gillette Company ........ 600.0 1,902.0 2,502.0 
Wells Fargo & Company “’ .. 423.7 1,043.2 1,466.9 
All other marketable equity securities 1,379.0 1,276.4* 2,655.4 
$5,745.1 $16,255.2 $22,000.3 

December 31, 1994 
Unrealized 

Cast Gains Market _ 

Common stock of: 
American Express Company “ ..... $ 723.9 $ 95.0 $ 818.9 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.” . 2 345.0 1,360.0 1,705.0 
The Coca-Cola Company ...... 1,298.9 3,851.4 5,150.0 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation svae? heectite sites 270.5 373.9 644.4 
GEICO Corporation @ 2.00... 45.7 1,632.6 1,678.3 
The Gillette Company . . 600.0 1,197.0 1,797.0 
Wells Fargo & Company “ : 423.7 561.0 984.7 
Alf other marketable equity securities ©. 0... eee 1,875.4 582.8** 2,458.2 
$5,583.1 $9,653.4 $15,236.5 


* Represents gross unrealized guins $1,302.) less gross unrealized losses $25.7. 
** Represents gross unrealized gains $719.0 less gross unrealized losses $136.2. 


(a) American Express Company 


Common shares of American Express Company (“AXP”) owned by Berkshire and its subsidiaries possessed 
approximately 10% of the voting rights of all AXP shares outstanding at December 31, 1995. The shares are 
held subject to various agreements with the Federal Reserve Board, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and certain state insurance and banking regulators which, among other things, prohibit Berkshire from i) 
seeking representation on the Board of Directors of AXP (Berkshire may agree, if it so desires, at the request 
of management or the Board of Directors of AXP to have no more than one representative stand for election 
to the Board of Directors of AXP) and (ii) acquiring or retaining shares that would cause its ownership of AXP 
voting securities lo equal or exceed 17% of the amount outstanding (should Berkshire have a representative 
on the board of directors, such amount is limited to 15%). In connection therewith, Berkshire has entered into 
an agreement with AXP which becarne effective when Berkshire’s ownership interest in AXP voting securities 
reached 10% and will remain effective so long as Berkshire owns 5% or more of AXP’s vating securities. The 
agreement, among other things, obligates Berkshire, so long as Harvey Golub is chief executive officer of AXP, 
to vote its shares in accordance with the recommendations of AXP’s Board of Directors. Additionally, subject 
to certain exceptions, Berkshire has agreed not to sell AXP common shares to any person who owns 5% or 
more of AXP voting securities or seeks to control AXP, without the consent of AXP. 


(b) Capital Cities/ABC. Ine. 


Cammon, shares of Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (“Capital Cities”) owned by Berkshire subsidiaries possessed 
approximately 13% (consisting of 26,000,000 Capital Cities common shares) of the voting rights of all Capital 
Cities shares outstanding at December 31, 1995. On January 4, 1996, shareholders of Capital Cities and The 
Walt Disney Company (“Disney”) approved an agreement by and between Disney and Capital Cites whereby 
each Capital Cities common share will be converted at the election of the holder, subject to certain limitations 
including proration, into the right to receive for each share of Capita] Cities stock either a) one share of Disney 
common stock and $65 in cash; or b) 2.048 shares of Disney stock; or c) $127 in cash. Berkshire has elected 
to receive 2.048 shares of Disney stock for each of its shares of Capital Cities stock. However, the election 
is subject to proration and the actual consideration to be received is not currently known. It is expected 
that Berkshire will receive its share of the consideration on or about March 14, 1996 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(6) Investments in marketable equity securities (Continued) 
(c) GEICO Corporation 

Subsidiaries of Berkshire owned shares of common stock of GEICO Corporation that possessed approximately 
51% of the voting rights of all GEICO shares outstanding at December 31, 1995. Prior to January 2, 1996, 
Berkshire maintained an independent proxy arrangement for voting of the shares as required by Order of 
GEICO’s domiciliary insurance supervisory authority. The Order, dating from Berkshire subsidiaries’ major 
purchase of the shares in 1976, prohibited Berkshire from seeking or causing to change the independent proxy. 
Also, under the Order, no officer or director of Berkshire or of any affiliate or subsidiary of Berkshire was 
permitted to serve as a director of GEICO. Because the Order divested Berkshire of its voting rights with 
respect to the shares, Berkshire has not consolidated the accounts of GEICO in its financial statements. On 
January 2, 1996, Berkshire acquired the remaining 49% of GEICO’s common shares not previously owned for 
$70 per share or approximately $2.3 billion. The acquisition of such shares was pursuant to an Agreement and 
Plan of Merger dated August 25, 1995, between Berkshire and GEICO. In connection therewith, the 
independent proxy arrangement was vacated effective January 2, 1996. Accordingly, beginning in 1996, 
GEICO’s accounts will be included in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements. See Note 3 for additional 
information. 


(d) Wells Fargo & Company 

Subsidiaries of Berkshire owned common shares of Weils Fargo & Company (“Wells Fargo”) that possessed 
approximately 14% of the voting rights of all Wells Fargo shares outstanding at December 31, 1995. The shares 
are held subject to a Passivity Agreement, the terms of which among other things prohibit Berkshire, without 
prior approval from the Federal Reserve Board of San Francisco, from seeking representation on the Board 
of Directors of Wells Fargo and from disposing of more than 5% of the Wells Fargo securities in any single 
transaction. In connection therewith, Berkshire has granted a proxy to the Secretary of Wells Fargo, with 
respect to all Wells Fargo stock presently owned and with respect to such additional shares of Wells Fargo 
stock as Berkshire may purchase and hold in the future. 


(7) Investment in Salomon Inc 
The Company’s investment in Salomon Inc consists of the following (in millions): 


December 31, 1995 December 31, 1994 
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying 
Cost Value Value Cost Value Value 
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock . . $560.0 $588.0 $588.0 $ 700.0 $ 735.0 $ 735.0 
Common Steck. cs... 4s4eence bee ed ‘i 324.4 234.7 234.7 324.4 248.8 288.4 
$884.4 $822.7 $822.7 $1,024.4 $_ 983.8 $1,023.4 


At December 31, 1995, Berkshire subsidiaries owned 560,000 shares of Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (‘Preferred 
Shares’’). The Preferred Shares have a redemption value of $1,000 per share and are entitled to receive quarterly dividends 
at the annual rate of $90 per share. The Preferred Shares can be converted into shares of Salomon Inc common stock at $38 
per share and are entitled to one vote per share of common stock into which such shares are convertible (14,736,842 at 
Decernber 31, 1995). Annually on each October 31, Salomon Inc will redeem, at cost, 140,000 of the Preferred Shares or such 
fewer number as are then outstanding. 


As of December 31, 1995, Berkshire subsidiaries possessed approximately 18% of the total voting rights in Salomon. (Such 
rights consisting of rights attaching to the aforementioned Preferred Shares plus 6,633,600 common shares held at December 
31, 1995.) Prior to October 31, 1995 and since April 1, 1994, Berkshire subsidiaries possessed approximately 20% of total 
voting rights and Berkshire was therefore following the equity method of accounting with respect to its investment in Salomon 
Inc common stock. The reduction in tota] voting rights as of December 31, 1995, resulted fromm the redemption by Salomon 
Inc of 140,000 preferred shares on October 3}, 1995. Accordingly, Berkshire discontinued the use of the equity method 
effective October 31, 1995. 


Income from the investment in Salomon Inc consists of the folowing (in millions): 


1995 1994 1993 
Dividends ............. shi BB eg ide Sits SaaS Mo elocense $61.9 $63.0 $63.0 
Equity in net income (loss) of Salomon attributable to 
common stack holdings * 20.02.20. eee eee 16.9 (32.9) = 
$78.8 $30.1 $63.0 


*  Afier giving effect to amortization, over forty year’s, of the excess of the cost of Salomon common stock over its related 
fair value. 


34 


(8) Finance businesses 
Berkshire’s finance businesses are comprised of commercial and consumer finance companies and an annuity business 
Assets and liabilities of Berkshire’s finance businesses are summarized below (in millions) 


Dee. 31, Dee. 31, 


1995 _1994— 
Assets 
Cash and cash equivalents ......... 0.00 cee ec eee eee Stop $ 40.7 $ 16.0 
Installment loans and other receivables ........ 00.0... 000020055 Sider 185.9 158.0 
Fixed maturity investments “ 529.4 538.9 
OUNER 05 4Gs os. gaits o testes 0.7 42 
$756.7 $717.1 
Liabilities 
8.125% Notes, payable in 1996 ..... AG aINe 2 ee $120.0 $120.0 
Borrowings under investment agreements % a eis Sox era 403.6 370.0 
Annity reserves . oe ioe. dace ra vane de behaeey cba danees buted oh Gace a8 116.7 41.0 
OUR 2 Sos Areas be SS REED Oe Ne eG eaeen MeO ea Boe insist 44.9 314 


$685.2 $562.4 


(a) At December 31, 1995 and 1994, mortgage-backed securities of $336.0 and $396.0 respectively were 
included in this caption. Estimated fair values and gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 1995 
and 1994, are as follows (in millions): 


Gross Gross Estimated 
Unrealized Unrealized fair 
Amortized Cost Gains Losses Value 
POOS. net 2 ah ai ogy ana hata $529.4 $29.0 $1.0) $557.4 
TOO Eo css dag geo a Me oes tates 538.9 0.6 @LL) 518.4 


(b) Borrowings under investment agreements are made pursuani to contracts with terms generally ranging from 
six months to thirty years and at fixed interest rates ranging from 4% to 7%. Payments of amounts outstanding 
at December 31, 1995, are expected to be required no earlier than as follows (in millions): 


$303.3 
26.5 
0.3 
1g 
0 
71.6 
Income from finance businesses for each of the past three years is summarized below (in millions): 
1995 1994 1993 
Revenues 
Interest on loans ...... we bte LG GREW a ae we EGE gee en dela $ 38.4 $374 $ 42.7 
Interest and dividend income .. . en 39.2 34.8 20.) 
Annuity premiums earned .................. 75.2 36.0 5.6 
152.8 108.2 68.4 
Cost and expenses 
Interest expense ... 00.0.0... eee eG Nope Gules pace eat 28.9 31.7 24.2 
Annuity benefits and underwriting expenses ........-....0-6000.. 80.8 37.6 auf 
General and administrative expenses 2.6.0.0... ee eee ee 16.5 14.0 16.3 
126.2 83.3 46.2 
$ 26.6 $ 24.9 $ 22.2* 


* — Until October 1993, a savings and loan business was also included in this group of businesses. Income from 


finance businesses includes earnings of $5.9 in 1993 from this business 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(9) Other assets 
Other assets are summarized below (in millions) 


Dec. 31 

1994 
GEodwWilll a.csac nia wawawd os yee ieee ts mages nad woe $ 454.6 
Deferred charges re reinsurance assumed . 440.7 
OUT seme sieys gee 02, eek ee tea. i dene tee Poy eee een eee 89.6 
$984.9 

(10) Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities 
Property and casualty insurance policyholder liabilities are summarized below (in millions): 

Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 

1995 1994 
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses* .....0.0...2..0... $3,698.6 $3 430.0 
Unearned premiums ................ soe Rie th Sueare em upEE les . 374.1 307.2 
Funds held under reinsurance assumed ......... Ewen atarad 4 379.0 307.3 
(isla geen eae arene eee a ene Cee a acaqand Nedearess : 178.9 156.3 
$4,629.7 $4,200.8 


Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include liabilities established with respect to retroactive reinsurance 
contracts that provide for indemnification of insurance risk. These liabilities aggregated $1,283.35 and 
$1,296.0 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Related deferred charges were established with 
respect to these contracts and are reported as other assets. Also included in unpaid losses and loss adjustment 
expenses are discounted structured settlement reinsurance liabilities, which totalled $221.7 and $231.3 at 
December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. 


Supplemental data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of property/casualty insurance 
subsidiaries (in millions): 


1995 1994 1993 

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses: 

Balance at beginning of year... 02... eee $3,430.0 $3,155.9 $3,219.4 

Less ceded liabilities and deferred charges ............ $73.9 597.9 655.3 

Net balance... 2.2.66. 2. e eee Seige Gece tees ote _ 2,856.1 _2,558.0. 2,564.1 
Incurred losses recorded: 

Current accident year 2.0.0... dete Dt ietsa uence eieehs 556.5 505.1 439.4 

All prior-accident years....5.0 sec cece eee ee tea dees 55.5 60. 11.3 

‘Total incurred! losses: cs. ska eae Row A Sars 612.0 565.3 450.7 
Payments with respect to: 

Current accident year... 22... 2 _ 43.6 50.9 47.1 

All prior accident years 2... 0... eee eee 246.2 216.3 409.7 

Total payments. «2.25 csp cede i ae ens ce hae eee eee x 289.8 267.2 456.8 
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses: 

Net balance at end of year... 0. eee 3,178.3 2,856.1 2,558.0 

Plus ceded liabilities and deferred charges dsc shards eh ht $20.3 573.9 597.9 
Balance at endofyear ............. 2 spe Rohe ene ee $3,698.6 $3.430.0 $3,155.9 


Incurred losses “‘all prior accident years” reflects the amount of estimation error charged or credited to earnings in each 
year. In addition, this amount includes amortization of deferred charges re reinsurance assumed and accretion of discounted 
structured settlement liabilities. The use of estimates is inherent in the process of establishing unpaid losses and loss expenses. 
Additional information will be revealed over time and those estimates and assumptions will be revised resulting in gains or 
losses in the period made. 


36 


(LD Income taxes 


The liability for income taxes as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sh 
liabilities as follows (in millions): 


eets represent estimates of 


Dee. 31, Dec, 31, 
1995 1994 
Payable:curtently” sc os sakeedd gee sendd eta e sk pone ke ¢ $ 868 S 62.4 
Deterred sss heme saa ee ew tea aed lane dane 5,501.7 3,230.2 
$5,588.5 


As discussed in Note | (m), the Company adopted SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1993. The cumulative effect of adopting 
SFAS 109 on the Company’s financial statements was to decrease 1993 net income by about $71 million. It primatily represents 
the impact of adjusting deferred taxes related to unrealized appreciation of marketable equity securities which arose prior to 
1987 to reflect the then current capital gain tax rate of 34% as opposed to the 28% rate which was in effect when the deferred 
taxes originated. 


During 1993, the federal corporate income and capital gain tax rate was increased from 34% lo 35% retroactive to 
January 1, 1993. Accordingly, as required under SFAS 109, the Company recorded a charge to 1993 earnings of approximately 
$75 million. Most of this charge relates to the impact of adjusting deferred taxes applicable to unrealized appreciation of 
marketable equity securities. 


The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes as shown below (in millions): 


1995 L994 1993 

Federal sad cnc cutmaguetbacied poh posi Silekneals eae fp Reweed $246.4 $133.5 $320.4 
STAG Lo Say odie a. gare d eal S-SasMia are ok-& Aue wanta est Soh a ans Geek ek wk 22.6 22.1 20.9 
PGPEI Bis, orice ahete aceite antiaspd Ya af Se Gatans gh nelé ale Sele 4 Bi ete 1.3 Bil 4.0 
$270.3 $158.7 $345,3* 

CUMENE csi a ties Heel cae voles Bhd pad eee oe $331.0 $188.5 $400.8 
Deferred elton Sika aaa duys Gage tind Bee Va eee EDL a eA eS (60.7) (29.8) (55.5) 
$270.3 $158.7 $345.3* 


The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities at December 31, 1995 and 1994, are shown below (in millions): 


1995 1994 
Deferred tax liabilities: 

Relating to unrealized appreciation 
OMiNvestients: w.cs cian egg diet Vibe abadee $5,717.1 $3,381.3 
OOUNEE doula beatsigs nah antes anise tetelae nada cds nat te ju hob Reon ae ___ 87.4 U9 
5,804.5 3,453.2 
Deferred tax assets... cess tees c ina ea mee eres ee ssaaee _ (302.8 223.0 
Net deferred tax liability ....-....-0..0..0...0.. $5,501.7 $3,230.2 


Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the federal statutory rate in the table 
shown below (in millions): 


1995 1994 1993 

Net earnings before income taxes ... . ee Pee eee $1,008.8 $ 662.2 $1,189.7 
Hypothetical amounts applicable to above 

computed at the federal statutory rate ©0262... ee $ 353.1 $ 231.8 $ 416.4 

Decreases, resulting from: 

(10.6) (14.6) (15.0) 

(86.3) (81.2) (68.3) 

14.7 14.4 13.5 

Other differences, net 0... eee (0.6) 8.3 (2.3) 

Total income taxes... 2.0.0.0. eee $270.3 $ 158.7 $ 345.3* 


* 


Excludes the cumulative effect of change in accounting jor income taxes and the effect of the change in federal 
income tax rate on deferred taxes applicable to unrealized appreciation of marketable equity securities. 


37 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(12) Borrowings under investment agreements and other debt 
Liabilities reflected for this balance sheet caption are as follows (in millions): 


Dee. 31, Dec. 34, 

L995 1994 
Borrowings under investment agreements $ 878.9 $ 754.1 
Other debt 264 nin ces eaa nae Soe 182.8 56.6 
seins WES ai ct ch Riese a git ya Channa OO Horn Aitaeats ied ete dieedtey $1,061.7 $ 810.7 


Borrowings under investment agreements are made pursuant to contracts with terms generally ranging from three months 
to forty years and calling for interest payable, normally semiannually, at fixed rates ranging from 3% to 9% per annum. The 
borrowings are senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company. No materially restrictive covenants are included in any 
of the various debt agreements. 


Payments of amounts outstanding at December 31, 1995, are expected to be required no earlier than as follows (in 
millions): 
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 After 2000 
$159.5 $59.2 $107.3 $44.6 $13.7 $677.4 


(13) Shareholders’ equity accounts 
Changes in Shareholders’ Equity accounts during the most recent three years were as follows (dotlars in millions 
except per share amounts): 


Common Capital 
Stock of $5 in excess Net Unrealized = Retained — Treasury 
Par Value of par value Appreciation Earnings Stock 

Balance December 31,1992 ....... 2... ..., 2.005. $6.9 $ 182.3 $ 5,047.2 $3,702.3 $42.3 
Common stock (3,944 shares) issued upon conversion 

of Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes . . 45.5 
Common stock (25,203 shares) issued in connection 

with acquisition of Dexter Shoe Companies ...... 428.3 (4.7) 
Increase during 1993 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value of marketable equity 

SECUPIHES: oes te deacsdi a eee, es acentigiacee Deb nee SRS 316.0 
Change during 1993 in deemed applicable income 

TARES coe Raed en dyiwine sama deeg ee nan eae (419.8) 
Increase in minority y shareholders’ interest in 

unrealized appreciation . (2.5) 
Net earnings 1993 688.1 
Cumulative effect of adoption on December 31, 1993, of 

SFAS 115 (See note I[r]) noes P det 171.8 
Balance December 31,1993 .................0.. 6.9 656.1 5,412.7 4,390.4 $37.6 
Increase during 1994 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value of investments ........ 1,481.1 
Change during 1994 in deemed applicable income 

faxes... Pere (519.5) 
Increase in minority shareholders? interest in 

unrealized appreciation {9.9) 
Net earnings 1994 ......... 494.8 
Balance December 31, 1994 .............-.040005 6.9 656.1 6,364.4 4,885.2 37.6 
Common stock (15,762 shares) issued in connection 

with acquisitions of Helzberg’s Diamond Shops 

and R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ...........- 345.6 (2.9) 
Increase during 1995 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value of investments .......- 6,660.3 
Change ane 1995 in deemed applicable income 

NOS cao oats Wea eek ack Ana aan a to ara pee ay: (2,334.8) 
Increase in minority shareholders’ interest in 

unrealized appreciation ............. (57.1) 
Net earnings 1995 2.02.00... 725.2 
Balance December 31, 1995.2... . ee $6.9 SLO01.7 $10,632.8 $5,610.46 $34.7 


38 


(14) Dividend restrictions - Insurance subsidiaries 
Payments of dividends by Insurance Group members are restricted by insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior 
regulatory approval in 1996, Berkshire can receive up to approximately $787 million as dividends from insurance subsidiaries. 


Combined shareholders’ equity of insurance subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory 
Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $19.5 billion at December 31, 1995. This amount exceeded by 
approximately $3.2 billion the corresponding amount determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles; the 
difference principally represents deferred income tax assets and liabilities and deferred charges re reinsurance assumed 
recognized for financial reporting purposes but not for statutory reporting purposes. 


(15) Fair values of financial instruments 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” (“SFAS 
107”), requires certain fair value disclosures. Fair value disclosures are required for most investment securities as well as other 
contractual assets and liabilities. Certain financial instruments, including insurance contracts, were excluded from SFAS 107 
disclosure requirements due to perceived difficulties in measuring fair value. Accordingly, an estimation of fair value was not 
made with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 


In determining fair value, the Company used quoted market prices when available. For instruments where quoted market 
prices were not available, the Company used independent pricing services or appraisals by the Company’s management. Those 
services and appraisals reflected the estimated present values utilizing current risk adjusted market rates of similar instruments. 


Considerable judgement is necessarily required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fatr value. 
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company could realize ina 
current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect 
on the estimated fair value. 


The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities are 
deemed to be reasonable estimates of their fair values. The estimated fair values of the Company’s other financial instruments 
as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, are as follows (in millions): 


Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value 
1995 1994 1995 1994 
Investments in securities with fixed : 

Maturities. oss c sis nsewe kee eves ee $ 835.2 $ 1,820.7 $ 835.2 $ 1,820.7 
Investments in marketable equity securities .... 22,000.3 15,236.5 22,000.3 15,236.5 
Investment in Salomon Inc 822.7 1,023.4 822.7 983.8 
Assets of finance businesses .... we 756.7 TATA 792.3 702.9 
Borrowings undex investment agreements and 

Other Ce DE ied. wierd. 4nd etches beads 1,061.7 810.7 1,095.0 768.6 
Liabilities of finance businesses ............. 685.2 562.4 704.4 546.7 


(16) Supplemental cash flow information 
A summary of supplemental cash flow information is presented in the following table (in millions): 


L995 1994 1993 
Cash paid during the year for: 
Tie ome taxes <6. k hea eh eee ee eee eee $ 294.6 $ 41L1 $ 235.0 
TtGTESt 0. gee ee BR ca eke eR may BRIE Gane dog Bw ee 83.9 90.6 70.6 
Non-cash investing and financing activities: 
Liabilities assumed in connection with acquisition of businesses ... 248.0 26.1 
Common shares issued in connection with acquisition of 
Businesses ic sve se eevee aed Dicey find wee nde 348.5 —_ 433.0 
Common shares issued upon conversions of Zero Coupon 
Convertible Subordinated Notes 2.2.00 022.. 000000 e eee ee eee —_ 45.5 


39 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 


(17) Quarterly data 
A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in the following table. This 
information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts 


Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 
1995 Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 

Revenues nso cncatusatyan inc ip pra et omabadanns ‘ $923.5 $1,004.9 $1,083.3 $1,476.0 
Earnings: 

Excluding realized investment gain ............. : $ 124.9 $ 127.8 $ 129.3 $ 218.2 

Realized investment gain (loss}..............0- : (4,7) 517 43.2 34.8 

Net earnings ............. Lu aati eur eid : $_ 120.2 3S 179.5 $172.5 $ 253.0 
Earnings per share: 

Before realized investment gain ................. $ 106.12 § 108.02 $ 108.32 $ 182.82 

Realized investment gain (loss) ......0.0.0.0.00005 (4.03) 43.71 36.18 29.16 

Net earnings anaes 2 $ 102.09 $ 151.73 $ 144.50 $ 211.98 

Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 
$994 Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 

REVENUES! x. cH ak ted tie seby LO eye SAE pA cet e 918.0 $ 868.4 $ 795.5 $1,265.6 
Earnings: 

Excluding realized investment gain .............-. 5 82.3 $ 158.8 $ 110.5 $ 82.1% 

Realized investment gain (loss) ..... span alas 50.6 5.9 (4.7) 9.3 

Net camings 2... 0.022. c.e cesses fagengn Ble oe & $132.9 $164.7 $_ 105.8 $91.4 
Earnings per share 

Before realized investment gain $ 69.89 $ 134.82 $ 93.79 $ 69.71* 

Realized investment gain (loss) ..... biG patetandntd 42.94 4.98 (3.94) 7.93 

Net €€rNiN@S e052 nad ea eyaendawsgy sta DE dons 112.83 $ 139.80 $89.85 $ 77.64 


* Includes a nonrecurring charge of $172.6 ($146.53/share) representing an other-than-temporary decline in value of 
investment in USAir Group, Inc. Preferred Stack, See note J. 


(18) Business segment data 
See page 41. 


(19) Accounting rule to be adopted in 1996 

In 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, 
“Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of” (SFAS 121). The 
Company’s required adoption date is January 1, 1996. SFAS 121 standardizes the accounting practices for the recognition and 
measurement of impairment losses on certain long-lived assets, including goodwill. The Company believes the adoption of 
SFAS 121 will not have a material impact on its results of operations or financial position. 


40 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Business Segment Data 


Berkshire identified eight business segments for purposes of 1995 reporting pursuant to Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 14. These include the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business (The Insurance 


Segment) plus seven separately conducted non-insurance businesses as follows: 
Business 
identity and headquarters Product Activity 
See's Candies Candy Manufacture and distribution at retail 


South San Francisco, CA 


World Book 
Chicago, IL 


and by catalog solicitation 


Encyclopedias and 
other reference materials 


Publication and marketing, 
principally by the direct sales method 


Kirby, Douglas and 
Cleveland Wood Divisions 
of The Scott Fetzer Company 
Cleveland, OH 


Home cleaning systems Manufacture and sale principally to distributors 


Nebraska Furniture Mart and 
R.C, Willey Home Furnishings 
Ornaha, NE and Salt Lake 
City, UT 


Home furnishings Retailing 


Buffalo News Newspaper Publication of a daily and Sunday newspaper 
Buffalo, NY 

H. H. Brown Shoe Co., 
Lowell Shoe, Inc, and 
Dexter Shoe Companies Shoes Manufacture, importing and distribution at wholesale 
Greenwich, CT, Hudson, and retail 
NH and Dexter, ME 

Fechheimer Bros. Co. Uniforms Manufacture and distribution at wholesale and retail 


Cincinnati, OH 


The business segments identified above were responsible in 1995 for 79% of Berkshire’s consolidated revenues, Other 
businesses activities that contributed for 1995, in the aggregate, 20% of Berkshire’s consolidated revenues, were as follows: 


Business 1 ity 

Adaler - PLM 

BHR 

Berkshire Hathaway 
Credit Corporation 

Berkshire Hathaway Life 
Insurance Co. 

Blue Chip Stamps 

Borsheims 

Campbell Hausfeld 

Carefree 

France 

Halex 

Helzberg's Diamond Shops 

K&W Products 

Merian 

Northland 

Powerwinch 

Precision Steel Products 

Quikut 

ScouCare 

Scott Fetzer Financial Group 

Scot Labs 

Stahl 

Wayne 

Wesco Financial 

Western Enterprises 

Western Plastics 


Product/Service/Activily 
Explosion proof electrical enclosures, cable couplers and terminations 
Real estale management 


Commercial financing 


Annuities 

Marketing motivational services 

Retailing fine jewelry 

Air compressors, air tools, painting systems, pressure washers and generators 
Sun and shade contro) products for the home and campground 
Appliance and HVAC controls, ignition and sign transformers 

Zine die cast conduit fittings and other electrical construction materials 
Retailing fine jewelry 

Automotive compounds 

Pressure and flow measurement devices 

Fractional horsepower electric motors 

Marine winches and windlasses; general purpose winches and hoists 
Stee} service center 

Cutlery for home and sporting goods markets 

Cardiopulmonary rehabilitation and monitoring equipment 
Commercial and consumer finance companies 

Cleaning and maintenance chemicals 

Custom service bodies, flatbed bodies, cranes and tocl boxes for trucks 
Furnace burners; sump, utility and sewage pumps 

Real ¢state management 

Medical and industrial compressed gas fittings and regulators 

Molded plastic components 


4 


Business Segment Data (Continued) 


A disaggregation of Berkshire's consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is presented in the tables which 
follow on this and the following page. Amounts are in millions. 


Revenues Operating profit before taxes 
1995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Identified Segments: 
INSUTANCE? a, hy aatid btn ga Re $1,640.1 $1,437.0  $1,591.2 $ 700.9 $ 639.2 $ 961.4 
Non-insurance businesses ......... 1,918.9 L779 1,440.2 249.3 275.4 224.8 
3,559.0 3,208.9 3,031.4 950.2 914.6 1,186.2 
Other than identified segments ........ 928.7 638.6 567.9 114.6 (192.3)** 60.1 
Interest expense *¥.........02..0005 (56.0) (60.1) (56.6) 
Aggregate consolidated total $4,487.7 $3,847.5 _$3,599.3 $1,008.8 § 662.2 $1,189,7 


* Amounts of interest expense represent those for borrowings under investment agreements and other debt exclusive of 
that of finance businesses and interest allocated to certain identified segments. 


** Includes pre-tax charge of $268.5 representing an other than temporary decline in value of investment in USAir 
Group, Inc, Preferred Stock. 


Insurance Segment Revenues Operating profit before taxes 
1995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Premiums earned: * 
Primary or direct... 0... ee ee $ 287.3 $ 281.1 $ 2496 
Reinsurance assumed . T1834 688.5 442.4 
Reinsurance ceded .............. (48.2) (46.4) (41.3) 
957.5 923.2 650.7 
Underwriting 20.0.0... 0.00.0, hes $ 196 $ 1290 $ 30.1 
Investment income ............ shia 501.5 421.8 384.6 500.2 418.2 375.4 
Realized investment gain ......... < 181.1 92.0 555.9 181.1 92.0 555.9 
$1,640.1 $1,437.0 _$4,591.2 $ 700.9 $ 6392 $ 961.4 
* Premiums written were as follows: 
1995 1994 1993 
Primary or direct .....-........5 $ 2948 $ 2712 $ 247.2 
Reinsurance assumed . 777.9 689.9 528.8 
Reinsurance ceded .............. (48.5) (45.6) (38.9) 


$L0242 $ 9155 $ 7371 


Non-Insurance Business Segments Revenues Operating profit befere taxes 

1995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Gandy: cde Laie nas eats .... § 2336 $ 2161 $ 201.0 $ 493 $ 466 $ 403 
Encyclopedias, other reference material . . 157.9 191.3 198.8 7.4 24.4 19.4 
Home cleaning systems ....-....... 235.6 207.6 193.9 52.6 43.9 40.9 
Home furnishings . 428.1 245.4 208.6 28.1 16.9 2. 
Newspaper ...... 24 154.8 150.9 145.5 46.3 53,7 50.4 
SHOES: ounce wa ts 565.1 609.4 370.2 49,5 76.4 40.0 
Uniforms .. 2.2... : 143.8 151.2 122.2 16.1 13.5 12.7 
$1,918.9 $1,7719 $1,440.2 $ 249.3 § 2754 $ 224.8 


42 


Business Segment Data (Continued) 


Other Than Identified Segments Revenues Operating profit before taxes 
I995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Other businesses ............. -.. $877.9 $607.3 $550.7 $ 777 $ 59.2 $ 55.2 
Not identified with specific businesses: 
Interest and dividend income ...... 378 32.0 26.6 37.8 32.0 26.6 
Realized investrnent gain (loss) .... 13.0 (0.7) (9.4) 13.0 (0.7) (9.4) 
Alt other except interest expense ..... 13.9) (282.8)* (12.3) 
$928.7 $638.6 $567.9 $114.6 $(192.3) $ 60.1 


* Includes pre-tax charge of $268.5 representing an other-than-temporary decline in value of investment in USAir 
Group, Ine. Preferred Stock. 


Deprec. & amort. 


Capital expenditures * of tangible assets 

1995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Insurance ............. aegesignlaseess $1.2 $09 $ 12 $ 0.9 $ 0.9 $08 
Candy ... or Sl 4) 43 4.1 4.1 4.1 
Encyclopedias, other reference material . . — 0.1 0.7 1.0 1.4 14 
Home cleaning systems 0.3 1.0 ie) 3.0 42 5.3 
Home furnishings . 92 22.6 53 97 6.2 2.7 
Newspaper 1.8 §2 36 49 2.2 1.9 
Shoes ........ 13.7 17.9 44 12.0 10.2 5.2 
Uniforms =m : i 0.6 46 1.0 2.2 2.5 1.8 
ORDER au are facet eee ieee be ; 22.3 16.7 13.0 22.5 17.9 17.3 

$54.2 $67.1 $35.0 $60.3 $49.6 $40.5 


* Excludes expenditures which were part of business acquisitions. 


Identifiable assets 


at year-end 
1995 1994 1993 
Insurance: 2. cee on ae $26,497.4 $18,494.2 $16,126.9 
Candy). 2255000 scithoars! astgannts 74.5 69.4 70.2 
Encyclopedias, other reference materia] 718 75.9 74.7 
Home cleaning systems .... . A429 42.1 48.7 
Home furnishings ......... 4277 128.4 101.1 
Newspaper... . is c ; ee 45.0 48.4 45.4 
SHOES: x AearStaaencni eabeaieAtad ees a 656.7 672.7 641.6 
WNTOEIMS! awk Ri dred Wieder nde be eae ee A Matai s se 83.5 94.9 87.6 
OUNCE 23 Ae e a ne hee ilin ss obdats ai egane ee wide a cacy 2,029.3 1,712.2 2,324.3 


$29,928.8 $21,338.2 $19,520.5 


43 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financia] Condition and Results of Operations 


Results of Operations 


Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. Amounts are after 
deducting minority interests and taxes. 
—__— (dollars in millions) 


1995 1994 1993 
Property and Casualty Insurance Segment: 
Underwriting: 2. ssjscopsivraysaghadinw ead eeeea bids Os Hee ore? $ 10.4 $ 79.9 $ 19.2 
Investment income ..... 416.3 349.2 320.9 
Realized investment gain 7.7 61.6 362.7 


Total - Property and Casualty Insurance Segment 544.4 490.7 702.8 


Non-Insurance business segments ...........00.2. 02202000. 147.4 165.8 133.3 
Other businesses 2... eee asta 44.0 36.4 33.2 
Realized investment gain (loss) not included above 73 (0.5) (6.0) 
All other except interest expense ..........0.- E 17.0 12.3 6.7 
Interest Oxpense ay isaa weaned eee ot Mae ea deta dyes aes (34.9) (37.3) (35.6) 
Earnings before nonrecurring charges 
and effect of accounting change .......-.... ses sects Got eh et 725.2 667.4 834.4 
Nonrecurring charges and effect of accounting change .........0..0.0.0.. _— (172.6) (146.3) 
Net Canis! 56 oiesas seedy ag uaccae aetna Parsee aes ka hte $725.2 $494.8 $688.1 


The business segment data on the preceding pages of this report should be read in conjunction with this 
discussion. 


Property and Casualty Insurance Underwriting 
The after-tax figures shown above for Property and Casualty Insurance underwriting derive from the 


following: 
(dollars in millions) 


1995 1994 1993 

Underwriting gain (loss): 
Primary or direct insurance ............... AIS, Gok eo bch arch debs $ 40.6 $ 48.3 $ 12.7 
Reinsurance assumed ...... : (21.0) 80.7 17.3 
Underwriting gain — pre-tax... eee 19.6 129.0 30.0 
Applicable income taxes . . : ee ae dite 72 48.3 10.2 
Applicable minority interest 00.20.0000. 0000.0. eee ee eee : 2.0 0.8 0.6 
After-tax underwriting gain... 0.0.0.2... eee. ree ee ere $ 10.4 $_79.9 $19.2 


The Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group engages in both insurance and reinsurance of property/casualty 
risks. In its insurance activities, as distinguished from its reinsurance activities, its members assume risks of loss from 
persons primarily and directly subject to the risks. In its reinsurance activities, the members assume defined portions 
of similar or dissimilar risks to which other insurers and reinsurers have subjected themselves in their own insuring 
activities. Over the past three years, reinsurance assumed activities have produced about 73% of the aggregate 
premiums earned by the property and casualty insurance group. 


A significant marketing strategy followed by all Insurance Group members is the maintenance of 
extraordinary capital strength, Statutory surplus as regards policyholders of the Insurance Group increased to 
approximately $19.5 billion at December 31, 1995. This superior capital strength creates opportunities for Insurance 
Group members to negotiate and enter into contracts of insurance specially designed to meet unique needs of 
sophisticated insurance and reinsurance buyers. 


44 


Property and Casualty Insurance Underwriting (continued) 


For purposes of this Discussion, premiums and losses and loss expenses amounts are stated net of 
reinsurance ceded. 


Reinsurance Assumed 


Underwriting results, stated on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), with respect 
to the reinsurance assumed business for the past three years are summarized in the following table 


____ (dollars in millions) 


1995 1994 1993 
Amount % Amount _% Amount _% 
Premilms WHEN sa.4cn3ecedaKenere aw Shen vealode $777.0 $ 689.8 $ 528.7 
Premiums earned .. 2.2.2.0... a ifesise g Glataayien sce $717.6 100.0 $ 688.4 100.0 § 442.4 100.0 
Losses and loss expenses ............-5- Pe 5220. “F277 476.9 69.3 350.9 79.3 
Underwriting expenses .............--- . 216.6 30.2 130.8 19.0 74.2 16.8 
Total losses and expenses... 0... eee eee 738.6 102.9 607.7 _88.3 425.1 96.1 
Underwriting gain (loss) — pre-tax ....-.. 0. cee $ (24.0 $ 80.7 $ 173 


Reinsurance assumed operations are conducted from National Indemnity Company’s offices in Stamford, 
Connecticut. The Insurance Group enters into a variety of types of reinsurance contracts, including catastrophe and 
other excess of loss contracts and quota share contracts. Excess of loss contracts provide indemnification to ceding 
companies for all or part of covered losses in excess of specified retentions. Such retentions may apply to either an 
individual loss occurrence or an aggregation of occurrences. Quota share contracts provide indemnification to ceding 
companies in specified proportion of the ceding companies’ own losses. Most contracts specify a maximum aggregate 
amount of indemnification. 


Reinsurance premiums earned from catastrophe excess of loss policies totalled about $260 million in 1995, 
$447 million in 1994 and $152 million in 1993. Underwriting gains of approximately $152 million in 1995, $240 million 
in 1994 and $110 million in 1993, resulted from the Insurance Group’s catastrophe reinsurance business. The 
considerable amounts of premiums earned from this business, coupled with the fact that only the 1994 Northridge 
earthquake produced a significant catastrophe loss during the last three years, contributed to the underwriting 
gains in each of these years. 


The magnitude of underwriting gains recorded over the last three years from the catastrophe reinsurance 
business should not be considered predictive of future results. The underwriting gains produced by this business in any 
given year can be easily exceeded by losses in the next. Thus periodic underwriting results were and are expected to 
be subject to substantial volatility. Berkshire’s management, however, is willing to accept such volatility, provided that 
there is a reasonable prospect of long term profitability. 


The increased levels of capital devoted to the catastrophe reinsurance market by the insurance industry 
in recent years has put pressure on competitors to lower prices below the levels Berkshire management considered 
adequate. The result was a decrease in acceptances and amounts of premiums earned from catastrophe policies by 
the Group in 1995. Management anticipates that the level of catastrophe business accepted in 1996 may again decline. 


Premiums earned from other property and casualty excess of loss and quota-share coverages totalled about 
$451 million in 1995, $238 million in 1994 and $253 million in 1993. These coverages gave rise to underwriting losses 
of $98 million in 1995, $82 million in 1994 and $28 million in 1993. The increase in premiums earned in 1995 over 
amounts earned in 1994 and 1993 primarily derived from a few sizable excess of loss treaties. 


In most non-catastrophe reinsurance contracts, the concept of the time-value-of-money is an important 
consideration due to the anticipated extended claim payment period — or “tail”. This is especially true with respect 
to reinsurance of certain casualty or liability coverages, for which the premiums are based in significant part on time 
discounting of expected losses. Reserves for losses and loss expenses are established for these contracts on an 
undiscounted basis, thus resulting in underwriting losses for financial reporting purposes. This business is accepted, 
nonetheless, because of the large amounts of investable policyholder funds (ar “float’) that it produces. 


45 


Management’s Discussion (continued) 
Property and Casualty Insurance Underwriting (continued) 
Reinsurance Assumed (continued) 


The underwriting results from the reinsurance businesses discussed above reflect net charges of about $30 
million in 1995 and $37 million in 1994 of adverse loss development of previous years loss occurrences. The nature 
of estimating losses is inherently imprecise, particularly with respect to losses which are reported and settled over 
lengthy periods of time. In the future, additional information will be revealed, including reports of additional cases of 
an unknown number and magnitude for pre-1996 losses. Loss development represents corrections of prior estimates 
and is credited or charged to earnings in the year made. The estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses 
from reinsurance assumed businesses totalled about $3.1 billion at the end of 1995, Subsequent loss development with 
respect to a liability of this magnitude is another factor which may cause substantial volatility in future periodic 
earnings. 


Prior to 1993, the Group entered into significant levels of retroactive reinsurance — excess of loss 
coverage of past events and structured settlement reinsurance — contracts providing periodic payments with respect 
to settled claims. Opportunities to write retroactive coverages in recent years have been minimal. Underwriting losses 
with respect to retroactive and structured settlement coverages amounted to $75 million in 1995, $78 million in 1994 
and $64 million in 1993, reflecting principally the amortization of deferred charges re reinsurance assumed and 
accretion of discounted structured settlement liabilities. See Notes ](g) and I(#) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for information with respect to such charges and liabilities. The amortization and accretion are reported 
as losses incurred, and thus, because there is no related premium income, as underwriting losses. Amortization and 
accretion charges of about $70 million are expected in 1996. 


Primary or Direct insurance Underwriting 


A summary follows of the combined underwriting results, stated on a GAAP basis, of the Berkshire 
Hathaway Insurance Group’s primary or direct insurance operations. 


(dollars are in millions) 


1995 1994 1993 
Amount _% Amount _% Amount _% 

Premiums written ............... $ 247.2 $ 225.7 $ 208.4 
Premiums earned . $ 239.9 100.0 $ 234.8 100.0 $ 208.3 100.0 
Losses and loss expenses 90.0 37.5 88.4 37.6 998 479 
Underwriting expenses endinehe 109.3 45.6 98.1 41.8 95.8 _46.0 
Total losses and expenses «0. eee 199.3 _83.1* 186.5 _79.4* 195.6 _93.9* 
Underwriting gain — pre-tax 222.2. eee $40.6 $48.3 $12.7 


* Includes favorable loss development credits: 1995 — $49.3 million, 1994 — $54.] million and 1993 — $41.6 million. Without 
such credits, total losses and expenses as a percentage of premiums earned were: 1995 — 103.7%, 1994 — 102.4% 
and 1993 — 113.9%. 


Primary or direct insurance activities include the “traditional” business, directed from National Indemnity 
Company’s Omaha offices. This business represents principally casualty coverages for commercial accounts. The 
commercial casualty/professional liability/specialty risk operations located in Stamford, Connecticut, enter into insurance 
contracts with insureds presenting risks unusual in nature and/or especially large in amount. The Homestate Group 
companies underwrite various commercial coverages for risks in an increasing number of selected states. Cypress 
Insurance Company, a specialty carrier, underwrites workers’ compensation risks primarily in California. Additionally, 
these activities include the credit card credit insurance business written nationwide by Central States Indemnity Co. 
of Omaha (“CSI”). Group members follow disciplined underwriting approaches which encourage rejection of 
underpriced risks without regard to volume considerations. 


CSI’s business differs substantially from the insurance business underwritten by the other members of the 
Insurance Group. CSI’s premiums derive ftom a high volume of small dollar premium transactions generated through 
credit card issuers. CSI’s underwriting costs, primarily commissions to credit card issuers, are normally higher, but claim 
costs are normally lower than for the other primary or direct underwriting units. Overall, periodic underwriting results 
from this business are anticipated to be less volatile than the other primary or direct insurance operations. CSI 
produced premiums earned of $93 million, $72 million and $69 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. CSI’s net 
underwriting gain was about $7 million for 1995, $4 million for 1994 and $5 million for 1993. 


46 


Property and Casuaity Insurance Underwriting (continued) 


Primary or Direct Insurance Underwriting (continued) 


Premiums earned by Berkshire’s other primary or direct insurance businesses totalled $147 million, $163 
million and $140 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Higher amounts of premiums were earned by the 
Homestate Group in 1995 as compared to 1994. This increase was more than offset by decreased premiums earned 
in 1995 from each of the other primary or direct insurance businesses. Each primary or direct insurance business 
operates in highly competitive markets. Soft market conditions which have prevailed over the past several years 
continued through 1995 with respect to most property and casualty coverages. Management does not foresee any 
significant change in market conditions which would soon reverse the trend of low premium volume. 


Other primary or direct businesses produced a net underwriting gain of $33 million for 1995, $44 million 
for 1994 and $8 million for 1993. As noted in the preceding table, favorable loss development credits were recorded 
in each of the last three years. The favorable development recorded in 1995 and 1994 related principally to the 
traditional commercial business and to the commercial casualty/professional liability/specialty risks operations. In 
1993, the favorable development credits related primarily to the traditional commercial business. While the trend of 
favorable development recognized in recent years is encouraging, there is no certainty that it will continue into 
future periods. 


Insurance Segment Investment Income 
Following is a summary of Insucance Group net investment income for the past three years. 


(dollars in millions) 


1995 1994 _1993 
Investment income before taxes ....... ds acttiya dot tine hae $500.2 $418.2 $375.4 
Applicable income taxes ............ 9 ae cde gat tage Nee EN 78.9 64.3 $1.2 
Applicable minority interest 2.0... eee 5.0 47 3.3 
Investment income after taxes and minority interest ..... 2... $416.3 $349.2 $320.9 


Invested assets increased in each of the past three years. In the three year period, reinvested earnings of 
the Group and capital contributed by Berkshire totalled approximately $2.1 billion. In addition, over the past three 
year period, the amount of “float” from policyholder funds increased by approximately $1.3 billion. That term 
denotes the sum of unpaid losses, unpaid Joss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums, and other liabilities to 
policyholders tess the aggregate of agents’ balances receivable, amounts recoverable as reinsurance on paid and unpaid 
losses, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges re reinsurance assumed and prepaid income taxes. The net 
amount of float was approximately $3.8 billion at the end of 1995. The amount of pre-tax investment income shown 
above for 1995 and 1994 includes the equity in net earnings or losses with respect to the Group’s investment in 
common stock of Salomon Inc. For 1995, the Group’s equity in net earnings of Salomon was $17 million compared 
to a loss of $33 million for 1994. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information 
regarding the investments in Salomon Inc. 


Non-Insurance Business Segments 


A summary follows of results to Berkshire from these identified business segments for the past 
three years. 
(dollars in millions) ——___ 


1995 1994 1993 
Amount % Amount % Amount _% 
REVENUES 5.2.5 a ts aavica ended Mera ie seseeess $1,918.9° 100.0  $1,771.9 100.0 $1,440.2 100.0 
Cost and expenses ................... 1,669.6 _ 87.0 1,496.5 84.5 1,215.4 84.4 
Operating profit ...............000. 249.3 13.0 2754 15.5 2248 15.6 
Income taxes ©. cack eevee ees 98.6 5.1 106.2 6.0 87.8 6.1 
Minority Interest .................. F 3.3 0,2 3.4 0.2 3.7 0.3 
Contribution to net earnings . . . Z Sxl $147.4 7 $165.8 9.3 $133.3 9.2 


47 


Management’s Discussion (continued) 
Non-Insurance Business Segments (continued) 


A comparison of revenues and operating profits between 1995, 1994 and 1993 for each of the seven 
identifiable non-insurance business segments follows. 


(dollars in millions) _ Operating Profit 
Revenues Operating Profits as a % of Revenues 
Segment 1995 1994 — 1993 1995 1994 1993 1995 1994 1993 
Candy: “i ce08 snk od on ee ge seeeeee. §$ 233.6 $ 2161 $ 2010 $493 $ 466 $403 21.1 21.6 20.0 
Encyclopedias, other reference material... . 157.9 191.3 198.8 TA 24.4 19.4 47 12.8 9.8 
Home cleaning systems ....... Bee eee 235.6 207.6 193.9 52.6 43.9 40.9 223 201 21.1 
Home furnishings ............ haa 428.1 245.4 208.6 = 28.1 16.9 21.1 6.6 69 10.1 
Newspaper . eq dob i oY oe 154.8 150.9 145.5 46.3 $3.7 50.4 29.9 35.6 34,6 
SW0GS 2 2s osieeeinty Bea negihd rises ate 365.1 609.4 370.2 49.5 76.4 40.0 8.8 12,5 10.8 
Uniforms ........... atrbei vel 2a Putas site 143.8 151.2 122.2 16.1 13.5 12.7 ti2 8.9 10.4 


$1918.9 $1,771.9 $1,440.2 $249.3 $275.4 $224.8 


1995 compared to 1994 
Revenues from the seven identifiable non-insurance business segments of $1,918.9 million increased $147.0 

million (8.3%) from the prior year. The overall operating profit from these business segments of $249.3 million 
decreased $26.1 million (9.5%). The following is a discussion of significant matters impacting comparative results for 
each of the non-insurance business segments. 


Candy 


Revenues of the candy segment increased $17.5 million (8.1%) over comparable prior year amounts. The 
comparative increase in revenues is primarily due to increased volume. Total pounds of candy sold increased about 
7.1%. Most of the volume increase arose from See s quantity order and mail order programs. Total pounds sold during 
1995 from quantity order and mail order programs increased about 15%. 


Operating profits increased $2.7 million (5.8%) over comparable prior year amounts. Somewhat offsetting 
the favorable impact on profits of the increased volume was increased advertising and payroll costs. Such increases 
primarily related to Sees continuing efforts to intensify the marketing of its mail order and quantity order business. 


Encyclopedias, Other Reference Materials 


Revenues of this segment declined $33.4 million (17.5%) from 1994. The decline continues the trend of 
reduced unit sales of printed encyclopedias (World Book and Childeraft) which began in 1989 when revenues from this 
segment were in excess of $300 million. Operating profits of this segment declined $17.0 million (69.7%) from 1994, 
The comparative decline in operating profits was primarily due to the decline in revenues. Also negatively impacting 
comparative operating profits were increased paper costs anda higher ratio of administrative, selling and editorial costs 
to revenues. 


The quantity of print products sold in the future will be influenced by the capacity of the company to 
market and sell an expanded line of products which better combine the advantages of print and electronic media. 
World Book sold more than $4.0 million of multimedia encyclopedia products in 1995 and has significantly expanded 
its efforts to increase the number of CD-ROM titles in its library. Management believes the increased efforts in 
marketing and product innovation will enhance the capacity of the company to compete in the home and school 
markets for educational products. 


Management is concerned about the impact of the continued increase in home computers equipped with 
CD-ROMs and the lower price of CD-ROM encyclopedias in comparison to printed encyclopedias, World Book has 
stepped up its efforts to market its CD-ROM product (World Book Multimedia Encyclopedia), It is hoped that this 
product and other similar offerings will provide World Book an opportunity to better compete in an industry which is 
beset by increasingly tough competition from other CD-ROM and on-line offerings. 


48 


Non-Insurance Business Segments (continued) 


1995 compared to 1994 (continued) 
Encyclopedias, Other Reference Material (continued) 


At the end of 1995, World Book began implementing various significant cost cutting measures. These 
measures included significant reductions in administrative costs and a major change in the way it distributes printed 
encyclopedias. It will take time to evaluate the effects of the various initiatives, but management is cautiously 
optimistic that such efforts will improve the prospects of this business. 


Home Cleaning Systems 

Revenues of the home cleaning systems segment increased $28.0 million (13.5%) and operating profits 
increased $8.7 million (19.8%) over prior year amounts. Unit sales volume increased 8% domestically and 24% in 
international markets. Foreign Kirby sales represent approximately 21% of total unit volume. The favorable 
comparative results are attributed to an increase in the average number of domestic distributors and improvements 
in the structure of the sales force in international markets. The businesses comprising this segment were acquired in 
connection with Berkshire’s acquisition in 1986 of Scott Fetzer. Since that time, operating profits generated from these 
businesses have more than doubled and revenues have increased over 85%. Management anticipates continued 
successful results from this segment. 


Home Furnishings 

Revenues from this segment increased in 1995 by $182.7 million (74.4%) over the prior year. The major 
reason for the increase was an acquisition which took place at mid-year. Effective June 29, 1995, Berkshire 
consummated a merger with R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“&.C. Willey”) and acquired 100% of the stock of the 
privately held corporation. 2.C. Willey, through its seven retail locations, is the dominant retailer of home furnishings 
in Utah. 2.C. Willey sells the same types of products as the Nebraska Furniture Mart (the business formerly comprising 
this segment). Both businesses have about the same annual sales volume. For the last half of 1995, R.C. Willey 
contributed about $150 million to the overall comparative revenue increase of this segment. 


Operating profits of $28.1 million were $11.2 million (66.3%) greater than in 1994. R.C. Willey’ inclusion 
in this segment's results for the second half of the year more than accounts for the increase in comparative operating 
profits. Nebraska Furniture Mart’s (“NFA?’) comparative operating profits declined about 10% in 1995 as compared. 
to 1994. The reduction in NFM operating profits resulted primarily from increased depreciation charges and payroll 
costs related to the first full year of operation of its electronics superstore more than offsetting the benefits of volume 
increases. The superstore known as the “Mega Mart’ opened in November 1994. 


Newspaper 

Operating profits during 1995 of $46.3 million declined $7.4 million (13.8%) over the comparable 1994 
arnount. The decline in operating profits was not unexpected and was predicted in Berkshire’s 1994 management’s 
discussion. A major factor contributing to the decline in operating profits was a sharp increase in newsprint costs. The 
costs per metric ton of newsprint increased almost 40% in 1995 as compared to 1994. For several years prior to 1995, 
newsprint costs had either been stable or had declined. While management doesn’t expect these costs to rise in 1996 
at the same rate, it is still possible that additional increases of 5% to 10% will occur. 


Two other factors contributed somewhat to lower comparative operating profits. Special one-time charges 
were recorded to accrue the costs of buying out the contracts of a number of composing room employees whose 
services are not required under present production techniques but whose jobs were subject to lifetime guarantees. 
Additionally, adjustments were made to the periods over which certain data handling and electronic equipment were 
being depreciated. 


Over the last several years, the attractiveness of newspaper businesses as strong economic franchises has 
been reduced. While the industry retains excellent economics, over time it can be expected that the competitive 
strength of the newspaper business will gradually erode. However, management expects that the newspaper business 
and the Buffalo News in particular will remain a fine business for many years to come. 


49 


Management’s Discussion (continued) 
Non-Insurance Business Segments (continued) 


19935 compared to 1994 (continued) 
Shoes 


This segment includes H. H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc. (“H. A. Brown”), Lowell Shoe, Inc. (“Lowell”) and 
Dexter Shoe Companies (“Dexter”). These businesses were acquired by Berkshire during the period between June 1991 
and November 1993. H. H. Brown, acquired in 1991, is a manufacturer and distributor of work, safety and casual 
footwear. Lowell, acquired at the end of 1992, manufactures and markets women’s casual, service and nurses’ footwear. 
The acquisition of Dexter occurred in late 1993. Dexter is a manufacturer of men’s and women’s dress, casual and 
athletic footwear. Additionally, Dexter operates 76 retail outlet stores and H. H. Brown operates 15 retail shoe stores. 


Revenues during 1995 of $565.1 million were lower than the prior year by $44.3 million (7.3%). Operating 
profits of this segment declined $26.9 million (35.3%) in 1995 as compared to the prior year. All of the businesses 
which comprise this segment experienced declines in revenues and profits. 


The footwear industry, with the exception of the athletic segment, experienced depressed earnings during 
1995 and many competitors earned only marginal profits or incurred losses. Intense competition resulted in many 
footwear manufacturers and importers selling their products at or below cost. A flurry of retail consolidations and 
closings resulted in a surplus of close-out merchandise and made sales of regular priced products extremely difficult. 


Management is optimistic that 1996 will be a better year for the footwear industry. The three businesses 
that comprise this segment provide functional footwear products to many niche markets. It is anticipated that these 
businesses will be able to capitalize on opportunities resulting from a reduction in competition. In order to maximize 
future opportunities, the businesses intend to focus on lowering production and administrative costs. Over time, it is 
expected that Berkshire’s shoe businesses will return to higher earnings levels more in line with 1994’s results. 


Uniforms 

The uniform segment’s revenues decreased $7.4 million (4.9%) in 1995 as compared to 1994. However, 
operating profits in 1995 increased $2.6 million (19.3%) over the comparable prior year figure. The decline in 
comparative revenues was attributable to a reduction in sales to New York City fire fighters in connection with a 
special three year program which incepted in £994. Somewhat offsetting the aforementioned revenue declines were 
increases in revenues from the segment’s core uniform manufacturing businesses. Margins related to the New York 
City Fire Department business are significantly less than those of the core uniform manufacturing business. Thus, in 
spite of the overall decline in revenues, comparative operating profits increased primarily due to the sales mix change. 


1994 compared to 1993 


Revenues from the non-insurance business segments increased $331.7 miflion (23.0%) in 1994 as compared 
to 1993. The most significant revenue increase arose in the “shoes” segment where revenues increased $239.2 million 
(64.6%) over the comparable prior year figures. The acquisition of Dexter late in 1993 accounts for a substantial portion 
of the comparative increase as 1994 results include Dexter's business for the full year as compared to about two 
months in 1993. With the exception of the “encyclopedias, other reference material” segment, all other reportable non- 
insurance business segments experienced increases in comparative revenues in 1994 vs. 1993, The decline in the 
“encyclopedias, other reference material” segment was a result of the continuation of a reduction which began in 1989 
in printed encyclopedia sales. (See preceding section regarding comparative 1995 vs. 1994 results for a discussion 
regarding the decline in World Book unit sales.) 


Operating profits of $275.4 million during 1994 were $50.6 million (22.5%) greater than in 1993. The 
“shoes” segment with a comparative increase of $36.4 million (91.0%) was the major contributor to the comparative 
increase. The Dexter acquisition accounts for substantially all the comparative increase in operating profits for the 
“shoes’’ segment. 


Non-Insurance Business Segments (continued) 


Business Other Than Identified Segments 
___(dollars in millions)___ 
1995 1994 1993 


Revenues . ces. eae dae Sashes ca tachtnn Siem eds thd Code a hotssediay Aes .... $877.9 $607.3 


Operating profit ......... 


Income taxes ....... : 327 22.1 
Minority interest ....... LO 07 
Contribution to net earnings _ - Oe cutee a sae $ 44.0 $ 364 


The above represent aggregate data for businesses that numbered 25 in 1995. Revenues from businesses 
not identified with specific business segments increased by $270.6 million (44.6%) in 1995 as compared to the prior 
year. Operating profits from this group of businesses increased by $18.5 million (31.2%) in 1995 versus the prior year. 
Most of this increase in revenues during 1995 relates to the acquisition of Helzberg’s Diamond Shops (‘“Helzberg’s”) 
on April 30, 1995. Helzberg’s consists of a chain of 166 retail jewelry stores operating in 25 states. Operating profits 
generated by Helzberg’s during the last eight months of 1995 more than account for the increase in 1995 operating 
profits as compared to the prior two years. 


Interest Expense 


The decrease in interest expense in 1995 as compared to 1994 primarily results from the fact that average 
outstanding borrowings under investment agreements decreased by about $64 million during 1995 as compared to 1994. 
Additionally, the average interest rate related to such borrowings decreased from 6.6% in 1994 to 6.5% in 1995. The 
level of average borrowings under investment agreements in 1994 was approximately $80 million greater than the 
comparable 1993 amount and primarily accounts for the increase in 1994’s interest expense over the comparable 1993 
amount. 


Realized Investment Gain 


Realized investment gain has been a recurring element in Berkshire’s net earnings for many years. The 
amount — recorded when appreciated securities are sold — tends to fluctuate significantly from period to period, with 
a meaningful effect upon Berkshire’s consolidated net earnings. But, the amount of realized investment gain for any 
given period has no predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical analytical value, 
particularly in view of the unrealized price appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio 


During the fourth quarter of 1993, an insurance subsidiary of Berkshire sold ten million common shares 
of its investment in Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. in connection with that Company's offer to buy from its shareholders up 
to twenty million of its common shares. Berkshire’s after-tax gain from this transaction was $297.4 million. 


Nonrecurring charges and accounting changes 


As more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during 1994 the Company 
recorded a pre-tax charge of $268.5 million ($172.6 million after-taxes and minority interests) as result of recognizing 
an other than temporary decline in the value of its investment in USAir Group, Inc. Preferred Stock. 


Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 109 “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“SFAS 109”). The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 109 on the 
Company's 1993 results was to decrease net earnings by about $71 million. Additionally, during 1993 a charge of $75.3 
million was recorded as a result of the increase in the Federal corporate income tax rate from 34% to 35%. For a 
further description of the accounting change and the charge to earnings resulting from the change in Federal income 
tax rates, see Notes 1(7) and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


SL 


Management’s Discussion (continued) 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 


Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1995, reflects continuing capital strength, In 
the past three years, Berkshire shareholders’ equity has increased ftom approximately $8.9 billion at December 31, 1992 
to approximately $17.2 billion at December 31, 1995. In that three-year period, realized and unrealized securities gains 
increased equity capital by approximately $6.0 billion, and reinvested earnings, other than realized securities gains, were 
about $1.4 billion. 


The following events occurred subsequent to December 31, 1995 and will impact future operating results 
and liquidity. 


GEICO Acquisition 
As more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 2, 1996 the 
Company consummated a merger with GEICO Corporation (“GEICO”). The merger was pursuant to an agreement 
dated August 25, 1995, whereby the Company agreed to acquire for cash each issued and outstanding common share 
of GEICO except shares already held by Berkshire. The cost of acquiring such shares was approximately $2.3 billion. 
The Company utilized cash and cash equivalents which were on hand at December 31, 1995 to acquire the GEICO 
common shares. 


GEICO, through its subsidiaries, is a multiple line property/casualty insurer, the principal business of which 
is writing private passenger automobile insurance. Beginning in 1996, GEICO’s results will be included in the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements. Inclusion of GEICO will have a substantial effect on comparative period- 
to-period underwriting results and investment income earned by the Insurance Group during 1996. GEICO’s 1995 
condensed financial statements are included in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financia] Statements. 


Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. acquisition by The Walt Disney Company 

On January 4, 1996, shareholders of Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (“Capital Cities”) and The Walt Disney 
Company (“Disney”) approved an agreement whereby each Capital Cities common share will be converted at the 
election of the holder, subject to certain limitations including proration, into the right to receive for each share of 
Capital Cities stock either a) one share of Disney stock and $65 in cash; or b) 2.048 shares of Disney stock; or c) $127 
in cash. At December 31, 1995, Berkshire held 20 million Capital Cities common shares, The Company has elected 
the option of receiving 2.048 shares of Disney stock for each of its shares of Capital Cities stock. However, the election 
is subject to proration and the actual consideration to be received is not currently known. 


Proposed Recapitalization 
On February 13, 1996, Berkshire announced that at its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 
6, 1996, shareholders will be asked to approve a recapitalization of Berkshire, creating two classes of common stock. 
If the recapitalization is approved, among other things, a new class of stock to be designated Class B Common Stock 
will be authorized. Berkshire’s existing common stock will be redesignated as Class A Common Stock. Each share of 
Class A Common Stock will be convertible at the option of the holder into thirty shares of Class B Common Stock. 


For the purpose of creating an initial supply of Class B shares, Berkshire intends to make a public offering 
of at least $100 million of new Class B shares. Berkshire could, of course, issue more than $100 million of Class B 
shares, and will do so if believed necessary to forestall any speculative excesses in the market for its stock. Berkshire 
expects to find constructive uses from the proceeds generated from the public offering. However, at this time, the 
Company has no specific plans for utilizing the proceeds. The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus 
and is expected to occur, subject to sharcholder approval of the recapitalization, reasonably soon following the 
annual meeting. 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years 
(dollars in millions, except per share data) 


1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 
Revenues: 
Sales and service revenues ....... $2,755.9 $2,351.9 $1,962.9 $1,774.4 $1,651.1 
Insurance premiums earned . 957.5 923.2 650.7 664.3 116.4 
Interest and dividend income ..... : 474.8 426.1 354.1 364.9 347.3 
Income from investinent in Salomon Ine zis 78.8 30.1 63.0 63.0 63.0 
Income from finance businesses eee 26.6 24.9 22,2 20.7 19.5 
Realized investment gain .............. 194.1 91.3 546.4 89.9 192.5 
Total revenues ............ eer $4,487.7 $3,847.5 $3,599,3 $2,977.2 $3,049.8 
Earnings: 
Before realized investment gain and 
cumulative effect of accounting change $600.2 $433.70 $402.42 $347.7 $315.7 
Realized investment gain .............. 125.0 6L.L 356.7 59.6 124.2 
Cumulative effect of ‘change i in accounting 
for income taxes .. 2.0... ee = a (71.0) — —_ 
NEtGarnings csc ac cw he ea 4 bnew oe $725.2 $494.8 $688.1 $407.3 $439.9 
Earnings per share: 
Before realized investment gain and 
cumulative effect of accounting change. . $505.60 $368.21" $348.03 $303.29 $275.42 
Realized investment gain .............. 105.30 51.91 308.50 $1.95 108.30 
Cumulative effect of change in accounting 
for income taxes .. 0.2.0.0... 0020005 = = (61.39) = 
NGLCAMNINGS 08 open cede wane vase $610.90 $420.12 $595 14 $355.24 $383.72 


Year-end data: 
Total assets: ays Moke 2 ee cdulegheea $29,928.8 $21,338.2 $19,520.5 $17,132.0 $14,461.9 
Borrowings under investment agreements 


and other debt 2.2.2.0... 1,061.7 810.7 972.4 1,154.7 1,100.5 
Shareholders’ equity ain 17,217.1 11,875.0 10,428.5 8,896.4 7,379.9 
Common shares outstanding, 

WN THOUSANS, osc ad bk ade Beane eed 1,194 1,178 1,178 1,149 1,146 
Shareholders’ equity per 

outstanding share .......... soeeeee $ 14,426 $_ 10,083 $8,854 $7,745 $6,437 


Includes a charge of $172.6 ($146.53/share) representing an other-than-iemporary decline in value of investment in USAir 
Group, Inc. Preferred Stock, 


°& Includes a charge of $75.3 ($65.38/share) representing the effect of the change in federal income tax rates on deferred taxes 
applicable to unrealized appreciation. 


& Excludes borrowings of finance businesses. 


53 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
SHAREHOLDER-DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS 


The Company has conducted this program of corporate giving during each of the past fifteen years. On 
October 14, 1981, the Chairman sent to the shareholders a letter* explaining the program. Portions of that letter 
follow: 


“On September 30, 1981 Berkshire received a tax ruling from the U.S. Treasury Department that, 
in most years, should produce a significant benefit for charities of your choice. 


“Each Berkshire shareholder — on a basis proportional to the number of shares of Berkshire that 
he owns — will be able to designate recipients of charitable contributions by our company. You’ll 
name the charity; Berkshire will write the check. The ruling states that there will be no personal tax 
consequences to our shareholders from making such designations. 


“Thus, our approximately 1500 owners now can exercise a perquisite that, although routinely 
exercised by the owners in closely-held businesses, is almost exclusively exercised by the managers in 
more widely-held businesses. 


“In a widely-held corporation the executives ordinarily arrange all charitable donations, with no 
input at all from shareholders, in two main categories: 


(1) Donations considered to benefit the corporation directly in an amount 
roughly commensurate with the cost of the donation; and 

(2) Donations considered to benefit the corporation indirectly through hard-to- 
measure, long-delayed feedback effects of various kinds. 


“I and other Berkshire executives have arranged in the past, as we will arrange in the future, all 
charitable donations in the first category. However, the aggregate level of giving in such category has 
been quite low, and very likely will remain quite low, because not many gifts can be shown to produce 
roughly commensurate direct benefits to Berkshire. 


“In the second category, Berkshire’s charitable gifis have been virtually nil, because | am not 
comfortable with ordinary corporate practice and had no better practice to substitute. What bothers 
me about ordinary corporate practice is the way gifts tend to be made based more on who does the 
asking and how corporate peers are responding than on an objective evaluation of the donee’s 
activities. Conventionality often overpowers rationality. 


“A common result is the use of the stockholder’s money to implement the charitable inclinations 
of the corporate manager, who usually is heavily influenced by specific social pressures on him. 
Frequently there is an added incongruity; many corporate managers deplore governmental allocation 
of the taxpayer’s dollar but embrace enthusiastically their own allocation of the shareholder’s dollar. 


“For Berkshire, a different model seems appropriate. Just as | wouldn’t want you to implement 
your personal judgments by writing checks on my bank account for charities of your choice, I feel it 
inappropriate to write checks on your corporate “bank account” for charities of my choice. Your 
charitable preferences are as good as mine and, for both you and me, funds available to foster 
charitable interests in a tax-deductible manner reside largely at the corporate level rather than in our 
own hands. 


“Under such circumstances, I believe Berkshire should imitate more closely-held companies, not 
larger public companies. If you and T each own 50% of a corporation, our charitable decision making 
would be simple. Charities very directly related to the operations of the business would have first claim 
on our available charitable funds. Any balance available after the “operations-related” contributions 
would be divided among various charitable interests of the two of us, on a basis roughly proportional 
to our ownership interest. If the manager of our company had some suggestions, we would listen 
carefully — but the final decision would be ours. Despite our corporate form, in this aspect of the 
business we probably would behave as if we were a partnership 


*Copyright © 1981 By Warren b. Buffett 
All Rights Reserved 


“Wherever feasible, I believe in maintaining such a partnership frame of mind, even though we 
operate through a large, fairly widely-held corporation. Our Treasury ruling will allow such partnership- 
ike behavior in this area. . . 


“T am pleased that Berkshire donations can become owner-directed. It is ironic, but 
understandable, that a large and growing number of major corporations have charitable policies 
ursuant to which they will match gifts made by their employees (and — brace yourself for this one 
— many even match gifts made by directors) but none, to my knowledge, has a plan matching 
charitable gifts by owners. I say “understandable” because much of the stock of many large 
corporations is owned on a “revolving door” basis by institutions that have short-term investment 
orizons, and that lack a long-term owner’s perspective . . . 


“Our own shareholders are a different breed. As 1 mentioned in the 1979 annual report, at the 
end of each year more than 98% of our shares are owned by people who were shareholders at the 
beginning of the year. This long-term commitment to the business reflects an owner mentality which, 
as your manager, I intend to acknowledge in all feasible ways. The designated contributions policy is 
an example of that intent.” 


kok 


The history of contributions made pursuant to this program since its inception follows: 


Percent of 


Specified Amount Eligible* Shares Amount No. of 
Year per share Participating Contributed Charities 
1981 $2 95.6% $ 1,783,655 675 
1982 $1 95.8% $ 890,948 704 
1983 $3 96.4% $ 3,066,501 1,353 
1984 $3 97.2% $ 3,179,049 1,519 
1985 $4 96.8% $ 4,006,260 1,724 
1986 $4 97.1% $ 3,996,820 1,934 
1987 $5 97.2% $ 4,937,574 2,050 
1988 $5 97 A% $ 4,965,665 2,319 
1989 $6 96.9% S 5,867,254 2,550 
1990 $6 97.3% S$ 5,823,672 2,600 
1991 $7 97.7% $ 6,772,024 2,630 
1992, $8 97.0% $ 7,634,784 2,810 
1993 $10 97.3% S$ 9,448,370 3,110 
1994 $11 95.7% $10,419,497 3,330 
1995 $12 96.3% $11,558,616 3,600 


* Shares registered in sireet name are not eligible to participate. 


In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions summarized above, Berkshire and its subsidiaries 
have made certain contributions pursuant to local level decisions of operating managers of the businesses. 


ee 


The program may not be conducted in the occasional year, if any, when the contributions would produce 
substandard or no tax deductions. In other years Berkshire expects to inform shareholders of the amount per 
share that may be designated, and a reply form will accompany the notice allowing shareholders to respond with 
their designations. If the program is conducted in 1996, the notice will be mailed on or about September 15 to 
Class A shareholders of record reflected in our Registrar’s records as of the close of business August 31, 1996, 
and shareholders wil! be given until November 15 to respond. 


Shareholders should note the fact that Class A shares held in street name are not eligible to participate 
in the program, To qualify, shares must be registered with our Registrar on August 31 in the owner's 
individual name(s) or the name of an owning trust, corporation, partnership or estate, as applicable. 
Also, shareholders should note that Class B shares will not be eligible to participate in the program 
(See pages 18-19 for additional information concerning the proposed recapitalization). 


Ln 
wn 


THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


BUSINESS GROUPS 


Berkshire’s consolidated data is rearranged in the presentations on the 
following six pages into four categories, corresponding to the way Mr. 
Buffett and Mr. Munger think about Berkshire’s businesses. The 
presentations may be helpful to readers in making estimates of Berkshire’s 
intrinsic value. 

The presentations in this section do not conform in all respects to generally 
accepted accounting principles. Principal departures from GAAP relate to 
accounting treatment for assets acquired in business acquisitions, 


although students and practitioners of accounting will recognize others. 


Opinions of Berkshire’s independent auditors were not solicited for this 


data. The four-category presentations in no way fell within their purview. 


Sh 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


INSURANCE GROUP 


Berkshire’s property/casualty insurance business is conducted by 13 separate 
subsidiaries, The members underwrite multiple lines of principally casualty coverages 
for pninarily commercial accounts, providing, for example, liability coverages for 
truck and bus operators, and property/casualty coverages for especially large or 
unusual risks. The Commercial Casualty Division and the Professional Liability and 
Special Risk Division solicit and underwrite the large or unusual risks. The 
“Homestate Group” companies underwrite various commierciai coverages for risks in 
an increasing number of selected states. A California domiciled member provides 
workers’ compensation insurance to principally employers in that state. In addition, 
a Nebraska domiciled company issues credit insurance distributed through credit card 
issuers nationwide. 


A Reinsurance Division provides treaty and limited facultative reinsurance to 
other property/casualty insurers and reinsurers. This division is currently one of the 
leading providers in the world of property/catastrophe protection. 


The Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group maintains capital strength at 
unparalleled high levels, significantly higher than normal in the industry. This 
strength differentiates Group members from their competitors. For example, the 
Group’s net premiums written in 1995 were approximately 5% of the Group's year- 
end statutory surplus. That compares to an industry average premiums-to-surplus 
tatio of about 130% (for 1994). The obvious margins of safety thus provided to 
insureds of the Group are particularly persuasive in marketing of individually 
negotiated insurance and reinsurance contracts. 


On January 2, 1996, GEICO Corporation (“GEICO”) became an indirect wholly- 
owned subsidiary of Berkshire. GEICO is a multiple line property and casualty 
i , the principal business of which is writing private passenger automobile 
insurance. Beginning in 1996, GEICO’s results will be combined with Berkshire’s 
Giher property/casualty insurance businesses in developing these statements, A 
condensed balance sheet as of December 31, 1995 and condensed earnings statement 
for the year then ended of GEICO can be fourid on page 30. 


Combined financial statements of the Insurance Group — unaudited and not 
fully adjusted to conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles — are 
presented on the following page. 


58 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
INSURANCE GROUP 


Balance Sheets 
(dollars in millions) 
_December 31, 


1995 1994 
Assets 
Investments: 
Bixec AICS BY MIBIKEL oF peg cok ver ride dees re ded eiteiieedva $ 821.1 $ 1,809.4 
Equity securities at market: 
American Express Company .. 0.00 c eee cee eee pens ee nearesuess 2,000.5 794.1 
Capital Cities/ABC, Ine. ... . 2,405.8 1,662.4 
The Coca-Cola Company .. . mele 7,407.2 5,137.6 
Federal Home Loan Morigaae Cor poration EOAPLE 1,044.0 644.4 
GEICO Corporation ...... Mtoe 2,393.2 1,678.3 
The Gillette Company . . . . 2,502.0 1,797.0 
Wells Fargo & Company . . 1,426.8 957.8 
31 Ger beareetan eek OE Re 2 me : ee 2,633.6 2,451.9 
SOMO Ree E Me vameramtiae 1448 5 own otis copyrbh atl dna AAS OPA. tof gl) Sela om 782.1 972.2 
23,416.3 17,605.1 
Cash and cash equivalents ...... 2,328.9 90.3 
Deferred cos : : Stanek ; ae 389.7 468.2 
QUE RU See skids ticle yan at Richey nanny ins hia ethe ody Plow thie ase De ie ES 335.4 301.9 
$26,470.3 $ 18,465.5 
Liabilities 
Losses and loss adjustment expenses ........0..0.02220.00.0.02.0-.- td $ 3,698.6 $ 3,430.0 
Unearned premiums ...,...-........ 374.1 307.2 
Funds heid under reinsurance assumed. . aber P th 379.0 307.3 
Accounts payable, accruals and other .. 2... 6.0.26 ce ee ces 238.9 255.0 
Income taxes, principally deferred ..............-... URS ESIUNA SE bara 5,483.3 3,209.3 
10,173.9 7,508.8 
Equity 
Minority sharehoiders’ 196.4 136,5 
Berkshire sharehiokders’ __16,100.0 _10,820.2 
16,2964 10.956.7 
$26,470.3 $18,465.5 
Statements of Earnings 
(dollars in millions) 
1995 _ 1994 1993 
SVESIAT, UAT SO Sy aA) A cr Secrneadeae RoE EA elope Mears ey es rer be 2 BSR $1,024.2 $ 915.5 $ 737.1 
RIOR UTS MTOR lets Seats wren oa s bene hice a alow ne prety pe euNeS $ 957.5 $ 923.2 $ 650.7 
Losses and loss expe 612.0 565.3 450.7 
Underwriting expe 325.0 228.0 169.1 
‘Total losses and expenses ay ‘ mage 937.0 793.3 619.8 
Underwriting gain — pre-tax... 6 ces 20.5 129.9 30.9 
Net investment income* Skee eee coe tc re ty a be $01.6 419.4 375.4 
Realized imvesttient iii)... oo ce eee eee temensed 181.1 92.0 455.9 
Other-than-temporary decline in value of investment 
in USAir Group, Inc. Preferred Stock 2... ...0..0.00020405 — (261.0) o 
Earnings before income taxes .......... +ohaeht malas 703.2 380.3 962.2 
VRISMIC SS 2y oo Fee POA ADS Eee eae ei eee ears ee eee ree 149.0 Shit 254.4 
554.2 328.6 707.8 
PAPUA MRT R eS Uteont Slt tee Cateend ice al tiocn} nici diaces ste vida thecal n'ait baa ate i 75 43 4d 
Net camings $_.546.7 $324.3 $703.7 
* Net investment income is summarized below: 
DORICRES: FP Ba Hilde ke $385.0 
Inverest ...... 99.6 
Lquity in urremitte d net earnings te r y 18.3 
EPVOSHAERE CRPENSES oct cb been ee eases beesan (1.3) 
$501.6 


These statements do not conform to GAAP in all respects 
These statements are unaudited 


59 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
MANUFACTURING, PUBLISHING AND RETAILING BUSINESSES 


Combined financial statements of Berkshire’s Manufacturing, Publishing and Retailing businesses - unaudited and not fully 
adjusted to conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles - are presented on the following page. The operations whose 
data have been combined in these presentations include the following: 


Operation 

Adalet - PLM 

Blue Chip Stamps 
Borsheim s 

Buffalo News 

Campbell Hausfeld 
Carefree 

Cleveland Wood Products 
Dexter Shoe Companies 
Douglas Products 
Fechheimer Bros. Co. 
France 

H. H. Brown Shoe Co. 
Halex 

Heizberg’s Diamond Shops 
K&W Products 

Kirby 

Lowell Shoe, Inc. 


Meriam 


Nebraska Furniture Mart 
Northland 

Powerwinch 

Precision Steel Products 
Quikui 

ScotiCare 

Scot Labs 

See's Candies 

Staht 

Wayne 

Western Enterprises 
Western Plastics 

R.C. Willey Home Furnishings 
World Book 


Product/Service/Activity 

Explosion proof electrical enclosures, cable couplers and terminations 
Marketing motivational services 

Retailing fine jewelry 

Daily and Sunday newspaper 

Air compressors, air tools, painting systems, pressure washers and generators 
Sun and shade control products for the home and campground 
Vacuum cleaner brushes and bags 

Dress, casual and athletic shoes 

Hand-held electric and cordless vacuum cleariers 

Uniforms and accessories 

Appliance and HVAC controls; ignition and sign transformers 

Work shoes, boots and casual footwear 

Zine die cast conduit fittings and other electrical construction materials 
Retailing fine jewelry 

Automotive compounds 

Home cleaning systems 

Women’s and nurses’ shoes 

Pressure and flow measurement devices 

Retailing home furnishings 

Fractional horsepower electric motors 

Marine winches and windlasses; general purpose winches and hoists 
Steel service center 

Cutlery for the home and sporting goods markets 

Cardiopulmonary rehabilitation and monitoring equipment 

Cleaning and maintenance chemicals 

Boxed chocolates and other confectionery products 

Custom steel service bodies, flatbed bodies, cranes and tool boxes for trucks 
Furnace burners; sump, utility and sewage pumps 

Medical and industrial compressed gas fittings and regulators 

Molded plastic components 

Retailing home furnishings 


Printed and multimedia encyclopedias and other reference materials 


60 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


MANUFACTURING, PUBLISHING AND RETAILING BUSINESSES 


Balance Sheets 
(dollars in millions) 


December 31, 


1995 1994 
Assets 
Cash and cash equivalents ... $ 1245 $ 779 
Accounts receivable 454.7 308.8 
Inventories ...........- 556.0 398.2 
Properties and equipment 285.5 219.6 
Mare aus iret maKesls ar aan + nee es Leas Abbceroebrenamed A BARASSS 34.3 29.8 
$ 1,455.0 $_ 1,033.4 
Liabilities 
Accounts payable, accruals and other... . 0.0.00 eee $ 398.3 § 293.4 
Income taxes... 2.20202. ee air sree a ae 20.1 30.5 
Term debt and other borrowings ....... 2 was 150.6 21.7 
569.0 345.6 
Equity 
Minority shareholders’... ......-...... $98 Sr thoreh nGheys Roanbe sas eye a5) 40.1 
Berksinire shareholders’ .. 2.2.2.2... 0 eee ee eet < hme cag ag sa 8 846.5 647.7 
886.0 687.8 
$ 1,455.0 $ 1,033.4 
Statements of Earnings 
(dollars in millions} 
1995 1994 1993 
Revenues: 
Sales and service revenues ...-..5. 05000 c cee eee ceeeenees $2,755.9 $2,351.9 $1,962.9 
TC TESH INCOMING 1h 577 le ifovia san edb acne Aa Tols Le bud muy ed hee 25.1 9.4 8.0 
2,781.0 2,361.0 1,970.9 
Cost and expenses: 
Cost of products and services sold. .......-...... 1,698.4 1,442.9 1,172.5 
Selling, general and administrative expenses . E zs 741.4 578.5 SF ee: 
Meret RMR G Isher omen caarayn mee Sees acters tod aio ole a tine leerneetcyese ot oot oN 
2,448.9 2,025.1 1,698.4 
Earnings from operations before income taxes ..,..........0.05 332.1 335.9 272.5 
Tncoiie TAR ORPENSE. 2 ee pe eee cere nents eres Lato TEEN 126.4 122.3 103.7 
205.7 213.6 168.8 
Minority interest 4.5 4G 4.5 
INGROMIaIN Dom NE eht mate ta 4 SAY tae S(t TG ate-tey sco ale Sanerdl os $201.2 $208.7 $ 164.3 


This presentation reflects the results of operations of Dexter Shoe Company, Helzberg s Diamond Shops and R.C. Willey 
Home Furnishings from their respective dates of acquisition (Dexter —- November 7, 1993; Helzberg ’s —April 30, 1995; 
Willey — Jee 29, 1995). 

Purchase-price accounting adjustments, inchiding goodwill, arising from Berkshire’s business acquisitions are not 
reflected in these statements, but instead are reflected in the statements of non-operating activities at page 63. 


These statements do not conform to GAAP in all respects 
These statements are unaudited 


61 


BERKSHIRE RATHAWAY INC. 
FINANCE BUSINESSES 


Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Co. of 
Nebraska make up Berkshire’s finance businesses. 


Balance Sheets 
(dollars in millions) 


: December 31, 

1995 1994 
Assets a 
Cash: and cast, equivalents. Gad salads scdaocepemeon wae Maat eee ra ing eee ete co 
Fixed mmatirity Wivemmemte do cesar verrderocsiaem i: Dita bate odoes ane 
Installment and other receivable: 


Deferred tax assets ....- Deedinechatn /on) 4 Be 
(Oost Paes ees meet ea one Plage parte epee Se ane eon Te oa eae 
Liabilities 
Borrowings under investment agreements and other debt . . . $ 523.6 
Accounts payable, accruals and other 76,5 
ATUIMITY; FERC VES 23 Uialoelitaa wd srasre Dai gs Ae CIM MRE I TL Me Rete et ay mone 116.7 
716.8 
Equity 
Berkshire saatenhauistetctcy eta ta wae aauatels 441s sista 20g Leerec ee tan eran tak aera ate 
Statements of Earnings 
(dollars in millions) 
1995 1994 1993* 
Revenues: 
Interest and fees on loans and financed receivables ..... $ 37.9 $ 37.8 $ 43.6 
Interest and dividends on investment securities r ur 43.7 35.4 21.0 
AMMUY premiuins CAMeN — ona en nad et oels weiss Dees eet d 75.2 EI360. 3.6 
156.8 109.2 70.2 
Expenses; 
ERETAOUERDCHSS cats saqare tee Wane k ah edeat Al bone Solt 7 35,5 25,2 
Annuity benefits and underwriting expenses ............... 8 37.7 5.6 
General and administrative... 00... eens Pe) 13,9 i6.2 
6G 87.1 47.0 
Earnings from operations before income taxes .............. 8 Z2.1 23.2 
EREOMIE TAX EXPENSE 6 aici 41d DEE rene bens Bede member 2 82 iTS presen sei fi! 
126 14.6 15.5 
Minofity interest). cence ie sna Pole vy ecatace spoon evens — — 0.8 
Metieattiftigns 22002 wie.s es sa Aa beagle. dapat aie ee aes $126 S146 $147 


* Until October 1993, a savings and loan business was also included in this group of businesses. Net earnings includes 
$3.2 related to this business. 


These statements do not conform to GAAP in all respects 
These statements are unaudited 


62 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES 


These statements reflect the consolidated financial statement values for assets, liabilities, shareholders” equity, revenues 
and expenses that were not assigned to any Berkshire operating group in the unaudited, and not fully GAAP - adjusted group 
financial statements heretofore presented (pages 57 to 62). 


Statements of Net Assets 
(dollars in millions) 
December 31, 


1995 1994 
Assets 
CURRIE CGH CQUIVHEINS eh Sines oes Kaveh e pans eored Memeas hav ke $ 2504 $ 106.2 
Investments: 
Fixed maturities: 
FT OPMME AEH EEPRE Le PS -Ziea iS aalolc sc0s8 Cy dt oes qa dee Sem rg RS ce kia bile ary. 8.2 286.8 
Preferred stocks . 46.6 75.8 
Equity sectirities . 187.1 113.0 
Unamortized goodwill and { property account adjustments * TAT 6 320.4 


Deferred tax assets 8.0 
OREN ise epeistsk ead 186.3 
£2 1,296.: 296. 296.5, 
Liabilities 
Accounts payable, accruals and other... 2.00.0... ee ee eee $ 62.2 
TRGURIDE TANG RAs hear 51 Genter tomy a item aaa ts by 8 Wed bce ss bur band Speke aft ie 67.3 
Borrowings under investment agreements and other debt. ...........-...- 799.0 
9285 
Equity 
DATONG, DATSUNS cya ease Serna seoarhal go ales suelo gle tone 22.7 
BACCO ENG MENDON CHARM Tho) SE e-fe cs ag Pte vanasd okt hte es Pere harwe cae $ Phkes A 
Statements of Earnings 
(dollars in millions} 
1995 1994 1993 
Revenues: 
Interest and dividend income .........-. 2000. s cece eee ee $ 37.5 B: Sit $ 243 
Realized investment gain (l0ss) 2... ee ce ee eee nee 5 13.0 (0.7) (9.4) 
50.5 30.4 14.9 
Expenses: 
Corporate admimistration .. 0... 6.6 e cee eee eee 5.3 3.0 49 
Sharekolder-designated contributions . . er 11.6 10.4 94 
Amortization of goodwill and property account adjustments * . . 27.0 22.5 17.1 
UIRESPERE CHUAN AD NE 4 WSS ec) fale Siete. yee ope Ke oe es 55.3 59.4 54.0 
Other (income) exper (4) 17 (2.3) 
Other-than-temporary decline i in n value of investment 
in USAir Group, Inc, Preferred Stock ........-..0.-0-..005 = 75 LS 
97.8 106.5 83.1 
Exe eee APONTE TQNEE 90,4 ee os civ en he eee oe ened (47.3) (76.1) (68.2) 
Income tax expense (benefit) .... 2. eee eee eee __.C3.3) (22.8) 125.8** 
(34.0) (53.3) (194.0) 
Minority interest 1.3 (0.5) 0.6 
Net loss ....... $_ G53) 3 (52.8) 5 194.6) 


* Property account adjustmenis and goodwill arose in accounting for business acquisitions. 


** Jnclides nonrecurring charges of $146.3 related to adoption of a new rule regarding the accounting for income taxes. 


These statements do not conform to GAAP in all respeets 
These statements are unaudited 


63 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


COMMON STOCK 


Stock Transfer Agent 


The Bank of Boston, % Boston EquiServe, P.O. Box 644, Boston, MA 02102-0644 serves as Transfer Agent 
and Registrar for the Company's common stock. Correspondence may be directed to Investor Relations, Mail Stop 
45-02-64, Phone inquiries should be directed to Investor Relations — (617) 575-3100. Certificates for re-issue or 
transfer should be directed to the Transfer Processing Section, Mail Stop 45-01-05. Subject to the ratification by 
shareholders of a proposed recapitalization, certificates for conversions of Class A Common Stock should also be 
directed to the Transfer Processing Section. Certificates should not be mailed to the Company. 


Shareholders 


The Company had approximately 9,000 record holders of its common stock at March 8, 1996, Record owners 
included nominees holding at Jeast 215,000 shares on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners. Management 
believes that the Company has more than 20,000 beneficial owners. 


Price Range of Common Stock 


The Company’s Common Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK 
The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock 
Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated: 


1995 High Low 1994 High _ Low 
First Quarter .......... $25,200 $20,250 First Quarter... 2.0... $16,900 $15,150 
Second Quarter ........ 24,450 21,500 Second Quarter ........ 16,700 15,400 
Third Quarter... 2.00... 30,600 23,400 Third Quarter... .. 19,750 16,425 
Fourth Quarter ......... 33,400 28,850 Fourth Quarter ..... . 4 20,800 19,200 
Dividends 


Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967. 


64 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


DIRECTORS 
WARREN E, BUFFETT, Cheirnen 
Chief Executive Offiver uf Berkstire 
CHARLES T. MUNGER, Sice Chairman of Borksiire 
SUSAN T. BUFFETT 
HOWARD G. BUFFETT, 
Prestdent of tnicrnational Operations, The GSI Group, 


a company primarily ¢ 


agricsdiuval et 


MALCOLM G. CHACE, 
WALTER SCOTT, JR.. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
Peter Riewat Sons’, tuc., engaged worldwide in 


construction, mining, packaging and timberlands. 


OFFICERS 
WARREN E. BUFFETT, Chairman and CEO 
CHARLES T. MUNGER, Vice Chairman 
ROBERT H. BIRD. Mice President 
MARC D. HAMBURG, Mice President, Treasurer 
STANFORD LIPSEY, Vice President 
DANIEL J. JAKSICH, Controlter 
FORREST N. KRUTTER, Secretary 


ROBERT M. FITZSIMMONS, 
Direciar of internal Audinng 
JERRY W. HUFTON, 

Durectat of hisces 

MARK D. MILLARD, 
Drrector of Financial Assets 


Two compilations of letters from earlier Annual Reports (1977 through 1993) are 
available upon written request. A two volume sect will be furnished to shareholders without 
charge. Shareholders of record requesting the compilations should provide their name and 
address as recorded on the stock certificate. Beneficial-but-not-of-record shareholders 
should include a copy of a broker's statement showing shares held. Non-shareholders may 
order the two volume set by submitting 4 written request and a payment to cover production, 
postage and handling costs of $15.00 for delivery in the United Slates or $30.00 (in US. 
currency) for delivery outside of the United States. Requests should be submitted to the 
Company at 3555 Farnam St., Suite 1440, Omaha, NE 68131. 


BerksHiRE HatrHaway INC. 
Executive Offices 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska 68131 


® 


Printed on recycled paper 


