BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Selected Financial Data at Six-Year Intervals 
(dollars in thousands except per sharé amounis} 


Revenues: 
Sales and service revenues ........ 
Insurance premiums earned........ 
Investment income-insurance group . 
Total revenues ....... saute ware diedimoes 


Earnings (loss) data: 
Before realized investment gain.... 
Realized investment gain .......... 


Net earnings ........... Nee cod ado 


Year-end data: 
Total assets ........ 0.0... cece eee 
Term debt and other borrowings... 
Minority shareholders’ interest..... 
Shareholders’ equity — total....... 


Shares of common stock 
outstanding — in thousands..... 


Shareholders’ equity per 
outstanding share ............... 


1964 1970 


Reape ER areeerrpeedereo 


$ 49,983 $ 24,569 


—_ 39,173 
49,983 66,880 


SP rl 


$ (2,824) $ 4,507 
= 58 


$ (2,824) $ _4,565 


S$ 27,887 S 113,212 


2,900 9,891 
22,139 48,483 
1,138. 980 


SEPP iP Sc 
ee 


1976 1982 1988 


Rei 


S 47,174 $& 306,564 $1,407,642 
80,780 152,945 984,235 
10,543 41,791 231,907 

139.069 544,832 _ 2,333,222 


ne eee 


S 16,073 $ 31,497 $ 313,441 
6.762 14.877 85,829 
$22,835 $ 46.374 $ 399,270 


S 283,041 $1,723,993 $6,816,848 
24,987 169,947 480,009 

— 111,596 66,396 
115,293 727,483 3,410,108 


973. 987 1,146 


S 118.49 $ 737.06 $ 2.974.52 


a i Ee aE TE cet eT ee 
EE eS gn - 


The 1964 fiscal year was the 52 week period ended October 3, 1964. The years 1970, 1976 and 
1982 were 52 week fiscal years that ended on Saturday nearest December 31. Data reflected above are 
presented in conformity with 1988 consolidation and accounting practices; accordingly certain prior 
vear data has been restated or reclassified. : 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. and its subsidiaries engage in a number of diverse business activities. 
The most important of these is the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business conducted 
nationwide through a number of subsidiaries. Substantial other business activities are conducted in unre- 
lated fields including manufacturing, publishing, and retailing. 


Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include meaningful ownership percentages of security 
issues of other publicly traded companies, including: GEICO Corporation, aie Cities/ABC, Inc., Washing- 


ton Post Company and Salomon Inc. 


Operating decisions. for the various Berkshire business units are made by unit managers. Investment 
decisions and all other capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire and its subsidiaries by Warren E. 
Buffett, in consultation with Charles T. Munger. Mr. Buffett is Chairman and Mr. Munger is Vice Chairman 


of Berkshire’s Board of Directors. 


Certain OWNER-RELATED BUSINESS PRINCIPLES were included in the Chairman's letter to 


Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in the 1983 Annual Report. Because the material remains 
topical, it is reproduced on this and the following page. 


With so many new shareholders, it's appropriate tc summarize the major business principles we 
follow that pertain to the manager-owner relationship: 


@ Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger and | think of our 
shareholders as owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners. (Because of the size of our 
shareholdings we also, are, for better or worse, controlling partners.) We do not view the company 
itself as the ultimate owner of our business assets but, instead, view the company as a conduit through 
which our shareholders own the assets. 


@ In line with this owner-orientation. our directors are major shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway. 
In the case of at least four, over 50% of family net worth is represented by holdings of Berkshire. We 
eat our own cooking. 


e Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications mentioned later) is to maximize the 
average annual rate of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not measure the 
economic significance or performance of Berkshire by its size; we measure by per-share progress. We 
are certain that the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future — a greatly enlarged capital 
base will see to that. But we will be disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the average large 
American corporation. 


@ Our preference would be to reach this goal by directly owning a diversified group of businesses 
that generate cash and consistently earn above-average returns on capital. Our second choice is to own 
parts of similar businesses, attained primarily through purchases of marketable common stocks by our 
insurance subsidiaries. The price and availability of businesses and the need for insurance capital 
determine any given year’s capital allocation. | 


@ Because of this two-pronged approach to business ownership and because of the limitations of 
conventional accounting, consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about our true 
economic performance. Charlie and I, both as owners and managers. virtually ignore such consoli- 
dated numbers. However, we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we control. 
numbers we consider of great importance. These figures, along with other information we will supply 
about the individual businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about them. 


@ Accounting consequences do not influence our operating or capital-allocation decisions. When 
acquisition costs are similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not reportable by us 
under standard accounting principles than to purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable. This is 
precisely the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose earnings will be fully report- 
able) frequently sell for double the pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely 
unreportable). In aggregate and over time, we expect the unreported earnings to be fully reflected in 
our intrinsic business value through capital gains. 


@ We rarely use much debt and, when we do, we attempt to structure it on a long-term fixed-rate 
basis. We will reject interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance sheet. This 
conservatism, has penalized our results but it is the only behavior that leaves us comfortable, consider- 
ing our fiduciary obligations to policyholders. depositors, lenders and the many equity holders who 
have committed unusually large portions of their net worth to our care. (As one of the Indianapolis 
“S00” winners said: “To finish first, you must first finish.”) 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
1988 ANNUAL REPORT 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Owner-Related Business Principles........... 0... cece cece enee 2 
Chairman's Letter® ........... ccc cece eee cee ee eee eees veer ree 4 
Consolidated Financial Statements........... 0.00.00: eae e eee sehen cee 
Quarterly Data...... oh Fe ameter Ebeaniecud aan Geena eae 262200 
Independent Auditor’s Report........ 0.0.0 cc cee eee eee ees ere 35 
Managements’ Discussion ............... ee ee eres 36 


Combined Financial Statements — Unaudited — 
for Berkshire's Business Groups............. opie ae ye aaa ae 41 


Shareholdez-Designated Contributions ................. Poceh ehots 48 


Chairman’s Letter of August 5, 1988 
regarding NYSE Listing ........... cea eee: Dene aed yeas see 50 


Annual Report Letter — 
Wesco Financial Corporation ..........0.... cece eee eee ees 2 


Selected Financial Data For The 


Past Five Years 2.2... 0... cc ec ec eee eee ct aee Le aah cemaateeae 72 
Directors and Officers of the Company.......... Inside Back Cover 
Common Stock Data ............ 0. cece eee .... Inside Back Cover 


“Copyright ©1989 By Warren E. Buffett 
All Rights Reserved 


e A managerial “wish list” will not be filled at shareholder expense. We will not diversify by 
purchasing entire businesses at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to our 
shareholders. We will only do with your money what we would do with our own, weighing fully the 
values you can obtain by diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the stock 
market. 


@ We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically against results. We test the wisdom of 
retaining earnings by assessing whether retention, over time, delivers. shareholders at least $1 of 
market value for each $1 retained. To date, this test has been met. We will continue to apply it on a 
five-year rolling basis. As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to use retained earnings wisely. 


@ We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in business value as we give. This 
rule applies to all forms of issuance — not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock-for-debt 


swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as well. We will not sell small portions of your 


company — and that is what the issuance of shares amounts to — on a basis inconsistent with the 
value of the entire enterprise. 


@ You should be fully aware of one attitude Charlie and I share that hurts our financial perform- 
ance: regardless of price, we have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that Berkshire owns, 
and are very reluctant to sell sub-par businesses as. long as we expect them to generate at least some 
cash and as long as we feel good about their managers and labor relations. We hope not. to repeat the 
capital-allocation mistakes that led us into such sub-par businesses. And we react with great caution 
to suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to satisfactory profitability by major capital 
expenditures. {The projections will be dazzling — the advocates will be sincere — but, in the end, 
major additional investment in a terrible industry usually is about as rewarding as struggling in 
quicksand.) Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior (discard your least promising business at 


each turn) is not our style. We would rather have our overall results penalized a bit than engage in it. 


@ We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the pluses and minuses important in 
appraising business value. Our guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to know 
if our positions were reversed. We owe you no less. Moreover, as a company with a major communica- 
tions business, it would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of accuracy, balance and 


incisiveness when reporting on ourselves than we would expect our news people to apply when 


reporting on others. We also believe candor benefits us as managers: the CEO who misleads others in 
public may eventually mislead himself in private. 


@ Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our activities in marketable securities only to the 
extent legally required. Good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject to competitive appropria- 
tion just as good product or business acquisition ideas are. Therefore, we normally will not talk. about 
our investment ideas. This ban extends even to securities we have sold (because we may purchase 
them again} and to stocks we are incorrectly rumors” ~- ‘e buying. If we deny those reports but say 

“no comment” on other occasions, oe no-comments b.. sme confirmation. 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 


Our gain in net worth during 1988 was $569 million, or 20.0%. Over the last 24 years (that is, 
since present management took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to $2,974.52, or 
at a rate of 23.0% compounded annually. 


We've emphasized in past reports that what counts, however, is intrinsic business value — the 
figure, necessarily an estimate, indicating what all of our constituent businesses are worth. By our 
calculations, Berkshire’s intrinsic business value significantly exceeds its book value. Over the 24 
years, business value has grown somewhat faster than book value; in 1988, however, book value grew 
the faster, by a bit. | 


Berkshire’s past rates of gain in both book value and business value were achieved under 
circumstances far different from those that now exist. Anyone ignoring these differences makes the 
same mistake that a baseball manager would were he to judge the future prospects of a 42-year-old 
center fielder on the basis of his lifetime batting average. 


Important negatives affecting our prospects today are: (1) a less attractive stock market than 
generally existed over the past 24 years; (2) higher corporate tax rates on most forms of investment 
income; (3) a far more richly-priced market for the acquisition of businesses: and (4) industry 
conditions for Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO Corporation, and The Washington Post Company — 
Berkshire’s three permanent investments, constituting about one-half of our net worth — that range 
from slightly to materially less favorable than those existing five to ten years ago. All of these 
companies have superb management and strong properties. But, at current prices, their upside poten- 
tial looks considerably less exciting to us today than it did some years ago. 


The major problem we face, however, is a growing capital base. You've heard that from us before, 
but this problem, like age, grows. in significance each year. (And also, just as with age, it’s better to 
have this problem continue to grow rather than to have it “solved.”) 


Four years ago I told you that we needed profits of $3.9 billion to achieve a 15% annual return 
over the decade then ahead. Today, for the next decade, a 15% return demands profits of $10.3 billion. 
That seems like a very big number to me and to Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my 
partner. (Should that number indeed prove too big, Charlie will find himself, in future reports, 
retrospectively identified as the senior partner.) 


As a partial offset to the drag that our growing capital base exerts upon returns, we have a very 
important advantage now that we lacked 24 years ago. Then, all our capital was tied up in a textile 
business with inescapably poor economic characteristics. Today part of our capital is invested in some 
really exceptional businesses. 


Last year we dubbed these operations the Sainted Seven: Buffalo News, Fechheimer, Kirby. 
Nebraska Furniture Mart, Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, See’s, and World Book. In 1988 the Saints 
came marching in. You. can see just how extraordinary their returns on capital were by examining the 
historical-cost financial statements on page 45, which combine the figures of the Sainted Seven with 
those of several smaller units. With no benefit from financial leverage, this group earned about 67% on 
average equity capital. 


In most cases the remarkable performance of these units arises partially from an exceptional 
business franchise; in all cases an exceptional management is a vital factor. The contribution Charlie 
and I make is to leave these managers alone. 


In my judgment, these businesses, in aggregate, will continue to produce superb returns. We'll 
need these: Without this help Berkshire would not have a chance of achieving our 15% goal. You can 
be sure that our operating managers will deliver; the question mark in our future is whether Charlie 
and | can effectively emp!oy the funds that they generate. 


In that respect, we took a step in the right direction early in 1989 when we purchased an 80% 
interest in Borsheim's, a jewelry business in Omaha. This purchase, described later in this letter, 
delivers exactly what we look for: an outstanding business run by people we like, admire, and trust. 
It's: a great way to start the year. 


Accounting Changes 


We have made a significant accounting change that was mandated for 1988, and likely will have 
another to make in 1990. When we move figures around from year to year, without any change in 
economic reality, one of our always-thrilling discussions of accounting is necessary. 


First, ’ll offer my customary disclaimer: Despite the shortcomings of generally accepted account- 
ing principies (GAAP), I would hate to have the job of devising a better set of rules. The limitations of 
the existing set, however, need not be inhibiting: CEOs are free to treat GAAP statements as a 
beginning rather than an end to their obligation to inform owners and creditors — and indeed they 
should. After all, any manager of a subsidiary company would find himself in hot water if he reported 
barebones GAAP numbers that omitted key information needed by his boss, the parent corporation’s 
CEQ. Why, then, should the CEO himself withhold information vitally useful to his bosses — the 
sharehoider-owners of the corporation? 


What needs to be reported is data — whether GAAP, non-GAAP, or extra-GAAP — that helps 
financially-literate readers answer three key questions: (1) Approximately how much is this company 
worth? (2) What is the likelihood that it can meet its future obligations? and (3) How goad a jab are its 
managers doing, given the hand they have been dealt? | 


In most cases, answers to one or more of these questions are somewhere between difficult and 
impossible to glean from the minimum GAAP presentation. The business world is simply too complex 
for a single set of rules to effectively describe economic reality for all enterprises, particularly those 
operating in a wide variety of businesses, such as Berkshire. 


Further complicating the problem is the fact that many managements view GAAP not as a 
standard to be met, but as an obstacle to overcome. Too often their accountants willingly assist them. 
(“How much,” says the client, “is two plus two?” Replies the cooperative accountant, “What number 
did you have in mind?") Even honest and well-intentioned managements sometimes stretch GAAP a 
bit in order to present figures they think will more appropriately describe their performance. Both the 
smoothing of earnings and the “big bath” quarter are ‘’white lie” techniques employed by ctherwise 
upright managements. 


Then there are managers who actively use GAAP to deceive and defraud. They know that many 
investors and creditors accept GAAP results as gospel. So these charlatans interpret the rules “imagi- 
natively” and record business transactions in ways that technically comply with GAAP but actually 
display an economic illusion to the world. | 


As long as investors — including supposedly sophisticated institutions — place fancy valuations 
on reported “earnings” that march steadily upward, you can be sure that some managers and pro- 
moters will exploit GAAP to produce such numbers, no matter what the truth may be. Over the years, 
Charlie and I have observed many accounting-based frauds of staggering size. Few of the perpetrators 
have been punished; many have not even been censured. It has been far safer to steal large sums with 
a pen than small sums with a gun. 


Under one major change mandated by GAAP for 1988, we have been required to fully consolidate 
all our subsidiaries in our balance sheet and earnings statement. In the past, Mutual Savings and 
Loan, and Scott Fetzer Financial (i, credit company that primarily finances installment sales of World 
Book and Kirby products} were consolidated on a “one-line” basis. That meant we (1) showed our 
equity in their combined net worths as a single-entry asset on Berkshire’s consolidated balance sheet 
and (2) included our equity in their combined annual! earnings as a single-line income entry in our 
consolidated statement of earnings. Now the rules require that we consolidate euch asset and liability 
of these companies in our balance sheet and each item cf their income and expense in our earnings 
statement. 


This change underscores the need for companies also to report segmented data: The greater the 
number of economically diverse business operations lumped together in conventional financial state- 
ments, the less useful those presentations are and the less able investors are to answer the three 
questions posed earlier. Indeed, the only reason we ever prepare consolidated figures at Berkshire is to 
meet outside requirements. On the other hand, Charlie and I constantly study our segment data. 


Now that we are required to bundle more numbers in our GAAP statements, we have decided to 
publish additional supplementary information that we think will help you measure both business 
value and managerial performance. (Berkshire’s ability to discharge its obligations to creditors — the 
third question we listed — should be obvious, whatever statements you examine.) In these supplemen- 
tary presentations. we will not necessarily follow GAAP procedures, or even corporate structure. 
Rather, we will attempt to lump major business activities in ways that aid analysis but do not swamp 
you with detail. Our goal is to give you important information in a form that we would wish to get it 
if our roles were reversed. : 


On pages 41-47 we show separate combined balance sheets and earnings statements for: (1) our 
subsidiaries engaged in finance-type operations, which are Mutual Savings and Scott Fetzer Financial; 
{2} our insurance operations, with their major investment positions itemized; (3) our manufacturing, 
publishing and retailing businesses, leaving aside certain non-operating assets and purchase-price 
accounting adjustments; and (4) an all-other category that includes the non-operating assets (primarily 
marketable securities) held by the companies in (3} as well as various assets and debts of the Wesco 
and Berkshire parent companies. 


If you. combine the earnings and the net worths of these four segments, you will derive tois!s 
matching those shown on our GAAP statements. However, we want to emphasize that our new 
presentation does not fall within the purview of our auditors, who in no way bless it. (In fact, they 
may be horrified; | don’t want to ask.) 


I referred earlier to a major change in GAAP that is expected in 1990. This change relates to the 
calculation of deferred taxes, and is both complicated and controversial — so much so that its 
imposition, originally scheduled for 1989, was postponed for a year. 


When implemented, the new rule will affect us in various ways. Most important, we will be 
required to change the way we calculate our liability for deferred taxes on the unrealized appreciation 
of stocks held by our insurance companies. 


Right now, our liability is layered. For the unrealized appreciation that dates back to 1986 and 
earlier years, $1.2 billion, we have booked a 28% tax liability. For the unrealized appreciation built up 
since, $600 million, the tax liability has been booked at 34%. The difference reflects the increase in 
tax rates thal went into effect in 1987, 


it now appears, however, that the new accounting rule will require us to establish the entire 
liability at 34% in 1990, taking the charge against our earnings. Assuming no change in tax rates by 
1990, this step will reduce our earnings in that year (and thereby our reported net worth) by $71 
million. The proposed rule will also affect other items on our balance sheet, but these changes will 
have only a minor impact on earnings and net worth. 


We have no strong views about the desirability of this change in calculation of deferred taxes. 
We should point out, however, that neither a 28% nor a 34% tax liability precisely depicts eco- 
nomic reality at Berkshire since we have no plans to sell the stocks in which we have the great bulk 
of our gains. 


To those of you who are uninterested in accounting, | apologize for this dissertation. | realize that 
many of you do not pore over our figures, but instead hold Berkshire primarily because you know 
that: (1) Charlie and I have the bulk of our money in Berkshire; (2) we intend to run things so that 
your gains or losses are in direct proportion to ours; and (3} the record has so far been satisfactory. 
There is nothing necessarily wrong with this kind of ‘‘faith” approach to investing. Other shareholders, 
however, prefer an “analysis” approach and we want to supply the information they need. In our own 
investing, we search for situations in which both approaches give us the same answer. 


Sources of Reported Earnings 


In addition to supplying you with our new four-sector accounting material, we will continue to 
list the major sources of Berkshire’s reported earnings just as we have in the past. 


In the following table, amortization of Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting 
adjustments are not charged against the specific businesses to which they apply but are instead 
aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they 
would have been reported had we not purchased them. I've explained in past reports why this form of 
presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers than the standard GAAP 
presentation, which makes purchase-price adjustments on a business-by-business basis. The total net 
earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our audited financial 


statements. 


Further information about these businesses is given in the Business Segment section on pages 32- 
34, and in the Management’s Discussion section on pages 36-40. In these sections you also will find 
our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. For information on Wesco’s businesses, I urge vou to 
read Charlie Munger’s letter, which starts on page 52. It contains the best description I have seen of 
the events that produced the present savings-and-loan crisis. Also, take special note of Dave Hill- 
strom’s performance at Precision Steel Warehouse, a Wesco subsidiary. Precision operates in an 
extremely competitive industry, yet Dave consistently achieves good returns on invested capital. 
Though data is lacking to prove the point, I think it is likely that his performance, both in 1988 and 
years past, would rank him number one among his peers. 


| {000s omitted) 


Berkshire’s Share 
of Net Earnings 
(after taxes and 


Pre-Tax Earnings minority interests} 


1988 _-_ 1987 1988 | 1987 
Operating Earnings: 
Insurance Group: 
Underwriting. ............4. boise ace eaaes $(11,081) $(55.429) $ (1,045) $(20,696) 
Net Investment Income .............. 2c eae 231,250 152,483 197,779 136,658 
Buffalo News ...... Rae eee nese Pad a eee ee Paes 42,429 39,410 25,462 21,304 
FOCHNGINGl 644.04-00<00 ci iwi Keeton denied 14,152 13,332 7,720 6,580 
Kirby ...... PO Ce ee re re err gee 26,891 22,408 17,842 12,891 
Nebraska Furniture Mart..............005. ee 18,439 16,837 9,099. 7,554 
Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group............... 28,542 30,591 17,640 17,555 
See's Candies ii 20000 sce chaew ewan ees eine h cane as 32,473 31,693 19,671 17,363 
Wesco — other than Insurance...............02- 16,133. 6,209 10,650. 4,978 
World Book... cc. ccc cece c cece cece en ceces de Senet 27,890 25,745 18,021 15,136 
Amortization of (Soodwill.............. 0c ces (2,806) (2,862) {2,806) (2,862) 
Other Purchase-Price Accounting Charges........ (6,342) (5,546) (7,340) {6,544} 
Interest on Debt*............... tetas arasame bets Guiters (35,613} (11,474) (23,212) (5,905) 
Shareholder-Designated Contributions............ (4,966) (4,938) (3,217) (2,953) 
OMGr i aveeihictea ane sesoee ee es eens 41,059 23,217 27,177 13,697 
Operating Earnings .......... er ee re 418,450 281,676 313,441 214,746 
Sales of Securities. ...... 2.000. ccc eee eect eee 131,671 28,838 85,829 19,806 
Total Earnings — All Entities.....................  §550,121 $310,514 $399,270 $234,552 


"Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group. 


The earnings achieved by our operating businesses are superb, whether measured on an absolute 
basis or against those of their competitors. For that we thank our operating managers: You and | are 
fortunate. to be associated with them. 


At Berkshire, associations like these last a long time. We do not remove superstars from our line- 
up merely because they have attained a specified age — whether the traditional 65, or the 95 reached 
by Mrs. B on the eve of Hanukkah in 1988. Superb managers are too scarce a resource to be discarded 
simply because a cake gets crowded with candies. Moreover, our experience with newly-minted MBAs 
has not been that great. Their academic records always look terrific and the candidates always know 
just what to say; but too often they are short on personal commitment to the company and general 
business savvy. It’s difficult to teach a new dog old tricks. 


Here's an update on our major non-insurance operations: 


@ At Nebraska Furniture Mart, Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin) and her cart roll on and on. She's been the 
boss for 51 years, having started the business at 44 with $500. (Think what she would have done with 
$1,000!) With Mrs. B, old age will always be ten years away. 


The Mart, long the largest home furnishings store in the country, continues to grow. In the fall, 
the store opened a detached 20,000 square foot Clearance Center, which expands our ability to offer 
bargains in all price ranges. 


Recently Dillard's, one of the most successful department store operations in the country. entered 
the Omaha market. In many of its stores. Dillard’s runs a full furniture department, undoubtedly doing 
well in this line. Shortly before opening in Omaha. however, William Dillard, chairman of the 
company, announced that his new store would not sell furniture. Said he, referring to NFM: “We don't 
want to compete with them. We think they are about the best there is.” 


At the Buffalo News we extol the value of advertising, and our policies at NFM prove that we 
practice what we preach. Over the past three vears NFM has been the largest ROP advertiser in the 
Omaha World-Herald. (ROP advertising is the kind printed in the paper, as contrasted to the 
preprinted-insert kind.) In no other major market, to my knowledge, is a home furnishings operation 
the leading customer of the newspaper. At times, we also run large ads in papers as far away as Des 
Moines, Sioux City and Kansas City — always with good results. It truly does pay to advertise, as long 
as you have something worthwhile to offer. 


Mrs. B’s son, Louie, and his boys, Ron and Irv, complete the winning Blumkin team. It’s a joy to 
work with this family. All its members have character that matches their extraordinary abilities. 


@ Last year I stated unequivocally that pre-tax margins at The Buffalo News would fall in 1988. 
That forecast would have proved correct at almost any other newspaper our size or larger. But Stan 
Lipsey — bless him — has managed to make me look foolish. 


Though we increased our prices a bit less than the industry average last year, and though our 
newsprint costs and wage rates rose in line with industry norms, Stan actually improved margins a 
tad. No one in the newspaper business has a better managerial record. He has achieved it. furthermore. 
while running a paper that gives readers an extraordinary amount of news. We believe that our “news- 
hole” percentage — the portion of the paper devoted to news — is bigger than that of any other 
dominant paper of our size or larger. The percentage was 49.5% in 1988 versus 49.8% in 1987. We are 
committed to keeping it around 50%, whatever the level or trend of profit margins. 


Charlie and | have loved the newspaper business since we were youngsters, and we have had 
great fun with the News in the 12 years since we purchased it. We were fortunate to find Murray 
Light, a top-flight editor, on the scene when we arrived and he has made us proud of the paper ever 
since. 


@ See’s Candies sold a record 25.1 million pounds in 1988. Prospects did not look good at the 
end of October, but excellent Christmas volume, considerably better than the record set in 1987, 
turned the tide. 


As we've told you before, See’s business continues to become more Christmas-concentrated. In 
1988, the Company earned a record 90% of its full-year profits in December: $29 million out of $32.5 


million before tax. (It's enough to make you believe in Santa Claus.) December's deluge of business 
produces a modest seasonal bulge in Berkshire’s corporate earnings. Another small bulge occurs in the 
first quarter, when most World Book annuals are sold. 


Charlie and I put Chuck Huggins in charge of See's about five minutes after we bought the 
company. Upon reviewing his record, you may wonder what took us so long. 


@ At Fechheimer, the Heldmans — Bob, George, Gary, Roger and Fred — are the Cincinnati 
counterparts of the Blumkins. Neither furniture retailing nor uniform manufacturing has inherently 
attractive economics. In these businesses, only exceptional managements can deliver high returns on 
invested capital. And that’s exactly what the five Heldmans do. (As Mets announcer Ralph Kiner once 
said when compariny pitcher Steve Trout to his father. Dizzy Trout, the famous Detroit Tigers pitcher: 
“There’s a lot of heredity in that family.”) 


Fechheimer made a fairly good-sized acquisition in 1988. Charlie and I have such confidence in 
the business savvy of the Heldman family that we okayed the deal without even looking at it. There 
are very few managements anywhere — including those running the top tier companies of the Fortune 
500 — in which we would exhibit similar confidence. 


Because of both this acquisition and some internal growth, sales at Fechheimer should be up 
significantly in 1989. 


e All of the operations managed by Ralph Schey — World Book, Kirby, and The Scott Fetzer 
Manufacturing Group — performed splendidly in 1988. Returns on the capital entrusted to Ralph 
continue to be exceptional. 


Within the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, particularly fine progress was recorded at its largest 
unit, Campbell Hausfeld. This company, the country’s leading producer of small and medium-sized air 
compressors, has more than doubled earnings since 1986. 


Unit sales at both Kirby and World Book were up significantly in 1988, with export business 
particularly strong. World Book became available in the Soviet Union in September, when that 
country’s largest American book store opened in Moscow. Ours is the only general encyclopedia 
offered at the store. 


Ralph’s personal productivity is amazing: In addition to running 19 businesses in superb fashion, 
he is active at The Cleveland Clinic, Ohio University, Case Western Reserve, and a venture capital 
operation that has spawned sixteen Ohio-based companies and resurrected many others. Both Ohio 
and Berkshire are fortunate to have Ralph on their side. 


Borsheim’s 


It was in 1983 that Berkshire purchased an 80% interest in The Nebraska Furniture Mart. Your 
Chairman blundered then by neglecting to ask Mrs. B a question any schoolboy would have thought 
of: “Are there any more at home like you?" Last month | corrected the error: We are now 80% partners 
with another branch of the family. 


After Mrs. B came over from Russia in 1917, her parents and five siblings followed. (Her two other 
siblings had preceded her.) Among the sisters was Rebecca Friedman who. with her husband, Louis. 
escaped in 1922 to the west through Latvia in a journey as perilous as Mrs. B’s earlier odyssey to the 
east through Manchuria. When the family members reunited in Omaha they had no tangible assets. 
However, they came equipped with an extraordinary combination of brains, integrity, and enthusiasm 
for work — and that's all they needed. They have since proved themselves invincible. 


In 1948 Mr. Friedman purchased Borsheim’s, a small Omaha jewelry store. He was joined in the 
business by his son, Ike, in 1950 and, as the years went by, Ike's son, Alan. and his sons-in-law, 
Marvin Cohn and Donald Yale, came in also. 


* 


You won't be surprised to learn that this family brings to the jewelry business precisely the same 
approach that the Blumkins bring to the furniture business. The cornerstone for both enterprises is 
Mrs. B’s creed: “Sell cheap and tell the truth.” Other fundamentals at both businesses are: (1} single- 
store operations featuring huge inventories that provide customers with an enormous selection across 
all price ranges, (2) daily attention to detail by top management, (3) rapid turnover, (4) shrewd buying, 
and (5) incredibly low expenses. The combination of the last three factors lets both stores offer 
everyday prices that no one in the country comes close to matching. 


Most people, no matter how sophisticated they are in other matters, feel like babes in the woods 
when purchasing jewelry. They can judge neither quality nor price. For them only one rule makes 
sense: If you don’t know jewelry, know the jeweler. 


I can ~ssure you that those who put their trust in Ike Friedman and his family wil] never be 
disappointed. The way in which we purchased our interest in their business is the ultimate testimo- 
nial. Borsheim’s had no audited financial statements; nevertheless, we didn't take inventory, verify 
receivables or audit the operation in any way. Ike simply told us what was so — aiid on that basis we 
drew up a one-page contract and wrote a large check. 


Business at Borsheim’s. has mushroomed in recent years as the reputation of the Friedman family 
has spread. Customers now come to the store from all over the country. Among them have been some 
friends of mine from both coasts who thanked me later for getting them there. 


Borsheim’s new links to Berkshire will change nothing in the way this business is run. All 
members of the Friedman family will continue to operate just as they have before; Charlie and I will 
stay on the sidelines where we belong. And when we say “all members,” the words have real 
meaning. Mr. and Mrs. Friedman, at 88 and 87, respectively, are in the store daily. The wives of 
Ike, Alan, Marvin and Donald al! pitch in at busy times, and a fourth generation is beginning to learn 
the ropes. 


It is great fun to be in business with people you have long admired. The Friedmans, like the 
Blumkins, have achieved success because they have deserved success. Both families focus. on what's 
tight for the customer and that, inevitably, works out well for them, also. We couldn't have better 
partners. 


Insurance Operations 


Shown below is an updated version of our usual table presenting key figures for the insurance 
industry: 


Statutory 
Yearly Change Combined Ratio Yearly Change Inflation Rate 
in Premiums After Policyholder in Incurred Measured by 
_Written (%)_ ___Dividends___=—___Losses {%) = = GNP Deflator (%] 
1981 ........008. 3.8 106.0 6.5 9.6 
1902 acute ues 3.7 109.6 8.4 6.4 
19OS weaose ews 5.0 112.0 6.8 3.8 
1964 si2cccaaw ene 8.5 118.0 16.9 3.7 
1985 oscacs sown 22.1 116.3 16.1 3.2 
1986 ........... . 22.2 108.0 13.5 2.7 
1987 266A geen Seis 9.4 104.6 7.8 3.3 
1988 (Est.}....... 3:9 105.4 4.2 3.6 


Source: A.M. Best Co. 


The combined ratio represents total insurance costs {losses incurred plus expenses) compared to 
revenue from premiums: A ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 
indicates a loss. When the investment income that an insurer earns from holding on to policyholders’ 
funds (“the float”) is taken into account, a combined ratio in the 1067-111 range typically produces an 
overall breakeven result, exclusive of earnings on the funds provided by shareholders. 


16 


For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the industry's incurred losses to grow by * 
about 10% annually, even in years when general inflation runs considerably lower. If premium growth 
meanwhile materially lags that 10% rate, underwriting losses will mount, though the industry's 
tendency to underreserve when business turns bad may obscure their size for a time. As the table 
shows, the industry’s underwriting loss grew in 1988. This trend is almost certain to continue — and 
probably will accelerate — for at least two more years. 


The property-casualty insurance industry is not only subnormaliy profitable, it is subnormally 
popular. (As Sam Goldwyn philosophized: “In life, one must learn to take the bitter with the sour.”} 
One of the ironies of business is that many relatively-unprofitable industries that are plagued by 
inadequate prices habitually find themselves beat upon by irate customers even while other, hugely- 
profitabie industries are spared complaints, no matter how high their prices. 


Take the breakfast cereal industry, whose return on invested capital is more than double that of 
the auto insurance industry (which is why companies like Kellogg and Genera! Mills sell at five times 
book value and most large insurers. sell close to book). The cereal companies regularly impose price 
increases, few of them related to a significant jump in their costs. Yet not a peep is heard from 
consumers. But when auto insurers raise prices by amounts that do not even match cost increases, 
customers are outraged. If you want to be loved. it’s clearly better to sell high-priced corn flakes than 
low-priced auto insurance. 


The antagonism that the public feels toward the industry can have serious consequences: Proposi- 
tion 103, a California initiative passed last fall, threatens to push auto insurance prices down sharply, 
even though costs have been soaring. The price cut has been suspended while the courts review tHe 
initiative, but the resentment that brought on the vote has not been suspended: Even if the initiative is 
overturned, insurers are likely to find it tough to operate profitably in California. (Thank heavens the 
citizenry isn’t mad at bonbons: If Proposition 103 applied to candy as well as insurance, See’s would 
be forced to sell its product for $5.76 per pound rather than the $7.60 we charge — and would be 
losing money by the bucketful.) 


The immediate direct effects on Berkshire from the initiative are minor, since we saw few 
opportunities for profit in the rate structure that existed in California prior to the vote. However, the 
forcing down of prices. would seriously affect GEICO, our 44%-owned investee, which gets about 10% 
of its premium volume from California. Even more threatening to GEICO is the possibility that similar 
pricing actions will be taken in other states, through either initiatives or legislation. 


If voters insist that auto insurance be priced below cost, it eventually must be sold by govern- 
ment. Stockholders can subsidize policyholders for a short period, but only taxpayers can subsidize 
them over the long term. At most property-casualty companies, socialized auto insurance would be no 
disaster for shareholders. Because of the commodity characteristics of the industry, most insurers earn 
mediocre returns and therefore have little or no economic goodwill to lose if they are forced by 
government to leave the auto insurance business. But GEICO, because it is a low-cost producer able to 
earn high returns on equity. has a huge amount of economic goodwill at risk. In turn, so do we. 


At Berkshire, in 1988, our premium volume continued to fall, and in 1989 we will experience a 
large decrease for a special reason: The contract through which we receive 7% of the business of 
Fireman’s Fund expires on August 31. At that time, we will return to Fireman's Fund the unearned 
premiums we hold that relate to the contract. This transfer of funds will show up in our “premiums 
written” account as a negative $85 million or so and will make our third-quarter figures look rather 
peculiar. However, the termination of this contract will not have a significant effect on profits. 


Berkshire’s underwriting results continued to be excellent in 1988. Our combined ratio (on a 
statutory basis and excluding structured settlements and financial reinsurance) was 104. Reserve 
development was favorable for the second year in a row, after a string of years in which it was very 
unsatisfactory. Details on both underwriting and reserve development appear on pages 36-38. 


Our insurance volume over the next few years is likely to run very low, since business with a 
reasonable potential for profit will almost certainly be scarce. So be it. At Berkshire, we simply will 
not write policies at rates that carry the expectation of economic loss. We encounter enough troubles 
when we expect a gain. 


11 


Despite — or perhaps because of — low volume, our profit picture during the next few years is 
apt to be considerably brighter than the industry's. We are sure to have an exceptional amount of float 
compared to premium volume, and that augurs well for profits. In 1989 and 1990 we expect our float/ 
premiums ratio to be at least three times that of the typical property/casualty company. Mike Gold- 
berg, with special help from Ajit Jain, Dinos lordanou, and the National Indemnity managerial team. 
has positioned us well in that respect. 


At some point — we don't know when — we will be deluged with insurance business. The cause 
will probably be some major physical or financial catastrophe. But we could also experience an 
explosion in business, as we did in 1985, because large and increasing underwriting losses at other 
companies coincide with their recognition that they are far underreserved. In the meantime. we will 
retain our talented professionals, protect our capital. and try not to make major mistakes. 


Marketable Securities 


In selecting marketable securities for our insurance companies, we can choose among five 
major categories: (1) long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-term fixed-income securities, 
(3) long-term fixed-income securities, {4} short-term cash equivalents, and (5) short-term arbitrage 
commitments. 


We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from these categories. We just continuously 
search among them for the highest after-tax returns as measured by “mathematical expectation.” 
limiting ourselves always to investment alternatives we think we understand. Our criteria have 
nothing to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, rather, is to maximize 
eventual net worth. | 


@ Below we list our common stock holdings having a value over $100 million, not including 
arbitrage commitments, which will be discussed later. A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%. 


Shares Company Cost Market 
(Q00s omitted) 
3,000,000 Capita! Cities/ABC, Inc......... i giarS- ne = oe -wiw Deter aides eee $517,500 $1,086,750 
14,172,500 The Coca-Cola Company... ........... 000s e cece cece eens 592,540 632,448 
2,400,000 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Preferred" or 71,729 121,200 
6,850,000 GEICO Corporation .......... 0... e cece eee e eee eens 45,713 849,400 
1,727,765 The Washington Post Company ..............00..5. piceente 9,731 364,126 


*Although nominally a preferred stock, this security is financially equivalent to a@ common stock. 


Our permanent holdings — Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO Corporation, and The Washington 
Post Company — remain unchanged. Also unchanged is our unqualified admiration of their manage- 
ments: Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Cap Cities, Bill Snyder and Lou Simpson at GEICO, and Kay 


Graham and Dick Simmons at The Washington Post. Charlie and I appreciate enormously the talent 


and integrity these managers bring to their businesses. 


Their performance, which we have observed. at close range, contrasts vividly with that of many 
CEOs, which we have fortunately observed from a safe distance. Sometimes these CEOs clearly do. not 
belong in their jobs; their positions, nevertheless, are usually secure. The supreme irony of business 
management is that it is far easier for an inadequate CEO to keep his job than it is for an inadequate 
subordinate. 


If a secretary, say, is hired for a job that requires typing ability of at least 80 words a minute and 
turns out to be capable of only 50 words a minute, she will lose her job in no time. There is a logical 
standard for this job; performance is easily measured; and if you can’t make the grade, you're out. 
Similarly, if new sales people fail to generate sufficient business quickly enough, they will be let go. 
Excuses will not. be accepted as a substitute for orders. 


12 


However, a CEO who doesn’t perform is frequently carried indefinitely. One reason is thal 
performance standards for his job seldom exist. When they do, they are often fuzzy or they may be 
waived or explained away. even when the performance shortfalls are major and repeated. At too many 
companies, the boss shoots the arrow of managerial performance and then hastily paints the bullseye 
around the spot where it lands. 


Another important, but seldom recognized, distinction between the boss and the foot soldier is 


that the CEO has no immediate superior whose performance is itself getting measured. The sales 


manager who retains a bunch of lemons in his sales force will soon be in hot water himself. It is in his 
immediate self-interest to promptly weed out his hiring mistakes. Otherwise, he himself may be 
weeded out. An office manager who has hired inept secretaries faces the same imperative. 


But the CEO’s boss is a Board of Directors that seldom measures itzelf and is infrequently held to 
account for substandard corporate performance. If the Board makes a mistake in hiring, and perpetu- 
ates that mistake, so what? Even if the company is taken over because of the mistake, the deal will 
probably bestow substantia! benefits on the outgoing Board members. (The bigger they are, the softer 
they fall.) 


Finally, relations between the Board and the CEO are expected to be congenial. At board meet- 
ings, criticism of the CEO’s performance is often viewed as the social equivalent of belching. No such 
inhibitions restrain the office manager from critically evaluating the substandard typist. 


These points should not be interpreted as a blanket condemnation of CEOs or Boards of Directors: 
Most are able and hard-working, and a number are truly outstanding. But the management failings 
that Charlie and I have seen make us thankful that we are linked with the managers of our 
three permanent holdings. They love their businesses, they think like owners, and they exude 
integrity and ability. 


@ In 1988 we made major purchases of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Pfd. (“Freddie Mac”) and 
Coca Cola. We expect to hold these securities for a long time. In fact, when we own portions of 
outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our favorite holding period is forever. We are 
just the opposite of those who hurry to sell and book profits when companies perform well but who 
tenaciously hang en to businesses that disappoint. Peter Lynch aptly likens such behavior to cutting 
the flowers and watering the weeds. 


Our holdings of Freddie Mac are the maximum allowed by law, and are extensively described by 
Charlie in his letter. In our consolidated balance sheet these shares are carried at cost rather than 
market, since they are owned by Mutual Savings and Loan, a non-insurance subsidiary. 


We continue to concentrate our investments in a very few companies that we try to understand 
weil. There are only a handful of businesses about which we have strong long-term convictions. 
Therefore, when we find such a business, we want to participate in a meaningful way. We agree with 
Mae. West: “Too much of a good thing can be wonderful.” 


® We reduced our holdings of medium-term tax-exempt bonds by about $100 million last year. All 
of the bonds sold were acquired after August 7, 1986. When such bonds are held by property-casualty 
insurance companies, 15% of the “tax-exempt” interest earned is subject to tax. 


The $800 million position we still hold consists almost entirely of bonds “grandfathered” under 
the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which means they are entirely tax-exempt. Our sales produced a small 
profit and our remaining bonds, which have an average maturity of about six years, are worth 
modestly more than carrying value. 


Last year we described our holdings of short-term and intermediate-term bonds of Texaco, which 
was then in bankruptcy. During 1988, we sold practically all of these bonds at a pre-tax profit of about 
$22 million. This sale explains close to $100 million of the reduction in fixed-income securities on our 
balance sheet. 


We also told you last year about our holdings of another security whose predominant characteris- 
tics are those of an intermediate fixed-income issue: our $700 million position in Salomon Inc 9% 
convertible preferred. This preferred has a sinking fund that will retire it in equal annual installments 


13 


+ 


from 1995 to 1999. Berkshire carries this holding at cost. For reasons discussed by Charlie on page 69, 
the estimated market value of our holding has improved from moderately under cost at the end of last 
year to moderately over cost at 1988 year end. 


The close association we have had with John Gutfreund, CEO of Salomon, during the past year 
has reinforced our admiration for him. But we continue to have no great insights about the near. 
intermediate or long-term economics of the investment banking business: This is not an industry in 
which it is easy to forecast future levels of profitability. We continue to believe that.our conversion 
privilege could well have important value over the life of our preferred. However, the overwhelming 
portion of the preferred’s value resides in its fixed-income characteristics, not its equity characteris- 
tics. 


@ We have not lost our aversion to long-term bonds. We will become enthused about such 
securities only when we become enthused about prospects for long-term stability in the purchasing 
power of money. And that kind of stability isn't in the cards: Both society and elected officials simply 
have too many higher-ranking priorities that conflict with purchasing-power stability. 


The only long-term bonds we hold are those of Washington Public Power Supply Systems 
(WPPSS). A few of our WPPSS bonds have short maturities and many others, because of their high 
coupons, are likely to be refunded and paid off in a few years. Overall, our WPPSS holdings are 
carried on our balance sheet at $247 million and have a market value of about $352 million. 


We explained the reasons for our WPPSS purchases in the 1983 annual report, and are pleased to 
tell you that this commitment has worked out about as expected. At the time of purchase, most of our 
bonds were yielding around 17% after taxes and carried no ratings, which had been suspended. 
Recently, the bonds were rated AA- by Standard & Poor's. They now sell at levels only slightly below 
those enjoyed by top-grade credits. 


In the 1983 report, we compared the economics of our WPPSS purchase to those involved in 
buying a business. As it turned’ out, this purchase actually worked out better than did the general run 
of business acquisitions made in 1983, assuming both are measured on the basis of unleveraged, after- 
tax returns achieved through 1988. 


Our WPPSS experience, though pleasant. dees nothing to alter our negative opinion about long- 
term bonds. It only makes us hope that we run into some other large stigmatized issue, whose troubles 
have caused it to be significantly misappraised by the market. 


Arbitrage a | 


In past reports we have told you that our insurance subsidiaries sometimes engage in arbitrage as 
an alternative to holding short-term cash equivalents. “We prefer, of course, to make major long-term 
commitments, but we often have more cash than good ideas. At such times, arbitrage sometimes 
promises much greater returns than Treasury Bills and, equally important. cools any temptation we 
may have to relax our standards for long-term investments. (Charlie’s signoff after we've talked about 
an arbitrage commitment is usually: “Okay. at least it will keep you out of bars.”) 


During 1988 we made unusually large profits from arbitrage, measured both by absolute dollars 
and rate of return. Our pre-tax gain was about $78 million on average invested funds of about 
$147 million. 


This level of activity makes some detailed discussion of arbitrage and our approach to it appropri- 
ate. Once, the word applied only to the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities or foreign 
exchange in two different markets. The goal was to exploit tiny price differentials that might exist 
between, say, Royal Dutci: stock trading in guilders in Amsterdam, pounds in London, and dollars in 
New York. Some people might call this scalping; it won't surprise you that practitioners opted for the 
French term, arbitrage. 


Since World War I the definition of arbitrage — or “risk arbitrage.” as it is now sometimes called 
— has expanded to include the pursuit of profits from an announced corporate event such as saie’of 


14 


the company, merger, recapitalization, reorganization, liquidation, self-tender, etc. In most cases the 
arbitrageur expects to profit regardless of the behavior of the stock market. The major risk he usually 
faces instead is that the announced event won't happen. 


Some offbeat opportunities occasionally arise in the arbitrage field. I participated in one of these 
when I was 24 and working in New York for Graham-Newman Corp. Rockwood & Co., a Brooklyn- 
based chocolate products company of limited profitability, had adopted LIFO inventory valuation in 
1941 when cocoa was selling for 5¢ per pound. In 1954 a temporary shortage of cocoa caused the price 
to soar to over 60¢. Consequently Rockwood wished to unload its valuable inventory — quickly, 
before the price dropped. But if the cocoa had simply been sold off, the company would have owed 
close to a 50% tax on the proceeds. 


The 1954 Tax Code came to the rescue. It contained an arcane provision that eliminated the tax 
otherwise due on LIFO profits if inventory was distributed to shareholders as part of a plan reducing 
the scope of a corporation’s business. Rockwood decided to terminate one of its businesses, the sale of 
cocoa butter, and said 13 million pounds of its cocoa bean inventory was attributable to that activity. 
Accordingly, the company offered to repurchase its stock in exchange for the cocoa beans it no longer 
needed, paying 80 pounds of beans for each share. 


For several weeks I busily bought shares, sold beans, and made periodic stops at Schroeder Trust 
to exchange stock certificates for warehouse receipts. The profits were good and my only expense was 
subway tokens. 


The architect. of Rockwood’s restructuring was an unknown, but brilliant Chicagoan, Jay Pritzker, 
then 32. If you're familiar with Jay’s subsequent record, you won't be surprised to hear the action 
worked out rather well for Rockwood’s continuing shareholders also. From. shortly before the tender 
until shortly after it, Rockwood stock appreciated from 15 to 100, even though the company was 
experiencing large operating losses. Sometimes there is more to stock valuation than phpernnerne 
ratios. | 


In recent years, most arbitrage operations have involved takeovers, friendly and unfriendly. With 
acquisition fever rampant, with anti-trust challenges almost non-existent, and with bids often ratchet- 
ing upward, arbitrageurs have prospered mightily. They have not needed special talents to do well; the 
trick, a la Peter Sellers in the movie, has simply been “Being There.” In Wall Street the old proverb 
has been reworded: “Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach him how to arbitrage and 
you feed him forever.” (If, however, he studied at the Ivan Boesky School of Arbitrage, it may be a 
state institution that supplies his meals.) — 


To evaluate arbitrage situations you must answer four questions: (1) How likely is it that the 
promised event will indeed occur? (2) How long will your money be tied up? (3). What chance is there 
that something still better will transpire — a competing takeover bid, for example? and (4) What will 
happen if the event does not take place because of anti-trust action, financing glitches, etc.? 


Arcata Corp., one of our more serendipitous arbitrage experiences, illustrates the twists and turns 
of the business. On September 28, 1981 the directors of Arcata agreed in principle to sell the company 
to Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. (KKR). then and now a major leveraged-buyout firm. Arcata was in 
the printing and forest products businesses and had one other thing going for it: In 1978 the U.S. 
Government had taken title to 10,700 acres of Arcata timber, primarily old-growth redwood, to expand 
Redwood National Park. The government had paid $97.9 million, in, several installments, for this 
acreage, a sum Arcata was contesting as grossly inadequate. The parties also disputed the interest 
rate that should apply to the period between the taking of the property and final payment for it. 
The enabling legislation stipulated 6% simple interest; Arcata argued for a much higher and com- 
pounded rate. 


Buying a company with a highly-speculative, large-sized claim in litigation creates a negotiating 
problem, whether the claim is on behalf of or against the company. To solve this problem, KKR offered 
$37.00 per Arcata share plus two-thirds of any additional amounts paid by the government for the 
redwood Jands. | 


15 


Appraising this arbitrage opportunity, we had to ask ourselves whether KKR would consummate 
the transaction since, among other things, its offer was contingent upon its obtaining “satisfactory 
financing.” A clause of this kind is always dangerous for the seller: It offers an easy exit for a suitor 
whose ardor fades between proposal and marriage. However, we were not particularly worried about 
this possibility because KKR's past record for closing had been good. 


We also had to ask ourselves what would happen if the KKR deal did fall through, and here we 
also felt reasonably comfortable: Arcata’s management and directors had been shopping the company 
for some time and were clearly determined to sell. If KKR went away, Arcata would likely find — 
another buyer, though of course, the price might be lower. 


Finally, we had to ask ourselves what the redwood claim might be worth. Your Chairman. who 
can’t tell an elm from an oak, had no trouble with that one: He coolly evaluated the claim at 
somewhere between zero and a whoie lot. 


We started buying Arcata stock, then around $33.50, on September 30 and in eight weeks 
purchased about 400,000 shares, or 5% of the company. The initial announcement said that the $37.00 
would be paid in January, 1982. Therefore, if everything had gone perfectly, we would have achieved 
an annual rate of return of about 40% — not counting the redwood claim. which would have been 
frosting. 


All did not go perfectly. In December it was. announced that the closing would be delayed a bit. 
Nevertheless, a definitive agreement was signed on January 4. Encouraged, we raised our stake, buying 
at around $38.00 per share and increasing our holdings to 655,000 shares, or over 7% of the company. 
Our willingness to pay up — even though the closing had been postponed — reflected our leaning 
toward “a whole lot” rather than “zero” for the redwoods. 


Then, on February 25 the lenders said they were taking a “second look” at financing terms “ in 
view of the severely depressed housing industry and its impact on Arcata’s outlook.” The stockhold- 
ers’ meeting was postponed again, to April. An Arcata spokesman said he ‘'did not think the fate of 
the acquisition itself was imperiled.” When arbitrageurs hear such reassurances, their minds flash to 
the old saying: “He lied like a finance minister on the eve of devaluation.” 


On March 12 KKR said its earlier deal wouldn't work, first cutting its offer to $33.50, then two 
days later raising it to $35.00: On March 15, however, the directors turned this bid down and accepted 
another group's offer of $37.50 plus one-half of any redwood recovery. The shareholders okayed the 
deal, and the $37.50 was paid on June 4. 


We received $24.6 million versus our cost of $22.9 million: our average holding period was close 
to six months. Considering the trouble this transaction encountered, our 15% annual rate of return — 
excluding any value for the redwood claim -- was more than satisfactorv. 


But the best was yet to come. The trial judge appointed two commissions, one to look at the 
timber’s value, the other to consider the interest rate questions. In January 1987, the first commission 
said the redwoods were worth $275.7 million and the second commission recommended a com- 
pounded, blended rate of return working out to about 14%. 


in August 1987 the judge upheld these conclusions, which meant a net amount of about $600 
million would’ be due Arcata. The government then appealed. In 1988, though, before this appeal was 
heard, the claim was settled for $519 million. Consequently, we received an additional $29.48 per 
share, or about $19.3 million. We will get another $800,000 or so in 1989. 


Berkshire's arbitrage activities differ from those of many arbitrageurs. First. we participate in only 
a few, and usually very large, transactions each year. Most practitioners buy into a great many deals — 
perhaps 50 or more per year. With that many irons in the fire, they must spend most of their time 
monitoring both the progress of deals and the market movements of the related stocks. This is not how 
Charlie nor | wish to spend our lives. (What's the sense in getting rich just to stare at a ticker tape all 
day?) | 


16 


Because we diversify so little. one particularly profitable or unprofitable transaction will affect . 
our yearly result from arbitrage far more than it will the typical arbitrage operation. So far, Berkshire 
has not had a really bad experience. But we will — and when it happens we'll report the gory details 
to you. 


The other way we differ from some arbitrage operations is that we participate only in transactions 
that have been publicly announced. We do not trade on rumors or try to guess takeover candidates. 
We just read the newspapers, think about a few of the big propositions, and go by our own sense of 
probabilities. | 


At yearend, our only major arbitrage position was 3,342,000 shares of RJR Nabisco with e cost of 
$281.8 million and a market value of $304.5 million. In January we increased our holdings to roughly 
four million shares and in February we eliminated our position. About three million shares were 
accepted when we tendered cur holdings to KKR, which acquired RJR, and the re.urned shares were 
promptly sold in the marker. Our pre-tax profit was a hetter-than-expected $64 million. 


Earlier, another familiar face turned up in the RJR bidding contest: Jay Pritzker, who was part of a 
First Boston group that made a tax-oriented offer. To quote Yogi Berra; “It was déja vu all over again.” 


During most of the time when we normally would have been purchasers of RJR, our activities in 
the stock were restricted because of Salomon’s participation in a bidding group. Customarily, Charlie 
and I, though we are directors of Salomon, are walled off from information about its merger and 
acquisition work. We have asked that it be that way: The information would do us no good and could, 
in fact, occasionally inhibit Berkshire’s arbitrage operations. 


However, the unusually large commitment that Salomon proposed to make in the RJR deal 
required that ail directors be fully informed and involved. Therefore, Berkshire’s purchases of RJR 
were made at only two times: first, in the few days immediately following management’s announce- 
ment of buyout plans, before Salomon became involved; and considerably later, after the RJR board 
made its decision in favor of KKR. Because we could not buy at other times, our directorships cost 
Berkshire significant money. | 


Considering Berkshire’s good results in 1988, you might expect us to pile into arbitrage during 
1989. Instead, we expect to be on the sidelines. 


One pleasant reason is that our cash holdings are down — because our position in equities that 
we expect to hold for a very long time is substantially up. As regular readers of this report know, our 
new commitments are not based on a judgment about short-term prospects for the stock market. 
Rather, they reflect an opinion about long-term business prospects for specific companies. We do not 
have, never have had, and never will have an opinion about where the stock market, interest rates, or 
business activity will be a year from now. 


Even if we had a lot of cash we probably would do little in arbitrage in 1989. Some extraordinary 
excesses have developed in the takeover field. As Dorothy says: “Toto, I have a feeling we're not in 
Kansas any more.” 


We have no idea how long the excesses will last, nor do we know what will change the attitudes 
of government, lender and buyer that fuel them. But we do know that the less the prudence with 
which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own 
affairs. We have no desire to arbitrage transactions that reflect the unbridled —- and, in our view, often 
unwarranted — optimism of both buyers and lenders. In our activities, we will heed the wisdom of 
Herb Stein: “If something can’t go on forever, it wil] end.” 


17 


Efficient Market Theory 


The preceding discussion about arbitrage makes a small discussion of “efficient market theory” 
(EMT) also seem relevant. This doctrine became highly fashionable — indeed, almost holy scripture — 
in academic circles during the 1970s. Essentially, it said that analyzing stocks was useless because all 
public information about them was appropriately reflected in their prices. In other words, the market 
always knew everything. As a corollary, the professors who taught EMT said that someone throwing 
darts at the stock tables could select a stock portfolio having prospects just as good as one selected by 
the brightest, most hard-working security analyst. Amazingly, EMT was embraced not only by academ- 
ics, but by many investment professionals and corporate managers as well. Observing correctly that 
the market was frequently efficient, they went on to. conclude incorrectly that it was alivays efficient. The 
difference between these propositions is night and day. 


In my opinion, the continuous 63-year arbitrage experience of Graham-Newman Corp. Buffett 
Partnership, and Berkshire illustrates just how foolish EMT is. (There’s plenty of other evidence, also.) 
While at Graham-Newman, I made a study of its earnings from arbitrage during the entire 1926-1956 
lifespan of the company. Unleveraged returns averaged 20% per year. Starting in 1956, I applied Ben 
Graham’s arbitrage principles, first at Buffett Partnership and then Berkshire. Though I’ve not made an 
exact calculation, I have done enough work to know that the 1956-1988 returns averaged well over 20%. 
(Of course, I operated in an environment far more favorable than Ben’‘s; he had 1929-1932 to contend 
with.) 


All of the conditions are present that are required for a fair test of portfolio performance: (1) the 
three organizations. traded hundreds of different securities while building this 63-year record; (2) the 
results are not skewed by a few fortunate experiences; (3) we did not have to dig for obscure facts or 
develop keen insights about products or managements — we simply acted on highly-publicized events; 
and (4) our arbitrage positions were a clearly identified universe — they have not been selected by 
hindsight. 


Over the 63 years, the general market delivered just under a 10% annual return, including divi- 
dends. That means $1,000 would have grown to $405,000 if all income had been reinvested. A 20% rate 
of return, however, would have produced $97 million. That strikes us as a statistically-significant 
differential that might, conceivably, arouse one’s curiosity. 


Yet proponents of the theory have never seemed interested in discordant evidence of this type. 
True, they don’t talk quite as much about their theory today as they used to. But no one, to my 
knowledge, has ever said he was wrong, no matter how many ‘thousands of students he has sent forth 
misinstructed. EMT, moreover, continues to be an integral part of the investment curriculum at major 
business schools. Apparently, a reluctance to recant, and thereby to demystify the priesthood, is not 
limited to theologians. 


Naturally the disservice done students and gullible investment professionals who have swallowed 
EMT has been an extraordinary service to us and other followers of Graham. In any sort of a contest — 
financial, mental, or physical — it’s an enormous advantage to have opponents who have been taught 
that it’s useless to even try. From a selfish point of view, Grahamites should probably endow chairs to 
ensure the perpetual teaching of EMT. 


All this said, a warning is approrriate. Arbitrage has looked easy recently. But this is not a form of 
investing that guarantees profits of 20% a year or, for that matter, profits of any kind. As noted, the 
market is reasonably efficient much of the time: For every arbitrage opportunity we seized in that 63- 
year period, many more were foregone because they seemed properly-priced. 


An investor cannot obtain superior profits from stocks by simply committing to a specific invest- 
ment category or style. He can earn them only by carefully evaluating facts and continuously exercising 
discipline. Investing in arbitrage situations, per se, is no better a strategy than selecting a portfolio by 
throwing darts. | | 


18 


New York Stock Exchange Listing 


Berkshire’s shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange on November 29, 1988. On pages 
50-51 we reproduce the letter we sent to shareholders concerning the listing. 


Let me clarify one point not dealt with in the letter: Though our round lot for trading on the 
NYSE is ten shares, any number of shares from one on up can be bought or sold. 


As the letter explains, our primary goal in listing was to reduce transaction costs, and we believe 
this goal is being achieved. Generally, the spread between the bid and asked price on the NYSE has 
been well below the spread that prevailed in the over-the-counter market. 


Henderson Brothers, Inc., the specialist in our shares, is the oldest continuing specialist firm on 
the Exchange; its progenitor, William Thomas Henderson, bought his seat for $500 on Septerber 8, 
1861. (Recently, seats were selling for about $625,000.) Among the 54 firms acting as specialists, HBI 
ranks second in number of stocks assigned, with 83. We were pleased when Berkshire was allocated to 
HBI, and have been delighted with the firm’s performance. Jim Maguire, Chairman. of HBI, personally 
manages the trading in Berkshire, and we could not be in better hands. 


In two respects our goals probably differ somewhat from those of mast listed companies. First, 
we do not want to maximize the price at which Berkshire shares trade. We wish instead for them to 
trade in a narrow range centered at intrinsic business. value (which we hope increases at a reasonable 
— or, better yet, unreasonable — rate). Charlie and I are bothered as much by significant overvaluation 
‘as significant undervaluation. Both extremes will inevitably produce results for many shareholders 
that will differ sharply from Berkshire’s business results. If our stock price instead consistently mirrors 
business value, each of our shareholders will receive an investment result that roughly parallels the 
business results of Berkshire during his holding period. 


Second, we wish for very little trading activity. If we ran a private business with a few passive 
partners, we would be disappointed if those partners, and their replacements, frequently wanted to 
leave the partnership. Running a public company, we feel the same way. 


Our goal is to attract long-term owners who, at the time of purchase, have no timetable or price 
target for sale but plan instead to stay with us indefinitely. We don’t understand the CEO who wants 
lots of stock activity, for that can be achieved only if many of his owners are constantly exiting. At 
what other organization — school, club, church, etc. — do. leaders cheer when members leave? 
(However, if there were a broker whose livelihood depended upon the membership turnover in such 
organizations, you could be sure that there would. be at least one proponent of activity, as in: “There 
hasn't been much going on in Christianity for a while; maybe we should switch to Buddhism next 
week.”) : 


Of course, some Berkshire owners will need or want to sell from time to time, and we wish for 
good replacements who will pay them a fair price. Therefore we try, through our policies, perform- 
ance, and communications, to attract new shareholders who understand our operations, share our time 
horizons, and measure us as we measure ourselves. If we can continue to attract this sort of 
shareholder — and, just as important, can continue to be uninteresting to those with short-term or 
unrealistic expectations — Berkshire shares should consistently sell at prices reasonably related to 
business value. 


David L. Dodd 


Dave Dodd, my friend and teacher for 38 years, died last year at age 93. Most of you don't know 
of him. Yet any long-time shareholder of Berkshire is appreciably wealthier because of the indirect 
influence he had upon our company. 


Dave spent a lifetime teaching at Columbia University, and he co-authored Security Analysis with 
Ben Graham. From the moment I arrived at Columbia, Dave personally encouraged and educated me; 
one influence was as important as the other. Everything he taught me, directly or through his book, 
made sense. Later, through dozens of letters, he continued my education right up until his death. 


19 


[ have known many professors of finance and investments but I have never seen any, except for 
Ben Graham, who was the match of Dave. The proof of his talent is the record of his students: No 
other teacher of investments has sent forth so many who have achieved unusual success. 


When students left Dave's classroom, they were equipped to invest intelligently for a lifetime 
because the principles he taught were simple, sound, useful, and enduring. Though these may appear 
to be unremarkable virtues, the teaching of principles embodying them has been rare. 


It’s particularly impressive the+ Dave could practice as well as preach. Just as Keynes became 
wealthy by applying his academic -deas to a very small purse, so, too, did Dave. Indeed, his financial 
performance far outshone that of Keynes, who began as a market-timer (leaning on business- 
and credit-cycle theory) and converted, after much thought, to value investing. Dave was right from 
the start. 


In Berkshire’s investments, Charlie and | have employed the principles taught by Dave and Ben 
Graham. Our prosperity is the fruit of their intellectual tree. 


Miscellaneous 


We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones we have, and we can use some help. 
If you have a business that fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write. 


Here’s what we're looking for: 
(1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax earnings), 


(2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
“turnaround” situations), 


(3) businesses earning good returns on equity while employing little or no debt, 
(4) management in place (we can't supply it), 
(5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we won't understand it), 


{6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or that of the seller by talking, even 
preliminarily, about a transaction when price is unknown). 


We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers. We can promise complete confidentiality and a very 
fast answer — customarily within five minutes — as to whether we're interested. We prefer to buy for 
cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give. 


Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin-Friedman-Heldman mold. In cases like 
these, the company’s owner-managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes for 
themselves, but often for their families or inactive shareholders. However, these managers also wish to 
remain significant owners who continue to run their companies just as they have in the past. We 
think we offer a particularly good fit for owners with these objectives and invite potential sellers to 
check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business in the past. 


Charlie and | frequently get approached about acquisitions that don’t come close to meeting our 
tests: We've found that if you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will call hoping to 
sell you their cocker spaniels. Our interest in new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales can best 
be e: pressed by another Goldwynism: “Please include me out.” 


Resides being interested in the purchase of businesses as described above, we are also interested 
in the negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock comparable to those we hold in 
Cap Cities and Salomon. We have a special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a long- 
term investment, as we did at Salomon. 


20 


We received some good news a few weeks ago: Standard & Poor's raised our credit rating to AAA, ° 
which is the highest rating it bestows. Only 15 other U.S. industrial or property-casualty companies 
are rated AAA, down from 28 in 1980. 


Corporate bondholders have taken their lumps in the past few years from “event risk.” This term 
refers to the overnight degradation of credit that accompanies a heavily-leveraged purchase or recapi- 
talization of a business whose financial policies, up to then, had been conservative. In a world of 
takeovers inhabited by few owner-managers, mest corporations present such a risk. Berkshire ones not, 
Charlie and I promise bondholders the same respect we afford shareholders. 


x * *" 


About 97.4% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1988 shareholder-designated contri- 
butions program. Contributions made through the program were $5 million, and 2,319 charities were 
recipients. If we achieve reasonable business results, we plan to increase the per-share contributions in 
1989. 


We urge new shareholders to read the description of our sha: s.uolder-designated contributions 
program that appears on pages 48-49. If you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly urge 
that you immediately make’sure your shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on September 30, 1989 will be 
ineligible for the 1989 program. 


Berkshire's annual meeting will be held in Omaha on Monday, April 24, 1989, and I hope you 
will come. The meeting provides the forum for you to ask any owner:szlated questions you may have, 
and we will keep answering until all (except these dealing with portfolio activities or other proprie- 
“— information) have been dealt with. 


~ After the meeting we will have several buses available to take you to visit Mrs. B at The Nebraska 
Fusniture Mart and Ike Friedman at Borsheim’s. Be prepared for bargains. 


Out-of-towners may prefer to arrive early and visit Mrs. B during the Sunday store hours of noon 
to five. (These Sunday hours seem ridiculously short to Mrs. B, who feels they scarcely allow her time 
to warm up; she much prefers the days on which the store remains open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.) 
Borsheims, however, is not open on Sunday. 


Ask Mrs. B the secret of her astonishingly low carpet prices. She will confide to you — as she 
does to everyone — how she does it: “I can sell so cheap ‘cause I work for this dummy who doesn’t 
know anything about carpet.” 


Warren E. Buffett 
February 28, 1989 Chairman of the Board 


21 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


and Subsidiaries 


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 


(dollars in thousands} 


Cash and cash equivalents .2........... cece eee eee sineatatonsans 


Investments: 


Salomon Inc preferred stock .......... 0. cee ce cee ee ee enna eee 
Other obligations with fixed maturities, principally bonds........ 


Marketable equity securities ............cccceccaeeeceeeeees 


Loans and accounts receivable....... eet avh ater ean Sinace ate es 


Inventories ........ cc eee ene roe ee ee ee ee & 


Other assets ......- cc. cece cece cecces * 2 @ © + * © be te ee Bt ot Ul lla eh huh hm 


LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Losses and loss adjustment expenses........ 60... cee eee nee ees 
Unearned premiums. ........ 0... cece cere eee eens bedaals 
SAVINGS ACCOUNIS 44.0:44'c. she hohe laa eee eine oa eaek ree 


@#eten 


* t+ 2 @ & 


Properties. and equipment ee ee ee ee re ee eae ee 
Unamortized goodwill........ ccc sc cccee ner cee e eee seueecenenes Edie 


-. Be 8 


es &# & F 


Accounts payable, accruals. and other liabilities .................. a 


INCOME: taX€S « .ancnccsaswnce ness orenee Sadana w aman ee 
Term debt and other borrowings....... ea ee Tinea eee eees 


Minority shareholders' interests...............0c cece eee eens 


Shareholders’ equity: 


sae & & 


**. et & 


* + Bea 


Common stock of $5 par value. Authorized 1,500,000 shares; 


issued 1,375,202 shares, including shares heid in treasury 


sa kee & 


Capital in. excess of par value... .. cece cc cee eee eee eres 


Unrealized appreciation of marketable equity securities, net. 
Retained Garmings i casccisdasviecassage te ciakaeeieseesane’ 


Less common stock in treasury, at cost 


{1988 — 228,761 shares, 1987 — 228,274 shares)......... 
Total shareholders’ equity ........ 06... eee e eee eee ee 


*Restated — See Note if{b) 


* ¢ @ @ § 


*¢ 8 aoe 


sh tt © 


sa & he 8 & 


December 31, 


1988 


$ 265,081 


700,000 
1,115,321 
3,958,724 

579,910 

167,293 

194,390 

121,394 

114,735 


$6,816,848 


$1,407,189 
241,818 
286,909 
325,514 
998,905 
480,009 


3,340,344 


66,396 


6,876 
157,377 
1,274,657 
2,013,491 


3,452,401 


42,293 


3,410,108 
$6,816,848 


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


22 


1987* 


$ 231,962 


700,000 
1,371,645 
2,362,445 

577,949 

154,288 

202,459. 

124,195 


138,292 


$5,863,235 


$1,260,422 
341,344 
286,211 
280,088 
506,499 
289,886 
2,964,450 


37,126 


6,876 
157,377 
1,104,123 
1,614,221 
2,882,597 


40.938 
2,841 659 
$5,863,235 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
and. Subsidiaries 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts) 


Year Ended December 31, 


—1988 1987" __1986* __ 

Revenues: 
Sales and service revenues ..............- Sie Seca dete .. $1,407,642 $1,326,829 $1,219,252 
Insurance premiums earned........... 6 cece 584,235 824,895 823,884 
Interest and dividend income............. Sri hactern tive 314,251 237,319 181,992 
Sundry income ................ A ee 27,094 13,901 6.316 


2,333,222 2,402,944 2,231,444 


Cost and expenses: 


Cost of products and services sold...............0006. 753,845 705,203 651,717 
Insurance losses and loss adjustment a a corre 437,695 661,146 655,758 
: Insurance underwriting expenses...............- ee 157,621 219,178 223,970 
Selling, general and administrative expenses.......... 495,331 488,307 446,633 
Interest expense...... Staind Gagan ere rere T ___70,280. 47,437 55,402 


1,914,772 2,121,271 2,033,480. 
Earnings from operations including minority 
interest in subsidiaries, before applicable income 


taxes and before realized investment gain ........ 418,450 281,673 197,964 
Income taxes applicable to above ............ Saceoeene se 96,599 60,771 _ 61,300: 
321,851 220,902 136,664 
Minority interest applicable to above...............006. 8,410 6,156 _5,200 
Earnings before realized investment gain ........... _313,441 214,746 131,464 
Realized investment gain, net...............ccec ees eues 85,829 19,806 150,897 
NGL GaInings <5. 55 enter Sate ee eee aweahenee $399,270 $ 234,552 $_ 282,361 
Average shares outstanding .......... Kb ehedaweeea eee 1,146,575 _1,146,909 1,146,909 

Per share: 
Earnings before realized investment gain ........... $ 273.37 $ 187.24 $$ 11462 
NGU CarniNes nic dea te neater, ieee dendeesaeredts: ___ 348.23 «== 204.51 _ 246.19 

ae *Restated — See Note 1(b) 


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial State ants 


23 


_ BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
and Subsidiaries 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(dollars in thousands) 


Year Ended December 31, 


1988 1987 1986 
Cash flows from operating activities: 
INGE INGGMG:03.544.6o ve erase eaeee cere eet hatedieonees S$ 399,270 5 234,552 $ 282,361 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows 
from operating activities: 
Depreciation and amortization .................045. 29,808 29,683 28,519 
Realized investment ot ere eee nga Raiea wets (131,671) (28,839) (220,765) 
Minority interests. ........205ccccesccnecneceneeness : 10,060 6,420 6,063 
Increase {decrease) in income taxes payable ........ 3,643 (30,937) (66,504) 
Increase in losses and loss adjustment expenses .... 146,767 400,194 448.923 
Increase (decrease) in unearned premiums.......... {99,526) (73,642) 185,546 
(Increase) decrease in deferred sii baie costs..... 11,783 21,907 (27,778) 
Net cash flows from operating activities.......... 363.881 606.740 633,442 
Cash flows from investing activities: 7 
Purchase of Salomon Inc preferred stock ......... ewes — {700,009} — 
Purchase of other fixed maturity investments......... (109.245). (529,290) (729,036) 
Purchase of Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. common stock . — — (517,500) 
Purchases of other marketable equity securities ....... (1,708,971) (550,112) (725,594) 
Proceeds on sales and maturities of fixed 
maturity investments ....... 0. ccc cece ccc enecereces 391,455 297,983 170,977 
Proceeds on sales of marketable equity securities ..... 878,228 607,080 942,509 
Loans originated in finance businesses ............. ae (103,602) (177,840) (153,839) 
Principal collection on loans .......... 0... ccs ew eenes 111,745 123,297 109,761 
Acquisition of businesses...... ne a er eer eee ee — — (299,915)* 
Othe sola adrietecnate ened cone eke canoes er 21,144 (15,351)  _ (37,988) 
Net cash flows from investing activities .......... (519,246) (944,233) (1,240,625) 
Cash flows from financing activities: 
Proceeds from borrowings ..... Pee ne eee 250.000 50,075 118,590 
Repayments of borrowings.......... 0c. ces cece eee ee es (59,877) (20,359) (76,690) 
Net increase (decrease) in passbook, money market 
and interest bearing checking accounts........... 4 (4,928) 3,415 8,267 
Increase in certificate deposit accounts ............... 193,770 207,110 233,494 
Payments for maturing certificate accounts ........... (188,144) (206,672) (228,450) 
UNEP cd tein gaisaceecoaincsahaekeidees idea ead (2,337) (4,393) (934) 
Net cash flows from financing activities...... ee 188,484 29,176 54,277 
Increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents........... 33,119 {308,317} (552,906). 
Cash and equivalents at beginning of year........ Sines 231,962 540,279 1,093,185 
Cash and equivalents at end of year ................. $ 265,081 $ 231,962 $ 540,279 
Other cash flow information: 
Income taxes paid...... Lad site eaee wasn s nea $ 137,148 $ 100,778 $ 193,831 
Interest paid .............. ee eee re 61,798 46,067 54,336 


*In conjunction with business acquisitions in 1986, the Company assumed liabilities of $254,431. 


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


24 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
and Subsidiaries 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
_ December 31, 1988 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts) 


(1) Significant Accounting Policies and Practices 


(a) 


(b} 


(d) 


{e} 


Basis of Consolidation | 

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Berkshire 
Hathaway Inc. (the “Company”*or “Berkshire”) consolidated with accounts of all its subsid- 
iaries, in accordance with the pronounced requirements of Statement of Financial Account- 
ing Standards No. 94, first adopted by Berkshire in these statements. 


Restatements and Reclassifications 

Berkshire’s prior period consolidated financial statements have been restated to include in 
consolidation the accounts of all subsidiaries, and reclassifications in prior year data have 
been made where required for conformity. Finance-type subsidiaries previously accounted 
for pursuant to the equity method of accounting but now consolidated are Mutual Savings 
and Loan Association (“Mutual”) and its subsidiary plus Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc. 
(‘SFFG") and its subsidiaries. Mutual is a California chartered savings and loan association 
and SFFG is in the business of lending and finance. 


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. are included in this report. With respect to prior 
periods presented, these replace pri:viously issued Statements of Changes in Financial 
Position. ee 


Cash Equivalents 


Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in money market accounts and in highly liquid 


investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased. 


Investments - 


The investment in Salomon Inc redeemable preferred stock is carried at cost. See Note 2. 


Investments in other obligations with fixed maturities, principally bonds, are stated at aggre- 
gate purchased Gost adjusted, where appropriate, for accretion of discount or amortization 
of premium. The aggregate fair market value of this category of investments was $1,264,078 
at December 31, 1988, and $1,493,641 at December 31, 1987. 


Investments in marketable equity securities — common stocks and nonredeemable preferred 
stocks — held by members of the Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group are carried in 
Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at market value. See Note 1(j) with respect to 
incom ‘taxes deemed applicable to unrealized appreciation included in carrying value. 
Investhients by the Company and by non-insurance subsidiaries are carried at cost, which 
in the aggregate is not less than market value. See Note 5. | 


Cost of securities sold is usually determined on a first-in, first-out basis. Occasionally, when 
specific identification of ‘securities sold results in lower applicable income taxes, identified 
cost is used. a 


ra 


Goodwill and Negative Goodwill of Acquired Businesses 


The difference between purchase cost and the fair value of the net assets of acquired 


businesses is amortized on a straight line basis over forty years. 


25 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts} 


(1) Significant Accounting Policies and Practices (Continued) 


(f) 


(g} 


(h) 


(j) 


Insurance Premium Acquisition Costs 

For financial reporting purposes, certain cosis of acquiring insurance premiums are deferred, 
subject to ultimate recoverability, and charged to income as the premiums are earned. With 
respect to premiums received under major quota-share reinsurance contracts, the computa- 
tion of ultimate recoverability of the directly related acquisition cost takes into account 
investment income anticipated to be earned on funds held subject to the contracts. Other- 
wise, ultimate recoverability of premium acquisition costs is determined without regard to 
investment income. 


Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses | 

Liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses is determined on the basis of estimates of 
unpaid amounts with respect to both reported and incurred but not reported losses: Provi- 
sions are intended to cover ultimate payment amounts less amounts recoverable on account 
of reinsurance, except that provisions for periodic payment obligations (“structured settle- 
ments”) are established at discounted present value of expected ultimate payment amounts. 


Present value of expected ultimate payment amounts for structured settlements. was deter- 


mined for financial reporting purposes to be $128,901 as of December 31, 1988 and $66,285 
as of December 31, 1987 applying, as present value discount rates, the market: interest rates 
at contract inception dates — the weighted average of which was 9.5% as ‘of December 31, 

1988. Present value of liabilities for structured settlements was determined for statutory and 
tax reporting purposes to be $213,746 and $110,010, respectively as of December 31, 1988 
and 1987, applying discount rates prescribed by insurance regulatory authority — 5% for 
contracts incepting after 1986, and oe with respect to contracts dated prior to 1987. 


Insurancé Premiums 

Insurance premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the terms of the policies. 
Unearned premiums are. computed on a monthly or daily pro rata basis and are stated after 
deduction of unearned premiums ceded to reinsurers. 


Policyholder dividends, immaterial in amount (less than $5,000 per year for each of the past 
three years), incurred with respect to participating policies are reflected in the accompany- 
ing Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a deduction from earned premiums. 


Income Taxes 

Certain items of income and. deductions are recognized in the financial statements in time 
periods that differ from those in which they are recogniz zed in the Company's consolidated 
federal income tax returns, giving rise to recognition izi the financial statements to deferred 
and. prepaid income taxes. 


The liability for income taxes in the Consolidated Balance Sheets includes taxes deemed 
applicable to unrealized, appreciation included in carrying value of marketable equity 
securities. Such taxes were accrued at a rate of 34% relative to increases in unrealized 
appreciation during 1987 and 1988 and at the rate of 28% relative to appreciation that arose 
in years prior to 1987. 


The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement No. 96 “Accounting - | 


for Income Taxes” which the Company has not yet implemented. Biscay the FASB 
requires implementation no later than 1990. See note 8. 


SA. 


26. 


(2) Investment in Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Salomon Inc 

On October 1, 1987 subsidiaries of Berkshire purchased 700,000 shares of a new issue of 9% 
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Salomon Inc (“Salomon"). These shares were purchased for 
cash at their par value of one thousand dollars per share and $700,000 in the aggregate. The 
investment is carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost. Market quotations are not available 
with respect to these shares. A committee of the Company's board of directors has determined that the 
fair market value of the shares at December 31, 1988 was, in an aggregate amount not material te the 
Company, somewhat in excess of their purchased cost. 


Each share of the issue is entitled to 26.31579 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of 
Salomon’s shareholders, with the Preferred Shares voting together as one class with the Salomon 
common shares. At December 31, 1988, the preferred shares possessed approximately 12% of the 
voting rights of the class. On October 31, 1990, each preferred share becomes convertible into 
26.31579 fully paid common shares of Salomon. Annually on each October 31, commencing in 1995, 
Salomon will redeem at cost 140,000 of the shares, (or such fewer number as are then outstanding). 


(3). Investment in Shares of Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. 

Common shares of Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (“Capital Cities”) owned by Berkshire subsidiaries 
possessed approximately 17% of the voting rights of all Capital Cities shares outstanding at December 
31, 1988. The shares are held subject to terms of an Agreement which grants to Capital Cities a right of 
first refusal to purchase the shares and otherwise govern until January 3, 1997 the manner by which 
the shares may be soid..ar transferred. Also, Berkshire and its subsidiaries have delivered to Carital 
Cities irrevocable proxies with respect to these shares in favor of Thomas S. Murphy so long as he 
shall be the-chief executive officer of Capital Cities, or Daniel B. Burke so long as he shail be the chief 
executive officer of Capital Cities, to vote the shares at any and all meetings of shareholders of Capital 
Cities. The proxies expire on January 2, 1997 or at the earlier date when neither of such persons is 
chief executive officer of Capital Cities, 


(4) Investment in GEICO Corporation 

Subsidiaries of Berkshire, at both December 31, 1988 and at December 31, 1987, owned 6,850,000 
shares of common stock of GEICO Corporation. The shares possessed approximately 44% of the voting 
rights of all GEICO shares outstanding at December 31, 1988, but Berkshire maintains an independent 
prox:y arrangement for voting of the shares as required by Order of GEICO’s domiciliary insurance 
supervisory authority. The Order, dating from Berkshire subsidiaries’ major purchase of the shares in 
1976, prohibits Berkshire from seeking or causing to change the independent proxy. Also, under the 
Order, no officer or director of Berkshire or of any affiliate or subsidiary of Berkshire is permitted to 
serve as a director of GEICO. Because the Order divests Berkshire of its voting rights with respect to 
the shares, Berkshire does not use the equity method of accounting for its investment in GEICO. 


27 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts) 


(5) Investments in Marketable Equity Securities 

Aggregate data with respect to the consolidated investment in marketable equity securities is 
shown below as of the dates indicated. See Note 1(d} as to methods applied tt determine carrying 
value of these securities. 


| December 31, 1988 


Unrealized Carrying 
Cost: _ Gain _Market Value 

Common stock of: 

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ................. ... § 517,500 $ 569,250 $1,086,750 $1,077,262 

The Coca-Cola Company..... etitne we eatin Vee 592,540 39,908 632,448 632,448 

GEICO. Corporation dc: aucsiccag secant as Sue aneaseed te anes 45,713 803,687 849,400 849,400 

RJR Nabisco: [nG:. 6.6642-00440d6usasadweaewn’s 281,765 — 22,775 304,540 304,180 

The Washington Post Company .........-0: 9,731 354,395: 364,126 364,126 
All other marketable equity securities ........ __288,000 _ 97,653 _ 385,653 | 331,308 


$1,735,249 $1,887,668 $3,622,917 4 $3,558,724 
December 31, 1987 


Unrealized Carrying 
__Cost__ = __Gain__ _ Market _ Value __ 
Common stock of: | 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.............0..0000 $ 517,500 $ 517,500 $1,035,000 $1,026,375 
GEICO Corporation .........5.. 0.0 cece e eae 45,713 711,212 756,925 756,925 
The Washington Post Company bins Srae's add 9,731 313,361 323,092 323,092 
All other marketable equity securities ........ 225,511 36,956 262,467 256,053 


$ 798,455 1,579,029 $2,377,484 $2,362,445 


Unrealized gain is shown net of nominal unrealized loss as to certain stocks included above in the 
category captioned “All other marketable equity securities.” 


(6) Loans and Accounts Receivable 
Loans and accounts receivable represent the following: 


Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 

1985 _1987 
Trade accounts receivable. ........... ccc eee eee scene eee nees ae $234,009 $223,298 
Loans of Mutual, principally real estate ...... nae ere ere 136.970 139,438 
Installment receivables purchased. by SFFG.............-.00eceeeeees 69,229 84,091 
Due Insurance Group members, principally premiums.......... ease 63,275 81,878 
Investment income due and accrued ...............65 Cero eT ee 43,168 43,975. 
Amounts due from sales of securities................... Sesiedabretneca ees 33,259 5,269 


$579,910 $577,949 


28 


(7) Income Taxes 


The liability for income taxes as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets 


represent estimates of liabilities as follows: 


Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 
1988 == _1987 
Pavable currently scien ceee ee heck vert ey iawn $ 46,758 $ 34,071 
Deferred, relating to unrealized appreciation 
of marketable equity securities. ................ 548,470 459,707 
Deferred, net of prepaid, arising from : 
timing differences........... seis eeaiee. he Sth teen 3,677 _ 12.721 
$598,905 $506,499 


The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes applicable to operating 


earnings and to realized investments gain as shown below. 


Applicable to 1988 1987 1986 
Operating earnings ......... 6c. cece ewes cp eneeas eee ia atdeeae a $ 96,599 $60,771 S$ 61,300 
Realized investment gain ............00..0005 Socata yaeaiaae sascaige an 44,192 9,070 68,954 
$140,791 $ 69,841 $130,254 
These taxes. are comprised of: 
POGGR al cis cell cakes aaa oe whe Wea cca nae chee dae sees eee $122,492. § 56,899 $116,254 
GLO cst a Athan cea eae eee eaeene au PaNe renee peace nets 15,871 11,551 13,050 
BOLE ISM asc arcnia is rentiet eee ca hate acne ema dinu a bu es aS tai 2,428 1,394 950 
$140,791 $ 69,841 5130,254 
Taxes payable currently ..... 0.0... cee c cece eee eees iiaanaaas .... $149,835 $122,653 $110,620 
Increase (decrease) in net deferred taxes...... Ale Aas cueck hie Soy heeae _ (9,044) (52,8122) 49,634 
$140,791 $69,841 $130,254 
The increase (decrease) in net deferred taxes represent the tax effects of timing differences as 
follows: 
Applicable to 1988 1987 1966 
Deferred insurance premium acquisition COSIS 65.2425 cig ecb eed -». $ (7,377) $(13,577) S$ 12,778 
Structured settlements and portfolio reinsurance liabilities ........ 6,902. 4,714 2,555 
Discounting of losses and loss adjustment expense reserves ....... (10,988) (37,692) — 
Deferred gross profit on installment sales..... Chih oly Mawar eenee {4,610} (8,745) (2,836) 
Other Nel sit. discon auth tas cess iat wena rca powannnmegess 7,029 2,488 7,137 
$ (9,044) $(52.812) $19,634 


Charges for income taxes are reconciled in the table which follows to hypothetical amounts 


computed at the Federal statutory rate: 


_1988 = _1987 _ 1986 __ 

Net earnings including minority interest, 

before applicable income taxes ........... ce ceccecnceceececeees $550,121 $310,514 $418,729 
Hypothetical amounts applicable to above 

computed at the Federal statutory rate 

(34% in 1988, 40% in 1987 and 46% in 1986) .............. ore $187,041 $124,206 $192,615 
Decreases, resulting from: 

Tax-exempt ‘interest income.......... 0.600 e eee aes snes sis (33,477) (40,501) (34,192) 

Dividends received deduction ..............0.0 5000 ce eeee Sgeee (21,461) {10,830} (8,522) 

Rate differentials relating to realized investment gains ...... ere — (3.079) (31,878) 
Fresh start adjustment related to discounting of 

loss and loss adjustment EXPENSE TESELVES. 6.6.6... sees eee eee (5,120) {8,241} — 
State income taxes, less Federal income tax benefit............... 10,597 6,931 7,048 
Net other differences’ a3 cess sieaykavweiwes Serer decd Aves ciieaes 3,211 1,355. 5,183 
Total income taxes............ Desi eeanseeeds Siew .... $140,791 $ 69,841 $130,254 


29 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
{dollars in thousands except per share amounts} 


(8) Prospective Change in Method of Accounting for Income Taxes 

The Company intends to implement in 1990 the change in accounting for income taxes, as 
mandated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Berkshire management believes that if the 
changed methods were applied to its December 31, 1988 data, its consolidated shareholders’ equity 
would be reduced by as much as $74,000. The reduction would have been accomplished by a 
reduction of reported earnings and was determined from the following: 


Changed rates applied in computing income taxes deemed 


applicable to unrealized appreciation of marketable equity securities............ $71,000 
Tax benefits yet to be recognized from “fresh start”........ 2... ccc eee eee eee ees (34,000) 

Deferred taxes attributable to remaining book and tax basis differences 
that arose in accounting for business acquisitions ........... 0.0 cece cee eee eee ees 38,000 
OUR cc ieeokeadeweatssn4cees ee ee er ree ial iameara boa ene _ (1,000) 
$74,000 


Figures in this note are based on data that will change by the date Berkshire actually implements 
the changed methods. 


{9} Term Debt and Other Borrowings 
The following table sets forth the term debt and other borrowings of the Company and its 
subsidiaries at December 31, 1988 and 1987. 


Company 1988 1987. 
10% Debentures due January 1, 2018, redeemable 

through operation of a sinking fund which calls for 

annual repayments of $7,500 beginning in 1999.......... $150,000 $ — 
9%:% Debentures due January 15, 2018, redeemable 

through operation of a sinking fund which calls for 


annual repayments of $5,000 beginning in 1999.......... 100,000 — 
8.97% Fixed Rate loan due November 3, 1988 ............. —_ 50,000 
Other notes, payable through 1993..............c cee eeeeees 11,316 13,565 
261,316 63,565 
Subsidiaries 
8.125% Notes, payable in 1996.......... 0... cece cece eee aes 120,000 120,000 


10% Notes, payable in annual installments of $2, 625, 
through 1997 with a final payment of $2,750 


On: AURUSES 1, 1998. a5 ape desk acnadsca ses ewetiwss 26,375 29,000 

912% Notes, payable in annual installments of $2,500 
throug 1998 Get ced ews ese a arc deanna sia tees 25,000 27,500 
10%% Notes, payable in 1991........... ccc cece e eae Serer 25,000 25,000 
Other notes maturing through 2007.................05- eke 22,318 24,821 
$480,009 $289,886 


Covenants of various borrowing Agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties 
are not materially restrictive. 


Principal payments on borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1988 are required during the 
succeeding five years as follows: 


T9OS se oct iawade ee cana nawaneie Si eeeiae esata eas $12,852 
ODO garaiahs tek eee daira ba eqrek nad ARS OTe ea aaes ames 7,805 
g ES | Ge ere ae ee een eee weer ee Coen eee rere eae Te 32,798 
gS ee en eee eee ee re eee ee ee ee ee ee 7,813 
10938 eo ciiouieii hewmen tet oalnmus ce esons Pack ee ancient 7,799 


30 


(10) Shareholders’ Equity Accounts : 
Changes in SHTEnOIGERS Equity accounts during the most recent three years were as follows: 


Net Unrealized Retained Treasury 
Appreciation Earnings Stock 

Balance at December 28, 1985............ccceaeee ens $ 664,707 $1,097,308 $$ 40,938 
Increase during 1986 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value. of marketable 

CQUICY SECUFIELOS 6615 bin wa odes ean adGNsae Maney es 291,804 
Change during 1986 in deemed applicable 

INCOME: (EXCS o.25 cost entun esa sare ents. eer (81,705) 
Decrease in minority shareholders” interest in 

net unrealized appreciation......... ish aeeaasoew ane 7 
Net earnings 1986........... 0... eee eee ava has ciate ie | ___ 282,361 
Balance at December 31, 1986...........0.. 00sec eeuee 874,813 1,379,669 40,938. 
Increase during 1987 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value of marketable 

EQuIty S@CUFILIOS . 2.0... ccc e eee eee e ne ens sea Gee Seite 349,147 
Change during 1987 in deemed applicable 
ANGCOME laX@S scscs casesseichsewestieetiadoewgedks a (119,837) 
Net earnings 1987..... ee pi oG a citah ere aieanucd eine dees Hee oy _ 234,552 — 
Balance at December 31, 1987 emutagd pple deed ees sii 1,104,123 1,614,221 40,938 
Increase during 1988 in unrealized appreciation 

included in carrying value of marketable 

equity securities 2.0... ... 0c eevee cee nen eees kowteabeus 259,486 
Change during 1988 in deemed applicable 

income taxes . paripaneieeaiven ia Arou a thane (88,763) 
Increase in minority “shareholders” interest 

in unrealized appreciation........ Jee RREae as . (189) 
Net earnings 1988..... er ere er ere Sas 399,270 
Value of Berkshire stock received in connection with 

termination of pension plans............ ore Te C355 
Balance at December 31, 1988........0...00cceeeeeeee $1,274,657 $2,013,491 § 42,293 


(11) Interest and Dividend Income | 
Interest and dividend income for each of the past three years was. comprised of the following: 


Dividends: | 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ....... ee er nies oe 
The Coca-Cola Company ......... 0.6. ccs ceeeee eens 
GEICO Corporation...... Soteeaok as area petit Rieu 


Salomon Inc. i eaoeahs Berta encase esol aie ease Muss ledenes ee & be eat ] 


The Washington Post Sop enyies Gosh Pvntewsa eds 
PU OMECTS sia dcnuaicinnss dco veqdic sy eau sews onevns 


- Total dividends...... Gaiincaeren tawisaee deninig heb 
Interest from: 4 


Interest and. dividénd i income......... be aacegenecen 


1 
41 
Ae 


31 


1988 


$ 600 
4,393 


98,617 


164,499 
51,135 


$314,251 


1987 


$ 600 


9,316 
15,750 
2,212 
10,401 


38,279 


147,769 


91,271 


$237,319 


1986 


$ 600 


7,398 


1,935 
12,113 


22,046 


115,730 


44,216 


$181,992 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts} 


(12) Sundry Income 

Sundry income for 1988 includes approximately $16.366 which represents the approximate fair 
value of cash and securities that reverted to the Company and to certain of its subsidiaries upon 
termination of overfunded defined benefit pension plans. 


(13) Interest Expense 
Interest expense is comprised of interest on savings accounts of Mutual, plus interest on debt as 
follows: 


1988 1987 1986 
Savings accounts of er ae Ma beienet Ora a tableau $20,579 $20,903 $22,275 
Debt of SFFG ........ Oe ere ee ssoritaown er 14,088 15,060. 9,235 
Other debt .................. ate dd putea sted Mise oes 35,613 11,474 23,892 
$70,280 947,437 $55,402 


(14) Dividend Restrictions — Insurance Subsidiaries 

Payments of dividends by. Insurance Group members are restricted by insurance statutes and 
regulations. Without prior regulatory approval in 1989, Berkshire can receive up to approximately 
$350,000 as dividends from subsidiaries that are members of the Insurance Group. 


Combined shareholder's equity of insurance subsidiaries, determined pursuant to statutory 
accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards Policyhoiders) was approximately $3,600,000 and 
$2,800,000 at December 31, 1988 and 1987, respectively. These amounts exceeded the corresponding 
amounts determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles by approximately 
$500,000 at December 31, 1988 and $400,000 at December 31, 1987. The principle difference is 
represented by deferred income tax liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes but ignored 
for statutory reporting purposes. 


(15) Business Segment Data 
Berkshire had seven reportable business segments in 1988. The principal activity/product/service 
of each is described below: 


Segment Activitv/product/service 

Insurance Property/casualty insurance and reinsurance. 

Candy Boxed chocolates and other confectionary products. 

Newspaper Publication of the Buffalo News, a daily and Sunday newspaper. 


Retailing of home furnishings Carpet, furniture, appliances, electronics and related products. 
Encyclopedias, other reference Composition, publication and marketing of World Book 


materials encyclopedias and other educational and reference works. 

Home cleaning systems Manufacture and distribution of principally Kirby branded home 
cleaning systems and products. 

Uniform manufacturing and Manufacture and distribution at retail of uniforms, trousers, 

distribution jackets, shirts and caps. 


The tables which follow reflect data for those segments for each of the three most recent years. 


32 


(15) Business Segment Data (continued) 
Revenues 


Insurance .... ccc ccc ccc cece ccc ccceeauvces Soe acer eee 


Candy snctsack cerns outta xe ss widecwinestotes ere 
Ne@wSpaper .... eee eee eee ees ietdaks awe sews awa eek 
Retailing of home PUPMISHINGS cain a sansd ep saeseueseeeeue 
Encyclopedias, other reference materials..............0+++5 
Home cleaning systems ...... 0... cece eee e ees eens 
Uniform manufacturing and distribution .............000e. 
Revenues not identified with segments ...............- as 


Operating Profit Before Taxes 


Insurance . ** © * # a3 4 et 2 te te be oe Wik ede ea ap eee eee ee hh ee a * ns 4 8 


Candy ea @ Bee ee ee he ee et ee 
Newspaper Pe ee ee | eo, be ee . 


Retailing of home furnishings ianilenaindcat ee eee Cer et 


Encyclopedias, other reference materials ............... ee 


Home cleaning systems .............. ec ae cece eeeee Peeebs 
Uniform manufacturing and distribution .............-..6. 
Pre-tax operating profits not identified with segments . 

Unallocated corporate costs. ........ cece eee eee eee ees 
Interest on debt, except finance companies’ debt Hieweetes 


Realized investment gains are not reflected in this table. 


; Capital Expenditures 


INSULANCe .........0000. Ss fered eee nae ee ee Pee a epee 


Candy ee | ae Pe eee 


NG@WSPape? ia nc eeccui nese beaawiaewes Caswendeseed meeurekas 


Retailing of home MUTMISNINGS waseowwcretcue eked ones susan 


Encyclopedias, other reference materials .................. 


Home cleaning systems ..............cc cee ee eeenes rer 
Uniform manufacturing and distribution.......... ee ee 
Other .............3 ae te epee se eee te ee eee ea tf > ee ee 


1988 


$ 816,142 
168,166 
131,664 
152,541 
337,990 
144,145 

92,514 
490,060 


$2,333,222 


1988 
$ 220,169 
31,498 
41,830 
17,994 
27,639 
27,210 
13,425 
83,018 
(8,720) 
(35,613) 

$ 418,450 


Expenditures which were part of business acquisitions are excluded. 


33 


1987 


$ 977,890 
157,391 
122,955 
145,997 
325,772 
129,678 

74,734 


468,527 


$2,402,944 


__1987_ _ 
$ 97,054 
30,718 
38,811 
16,328 
25,494 
23,325 
12,613 
57,122 

(8,318) 

(11,474) 

$ 281,673 


1987 


$ 804 
4,758 
1,266 
3,103 

376 
1,320. 
981 


9,155 


$ 17,763 


1986 


$ 931,379 
151,861 
114,267 
135,501 
285,356 
126,812 

41,355 


444,913 


$2,231,444 


__1986___ 
$ 51,299 
29,373 
34,137 
17,176 
20,534 
20,019 
7,988 
48,074 
(6,745) 
(23,891) 
$ 197,964 


1986 


$ 607 
4,138 

764 

3,771 

307 

1,562 

325 


8,726 


$ 20,200 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts} 


(15) Business Segment Data (continued) 
Depreciation and Amortization of Tangible Assets 


Caney x2ctincees ee eT ee eT er ener (abies 
NOWSDADEl ssiiea stints or heehee siete ees vee 
Retailing of home furnishings ..... openings sememecn eee 
Encyclopedias, other reference materials ..... ee re 
Home cleaning Systems ica sas.cdusc si esnedee cara peeees 
Uniform manufacturing and distribution ................ ds 
Onersieielcssunaeans Sede NOC eae Ata sain dase a4 


Gandy sievvtvetonseus ane Ce re TT er errr 
Newspaper ... 2... cee eee eee eee cee ee eee 
Retailing of home furnishings seated tite Biomass oes led . 
Encyclopedias, other reference materials .................. 
Home cleaning systems ............ 00. eeeees ee ere . 
Uniform manufacturing and distribution ............ er 
Other........ sitie tina tohae een esas tree: palin, indie ax Se Ma ae cane aren Ataieters 


Revenues of the Insurance Segment 


Premiums written .. e+e eae ee ae a 


Premiums earned: 
Primary or direct insurance ..........0.. 0.02 eee eee | 
Reinsurance assumed excluding structured 
settlements and portfolio reinsurance................. 


Total premiums earned .......... Sepeibe SUayieseanee 
Investment income ....... Matteveeiiieseieeees Gara Nerang . 


Insurance Segment Operating Profit Before Taxes 


Underwriting gain (loss): 

Primary or direct insurance. operations.................. 

Reinsurance assumed excluding structured 
settlements and portfolio reinsurance............. re 
SUDIOlal sete scat winds rae te ee kinnteesssae eed: 
Structured settlements and portfolio : reinsurance ........ 
Total underwriting (loss).......... imaeuee naeiocaes 
Net investment income ...............0000eee tars, Goaneee Sieg 


34 


$5,421,195 


64,304 
50,755 
70,660 
85,675 
45,675 
73,009 


1,005,575 
$6,816,848 


1988 
$ 484,709 


$ 292,309 


229,323 
521.632 


62,603 


984,295. 
231,907 
$ 816,142 


1988 


17,466 


2,994 


(14,075) 
(11,081) 
231,250 


$ 220,169 


$ 


$4,519,657 


64,742 


94,326. 


71,461 
80,318 
46,191 
61,595 


964,945 


$5,863,235 


1987 
$ 751,253 


$ 441,635 


$ 


372,763 
814,398 

10,497 
824,895 
152,995 


$ 977,890 
1987 
(2,715) 

(27,745) 
(30,460) 


(24,969) 
(55,429) 


152,483 


$ 97,054 


$ 


$ 


$3,533,669 


68,856. 
98,735 
64,946 
76,893 
46,777 
60,504 


1,020,974 
$4,931,354 


1986 
$1,009,430. 


$ 463,117 


344,385 
807.502 
__ 16,382 
823,884 
107,495 


§_931,379 


1986 


3,538 


(49,355) 
(45,817) 
(10,027) 
(55,844) 
107,143 


§_51,299 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Quarterly Data — Unaudited 
{dollars in thousands except per share amounts) 


Revenues in this table are restated on a consolidated basis and, accordingly, are restated from 
those as last reported for each quarter prior to the 4th quarter of 1988. 


Earnings Before 


Realized Realized Net 
Investment Investment Net Earnings 
Revenues Gain Gain Earnings Per Share 
ist quarter — 1988 $600,563 $77,835. $21,222 $ 99,057 $ 86.38 
1987 623,585 57,219 3,255 60,474 52.73 
2nd quarter — 1988 $538,022 $69,506 $24,939 $ 94,445 $ 82.37 
1987 578,402 45,880 360 46,240 40.31 
3rd quarter — 1988 $570,763 $75,961 $ 8,564 $ 84,525 $ 73.73 
1987 567,147 49,239 11,917 61,156 §3.32 
4th quarter — 1988 $623,874 $90,139 $31,104 $121,243 $105.75 
1987 633,810 62,408 4,274 66,682 58.15 


Revenues and earnings from marketing of World Book products are concentrated in the first 
quarter. See's Candy sales peak at Easter and more notably so in the fourth quarter when more than 
one-half of annual revenues for that business are normally recorded. Holiday advertising revenues also 
tend to increase fourth quarter earnings recorded for the Buffalo News. A non-seasonal factor that may. 
influence Berkshire's interim consolidated financial statements is that estimation error, inherent to the 
process of determining liabilities for unpaid losses of insurance subsidiaries, can be relatively more 
significant to results of interim periods than to results for a full year. Variations in amount and timing 
of realized securities gains or losses cause significant variations in periodic net earnings. 


INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1988 and 1987, and the related consolidated statements of earnings 
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1988. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those stan- 
dards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reason- 
able basis for our opinion. | 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 
31, 1988 and 1987, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years 
in the period ended December 31, 1988, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 

As discussed in Note 1, the consolidated financial statements give retroactive effect to the 
Company’s adoption in 1988. of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 94, “Consolidation 
of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries.” 


TOUCHE ROSS & CO. 


March 8, 1989 
Omaha, Nebraska 


35 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Results of Operations 
Throughout this discussion, data with respect to years prior to 1988 have been restated if required 
to conform to consolidation and other reporting practices applied for 1988. 
Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. 


Contribution to Net Earnings 
g00s Omitted 


Activity or Item 1988 1987 1986 

INSUPANCE cits tauren eotwucstageeitootedaedeboraded eaeatss , $196,734 $115,962 $ 66,576 
Manufacturing, merchandising, ANG SELVICES ssso0 jp eremte vce 145,635 109,681 80.743 
Interest on debt excluding finance companies’ debt...... see (23,212) (5,905). (12,213) 
Other unallocated corporate costS........ ccc see cee eee eee (5.716) (4,992) (3,642) 
Earnings before realized investment gain ..............-..00- 313,441 214,746 131,464 
Realized investment gain.......... Se er een ce re 85,829 19,806 150,897 
Net earnings............... cache mete ane acne eee eee eels $399,270 $234,552 $282,361 


All of the above data is tax-effected and differs in that respect from pre-tax earnings data 
presented elsewhere in this report. 
Insurance 
The after-tax figures shown above for the Insurance segment derive from the following: 
000s Omitted 


1988 1987 1986 
Underwriting gain (loss): 
Primary or Direct Insurance Operations ...... et atuedemtee $17,466 $ (2,715) $ 3,538 
Reinsurance Assumed, excluding Structured | 
Settlements and Portfolio Reinsurance .................. {14,472) | (27,745) (49,355). 
Structured Settlements and Portfolio Reinsurance.......... (14,075) _ (24,969) (10,0627) 
Underwriting ]OSS'>- prestaX: ca5(nt jek ed eae edaks sens (11,081) (55,429} (55,844) 
Applicable income tax credit*.......... ee ee ee 9,670 34,461 25,688 
Applicable mincrity interest.................. th ta tere Ge tie 366 309 292 
After-tax underwriting loss .......... cc cece ee ce cece ee eee eeee (1,045) (20,659) (29,864) 
After-tax net investment income ........... 0. cee cee eee 197,779 136,621 96,440 
Net earnings..... aco eaans cheno eter paket ie eatin Ses ieee $196,734 $115,962 $$ 66,576 


*Income tax credits applicable to underwriting losses include a “fresh start” tax benefit of 
approximately $5 million for 1988 and $8 million for 1987. 

The capsulized data in the table below provides greater perspective with respect to the Berkshire 
Hathaway Insurance Group's underwriting activities for the past several years. Amounts are stated in 
millions of dollars. 


Pre-tax 
Premiums Underwriting Year-End 
Year Written Earned Loss | Float 
1984......... $ 134 $140 $(48) $ 264 
1985......... 497 317 (44) 515 
1986......06, 1,009 824 (56) 1,078 
1987......... 751 825 (55) 1,458 
1988......... 485 534 (11) 1,540 


36 


Insurance {continued} 


“Float” in the preceding table has been computed to include the sum of unpaid losses, unpaid 
loss adjustment expenses and unearned premiums, less agents balances receivable, amounts recover- 
able as reinsurance.on paid losses, and deferred policy acquisition costs. The net result is a rough 
approximation of investable policyholder funds. The Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group's book of 
business is unusually volatile in its makeup — both as to number and as to nature of covered risks. 
Recent significant changes in annual premium volume of the Group have resulted in relationships 
between the Group's float and premium volume that are inconsistent from period to period. The ratio 
has now risen to an unusually high level. It is expected to remain so for some time. 


The succeeding discussions of underwriting results deal with specified subsegments of Berkshire’s 
insurance business. The section “Primary or Direct Insurance Underwriting”, immediately following, 
deals with those operations where insurance policies are issued to named insureds that are directly 
subject to the risks insured against. The term is used to distinguish such business from that of 
reinsurance assumed activities that involve insuring other insurers. 


Primary or Direct Insurance Underwriting 


A summary follows of the combined underwriting results, determined on the basis of generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), of the Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group’s primary or 
direct insurance operations. Dollars are in thousands. 


1988 1987 1986 


Amount %a Amount % Amount __—% 

Premiums written.............006. $218,838 $412,748 $594,607 
Premiums earned . ee ee ee eee 292,309 100.0 441,635 100.0 463,117 100.0 
Losses ..d loss expenses.......... 196,165 67.1 338,575 9976.7 347,468 = 75.0 
Underwriting expenses........... a ca 3.6/8 26.9 (105.775 (239 (112.111 _24.2 

Total losses and expenses....... 274,843 _94.0 444.350 1006 459,579 99.2 
Underwriting gain (loss} — | 

pre-tax ....... 2aGes eee woos. § 17,466 $ (2,715) 3,938 


The decline in the number of risks accepted in Berkshire’s primary or direct insurance operations 
accelerated in 1988. During the year, industry price competition continued to increase and, accord- 
ingly, premium rates continued to decrease. Group members are expected by management to practice 
disciplined underwriting, a consequence of which is a decrease in accepted risks occurring in periods 
of decreasing prices. The decrease in total written premiums in this subsegment was 47% in 1988 from 
1987, following a decrease of 30% in 1987 from 1986. Premiums earned, which lags premiums written, 
declined in 1988 by one-third from 1987. Principally because total payroll costs chargeable to under- 
writing expenses of the business declined only nominally in 1988, the ratio of underwriting expenses 
to premiums earned increased for 1988 as shown above. 


Summarized below is loss and loss expense data for this business. 
000s Omitted 


1988 1987, _1986__ 

Unpaid losses and loss expenses at beginning of year ....... $628,077 $429,505 $209,236 
Incurred losses recorded: 

GUETENt year OCCUrreNnCes cos 7c Aiagenwbieiaceiotsneee busin. 225,309 348,010 331,463 

All prior years’ occurrences .............. ee eee _ {29,144}  _ (9,435) 16,005 


196,165 338,579 347 468 
Payments with respect to: 


Current year occurrences ............. Se bike iene its eee 39,263 44,856 53,086 
All prior years’ occurrences .............0c ccc cet e eee eeee 117,387 95,147 74,113 

| 156,650 _ 140,003 127,199 

Unpaid losses and loss expenses at end of year............. $667,592 $628,077 $429,505 


37 


Management's Discussion (continued) 
Insurance (continued) 


The favorable loss development in 1988 of $29 million represents 10% of the year’s earned 
premiums from the primary or direct business. That favorable development mostly derives from re- 
estimation of pre-1988 loss and loss expense liabilities, though in small part, it is attributable to actual 
settlements made at a lower cost than amounts previously reserved. The arnount of favorable develop- 
ment has little predictive value with respect to how much additional development will reveal itself. 
nor whether such development will be favorable or unfavorable. About $14 million of the 1988 
favorable development relates to changed estimates for loss costs with respect to principally 1987 loss 
occurrences in National Indemnity Company’s traditional auto bodily injury liability coverages for bus 


and truck operators. About $8.5 million of the development credit resulted from reduction of the 
liability provision for prior years’ loss occurrences covered under excess-of-loss, claims-made type 


policies. 


Reinsurance Assumed, excluding Structured Settlements and Portfolio Reinsurance 


The combined underwriting results, determined on a GAAP basis, with respect to the reinsurance 
assumed business, other than structured settlements and portfolio reinsurance, are summarized in the 
following table, with dollars in thousands. 


1988 1987 1986 
Amount % Amount % Amount %o 

Premiums. written....... ore ere $203,268 $328,011 $398,446 
Premiums earned ................ 229,323 100.0 372,763 100.0 344,385 100.0. 
Losses and loss expenses.......... 170,492 74.3 287,638 77.2 282,563 82.0 
Underwriting expenses........... P 73,303 _32.0 112,870 _30.2 111,177 _32.3 

Total losses and expenses......._243,795 106.3 _400,508 , 107.4 _393,740 114.3 
Underwriting (loss} — pre-tax..... $ (14,472) $ (27,745) ${49,355) 


1988 activity of this subsegment i is preponderantly representative of the major quota share reinsur- 
ance contract with Fireman’s Fund. 


Loss and loss expense data with respect to this reinsurance business is summarized below for the 
past three years. 


000s Omitted 


1988 1987 1986 
Unpaid losses and loss expenses at beginning of year ..... .. $488,098 $319,989 $114,191 
Incurred losses recorded: | 
Current year occurrences ............ ip eee eS edud aided aes 169,688 283,151 261,554 
All prior years’ occurrences ........... 0. cee tee cece eens 804 4,487 21,009 


_170,492 287,638 282,963 
Payments with respect to: 


Current year OCCUITENCES ........ 60. oe 35,474 45,201 43,711 
All prior years’ occurrences ..... ee Boas cues 91,782 74,328 33,054 
_127,256 119,529 _. 76,765 

Unpaid losses. and loss expenses at end of year............ . $531,334 $488,098 $319,989 


38 


Insurance (continued) 


Structured Settlements and Portfolio Reinsurance 


Analyses of loss developments for the Structured Settlements and Portfolio Reinsurance business 
are not meaningful because, at inception of these contracts, it is predictable that subsequent under- 
writing losses will result in varying amounts that are reasonably estimable. Acceptance of the business 
nevertheless occurs after appraisal on a proposal-by-proposal basis of the value of funds expected to 
be generated thereby. | 


Insurance Segment Investment Income 
_000s Omitted 


Investment Investment 

Income Applicable Applicable Income After 
Before Income Minority Taxes and 

Taxes Taxes Interest Minority Int. 

1988...... cearoees Sis $231,250 $30,698 $2,773 $197,779 
OST ce cins opie ao “ 152,483. 13,670 2,192. 136,621 
1986 355604 cia eueeks 107,143. 9,094 1,609 96,440 


The increased “float”, detailed earlier, combined with reinvested earnings plus contributions 
made by Berkshire to capital of the Group in the three years, have resulted in significantly increased 
levels of investment, and, accordingly, significantly increased amounts of investment income as 
reflected above. 


Manufacturing, Merchandising and Services 


Results of operations for the past three years of Berkshire’s diverse non-insurance businesses are 
summarized in the following table, in thousands of dollars: 


1988 | 1987 __ 1986 _ 


Amount % Amount % _Amount Jo_ 
RevenueS.......0.ceeeeeeeeeeeeees $1,517,080 100.0 $1,425,054 100.0 $1,300,065 100.0 
Costs and expenses . se tier etn vache arene 1,274,466 (84.0 _1,220,643 85.7. _1,122,763 _86.4 
Earnings before income taxes...... 242,614 16.0 204,411 14.3 177,302 13.6 
Applicable income taxes .......... 90,604 6.0 90,114 6.3 92,329 7.1 
Applicable minority interest....... | 6.375 — 0.4 4,616 0.3 4,230 0.3 
Net’earnings...................... $145,635 _96 $ 109,681 _7.7 $ 80,743 _ 6.2 


Combined revenues of the diverse group of non-insurance businesses increased approximately 6% 
from 1987 to 1988, following an increase of approximately 9% from 1986 to 1987. Pre-tax profits also 
increased in each of the two most recent years over those of the immediately preceding year. Revenue 
and pre-tax profits for 1988 include approximately $16.4 million of asset reversions from terminated 
pension plans. Otherwise, dollar increases in pre-tax earnings, like the doilar increase in revenues, 
were shared among virtually every constituent operation in both 1988 and 1987. 


Aggregate after tax earnings of the Group were further improved over the immediately prior year, 
both for 1988 and for 1987, by lower rates of applicable Federal income taxes. The decreased rates 
reflect provisions of the 1986 Tax Reform Act. The statutory Federal corporate rate was 46% for 1986, 
40% for 1987 and 34% for 1988. 


Interest Expense 


Interest on debt increased in 1988, reflecting increased outstanding borrowings, principally Berk- 
shire’s $250 million face amount of debentures due 2018, issued in January 1988. Interest expense in 
1987 was less than in 1986 because Berkshire's $60 million outstanding issue of 12%% debentures 
was called for early redemption in December 1986. 


39 


Management’s Discussion (continued) 
Realized Investment Gain 


Realized investment gain has been an element of Berkshire’s net earnings for each of the past 
several years. The amount of this gain — recorded by Berkshire when appreciated securities are sold 
— tends to fluctuate significantly from period to period. The varying effect upon Berkshire's consoli- 
dated net earnings is evident on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The amount of 
realized investment gain for any period has no predictive value, and variations in amount from period 
to period have no practical analytical value, given the pre-existence of substantial unrealized price 
appreciation in Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio. 


Liquidity and Capital Resources 


Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1988 reflects continuing capital 
strength. Berkshire shareholders’ equity has increased from approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 
1985 to approximately $3.4 billion at December 31, 1988. In that three-year period, realized and 
unrealized securities gains incseased equity capital by approximately $860 million. Reinvested earn- 
ings, other than realized sec “ sities gains, were approximately $660 million for the three years. 


In January, 1988 Berkshire issued $250,000,000 face amount of 30 year debentures, redeemable 
through sinking funds commencing in 1999. Proceeds from the issue were contributed to the equity 
capital of the Insurance Group. The obligations bear interest at approximately 10% per annum and 
final maturity is in January, 2018. Berkshire borrowed the funds not with a view to any immediate 
cash needs but rather to increase its already substantial liquidity. Somewhat improved ability to 
respond to future business acquisition opportunities was the result. 


Shortly ‘after 1988 year-end, Standard & Poors Corporation announced an. upgrade to AAA in the 
credit rating it has assigned to Berkshire debt. 


40 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


INSURANCE GROUP 


Berkshire’s insurance business is conducted by 12 separate subsidiaries, 
headed by National Indemnity Company, headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska. The 
members underwrite multiple lines of principally casualty coverages for primarily 
commercial accounts, providing, for example, liability coverages for truck and bus 
operators, and casualty coverages for especially large or unusual risks. Members 
domiciled in the states of Colorado, Kansas and Nebraska provide standard 
multiple-line property/casualty insurance to “homestate” residents. A California 
domiciled member provides workers' compensation insurance in that state. 
Through a four-year quota share reinsurance contract effective September 1, 1985, 
the Group has participated to the extent of 7% in all of the property/casualty 
insurance business underwritten by Fireman's Fund Insurance Companies, nation- 
ally known insurers that offer their insurance products tiationally. 


The Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group maintains capital strength at 
unparalleled high levels, significantly higher than normal in the industry. This 
strength differentiates Group members from their competitors. For example, the 
Group's net premiums written in 1988 were approximately 14% of the Group's 
year-end statutory surplus, That compares to an industry average premiums-to- 
surplus ratio of about 190%. The obvious margins of safety thus provided to 
insureds. of the Group are particularly persuasive in marketing of individually 
negotiated financial insurance and reinsurance contracts, including liability 


assumptions with respect to loss portfolios and with respect to periodic payment 


contracts (structured settlements). 


Combined financial statements of the Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Insurance 
Group are presented on the following two pages. 


41 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


INSURANCE GROUP 


Balance Sheets 
{dollars in thousands} 


Assets 
Investments: 
Fixed maturities at amortized cost: 
Bonds: 


Wash. Pub. Power Supply System... naienaeaeae nse eaneh : 


: OR scree nie Leteatlneatn Teer eee ee eT ee ee ee eee ee 
GO Redeemable preferred stocks: 
Salomon Inc..... sal a aeaiae graces sagen Waieeerteweeinacutes 
OUNCE viens seven wewaie ears cs rr eer dtd aaasemed areas 
Equity Securities at market: 
Common stocks: 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ................ ee ere Sealed nares 
Coca-Cola aii ae ee err re rere ee ee rrr 
GEICO 0... ose cece eee ee delopesttetine am gtd eels aa eReape eeu 


Other ee rege z acetate ateas ee Sdn ad anteater Bene ec See ek ts tle la gtk Oh a eee 


Pas 


Cash and: cash SQUIVEGIONES e565 sce seou enti deen vessnas *#e# ee eee 
ROCCIVADIOS c.cagce leans sce Geededeatedetalesnerecean yee ere ee 


Deferred insurance prem acquisition COIS cc hucdaret maaasee ues oe 
Other ....... Sea pete page atewWae rea tee tee ee eee eee eae kh ka he ee + 


Liabilities. 

Loss and loss adjustment expenses ......... 0... es eeee eee rennet eens 
Uneéared premiums esis nics cc0i0ncaea sae s awed ceeeehwed Vea dan a 
Accounts payable, accruals and GAS ee pease cect mee oe 
Income taxes (Deferred: $547,635, 1988: $467,196, 1987}...... tet 


Equity 
Minority shareholders’ ............5.. 0. cece seen neces sehunesUSaears 
Berkshire shareholders’ .............. Reese ere 


These statements are unaudited. 


42 


December 31, 


. 1988 


$ 246,982 
802,916 


624,000 
10,548 


1,068,637 


9,106,277 


121,614 
139,702 
45,456 


3,299 


$5,416,348 


$1,407,189 
241,818 
85,387 


965,310 
_2,299,704 


24,957 
3,091,687 
3,116,644 


$5,416,348 


1987 


S 235,682 
1,004,755 


624,000 
15,689 


1,017,750 


756,925 
323,092 
215,107 


4,430 


4,197,430 


109,134 
131,230 
57,239 
24,624 


$4,519,657 


$1,260,422 
341,344 
55,717 
471,939 
2,129,422 


21,152 
2,369,083 
2,390,235 

$4,519,657 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


INSURANCE GROUP 


Statements of Earnings 
{dollars in thousands) 


These statements are 


43. 


—1988 
Premiums written. ... 2... cccee ceases eeneeees eee S$. 484,709 
Premiums earned ............. Pua Gouh ee hive ae a bloawaae $584,235 
Losses and loss expemses .........ceseeeeees Seacweresas 437,695 
Underwriting expenses. ........ 5. cece cece eee e eee ies 157,621 
Total losses and expenses........ eee ere ee ee 595,316 
Underwriting loss — pre-tax .....cccce cess eens oe oe (11,081) 
Net. investment income...... ee ee re cee 231,250 
Earnings from operations before income taxes eee eae 220,169 
Income taxes — credit (expense) .......... int aneeions esas (21,029) 
199,140 
Minority interest...... vibe cesarean kG & Guat oiar ura acibe Snare gees ___ 2,406 
Earnings before realized investment gain... .......6065 196,734 
Realized investment gain, net ..........0.. 0005 panini tcats: 83,946 
Net earnings. ......... eee eee er eee ee eee $ 280,680 
Statements of Net Investment Income 
{dollars in thousands) 
—_ 1988 
Interest: ; 
Substantially exempt from Federal income taxes: 
Wash. Pub. Power Supply System Megha seaman: $ 34,615 
UDG 53055 ci ele a en Gaon nena eee aan ee 64,545 
Taxable eyesskasuen ss Dede Mae eee eet oate-ca ei nner arora 46,701 
145,861 
Dividends: 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. .... 2... cece ene 590 
Coca-Cola Company....... ee ee ee ee ee 4,393 
GEICO 2s sciccesentacuddtaase ems ee ee a 11,234 
Salomon Inc....... pe Bieta teil'd Gacteettes dee Se re 56,160 
WSs aLO ECB acters busca mesa eA ancinois Aue 2,695 
OUNCE ..c.souan KaWabal ated nara tenn deas seeeumieudeecs 10,974 
231,907 
Investment EXPENSES ..... cece cece cess nee e sent ececs 657) 
Net investment income ........ 0... ccc eee eee ees $ 231,250 


unaudited. 


__1987__ 
$ 751,253 


$824,895 
661,146 
219,178. 
880,324 
(55,429) 
152.483 
97,054 
20,790 
117,844 
1,882 


115,962 


18,729 


$ 134,691 


1987 _ 


$ 32,293 
68,310 
21,177 


121,780 


990 


9,316 
14,040 
2,212 
5,057 
152,995 

( 512) 
$ 152,483 


_ 1936 
$1,009,430 
$ 823,884 

655,758 


223,970 
__ 879,728 
(55,844) 


107,143 


91,299 


__ 16,594 


67,893. 


1,317 


66,576 


__147,499 


$_ 214,075. 


__ 1986 


S$ 30,533 
40,431 


19,625 


89,989 


590 


7,398 


1,935 
7,984 


107,496 
{ 353) 


$_107,143 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


MANUFACTURING, PUBLISHING AND RETAILING BUSINESSES 


Combined financial statements of Berkshire's Manufacturing, Publishing and Retailing businesses are pre- 
sented on the following page. The operations whose data have been combined in these presentations include 
Berkshire’s six non-insurance “reportable business segments,” as weil as the following: 


Operation Activity/product/service 

Adalel <i sdsccewes Vids Mae eae need ... Conduit fittings, explosion proof fittings, junction boxes 
Blue Chip Stamps ee ee aor eet carettanals Trading stamps 

Campbell Hausfeld. ....... 0... ccc ccc e eee eces Air compressors, airless paint sprayers 

Carefree ..... pipe Niece prerelease ececinn earn aad 6 Roll-up awnings, other RV accessories 

PRINCE cts tacueeec res ere rE ... Appliance timing controls, ignition transformers 
PIGIEX is waewinsets Gage wee na cine Cexeewndaaa se Zinc and aluminum die cast fittings 

K&W Products .........+..65 cihaiwuaaeas ... Automotive compounds 
MEHOMiiivesncsciiseorentineekarsageenea sees Pressure and flow measurement devices 
Northland sciureus inawigue és dateuwaeen seas Fractional horsepower motors 

POWSIWINCH cccvndaeawidauissiesetnmces hetaces Boat winches, windlasses 

Precision ..... 005; a euaneonare: wae ele Acaietets .. Steel service center 

QUIRKE ivndc eeSeea tan conser eae erewenees Varieties of cutlery 

Scot L008: nscxcdxy cokevenicwens amawemacenad . Maintenance chemicals 

SIAN cxiceq ations ebenntaeesintsies tau weaewee Custom steel bodies for truck chassis 

Wayne Home Equipment... peeks paca etake ....- Furnace burners; sump, utility & sewage pumps 
Western Enterprises ... 2.2... cece ee cee eee nes Gas transmission line fittings 

Western Plastics ........... Sere ee Molded plastic parts 


The six non-insurance “reportable business segments” are more fully described below. 


Newspaper — The Buffalo News, a division of Berkshire, publishes a Sunday edition and seven editions 
each weekday. It is the only metropolitan newspaper published daily within a ten county upstate New York 
distribution area that comprises one of the nation’s 50 largest primary market areas. 


Uniform Manufacturing and Distribution — Berkshire acquired its 85% ownership interest of Fechheimers in 
mid-1986. Fechheimers manufactures its products at plants in Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Texas, for market- 
ing through approximately three dozen company-owned retail distribution centers and by independent dealers 
who together serve more than 200 of the country’s major metropolitan areas. 


Home Cleaning Systems — This segment of Berkshire’s business is principally represented by Kirby cleaning 
systems and products, sold to approximately 600 factory distributors who in turn sell them to a network of area 
distributors and dealers. Independent dealers employ in-the-home demonstrations for direct resale to consumers. 
Douglas Products Company manufacturers specialty vacuum cleaners such as hand-held electric and cordless 
units distributed through department stores, catalogue showrooms and hardware stores. Data with respect to 
Cleveland Wood Products Company, a manufacturer of vacuum cleaner brushes, is also reported within this 
segment. 


Retailing of Home Furnishings — The Nebraska Furniture Mart operates a home furnishing retail business 
from a very large ~- over 200,000 square feet — retail outlet and sizable warehouse facilities in Omaha, Nebraska. 
It serves a trade area with a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles. Berkshire owns 80% of this 
business; key managers own 20%. 


Candy — See's produces boxed chocolates and other confectionary products with an emphasis on quality in 
two large kitchens in California. See’s distributes its candies through its own retail stores — over 200 in number 
— located in 12 western and midwestern states, including Hawaii. A meaningful volume of candy business is 
also recorded for direct shipments made nationwide from a seasonally-varying number of quantity order distribu- 
tion centers. 


Encyclopedias, Other Reference Materials — World Book encyclopedias as well as Childcraft and Early 
World of Learning, a preschool educational program, are among the products of this segment. Revised editions of 
the encyclopedia are composed and published annually. In the first quarter of each year an updating yearbook is 
published and marketed. by mail to owners of earlier editions. Otherwise, products. are marketed primarily by the 
direct sales method to schools, libraries and individual households by a commissioned sales force of thousands 
located throughout the United States, Canada, Australia and the British Isles. 


44 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


MANUFACTURING, PUBLISHING and RETAILING BUSINESSES 


Balance Sheets 
{dollars in thousands} 


December 31, 


1988 
Assets 
Cash and cash equivalenis .......... 0... ccc eee ene ee nee re oe ans $ 43,376 
Accounts receivable.c sik csv ccgekeiss heiwc ds teNsayend 0402044 seta eaes 150,394 
PAVEN(ORIOS 6 i500 05.04 is ekeraneee neat be Geek aoe Re Oe eS 133,762 
Properties and equipment ee eT ee re een er eee 130,363 


SING He 2cr daceetnn soanaoh send cea ie eee eee ae 15,670 
$ 473,565 

Liabilities 

Accounts payable, accruals and other............. Mipivetiaameguenin ree $ 179,301 

Income ES SR as ae ate tage tee ere 47,738 


37,704 


264,743 


Equity | 
Minority shareholders'’........... i cuaeeheaees eiaar eee eed eehweds ieee es | 18,999 
Berkshire shareholders’ ....... devel daeadawinoadick arg Daa een Sawa 189,823 
208,822 
$473,565 
Statements of Earnings 
{dollars in thousands) 
1988 1987 
Revenues: 
Sales and service revenues..............5. pesca aeeseo nt $1,407,642 $1,326,829 
INnt@rest INCOME ¢ cs awi Sakshi c ek Oiawheie ata wees 6,724 6,789 
Sundry income........... er ee eT ee ere 2,472 722 
_1,416,838 1,334,340 
| Costs and expenses: 
Costs of products and services sold................05 747,831 699,730 
Selling, general and administrative ................46. 461,783 445,970 
Interest on debt ................ Pere re ree eer a ___ 4,955 ___ 6,730 
1,214,569 _ 1,152,430 
Earnings from. operations before income taxes......... 202,269 181,910 
Income tax expense. ....... ccc cec seen ee ceees ewe avers 76,216 79,588 
126,053 102,322 
Minority interest...... ee ee ee sascha eta eee siete «4,353 __ 3,483 
Net earnings............sceeee eee ate ohana anni UA 3 121,700 $98,839 


Purchase price accounting adjustments, including goodwill, arising from Berkshire's business acquisitions 
are not reflected in these statements, but instead are reflected in the statements of non-operating activities at 


page 47. 


‘These statements are unaudited. 


45 


1987 


$ 36,201 
141,986 
122,484 
130,591. 


21,953 


$ 453,215 


—$ 193,614 


52,324 
38,750 


__ 284,688 


14,457 
154,070 
__168,527. 


$453,215 


__ 1986 _ 


$1,219,252 
7,949 

818 
1,228,019 


641,884 
413,095 
6,073 
1,061,052 
166,967 
&3,184 


83,783 


3,029 


$ 80,754 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


FINANCE-TYPE BUSINESSES 


The consolidated financial statements of Mutual Savings and Loan Association and its subsidiary and of 
Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have been combined in the financial statements presented 
on this and the following page for Berkshire’s finance-type operations. Berkshire’s purchase price accounting 
adjustments relating to negative goodwill attributable to Mutual are not reflected in these statements, but instead 
are reflected in the statement of non-operating activities at page 47. 


Balance Sheets 
{dollars in thousands} 


Assets 


Cash and. cash equivalents .......... 0.00 cece cee eee eben neees 


Investments at cost: 
Fixed maturities: 


Redeemable preferred SLOCKS 2.2 aaex.s 3 ey errr 


Equity securities: 


FHLMC preferred stock ...........0 0.0 cee ees Chdawenaesinces 
Other nonredeemable preferred stocks ............. bie oie 
Collateralized Joans receivable (1) ............ Sieh oe Saceewe ee 
Installment and other receivables.............. cee eee e eee eees 
Prepaid income taxes....... ifaw euee, Wala open ana arama itemar 
OUICD sas cuwieah bude t aus tudans San gatnaninndeuaeeeedaawncmass 


Liabilities 


Savings accounts ...........2..ecceees carmgedan eurecameens aye 
Accounts. pve accruals and other ere ee ee ere 
INCOME! tAXGS sis csc ie etecia cis oraewd seeSeaamena a eineh wee 


Equity 


Minority shareholders’ eeauee ae ee Ft | 


Berkshire shareholders’ 


Statements of Earnings 
{dollars in thousands) 


1988 
Revenues: | : 
Interest and fees on loans and financed receivables ... $ 50,230. 
Interest and dividends on investment securities ....... 20,842 
SUNGEY INCOME 63:04:5.06-ceawniee retains qieaeaee wen ees 287 
71,359 
Expenses:. 
Interest on savings accounts........... Sts ee ae eae 20,840 
Interest on debt ..... Wa teeacluanedk coe tass ten tones cain ean 14,088 
General and administrative. ...........0..0cc0deveeess 23,313 
98,241 
Earnings from operations before income taxes......... 13,118 
Income tax credit (expense) ........... er ery rer ee (1,867) 
11,251 
MINOFity IMt6rest inca 6n ous chadsawwakete. toc 24 Oeeed $34 
Earnings before realized investment gain.............. 10,317 
Realized investment gain, net. ......... 0c. ccc eee eee eee 166 
Net @@rnings.. ic. .cce sec e ss eve saeceee eee eee ree $10,483 


ee 


sa +e @ 


s+ @ # 4 


*-* se Ba t 


eataeea 


se boo * 


se 2 & 4 


a * &@ BF 4 


-* - & ke & 


es @# ¢ 34 


eee ae 


ae be k 


* & &@ & E 


eeeae 


(1) Includes mortgage-backed securities of $45,367, 1988 and $52,080, 1987. 


(2) Includes $3,618 write off of prepaid FSLIC insurance premiums. 


These statements are unaudited. 


46 


December 31. 


1988 


$ 63,193 


48,013 
30,524 


71,729 
36,852 


$568,021 


32,759 
1,807 
150,202 


473,290 


9,882 
_ 84,849 


94,731 


$ 568,021 


1987 


$ 47,858 
22,708 
255 


70,821 


20,944 
15,060 


29,493(2) 


65,497 
9,324 
138 
3,462 
191 
5,271 
670 


$ 3,941 


1987 


S$ 77,029 


103,425 
27,906 


6,422 
27,297 
139,438 
164,656 
3,011 


9,332 


$_558,076 


$ 287,126 
12,673 
2,834 


157,721 


460,354 


11,255 
86,467 


97,722 


S__558,076 


8,757 


7.522 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES 


These statements reflect the consolidated financial statement values for assets liabilities, shareholders’ 
equity, revenues and expenses that were not assigned to any Berkshire operating group in the unaudited group 


financial statements heretofore presented (pages 41 to 46). 


Statements of Net Assets 
(dollars in thousands} 


___ December 31, 


| 1988 
Assets ee Pare 
Cash and. cash ‘equivalents <5 cisc5 bess cause caged es doe cke san eas eee es S$ 38,511 
Investments: 
Fixed maturities 
BONS hice acces cala totais ie act sie ees ae eee eees 2,338 
Salomon Inc redeemable preferred stock ... ssc. sccseeeeee wimeees 50,000 
Common, Stocks. iiec.cccgccsae eden deewiasvesnas hates ee ee 28,312 
Property account adjustments {1).........-.cc0cceeece: eaoenueae ae 83,348 
Unamortized. goodwill (1)............. ccs eee mene, Laces stadia cha 117,976 
Prepaid income taxeS ...........cc cece eee eeees eee wee eer ee 9,983 
Other vcatess cots Gc ae ah aaa Raa aan hea eee. soeca ta astray 53,606 
$384,068 
Liabilities | 
Accounts payable, accruals and other........ re Sat its eat tame oes $ 28,067 
Income taxeS ....... ccs scen cece nee Miate Dasara iad otng oe aces ip acaameraths . 7,991 
Term debt and other borrowings............ccsccevcceeeeuveeues oe ___ 292,103. 
) 327,761 
Equity 
Minority: shareholders’ .......... 00. c ccc cect eee teen e ete eeneenias 12,558 
Berkshire. shareholders’ ......... 0: ccccccee ee cec cna ceereeuneeevens 43,749 
56,307 
$384,068 
Statement: of Earnings 
{dollars in thousands) 
1988. 1987 
Revenues: | a peer LE 
Interest and. dividend income ............. eet Grae tanta S 7404 8=6§ 6,969 
Sundry income............ ech amen Ne aicie a wee Gah Gani __25,062(2) _ 13,826 
¢2,466 20,795 
Expenses: 
Corporate administration ...... ‘tines dea a ee aa ass 3,754 3,380 
Shareholder designated contributions ................. 4,966 4,938 
Amortization of goodwill (1) ......... be heal aren aaa pais 2,719 2,862 
Property account adjustments (1). er rr rer 6,937 5,546 
Interest On -<GeOl aiccesicwe ccna overeat nae ed eayediec 30,658 4,930 
Other costs and expenses .........0....cscceeeeeueess 538 1,754 
| . 49,572 __ 23,410 
Excess of expenses before income taxeés............005 (17,106) (2,615) 
Income tax credit (expense) ........... ccc eee eee aioe 2,513 (2,111) 
(14,593) (4,726) 
Minority interest...... ee ere ere rer ee . 717 600 
Loss before credit for realized investment gain ........ (15,320) {5,326) 
Realized investment gain, net ..........0ecsceee eee e ee 1,717 ___ 407 
Net loss..........00e0006 6 Dalbeueoned ieixehate eae $ (13,593) $_{4,919) 


(1) “Property account adjustments” and goodwill arose in accounting for business acquisitions. 


__1987__ 


$ 356.723 


$ 18,192 
2,815 


93,415 


114,422 


10,262 
__ 232,039 


242,301 


$ 356,723 


1986 


9,461 


11,622 


2,748 
3,997 
2,555 

10,033 

18,454(3) 


2,894 


40,681 


(29,059) 


, 6,525 


(22,534) 
424 
(22,958) 


1,376 


$ (21,582) 


(2) Includes asset reversions of $16,366 arising from the termination of defined benefit pension plans. 


(3) Includes pre-payment penalty of $5,355 rélating to called 12%% debentures. 


These statements are unaudited. 


47 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
SHAREHOLDER-DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS 


The Company has conducted this program of corporate giving during each of the past eight years. 
On October 14, 1981, the Chairman sent to the shareholders a letter giving the reasons for the program. 
Portions of that letter follow: 


“On September 30, 1981 Berkshire received a tax ruling from the U.S. Treasury Department that, 
in most years, should produce a significant benefit for charities. of your choice. 


“Each Berkshire shareholder — on a basis proportional to the number of shares of Berkshire that 
he owns — will be able to designate recipients of charitable contributions by our company. You'll 
name the charity; Berkshire will write the check. The ruling states that there will be no personal tax 
consequences to our shareholders from making such designations. 


“Thus, our approximately 1500 owners now can exercise a perquisite that, although routinely 
exercised by the owners in closely-held businesses, is almost exclusively exercised by the managers in 
more widely-held businesses. 


“In a widely-held corporation the executives ordinarily arrange all charitable donations, with no 
input at all from shareholders, in two main categories: 


(1) Donations. considered to benefit the corporation directly in an amount roughly commensu- 
rate with the cost of the donation; and | 

(2) Donations considered to benefit the corporation indirectly through hard-to-measure, long- 
delayed feedback effects of various kinds. 


“fF and other Berkshire executives have arranged in the past, as we will arrange in the future, all 
charitable donations in the first category. However, the aggregate level of giving in such category has 
been quite low, and very likely will remain quite low, because not many gifts can be shown to 
produce roughly commensurate direct benefits to Berkshire. 


“In the second category, Berkshire’s charitable gifts have been virtually nil, because 1 am not 
comfortable with ordinary corporate practice and had no better practice to substitute. What bothers me 
about ordinary corporate practice is the way gifts tend to be made based more on who does the asking 
and how corporate peers are responding than on an objective evaluation of the donee’s activities. 
Conventionality often overpowers rationality. 


“A common result is the use of the stockholder’s money to implement the charitable inclinations 
of the corporate manager, who usually is heavily influenced by specific social pressures on him. 
Frequently there is an added incongruity; many corporate managers deplore governmental allocation 
of the taxpayer’s dollar but embrace enthusiastically their own allocation of the shareholder's dollar. 


“For Berkshire, a different model seems appropriate. Just as I wouldn't want you to implement 
your personal judgments by writing checks on my bank account for charities of your choice, I feel it 
inappropriate to. write checks on your corporate “bank account” for charities of my choice. Your 
charitable preferences are as good as mine and, for both you and me, funds available to foster 
charitable interests in a tax-deductible manner reside largely at the corporate level rather than in our 
own hands. 


“Under such circumstances, I believe Berkshire should imitate more closely-held companies, not 
larger public companies. If you and I each owned 50% of a corporation, our charitable decision 
making would be simple. Charities very directly related to the operations of the business would have 
first claim on our available charitable funds. Any balance available after the “operations-related” 
contributions would be divided among various charitable interests of the two of us, on a basis roughly 
proportional to our ownership interest. If the manager of our company had some suggestions, we 
would listen carefully — but the final decision would be ours. Despite our corporate form, in this 
aspect of the business we probably would behave as if we were a partnership. 


“Wherever feasible, 1 believe in maintaining such a partnership frame of mind, even though we 
operate through a large, fairly widely-held corporation. Our Treasury ruling will allow such 
partnership-like behavior in this area ... 


48 


“I am pleased that Berkshire donations can become owner-directed. It is ironic, but understand- 
able, that a large and growing number of major corporations have charitable policies pursuant to 
which they will match gifts made by their employees (and — brace yourself for this one — many even 
match gifts made by directors} but none, to my knowledge, has a plan matching charitable gifts by 
owners. I say “understandable” because much of the stock of many large corporations is owned on a 
“revolving door” basis by institutions that have short-term investment horizons, and that lack a long- 
term owner's perspective ... 


“Qur own shareholders are a different breed. As I mentioned in the 1979 annual report, at the end 
of each year more than 98% of our shares are owned by people who were shareholders at the 
beginning of the year. This long-term commitment to the business reflects an owner mentality which, 
as your manager, I intend to acknowledge in all feasible ways. The designated contributions policy is 
an example of that intent.” 


* * * 


The history of contributions made pursuant to this program since its inception follows: 


Percent of 

Specified Amount Eligible* Shares Amount No. of 
Year per Share Participating Contributed Charities 
1981 $2 95.6% 1,783,655 675 
1982 $1 95.8% 890,948 704 
1983. $3. 96.4% 3,066,501 1,353 
1984 $3 97.2% 3,179,049 1,519 
1985 $4 6.8% 4,006,260. 1,724 
1986 $4 97.1% 3,996,820 1,934 
1987 $5 97.2% 4,937,574 2,050 
1988 $5 97.4% 4,965,665 2,319 


*Shares registered in street name are not eligible to participate. 


In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions summarized above, Berkshire and its 
subsidiaries made certain contributions pursuant to local level decisions of operating managers of the 
businesses. 


* * *« 


The program may not be conducted in the occasional year, if any, when contributions by 
Berkshire would produce substandard or no tax deductions. In other years Berkshire expects to inform 
shareholders about October 10th of the amount per share that may be designated. A reply form will 
accompany the notice, allowing shareholders about six weeks — or until about November 30 — to 
respond with their designations. Shareholders should note that replies received after that deadline are 
not processed. | 


Shareholders should also note the fact that shares held in street name are not eligible to 
participate in the program. To qualify, shares must be registered in the owner's individual name(s) or 
the name of an owning trust, corporation, partnership or estate, as applicable, on Berkshire's share- 
holder list of September 30th, or the Friday preceding if such date falls on a Saturday or Sunday. 


Before the November, 1988 listing for trading on the New York Stock Exchange of the common 
shares of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the Chairman sent to the shareholders the letter reproduced on this 
and the following page, giving background and rationale for the Company's application for the listing. 


August 5, 1988 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 


It is likely that in a few months Berkshire shares will be traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Our 
move there would be made possible by a new listing rule that the Exchange's Board of Governors has 
passed:and asked the SEC to approve. If that approval is forthcoming, we expect to apply for a listing, 
which we believe will be granted. | 


Up to now, the Exchange has required newly-listed companies to have a minimum of 2,000 shareholders 
who each own 100 shares or more. The purpose of this rule is to insure that NYSE-listed companies. 
enjoy the broad investor interest that facilitates an orderly market. The 100-share standard corresponds 
to the trading unit (“round lot”) for all common stocks now listed on the Exchange. 


Because Berkshire has relatively few shares outstanding (1,146,642), it does not have the number of 
100-share-or-more holders that the Exchange has required. A ten-share holding of Berkshire, however, 
represents a significant investment commitment. In fact, ten Berkshire shares have a value greater than 
that of 100:shares of any NYSE-listed stock. The Exchange, therefore, is willing to have Berkshire shares 
trade in ten-share “round lots.” | 


‘\The Exchange's proposed rule simply changes the 2,000 shareholder minimum from one measured by 
‘holders of 100 shares or more to one measured by holders of a round lot or more. Berkshire can easily: 
meet this amended test. 


Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman, and I are delighted at the prospect of listing, since we 
believe this move wil]-benefit our shareholders. We have two criteria by which we judge what mar- 
ketplace would be best ior Berkshire stock. First, we hope for the stock to consistently trade at a price 
rationally related to its intrinsic business value. If it does, the investment result achieved by each 
shareholder will approximate Berkshire’s business result during his period of ownership. 


Such an outcome is far from automatic. Many stocks swing between levels of severe undervaluation 
and overvaluation. When this happens, owners are rewarded or penalized in a manner wildly at variance 
with how the business has performed during their period of ownership. We want to avoid such capricious 
results. Our goal is to have our shareholder-partners profit from the achievements of the business rather 
than from the foolish behavior of their co-owners. 


Consistently rational prices are produced by rational owners, both current and prospective. All of our 
policies and communications are designed to attract the business-oriented long-term owner and to filter 
out possible buyers whose focus is short-term and market-oriented. To date we have been successful 
in this attempt, and Berkshire shares have consistently sold in an unusually narrow range around 
intrinsic business value. We do not believe that a NYSE listing will improve or diminish Berkshire's. 
prospects for consistently selling at an appropriate price; the quality of our shareholders will produce 
a good result whatever the marketplace. 


30 


But we do Belieys that the listing will reduce transaction costs for Berkshire’s shareholders — and that 

is important. Though we want to attract shareholders who will stay around for a long time, we also 
want to.minimize the costs incurred by shareholders when they enter or exit. In the long run, the 
aggregate. pre-tax rewards to our owners will equal the business gains achieved by the company less 
the transaction costs imposed by the marketplace — that is, commissions charged by brokers plus the 
net realized spreads of market-makers. Overall, we believe these transaction costs will be reduced 
materially by a NYSE listing. — , 


Aswe pointed out i in the 1984 Annual Report, transaction costs are very ies for active stocks, often 
 amounting’to 10%.or more of the earnings of a public company. In effect, these costs act as a hefty tax 
on owners, albeit one.based on individual decisions to “change chairs” and.one that is paid 
to the financial community rather than to Washington. Our policies and your investment attitude 
have reduced this “tax” on Berkshire owners to what we believe is the lowest level among large public. 
companies. A NYSE listing.should further reduce this cost for Berkshire’s owners by narrowing the 

market-maker’ ‘Ss spread. 


7 Under NYSE rules we must have at least two independent directors. Among the Board of Directors you 
elected i in May, only Malcolm Chace, Jr. meets their test of independence. 


But from this deficiency comes a good result. Charlie and I are pleased to inform you that Walter Scott, 
Jr., CEO of Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc. has joined the Berkshire board. PKS is one of the remarkable business 
stories of our time, The company, which is employee-owned, has a long-term financial record so good 
that I’m not going to recite it for gts of stirring unrest among our shareholders. Throughout his lifetime, 
Pete Kiewit ran the company as a strict meritocracy and it was in this tradition that he picked Walter 
to succeed him upon his death. Walter instinctively thinks like an owner and he will feel at home on 
the Berkshire board. , 


One final comment?’ “You should clearly understand that we are not seeking a ‘N YSE listing for the 
_ | purpose of achieving a Aigher valuation on Berkshire shares. Berkshire should sell, and we hope will 
sell, on the NYSE at prices similar to those it would have commanded in the over-the-counter market, 


given similar economic circumstances. The NYSE listing should not induce you to buy or sell; it simply 
should cut your costs somewhat should you decide to do either. 


Warren E. Buffett 


Chairman of the Board 


51 


The 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation included the following letter to Wesco 
stockholders from the Chairman of the Company. 


WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 


To Our Shareholders: 


Consolidated “‘normal’’ operating income (i.e., before all unusual operating 
income and all net gains from sales of securities) for the calendar year 1988 
increased to $23,564,000 ($3.31 per share) from $16,612,000 ($2.33 per share) in 
the previous year. 


Consolidated net income (i.e., after unusual operating losses and all net gains 
from sales of securities) increased to $30,089,000 ($4.22 per share) from 
$15,213,000 ($2.14 per share) in the previous year. 


Wesco has three major subsidiaries, Mutual Savings, in Pasadena, Precision 
Steel, headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty 
metal products businesses, and Wesco-Financial Insurance Company, headquartered 
in Omaha and currently engaged principally in the reinsurance business. Consoli- 
dated net income for the two years just ended breaks down as follows (in 000s 
except for per-share amounts) ("): 


Year Ended __ 

December 31, 1988 December 31, 1987 

Per | ~Per 

Wesco Wesco 
Amount _Share_ Amount _Share_ 

“Normal” net operating income (loss) of: | 

Mutual Savings .................000005 i weese §$ 4,694 $ 66 $ 2,895 §$ .41 
Wesco-Financial Insurance business ........ 12,094 1.70 9,459 1.33 
Precision Steel’s businesses ................ 3,167 44 2,450 34 


All other “normal” net operating income?) ... 3,609 __.51 1,808 — .25 
23,564 3.31 16,612 2.33 
Gain on sale of interest in Bowery Savings 


Bank, «ce seedodassedeusy Pee ere Aiea 4,836 68 — — 
Net gains on sales of marketable securities .... 1,689 23 1,208 17 
Writeoff by Mutual Savings of prepaid FSLIC | 

insurance premiums() ....... ato Sta pares — —  {1,935) (.27) 
Flood loss at Precision Steel ...... sshcus pice re — — (672) (.09) 
Wesco consolidated net income ............. $30,089 $4.22 $15,213 $2.14 


{1} All figures are net of income taxes. 

(2) After deduction of interest and other corporate expenses, Income was from ownership of the Mutual Savings headquarters 
office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, and interest and dividend income from cash equivalents and 

__ marketable securities owned outside the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries. 

(3) Necessitated by the Federal Home Loan Bank's elimination of the savings and loan industry's nearly $1-billion secondary 
insurance reserve, consisting of deposit insurance prémiums prepaid to FSLIC, the U.S. agency which insures accounts in 
savings and loan associations. } 


This. supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in 
audited financial statements which follow standard accounting convention. The 
supplementary breakdown is furnished because it is considered useful to 
shareholders. 


$2 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


Mutual Savings 


Mutual Savings’ ‘“‘normal’’ net operating income of $4,694,000 in 1988 repre- 
sented an increase of 62% from the $2,895,000 figure the previous year. 


The high percentage increase in 1988 was partly fluke. The interest rate curve 
happened to be precisely adapted to Mutual Savings’ needs during most of the year, 
and already, in 1989, net interest margins are impaired as short-term rates and 
intermediate-term rates have become more or less identical. 


Moreover, these “‘normal-income’’ figures come from a decidedly abnormal 
savings and loan association. 


_ Separate balance sheets of Mutual Savings at yearend 1987 and 1988 are set 
forth at the end of this annual report. They show (1) total savings accounts rising to 
$289. million from $287 million the year before, (2) a very high ratio of shareholders’ 
equity to savings account liabilities. (near the highest for any mature U.S. savings and 
loan association), (3) a substantial portion of savings account liabilities offset by 
cash equivalents and marketable securities, and (4) a loan portfolio (mostly real 
estate mortgages). of about $137 million at the end of 1988, down slightly from $139 
million at the end of 1987. 


The loan portfolio at the end of 1988, although containing almost no risk of loss 
from defaults, bore an average interest rate of only 8.70%, probably near the lowest 
among U.S. savings and loan associations, but up moderately from 8.38% at the end 
of 1987. Because the loan portfolio is almost entirely made up of instruments of short 
maturity or bearing interest rates that adjust automatically with the market, there is 
now less unrealized depreciation in the loan portfolio than the net unrealized 
appreciation in Mutual Savings’ interest-bearing securities and public utility preferred 
stocks. That appreciation at December 31, 1988 was about $7.5 million. 


While the ‘‘spread’’ between Mutual Savings’ average interest rates paid on 
savings and received on loans remains too low to provide respectable profits, this 
“spread” improved last year. Moreover, the disadvantage from inadequate “spread”’ 
has been reduced in each recent year by the effect of various forms of tax- 
advantaged investment, primarily preferred stock and municipal bonds. The negative 
side of this tax-advantaged antidote to inadequate interest rate margin on loans is the 
risk that preferred stock and municipal bonds, with their fixed yield and long life, will 
decline in value and not provide enough income to cover Mutual Savings’ interest 
costs, if the general level of interest rates should sharply rise. In view of this risk, 
Mutual Savings’ total commitment is kept conservative, relative to the amount of its 
net worth. 


Mutual Savings remains a ‘qualified thrift lender’ under the federal regulatory 
definition requiring 60% of assets in various housing-related categories. It plans to 
continue keeping substantially all loans receivable either with short expected lives or 
with interest rates that fluctuate with the market. All new variable-rate loans are 
“capped” at the 25% per annum level, which is over ten percentage points higher 
than the normal 2'2-points-over-market “cap” offered by competing associations. 
Naturally, to gain. this extra protection from interest rate increase, Mutual Savings 


53 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


“nays” by (1) getting lower “spreads” over an interest rate index, and (2) not being 
able to make loans in amounts desired. 


As pointed out in Note 10 to the accompanying financial statements, the book 
value of Wesco’s equity in Mutual Savings ($49.7 million at December 31, 1988) 
overstates the amount realizable, after taxes, from sale or liquidation at book value. If 
all Mutual Savings’ assets, net of liabilities, were to be sold for the $49.7 million 
reported as book value, the parent corporation would receive much less than $49.7 
million after substantial income taxation imposed because about $47 million of what 
is designated shareholders’ equity for accounting purposes is considered bad debt 
reserves for most tax purposes. 


Mutual Savings has not only a buried value in unrealized appreciation of 
securities but also a buried value in real estate. The foreclosed property on hand 
{mostly 22 acres at or near the oceanfront in Santa Barbara) has become worth over 
a long holding period considerably more than its $5.4 million balance sheet carrying 
cost. Reasonable, community-sensitive development of this. property has been 
delayed over 13 years in the course of administration of land-use laws. But, 
miraculous to report, grading, street and public utilities work is now nearly finished, 
and significant other construction work is now under way on the property for an 
authorized development into 32 houses interspersed with large open areas. Mutual 
Savings plans to make the development first-rate in every respect, and unique in the 
quality of its landscaping. 


The buried value in real estate is limited by the small number of houses allowed 
(32) and by the fact that only about half of such houses will have a significant ocean 
view. Additional limitation will come from prospective high cost of private streets, 
sewage and utility improvements and connections, landscaping, and non-standard- 
ized, environmentally sensitive adaptation of housing to the site. Also, various 
charges and burdens, including heavy archaeological obligations imposed by govern- 
mental bodies, will drastically reduce our potential recovery from what it would have 
been had the zoning and development climate of the early 1970s continued into the 
present era. We have ‘“‘given’’ a very large fraction of the value of our land to the 
County of Santa Barbara in exchange for permission to use it at all. In California these 
days such results are common, particularly in coastal areas. 


The savings and loan association described in the foregoing paragraphs, quite 
different from most other associations for a long time, added a significant new 
abnormality during 1988. Mutual Savings increased its position in preferred stock of 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (widely known as “Freddie Mac’’) to 
2,400,000 when-issued shares. This is 4% of the total shares outstanding, the legal 
limit for any one holder. As this letter is written, all of these 2,400,000 shares have 
been issued and paid for. Mutuai Savings’ average cost is $29.89 per share, 
compared to a price of $50.50 per share in trading on the New York Stock Exchange 
at the end of 1988. Thus, based on 1988 yearend trading prices, Mutual Savings had 
an unrealized pre-tax profit in Freddie Mac shares of about $49.5 million. At current 
tax rates the potential after-tax profit is about $29.2 million, or $4.10 per Wesco 
share outstanding. 


54 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco. Financial Corporation 


Freddie Mac is a hybrid, run by a federal agency (the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board), but now owned privately, largely by institutional investors. Freddie Mac 
supports housing primarily by purchasing housing mortgage loans for immediate 
transmutation into mortgage-backed securities that it guarantees and promptly sells. 
In the process Freddie Mac earns fees and “spreads” while avoiding most interest- 
rate-change risk. This is a much better business than that carried on by most (or 
indeed most of the top 10% of) savings and loan associations, as demonstrated by 
Freddie Mac’s remarkable percentage returns earned on equity capital in recent 
years. 


At Freddie Mac’s current dividend rate ($1.60 per annum per share), Mutual 
Savings’ pre-tax yield is only 5.35% on its $29.89 average cost per share. Post-tax, the 
dividend yield is only 4.4%. But Freddie Mac has a very creditable history of raising 
its earnings and dividend rate, thus contributing to increases in the market price of its 
stock. The market price increases because Freddie Mac’s “‘preferred’’ stock in 
substance is equivalent to common stock. Here are figures for 1985-1989: 


Freddie Mac’s 
Year-End Return Earned. 
Earnings Dividends Market Price on all 
Year Ended 12/31: per Share perShare per Share Average Equity 
1985 ....... ee eee ee $2.98 $ .53 $ 9.19 30.0% 
1986 ...... eee ave lee tede teats 32/72 1.13 15.17 28.5 
VOGT we tice ace cree bd eRe wees 453 1.10 12.13 28.2 
VW98G) due eet oeaeeaeeceoas 5.73 1.25 56.50 27.5 
1989. (announced) .......... , 2 1.60 2 2 


The above numbers are unusually good for a stock selling at only $50.50 per 
share at the end of 1988. We think the probable cause of substandard investor 
response is some combination of (1) lack of familiarity with Freddie Mac among 
investors and (2) fear that the federal officials who control Freddie Mac will 
mismanage it or not deal fairly with Freddie Mac’s private owners, perhaps under 
pressure from Congress. 


There is, of course, some risk that Freddie Mac will ruin its remarkable business 
by ignoring fiduciary duties to new private owners, or reducing credit standards, or 
making bets on the future course of interest rates. But we consider such outcomes 
unlikely. The tendency to consider them likely rests largely in those who think ill of 
federal officials because of the dramatic, multi-billion-dollar insolvency of FSLIC (the 
U.S. agency which insures depositor accounts in savings and loan associations). This 
reaction is natural as it becomes ever more clear that the final FSLIC insolvency was 
agumented by regulatory failure to intervene early to solve easily diagnosed 
problems which were getting worse at a rapid rate. 


But FSLIC and Freddie Mac are two separate entities, and the circumstances 
affecting the business of each are radically different. As the world changed, the 
troubles of FSLIC had roughly the following history and causes: 


(1) In its early decades, the savings and loan industry lived under a system 
ordained by legislation in the 1930s. Interest rates paid by both banks and 


35 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financia! Corporation 


associations were fixed by law at low levels, but with (i) a deposit-attracting 
advantage of 4% more per annum which could be paid by associations and (ii) 
tax advantages for associations, compared with banks. The interest rate controls 
were created to dampen competition in an effort to prevent recurrence of the 
widespread failure of deposit-taking institutions which had followed the aggres- 
sive banking practices of the 1920s. In return for the cartel-like advantages 
granted and federal deposit insurance, associations were required to concentrate 
assets in home lending and to be conservative in risking losses from nonrepay- 
ment of loans. The standard practice of associations was then to borrow short (by 
taking demand deposits) and. to lend long (by making long-term mortgage loans 
at fixed rates). Associations lived on an approximate two-percentage-point 
“spread” between the mortgage interest rate and the mandated low interest rate 
on deposits. 


(2) This system always had a built-in risk that interest rates would generally 
and sharply rise, in which case the government would be forced to raise interest 
rates on deposits in order to enable associations to hold deposits. Then associa- 
tions would be squeezed into losses because they were hooked by contract to 
fixed interest rates on old mortgages. But associations accommodated this risk, 
during periods of low inflation and slowly rising, government-fixed interest rates 
on deposits, by continuously “growing their way’’ out of profit-margin trouble. 
Associations simply ‘averaged up’’ the rate of interest on the whole mortgage 
portfolio by making ever larger amounts of new mortgage loans at higher interest 
rates. The necessary continuous growth, despite mandated low interest rates for 
savers, was made possible, of course, by the 4% per annum deposit-attracting 
rate advantage possessed by associations. The system contained much wise and 
constructive cynicism, akin to that of the country’s founding fathers. The 
system's creators wanted associations not to cause losses to FSLIC, the federal 
deposit-insurer, while helping the citizenry by favoring housing. So, knowing like 
Ben Franklin that “it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright,” the creators 
simply gave associations significant competitive and tax advantages that made it 
easy for executives to do well while doing right. Also, because the creators 
admired ‘cooperative,’ workers’-self-help models and, looking back at the 
excesses of the 1920s, feared losses from capitalistic ambition more than they 
feared inefficiency from a more socialized process, all federally-chartered and 
most state-chartered associations were “mutual” institutions. Such institutions 
are “owned” by depositors and are therefore not capable of making any 
shareholder rich. In the early decades, this system, relying on carrot as well as 
stick, was, like the FHA, one of the most successful systems in U.S. history. It did 
a world of good at a trifling cost. 


(3) Naturally, the few state-chartered, shareholder-owned associations 
(including Mutual Savings, which was ‘‘mutual” in name only) in due course 
became more aggressive than their ‘mutual’ brethren and used their govern- 
ment-mandated competitive advantage to make their shareholders rich. This 
process was aided by their emphasizing high-yielding tract-housing loans in the 


56 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


faster-growing parts of the country during a long boom. And envy plus logic then 
caused many “conversions” of formerly ‘mutual’ associations to shareholder 
ownership, which, featuring different incentives, increased managements’ pro- 
clivity to endure risk in the hope of above-normal reward. The heavy-risk-taking 
attitude finally spread throughout a large percentage of the savings and loan 
industry, including formerly conservative ‘‘mutual’ institutions that remained 
“mutual” institutions. 


(4) But, eventually, the tendencies of government to escalate currency 
debasement and of interest rates to rise sharply with sharp inflation combined to 
reduce the prosperity of the savings and loan industry, now structured more to 
produce extra profit when much went well than to prevent loss when much 
went wrong. As interest rates rose, even associations holding only high-grade, 
long-term, fixed-rate mortgages suffered large losses. Most gamier associations 
became hopelessly insolvent. 


(5) In this new high-interest-rate environment, it proved impossible for 
most associations to “grow their way” out of trouble. Suddenly, the former bank 
and association duopoly faced new competition from “money market funds” 
that paid higher interest and also provided check-writing privileges, as well as 
from U.S. Treasury obligations that were more conveniently available. Not only 
could deposits not be increased; they could not be kept from shrinking. 


(6) To prevent continuation of deposit outflows, which then tended to 
cripple housing, legislators decontrolled interest rates on all savings accounts. 
Next, after an irrational delay, the legislators allowed housing lending at interest 
rates that fluctuated with the market, a wise practice long standard in England. 
Even so, many associations remained insolvent ‘basket cases,’’ because interest 
rates that had ratcheted upward on liabilities were matched against fixed and 
outdated rates on assets. Less impaired but still solvent associations had difficulty 
maintaining adequate equity capital without the ‘‘edge’’ possessed by the 
industry in its early years. 


(7) In this period of trouble it also seemed logical to Congress and state 
legislatures, responding to non-apposite use of ‘free-market’ labels and re- 
quests from savings and loan operators, to try to relieve the financial pressure by 
‘helping’ associations make more money. The method used was revision of 
investment rules for associations so that they could attempt to widen ‘‘spreads’’ 
by engaging in much more risky and difficult-to-manage deployments of assets 
that promised high yields if everything worked right. Deposit insurance was 
retained. 


(8) But the coexistence of deposit insurance, liberalized asset deployment 
rules, and uncontrolled rates of interest which could be paid to savers had. 
terrible consequences. The new system (despite minor impediments from some 
new anti-growth rules) enabled almost any association, even if small and remote 
and run by a croox or fool, to expand fast and almost without limit. When any 
association could use the government's credit and also promise to pay as high an 
interest rate as was required to bring in any desired amount of savings, the only 


a7 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


remaining limitation on size was the requirement that a small percentage of 
savings be matched with net worth. This was not much of a problem for growth- 
minded associations. The government, accommodatingly, reduced the percent- 
age of net worth required. And when, after this help, growth was so great that 
more net worth was required to meet the relaxed general standard, such net 
worth could easily be provided, on paper, for a long time during expansion. 
After all, it is child’s play to make any bank or savings and loan association report 
high profits for a while, thereby rapidly augmenting reported net worth, by 
making loans (or other asset deployments) providing both (i) high initial 
interest or profit accruals and (ii) probable high ultimate but delayed losses 
caused by the risks assumed. There are always real estate operators willing to 
sign any sort of promise or make any sort of projection in exchange for cash. The 
real estate crowd is notoriously optimistic and also includes a significant fraction 
of people like those who caused Mark Twain to define a mine as “a hole in the 
ground owned by a liar.’ Also, good short-term results are often available, in 
modern times, from merely committing money to sound borrowers for a very 
long time at a fixed rate, thus. substituting lethal risk from interest rate change for 
lethal risk imposed by bad credit quality. Using one or more of the short-term, 
high-profit-reporting strategies, many minor associations soon grew to gargan- 
tuan size, often paying stockbrokers. (and other brokers) commissions to bring 
in the massive amounts of deposits desired. The practice of using brokers to gain 
deposits had a high correlation with later insolvencies. 


(9) The new system included a “runaway-feedback mode,” exactly what 
every wise engineer or businessman learns to dread. It could and did entice into 
inappropriate conduct not only those always prone to bad behavior but also 
some associations that had formerly been admirable but were now suffering 
from bad luck. Once you were a loser and insolvent, for any reason, and very 
likely doomed, the system still granted you an opportunity to risk as much you 
wished of the government's money (your money was gone) in some massive 
gamble, on interest rates or business outcome, that had a chance of returning 
you to health. And, if the first gamble didn’t work, you could always ‘‘double 
up.” Such were the “parlay” possibilities for losers. 


The losers’ ‘‘parlays’” were, quite predictably, made much quicker to 
arrange and much grander in scope by the availability of brokers who were paid 
to solicit government-insured deposits at above-normal interest rates (not a hard 
sale). The result was right out of Alice in Wonderland. For perhaps the first time 
in the history of regulation of deposit-taking institutions, the government (in the 
wry words of John Liscio of Barron’s) was creating widespread “runs of money 
into small problem institutions and in the process turning them into big problem 
institutions.” 


For initial winners, shrewd or lucky in making risky investments, the 
‘‘parlay” possibilities were immensely better. One instant-centimillionaire sav- 
ings-and-loan family tried to gild the lily under such winning circumstances. The 
association involved proposed payment to a family executive of total compensa- 


58 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual! Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


tion pushing $10 million per year. Then, after government regulators objected, 
the family satisfied itself with ordinary compensation (including bonus and 
special retirement contribution) of a mere $5 million or so. But the reduced 
ordinary compensation was supplemented by a lion’s share of a huge new 
“incentive” to pay attention to business. Executives were granted rights to buy 
at attractive prices options or other securities of “junk bond’ issuers which were 
available to. the association at those attractive prices only in return for purchase 
of “junk bonds”. (“Junk boiids” are bonds with high interest rates and grossly 
substandard credit backing that banks are pretty well forbidden to buy under 
their less permissive regulatory system. In recent years a large proportion of 
‘junk bonds” were issued to help finance highly leveraged acquisitions. and. 

- restructurings of corporations fearing or suffering from “raids” by hostile- 
takeover artists. Current practice is for deposit-insured banks to finance the most 
secured portion of massive corporate debt, which portion is maximized to a 
point which makes bank regulators sullen and fretful but not mutinous. Then 
some deposit-insured associations [and others] take loan positions so junior to 
many layers of senior debt [including but not limited to debt to banks] that 
language is strained when one calls them ‘oan positions.” This anomaly in the 
total regulation of insured institutions is made possible [along with many other 
anomalies] by the division of total regulation into four systems [state and 
federal systems for both associations and banks] with some systems further 
subdivided to provide additional Balkanization. ) 


Such extraordinary success, in turn, had runaway-feedback possibilities of 
its own as examples. of “parlayed” success became more widely known and 
envied, an enlightenment aided by brokers earning commissions or “spreads’’ 
by selling risky investments. In many cases, the end of the rapidly spreading 
winner's “parlay’’ game has not yet come. All we know is that the early phases 
look like many a speculative bubble which, in due course, was followed by a big 
bust. , 


There were other important consequences of the “parlay’’ games made 
possible by coexistence of decontrol and deposit insurance. The high interest 
rates promised by associations trying to ‘‘grow their way” out of trouble, or bent 
on instant-centimillionaire glory, tended to “bid up” the prices paid for savings 
by less ambitious associations in the would-be-conservative category. These 
institutions were therefore almost forced to consider high-rate, high-risk assets, 
so that they might have some chance of obtaining a moderate margin over costs. 
And thus was born the suggestion of a new sort of Gresham’s law for deposit- 
insured, unlimited-interest-rate banking: “Bad lending drives out good.” 


The basic problem underlying this new form of Gresham’s law may be 
impossible to solve, given the probable legislative premises that virtually unlim- 
ited deposit insurance, uncontrolled interest rates, wide discretion in deploying 
assets, and long grace periods when trouble comes, are each sacred. The 
problem is grounded deep in the nature of things, in the principle that in a 
complex system you can never “do merely one thing.”” When one variable is 


a9 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


maximized other variables often get minimized in an undesired way. in this case, 
in making money ultra-easy for everyone to get and invest in any amount and 
way desired, thus maximizing the availability of investable money, Congress 
changed the savings and loan system in a way that made it harder for associations 
to reloan the money safely at interest rates that covered costs. Congress thus 
minimized the opportunities for earning profits safely. As Garrett Hardin, the 
biologist, (or perhaps George Stigler, the economist) might say: ‘How could it 
be otherwise?” At any rate, the result as we observe it seems to be, roughly, that 
every form of savings and loan operation that is safe and simple, so that ordinary 
executives can manage it, avoiding both all net interest-rate-change risk and all 
net credit risk, will provide no net profit. Therefore every association that wishes 
to continue to exist is forced either to be remarkably prescient or to endure some 
combination of net credit risk and net interest-rate-change risk. This, in turn, 
makes normal earnings at strong associations like those of an earthquake insurer 
in a year when there is no earthquake. (Remember, upward fluctuations. in 
interest rates on modern home loans are typically ‘“‘capped”’ a mere 2'2 percent- 
age points over the mortgage interest rate prevailing when the loans were made. ) 
Also, weak associations, guided by the less able, less honest, or less lucky, after 
exhausting shareholders’ equity, tend to cause big losses to the government 
agency which insures savings accounts. These losses may exceed resources 
provided by deposit-insurance premiums. 


indeed, a government agency that tries to depend on 100% of its thinly 
capitalized deposit-insurance patrons being of above-average ability in un- 
restricted asset management, unrestricted in scale, would be “‘bonkers” not to 
expect large insurance losses. The system we now have is not “free market’’ - 
economics. It is non-economics. 


[At this point it is logical to inquire: If the foregoing reasoning is correct, why 
doesn’t it apply to banks and why is the FDIC, which insures bank deposits, now 
in so much better shape than FSLIC? We think the answers are (i) that the 
fundamental reasoning does apply to banks, and we note that irresponsible bank 
lending, bank losses and FDIC losses all escalated dramatically after the installa- 
tion of unlimited interest rates in a banking system already containing deposit 
insurance, and (ii) that the FDIC losses are, so far, lower than FSLIC losses for 
reasons including the following: 


(a) the profit-shortage pressure has been lower at banks because of 
favorable momentum effects from the past, particularly including the banks’ 
long monopoly in checking accounts, difficulties faced by would-be new 
entrants into banking, and traditional bank avoidance, through continuous 
repricing of loans, of most risk from interest rate change; and 


(b) there is much tougher regulation, including better domestic-asset- 

quality controls, under the bank regulatory apparatus. 
The second factor is particularly important. Tougher regulation clearly limits 
damage to the deposit-insurer. Indeed, if the toughness of bank regulation could 
be doubled and redoubled, so that it closed banks summarily when liquidating 


60 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


value of equity was impaired but not exhausted, like the clearing system of a 
stock or commodity exchange, little would remain of expectancy of deposit- 
insurer loss from idiosyncratic high risk taking. It does not follow, however, that 
banks, even under such toughened regulation, would refrain from forms. of high 
risk taking which became so conventional that trouble, if it came, would sink 
everyone at once. Under such circumstances, the regulated have a tendency to 
appraise regulatory threat as a paper tiger. Banking institutions (perhaps wisely ) 
believe that the regulator which must close all banks will close ncne. Something 
like this has already occurred with respect to unwise foreign lending, where the 
regulatory response would, very likely, have been much tougher if only one big 
bank had been involved. Instead, with virtually all big banks threatened by huge 
holdings of dubious foreign loans, bank regulators are now much tougher on 
domestic loans worth 70¢ on the dollar than on foreign loans worth 40¢ on the 
dollar. } 


(10) All of the foregoing happened to coincide with a general nationwide 
increase in wheeler-dealer activity, often with a fraud component. In this 
environment the new system attracted precisely the wrong sort of people into 
the savings and loan business as if designed for this purpose. It would have been 
hard to invent a system more irresponsible than the one that allowed any half- 
plausible group to control a savings and loan charter carrying the right to use the 
government's credit in the prompt attraction of multiple millions, or even 
billions. This was the financial equivalent of distributing free machine guns in 
cocaine alley, and many billions of dollars of fraud losses naturally followed. 


(11) There aiso was a grand collapse in oil prices, creating the worst 
depression since the 1930s in oil-production-dependent areas, which caused 
many conservative home loans to go into default. Thus, FSLIC would have 
suffered large (but probably not lethal) losses even if inflation and legislators 
had never changed the savings and loan system. 


(12) To be sure, even under the new system some possibilities remained 
for regulators or accountants to stop some FSLIC hemorrhages earlier than they 
actually did. But the accountants were selected and paid by the associations and 
had professional loyalties to clients as well as concepts. They were understanda- 
bly loath to enforce death sentences until the negative aspects of complex 
situations became abundantly clear. And the regulators were overwhelmed by 
horror cases, being suddenly given the working conditions and triage problems 
of a M.A.S.H. unit, while receiving modest salaries. Moreover, the medical 
analogy fits when stretched further. FSLIC was not allowed by Congress to take 
much appropriate early corrective action. Just like certain savings and loan 
managements, Congress did not want to face the consequences — for instance, 
increased taxes — of honest bookkeeping and rational action. Indeed, many 
legislators intervened directly with the Federal Home Loan Bank system. to 
protect particular fools or crooks, or merely unlucky savings and loan operators, 
from unpleasant consequences of insolvency. Thus FSLIC was not only like a 
doctor working under M.A.S.H.-unit conditions but also like such a doctor 


61 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


forbidden to cause new pain, however brief, or make any blood transfusions (as 
distinguished from promises regarding future blood transfusions ). 


(13) The final result for FSLIC could easily be a loss of over $100 billion in 
a continuously unfolding financial mess that is among the greatest in U.S. history. 
Even some recently ‘‘rescued” associations, with new owners, are likely to cause 
new FSLIC losses. at some later time — losses caused by the speculative 
temperaments of new managements attracted by loose asset-deployment rules. 


While the Federal Home Loan Bank Board failed to prevent the insolvency of 
FSLIC, that insolvency was probably unpreventable, given its macroeconomic origin 
and subsequent conduct of legislators. FSLIC’s “rescues,” although imperfect, were 
probably as wise as could be expected under M.A.S.H.-unit conditions with no new 
blood available. There is an O. Henry short story in which God treats as a false arrest 
the bringing before Him of a miscreant young woman and sends tie Heavenly 
Policeman back to bring in the real culprit, the neglectful father who raised her 
wrong. So also with the FSLIC mess. The important miscreants are not the crooks and 
fools who are always with us. or the overburdened industry regulators. The real 
culprits are the ignorant, self-absorbed industry executives and state and federal 
legislators who should have known better than to let the system be crafted as it was. 
They also should have acted earlier to correct obvious errors, instead of becoming 
accessories. after the fact. } 


In retrospect, it is clear that some of the very worst behavior of all, in the years 
when the FSLIC mess was created, was that of the United States League of Savings 
institutions. The League combined a blind loyalty to silly ideas with a blind loyalty to 
_-member associations — a loyalty which usually treated the admirable and the 
despicable as if they were just the same. Acting with such “loyalty to a fault”, the 
League was an effective foe of proper regulatory and legislative response. We are 
ashamed to report that during the whole period Mutual Savings paid its League dues 
promptly and voiced little objection to League conduct. This paragraph is a minor 
effort at atonement. 

By silence we acquiesced wrongly as the League took antisocial positions which 
it incorrectly believed consistent with the long-term interest of the savings and loan 
industry. Our future behavior will be a little better: If the League does not act more 
responsibly in the future, Mutual Savings will resign. 


It does not follow, we think, from FSLIC’s troubles that federal controllers are 
likely to ruin Freddie Mac. FSLIC was very sick from causes outside the regulators’ 
control, whereas Freddie Mac is flourishing. And Congress, better later than never, is 
now plainly chary of further loosening, and in fact desires to tighten, asset quality 
standards in the savings and loan indus! and its regulatory apparatus. 

Freddie Mac is now regarded in th., Mortgage, mortgage-securities and debt- 
issuing markets as a virtually risk-free government agency, even though its obliga- 
tions are not technically backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. With 
this enormous advantage, Freddie Mac’s controllers can almost always get socially 
constructive and financially rewarding results, provided they refrain from taking 


62 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


significant risk of ruining Freddie Mac’s credit. The annual dividend to private owners 
is peanuts, a small fraction of 1%, compared to the financing Freddie Mac provides to 
buyers of housing. The need for the dividend’s safety and growth disciplines the 
system in exactly the right way. There is no reason to change course. Moreover, the 
right course, involving continued tough credit standards, has been clearly demon- 
strated by the recent terrible home loan experience in oil-production-dependent 
areas. Conventionally-sound home loans then went sour in massive quantities, 
despite having been made by wise and honorable lenders to home buyers with good 
jobs and loan-payment histories who made substantial down payments. Such experi- 
ence reinforces the margin-of-safety principle required of highly leveraged institu- 
tions that guarantee credit. just as bank credit standards remained sound for a long 
time after the horrors of the 1930s, home leriding standards enforced by Freddie Mac 
may remain sound for a long time after the good-home-loan losses of the 1980s. If 
so, and if interest-rate-change risk is scrupulously minimized, Freddie Mac stock 
could be a good Jong-term investment for Mutual Savings. 


Our discussion of reasoning regarding investment in Freddie Mac is an anomaly 
within the Berkshire Hathaway group. Normally, we do not disclose such reasoning. 
We fear bad effects on future investment buying or investment selling. (We also 
avoid display of our frequent mental inadequacies, but that is not the reason for the 
policy.) We depart from usual practice only because we have acquired a full 
investment position and we do not anticipate an increase in the tegal limit which 
prevents us from buying more stock of Freddie Mac. Under these conditions, we are 
all for disclosure. But we are not recommending that Wesco shareholders purchase 
Freddie Mac stock. We never want to encourage Wesco shareholders to copy 
Wesco investments in their own personal accounts. 


The first attempt at resolution by the federal government of the FSLIC insolvency 
will be made when new laws are enacted in 1989. The new laws will probably 
contain a combination of elements selected from the following list: 


(1) sharp increase in deposit-insurance premiums payable to FSLIC; 


(2) higher equity capital requirements for associations, with no credit for 
intangibles, and with prompt asset reduction required when the equity-capital 
minimum is breached; 


(3) drastic reduction in investment powers to limit risky assets (including 
“junk bonds”), plus close monitoring of risk-prone associations; 


(4) strict limits on annual growth of savings deposits; 
(5) bans on use of brokers to bring in deposits; 


(6) tougher accounting standards, including more bans on “front-ending”’ 
into reported income of fees paid in exchange for long-term commitments; 


(7) tougher, more summary close-out procedures for associations, includ- 
ing those that are impaired but not insolvent; 


(8) more insulation of regulation and close-out cases from interference by 
individual members of Congress; 


63 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


(9) changes in control of regulation within the federal bureaucracy, aimed 
at toughening of regulatory practice, including more concentration of resources 
on obvious high-risk cases; 

(10) a moratorium on approvals of new savings and loan charters; and 

(11) more override of state law by federal law. 

All the foregoing, except sharply higher deposit-insurance premiums, would clearly 
tend to reduce future FSLIC losses and should, as a minimum, be included in any 
half-sensible 1989 attempt to fix FSLIC. Payment to FSLIC of sharply higher deposit- 
insurance premiums would provide mixed results. On the one hand, FSLIC would 
get new revenue to help discharge liability from foolish insurance practices in the 
past. On the other hand, it is not clear how much net new revenue would be 
available. Sharply higher deposit-insurance premiums would also increase future 
FSLIC losses by increasing pressure on associations to acquire higher-risk assets 
promising the higher yields necessary te cover higher premiums. If deposit-insurance 
premiums are increased by 4% per annum on total liabilities (which could happen) 
it will sound trifling and not very threatening to solvency. But associations’ net worth, 
where it exists, is not owned by the government and may be withdrawn by its owners 
from the savings and loan industry. And, ignoring revenue from assets matching net 
worth, many associations now look at net profits vs. total liabilities at the rate of %% 
per annum as an unattainable dream. After all, the associations face aggressive 
competing institutions which either have lower costs, like money-market funds 
(which do not pay deposit-insurance premiums), or have more experience in 
maximizing safe yields, like banks. Starting from this not-so-hot competitive position 
and seeking not-so-obvious ways to stretch yields by %% per annum, many associa- 
tions would, almost surely, be pressed into significant incremental losses. Others 
would quit the savings and loan business because of below-market returns being 
earned on shareholders’ equity, and any. equity capital withdrawn from the system 
would no longer “‘buffer’’ FSLIC against losses. 

The would-be FSLIC fixers, as they set increased deposit-insurance premiums, 
will face the same basic question faced by a keeper of sheep. But, unlike the 
sheepkeeper, the government lacks knowledge to guide prediction of the point at 
which additional closeness of shearing will be contrary to the interests of the shearer. 
This leaves an important question: When you don’t know for sure what the sheep 
can stand, how much safety margin do you leave before you set the shears, shear the 
whole herd, and send it forth to fare as it will? 

The politics of the current scene seem to us to create more wishful thinking than 
sound thinking. We do not believe that the legislation adopted in 1989 will be likely 
to prevent recurrence of big trouble at FSLIC. 

First, consider again the record of our modern legislators, the would-be FSLIC 
fixers. They started with a system designed to limit association insolvencies by both: 

(1) protecting associations from full competition (a bruta! force in a 
fungible commodity business, with money being the ultimate fungible commod- 
ity) and full taxes; and 

(2) requiring <issociations to deploy assets in a very low-risk way. 


64 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financia! Corporation 


Despite noting that this combination of carrot and stick kept the donkey under 
reasonable control for a long time, as it was designed to do after the insolvencies 
which followed excesses in the 1920s, the modern legislators actually removed the 
stick from the loss-control system in an attempt to compensate for the loss of the 
carrot. They also neglected, for a considerable period after interest rates of liabilities 
were unleashed, the obvious need to allow floating interest rates on home loan 
assets. And they acted, while they did this, as if they preferred to entice new thieves 
and megalomaniacs ints. coverage by federal deposit insurance ard also to expand, 
as fast as possible, the operations of thieves and megalomaniacs already insured. 
Then, as FSLIC losses. mounted, $10 billion or so at a time, the legislators delayed, 
and delayed, while going along with almost every form of foolish, paper-it-over 
expediency. And now, finally, we hear many cries for scapegoats in the “‘any one but 
me’’ category. We hear almost no cries for re-examination of assumptions (including 
re-examination in the form of (i) study of savings and loan systems which have 
worked better, like England’s and (it) consideration of alternatives such as forcing 
the private pension system, a huge savings pool which still possesses the carrot of tax 
exemption and can better bear interest rate crunches, to commit a share of assets to 
home loans, instead of high-turnover stock trading and the super-leveraging of 
corporate America, and (iii) consideration of other more extreme alternatives which 
fit modern facts). Instead, the first proposal, meeting tacit acceptance, is that any 
federal fix must qualify for mickey-mouse, off-budget accounting which will increase 
ultimate federal cost. This is not a fixing record which creates confidence in the 
fixers. 


Second, consider the difficulty of the problem faced. As suggested earlier, that 
problem may well be a “‘lalapaloosa”’ which would not yield to the efforts of fixers 
much better than those we have. When you mix certain elements in a certain way 
you get sulfuric acid, wish it or not, and there are similar “impotency principles” in 
microeconomic systems. Under modern conditions it is quite conceivably impossible 
to create a deposit-insured savings and loan system, successful over the long term, 
which includes all the elements (for instance “capped” interest rates for borrowers 
in long-term loans) that a politically sensitive body will want to preserve. Thus the 
legislative fix attempted in 1989. may be only a more sophisticated version of the 
attempt of the rustic legislator, aiming at facilitation of education, who proposed a 
law rounding Pi to an even three. The derision of this example is aimed not so much 
at our legislators as at the normal working of the human mind. In the presence of 
complexity the ability to unlearn a once-successful idea is seldom found. Max 
Planck, the Nobel laureate, noted that even in physics, wherein the ablest of 
mankind are sworn as their highest duty to improve ideas to fit facts, you never really 
changed the minds of most of the old professors. Instead, the wide acceptance of 
correct new ideas had to wait for new professors who had less to unlearn. 


Our views are that the problem faced is kard and that everyone has ‘‘unlearning 
difficulty.” These views, of course, may have been shaped by our own thinking 
record. If the problem is not difficult, and if uniearning is easy, we would have 


65 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


difficulty excusing ourselves for the clobbering Mutual Savings took from interest rate 
change in the early 1980s. 


lf our predictions are right, Wesco shareholders can pretty well count on Mutual 
Savings being harmed not only in 1989 but also at a second and later time. In each 
case we will face both new deposit-insurance costs and reductions of investment 
powers caused by insolvencies of a type Mutual Savings never got near. 


As legislative changes are made Mutual Savings is likely to be hurt by all three of 
the following: 


(1) wise changes in flaws; 


(2) unwise changes caused by the problems being more difficult than 
contentious legislative bodies are able or willing to think through; and 


(3) unwise changes caused by vindictive legislative reaction to the size of 
the mess. 


We fear changes in the last category because we so often see verifications of the iron 
prediction (roughly recalled) of the Victorian prime minister: ‘Those who will not 
face improvements because they are changes will face changes that are not 
improvements.” 


At least as we operate it, Mutual Savings, ex its investment in Freddie Mac, 
continues to have mediocre long-term prospects. 


Precision Steel 


The businesses of Wesco’s Precision Steel subsidiary, located in the outskirts of 
Chicago at Franklin Park, Ilinois, contributed $3,167,000 to normal net operating 
income in 1988, up 29% compared with $2,450,000 in 1987. The increase in 1988 
profit occurred in spite of a small decline in pounds of product sold. Revenues were 
ul) 14% to $62,694,000. 


Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel’s businesses in 
1988 continued to provide an extraordinary return. 


The good financial results. have an underlying reason, although not one strong 
enough to cause the results achieved in the absence of superb management. 
Precision Steel’s businesses, despite their mundane nomenclature, are steps ad- 
vanced on the quality scale from mere commodity-type businesses. Many customers 
of Precision Steel, needing dependable supply on short notice of specialized grades 
of high-quality, cold-rolled strip steel, reasonable prices, technical excellence in 
cutting to order, and remembrance when supplies are short, rightly believe that they 
have no fully comparable alternative in Precision Steel’s market area. Indeed, many 
customers at locations remote from Chicago (for instance, Los Angeles) seek out 
Precision Steel’s service. | 


It is not common that steel warehouses have results like Precision Steel's, even 
in a generally good year like 1988. What we have watched under David Hillstrom’s 
leadership is boring, repetitive excellence, year after year. We love to see it and to be 
associated with him. 


66 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


Wesco-Financial Insurance Company 
A new business was added to the Wesco group in 1985, in co-venture with 
Wesco’s 80% owner and ultimate parent corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 


With the enthusiastic approval of all Wesco’s directors, including substantial 
Wesco shareholders in the Peters and Caspers families, without whose approval such 
action would not have been taken, Wesco in 1985 invested $45 million in cash 
equivalents in a newly organized, wholly owned insurance company, Wesco- 
Financial Insurance Company (‘‘Wes-FIC”). Another $45 million was invested in 
1986 and 1987. 


The new subsidiary, Wes-FIC, has reinsured, through another Berkshire 
Hathaway insurance company subsidiary as intermediary-without-profit, 2% of the 
entire book of insurance business of the long-established Fireman’s Fund Corp. 
(listed on the NYSE). Wes-FIC thereby assumed the benefits and burdens of 
Fireman’s Fund's prices, costs and losses under a contract covering all insurance 
premiums earned by Fireman’s Fund during a four-year period commencing Septem- 
ber 1, 1985. The arrangement puts Wes-FIC in almost exactly the position it would 
have been in if it, instead of Fireman’s Fund, had directly written 2% of the business. 
Differences in results should occur only from the investment side of insurance, as 
Wes-FIC, instead of Fireman’s Fund, invests funds from “float’’ generated. Wes-FIC’s 
share of premiums earned in 1988 exceeded $62 million. 

Wes-FIC in 1988 began to write direct business, as distinguished from reinsur- 
ance. It is now licensed in Nebraska, Utah and lowa, but it wrote only $412,000 in 
direct premiums, ail surplus lines coverage (permitted for non-admitted insurers) in 
Alabama. Earned direct premiums were $108,000. 

Wes-FIC’s “normal’’ net income for 1988 was $12,094,000, versus $9,459,000 
for 1987, The net “normal” income figures excluded securities gains, net of income 
taxes, of $6,071,000 (including $4,836,000 realized on sale of Wes-FIC’s 9% equity 
interest in Bowery Savings Bank) in 1988, compared with only. $9,000 in securities 
gains in 1987. These items are reported as ‘‘Net Gains on Sales of Securities,” below. 
Wes-FIC’s net income benefitted by about $260,000 in 1988, versus $1 million in 
1987, because of an unusual adjustment to its income tax provision caused by the 
Tax Reform Act of 1986. 

It is in the nature of even the finest casualty insurance businesses that in keeping 
their accounts they must estimate and deduct all future costs and losses from 
premiums already earned. Uncertainties inherent in this undertaking make financial 
statements more mere ‘‘best honest guesses” than is typically the case with accounts 
of non-insurance-writing corporations. And the reinsurance portion of the casualty 
insurance business, because it contains one or more extra links in the loss-reporting 
chain, usually creates more accounting uncertainty than the non-reinsurance portion. 
Wesco shareholders should remain aware, not only of the inherent imperfections of 
Wes-FIC’s accounting, but also of the inherent cyclicality of its business. 


Wesco continues to expect a reasonable return on its investment over the four 
years of the Fireman’s Fund reinsurance contract. However, the Fireman’s Fund 
contract ends with August in 1989, which will leave Wes-FIC with a “longage’”’ of 


67 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


capital and a shortage of good insurance business. This is not a desired position, but 
there are worse ones. 


All Other “Normal” Net Operating Income 

All other “normal’’ net operating income, net of interest paid and general 
corporate expenses, increased to $3,609,000 in 1988 from $1,808,000 in 1987. 
Sources were (1) rents ($2,436,000 gross, excluding rent from Mutual Savings) from 
Wesco’s Pasadena office building block (predominantly leased to outsiders although 
Mutual Savings is the ground floor tenant) and (2) interest and dividends from cash 
equivalents and marketable securities held by Precision Steel and its subsidiaries and 
at the parent company level. 


Net Gains On Sales Of Securities 

Wesco’s aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, after income 
taxes, increased to $6,525,000 in 1988 from $1,208,000 in 1987. As noted above, 
$6,071,000 of these gains were realized in the Wes-FIC insurance subsidiary. 


Salomon inc 

On October 1, 1987 Wesco and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries 
purchased 100,000 newly issued shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred 
Stock, without par value, of Salomon Inc (‘Salomon’), at a cost of $100 million. 
Salomon’s primary business is transacted by its subsidiary, Salomon Brothers, a 
leading securities firm. Our investment was part of a $700 million transaction in 
which other subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco’s parent, invested $600 
million. Principal terms of the transaction included the following: (1) the preferred 
stock pays dividends at the annual rate of 9%; (2) each preferred share, purchased at 
a cost of $1,000, will be convertible into 26.31579 shares of Salomon common stock 
on or after October 31, 1990, or earlier if certain extraordinary events occur; and (3) 
the preferred stock is subject to mandatory redemption provisions requiring the 
retirement, at $1,000 per share plus accrued dividends, of 20% of the issue on each 
October 31, beginning in 1995, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain 
outstanding. 

At the stated conversion price of the preferred stock, a profit (subject to certain 
procedural requirements) will be realizable whenever, after October 37, 1990, the 
common stock of Salomon (listed NYSE) trades at over $38 per share. At the time of 
our coramitment to buy the new preferred, the common stock of Salomon was 
selling in the low 30s. However, shortly after the ink dried on Wesco’s new stock 
certificates, the October 19, 1987 ‘Black Monday” stock market crash occurred, 
which caused temporary out substantial operating losses plus a lowered credit rating 
at Salomon. Although Salomon, among securities firms, suffered only its rough share 
of the general debacle, its common stock at one time after the crash traded as low as 
$16%. 

By the end of 1988 Salomon common stock was trading at $24% after much 
constructive adjustment of Salomon’s business to new conditions. 

Salomon’s credit as a potential source of preferred dividends and stock redemp- 
tions improved during its.1988 recovery, when generally available dividend rates on 


68 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


preferred stock were roughly stable. With Wesco’s preferred stock now one year 
shorter in contractual duration, and its conversion privilege enhanced in value during 
the year, we believe that the fair market value of Wesco’s investment was somewhat 
in excess of its cost, and that the aggregate amount of any such excess was not 
material to Wesco, at December 31, 1988. 

Berkshire Hathaway’s Chairman, Warren Buffett, and the undersigned joined the 
board of Salomon on October 28, 1987, and are very pleased with the new 
association. 

New Subsidiary 

At the close of 1988, Wesco acquired 80% of the stock of New America 
Electrical Corporation (‘‘New America Electric’) for a price of $8,200,000. Of this 
price {2,165,000 was cash paid to a liquidating trust for the former shareholders of 
New America Fund and $1,035,000 was. a ten-year, 10% note pavable to Glen 
Mitchel, CEO of New America Electric, who retains the 20% of New America Electric 
not acquired by Wesco. The pattern of this acquisition is getting to be a common one 
within the Berkshire Hathaway group, where we are willing to be an 80% owner in 
many a business we would not be in if we did not admire and trust people who retain 
the other 20% and are expected to continue to operate the business, with little help 
and no hindrance from us. 

Glen Mitchel is a long-time friend and trusted and admired business associate of 
the undersigned, Wesco’s CEO. Indeed, because Wesco’s CEO. and his family 
owned more of New America Electric than Wesco, our whole transaction was 
approved by the Wesco board with the recommendation and participation of 
Warren Buffett, CEO and major shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco’s 
parent company. Mr. Buffett had no financial interest in New America Electric, and 
he, plus Messrs. Munger and Mitchel, all believed that $10,250,000 was a fair 
valuation for 100% of New America Electric at yearend 1988. 

New America Electric is a manufacturer of various electrical products including 
switchgear, circuit breakers, lighting ballasts and starters and electrical equipment for 
marinas and mobile home and recreational vehicle parks. Its facilities are in Orange 
County, California. 

New America Electric has a present book net worth of about $6,400,000, 
including over $2,500,000 in cash, and a long history of earning high returns on 
capital, but with current earnings reduced by conditions approaching those of severe 
price war. Fortunately, New America Electric is a very low-cost producer, Its size is 
not material (in accounting parlance) to Wesco; so we have not yet determined 
future reporting practice. At a minimum, essential information will be discussed each 
year in the Annual Report's Letter to Shareholders. 

This acquisition became available to Wesco because Glen Mitchel preferred 
minority (20%) ownership of a Berkshire Hathaway group subsidiary instead of 
dominant 30% ownership in New America Electric, with all other New America 
Electric stock pretty well scattered through a new public offering, which was the 
alternative offered. We will try to deserve Glen Mitchel’s confidence. 


a) 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


Consolidated Balance Sheet and Related Discussion 

Wesco’s consolidated balance sheet (1) retains a strength befitting a company 
whose consolidated net worth supports large outstanding promises to others and 
(2) reflects a continuing slow pace of acquisition of additional businesses because 
few are found available, despite constant search, at prices deemed rational from the 
standpoint of Wesco shareholders. 

As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, the aggregate market 
value of Wesco’s marketable equity securities was higher than their aggregate 
carrying value at December 31, 1988 by about $54 million, up significantly from 
about $6 million one year earlier. The consolidated aggregate market value of all 
marketable securities, including bonds and other fixed-income securities, exceeded 
aggregate carrying value by about $62 million. As earlier noted, about $57 million of 
this unrealized appreciation lies within the savings and loan subsidiary, and includes 
$49.5 million of appreciation in stock of Freddie Mac. 

Wesco’s Pasadena real estate, a full block (containing (1) about 125,000 first- 
class net rentable square feet, including Mutual Savings’ space, in a modern office 
building, plus (2) an additional net rentable 34,000 square feet of economically 
marginal space in old buildings requiring expensive improvement), has a market 
value substantially in excess of carrying value, demonstrated by (1) mortgage debt 
($4,751,000 at 9.25% fixed) against this real estate now exceeding its depreciated 
carrying value ($2,937,000) in Wesco’s balance sheet at December 31, 1988, and 
(2) substantial current net cash flow (about $1 million per year) to Wesco after debt 
service on the mortgage. The modern office building is 99% rented, despite a glut of 
vacant office space in Pasadena. We charge just-below-standard rents and run the 
building as a sort of first-class club for tenants we admire. With these practices, a 
prime location and superior parking facilities, we anticipate future increases in cash 
flow, but at no better rate than the rate of inflation. 

Wesco remains in a prudent position when total debt is compared to total 
shareholders’ equity and total liquid assets. Wesco’s practice has been to do a certain 
amount of long-term borrowing in advance of specific need, in order to have 
maximum financial flexibility to face both hazards and opportunities. 

It is expected that the balance sheet strength of the consolidated enterprise will 
in due course be used in one or more business extensions. The extension activity, 
however, requires patience, as suitable opportunities are seldom present. 

As indicated in Schedule | accompanying Wesco’s financial statements, invest- 
ments, both those in the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries and those held 
temporarily elsewhere pending sale to fund business extension, tend to be concen- 
trated in very few places. Through this practice of concentration of investments, 
better understanding is sought with respect to the few decisions made. 

The ratio of Wesco’s annual reported consolidated net income to reported 
consolidated shareholders’ equity, about 10% in 1986-88, was dependent to a 
significant extent on securities gains, irregular by nature. 

The considerable, and higher than desired, liquidity of Wesco’s consolidated 
financial position as this is written does not result from our forecast that business 


70 


Reproduced from 1988 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation 


conditions are about to worsen, or that interest rates are about to rise, or that 
common stock prices are about to fal!. Wesco’s condition results, instead, from our 
simply not finding opportunities for more aggressive use of capital with which we are 
comfortable. 

Wesco continues to try more to profit from always remembering the obvious 
than from grasping the esoteric. Such an approach, while it has worked fairly well on 
average in the past and will probably work fairly well over the long-term future, is 
bound to encounter periods of dullness and disadvantage as it limits action. 

Moreover, our approach continues to be applied to no great base position. 
Wesco has only a tiny fraction of its total intrinsic value in businesses with enough 
commercial advantage in place to assure permanent high future returns on capital 
employed. In contrast, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco’s parent corporation, has a 
larger proportion of its intrinsic value in durable high-return businesses. 

Some historical explanation for the current situation should be repeated here. 
When Wesco’s parent corporation acquired control, Wesco’s activities were almost 
entirely limited to holding (1) some surplus cash, plus (2) a multi-branch savings 
and loan association which had many very long-term, fixed-rate mortgages, offset by 
interest-bearing demand deposits. The acquisition of this intrinsically disadvanta- 
geous position was unwisely made, alternative opportunities considered, because 
the acquirer (including the signer of this letter) was overly influenced by a price 
considered to be moderately below liquidating value. Under such circumstances, 
acquisitions have a way of producing, on average, for acquirers who are not quick- 
turn operators, low to moderate long-term results. This happens. because any 
advantage from a starting ‘‘bargain’’ gets swamped by effects from change-resistant 
mediocrity in the purchased business. Such normal effects have not been completely 
avoided at Wesco, despite some successful activities, including a large gain in 1985 
from an investment in General Foods. 

A corporation like Wesco, with no significant proportion of intrinsic value in 
great businesses, continues to be like a tortoise in a race of hares. And, as we have 
plainly demonstrated, this particular tortoise is not very sprightly. 

On January 26, 1989, Wesco increased its regular quarterly dividend from 18% 
cents per share to 19% cents per share, payable March 7, 1989, to shareholders of 
record as of the close of business on February 10, 1989. 

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its 
subsidiaries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As 
usual, your careful attention is sought with respect to these items. 


Chorlee 7 Jhomypee- 


Charles T. Munger 
Chairman of the Board 


February 24, 1989 


71 


BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years 
(dollars in thousands except per share amounts} 


1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 

Revenues: 

Sales and service revenues ........ § 496,971 S$ 504,872 $1,219,252 $1,326,829 $1,407,642 

Insurance premiums earned........ 140,242 317,059 823,884 824,895 584,235 

Investment income-insurance group . 69,281 95,422 107,495 152,995 231,907 

TOA TEVENUCS taweoicneG ees Gonna: 747,252 968,583 _2,231,444 — 2,402,944 2,333,222 
Earnings: 

Before realized investment gain.... 3 70,201 $ 92,948 $ 131,464 $ 214,746 $ 313,441 

Realized investment gain .......... 78,694 342,867 150,897 29,806 85,29 

Net earnings ..........0..0ecec vee $ 148,895 $ 435.815 $ 282,361 $ 234552 $ 259,270 
Common shares outstanding — 

average in thousands.............. 1,147 1,147 1,147 1,147 1,147 


Wy ps Spry rm srg Ep grrr pps ap 


Earnings per share: | 
Before realized investment gain.... $ 61.21 $ 81.04 $ 114.62 $ 187.24 $ 273.37 


INGE GaMings:. :653.0csandideweiasa 129.82 379.99 246.19 204.51 348.23 
Year-end data: 

Total assets ....... niavusaitie ere ota: $2,297,516 $3,480,789 $4,931,354 $5,863,235 $6,816,848 

Term debt and other borrowings ... 127,104 117,879 260,170. 289,886 480,009 

Minority shareholders’ interest..... 34,687 45,818 54,187 57,126 66,396 

Shareholders’ equity — total....... 1,271,761 1,885,330 2,377,797 2,841,659 3,410,108 


Shares of common stock 
outstanding — in thousands..... 1,147 1,147 1,147 1,147 1,146 


Shareholders’ equity per | 
outstanding share ............... $ 1109 $ 1644 $ 2,073 $ 2.477 $ 2,975 


ER re eee 


Data for the years 1984 through 1987 have been restated and reclassified as required for 
conformity. 


A compilation of letters taken from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Annual Reports for the years from 1979 


to 1985 is available upon request. Direct your request to the Company at 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68131. 


f2 


‘ | | BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


DIRECTORS OFFICERS 
WARREN E. BUFFETT, Chairman WARREN E. BUFFETT, Chairman and CEO 
Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire CHARLES T. MUNGER, Vice Chairman 
CHARLES T. MUNGER, Vice Chairman ROBERT H. BIRD, Vice President 


Chairman and Ghief Executive Officer of 
certain subsidiaries of Berkshire 


MICHAEL A. GOLDBERG, Vice President 


Chairman of the Board of Directors of _ STANFORD LIPSEY, Vice President 
Daily Journal Corporation, publisher of J. VERNE McKENZIE, Vice President, Secretary 
specialty newspapers in California J. WILLIAM SCOTT, Vice President 
KENNETH V. CHACE MARC D. HAMBURG, Treasurer 


Retired, Former-Chief Operating. Officer of 

Textile Operations of Berkshire 
MALCOM G. CHACE, JR. 
Retired, Former Chairman of Berkshire's Board 
J. VERNE McKENZIE 
Chief Financial Officer of Berkshire 3 ; 
WALTER SCOTT, JR. | , | = 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of : 

Péter Kiewit Sons’, Inc., engaged worldwide in i 

construction. mining. packaging and timberlands. 


DANIEL J. JAKSICH, Controller 


COMMON STOCK 
Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar 


The First National Bank of Boston, P.O. Box 644, ‘Boston, MA 02102 serves as Transfer Agent and 
Registrar for the Company's common stock. Certificates to be transferred should be mailed directly to 
the Transfer Agent, preferably by registered mail. Certificates should not be mailed to the Company. 


Shareholders | | 

The Company had approximately 5,500 record holders of its common stock at February 24, 1989. 
Record owners ‘included three nominees holding 126.586 shares on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of- 
record owners. Available information indicates that the number of non-record owners was. somewhat 
in excess of the number of record owners, so that the company has at least 11,000 beneficial owners. 
Market Prices 

The listing for trading on the New York Stock Exchange of the common stock of Berkshire 
Hathaway Inc. — symbol BRK — was effective November 29, 1988. (See Pages 50 and 51 within this 


report.) Prior to the NYSE listing, the stock was traded in the over the counter market. Following are 
the high and low selling prices for the shares during each quarter of 1988 and 1987. 


1988 High _ Low 1987 | High Low 

First Quarter....... $3,500 $3,000 First Quarter....... $3,630 $2,800 
Second Quarter . 4,150 3,400 Second Quarter .... 3,530 3.330 
Third Quarter...... 5,000 4,040 ‘ Third Quarter...... 4,220 3,420 
Fourth Quarter..... 5,050 4,600 Fourth Quarter ..... 4,270 2,550 


NYSE Trading Practices 

Thé New York Stock Exchange specialist in Berkshire stock currently ‘maintains a post opening 
policy whereby the spread between bid and asked prices is no greater than fifty points and where the 
difference between round lot sales does not exceed twenty-five points. Furthermore, odd lot market 
orders (i.e. orders for less than ten shares) are executed at the bid or asked price. For example, when 
_the market is $4800 bid and $4850 asked, a market order to sell one to nine shares is filled at $4800, 
and a market order to buy one to nine shares is filled at $4850. 
Dividends | : 

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967. 


Reg. S-K ~ 
Item 601.2 
Exhibit 19 


' BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
Written Description of Oral Amendment to 
Bonus Arrangement with Michael A. Goldberg 


The bonus arrangement with Michael A. Goldberg was orally 
amended in 1988 in the following respect: | 
In computing profit of the Insurance Group's continuing 
primary insurance operations, a reduction in the amount 

of policyholder funds deemed to generate investment 

income will be computed and effected, equal to the prepaid 
Federal income taxes that result for those operations 

from applying provisions of the 1986 Tax Reform Act 
relating to (a) loss and loss expense reserve discounting 
methodology, and (b) acceleration into taxable income 

of a portion of unearned premiums. 


., Reg. S-K 
Item 601 
Exhibit 22 
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. | 
Subsidiaries of Registrant (1) 
December 31, 1988 
| State of 
Company Name Incorporation 
BHSF Inc. Delaware © 
Blue Chip Stams California 
Campbell Hausfeld/Scott. Fetzer Company Delaware 
Columbia Insurance Company | Nebraska 
Continental Divide Insurancce Company Colorado 
Cornhusker Casualty Company Nebraska 
Cypress Insurance Company | California 
The Fechheimer Brothers Company (2) : Delaware 
Kansas Fire & Casualty Company | Kansas 
Mutual Savings and Loan Association California 
National Fire & Marine Insurance Company Nebraska 
National Indemnity Company Nebraska — 
National Indemnity Company of Florida Florida 
National Indemnity Company of Minnesota ) | Minnesota 
National Liability and Fire Insurance Company Illinois. 
Nebraska Furniture Mart, Inc. : Nebraska 
Redwood Fire and Casualty Insurance Company Nebraska 
The Scott Fetzer Company Delaware 
Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc. . Delaware 
See's Candies, Inc. California 
See's Candy Shops, Incorporated £altfornia 
Wesco Financial Corporation | Delaware 
Wesco-Financial Insurance Company Nebraska 
‘Wesco Holdings Midwest Inc. Nebraska 


- World Book/Scott Fetzer Company Nebraska 


(1) Each of the named subsidiaries is not necessarily a "significant subsi- 
_ diary" as defined in Rute 1-02(v) of Regulation S-X,. and Berkshire has several 
» additional subsidiaries not named above. The unnamed subsidiaries, considered in 
the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a | "significant subsi- 
diary" at the end of the year covered by this report. 


(2) .The names have been omitted of 28 wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries of The 
Fechheimer Brothers Company, each of whom operate in: the business of uniform manu- 
facturing — distribution. 


ireeuine Ocal — id) Senet) fara \omaiee Nitewain 55/57 


