Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 





aio os ee Ss Sian For Immediate Release 
KA S LECZO (=; Cre ary 
QDa) 
AS 33 


Board of Directors for their work as a cooperator in developing markets for 


I would first like to commend Mike Hall and the Great Plains Wheat 


U.S. production. 


Through organizations like Great Plains Wheat, the message that the 
United States is a dependable supplier of quality wheat is carried throughout 
the world. As we look to the months and years ahead, our work with cooperators 


takes on renewed importance as we strive to open new markets for American wheat. 


I'm here today principally to review the world wheat situation and the 
United States' trade policies for this commodity. I would like to qualify that 
statement to the extent that major segments of our international trade policies 
are linked directly to basic food and agriculture legislation that hasn't received 
final approval of the Congress or been signed into law by the President. For 
that reason our policies and programs in the international arena must remain 


somewhat flexible. 
World Wheat Situation 


We are now projecting that the 1977 level of world wheat production 
will approach 400 million metric tons. The current world crop is not expected to 
equal last year's record production of nearly 413 million tons for two basic 
reasons. First, planted acreage was reduced in several major producing countries, 
particularly Canada, Argentina and the United States. Second, even though 
weather has been basically favorable to wheat production, it won't duplicate 
the very favorable production weather of 1976. 
Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Intemational Affairs and Commodity Programs 


_ Dale E. Hathaway;-at the Annual Summer Meeting of Great Plains Wheat, in Wichita, 


“Kansas, August 15, 1977. 


Fn A RE TO eS SS 


TAL USDA 2285-77 


-2- 

In addition to record wheat production last year, world wheat stocks 
rose by about 36 million tons -- the largest single-year increase on record. 
This yielded a global carryin stock level of slightly below 100 million tons 
for the current 1977/78 season. Wheat stocks during the current season are 
expected to remain near present levels. However, if aggregate weather conditions 
for wheat are moderately unfavorable in the next few months, or if consumption 
is in fact higher than estimated, world wheat stocks at the end of 1977/78 


could be somewhat less than that of the current year. 


This outlook for world wheat stocks in 1977 occurs at the same time that 
the U.S. confronts a record wheat supply. With a near record harvest and an 
excesSively large level of carryin stocks, the U.S. wheat supply is expected 


to approach 3.2 billion bushels. 


On the demand side of the equation, global wheat consumption is now 
expected to show another sizable increase in the current year, partly because 
of an anticipated increase in feed use of wheat in the Soviet Union and Western 
Europe and the U.S. The other principal factor is that wheat is now more 


competitive with feed grains. 


Total wheat consumption in the U.S. this year is expected to reach almost 
24 million tons, up nearly 3.5 million tons from last year. We have already 
begun to see a significant increase in the amount of wheat being utilized for 
feed consumption in the U.S. Almost 400,000 tons were fed during the April-May 
period, compared to almost nothing for the corresponding period a year ago. 
This trend is expected to continue, with the heaviest feeding of wheat taking 
place through September, just prior to the com and sorghum harvests. Estimates 
are that nearly 6.4 million tons of wheat will be fed this season, compared to 


less than half of that amount for the preceding year. 


ao) Cra 


mein 


In spite of the estimated increase in global wheat stocks, a substantial 
recovery in the volume of world wheat trade during the current 1977/78 year is 
anticipated. World wheat trade during the current year is estimated at about 


68 million tons, almost 7 million tons above the depressed level of last year. 


Increased imports are expected from the People's Republic of China, 
Mexico, and North Africa, where droughts have hindered crop development. More 


imports are also likely for Wester Europe for "blending up'’ the domestic crop. 


One of the major reasons for this expected recovery in world wheat 
trade during the 1977/78 season is the dramatic increase in China's wheat 
import requirements. In early July the Australian Wheat Board announced a 
sale to the PRC of 3 million tons for delivery during 1977/78. The PRC purchase 
represented the largest single sale in the history of the Australian Wheat 
Board and duplicated the sale made by the Canadian Wheat Board to the PRC in 


late May. 


This past week the Soviet Union purchased a total of 751,600 
metric tons of wheat from the United States as the first sales during 
the s cond year of the five year agreement. That agreement provides 
that the Soviet Union will buy a minimum of 6 million tons of wheat and 


com each year. 


Even though these purchases were expected they do result in a drawdown 


on Uo: Supplies. 


sano. > 


- 4 - 

The PRC's wheat imports for the 1977/78 year are now estimated at 
9.5 million tons, almost triple the 3.5 million tons of wheat imported during 
the previous year. China's recent large wheat import purchases are believed 
to reflect, in part, their concern over low stocks, their prospects for this 
year's wheat crop, and prospects for the fall coarse grains harvest in North 
and Northeast China. These two major grain producing regions experienced severe 
spring droughts this year. The harvesting of wheat in North China has also been 
hampered by recent severe rain storms. In addition, the outlook for the early 
rice crop in South China has been dimmed by drought, followed by torrential 


rains in the province of Kwangtung, the leading producer of early rice. 


Even though global wheat stocks are expected to increase this season, 
U.S. exports of wheat and wheat flour are expected to reach 992 million bushels 
(almost 27 million tons) in the 1977/78 July-June year. This is 55 million 
bushels (1.5 million tons) above last year when U.S. wheat exports slumped 


badly in sympathy with a reduced level of world trade. 


Record U.S. stocks have had a major price depressing effect all year, 
relating directly to a decline in prices to the point that the cash wheat price 


is generally below the government loan rate of $2.25 per bushel. 


The world price level for wheat has also been under increasing downward 


pressure from the record world supplies. 


Recently, several wheat producing countries have increased their use 
of export subsidies to reduce domestic stocks. For example, Turkey recently 
sold more than 1 million tons of wheat for export with subsidies that are 
apparently equivalent to more than one-half the current world price. The EC 


export restitution has also been sharply increased for certain destinations in 
recent weeks, also to levels well in excess of one-half the current world price. 


SNOT es = 


eis 
Another technique that has similar price-depressing effects on world 
wheat prices has been countries increasing levels of border protection. The 
EC wheat levy for August delivery is currently set at $3.54 per bushel or 
$130 per metric ton. Similarly, Japan's domestic resale price for imported 
wheat is now approximately $6.53 per bushel or $240 per ton, and Japan has 


another increase under consideration. 


U. S. Domestic Policy 


Admittedly, the reality of the world situation can be looked upon as 
discouraging. But, I prefer to consider it as a challenge -- a challenge that 


this Administration is dealing with directly. 


The wheat programs that we are working on, consisting of domestic orice 
and income support mechanisms, have two basic goals: first, that the price 
sunnort loan should enable U.S. production to be competitive in world markets; 
second, that the target price mechanism should cover out-of-vocket production 


COStS. 


It is quite apparent today that even for the most efficient producers, 


current wheat prices are well below the cost of production. 


It is vital, therefore, that our domestic price and income support 
programs be oriented toward international markets, and even more importantly, 
toward efforts to obtain a greater degree of price stability in those markets. 
The boom and bust cycle in farmers' incomes, brought about by widely fluctuating 


market prices, isn't acceptable to this Administration. 


= epee = 


For a free market to function, we believe there must be a relationshin 
between supply and demand. It is obvious to us that such a relationshiv doesn't 
exist today. Should legislation under consideration become law, the Secretary of 
Agriculture will have authority to announce a set-aside to bring domestic pro- 


duction more in relation to the potential demand for that production. 


International Objectives 


On the international scene, we have adopted four basic objectives. One 
is to aggressively develop new export markets for U.S. production. As part of 
this objective, we will be seeking increased input from cooperators to develop 


new programs. 


Another objective is to minimize barriers that arbitrarily inhibit 
trade. In my review of the wheat situation, I spoke of efforts by several 


countries to restrict trade in view of their own production situation. 


A third objective is to provide effective food aid to overcome hunger, 


poverty, and unemployment in developing countries. 
A fourth objective is to achieve meaningful international agreements. 
International Initiatives 


The ability of United States' farmers to produce quality food and 
fiber efficiently gives the U.S. major inherent advantages over our competitors. 
The issue that we are now facing is the development of an export strategy to 
maintain present markets and expand into new ones. We don't believe that 
Government can react in an ad hoc manner to major changes in international 


supply and demand. 


= Kop as) 


= 7 - 
Secretary Bergland's meetings with the agricultural ministers of the 
EC and Canada, his 21-day Far East tour, and the United States position at 
the International Wheat Council meeting in June are first steps in developing 
new trade opportunities and a coordinated system for dealing with changes in 


world supply/demand. 


In addition to these external efforts, we are also reviewing all of 


the market development tools available to expand United States exports. 


We are taking a hard look at integrated export market planning. This 
analysis will categorize export marketing activities into individual markets, 
giving us the opportunity to establish priorities for countries and commodities. 
Once this is accomplished, we will be working with all cooperators including 
Great Plains Wheat to develop three to five-year pla ‘or commercial export 
expansion. These plans will include market development activities by 


cooperators, and appropriate credit arrangements. 


We are in the midst of a total re-examination of existing CCC credit 
programs to determine if they enable us to be competitive with other world 
suppliers. We want to find out if present arrangements maximize or hinder our 


exports. 


International Negotiations 


The other primary initiatives to expand trade and reduce barriers to 


trade are taking place in international negotiating forums. 


- mre - 


- 8 - 
The Multilateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva appear to be back on 
track following several meetings between the United States and the EC. A 
series of deadlines have been set that will result in completion of negotiations 
prior to next June. We are optimistic about this timetable and the outcome of 


negotiations. 


The other principal forum is the International Wheat Council. We have 
stressed in every meeting with foreign leaders our willingness to participate 


in an effective international agreement on wheat. 


We outlined major objectives in this regard to the International Wheat 


Council meeting in London at the end of June. 


At those meetings we discussed three basic objectives to expand trade. 
We support mechanisms to moderate price swings, to reduce trade barriers, and 


to enhance food security, particularly for poor nations. 


We have stated our commitment to put in place an agreement that will 
reduce the extreme fluctuations around the long-term world equilibrium price 
through an international system of nationally-held reserve stocks. We have 
proposed that all major grain trading nations -- exporters and importers alike 
-- should accept meaningful obligations for reserve stocks with common guidelines 


for acquisition and release. 


We are basically encouraged on the general question of a coordinated 
reserve based on price indicators, but we have not as yet determined whether 
a practical and equitable system can be developed, given the differences in 


the political and economic systems of the countries that would participate. 


= UPON Key & 


- QO - 
We have demonstrated our commitment to such an international reserve 
system through the domestic farmer-held reserve that Secretary Bergland 


announced in April. 


In a relatively brief period of time I have outlined the framework 


that we will be operating within in the coming months. 


Achieving the goals that I have discussed won't happen overnight. 
They will take time for development. But I can assure you of our commitment 
to America's farmers to expand export opportunities, so that wheat producers 
can obtain a better income. I can also assure you that Great Plains Wheat 


will be a partner in our efforts to open new markets for U.S. wheat. 
Thank you. 


# # # # # 


TLLA USDA 2285-77 





% 
gt 
© 





