SNA Y 
*“ME COURT. U. & 


al 
— 


In the 


Supreme Court of the United States” 
OctToBER TERM, of 


Unitep States STEEL Corporation, Appellant, 
vs. 
StTaTE OF WASHINGTON. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME CoURT CF THE STATE OF 
WASHINGTON 


STATEMENT AS TO JURISDICTION 


GEORGE V. PowELL 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 


Attorney for Appellant. 
Of Counsel: 

Evans, McLaren, LANE, PowELL & Berks 
Raymonp W. HaMAn 

1111 Dexter Horton Building 

Seattle 4, Washington 
D. J. MCDANIEL 

120 Montgomery Street 

San Francisco 6, California 


TNS ARauUS FREGS, SEATTLE 


In the 
Supreme Court of che United States 


OcTOBER TERM, 1957 


UNITED STATES STEEL CorPoRATION, A ppellant, 
vs. 
STATE OF WASHINGTON. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 
W ASHINGTON 


STATEMENT AS TO JURISDICTION 


GEORGE V. PoWELL 
111i Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 
Attorney for Appellant. 
Of Counsel: 
Evans, McLaren, LANE, POWELL & BERKS 
RayMonp W. HAaMan 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, W ach ington 


D. J. McDANIEL 
120 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco 6, California 


THE ARGUS PRESS, SEATTLE 


INDEX 


Page 
JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT ............0.0...0.ccccccccccee---ee 
Opinions Below ........... lasses aches hades ae 1 
Jurisdiction ........... das ian necanst aol ei tie lta taliee ys abate y 
Questions Presented 2000000000... sone aig esteslumamurees 3 
See er Nn eee 4 
The Questions Are Substantial... z 5 
A. The Question of Apportionment " Santen: 
| NERDS Rem ieee RE Pama SUNS. se RT EN 8 
B. The Cention of Discrimination Is Substan- 
OME ent Ri EN Sw ATMEL MTT Sate P MONEE Faro SA 15 
CRI 5 iviccccticcenr id ee e eadines oe eee 19 


APPENDIX A—Washington Supreme Court Decision 21 
AppeENDIxX B—Opinion of the Superior Court for 


yr SN irc a nes 24 
APPENDIX C—Washington nies Court 

St” SR ae rei eiareses SLISEMRNGE pil tear antenna Orr oir 25 
PPP IER BPTI on oasis ccc lehpcecacocevdcccadeces. 26 


TABLE OF CASES 
American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, 250 US. 


I sorties isis nans es meee cecnen 9 
Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd., v. State Tax Commis- 

sion, 266 U.S. 271 (1924) Pian ocnaiie ec gia sla econ Geta oes 10 
B. F. Goodrich Co. v. State, 38 Wn.(2d) 663, 231 P. 

tie RL ) RAieeee ramen enae hs ayre rice i) 


Bloxom v. Henneford, 193 Wash. 540, 76 P.(2d) 586 
IS Gisanciecespcpecnbinana eens aan arden hee 
Central Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, 334 U.S. 653 
CRIN cintac cies ss ccscch tana cera cties backs tcencatiaaennias cee caue dani 10 
Columbia Steel Co. v. State, 30 Wn.(2d) 658, 192 P. 
NE 2 |) Dae peercriraeanenes Malena Me nnne nr naz ol ri. 16, 17 
Department of Treasury v. Ingram-Richardson 
BET, Che, BER Te Ze (EG isos ae coveccessnsensiirenens 11, 14 
Department of Treasury v. Wood Preserving Corp., 
Se a Ee RE ice piece oneamens 14 


tv BD sa MDscas . one eee 
Page 


Field Enterprises, Inc., v. State of Washington, 47 
Wn.(2d) 852, 289 P. (2d) 1010 itabiide aff’d. 352 


fF 8 _ FRGPIRR CIR eetel GER eaten. 10, 11, 12 
Fisher’s Blend Station v. Tar Commission, 297 U.S. 
650 (1936) .......... REO eI encase iO ena 9 
Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U.S. 249 (1946)...........000........3, 9 
Gwin, White & Prince, Inc., v. Henneford, 305 U.S. 
434 (1939) SER ER Roe ele eo Nt ae Pe eee 9,15 
Huns Re "4 ‘Sons v. North Carolina ex rel. Mazrwell, 
283 U i. 4 RPDS Seine alee 12 
Peal < Pipeline Co. Uv, Stone, 337 U.S. 662 
a 13 


J.D, Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U.S. 307 (1938) 10 
Memphis Steam Laundry Cleaner, Inc., v. Stone, 


I rn ao ects a ae 3 
Norton Co. v. Department of Revenue, 340 U.S. 534 
GP eRED I SHEERS Tay SER veneer te MCRD Ts 10, 11, 12 
Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tac Commission, 
a NE Bk chs inn cate ahecanoestdoua cieanein 9 
Railway Express Agency, Inc., v. Virginia, 347 U.S. 
IRR RES SEP Rit Re eee os Fowl Sed ae 3 
Richfield Ou Corp. v. Stute Board of Equalization, 
Ce I BE cect ws aeats ova Ale iccacesensno es 3 


United States Steel Corporation «. State of Wash- 
ington, 151 Wash. Dee. 200, 316 P.(2d) 1099 


Eo Be Daa Veeiiater Pe eat ev) ces Nm ey ame: ae PB i 
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U.S. 

re i amcor ak cant Aisa aC MEL ies pee ae emer 8,9, 15 

STATUTES AND OTHER AUTHORITIES 

Laws of 1935, Chap, 180, Title II (Wash.)................ 2 
Laws of 1935, Chap. 180, §6 (Wash.)..........0000.00000... 16 
Laws of 1950, Chap. 5, §2 (Wash.).....0000000000 0. 17 
PPR ge SE. SR ere fst aoete See 2 
OWE BR CR acinar cnvesesccececetecnsccesnsees 2, 9, 12 
Be Me Foci rev cocecctetevusonsncsbesucsaceessns 2 
TRC PE Ee 1 BO onwonceediesccscviceiccresenne LOE Oe. noe 2 


RCW 82.04.270 (1951)..................... Penance eno 


STATUTES AND *stHEK cAt Pnuhiiines t 


Page 
BN NE oo os co cccocccnncscouccscdevasensnsenye 2 
ROW €2.06.490(6) (3951).....................0..0.00003 dhe abi 2 
Bs a BN Foose xcs... «22 --stoicytevevsaseonseonovesssices 2 
8 IEE Sn ne ee ee nee 2,6 
» BSE Tk ES.) ce nes ee 


United States Constitution, Art. I, $8, Cl. 3 
2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 22 
United States Supreme Court Rule 13(1)..........0....... 2 


) 
‘ 


In the 
Supreme Court of the United States 


OcTOBER TERM, 1957 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, 
Appellant, 
Vs, 


STATE OF WASHINGTON. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME CouRT OF THE STATE OF 
W ASHINGTON 


STATEMENT AS TO JURISDICTION 


JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT . 


Appellant appeals from the judgment of the Su- 
preme Court of the State of Washington entered in 
this action on December 3, 1957, affirming the judgment 
of the Superior Court of the State of Washington for 
Thurston County, and submits this statement in sup- 
port of its contention that the Supreme Court of the 
United States has jurisdiction of this appeal and that 
substantial questions are presented. : 


OPINIONS BELOW 

The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State of 
Washington has not yet been officially reported; it ap- 
pears unofficially at 151 Wash. Dee. 200, 316 P.(2d) 
1099 (1957), and is annexed hereto as Appendix A. The 
opinion of the Superior Court of the State of Washing- 
ton for Thurston County is not reported officially or 
unofficially, but is annexed as Appendix B. 


[1] 


2 


JURISDICTION 

Appellant, United States Steel Corporation, com- 
menced this action in the Superior Court of the State 
of Washington pursuant to Section 82.32.180 Revised 
Code of Washiigton to recover business and oecupa- 
tion taxes and interest thereon assessed against it by the 
State for the privilege of engaging in business activities 
within Washington. Appellant sought to recover these 
taxes on the ground that the taxing statute involved 
discriminated against interstate commerce and that the 
taxes were not apportioned to exclude appellant’s ac- 
livities in interstate commerce in violation of the Com- 
merce Clause of the United States Constitution. The 
judgment from which this appeal is taken is the judg- 
ment of the Supreme Court of the State of Washing- 
ton entered December 3, 1957, which is attached hereto 
as Appendix C. Judgments of that court are final on all 
parties. RCW 2.04.220 (1951). Notice of appeal to this 
Court was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of 
Washington on February 27, 1958. Time for docketing 
the case with this Court was enlarged for a period ex- 
tending to and including July 15, 1958, by an order of 
the Supreme Court of Washington entered February 
27, 1958, pursuant to Rule 13(1) of this Court. 

The statute Grawn in question on the ground of be- 
ing repugnant to the United States Constitution is 
Chap. 180, Titie II, Laws of 1935, as amended; RCW 
82.04.220, 82.04.240, 82.04.250, 82.04.270, 82.04.295, 82.- 
04.430(6), and 82.04.440 (1951). The statute provides in 
part at RCW 82.04.220 (1951) : 

‘* Business and Occupation Tar Imposed, There 
is levied and shall be collected from every person a 


3 


tax for the act or privilege of engaging in business 
activities. Such tax shall be measured by the appli- 
eation of rates against value of products, gross pro- 
ceeds of sales, or gross income of the business, as 
the case may be.”’ 
The pertinent statutory provisions are lengthy and 
therefore are set forth in Appendix D. 

The decision of the highest court of the State of 
Washington sustained the validity of the foregoing 
statute as applied in this case; therefore, this Court 
has jurisdiction on appeal. 28 U.S.C. §1257(2); Rail- 
way Express Agency, Inc., v. Virginia, 347 U.S. 359 
(1954); Memphis Steam Laundry Cleaner, Inc., v. 
Stone, 342 U.S. 389 (1952) ; Richfield Oil Corp. v. State 
Board of Equalization, 329 U.S. 69 (1946); Freeman 
u. Tewit, 329 U.S. 249 (1946). 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 

The following questions are presented by this appeal : 

(1) APPORTIONMENT. Does the Commerce Clause 
of the United States Constitution (Article I, §8, Clause 
3) permit the State of Washington to levy a tax on the 
privilege of engaging in business activities measured 
by the entire gross proceeds of appellant’s interstate 
sales to Washington customers without apportiomment 
to exclude that portion of the gross proceeds of such 
sales which appeilant has shown are attributable to ap- 
pellant’s business activities outside the State of Wash- 
ington ? 

(2) DISCRIMINATION, Does the State of Washing- 
ton discriminate against interstate commerce in viola- 
tion of the Commerce Clause of the United States Con- 


+ 


stitution (Article I, (8, Clause 3) by taxing both the 
privilege of manufacturing and the privilege of selling 
within the state where each tax is measured by the en- 
tire gross proceeds of sales, but persons taxable as sell- 
ers are exempted from the tax on manufacturers, thus 
insuring that persons engaged in business locally pay 
but one tax on their combined Washington manufactur- 
ing and selling activities, while persons engaged in in- 
terstate commerce, subject to taxation for the privilege 
of engaging in business not only in Washington, but 
also in the state of manufacture, are subject to multiple 
taxation? 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


The sales transactions involved in this action were 
those of Columbia Steel Company, a Delaware corpora- 
tion, having its principal office in San Francisco, Cali- 
fornia. The sales were made between August 1, 1950, 
and December 31, 1951. Thereafter, as the result of 
corporate mergers, the interest of Columbia Steel Com- 
pany in this action and the relief sought thereunder was 
vested in the appellant, United States Steel Corpora- 
iion. For convenience, both companies will be referred 
to as *‘appellant’’ since the merger is not significant for 
the purposes of this appeal. 

Appellant’s business was that of manufacturing and 
marketing iron and steel products and by-products. 
None of these products was manufactured in the State 
of Washington. Approximately 25°. of the appellant’s 
gross proceeds of sales to Washington customers was 
attributable to sales of products manufactured by ap- 
pellant in its mills located in the State of California. 


H) 


All other proceeds of sales to Washington customers 
were derived from goods manufactured outside the 
State of Washington by corporations which were sepa- 
rate entities but were under common control with ap- 
pellant. The activities of all producing mills, including 
those owned by appellant, were subject to the taxation 
and revenue laws of the respective states in which the 
mills were located. 


Appellant maintained only one office in the State of 
Washington. It was located in Seattle to provide liaison 
between customers in Washington, Alaska and portions 
of Idaho and the producing mills. The only product 
warehoused in this state by appellant was wire rope, in 
small quantities. Local sales from this stock of goods 
accounted for less than 144% of appellant’s total vol- 
ume of sales to Washington customers, and taxes paid 
on these sales are not involved in this action. Interstate 
sales of the same commodity (wire rope) accounted for 
less than 214% of the taxpayer’s total sales to Wash- 
ington customers. All other sales to Washington cus- 
tomers were interstate sales of products not available in 
a Washington warehouse, anu, whether manufactured 
by appellant or not, were transported by common car- 
riers directly to the purchasers within the State of 
Washington from the states in which the producing 
mills were located. The products were priced at the pro- 
ducing mill and shipped f.o.b. the point of shipment, 
and the sales were made upon terms under which title 
passed to the customer upon delivery to the commen 
carrier at the place of shipment and the merchandise 
‘was thereafter at the customer’s risk. 


6 


Appellant paid when due a business and occupation 
tax upon the gross proceeds of sales of wire rope made 
from local warehouse stocks. As to all interstate sales, 
no tax was paid because the taxpayer asserted its rights 
under the Commerce Clause, United States Consti- 
tution. 


The Washington State Tax Commission refused to 
grant the protection-ef the Commerce Clause to these 
interstate sales and failed to apportion the proceeds to 
permit a partial refund. On November 29, 1951, and 
again on August 11, 1955 (during the pendency of this 
action) the Tax Commission levied a deficiency or ad- 
ditional assessment against the appellant for business 
and occupation taxes measured by the entire gross pro- 
ceeds of these sales in interstate commerce. The addi- 
tional assessment did not apportion to any other state 
any part of the gross proceeds of such sales and did not, 
in arriving at the tax represented by such additional 
assessment, deduct from the me*sure of the tax any 
portion of the gross proceeds of such sales. 


The Tax Commission failed to make an apportion- 
ment even though all of the records of the taxpayer nee- 
essary for such an apportionment were available to the 
Tax Commission. 


The appellant paid the taxes assessed, together with 
interest thereon, and appealed from the Tax Commis- 
sion deficieney or additional assessment to the Superior 
Court of the State of Washington as permitted by 
RCW s2.32.180. Appellant’s complaint and notice of 
appeal in the trial court alleged in part: 

8B Wa foresaid additional assessment was based 


7 
upon a tax measured by amounts derived from 
business which the State of Washington is prohib- 
ited from taxing under Article I, $8, Clause 3 of 
the Constitution of the United States of America 
% &% & 99 
The case was tried in the Superior Court on stipu- 
lated facts sufficient to provide the court with the in- 
formation generally employed by other taxing juris- 
dictions in establishing apportionment formulae. Fur- 
thermore, the appellant offered, at the trial, to present 
whatever additional facts the trial court might desire 
to bring about an apportionment. Both the appellant 
and respondent argued to the trial court the issues of 
apportionment and discrimination which are raised on 
this appeal. The trial court and the Supreme Court of 
the State of Washington rejected both of these conten- 
tions and upheld the validity of the tax. With respect to 
discrimination the Supreme Court of the State of 
Washington held, at 151 Wash. Dee. 200, 201, 316 
P.(2d.) 1099, 1100 (1957) : 

‘Its contention that the business and occupation 
tax violates Art. I, $8, of the United States consti- 
tution was denied in B. F. Goodrich Co. v. State, 38 
Wn.(2d) 663, 231 P.(2d) 325 * * * ;”’ 

and the court rejected appellant’s contention that the 
Commerce Clause required an apportionment by stat- 
ing at 151 Wash. Dec. 200, 202, 316 P.(2d) 1099, 1101 
(1957): 

‘Appellant argues that the tax should be appor- 
tioned between interstate and local activities. 
There is no question of apportionment here. The 
tax is measured solely by appellant’s local whole- 
sale and retail activities. No part of the tax is at- 


3 


tributable to its manufacturing or other out-of- 
state activities. The sales are negotiated within the 
State of Washington, and the fact that delivery is 
made direct to the purchaser does not change the 
nature of the local transaction.” 


THE QUESTIONS ARE SUBSTANTIAL 

A. The Question of Apportionment Is Substantial 

If every state levied a tax such as the Washington 
business and occupation tax (a tax upon the privilege 
of engaging in business activities without regard to the 
extent to which those activities oceur within the state) 
each interstate business would pay double the tax paid 
by its local competitors. 


Manifestly, this is a result which the Commerce 
Clause of the United States Constitution was designed 
to prevent. As this Court stated in Western Live Stock 
e. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U.S, 250, 256 (1938) : 

The multiplication of state taxes measured by 
the gross receipts from interstate transactions 
would spell the destruction of interstate commerce 
and renew the barriers to interstate trade which it 
was the object of the commerce clause to remove.” 

Furthermere, this is a tax on ‘'gross”’ proceeds of 
sales. Washington is not prohibited constitutionally 
from raising the rate of the tax to whatever level it 
might desire. A double imposition of the present tax is 
burdensome on interstate commerce. Ef the rate were 
raised, a double tax might stop the flow of interstate 
commerce, 

“The immunities umplicit in the commerce 
clause and the potential taxing power of the state 
cau hardly be made to depend, in the worid of prac- 


gy 


tical aifairs, on the shifting incidence of the vary- 
ing tax laws of the various siates at a particular 
moment.” Freeman ve. Hewit, 329 U.S. 249, 256 
(1946). 
This is particularly significant when we note that the 
Legislature of the State of Washington has seen fit to 
increase the rate of the tax here in question by 60 ; 


siace its adoption in L935. 


Apportionment is necessary in order that local and 
interstate business will each pay this ‘privilege’? tax in 
proportion to the value of the privilege conferred by 
the state. That this is a ‘‘ privilege’? tax is answered by 
the statute itself, which characterizes the tax as one 
for the act or privilege of engaging in business activi- 
ties.” ROW 82.04.220. This interpretation has been af- 
firmed by the Supreme Court of the State of Washing- 
ton in 2. FY. Goodrich Co. v. State, 38 Wn.(2d) 663, 231 
P.(2d) 825 (1951); Blorom v. Henneford, 193 Wash. 
40, 76 PLC 241) 586 (1988) ; and by this Court in Gain, 
White & Prince, luc. vo Henneford, 305 U.S. 434 
(1939); Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tac Commis- 
sion, 802. US. 90 (1937); and Fisher’s Blend Station v. 


Taw Commission, 297 US. 650 (1936), 


The tax in question is measured by gross receipts 
from interstate commerce where title passes and the 
eoods are delivered to the buver outside the state, This 
Conrt has sustained taxes measured by gross receipts 
from interstate transactions where those receipts were 
a fair measure of the privilege conferred by the taxing 
state. Limerican Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, 250 
UUs. $59 (1919): and Western Live Stock v. Bureau of 
Revenue, 503 US. 250 (1938). But where interstate 


a as 
iu 


commerce is responsible for a substantial portion of the 
receipts this Court has required an apportionment to 
limit the taxing state to the value of its privilege. Cen- 
tral Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, 334 U.S. 653 (1948) ; 
and Bass, Ratcliff d Gretton, Ltd., v. State Tax Com- 
mission, 266 U.S. 271 (1924). 


Apportionment is required in the present case be- 
cause: 

‘‘The vice of the statute as applied to receipts 
from interstate sales is that the tax includes in its 
measure without apportiorment, receipts derived 
from activities in interstate commerce * * *.’’ J. D. 
Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U.S. 307, 311 
(1938). (Emphasis supplied). 

This Court has consistently condemned taxation of 
interstate business ‘‘without apportionment.’’ The nec- 
essary implication is that an ‘‘apportioned’”’ tax would 
be valid. Appellant contends that the tax here imposed 
by the State of Washington is the type of tax on inter- 
state commerce which this Court has said requires ap- 
portionment. If not, the requirement of apportionment 
discussed in the decided cases is meauingless. This is a 
substantial constitutional question requiring plenary 
consideration of this case. 


This case is not governed by Field Enterprises, Inc., 
u. State of Washington, 47 Wn.(2d) 852, 289 P.(2d) 
1010 (1955) ; affirmed per curiam 352 U.S. 806 (1956), 
or Norton Co. v. Department of Revenue, 340 U.S, 534 
(1951). In neither of those cases was the issue of ap- 
portionment before the Court. Neither Norton nor 
Field requested any relief other than complete immu- 
nity from the taxes in question. Nor is the appellant in - 


11 


a pos: .ion comparable to the taxpayer in Department of 
Treasury v. Ingram-Richardson Mfg. Co., 313 U.S. 252 
(1941), where the taxpayer failed to give the state an 
opportunity to apportion tax. Here, the Tax Comnis- 
sion, the Superior Court and the State Supreme Court 
have all refused to acknowledge the constitutional re- 
quirement of apportionment, although at every stage 
of the proceeding the appellant has urged the issue of 
apportionment and has presented facts from which an 
apportionment could be made. The Tax Commission 
had before it all the appellant’s business records and 
the state courts had before them stipulated facts relat- 
ing to the extent of the appellant’s local activities as 
compared with all activities which contributed to the 
gross proceeds of sales involved. An examination of 
these factors demonstrates beyond any question that 
appellant’s Washington activities contribute only a 
small proportion to the total proceeds of sales upon 
which the tax has been based. 


The refusal of the Washington courts to require an 
apportionment in this case is based largely upon a mis- 
interpretation of this Court's decision in Norton Co. v. 
Department of Revenue, 340 U.S. 534 (1951), and upon 
this Court’s affirmainee per curiam of Field Enter- 
prises, Ine, v. State of Washington, 352 U.S. 806 
(1956), which was based solely upon the Norton case. 
The issve in those cases was whether or not the states in 
question had authority to levy avy tax at all. In the 
Norton and Field cases this Ce: et found in the local 
retail outlet maintained by the taxpayer a sufficient 
‘local incident’’ to bring the interstate transactions 


12 


within the taxing power of the state. But in every in- 
stance where an apportionment is required there is al- 
ways a ‘‘local ineident’’ to support the tax. This case 
begins with the issue that Norton and Field did not pre- 
sent; that is—does the measure of the tax fairly reflect 
the privilege conferred by the taxing state? 


The Washington Supreme Court is mistaken in its 
characterization of the tax in question. In the course 
of the opinion below, U.S. Steel Corporation v. State of 
Washington, 151 Wash. Dee. 200, 202, 316 P.(2d) 1099, 
1101 (1957), the Court states: 


‘*The tax is measured solely by appellant’s local 
wholesale and retail activities.”’ 


Actually, RCW 82.04.220 specifically states: | 


‘*Such tax shall be measured by the application 
of rates against * * * gross proceeds of sales * * *.”’ 


Appellant’s business is a ‘‘unitary’’ one. Its eventual 
sales are the culmination of a whole series of activities 
commencing with the beginning of manufacture. In 
such a situation the gross proceeds of its sales are at- 
tributable in some measure to every phase of this ‘‘uni- 
tary’’ business. As the agreed facts in this ease so clear- 
ly demonstrate, the overwhelming proportion of that 
unitary business is conducted outside the State of 
Washington. 


Apportionment of taxes upon a “‘unitary’” business 
engaged in interstate commerce was required by this 
Court in Hans Rees’ Sons v. North Carolina ex rel. 
Maxweil, 283 U.S. 123, 133 (1931), where it is stated: 

‘*Undoubtedly, the enterprise of a corporation 
which manufactures and sells its manufactured 


13 


product is ordinarily a unitary business, and all 
the factors in that enterprise are essential to the 
realization of profits. The difficulty of making an 
exact apportionment is apparent and hence, when 
the state has adopted a method not intrinsically ar- 
bitrary, it will be sustained until proof is offered of 
an unreasonable and arbitrary application in par- 
ticular cases. But the fact that the corporate enter- 
prise is a unitary one, in the sense that the ultimate 
gain is derived from the entire business, does not 
mean that for the purpose of taxation the activities 
which are conducted in different jurisdictions are 
to be regarded as ‘component parts of a single 
unit’ so that the entire net income may be taxed in 
one state regardless of the extent to which it nay 
be derived frum the conduct of the enterprise in 
another state.’’ 


The concept of the ‘‘unitary business’’ is just as ap- 
plicable to gross receipts taxes as it is to income taxes. 
If every ‘‘local incident’’ were the occasion for a full 
imposition of tax, burdens on interstate commerce 
would occur with every state in which the unitary busi- 
ness might conduct some portion of its activities. The 
type of tax imposed is imma rial where there is shown 
a substantial adverse effect on interstate commerce. As 
this Court held in Interstate Oil Pipeline Co, v. Stone, 
337 U.S. 662, 666 (1949) : 

“* * * We are concerned with the practical op- 
erations of challenged state tax statutes, not with 
their descriptive labels.”’ 

Furthermore, the issue of apportionment is not an 
swered by the traditional argument of the State of 
Washington that manufacturing and selling activities 


14 


may be segregated and the seller’s state may tax manu- 
facturing and the buyer’s state may tax selling. 


This ease involves the manufacture of specialized 
iron and steel products and not all of the activities sub- 
sequent to mannfacture occur within the State of 
Washington. Solicitation of Washington customers cec- 
curs in Washington and some other activities incidental 
to the operation of its one loca) office occur there, but 
all other activities incidental to inspecting, checking, 
and shipping, together with the acceptance of the or- 
ders in question, occur outside of the state. It has been 
agreed by the state that delivery and passage of title 
to all goods involved occurred at the points of shipment 
outside the State of Washington; and those activities 
will support a privilege tax imposed by the state of 
shipment. Department of Treasury v. Wood Preserv- 
ing Corp., 313 U.S. 62 (1941). 


Moreover, the State of Washington imposes the same 
tax involved in this action to the full extent when it is 
the state in which such a shipment occurs. Assuming for 
the purposes of illustration that each state had Wash- 
ington’s business and occupation tax, the selling activ- 
ity alone (without regard to the manufacturing activi- 
ties of the unitary business) would be subject to tax 
both in the state of shipment and in the state where the 
solicitation of the sale occurs. Appellant respectfully 
submits that this is a risk of multiple taxation which 
the Constitution does not permit. 


In conflicts between state taxes and the Commerce 
Clause this Court is faced with: 
~*~ ** * The double demand that interstate busi- 


15 


ness shall pay its way, and that at the same time it 
shall not be burdened with cumulative exactions 
which are not similarly laid on local business.”’ 
Western Lwe Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 
U.S. 250, 258 (1938). 
This is one of those cases where these historic demands 
can only be resolved by application of a proper appor- 
tionment formula. A failure to apportion the tax in this 
ease may well result in a host of new taxes based on a 
‘‘loeal ineident’’ but levied without apportionment on 
gross receipts attributable to interstate activities. On 
the other hand, apportionment preserves the right of 
each state to that portion of the pruceeds of interstate 
commerce which fairly reflect the value of the privilege 
conferred by that state. 


Appellant respectfully submits that the results re- 
quired by the Constitution can be reached only by this 
Court’s plenary consideration of this case. 


B. The Question of Discrimination Is Substantial 


The Legislature of the State of Washington has 
adopted a taxing scheme in its business and occupation 
tax which deliberately discriminates against interstate 
commerce and in favor of local business, in violation of 
the Commerce Clause. As this Court stated in Gwin, 
White & Prince, Inc., v. Henneford, 305 U.S. 434, 488 
(1939) : 

‘“* * * onder the commerce clause, in the absence 
of congressional action, state taxation, whatever its 
form, is precluded if it discriminates against in- 
terstate commerce * * *.”’ 


Washington does not manifest this discrimination 


16 


blatantly by a double tax payable to the State of Wash- 
ington on interstate business, but rather by a cleverly 
contrived exemption feature which rewards those busi- 
nesses which refrain from engaging in interstate com- 
merce. The exemption is lost only when the channels of 
interstate commerce are utilized. 


The State Legislature’s intention to discriminate 
against interstate commerce is best demonstrated by re- 
viewing the history of this exemption feature. The orig- 
inal Revenue Act, Laws of 1935, Chap. 180, \6, provides 
in part: 

‘That persons taxable under paragraphs (a) 
[for extracting] or (b) [for manufacturing] of 
said section [4] shall not be taxable under para- 
graph (d) [for wholesaling] of said section with 
respect to making sales at wholesale of products 
extracted or manufactured within this state by 
uch persons.”’ 
As result a local manufacturer-wholesaler who was 
taxed locally on manufacturing did not pay the tax on 
wholesaling which was imposed upon those manufac- 
turer-wholesalers who manufactured outside the state 
and shipped goods to purchasers within the state. 


The discriminatory nature of the exemption was 
readily apparent to the Washington Supreme Court 
whieh held the business aud occupation tax uncousti- 
tutional as to sales similar to those involved in this ac- 
tion, and stated in Columéia Steel Co. v. State, 30 Wn. 
(2d) 658, 662, 192 P.(2d) 976 (1948) : 

‘Regardless of the uncertainty on the question — 
of what types of state taxation on interstate com- 
merce are allowable, it may be definitely stated that 


17 


any tax which places interstate commerce at a dis- 
advantage in competition with local commerce is 
prohibited by the Federal constitution.”’ 

As a result of the Columbia Steel case the Legisla- 
ture amended the exemption section so as to retain its 
discriminatory characteristics while erecting a facade 
of equal treatment of local and interstate business. 
Laws of 1950, Chap. 5, §2, reversed the language of the 
exemption section of the prior law to provide: 

‘‘That persons taxable under paragraphs (c) 
[for retailing] or (e) [for wholesaling] of said 
section [4] shall not be taxable under paragraphs 
(a) [for extracting], (b) [for manufacturing], or 
(d)(2) [for wheat flour manufacturing] of said 
section with respect to extracting or manufactur- 
ing of the products so sold.’’ 

If every state had such a discriminatory exemption 
feature, interstate businesses would pay the full unap- 
portioned tax on the privilege of engaging in business 
in each state in which its business oceurred ; whereas its 
local competitors (who might choose to manufacture 
and market within a single state) would pay the tax 
only once. The activities of the interstate business and 
the local business might be the same; but the tax im- 
pact would be different. Appellant, in its competition 
with local manufacturers, must overcome the advan- 
tage which the local industry enjoys by its proximity to 
the Washington market. Luterstate conumerce is with- 
out constitutional protection against this disadvantage 
in its competition with local industry, but the Consti- 
tution does protect interstate conanerce against state 
taxation ‘‘whatever its form’’ which discriminates 


against it. 


18 


Washington’s exemption feature is not an incentive 
for businesses to come to Washington to engage in 
manufacturing. If this were the purpose of the ex- 
enition it would be highly desirable to encourage local 
production for export. Under Washington’s tax a man- 
ufacturer who ships outside the state in effect loses his 
exemption. Only the local manufacturer who produces 
for local consumption is favered. 

This exemption feature recognizes that a duplication 
of this tax measured by gross receipts could be confisca- 
tory. As a result local business (regardless of the extent 
of its activities) has been limited to one imposition of 
the tax. But no such consideration is given to interstate 
commerce which Washington taxes to the full extent. 
Unless this Court intervenes in this ease, interstate 
ecommerce will be subjected to additional taxation in 
every state to which it reaches. 


19 
CONCLUSION 


Appellant respectfully submits that Washington’s 
blatant disregard of the requirements of the Commerce 
Clause as exemplified by the tax imposed in this case 
presents substantial constitutional questions requiring 
plenary consideration by this Court. 


Respectfully submitted, 


GEORGE V. POWELL 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 
Attorney for Appellant. 


Of Counsel: 
Evans, McLaren. LANE, POWELL & BEEKS 
RaymMonp W. HAMAN 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 


D. J. McDANIEL 
120 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco 6, California 


APPENDIX A 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 


WASHINGTON 
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, No. 33747 
Appellant,{ En Banc 
Vs. October 


THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, Respondent. \ 31, 1957 


This is an action to recover the business and occupa- 
tion tax assessed against the plaintiff by the tax eom- 
nission of the state of Washington. The tax was meas- 
ured by the gross proceeds of its sales to Washington 
customers pursuant to the provisions of Title 82 of 
RCW. 

The plaintiff is a New Jersey corporation. It does 
not manufacture any of its products in this state. About 
seventy-five percent of the goods it sells in Washington 
is purchased from other manufacturers outside of the 
state. 

The plaintiff maintains a local sales office in Seattle, 
Washington, where an average of forty-two residents 
are employed. It sells at retail and wholesale to Wash- 
ington customers. Most of the goods are ordered by the 
local office before or while they are in the process of 
manufacture. They are priced at the place of manu- 
facture and shipped f.o.b. direct to the purchaser under 
purchase contracts which pass title to the buyers at 
the place of shipment. — € 

The local sales force contacts prospective purchasers ; 
takes their orders; passes upon the credit of purchasers, 
although, in rare instances, the plaintiff’s San Fran- 
cisco office gives final approval; forwards the orders 
to the manufacturers for confirmation, after which it 
seuds a written acceptance of the order to the custo- 


22 


mers ; keeps all of the records of the sales transactions ; 
and handles billing and collections, maintaining a bank 
account for that purpose, Customer complaints are in- 
vestigated by the local office, and recommendations for 
settiement are made, which are finally approved by the 
San Francisco office. 

No new question is presented by the plaintiff on its 
appeal. 

Its contention that the business and occupation tax 
_ violates Art. I, §8, of the United States constitution was 

denied in B. F. Goodvich Co, v. State, 38 Wn.(2d) 633, 
231 P.(2d) 325, wherein we said: 

** All those who sell at wholesale within this state 
are now taxed equally upon that activity regardless 
of whether they manufacture in Washington or 
elsewhere. Because some other state might exercise 
its undoubted righ. to tax the privilege of manufac- 
ture with respect to goods ultimately sold in Wash- 
ington (citing cases), this state need not forego 
its right to tax the business of selling those goods. 
Mach state must derive its revenues from what goes 
on within its own borders. And if Washington’s 
statute exempts local manufacturers from paying 
their tax as manufacturers, providing they also 
pay it as sellers, that, as appellant admits, can be 
of no cencern to one who manufacturers out of the 
state.”’ 


From the record, it appears that the sales activi- 
ties of the Seattle office of appellant are decisive fac- 
tors in establishing and holding the local market for its 
goods. Thus, it is subject to the tax. Field Enterprises 
lnc. v. State, 47 Wn.(2d) 852, 289 P.(2d) 1010 (af- 
firmed, 352 U.S. 806, 1 L.ed.(2d) 39, 77 S.Ct. 55). 

Appellant argues that the tax should be appor- 
tioned between interstate and local activities. There is 
no question of apportionment here. The tax is meas- 
ured solely by appellant’s local whelesale and retail 


owt 


activities. No part of the tax is attributable to its manu- 
facture or other out-of-state activities. The sales are 
negotiated within the state of Washington, and the fact 
that delivery is made direct to the purchaser does vot 
change the nature of the local transaction. Norton Ca. 
v. Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois, 340 
U.S. 534, 95 L.ed. 517, 71 S.Ct. 377: Field Enterprises 
Inc. v. State, supra. 


The judgment is affirmed. 
MALLERY, J. 


We Concur: 


24 
APPENDIX B 


IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF 
WASHINGTON FOR THURSTON COUNTY 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, 
a New Jersey corporation, Plaintiff - 
dees. \ No. 27761 


VS. 


STATE OF WASHINGTON, Defendant. 


MEMORANDUM OPINION 


This is an action to recover busiaess and occupation 
taxes levied under the provision of RCW &%:.04.220. The 
matter was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, to 
which reference is made for particularity. In general, 
the ease econeerns iron and steei products sold upon 
orders received by plaintiff's Seattle salesmen, and 
shipped to Washington customers f.o.b. points of origin 
without the state. ** Approximately 25°C of the sales in- 
volved iron and steel products manufactured by the 
taxpayer in the State of California. The remaining ap- 
proximately 75° of the sales involved iron and steel 
products which were purchased by the taxpayer in 
states other than the State of Washington from manu- 
facturers located therein and which were not manufac- 
tured from the taxpayer’s own materials or ingredi- 
ents.”’ (Supplemental Agreed Statement of Facts.) 

The case at bar is ruled by B. F. Goodrich Co. v. 
State, 38 Wn.(2d) 668, and Field Enterprises ,dne., v. 
Slate, No. 383120, decided November 17, 1955. Each of 
the foregoing cases was a unanimous en bane decision. 
The facis in tbe instant case present no legally siguili- 
cant difference from the facts of the Goodrich and Field 
cases supra, The defendant will prevail. 

s RayMonp W. Ciirrorp 
December d, 190 Judge 


20 
APPENDIX C 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 


WASHINGTON 
Tuesday 
Unitep States STEEL CorPoRATION, December 
a New Jersey Corporation, Appellant,{ 3, 1957 
. - No. 33747 
Thurston 


THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, Respondent. County 
Pea ee or ee ee 


JUDGMENT 


- This cause having been heretofore submitted to the 
court, upon the transcript of the record of the Superior 
Court of Thurston County, and upon the argument of 
counsel, and the court having fully considered the same 
and being fully advised in the premises, it is now, on 
this 3rd day of December, A.D. 1957, on motion of John 
J. O’Connell, Esquire, of counsel for respondent, con- 
sidered, adjudged and decreed, that the judgment of 
said Superior Court be, and the same is hereby affirmed 
with costs; and that the said State of Washington have 
and recover of and from the said United States Steel 
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, and from 
Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company, surety to 
the extent of $200.00, the costs of this action taxed and 
allowed at Two Hundred thirty-six and 62/100 ($236.- 
62) Dollars, and that execution issue therefor. And it is 
further ordered, that this cause be remitted to the said 
Superior Court for further proceedings, in accordance 


herewith. 


Entered of record in Journal 4] 
at page 692 in the 

Office of the Clerk of the 
Svvoreme Court. 


26 
APPENDIX D 


_ THE STATUTE 
Revised Code of Washington 


82.04.220 Business and occupation tac imposed. 
There is levied and shall be collected from every person 
a tax for the act or privilege of engaging in business 
activities. Such tax shall be measured by the application 
of rates against value of products, gross proceeds of 
sales, or gross income of the business, as the case may 


be. 
* * * 


82.04.240 Tar on manufacturers. Upon every person 
except persons taxable under subsection (2) of RCW, 
&2.04.260' engaging within this state in business as a 
manufacturer; as io such persons the amount of the 
tax with respect to such business shall be equal te the 
value of the products, including byproducts, manufac- 
tured, multiplied by the rate of one-qua: ‘er of one per- 
cent. 


The measure of the tax is the value of the products, 
including byproducts, so manufactured regardless of 
the place of sale or the fact that deliveries may be made 
to points outside the state. 


82.04.250 Tar on retailers, Upon every person engag- 
ing within this state in the business of making sales at 
retail; as to such persons, the amount of tax with re- 
spect to such business shall be equal to the gross pro- 
ceeds of sales of the business, multiplied by the rate of 
vne-quarter of one percent. 


* * * 


82.04.270 Tar on wholesalers. Upon every person ex- 
cept person taxable under subsection (1) of RCW 


1 This subsection deals with the manufacture of flour. 


21 


82.04.260° engaging within this State in the business of 
making sales at wholesale; as to such persons the 
amount of tax with respect to such business shall be 
equal to the gross proceeds of sales of such business 
multiplied by the rate of one-quarter of one pereent. 


* & * 


82.04.295 Temporary surtar imposed, From and after 
the first day of November, 1951, until the thirtieth day 
of April, 1953’, there is levied and shall be collected 
from every person for the act or privilege of engaging 
in business activities, as a part of the tax imposed by 
this chapter and as a temporary increase thereof, « sur- 
tax in the amount of twenty percent of the tax payable 
under this chapter. 

* * * 

82.04.430 Deductions enumerated, In computing tax 
there may be deducted from the measure of tax the fol- 
lowing if@ms : 

me * * * 

(6) Amounts derived from business which the state 
is prohibited from taxing under the Constitution of 
this state or the Constitution or laws of the United 
States ; 

* * * 

82.04.440 Persons tucable on multiple activities. 
Every person engaged in activities which are within 
the purview of the provisions of two or more of section 
RCW 82.04.230 to 82.04.290, inclusive, shall be taxable 
under each paragraph applicable to the activities en- 
eaged in: Provided, that persons taxable under RCW 
8? 04.250 or 82.04.270 shall not be taxable under RCW 
82.04.230, 82.04.240, or subsection (2) of RCW 82.04.- 


? This subsection deals with wholesalers of grain. 


’Temporary eurtax continuously extended, increased, and made per- 
bee at the rate of sixty percent by Laws of 1957, Chap. 279, §5; 


RCW 82.04.296 (1957). 


28 


260 with respect to extracting or manufacturing of the 
products sold, and that persons taxable under RCW 
82.04.240 shall not be taxable under RCW 82.04.230 
with respect to extracting the ingredients of the prod. 
ucts so manufactured. 


22 ARY | Office - Supreme Court, U.S. 
een FILED 


In the Supreme Court of the 
Anited States 
OCTOBER TERM, 1958 


NO. 163 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, Appellant, 
v. 
STATE OF WASHINGTON, Appeliee. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF 
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON 


MOTION TO DISMISS 


JOHN J. O’CONNELL, 
Attorney General, 


ROBERT L. SIMPSON, 


Assistant Attorney General, 
Attorneys for Appellee. 


Office and Post Office Address: Temple of Justice, Olympia, Wash. 


STATE PRINTING PLANT, OLYMPIA, WASH. 


In the Supreme Court of the 
Anited States 
OCTOBER TERM, 1958 


NO. 163 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, Appellant, 
v. 
STATE OF WASHINGTON, Appellee. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF 
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON 


MOTION TO DISMISS 


JOHN J. O'CONNELL, 


Attorney General, 


ROBERT L. SIMPSON, 
Assistant Attorney General, 


Attorneys for Appellee. 
Office and Post Office Address: Temple of Justice, Olympia, Wash. 


INDEX 


Page 
ROT Tre WU) RIO sk oc ccc rececevevss 5 
STATUTES INVOLVED ......cccccccccces 5 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE.............. 6 
eee ee ei ia hae os 7 
FE oho es debe eerc hie 9 


I. Neither the Commerce Clause nor any ap- 
plicable decision of the United States Su- | 
preme Court require reducing the amount 
of the tax imposed upon appellant’s local 
SE MI ik ooo a ee KS RANE 9 


II. No discrimination against appellant can be 
shown because appellee failed to reduce the 
Fes be 96 oS Oe RK EERE KORRES 1: 


TABLE OF CASES 


— ican Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U.S 
I 44's tala Ca SGN a Rake bee mae s 13 
B. F. Goodrich v. State, 38 Wn. (2d) 663, Cert. 
denied, 342 U. S. 876, 96 L. ed. 659 
a oe ais ta ot one oa 0s eee 10, 15 
Field Enterprises, Inc. v. State, 47 Wn. (2d) 852, 
Be Wis ic Oe vcs bos ccccwe ven 10, 11 
Hans Rees’ Sons v. No. Carolina ex rel. Maxwell, 
Ci ee 26. 8 eer 12, 13 
J. D. Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307 
DE orn ie eae awn scene ee ee er) 12,13 


4 


TABLE OF CASES—Continued 


Page 
Norton Co. v. Dept. of Revenue, 340 U. S. 534, 
Oe Fi re OT io oie vee ee eins weses 10 
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 
RE Re AR ge ee rire. cemieare 15 
STATUTES 
Ch. 5, Laws of 1950, Ex. Sess................. 5, 6 
Me ED Fs eee eek bec etunceeeuéegus 5, 6 
ees ec keuve buee eae 5, 6 


ee TE 5 chores wobec eecanewunenes 5, 6 


In the Supreme Court of the 
Anited States 
OCTOBER TERM, 1958 


NO. 163% 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, Appellant, 
V. 
STATE OF WASHINGTON, Appellee. 


ON APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COUPT OF © 
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON 


MOTION TO DISMISS 


Appellee, pursuant to Rule 16 of the Revised 
Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, 
moves that the appeal be dismissed on the ground 
that the appeal does not raise a substantial Federal 
question. 


STATUTES INVOLVED 
The tax involved in the above appeal is imposed 
by RCW 82.04.220, RCW 82.04.250 and RCW 82- 
.04.270, §§ 1-4 (c) and (e), chapter 5, Laws of 1950, 
Ex. Sess. § 1-4 provides: 


6 


“From and after the first day of May, 1935, 
there is hereby levied and there shall be col- 
lected from every person a tax for the act or 
thle ae of engaging in business activities. 

uch tax shall be measured by the application 
of rates against value of products, gross pro- 
ceeds of sales, or gross income of the business, 
as the case may: be, as follows:” 
Section 1-4 (c) provides: 


“Upon every person engaging within this 
state in the business of making sales at retail; 
as to such persons, the amount of tax with re- 
spect to such: business shall be equal to the gross 
proceeds of sales of the business, multiplied by 
the rate of one-quarter of one per cent;’ 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


This case was initiated by appellant in the Su- 
perior Court of the State of Washington to recover 
a refund of the business and occupation tax assessed 
against it by the state for the privilege of engaging 
in business in the state of Washington. The action 
was for a refund of the entire amount of the taxes 
paid by the appellant with respect to the sales of 
goods to Washington customers which were not 
warehoused in the state of Washington prior to 
sale. In its action in the Superior Court of the State 
of Washington appellant did not ask for an appor- 
tionment of any amount of the tax. Contrary to the 
implication from appellant’s statements on page 2, 
of its Jurisdictional Statement, appellant did not 
base its claim of invalidity on the failure of the State 
Tax Commission to apportion the tax. but sought the 


7 


refund solely on the ground that the tax was un- 
lawfully imposed with respect to sales immune from 
taxation under the Commerce Clause of the Federal 
Constitution. 


FACTS 


The appellant is qualified to conduct business 
in the state of Washington. Its business consists of 
the manufacture and sale of iron and steel products. 
Insofar as the controversy involved here is concerned, 
all of its products were manufactured Zutside the 
state of Washington. Approximately 25% of the 
products sold in the state of Washington were manu- 
factured by the appellant itself. The remaining 75“ 
of the products sold by appellant were acquired from 
other manufacturers and in turn sold to appellant’s 
Washington customers. 


During the period in question the appellant 
rented warehouse space within the state of Wash- 
ington in which it maintained one stock of goods— 
wire rope. Business and occupation tax was paid 
upon all sales from this warehouse, and those sales 
are not in issue here. 


In the conduct of its business activity in the 
state of Washington, appellant maintained a sales 
office within the state employing 42 persons, all of 
whom were residents of the state. Salesmen from 
the Seattle office called upon prospective purchasers 
and when a sale was made the customer’s order was 
acknowledged by the Seattle office. The Washington 


8 


employees in the Seattle office investigated the cus- 
tomer’s credit and generally gave final credit ap- 
proval and negotiated the terms of payment. Orders 
would be forwarded by the Seattle office to the mi!l 
producing the particular product ordered. When the 
mill advised that the goods ordered would be avail- 
able, Seattle office employees mailed the customer 
a written acknowledgment of the order, which con- 
stituted acceptance. 


Seattle personnel investigated customer com- 
plaints and made recommendations as to settlements 
to be approveu by appellant’s San Francisco office. 
If requested appellant supplied engineering service 
to its customers to check complaints relative to goods 
purchased and for consultation services within the 
state. 


Delinquent accounts were pursued by appel- 
lant’s Washington office and the customers made 
payment for the goods to appellant’s offices within 
or withuut the state, whichever the customer pre- 
ferred. The appellant maintained a bank account in 
the state of Washington to which its payments were 
deposited. Substantially all contacts with Washing- 
ton customers relating to any matter connected with 
a sale were made by the Seattle office. During the 
1, months from August 1, 1950, through December 
31, 1951, appellant’s Washington office sold $20,- 
319,096.81 worth of goods to Washington customers. 


The tax was sustained by the State Superior 
Court (unreported) and the State Supreme Court, 


9 


reported unofficially at 151 Wash. Dee. 200, and set 
forth as Appendix A in Appellant’s Statement as 
to Jurisdiction. 


In upholding the validity of the tax, the Wash- 
ington Supreme Court stated: 


“Appellant argues that the tax should be 
apportioned between interstate and local activi- 
ties. There is no question of apportionment 
here. The tax is measured solely by appellant’s 
local wholesale and retail activities. No part 
of the tax is attributable to its manufacture or 
other out-of-state activities. The sales are ne- 
gotiated within the state of Washington, and 
the fact that yi is made direct to the 
purchaser does not change the nature of the 
local transaction. Norton Co. v. Department of 
Revenue of the State of Illinois, 340 U. S. 534, 
95 L. ed. 517, 71 S. Ct. 377; Field Enterprises 
Inc. v. State, supra.” 


ARGUMENT 


I. 


NEITHER THE COMMERCE CLAUSE NOR ANY APPLICA- 
BLE DECISION OF THE UNITED STATES SUPREME 
COURT REQUIRE REDUCING THE AMOUNT OF THE 
TAX IMPOSED UPON APPELLANT’S LOCAL SALES 
ACTIVITY. 

Appellant now concedes as illustrated by the 
questions raised on appeal that its sales activity in 
the state of Washington subjects appellant to the 
taxing power of the state. Thus, appellant acknowl- 
edges there was sufficient local activity to sustain 
the imposition of the tax without doing violence to 
the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. 


~ 


10 


Accordingly, this appeal does not challenge the im- 
position of the tax, but only the amount. 


Recognizing that it would be impossible to con- 
vince this Court that the decision of the Supreme 
Court of the State of Washington was in error in 
finding sufficient local agtivity, appellant hopes by 
this appeal in raising an issue of apportionment to 
achieve the same result. Although appellant at- 
tempts to convince this Court that the instant case 
represents an issue of apporticnment, it is apparent 
that rather than apportionment being involved ap- 
pellant actually is contending that because it manu- 
factures its product in one state which may be sold 
by its personnel in another that the tax imposed on 
sales activity by the state of the buyer should to some 
extent be reduced or be less than the full measure 
of the tax because the manufacturing process is con- 
ducted in the other state. In substance, appellant, 
though conceding its activity is taxable, is now urg- 
ing that it shouldn’t have to pay the full measure of 
the tax, but only a part of it. 


This appeal should be dismissed because the 
issue raised has already been decided by this Court 
in Field Enterprises v. State, affirmed, 352 U. S. 
806; Norton Co. v. Dept. of Revenue, 340 U. S. 534, 
95 L. ed. 517 (1951); and B. F. Goodrich v. State, 
38 Wn. (2d) 663; Cert. denied, 342 U. S. 876, 96 
L. ed. 659. 


11 


A. 


Although apportionment in a proper case is a 
method assuring an equitable division among the 
several states of taxes upon multi-state business, 
_this case does not represent such a situation. In the 
instant case the tax involved has as its incident the 
local selling activities of appellant and is not imposed 
upon selling activities conducted in any other state. 
The measure of the tax is simply the rate times the 
gross proceeds of local sales. | 


The United States Supreme Court has never 
held that a tax similar to that involved here imposed 


upon a local activity must be reduced (or appor- 
tioned as appellant suggests) because the taxpayer 
engages in other and different activities in other 
states. Only those taxes which are imposed upon 
incidents which can be equally reached by several 
states must be apportioned. Where the incident is 
such that only one state can impose a tax there is 
obviously no reason or justification for reducing the 
measure of the tax. 


The instant appeal involves the same issue as 
presented in Field Enterprises v. State, supra, 47 
Wn. (2d) 852, affirmed, 352 U. S. 806 (1956). This 
case involved the same statute here involved and 
practically the identical method of conducting busi- 
ness. The only significant distinction in the facts 
is that appellant’s local activity in this case is of 
considerably greater magnitude and substance than 
was the case in Field Enterprises. 


12 


Had this Court felt that the amount of the tax 
must be reduced because of the relevancy and valid- 
ity of the issue of apportionment, the United States 
Supreme Court would not have affirmed the judg- 
ment of the highest court of the state of Washington 
in the Field Enterg case. Appellant in support 
of its contention that @ substantial federal question 
is presented by its appeal has not and cannot refer 
the court to any case involving a similar tax on a 
similar activity requiring the tax be reduced or 
something less than the full measure upon an ad- 
mitted local activity. 


B. 

In its statement as to jurisdiction appellant re- 
lies principally upon J. D. Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 
304 U.S. 307 (1938), and Hans Rees’ Sons v. North 
Carolina ex rel. Maxwell, 283 U. S. 123 (1981). 
Neither of these two decisions are applicable or sus- 
tain the contention advanced by appellant. 

In the Adams Mfg. case the court simply held 
that Indiana could not impose a gross receipts tax 
on the sales of goods because the products were man- 
ufactured in Indiana. The court struck down the 
tax because it 


“is of such u character that if lawful it may in 
substance be laid to the fullest extent by states 
in which the goods are sold as weil as those in 
which they are manufactured.” 

The court in the Adams case further noted the 


Indiana tax was 


13 


‘not an excise upon the privilege of producing 
or manufacturing within the state.” 


It is thus clear that the “multiple burden” 
danger properly concerning the court in the Adams 
case is not present here. The Washington tax on 
gross proceeds of sales to Washington customers can- 
nét be duplicated by any other state. 


Hans Rees’ Sons v. North Carolina, supra, like- 
wise offers appellant no support for its position. We 
have no quarrel with the above decision. It has no 
application here. Hans Rees involved a net income 
tax on a unitary business. The instant controversy 
involves an excise tax—not a net income tax. While 
apportionment was proper in Hans Rees, the court 
has never found such a requirement to be applicable 
to the type of tax on the kind of local activity involved 
herein. A comparison of Hans Rees with American 
Mfa. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459 (1919) makes 
this distinction apparent. 


In the American Mfg. Co. case an excise tax 
upon the privilege of manufacturing was sustained 
even though measured by gross receipts of sales 
made outside the taxing state. No apportionment 
was required. 


14 


C. 


On page 8 of Appellant’s Statement as to Juris- 
diction, the following statement appears which 
should not stand unchallenged: | 

#.. the 


“If every state levied a tax su 
Washington business and occupation tax (a tax 
upon the privilege of engaging in business ac- 
tivities without regard to the extent to which 
those activities occur within the state) each 
interstate business would pay double the tax 
paid by its local competitors.” 


Not only is the above observation without sup- 
port in fact but as a legal conclusion is untenable. 
In the first place the instant tax, as stated before, 
is restricted in measure to gross proceeds of sales 
to Washington customers. The extent of appellant’s 
activity subject to the tax is limited to its local ac- 
tivity within the state of Washington — nothing 
more—nothing less. The incidence of the tax has 
clear regard only to the results dollarwise of the 
sales activity of appellant’s personnel soliciting busi- 
ness in Washington. 


This fact destroys the validity of appellant’s 
unSupportable conclusion that appellant is to pay 
“double the tax paid hy its local competitors.” Ap- 
pellant is not taxed twice by Washington’s business 
tax. No other state can subject appellant to taxation 
of its gross proceeas of sales derived from Washing- 
ton customers. The fact that appellant may pay a 


15 


different tax on a different activity to a different 
state for privileges accorded by that state is not a 
materia! fact nor a valid circumstance in determin- 
ing any possible conflict between the Washington tax 
and the provisions of the Federal Commerce Clause. 
There is nothing inherent in the tax as applied to 
appellant on its Washington activity which is in any 
sense in conflict with the standard or rule announced 
in Western Jive Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 
U.S. 250 (1938). 


II. 


NO DISCRIMINATION AGAINST APPELLANT CAN BE 
SHOWN BECAUSE APPELLEE FAILED TO REDUCE 
THE TAX. 

For two pages, commencing on page 18 of Ap- 
pellant’s Statement as to Jurisdiction, it is suggested 
that the tax involved here discriminates against in- 
terstate commerce. No authority is cited by appel- 
lant in support of this assertion. Among others, the 
ease of B. F. Goodrich v. State, 38 Wn. (2d) 663, 
Cert. denied, 342 U. S. 876, 96 L. ed. 659 (1951), 
completely disposes of appellant’s contention in this 
respect. 


16 


CONCLUSION 


It is respectfully submitted that no substantial 
Federal question is raised by the appeal and it should 
be dismissed. ‘ai 


July 25, 1958. 


Respectfully submitted, 


JOHN J. O’CONNELL, 
Attorney General, 


ROBERT L. SIMPSON, 
Assistant Attorney General, 


Attorneys for Appellee. 


LIBRARY AAG L 7 JUL 17 1963 


SUPRENE CouRT. U. S. 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1958 


No. 163 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, 
Appellant, 
v. 


STATE OF WASHINGTON. 


Ox APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME CoURT OF THE 
STATE OF WASHINGTON 


MOTION OF BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY, INC., FOR 
LEAVE TO FILE BRIEF AMICUS CURIAE AND 
PROPOSED BRIEF AMICUS CURIAE 


Truman Henson, 
Attorney for Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., 
as Amicus Curiae, 
Office & P. O. Address, 
120 Broadway, 
New York 5, N. Y. 


INDEX 


Morion por Leave ro Fine Brier as Amicus Curiae 


Brier or Berksairne Haraaway, Ine., as Amicus 
Curiae 


a ee ee ea ke ee ee ee ee ee ee a a ee a a oe oe 


Tik INTEREST OF THE Amicus Curtae 


ee ee oe oe ke ok a a Oe a 


ABBREVIATED STATEMENT OF TUE CASE .............. 


ee OR URR OE MOTD og OS iw ik oc ck leevunncs 


ARGUMENT: 


A local tax imposed for the privilege of doing 
business in a taxing state, and measured by gross 
receipts, is unconstitutional as repugnant te Article 
I, Seetion &, Clause 3, of the Constitution of the 
United States, when applied to a taxpayer whose 
only activity in the taxing state is the negotiation 
of sales of goods which are in, and which are deliv- 
ered to the purchasers in, another state ......... 


ree 


Citations 


Constitution of the United States, Art. 1, See. 8, 


16 


2) Da eer i Cm hy ae ae ee ee 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16 


CASES: 


Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Mass. (1925), 268 
U. S. 203, 45 Sup. Ct. 477, 69 L. Ed. 916 ....... 


Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates, Inc. vy. City 
of New Ye.k et al., decided July 3, 1958, by the 
New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, 
First Department, N. Y. Law Journal, July 7, 
1958, p. 2, not yet otherwise reported; same case 
below, CCH New York State Tax Reporter, Vol. 
4, Para. 198-021, not officially reported ........ 


9 


PAGE 
Cheney Bros, Co. v. Mass. (1918), 246 U.S. 147, 38 
Sam. Ct. BG, GS Li, THR. GOD... « . 0 ec cccecccees i) 
Field Enterprises, Inc. v. State of Washington 
(1956), 352 U. S. 806, 77 Sup. Ct. 55, 1 L. Ed. 
Ee ra Ches xhand asin eee ke 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 
Gerosa v. United Piece Dye Works (1955), 348 
U.S. 916, 75 Sup. Ct. 298, 99 L. Ed. 718 .......5, 8, LO 
11, 14, 16 
Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Co. (1947), 
330 U. S. 422, 67 Sup. C't. 815, 91 L. Ed. 993 ....00 2 9 
Norton Co. v. Dept. of Revenue (1951), 540 U.S. 
534, 71 Sup. Ct. 377, 95 L. Ed. 517 ........ 8, 9, 10, 11, 


13, 14, 15, 16 
STATUTES : 
Revised Code of Washington: 


a Eee errr err eee lo 
Sees. 82.04.220, 82.04.250, 82.04.270, #2.04.430(6) 6 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1958 | 
No. 163 


Uwrrep States STEEL CorRPoRATION, 
Appellant, 


v, 


STATE OF WASHINGTON. 


MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BRIEF AS 
AMICUS CURIAE 


Berksuike Hatuaway, Ixc., respectfully moves for leave 
to file a brief amicus curiae in the above-entitled cause. 


The consents of the attorneys for the parties were re- 
quested, but were refused on the ground that the relevant 
question saved in the Notice of Appeal is limited to appor- 
tionment, as stated therein, and that tae proposed brief 
amicus curiae is not directed to that question. Inasmuch 
aus the tax at issue is a state privilege tax measured by 
gross receipts from all sales, excepting those exempt under 
the Constitution of the United States, it is submitted that 
the point to which the proposed brief is addressed, namely, 
that the state is prohibited by the Commerce Clause from 
taxing the proceeds of separable interstate sales where the 
taxpayer's only activity within the taxing state in respect. 
of such sales is the negotiation thereof, is a point of appor- 
tionment. In any case, it is submitted that the decision 
below, sustaining the tax on the proceeds of such inter- 
state seles, represents a plain error this Court may wish to 
notice and correct. | 


The interest of Berkshire Hathaway, Ine., in this ease 
arises from the faet that it Is a party to a case about to be 
appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,’ 
involving the New York City General Business and Finan- 
cial Tax,” and raising the same issue deemed presented in 
the instan case, to wit, whether a taxpayer which maintains 
an office ina taxing state, through which office it negotiates 
sales of 2oods which are in another state, is subject to a 
tax imposed by the taxing state for the privilege of doing 
business therein and measured by the gross receipts from 
such sales, although the goods are delivered to the pur- 
chasers outside the taxing state, and although the taxpayer 
engages in no activities in the taxing state other than such 
nevotiation of such sales. 


In its brief filed in the instant case in the Supreme Court 
of the State of Washington, the State argued that this 
Court’s per curiam decision in Field Enterprises, Ine. v. 
State of Washington (1956), 352 U.S. 806, T7 Sup. Ct. 55, 
1 L. Kd. (2d) 39, which decision was on the authority of 
Norton Co. v. Dept. of Revenue (1951), 340 U. S. 534, 71 
Sup. Ct. 377, 95 L. Ed. 517, governed and disposed of the 
instant case; and the Washington Court so held. In appel- 
lant’s brief, on the other hand, it was not argued either 


(a) That the Field ease is distinguishable from 
the instant ease in that, in the instant ease, deliveries 
were made outside the taxing state, by shipment 
f.o.b. at the purchasers’ cost and risk, whereas, in the 
Field ease, deliveries were made inside the taxing 
state, by shipment at the taxpayer-seller’s cost and 
risk pursuant to contracts of sale so requiring (Rule 
», Section 63.04.200, Revised Code of Washington), or 

' Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates, Inc. v. City of New York, 
et al., decided July 3, 1958, by App. Div., ist Dept.. N. Y. Law 
Journal, July 7, 1958, p. 2, not vet otherwise reported. 

2 Invalidated by this Court in-veseph v. Carter & Weekes Steve- 
doring Co. (1947), 330 U. S. 422 67 Sup. Ct. 815, 91 L. Ed. 993, 
and Gerosa v. l nited Piece Dye Works (1955), 348 U. S. 916, 75 
Sup. Ct. 208, 99 L. Ed. 718, as applied to interstate commerce. 


(b) That the Norton case, while requiring the 
decision of taxahility rendered by the Supreme Court 
of Washington in the Field case, wherein deliveries 
were made inside the state, required the opposite 
conclusion in the mstant case, wherein deliveries 
were made outside the state. 


In the Jurisdictional Statement herein, neither of those 
points is made, nor is it urged that the Commerce Clause 
prohibits a state privilege tax measured by gross receipts 
from sales of goods located and delivered outside the taxing 
state, where the activities of the taxpayer in the taxing 
state are limited to the negotiation of such sales. 


Accordingly, said Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., apprehends 
that the error believed to have been committed by the court 
helew, in its interpretation of the Norton and Field cases, 
“may not be brought tu the attention of this Court, and that 
the constitutiona: issues deemed raised by the instant case 
may not be fully briefed and presented to this Court, unless 
the proposed brief amicus curiae is received. In such brief, 
it is argued that the decision of this Court in the Field case 
has no bearing on the instant case, and that the Commerce 
(‘lause of the Constitution, together with the precedent of 
the Norton case and prior and subsequent decisions of this 
Court cited in said brief, indicate that the decision of the 
Supreme Court of Washington in the instant case should 
be reversed. If accepted, it is believed that said arguments 
are sufficient to dispose of the instant ease. 


If accepted, it is believed that said arguments will also 
dispose of said Berkshire case, supra, footnote 1, in a lower 
court, inasmuch as the contention made by the City of 
New York and accepted by the New York Appellate Division 
therein is that the Norton case, or, in any event, the Field 
case, overrules prior law and represents the enunciation by 
this Court of a new doctrine to the effect that the Com- 
merece Clause does not prohibit a local privilege tax on the 


= 


gross receipts of a taxpayer which maintains an office ina 
taxing state, although the only activities of the taxpayer 
in the taxing state consist of the negotiation of sales of 
goods which are in, and which are delivered to the pur- 
chasers in, other states. In that case, two of the five 
Justices dissented, stating: ‘‘In the light of the history of 
the Field ease before the Supréme Court, there is not suffi- 
cient basis for erecting, in the state courts, an entirely new 
set of principles with economic and legal ramifieatious un- 
expressed, to be implied only at the peril of great economic 
and governmental uncertainty. ”* 


Respectfully submitted, 


Truman Hznson, 
Attorney for Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., 
as Amicus Curiae, 
Office & P. O. Address, 
120. Broadway, 
New York 5, N. Y. 


Dated: New York, N. Y., 
July 14, 1958. 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1958 
No. 163 


o— 


Usirep States STEEL CORPORATION, 
Appellané, 
v. 


STaTE OF WASHINGTON. 


ray 
AF 


BRIEF OF BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY, INC., AS 
AMICUS CURIAE 


The Interest of the Amicus Curiae 

The interest of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. (formerly 
Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates, Inc.), in this case 
arises from the fact that it is a party to a case about to 
be appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of New 
York,’ involving the New York City General Business and 
Financial Tax,” and raising the same issue as that deemed 
presented to the Court in the instant case; to wit, whether, 


' Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates, Inc. y. City of New York, 
et al., decided July 3, 1958, by the New York Supreme Court, 
Appellate Division, First Department, N. Y. Law Journal, July 7, 
1958, p. 2, not yet otherwise reported; same case below, CCH New 
York State Tax Reporter, Vol. 4, Para. 198-021, not officially 
reported. 


* Invalidated by this Court in Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Steve- 
doring Co. (1947), 330 U. S. 422, 67 Sup. Ct. 815, 91 L. Ed. 993, 
and Gerosa v. United Piece Dye Works (1955), 348 U. S. 916, 75 
Sup. Ct. 298, 99 L. Ed. 718, as applied to interstate commerce. 


6 


in view of the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, a tax- 
payer which maintains an o..ice in a taxing state, through 
which office the taxpayer negotiates sales of goods which 
are in another state, for the purpose of i. trodueing them 
into the taxing state, is subject te a tax imposed by the 
taxing state for the privilege of doing business therein and 
measured by the gross receipts from such sales, althongh 
the goods are delivered to the purchasers outside the tax- 
ing state, and aithough the taxpayer engages in no activities 
in the taxing state other than such negotiation of such sales 
across state lines. 


Abbreviated Statement of the Case 


The Washington tax involved in this case was imposed 
‘““* * * fc. the act or privilege of engaging in business * * * 
upon every person engaged within this state in the business 
of making sales at retail * * * [or] * * * at wholesale * * *,°’ 
it Was measured by ‘* * * * the gross proceeds of sales 
~* *** and it exeluded from the tax base ‘‘ * * * amounts 
derived from business which the state is proh:bited from 
taxing under * * * the Constitution or laws of the United 
States... (RCW, Sees. 82.04.220, 82.04.250, 82.04.270, 
82.04.430(6).) 


Appellant (or its predecessor), a Delaware corporation 
with principal office in California, was qualified to do busi- 
ness in Washington, and had an office there. The Washing- 
ton office served as headquarters for appellant’s salesmen, 
who solicited orders from Washington customers and 
turned in the orders to the Washington office. Employees 
at that office investigated and determined the credit of the 
prospective customers, and forwarded the orders to appel- 
lant’s out-of-state plants to be filled with goods located out- 
of-state. The goods were delivered, and title passed, out-of- 
state, by shipment f.o.b. at the customers’ cost and risk. 

-ayment was made, at the customers’ election, to appel- 


lant’s Washington or out-of-state offices. Appellant main- 
tained a hank account in Washington, in which payments 
there received were deposited; and delinquent Washing- 
ton accounts were pursued by the Washington office, which 
also received complaints and made recommendations for 
settlement, but no decisions in that regard. 


Appellant neither operated nor maintained any local 
ontlet, store, plant, factory, warehouse, other place of busi- 
ness, or stock of goods in Washington, except that, partly 
in a rented warehouse, and partly on consignment, it kept 
a small quantity of one of its numerous items of iron and 
steel products; to wit, wire rope, in the state. About 114% 
of appellant’s total sales to Washington customers con- 
sisted of sales of such wire rope; but the tax on the pro- 
ceeds of those sales is conceded to have been proper, and 
is not in issue here. Only about 214% of appellant’s total 
sales to Washington customers consisted of other sales 
of wire rope; and substantially none of appeltant’s wire 
rope customers were customers for its other products, 
sales of which made up between 9614% and 97% of its total 
sales to Washington customers. 


Thus, apart from the aforesaid local sales of part of its 
wire rope, which sales, as stated, are not in issue here, and 
were dissociated from appellant’s other business, appel- 
lant’s sole and only activity in the State of Washington 
consisted of the negotiation of sales of goods which were in, 
and which were delivered to the purchasers in, other states. 


The Supreme Court of Washington sustained the tax 
on the gross proceeds of all of appellant’s sales to Wash- 
ington customers. 


Summary of Argument 


Prior to the decision ef this Court in Norton Co. v. Dept. 
of Revenue (1951), 340 U.S. 534, 71 Sup. Ct. 877, 95 L. Ed. 
017, the law seemed clear that the channeling of orders 
through a local office in a taxing jurisdiction did not deprive 
otherwise interstate transactions of the protection of the 
Commerce Clause, or subject the proceeds of sales of goods 
so ordered to local privilege taxes measured by the gross 
receipts from such sales, where the goods were located out- 
side, and were delivered to the purchasers outside, the tax- 
ing jurisdiction, and where the activities of the local office, 
and of the taxpayer in the taxing jurisdiction, were limited 
to the negotiation of such sales. 


Neither the decision of this Court in the Norton case, 
supra, nor its subsequent decision in Field Enterprises, 
Inc. v. State of Washington (1956), 352 U. S. 806, 77 Sup. 
C't. 50, 1 L. Ed. (2d) 39, varied that rule. On the contrary, 
the Field case does not involve the point; and both the 
Norton ease itself and this Court’s subsequent denial of 
certiorari in Gerosa v. United Piece Dye Works (1955), 
348 U.S. 916, 75 Sup. Ct. 298, 99 L. Ed. 718, indicate that 
the rule continues in force without change. 


Accordingly, the tax asserted against appellant herein 
by the State of Washington violates the Commerce Clause 
of the Constitution; the decision below, upholding that tax, 
is erroneous; and that decision should be reversed. 


9 


ARGUMENT 


A local tax imposed fer the privilege of doing busi- 
ness in a taxing state, and measured by gross receipts, 
is unconstitutional as repugnant to Article I, Section 8, 
Clause 3, of the Constitution of the United States, when 
applied to a taxpayer whose only activity in the taxing 
state is the negotiation of sales of goods which are in, 
and which are delivered to the purchasers in, another 
state. 


It is confidently submitted as firmly established that the 
solicitation, in a taxing jurisdiction, of sales of goods which 
are in, and which are delivered to purchasers in, other states 
is not a sufficient activity to serve as the basis for a local 
privilege tax; and, at least until this Court’s decision in the 
Norton case, supra, it seemed equally well established that 
the rule applied with equal force where the seller main- 
tained an office in the taxing jurisdiction to which his solici- 
tors reported, and through which the orders the¥ obtained 
were transmitted, 


Cheney Bros. Co. v. Mass. (1918), 246 U.S. 147, 
38 Sup. Ct. 255, 62 L. Ed. 632; 

Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Mass. (1925), 38 
U.S. 203, 45 Sup. Ct. 477, 69 L. Ed. 916. 


Assiduous tax collectors, however, have seized upon the 
Norton ease as overruling prior authority and enunciating 
a new doctrine: that the existence of a loeal office through 
which orders may be transmitted represents a local activity 
sufficient to support a privilege tax, although the goods 
are located and delivered outside the taxing state, and 
although the taxpayer’s only activity in the taxing state 
is the negotiation of such sales. Further, the subsequent 
decision of this Court in the Field case, supra, is declared 
to have removed any possible doubt that such is the effect 


10 


of the Norton ease, and definitely to have fixed and estab- 
lished the asserted new doctrine. 


Thus, in its brief before the Supreme Court of the State 
of Washington herein, the State asserted, of the Norton 
ease, and without limitation by reference to Norton’s local 
activities in Illinois: ‘‘The United States Supreme Court 
held that all of Norton’s sales were subject to the tax where 
its local office had been utilized either in receiving the orders 
or in distributing the goods to the purchasers.’’ 


Agaui, in its brief before the New York Appellate Divi- 
sion, in the above-mentioned case in which this amicus 
curiae is a party, the City of New York argued that if 
Norton’s local activity lent credence to the suggestion that 
it was that activity that was the decisive point in that case, 
at least it was clear that the Field case laid down the 
unequivocal rule that the existence of a local office engaged 
actively, albeit exclusively, in the negotiation of sales of 
goods located and delivered in other states, is sufficient to 
support a local privilege tax on the gross receipts from 
such sales. Three of the Justices of the Appellate Division 
(a majority) accepted this contention, and held the Field 
case dispositive of the issue, although the other two Jus- 
tices dissented, stating: ‘‘The decision of the Supreme 
Court in Field Enterprises v. State of Washington (352 
U. S. 806) presents a problem.* * * If the Feld case 
affirmance means all that it potentially means, then the 
United Piece Dye Works case [supra] was wrongly decided, 
despite the denial of certiorari by the Supreme Court. * * * 
Before, however, the state courts should effect so drastic 
a reversal of position, it would seem wiser to await a clearer 
direetion from the Supreme Court. In the light of the 
history of the Field case before the Supreme Court, there 
is not sufficient basis for erecting, in the state courts, an 
entirely new set of principles with economie and legal 
ramifications unexpressed, to be implied only at the peril 
of great economic and governmental uncertainty. ”’ 


11 


Finally, in the instant case, the Supreme Court. of 
Washington rested its decision on the authority of the 
Norton and particularly the Field cases, stating: ‘* * * * the 
sales activities of the Seattle office of appellant are decisive 
factors in establishing and holding the local market for its 
goods. Thus it is subject to the tax.’ 


It is the purpose of this brief to present the view (a) 
that the Norton case not only does not decide that the exist- 
enee of a loeal office engaged exclusively in negotiating 
sales across state lines renders intrastate otherwise inter- 
state sales, but, on the contrary, affirmatively holds that 
even where there are also extetisive plainly local activities, 
the proceeds of sales negotiated in the taxing jurisdiction, 
but not generated by the loeal activities, may not be in- 
cluded in the tax base when the goods are loeated and 
delivered outside the taxing jurisdiction; (b) that the Field 
‘ase is Wholly inapplicable here because its ratio decidendi 
ix that Field, in addition to maintaining a local office, also 
made loca] delivery of its goods; and (c) that, as indicated 
by this Court's denial of certiorari in Gerosa v. United 
Piece Dye Works, supra, the post-Norton, as well as the 
pre-Norton, rule is that where the only aetivity of a tax- 
payer in a taxing state is the negotiation of sales of goods 
which are in, and which are delivered to purchasers in, 
other states, the Commerce Clause renders him immnne to 
local privilege taxes, whether or not he maintains a loeal 
office. 


It is submitted that the above-mentioned contentions of 
the State of Washington and the City of New York, and 
the decisions of the court below herein, and of the New 
York Appellate Division, are erroneous in that they fail to 
distinguish between the services Norton’s Illinois branch 
rendered to customers, on the one hand, and such services 
as appellant’s Washington office rendered to appellant, on 
the other. The one were plainly local in character; but the 
other were as plainly integral component parts of inter- 
state commerce. 


12 


Norton, a Massachusetts corporatier, authorized to do 
business in Iliinois, therein operated and maintained a 
warehouse and retail store where it regularly maue sales 
over the counter of the (about 5,000 items of) goods carried 
in stock in its local warehouse, and also received and trans- 
mitted orders for certain other goods tot carried iu stock 
in Illinois. In addition, Norton locally served customers 
by physically servieing and repairing machines, after sale. 
The local oftice further served [linois purchasers of goods 
not carried in local stock by combining orders and arrang- 
ing for their shipment in carload lots, at reduced freight 
rates, to the local office, thereafter making local distribution 
and delivery. In sum, Norton's Illinois branch provided 
customers with all the conveniences and services a purely 
local establishment would have supplied. 


Norton made four classes of sales to Illinois customers : 


One: Sales over the counter at the retail store 
of goods carried in stock in Illinois. These were 
conceded and held to be taxable. 


Two: Sales of goods not carried in stock in 
I}linois, shipped into the state on orders channeled 
through the local outlet, and delivered locally. A 
unanimous Court held these sales taxable. 


Three: Sales of goods not carried in stock in 
Illinois, shipped into the state directly to customers 
on orders channeled through the local outlet, where 
delivery was made outside the state. In the absence 
of a showing that these orders were not generated 
by the conveniences and services rendered locally to 
customers, and on the basis that one who asserts his 
rights to the benetits of an exemption must prove his 
ease, the Court, with one Justice dissenting, held 
these sales taxable. 


Four: Sales of goods not carried in stock in 
jilinois, shipped into the state directly to customers 


on orders not channeled through the loeal outlet, 
Where delivery was made outside the state. With 
three Justices dissenting, the Court held these ales 
exempt from the tay. 


In the instant case, appellant, for its own purposes, and 
for its own convenience, maintained a Washington office, 
through which its selicitors transmitted the orders they 
obtained: but, although this may have represented a service 
rendered by appellant to itself, it did not constitute a service 
to customers, Unless in respect of its sales of wire rope, 
Which were dissociated from the bulk of its business, itp 
pellant’s Washington office did not provide loea! Services 
or conveniences to customers. Customers’ contacts were 
With appellant's solicitors: and whether appellant's solici- 
lors forwarded orders to appellant's out-of-state plants hy 
one route or another, could nave been of no moment to the 
customers, The maintenance and activities of appellant's 
Washington office were not, therefore, factors, decisive or 
otherwise, in establishing or holding its Washington market, 
It was the activities of appellant's solicitors that generated 
appellant's sates to inhabitants of Washington: and there- 
fore those sales were in all essentials comparable to the 
fourth, and not the third, class of Norton's sales to Hlinois 
customers, 


Thus, the Vorton case, far from furnishing authority for 
taxing appellant's sales, constitutes the strongest authority 
for exempting them, for Norton carried on local activities 
of great relative magnitude, whereas appellant did not. 


That the foregoing view of the meaning and effect of 
the Norton case is correct, and that the above-mentioned 
Interpretation of the Norton case urged by the State of 
Washington, urged by the City of New York, and adopted 
by the Supreme Court of Washington in its opinions in the 
Field case and the instant case, is erroneous, is, we submit, 
apparent on analysis of the Norton case itself. Beyond that, 


14 


however, this Court denied certiorari, and by that denial 
affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeals of the State 
of New York, in Gerosa v. United Piece Dye Works, supra. 


The Dye Works case came to this Court after its deei- 
sion in the Norton case had been rendered, and it presented 
precisely the question presented in the instant case: whether 
the existence and activities, in the taxing jurisdiction, of 
an Office actively, but exclusively, engaged in negotiating 
sales of goods (services) located and delivered outside the 
taxing jurisdiction would suffice as the foundation on which 
to base a local privilege tax. The New York court held that 
the Commerce Clause prohibited the tax; and this Court, 
with its reeent Norton decision before it, denied certiorari. 


It may be urged by the proponents of the asserted new 
doctrine that this Court’s action in the Dye Works case was 
only a denial of certiorari; and that, if the fact that most of 
Norton's activities in [lhnois were local beclouds the purity 
of that decision's presentation of the asserted new rule, at 
least this Court’s Field decision establishes that rule be- 
yond the peradventure of any further doubt. But we sub- 
mit that this contention alse is erroneous, and that its error 
resides in a failure to give consideration or effect to the 
factor we deem to have been decisive in the Field case, and 
which distinguishes the Field case from the instant case. 


It is true that Field’s office in Washington was engaged 
only in soliciting sales of goods located in another state, 
and it is true that Field maintained no local store or outlet 
in Washington; but the factor that is ignored is that it 
was in Washington that Field delivered all its goods sold 
to Washington customers. 


The Washingten court, in its opinion in the Field case, 
accorded the point no apparent weight; but the fact never- 
theloss was that all of Field's sales to Washington cus- 
toners were made under contracts requiring Field to pre- 
pay the cost of transportation. Thus, under the provisions 


15 


of the Uniform Sales Act (Rule 5, Sec. 63.04.200, RCW), 
tithe did not pass until delivery to the customers in Wash- 
ington, Although Field shipped its books from out-of- 
state directly to its Washington customers, all shipments 
were at Field's cost and risk, and the books were Field’s 
hooks until they were delivered to the purchasers in Wash- 
Ingeton. 


On the basis of the faet that this Court’s decision in the 
Mield ease was per curiam, and without opinion, except as 
the Nerton case was cited, the proponents of the alleged 
new doctrine attempt to assimilate the Field case to that 
part of the Norton decision that dealt with the third class 
of Norton's sales—those gencrated by the local services. 
But Field rendered no loeal services: and, in our view, it 
is plain that the portion of the Norton decision that in fact 
governed the Field case was the pe:tion that dealt with the 
second class of Norton's sales—those of goods shipped into 
the state on order, but delivered loeally. 


We submit that, although the decision of the Washing- 
ton court in the Field case was right, and was required by 
the Norton case, that court’s reasons for its decision, as 
expressed in its opinion, were wrong; and we submit fur- 
ther that the fact that this Court affirmed the decision of 
the Washington court indicates no approval of the reason- 
ing of that state tribunal. Accordingly, we urge that the 
Field case does not touch or involve the issue presented in 
the instant case; we submit that the Field decision does not 
in anywise vary the rule that the Commerce Clause forbids 
a local privilege tax based on the negotiation in a taxing 
state, whether or not through a local office therein, of sales 
of goods located and delivered outside the state. 


16 


Conclusion a 


We respectfully advance the conclusion that (a) the law 
before the Norton case was that the negotiation in a taxing 
state of sales of goods located and delivered in another 
state is not an activity sufficient to support a privilege tax; 
(b) that such was the law whether or not an office, whose 
activities were limited to such negotiation, was maintained 
in the taxing state; (c) that the Norton case did not change, 
but, on the contrary, confirmed, that rule; (d) that the Dye 
Works case further confirmed it; (e) that the Field case 
' does not involve the point, and is irrelevant; and (f) that 
the law existing today, and applicable to the instant case, 
is that the negotiation in a taxing jurisdiction of sales of 
goods located and delivered in another state is not an ac- 
tivity that will support the imposition of a local privilege 
tax, whether or not an office, whose activities are limited 
to such negotiation, is maintained in the taxing jurisdiction. 


Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, of the Constitution of the 
United States prohibits the tax asserted against appellant; 
the decision below was erroneous; and that decision should 
be reversed. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Truman HEnson, 
Attorney for Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., 
as Amicus Curiae, 
Office & P. O. Address, 
120 Broadway, 
New York 5, N. Y. 


Dated: New York, N. Y., 
July 14, 1958. 


Umice-Supreme Court, US.) | 


FILED 
ME COURT. Us & AUG 16 1958 


JAMES R. BROWNING, Clerk 


SUPRE 


In the 


Supreme Court of the United States 
OcrTosER TERM, 1955 


No. 163 


Unrrep States STEEL CorPORATION, Appellant, 
vs. 
State oF WASHINGTON. 


On APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 
‘WASHINGTON >. 


BRIEF OF APPELLANT OPPOSING MOTION TO 
DISMISS 


Grorce V. PowELL 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 
Attorney for Appellant. 


Of Counsel: 
_ Evans, MoLaren, Lane, PowEL. & BEEKS 

Raymonp W. Haman 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 

D. J. MoDANIEL 
120 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco 6, California 


THe Aneus Paeas, SEATTLE 


In the 
Supreme Court of the United States 


OcToBER TERM, 1957 


No. 163 


UnitTep States STEEL CorPoraTION, Appellant, 
VS. 
STATE OF WASHINGTON. 


On APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 
WASHINGTON 


BRIEF OF APPELLANT OPPOSING MOTION TO 
DISMISS 


GEORGE V. POWELL 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 
Attorney for Appellant. 


Of Counsel: 
Evans, McLAREN, LANE, PowWELL & BEEKS 
RayMonp W. HAMAN 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 


D. J. McCDANIEL 
120 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco 6, California 


THE ARGUS PRESS, SEATTLE 


wt 


INDEX 
Page 
Statement of the Case...............000...... POM aE CEL 1 
pT GME fori ance bea Ea eR Res RE ORR NCR TBE ee 2 
I i as 2 
ELIT NAT TT 29: 4 
a doe a ee ae 5 


TABLE OF CASES 


Field Enterprises, Inc. v. State of Washington, 47 
Wn.2d 852, 289 P.2d 1010 (1955); affirmed 


tS Te kf | Min aC ea eset ee 2 
B. F. Goodrich v. State, 38 Wn.2d 663, 231 P.2d 325, 
Cent. Cem. SEE TT. Bi CIID vceiosiescscccecccneciveces 2, 4,5 
Maryland v. Baltimore Radiv Show, 338 U.S. 912, 
1 oS AREER Ts OREN een NETIC Sonmuma veer Anon 5) 
Norton Co. v. Department of Revenue, 340 U.S. 534 
CT tira. disk ede ree Sekai memeoeienignion 2 


United States v. Shubert, 348 U.S. 222, 228 (1955)... 5 


United States Steel Corporation v. State of Wash- 
ington, 151 Wash. Dee. 200, 316 P.2d 1099 (1957) 2 


COURT RULES 


Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, 
IE Be ido cccsccopascleccedas ct vacdaslenc cenciesandbiabiaaees-~snkeiatens 1 


In the 
Supreme Court of the United States 


OcTOBER TERM, 1957 


UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, 
Appellant, 
_ No. 163 


STATE OF WASHINGTON, 


On APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 
W ASHINGTON 


BRIEF OF APPELLANT OPPOSING MOTION TO 
DISMISS 


Appellant, pursuant to Rule 16 of the Rules of the 
Supreme Court of the United States, files this brief in 
opposition to the Appellee’s Motion to Dismiss. 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


On page 6 of its Motion, Appellee contends that the 
issue Of apportionment was not raised in the trial court. 
The issue was presented to, and argued before, the 
Superior Court of the State of Washington for Thur- 
ston County. Furthermore, the stipulation of facts on 
which the case was tried contained factual information 
relating to the activities of the Appellant within and 
outside the State of Washineton which had relevance 
only to the issue of apportionment and were included 
in the stipulation because all parties considered the 
issue of apportionment to have been properly before 
the court. The Supreme Court of the State of Wash- 


[3] 


2 


ington considered that the issue of apportionment was' 
properly before the court and made a ruling on the 
merits on that issue, which ruling was adverse to the 
Appellant. United States Stee! Corporation v. State 
of Washington, 151 Wash. Dee. 266, 202, 316 P.2d 
1099, 1101 (1957). 


It is true that Appellant's Complaint contained a 
prayer for refund of all taxes involved in the action. 
However, apportionment is not the only issue raised in 
this case. Appellant has also raised the question of the 
invalidity of the tax under the commerce clause because 
it discriminates against interstate commerce and in 
the event this contention is sustained by this Court, it 
is Appellant’s position that it is entitled to a refund of 
all taxes. 


ARGUMENT 
A. Apportionment 


On Pages 10 and 11 of Appellee’s Motion to Dismiss 
it is asserted that the issue of apportionment raised 
here by Appellant was determined by this Court in 
Field Enterprises, Inc. v. State of Washington, 47 Wn. 
2d 852, 289 P.2d 1010 (1955); affirmed 352 U.S. 806 
(1936); Norton Co, v. Department of Revenue, 340 
U.S. 334 (1951); BF. Goodrich v. State, 38 Wn.2d 663, 
231 P.2d 325, cert. den. 342 U.S. 876 (1951). Actually 
the issue of apportionment was not involved in any of 
those decisions. Those cases held that the sales in ques- 
tion were subject to the taxing power of the State but 
no ruling was made upon the constitutionality of the 
measure of the tax. In the privilege tax field there is 


3 


lacking a definitive expression by this Court of the obli- 
gation of each state to utilize apportoinment to limit 
its privilege tax to the value of the privilege conferred. 
A decision by this Court in the case at bar is necessary 
to settle this important constitutional question. 

On Page 14 of the Motion to Dismiss Appellee chal- 
lenges a statement made on Page 8 of the Statement as 
to Jurisdiction where Appellant stated: 

“If every state levied a tax such as the Wash- 
ington business and occupation tax (a tax upon 
the privilege of engaging in business activities 
without regard to the extent to which those activi- 
ties occur within the state) each interstate business 
would pay double the tax paid by its local competi- 
tors.”’ 

Appellant stands on the correctness of that statement. 


Appellant believes that it is appropriate to assume 
that each state has the same tax statute as that being 
challenged because it is often difficult to determine 
whether or not a tax imposes a burden on interstate 
commerce because other states have different types of 
taxes and rarely is one comparable to another. Further- 
more, if this Court is to sustain the validity of the 
Washington statute, it must of necessity authorize 
other states to enact similar statutes. If this were to 
oceur it is Appeliant’s contention that duplications of 
the tax would be heaped upon interstate commerce. 
The following example clearly demonstrates this to be 
the fact. 

_ Appellant, United States Steel Corporation, manu- 
factures in California and sells in interstate commerce 
to Washington customers. A competitor of United 


- 4 


States Steel Corporation manufactures similar prod- 
ucts in a plant in Washington and maintains a sales 
office in Washington to aid in the sale of its products 
to Washington customers. For the privilege of engag- 
ing in manufacturing and selling activities in Wash- 
ington the competitor of Appellant pays only one busi- 
ness and occupation tax measured by the gross pro- 
ceeds of its sales. Appellant on similar sales in inter- 
state commerce to Washington customers pays one 
such tax measured by the gross proceeds of sales to the 
State of Washington and (assuming California has the 
same tax statute) pays a tax to California similarly 
measured by the gross proceeds of sale. Thus, Appel- 
lant would pay two taxes (neither of which is appor- 
tioned) for the privilege of engaging in the same busi- 
ness activities as its local competitor; and the competi- 
tor would pay only one such tax. 


Apportionment of each of the taxes to reflect the 
value of the privilege conferred by each state would 
have the result of exacting from interstate commerce 
its fair share of all taxes but would free it from the 
burdens to which it is now exposed. 


B. Discrimination 

At Page 15 of its Motion to Dismiss, Appellee at- 
tempts to dispose of the second substantial question 
raised on this appeal by the contention that the issue 
has been determined by B. F. Goodrich v. State, 38 
Wn.2d 663, 231 P.2d 325 (1951), cert. den. 342 U.S. 876 
(1951). Appellee misinterprets the significance of a 
denial of certiorari by this Court. Such denial does 


B) 


not constitute an approval by this Court of the merits 
of the rulings made by the state court. United States v. 
Shuvert, 348 U.S. 222, 228 (1955) and Maryland v. 
Baltimore Radio Show, 338 U.S. 912, 917 (1950). Ap- 
pellant does not believe that this Court intended by its 
denial of certiorari in the Goodrich case to permit a 
state to adopt a taxing scheme which penalizes a busi- 
_ness only when the channels of interstate commerce are 
utilized in the marketing of its goods. Washington’s 
tax statute does just that, and in its Motion to Dismiss, 
Appellee has made no attempt to make a contrary 
showing. 


CONCLUSION 


It is respectfully submitted that both the isstie of ap- 
portionment and the issue of discrimination raised by 
Appellant under the commerce clause of the United 
State Constitution are substantial federal questions. 
Appellant respectfully requests that this Court enter 
an Order denying Appellee’s Motion and noting prob- 
able jurisdiction. 


Respectfully submitted, 


GEORGE V. PoWELL 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 
Attorney for Appellant. 
Of Counsel: | 
Evans, McLaren. LANE, l’oWELL & BEEEKS 
RayMmonp W. HamMaNn 
1111 Dexter Horton Building 
Seattle 4, Washington 


D. J. MCDANIEL 
120 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco 6, California 


