Vc [ha eae 


| 


“ The copy filmed hare hes been reorotuced thanks 


-to the Benerosity of 


Library of the National « : oe 
Archives of Canada : | 


} 
} 


- The imeges appearing here are-the best ac 
possible considering the condition and legibility 


of the original copy and in ee with the | 
specifications 


filming contract 


er se 


pips eslc in pri ted paper cavers 


pabhs covers are-imed 
Samecane Cth thet nt cover and ending on 
the last ‘with @ printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All — 
other original copies a tr bray abr at poth cele 
firet pepe with @ printed or iMustrated impres- ' 
~ sion, and ending on the lest page with e printed 
\. ‘or. ilustrated impression. - 
~ : | 
Ne : 


The last recorded frame on jock microfiche 
shall contain the symbol: =e (meaning ‘CON- 
TINUED”). or the ta Vv (meaning “END”), 
whichever applies. . 


" Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reddction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames es 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: none 


a 


4 


L"exeingleire films fut 4 réprodut g orice a le 
| générdsite de: - 


; Le bibliothaque des Archives : 
_— nepionsies duCanseda*” ss 
i 


Les. ieaugene pkcantad ont été erodultes: avec le 
plus.grand soin, compte teny de la condition et. \ Og 
de la netteté de l‘exempiaire filmé, et en: alive 
conformité avec les conditions du contrat bas 

eee: gates 


Les ssoviqlaes originieus dont la couverture qn 
papier est imprimée sont filmés en commencant 
per le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniére page qui comporte une empreinte 
d’impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second . 

~ plat, selon le cas. Tous.lés autres exemplaires | 
originaux sont filmés en commencant par la 
premiére page qui comporte une empreinte | 
d‘impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derniére page qui comporte une Mita 
opens. x 


” 
e 


Un dee symboles suivants appareitra sur la 


. derniére image de cheque microfiche, ae hes 


cas: le symbole —& signifie "A SUIVAS.. 
ovnooe Vv signifie “FIN”. 


Les cartes, planches, cabioni. etc. peuvent étre 
filmés @ des taux de réduction différents. , — 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour étte 

reproduit en un seul.cliché. by est /filmé a partir 


— —— 


ye 


° 


Gixeat Wiestern Mailway. 


Cf ter. 


CONDITIONS of CONTRACT for OOFFEERED GOODS WAGGONS. 


| ce eas 


GENERAL‘ DIMENSIONS. 
Length aver the Body and Frame .........0c0e006 Sodbie discos seceswee hte 
Width over the Body..... A 0 oN te ne cccescece 
Width between the Iron Side Frames ........ : 
Width between the Axle Guards ..cc.ccccccoccccssesccscccscccdesscccseccs : 
Widshsouesthesliiood-Side-Frames’...... 0... sceceeees dashes siecece et eee ae 
Width from centre of Journals; of Axles, and Bearing Springs. osaccscccscuees 

Width between cen OF Buffets vse eens oc ate-cs anu cieee 6 sees ee Guat soos 


Width between centres of Side Chainis........ce0sseePeedeenene eed Bees estoss 


HWeizht of centres of Buffers, Drag and Side Chains, from the Rails... seeseeecees 

Length of, Bearing Springs ftom centre to centre of Bearing Shoe 

Diameter of Wheels in centre of tread....... 

‘Distarice of Wheels apart, centres...... 

Length of Body inside .....cs.seccseeecsecccgefecescccerseepsieceeeges 

Width‘of Body inside +...+05 ae Aivelloses ee sewecee 

Height from floos-to-roof-inside the-enmtraits oo... ccs ee ce eenececsesccedes OO 
Heigbt-of Doors in claar-eol-vebntet ss. . ese cccec es eecs PN eee coe: ed 
Height of Floor from Rails .,.....-ssseeesreeerersectete eoecccersseese cs MOP f+ ff 


oy 


, ° 


DESCRIPTION AND MODE OF FRAMING... > 


All the wood framing eud=wteneiens are to be of ‘English Oak ; the=bent=TOOr Stites “tO De" Ur = 
The Floor and-Reof Boards, to be of red Pine. * ee | 


‘The Covering of the Sides, Ends, and Roof Slid We sheet iron, 4 Ibs. per foot super, clean, 
and free from ‘* buckles.” 


The whole of the Wood Work to be of the best Seti of their respective kinds, clean, sand; 
and free ane and ‘ shakes.” 


The iron Side Frames are to be 8 inches deep by 44 inches wide, the full leugth of the frames in, 
the vertical pact, the flange is to be cut away to udmit of the corner/stanchions bearing fully againstthe * 7 
sides. The Oak sole bars are to be 1! inches deep by 3 inches thick, tenoned into the End Framés. The 
End Frames are, to be 14 invhes deep by 44 inches thick, rebated to recéive the floor boards and iron 
panels, and merticed on to the Oak sole bars, diagonal and cenfre struts, and secured ‘by strap bolts 
outside the iron slides, and inside by bolts, and by 8 wrought iron knees, two ut each comer, and by two 
F lap plates to the centre struts, firmly screwed up as shew, » 


© The Transverse Bearers are to be I‘Iniehes deep by 44 inches thick, tenoned inte the sole bars, and 
screwed thereto by two 4 inch bed Its. at each end. . é 

~The Diggonals are to be 12 inches deep at the end bearers, 11 inches deep at the transverse bearers, 

by 3 inches thick, and tenoned/into each and secured to the End Frames by the above described ‘8 

- wrought iron knees and bolts, And to. the transverse bearers bytwo wrought i iron knees, one at each veareér, 
6 inches wide each. f oe \ 

The two’Middle Longiiadinal Struts are to be 11 inchea deep by 3:inches thick, ena fenoned into the 

oa (rangverse bearers. : 

. ST he two Central pam Struts under the draw bars are to he 3.inches deep by 3 inches thick, 

; tenoned into the end afd transversé bearers, and secured by bolts to the knees and T plates. 

The two Short Transverse Middle Beare "rs are to be-4 inches deep by 4 } inches thick, tenoned into 
the sole bars and middle longitudinal struts, ; 

The two Transverse Bars between the wheels are to be 4 inches deep by 3 inches thick, notched into 
the diagonals and bolted thereto. 

The four Short Transy: erse Bars over the wheels are to be 4 inches desp by 3 ‘inches thick, notched on 
to the sole bars and dia; zonals. 

The Axle Guards are to be clean, sound: and well made forgings of equal thickness throughout, 
except the projecting shoulder under the iron sides,) and made perfectly straight and true between the 
horns, and fixed equidistant from the centre of the draw bar, and at right angles té the plane :of the 
framing, vertically and horizontally, and bolted through the iron and oak Side Frames with cup-headed 
and square necked bolts serewed inside. j ; 

The horns are to be 74 inches between for admitting and confining the Axle Boxes ; the ends of the 
horns to be braced with straps of iron 2 inches wide by 3 inch thick, ands fastened with 4 inch square 
necked bolts. : 

The Draw Bars, Spring Loops, Coupling Chains, and Hooks and Face Plates, are.to be Stronz, : 
well and soundly forged, filed and fitted, a split cotter to be let through tlio square neck of the Draw 
~ bar, 3 inches from the end frame, to form a stop to the action of the’draw spring. The “side coupling 
_ or check chains to be attached.to the end frames by strong eye bolts, with nut, large washer, and vul- 
canized Indig rubber ting inside the bearer, tvo to have, hooks, and two to have long links at alternate 

. ¥ » 
sides, as shewn. ; 
_ The face plates for the shoulders of the draw bars and side chains, are to be of wrought iron, of 
the length and. width shewn, by | inch thick. ; 

“Two Hauling Staples to be fixed to each Wagon, one on each side, at alternate angles, and clear 
of the break lever. 

Through bolts, | inch in diameter, to be let through the frame, and screwed np with’ nuts and 
washer at each exd against the end and transverse bearers, as shewn. 

Four wrought iron plates 4 inch thick to be let:in flush, aud screwed to the floor over the centre of 
thé wheels. ; 

The Bering Spring Shocs to be-clean and well-made castings, with flanges to keep the springs in 
place, and fastened to the under side of the onk sole bar with large counter-sunk. screws. 


. THE BODY. 


The corner pillars are to be 4§ inches square, rebated on the inuer angle 14 inches each way to 


reecive the iron panels, and to be fastened bhycorner plates and bolts, and bed bolts with clip washer, as F 


shewn. The pillars on each side of the doors are to be 34 inches wide hy 3) inches thick, rebated to 
receive the doors and the iron panels, and bound at top and bottom by the door hinges. ‘The internfé 
diate stanchions of the sides and ends are to be 3 inches wide by 3 itches thick, tenoned into the top 
and bottom end frames, and secured at the bottom by strap bolts and at the top by lap plates. 


The door frames are to be two ince thick, retiated for the iron pancl, hinged and fastened with 
sliding bolts, throwing slides into the top and bottom frame, and with hasp to receive a padlock in centre. 


fo 


x 


a 


h 


5, 0 fo 


, 
a] 


am 9 Ce 


@ 
~ 


n 


¢ 
re 


* 7 ow 


The roof sticks supporting the slides te be of the size and form, and faced and stiffened with iron _ 
plates, in the manner shewn on the drawing. “The roof boards to be covered with the’ best carriage roof 
cloth, according to sample. Bevel iron bat ties to be insexted round the sides and ends to brace the ‘ oe ta 
‘pillars and stanchions and support the iron panels, and to be let through the corner pillars in a bolt end amas ro et 
and screwed up against them.. ays ; ; 2 es “a 


Each Waggon to have a break, long lever and guard rack, to work blocks on two wheels, the whole . 
to be-made of the best scrap or bar iron, and equal in finish to black engine work, and in accordance 
*  -with the drawing ; the blocks to be Willow.or Poplar, cut to. the proper template, and bolted to the See 
hanger with g inch bolts with sunk nuts. i 


2 


The iron panels to be countersynk and screwed to the framing with screws 1} inches longvby } inch 
_ diameter at the neck. ’ j : . 3 2 


*: Addregs Card Holders” to be screwed to the lower board in the centre on each side. 
a : : 


“The Buffers are to be.of an approved construction of the general size and outline: shewn, 
with wrought heads and of about eight pounds value per sét of four Buffers: ; 
“a The Draw Springs to be of the description shewn on the drawing. 
* 2 The Bearing Springs are to be 3 feet long from centre to centre of the point of bearing on the shoe, 
and 3 feet 3 inches extreme length, the point of the top plate is to be thickened and raunded where ‘it 
bears on the shoe, the back plate is to be 3 inches by-4 inch, and the 10 other plates 3 inches by j', inche~ 
All to be made from the best quality of cast spring steel, manufactured from Swedish iron, and with 
such camber as with the strain of the empty waggon shall bring thern to the form shewn on the drawing. - 
The whole of: the Springs to.be finished in the most. workmanlike manner, and proved to the straight 
under-a testing machine, : ‘ 


a The Axle Boxes are to be clean, sound, strong and well made Castings of approved pattern, with 
“ Vaucher's Patent Metal Bearings,” carefully fitted, bedded, bored, and scraped out to fit the double 
~ coned Journals. “ , oe : a ae 
The’ Gtease Box Covers are to be well jointed:in the hinges and closely fitted on the Boxes; + ‘ P| 
each cover is to have a spring to keep it from rattling. The back of the boxes is to be fitted with j 
“ Normanvilles” Patent-€ollar Washers, the grooves for the collars, and the Axle Guard Horns. are to 
be well and truly formed, and the holes for the spring clip to be rimered out trye to one uniform 


diameter. 


The Clip Bolts and Plates are to be well and neatly made and\fitted, and of ‘apprcved pgtterns, 


a 


Packings of hardwood shaped as shewn, for the top of the springs, are to be put between the, clip 
bolts and the springs, and the nuts screwed tight to keep the whdte together.’ / Toho sheen 


ie / _ pl 
Jn : 7 ~~ : : 
/THE WHEELS AND AXLES. - : 
The Axles:are to be 6 feet 4 inches long from centre to centre of the journals, by 5 inches diameter eS 


in the nave, reduced witK a gradual hollow taper to 4} inches diameter in the centre between the wheels. 
The Journals are to be 64 .inches in length, of the double coned form, 3 inches in diameter in the 
centre, and 44 inches in diameter at the shoulders. The Cones are to be turned perfectly true, of equal 
angles and diameters, and the axle to an uniform gauge of 5 inches diameter to fill the naves, and chased_ . 
to receive a J inch by @ steel key. ' 
The Wheels are to be of solid wrought iron 3 feet 6 inches in diameter at the centre of the tread. 
The Spokes are to be 9 in number 23 inches wide by 1} inch thick inside the rim, tapering t6 3} ¢ 
~ inches wide by 19 inch thick, 3} inches from, and 2 inches thick at, the nave. 


The Rim is to be 1 inch in thickness when finished, 3} inches in width on the dove-tailed periph: ry : 2: 
and 23 inches wide inside the dove-tail, and to be welded solid throwghout. 3 : 


. 
% 
. 
. 


Pe . ; fx : 8 
Tee ee 74 


The Nave is to be 64 inches in length on the Axle, by 84 inches diameter on the face, and 94 
inches diameter in the centre, sounilly welded together, clean and well formed at the Spokes, bored out 
"10 one uniform gauge of 5 inches diameier to fit the Axle + slotted opposite the end of a spoke to receive 
. rote : * the stcel key, faced on both ends, and turned to shape in the lathe up to the shoulders of the spokes, / 


The Tyres are to be 5 inches wide ‘by 1¥ inches thick in the centre of the tread when finished. 
They. are to be soundly welded and well blocked or rolled, and made true laterally on a. side ‘fece plate, 
then turned and bored out to the proper-section, as shewn by the drawings, and to an exact gauge or 
®. "= diameter, so as to fit any of the wheels (which are also to be turned to one uniform gauge ) and shrunk 
~ on and secured-thereto by ‘Gibson's Patent Annular Key Fastening.” When finished,- each :wheel 
shall balance. accurately—that is to say, the centre of gravity shall be exactly in the centre of the wheel, - 
r ‘. and such measuree“éhull be adopted (o test this as the Engineer may direct. : 


Se, 


mae \ The Axles shall be either of the Patent Shaft and Axletree Company's, or Thorneycroft and 
Company's. ae 


The Tyres shall be either Bowling Company's, Patent Shaft and Axletree ‘Company's, or Thorney- 
croft's Charcoal. 


The Wheels are to be keyed on the Axles to a standard Bauge, equidistant from the centres of the 
journals, and 4 feet $3 inches in the clear of thevinside edges of the tyres, and otherwise to fit exactly 
the standard gauge.” -The whole to be made accotding to the drawing, and to the satisfaction of. the 
Engineer. pe : 


“ts 


The Tyres, Axles, and ‘forged Skeletons, gre to be of the best materials of their respective kinds i 
The Wheels, when keyed on, are to be perfectly concentric with, and equidistant from the journals, and 
true on both edges. All Wheels, Tyres or Axles ‘proving defective in workmanship or materials, alter 
7 due trial, will be rejected, and are to be replaced at ithe expense of the manufacturer. All. necessary 
Gauges are to be provided by him, and they must be approved before being used. None of the work is 
‘to be painted until examined by the Engineer or.his Inspector;-and approved by the Engineer, 


nea 


' 
e 


PAINTING. °° ([\_ 
The whole of the wood work outside and underneath to be painted with threé, Coats of oil colour, 
of a brown. shade of approved description, ye ; , ye 
4 cae E e 
All the iron work, including the wheels and axles, to be painted with two coats of black. 
The Company's Initials, the of the Whegof, the load to be carried by it, and its number, to~ 
be painted on each side, in large letters and figures, to Correspond with the rest of the Company's 
Waggons. ° ; 


eee _ GENERALLY. . 


The whole of the materials and ‘workmanship 
\ kinds, and in strict accordance with the form, arran 


shall be of the best description of their respective 
gement and intent of the drawings and Specification. 
_ The Manufacturer is immediately to prepare a complete set of full sized working drawings of “the 
several detail. parts for the Engineer to examine, and if approved, to sign, and duplicate copies of the 
same to be retained by the Engineer, and should arly deviation from such drawings be discovered in‘the 


¢ ‘articles when executed, ‘such articles will be rejected, unless such deviation shall have been previopsly 
sanctioned by the Engineer in writing. @ _ - ; 


The Manufacturer is to pay all Pgtent Rizht and Royalties which may, be due to any Patentee or 

other persons, so as to relieve the Company from all claims in respect of any costs beyond the contract 

a) Rrice. , i ¢ fs 
No advantage is to be taken of any omission of detail in this Specification, or in the drawings, ian / : 

full explanation will be given should uny part not be sufficiently described, shewn, or understood, Ye 


¥ 


: 
2 ee 


ii 
> 


poate © PATE PS ‘ i ‘ s r Feb 
Ditteenr ess moccasin cr en een ee Diserves womens aga taeoesnenen na reais atinmbeseeeee tetas cena TT oe 
in ike eA * é ; s 


| the face, and 94 
} Spokes, bored out 
f a spoke to receive 
8 of the spokes, / 
ead when finished. 
n w side ‘face plate, 
an exact gauge or 
kauge ) and shrunk 
tished,- each - wheel 
entre of the wheel, - 


oe 


Thorneycroft and 
any’s, or Thorney- 7 


) the centres of the 
Twise to fit exactly : 
satisfaction of the _ 4 


r respective kinds : 
the journals, and 

or materials, after 

er. All. necessary 

ne of the work is 
ngineer, 


ees 


oats of oil colour, 
x 


zoe 
zy 


Fs 
black. 


ind its number, 16 o 
of the Cone 


f their respective 
and Specification. ' 


drawings of’ the 
ate copies of the 
liscovered inthe 
| been previoysly 


any Patentee or 
nd the contract 


n f, 
; 


the drawings, jas 
derstood. v ae 


’ 
7 


’ 
’ 


, On payment of the | price fixed for each, for the last year of the said term. 


= 


COMPLETION AND CONDITIONS. 

The parties tendering are to fill in the numbers of the first, and subseqac nt deliveries, ant the times 

at which they will undertake to complete, and. deliver them respectively, ae 
The whole of the work embraced by this Contract is to be completed, and the Waggons delivered, 

on or before, the day of: 1857. The first delivery of 
to be made on, or before the ¥ day of » and the 
remainder in equal numbers ger week afterwards, until the completion. And should the -Manufacturer 
fail go to deliver all the Wagzons by such date, he shall allow to the Company, by way of diminution in- 
price, a sum per week, equal to one half per cent, on the value of the Waygons in: arrear, and for each 
week after such day of pe . 1857, until the Wagzons shall 

be delivered, 

, The Tender shall state the price per Wag-on, delivered free on “the Company's (Narrow Gauge) 
Rails under each description of Axles, and Tyres, such price to be the purchase price at the’ times of 
delivery, if the Directors shall so elect, and it shall also be the basis for ap agreement, to let the Waggons 


"on hire fer a fixed term of years, with the option to the Company of purchase at the expiration of any 


year during such term, after having given 6 month's notice to the Contractor, ata fixed, price each, for 
each -year. 
\ , 
The Tender shatl ulso state the Amount of Yearly Rent for each Waggon, under the separate 
heads, including all repairs ; at which the Contractor will agree tu’ let them to the Company. 


The Waygons to become the property of the Company at the expiration of the je ngreat term, at, aod 


e 


| 


Faleeah stm =) 


ee. 


aan? me 


GREAT WESTERN RAILWAY. 


TENDER FOR « COVERED WAGGONS. “ 


To the Directors of the Great Western Railway Company, 
GexrerMen, ; oe 


: I, or We, 


OF reac el : ~ offer_to supply you with 
Geet Wagzons with-Hepper-Bottome, manufactured and delivered in accordance with the foregoing 
Specification, the drawings. therein referred to, and’ Stipulations contained in the ‘ Conditions of 


Contract,” delivered free on the Company's Narrow Gauge Rails, in the numbers, and on or before the // 


dates, entered by in the foregoing Conditions, viz.—The first tlelivery of . ° Waggons, 
to be made on, or before the day of j “1857, and the remainder in equal 
numbers per week afterwards, until the completion, on’ or before day of ; 

1857, with either of the following description of Axis, saa es at the following prices per Waggon, 
for each respectively, as the purchase prices on delivery, or as the basis on which we aera to let the 
Wagyon“tipon hire, for a term of years. 


We shall also be prepared to furnish two satisfactory sureties, to join with ourselves in a bond, for an 
amount equal fo 10 per cent upon the gross- amount of the uccepted Teas comlitaeed on the due 
fulfilment of this Contract. — ‘ 


o 


AC. No. Kk No.2 | Nos. No. 1. No. 2. No. 3 


Price ner Way agree. Price. ner Wagzon ||Price per Waggon. 

with Bowling with Patent ft, woth rn Amount ot Rent, Aroooat at Rent, Amount of Rent, 

and Patent Shalt, riCo."e paieat Asles, |Anles, ane yer angem, 

Thormeyerait at Co's) and® Be Tyres. ‘barcoal Trou Tyree! eer ail repair |metading al repairs tmetuding ul i repal 
£ |e 4, || 8) 4. & 8 a 7 oe 

Ate cone 


On delivery ....+++ siaele 


At expiration of ] year... 


4 


PAYMENT, 


~ Payment to be made by the Company, if the Waggons are agreed to be purchased on delivery, 


within months after date of delivery, and Certificate of their completion, in accord. - 
ance with the Contract, If agreed for the Waggons to'be.takén on_ hire, payment of the rent to be 
made by the Company, every months. ‘ 


ee OFC | oe ) day of | 3 a 1857. 


Signature, 


MAM ee Wed way? 


v 


