

m i ■ n " 

_ __| | | 11| | -- 








































FORD MANUAL 


1 


For Owners and Operators 
of Ford Cars 


Copyrighted 

by 

Ford Motor Company 
All rights reserved 


Published by 

Ford Motor Company 

Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A. 

1914 
















Foreword 



I T is a significant fact that nearly all Ford cars 
are driven by laymen—by owners, who in 
the great majority of cases have little or no 
practical experience with things mechanical. 

The simplicity of the Ford car and the easiness 
with which it is operated renders an intimate 
knowledge of mechanical technicalities unneces¬ 
sary for its operation. 

And the further fact that there are nearly 
six thousand Ford service stations distributed 
throughout the civilized world—where adjust¬ 
ments and repairs may be had with no annoying 
delay—gives to Ford owners a singular freedom 
from mechanical annoyances which beset owners 
of cars having limited service facilities and dis¬ 
tribution. 

But while it is not imperative, it is, however, 
altogether desirable that every Ford owner 
should thoroughly understand his car. With such 
knowledge at his command he is always master 
of the situation—he will maintain his car more 
economically—prolong its usefulness—and he 
will also derive more pleasure from it, for it is a 
truism that the more one knows about a thing 
the more one enjoys it. 

The mastery of a thorough knowledge of Ford 
construction is by no means a difficult or time- 
consuming task. The Ford is the simplest car 
made. It is easy to understand. And it is not 
difficult to keep in proper adjustment and repair. 

That the Ford construction may be thoroughly 
understood—and that there may be an authorita¬ 
tive guide for the making of Ford adjustments— 
this book is published. 


2 


The Car and its Operation 


Answer No. 1 

What are The first great division is that of the 

the principal parts body and the chassis. _ It must be 
ef the Ford Car ? understood that the body is really quite 
separate from the car itself. The mechanism proper- 
including the running gear and all that goes to propel an 
control it—is designated as “the chassis. To the chassis 
any type of Ford body may be attached—and it may be 
operated independent of the body. Fold cars may have 
different bodies to meet different needs. But all Model T 
chasses are essentially the same. Cut No. 2 shows a top 
view of the chassis. 

Answer No. 2 

What are There are four—(1) the power plant; 

the principal parts (2) the front axle assembly; (3) the rear 
of the Chassis? ax l e assembly; (4) the frame assembly. 
Each of these parts is a separate constructional unit- 
complete in itself—and will be treated as such throughout 
this book. The four constructional parts combined maice 
up the chassis entire. 

Answer No. 3 

What is The motor and all that goes to com- 

the Power Plant? plete it—including, (1) the transmis¬ 
sion; (2) the gasoline system; (3) the ignition system; 
(4) the oiling system; (5) the cooling system. 

Answer No. 4 

What is the That part of the chassis which is not 

Running Gear ? included m the term power plant, it 
includes, (1) the wheels; (2) the frame; (3) the springs; 








The Ford chassis—top view, which is identical in all Model T’s. 
(Cut No. 2) 


THE CAR AND ITS OPERATION 


5 


(4) the front and rear axle systems, and (5) the steering 
apparatus. The power plant plus the running gear make 
up the completed chassis—and the chassis plus the body 
and equipment make up the completed car. 

Answer No. 5 

What about The ten-gallon gasoline tank should be 

Gasoline? filled—nearly full—and the supply 

should never be allowed to get low. Strain the gasoline 
through chamois skin, to prevent water and other foreign 
substances from getting into the tank. Dirt or water in 
the gasoline is sure to cause trouble. When filling the 
tank, extinguish all lamps, throw away your cigar, and be 
sure that there are no naked flames within several feet, as 
the vapor is extremely volatile and travels rapidly. Al¬ 
ways be careful about lighting matches pear where gasoline 
has been spilled, as the air within a radius of several feet is 
permeated with the highly explosive vapor. The small 
vent hole in the gasoline tank cap should not be allowed 
to get plugged up, as this would prevent proper flow of 
the gasoline to the carburetor. The gasoline tank may be 
drained by opening the pet cock in the sediment bulb 
at the bottom. 

Answer No. 6 

How about Upon receipt of the car see that a sup- 

the Oiling System ? ply Q f medium light, high-grade gas 
engine oil is poured into the crank case through the breather 
pipe at the front of the engine (a brass cap covers it). 
Down under the car in the flywheel casing (the reservoir 
which holds this oil) you will find two pet cocks. Pour 
oil in slowly until it runs out of the upper cock. Leave 
the cock open until it stops running—then close it. After 
the engine has become thoroughly limbered up, the best 
results will be obtained by carrying the oil at a level mid¬ 
way between the two cocks—but under no circumstances 
should it be allowed to get below the lower cock. All 





























































6 


THE FORD MANUAL 


other parts of the car are properly oiled when it leaves the 
factory. However, it will be well to see that all grease 
cups are filled and that oil is supplied to necessary parts 
(see Cut No. 28, also chapter on Lubrication.) 


Answer No. 7 

What must be doneBti ore trying to start the car, fill the 
before starting radiator (by removing cap at top) with 
the Car? clean, fresh water. If perfectly clean 

water cannot be obtained it is advisable to strain it through 
muslin or other similar material to prevent foreign matter 
from getting in and obstructing the small tubes of the ra¬ 
diator. The system will hold a little more than three 
gallons. It is important that the car should not be run 
under its own power unless the water circulating system 
has been filled. Pour in the water until you are sure that 
both radiator and cylinder water jackets are full. The 
water will run out of the overflow pipe onto the ground 
when the entire water system has been properly filled. 
During the first few days that a new car is being driven it 
is a good plan to examine the radiator frequently and see 
that it is kept properly filled. The water supply should 
be replenished as often as may be found necessary. Soft 
rain water, when it is to be had in a clean state, is su¬ 
perior to hard water, which may contain alkalies and other 
salts which tend to deposit sediment and clog the radiator. 
(See chapter on Cooling System.) 

Answer No. 8 


Hozv are Spark andUnder the steering wheel are two 
Throttle Levers small brass levers. The right-hand 
a ' (throttle) lever controls the amount of 

mixture (gasoline and air) which goes into the engine. 
When the engine is in operation, the farther this lever is 
moved downward toward the driver (referred to as “open¬ 
ing the throttle”) the faster the engine runs and the greater 


THE CAR AND ITS OPERATION 


7 


the power furnished. The left-hand lever controls the 
spark, which explodes the gas in the cylinders of the engine. 
The advancing of this lever “advances the spark,” and it 
should be moved down notch by notch until the motor 
seems to reach its maximum speed. If the lever is ad¬ 
vanced beyond this point a dull knock will be noticed in 
the engine. (See chapter onTgnition.) 



The Ford steering wheel arrangement. (Cut No. 3) 


Answer No. 9 

Where should The spark lever should usually be put 
these levers be J n about the third or fourth notch of 
when the Engine the q lia drant (the notched half-circle 
is ready to crank on w ] T i c h the levers operate). The 
throttle should usually be opened about five or six notches. 
A little experience will soon teach you where these levers 
should be placed for proper starting. Care should be taken 
not to advance the spark lever too far, as the engine may 
“back kick.” 























8 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 10 


What else is First, see that the hand lever, which 

necessary before come s up through the floor of the car 

Engine ? ^ at t * ie t ^ ie dri ver > is pulled back 

as far as^it will go. The lever in this 
position holds the clutch in neutral and engages the hub 
brake, thus preventing the car moving forward when the 
engine is started. Second, after inserting the switch key 
in the switch on the coil box, throw the switch lever as far 
to the left as it will go—to the point marked “magneto.” 
This switch connects the magneto with the engine. The 
engine can’t be started until it is on—and the throwing off 
of this switch stops the engine. The next step is to crank 
the engine. 


Answer No. 11 

How is the By the lifting of the starting crank at 

Engine cranked? the front of the car. Take hold of the 
handle and push firmly towards the car till you feel the 
crank ratchet engage, then lift upward with a quick swing. 
With a little experience this operation will become an easy 
matter. Don’t, as a usual thing, crank downward against 
the compression—for then an early explosion may drive 
the handle vigorously backward. This does not mean, 
however, that it is not advisable, when the car is hard to 
start, to occasionally “spin” the engine by the use of the 
starting handle—but be sure the spark lever is retarded 
when spinning or cranking the engine against compression, 
otherwise a sudden back-fire may injure the arm of the 
operator. 


When the engine is cool it is advisable to prime the 
carburetor by pulling on the small wire at the lower left 
corner of the radiator while giving the engine two or three 
quarter turns with the starting handle. 


THE CAR AND ITS OPERATION 


9 


Answer No. 12 

Hoiv is the Engine As gasoline does not vaporize readily 
best started in i n co ld weather it is naturally more 

cold weather? difficult to start the motor under such 

conditions. The usual method of starting the engine 
when cold is to turn the carburetor dash adjustment one- 
quarter turn to the left (See Cut No. IS) in order to allow a 
richer mixture of gasoline to be drawn into the cylinders, 
then hold out the priming rod, which projects through the 
radiator, while you turn crank from six to eight one-quarter 
turns in quick succession. Another method of starting a 
troublesome cold engine is as follows: Before you throw 
on the magneto switch, (1) close throttle lever; (2) hold 
out priming rod while you give crank several quick turns, 
then let go of priming rod (being careful that it goes back 
all the way); (3) place spark lever in about third notch and 
advance throttle lever several notches; (4) throw on switch 
(being sure to get it on side marked “Magneto”); (S) give 
crank one or two turns, and the motor should start. After 
starting the motor it is advisable to advance the spark 
eight or ten notches on the quadrant and let the motor run 
until thoroughly heated up. If you start out with a cold 
motor you will not have much power and are liable to 
“stall.” The advantage of turning on the switch last, 
or after priming, is that when you throw on the switch and 
give the crank one-quarter turn, you have plenty of gas in 
the cylinders to keep the motor running,thereby eliminating 
the trouble of the motor starting and stopping. After motor is 
warmed up turn carburetor adjustment backone-quarter turn. 

To facilitate starting many drivers make a practice of 
stopping their engine by walking around in front of the car 
and pulling out on the priming rod, which has the effect of 
shutting off the air suction and filling the cylinder full of a 
very rich gasoline vapor. This should not be done unless 
the car is going to stand over night or long enough to cool 
off. If the motor is stopped in this way and then started 
when hot, starting is apt to be difficult on account of the 
surplus gasoline in the carburetor. 
















r 



The Ford control is simple—all at the driver’s hand. (Cut No. 4) 


THE CAR AND ITS OPERATION 


11 


Answer No. 13 

How do the Foot The first one towards the left, marked 
Pedals operate? “C, M operates the clutch and by it the 
car is started and its operation largely controlled. When 
pressed forward the clutch pedal engages the low speed 
gear. When half-way forward the gears are in neutral 
(i. e., disconnected from the driving mechanism of the rear 
wheels), and, with the hand lever thrown forward, the 
releasing of this pedal engages the high-speed clutch. The 
center pedal, marked “R/* operates the reverse clutch. 
The right-hand pedal, marked “B,” operates the trans¬ 
mission brake. 

Answer No. 14 

What function Its chief purpose is to hold the clutch 
does Hand Lever to neutral. If it were not for this lever 
perform? the driver would have to stop his 

engine when he got out of his car—for there would be no 
means of holding the clutch so that the engine might run 
free. This lever must always be in a vertical position 
when the car is at rest—in starting—and reversing. Pulled 
back as far as it will go, it acts as an emergency brake by 
expanding the hub brake shoes within the rear wheel drums. 
Care should be taken not to pull back the hand lever too 
far when the car is to be reversed—it should merely come 
back far enough to hold the clutch in neutral. And it should 
always be pushed well forward when the car is under way 
or the clutch will slip when in high gear. 

Answer No. 15 

How is the Car Slightly accelerate the engine by open- 
started? ing the throttle, place the foot on the 

clutch pedal, and thereby hold the gears in a neutral posi¬ 
tion while throwing the hand lever forward; then to start 
the car in motion, press the pedal forward into slow speed 
and when under sufficient headway (20 to 30 feet), allow 
the pedal to drop back slowly into high speed, at the same 
































time partially closing the throttle, which will allow the 
engine to pick up its load easily. With a little practice 
the change of speeds will be easily accomplished, and with¬ 
out any appreciable effect on the smooth running of the 
machine. 

Answer No. 16 

How is the Car Partially close the throttle; release the 
stopped7 hjgk S p e ed by pressing the clutch pedal 

forward into neutral; apply the foot brake slowly but firmly 
until the car comes to a dead stop. Do not remove foot 
from the clutch pedal without first pulling the hand lever 
back to neutral position, or the engine will stall. To stop 
the motor, open the throttle a trifle to accelerate the motor 
and then throw off the switch. The engine wffl then stop 
with the cylinders full of explosive gas, which will naturally 
facilitate starting. 

Endeavor to so familiarize yourself with the operation 
of the car that to disengage the clutch and apply the brake 
becomes practically automatic—the natural thing to do in 
case of emergency. 

Answer No. 17 

How is the Car mus t be brought to a dead stop. 

reversed s With the engine running, disengage 

the clutch with the hand lever and press the reverse pedal 
forward with the left foot, the right foot being free to use 
on the brake pedal if needed. Do not bring the hand lever 
back too far or you will set the brakes on rear wheels. 
Experienced drivers ordinarily reverse the car by simply 
holding the clutch pedal in neutral with the left foot, and 
operating the reverse pedal with the right. 

Answer No. 18 

How is the Spark gy the left-hand lever under the steer- 
ing wheel. Good operators drive with 
the spark lever advanced just as far as the engine will per¬ 
mit. But if the spark is advanced too far a dull knock 


THE CAR AND ITS OPERATION 


13 


will be heard in the motor, due to the fact tfiat the explo¬ 
sion occurs before the piston in the engine has completed 
its compression stroke. The best results are obtained 
when the spark occurs just at the time that piston reaches 
its highest point of travel—the gas being then at its highest 
point of compression. The spark should only be retarded 
when the engine slows down on a heavy road or steep grade, 
but care should be exercised not to retard the spark too 
far, for when the spark is “late,” instead of getting a 
powerful explosion, a slow burning of the gas, with exces¬ 
sive heat, will result. Learn to operate the spark as the 
occasion demands. The greatest economy in gasoline 
consumption is obtained by driving with the spark ad¬ 
vanced sufficiently to obtain the maximum speed. 

Answer No. 19 

How is speed of The different speeds required to meet 
Car controlled 7 road conditions are obtained by open¬ 
ing or closing the throttle. Practically all. the running 
speeds needed for ordinary travel are obtained on high 
gear, and it is seldom necessary to use the low gear except 
to give the car momentum in starting. The speed of the 
car may be temporarily slackened in driving through 
crowded traffic, turning corners, etc., by “slipping the 
clutch,” i. e., pressing the clutch pedal forward into 
neutral. 

Answer No. 20 

Does speeding Excessive speed harms any car—par- 
hurt the Cart ticularly a new one. The Ford has all 
the power and speed necessary for safe and comfortable 
travel. It will hold its pace with any car on the highway 
and outdistance practically all on the up grade. But ex¬ 
cessive speed is expensive—it shortens the life of both tires 
and machinery—besides, it’s dangerous. The best car 
made will not long withstand the strain of unreasonable 


/ 












14 


THE FORD MANUAL 


driving. Racing cars are short-lived. Also—the engine 
should not be allowed to race—(i. e., run at high speed 
when the car is standing). 

Answer No. 21 

Is it advisable for The Ford is the simplest of all cars. 
owners to Most of the ordinary adjustments an 

make their ozvn owner will soon learn to make for him- 
Adiustmentsi se if, But we most strongly recommend 
that when it becomes necessary to employ the services 
of a mechanic, the car be taken to a Ford mechanic— 
one of our own representatives who thoroughly under¬ 
stands the car—and who will have no motive for running 
up useless repair bills. The entire Ford organization is 
interested in keeping every individual Ford car in constant 
operation—at the lowest possible cost. We have known 
of much damage done to many cars by unskilled repair 
men. 

Answer No. 22 

What attention Remember that a new machine re- 
does the Car need ? q U i res more careful attention during 
the first few days it is being driven than after the parts 
have become thoroughly “worked in.” The car which is 
driven slowly and carefully when new usually gives the 
most satisfactory service in the end. Never start out 
with your car until you are sure that it has plenty of oil 
and water. Frequently inspect the running gear. See 
that no unnecessary play exists in either front or rear 
wheels, and that all bolts and nuts are tight. Make a 
practice of taking care of every repair or adjustment as 
soon as its necessity is discovered. This attention re¬ 
quires but little time and may avoid delay or possible 
accident on the road. 

We aim to deliver the car in proper mechanical ad¬ 
justment. Afterwards it is plainly the duty of the driver 
to keep it in that condition. 


The Ford Engine 


Answer No. 23 

What is the Gasoline when mixed with air and com- 

principle of the pressed is highly explosive. An explosion 
gasoline-driven [$ a violent expansion caused by instan- 
Engine? taneous combustion of confined gases. 

In the gasoline engine the mixture is drawn into a cylinder, 
where it is compressed by an advancing piston and then 
exploded by an electric spark, which sends the piston 
violently downward, and through the connecting rod im¬ 
parts a rotary motion to the crank shaft. (See Cut No. 6.) 


Answer No. 24 

What are the The Ford motive power is derived from 
principal parts of what is known as an L block, four-cycle 
the Ford Engine? and four-cylinder, poppet valve motor 
(or engine). Its stationary parts are, (1) the cylinders, 
(2) the crank case. The working parts are, (1) the pistons, 
(2) the connecting rods, (3) the crank shaft, (4) the fly¬ 
wheel, (S) the valves, cam shaft and time gears. 


Answer No. 25 

What is meant The word “cycle” as it is applied to a 
by the term gas motor refers to a series of events 

“Four-Cycle which are repeated in regular order— 

Engine”Y and applies to the ideal type of auto¬ 

mobile motor. In the Ford motor, four operations are 
required to complete the series. These operations are, (1) 
suction, (2) compression, (3) explosion, (4) exhaust (see 
Cut No. 6). These are repeated in regular order in each 
of the four cylinders. The piston moves downward during 
the explosion and intake strokes ; it moves upward during 
the compression and again during the exhaust. The 
piston receives an impulse (i.enforce of an explosion) once 
in every two revolutions. 


15 















THE FORD ENGINE 


17 


Answer No. 26 

What are func- On the downward stroke the suction of 
tions of the the pj s ton draws the fresh gas from the 

carburetor, through the inlet pipe and 
valve, into the cylinder. The upward movement of the 
piston compresses the gas into a very small space, between 
the top of the piston and the depression in the cylinder 
head, known as the “combustion chamber.” (The com¬ 
pressed gases exert a pressure of approximately 60 pounds 
per square inch.) At this point the electric spark, gen¬ 
erated by the magneto, explodes the gases—driving the 
piston downward—thus producing the power which turns 
the crank shaft. On the next stroke upward the piston 
drives the exploded gas out through the exhaust valve 
and pipe to the muffler. The accompanying cut shows 
clearly the relative positions of the pistons and valves 
during the different strokes. 

Answer No. 27 

Why are Piston Three spring-like rings are fitted into 
Rings necessary ? g r00 ves around the head of each 

piston. Their purpose is to prevent any part of the gas 
charge under compression from escaping past the pistons— 
and thus lessening the force of the explosion. Without 
these rings it would be impossible to fit the pistons snug 
enough in the cylinders to prevent the gas from escaping, 
without causing undue friction of the piston against the 
cylinder walls. The expansion of the piston ring reduces 
this friction to a minimum, and still prevents any loss of 
power through a leakage of gas. 

These rings are sufficiently elastic to allow of their being 
sprung over the piston in case it should be necessary to 
replace one. As the friction is practically all on the piston 
rings, renewing the piston casting on account of wear is 
seldom necessary. 


















































































THE 'FORD ENGINE 19 


Answer No. 28 

Connecting Rod It ; s a Vanadium steel rod, connecting 
piston and crank shaft. Should the 
babbit bearing become worn, or burned out through lack 
of oil, a knocking in the engine will result—in which case 
the entire connecting rod should be replaced. To make this 
replacement, (1) drain oil from crank case; (2) take off 
cylinder head; (3) remove detachable plate on bottom of 
crank case; (4) disconnect connecting rod from crank 
shaft; (S) take piston and rod out through top of cylinder. 


Answer No. 29 

What is the Valve One intake and one exhaust valve are 
Arrangement? located in each cylinder. The former 
admits the fresh gas drawn from the carburetor through 
the inlet pipe—the latter permits the exploded gas to be 
driven out through the exhaust pipe. The valves are 
alternately opened and closed by the cams on the cam 
shaft striking against push rods which in turn lift the valves 
from their seats. 



Top of cylinder casting—showing order in which the cylinders 
explode—also the valve arrangement. (Cut No. 7) 





























































































20 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 30 

Hozv are the When the car leaves the factory the 

Valves timedY valves are accurately timed. The 

necessity for re-timing seldom occurs, unless the cam shaft 
or time gear should be removed in overhauling the engine. 
If the cam shaft is removed for any reason, care must be 
taken to replace it, so that the tooth of the small time 
gear, indicated by a zero mark on the small gear, will 
mesh between the two teeth of the large time gear at the 
zero mark indicated on the large gear. In assembling 
the cam shaft to the large time gear, see that the first 
exhaust cam point is in the opposite direction from the 
zero mark on the gear. Diagram No. 8 shows the proper 
setting of the valves. 





PISTON 


C0NNFCT1N& ROD 

SET O 

MARKS 

TOGETHER 


CRANK SHAFT 


How the Ford timing gears are adjusted to obtain proper 
setting of the valves. (Cut No. 8) 


THE FORD ENGINE 


21 


Answer No. 31 

What about the They seldom get out of order—but 
care of the Valves? they do get dirty, as a result of carbon 
collecting on the valve seats. These carbon deposits, 
by preventing proper closing of the valves, permit the 
gases under compression to escape, resulting in loss of 
power and uneven running of the motor. If, when turning 
the engine over slowly, there is a lack of resistance in 
one or more cylinders, it is probable that the valves need 
re-grinding. As the “life” of the engine depends largely 
upon the proper seating of the valves, it is necessary that 
they be ground occasionally. 


Answer No. 32 

How are Valves (1) Drain radiator; (2) remove cylinder 
removed for head; (3) remove the two valve covers 

grinding ? on the right side of engine; (4) raise 

the valve spring with lifting tool (see Cut No. 9) and pull 



How the valve lifting tool should be used. (Cut No. 9) 


LIFTING 


SWUNG 















































22 


THE FORD MANUAL 


out the little pin under the valve seat. The valve may 
then be lifted out by the head—preparatory to grinding. 


Answer No. 33 


How are Valves 
ground? 


For this work use a good grinding 
paste of ground glass and oil—pro¬ 
curable from auto supply houses. A convenient way is 
to put a small amount in a suitable dish, adding a spoonful 

or two of kerosene and 
a few drops of lubri¬ 
cating oil to make a 
thin paste. 

Place the mixture 
sparingly on the bevel 
face of the valve. Put 
the valve in position 
on the valve seat, and 
rotate it back and 
forth (about a quarter 
turn) a few times, 
with a Ford grinding 
tool. Then lift slightly 
from the seat, change 
the position and con¬ 
tinue the rotation, and 
keep on repeating this operation until the bearing surface 
is smooth and bright. The valve should not be turned 
through a complete rotation, as this is apt to cause 
scratches running around the entire circumference of the 
valve and seat. When the grinding is completed the valve 
should be removed from the cylinder, thoroughly washed 
with kerosene, and the valve seat wiped out thoroughly. 
Extreme care should be taken that no abrasive substance 
gets into the cylinders or valve guides. This can be avoided 
if the grinding paste is applied sparingly to the bevel face 
of the valve. 





THE FORD ENGINE 


23 



If the valve seat is worn badly or seamed, It is best to 
have it reseated with a valve seating tool. This operation 
requires considerable skill, and perhaps had better be done 
by an expert mechanic. Care should be exercised against 
making too deep a cut,necessitating the retiming of the valve. 


Answer No. 34 

Wh J*L th ?Z alves When the valves or push rods be¬ 
ar » c ? me t WOrn ’ so as to leave too much 

rf . N , H Play between them, thus reducing the 
hit of the valves and diminishing the power of the motor 
it is best to replace the push rods with new ones. The 
clearance between the push rod and the valve stem should 
never be greater than nor less than If the 

clearance is greater, the valve will open late and close 







































24 


THE FORD MANUAL 


( 


early, resulting in uneven running of the motor. If the 
clearance is less than there is danger of the valve 
remaining partially open all the time. If replacing the 
push rod does not give the proper clearance, the valve 
should also be replaced. We do not recommend drawing 
out the valve stem, as the operation requires experience 
and the price of the new part does not warrant the time 
and expense necessary to properly do the work. 


Answer No. 35 

What about the When the valves fail to seat themselves 
Valve Springs? properly, there is a possibility that the 
springs may be weak or broken. A weak inlet spring 
would probably not affect the running of the engine, but 
weakness in the exhaust valve spring causes a very un¬ 
even action, which is difficult to locate. The symptoms 
are a lag in the engine due to the exhaust valve not 
closing instantaneously, and as a result a certain percentage 
of the charge under compression escapes, greatly dimin¬ 
ishing the force of the explosion. Weakness in a valve 
spring can usually be detected by the following method: 
Remove the plate which encloses them at the side of the 
cylinder and insert a screw driver between the coils of 
the spring while the engine is running. If the extra tension 
thus produced causes the engine to pick up speed, the 
spring is obviously weak and should be replaced with a 
new one. 

Answer No. 36 

What causes There are several causes, which may be 

9 iU enumerated as follows: (1) carbon 
the Engine? knock—which is by far the most 

common—resulting from carbonizing of cylinders; (2) 
knock caused by a too advanced spark; (3) connecting 
rod knock; (4) crank shaft main bearing knock; (5) knock 
due to loose-fitting piston or broken ring; (6) knock 


L 


THE FORD ENGINE 


25 


caused by the piston striking the cylinder head gasket. 
When the engine knocks from any cause whatsoever, the 
matter should be promptly investigated by an experienced 
mechanic and the difficulty corrected. 


Answer No. 37 

How may the dif- (1) The carbon knock is a clear, hollow 
ferent Knocks be sound, most noticeable in climbing 
ngw e . sharp grades, particularly when the 
engine is heated. It is also indicated by a sharp rap im¬ 
mediately on advancing the throttle. (2) Too advanced 
spark will be indicated by a dull knock in the motor. 
(3) The connecting rod knock sounds like the distant 
tapping of steel with a small hammer, and is readily dis¬ 
tinguished when the car is allowed to run idly down 
grade—or upon speeding the car to twenty-five miles an 
hour, then suddenly closing the throttle, the tapping 
will be very distinct. .(4) The crank shaft main bearing 
knock can be distinguished, when the car is going uphill, 
as a dull thud. (5) The loose piston knock is heard only 
upon suddenly opening the throttle, when the sound pro¬ 
duced might be likened to a rattle. The remedies for 
these knocks are treated under their proper division. 


Answer No. 38 


How is carbon 
removed from 
Combustion 
Chamber f 


First, drain the water off by opening 
the pet cock at the bottom of the radi¬ 
ator; then disconnect the wires at the 
top of the motor and also the radiator 
connection attached to the radiator. Remove the 15 cap 
screws which hold the cylinder head in place. Take off 
the cylinder head and, with a putty knife or screw driver, 
scrape from the cylinder an<J piston heads the carbon- 
ized matter, being careful to prevent the specks of carbon 
from getting into the cylinders or bolt holes. In replacing the 










26 


THE FORD MANUAL 


cylinder head gasket turn the motor over so that No. 1 and 
No. 4 pistons are at top center; place the gasket in position 
over the pistons and then put the cylinder head in place. 
Be sure and draw the cylinder head bolts down evenly 
(i. e., give each bolt a few turns at a time); do not tighten 
them on one end before drawing them up at the other. 


Answer No, 39 

How are Spark After removing the plug from, the 
Plugs cleaned? engine the points may be cleaned with 

an old tooth brush dipped in gasoline. However, in 
order to do the work thoroughly, the plug should be taken 
apart by securing the large hexagon steel shell in a vise 
and loosening the pack nut which holds the porcelain 
in place. The carbon deposits can then be easily removed 
from the porcelain and shell with a small knife. Care 
should be exercised not to scrape off the glazed surface 
of the porcelain, otherwise it will be apt to carbonize 
quickly. The porcelain and other parts should finally 
be washed in gasoline and wiped dry with a cloth. 

In assembling the plug care should be taken to see 
that the pack nut is not tightened too much so as to crack 
the porcelain, and the distance between the sparking 
points should be ^ ", about the thickness of a smooth dime. 

Dirty plugs usually result from an excess of oil being 
carried in the crank case—or from using oil of poor quality. 


Answer No . 40 

How is the Power (i) Drain the water out of the radiator 
from *Car? Ve and disconnect radiator hose; 

(2) disconnect the radiator stay rod 
which holds it to the dash;. 

(3) take out the two bolts which fasten the radiator to 
the frame and take radiator off; 


THE FORD ENGINE 


27 


(4) disconnect the dash at the two supporting brackets 
which rest on the frame; 

(5) loosen the steering post bracket, fastened to the 
frame, when the dash and steering gear may be removed 
as one assembly—the wires first having been disconnected; 

(6) take out the bolts holding the front radius rods in 
the socket underneath the crank case; 

(7) remove the four bolts at the universal joint; 

(8) remove pans on either side of cylinder casting and 
turn off gasoline, disconnect feed pipe from carburetor; 

(9) disconnect exhaust manifold from exhaust pipe by 
unscrewing large brass pack nut; 

(10) take out the two cap screws which hold the crank 
case to the front frame; 

(11) remove the bolts which hold the crank case arms to 
the frame at the side. Then pass a rope through the opening 
between the two middle cylinders and tie in a loose knot. 
Through the rope pass a “2x4,” or a stout iron pipe about 
ten feet long, and let a man hold each end; let a third man 
take hold of the starting crank handle, when the whole 
power plant can be lifted from the car to the work bench 
for adjustment. 

Answer No, 41 

Connecting Rod Connecting rod bearings may be ad- 
Bearings how justed, without taking out the engine, 
by the following method: (1) drain off 
the oil; (2) remove plate- on bottom of crank case—ex¬ 
posing connecting rods; (3) take off first connecting rod 
cap, and draw-file the ends—a very little at a time; 

(4) replace cap, being careful to see that punch marks 
correspond, and tighten bolts until it fits shaft snugly; 

(5) test tightness of bearing by turning engine over by 
the starting handle. Experienced mechanics usually de¬ 
termine when the bearing is properly fitted by lightly 









28 


THE FORD MANUAL 


tapping each side of the cap with a hammer; (6) then loosen 
the bearing and proceed to fit the other bearings in the 
same manner; (7) after each bearing has been properly 
fitted and tested—then tighten the cap bolts and the work 
is finished. 

Remember, there is a possibility of getting the bearings 
too tight, and under such conditions the babbitt is apt to 
cut out quickly, unless precaution is taken to run the motor 
slowly at the start. It is a good plan after adjusting the 
bearings to jack up the rear wheels and let the motor run 
slowly for about two hours (keeping it well supplied with 
water and oil) before taking it out on the road. Whenever 
possible these bearings should be fitted by an expert Ford 
mechanic. 

Worn connecting rods may be returned, prepaid, to 
the nearest agent or branch house for exchange at a price 
of 75 cents each to cover the cost of rebabbitting. It is not 
advisable for any owner or repair shop to attempt the re¬ 
babbitting of connecting rods or main bearings, for with¬ 
out a special jig in which to form the bearings, satisfactory 
results will not be obtained. The constant tapping of a 
loose connecting rod on the crank shaft will eventually 
produce crystallization of the steel—result, broken crank 
shaft and possibly other parts of the engine damaged. 


Answer No. 42 

Crank Shaft Main Shcmld the stationary bearings in 
Baarings—hcnv w hi c h the crank shaft revolves become 
worn (evidenced by a pounding in the 
motor) and need replacing or adjusting, proceed as follows: 

(1) After the engine has been taken out of the car, remove 
crank case, transmission cover, cylinder head, pistons, 
connecting rods, transmission and magneto coils. Takeoff 
the three babbitted caps and clean the bearing surfaces 
with gasoline. Apply Persian blue or red lead to the 


THE FORD ENGINE 


29 


crank shaft bearing surfaces, which will enable you, in 
fitting the caps, to determine whether a perfect bearing 
surface is obtained. 

(2) Place the rear cap in position and tighten it up as 
much as possible without stripping the bolt threads. 
When the bearing has been properly fitted, the crank shaft 
will permit moving with one hand. If the crank shaft 
cannot be turned with one hand, the contact between the 
bearing surfaces is evidently too close, and the cap re¬ 
quires shimming up, one or two brass liners usually 
being sufficient. In case the crank shaft moves too easily 
with one hand, the shims should be removed and the 
steel surface of the cap filed off, permitting it to set closer. 

(3) After removing the cap, observe whether the blue or 
red “spottings” indicate a full bearing the length of the 
cap. If “spoutings” do not show a true bearing, the 
babbitt should be scraped and the cap refitted until the 
proper results are obtained. 

(4) Lay the rear cap aside and proceed to adjust the cen¬ 
ter bearing in the same manner. Repeatthe operation with 
the front bearing, with the other two bearings laid aside. 

(5) When the proper adjustment of each bearing has 
been obtained, clean the babbitt surface carefully and 
place a little lubricating oil on the bearings, also on the 
crank shaft; then draw the caps up as closely as possible 
—the necessary shims, of course, being in place. Do 
not be afraid of getting the cap bolts too tight, as the 
shim under the cap and the oil between the bearing 
surfaces will prevent the metal being drawn into too close 
contact. If oil is not put on the bearing surfaces, the 
babbitt is apt to cut out when the motor is started up 
before the oil in the crank case can get into the bearing. 

In replacing the crank case and transmission cover on 
the motor, it is advisable to use a new set of felt gaskets 
to prevent oil leaks. 







30 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 43 


How is the power The now generally accepted formula 
for computing the horsepower of a 
computed ? motor is as follows: Multiply the 

square of the diameter of the cylinder by the number of 
cylinders that the motor has and divide the product by 2)4- 


Zyi x x 4 

iy 


■22 y 


As the Ford motor has four cylinders of inch 
diameter, according to the above formula the engine is 
entitled to a rating of 22)4 horsepower. 


The Ford Cooling System 


Answer No. 44 

What is the The heat generated by the constant 

purpose of the explosions in the engine would soon 

ystern overheat and ruin the engine, were it 

not cooled by some artificial means. The Ford engine is 
cooled by the circulation of water in jackets around the 
cylinders. The heat is extracted from the water by its 
passage through the thin metal tubing of the radiator— 
to which are attached scientifically worked out fins, which 
assist in the rapid radiation of the heat. The fan, just 
back of the radiator, sucks the air around the tubing— 
through which the air is also driven by the forward move¬ 
ment of the car. The belt should be inspected frequently 
and tightened when necessary—not too tight, however— 
by means of the adjusting screw in the fan bracket. Take 
up the slack till the fan starts to bind when turned by 
hand. 


Answer No. 45 

How does the The cooling apparatus of the Ford car 
Water circulate f j s known as theThermo-syphon system. 
It acts on the principle that hot water seeks a higher level 
than cold water—consequently when the water reaches a 
certain heat, approximately 180 degrees Fahrenheit, cir¬ 
culation commences and the water flows from the lower 
radiator outlet pipe up through the water jackets, into the 
upper radiator water tank, and down through the tubes to 
the lower tank, to repeat the process. The water supply 
in the radiator should always be kept above the level of 
the upper hose connection—otherwise there can be no 
syphon action. No pump or mechanical device is neces¬ 
sary to keep the circulation constant. In fact, they only 
complicate the machinery of the car. 


31 








The Ford cooling system has no pump or other complicated mechanism. (Cut No. 13) 


THE COOLING SYSTEM 


33 


Answer No. 46 

How often should Whenever it needs it. The radiator at 
water be put in all times ought to be kept full—or 

the Radiator? trouble is sure to follow (see Answer 
No. 7). It is a good plan to make it a habit to fill the 
radiator always upon taking the car from the garage— 
and whenever a stop is made for oil or gasoline. The 
importance of keeping the radiator filled can not be im¬ 
pressed too often upon the new driver. 

Answer No. 47 

What are the The engine may be overheated by, 
causes of (1) carbonized cylinders; (2) too much 

Overheating f driving on low speed; (3) spark retarded 
too far, causing late ignition; (4) defective ignition system 
(see chapter on Ignition); (5) not enough or poor grade 
oil; (6) racing motor; (7) .clogged muffler; (8) improper 
carburetor adjustment; (9) fan not working properly on 
account of broken or slipping belt; (10) improper circula¬ 
tion of water due to clogged radiator tubes. 

Answer No. 48 

What should be Keep the radiator full. Don’t get 
done when the Ra - alarmed if it boils occasionally—es- 
diator overheats t pecially in driving through mud and 
deep sand or up long hills in extremely warm weather. 
Remember that the engine develops the greatest efficiency 
when the water is heated nearly to the boiling point. But 
if there is persistent overheating when the motor is work¬ 
ing under ordinary conditions—find the cause of the 
trouble and remedy it. The chances are that the dif¬ 
ficulty lies in improper driving or carbonized cylinders. 
Perhaps twisting the fan blades at a greater angle to 
produce more suction may bring desired results. By 






















/ 


u 


THE FORD MANUAL 


reference to the proper division of this book each of the 
causes which contribute to an overheated radiator is 
treated and remedies suggested. 

No trouble can result from the filling of a heated radia¬ 
tor with cold water—providing the water system is not 
entirely empty—in which case the motor should be al¬ 
lowed to cool before the cold water is introduced. 

Answer No. 49 

How about The entire circulating system should be 

cleaning the thoroughly flushed, out occasionally. 

To do this properly, the radiator inlet 
and outlet hose should be disconnected, and the radiator 
flushed out by allowing the water to enter the filler neck 
at ordinary pressure, from whence it will flow down through 
the tubes and out at the drain cock and hose. The water 
jackets can be flushed out in the same manner. Simply 
allow the water to enter into the cylinder head connection 
and to flow through the water jackets and out at the side 
inlet connection. 


Answer No. 50 

Will the Radiator As the circulation does not commence 
freeze in winter? until the water becomes heated, it is 
advisable to use an anti-freezing solution in the circulating 
system in the winter, otherwise at low temperature the 
water is apt to freeze before it commences to circulate. 
In case any of the radiator tubes happen to be plugged or 
jammed they are bound to freeze and burst open if the 
driver undertakes to get along without using a non- 
freezing solution. 

Wood or denatured alcohol can be used to good advan¬ 
tage for a non-freezing solution. The following table gives 
the freezing point of solutions containing different per¬ 
centages of alcohol: 20 per cent solution freezes at IS 
degrees above zero; 30 percent solution freezes at 8 de¬ 
grees below zero; SO per cent solution freezes at IS degrees 


THE COOLING SYSTEM 


35 


below zero. A solution composed of 60 per cent water, 
10 per cent glycerine and 30 per cent alcohol is ordinarily 
used. Its freezing point is about 8 degrees below zero. 


Answer No. 51 

How may the (1) Leaky radiator; (2) jammed radi- 

Circulation System ator pipes; (3) bad connections be- 
be impaired? tween the radiator and cylinder water 

jackets; (4) lack of water; (5) sediment in circulation sys¬ 
tem. Do not put corn meal, bran or any other substance 
into the radiator for the purpose of stopping leaks, as this 
is bound to hinder the circulation. 


Answer No. 52 

How are leaks A small leak may be temporarily re- 

and jams in the paired by applying brown soap or 
Radiator repaired? white lead—but the repair should be 
made permanent with solder as soon as possible. A 
jammed radiator tube is a more serious affair. While the 
stopping of one tube does not seriously interfere with the 
circulation, it is bound to cause trouble sooner or later— 
and the tube will freeze in cold weather. Cut the tube an 
inch above and below the jam and insert a new piece, 
soldering the connections. If the entire radiator is badly 
jammed or broken it would probably be advisable to in¬ 
stall a new one. 







This cut illustrates the principle of Ford carburation. (Cut No. 14) 


i 


The Gasoline System 


Answer No. 53 

It is the device in which the gasoline 
and air are combined into a vapor or 
“mixture” in proper proportions to 
form the “charge/ 5 which is sucked into th$ engine and 
there exploded by an electric spark. The carburetor is so 
constructed as to allow for the varying of the proportions 
of the air and gasoline, to meet conditions. These propor¬ 
tions are usually about one part gasoline to twelve or four¬ 
teen parts air—although the proportion varies according 
to the conditions of the atmosphere, the speed of the car 
and the quality of the gasoline. 


What is the 
purpose of the 
Carburetor f 


Answer No. 54 

The Carburetor. The car buretor is of the automatic 

work 7 ° eS a float feed type, having but one adjust¬ 

ment—the gasoline needle valve. The 
cross section diagram of carburetor on opposite page is not 
a detail drawing but simply shows how the gasoline enters 
the carburetor, is vaporized by a current of air, and passes 
through the inlet pipe to the engine in the form of an ex¬ 
plosive mixture. The gasoline, entering the bowl of the 
carburetor, gradually raises the float to a point where the 
inlet needle lowers into its seat, thus cutting off the flow of 
gasoline. As the gasoline in the bowl recedes, the float 
lowers and lifts the needle from its seat and the flow of 
gasoline is resumed. It is plain to see that a constant level 
of gasoline is maintained in the carburetor by the auto¬ 
matic action of float and needle. The quantity of gasoline 
entering into the mixture is governed by the needle valve 
(see Ans. No. 57). The volume of gas mixture entering 


37 




























38 


\ 


THE FORD MANUAL 


the intake pipe is controlled by opening and closing the 
throttle, according to the speed desired by the driver. 


Answer No. 55 

Why is Carburetor For the convenience of the driver in 
adjustment adjusting the carburetor. After the 

placed on dash? new car h as become thoroughly worked 
in, a file mark should be made on the face of the finger 
wheel (see Cut No, IS, Figure “A”) to indicate the point 
at which the engine runs most satisfactorily. In cold 
weather it will probably be found necessary to turn the 
finger wheel one-quarter turn to the left (see Cut No. IS, 
Figure “B”)> particularly in starting a cold engine. As 
gasoline vaporizes Teadily in warm weather, the driver 
will find it economical to reduce the quantity of gasoline in 
the mixture by turning the carburetor adjustment to the 
right (as far as possible without reducing speed) as indi¬ 
cated by Figure “C.” This is particularly true when 
taking long drives where conditions permit a fair rate of 
speed being maintained, and accounts for the excellent 
gasoline mileage obtained by good drivers. 


Answer No. 56 

What is meant by A lean mixture has too much air and 
a “lean” and a not enough gasoline. A rich mixture 
“rich” Mixture? has too much gasoline and not enough 
air. A rich mixture will not only quickly cover the cylin¬ 
ders, pistons and valves with soot, but will tend to over¬ 
heat the cylinders, and is likewise wasteful of the fuel. 
It will often choke the engine and cause mis-firing at slow 
speeds, although at high speeds the machine will run per¬ 
fectly. The mixture should be kept as lean as possible 
without the sacrifice of any of the power of the motOF. 
A lean mixture will often result in back-firing through the 
carburetor, for the reason that the gas burns slowly in the 
cylinder, and is still burning when the inlet valve opens 


THE GASOLINE SYSTEM 


39 


again, which causes the gas in the intake to ignite. A 
rich mixture is shown by heavy, black exhaust smoke with 
a disagreeable smell. Proper mixture will cause very little 
smoke or odor. 


Answer No. 57 

How is the Car- The usual method of regulating the 
buretor adjusted7 carburetor ; s t0 start the motor, ad- 

vancing the throttle lever to about the sixth notch, with 
the spark retarded to about the fourth notch. The flow of 
gasoline should now be cut off by screwing the needle valve 
down (to the right) until the engine begins to mis-fire; 
then gradually increase the gasoline feed by opening the 
needle valve until the motor picks up and reaches its 
highest speed—and until no trace of black smoke comes 
from the exhaust. Having determined the point where 
the motor runs at its maximum speed, the needle valve 
binding screw should be tightened to prevent the adjust¬ 
ment being disturbed. For average running a lean mix¬ 
ture will give better results than a rich one. 



A-CORRECT ADJUSTMENT 

6-RICH MIXTURE-FOR STARTING IN COLD WEATHER 

C - LEAN MIXTURE - ADJUSTING IN THIS DIRECTION 
SAVES GASOLINE.. 


Carburetor Dash Adjustment. (Cut No. 15) 













40 


THE FORD MANUAL 


\ 


Answer No. 58 

Why does water The presence of water in the carburetor 
clog the or gasoline tank, even in small amounts, 

CarburetorT will prevent easy starting and the 

motor will mis-fire and stop. As water is heavier than 
gasoline it settles to the bottom of the tank and into the 
sediment bulb along with other foreign matter. As it is 
difficult nowadays to get gasoline absolutely free from 
impurities, especially water, it is advisable to frequently 
drain the sediment bulb under the gasoline tank. Dur¬ 
ing cold weather the water which accumulates in the sedi¬ 
ment bulb is likely to freeze and prevent the flow of gaso¬ 
line through the pipe leading to the carburetor. Should 
anything of this kind happen it is possible to open the 
gasoline line by wrapping a cloth around the sediment 
bulb and keeping it saturated with hot water for a short 
time. Then the water should be drained off. In event 
the water gets down into the carburetor and freezes, the 
same treatment may be applied. 

Answer No. 59 

What makes the The flow of gasoline entering the car¬ 
eer buretor teak ? buretor through theffeed pipe is auto¬ 
matically regulated by the float needle raising and lower¬ 
ing in its seat. Should any particle of dirt become lodged 
in the seat, which prevents the needle from closing, the 
gasoline will overflow in the bowl of the carburetor and 
leark out upon the ground. 

Answer No. 60 

When there is dirt The spraying nozzle of the carburetor 
in the Carburetor having a very small opening, a minute , 
—what? particle of grit or other foreign matter 

will clog up the orifice, and result: motor will begin to 
mis-fire and slow down as soon as it has attained any con¬ 
siderable speed. This is accounted for by the fact that at 


THE GASOLINE SYSTEM 


41 


high speeds the increased suction will draw the particles 
of dust, etc., into the nozzle. By opening the valve needle 
half a turn and giving the throttle lever two or three 
quickpulls the dirt or sediment will often be drawn through, 
when the needle may be turned back to its original place. 
If this does not accomplish the purpose, the carburetor 
should be drained. Be careful not to screw the needle 
valve down too tight or you will groove the needle and the 
valve seat. 

Answer No. 61 


If Engine runs too If the engine runs too fast with throttle 
fast or chokes fully retarded unscrew the carburetor 

with throttle throttle lever adjusting screw until 

retarded—wha t he engine idles at suitable speed. 
If the motor chokes and stops when the throttle is 
fully retarded, the adjusting screw should be screwed in 
until it strikes the boss, preventing the throttle from 
closing too far. When proper adjustment has been made, 
tighten the lock-screw so that the adjustment will not be 

sA i 4-n r K A /'"l 


Answer No. 62 


What are the Loss of power, mis-firing, after-firing, 

indications of a weak explosions. They are probably 

badly working caused either by a clogged spraying 

nozzle, leaky manifold or carburetor 
gaskets, a bent or grooved adjusting needle, a clogged 
float, a bad mixture, poor gasoline or watery gasoline. 


Answer No. 63 

What is the It takes the hot air from around the 

purpose of the exhaust pipe and conducts it to the 

Hot Air Pipe? carburetor—where the heat facilitates 

the vaporizing of the gasoline. It is usually advisable to 
remove this pipe in the hot season—but it is an absolutely 
necessary feature during cold weather. 






/ 


42 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 64 

What is It automatically controls the flow of 

the purpose of the the gasoline into the carburetor. If it 
Cork Float? floats too low, starting will be difficult; 

if too high, the carburetor will flood and leak. A cork 
float which has become fuel soaked should be removed and 
replaced by a new one or thoroughly dried and then given 
a couple of coats of shellac varnish to make it waterproof. 


Answer No. 65 

Should the PrimingNo. The carburetor does not ordma- 
Rod be used in rily require priming when the motor is 
cranking when the warm, and cranking with the rod 
Motor is zvarm.' p U fl e d out is apt to “flood” the engine 
with an over-rich mixture of gas, which does not readily 
explode. This naturally causes difficulty in starting. If 
you should accidentally flood the engine, turn the carbu¬ 
retor adjusting needle down (to the right) until it seats; 
then turn the engine over a few times with the starting 
crank in order to exhaust the rich gas. As soon as the 
motor starts, turn back the needle (to the left) and re¬ 
adjust the carburetor. 


The Ford Ignition System 


Answer No. 66 

What is the It furnishes the electric spark which 

purpose of the explodes the charge in the combustion 

eniUon y stem ■ chamber, thus producing the power 
which runs the engine. It is important that the charge 
be correctly ignited at the proper time, in order to obtain 
satisfactory results in running the car. In the Ford car 
the ignition system is as simple as it is possible for human 
invention to make it. 


Answer No. 67 

What parts (1) q^he magneto, which generates the 

constitute the current; (2) the vibrator type induction 

" ystem coil, which transforms it; (3) the com¬ 

mutator, which makes and breaks and times it; (4) the 
spark plug, which delivers the spark to the charge in the 
combustion chamber; (S) the wiring system, which carries 
the current to and from these different parts. 


Answer No. 68 

What about The Ford magneto, which generates 

the Magneto? the e l ectr i c current, is the invention of 
Mr. Henry Ford. It is exceedingly simple and effective in 
its operation and is a distinct advantage of the Ford car. 
The magneto is an integral part of the engine, consisting 
of only two sections, one attached to and rotating with the 
flywheel, and the other fastened to the cylinder casting. 
This magneto is another striking example of the Ford way 
of preventing trouble by completely eliminating the cause. 
The basic principle in its construction absolutely elimi¬ 
nates all superfluous and complicated parts. The expense 
and annoyance of batteries are avoided. It has no brushes, 
no distributer, no moving wires to work loose, no com¬ 
plicated connections. 


43 





Wiring of the Ford ignition systrm. (Cut No. 16) 


THE FORD IGNITION SYSTEM 


45 


Answer No. 69 


How does the 
Magneto generate 
the current ? 


In revolving at the same rate of speed 
as the motor, the magnets on the fly¬ 
wheel passing the stationary coil spools 
create an alternating low tension electric current in 
coils v of wire which are wound around spools fastened to 
the stationary part of the magneto, and is carried from 
these coils to the magneto connection (wire) leading to 
the coil box on the dash. 

Answer No. 70 

From the Magneto As a technical knowledge of electricity 

'current 0 ****^ unnecessar y f° r Ford owner, it is 
curren go. sufficient to say that the current gen¬ 

erated by the magneto flows through the primary winding 
of the coils (in the coil box on the dash) to the commu¬ 
tator (located at the front of the engine just under the oil 
breather pipe), back through the frame of the motor to the 
magneto. This completes the primary circuit or path of 
the magneto current. The high tension current induced 



Diagram showing the course of current three ignition circuit (Cut No. 17) 























































46 


THE FORD MANUAL 


in the secondary winding of the coils is led to the spark 
plugs in the cylinders as their respective circuits are com¬ 
pleted by the commutator. 

Answer No. 71 

How are the If the platinum contacts should be- 

Coil Vibrators come badly worn, dirty or out of align- 
adjustedf ment the vibrator will not work 

properly. In adjusting the vibrators the usual method is 
to turn the adjusting screw up until the vibrator stops 
buzzing; then turn the screw down slowly until the two 
platinum points just come together and the explosion in 
the cylinder becomes regular; then give the screw an extra 
quarter turn. In adjusting K-W coils it is important to 
see that the little flat cushion spring just underneath the 
vibrator bridge works back and forth every time the plat¬ 
inum points make and break contact. This action can be 
determined by taking the unit out of the box and holding 
it up to the light; then press down the vibrator and observe 
the operation of the cushion spring. It is important to 
have all the units adjusted alike and with a little expe¬ 
rience you will be able to “feel” by the explosion when the 
point is reached at which the motor develops the maximum 
speed. Too close contact between the adjusting screw 
and vibrator will cause the current to “arc” between the 
platinum points, thus hindering the flow of current, burn¬ 
ing away the platinum and often putting the coil out of 
action. If the platinum points become pitted or worn so 
that imperfect contact is made, they should be filed flat 
with a thip watchmaker’s file so that the surfaces meet 
each other squarely. 

Warning—Do not buy imitation vibrators sold by 
many unscrupulous concerns, as the contact points are 
usually composed of cheap metal, such as German silver, 
nickel, etc., which will not give satisfactory service. 


THE FORD IGNITION SYSTEM 


47 


Answer No. 72 

How is a Weak With the vibrators properly adjusted 
Unit detected? if any particular unit fails or seems to 
develop only a weak action', change the position of the unit 
to determine if the fault is actually in the unit. The first 
symptom of a defective unit is the buzzing of the vibrator 
with no spark at the plug. A leak in the condenser is 
often indicated by a “fat” bluish spark, but to make 
sure this is the cause of the trouble disconnect the wire 
from the plug that fails and hold it about & of an inch 
from the spark plug terminal. If the condenser leaks the 
spark will be irregular at the gap. Remember that a 
loose wire connection, faulty spark plug, or worn com¬ 
mutator may cause. irregularity in the running of the 
motor. These are points that should be considered before 
laying the blame on the coil. 

Answer No. 73 

How may short Should the insulation of the primary 
circuit in wires (running from coil to commu- 

ZTheTttZJr tator > become worn to such an extent 
ing be detected? t h at the copper wire is exposed—the 

current will leak out (i. e., short circuit) whenever contact 
with the engine pan or other metal parts is made. A 
steady buzzing of one of the coil units will indicate a 
“short” in the wiring. When driving the car the engine 
will suddenly lag and pound on account of the premature 
explosion. Be careful not to crank the engine downward 
against compression when the car is in this condition, as 
the “short” is apt to cause a vigorous kick back. 

Answer No. 74 

Does CoU adjust- Yes, when the vibiators are set too 
dose, more current is required to 
r/ ** “make and break” the contact between 

the platinum points. The remedy is to lighten the adjust- 








* 



CRANK SHAfrT 
CARBURETOR 
CAM SHAFT 
SPARK PlU6 WIRES 
ROOD SUPPORT 
DASH 

COMBUSTION CHAMBER 

PUSH ROD 

VALVE 

LOWER. CRANK CASE 
UPPER CRANK CASE 
INTAKE PIPE 
EXHAUST PIPE 
FRONT RAOIUS ROD 
SPARK PLUG 
RADIATOR ROD 
HOOD 

CYLINDER HEAD OUTLET HOSE 
RADIATOR FILLER CAP 
RADIATOR FILLER FLANGE 

RADIATOR 

FAN 

FRONT FENDER EL Mj 

FAN BELT 

BREATHER PIPE 

CYLINDER COVER (FRONT END) 

COMMUTATOR 

RADIATOR INLET HOSE 

FRONT WHEEL 

STARTING crank 

STEERING DALI CONNECTING ROO 

FRONT SPRING 

STEERING SPINDLE CONNECTING ROD 
FRONT AXLE 


RADIUS ROD BALL SOCKET 

MAGNETO COILS 

MAGNETS 

FLY WHEEL 

CLUTCH FINGERS 

TIRE VALVE 

TRANSMISSION CASE 

HAND LEVER CONTROLLER QUADRANT 

UNIVERSAL JOINT 

HAND LEVER CONTROLLER SHAFT 

RUNNING BOARD & TRUSS ROD BRACKET 

GASOLINE TANK SUPPORT 

GASOLINE FEED PIPE 

SEDIMENT DULD 

DRAIN COCK 


REAR SPRING 
REAR WHEEL - 
DIFFERENTIAL DRIVING GEAR 

DRIVING PINION- 

REAR AXLE - 

REAR BRAKE HOUSING- 


DRIVE SHAFT BEARING ASSEMBLY 

DRIVE SHAFT - 

MUFFLER - 

TONNEAU MAT - 

TIRE VALVE - 

FRAME - 


MUFFLER EXHAUST PIPE — 
Running board bracket - 

RUNNING BOARD SHIELD - 

DRIVE SHAfT TUBE- 

BODY BRACKET (ON FRAME) 


COIL- 

SWITCH- 

MAGNETO TO COIL WIRE - 

PISTON- 

CONNECTING ROD- 

MAGNETO- 

REVERSE BAND-- 

SLOW SPEED BAND-- 

BRAKE BAND - 

TRANSMISSION'SHAFT - 

DRAKE PEDAL—-— 

HIGH & SLOW PEDAL- 

REVERSE PEDAL- 

HAND BRAKE LEVER- 

STEERING WHEEL- 

SPARK & THROTTLE LEVER RODS 
FRONT CUSHION 
GASOLINE TANK 
REAR CUSHION 
GASOLINE PIPE LINE COCK 

REAR DOOR-—- 

BODY BRACKET (ON BODY) 

BODY-— 

CURLFD HAIR- 

CUSHION SPRINGS - 

DOOR STRIP- 

REAR FENDER (LH.)- 


Sectional view of the Ford car 


showing the principal parts and their location 


There are, after all, as shown, very few parts to the car. It is the elimination of the unnecessary things 

understand and operate—that makes it light and strong. (Cut No. 1) 


that makes the Ford simple to 




























































































































































so 


THE FORD MANUAL 


ment until the “points” barely touch. * Do not allow the 
platinum points to become “ragged,” otherwise they are 
apt to stick and cause unnecessary difficulty in ^starting, 
and when running are apt to produce a “miss in the 
engine by occasionally sticking. 


Answer No. 75 

What is the The commutator (or timer) determines 

purpose of the the instant at which the spark plugs 

Commutator? must fire. It effects the “make and 

break” in the primary circuit. The grounded wire in the 
magneto allows the current to flow through the metal parts 
to the metal roller in the commutator. Therefore, when 
the commutator roller in revolving touches the four com¬ 
mutator contact points, to each of which is attached a 
wire connected with a coil unit, an electrical circuit is 
passed through the entire system of primary wires. This 
circuit is only momentary, however, as the roller passes 
over the contact point very rapidly and sets up the circuit 
in each unit as the roller touches the contact point con¬ 
nected with that unit. The commutator should be kept 
clean and well oiled at all times. 


Answer No. 76 

\yfiat about One is located at the top of each cylin— 

the Spark Plugs? der and can easily be taken out w*th 
the spark plug wrench included with every car, after the 
wire connection is removed. The high voltage current 
flows out of the secondary coils in the coil box and on 
teaching the contact points in each spark plug it is forced 
to jump a gap, thereby forming a spark which ignites 
the gasoline charge in the cylinders. 

The spark plugs should be kept clean (i. e., free from 
carbon) and should be replaced if they persist in not work¬ 
ing properly. There is nothing to be gained by experi¬ 
menting with different makes of plugs. The make of 


THE FORD IGNITION SYSTEM 


51 


plugs with which Ford engines are equipped when they 
leave the factory are best adapted to the requirements of 
our motor, notwithstanding the opinion of various garage 
men to the contrary. All wire connections to spark plugs, 
coil box and commutator should, of course, at all times 
be kept in perfect contact. 

Answer No. 77 

What dre The uneven sputter and bang of the 

the indications of exhaust means that one or more cylin- 
Jgnition trouble? ^ers are ex pl oc |i n g irregularly or not at 
all, and that the trouble should be promptly located and 
overcome. Mis-firing if allowed to continue will in time 
injure the engine and the entire mechanism. If you would 
be known as a good driver you will be satisfied only with 
a soft, steady purr from the exhaust. If anything goes 
wrong, stop and fix it if possible—don’t wait until you 
get home. 

Answer No. 78 

Hozv can one This is done by manipulating the 
tell which Cylinder vibrators on the spark coils. Open the 
throttle until the engine is running at a 
good speed and then hold down the two outside vibrators, 
No. 1 and No. 4, with the fingers, so they cannot buzz. 
This cuts out the two corresponding cylinders, No. 1 and 
No. 4, leaving only No. 2 and No. 3 running. If they 
explode regularly it is obvious the trouble is in either No. 
1 or No. 4. Relieve No.. 4 and hold down^No. 2 and No. 3 
and also No. 1; if No. 4 cylinder explodes evenly it is 
evident the mis-firing is in No. 1. In this manner all of 
the cylinders in turn can be tested until the trouble is 
located. Examine both the spark plug and the vibrator 
of the missing cylinder. 














The Ford commutator. Be sure that it is kept well oiled. (Cut No. W 


THE FORD IGNITION SYSTEM 


53 


Answer No. 79 

If the Coil and The trouble is probably due to an 
Plug are right— improperly seated valve, worn commu- 
what tator, or short circuit in the commuta¬ 

tor wiring. Weakness in the valves may be easily deter¬ 
mined by lifting the starting crank slowly the length of 
the stroke of each cylinder in turn, a strong or weak com¬ 
pression in any particular valve being easily detected. It 
sometime^ happens that the cylinder head gasket (pack¬ 
ing) becomes leaky—permitting the gas under compression 
to escape, a condition that can be detected by running a 
little lubricating oil around the edge of the gasket and 
noticing whether bubbles appear or not. 

Answer No. 80 

Does a zvom Yes. If mis-firing occurs when run- 
Commutator ever n ; n g at high S p ee d 5 inspect the com- 
cause mis-firing mutator. The surface of the circle 
around which roller “A” (see Cut No. 18) travels should 
be clean and smooth, so that the roller makes a perfect 
contact at all points. If the roller fails to make a good 
contact on any one of the four contact points, its corres¬ 
ponding cylinder will not fire. Clean these surfaces, if 
dirty. In case the fibre, contact points and roller of the 
commutator are badly worn, the most satisfactory remedy 
is to replace them with new parts, or probably the trouble 
is caused by short-circuited commutator wires. The spring 
should be strong enough to make a firm contact between 
the roller points if they are worn or dirty. 

Answer No. 81 


How is Remove cotter pin from spark rod and 

the Commutator detach latter from commutator. Loosen 
the cap screw which goes through 
breather pipe on top of time gear cover. This will release 
the spring which holds the commutator case in place and 
this part can be readily removed. Unscrew lock nut; 
withdraw steel brush cap and drive out the retaining 


< 


/ 





















































54 


THE FORD MANUAL 


pin. The brush can then be removed from the cam shaft. 

In replacing the brush, care must be exercised to see 
that it is reinstated so that the exhaust valve on the first 
cylinder is closed when the brush points upward. This 
may be ascertained by removing the valve door and observ¬ 
ing the operation of No. 1 valve. 

Answer No. 82 

Does cold It is a well known fact that in cold 

weather affect weather even the best grades of lubri- 
the Commutator f ca ti n g oil are apt to congeal to some 
extent. If this occurs in the commutator it is very apt to 
prevent the roller from making perfect contact with the 
contact points imbedded in the fibre. This, of course, 
makes difficult starting, as the roller arm spring is not stiff 
enough to brush away the film of oil which naturally forms 
with the contact segment. To overcome this, as well as 
any liability of the contact points to rust, we recommend a 
mixture of 25% kerosene with the commutator lubricating 
oil, which will thin it sufficiently to prevent congealing, or 
freezing, as it is commonly called. You have probably 
noticed in starting your car in cold weather that perhaps 
only one or two cylinders will fire for the first minute or 
so, which indicates that the timer is in the condition 
described above and as a consequence a perfect contact is 
not being made on each of the four terminals. 



The Ford magneto. The flywheel with magnets revolves with the 
engine, while magneto coils remain stationary. (Cut No. 19) 


THE FORD IGNITION SYSTEM 


55 


Answer No. 83 

How is the It is necessary to take the power plant 

Magneto removed? out of the car (see Answer No. 40) in 
order to remove the magneto. Then remove crank case 
and transmission cover—take out the four cap screws that 
hold the flywheel to the crank shaft. You will then have 
access to the magnets and entire magneto mechanism. In 
taking out these parts—or any parts of the car—the utmost 
care should be taken to make .sure that the parts are so 
marked that they may be replaced properly. 


Answer No. 84 

When the The Ford magneto is made of perma- 

Magneto gets out nent magnets and there is very little 
of order what ? likelihood of their ever losing their 
strength, unless acted upon by some outside force. For 
instance, the attachment of a storage battery to the mag¬ 
neto terminal will likely discharge the magnets. If any¬ 
thing like this happens, it is not advisable to try to re¬ 
charge them, but rather install a complete set of new 
magnets. The new magnets will be sent from the nearest 
agent or branch house, and will be located on a board in 
identically the same manner as they should be when 
installed on the flywheel. Great care should be taken in 
assembling the magnets and lining up the magneto so that 
the faces of the magnets are separated from the surface 
of the coil spool just ^ of an inch. To take out the old 
magnets, simply remove the cap screw and bronze screw 
which holds each in place. The magneto is often blamed 
when the trouble is a weak current caused by waste 
or other foreign matter accumulating under the contact 
spring, which is held in place by the binding post on top 
of the crank case cover. 

Remove the three screws which hold the binding po9t 
in place, remove binding post and spring and replace after 
foreign substance has been removed. 




















56 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 85 


Is it ever 
advisable to 
operate the car 
lights from 
the Magneto ? 


No! Mr. Ford is opposed to the use 
on Ford cars of electric lights operated 
from the magneto, for the following 
reasons: The Ford magneto is a pecu¬ 
liarly Ford device, the one purpose of 
which is to furnish the spark which explodes the gas in the 
engine cylinders. For this purpose its power is sufficient 
to deliver an ample spark under all conditions—even 
when the car is put to severe tests. While the magneto 
furnishes an excess of power when the car is running under 
ordinary conditions, this excess power is needed when it is 
being operated under extraordinary conditions. When 
the engine is running slowly under a heavy pull all the 
power the magneto furnishes is needed by the engine. 

It is therefore never advisable to use electric lights in 
connection with the Ford magneto. The Ford Motor 
Company will not be responsible for repairs and adjust¬ 
ments entailed by such use. 




The Ford Transmission 


Answer No. 86 

What is It is that part of the mechanism of an 

the function of the automobile which lies between the 
Transmission f engine shaft and the propeller shaft and 
by which one is enabled to move at different speeds from 
the other. It is the speed gear of the car. It sends the 
car forward at low and high speeds and by it the car is 
reversed. 

Answer No. 87 

What is One in which the groups of gears always 

meant by the remain in mesh and revolve around a 

term "Planetary main axis. The different sets of gears 
Transmission t are brought into action by stopping the 
revolution of the parts which support the gears. By means 
of bands (similar to brake bands) the rotation of the dif¬ 
ferent parts is stopped. The planetary transmission is the 
simplest and most direct means of speed control—and is a 
distinct advantage of the Ford car. 


Answer No. 88 

If the crank shaft of the engine ran 
without break straight through to the 
differential—and through it applied its 
power direct to the rear wheels—the car would start 
forward immediately upon the starting of the engine 
(were it possible to get it started under such conditions). 
To overcome this difficulty the shaft is divided and by 
means of the clutch the part of the shaft to which the 
running engine is delivering its power is enabled to take 
hold of the unmoving part gradually and start the car 
without jolt or jar. The forward part of the shaft is 
referred to as the crank shaft, the rear part as the drive 
shaft. 


What is 
the purpose of 
the Clutch? 


57 







The Ford transmission—showing location of different parts, also gears on the flywheel. (Cut No. 20) 


THE FORD TRANSMISSION 


59 


Answer No. 89 

What are the (1) Gradual engagement, (2) quick dis- 
requirements of a engagement, ( 3 ) large friction surfaces, 
good Clutch? ( 4 ) accessibility, (5) and simple con¬ 

struction. All of these requirements are met in the 
simple and effective multiple disc clutch of the Ford car. 
In the method of Ford construction the clutch becomes a 
part of the transmission assembly and the two are handled 
as a mechanical unit. 

Answer No. 90 

How is the By the left pedal at the driver’s feet 

Clutch controlled f ( see Answer No. 13). If the clutch 
pedal, when pushed forward into slow speed, has a ten¬ 
dency to stick and not to come back readily into high, 
tighten up the slow speed band as directed in Answer No. 
94. Should the machine have an inclination to creep for¬ 
ward when cranking, it indicates that the clutch lever 
screw which bears on the clutch lever cam has Worn, and re¬ 
quires an extra turn to hold the clutch in neutral position. 
When the clutch is released by pulling back the hand lever 
the pedal should move forward a distance of 1 ^" in 
passing from high speed to neutral. 

See that the hub brake shoe and connections are in 
proper order so that the brake will act sufficiently to pre¬ 
vent the car creeping very far ahead. Also be sure the 
slow speed band does not bind on account of being ad¬ 
justed too tight. Don’t use too heavy a grade of oil in 
cold weather, as it will have a tendency to congeal between 
the clutch discs and prevent proper action of the clutch. 


Answer No. 91 

How is the Remove the plate on the transmission 

Clutch adjusted? CO ver under the floor boards at the 
driver’s feet. Take out the cotter key on the first clutch 
finger and give the set screw one-half to one complete turn 

























































60 


THE FORD MANUAL 


to the right with a screw driver. Do the same to the other 
finger set screws. But be sure to give each the same num¬ 
ber of turns and don’t forget to replace the cotter key. 
And after a considerable period of service the wear in the 
clutch may be taken up by installing another pair of clutch 
discs, rather than by turning the adjusting screws in too 

far. . . . 

CAUTION: Let us warn you against placing any 
small tools or objects over or in the transmission case 
without a good wire or cord attached to them. It is almos + 
impossible to recover them without taking off the trans¬ 
mission cover. 

Answer No. 92 

How is With the transmission shaft in plact 

the Transmission ( see N 0 . 3331 in repair parts catalogue), 
assembled f turn t jj e flywheel face downward so 

that the shaft will be in a vertical position (see Cut No. 
21). Then assemble the following parts in a separate 
group, proceeding as follows: Place brake drum (33 U) 
on table with the hub in a vertical position; place the 
slow speed plate (3306) over hub with gear uppermost; 
then place reverse plate (3301) over the slow speed plate 
so that the reverse gear surrounds the slow speed gear; 
fit the two keys (3318) in hub just above slow speed 
gear; put the driven gear (3317) in position with teeth 
downward so they will come next to slow speed gear. 
Next take the three triple gears (3313) and mesh them 
with the driven gear, according to punch parks on the 
teeth, the reverse gear, or smallest of the triple assembly, 
being downward. After making sure that the triple gears 
are properly meshed, tie them in place by passing a cord 
around the outside of the three gears. Then invert this 
assembled group over the transmission shaft, and place in 
position so that flywheel pins will pass through the triple 
gear. This will bring the brake drum (3311) on top, in 
position to hold the clutch plates, etc. The next step is to 
fit the clutch drum key (3333) in the transmission shaft. 
Press the clutch drum (3332) over shaft, and put set screw 


THE FORD TRANSMISSION 


61 


(3334) in place to hold the drum. Put distance plate 
(3330) over the clutch drum, then the small thrust plates 
(3328), alternating with the large plates (3329) until the 
entire set of plates are in position, making sure that the 
large thrust (3329) is on top. If the small plate is on 
the top and you throw your motor from high speed into 
low, the small plate is liable to fall over the clutch drum 
and you will be unable to throw motor back into high. 
Then put the clutch push ring (3336) over the clutch drum, 
with the three pins projecting upward, and lastly bolt the 
driving plate (3321) in position so that the adjusting screws 
of the clutch fingers will bear against the clutch push ring 
pins. Before proceeding further, it would be a good plan 
to test the transmission by moving the plates with the 
hands. The clutch parts may be assembled on the driving 
plate hub as follows: Slip the clutch shift (3344) over the 
hub so that the small end rests on the ends of the clutch 
fingers. Next put on the clutch spring (3340), placing the 
clutch support (3341) inside, so that the flange will rest 
on the upper coil of the spring. Next place clutch spring 
thrust ring (3343) with notched end down and press in 
place—inserting the pin (3342) in the driving plate hub 
through the holes in the side of the spring support. The 
easiest method of compressing the point necessary to insert 
the pin is to release the tension of the clutch fingers by 
means of the adjusting screws. When tightening up the 
clutch again, the spring should be compressed to within a 
space of two or two and one-sixteenfh inches to insure 
against the clutch spring slipping. Care should be exer¬ 
cised to see that the screws are adjusted so the spring is 
compressed evenly all around. The numbers here used 
refer to the numbers of the respective parts in the Ford 
Parts Price List. 


Answer No. 92 


How is 

the Transmission 
removed? 


Take out the power plant as directed 
in Answer No. 40. Then remove crank 
case and transmission cover. Take off 
the four cap screws that hold the flywheel to the crank 















a** 1§|S 

£.3 1 33 g 

duo ud 5- r-k~ 



O 

£ 

+■* 

u 


PH 




The Ford transmission assembly. For numbers of parts, see 


THE FORD TRANSMISSION 


shaft with the special Ford flywheel cap screw wrench. 
The entire transmission may then be easily removed from 
the cylinder assembly. 


.Answer No. 94 

How are the The slow speed band may be tightened 

Bands adjusted? by loosening the lock nut at the right 
side of the transmission cover, and turning the adjusting 
screw (see Cut No. 22) to the right. To tighten the brake 
and reverse bands remove the transmission case cover door 
and turn the adjusting nuts on the shafts to the right. See 
that the bands do not drag on the drums when disengaged, 
as they exert a brake effect, and tend to overheat the 
motor. However, the foot brake should be adjusted so 
that a sudden pressure will stop the car immediately, or 
slide the rear wheels in case of emergency. The bands, 
when worn to such an extent that they will not take hold 
properly, should be relined, so that they will engage 
smoothly without causing a jerky movement of the car. 
The lining is inexpensive and may be had at any of the 
6000 Ford service stations at small cost. 


Answer No. 95 

How are the Take off the door on top of the trans- 

Bands removed ? mission cover, and run the clutch band 
adjusting nuts (see Cut No. 22) to the extreme ends of the 
brake and pedal shafts; then remove the slow speed band 
adjusting screw (A); loosen bolts holding transmission 
cover; take hold of slow speed pedal and lift off the cover 
assembly. . Slip bands forward, sliding the one nearest 
the flywheel over the first of the triple gears, turn the band 
over until opening is down, then slide toward the universal 
joint, when it may easily be lifted out. To do this re¬ 
quires the spreading apart of the bands at the ears, and is 


























































64 


THE FORD MANUAL 



<WTCti LlMtn: 

aUTTJ* Lf VER SHftf T- 
n^TCw - * 


TTlA^SMiftsCfe 

■CpVEfl 



Trwt^JSSflh wnt 
Et^Wa 

SL&W "iftLD 
ApJUffTWD SCHE 1 ^ 

RLVI&EE 
i£IJLlST',v3 mjT 

SkOlV EHEI> 

SK^F 1 ! 

[H 7 AH.t PEP >1 
s«fl 

Afluusiiae mut 

CL'JTCH RELEASE 

Fonn 

(Rie&lT +rJ LifT| 


The transmission cover and control (Cut No. 22) 


more easily accomplished if the three 6ets of triple gears 
are so placed that one set is about ten degrees to the right 
of the center at top. To replace, reverse this procedure, 
and when fitting the transmission cover see that the clutch 
release ring rests in the rear groove of the clutch shalt. 


The Rear Axle Assembly 


Answer No. 96 

What parts are in- The universal joint and housing, drive 
eluded in the Rear shaft and housing, the differential as- 
Axle Assembly? se mbly, rear axle housings, axle shafts, 
hub brake shoe assemblies and the rear axle radius rods. 


Answer No. 97 

What is the The universal joint is the connecting 

purpose of the link between the transmission and rear 
Universal Joint? ax j e drive shaft. The flexibility of 
this coupling allows the drive shaft to run at the angle re¬ 
quired by the relative position of differential and trans¬ 
mission. The ball housing surrounding the joint permits 
the twisting and turning of the axle as the wheels travel 
over uneven surfaces. 


Answer No. 98 


Hozv is the Remove two plugs from top and bot- 

Universal Joint tom G f ball casting, turn shaft until pin 
d !f C ^!L eCt ^^ comes opposite hole, drive out pin. 
t e e aft Remove four bolts holding ball housing 
to drive shaft tube and drive the universal joint and 
housing away. 

Answer No. 99 


What is * It is a system of gears located at the 
the Differential juncture of the propelling shaft and the 
and what rear ax ] e — anc j by j t rear w b e els are 

s its purpose ? permitted to revolve at different speeds, 
while at the same time each receives an equal division of 
the power. Without the differential, the car would have 
difficulty in turning a corner or making a curve, for as the 
power is delivered to the rear wheels, both would (without 

65 





























I JOINT 
(MALE) 



Principal parts of the Ford rear axle assembly. (Cut No. 23) 


THE REAR AXLE ASSEMBLY 


67 


the differential) move at the same speed—whereas a turn 
demands that one wheel travel faster than the other. The 
differential permits each wheel to travel independently. 

Answer No. 100 

How is the Rear Jack up car and remove rear wheels as 
Axle removed? instructed in Ans. No. 114. Take out 
the four bolts connecting the universal bolt cap to the 
transmission case and cover. Disconnect brake rods. 
Remove nuts holding spring perches to rear axle housing 
flanges. ^ Raise frame at the rear end, and the axle can be 
easily withdrawn. 

Answer No. 101 

Disconnect drive shaft tube, by remov¬ 
ing nuts in front ends of radius rods 
and the nuts on studs holding drive 
shaft tube to rear axle housing. 
Remove bolts which hold the two halves of differential 
housing together. If necessary to disassemble differential 
a very slight mechanical knowledge will* permit one to 
immediately discern how to do it, once it is exposed to 
view. Care must be exercised to get every pin, bolt and 
key-lock back in its exact position when reassembling. 
Be careful to see that the large 40-tooth gear is meshed 
on the drive pinion on left side when facing car from the 
rear. If this is placed on the right side of the drive pinion, 
the car will reverse when high or low gear is engaged and 
go.forward when reverse is engaged. We believe that this 
point should be emphasized. 

Answer No. 102 

How are The compensating gears are attached 

the Differential t0 the inner ends of the rear axle shaft. 
Gears removed f They work upon the spider gears when 
turning a corner, so that the axle shafts revolve independ¬ 
ently, but when the car is moving in a straight line the 


Hozv are 
Rear Axle 
and Differential 
disassembled T 




























































68 


THE FORD MANUAL 


spider gears and compensating gears and axle shafts move 
as an integral part. If you will examine the rear axle 
shafts you will notice that the gears are keyed on, and 
held in position by a ring which is in two halves and fits 
in a groove in the rear axle shaft. To remove the com¬ 
pensating gears, force them down on the shaft, that is, 
away from the end to which they are secured, drive out the 
two halves of ring in the grooves in shaft with screw driver 
or chisel, then force the gears off the end of the shafts. 


Answer No. 103 

How is Rear-Axle Di SCO nnect rear axle as directed in 
Answer No. 100, then unbolt the drive 
shaft assembly where it joins the rear axle housing at the 
differential. Disconnect the two radius rods at the outer 
ends of the housing. Take out the bolts which hold the 
two halves of the rear axle housing together at the center. 
Take the inner differential casing apart and draw the axle 
shaft through the housing at the center. 

After replacing the axle shaft be sure that the rear 
wheels are firmly wedged on at the outer end of the axle 
shaft and the key in proper position. When the car has 
been driven thirty days or so, make it a point to remove 
the hub cap and set up the lock nut to overcome any play 
that might have developed. It is extremely important 
that the rear wheels are kept tight, otherwise the constant 
rocking back and forth against the keyway may in time 
cause serious trouble. 

If the rear axle or wheel is sprung by skidding against 
a curb or other accident, it is false economy to drive the 
car, as tires, gears and all other parts will suffer. If the 
axle shaft is bent, it can, with proper facilities, be straight¬ 
ened, but it is best to replace it. 


-THE REAR AXLE ASSE M B L Y 


69 


Answer No. 104 

How is the Drive rp, , . , , . 

Shaft Pinion enc * °f tlie drive shaft, to which the 

removed f pinion is attached, is tapered to fit the 

keved onto tVi u ta P ef ed hole in the pinion, which is 

“castle nut R ’ and SCC r ed h Y a ^«er-pinned 
Rem0Ve ,he “* tle drive the 













The Ford muffler. (Cut No. 24) 


The Ford Muffler 


Answer No. 105 

posTlf Muffler? i?® 3S £ COme ? from the en 8 ine 

through the exhaust pipe would create 
a constant and distracting noise were it not for the muffler. 
Trom the comparatively small pipe, the exhaust is liber- 
ated mto the larger chambers of the muffler, where the force 
ot the exhaust is lessened by expansion and discharged 

9 °;x t !l5n m S ffle J r wit j? practically no noise. (See Cut 
iNo. ***•) I he Ford muffler construction is such that there 
is very little back pressure of the escaping gases, conse¬ 
quently there is nothing to be gained by putting a cut-out 
in the exhaust pipe between the engine and the muffler. 


Answer No. 106 

Muffler ^ J-5 should be cleaned occasionally. 

kept in order f ^move it (see Answer No. 107) and 

take off nuts on ends of rods which 
hold it together—and disassemble. 

In reassembling muffler, be careful not to get the holes 
in the inner .shells on the same side or end. 


Answer No. 107 

To disconnect the muffler it is not nec¬ 
essary to disconnect the exhaust pipe 
from the motor (although it is a good 
plan and a simple matter, necessitating only unscrewing 
the union). To disconnect muffler from frame, unscrew 
union at forward end of pipe, drop it down so it will clear 
the frame and slip it back off the tube. If the muffler from 
any cause becomes materially damaged it will probably 
be cheaper to replace it with a new one than to attempt to 
repair it. 


How is the 
Muffler 
disconnected? 


71 






































The Ford Lighting System 


J Answer No. 108 

What about the The Ford lighting system is made up of 
Lighting System ? three oil lamps and two acetylene gas 
(reflector) lamps. Care should be taken that they are kept 
supplied and in order at all times-or one may experience 
difficulties with officials charged with enforcing lighting 
ordinances. The acetylene lamps are supplied with gas 
from the generator, which is located on the left footboard 
of the cari Fill the basket of the generator three-quarters 
full of carbide and the fountain with water Turn the 
valve which lets the water drip on the carblde - Th . e JT 
will be formed almost instantly, when the reflector lights 
mav be lighted. Should the water valve get clogged, 
remove it and clear the obstruction by blowing through it. 
Should the light flicker there is water in the pipe line. Dis¬ 
connect from lamps and blow the water out. (See Cut 
No. 25.) 



The Running Gear 


Answer No. 109 

What is “Running gear” is a more or less loose 

meant by the term as applied in the Ford car, and 

Running Gear t m ust refer to those parts of the chassis 
which are not treated of elsewhere in this book, i. e., the 
wheels, springs, frame, front axle, etc. In a general way 
it corresponds to those parts which are referred to as 
the “running gear” in a wagon or carriage. 


Answer No. 110 

What care should J n the first place it, at all times, should 
the Running ^ have proper lubrication (see chapter on 
Lubrication). Once in every thirty days 
the front and rear axles should be carefully gone over to 
see that every moving part; such as the bushings in spring 
connections, spring hangers, steering knuckles and hub 
bearings, are thoroughly lubricated, and that all nuts and 
connections are secured with cotter pins in place. The 
spring clips, which attach the front spring to the frame, 
should be inspected frequently to see that everything is 
in perfect order. 


Answer No. Ill 

Mow is Jack up front end of car so wheels can 

the Front Axle b e removed, disconnect steering gear, 
removed? disconnect radius rods at ball joint and 

remove two cotter-pinned bolts from shackle on each side, 
so detaching front spring. To disconnect radius rods from 
axle, remove cotter-pinned nuts. To remove entirely, take 
the two bolts out of the ball joint and remove lower half 
of cap. 


73 

























The Ford front axle assembly, (Cut No. 26) 


THE RUNNING GEAR 


75 


Answer No. 112 


In case of 
accident, how 
is the Front Axle 
straightened? 


Should the axle or spindle become bent 
extreme care must be used to straighten 
the parts accurately. Do not heat the 
forgings, as this will distemper the steel, 
but straighten them cold. If convenient it would be 
better to return such parts to the factory, where they 
may be properly straightened in jigs designed for that 
purpose. It is very essential that the wheels line up 
properly (see Answer No. 115). The eye is not suffi¬ 
ciently accurate to determine whether the parts have been 
properly straightened, and excessive wear of the front tires 
will occur if everything is not in perfect alignment. 

Answer No. 113 

VTheels? OUt * The wheels should be jacked up peri- 
odically and tested, not only for 
smoothness of running, but for side play as well. If in 
spinning a front wheel a sharp click occurs now and then 
and the wheel is momentarily checked, it is probable that 
there is a clipped or split ball in the bearing which should 
be removed, otherwise it may necessitate the removal of 
the entire bearing. A wheel in perfect adjustment should, 
after spinning, come to rest with the tire valve directly 
below the hub. Undue wear of the hub bearings, such as 
cones, balls and races, is usually caused by lack of lubri¬ 
cation and excessive friction, due to the adjusting cone 
being screwed up too tight. It is a good plan to clean the 
bearings frequently and keep the hub well filled with grease. 

Answer No. 114 

Wheels removed? Front wheels: , Take off hub ca P> re ” ov « 
cotter pin and unscrew castle nut and 

spindle washer. The adjustable bearing cone can then be 
taken out and the wheel removed. Care should be taken 
to see that the cones and lock nuts are replaced on the 
same spindle from which they were removed, otherwise 






































76 


the ford manual 


there is a liability of stripping the threads which are left on 
the left spindle and right on the opposite as you stand 
facing the car. Back wheels: They should not be re¬ 
moved unless absolutely necessary—in which case pro¬ 
ceed as above, then with a wheel puller remove the wheel 
from the tapered shaft to which it is locked with a key. 
In replacing rear wheels be sure that nut on axle shaft is as 
tight as possible and cotter pin in place. The hub caps of 
the rear wheels should be removed occasionally and the 
lock nuts which hold the hub in place tightened up. If 
these nuts are allowed to work loose, the resulting play on 
the hub key may eventually twist off the axle shaft. 

Answer No. 115 

Hozv does It will be observed that the front wheels 

the setting of the are “dished”; that is, the spokes are 
Front Wheels given a slight outward flare to enable 
differ from that of them to meet side stresses with less 
the Rear Wheels i r jgjj resistance—while the spokes of 
the rear wheels are straight. The front wheels are also 
placed at an angle—that is to say, the distance between 
the tops of the front wheels is about three inches greater 
than between the bottoms. This is to give perfect steering 
qualities and to save wear on the tires when turning cor¬ 
ners. The front wheels should not, however, “toe-in” at 
the front—at least not more than a quarter of an inch. 
Lines drawn along the outside of the wheels when the 
latter are straight in a forward position should be parallel. 
All wheels should always be kept in proper alignment, 
otherwise steering will be difficult and tire wear greatly 
increased. Adjustment can be made by turning the yoke 
at the left end of the spindle connecting rod, to draw the 
wheels into a parallel position. 

Answer No. 116 

What care do The Ford three-point spring suspension 
the Springs need? system is as near ideal as it is possible 
to make it. It not only insures maximum comfort to f 


THE RUNNING GEAR 


77 



GEAR CASE 

,THftOTTU 
ZievER 




STEE&WG OEAH 
Dfwvi: jJiwofj- 

STEEftlHG Gf AR 
FWWHS £in—~ 


roe cf 

'STEERING 
GEAR POST 

.throttle 

QUADRANT 


The Ford steering gear assembly. (Cut No. 27) 


passengers and protection to the car mechanism, but it is as 
simple as it is ^strong. If the springs are somewhat stiff 
when the car is new, take a screw driver and drive the 
leaves apart near the end just enough to force a little lubri¬ 
cating oil or graphite between them. It is a good plan 
to frequently inspect the clips which hold the springs to 
the frame and see that they are kept tight. If the spring 
clips are allowed to work loose the entire strain is put on 
the tie bolt which extends through the center of the spring, 
and in time causes bolt to break. 


Answer No. 117 

What about the It is exceedingly simple and will need 
Steering little care—except, of course, proper 

Apparatus7 lubrication. The post gears which are 

arranged in the sun and planet” form are located at the 
lop of the post just below the hub of the wheel. By 
loosening- the set screw and unscrewing the brass cap— 
after having removed the steering wheel—they may read¬ 
ily be inspected and replenished with grease. To remove 
the steering-wheel, unscrew the brass nut on top of the 
post and drive the wheel off the shaft with a block of 
wood and hammer. 















78 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 118 

How is Steering Should the steering gear become loose. 
Gear tightened ? that is, so that a slight movement of 
the wheel does not produce immediate results, it may be 
tightened in the following manner: Disconnect the two 
halves of the ball sockets which surround the ball arm at 
the lower end of the steering post and file off the. surface 
until they fit snugly around the ball. If the ball is.badly 
worn it is best to replace it with a new one. Also tighten 
the ball caps at the other end of the steering gear connect¬ 
ing rod in the same manner. If the bolts in the steering 
spindle arms appear to be loose, the brass bushings should 
be replaced with new ones. Excessive play in the front 
axle may be detected by grasping one of the front wheels 
by the spokes and jerking the front axle back and forth. 
After the car has been in service two or three years ex¬ 
cessive play in the steering gear may make necessary the 
renewal of the little pinions, as well as the brass internal 
gear just underneath the steering wheel spider.. 

It is also advisable to inspect the front spring hangers 
occasionally to determine whether or not new bushings are 
necessary to overcome any excessive vibration. 


The Ford Lubricating System 


How does the 
Ford Lubricating 
System differ 
from others? 


Answer No. 119 

It is simplified—and there are fewer 
places to oil. Practically all of the parts 
of the engine and transmission are oiled 
by the Ford splash system, from the 
one big oil reservoir in the crank case. Cut No. 28 shows 
the principal’ points of lubrication, and specifies when 
replenishment should be made, according to mileage. This 
chart should be studied carefully and often. It is a good 
plan to frequently supply all oil cups with the same oil 
used in the engine (any good light grade lubricating oil 
will answer) and the dope cups with good grease. Be sure 
to see that the commutator is kept freely supplied with oil 
at all times. 

Answer No. 120 


What is the When it is advisable to fill dope cup 

best way to fill the CO vers screw them down, refill with 
Dope Cups? grease and repeat the operation two or 
three times. Always open oil cups by turning to right, 
as this keeps tightening rather than loosening them. Occa¬ 
sionally remove front wheels and supply dope to wearing 
surface. A drop of oil now and then in crank handle 
bearing is necessary, also on fan belt, pulleys and shaft. 
The axles, drive shaft and universal joint are well supplied 
with lubricant when the car leaves the factory, but it is 
well to examine and oil them frequently. 


Answer No. 121 

What about All grades of lubricating oils should be 

buying Lubricating bought in steel drums and not in 
Oils in quantities? W00( J en barrels —as wooden barrels are 
coated on the inside with glue, which may affiliate with 
the oil and cause the working parts to become gummed and 
no end of trouble result. 


79 









The Ford lubricating chart. (Cut No. 28) 


THE FORD LUBRICATING SYSTEM 


81 


Answer No. 122 

What kind of Oil We recommend only light, high-grade 
should be used? g as en gj ne 0 ;j f or use j n t h e Model T 

motor. A light grade of oil is preferred, as it will naturally 
reach the bearing surfaces with greater ease, and, con¬ 
sequently, less heat will develop on account of friction. 
The oil should, however, have sufficient body so that the 
pressure between the two bearing surfaces will not force 
the oil out and allow the metal to come in actual contact. 
Heavy and inferior oils have a tendency to carbonize 
quickly, also “gum up” the piston rings, valve stems and 
bearings. In cold weather a light grade of oil is absolutely 
essential for the proper lubrication of the car. Most agents 
carry a special oil for cold weather. Graphite should not 
be used as a lubricant in the engine or transmission, as it 
will have a tendency to short-circuit the magneto. 


Answer No. 123 

How often should j t ; s advisable to clean out the crank 
Oil be drained case by draining off the dirty oil when 
the new car has been driven four or five 
hundred miles; thereafter it will only be necessary to re¬ 
peat this operation about every two thousand miles. Re¬ 
move plug underneath the flywheel casing and drain off 
the oil. Replace the plug and pour in a gallon of kerosene 
oil through the breather pipe. Turn the engine over by 
hand fifteen or twenty times so that the splash from the 
kerosene oil will thoroughly cleanse the engine. Remove 
crank case plug and drain off kerosene oil. In order to 
get all the kerosene out of the depressions in the crank case 
the car should be run up a little incline, about the height 
of the ordinary street curbing. Refill with fresh oil. 
































82 


THE FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 124 

How often should Keeping the commutator well oiled is a 
Commutator matter of far greater importance than 

be oiled ? many drivers believe, and is necessary 

in order to have a smooth operating engine. Don’t be 
afraid to put a little oil into the commutator every other 
bay—at least every 200 miles. Remember that the com¬ 
mutator roller revolves very rapidly, and without sufficient 
lubrication the parts soon become badly worn. When in 
this condition perfect contact between the roller and the 
four contact points is impossible, and as a result the engine 
is apt to mis-fire when running at a good rate of speed. 



Oiling the Ford commutator. (Cut No. 29) 


Care of the Tires 


How are Ford 
Tires removed? 


Answer No. 125 

First, jack up the wheel clear of the 
road. The valve cap should be un¬ 
screwed, the lock nut removed and the valve stem 
pushed into the tire until its head is flush with the rim. 
This done, loosen up the head of the shoe in the clinch 
of the rim by working and pushing with the hands, then 
insert one of the tire irons or levers under the beads. The 
tire iron should be pushed in just enough to get a good 
hold on the underside of the bead, but not so far as to 
“pinch” the inner tube between the rim and the tool. A 
second iron should be inserted in the same fashion some 
seven or eight inches from the first, and a third tool the 
same distance from the second. As a clincher tire must be 
pried over the clinch, three or four levers will come in 
handy in a case of a “^one-man job,” and the knee of the 
driver can be used to good advantage to hold down one 
lever while the other two are being manipulated in working 
the shoe clear of the rim. After freeing a length of the 
bead from the clinch, the entire outer edge of the casing 
may be readily detached with the hands, and the damaged 
inner tube removed and “patched” or a spare tube 
inserted. Always use plenty of soapstone in replacing an 
inner tube. . , T 

Answer JNo . 126 


Hozv are Casings Should the casing be cut so there is 
repaired t danger of the inner tube being blown 

through it, a temporary repair can be made by cementing 
a canvas patch on the inside of the casing. Before ap¬ 
plying the patch the part of the casing affected should be 
cleaned with gasoline and when dry, rubber cement ap¬ 
plied to both casing and patch. This will answer as an 
emergency repair—but the casing should be vulcanized 
at the first opportunity. 

To prolong the life of the tire casings, any small cuts in 
the tread should be filled with patching cement and a spe¬ 
cially prepared “plastic” sold by the tire companies. 




83 
















Method of removing Ford clincher tires. (Cut No. 30) 


CARE OF THE TIRES 


85 


Answer No. 127 

How may Tire Tire cost constitutes one of the most 
important items in the running ex¬ 
penses of an automobile. To get the 
most service at the least expense, the tires should be 
inspected frequently and all small cuts or holes properly 
sealed or repaired—thus preventing dirt and water work¬ 
ing in between the rubber tread and the fabric, causing 
blisters or sand boils. 

Tires should never be run partially deflated, as the side 
walls are unduly bent and the fabric is subject to stresses 
which cause what is known as rim cutting. The chances 
of getting a puncture will be greatly reduced by keeping 
your tires properly inflated, as a hard tire exposes much 
less surface to the road than i. soft tire, and also deflects 
sharp objects that would penetrate a soft tire. 

Running a tire flat, even for a short distance, is sure to 
be costly. Better run on the rim, very slowly and care¬ 
fully, rather than on a flat tire. 

Remember that fast driving and skidding shorten the 
life of the tires. Avoid locking the wheels with the 
brakes—no tire will stand the strain of being dragged over 
the pavement in this fa-shion. 

Avoid running in street car tracks, in ruts, or bumping 
the side of the tire against the curbing. 

The wheel rims should be painted each season and kept 
free from rust. 

When a car is idle for any appreciable length of time, it 
should be jacked up to take the load off the tires. If the 
car is laid up for many months, it is best to remove the 
tires, and wrap up the outer casings and inner tubes 
separately, and store them in a dark room not exposed to 
extreme temperatures. Remove oil or grease from the 
tires with gasoline. Remember that heat, light and oil 
are three natural enemies of rubber. 
























86 


THE -FORD MANUAL 


Answer No. 128 

How is a puncture After locating the puncture, carefully 
in the Inner Tube dean the rubber around the leak with 
repaired? benzine or gasoline. Then rough the 

surface with sandpaper from your tire repair kit to give a 
hold for the cement. Apply the cement to both patch 
and tube, allowing it to dry for about five minutes, re¬ 
peating the application twice with like intervals between 
for drying. When the cement is dry and sticky press the 
patch against the tube firmly and thoroughly to remove 
all air bubbles beneath it and insure proper adherence to 
the surface—then spread some soapstone or talc powder 
over the repair so as to prevent the tube sticking to the 
casing. Before the tube is put back into the casing plenty 
of talc powder should be sprinkled into the latter. A cement 
patch is not usually permanent and the tube should be 
vulcanized as soon as possible. In replacing the tire on 
the rim be very careful not to pinch the tube. 


Answer No. 129 

How important is More tires give out from insufficient 
Proper Tire inflation than anything else. Air costs 

Inflation f nothing; tires are expensive. Remem¬ 

ber it is the air in the tube that carries the load and 
cushions the road. The front tires should carry a pressure 
of fifty to fifty-five pounds and the rear tires sixty to 
sixty-five. In hot weather the pressure should be about 
five pounds less than in cold weather — on account of the 
expansion of heated air. To determine the pressure ac¬ 
curately a reliable air pressure gauge should be used. 
In the absence of a gauge a good rule to follow is the main¬ 
tenance of sufficient pressure to prevent your tires from 
bulging out under the weight of the car. Tires should 
never be run partially deflated, as the side walls are un¬ 
duly bent and the fabric is subject to stresses which cause 
what is known as rim cutting. 


CARE OF THE TIRES 


S7 


Answer No. 130 

Tires be used? pro\ides the ideal medium for absorb¬ 
ing vibration, which would otherwise 
affect the mechanism of the car. When a shock or blow 
is received by the tire at any point, the air in the tube 
allows the pressure to be evenly distributed all the way 
around. We cannot guarantee Ford cars equipped with 
anything but pneumatic tires. 


Answer No. 131 

That de P ends *upon the driver and the 
roads. We have known drivers to 
run their tires without repair more than eight thousand 
miles—while others do not drive them half as far. The 
rear tires usually wear faster than the front on account 
of carrying the heavier load, and by the action of the 
brakes in making sudden stops. In case the front tires 
wear faster than the rear, it is possible that the front 
wheels are out of alignment. The tires with which Ford 
cars are equipped are guaranteed by the makers against 
defects—and all claims should be taken up direct with the 
tire manufacturers. 


Answer No. 132 

?'/ h 7; ; r h 1 the F T MM 

1 otters z.33 cu. in. of tire to the pound 
of car. Some of the heavy cars offer only 1.8 cu. in. of 
tire. Of all the cars tested the Ford puts’ the largest sur- 
face on the ground per pound of car. This means that 
Ford owners are least subject to tire annoyance. 














the ford manual 


Answer No. 133 

How should First, remove the valve plunger so it 

idle Inner Tubes j s possible to expel all the air from the 
be folded and tube, replace the plunger and then lay 
cared for ? t he tube flat on the floor or ground with 

the valve in the middle pointing upward and equidistant 
from the two folded ends. To do this it is necessary to 
turn the tube with that side outward that lies next the 
rim when in use. Fold the ends upon themselves with the 
outermost parts brought up to the valve and then laid 
flat. A second fold is then made by picking up the two 
outer folds and bringing them, together and at the same 
time lifting the tube from the ground. The tube will then 
lie in four flat folds, with the valve projecting upward 
between them at the bottom. A stout rubber band 
snapped over the ouside will hold the tube in proper shape. 


Points on Maintenance 


Answer No. 134 

What is the proper Always use cold or lukewarm water— 
way to wash never hot water. If a hose is used, 

don’t turn on the water at full force, as 
this drives the dirt into the varnish and injures the finish. 
After the surplus mud and grime have been washed off, 
take a sponge and clean the body and running gear with a 
tepid solution of water and ivory or linseed oil soap. 
Then rinse off with cold water; then rub dry and polish 
the body with a chamois skin. A body or furniture polish 
of good quality may be used to add lustre to the car. 
Grease on the running gear may be removed with a gasoline- 
soaked sponge or rag. The brass work may be polished 
with any good metal polish. It should be a point of pride 
with every Ford owner to keep his car clean—always. By 
so doing he will lengthen its life and retard its depreciation. 

Answer No. 135 

What care does When putting the top down be careful 
Top need? in folding to see that the fabric is not 

pinched between the bow spacers, as they will chafe a hole 
through the top very quickly. Always slip the hood over 
the top when folded to keep out dust and dirt. Applying 
a good top dressing will greatly improve the appearance of 
an old top. 

Answer No. 136 

How can the glass Glycerine and alcohol mixed in equal 
of the Windshield quantities is a most handy liquid for 
be kept free preventing rain from accumulating on 

the windshield of a car. A small amount 
rubbed on the windshield will cause the rain to run off as 
rapidly as it strikes the glass. Owners will find this remedy 
of great value when driving through a rain storm. 


89 





FIRST POINT 


MOTOR 


SECOND POINT 


THIRD POINT 


FRAME 



TRANSMISSION-^ 


FLEXIBLE 
UNIVERSAL JOINT 


REAR RADIUS 


DIFFERENTIAL 


REAR 

AXLE 


SPRING 


Showing one of the many Ford three point suspensions—also how 
the engine strengthens the frame. (Cut No. 31) 


POINTS ON MAINTENANCE 


91 


Answer No. 137 

What are the Keep to the right. In passing a car 

Rules of the Road? going in your direction, go to the left. 
Always be prepared to meet emergencies. Don’t cut 
diagonally across the street. Hug the curb in making the 
“short turn” at the corner. Always go around the center 
of the street intersection in making “the long turn.” Ex¬ 
tending the arm to the right or left will indicate to the 
driver behind the direction in which you expect to turn. 
Observe the traffic regulations. And always be courteous 
—it costs nothing and helps a lot. 

Answer No. 138 

How is Skidding Keep off slippery pavements whenever 
best prevented? possible. Drive slowly when on them. 
In wet and snowy weather use chains on rear wheels, and 
if the mud or snow is very bad, on all wheels. Apply the 
chains loosely so they will move about and distribute the 
wear over the entire surface of the casing. Non-skidding 
tires may help some. When your car starts to skid don’t 
put your foot on the brake pedal, but close the throttle and 
turn the steering wheeHn the direction in which the rear 
wheels are sliding. This will tend to neutralize the lateral 
movement of the car. 

If, in the absence of chains, the car becomes mired, or 
the road is so slippery that the wheels cannot secure suffi¬ 
cient hold to move the car, relief may be obtained by wind¬ 
ing a rope around the rear wheel, in between the spokes. 

Answer No. 139 

What should be Drain the water from the radiator, and 
done when the Carthen put in about a quart of denatured 
alcohol to prevent freezing of any water 
that may possibly remain. Remove cylinder head and 
clean out any carbon deposits in combustion chamber. 
Draw off all the gasoline. Drain the dirty oil from the 



































92 


THE FORD MANUAL 


crank case and cleanse the engine with kerosene as directed 
in Answer No. 123. Refill the crank case with fresh oil 
and revolve the engine enough to cover the different parts 
with oil. Remove the tires and store them away as directed 
in chapter on Care of Tires. Wash up the car, and if 
possible cover the body with a sheet of muslin to protect 
the finish. Lamps and other polished parts should be 
cleaned and wrapped and then packed away. 



Gasoline measure for 10-gallon tank. (Cut No. 32) 

Answer No. 140 

How is the amount Diagram No. 32 will show you how to 
of Gasoline in the determine the amount of gasoline in 
tank ascertained? y Qur tank. The best measuring me- 
dium is a piece of soft pine graduated according to the 
figures in the diagram and polished with powdered graph¬ 
ite, to give it a metallic-like coating. Those who equip 
their car with one of these gauges will find they are fully 
repaid for the trouble taken. 

Answer No. 141 

What is the best In driving down long, steep hills the 
way to Drive speed of the car may be checkedby 

Down Hill? allowing the engine to run against 

compression, rather than by using the transmission brake. 


POINTS ON MAINTENANCE 


93 


Throw off the switch and close the throttle. If this 
does not slow your car down sufficiently, throw the clutch 
into low speed. Upon reaching the bottom of the in¬ 
cline, throw on the switch again and open the throttle. 
If throttle is left open while descending the hill the fresh 
gas is apt to work back through the exhaust pipe and 
cause an explosion in the muffler when the switch is 
thrown on. Using the engine as a brake should not be 
undertaken until the driver becomes thoroughly familiar 
with the car. 


Answer No. 142 

What about The man from whom you buy your 

Licenses, Taxes , car w ;p gj ve y OU th e necessary in¬ 
formation regarding these things. Laws 
vary in the different states, cities and countries. At the 
very start it will be well for you to familiarize yourself 
with the automobile laws and regulations of the community 
in which you live—and abide by them. 

Through-country licenses granted in one State are 
honored for tourists only in other States. 















































94 


THE FORD MANUAL 


SUMMARY OF ENGINE TROUBLES AND THEIR CAUSES 


95 




Summary of Engine Trcj 

ENGINE FAILS TO START 

1. Gas mixture too lean. 

2. Water in gasoline. 

3. Vibrators adjusted too close. 

4. Water or congealed oil in commutator. 

5. Magneto contact point (in trans. cover) obstructed 

with foreign matter. 

6 . Gasoline supply shut off. 

7. Carburetor frozen (in zero weather). 

8 . Water frozen in gasoline tank sediment bulb. 

9. Coil switch off. 

ENGINE LACKS POWER—RUNS IRREGULARLY 
At Low Speeds. 

1. Poor compression—account leaky valves. 

2. Gas mixture too rich or too lean. 

3. Spark plugs dirty. 

4. Coil vibrator improperly adjusted. 

5. Air leak in intake manifold. 

6 . Weak exhaust valve spring. 

7. Too great clearance between valve stem and push rod. 

8 . Too close gap between spark plug points. 

At High Speeds. 

1. Commutator contact imperfect. 

2. Weak valve spring. 

3. Too much gap in spark plug. 

4. Imperfect gas mixture. 

5. Platinum points dirty or burned. 


ubles and Their Causes 

ENGINE STOPS SUDDENLY 

1. Gasoline tank empty. 

2 . Water in gasoline. 

3. Flooded carburetor. 

4. Dirt in carburetor or feed pipe. 

5. Magneto wire loose at either terminal. 

6 . Magneto contact point obstructed. 

7. Overheated—account lack of oil or water. 

8 . Gas mixture too lean. 

ENGINE OVERHEATS 

1. Lack of water. 

2. Lack of oil. 

3. Fan belt torn, loose or slipping. 

4. Carbon deposit in combustion chamber. 

5. Spark retarded too far. 

6 . Gas mixture too rich. 

7. Water circulation retarded by sediment in radiator. 

8 . Dirty spark plugs. 

ENGINE KNOCKS 

1. Carbon deposit on piston heads. 

2. Loose connecting rod bearing. 

3. Loose crank shaft bearing. 

4. Spark advanced too far. 

5. Engine overheated. 












Index 


Care of Tires Page 

Care of. Inner Tubes - - - - 88 

Casings—How Repaired 8 j 

How to Remove Tires _ - - - 83 

Repair Puncture . . _ _ - 86 

Sizes of Tires ------ 87 

Cooling System 

Causes of Overheating . _ - 33 

Purpose - -- -- -- 31 

Radiator Care in Winter _ _ - 34 

Repairing Radiator - _ _ _ 35 

What to Do When Overheated _ 3 3 
When to Fill Radiator _ . - 33 

Engine 

Carbon—How Removed _ _ _ 25 

Combustion Chamber _ _ 1/ 

Connecting Rod and Bearings _ 27 
Four-Cycle—What It Means _ 15 

Knocking—Causes ----- 24 
Main Bearing—How Adjusted _ 28 

Piston - -- -- -- -17 

Piston Rings 17 

Power Plant—How Removed _ 26 
Principal Parts - _ _ _ _ 15 

Valves - -- -- -- - 19 

Gasoline System 

Carburetor—How to Adjust _ _ 39 

Carburetor—How Controlled _ 38 

Carburetor—Trouble - _ _ _ 40 

Carburetor—Wha 11s Its Purpose - 3 7 


Ignitiorl System 

Coils ------ 46 

Commutator—Its Purpose - _ 50 

Magneto - -- -- - -43 

Magneto Trouble - - - - 55 

Spark Plugs ----- - -50 

Where to Look for Trouble _ - 51 

Lighting System 

What It Is - - - . _ - .72 


Lubricating System 

Page 

How It Differs From Others _ 

- 79 

Kind of Oil to U se _ _ - 

. 81 

To Fill “Dope” Cups - . . 

- 79 

Maintenance 

Care of Top - _ - - 

. 89 

Gasoline in Tank _ 

. 92 

Storing Cars _ _ - _ _ 

- 91 

To Keep Car Clean _ 

- 89 

Muffler 

How to Disconnect _ _ - 

. 71 

What It Is For - - _ - 

- 71 

Operation 

Adjustments—What to Do 

. 14 

Cranking ------ 

. 8 

Gasoline ------- 

- 5 

Getting Ready to Start _ . 

. 6 

Hand Lever _ 

. n 

Oiling ------- 

. 5 

Power Plant _ 

_ 3 


Running Gear - _ _ _ - 3 

Slow Speed, Brake and Reverse _ 11 

Spark—How Controlled _ _ - 12 

Speed—-How Controlled _ _ - 13 

Speeding Harmful - _ _ 13 

Starting ------ - - 11 

Starting in Cold Weather _ 9 

Rear Axle 

Differential 67 

Rear Axle—How to Remove Parts 67 
Universal Joint ------ 65 

Running Gear 

About Wheels.75 

Care of Springs ----- 76 

Its Care -------- 73 

Remove Front Axle _ - - _ 73 

Steering Apparatus _ _ _ . 77 

What “Running Gear” Means _ 73 

Transmission 

Bands 63 

Clutch.- 57 

Planetary Transmission—What 
It Is -------- 57 

Transmission—How Assembled _ 60 


96 













