-Helpful  Hints 
&  Advice  to 
Employees 


Ford 

Motor  Company 


1915 


658.3 

H36 


#  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  #  » 


*0  #  #  #  jT^ 

Lsfnno  1778  »  # 


PHILLIPS  •  ACADEMY 


# 

# 


# 

>gj 

# 

# 

# 


# 

OLIVER -WENDELL -HOLMES  # 


3® 


and A  dvice  to 

\V — 1 


TO  HELP  THEM  GRASP 

THE  OPPORTUNITIES 

WHICH  ARE  PRESENTED 

TO  THEM  BY  THE  FORD 

PROFIT-SHARING  PLAN 


'TilMeJ  jy  de  FORD  MOTOR  COMPANY 

D  ETR  O  I  T  /AICHIGAH  U.S.A 


n  i  9  i  T  n 

.  **  ?S(/  f  jcto  >Qrry^yUr?Ca - Y 


PREFACE 


THE  plan  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company,  in 
increasing  the  income  of  its  employes  above 
the  regular  going  wage,  sought  to  better  the 
conditions  of  each  employe  and  those  dependent  upon 
him. 

No  rules  or  regulations,  of  a  general  nature,  are 
employed.  Each  individual  is  given  a  chance  to  work 
out  the  very  best  condition  for  himself  in  a  way  that 
Avill  give  him  the  most  pleasure  and  satisfaction  and 
foundation  for  further  growth. 

The  Company  has  organized  a  stafF  of  men,  Avhose 
business  it  is,  to  help  and  encourage  every  man  that 
needs  assistance  to  grasp  the  opportunities  that  are 
his. 

One  other  function  of  this  organization  is  to  see  that 
those  who,  through  circumstances  or  environments, 
have  no  understanding  of  wliat  this  plan  really  means, 
are  not  prone  to  waste  their  substance  for  their  own 
hurt,  nor  those  about  them. 

The  plan  and  scope  of  the  work  is  exceedingly 
broad  and  unselfish.  The  sole  and  simple  aim  of  the 
entire  scheme  is  to  better  the  financial  and  moral 
standing  of  each  employe  and  those  of  his  household; 
to  instill  men  with  courage  and  a  desire  for  health, 
happiness  and  prosperity.  To  give  to  father  and 
mother  sufficient  for  present  and  future;  to  provide  for 
families  in  sickness,  in  health  and  in  old  age  and  to 
take  away  fear  and  worry.  To  make  a  Avell  rounded 
life  and  not  a  mere  struggle  for  existence  to  men  and 
their  families,  and  to  implant  in  the  heart  of  every 
indnddual  the  wholesome  desii’e  to  Help  the  Other 
Fellow,  AvheneAmr  he  comes  across  your  path,  to  the 
extent  of  your  ability. 


•30 


4 


iteteUS®^ 


■Yrmr 


liiift 


•TfnTffSSWW'V  arm'ff  *Th^  ''.Vr'rjr^-r  r 

^mKpwmim^ni 

:  . :  | 

|  '  f  •  — -v-rt 


%/#§?<■ 


:Q 


/(  good  representative  home  owned  by  a  Ford  employe 


HELPFUL  HINTS  AND  ADVICE  TO 
FORD  ENf PLOT E  S  SMF 


Till'.  main  purpose  of  tliis  book  is  to  put  in 
printed  and  picture  form  the  aims  and  objects 
the  Ford  Motor  Company  has  in  view,  and  what 
it  hopes  to  achieve,  for  the  benefit  of  its  employes, 
through  its  profit-sharing  plan,  and  its  sociological 
department. 

Through  the  officers  of  that  department  and  its 
investigators,  the  Company  has  been  able  to  give  the 
employes  an  idea  of  the  scope  of  the  plan,  and  what  it 
hopes  to  attain  in  the  way  of  improving  living  condi¬ 
tions,  better  morals,  and  the  encouragement  of  habits 
of  thrift  and  saving. 

The  Company  desires  all  of  its  employes  and  their 
families  to  be  well  housed,  live  in  good  wholesome 
neighborhoods,  and  be  as  free  as  possible  from  danger 
of  disease  caused  by  dark,  foul,  filthy  tenements,  and 
unwholesome  localities. 

In  this  book  will  be  found  types  of  so  called  good  and 
bad  homes;  sanitary  and  insanitary  living  conditions; 
good  and  bad  neighborhoods.  These  views  are  presented 
for  the  purpose  of  showing  the  benefits  which  can  be 
obtained  by  imitating  the  good,  and  avoiding  the  bad, 
in  the  home  and  surroundings. 

The  Company  does  not  undertake  to  select  neigh¬ 
borhoods  or  plan  homes  for  its  employes,  but  it  does 
expect  that  they,  to  be  profit-sharers,  will  choose 
wholesome  and  decent  neighborhoods  and  buildings, 
and  keep  their  homes  and  surroundings  clean,  sanitary 
and  healthful. 

This  requirement  is  made  that  the  employes  and 
their  families  may  live  healthily  and  cleanly,  and  be  a 
credit  to  the  Company,  as  well  as  to  themselves  and  the 
community  in  which  they  live. 

This  book  is  meant  to  supplement  the  work  the 
investigators  are  doing  in  making  personal  calls  upon 
employes.  Read  the  facts  and  suggestions  presented, 
and  study  the  pictures  with  the  aim  in  view  of  drawing 
as  much  comfort  and  satisfaction  out  of  life  as  possible, 


by  leading  clean,  moral  and  self -respecting  lives,  and  Lo 
provide  for  the  future  and  old  age. 

Those  who.  benelit  by  the  profit-sharing  plan  should 
realize  that  it  is  Lo  their  interest  Lo  help  in  insuring  its 
continued  success,  and  it  is  therefore  hoped  that  each 
employe  will  show  a  reciprocal  interest,  and  give  his 
best  efforts  toward  that  end.  Each  employe  should  feel 
that  he  is  one  of  a  big  organization,  and  take  a  personal 
interest  in  its  welfare. 

RULES  GOVERNING  ELIGIBILITY  TO 
SHARE  IN  RROE1TS 

Every  male  employe  over  22  years  of  age,  who  leads  a  elean, 
sober  and  industrious  life,  and  who  can  prove  that  he  has  thrifty 
habits,  is  eligible  to  share  in  the  profits. 

Every  married  man,  no  matter  what  age,  who  ean  qualify 
as  to  sobriety,  industry  and  cleanliness,  can  participate,  if  he  is 
living  with  his  family. 

Every  young  man  under  22  years  of  age  who  is  the  sole  support 
of  a  widowed  mother,  or  next  of  kin,  and  who  leads  a  clean, 
sober  and  industrious  life,  can  participate. 

All  women  employed  by  the  Company  who  are  deserving, 
and  who  have  some  relatives  solely  dependent  upon  them  for 
support,  can  receive  benefits  through  profit-sharing. 

All  persons  employed  on  or  after  October  23rd,  1914,  will  not 
be  permitted  to  share  in  profits  until  they  have  been  in  the  Com¬ 
pany’s  employ  six  months,  and  then  qualify  as  per  require¬ 
ments  stated  above. 

It  is  the  earnest  wish  of  the  Company  that' every  employe  who 
has  reached  the  age  of  22  years,  shall  qualify  under  the  rules  laid 
down  and  receive  the  benefits  offered. 

Cases  have  been  brought  to  the  Company’s  attention  indicat¬ 
ing  that  some  young  men,  in  order  to  qualify  as  profit-sharers, 
have  hastily  married  witliouL  giving  serious  LhougiiL  Lo  such  an 
important  step  in  their  lives.  Seldom  does  such  a  marriage  prove 
a  happy  one.  If  they  Avould  give  more  thought  to  the  uncer¬ 
tainty  of  business  affairs  and  the  certainty  of  the  obligations  and 
responsibilities  assumed  in  the  marriage  vows,  there  would  be 
less  work  for  the  divorce  courts. 

HOW  IS  AN  EMBLOYE’S  SHARE  OE  THE 
PROFITS  DETERMINED  ? 

Each  man’s  pay  is  divided  into  two  parts;  his  wages  and  his 
share  of  the  profits.  Employes  are  hired  at  an  hourly  rate 
ranging  from  34  cents  upward.  This  sum  represents  the  rate  of 


wages  which  the  Company  will  pay  him  Tor  his  services  and 
labor. 

By  share  of  profits  is  meant  that  sum  which  is  put  into  the  pay 
envelopes  each  pay  day,  over  and  above  the  sum  earned  and  paid 
as  wages. 

It  is  the  profit  received  by  an  employe  that  is  expected  to  be  of 
permanent  benefit  to  him,  to  be  saved  or  wisely  invested,  and  for 
this  purpose  the  investigator  calls  from  time  to  time  to  note  the 
progress  he  is  making  in  that  direction. 


INVESTIGATORS 

The  Ford  Motor  Company  hopes  through  its  profit-sharing 
plan,  to  help  uplift  humanity,  and  make  better  men  of  its  em¬ 
ployes;  raise  their  moral  standard  through  better  surroundings, 
and  foster  habits  of  thrift,  to  provide  against  sickness  or  any 
misfortunes  that  may  befall  them  or  their  families. 

To  some  men  surplus  money  is  often  detrimental  and  demoral¬ 
izing.  Some  Avill  not  raise  themselves  above  their  old  habits  and 
manner  of  living  when  given  the  opportunity.  There  are  others 
who  are  needy,  yet  thrifty  by  nature,  who  make  good  use  of  the 
share  of  profits  given  them. 

A  staff  of  investigators  has  been  chosen  whose  duties  are  to 
explain  the  profit-sharing  plan,  and  collect  information  and  data 
from  every  one  of  the  employes.  This  information  is  to  be  used 
in  deciding  who  is  entitled  to  benefit  in  the  profit-sharing.  It  is 
also  used  to  note  from  time  to  time,  improvements  made  in  home 
life,  and  to  know  whether  the  employe  is  being  benefited,  and  to 
what  extent.  The  Company  simply  wants  to  be  assured  that 
the  profits  are  doing  a  lasting  good,  and  it  is  for  this  reason  only 
that  investigations  are  conducted  from  time  to  time. 

The  judgment  formed  by  the  investigators,  based  upon  infor¬ 
mation  and  figures  obtained  from  the  employe,  goes  a  long  way 
in  determining  whether  the  employe  is  worthy  to  receive  or 
continue  to  receive  profits  from  the  Company,  but  is  by  no  means 
final. 

Each  individual  case,  after  being  written  up  by  the  investiga¬ 
tor,  goes  before  a  committee  of  the  sociological  department  which 
passes  final  judgment  on  the  case,  and  approAms  or  disapproves 
for  profit-sharing,  as  the  case  may  Avarrant. 

The  investigators  are  engaged  as  important  factors  in  one  of 
the  greatest,  if  not  the  greatest,  industrial  sociological  plan  for 
the  benefit  of  humanity  ever  attempted;  entirely  neAv  in  its  con¬ 
ception  and  far  reaching  in  its  ultimate  end.  Upon  them  and  the 
result  of  their  work  depends,  in  a  large  measure,  the  success  of  the 
plan  and  its  successful  continuation.  It  is  the  duty  of  every 
employe  to  aid  the  investigators  in  every  way  possible  in  their 
Avork. 


9 


10 


Americanization  Day,  July  5th,  1015.  The  'parade  of  6000  Ford  employes  through  Campus  Mariws,  Detroit , 

to  take  part  in  exercises  held  at  Belle  Isle 


The  duties  of  the  investigators  are  many  and  varied,  not  the 
least  of  which  is  giving  advice  as  to  avIio  should  be  assisted  in 
other  ways  than  by  the  giving  of  profits  or  money. 

Almost  every  country  on  the  globe  is  represented  among  the 
army  of  workers  in  the  Ford  Plant,  there  being  no  less  than  53 
distinct  types  of  nationalities  among  its  employes. 

The  task  of  acquainting  and  getting  each  employe  imbued 
with  the  idea  and  spirit  of  the  Company  in  this  work  is  therefore 
a  large  and  slow  one. 

We  ask  you  to  have  your  papers  and  receipts  so  sorted  and 
arranged,  that  Avhen  the  investigator  calls  upon  you  to  note  prog¬ 
ress,  you  will  be  able  to  give  him,  with  as  little  delay  as  possible, 
the  information  he  seeks. 


IDENTIFICATION  OE  INVESTIGATORS 


Unscrupulous  agents,  schemers  and  fakers  are  abroad  in  the 
land,  and  it  has  come  to  the  Company’s  attention  that  some  of 
its  employes  have  been  the  victims  of  their  frauds  and  misrepre¬ 
sentations.  If  employes  do  not  know  for  a  certainty  the  Com¬ 
pany’s  investigator,  or  are  in  doubt  as  to  the  person  who 
approaches  them  as  its  representative,  have  no  dealings  with  him 
until  he  proves  that  he  is  an  authorized  representative  of  the 
Company  sent  for  the  purpose  of  getting  the  information  he 
seeks.  If  he  is  an  investigator  for  the  Ford  Motor  Company  he 
can  easily  prove  it  by  showing  you  his  identification  card  and  his 
Ford  Motor  Company  badge.  If  he  cannot  produce  his  card  of 
identification  you  may  be  certain  that  he  is  an  impostor,  and  is 
working  for  his  own  personal  gain,  at  your  expense. 

By  being  careful  and  positive  in  this  regard  you  may  save 
yourself  from  being  victimized  by  impostors  Avho  prey  upon  the 
innocent  as  well  as  the  careless  person. 

This  company  has  nothing  to  sell  but  Motor  Cars,  and  is  in  no 
way  connected  with  any  company,  firm  or  individual  engaged  in  sell¬ 
ing  real  estate  or  anything  whatsoever.  No  one  who  tries  to  sell 
an  employe  anything  is  an  agent  of  the  F ord  Motor  Company.  If 
he  says  he  is,  he  lies.  Do  not  buy  anything  from  him. 

As  it  is  the  Company’s  desire  to  safeguard  employes’  interests, 
they  ask  that  employes  report  to  the  investigation  department 
promptly,  giving  name  and  address,  if  possible,  of  any  person 
who  attempts  to  sell  property,  and  avIio  states  that  the  Ford 
Motor  Company  owns,  or  is  interested  in  the  same;  or  solicits 
insurance  on  the  grounds  that  he  is  selling  Ford  Motor  Com¬ 
pany  policies. 


CHANGE  OE  ADDRESS 


It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  employes  give  their  new 
address,  immediately  after  the  change  is  made,  to  the  time  clerk  in 
their  department,  or  the  head  Avatchman  in  the  Avatcliman’s 
office.  Failure  to  do  so  may  mean  the  loss  of  their  position. 


11 


J  J 

j 


An,  unhealthy  bedroom ,  a  breeder  of  tuberculosis.  Note  the  child 
sleeping  at  the  center  of  the  picture 


HOME  COMFORTS  AND 
SANITATION 

Employes  should,  not  sacrifice  their  family  rights,  joleasures 
and  comforts,  by  filling  the  house  with  roomers  and  boarders,  nor 
endanger  their  children  s  morals  or  welfare  by  allowing  them  to 
associate  with  people  about  whom  they  know  little  or  nothing. 

Employes  should  live  in  clean,  Avell  conducted  homes,  in  rooms 
that  are  well  lighted  and  ventilated.  Avoid  the  congested  and 
slum  parts  of  the  city.  The  Company  will  not  approve,  as  profit- 
sharers,  men  who  herd  themselves  in  overcrowded  boarding¬ 
houses  which  menace  their  health.  Select  a  home  where  there 
are  few  boarders  or  roomers,  the  surroundings  clean  and  whole¬ 
some,  paying  particular  attention  to  the  sanitary  conditions  in 
the  house. 

Do  not  occupy  a  room  in  which  one  other  person  sleeps,  as 
the  Company  is  anxious  to  have  its  employes  live  comfortably, 
and  under  conditions  that  make  for  cleanliness,  good  manhood 
and  good  citizenship. 

One  of  the  most  important  problems  of  the  profit-sharing  plan 
is  the  home  life  of  the  employe.  The  Eord  Motor  Company  is 
a  firm  believer  in  cleanliness  and  sanitation.  These  two,  coupled 
with  that  of  safety,  are  of  prime  importance  in  the  factory,  which 
is  shown  by  the  expense,  care  used  and  plans  adopted,  to  insure 
results.  The  Company  wishes  to  carry  these  ideas  into  the  homes 
of  the  employes. 

The  investigators  have  found,  upon  going  into  the  homes  of 
many  employes,  and  particularly  some  of  those  of  foreign  birth, 
that  in  many  cases  they  were  living  and  sleeping  in  over-crowded 
rooms  and  tenements.  Often  these  rooms  and  tenements  were 
dark,  ill- ventilated  and  foul  smelling,  with  poor  sanitary  condi¬ 
tions  as  to  toilet  accommodations  and  the  disposal  of  garbage  and 
refuse.  The  Company  expects  employes  to  improve  their  liv¬ 
ing  conditions,  make  their  homes  clean  and  comfortable,  provide 
wholesome  surroundings,  good  air  and  light,  and  to  keep  their 
households  for  themselves  and  immediate  families. 

Employes  should  use  plenty  of  soap  and  water  in  the  home, 
and  upon  their  children,  bathing  frequently.  Nothing  makes 
for  right  living  and  health  so  much  as  cleanliness.  Notice  that 
the  most  advanced  people  are  the  cleanest. 

The  premises  and  back  yards  should  be  kept  clean,  and,  where 
conditions  permit,  a  vegetable  garden  or  flower  bed  cultivated. 

Improved  garbage  cans,  of  which  there  are  several  good  types 
on  sale,  should  be  used.  The  can  should  be  covered  at  all  times, 
especially  during  the  summer  time,  to  prevent  the  carrying  of 
disease  germs  by  flies,  dogs,  eats  and  rats. 


13 


Here  were  fourteen  men  sleeping  in  one  room  with  windows  closed.  There  is 
positive  danger  to  health  under  such  conditions,  owing  to  breathing  foul  air 


n 

I 


! 

! 


i 


A  crowded  unhealthy  bedroom.  Employes  should  have  a  single  room, 
if  they  wish  to  be  healthy  and  strong 

14 


-in 


THE  CHILDREN 

Children  who  are  compelled  to  resort  to  the  streets  and  alleys 
of  the  city  for  playgrounds  are  not  getting  what  they  need.  To 
insure  good  health,  and  enable  them  to  enjoy  in  fullest  measure 
the  desires  of  happy  childhood,  they  should  have  open  ground 
and  space  for  play. 

Choose  a  home  in  a  locality  where  ample  room,  with  good 
wholesome  surroundings,  will  enable  the  children  to  get  the 
greatest  benelit  possible  from  their  play,  under  conditions  that 
will  tend  to  clean  and  healthful  ideas,  rather  than  those  likely  to 
be  formed  in  the  streets  and  alleys  of  the  crowded  section  of  the 
city. 

If  children’s  minds  and  energies  are  directed  in  good  whole¬ 
some  channels  it  will  become  a  habit  with  them,  and  save  parents 
worry  and  trouble  in  later  years.  Take  an  interest  in  the  chil¬ 
dren’s  amusements,  and  direct  them  right.  Do  not  fail  to  watch 
them  closely  as  to  their  habits,  and  associates,  during  their  for¬ 
mative  period. 

From  12  years  of  age  to  18  especially  is  a  time  when  they  should 
be  guarded  well,  and  not  allowed  to  contract  habits  and  vices 
injurious  to  their  welfare  and  health. 

THE  EXAMPLE  PARENTS  SET  THEIR  CHILDREN 
GOES  A  LONG  WAY  IN  FORMING  THEIR  HABITS.  A 
GOOD  EXAMPLE  IS  THE  BEST  SERMON. 

Some  parents  seem  to  think  their  duty  is  ended  Avlien  their 
children  are  able,  in  a  large  measure,  to  do  for  themselves,  but 
much  guidance  and  care  are  necessary  during  their  youth.  Seek 
for  and  deserve  their  confidence,  to  guide  them  right.  Know 
who  their  companions  are,  and  see  that  they  are  decent  and 
clean  minded. 

EDUCATION 

It  should  be  the  pleasure,  as  it  certainly  is  the  duty  of  the 
parents,  to  give  their  children  the  best  possible  education  their 
means  permit.  To  this  end  the  Company  urges  that  parents  see 
to  it  that  their  children  are  enrolled  in  some  school  as  soon  as 
they  arrive  at  school  age.  The  benefits  to  be  derived  from  a  good 
education  are  great  and  lasting. 

To  have  children  prepared  to  compete  successfully  in  the 
struggle  of  earning  a  living,  and  to  understand  and  enjoy  the 
best  things  in  life,  they  must  have  at  least,  a  good,  common 
school  education.  Therefore,  parents  should  see  to  it  that  their 
children  attend  school  regularly  and  keep  them  in  school  as  long 
as  possible,  for  a  good  education  is  a  rich  heritage. 

The  laAvs  of  the  State  of  Michigan  compel  all  children  between 
the  ages  of  7  and  1G  years  to  attend  school,  unless  prevented 
from  so  doing  by  physical  disability. 


is 


Children  should  not  ha  compelled,  to  resort,  to  alleys  for  playgrounds,  l’rofil- 
Shariny  enables  Ford  employes  to  have  their  homes  where  their  children 
will  yet  the  most  out  of  life  that,  is  beneficial  to  them 


"The  mem  and  wopien  of  lo-morrow.”  Every  boy  and  girl  should,  be  attending 
school  and.  being  prepared  for  the  future 


1« 


HEALTHFUL  SUGGESTIONS 

The  medical  department  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company  was 
established  solely  for  the  aid  and  benefit  of  the  employes;  to  see 
that  they  are  in  proper  physical  condition  for  their  work  and,  if 
not,  to  do  all  that  can  be  done  in  order  that  they  may  be  in  the 
best  condition  possible  for  the  fulfillment  of  their  duties.  The 
following  are  a  few  suggestions  which,  if  observed,  should  prove 
of  great  value,  not  only  to  the  employe,  but  also  to  his  family 
and  his  home.  These  suggestions  are  divided  into  two  classes, 
viz: — those  governing  the  employes,  and  those  pertaining  to 
the  home. 


SUGGESTIONS  E Oil  THE  EMPLOYES 

1.  SAFETY  FIRST. 

2.  Do  not  take  unnecessary  risks. 

3.  Should  an  accident  occur  to  you,  no  matter  how  small,  go 
to  the  doctor’s  office  immediately. 

4.  All  foreign  bodies  lodged  in  the  eye  should  be  removed  by 
the  doctor  or  first-aid  man,  and  not  by  a  fellow  employe, 
because  serious  complications  may  result  and  probably  cause 
blindness. 

5.  All  cuts  and  bruises,  even  those  of  the  most  trivial  nature, 
should  be  taken  care  of  in  the  doctor’s  office  so  as  to  prevent 
an  infection. 

G.  Do  not  wear  loose-fitting  or  ragged  clothing,  as  you  are 
liable  to  be  caught  and  pulled  into  a  machine  and  seriously 
injured. 

7.  Never  do  any  grinding  without  wearing  goggles. 

8.  Do  not  try  to  lift  anything  beyond  your  strength,  as  you  are 
liable  to  rupture  yourself.  Should  you  notice  any  swelling 
in  your  groin,  have  it  attended  to  at  once. 

9.  Always  be  neat  and  clean  in  all  things.  Do  not  be  slovenly. 

10.  Do  not  spit  on  the  floor  as  this  may  spread  disease;  sputum 
may  contain  germs  of  consumption,  pneumonia,  bronchitis, 
lagrippe  and  syphilis. 

11.  Should  you  notice  a  loss  of  weight,  a  persistent  cough,  or 
should  you  have  excessive  night  sweats,  go  to  the  doctor’s 
office  at  once  for  examination,  as  these  are  symptoms  of 
consumption. 

Rules  for  the  prevention  of  this  disease: 

(a)  Always  sleep  with  your  window  open,  Summer  and 
Winter. 

(b)  When  you  are  working  hard  all  day,  get  plenty  of  sleep 
at  night. 

(c)  Eat  plenty  of  good  nourishing  food. 

(d)  Do  not  sleep  in  the  same  room  with  more  than  one  other 
person. 


17 


The  wrung  way  of  removing  a  jneee  of  steel 


in 


12.  Always  take  good  care  of  your  leelli;  brush  them  every 
morning  and  night  with  a  good  brush  and  powder;  do  not 
allow  them  to  decay;  poor  teeth  are  injurious  for  the  follow¬ 
ing  reasons: — 

(a)  They  are  useless  for  chewing,  and  consequently  cause 
indigestion. 

(b)  They  cause  tooth-ache,  abscesses  and  neuralgia. 

(c)  They  poison  the  jaw  bone. 

(d)  They  are  hiding  places  for  germs. 

13.  Do  not  use  the  same  towel  as  another  person. 

14.  Bathe  often. 

SAFETY  FIRST. 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE  HOME 


1.  Always  keep  the  house  neat  and  clean. 

2.  See  that  the  house  has  plenty  of  light;  darkness  aids  the 
groAvtli  of  germs  and  disease. 

3.  See  that  the  house  is  well  ventilated;  all  doors  and  windows 
should  be  opened  once  daily,  and  allowed  to  remain  open 
for  at  least  five  minutes. 


4.  Do  not  spit  on  the  floor  in  the  home. 

5.  Do  not  allow  the  doors  or  windows  to  remain  open  in  Lite 
summer  time  without  screens  in  them. 


6.  Do  not  allow  any  flies  in  the  house, 
as  they  are  carriers  of  germs.  Flies 
swarm  in  the  filthiest  places  and 
each  fly  is  covered  with  filth  and 
germs.  When  flies  crawl  over  your 
food,  they  leave  filth  and  germs 
behind  them. 

7.  Do  not  allow  food  to  remain  on 
the  table  without  being  covered. 

8.  See  that  the  baby’s  milk  bottle  is 
kept  clean,  and  the  milk  sweet. 
Use  ice  in  the  Summer  time  for  this 
purpose. 

9.  Do  not  allow  any  refuse  or  garbage 
to  remain  in  the  house  or  on  the 
premises,  but  see  that  it  is  either 
buried  or  burned.  Keep  refuse 
cans  covered. 

10.  See  that  the  plumbing  is  in  good 
condition.  Do  not  allow  any  foul 
odors  in  the  house. 

11.  Do  not  allow  any  stagnant  water 
to  remain  on  the  premises.  See 
that  it  is  drained  off. 


The  wrong  wuy  of  removing 
a  foreign  particle 
from  the  eye 


ID 


The  result  of  the  wrong  method 


The  right  way  of  removing  a  foreign  -particle  from  the  eye 


20 


12.  Du  not  forget  that  the  medical  department  is  open  every  day 
in  the  week,  and  every  hour  of  the  day  and  night.  A  quali¬ 
fied  physician  is  constantly  on  duty,  and  professional  services 
for  injuries  are  always  available  on  either  work  days,  Sundays 
or  holidays. 


Never  rises  a  tooth  brush  Always  uses  a  tooth  brush 


THRIFT 

Every  employe  participating  in  profit-sharing  is  expected  to 
save  some  part  of  the  profits  allowed  him.  No  hard  and  fast 
rule  can  be  laid  down  or  adopted  in  this  particular,  as  responsi¬ 
bilities  differ  with  different  persons  and  families.  For  instance, 
an  employe  with  a  family  of  Avife  and  six  children  cannot  be 
expected  to  save  as  much  as  one  with  only  two  or  three  children, 
or  none. 

The  single  man  with  no  one  dependent  upon  him  is  in  a  posi¬ 
tion  to  save  all  of  his  profits,  and  it  is  from  this  class  that  the 
Company  expects  the  greatest  gain  in  savings  to  be  made. 


USING  PROFITS  WISELY 

The  average  man  does  not  lay  aside  enough  of  his  earnings  for 
his  declining  years.  The  truth  of  this  is  forcibly  shown  by  sta¬ 
tistics,  which  show  that  more  than  90  per  cent  of  the  men  who 
live  to  the  age  of  G5  and  over  are  absolutely  dependent,  or  exist 
on  insufficient  earnings.  Tables  have  been  prepared  by  those 
avIio  have  made  a  study  of  the  different  periods  of  life,  Avhich 


B*— ■ 


91 


— ’PI 


-«ia 


Four  months  after  receiving  a  share  of  the  jvofits  an  addition  was  built, 
doubling  the  size  of  the  house 


22 


The  same  employe’s  present  quarters,  fourteen  months  after  receiving 
a  share  of  the  profits 

show  the  dependent,  is  from  infancy  up  until  the  age  of  20  years. 
The  formative  period  is  from  20  to  30  years.  The  accumulative 
pei’iod  is  from  30  to  45  years.  The  efficiency  period  is  from  45 
to  55  years.  The  retrograde,  or  backward,  period  is  from  55  to 
G5  years.  Finally,  comes  the  dependent  period  from  65  and  on. 
It  would  therefore  seem  that  these  facts  would  lead  any  thought¬ 
ful  person  to  the  conclusion  that  a  system  of  saving  should  be 
started  early  in  life,  in  order  that  the  greatest  yield  or  returns 
from  his  savings  or  investment  will  fall  to  him  when  his  earning 
capacity  is  on  the  decline,  to  avoid  being  dependent  on  others. 

The  Ford  Motor  Company  is  sharing  the  profits  of  its  business 
with  its  employes  so  as  to  enable  them  to  put  by  something  for 
emergencies  and  old  age. 

A  double  purpose  is  served  under  the  profit-sharing  plan. 
First,  to  provide  money  for  future  needs;  second,  to  foster  self- 
control.  The  second  is  the  more  important  of  the  two,  because, 
having  that,  the  first  is  quite  assured. 

The  savings  of  an  individual  are  pretty  much  the  measure  of 
his  self-control.  George  Washington  said,  “Economy  makes 
happy  homes  and  sound  nations;  instill  it  deep.”  Abraham  Lin¬ 
coln  said,  “Economy  is  one  of  the  first  virtues.  It  begins  with 
saving  money.”  Bismarck  said,  “Saving  leads  to  security,  happi¬ 
ness  and  good  citizenship.  It  makes  men,  Avhile  extravagance 
makes  vicious  and  worthless  members  of  society.” 

es 


Tlie  man,  who,  being  fairly  well  paid,  cannot  resist  the  ineli- 
nation  to  spend  all  he  earns  is  as  defective  as  an  automobile 
without  a  brake.  Both  are  headed  for  the  scrap  heap  of  failures. 


BANKING 

THE  BANK  IS  A  SAFE  PLACE  FOR  SURPLUS  MONEY- 

It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  employes  select  a  safe 
place  in  which  to  deposit  their  savings.  Select  a  state  or  national 
bank,  or  the  United  States  postal  savings  department,  in  which  to 
deposit  savings.  Do  not  deposit  money  with  steamship  company 
agents,  merchants  or  private  ba7ikers. 

The  Company  also  urges  that  employes  do  not  use  their 
trunks  as  savings  banks;  they  were  not  made  for  that  purpose.  If 
the  house  or  trunk  burns,  the  money  is  lost.  On  the  other  hand, 
it  may  be  stolen.  Do  not  carry  large  sums  of  money,  for  by  so 
doing,  an  incentive  to  crime  is  created,  and  there  is  danger  of 
being  robbed;  and  again,  the  less  money  one  carries,  the  less  will 
be  spent. 

The  Company  recommends  that  employes  place  their  savings 
in  banks  until  they  haVe  enough  saved  to  make  a  fair  sized  pay¬ 
ment  upon  the  home  or  property  that  they  decide  to  purchase. 
In  this  way  it  will  reduce  the  amount  of  interest  to  be  paid,  by 
making  the  sum  upon  which  interest  is  paid  that  much  smaller, 
according  to  the  amount  paid  down  on  the  first  payment,  and 
thus  make  it  easier  to  put  the  purchase  through  to  a  finish.  It 
is  better  to  keep  the  money  in  a  savings  bank  than  to  invest 
it  blindly. 

Employes  should  not  wait  until  they  have  a  large  sum  saved 
before  making  a  deposit  in  the  bank.  The  banks  will  accept  sums 
from  $1.00  upward.  It  is  well  to  always  have  some  money  on 
deposit  for  emergencies. 


INVESTMENTS 

It  is  the  hope  of  this  Company  that  every  one  of  its  married 
employes  will  own  his  own  home  as  soon  as  conditions,  consistent 
with  comfortable  and  clean  living,  will  permit.  Those  desiring 
advice  in  relation  to  buying  of  homes,  life  insurance,  citizenship 
papers  and  legal  matters  in  general,  may  consult  the  Company’s 
attorney  at  the  employment  office  from  8:00  A.  M.  to  5:00  P.  M. 
daily,  and  until  12  noon  Saturdays. 

Before  withdrawing  savings  from  the  bank  to  make  an  invest¬ 
ment,  ask  the  advice  of  the  legal  department  of  the  Company, 
as  to  whether  it  is  wise  to  do  so. 

Loans  without  security  are  risky  and  frequently  result  in  loss 
to  the  lender.  Such  loans  are  therefore  not  approved.  A  mere 
promissory  note  is  not  security.  It  is  oidy  evidence  of  the  loan. 
By  good  security  is  meant  in  general,  such  security  as  a  bank 
would  require  before  making  the  loan.  If,  considering  the  above, 

*a 


— T-fi 


il  seems  advisable  to  make  a  loan  out  of  one’s  share  of  Ihe  profits, 
the  legal  department  should  be  consulted  and  pass  upon  the 
security  and  form  of  note. 


HOW  A  “FORD  PROFIT-SHARER’ ’  CAN  MAKE 
INCOME  FROM  INVESTMENT  EQUAL 
WAGES  AT  AGE  OF  50 

13y  adopting  a  systematic  method  of  regular  saving  and 
conservative  investment  covering  a  period  of  28  years,  a  “Ford 
Profit-Sharer”  may,  at  the  age  of  50,  retire  from  active  work  and 
continue  to  receive  $5.00  per  day  in  interest  from  investments 
made  during  the  28  years.  Consider  the  ease  of  a  young  single 
man,  22  years  of  age,  receiving  a  share  of  the  profits,  which,  with 
his  daily  wage,  pays  him  $5.00  per  day.  $50.00  per  month  was 
banked  for  the  first  4  years,  at  which  time  he  married,  furnished 
a  home  at  a  cost  of  $400.00  and  thereafter  continued  to  place 
$30.00  per  month  in  the  bank.  At  the  end  of  the  first  4  years,  he 
would  have  to  his  credit,  including  compound  interest  at  3%, 
$2,551.90.  Deducting  $400.00  for  furnishing  home,  would  leave 
a  balance  of  $2151.90. 

A  safe  and  very  good  investment  at  this  time  Avould  be  to 
take  $2000.00  out  of  the  bank  and  invest  it  in  a  safe  real  estate 
mortgage  paying  0%  interest. 

So  at  the  beginning  of  the  fifth  year,  he  looks  forward  to  saving, 
in  the  next  0  months,  the  following:  First,  the  regular  $30.00 
per  month  or  $180.00;  second,  six  months’  interest  on  $151.9(5 
(the  amount  left  after  drawing  out  $2000.00)  plus  interest  on 
monthly  deposits,  making  a  total  of  $3.85;  third,  interest  on  the 
$2000.00  mortgage  or  $00.00.  This  makes  a  total  of  $243.85. 
Add  to  this  the  $151.90  left  in  bank  after  drawing  out  the  $2000.00 
and  the  total  is  $395.81.  At  the  end  of  the  fifth  year,  the  total 
will  have  increased  to  $043.32,  and  at  the  end  of  the  sixth  year  Lo 
$1149.53.  At  this  time  another  $1000.00  mortgage  may  be 
bought,  leaving  a  balance  in  the  bank  of  $149.53.  Under  these 
circumstances,  the  point  will  soon  be  reached  where  $1000.00 
mortgages  can  be  bought  with  greater  frequency.  For  instance, 
starting  with  the  first  mortgage  at  the  fourth  year,  two  more 
mortgages  of  $1000.00  each  may  be  purchased  at  intervals  of 
two  years;  from  the  eighth  to  the  fifteenth  year  at  intervals  of 
l j/2  years,  to  nineteenth  year  at  intervals  of  1  year  and  thereafter 
until  the  twenty-eighth  year  at  an  average  of  nearly  one  every 
six  months.  On  his  fiftieth  birthday  he  Avould  oavu  $27,000.00 
in  6%  mortgages  and  have  in  the  bank  $19.75.  Ilis  income  from 
investments  at  this  time,  if  he  Avishes  to  retire,  amounts  to 
$1020.59  per  year  or  $135.00  per  month. 

*8 


in 


For  Llie  benefit  of  those  who  have  had  little  or  no  experience  in 
buying  vacant  lots  for  an  investment,  the  following  is  shown: 

The  value  is  liable  to  increase  greatly  in  the  course  of  a  few 
years,  and  again  it  is  liable  to  be  worth  no  more  than  at  the  time 
purchased.  This  is  especially  true  in  neAV  subdivisions,  where 
lots  were  sold  for  a  few  hundred  dollars  with  no  improvements 
whatever.  If,  in  addition  to  the  interest  and  taxes,  the  cost  of 
the  various  expenses,  such  as  street  opening  and  paving,  laying 
of  sidewalks,  gas  and  water  pipes  are  paid  by  the  purchaser,  the 
amount  expended  frequently  amounts  to  so  much  that  it  is  often 
difficult  and  sometimes  impossible  to  dispose  of  one’s  equity 
without  suffering  a  loss. 

Purchasers  often  default  in  their  payments  due  to  physical  dis¬ 
ability  or  other  causes,  and  in  many  cases  lose  all  they  have 
invested. 

If  a  person  has  invested  all  of  his  savings  in  property,  and  for 
any  reason  has  immediate  need  for  the  money  invested,  it  is 
usually  quite  difficult  to  dispose  of  one’s  interest,  Avilhout  suffer¬ 
ing  a  considerable  loss  of  time,  as  Avell  as  great  financial  loss,  as 
he  is  forced  to  sell  at  the  other  fellow’s  price  and  pay  a  real  estate 
commission  of  from  three  to  five  per  cent  in  addition. 

The  majority  of  the  State  and  Federal  Banks  Avill  not  advance 
money  on  vacant  property,  it  being  necessary  that  a  building  be 
in  course  of  construction  to  secure  a  loan,  as  these  banks  do  not 
consider  vacant  property  as  a  ready  negotiable  asset. 

The  length  of  time  required  to  purchase  a  $1,000.00  lot  on 
terms  of  10%  down  and  1%  per  month,  interest  at  0%,  is  exactly 
ten  years,  during  which  time  a  total  of  $1298.57,  interest  and 
principal,  Avould  have  been  paid,  the  interest  amounting  to 
$298.57  or  nearly  30%  of  the  purchase  price. 

In  addition  to  the  total  of  $1298.57,  must  be  added  the  City, 
State  and  County  taxes  for  the  ten  years.  Estimating  the 
assessed  valuation  of  the  lot  at  50%  of  the  purchase  price,  the 
combined  amount  of  taxes  Avould  be  approximately  $14.00  per 
year;  or  $140.00  for  the  ten  years,  which,  added  to  the  cost  of  the 
lot,  Avould  make  the  actual  cost  to  purchaser,  $1438.57. 

On  the  other  hand,  if,  instead  of  purchasing  a  lot,  the  $10  had 
been  deposited  each  month  in  a  Savings  Bank,  at  3%  interest, 
these  deposits,  with  compound  interest,  Avould  total  in  ten  years, 
$1534.50,  or  a  net  profit  of  $234.50.  In  order  to  make  the  same 
amount  of  profit  from  the  lot,  it  Avould  be  necessary  to  sell  it  for 
$234.50  over  the  actual  cost,  Avhich  was  $1438.57,  or  $1673.07,  or 
an  increase  of  more  than  67%  of  the  purchase  price. 


*7 


EXPENDITURES 

Always  lake  a  receipt  from  dealers  and  doctors  for  money  paid 
out  for  extraordinary  items,  like  new  furniture,  house  furnish¬ 
ings,  improvements  and  repairs  for  the  home,  continued  sickness 
in  the  family,  hospital  fees,  etc, 

Have  a  place  for  valuable  papers,  such  as  laud  contracts,  insur¬ 
ance  policies,  bank  books,  etc. 

When  possible,  or  when  time  and  conditions  will  permit,  keep 
an  account  book,  in  which  to  enter  daily  items  of  expense.  As 
a  help  towards  savings,  keep  a  careful  watch  over  expenditures. 
Adopt  some  system  of  keeping  account  of  expenses,  and  refer 
to  that  account  from  time  to  time,  and  note  for  what  purposes 
the  share  of  profits  is  being  used.  In  analyzing  the  different 
items  of  the  account  it  will  be  surprising  to  note  that  many  things 
that  seem  necessary  are  really  luxuries  and  could  have  been  left 
out. 

Avoid,  as  much  as  possible,  making  purchases  upon  the  install¬ 
ment  plan.  Resolve  to  do  without  certain  articles  of  furniture, 
musical  instruments,  and  such  like,  until  enough  is  saved  to  make 
a  cash  purchase,  thus  saving  the  interest  paid  the  installment 
house,  when  a  time  purchase  is  made. 

A  good  understanding  should  be  had  between  husband  and  Avife 
as  to  expenditures  and  savings. 

The  suggestions  outlined  here  will  be  of  great  help  in  regulating 
expenditures, and  by  following  them,  the  employe  will  be  enabled 
at  all  times  to  have  a  knowledge  of  the  exact  standing  of  his 
financial  affairs  and  accounts. 


Through  insurance  this  man  will  he  able  to  rebuild  his  home 
without  expense  to  himself 

FIRE  AND  LIFE  INSURANCE 


LIFE :  The  Companylias  obtained  from  the  commissioner  oi 
insurance  of  the  State  of  Michigan,  the  standing  and  responsi¬ 
bility  of  most  of  the  insurance  companies  doing  business  in 
Detroit,  and  the  legal  department  will  advise  you  as  to  the 
responsibility  of  any  company  in  which  you  arc  contemplating 
taking  out  insurance.  The  contracts  of  most  of  the  old  line  com¬ 
panies  are  very  similiar,  and  the  question  as  to  Avhether  the  insur¬ 
ance  is  good  or  not  depends  mostly  upon  their  financial  standing. 
The  legal  department,  of  course,  cannot  guarantee  the  responsi¬ 
bility  of  any  concern,  but  they  can  and  will  advise  employes  as 
to  whether  or  not  they  have  complied  with  the  laws  of  the  State 
of  Michigan  with  respect  to  doing  business  here,  and  whether 
their  financial  statements  show  a  sound  condition.  They  eau 
also  advise  as  to  the  policies  olFered,  and  as  to  the  best  form  suit¬ 
able  in  each  case. 

The  Company  urges  employes  not  to  make  application  for  any 
insurance  until  they  are  satisfied  that  it  is  with  the  company  they 
want;  that  the  kind  of  policy  and  premium  is  correct,  and  that 
they  will  be  able  to  carry  out  the  terms  of  the  policy  and  pay  all 
premiums.  Sign  no  notes  in  payment  of  premiums  unless  there 
is  presented  a  receipt  executed  by  the  company  to  the  agent, 
showing  that  the  premium  has  been  paid  to  the  company. 


igp#i 

\  _•  {*&-  r-j'Nj 


&Wi 


:-:'i.'"‘rS?<-!  hi  i'l'k  ir/hki  i ,  ,  • ,  ri 


mil 


30 


The  Ford  English  School 


EIliE :  ll  is  Llie  part  of  wisdom  aad  good  business  policy  to  be 
protected  against  loss  by  fire.  In  a  few  hour's  time  the  savings 
and  self-sacrifices  of  many  years  of  toil,  as  represented  by  homes, 
may  be  wiped  out  unless  they'  are  Avell  insured  against  such  an 
event  by  a  policy  with  some  reliable  insurance  company. 

The  cost  of  insurance  premiums  is  small  as  compared  with  the 
protection  and  security  afforded  by  having  something  upon 
which  to  make  a  new  start,  in  case  your  buildings  burn.  The 
Company  urges  that  all  employes  owning  homes  or  buildings 
have  them  insured  against  loss  or  damage  by  fire.  This  advice 
also  applies  to  those  who  own  their  own  furniture. 


LEARN  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE 


The  Ford  School  is  conducted  for  the  men  in  the  factory  avIio 
cannot  speak  English.  Special  class  rooms  have  been  fitted  up 
in  the  factory  to  facilitate  the  Avork  in  this  branch.  The  teachers 
are  English  speaking  employes  avIio  have  volunteered  their 
seiwices,  and  are  teaching  on  their  OAvn  time.  The  lessons  are 
arranged  and  taught  so  that  a  Avorking  knoAvledge  of  English  may 
be  acquired  by  the  average  foreigner  Avithin  a  year’s  time.  The 
classes  are  free  to  anyone  avIio  desires  to  avail  himself  of  the  oppor¬ 
tunity  offered. 


Course  o/'S/ju/r/  ///rryisy/ydC/yCy //'a 
Zord/f/u/Cs/  ScAool,  rdsyntidZed dti'/tece&vfyd/Zfs/- 

_ _ _  _ _ Jto* 

bM 


1  emr/ai** 


\  Cyry/yAf/CClefac1/. Z/.  s/dfi'  yJayr^Z 


(m  tA*  oXAymSoHi  lArnrtf. 


The  facsimile  of  diploma  issued  to  graduates  of  the  Ford  English 
School  after  completing  course 


31 


J  lie  hours  lor  school  lire  from  3:45  lo  5:15  P.  hi.  lor  day  melt, 
and  1:30  P.  M.  and  8:30  A.  M.  for  night  men.  There  are  two 
groups  of  classes.  One  group  meets  on  Monday  and  Thursday 
of  each  week,  and  the  other  on  Tuesday  and  Friday. 

Tire  Company  expects  that  every  employe  who  cannot  speak 
English  will  avail  himself  of  this  exceptional  opportunity.  There 
are  over  1,000  men  in  classes  at  the  present  time. 

Py  learning  to  speak  English,  employes  will  then  be  able  to 
transact  their  own  business  and  not  be  compelled  to  pay  a  com¬ 
mission  or  bonus  to  the  boarding  boss,  or  to  anyone  else,  on 
articles  bought  or  business  transacted. 

Employes  will  then  also  be  able  to  understand  in  a  more  intel¬ 
ligent  way,  the  orders,  suggestions  and  advice  from  foremen  as 
to  SAFETY  FIRST  methods  adopted  in  the  factory,  thereby 
guarding  their  own  safety  and  the  safety  of  others  from  injury. 

Learn  the  English  Language — It  will  insure  safety,  and  save 
money. 

CITIZENSHIP 

The  company  believes  it  to  be  for  Lhe  best  interest  of  all 
employes  born  in  other  countries,  that  they  become  citizens  of 
the  United  States  as  soon  as  possible,  in  order  that  they  may 
enjoy  Lhe  benefits,  and  protection  offered  by  this  form  of  govern¬ 
ment,  and  to  take  an  intelligent  part  in  the  conduct  of  its  affairs. 

The  legal  department  will  advise  employes  as  Lo  the  quickest 
and  easiest  manner  of  securing  both  first  and  second  papers,  and 
will  guide  them  through  the  formality  of  obtaining  citizenship. 
One  of  the  attorneys  may  be  consulted  on  this  matter  at  the 
employment  office  from  8:00  A.M.  to  5:00  P.  M.  daily,  except 
Saturdays. 

THE  LEGAL  DEPARTMENT 

The  legal  department  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company  offers  Lo 
employes  service  and  assistance  both  in  advising  them  in  any 
legal  difficulties,  and  in  relieving  them  from  legal  entanglements. 
A  great  many  of  the  difficulties  in  which  employes  find  them¬ 
selves  have  a  legal  phase,  and  in  furthering  sociological  work,  the 
department  is  always  ready  Lo  co-operate  in  assisting  Lhe  men  Lo 
receive  all  the  broad  benefits  of  the  profit-sharing  plan. 

In  the  folloAving  matters  which  continually  arise  in  the  average 
daily  life  of  the  employes,  the  legal  department  .can  assist  them: 

BUYING  A  HOME:  As  previously  stated,  the  Ford  Motor 
Company  wishes  all  of  its  employes,  at  least  those  who  are 
married,  to  own  their  own  home  at  some  time. 

When  an  employe  has  found  a  house  or  property  that  suits 
him,  and  which  he  wishes  to  buy,  and  believes  he  can  pay  for, 
the  legal  department  will  guide  him  through  the  transaction, 
examine  the  abstract,  contract  and  deed  to  the  property,  and 


34 


even  make  an  examination  as  to  the  value  of  it,  providing  the 
employe  is  in  doubt  as  to  whether  it  is  worth  the  amount  asked. 
Most  especially,  the  Company  urges  employes  to  go  to  them 
for  advice  when  contemplating  the  purchase  of  property  before 
any  money  has  been  paid  on  the  contract.  A  purchase  should 
not  be  made  and  then  submitted  to  the  legal  department  for 
advice  as  to  the  title  to  the  premises,  value,  etc.  Do  not  buy 
any  vacant  lots  unless  able  to  pay  at  least  25  per  cent  of  the  pur¬ 
chase  price  as  a  first  payment,  or  do  not  buy  on  lease  or  option 
contract. 

The  legal  department  is  interested  oxdy  in  purchases  that  are 
made  with  a  view  of  establishing  a  home  or  a  permanent  invest¬ 
ment,  and  do  not  care  to  examine  abstracts  for  property  which 
is  being  bought  for  purely  speculative  purposes,  as  they  do  not 
recommend  such  purchases  in  most  cases.  This  also  applies  to 
other  investments,  as  it  would  be  impossible  for  them  to  inquire 
into  the  values  of  stocks,  bonds,  or  securities  which  involve  com¬ 
mercial  value. 

The  Company  urges  employes  not  to  buy  land  on  contract 
with  some  other  person  as  it  is  the  law  that,  if  the  other  person  is 
unable  to  meet  his  share  of  the  payments  upon  the  contract,  the 
burden  will  fall  upon  the  responsible  party  to  carry  out  both 
obligations,  which  undoubtedly  would  make  too  heavy  a  burden. 
Even  if  both  payments  could  be  made,  interest  in  the  property 
would  have  to  be  shared  with  the  co-purchaser  to  the  extent  of 
his  payments  at  the  time  the  deed  is  granted. 


DEBTS 


The  Eord  Motor  Company  expects  and  insists  that  all  of  its 
employes  pay  their  just  debts  and  obligations  without  having 
to  be  called  to  the  legal  department  and  told  to  do  so.  If,  how¬ 
ever,  on  account  of  sickness  and  other  misfortunes,  payments 
have  fallen  behind,  the  legal  department  is  always  ready  to  assist 
in  securing  the  consent  of  the  creditors  to  an  extension  of  time, 
and  thereby  relieving  employes  of  having  to  raise  the  entire 
amount  of  the  claim  at  once,  and  at  the  same  time  save  the  $2.00 
to  $5.00  court  costs  incident  to  garnishment  suits.  The  Com¬ 
pany  urges  such  employes  to  go  to  the  legal  department 
frankly  regarding  their  debts.  They  will  find  this  better  than  to 
endeavor  to  evade  creditors  and  keep  the  knowledge  from  the 
Company. 

When  a  claim  is  presented  to  the  legal  department  against  an 
employe  which  the  employe  honestly  believes  to  be  unjust,  and 
wishes  to  contest,  he  is  free  to  allow  the  claim  to  be  sued  and 
garnishment  issued  in  the  regular  way,  and  abide  by  the  decree 
of  the  court. 

It  is  the  policy  of  the  Company  to  discourage  suits  and  garnish¬ 
ments,  and  arrangements  have  been  made  with  a  large  number 


SJ 


of  collection  agencies,  lawyers  and  business  houses  in  the  city  to 
send  their  claims  against  employes  to  the  legal  department  be 
fore  bringing  regular  garnishment  proceedings  through  the  court' 

A  representative  of  the  legal  department,  will  have  charge  of 
all  garnishment  cases,  collection  of  debts  against  employes  and 
the  deduction  of  wages  for  any  other  cause,  and  must  hereafter 
be  consulted  at  the  employment  office  between  the  hours  of  8  On 
A.  M.  and  5  OOP.  M.  daily,  except  Saturdays. 

IN  GENERAL 

The  service  of  the  legal  department  is  not  confined  to  the  mat¬ 
ters  which  have  here  been  set  forth,  and  it  will  be  pleased  to  give 
to  employes  general  advice  and  guidance  in  any  of  their  legal 
matters. 

This  is  done  in  order  that  the  sociological  department  may  be 
aided  in  giving  full  measure  of  assistance  to  enable  employes  to 
fully  enjoy  the  privileges  of  the  profit-sharing  plan. 

Employes  are  urged  to  consult  often  with  the  Company’s 
investigator  assigned  to  the  locality  in  which  they  live,  and  ask 
his  advice  and  opinion  on  matters  relative  to  their  welfare  and 
that  of  their  family.  13e  honest  and  truthful  with  the  investi¬ 
gators,  and  see  if  they  cannot  be  of  assistance  in  straightening 
out  difficulties. 


The  investigation  stuff  which  is  teaching  lord  employes  how  to  live 
and  take  care  of  their  share  of  profits 

34 


-3  IT! 


A  sanitary  kitchen 
36 


An  insanitary  kitchen 


me* toff' 


ammmm 

laifeSc!^ 


mam 

%  £&+&$$! 


mmm 


wmmmm 


.1  Jillliij  buck  yard;  a  breeder  of  disease 


A  neat,  clean  yard,  in  which  the  owner  may  lake  prule 
30 


This  water  tap;  located  outside  the  house;  the  only  available  water  supply  for 
family.  Note  ice  and  frozen  debris  on  ground 


S 

S 

I 

! 


The  improved  method  of  water  supply  for  household 

1 


imam 


If 

ll  Wm 


mSmhI 


*L.  '* 

a£v  d 


■n  $&£ '$$$•  I 


3? 


'V 


I 

I 


“  "*  "  «->M  ^le  Vu r puses 


—»n 


A  non-profit-sharing  (lining  room 


A  profit -sharing  dining  room 
.‘3!> 


"JVlCal  CaSt  Side,  LAbc‘d  condition  that  has  disappeared  among  Ford 
employes  since  the  beginning  of  the  profit-sharing  plan  9 


A  vent,  clean  basement 


ES=“~- 


file— 


THE  RESULT  OF  ONE  YEAR’S 
PROFIT-SHARING 

The  results  of  the  Profit-Sharing  Plan  have  shown  this  work, 
together  with  the  benefits  the  employes  have  derived,  to  be  vei-y 
satisfactory. 

llecords  compiled  January  12th,  1915,  just  one  year  after  the 
Profit-sharing  Plan  was  inaugurated,  give  some  very  interesting 
figures  showing  the  ways  employes  have  invested  their  extra 
money  to  their  future  benefit. 

January  January  p  • 

12th,  1914  12lh,  1915  1 

Number  of  Employes .  13,251  14,255 

Amount  in  Banks . $  990,418.00  $3,040,301.00  $2,049,833.00 

Total  Amount  of  Life  Insurance....  2,471,003.00  0,493,709.00  4,022,040.00 

Total  Value  of  Homes  Owned .  408,230.00  933,524.00  405,294.00 

Total  Value  of  Lots  Owned .  07,100.00  94,130.00  20,970.00 

Total  Value  of  Homes  on  Contract.  3,282,311.00  8,807,159.00  5,584,828.00 

Total  Value  of  Lots  on  Contract.. .  .  413,854.00  999,327.00  585,473.00 

Total  Amount  Paid  on  Homes  on 

Contract .  1,111,258.00  3,237,804.00  2,120,000.00 

Total  Amount  Paid  on  Lots  on 

Contract .  100,757.00  270,722.00  175,907.00 

In  January  1915,  3,531,  or  25%  of  the  men  employed,  were 
new  men,  most  of  whom  had  been  out  of  work  a  long  time,  and 
had  not  yet  served  their  six  months  probationary  period,  in  order 
to  qualify  for  a  share  of  the  profits. 

The  above  figures  show  the  splendid  progress  made  by  some 
employes,  who  have  grasped  the  spirit  and  the  purpose  of 
the  plan.  It  is  possible,  with  the  help  of  every  man  in  the 
organization,  to  make  the  records  for  the  next  year  and  each 
succeeding  year,  show  a  still  greater  progress  and  show  that  more 
and  more  of  the  employes  are  availing  themselves  of  the  oppor¬ 
tunity  to  build  constructively  for  the  future,  and  to  have  made 
the  world  a  little  better  and  a  little  richer  by  having  lived  in  it, 
which  is  the  purpose  of  the  Plan. 


41 


— — 


PHILLIPS  ACADEMY 


■ 

■ 


