-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KVIyta/s8FvFKcw/GI2oJK4/+Mb096OpxiDrZK0RwtHkWNMwtsQQXnPpMKvNRNaT
 CiMTz9tU7M1ErbsEdfTxjQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-00-018775.txt : 20000420
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-00-018775.hdr.sgml : 20000420
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-00-018775
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	SC 13D
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000419

SUBJECT COMPANY:	

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FIRST SECURITY CORP /UT/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000312367
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				876118148
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		SC 13D
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	005-13782
		FILM NUMBER:		604646

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		79 S. MAIN ST
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 30006
		CITY:			SALT LAKE CITY
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84130-0006
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8012465507

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		15 E. 100 S.
		STREET 2:		STE 200
		CITY:			SALT LAKE CITY
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84111

FILED BY:		

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		SC 13D

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		STREET 2:		SIXTH & MARQUETTE
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		NORWEST CENTER
		STREET 2:		SIXTH & MARQUETTE
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55479

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>SC 13D
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>SC 13D
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                  SCHEDULE 13D

                                 (RULE 13D-101)

    Information to be Included in Statements Filed Pursuant to Rule 13d-1(a)
              and Amendments Thereto Filed Pursuant to Rule 13-2(a)

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                    Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                                (Amendment No. )*

                           FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION
                                (Name of Issuer)

                          COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $1.25
                         (Title of Class of Securities)

                                   336294 10 3
                                 (CUSIP Number)

                                STANLEY S. STROUP
                  EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL COUNSEL
                              WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
                              420 MONTGOMERY STREET
                             SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94163
                                 (415) 396-6019
                  (Name, Address and Telephone Number of Person
                Authorized to Receive Notices and Communications)

                                  APRIL 9, 2000
             (Date of Event which Requires Filing of this Statement)

     If the filing person has previously filed a statement on Schedule 13G to
report the acquisition that is the subject of this Schedule 13D, and is filing
this schedule because of Rule 13d-1(e), 13d-1(f) or 13d-1(g), check the
following box [ ].

          NOTE: Schedules files in paper format shall include a signed original
     and five copies of the schedule, including all exhibits. See Rule 13d-7 for
     other parties to whom copies are to be sent.

          *The remainder of this cover page shall be filled out for a reporting
     person's initial filing on this form with respect to the subject class of
     securities, and for any subsequent amendment containing information which
     would alter disclosures provided in a prior cover page.

     The information required on the remainder of this cover page shall not be
deemed to be "filed" for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 ("Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section of
the Act but shall be subject to all other provisions of the Act (however, see
the Notes).

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 2 OF 11

1.   NAMES OF REPORTING PERSONS/I.R.S. IDENTIFICATION NOS. OF ABOVE PERSONS
     (ENTITIES ONLY)

     Wells Fargo & Company/41-0449260

2.   CHECK THE APPROPRIATE BOX IF A MEMBER OF A GROUP       (a) [ ]
     (SEE INSTRUCTIONS)                                     (b) [ ]

3.   SEC USE ONLY

4.   SOURCE OF FUNDS (SEE INSTRUCTIONS)

     WC

5.   CHECK IF DISCLOSURE OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS IS REQUIRED PURSUANT TO ITEM 2(d)
     OR 2(e) [ ]

6.   CITIZENSHIP OR PLACE OF ORGANIZATION

     Delaware

NUMBER OF                  7.   SOLE VOTING POWER
SHARES                          41,927,396*
BENEFICIALLY               8.   SHARED VOTING POWER
OWNED BY                        none
EACH                       9.   SOLE DISPOSITIVE POWER
REPORTING                       41,921,910*
PERSON WITH                10.  SHARED DISPOSITIVE POWER
                                300

11.  AGGREGATE AMOUNT BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY EACH REPORTING PERSON
     *41,927,396

12.  CHECK IF THE AGGREGATE AMOUNT IN ROW (11) EXCLUDES CERTAIN SHARES [ ]
     (SEE INSTRUCTIONS)

13.  PERCENT OF CLASS REPRESENTED BY AMOUNT IN ROW (11)
     21.4%

14.  TYPE OF REPORTING PERSON (SEE INSTRUCTIONS)
     CO

*    Up to 41,551,200 shares of common stock, par value $1.25 of First Security
     Corporation ("First Security Common Stock"), a Delaware corporation ("First
     Security"), covered by this statement are obtainable by Wells Fargo &
     Company, a Delaware corporation ("Wells Fargo"), upon exercise of the
     Option as defined and described in Item 4 below, if the Option were
     exercisable on the date hereof. Wells Fargo expressly disclaims beneficial
     ownership of any such shares. Prior to the existence of the Option, Wells
     Fargo was not entitled to any rights of a stockholder of First Security
     with respect to such shares. The Option may be exercised only upon the

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 3 OF 11

     happening of certain events described in Item 4 below, none of which has
     occurred as of the date hereof, and none of which is in the control of
     Wells Fargo. Dispositive and voting powers are summarized in Items 4 and 5
     below.

ITEM 1.  SECURITY AND ISSUER.

     (a)  This Schedule 13D relates to the common stock of First Security
          Corporation, par value $1.25.

     (b)  The principal executive offices of the Issuer are located at 79 S.
          Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

ITEM 2.  IDENTITY AND BACKGROUND.

     (a)  The reporting person is Wells Fargo & Company ("Wells Fargo").

     (b)  The reporting person is incorporated in Delaware.

     (c)  The reporting person's principal business is that of a holding company
          for subsidiaries engaged in financial services.

     (d)  The address of the reporting person's principal business and principal
          office is 420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163.

     (e)  The reporting person has not been convicted in a criminal proceeding
          during the last five years.

     (f)  The reporting person, during the last five years, was not a party to
          any civil proceeding of a judicial or administrative body of competent
          jurisdiction which resulted in or is subject to a judgment, decree or
          final order enjoining future violations of, or prohibiting or
          mandating activities subject to, federal or state securities laws or
          finding any violation with respect to such laws.

ITEM 3  SOURCE AND AMOUNT OF FUNDS OR OTHER CONSIDERATION

     It is presently anticipated that, should any purchase of First Security
common stock be made by Wells Fargo pursuant to the Option Agreement described
below in response to Item 4, or otherwise, the source of any funds used in any
such purchase would be the available cash, cash equivalents, available for sale
securities and bank financing of Wells Fargo.

ITEM 4   PURPOSE OF THE TRANSACTION

     The following description of the terms of the Agreement and Plan of
Reorganization, dated as of April 9, 2000, between First Security and Wells
Fargo (the "Merger Agreement"), and the Stock Option Agreement, dated as of
April 9, 2000, between First Security and Wells Fargo (the "Option Agreement,
and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Option
Agreement, is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and
the Option Agreement, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Copies
of the Merger Agreement

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 4 OF 11

and the Option Agreement have been filed as exhibits to this statement.
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given
to them in the Merger Agreement or Option Agreement, as applicable.

     THE MERGER AGREEMENT

          Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells
     Fargo will merge with and into First Security (the "Merger"), with First
     Security as the surviving corporation. As a result of the Merger, First
     Security will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo.

          The Merger Agreement provides that each share of First Security Common
     Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger (as
     defined in the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to
     receive 0.355 of a share of Wells Fargo common stock, par value $1-2/3 per
     share ("Wells Fargo Common Stock").

          The Merger is subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the
     Federal Reserve Board (the "Federal Reserve Board"), the approval of the
     stockholders of First Security, and the satisfaction of various other terms
     and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. It is anticipated that
     the Merger will be completed in the third quarter of 2000.

     THE OPTION AGREEMENT AND THE OPTION

          As an inducement and a condition to Wells Fargo's entering into the
     Merger Agreement, First Security entered into the Option Agreement pursuant
     to which First Security granted Wells Fargo an option (the "Option")
     entitling Wells Fargo to purchase up to 41,551,200 (or such lesser amount
     as shall constitute 19.9% of the outstanding shares of First Security
     Common Stock on the date of exercise) fully paid and nonassessable shares
     of First Security Common Stock at a price per share equal to the average of
     the last sale prices per share of First Security Common Stock on the NASDAQ
     National Market on April 7, 2000 and April 10, 2000 (the "Option Price"),
     subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

          In the event of any change in the First Security Common Stock by
     reason of stock dividends, stock splits, split-ups, recapitalizations,
     stock combinations, exchanges of shares, or the like, the type and number
     of shares or securities subject to the Option, and the Option Price
     therefor, shall be adjusted appropriately, and proper provision shall be
     made in the agreements governing such transaction so that Wells Fargo shall
     receive, upon exercise of the Option, the number and class of shares or
     other securities or property that Wells Fargo would have received in
     respect of the First Security Common Stock if the Option had been exercised
     immediately prior to such event, or the record date therefor, as
     applicable. If any additional shares of the First Security Common Stock are
     issued after the date of the Option Agreement (other than pursuant to an
     event described in the preceding sentence), the number of shares of First
     Security Common Stock subject to the Option shall be adjusted so that,
     after such issuance, it, together with any shares of First Security Common
     Stock previously issued pursuant the Option Agreement, equals 19.9% of the
     number of shares of the First Security Common Stock then issued and
     outstanding, without giving effect to any shares subject to or issued
     pursuant to the Option.

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 5 OF 11

          Subject to applicable law, regulatory restrictions and other certain
     conditions, Wells Fargo may exercise the Option, in whole or in part, after
     the occurrence of both an Initial Triggering event (as defined below) and a
     Subsequent Triggering Event (as defined below) and prior to an Exercise
     Termination Event (as defined below), provided that: (i) Wells Fargo shall
     have sent the written notice of such exercise (as described under the
     notice provisions below) within six months following such Subsequent
     Triggering Event (or such later period as provided in the Option
     Agreement), and (ii) Wells Fargo shall not be in material breach of any of
     its covenants or agreements contained in the Merger Agreement such that
     First Security shall be entitled to terminate the Merger Agreement pursuant
     to Section 9(a)(ii) thereof. At no point may the Option be exercised, as a
     whole or in part, to the extent that such exercise (or the acquisition of
     Option Shares thereunder) would, if it occurred on the date hereof, be
     inconsistent with any provision of the Merger Agreement.

          As defined in the Option Agreement, "Initial Triggering Event," means
     the occurrence of any of the following events or transactions:

          1.   First Security or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (as defined
               in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) (the "First Security
               Subsidiaries"), without having received Wells Fargo's prior
               written consent, (i) shall have entered into an agreement to
               engage in an Acquisition Transaction (as defined below) with any
               person (the term "person," as used in the Option Agreement, has
               the meaning assigned thereto in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of
               the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules
               and regulations thereunder), other than Wells Fargo or any
               subsidiary of Wells Fargo, or (ii) the Board of Directors of
               First Security shall have recommended that the stockholders of
               First Security approve or accept any Acquisition Transaction
               other than as contemplated by the Merger Agreement. For purposes
               of the Option Agreement, "Acquisition Transaction," as defined in
               the Option Agreement, means (x) a merger or consolidation, or any
               similar transaction, involving First Security or any First
               Security Subsidiary (other than such transactions involving
               solely First Security and/or one or more wholly-owned
               Subsidiaries of First Security, provided that any such
               transaction is not entered into in violation of the terms of the
               Merger Agreement), (y) a purchase, lease or other acquisition of
               all or a substantial part of the assets or deposits of First
               Security or any First Security Subsidiary, or (z) a purchase or
               other acquisition (including by way of merger, consolidation,
               share exchange or otherwise) of securities representing 10% or
               more of the voting power of First Security or any First Security
               Subsidiary;

          2.   Any person (other than Wells Fargo or any subsidiary of Wells
               Fargo) shall have acquired beneficial ownership, or the right to
               acquire beneficial ownership, of 10% or more of the outstanding
               shares of First Security Common Stock (the term "beneficial
               ownership" as used in the Option Agreement has the meaning
               assigned thereto in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, and the
               rules and regulations thereunder);

          3.   The stockholders of First Security shall have voted and failed to
               approve the Merger Agreement and the Merger at a meeting of such
               stockholders held for the purpose of voting on the Merger
               Agreement, or any adjournment or postponement thereof, or such
               meeting shall not have been held in violation of the Merger
               Agreement or shall have been canceled prior to termination of the
               Merger Agreement, if prior to such meeting


<PAGE>


CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 6 OF 11

               (or if such meeting shall not have been held or shall have been
               canceled, prior to such termination), it shall have been publicly
               announced that any person (other than Wells Fargo or any
               subsidiary of Wells Fargo) shall have made, or disclosed an
               intention to make, a proposal to engage in an Acquisition
               Transaction.

          4.   First Security's board of directors shall have withdrawn or
               modified (or publicly announced its intention to withdraw, modify
               or qualify) in any manner adverse in any respect to Wells Fargo
               its recommendation that the stockholders of First Security
               approve the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, or
               First Security or any First Security Subsidiary shall have
               authorized, recommended, proposed (or publicly announced its
               intention to authorize, recommend or propose) an agreement to
               engage in an Acquisition Transaction with any person other than
               Wells Fargo or a Wells Fargo Subsidiary.

          5.   Any person other than Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary
               shall have filed with the SEC a registration statement or tender
               offer materials with respect to a potential exchange or tender
               offer that would constitute an Acquisition Transaction or filed a
               preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange
               Commission with respect to a potential vote by its shareholders
               to approve the issuance of shares to be offered in such an
               exchange offer);

          6.   First Security shall have willfully breached any covenant or
               obligation contained in the Merger Agreement in anticipation of
               an Acquisition Transaction, and following such breach Wells Fargo
               would be entitled to terminate the Merger Agreement (whether
               immediately or after the giving of notice or passage of time or
               both); or

          7.   Any person (other than Wells Fargo or any subsidiary of Wells
               Fargo), without Wells Fargo's prior written consent, shall have
               filed an application or notice with the Board of Governors of the
               Federal Reserve System or other federal or state bank regulatory
               or antitrust authority, which application or notice has been
               accepted for processing, for approval to engage in an Acquisition
               Transaction.

          As defined in the Option Agreement, "Subsequent Triggering Event,"
     means the occurrence of any of the following events or transactions:

          1.   The acquisition by any person other than Wells Fargo or any of
               its subsidiaries of beneficial ownership of 25% or more of the
               then outstanding shares of First Security Common Stock; or

          2.   The occurrence of an Initial Triggering Event (as defined above)
               described in paragraph (1) under the definition of "Initial
               Triggering Event" above, except that the percentage referred to
               in clause (z) of such paragraph (1) shall be 25%.

          As defined in the Option Agreement, "Exercise Termination Event" means
     any one of the following events:

          1.   The Effective Time of the Merger;

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 7 OF 11

          2.   The termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with the
               terms thereof prior to the occurrence of an Initial Triggering
               Event except a termination by Wells Fargo pursuant to Section
               9(a)(ii) of the Merger Agreement (a "Listed Termination"); or

          3.   The passage of 18 months (or such longer period if extended under
               Section 10 of the Option Agreement) after termination of the
               Merger Agreement if such termination follows the occurrence of an
               Initial Triggering Event or is a Listed Termination.

          As provided in the Option Agreement, in the event that Wells Fargo is
     entitled to and wishes to exercise the Option, it must send to First
     Security a written notice (the date of which is referred to in the Option
     Agreement as the "Notice Date") specifying (1) the total number of shares
     of First Security Common Stock which Wells Fargo intends to purchase
     pursuant to such exercise and (2) a place and date for the closing that
     shall not be less than three business days nor more than 60 business days
     from the Notice Date; provided, however, that if prior notification to or
     approval of the Federal Reserve Board or any other regulatory authority or
     antitrust agency is required in connection with such purchase, Wells Fargo
     will promptly file and expeditiously process the required notice or
     application for approval.

          Under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the "BHC Act"), Wells
     Fargo may not directly or indirectly acquire more than 5% of the
     outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of First Security
     without application to and prior approval from the Federal Reserve Board.

         The Option may be assigned by Wells Fargo in certain circumstances,
     subject to the terms and conditions described in the Option Agreement.

          In addition, any shares of First Security Common Stock purchased upon
     the exercise of the Option may be resold by Wells Fargo pursuant to
     registration rights under the Option Agreement.

          A "Repurchase Event" shall be deemed to occur if: (i) a person (other
     than Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo subsidiary) acquires beneficial
     ownership of 50% or more of the then outstanding First Security Common
     Stock; or (ii) any Acquisition Transaction (as defined above) is
     consummated except that the percentage reference in clause (z) shall be
     25%. Upon occurrence of a Repurchase Event, (i) at the request of Wells
     Fargo, delivered prior to an Exercise Termination Event (or such later
     period as provided in the Option Agreement), First Security has agreed to
     repurchase the Option from Wells Fargo at a price (the "Option Repurchase
     Price") equal to (x) the amount by which (A) the market/offer price (as
     defined below) exceeds (B) the Option Price, multiplied by the number of
     shares for which the Option may then be exercised and (ii) at the request
     of the owner of any shares that have been issued upon exercise of the
     Option (the "Option Shares"), First Security has agreed to repurchase such
     number of the Option Shares from the owner thereof as the owner shall
     designate at a price (the "Option Share Repurchase Price") equal to (x) the
     market/offer price multiplied by the number of Option Shares so designated.
     The term "market/offer price" shall mean the highest of (i) the price per
     share of First Security Common Stock at which a tender offer or exchange
     offer therefor has been made, (ii) the price per share of First Security
     Common Stock to be paid by any third party pursuant to an agreement with
     First Security, (iii) the highest closing price for shares of First
     Security Common Stock within the six-month period immediately preceding the

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 8 OF 11

     date the Holder or owner gave notice of the required repurchase, or (iv) in
     the event of a sale of all or any substantial part of First Security's
     assets or deposits, the sum of the price paid in such sale for such assets
     and the current market value of the remaining assets of First Security as
     determined by a nationally-recognized independent investment banking firm
     mutually selected by Wells Fargo or the owner of the Options Shares, as the
     case may be, and reasonably acceptable to First Security, divided by the
     number of shares of First Security Common Stock outstanding at the time of
     such sale.

          Wells Fargo may, at any time following a Repurchase Event and prior to
     the occurrence of an Exercise Termination Event (or such later period as
     provided in the Option Agreement), relinquish the Option (together with any
     Option Shares issued to and then owned by Wells Fargo) to First Security in
     exchange for a cash fee equal to $100 million (i) plus, if applicable,
     Wells Fargo's purchase price with respect to any Option Shares and (ii)
     minus, if applicable, the excess of (A) the net price, if any, received by
     Wells Fargo or a Wells Fargo Subsidiary pursuant to the sale of Option
     Shares (or any other securities into which such Option Shares were
     converted or exchanged) to any unaffiliated party, over (B) Wells Fargo's
     purchase price of such Option Shares.

          If, prior to an Exercise Termination Event, First Security enters into
     certain agreements relating to the consolidation or merger of First
     Security or the sale of substantially all of its assets or deposits, First
     Security is required to make proper provision so that the Option will, upon
     consummation of such transaction, be converted into, or exchanged for, an
     option (the "Substitute Option"), at Wells Fargo's election, in the
     Acquiring Corporation (as defined in the Option Agreement) or in any person
     that controls the Acquiring Corporation. The Substitute Option generally
     will have the same terms and conditions as the Option; provided, however,
     that to the extent terms and conditions of the Substitute Option cannot
     legally be identical to those of the Option, they will be as similar as
     possible, and in no event will be less advantageous to Wells Fargo.

          The Substitute Option shall be exercisable for such number of shares
     of the common stock of the Acquiring Corporation or any person that
     controls the Acquiring Corporation (the "Substitute Common Stock") as is
     equal to the market/offer price (defined in the paragraph describing
     "Repurchase Events" above) multiplied by the number of shares of First
     Security Common Stock for which the Option was exercisable immediately
     prior to the event described in the preceding paragraph, divided by the
     average closing price of one share of Substitute Common stock for the year
     immediately prior to the event described in the preceding paragraph, but in
     no event higher than the closing price of one share of the Substitute
     Common Stock on the day immediately prior to the event in the preceding
     paragraph. The exercise price of the Substitute Option per share of
     Substitute Common Stock shall be equal to the Option Price multiplied by a
     fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of First
     Security Common Stock for which the Option was exercisable immediately
     prior to the event described in the preceding paragraph and the denominator
     of which shall be the number of shares of Substitute Common Stock for which
     the Substitute Option is exercisable. In no event, however, shall the
     Substitute Option be exercisable for more than 19.9% of the shares of
     Substitute Common Stock outstanding prior to exercise of the Substitute
     Option.

          At the request of the holder of the Substitute Option, the issuer of
     the Substitute Option shall repurchase the Substitute Option at a price
     (the "Substitute Option Repurchase Price")

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                           PAGE 9 OF 11

     equal to the amount by which (i) the Highest Closing Price (as hereinafter
     defined) exceeds (ii) the exercise price of the Substitute Option,
     multiplied by the number of shares of Substitute Common Stock for which the
     Substitute Option may then be exercised, and at the request of the owner of
     shares of Substitute Common Stock (the "Substitute Shares"), the Substitute
     Option Issuer shall repurchase the Substitute Shares at a price equal to
     the Highest Closing Price multiplied by the number of Substitute Shares so
     designated. The term "Highest Closing Price" shall mean the highest closing
     price for shares of Substitute Common Stock within the six-month period
     immediately preceding the date the holder of the Substitute Option gives
     notice of the required repurchase of the Substitute Option or owner of the
     Substitute Shares gives notice of the required repurchase of the Substitute
     Shares, as applicable.

          In certain circumstances related to the exercise of the Option, the
     time periods specified in the Option Agreement will be extended (1) to the
     extent necessary to obtain all regulatory approvals (so long as Holder, the
     Substitute Option Holder, or Substitute Share Owner is using commercially
     reasonable efforts to obtain such approval) and for the expiration of all
     statutory waiting periods; (2) to the extent necessary to avoid liability
     under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act by reason of such exercise; and (3)
     while there exists an injunction, order or judgment prohibiting or delaying
     the exercise of such right.

     PURCHASES OF FIRST SECURITY COMMON STOCK

          Subject to market conditions and regulatory restrictions, Wells Fargo
     may purchase shares of First Security Common Stock in the open market or in
     privately negotiated transactions prior to completion of the Merger, among
     other reasons, to facilitate completion of the Merger and the transactions
     contemplated thereby.

     DELISTING OF FIRST SECURITY COMMON STOCK

          If the merger is completed, Wells Fargo will be the sole stockholder
     of First Security. Wells Fargo intends to file, upon completion of the
     Merger, a Form 15 to terminate the registration of First Security Common
     Stock pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     If the Merger is completed, First Security Common Stock will no longer be
     traded on the Nasdaq National Market System.


ITEM 5 INTERESTS IN SECURITIES OF THE ISSUER

     (a) As a result of the Option Agreement and the receipt of the Option
thereunder, pursuant to Rule 13d-3(d)(i) under the Exchange Act, Wells Fargo may
be deemed to own beneficially 41,551,220 shares of First Security Common Stock
(or such lesser amount as shall constitute 19.9% of the outstanding shares of
First Security Common Stock on the date of exercise), constituting approximately
19.9% of the shares of First Security Common Stock issued and outstanding as of
April 9, 2000. Wells Fargo expressly disclaims any beneficial ownership of the
41,551,220 shares of First Security Common Stock that are obtainable by Wells
Fargo upon exercise of the Option because the Option is exercisable only in the
circumstances set forth in the Option Agreement, which is described in Item 4
hereof, none of which has occurred as of the date hereof and only then with
regulatory approval (if, as a consequence, Wells Fargo would own more than 5% of
the outstanding shares of First Security Common Stock).

<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                          PAGE 10 OF 11

     (b) If Wells Fargo were to exercise the Option, it would have sole power to
vote and, subject to the terms of the Option Agreement, sole power to direct the
disposition of, the shares of First Security Common Stock covered thereby.

     (c) Not applicable.

     (d) Not applicable.

     (e) Not applicable.


ITEM 6 CONTRACTS, ARRANGEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS OR RELATIONSHIPS WITH RESPECT TO
SECURITIES OF THE ISSUER

     Except for the Option Agreement and the Merger Agreement described in Item
4 above, there are no contracts, arrangements, understandings or relationships
(legal or otherwise) between the reporting person and any person with respect to
any securities of the Issuer.


ITEM 7 MATERIAL TO BE FILED AS EXHIBITS

     The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Schedule 13D:

     1.   Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of April 9, 2000, by
          and between Wells Fargo & Company and First Security Corporation.

     2.   Stock Option Agreement, dated as of April 9, 2000, by and between
          Wells Fargo & Company and First Security Corporation.


                                   SIGNATURES

     After reasonable inquiry and to the best knowledge and belief of the
undersigned, the undersigned certifies that the information set forth in this
statement is true, complete and correct.

Dated:  April 19, 2000

Wells Fargo & Company



By:      /s/ Stanley S. Stroup

Name:    Stanley S. Stroup
Title:   Executive Vice President


<PAGE>

CUSIP NO. 336294 10 3                 13D                          PAGE 11 OF 11


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

99.1 Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of April 9, 2000, between
     Wells Fargo & Company and First Security Corporation.

99.2 Stock Option Agreement, dated as of April 9, 2000, between Wells Fargo &
     Company and First Security Corporation.






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EX-99.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                    AGREEMENT
                                       AND
                             PLAN OF REORGANIZATION


     AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF REORGANIZATION (the "Agreement") entered into as of
the 9th day of April, 2000, by and between FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION
("Company"), a Delaware corporation, and WELLS FARGO & COMPANY ("Wells Fargo"),
a Delaware corporation.

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to effect a reorganization whereby a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo will merge with and into Company (the
"Merger") pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger (the "Merger Agreement")
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, which provides, among
other things, for the conversion of the shares of Common Stock of Company of the
par value of $1.25 per share ("Company Common Stock") outstanding immediately
prior to the time the Merger becomes effective in accordance with the provisions
of the Merger Agreement into the right to receive shares of voting Common Stock
of Wells Fargo of the par value of $1-2/3 per share ("Wells Fargo Common
Stock"),

     NOW, THEREFORE, to effect such reorganization and in consideration of the
premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties
hereto do hereby represent, warrant, covenant and agree as follows:

     1.   BASIC PLAN OF REORGANIZATION

     (a) MERGER. Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo (the "Merger Co.") will be merged by
statutory merger with and into Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement, with
Company as the surviving corporation, in which merger each share of Company
Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger
(as defined in paragraph 1 (d) below) will be converted into the right to
receive, and exchanged for certificates representing 0.355 shares of Wells Fargo
Common Stock (the "Exchange Ratio").

     (b) CONVERSION OF COMPANY OPTIONS. At the Effective Time of the Merger,
each option granted by Company to purchase shares of Company Common Stock under
Company's Comprehensive Management Incentive Plan, as amended, and the 1995
Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the "Company Stock Option Plans") which
is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior thereto (the "Company Stock
Options") shall be converted automatically into an option to purchase shares of
Wells Fargo Common Stock in an amount and at an exercise price determined as
provided below (and otherwise subject to the terms of the Company Stock Option
Plan).

<PAGE>

          (i) The number of shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock to be subject to
     the new option shall be the product of the number of shares of Company
     Common Stock subject to the original option and the Exchange Ratio,
     provided that any fractional shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock resulting
     from such multiplication shall be rounded down to the nearest share; and

          (ii) The exercise price per share of Wells Fargo Common Stock under
     the new option shall be equal to the exercise price per share of Company
     Common Stock under the original option divided by the Exchange Ratio,
     provided that such exercise price shall be rounded to the nearest cent.

The adjustment provided herein with respect to any options that are "incentive
stock options" (as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the "Code")) shall be and is intended to be effected in a manner
which is consistent with Section 424(a) of the Code.

     (c) WELLS FARGO COMMON STOCK ADJUSTMENTS. If, between the date hereof and
the Effective Time of the Merger as defined below, shares of Wells Fargo Common
Stock shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period (a "Common Stock
Adjustment"), then the number of shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock issuable
pursuant to subparagraph (a), above, will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted so that the number of such shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock issuable
in the Merger will equal the number of shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock which
holders of shares of Company Common Stock would have received pursuant to such
Common Stock Adjustment had the record date therefor been immediately following
the Effective Time of the Merger.

     (d) FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock and
no certificates or scrip certificates therefor shall be issued to represent any
such fractional interest, and any holder thereof shall be paid an amount of cash
equal to the product obtained by multiplying the fractional share interest to
which such holder is entitled by the average of the closing prices of a share of
Wells Fargo Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as reported by Bloomberg
for each of the five (5) consecutive trading days ending on the day immediately
preceding the meeting of stockholders required by paragraph 4(c) of this
Agreement.

     (e) MECHANICS OF CLOSING MERGER. Subject to the terms and conditions set
forth herein, the Merger Agreement shall be executed and it or Articles of
Merger or a Certificate of Merger shall be filed with the Secretary of State of
the State of Delaware within ten (10) business days following the satisfaction
or waiver of all conditions precedent set forth in Sections 6 and 7 of this
Agreement or on such other date as may be agreed to by the parties (the "Closing
Date"), provided that the Closing Date shall not


                                       2
<PAGE>

occur on the last business day of a calendar month. Each of the parties agrees
to use its best efforts to cause the Merger to be completed as soon as
practicable after the receipt of final regulatory approval of the Merger and the
expiration of all required waiting periods. The time that the filing referred to
in the first sentence of this paragraph is made is herein referred to as the
"Time of Filing." The day on which such filing is made and accepted is herein
referred to as the "Effective Date of the Merger." The "Effective Time of the
Merger" shall be 11:59 p.m. Salt Lake City, Utah, time on the Effective Date of
the Merger. At the Effective Time of the Merger on the Effective Date of the
Merger, the separate existence of Merger Co. shall cease and Merger Co. will be
merged with and into Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.

     The closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the
Merger Agreement (the "Closing") shall take place on the Closing Date at the
offices of Wells Fargo, Norwest Center, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis,
Minnesota.

     (f) RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO REVISE STRUCTURE. At Wells Fargo's election,
the Merger may alternatively be structured so that (1) Company is merged with
and into any other direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo,
(2) any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo is merged with
and into Company, or (3) Company is merged with and into Wells Fargo; provided,
however, that no such change shall (A) alter or change the amount or kind of
consideration to be issued to Company's stockholders in the Merger or under such
alternative structure (the "Merger Consideration"), (B) adversely affect the tax
treatment of Company's stockholders as a result of receiving the Merger
Consideration or prevent the parties from obtaining the opinion referred to in
Paragraph 6(h), or (C) materially impede or delay consummation of the Merger. In
the event of such election, the parties agree to execute an appropriate
amendment to this Agreement in order to reflect such election.

     2. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF COMPANY. Company represents and
warrants to Wells Fargo as follows:

     (a) ORGANIZATION AND AUTHORITY. Company is a corporation duly organized,
validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware,
is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions
where its ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of its business
requires it to be so qualified and failure to be so qualified would have a
material adverse effect on Company and the Company Subsidiaries (as defined in
paragraph 2(b)) taken as a whole and has corporate power and authority to own
its properties and assets and to carry on its business as it is now being
conducted. Company is registered as a financial holding company with the Federal
Reserve Board under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC
Act"). Company has furnished Wells Fargo true and correct copies of its
certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as amended.

     (b) COMPANY'S SUBSIDIARIES. Schedule 2(b) sets forth a complete and correct
list of all of Company's subsidiaries as of the date hereof (individually a
"Company


                                       3
<PAGE>

Subsidiary" and collectively the "Company Subsidiaries"), all shares of the
outstanding capital stock of each of which, except as set forth on Schedule
2(b), are owned directly or indirectly by Company. No equity security of any
Company Subsidiary is or may be required to be issued by reason of any option,
warrant, scrip, preemptive right, right to subscribe to, call or commitment of
any character whatsoever relating to, or security or right convertible into,
shares of any capital stock of such subsidiary, and there are no contracts,
commitments, understandings or arrangements by which any Company Subsidiary is
bound to issue additional shares of its capital stock, or any option, warrant or
right to purchase or acquire any additional shares of its capital stock. Subject
to 12 U.S.C. Section 55 (1982), all of such shares so owned by Company are fully
paid and nonassessable and are owned by it free and clear of any lien, claim,
charge, option, encumbrance or agreement with respect thereto. Each Company
Subsidiary is a corporation or national banking association duly organized,
validly existing, duly qualified to do business and in good standing under the
laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and has corporate power and authority
to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as it is
now being conducted. Except as set forth on Schedule 2(b), Company does not own
beneficially, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of any class of equity
securities or similar interests of any corporation, bank, business trust,
association or similar organization, and is not, directly or indirectly, a
partner in any partnership or party to any joint venture.

     (c) CAPITALIZATION. The authorized capital stock of Company consists of (i)
18,052 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, no par value ("Company Preferred
Stock"), of which, at the close of business on December 31, 1999, 8,596 shares
were outstanding, and (ii) 600,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock, of which,
as of the close of business on December 31, 1999, 195,971,330.59 shares were
outstanding and 1,675,000 shares were held in the treasury. As of the date
hereof, there are outstanding options (each, a "Company Stock Option") to
purchase an aggregate of 10,132,937.92 shares of Company Common Stock under the
Company Stock Option Plans. The maximum number of shares of Company Common Stock
(assuming for this purpose that phantom shares and other share-equivalents
constitute Company Common Stock) that would be outstanding as of the Effective
Date of the Merger if all options, warrants, conversion rights and other rights
with respect thereto, except the option to purchase Company Common Stock granted
pursuant to the Stock Option Agreement dated the date hereof between Company and
Wells Fargo (the "Stock Option Agreement"), were exercised is 210,00,000. All of
the outstanding shares of capital stock of Company have been duly and validly
authorized and issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. Except as set forth
in Schedule 2(c) and except for the option granted pursuant to the Stock Option
Agreement, there are no outstanding subscriptions, contracts, conversion
privileges, options, warrants, calls, preemptive rights or other rights
obligating Company or any Company Subsidiary to issue, sell or otherwise dispose
of, or to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any shares of capital stock of
Company or any Company Subsidiary. Since December 31, 1999 no shares of Company
capital stock have been purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired, directly or
indirectly, by Company or any Company Subsidiary and, except as set forth in
Schedule 2(c) and except as permitted by this


                                       4
<PAGE>

Agreement, no dividends or other distributions have been declared, set aside,
made or paid to the stockholders of Company.

     (d) AUTHORIZATION. Company has the corporate power and authority to enter
into this Agreement and the Merger Agreement and, subject to any required
approvals of its stockholders, to carry out its obligations hereunder and
thereunder. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the
Merger Agreement by Company and the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by the Board of
Directors of Company. Subject to such approvals of stockholders and of
government agencies and other governing boards having regulatory authority over
Company as may be required by statute or regulation, this Agreement and the
Merger Agreement are valid and binding obligations of Company enforceable
against Company in accordance with their respective terms.

     Except as set forth on Schedule 2(d), neither the execution, delivery and
performance by Company of this Agreement or the Merger Agreement, nor the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, nor compliance
by Company with any of the provisions hereof or thereof, will (i) violate,
conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a
default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would
constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the
performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration of,
or result in the creation of, any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance
upon any of the properties or assets of Company or any Company Subsidiary under
any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (x) its certificate of
incorporation or by-laws or (y) any material note, bond, mortgage, indenture,
deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to
which Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or by which it may be bound,
or to which Company or any Company Subsidiary or any of the properties or assets
of Company or any Company Subsidiary may be subject, or (ii) subject to
compliance with the statutes and regulations referred to in the next paragraph,
violate any statute, rule or regulation or, to the best knowledge of Company,
violate any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to
Company or any Company Subsidiary or any of their respective properties or
assets.

     Other than in connection or in compliance with the provisions of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "Securities
Act"), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations
thereunder (the "Exchange Act"), the securities or blue sky laws of the various
states or filings, consents, reviews, authorizations, approvals or exemptions
required under the BHC Act or the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act
of 1976 ("HSR Act"), and filings required to effect the Merger under Delaware
law, no notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization,
consent or approval of, any public body or authority is necessary for the
consummation by Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the Merger Agreement.


                                       5
<PAGE>

     (e) COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The consolidated balance sheets of
Company and Company's Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the
three years ended December 31, 1999, together with the notes thereto, certified
by Deloitte & Touche LLP and included in Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 (the "Company 10-K") as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") (collectively, the "Company
Financial Statements"), have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent basis and present fairly the
consolidated financial position of Company and Company's Subsidiaries at the
dates and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of Company and
Company's Subsidiaries for the periods stated therein.

     (f) REPORTS. Since December 31, 1995, Company and each Company Subsidiary
has filed all reports, registrations and statements, together with any required
amendments thereto, that it was required to file with (i) the SEC, including,
but not limited to, Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and proxy statements, (ii) the
Federal Reserve Board, (iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
"FDIC"), (iv) the United States Comptroller of the Currency (the "Comptroller")
and (v) any applicable state securities or banking authorities. All such reports
and statements filed with any such regulatory body or authority are collectively
referred to herein as the "Company Reports." As of their respective dates, the
Company Reports complied in all material respects with all the rules and
regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the
Comptroller and applicable state securities or banking authorities, as the case
may be, and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to
make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were
made, not misleading. Copies of all the Company Reports have been made available
to Wells Fargo by Company.

     (g) PROPERTIES AND LEASES. Except as may be reflected in the Company
Financial Statements and except for any lien for current taxes not yet
delinquent, Company and each Company Subsidiary have good title free and clear
of any material liens, claims, charges, options, encumbrances or similar
restrictions to all the real and personal property reflected in Company's
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1999 included in Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period then ended, and all real and personal
property acquired since such date, except such real and personal property as has
been disposed of in the ordinary course of business. All leases of real property
and all other leases material to Company or any Company Subsidiary pursuant to
which Company or such Company Subsidiary, as lessee, leases real or personal
property are valid and effective in accordance with their respective terms, and
there is not, under any such lease, any material existing default by Company or
such Company Subsidiary or any event which, with notice or lapse of time or
both, would constitute such a material default. Substantially all of Company's
and each Company Subsidiary's buildings and equipment in regular use have been
well maintained and are in good and serviceable condition, reasonable wear and
tear excepted.


                                       6
<PAGE>

     (h) TAXES. Each of Company and the Company Subsidiaries has filed all
material federal, state, county, local and foreign tax returns, including
information returns, required to be filed by it, and paid all taxes owed by it,
including those with respect to income, withholding, social security,
unemployment, workers compensation, franchise, ad valorem, premium, excise and
sales taxes, and no taxes shown on such returns to be owed by it or assessments
received by it are delinquent. The federal income tax returns of Company and the
Company Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and for all
fiscal years prior thereto, are for the purposes of routine audit by the
Internal Revenue Service closed because of the statute of limitations, and no
claims for additional taxes for such fiscal years are pending. Except only as
set forth on Schedule 2(h), (i) neither Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a
party to any pending action or proceeding, nor to Company's knowledge is any
such action or proceeding threatened by any governmental authority, for the
assessment or collection of taxes, interest, penalties, assessments or
deficiencies that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect
and (ii) no issue has been raised by any federal, state, local or foreign taxing
authority in connection with an audit or examination of the tax returns,
business or properties of Company or any Company Subsidiary which has not been
settled, resolved and fully satisfied, or adequately reserved for. Each of
Company and the Company Subsidiaries has paid all taxes owed or which it is
required to withhold from amounts owing to employees, creditors or other third
parties.

     (i) NO MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT. Since December 31, 1999, no change shall
have occurred and no circumstances shall exist which has had or might reasonably
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Company. "Material Adverse
Effect" means, with respect to Wells Fargo or Company, any effect that (i) is
material and adverse to the financial condition, results of operations, or
business of Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or
Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, respectively, excluding
the impact of (A) changes in banking and other laws of general applicability or
interpretations thereof by Governmental Authorities, (B) changes in generally
accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") or regulatory accounting requirements
applicable to banks and their holding companies generally, (C) changes in
general economic conditions affecting banks and their holding companies
generally, provided that, with respect to each of clause (A), (B) or (C), to the
extent that a change does not materially affect it in a way that materially
differs from the way it affects other banking organizations, (D) actions or
omissions of a party to this Agreement, taken with the prior written consent of
the other party to this Agreement, in contemplation of the transactions
contemplated hereby, and (E) any modifications or changes to valuation policies
and practices in connection with the Merger or restructuring charges, in each
case taken with the prior approval of Wells Fargo or Company, as the case may
be, in connection with the Merger, in each case in accordance with GAAP; or (ii)
would materially impair the ability of Wells Fargo or Company to perform its
obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated
hereby. "Governmental Authority" means any court, administrative agency or
commission or other federal, state or local governmental authority or
instrumentality.


                                       7
<PAGE>

     (j) COMMITMENTS AND CONTRACTS. Except as set forth on Schedule 2(j),
neither Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party or subject to any of the
following (whether written or oral, express or implied):

          (i) any employment contract or understanding (including any
     understandings or obligations with respect to severance or termination pay,
     liabilities or fringe benefits) with any present or former officer,
     director, employee or consultant (other than those that are terminable at
     will by Company or such Company Subsidiary);

          (ii) any plan, contract or understanding providing for any bonus,
     pension, option, deferred compensation, retirement payment, profit sharing
     or similar arrangement with respect to any present or former officer,
     director, employee or consultant;

          (iii) any labor contract or agreement with any labor union;

          (iv) any contract containing covenants that limit the ability of
     Company or any Company Subsidiary to compete in any line of business or
     with any person or which involve any restriction of the geographical area
     in which, or method by which or with whom, Company or any Company
     Subsidiary may carry on its business (other than as may be required by law
     or applicable regulatory authorities);

          (v) any other contract or agreement which is a "material contract"
     within the meaning of Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K;

          (vi) any real property lease and any other lease with annual rental
     payments aggregating $20,000,000 or more;

          (vii) any agreement or commitment with respect to the Community
     Reinvestment Act with any state or federal bank regulatory authority or any
     other party; or

          (viii) any current or past agreement, contract or understanding with
     any current or former director, officer, employee, consultant, financial
     adviser, broker, dealer, or agent providing for any rights of
     indemnification in favor of such person or entity.

Except for contracts identified on Schedule 2(j), copies of which have been made
available to Wells Fargo, there is no contract described in subparagraph (iv) of
this paragraph 2(j) which would have or could reasonably be expected to have a
material adverse effect on a business activity of Wells Fargo.


                                       8
<PAGE>

     (k) LITIGATION AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS. Company has furnished Wells Fargo
copies of (i) all attorney responses to the request of the independent auditors
for Company with respect to loss contingencies as of December 31, 1999 in
connection with the Company Financial Statements, and (ii) a written list of
legal and regulatory proceedings filed against Company or any Company Subsidiary
since said date. There is no pending or, to the best knowledge of Company,
threatened, claim, action, suit, investigation or proceeding, against Company or
any Company Subsidiary, nor is Company or any Company Subsidiary subject to any
order, judgment or decree, except for matters which, in the aggregate, will not
have, or cannot reasonably be expected to have, a material adverse effect on the
business, financial condition or results of operations of Company and the
Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     (l) INSURANCE. Company and each Company Subsidiary is presently insured,
and during each of the past five calendar years (or during such lesser period of
time as Company has owned such Company Subsidiary) has been insured, for
reasonable amounts with financially sound and reputable insurance companies
against such risks as companies engaged in a similar business would, in
accordance with good business practice, customarily be insured and has
maintained all insurance required by applicable law and regulation.

     (m) COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Company and each Company Subsidiary has all
permits, licenses, authorizations, orders and approvals of, and has made all
filings, applications and registrations with, federal, state, local or foreign
governmental or regulatory bodies that are required in order to permit it to own
or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently
conducted and that are material to the business of Company or such Company
Subsidiary; all such permits, licenses, certificates of authority, orders and
approvals are in full force and effect and, to the best knowledge of Company, no
suspension or cancellation of any of them is threatened; and all such filings,
applications and registrations are current. The conduct by Company and each
Company Subsidiary of its business and the condition and use of its properties
does not violate or infringe, in any respect material to any such business, any
applicable domestic (federal, state or local) or foreign law, statute,
ordinance, license or regulation. Neither Company nor any Company Subsidiary is
in default under any order, license, regulation or demand of any federal, state,
municipal or other governmental agency or with respect to any order, writ,
injunction or decree of any court. Except for statutory or regulatory
restrictions of general application and except as set forth on Schedule 2(m), no
federal, state, municipal or other governmental authority has placed any
restriction on the business or properties of Company or any Company Subsidiary
which reasonably could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the
business or properties of Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     (n) LABOR. No work stoppage involving Company or any Company Subsidiary is
pending or, to the best knowledge of Company, threatened. Neither Company nor
any Company Subsidiary is involved in, or threatened with or affected by, any
labor dispute, arbitration, lawsuit or administrative proceeding that could
materially and adversely


                                       9
<PAGE>

affect the business of Company or such Company Subsidiary. Employees of Company
and the Company Subsidiaries are not represented by any labor union nor are any
collective bargaining agreements otherwise in effect with respect to such
employees.

     (o) MATERIAL INTERESTS OF CERTAIN PERSONS. Except as set forth on Schedule
2(o), to the best knowledge of Company, no officer or director of Company or any
Company Subsidiary, or any "associate" (as such term is defined in Rule l4a-1
under the Exchange Act) of any such officer or director, has any interest in any
material contract or property (real or personal), tangible or intangible, used
in or pertaining to the business of Company or any Company Subsidiary.

     Schedule 2(o) sets forth a correct and complete list of any loan from
Company or any Company Subsidiary to any present officer, director, employee or
any associate or related interest of any such person which was required under
Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board to be approved by or reported to
Company's or such Company Subsidiary's Board of Directors.

     (p) COMPANY BENEFIT PLANS.

          (i) Schedule 2(p)(i) sets forth each employee benefit plan with
     respect to which Company or any Company Subsidiary contributes, sponsors or
     otherwise has any obligation to contribute on behalf of any current or
     former officer, director or employee (the "Plans"). For purposes of this
     Section 2(p) and Schedule 2(p)(i), "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement
     Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the term "Plan" or "Plans"
     means all employee benefit plans as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, and
     all other benefit arrangements including, without limitation, any plan,
     program, agreement, policy or commitment providing for insurance coverage
     of employees, workers' compensation, disability benefits, supplemental
     unemployment benefits, vacation benefits, retirement benefits, severance or
     termination of employment benefits, life, health, death, disability or
     accidental benefits.

          (ii) Except as disclosed on Schedule 2(p)(ii), no Plan is a
     "multiemployer plan" within the meaning of Section 3(37) of ERISA.

          (iii) Except as disclosed on Schedule 2(p)(iii), no Plan promises or
     provides health or life benefits to retirees or former employees except as
     required by federal continuation of coverage laws or similar state laws.

          (iv) Except as disclosed on Schedule 2(p)(iv), (a) each Plan is and
     has been in all material respects operated and administered in accordance
     with its provisions and applicable law including, if applicable, ERISA and
     the Code; (b) all reports and filings with governmental agencies (including
     but not limited to the Department of Labor, Internal Revenue Service,
     Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and the SEC) required in connection
     with each Plan have been timely


                                       10
<PAGE>

     made; (c) all disclosures and notices required by law or Plan provisions to
     be given to participants and beneficiaries in connection with each Plan
     have been properly and timely made; (d) there are no actions, suits or
     claims pending, other than routine uncontested claims for benefits with
     respect to each Plan; and (e) each Plan intended to be qualified under
     Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter
     from the Internal Revenue Service stating that the Plan (including all
     amendments) is tax qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and Company
     knows of no reason that any such Plan is not qualified within the meaning
     of Section 401(a) of the Code and knows of no reason that each related Plan
     trust is not exempt from taxation under Section 501(a) of the Code.

          (v) Except as disclosed on Schedule 2(p)(v), (a) all contributions,
     premium payments and other payments required to be made in connection with
     the Plans as of the date of this Agreement have been made; (b) a proper
     accrual has been made on the books of Company for all contributions,
     premium payments and other payments due in the current fiscal year but not
     made as of the date of this Agreement; (c) no contribution, premium payment
     or other payment has been made in support of any Plan that is in excess of
     the allowable deduction for federal income tax purposes for the year with
     respect to which the contribution was made (whether under Sections 404,
     419, 419A of the Code or otherwise); and (d) with respect to each Plan that
     is subject to Section 301 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code, Company is
     not liable for any accumulated funding deficiency as that term is defined
     in Section 412 of the Code and the present value of the accrued benefit
     obligations determined as of the date of the most recent actuarial
     valuation do not exceed the fair market value of the assets of the Plan as
     of the date of the most recent actuarial valuation.

          (vi) Except as disclosed in Schedule 2(p)(vi) and to best knowledge of
     Company, no Plan or any trust created thereunder, nor any trustee,
     fiduciary or administrator thereof, has engaged in a "prohibited
     transaction," as such term is defined in Section 4975 of the Code or
     Section 406 of ERISA or violated any of the fiduciary standards under Part
     4 of Title 1 of ERISA which could subject such Plan or trust, or any
     trustee, fiduciary or administrator thereof, or any party dealing with any
     such Plan or trust, to a tax penalty or prohibited transactions imposed by
     Section 4975 of the Code or would result in material liability to Company
     and the Company Subsidiaries as a whole.

          (vii) No Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or any trust created
     thereunder has been terminated, nor have there been any "reportable events"
     as that term is defined in Section 4043 of ERISA for which the 30-day
     notice requirement has not been waived, with respect to any Plan, other
     than those events which may result from the transactions contemplated by
     this Agreement and the Merger Agreement.


                                       11
<PAGE>

          (viii) Except as disclosed in Schedule 2(p)(viii), neither the
     execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Merger Agreement nor the
     consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby will (a)
     result in any material payment (including, without limitation, severance,
     unemployment compensation, golden parachute or otherwise) becoming due to
     any director or employee or former employee of Company under any Plan or
     otherwise, (b) materially increase any benefits otherwise payable under any
     Plan, or (c) result in the acceleration of the time of payment or vesting
     of any such benefits to any material extent.

          (ix) Except as disclosed in Schedule 2(p)(ix), Company has not made
     any payments or transfers of property, is not obligated to make any
     payments or transfers of property, nor is it a party to any agreement that
     under certain circumstances could obligate it to make any payments or
     transfers of property that will not be deductible under section 280G of the
     Code.

     (q) PROXY STATEMENT, ETC. None of the information regarding Company and the
Company Subsidiaries supplied or to be supplied by Company for inclusion in (i)
a Registration Statement on Form S-4 and the prospectus included therein to be
filed with the SEC by Wells Fargo for the purpose of registering the shares of
Wells Fargo Common Stock to be exchanged for shares of Company Common Stock
pursuant to the provisions of the Merger Agreement (the "Registration
Statement"), (ii) the proxy statement included in the Registration Statement to
be mailed to Company's stockholders in connection with the meeting to be called
to consider the Merger (the "Proxy Statement") and (iii) any other documents to
be filed with the SEC or any regulatory authority in connection with the
transactions contemplated hereby or by the Merger Agreement will, at the
respective times such Registration Statement, Proxy Statement and other
documents are filed with the SEC or any regulatory authority and, in the case of
the Registration Statement, when it becomes effective and, with respect to the
Proxy Statement, when mailed, and, in the case of the Proxy Statement or any
amendment thereof or supplement thereto, at the time of the meeting of
stockholders referred to in paragraph 4(c), and at the Effective Time of the
Merger, contain any untrue statement of a material fact, or omit to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading. All documents which Company and the Company Subsidiaries are
responsible for filing with the SEC and any other regulatory authority in
connection with the Merger will comply as to form in all material respects with
the provisions of applicable law.

     (r) REGISTRATION OBLIGATIONS. Except as set forth on Schedule 2(r), neither
Company nor any Company Subsidiary is under any obligation, contingent or
otherwise, by reason of any agreement to register any of its securities under
the Securities Act.

     (s) BROKERS AND FINDERS. Except for J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., neither
Company nor any Company Subsidiary nor any of their respective officers,
directors or employees has employed any broker or finder or incurred any
liability for any financial


                                       12
<PAGE>

advisory fees, brokerage fees, commissions or finder's fees, and no broker or
finder has acted directly or indirectly for Company or any Company Subsidiary,
in connection with this Agreement and the Merger Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby.

     (t) FIDUCIARY ACTIVITIES. Company and each Company Subsidiary has properly
administered in all respects material and which could reasonably be expected to
be material, to the financial condition of Company and the Company Subsidiaries
taken as a whole all accounts for which it acts as a fiduciary, including but
not limited to accounts for which it serves as a trustee, agent, custodian,
personal representative, guardian, conservator or investment advisor, in
accordance with the terms of the governing documents and applicable state and
federal law and regulation and common law. Neither Company, any Company
Subsidiary, nor any director, officer or employee of Company or any Company
Subsidiary has committed any breach of trust with respect to any such fiduciary
account which is material to, or could reasonably be expected to be material to,
the financial condition of Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a
whole, and the accountings for each such fiduciary account are true and correct
in all material respects and accurately reflect the assets of such fiduciary
account.

     (u) NO DEFAULTS. Neither Company nor any Company Subsidiary is in default,
nor has any event occurred that, with the passage of time or the giving of
notice, or both, would constitute a default, under any material agreement,
indenture, loan agreement or other instrument to which it is a party or by which
it or any of its assets is bound or to which any of its assets is subject, the
result of which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect upon Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. To
the best of Company's knowledge, all parties with whom Company or any Company
Subsidiary has material leases, agreements or contracts or who owe to Company or
any Company Subsidiary material obligations other than those arising in the
ordinary course of the banking business of the Company Subsidiaries are in
compliance therewith in all material respects.

     (v) ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY. There is no legal, administrative, or other
proceeding, claim, or action of any nature seeking to impose, or that could
result in the imposition of, on Company or any Company Subsidiary, any liability
relating to the release of hazardous substances as defined under any local,
state or federal environmental statute, regulation or ordinance including,
without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), pending or to the best of
Company's knowledge, threatened against Company or any Company Subsidiary the
result of which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect upon Company and Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole; to the
best of Company's knowledge, there is no reasonable basis for any such
proceeding, claim or action; and to the best of Company's knowledge neither
Company nor any Company Subsidiary is subject to any agreement, order, judgment,
or decree by or with any court, governmental authority or third party imposing
any such environmental liability. Company has provided Wells Fargo with copies
of all


                                       13
<PAGE>

environmental assessments, reports, studies and other related information in its
possession with respect to each bank facility and each non-residential OREO
property.

     (w) ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE. The provisions of Section 203
of the Delaware General Corporation Law as they relate to Company do not and
will not apply to this Agreement, the Merger Agreement, and the Stock Option
Agreement or to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.

     (x) ZIONS BANCORPORATION MERGER AGREEMENT. The Agreement and Plan of Merger
dated as of June 6, 1999 by and between Company and Zions Bancorporation has
been terminated by Company in accordance with its terms.

     (y) RIGHTS PLAN. Company has taken all actions necessary to provide that
Wells Fargo is not, and will not become, an Acquiring Person, as defined in the
Shareholder Rights Agreement, dated August 28, 1989 and amended as of September
26, 1989, May 18, 1993 and October 27, 1998, between Company and First Chicago
Trust Company of New York (the "Rights Plan"), as a result of the execution of
this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement. Company has provided copies of such actions to Wells Fargo.

     3. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF WELLS FARGO. Wells Fargo represents
and warrants to Company as follows:

     (a) ORGANIZATION AND AUTHORITY. Wells Fargo is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of
Delaware, is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in all
jurisdictions where its ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of its
business requires it to be so qualified and failure to be so qualified would
have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries taken as a
whole and has corporate power and authority to own its properties and assets and
to carry on its business as it is now being conducted. Wells Fargo is registered
as a financial holding company with the Federal Reserve Board under the BHC Act.

     (b) WELLS FARGO SUBSIDIARIES. Schedule 3(b) sets forth a complete and
correct list as of December 31, 1999, of Wells Fargo's Significant Subsidiaries
(as defined in Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC), but excluding Norwest
Venture Partners VI, LP (individually a "Wells Fargo Subsidiary" and
collectively the "Wells Fargo Subsidiaries"), all shares of the outstanding
capital stock of each of which, except as set forth in Schedule 3(b), are on the
date of this Agreement owned directly or indirectly by Wells Fargo. No equity
security of any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is or may be required to be issued to any
person or entity other than Wells Fargo by reason of any option, warrant, scrip,
preemptive right, right to subscribe to, call or commitment of any character
whatsoever relating to, or security or right convertible into, shares of any
capital stock of such subsidiary, and there are no contracts, commitments,
understandings or


                                       14
<PAGE>

arrangements by which any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is bound to issue additional
shares of its capital stock, or options, warrants or rights to purchase or
acquire any additional shares of its capital stock. Subject to 12 U.S.C.
Section 55 (1982), all of such shares so owned by Wells Fargo are fully paid and
nonassessable and are owned by it free and clear of any lien, claim, charge,
option, encumbrance or agreement with respect thereto. Each Wells Fargo
Subsidiary is a corporation or national banking association duly organized,
validly existing, duly qualified to do business and in good standing under the
laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and has corporate power and authority
to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as it is
now being conducted.

     (c) WELLS FARGO CAPITALIZATION. As of December 31, 1999, the authorized
capital stock of Wells Fargo consists of (i) 20,000,000 shares of Preferred
Stock, without par value, of which as of the close of business on December 31,
1999, 3,732 shares of ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, at $1,000
stated value, 11,990 shares of 1995 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
at $1,000 stated value, 12,011 shares of 1996 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, at $1,000 stated value, 10,839 shares of 1997 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, at $1,000 stated value, 8,386 shares of 1998 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $1,000 stated value, 22,263 shares of
1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $1,000 stated value, 1,500,000
shares of Adjustable-Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, $50 stated
value, and 4,000,000 shares of 6.59% Adjustable Rate Noncumulative Preferred
Stock, Series H, $50 stated value, were outstanding; (ii) 4,000,000 shares of
Preference Stock, without par value, of which as of the close of business on
December 31, 1999, no shares were outstanding; and (iii) 4,000,000,000 shares of
Common Stock, $1-2/3 par value, of which as of the close of business on December
31, 1999, 1,626,849,541 shares were outstanding and 39,245,724 shares were held
in the treasury. All of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Wells Fargo
have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and
nonassessable.

     (d) AUTHORIZATION. Wells Fargo has the corporate power and authority to
enter into this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The
execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Wells Fargo and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized
by the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo. No approval or consent by the
stockholders of Wells Fargo is necessary for the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby. Subject to such approvals of government
agencies and other governing boards having regulatory authority over Wells Fargo
as may be required by statute or regulation, this Agreement is a valid and
binding obligation of Wells Fargo enforceable against Wells Fargo in accordance
with its terms.

     Neither the execution, delivery and performance by Wells Fargo of this
Agreement or the Merger Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby, nor compliance by Wells Fargo with any of the
provisions hereof or thereof, will (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a
breach of any


                                       15
<PAGE>

provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse
of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination
of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of
termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of any lien, security
interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of Wells
Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary under any of the terms, conditions or
provisions of, (x) its certificate of incorporation or by-laws or (y) any
material note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease,
agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Wells Fargo or any Wells
Fargo Subsidiary is a party or by which it may be bound, or to which Wells Fargo
or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary or any of the properties or assets of Wells Fargo
or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary may be subject, or (ii) subject to compliance with
the statutes and regulations referred to in the next paragraph, violate any
statute, rule or regulation or, to the best knowledge of Wells Fargo, violate
any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to Wells
Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary or any of their respective properties or
assets.

     Other than in connection with or in compliance with the provisions of the
Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the securities or blue sky laws of the various
states or filings, consents, reviews, authorizations, approvals or exemptions
required under the BHC Act or the HSR Act, and filings required to effect the
Merger under Delaware law, no notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or
authorization, consent or approval of, any public body or authority is necessary
for the consummation by Wells Fargo of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the Merger Agreement.

     (e) WELLS FARGO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The consolidated balance sheets of
Wells Fargo and Wells Fargo's subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and
related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for the three years ended December 31,
1999, together with the notes thereto, audited by KPMG LLP and included in Wells
Fargo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
(the "Wells Fargo 10-K") as filed with the SEC (collectively, the "Wells Fargo
Financial Statements"), have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent basis and present fairly the
consolidated financial position of Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries at the dates
and the consolidated results of operations, changes in financial position and
cash flows of Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries for the periods stated therein.

     (f) REPORTS. Since December 31, 1995, Wells Fargo and each Wells Fargo
Subsidiary has filed all reports, registrations and statements, together with
any required amendments thereto, that it was required to file with (i) the SEC,
including, but not limited to, Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and proxy statements, (ii)
the Federal Reserve Board, (iii) the FDIC, (iv) the Comptroller and (v) any
applicable state securities or banking authorities. All such reports and
statements filed with any such regulatory body or authority are collectively
referred to herein as the "Wells Fargo Reports." As of their respective dates,
the Wells Fargo Reports complied in all material respects with all the rules and
regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the
Comptroller and any applicable state securities or banking authorities, as the
case may be,


                                       16
<PAGE>

and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the
statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading.

     (g) PROPERTIES AND LEASES. Except as may be reflected in the Wells Fargo
Financial Statements and except for any lien for current taxes not yet
delinquent, Wells Fargo and each Wells Fargo Subsidiary has good title free and
clear of any material liens, claims, charges, options, encumbrances or similar
restrictions to all the real and personal property reflected in Wells Fargo's
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1999 included in Wells Fargo's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period then ended, and all real and personal
property acquired since such date, except such real and personal property that
has been disposed of in the ordinary course of business. All leases of real
property and all other leases material to Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo
Subsidiary pursuant to which Wells Fargo or such Wells Fargo Subsidiary, as
lessee, leases real or personal property, are valid and effective in accordance
with their respective terms, and there is not, under any such lease, any
material existing default by Wells Fargo or such Wells Fargo Subsidiary or any
event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a
material default. Substantially all Wells Fargo's and each Wells Fargo
Subsidiary's buildings and equipment in regular use have been well maintained
and are in good and serviceable condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.

     (h) TAXES. Each of Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries has filed
all material federal, state, county, local and foreign tax returns, including
information returns, required to be filed by it, and paid or made adequate
provision for the payment of all taxes owed by it, including those with respect
to income, withholding, social security, unemployment, workers compensation,
franchise, ad valorem, premium, excise and sales taxes, and no taxes shown on
such returns to be owed by it or assessments received by it are delinquent. The
federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982, and for all fiscal years prior thereto,
are for the purposes of routine audit by the Internal Revenue Service closed
because of the statute of limitations, and no claims for additional taxes for
such fiscal years are pending. Except only as set forth on Schedule 3(h), (i)
neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is a party to any pending
action or proceeding, nor to Wells Fargo's knowledge is any such action or
proceeding threatened by any governmental authority, for the assessment or
collection of taxes, interest, penalties, assessments or deficiencies that could
reasonably be expected to have any material adverse effect on Wells Fargo and
its subsidiaries taken as a whole, and (ii) no issue has been raised by any
federal, state, local or foreign taxing authority in connection with an audit or
examination of the tax returns, business or properties of Wells Fargo or any
Wells Fargo Subsidiary that has not been settled, resolved and fully satisfied,
or adequately reserved for. Each of Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries
has paid all taxes owed or which it is required to withhold from amounts owing
to employees, creditors or other third parties.


                                       17
<PAGE>

     (i) NO MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT. Since December 31, 1999, no change shall
have occurred and no circumstances shall exist which has had or might reasonably
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Wells Fargo.

     (j) COMMITMENTS AND CONTRACTS. Except as set forth on Schedule 3(j), as of
December 31, 1999 neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is a party
or subject to any of the following (whether written or oral, express or
implied):

          (i) any labor contract or agreement with any labor union;

          (ii) any contract not made in the ordinary course of business
     containing covenants which materially limit the ability of Wells Fargo or
     any Wells Fargo Subsidiary to compete in any line of business or with any
     person or which involve any material restriction of the geographical area
     in which, or method by which, Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary may
     carry on its business (other than as may be required by law or applicable
     regulatory authorities);

          (iii) any other contract or agreement which is a "material contract"
     within the meaning of Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K.

     (k) LITIGATION AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS. There is no pending or, to the best
knowledge of Wells Fargo, threatened, claim, action, suit, investigation or
proceeding, against Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary nor is Wells Fargo
or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary subject to any order, judgment or decree, except
for matters which, in the aggregate, will not have, or cannot reasonably be
expected to have, a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition
or results of operations of Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     (l) INSURANCE. Wells Fargo and each Wells Fargo Subsidiary is presently
insured or self insured, and during each of the past five calendar years (or
during such lesser period of time as Wells Fargo has owned such Wells Fargo
Subsidiary) has been insured or self-insured, for reasonable amounts with
financially sound and reputable insurance companies against such risks as
companies engaged in a similar business would, in accordance with good business
practice, customarily be insured and has maintained all insurance required by
applicable law and regulation.

     (m) COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Wells Fargo and each Wells Fargo Subsidiary has
all permits, licenses, authorizations, orders and approvals of, and has made all
filings, applications and registrations with, federal, state, local or foreign
governmental or regulatory bodies that are required in order to permit it to own
or lease its properties or assets and to carry on its business as presently
conducted and that are material to the business of Wells Fargo or such Wells
Fargo Subsidiary; all such permits, licenses, certificates of authority, orders
and approvals are in full force and effect, and to the best knowledge of Wells
Fargo, no suspension or cancellation of any of them is threatened; and all such
filings, applications and registrations are current. The conduct by Wells


                                       18
<PAGE>

Fargo and each Wells Fargo Subsidiary of its business and the condition and use
of its properties does not violate or infringe, in any respect material to any
such business, any applicable domestic (federal, state or local) or foreign law,
statute, ordinance, license or regulation. Neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells
Fargo Subsidiary is in default under any order, license, regulation or demand of
any federal, state, municipal or other governmental agency or with respect to
any order, writ, injunction or decree of any court. Except for statutory or
regulatory restrictions of general application, no federal, state, municipal or
other governmental authority has placed any restrictions on the business or
properties of Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary which reasonably could
be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or properties of
Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     (n) LABOR. No work stoppage involving Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo
Subsidiary is pending or, to the best knowledge of Wells Fargo, threatened.
Neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is involved in, or threatened
with or affected by, any labor dispute, arbitration, lawsuit or administrative
proceeding that could materially and adversely affect the business of Wells
Fargo or such Wells Fargo Subsidiary. Except as set forth on Schedule 3(j),
employees of Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries are not represented by
any labor union nor are any collective bargaining agreements otherwise in effect
with respect to such employees.

     (o) WELLS FARGO BENEFIT PLANS.

          (i) For purposes of this Section 3(o), the term "Wells Fargo Plan" or
     "Wells Fargo Plans" means all employee benefit plans as defined in Section
     3(3) of ERISA, to which Wells Fargo contributes, sponsors, or otherwise has
     any obligations.

          (ii) No Wells Fargo Plan is a "multiemployer plan" within the meaning
     of Section 3(37) of ERISA.

          (iii) Each Wells Fargo Plan is and has been in all material respects
     operated and administered in accordance with its provisions and applicable
     law, including, if applicable, ERISA and the Code.

          (iv) Except as set forth on Schedule 3(p)(iv), each Wells Fargo Plan
     intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a
     favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service stating
     that the Wells Fargo Plan (including all amendments) is tax qualified under
     Section 401(a) of the Code and Wells Fargo knows of no reason that any such
     Wells Fargo Plan is not qualified within the meaning of Section 401(a) of
     the Code and knows of no reason that each related Wells Fargo Plan trust is
     not exempt from taxation under Section 501(a) of the Code.


                                       19
<PAGE>

          (v) All contributions, premium payments, and other payments required
     to be made in connection with the Wells Fargo Plans as of the date of this
     Agreement have been made.

          (vi) With respect to each Wells Fargo Plan that is subject to Section
     301 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code, neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells
     Fargo Subsidiary is liable for any accumulated funding deficiency as that
     term is defined in Section 412 of the Code.

          (vii) The present value of all benefits vested and all benefits
     accrued under each Wells Fargo Plan that is subject to Title IV of ERISA
     does not, in each case, exceed the value of the assets of the Wells Fargo
     Plans allocable to such vested or accrued benefits as of the end of the
     most recent Plan Year.

     (p) REGISTRATION STATEMENT, ETC. None of the information regarding Wells
Fargo and its subsidiaries supplied or to be supplied by Wells Fargo for
inclusion in (i) the Registration Statement, (ii) the Proxy Statement, or (iii)
any other documents to be filed with the SEC or any regulatory authority in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or by the Merger Agreement
will, at the respective times such Registration Statement, Proxy Statement and
other documents are filed with the SEC or any regulatory authority and, in the
case of the Registration Statement, when it becomes effective and, with respect
to the Proxy Statement, when mailed, and, in the case of the Proxy Statement or
any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, at the time of the meeting of
stockholders referred to in paragraph 4(c), and at the Effective Time of the
Merger contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading. All documents which Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries are
responsible for filing with the SEC and any other regulatory authority in
connection with the Merger will comply as to form in all material respects with
the provisions of applicable law.

     (q) BROKERS AND FINDERS. Except for Credit Suisse First Boston, neither
Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary nor any of their respective officers,
directors or employees has employed any broker or finder or incurred any
liability for any financial advisory fees, brokerage fees, commissions or
finder's fees, and no broker or finder has acted directly or indirectly for
Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary in connection with this Agreement and
the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.

     (r) NO DEFAULTS. Neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is in
default, nor has any event occurred that, with the passage of time or the giving
of notice, or both, would constitute a default under any material agreement,
indenture, loan agreement or other instrument to which it is a party or by which
it or any of its assets is bound or to which any of its assets is subject, the
result of which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect upon Wells Fargo and its


                                       20
<PAGE>

subsidiaries taken as a whole. To the best of Wells Fargo's knowledge, all
parties with whom Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary has material leases,
agreements or contracts or who owe to Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary
material obligations, other than those arising in the ordinary course of the
banking business of the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries are in compliance therewith in
all material respects.

     (s) ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY. There is no legal, administrative, or other
proceeding, claim, or action of any nature seeking to impose, or that could
result in the imposition, on Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary of any
liability relating to the release of hazardous substances as defined under any
local, state or federal environmental statute, regulation or ordinance
including, without limitation, CERCLA, pending or to the best of Wells Fargo's
knowledge, threatened against Wells Fargo or any Wells Fargo Subsidiary, the
result of which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect upon Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; to the
best of Wells Fargo's knowledge, there is no reasonable basis for any such
proceeding, claim or action; and to the best of Wells Fargo's knowledge, neither
Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo Subsidiary is subject to any agreement, order,
judgment, or decree by or with any court, governmental authority or third party
imposing any such environmental liability.

     (t) MERGER CO. As of the Closing Date, Merger Co. will be a corporation
duly organized, validly existing, duly qualified to do business and in good
standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and will have
corporate power and authority to own or lease its properties and assets and to
carry on its business. As of the Closing Date, the execution, delivery and
performance by Merger Co. of the Merger Agreement will have been duly authorized
by Merger Co.'s Board of Directors and stockholders, and the Merger Agreement
will be a valid and binding obligation of Merger Co., enforceable against Merger
Co. in accordance with its terms.

     4. COVENANTS OF COMPANY. Company covenants and agrees with Wells Fargo as
follows:

     (a) AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. Except as otherwise permitted or required by
this Agreement, from the date hereof until the Effective Time of the Merger,
Company, and each Company Subsidiary will: maintain its corporate existence in
good standing; maintain the general character of its business and conduct its
business in its ordinary and usual manner; extend credit in accordance with
existing lending policies, except that it shall not, without the prior written
consent of Wells Fargo (which consent requirement shall be deemed to be waived
as to any loan approval request to which Wells Fargo has made no response by the
end of the third business day following the day of receipt of the request by a
representative designated by Wells Fargo in writing), (A) make any loan or
extension of credit aggregating an amount equal to or in excess of $1,000,000 to
a person or entity that is not a borrower as of the date hereof, or (B) make any
new loan or modify, restructure or renew any existing loan (except pursuant to
commitments made prior to the date of this Agreement) to any borrower who has
aggregate extensions of


                                       21
<PAGE>

credit in excess of $1,000,000 if the amount of the resulting loan, when
aggregated with all other loans or extensions of credit to such person, would be
in excess of $2,500,000; maintain proper business and accounting records in
accordance with generally accepted principles; maintain its properties in good
repair and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; maintain in all material
respects presently existing insurance coverage; use its best efforts to preserve
its business organization intact, to keep the services of its present principal
employees and to preserve its good will and the good will of its suppliers,
customers and others having business relationships with it; use its best efforts
to obtain any approvals or consents required to maintain existing leases and
other contracts in effect following the Merger; comply in all material respects
with all laws, regulations, ordinances, codes, orders, licenses and permits
applicable to the properties and operations of Company and each Company
Subsidiary the non-compliance with which reasonably could be expected to have a
material adverse effect on Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a
whole; and permit Wells Fargo and its representatives (including KPMG LLP) to
examine its and its subsidiaries books, records and properties and to interview
officers, employees and agents at all reasonable times when it is open for
business. No such examination by Wells Fargo or its representatives either
before or after the date of this Agreement shall in any way affect, diminish or
terminate any of the representations, warranties or covenants of Company herein
expressed.

     (b) NEGATIVE COVENANTS. Except as otherwise contemplated or required by
this Agreement, from the date hereof until the Effective Time of the Merger,
Company and each Company Subsidiary will not (without the prior written consent
of Wells Fargo): amend or otherwise change its articles of incorporation or
association or by-laws; issue or sell or authorize for issuance or sale, or
grant any options or make other agreements with respect to the issuance or sale
or conversion of, any shares of its capital stock, phantom shares or other
share-equivalents, or any other of its securities, except that Company may issue
shares of Company Common Stock upon the exercise of the option granted under the
Stock Option Agreement or upon the exercise of outstanding stock options
described in Schedule 4(b); authorize or incur any long-term debt (other than
deposit liabilities); mortgage, pledge or subject to lien or other encumbrance
any of its properties, except in the ordinary course of business; enter into any
material agreement, contract or commitment in excess of $50,000 except banking
transactions in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with policies
and procedures in effect on the date hereof; make any investments except
investments made by bank subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business of
Treasury securities only for terms of up to two years and in amounts of
$100,000,000 or less; amend or terminate any Plan except as required by law or
by paragraph 4(j) hereof; make any contributions to any Plan except as required
by the terms of such Plan in effect as of the date hereof; declare, set aside,
make or pay any dividend or other distribution with respect to its capital stock
except (A) Company may declare and pay dividends on Company Preferred Stock and
on Company Common Stock, in accordance with applicable law and regulation and
consistent with past practice, out of the net earnings of Company between the
date hereof and the Effective Date of the Merger, determined in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, in an amount not to exceed an
annualized rate of $0.56 PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the


                                       22
<PAGE>

stockholders of Company shall be entitled to a dividend on Company Common Stock
or Wells Fargo Common Stock, but not both, in the calendar quarter in which the
Closing shall occur, and (B) any dividend declared by a Company Subsidiary's
Board of Directors in accordance with applicable law and regulation; redeem,
purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the capital stock
of Company; increase the compensation of any officers, directors or executive
employees, except pursuant to existing compensation plans and practices; sell or
otherwise dispose of any shares of the capital stock of any Company Subsidiary;
or sell or otherwise dispose of any of its assets or properties other than in
the ordinary course of business.

     (c) STOCKHOLDER MEETING. The Board of Directors of Company will duly call,
and will cause to be held not later than twenty-five (25) business days
following the effective date of the Registration Statement, a meeting of its
stockholders and will direct that this Agreement and the Merger Agreement be
submitted to a vote at such meeting. The Board of Directors of Company will (i)
cause proper notice of such meeting to be given to its stockholders in
compliance with the Delaware General Corporation Law and other applicable law
and regulation, (ii) recommend by the affirmative vote of the Board of Directors
a vote in favor of approval of this Agreement and the Merger Agreement, and
(iii) use its best efforts to solicit from its stockholders proxies in favor
thereof.

     (d) INFORMATION FURNISHED BY COMPANY. Company will furnish or cause to be
furnished to Wells Fargo all the information concerning Company and the Company
Subsidiaries required for inclusion in the Registration Statement, or any
statement or application made by Wells Fargo to any governmental body in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Any financial
statement for any fiscal year provided under this paragraph must include the
audit opinion and the consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP to use such opinion in
such Registration Statement.

     (e) APPROVALS. Company will take all necessary corporate and other action
and use its best efforts to obtain all approvals of regulatory authorities,
consents and other approvals required of Company to carry out the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and will cooperate with Wells Fargo to obtain all
such approvals and consents required of Wells Fargo.

     (f) DELIVERY OF CLOSING DOCUMENTS. Company will use its best efforts to
deliver to the Closing all opinions, certificates and other documents required
to be delivered by it at the Closing.

     (g) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Company will hold in confidence all documents
and information concerning Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries furnished to Company
and its representatives in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and will not release or disclose such information to any other person,
except as required by law and except to Company's outside professional advisers
in connection with this Agreement, with the same undertaking from such
professional advisers. If the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall
not be consummated, such confidence


                                       23
<PAGE>

shall be maintained and such information shall not be used in competition with
Wells Fargo (except to the extent that such information was previously known to
Company, in the public domain, or later acquired by Company from other sources
not known to Company to be subject to a confidentiality obligation to Wells
Fargo) and, upon request, all such documents and any copies thereof and all
documents prepared by Company that include such confidential information shall
be destroyed, excluding documents such as minutes of meetings and regulatory
filings that Company is required to retain.

     (h) COMPETING TRANSACTIONS. Neither Company, nor any Company Subsidiary,
nor any director, officer, representative or agent thereof, will, directly or
indirectly, solicit, authorize the solicitation of or enter into any discussions
with any corporation, partnership, person or other entity or group (other than
Wells Fargo) concerning any offer or possible offer (i) to purchase any shares
of common stock, any option or warrant to purchase any shares of common stock,
any securities convertible into any shares of such common stock, or any other
equity security of Company or any Company Subsidiary, (ii) to make a tender or
exchange offer for any shares of such common stock or other equity security,
(iii) to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire the assets of Company or any
Company Subsidiary except in the ordinary course of business, or (iv) to merge,
consolidate or otherwise combine with Company or any Company Subsidiary. If any
corporation, partnership, person or other entity or group makes an offer or
inquiry to Company or any Company Subsidiary concerning any of the foregoing,
Company or such Company Subsidiary will promptly disclose such offer or inquiry
to Wells Fargo.

     (i) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE. Company shall consult with Wells Fargo as to the
form and substance of any proposed press release or other proposed public
disclosure of matters related to this Agreement or any of the transactions
contemplated hereby.

     (j) BENEFIT PLANS. Company and each Company Subsidiary will take all action
necessary or required (i) to terminate or amend, if requested by Wells Fargo,
all qualified retirement and welfare benefit plans and all non-qualified benefit
plans and compensation arrangements as of the Effective Date of the Merger, and
(ii) to submit an application to the Internal Revenue Service for a favorable
determination letter for each of the Plans that is subject to the qualification
requirements of Section 401(a) of the Code prior to the Effective Date of the
Merger.

     (k) POOLING OF INTERESTS. Neither Company nor any Company Subsidiary shall
take any action which with respect to Company would disqualify the Merger as a
"pooling of interests" for accounting purposes.

     (l) AFFILIATE LETTERS. Company shall use its best efforts to obtain and
deliver at least 32 days prior to the Effective Date of the Merger signed
representations substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B to Wells
Fargo by each executive officer, director or stockholder of Company who may
reasonably be deemed an "affiliate" of Company within the meaning of such term
as used in Rule 145 under the Securities Act.


                                       24
<PAGE>

     (m) COMFORT CERTIFICATE. Company shall furnish Wells Fargo with a
certificate from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of
Company a letter, dated as of the effective date of the Registration Statement
and updated through the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to
Wells Fargo, to the effect that:

          (i) the interim quarterly consolidated financial statements of Company
     included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement are
     prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
     applied on a basis consistent with the audited consolidated financial
     statements of Company;

          (ii) the amounts reported in the interim quarterly consolidated
     financial statements of Company agree with the general ledger of Company;

          (iii) the annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements of
     Company and the Company Subsidiaries included in, or incorporated by
     reference in, the Registration Statement comply as to form in all material
     respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act
     and the published rules and regulations thereunder;

          (iv) from the date of the most recent unaudited consolidated financial
     statements of Company and the Company Subsidiaries as may be included in
     the Registration Statement to a date 5 days prior to the effective date of
     the Registration Statement and to a date 5 days prior to the Closing, there
     are no increases in long-term debt, changes in the capital stock or
     decreases in stockholders' equity of Company and the Company Subsidiaries,
     except in each case for changes, increases or decreases which the
     Registration Statement discloses have occurred or may occur or which are
     described in such letters. For the same period, there have been no
     decreases in consolidated net interest income, consolidated net interest
     income after provision for credit losses, consolidated income before income
     taxes, consolidated net income and net income per share amounts of Company
     and the Company Subsidiaries, or in income before equity in undistributed
     income of subsidiaries, in each case as compared with the comparable period
     of the preceding year, except in each case for changes, increases or
     decreases which the Registration Statement discloses have occurred or may
     occur or which are described in such letters;

          (v) they have reviewed certain amounts, percentages, numbers of shares
     and financial information which are derived from the general accounting
     records of Company and the Company Subsidiaries, which appear in the
     Registration Statement under the certain captions to be specified by Wells
     Fargo, and have compared certain of such amounts, percentages, numbers and
     financial information with the accounting records of Company and the
     Company Subsidiaries and have found them to be in agreement with financial
     records and


                                       25
<PAGE>

     analyses prepared by Company included in the annual and quarterly
     consolidated financial statements, except as disclosed in such letters.

     (n) REDEMPTION OF PREFERRED STOCK. Immediately prior to the Effective Time
of the Merger, Company shall redeem outstanding shares of Company Preferred
Stock, in accordance with the terms of Company's amended certificate of
incorporation, using Company's own funds.

     (o) REDEMPTION OF RIGHTS. Immediately prior to the Effective Date of the
Merger, Company shall take such actions as may be necessary to redeem all rights
outstanding under the Rights Plan, in accordance with the terms of the Rights
Plan, at a cost of no more than $0.01 per right.

     5. COVENANTS OF WELLS FARGO. Wells Fargo covenants and agrees with Company
as follows:

     (a) AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. From the date hereof until the Effective Time of
the Merger, Wells Fargo will maintain its corporate existence in good standing;
conduct, and cause the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries to conduct, their respective
businesses in compliance with all material obligations and duties imposed on
them by all laws, governmental regulations, rules and ordinances, and judicial
orders, judgments and decrees applicable to Wells Fargo or the Wells Fargo
Subsidiaries, their businesses or their properties; maintain all books and
records of it and the Wells Fargo Subsidiaries, including all financial
statements, in accordance with the accounting principles and practices
consistent with those used for the Wells Fargo Financial Statements, except for
changes in such principles and practices required under generally accepted
accounting principles.

     (b) INFORMATION PROVIDED BY WELLS FARGO. Wells Fargo will furnish to
Company all the information concerning Wells Fargo required for inclusion in a
proxy statement or statements to be sent to the stockholders of Company, or in
any statement or application made by Company to any governmental body in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     (c) REGISTRATION STATEMENT. As promptly as practicable after the execution
of this Agreement, Wells Fargo will file with the SEC the Registration Statement
and any other applicable documents, relating to the shares of Wells Fargo Common
Stock to be delivered to the stockholders of Company pursuant to the Merger
Agreement, and will use its best efforts to cause the Registration Statement to
become effective. At the time the Registration Statement becomes effective, the
Registration Statement will comply in all material respects with the provisions
of the Securities Act and the published rules and regulations thereunder, and
will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
therein not false or misleading, and at the time of mailing thereof to the
Company stockholders, at the time of the Company stockholders' meeting referred
to in paragraph 4(c) hereof and at the Effective Time of the Merger the
prospectus included as


                                       26
<PAGE>

part of the Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any amendment
or supplement filed by Wells Fargo (hereinafter the "Prospectus"), will not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material
fact necessary to make the statements therein not false or misleading; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that none of the provisions of this subparagraph shall apply to
statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus
made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished by Company or
any Company Subsidiary for use in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.

     (d) STOCK EXCHANGE LISTINGS. Wells Fargo will file all documents required
to be filed to list the Wells Fargo Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the
Merger Agreement on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange
and use its best efforts to effect said listings.

     (e) WELLS FARGO SHARES. The shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock to be issued
by Wells Fargo to the stockholders of Company pursuant to this Agreement and the
Merger Agreement will, upon such issuance and delivery to said stockholders
pursuant to the Merger Agreement, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid
and nonassessable. The shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock to be delivered to the
stockholders of Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement are and will be free of
any preemptive rights of the stockholders of Wells Fargo.

     (f) BLUE SKY APPROVALS. Wells Fargo will file all documents required to
obtain, prior to the Effective Time of the Merger, all necessary Blue Sky
permits and approvals, if any, required to carry out the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, will pay all expenses incident thereto and will
use its best efforts to obtain such permits and approvals.

     (g) APPROVALS. Wells Fargo will take all necessary corporate and other
action and file all documents required to obtain and will use its best efforts
to obtain all approvals of regulatory authorities, consents and approvals
required of it to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
will cooperate with Company to obtain all such approvals and consents required
by Company.

     (h) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Wells Fargo will hold in confidence all
documents and information concerning Company and Company's Subsidiaries
furnished to it and its representatives in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and will not release or disclose such information
to any other person, except as required by law and except to its outside
professional advisers in connection with this Agreement, with the same
undertaking from such professional advisers. If the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement shall not be consummated, such confidence shall be maintained and
such information shall not be used in competition with Company (except to the
extent that such information was previously known to Wells Fargo, in the public
domain, or later acquired by Wells Fargo from other sources not known to Wells
Fargo to be subject to a confidentiality obligation to Company) and, upon
request, all such


                                       27
<PAGE>

documents and any copies thereof and all documents prepared by Wells Fargo that
include such confidential information shall be destroyed, excluding documents
such as minutes of meetings and regulatory filings that Wells Fargo is required
to retain.

     (i) MERGER FILINGS. Wells Fargo will file any documents or agreements
required to be filed in connection with the Merger under the Delaware General
Corporation Law.

     (j) DELIVERY OF CLOSING DOCUMENTS. Wells Fargo will use its best efforts to
deliver to the Closing all opinions, certificates and other documents required
to be delivered by it at the Closing.

     (k) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE. Wells Fargo shall consult with Company as to the
form and substance of any proposed press release or other proposed public
disclosure of matters related to this Agreement or any of the transactions
contemplated hereby.

     (l) NOTICE OF REGULATORY APPROVALS. Wells Fargo shall give Company notice
of receipt of the regulatory approvals referred to in paragraph 7(e).

     (m) POOLING OF INTERESTS. Neither Wells Fargo nor any Wells Fargo
Subsidiary shall take any action which with respect to Wells Fargo would
disqualify the Merger as a "pooling of interests" for accounting purposes. Wells
Fargo shall use its best efforts to obtain and deliver to Company, prior to the
Effective Date of the Merger, signed representations from the directors and
executive officers of Wells Fargo to the effect that, except for DE MINIMUS
dispositions which will not disqualify the Merger as a pooling of interests,
they will not dispose of shares of Wells Fargo or Company during the period
commencing 30 days prior to the Effective Date and ending upon publication by
Wells Fargo of financial results including at least 30 days of combined
operations of Company and Wells Fargo.

     (n) INDEMNIFICATION.

          (i) Following the Effective Date of the Merger, Wells Fargo shall
     indemnify, defend and hold harmless the present and former directors and
     officers of Company and the Company Subsidiaries (each, an "Indemnified
     Party") against all costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys'
     fees), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages or liabilities
     (collectively, "Costs") as incurred, in connection with any claim, action,
     suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal, administrative
     or investigative, arising out of actions or omissions occurring at or prior
     to the Effective Time of the Merger (including, without limitation, the
     transactions contemplated by this Agreement) to the fullest extent that
     Company and the Company Subsidiaries are permitted to indemnify (and
     advance expenses to) their respective directors and officers under the laws
     of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation, their respective
     charters and their respective bylaws;


                                       28
<PAGE>

          (ii) any Indemnified Party wishing to claim indemnification under
     paragraph 5(n)(i), upon learning of any claim, action, suit, proceeding or
     investigation described above, shall promptly notify Wells Fargo thereof;
     provided that the failure to so notify shall not affect the obligations of
     Wells Fargo under paragraph 5(n)(i) unless and to the extent that Wells
     Fargo is actually and materially prejudiced as result of such failure. In
     the event of any such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation
     (whether arising before or after the Effective Time of the Merger), (A)
     Wells Fargo shall have the right to assume the defense thereof and Wells
     Fargo shall not be liable to any Indemnified Party for any legal expenses
     of other counsel or any other expenses subsequently incurred by such
     Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof, except that if
     Wells Fargo elects not to assume such defense or counsel for the
     Indemnified Party advises that there are issues which raise conflicts of
     interest between Wells Fargo and the Indemnified Party, the Indemnified
     Party may retain counsel satisfactory to them, and Wells Fargo shall pay
     the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel for the Indemnified Party
     promptly as statements therefor are received; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Wells
     Fargo shall be obligated pursuant to this subparagraph (ii) to pay for only
     one firm of counsel for all Indemnified Parties in any jurisdiction unless
     the use of one counsel for such Indemnified Parties would present such
     counsel with a conflict of interest and (B) such Indemnified Party shall
     cooperate in the defense of any such matter;

          (iii) for a period of six years after the Effective Time of the
     Merger, Wells Fargo shall use its reasonable best efforts to provide
     directors' and officers' liability insurance that serves to reimburse the
     present and former officers and directors of Company and the Company
     Subsidiaries (determined as of the Effective Time of the Merger) with
     respect to claims against such directors and officers arising from facts or
     events occurring at or prior to the Effective Time of the Merger
     (including, without limitation, the transactions contemplated by this
     Agreement) which insurance shall contain at least the same coverage and
     amounts, and contain terms and conditions no less advantageous, as that
     coverage currently provided by Company;

          (iv) if Wells Fargo or any of its successors or assigns shall
     consolidate with or merge into any other entity and shall not be the
     continuing or surviving entity of such consolidation or merger or shall
     transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any other
     entity, then and in each such case, Wells Fargo shall cause proper
     provision to be made so that the successors and assigns of Wells Fargo
     shall assume the obligations set forth in this paragraph 5(n); and

          (v) the provisions of this paragraph 5(n) are intended to be for the
     benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, each Indemnified Party and his or
     her heirs and representatives.




                                       29
<PAGE>

     6. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATION OF COMPANY. The obligation of Company
to effect the Merger shall be subject to the satisfaction at or before the Time
of Filing of the following further conditions, which may be waived in writing by
Company:

     (a) REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Except as they may be affected by
transactions contemplated hereby and except to the extent such representations
and warranties are by their express provisions made as of a specified date and
except for activities or transactions after the date of this Agreement made in
the ordinary course of business and not expressly prohibited by this Agreement,
the representations and warranties contained in paragraph 3 hereof shall be true
and correct in all respects material to Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries taken
as a whole as if made at the Time of Filing; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that for
purposes of this paragraph, such representations and warranties (other than the
representations and warranties contained in paragraph 3(c), which shall be true
and correct in all material respects) shall be deemed to be true and correct
unless the failure or failures of such representations and warranties to be so
true and correct, either individually or in the aggregate, and without giving
effect to any qualification as to materiality set forth in such representations
and warranties, will have a Material Adverse Effect on Company.

     (b) PERFORMANCE OF WELLS FARGO OBLIGATIONS. Wells Fargo shall have, or
shall have caused to be, performed and observed in all material respects all
covenants, agreements and conditions hereof to be performed or observed by it
and Merger Co. at or before the Time of Filing.

     (c) WELLS FARGO COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. Company shall have received a
favorable certificate, dated as of the Effective Date of the Merger, signed by
the Chairman, the President or any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice
President and by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Wells Fargo, as to the
matters set forth in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph 6.

     (d) STOCKHOLDER APPROVALS. This Agreement and the Merger Agreement shall
have been approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of the percentage of
the outstanding shares of Company required for approval of a plan of merger in
accordance with the provisions of Company's Certificate of Incorporation and the
Delaware General Corporation Law.

     (e) GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS. Wells Fargo shall have received approval by the
Federal Reserve Board and by such other governmental agencies as may be required
by law of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Merger
Agreement and all waiting and appeal periods prescribed by applicable law or
regulation shall have expired.

     (f) NO RESTRAINING ORDER, ETC. No court or governmental authority of
competent jurisdiction shall have issued an order restraining, enjoining or
otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.


                                       30
<PAGE>

     (g) SHARES AUTHORIZED FOR LISTING. The shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock
to be delivered to the stockholders of Company pursuant to this Agreement and
the Merger Agreement shall have been authorized for listing on the New York
Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange.

     (h) TAX OPINION. Company shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing
Date, of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, substantially to the effect that, for
federal income tax purposes: (i) the Merger will constitute a reorganization
within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; (ii) no gain or loss will be
recognized by the holders of Company Common Stock upon receipt of Wells Fargo
Common Stock, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares;
(iii) the basis of the Wells Fargo Common Stock received by the stockholders of
Company (including fractional shares deemed received and redeemed) will be the
same as the basis of Company Common Stock exchanged therefor; and (iv) the
holding period of the shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock received by the
stockholders of Company (including fractional shares deemed received and
redeemed) will include the holding period of the Company Common Stock exchanged
therefor, provided such shares of Company Common Stock were held as a capital
asset as of the Effective Time of the Merger.

     (i) REGISTRATION STATEMENT EFFECTIVE; NO STOP ORDER, ETC.; BLUE SKY
AUTHORIZATIONS RECEIVED. The Registration Statement (as amended or supplemented)
shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be subject to
any stop order, and no action, suit, proceeding or investigation by the SEC to
suspend the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been
initiated and be continuing, or have been threatened and be unresolved. Wells
Fargo shall have received all state securities law or blue sky authorizations
necessary to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     (j) NO MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE. Since December 31, 1999, no change shall
have occurred and no circumstances shall exist which has had or might reasonably
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Wells Fargo.

     7. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATION OF WELLS FARGO. The obligation of
Wells Fargo to effect the Merger shall be subject to the satisfaction at or
before the Time of Filing of the following conditions, which may be waived in
writing by Wells Fargo:

     (a) REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Except as they may be affected by
transactions contemplated hereby and except to the extent such representations
and warranties are by their express provisions made as of a specified date and
except for activities or transactions or events occurring after the date of this
Agreement made in the ordinary course of business and not expressly prohibited
by this Agreement, the representations and warranties contained in paragraph 2
hereof shall be true and correct in all respects material to Company and the
Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole as if made at the Time of Filing;
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that for purposes of this paragraph, such


                                       31
<PAGE>

representations and warranties (other than the representations and warranties
contained in paragraph 2(c), which shall be true and correct in all material
respects) shall be deemed to be true and correct unless the failure or failures
of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct, either
individually or in the aggregate, and without giving effect to any qualification
as to materiality set forth in such representations and warranties, will have a
Material Adverse Effect on Wells Fargo.

     (b) PERFORMANCE OF COMPANY OBLIGATIONS. Company shall have, or shall have
caused to be, performed and observed in all material respects all covenants,
agreements and conditions hereof to be performed or observed by it at or before
the Time of Filing.

     (c) STOCKHOLDER APPROVALS. This Agreement and the Merger Agreement shall
have been approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of the percentage of
the outstanding shares of Company required for approval of a plan of merger in
accordance with the provisions of Company's Certificate of Incorporation and the
Delaware General Corporation Law.

     (d) COMPANY'S COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. Wells Fargo shall have received a
favorable certificate dated as of the Effective Date of the Merger signed by the
Chairman or President and by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Company, as
to the matters set forth in subparagraphs (a) through (c) of this paragraph 7.

     (e) GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS. Wells Fargo shall have received approval by all
governmental agencies as may be required by law of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement and the Merger Agreement and all waiting and appeal periods
prescribed by applicable law or regulation shall have expired. No approvals,
licenses or consents granted by any regulatory authority shall contain any
condition or requirement relating to Company or any Company Subsidiary that, in
the good faith judgment of Wells Fargo, is unreasonably burdensome to Wells
Fargo. For purposes of this paragraph 7(e), a divestiture required as a
condition to any regulatory approval shall not be deemed to be unreasonably
burdensome if such divestiture is consistent with Department of Justice and
Federal Reserve Board guidelines, policies, and practices regarding the merger
of bank holding companies that have been used in transactions that have recently
been reviewed prior to the date of this Agreement.

     (f) CONSENTS, AUTHORIZATIONS, ETC. OBTAINED. Company and each Company
Subsidiary shall have obtained any and all material consents or waivers from
other parties to loan agreements, leases or other contracts material to
Company's or such Company Subsidiary's business required for the consummation of
the Merger, and Company and each Company Subsidiary shall have obtained any and
all material permits, authorizations, consents, waivers and approvals required
for the lawful consummation by it of the Merger.


                                       32
<PAGE>

     (g) NO RESTRAINING ORDER, ETC. No court or governmental authority of
competent jurisdiction shall have issued an order restraining, enjoining or
otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

     (h) POOLING OF INTERESTS OPINIONS. The Merger shall qualify as a "pooling
of interests" for accounting purposes and Wells Fargo shall have received from
KPMG and Deloitte & Touche LLP opinions to that effect.

     (i) NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING SHARES. At any time since the date hereof the
total number of shares of Company Common Stock outstanding and subject to
issuance upon exercise (assuming for this purpose that phantom shares and other
share-equivalents constitute Company Common Stock) of all warrants, options,
conversion rights, phantom shares or other share-equivalents, other than any
option held by Wells Fargo, shall not have exceeded 210,00,000.

     (j) REGISTRATION STATEMENT EFFECTIVE; NO STOP ORDER, ETC.; BLUE SKY
AUTHORIZATIONS RECEIVED. The Registration Statement (as amended or supplemented)
shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be subject to
any stop order, and no action, suit, proceeding or investigation by the SEC to
suspend the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been
initiated and be continuing, or have been threatened or be unresolved. Wells
Fargo shall have received all state securities law or blue sky authorizations
necessary to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     (k) [Intentionally left blank]

     (l) [Intentionally left blank]

     (m) [Intentionally left blank]

     (n) NO MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE. Since December 31, 1999 except as set forth
in the Company 10-K, no change shall have occurred and no circumstances shall
exist which has had or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect on Company.

     (p) RESIGNATIONS. Company shall have delivered the resignations of each
member of its Board of Directors as of the Effective Time, and such resignations
shall not have been withdrawn.

     (q) REDEMPTION OF PREFERRED STOCK. Company shall have taken all actions
necessary to redeem the Company Preferred Stock, effective prior to the
Effective Time of the Merger.

     (o) COMPANY RIGHTS PLAN. At the Effective Date of the Merger, there shall
be no rights issuable or outstanding under the Rights Plan and all rights
previously outstanding


                                       33
<PAGE>

shall have been redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Rights Plan. No
Person shall have become an Acquiring Person and the Separation Time shall not
have occurred (as each of such terms is defined in the Rights Plan).

     8. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. Each person who is an employee of Company or any
Company Subsidiary as of the Effective Date of the Merger ("Company Employees")
shall be eligible for participation in the employee welfare and retirement plans
of Wells Fargo, as in effect from time to time, as follows:

     (a) EMPLOYEE WELFARE BENEFIT PLANS. Each Company Employee shall be eligible
for participation in the employee welfare benefit plans of Wells Fargo listed
below subject to any eligibility requirements applicable to such plans after
taking into account paragraph 8(d) hereof, and shall enter each plan not later
than the first day of the calendar quarter which begins at least 32 days after
the Effective Date of the Merger (the "Benefits Conversion Date"), unless such
date would occur on or after October 1, 2000, in which case the Benefits
Conversion date would be January 1, 2001:

                  Medical Plan
                  Dental Plan
                  Vision Plan
                  Short Term Disability Plan
                  Long Term Disability Plan
                  Long Term Care Plan
                  Flexible Benefits Plan
                  Basic Group Life Insurance Plan
                  Group Universal Life Insurance Plan
                  Dependent Group Life Insurance Plan
                  Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan
                  Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan
                  Salary Continuation Pay Plan
                  Paid Time Off Program

     (b) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS. As of the Benefits Conversion Date,
each Company Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Wells Fargo 401(k)
Plan (the "401(k) Plan") and the Wells Fargo Cash Balance Plan (the "Cash
Balance Plan"), subject to any eligibility requirements applicable to such plans
after taking into account paragraph 8(d) hereof. As of the Benefits Conversion
Date, each Company Employee shall be eligible for access to Wells Fargo's
retiree medical benefit program, subject to any eligibility requirements
applicable to such benefit after taking into account paragraph 8(d) hereof.

     (c) CONTINUITY OF COVERAGE. It is intended that the transition from
Company's Plans to the Wells Fargo Plans will be facilitated without gaps in
coverage to the participants or interruption in participation and without
duplication of costs to Wells


                                       34
<PAGE>

Fargo. Prior to the Benefits Conversion Date, the Company Plans as in effect of
the date of this Agreement shall remain in effect with respect to the Company
Employees.

     (d) SERVICE CREDIT; PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS. From and after the Effective
Date of the Merger, Wells Fargo shall, or shall cause the surviving corporation
to, recognize the prior service with Company or the Company Subsidiaries (and
any of their predecessor entities, to the extent such service was recognized by
the Company or the Company Subsidiaries under any comparable Company Plan) of
each Company Employee in connection with the Wells Fargo Plans in which such
Company Employee is eligible to participate following the Benefits Conversion
Date, including without limitation the 401(k) Plan and the Cash Balance Plan,
for purposes of eligibility, vesting and levels of benefits, provided, that such
crediting of service shall in no event result in the duplication of benefits
with respect to the same period of service. From and after the Benefits
Conversion Date, Wells Fargo shall, or shall cause the surviving corporation to,
(i) cause any pre-existing conditions or limitations and eligibility waiting
periods under any group health plans of Wells Fargo to be waived with respect to
the Company Employees and their eligible dependents (to the extent permitted to
do so by the applicable insurance carrier) and (ii) give each Company Employee
credit for the plan year in which the Benefits Conversion Date occurs towards
applicable deductibles and annual out-of-pocket limits for expenses incurred
prior to the Benefits Conversion Date.

     (e) COMPANY SEVERANCE PLAN. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, during the 18-month period following the Effective
Date of the Merger, Wells Fargo shall, or shall cause the surviving corporation
to, honor and continue the Company Severance Pay Plan (as amended and restated
April 3, 2000, and further amended April 9, 2000) as in effect immediately prior
to the Effective Date of the Merger; provided, however, that no Company Employee
who is a participant in any Company severance or salary continuation plan or who
has an employment agreement with the Company or any Company Subsidiary in each
case that would provide such Company Employee with severance or salary
continuation benefits after the Effective Date of the Merger shall be eligible
to participate in the Wells Fargo Salary Continuation Plan, until such time as
such Company Employee is no longer eligible or entitled to receive severance or
salary continuation benefits under such Company plan or agreement.

     9. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT.

     (a) TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated, and the Merger may be
abandoned:

          (i) Mutual Consent. At any time prior to the Effective Time of the
     Merger, by mutual consent of Company and Wells Fargo, if the board of
     directors of each so determines by vote of a majority of the members of its
     entire board.

          (ii) Breach. At any time prior to the Effective Time of the Merger, by
     Company or Wells Fargo, if its board of directors of so determines by vote
     of a


                                       35
<PAGE>

     majority of the members of its entire board, in the event of either: (A) a
     breach by the other party of any representation or warranty contained
     therein, which breach cannot be or has not been cured within 30 calendar
     days after the giving of written notice to the breaching party of such
     breach, or (B) a breach by the other party of any of the covenants or
     agreements contained herein, which breach cannot be or has not been cured
     within 30 calendar days after the giving of written notice to the breaching
     party of such breach; provided that such breach under clause (A) or (B)
     would entitle the non-breaching party not to consummate the Merger under
     paragraphs 6 or 7 hereof.

          (iii) Delay. At any time prior to the Effective Time of the Merger, by
     Company or Wells Fargo, if its board of directors so determines by vote of
     a majority of the members of its entire board, in the event that the Merger
     is not consummated by December 31, 2000, except to the extent that the
     failure of the Merger then to be consummated arises out of or results from
     the knowing action or inaction of the party seeking to terminate pursuant
     to this paragraph 9(a)(iii), which action or inaction is in violation of
     its obligations under this Agreement.

          (iv) No Approval. By Company or Wells Fargo, if its board of directors
     of so determines by vote of a majority of the members of its entire board,
     in the event that the approval of any Governmental Authority required for
     consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have
     been denied by final nonappealable action of such Governmental Authority.

     (b) EFFECT OF TERMINATION AND ABANDONMENT. In the event of termination of
this Agreement and the abandonment of the Merger pursuant to this paragraph 9,
no party to this Agreement shall have any liability or further obligation to the
other party hereto except as set forth below and except that termination will
not relieve a breaching party from liability for any breach of this Agreement
giving rise to such termination and except that paragraphs 4(g), 5(h) and 10
shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

     10. EXPENSES. All expenses in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation legal and
accounting fees, incurred by Company and Company Subsidiaries shall be borne by
Company, and all such expenses incurred by Wells Fargo shall be borne by Wells
Fargo.

     11. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns, but shall not be assignable by either party hereto without the prior
written consent of the other party hereto.

     12. THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
5(n) hereof with respect to indemnification of directors and officers, each
party hereto intends that this Agreement shall not benefit or create any right
or cause of action in or on behalf of any person other than the parties hereto.


                                       36
<PAGE>

     13. NOTICES. Any notice or other communication provided for herein or given
hereunder to a party hereto shall be in writing and shall be (i) delivered in
person, or (ii) shall be mailed by first class registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid, or (iii) shall be sent by facsimile, or (iv) shall be sent by
reputable overnight courier service addressed as follows:

     If to Wells Fargo:

              Wells Fargo & Company
              Sixth and Marquette
              Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479
              Attention:  Corporate Secretary
              Facsimile: (612) 667-6082

     If to Company:

              First Security Corporation
              79 South Main Street, Second Floor
              Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
              Attention: Spencer F. Eccles, Chairman & CEO
              Facsimile: (801) 359-6928

     with a copy to:

              Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
              51 West 52nd Street
              New York, NY 10019
              Attention: Edward D. Herlihy
              Facsimile: (212) 403-2000

or to such other address with respect to a party as such party shall notify the
other in writing as above provided. Notice shall be effective upon receipt.

     14. COMPLETE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, including the Exhibits and
Schedules hereto, and the Merger Agreement contain the complete agreement
between the parties hereto with respect to the Merger and other transactions
contemplated hereby and supersede all prior agreements and understandings
between the parties hereto with respect thereto.

     15. CAPTIONS. The captions contained in this Agreement and the Exhibits and
Schedules hereto are for convenience of reference only and do not form a part of
this Agreement or the Exhibits or Schedules.


                                       37
<PAGE>

     16. WAIVER AND OTHER ACTION. Either party hereto may, by a signed writing,
give any consent, take any action pursuant to paragraph 9 hereof or otherwise,
or waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties by the other
party and compliance by the other party with any of the covenants and conditions
herein.

     17. AMENDMENT. At any time before the Time of Filing, the parties hereto,
by action taken by their respective Boards of Directors or pursuant to authority
delegated by their respective Boards of Directors, may amend this Agreement;
provided, however, that no amendment after approval by the stockholders of
Company shall be made which changes in a manner adverse to such stockholders the
consideration to be provided to said stockholders pursuant to this Agreement and
the Merger Agreement.

     18. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the conflict
of laws provisions thereof.

     19. NON-SURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. No representation or
warranty contained in the Agreement or the Merger Agreement shall survive the
Merger or, except as set forth in paragraph 9(b), the termination of this
Agreement. Paragraph 10 shall survive the Merger.

     20. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which shall
constitute but one instrument.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of
the day and year first above written.


 WELLS FARGO & COMPANY              FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION


By:                                 By:
   ------------------------------      -----------------------------------
   Name:                               Name:
        -------------------------           ------------------------------
   Title:                              Title:
         ------------------------            -----------------------------





                                       38

<PAGE>

                                                                       EXHIBIT A


                          AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER
                                     BETWEEN
                           FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION
                             a Delaware corporation
                           (the surviving corporation)
                                       AND
                                  [MERGER CO.]
                             a Delaware corporation
                            (the merged corporation)

     This Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of __________, 2000, between
FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter sometimes called
"Company" and sometimes called the "surviving corporation") and [MERGER CO.], a
Delaware corporation ("Merger Co.")(said corporations being hereinafter
sometimes referred to as the "constituent corporations"),

     WHEREAS, Merger Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo & Company,
was incorporated by a Certificate of Incorporation filed in the office of the
Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on _______, 20__, and said
corporation is now a corporation subject to and governed by the provisions of
the Delaware General Corporation Law. Merger Co. has authorized capital stock of
________ shares of common stock having a par value of $_____ per share ("Merger
Co. Common Stock"), of which _________ shares were outstanding as of the date
hereof; and

     WHEREAS, Company was incorporated by a Certificate of Incorporation filed
in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on ________,
19__ and said corporation is now a corporation subject to and governed by the
provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Company has authorized
capital stock of ________ shares of Common Stock, par value $_____ per share
("Company Common Stock") of which _______ shares were outstanding and no shares
were held in the treasury as of ___________ , 19__; and

     WHEREAS, Wells Fargo & Company and Company are parties to an Agreement and
Plan of Reorganization dated as of __________ , 2000 (the "Reorganization
Agreement"), setting forth certain representations, warranties and covenants in
connection with the merger provided for herein; and

     WHEREAS, the directors, or a majority of them, of each of the constituent
corporations respectively deem it advisable for the welfare and advantage of
said corporations and for the best interests of the respective stockholders of
said corporations that said corporations merge and that Merger Co. be merged
with and into Company, with Company continuing as the surviving corporation, on
the terms and

<PAGE>

conditions hereinafter set forth in accordance with the provisions of the
Delaware General Corporation Law, which statute permits such merger; and

     WHEREAS, it is the intent of the parties to effect a merger which qualifies
as a reorganization under Sections 368(a)(1)(A) and 368(a)(2)(E) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, subject to the approval of the
stockholders of Merger Co., in consideration of the premises and of the mutual
covenants and agreements contained herein and of the benefits to accrue to the
parties hereto, have agreed and do hereby agree that Merger Co. shall be merged
with and into Company pursuant to the laws of the State of Delaware, and do
hereby agree upon, prescribe and set forth the terms and conditions of the
merger of Merger Co. with and into Company, the mode of carrying said merger
into effect, the manner and basis of exchanging the shares of Company Common
Stock for shares of common stock of Wells Fargo of the par value of $1-2/3 per
share ("Wells Fargo Common Stock"), and such other provisions with respect to
said merger as are deemed necessary or desirable, as follows:

     FIRST: At the time of merger Merger Co. shall be merged with and into
Company, one of the constituent corporations, which shall be the surviving
corporation, and the separate existence of Merger Co. shall cease and the name
of the surviving corporation shall be ________________.

     SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of Company at the time of merger
shall be amended as set forth below and, as so amended, shall be the Articles of
Incorporation of the surviving corporation until further amended according to
law:

                [AMEND TO CHANGE NAME, NUMBER OF DIRECTORS, ETC.]

     THIRD: The By-Laws of Company at the time of merger shall be and remain the
By-Laws of the surviving corporation until amended according to the provisions
of the Articles of Incorporation of the surviving corporation or of said
By-Laws.

     FOURTH: The directors of Merger Co. at the time of merger shall be and
remain the directors of the surviving corporation and shall hold office from the
time of merger until their respective successors are elected and qualify.

     FIFTH: The officers of Merger Co. at the time of merger shall be and remain
the officers of the surviving corporation and shall hold office from the time of
merger until their respective successors are elected or appointed and qualify.

     SIXTH: The manner and basis of converting the shares of Company Common
Stock into cash or shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock shall be as follows:


                                       2
<PAGE>

     1. Each of the shares of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately prior
     to the time of merger shall at the time of merger, by virtue of the merger
     and without any action on the part of the holder or holders thereof, be
     converted into the right to receive ________ shares of Wells Fargo Common
     Stock.

     2. As soon as practicable after the merger becomes effective, each holder
     of a certificate which, prior to the effective time of the merger,
     represented shares of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to
     the time of merger shall be entitled, upon surrender of such certificate
     for cancellation to the surviving corporation or to Norwest Bank Minnesota,
     National Association, as the designated agent of the surviving corporation
     (the "Agent"), to receive a new certificate representing the number of
     whole shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock to which such holder shall be
     entitled on the basis set forth in paragraph 1 above. Until so surrendered
     each certificate which, immediately prior to the time of merger,
     represented shares of Company Common Stock shall not be transferable on the
     books of the surviving corporation but shall be deemed to evidence only the
     right to receive (except for the payment of dividends as provided below)
     the number of whole shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock issuable on the
     basis above set forth; provided, however, until the holder of such
     certificate for Company Common Stock shall have surrendered the same as
     above set forth, no dividend payable to holders of record of Wells Fargo
     Common Stock as of any date subsequent to the effective date of merger
     shall be paid to such holder with respect to the shares of Wells Fargo
     Common Stock, if any, issuable in connection with the merger, but, upon
     surrender and exchange thereof as herein provided, there shall be paid by
     the surviving corporation or the Agent to the record holder of such
     certificate representing Wells Fargo Common Stock issued in exchange
     therefor an amount with respect to such shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock
     equal to all dividends that shall have been paid or become payable to
     holders of record of Wells Fargo Common Stock between the effective date of
     merger and the date of such exchange.

     3. If between the date of the Reorganization Agreement and the time of
     merger, shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock shall be changed into a
     different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any
     reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of
     shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared
     with a record date within such period, then the number of shares of Wells
     Fargo Common Stock, if any, into which a share of Company Common Stock
     shall be converted on the basis above set forth, will be appropriately and
     proportionately adjusted so that the number of such shares of Wells Fargo
     Common Stock into which a share of Company Common Stock shall be converted
     will equal the number of shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock which the
     holders of shares of Company Common Stock


                                       3
<PAGE>

     would have received pursuant to such reclassification, recapitalization,
     split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or stock
     dividend had the record date therefor been immediately following the time
     of merger.

     4. No fractional shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock and no certificates or
     scrip certificates therefor shall be issued to represent any such
     fractional interest, and any holder of a fractional interest shall be paid
     an amount of cash equal to the product obtained by multiplying the
     fractional share interest to which such holder is entitled by the average
     of the closing prices of a share of Wells Fargo Common Stock on the New
     York Stock Exchange as reported by Bloomberg for each of the five (5)
     trading days immediately preceding the meeting of stockholders held to vote
     on the merger.

     5. Each share of Merger Co. Common Stock issued and outstanding at the time
     of merger shall be converted into and exchanged for shares of the surviving
     corporation after the time of merger.


     SEVENTH: The merger provided for by this Agreement shall be effective as
follows:

     1. The effective date of merger shall be the date on which Articles of
     Merger (as described in subparagraph 1(b) of this Article Seventh) shall be
     delivered to and filed by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;
     provided, however, that all of the following actions shall have been taken
     in the following order:

          a. This Agreement shall be approved and adopted on behalf of Merger
          Co. and Company in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation
          Law; and

          b. A certificate of merger (which may have this Agreement attached
          thereto) with respect to the merger, setting forth the information
          required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, shall be executed by
          the President or a Vice President of Merger Co. and by the Secretary
          or an Assistant Secretary of Merger Co., and by the President or a
          Vice President of Company and by the Secretary or an Assistant
          Secretary of Company, and shall be filed in the office of the
          Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in accordance with the
          Delaware General Corporation Law.

     2. The merger shall become effective as of 11:59 p.m. (the "time of
     merger") on the effective date of merger.



                                       4
<PAGE>

     EIGHTH: At the time of merger:

     1. The separate existence of Merger Co. shall cease, and the corporate
     existence and identity of Company shall continue as the surviving
     corporation.

     2. The merger shall have the other effects prescribed by Section 259 of the
     Delaware General Corporation Law.

     NINTH: The following provisions shall apply with respect to the merger
provided for by this Agreement:

     1. The registered office of the surviving corporation in the State of
     Delaware shall be _______________, and the name of the registered agent of
     Company at such address is _________________.

     2. If at any time the surviving corporation shall consider or be advised
     that any further assignment or assurance in law or other action is
     necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm in the surviving
     corporation the title to any property or rights of Merger Co. acquired or
     to be acquired as a result of the merger provided for herein, the proper
     officers and directors of Company and Merger Co. may execute and deliver
     such deeds, assignments and assurances in law and take such other action as
     may be necessary or proper to vest, perfect or confirm title to such
     property or right in the surviving corporation and otherwise carry out the
     purposes of this Agreement.

     3. For the convenience of the parties and to facilitate the filing of this
     Agreement, any number of counterparts hereof may be executed and each such
     counterpart shall be deemed to be an original instrument.

     4. This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties hereto shall be
     governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
     Delaware.

     5. This Agreement cannot be altered or amended except pursuant to an
     instrument in writing signed by both of the parties hereto.

     6. At any time prior to the filing of Articles of Merger with the Secretary
     of State of the State of Delaware, subject to the provisions of the
     Reorganization Agreement this Agreement may be terminated upon approval by
     the Boards of Directors of either of the constituent corporations
     notwithstanding the approval of the stockholders of either constituent
     corporation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have cause this Agreement and Plan
of Merger to be signed in their respective corporate names by the undersigned
officers and their respective corporate seals to be affixed hereto, pursuant to
authority


                                       5
<PAGE>

duly given by their respective Boards of Directors, all as of the day and year
first above written.


                           FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION


                           By:
                              ----------------------------------
                           Its:
                               ---------------------------------







                                       6
<PAGE>

                                            [MERGER CO.]


                                            By:
                                               --------------------------------
                                            Its:
                                                -------------------------------

















                                       7

<PAGE>


                                                                       EXHIBIT B

Wells Fargo & Company
Norwest Center
Sixth and Marquette
Minneapolis, MN  55479

Attention: Corporate Secretary

Gentlemen:

     I have been advised that I might be considered to be an "affiliate," as
that term is defined for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of Rule 145 ("Rule
145") promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission")
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") of FIRST
SECURITY CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("Company").

     Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of April 9,
2000, (the "Reorganization Agreement"), between Company and Wells Fargo &
Company, a Delaware corporation ("Wells Fargo") it is contemplated that a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo will merge with and into Company (the
"Merger") and as a result, I will receive in exchange for each share of Common
Stock, par value $1.25 per share, of Company ("Company Common Stock") owned by
me immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger (as defined in the
Reorganization Agreement), a number of shares of Common Stock, par value $1 2/3
per share, of Wells Fargo ("Wells Fargo Common Stock"), as more specifically set
forth in the Reorganization Agreement.

     I hereby agree as follows:

     I will not offer to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the
shares of Company Common Stock or Wells Fargo Common Stock held by me during the
30 days prior to the Effective Time of the Merger.

     I will not offer to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the
shares of Wells Fargo Common Stock issued to me pursuant to the Merger (the
"Stock") except (a) in compliance with the applicable provisions of Rule 145,
(b) in a transaction that is otherwise exempt from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act, or (c) in an offering registered under the Securities
Act.

     I will not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any Wells Fargo Common
Stock or in any way reduce my risk relative to any shares of any Wells Fargo
Common Stock issued to me pursuant to the Merger until such time as financial
results covering at least 30 days of post-Merger combined operations of Company
and Wells Fargo have been published.

<PAGE>

     I consent to the endorsement of the Stock issued to me pursuant to the
Merger with a restrictive legend which will read substantially as follows:

          "The shares represented by this certificate were issued in a
     transaction to which Rule 145 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933,
     as amended (the "Act"), applies, and may be sold or otherwise transferred
     only in compliance with the limitations of such Rule 145, or upon receipt
     by Wells Fargo & Company of an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory
     to it that some other exemption from registration under the Act is
     available, or pursuant to a registration statement under the Act."

     Wells Fargo's transfer agent shall be given an appropriate stop transfer
order and shall not be required to register any attempted transfer of the shares
of the Stock, unless the transfer has been effected in compliance with the terms
of this letter agreement.

     It is understood and agreed that this letter agreement shall terminate and
be of no further force and effect and the restrictive legend set forth above
shall be removed by delivery of substitute certificates without such legend, and
the related stop transfer restrictions shall be lifted forthwith, if (a) (i) any
such shares of Stock shall have been registered under the Securities Act for
sale, transfer or other disposition by me or on my behalf and are sold,
transferred or otherwise disposed of, or (ii) any such shares of Stock are sold
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (c), (e), (f) and (g) of Rule
144 promulgated under the Securities Act, or (iii) I am not at the time of such
disposition an affiliate of Wells Fargo and have been the beneficial owner of
the Stock for at least one year (or such other period as may be prescribed
thereunder) and Wells Fargo has filed with the Commission all of the reports it
is required to file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
during the preceding twelve months, or (iv) I am not and have not been for at
least three months an affiliate of Wells Fargo and have been the beneficial
owner of the Stock for at least two years (or such other period as may be
prescribed by the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder), or (v) Wells Fargo shall have received an opinion of counsel
acceptable to Wells Fargo to the effect that the stock transfer restrictions and
the legend are not required, and (b) financial results covering at least 30 days
of post-Merger combined operations have been published.

     I have carefully read this letter agreement and the Reorganization
Agreement and have discussed their requirements and other applicable limitations
upon my ability to offer to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of shares of
Company Common Stock, Wells Fargo Common Stock or the Stock, to the extent I
felt necessary, with my counsel or counsel for Company.


                                        Sincerely,

                                        -------------------------


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EX-99.2
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT


     STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT, dated as of April 9, 2000, between Wells Fargo &
Company, a Delaware corporation ("GRANTEE"), and First Security Corporation, a
Delaware corporation ("ISSUER") (this "Agreement" or "Stock Option Agreement").

                                    RECITALS


     A. MERGER AGREEMENT. Grantee and Issuer have entered into an Agreement and
Plan of Reorganization, dated as of April 9, 2000 (the "MERGER AGREEMENT"),
which agreement has been executed by the parties hereto immediately prior to
this Stock Option Agreement; and

     B. OPTION. As a condition to Grantee's entering into the Merger Agreement
and in consideration therefor and in consideration for the option granted to
Issuer by Grantee pursuant to an option agreement dated as of the date hereof,
Issuer has agreed to grant Grantee the Option (as hereinafter defined).

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants
and agreements set forth herein and in the Merger Agreement, the parties hereto
agree as follows:

     1. (a) Issuer hereby grants to Grantee an unconditional, irrevocable option
(the "OPTION") to purchase, subject to the terms hereof, up to an aggregate of
41,551,200 fully paid and nonassessable shares of the common stock, par value
$1.25 per share, of Issuer ("COMMON STOCK") at a price per share equal to the
average of the last reported sale prices per share of Common Stock as reported
on the NASDAQ National Market (as reported in THE WALL STREET JOURNAL or, if not
reported therein, in another authoritative source) on April 7, 2000 and April
10, 2000; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in no event shall the number of shares for
which this Option is exercisable exceed 19.9% of the issued and outstanding
shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock that may be
received upon the exercise of the Option and the Option Price are subject to
adjustment as herein set forth.

     (b) In the event that any additional shares of Common Stock are issued or
otherwise become outstanding after the date of this Agreement (other than
pursuant to this Agreement and other than pursuant to an event described in the
second sentence of Section 5 hereof), the number of shares of Common Stock
subject to the Option shall be increased so that, after such issuance, such
number together with any shares of Common Stock previously issued pursuant
hereto, equals 19.9% of the number of shares of Common Stock then issued and
outstanding without giving effect to any shares subject or issued pursuant to
the Option. Nothing contained in this Section l(b) or elsewhere in this
Agreement shall be deemed to authorize Issuer to issue shares in breach of any
provision of the Merger Agreement.

     2. (a) The Holder (as hereinafter defined) may exercise the Option, in
whole or part, if, but only if, both an Initial Triggering Event (as hereinafter
defined) and a Subsequent Triggering Event (as hereinafter defined) shall have
occurred prior to the occurrence of an Exercise Termination Event (as
hereinafter defined), PROVIDED that the Holder shall have sent the written
notice of such exercise (as provided in subsection (e) of this Section 2) within
six (6)

<PAGE>

months following such Subsequent Triggering Event (or such later period as
provided in Section 10). Each of the following shall be an Exercise Termination
Event: (i) the Effective Time of the Merger; (ii) termination of the Merger
Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof if such termination occurs
prior to the occurrence of an Initial Triggering Event except a termination by
Grantee pursuant to Section 9(a)(ii) of the Merger Agreement (a "LISTED
TERMINATION"); or (iii) the passage of eighteen (18) months (or such longer
period as provided in Section 10) after termination of the Merger Agreement if
such termination follows the occurrence of an Initial Triggering Event or is a
Listed Termination. The term "HOLDER" shall mean the holder or holders of the
Option. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Option
may not be exercised at any time when Grantee shall be in material breach of any
of its covenants or agreements contained in the Merger Agreement such that
Issuer shall be entitled to terminate the Merger Agreement pursuant to Section
9(a)(ii) thereof. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, at no point may the
Option be exercised, as a whole or in part, to the extent that such exercise (or
the acquisition of Option Shares thereunder) would, if it occurred on the date
hereof, be inconsistent with any provision of the Merger Agreement.

     (b) The term "INITIAL TRIGGERING EVENT" shall mean any of the following
events or transactions occurring on or after the date hereof:

          (i) Issuer or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (as defined in Rule
     1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
     Commission (the "SEC")) (the "ISSUER SUBSIDIARIES"), without having
     received Grantee's prior written consent, shall have entered into an
     agreement to engage in an Acquisition Transaction (as hereinafter defined)
     with any person (the term "PERSON" for purposes of this Agreement having
     the meaning assigned thereto in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 ACT"), and the rules
     and regulations thereunder) other than Grantee or any of its Subsidiaries
     (each a "GRANTEE SUBSIDIARY") or the Board of Directors of Issuer (the
     "ISSUER BOARD") shall have recommended that the stockholders of Issuer
     approve or accept any Acquisition Transaction other than as contemplated by
     the Merger Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, (a) "ACQUISITION
     TRANSACTION" shall mean (x) a merger or consolidation, or any similar
     transaction, involving Issuer or any Issuer Subsidiary (other than mergers,
     consolidations or similar transactions involving solely Issuer and/or one
     or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of the Issuer, PROVIDED, any such
     transaction is not entered into in violation of the terms of the Merger
     Agreement), (y) a purchase, lease or other acquisition of all or any
     substantial part of the assets or deposits of Issuer or any Issuer
     Subsidiary, or (z) a purchase or other acquisition (including by way of
     merger, consolidation, share exchange or otherwise) of securities
     representing 10% or more of the voting power of Issuer or any Issuer
     Subsidiary and (b) " SUBSIDIARY" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule
     12b-2 under the 1934 Act;

          (ii) Any person other than the Grantee or any Grantee Subsidiary shall
     have acquired beneficial ownership or the right to acquire beneficial
     ownership of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the
     term "BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP" for purposes of this Agreement having the
     meaning assigned thereto in Section 13(d) of the 1934 Act, and the rules
     and regulations thereunder);

                                       2
<PAGE>

          (iii) The stockholders of Issuer shall have voted and failed to
     approve the Merger Agreement and the Merger at a meeting which has been
     held for that purpose or any adjournment or postponement thereof, or such
     meeting shall not have been held in violation of the Merger Agreement or
     shall have been canceled prior to termination of the Merger Agreement if,
     prior to such meeting (or if such meeting shall not have been held or shall
     have been canceled, prior to such termination), it shall have been publicly
     announced that any person (other than Grantee or any of its Subsidiaries)
     shall have made, or disclosed an intention to make, a proposal to engage in
     an Acquisition Transaction;

          (iv) The Issuer Board shall have withdrawn, modified or qualified (or
     publicly announced its intention to withdraw, modify or qualify) in any
     manner adverse in any respect to Grantee its recommendation that the
     shareholders of Issuer approve the transactions contemplated by the Merger
     Agreement, or Issuer or any Issuer Subsidiary shall have authorized,
     recommended, proposed (or publicly announced its intention to authorize,
     recommend or propose) an agreement to engage in an Acquisition Transaction
     with any person other than Grantee or a Grantee Subsidiary;

          (v) Any person other than Grantee or any Grantee Subsidiary shall have
     filed with the SEC a registration statement or tender offer materials with
     respect to a potential exchange or tender offer that would constitute an
     Acquisition Transaction (or filed a preliminary proxy statement with the
     SEC with respect to a potential vote by its shareholders to approve the
     issuance of shares to be offered in such an exchange offer);

          (vi) Issuer shall have willfully breached any covenant or obligation
     contained in the Merger Agreement in anticipation of an Acquisition
     Transaction, and following such breach Grantee would be entitled to
     terminate the Merger Agreement (whether immediately or after the giving of
     notice or passage of time or both); or

          (vii) Any person other than Grantee or any Grantee Subsidiary, without
     Grantee's prior written consent, shall have filed an application or notice
     with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FEDERAL
     RESERVE BOARD") or other federal or state bank regulatory or antitrust
     authority, which application or notice has been accepted for processing,
     for approval to engage in an Acquisition Transaction.

     (c) The term "SUBSEQUENT TRIGGERING EVENT" shall mean any of the following
events or transactions occurring after the date hereof:

          (i) The acquisition by any person (other than Grantee or any Grantee
     Subsidiary) of beneficial ownership of 25% or more of the then outstanding
     Common Stock; or

          (ii) The occurrence of the Initial Triggering Event described in
     clause (i) of subsection (b) of this Section 2, except that the percentage
     referred to in clause (z) of the second sentence thereof shall be 25%.

     (d) Issuer shall notify Grantee promptly in writing of the occurrence of
any Initial Triggering Event or Subsequent Triggering Event (together, a
"TRIGGERING EVENT"), it being


                                       3
<PAGE>

understood that the giving of such notice by Issuer shall not be a condition to
the right of the Holder to exercise the Option.

     (e) In the event the Holder is entitled to and wishes to exercise the
Option (or any portion thereof), it shall send to Issuer a written notice (the
date of which being herein referred to as the "NOTICE DATE") specifying (i) the
total number of shares it will purchase pursuant to such exercise and (ii) a
place and date not earlier than three business days nor later than 60 business
days from the Notice Date for the closing of such purchase (the "CLOSING DATE");
PROVIDED, that if prior notification to or approval of the Federal Reserve Board
or any other regulatory or antitrust agency is required in connection with such
purchase, the Holder shall promptly file the required notice or application for
approval, shall promptly notify Issuer of such filing and shall expeditiously
process the same and the period of time that otherwise would run pursuant to
this sentence shall run instead from the date on which any required notification
periods have expired or been terminated or such approvals have been obtained and
any requisite waiting period or periods shall have passed. Any exercise of the
Option shall be deemed to occur on the Notice Date relating thereto.

     (f) At the closing referred to in subsection (e) of this Section 2, the
Holder shall (i) pay to Issuer the aggregate purchase price for the shares of
Common Stock purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Option in immediately
available funds by wire transfer to a bank account designated by Issuer and (ii)
present and surrender this Agreement to Issuer at its principal executive
offices, PROVIDED that the failure or refusal of the Issuer to designate such a
bank account or accept surrender of this Agreement shall not preclude the Holder
from exercising the Option.

     (g) At such closing, simultaneously with the delivery of immediately
available funds as provided in subsection (f) of this Section 2, Issuer shall
deliver to the Holder a certificate or certificates representing the number of
shares of Common Stock purchased by the Holder and, if the Option should be
exercised in part only, a new Option evidencing the rights of the Holder thereof
to purchase the balance of the shares purchasable hereunder.

     (h) Certificates for Common Stock delivered at a closing hereunder may be
endorsed with a restrictive legend that shall read substantially as follows:

          "The transfer of the shares represented by this certificate is subject
     to certain provisions of an agreement between the registered holder hereof
     and Issuer and to resale restrictions arising under the Securities Act of
     1933, as amended. A copy of such agreement is on file at the principal
     office of Issuer and will be provided to the holder hereof without charge
     upon receipt by Issuer of a written request therefor."

It is understood and agreed that: (i) the reference to the resale restrictions
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 ACT") in the above legend
shall be removed by delivery of substitute certificate(s) without such reference
if the Holder shall have delivered to Issuer a copy of a letter from the staff
of the SEC, or an opinion of counsel, in form and substance reasonably
satisfactory to Issuer, to the effect that such legend is not required for
purposes of the 1933 Act; (ii) the reference to the provisions of this Agreement
in the above legend shall be removed by delivery of substitute certificate(s)
without such reference if the shares have been sold or trans-


                                       4
<PAGE>

ferred in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and under
circumstances that do not require the retention of such reference in the opinion
of counsel to the Holder, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the
Issuer; and (iii) the legend shall be removed in its entirety if the conditions
in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) are both satisfied. In addition, such
certificates shall bear any other legend as may be required by law.

     (i) Upon the giving by the Holder to Issuer of the written notice of
exercise of the Option provided for under subsection (e) of this Section 2 and
the tender of the applicable purchase price in immediately available funds, the
Holder shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the shares of Common Stock
issuable upon such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of
Issuer shall then be closed or that certificates representing such shares of
Common Stock shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder. Issuer shall
pay all expenses, and any and all United States federal, state and local taxes
and other charges that may be payable in connection with the preparation, issue
and delivery of stock certificates under this Section 2 in the name of the
Holder or its assignee, transferee or designee.

     3. Issuer agrees: (i) that it shall at all times maintain, free from
preemptive rights, sufficient authorized but unissued or treasury shares of
Common Stock so that the Option may be exercised without additional
authorization of Common Stock after giving effect to all other options,
warrants, convertible securities and other rights to purchase Common Stock; (ii)
that it will not, by charter amendment or through reorganization, consolidation,
merger, dissolution or sale of assets, or by any other voluntary act, avoid or
seek to avoid the observance or performance of any of the covenants,
stipulations or conditions to be observed or performed hereunder by Issuer;
(iii) promptly to take all action as may from time to time be required
(including (x) complying with all applicable premerger notification, reporting
and waiting period requirements specified in 15 U.S.C. Section 18a and
regulations promulgated thereunder and (y) in the event, under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"), or the Change in Bank Control Act
of 1978, as amended, or any state or other federal banking law, prior approval
of or notice to the Federal Reserve Board or to any state or other federal
regulatory authority is necessary before the Option may be exercised,
cooperating fully with the Holder in preparing such applications or notices and
providing such information to the Federal Reserve Board or such state or other
federal regulatory authority as they may require) in order to permit the Holder
to exercise the Option and Issuer duly and effectively to issue shares of Common
Stock pursuant hereto; and (iv) promptly to take all action provided herein to
protect the rights of the Holder against dilution.

     4. This Agreement (and the Option granted hereby) are exchangeable, without
expense, at the option of the Holder, upon presentation and surrender of this
Agreement at the principal office of Issuer, for other Agreements providing for
Options of different denominations entitling the holder thereof to purchase, on
the same terms and subject to the same conditions as are set forth herein, in
the aggregate the same number of shares of Common Stock purchasable hereunder.
The terms "AGREEMENT" and "OPTION" as used herein include any Agreements and
related Options for which this Agreement (and the Option granted hereby) may be
exchanged. Upon receipt by Issuer of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of
the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Agreement, and (in the case
of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably satisfactory indemnification, and
upon surrender and cancellation of this Agreement, if mutilated, Issuer will
execute and deliver a new Agreement of like tenor and date. Any such new


                                       5
<PAGE>

Agreement executed and delivered shall constitute an additional contractual
obligation on the part of Issuer, whether or not the Agreement so lost, stolen,
destroyed or mutilated shall at any time be enforceable by anyone.

     5. In addition to the adjustment in the number of shares of Common Stock
that are purchasable upon exercise of the Option pursuant to Section 1 of this
Agreement, the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable upon the exercise of
the Option and the Option Price shall be subject to adjustment from time to time
as provided in this Section 5. In the event of any change in Common Stock by
reason of a stock dividend, stock split, split-up, recapitalization, stock
combination, exchange of shares or similar transaction, the type and number of
shares or securities subject to the Option, and the Option Price therefor, shall
be adjusted appropriately, and proper provision shall be made in the agreements
governing such transaction so that Grantee shall receive, upon exercise of the
Option, the number and class of shares or other securities or property that
Grantee would have received in respect of Common Stock if the Option had been
exercised immediately prior to such event, or the record date therefor, as
applicable. If any additional shares of Common Stock are issued after the date
of this Agreement (other than pursuant to an event described in the second
sentence of this Section 5), the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the
Option shall be adjusted so that, after such issuance, it, together with any
shares of Common Stock previously issued pursuant hereto, equals 19.9% of the
number of shares of Common Stock then issued and outstanding, without giving
effect to any shares subject to or issued pursuant to the Option.

     6. Upon the occurrence of a Subsequent Triggering Event that occurs prior
to an Exercise Termination Event, Issuer shall, at the request of Grantee
delivered within twelve (12) months (or such later period as provided in Section
10) of such Subsequent Triggering Event (whether on its own behalf or on behalf
of any subsequent holder of this Option (or part thereof) or any of the shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant hereto), promptly prepare, file and keep current
a registration statement under the 1933 Act covering any shares issued and
issuable pursuant to this Option and shall use its reasonable best efforts to
cause such registration statement to become effective and remain current in
order to permit the sale or other disposition of any shares of Common Stock
issued upon total or partial exercise of this Option ("OPTION SHARES") in
accordance with any plan of disposition requested by Grantee. Issuer will use
its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement promptly to
become effective and then to remain effective for such period not in excess of
180 days from the day such registration statement first becomes effective or
such shorter time as may be reasonably necessary to effect such sales or other
dispositions. Grantee shall have the right to demand two such registrations. The
Issuer shall bear the costs of such registrations (including, but not limited
to, Issuer's attorneys' fees, printing costs and filing fees, except for
underwriting discounts or commissions, brokers' fees and the fees and
disbursements of Grantee's counsel related thereto). The foregoing
notwithstanding, if, at the time of any request by Grantee for registration of
Option Shares as provided above, Issuer is in registration with respect to an
underwritten public offering by Issuer of shares of Common Stock, and if in the
good faith judgment of the managing underwriter or managing underwriters, or, if
none, the sole underwriter or underwriters, of such offering the offer and sale
of the Option Shares would interfere with the successful marketing of the shares
of Common Stock offered by Issuer, the number of Option Shares otherwise to be
covered in the registration statement contemplated hereby may be reduced;
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that after any such required reduction the number of Option
Shares to be included in such offering for the account of the


                                       6
<PAGE>

Holder shall constitute at least 33% of the total number of shares to be sold by
the Holder and Issuer in the aggregate; and PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that if
such reduction occurs, then Issuer shall file a registration statement for the
balance as promptly as practicable thereafter as to which no reduction pursuant
to this Section 6 shall be permitted or occur and the Holder shall thereafter be
entitled to one additional registration and the twelve (12) month period
referred to in the first sentence of this section shall be increased to
twenty-four (24) months. Each such Holder shall provide all information
reasonably requested by Issuer for inclusion in any registration statement to be
filed hereunder. If requested by any such Holder in connection with such
registration, Issuer shall become a party to any underwriting agreement relating
to the sale of such shares, but only to the extent of obligating itself in
respect of representations, warranties, indemnities and other agreements
customarily included in such underwriting agreements for Issuer. Upon receiving
any request under this Section 6 from any Holder, Issuer agrees to send a copy
thereof to any other person known to Issuer to be entitled to registration
rights under this Section 6, in each case by promptly mailing the same, postage
prepaid, to the address of record of the persons entitled to receive such
copies. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in no event
shall the number of registrations that Issuer is obligated to effect be
increased by reason of the fact that there shall be more than one Holder as a
result of any assignment or division of this Agreement.

     7. (a) At any time after the occurrence of a Repurchase Event (as defined
below) (i) at the request of the Holder, delivered prior to an Exercise
Termination Event (or such later period as provided in Section 10), Issuer (or
any successor thereto) shall repurchase the Option from the Holder at a price
(the "OPTION REPURCHASE PRICE") equal to the amount by which (A) the
market/offer price (as defined below) exceeds (B) the Option Price, multiplied
by the number of shares for which this Option may then be exercised and (ii) at
the request of the owner of Option Shares from time to time (the "OWNER"),
delivered prior to an Exercise Termination Event (or such later period as
provided in Section 10), Issuer (or any successor thereto) shall repurchase such
number of the Option Shares from the Owner as the Owner shall designate at a
price (the "OPTION SHARE REPURCHASE PRICE") equal to the market/offer price
multiplied by the number of Option Shares so designated. The term "MARKET/OFFER
PRICE" shall mean the highest of (i) the price per share of Common Stock at
which a tender or exchange offer therefor has been made, (ii) the price per
share of Common Stock to be paid by any third party pursuant to an agreement
with Issuer, (iii) the highest closing price for shares of Common Stock within
the six-month period immediately preceding the date the Holder gives notice of
the required repurchase of this Option or the Owner gives notice of the required
repurchase of Option Shares, as the case may be, or (iv) in the event of a sale
of all or any substantial part of Issuer's assets or deposits, the sum of the
net price paid in such sale for such assets or deposits and the current market
value of the remaining net assets of Issuer as determined by a nationally
recognized investment banking firm selected by the Holder or the Owner, as the
case may be, and reasonably acceptable to Issuer, divided by the number of
shares of Common Stock of Issuer outstanding at the time of such sale. In
determining the market/offer price, the value of consideration other than cash
shall be determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected
by the Holder or Owner, as the case may be, and reasonably acceptable to Issuer.

     (b) The Holder and the Owner, as the case may be, may exercise its right to
require Issuer to repurchase the Option and any Option Shares pursuant to this
Section 7 by surrendering for such purpose to Issuer, at its principal office, a
copy of this Agreement or


                                       7
<PAGE>

certificates for Option Shares, as applicable, accompanied by a written notice
or notices stating that the Holder or the Owner, as the case may be, elects to
require Issuer to repurchase this Option and/or the Option Shares in accordance
with the provisions of this Section 7. The Holder shall also represent and
warrant that it has sole record and beneficial ownership of such Option Shares
and that such Option Shares are then free and clear of all liens. As promptly as
practicable, and in any event within five (5) business days after the surrender
of the Option and/or certificates representing Option Shares and the receipt of
such notice or notices relating thereto, Issuer shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to the Holder the Option Repurchase Price and/or to the Owner the
Option Share Repurchase Price therefor or the portion thereof that Issuer is not
then prohibited under applicable law and regulation from so delivering.

     (c) To the extent that Issuer is prohibited under applicable law or
regulation, or as a consequence of administrative policy, from repurchasing the
Option and/or the Option Shares in full, Issuer shall immediately so notify the
Holder and/or the Owner and thereafter deliver or cause to be delivered, from
time to time, to the Holder and/or the Owner, as appropriate, the portion of the
Option Repurchase Price and the Option Share Repurchase Price, respectively,
that it is no longer prohibited from delivering, within five (5) business days
after the date on which Issuer is no longer so prohibited; PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
that if Issuer at any time after delivery of a notice of repurchase pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 7 is prohibited under applicable law or
regulation, or as a consequence of administrative policy, from delivering to the
Holder and/or the Owner, as appropriate, the Option Repurchase Price and the
Option Share Repurchase Price, respectively, in full (and Issuer hereby
undertakes to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain all required regulatory
and legal approvals and to file any required notices as promptly as practicable
in order to accomplish such repurchase), the Holder or Owner may revoke its
notice of repurchase of the Option and/or the Option Shares whether in whole or
to the extent of the prohibition, whereupon, in the latter case, Issuer shall
promptly (i) deliver to the Holder and/or the Owner, as appropriate, that
portion of the Option Repurchase Price and/or the Option Share Repurchase Price
that Issuer is not prohibited from delivering; and (ii) deliver, as appropriate,
either (A) to the Holder, a new Agreement evidencing the right of the Holder to
purchase that number of shares of Common Stock obtained by multiplying the
number of shares of Common Stock for which the surrendered Agreement was
exercisable at the time of delivery of the notice of repurchase by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the Option Repurchase Price less the portion thereof
theretofore delivered to the Holder and the denominator of which is the Option
Repurchase Price, and/or (B) to the Owner, a certificate for the Option Shares
it is then so prohibited from repurchasing. If an Exercise Termination Event
shall have occurred prior to the date of the notice by Issuer described in the
first sentence of this subsection (c), or shall be scheduled to occur at any
time before the expiration of a period ending on the thirtieth day after such
date, the Holder shall nonetheless have the right to exercise the Option until
the expiration of such 30-day period.

     (d) For purposes of this Agreement, a "REPURCHASE EVENT" shall be deemed to
have occurred upon the occurrence of any of the following events or transactions
after the date hereof:

          (i) the acquisition by any person (other than Grantee or any Grantee
     Subsidiary) of beneficial ownership of 50% or more of the then outstanding
     Common Stock; or


                                       8
<PAGE>

          (ii) the consummation of any Acquisition Transaction described in
     Section 2(b)(i) hereof, except that the percentage referred to in clause
     (z) shall be 25%.

     8. (a) In the event that prior to an Exercise Termination Event, Issuer
shall enter into an agreement (i) to consolidate with or merge into any person,
other than Grantee or a Grantee Subsidiary, or engage in a plan of exchange with
any person, other than Grantee or a Grantee Subsidiary and Issuer shall not be
the continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation or merger or the
acquirer in such plan of exchange, (ii) to permit any person, other than Grantee
or a Grantee Subsidiary, to merge into Issuer or be acquired by Issuer in a plan
of exchange and Issuer shall be the continuing or surviving or acquiring
corporation, but, in connection with such merger or plan of exchange, the then
outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for stock
or other securities of any other person or cash or any other property or the
then outstanding shares of Common Stock shall after such merger or plan of
exchange represent less than 50% of the outstanding shares and share equivalents
of the merged or acquiring company, or (iii) to sell or otherwise transfer all
or a substantial part of its or any Issuer Subsidiary's assets or deposits to
any person, other than Grantee or a Grantee Subsidiary, then, and in each such
case, the agreement governing such transaction shall make proper provision so
that the Option shall, upon the consummation of any such transaction and upon
the terms and conditions set forth herein, be converted into, or exchanged for,
an option (the "SUBSTITUTE OPTION"), at the election of the Holder, of either
(x) the Acquiring Corporation (as hereinafter defined) or (y) any person that
controls the Acquiring Corporation.

     (b) The following terms have the meanings indicated:

          (i) "ACQUIRING CORPORATION" shall mean (i) the continuing or surviving
     person of a consolidation or merger with Issuer (if other than Issuer),
     (ii) the acquiring person in a plan of exchange in which Issuer is
     acquired, (iii) the Issuer in a merger or plan of exchange in which Issuer
     is the continuing or surviving or acquiring person and (iv) the transferee
     of all or a substantial part of Issuer's assets or deposits (or the assets
     or deposits of any Issuer Subsidiary).

          (ii) "SUBSTITUTE COMMON STOCK" shall mean the common stock issued by
     the issuer of the Substitute Option upon exercise of the Substitute Option.

          (iii) "ASSIGNED VALUE" shall mean the market/offer price, as defined
     in Section 7.

          (iv) "AVERAGE PRICE" shall mean the average closing price of a share
     of the Substitute Common Stock for one (1) year immediately preceding the
     consolidation, merger or sale in question, but in no event higher than the
     closing price of the shares of Substitute Common Stock on the day preceding
     such consolidation, merger or sale; PROVIDED that if Issuer is the issuer
     of the Substitute Option, the Average Price shall be computed with respect
     to a share of common stock issued by the person merging into Issuer or by
     any company which controls or is controlled by such person, as the Holder
     may elect.


                                       9
<PAGE>

     (c) The Substitute Option shall have the same terms as the Option, PROVIDED
that if the terms of the Substitute Option cannot, for legal reasons, be the
same as the Option, such terms shall be as similar as possible and in no event
less advantageous to the Holder. The issuer of the Substitute Option shall also
enter into an agreement with the then Holder or Holders of the Substitute Option
in substantially the same form as this Agreement (after giving effect for such
purpose to the provisions of Section 9), which agreement shall be applicable to
the Substitute Option.

     (d) The Substitute Option shall be exercisable for such number of shares of
Substitute Common Stock as is equal to the Assigned Value multiplied by the
number of shares of Common Stock for which the Option was exercisable
immediately prior to the event described in the first sentence of Section 8(a),
divided by the Average Price. The exercise price of the Substitute Option per
share of Substitute Common Stock shall then be equal to the Option Price
multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares
of Common Stock for which the Option was exercisable immediately prior to the
event described in the first sentence of Section 8(a) and the denominator of
which shall be the number of shares of Substitute Common Stock for which the
Substitute Option is exercisable.

     (e) In no event, pursuant to any of the foregoing paragraphs, shall the
Substitute Option be exercisable for more than 19.9% of the shares of Substitute
Common Stock outstanding prior to exercise of the Substitute Option. In the
event that the Substitute Option would be exercisable for more than 19.9% of the
shares of Substitute Common Stock outstanding prior to exercise but for this
clause (e), the issuer of the Substitute Option (the "SUBSTITUTE OPTION ISSUER")
shall make a cash payment to Holder equal to the excess of (i) the value of the
Substitute Option without giving effect to the limitation in this clause (e)
over (ii) the value of the Substitute Option after giving effect to the
limitation in this clause (e). This difference in value shall be determined by a
nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Holder.

     (f) Issuer shall not enter into any transaction described in subsection (a)
of this Section 8 unless the Acquiring Corporation and any person that controls
the Acquiring Corporation assume in writing all the obligations of Issuer
hereunder.

     9. (a) At the request of the holder of the Substitute Option (the
"SUBSTITUTE OPTION HOLDER"), the issuer of the Substitute Option (the
"SUBSTITUTE OPTION ISSUER") shall repurchase the Substitute Option from the
Substitute Option Holder at a price (the "SUBSTITUTE OPTION REPURCHASE PRICE")
equal to the amount by which (i) the Highest Closing Price (as hereinafter
defined) exceeds (ii) the exercise price of the Substitute Option, multiplied by
the number of shares of Substitute Common Stock for which the Substitute Option
may then be exercised, and at the request of the owner (the "SUBSTITUTE SHARE
OWNER") of shares of Substitute Common Stock (the "SUBSTITUTE SHARES"), the
Substitute Option Issuer shall repurchase the Substitute Shares at a price (the
"SUBSTITUTE SHARE REPURCHASE PRICE") equal to the Highest Closing Price
multiplied by the number of Substitute Shares so designated. The term "HIGHEST
CLOSING PRICE" shall mean the highest closing price for shares of Substitute
Common Stock within the six-month period immediately preceding the date the
Substitute Option Holder gives notice of the required repurchase of the
Substitute Option or the Substitute Share Owner gives notice of the required
repurchase of the Substitute Shares, as applicable.


                                       10
<PAGE>

     (b) The Substitute Option Holder and the Substitute Share Owner, as the
case may be, may exercise its respective rights to require the Substitute Option
Issuer to repurchase the Substitute Option and the Substitute Shares pursuant to
this Section 9 by surrendering for such purpose to the Substitute Option Issuer,
at its principal office, the agreement for such Substitute Option (or, in the
absence of such an agreement, a copy of this Agreement) and/or certificates for
Substitute Shares accompanied by a written notice or notices stating that the
Substitute Option Holder or the Substitute Share Owner, as the case may be,
elects to require the Substitute Option Issuer to repurchase the Substitute
Option and/or the Substitute Shares in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 9. As promptly as practicable and in any event within five (5) business
days after the surrender of the Substitute Option and/or certificates
representing Substitute Shares and the receipt of such notice or notices
relating thereto, the Substitute Option Issuer shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to the Substitute Option Holder the Substitute Option Repurchase Price
and/or to the Substitute Share Owner the Substitute Share Repurchase Price
therefor or the portion thereof which the Substitute Option Issuer is not then
prohibited under applicable law and regulation from so delivering.

     (c) To the extent that the Substitute Option Issuer is prohibited under
applicable law or regulation, or as a consequence of administrative policy, from
repurchasing the Substitute Option and/or the Substitute Shares in part or in
full, the Substitute Option Issuer shall immediately so notify the Substitute
Option Holder and/or the Substitute Share Owner and thereafter deliver or cause
to be delivered, from time to time, to the Substitute Option Holder and/or the
Substitute Share Owner, as appropriate, the portion of the Substitute Option
Repurchase Price and/or the Substitute Share Repurchase Price, respectively,
which it is no longer prohibited from delivering, within five (5) business days
after the date on which the Substitute Option Issuer is no longer so prohibited;
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Substitute Option Issuer is at any time after
delivery of a notice of repurchase pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 9
prohibited under applicable law or regulation, or as a consequence of
administrative policy, from delivering to the Substitute Option Holder and/or
the Substitute Share Owner, as appropriate, the Substitute Option Repurchase
Price and the Substitute Share Repurchase Price, respectively, in full (and the
Substitute Option Issuer shall use its reasonable best efforts to receive all
required regulatory and legal approvals as promptly as practicable in order to
accomplish such repurchase), the Substitute Option Holder and/or Substitute
Share Owner may revoke its notice of repurchase of the Substitute Option or the
Substitute Shares either in whole or to the extent of prohibition, whereupon, in
the latter case, the Substitute Option Issuer shall promptly (i) deliver to the
Substitute Option Holder or Substitute Share Owner, as appropriate, that portion
of the Substitute Option Repurchase Price or the Substitute Share Repurchase
Price that the Substitute Option Issuer is not prohibited from delivering; and
(ii) deliver, as appropriate, either (A) to the Substitute Option Holder, a new
Substitute Option evidencing the right of the Substitute Option Holder to
purchase that number of shares of the Substitute Common Stock obtained by
multiplying the number of shares of the Substitute Common Stock for which the
surrendered Substitute Option was exercisable at the time of delivery of the
notice of repurchase by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Substitute
Option Repurchase Price less the portion thereof theretofore delivered to the
Substitute Option Holder and the denominator of which is the Substitute Option
Repurchase Price, and/or (B) to the Substitute Share Owner, a certificate for
the Substitute Option Shares it is then so prohibited from repurchasing. If an
Exercise Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the date of the notice
by the Substitute Option Issuer described in the first sentence of this
subsection (c), or shall be scheduled to occur at any time before the expiration
of a period ending on


                                       11
<PAGE>

the thirtieth day after such date, the Substitute Option Holder shall
nevertheless have the right to exercise the Substitute Option until the
expiration of such 30-day period.

     10. The periods for exercise of certain rights under Sections 2, 6, 7, 9
and 14 shall be extended: (i) to the extent necessary to obtain all regulatory
approvals for the exercise of such rights (for so long as the Holder, Owner,
Substitute Option Holder or Substitute Share Owner, as the case may be, is using
commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such regulatory approvals), and for
the expiration of all statutory waiting periods; (ii) to the extent necessary to
avoid liability under Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act by reason of such exercise;
and (iii) when there exists an injunction, order or judgment that prohibits or
delays exercise of such right.

     11. (a) Issuer hereby represents and warrants to Grantee as follows:

          (i) Issuer has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute
     and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated
     hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation
     of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly
     authorized by the Issuer Board prior to the date hereof and no other
     corporate proceedings on the part of Issuer are necessary to authorize this
     Agreement or to consummate the transactions so contemplated. This Agreement
     has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Issuer.

          (ii) Issuer has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize and
     reserve and to permit it to issue, and at all times from the date hereof
     through the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms will
     have reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the Option, that number of
     shares of Common Stock equal to the maximum number of shares of Common
     Stock at any time and from time to time issuable hereunder, and all such
     shares, upon issuance pursuant thereto, will be duly authorized, validly
     issued, fully paid, nonassessable, and will be delivered free and clear of
     all claims, liens, encumbrance and security interests and not subject to
     any preemptive rights.

     (b) Grantee hereby represents and warrants to Issuer as follows: Grantee
has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. The execution and delivery
of this Agreement by the Grantee and the performance of its obligations
hereunder by the Grantee have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of
Directors of Grantee and no other corporate proceedings on the part of the
Grantee are necessary to authorize this Agreement or for Grantee to perform its
obligations hereunder. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and
delivered by Grantee.

     (c) This Option is not being, and any Option Shares or other securities
acquired by Grantee upon exercise of the Option will not be, acquired with a
view to the public distribution thereof and will not be transferred or otherwise
disposed or except in a transaction registered or exempt from registration under
the 1933 Act.

     12. Neither of the parties hereto may assign any of its rights or
obligations under this Agreement or the Option created hereunder to any other
person, without the express written consent of the other party, except that in
the event an Initial Triggering Event shall have occurred


                                       12
<PAGE>

prior to an Exercise Termination Event, Grantee, subject to the express
provisions hereof, may assign in whole or in part its rights and obligations
hereunder; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that until the date fifteen (15) days following
the date on which the Federal Reserve Board has approved an application by
Grantee to acquire the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option, Grantee may
not assign its rights under the Option except in (i) a widely dispersed public
distribution, (ii) a private placement in which no one party acquires the right
to purchase in excess of 2% of the voting shares of Issuer, (iii) an assignment
to a single party (E.G., a broker or investment banker) for the purpose of
conducting a widely dispersed public distribution on Grantee's behalf or (iv)
any other manner approved by the Federal Reserve Board.

     13. Each of Grantee and Issuer will use its reasonable best efforts to make
all filings with, and to obtain consents of, all third parties and governmental
authorities necessary to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, including, without limitation, applying to the Federal Reserve
Board under the BHCA for approval to acquire the shares issuable hereunder, but
Grantee shall not be obligated to apply to state banking authorities for
approval to acquire the shares of Common Stock issuable hereunder until such
time, if ever, as it deems appropriate to do so.

     14. (a) Grantee may, at any time following a Repurchase Event and prior to
the occurrence of an Exercise Termination Event (or such later period as
provided in Section 10), relinquish the Option (together with any Option Shares
issued to and then owned by Grantee) to Issuer in exchange for a cash fee equal
to the Surrender Price. The "SURRENDER PRICE" shall be equal to $100 million (i)
plus, if applicable, Grantee's purchase price with respect to any Option Shares
and (ii) minus, if applicable, the excess of (A) the net price, if any, received
by Grantee or a Grantee Subsidiary pursuant to the sale of Option Shares (or any
other securities into which such Option Shares were converted or exchanged) to
any unaffiliated party, over (B) Grantee's purchase price of such Option Shares.

     (b) Grantee may exercise its right to relinquish the Option and any Option
Shares pursuant to this Section 14 by surrendering to Issuer, at its principal
office, a copy of this Agreement together with certificates for Option Shares,
if any, accompanied by a written notice stating (i) that Grantee elects to
relinquish the Option and Option Shares, if any, in accordance with the
provisions of this Section 14 and (ii) the Surrender Price. The Surrender Price
shall be payable in immediately available funds on or before the second business
day following receipt of such notice by Issuer.

     (c) To the extent that Issuer is prohibited under applicable law or
regulation, or as a consequence of administrative policy, from paying the
Surrender Price to Grantee in full, Issuer shall immediately so notify Grantee
and thereafter deliver or cause to be delivered, from time to time, to Grantee,
the portion of the Surrender Price that it is no longer prohibited from paying,
within five (5) business days after the date on which Issuer is no longer so
prohibited; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if Issuer at any time after delivery of a
notice of surrender pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 14 is prohibited
under applicable law or regulation, or as a consequence of administrative
policy, from paying to Grantee the Surrender Price in full, (i) Issuer shall (A)
use its reasonable best efforts to obtain all required regulatory and legal
approvals and to file any required notices as promptly as practicable in order
to make such payments, (B) within five (5) days of the submission or receipt of
any documents relating to any such regula-



                                       13
<PAGE>

tory and legal approvals, provide Grantee with copies of the same and (c) keep
Grantee advised of both the status of any such request for regulatory and legal
approvals, as well as any discussions with any relevant regulatory or other
third party reasonably related to the same and (ii) Grantee may revoke such
notice of surrender by delivery of a notice of revocation to Issuer and, upon
delivery of such notice of revocation, the Exercise Termination Date shall be
extended to a date six (6) months from the date on which the Exercise
Termination Date would have occurred if not for the provisions of this Section
14(c) (during which period Grantee may exercise any of its rights hereunder,
including any and all rights pursuant to this Section 14).

     15. The parties hereto acknowledge that damages would be an inadequate
remedy for a breach of this Agreement by either party hereto and that the
obligations of the parties hereto shall be enforceable by either party hereto
through injunctive or other equitable relief. In connection therewith, both
parties waive the posting of any bond or similar requirement.

     16. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this
Agreement is held by a court or a federal or state regulatory agency of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of
the terms, provisions and covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, impaired
or invalidated. If for any reason such court or regulatory agency determines
that the Holder is not permitted to acquire, or Issuer is not permitted to
repurchase pursuant to Section 7, the full number of shares of Common Stock
provided in Section l(a) hereof (as adjusted pursuant to Section l(b) or Section
5 hereof), it is the express intention of Issuer to allow the Holder to acquire
or to require Issuer to repurchase such lesser number of shares as may be
permissible, without any amendment or modification hereof.

     17. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications
hereunder shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered in person, by
fax, telecopy, or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return
receipt requested) at the respective addresses of the parties set forth in the
Merger Agreement.

     18. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of law
principles thereof (except to the extent that mandatory provisions of federal
law are applicable).

     19. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which shall constitute one
and the same agreement.

     20. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, each of the parties
hereto shall bear and pay all costs and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf
in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder, including fees and
expenses of its own financial consultants, investment bankers, accountants and
counsel.

     21. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the Merger
Agreement, this Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to the transactions contemplated hereunder and supersedes all prior
arrangements or understandings with respect thereof, written or oral. The terms
and conditions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assignees.


                                       14
<PAGE>

Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any
party, other than the parties hereto, and their respective successors except as
assignees, any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason
of this Agreement, except as expressly provided herein.

     22. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall
have the meanings assigned thereto in the Merger Agreement.


















































                                       15
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
