/ i 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
4 


NOT RELEASABLE TO 
FOREIGN NATIONALS 


PROPELLANTS SEMINAR 


13-14 June 1956 


LIQUID PROPELLANTS 


(With Appendixes Containing the Previously Unpublished Proceedings 
on Solid Propellants ) 


(Edited Transcript) 


ECONOMIC DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE 


Working Group on Propellants and Fuel Additives 


NOT RELEASABLE TO 
FOREIGN NATIONALS 


ani” 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


i ee kine wate 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
FOREWORD 


On 13 and 14 June 1956 a "Propellants Seminar" was held under the 
sponsorship of the Working Group on Propellants and Fuel Additives of 
the Economic Defense Intelligence Committee (EDIC). The purpose of the 
seminar was to establish in this highly strategic and rapidly developing 
fuels field a common basis of technical knowledge for, and to promote the 
mutual appreciation of the informational requirements of, technicians, 
intelligence officers, and action-agency representatives concerned with 
intelligence support activities for the US economic defense program. 


The following report consists of a tape~recorded transcript of the 
first day's proceedings, which were devoted to liquid fuels, and a tran- 
script of those portions of the second day' in Appendixes 
*XtAbaknat were not previously published 


25X1A5a1 


The presen- 
tation on solid propellant technology as transcribed in this report 
was made by a member of the staff of the Air Technical Intelligence 
Center. The classification of the seminar was SECRET/NOFORN to afford 
an opportunity to handle all available information, although many in- 
~ dividual items were of a lower classification. All of the speakers at 
the seminar have reviewed the literal transcript of their remarks and 
have approved the present report. 


The reaction to the seminar of participants from the intelligence 
community and action agencies seems to speak strongly for other EDIC 
working groups with similar exploratory assignments to schedule similar 
initial information sessions when novel and complicated technical develop- 
ments are involved. 


As regards the timeliness of the Propellants Seminar, it should be 
noted that the presentations covered, among other things, information 
developed in support of the US delegation as background for negotiations 
which resulted, in the fall of 1956, in the embargo to the Soviet Bloc 


of boron materials by COCOM participating countries, the only major 
embargo action in COCOM since 1954. 


1 March 1957 


- iii - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


CONTENTS. 


Eo cInbroduction i 46 8 i es ce a a Re eee Ee, tw 


A. Definitions . .. 1. 6 «© «© 6+ » © we we we we we we ww 
B. Criteria for Selecting a Rocket Propellant .....-. 


ted 


aub 


Lad be 


II. 


iil. 


Monopropellants .... . 


A. 


Hydrogen Peroxide . 


1. Physical Properties 
2. Performance ... 


» @ 


3. Materials and Handling 
- Passivation of Materials to Be 


with Hydrogen Peroxide 


« Stability .... 
- Production Methods 


e) 
6 
7. Sources of Information . 2 
8. Miscellaneous Application of Hydrogen Peroxide 


Ethylene Oxide ... . 
Propyl Nitrate .... 
Hydrazine . ..e.-. 
Nitromethane .... . 
Methyl Acetylene... 
Amine Nitrate Mixtures 


. 


Sumtiary of Monopropellants 


Bipropellants ... . 


A. 


Oxidizers .... «6. 


1. Liquid Oxygen .. 
2. Nitric Acid ... 
3. Nitrogen Dioxide . 
h, Mixed Acid .... 
5. Ozone . « « «= we 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : 


CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


. 


° 


e 


* 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 
Page 

6. Fluorine, Perchloryl Fluoride, and Chlorine “ 
Trifluoride... .......0..04, Sek 26 

{. Tetranitromethane .., ww ele es eg eel beg ad ok 2g * 
&. Summary of Oxidizers . ae ee a ee a 30 
B = Fuels e . e e * J e o ° « e ° e * * e s e * *. s * s * 32 
i. Aniline 2... . 4, a 32 
é. Ethyl Aleohol ....., en a Sa 33 
3- Petroleum Fractions . a par SRS aveie en Vek Met Peer er 35 
4, Unsymmetrical Dimethyl Hydrazine (UDMH) ....., 38 
5» Ammonia ........, #5 eB ce er ag ee lee ee ay 39 
6. Boron Compounds ...,. i coe Sah Sie ae en eta Ge ey Th 
(?. Liquid Hydrogen .........2., a> deri: ood Sg he 
8. Summary of Fuels ......., wy tele Wise Ghd gh Ae Ah 
TVic BUMMIAT Yo, ae a 8 4 el eds be Se tae iae> ate Se “vgs Sah yy 
As Chemicals 24464 s¢ 6.444004; be Ee eee ok oh Wy 

B. Nonmetallic Materials ........,.., bin Sar Sey 3.16 46 3 

C. Metallic Materials. .....0., a ae ee ee ae ho _ 

D. Miscellaneous ....,...., or fa a Te ah Ae oe) nat Set ag hig 

&. Sources of Information... Pal tal as alg Ql ar 50 iz 
F. Propellant Systems Used in Various Missiles ..... 51 

Appendixes 

Appendix A. Discussion and Questions (Liquid Propellants) , . 53 
Appendix B. Illustrations .. BF OE TAS Ge. 8 Va ar. Be eh a es Mh oe. eg 59 
Appendix C. Bibliography ........0... i Ge tne? Ab) tck Can ve 89 


Appendix D. Some Aspects of Soviet Solid Propellant 
Technology... ....e...000055.4.., : 97 


Appendix E. Discussion and Questions (Solid Propellants) . . 101 


-~ vi - 


S-E-C-R--E-T 


Pe ‘ FR RR siesaneatn iat tein ae ..o, eee 2 
ee Sanitized - Approved For Release » CIA-RDP62-00320A000TODTOOOOE 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Appendix F. 


Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 


Figure 


Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 
Figure 


Figure 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Attendance List . . +» « © « « «© «© © © © © » 


Tllustrations 


Pulsejet 2. 6 « 8 + 2 © © © ew ee eee wee 
Ramjet . 2. 5 6 «© © se ee ee ee ee 
Turbojet 2. 6.» 6 6 © © © © © ew ee ee 
Rocket . » » «© e © © © © eo we ee ee 


Principal Elements of Bipropellant Uncooled 
Rocket Motor e e e . a e ° e e e e 7 e s e 


V-2 Motor . « « » © «© © © © © © © © 8 we 8 
Pressurized Bipropellant Rocket System... 
Pump-Turbine Bipropellant Rocket System .. 
Injector Patterns . «6 + ++ 2+ es ss ee 8 
Cooled Rocket Motor System « . « « « » «© « » 
Criteria for an Ideal Liquid Propellant .. 
Properties of Some Monopropellants ... + - 
Performance of Some Monopropellants ... «+ 
Properties of Some Oxidizers . + + +++» + 


Properties of Some FuelS «+ + + s+ © «© «© es 


- vii - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Paye 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


LIQUID PROPELLANTS 


I. Introduction. 
A. Definitions. 


I will define some of the elements that we are going to talk 
about. I will quote from Sutton* first, and then I will try to simplify 
this. According to Sutton a rocket is a means of jet ‘propulsion, and 
jet propulsion is a means of locomotion whereby a reaction is imparted 
to a device by the momentum of ejected matter. 


There are two types of jet propulsion with which we are pri- 
marily concerned. One is the rocket, and the other is the ducted jet. 
The major difference in principle is that the rocket carries all of 
its energy self-contained in the sense that its oxidizer is a part of 
the unit, whereas in the ducted jets air is utilized for oxidation. 
Now, @ propellant can be a fuel or an oxidizer. They are the materials 
that provide the energy which propels the device. 


The full interest in rockets, of course, develops out of their 
ability to move at high speed which, in turn, requires that the rate 
of expenditure of energy be high. I make these remarks simply by way 
of orientation for background for those of you who may not have thought 
about it. 


I have some slides here which show some of the basic types of 
jet-propelled devices.** Figure 1 is a diagram of a pulsejet. It is 
similar to a rocket, as you will see later, except that the oxidizer, 
in this case air, passes into the chamber from the front end (the 
direction of motion being to the left) through the valve which inter- 
mittently closes. When it is closed, fuel is injected and burned in 
a chamber that is closed at the front end, as with a rocket. The 
valve would then open, the air would sweep out the chamber, and the 
cycle would be repeated. 


Figure 2 is a diagram of a ramjet. Again this is similar, 
except that there is no valve in the front end; it is always open. 


* Sutton, G.P., Rocket Propulsion Elements, John Wiley and Sons, 
Inc., New York, 1949. 

** All illustrations (Figures 1 through 15) are to be found in 
Appendix B, p. 59, below. 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-H-T 


This) device depends on having achieved a certain velocity in flight, so 
that the forward motion (to the left again) tends to compress the air 
which then passes back, mixed with the fuel. Combustion occurs, and the 
missile is propelled. 


Figure 3 shows a turbojet, which is similar to the ramjet except 
that: a turbine driven by the combustion products is connected by a shaft 
to a@ compressor, so that, as combustion occurs, the shaft rotates the 
compressor. This compresses the air, which is pulled in through the 
front end. The major advantage of this device is that, with the com- 
pressor, there is no need to achieve a particular velocity pefore effi- 
cient performance is obtained from this device. This shaft can be 
extended further and a propeller placed on it, making a turboprop engine. 


Finally, in Figure 4 we have the rocket, and, as you can see, 
there is no opening in the front end. The materials that react are 
contained within the rocket, and the combustion products pass out the 
rear. The reaction of the combustion and the passage of the gases out 
through the back drive the rocket forward. 


Figure 5 provides a general idea of the size and shape of a 
combustion chamber. In this case, the fuel enters at the upper left 
and the oxidizer at the lower left. They are mixed at the left side 
of the combustion chamber; combustion occurs. There is a nozzle con- 
striction at the outlet to increase the pressure within the combustion 
chamber. The gases then expand through the nozzle and pass out to the 
right (the direction of motion being to the left). 


Figure 6 shows a V-2 motor, a German development during World 
War Ii, which was one of the first operational rockets of this type. 


Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of a pressurized bipropellant 
rocket system. Gas contained under pressure in the center vessel is 
fed into a fuel tank on the left and an oxidizer tank on the right. 
The pressure of the gas drives the two fluids through the control valves 
into: the rocket motor. 


Figure 8 shows essentially the same thing except that instead 
of using & pressurized gas the propellants are moved by a pump which, 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


£10 PAN LA eR ER BN A A EEE ED: EEL IE UR OE EE RR ne ae ea ie on mee cone: cine eee oie een Rr omer mR aS FRE oR © 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


in turn, is driven by a turbine. The turbine is powered by using a 
portion of the rocket propellants or a special propellant for that 
purpose. 


An important design variable in a rocket motor is the 
injection system whereby the fuel and oxidizer are introduced into 
the combustion chamber and mixed. Nine different types of injection 
and mixing devices are shown schematically in Figure 9. 


Because of the short life of most structural materials in 
contact with the propellants and combustion products at combustion 
chamber temperatures, it is desirable to keep the walls of the 
combustion chamber as cool as possible. A schematic diagram of such 
& cooled-wall chamber is shown in Figure 10. The coolant may be one of 
the propellants, in which case the energy removed by the coolant is 
later recovered as the propellant is burned. This is called "regenerasa- 
tive cooling." 


B. Criteria for Selecting a Rocket Propellant. 


In the previous section a description of the manner in 
which rocket motors operate was given. In general, the method of 
operation can be stated concisely as follows. Liquid propellants, 
either a monopropellant or an oxidizer-fuel combination, are fed 
under pressure through an injector into the combustion chamber. 

In the combustion chamber the propellants combine chemically in the 
case of a fuel-oxidizer combination or decompose in the case of the 
monopropellants. The net effect is to produce hot combustion gas 
under pressure. These pressurized combustion gases then expand 
through the nozzle. Thrust is produced by the force developed in 
accelerating these gases to a high velocity. 


The performance of a rocket vehicle, of course, depends 
on things other than the performance of the rocket motor or rocket 
propellant system itself. The performance also depends on the 
ability of the vehicle designers to design an efficient, light-weight 
structure and upon the amount of payload that the rocket vehicle mst 
carry. 


a3 
8-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


In comparing the performance of various rocket propellant 
systems, it has proved convenient to have some numerical criterion 
of performance. This criterion is called "specific impulse." 
Specific impulse, in simple terms, is the number of pounds of force 
developed per pound of propellant burned per second. The rocket w 
designer is interested in having a high value of specific impulse, 
since this means more efficient utilization of the propellants which 
the rocket carries. The mathematical expression for specific impulse 
is as follows: 

Te 
Iz,= KV yy F 


where I, = specific impulse, 1b force-sec/lb mass (often stated sec) 


K = a numerical constant of appropriate units 


it 


absolute temperature of combustion products in 
chamber before expansion, R 


To 


M = average molecular weight of exhaust products, 1b/mole 


@ variable which is a function of the exhaust products, 
temperature level, and expansion ratio 


F 


It is obvious from inspection of this equation that the important 
variables will be the absolute chamber temperature, T,, and the 
average molecular weight, M, of the exhaust products. F is a function 
of. the composition of the exhaust gases, their temperature level, and 
the expansion ratio for the rocket nozzle. It is a relatively weak 
furction and is approximately the same for all propellant systems 
operating at the same chamber pressure. The chamber temperature, T,, 
appears in the mmerator, and so a high value is desirable. T, depends 
primarily on the heat of combustion of the rocket propellants, so that 
propellants having high values for the heat of combustion are required. 
Since the average molecular weight, M, appears in the denominator, a 
low value for this quantity is needed. . Compounds made up of elements 
having low atomic weights are desirable as rocket propellants, since 
this means that the exhaust products generated will have low average 
molecular weights. 


-he 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


Se ae FRED CPORTE FTE HIP LEME TENN PE WT “EERE EP SRRTEP WANES ES EE REED I NE ERT 


Sanitized - Approved | For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E--C-R-E-T 


Thus desirable liquid rocket propellants, either fuel plus 
oxidizer or monopropellants, will nave the properties of high heats of 
combustion (or decomposition in the case of monopropellants) and be 
composed of elements having low atomic weights. 


Unfortunately, propellants having high specific impulses must 
also have other desirable properties if they are to be used in rocket- 
propelled vehicles. This can best be explained by considering the 
factors which affect the range of a rocket-propelled vehicle. An 
approximate equation for the range of a rocket vehicle is as follows: 


= 72 
Raa = E+ tn 


where Ray = maximum range, ft 
I, = specific impulse lb force-sec/lb mass 
g = acceleration of gravity, ft/sec 
Wo = mass of rocket at launching, lb M 
Wy = mass of rocket after fuel is expended, lb M 


This equation is only approximate and can be greatly in error for 
long ranges on curved surfaces which, of course, are of concern to 

us since the surface of the earth is curved. However, an inspection 
of the variables in the equation will provide a great deal of insight 
into the problems of rocket design. 


For all other things equal, the range of any vehicle will be 
proportional to the square of the specific impulse. For example, a 
missile using a propellant system having a specific impulse of 300 
will have over twice the range of one using a system with a specific 
impulse of 200. This further illustrates the importance of specific 
impulse as a criterion for a propellant system. 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


The mass of propellant which is carried in a rocket is the 
difference between the mass of the rocket at launching and the mass 
of the rocket after fuel is expended -- that is, Wo - Wb. An ‘increase 
in the amount of fuel contained in a rocket vehicle decreases the ratio 
Wp over Wo and increases the maximum range. Consequently, the rocket 
designer is always trying to increase the mass of the rocket propellant 
which can be carried. However, he has certain limitations, since Wh 
must include the mass of the payload, the structures, the tanks, as well 
as the rocket engine and any auxiliary equipment. Any guidance or control 
equipment is also included as a part of Wp. To minimize Wp, much inge- 
nuity must be exercised by the rocket designer. To assist him in this, 
propellants should be compact. Consequently, we find that high density 
is an important consideration. Also, propellants which have low vapor 
pressures, thereby requiring thinner tenk walls, and those which are 
liquid at ambient temperatures, thus requiring no insulation, are the 
most desirable. Unfortunately, most propellants which produce low mole- 
cular weight exhaust products have a low density or are not liquids at 
ambient temperatures. 


Figure 11 summarizes the desirable properties for propellants. 
Most of these desirable properties are ones which are obvious from the 
present discussion or from commonsense considerations. Others such as 

tem 12 are necessary for engineering design purposes or for compatibility 

with missile guidance component operation (item 13). Safety (items 6 
and 10) is another important criterion. Further consideration of these 
points will be given in later sections where specific propellants are 
discussed. 


In summary, then, the desirable properties of liquid rocket 
propellants are: high heat of combustion (or decomposition), low 
molecular weight exhaust products, high liquid density, low vapor pres- 
sure, and a high boiling point. The criteria of high heat of combustion 
and low molecular weight exhaust products are usually not considered in- 
dividually but are considered in combination as expressed in the spe- 
cific impulse relation. 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


BES) Re ee BAS GE RE FE UA se) He seis | eee om SE RRR OE He: Te EER oe eens 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA- RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


cman A ARATE DL T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


IT. Monopropellants. 


A monopropellant is 4 material which may, under appropriate condi- 
tions, undergo a self-sustaining exothermic (energy-releasing) reaction. 
Because of the inherent thermodynamic instability of monopropellants, 
the tendency toward decomposition is always present. The problems con- 
cerning the most efficient use of monopropellants, therefore, involve 
close control of the energy -produc ing decomposition reactions. Such close 
control must be manifested not only during the actual application to ob- 
tain the highest useful energy yield and conversion, but also in the han- 
dling, storage, and other treatments prior to actual use. It may be seen, 
then, that the use of a monopropellant for any particular purpose involves 
a close balancing of many diverse factors. Some of these factors are 
shown in Figure le. 


Of course it must be realized that for any desired application, 
eertain monopropellant characteristics will be relatively more important 
than others. For example, for gas generators (a major monopropellant 
application) the monopropellant should give low reaction temperatures 
(1800°F) and an exhaust stream free of solid particles. It is necessary 
that these criteria be met even at the expense of specific impulse. 

Hence the wide application of monopropellant hydrogen peroxide (chamber 
temperature, 1360°F, and specific impulse, 132 lb-sec/1b) to gas genera- 
tors. On the other hand, for ram-rocket applications the monopropellant 
= should give a high specific impulse in order to provide the necessary 
thrust during acceleration. In addition, the rocket exhaust must possess 
sufficient chemical energy (high heat of combustion) to act as a fuel 
source during the ramjet stage of flight operation, with a minimum volume 
of air for combustion. Thus the interest in methyl-acetylene (specific 
impulse, 190 1b-sec/1b and C + H exhaust products) for ram rockets. From 
these examples, it is obvious that no single monopropellant can meet the 
requirements for all conceivable monopropellant applications. Figures 
12 and 13 show the monopropellants that have received most consideration 
in terms of acutal use, past research and development effort, and future 
interest. 


A. Hydrogen Peroxide. 


2 Hydrogen peroxide has one of the longest histories of the 

liquid propellants. Before World War II, considerable development work 
had been done on hydrogen peroxide in Germany. By 1938 the Germans were 
producing concentrated hydrogen peroxide, which they used in 4 variety 

of weapons during the war, including the first operational piloted rocket 


-7T- 


8-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


airplane ever flown, the Messerschmitt, Me 163. Following the war, 
production of concentrated hydrogen peroxide in Germany was banned as 
one of the provisions of the Allied Control Commission to regulate the 
military potential of defeated Germany. A great deal of work, however, 
has been carried on and expanded in both England and the United States. 


Monopropellant hydrogen peroxide has been used for gas generators 
in large rockets, for submarine and torpedo propulsion, for rocket assist 
takeoff units, and as a source of auxiliary power for helicopters. 


Some of the major reasons for its use as a monopropéllant are 
as follows: (1) simplicity of the mcnopropellant system, (2) ease with 
which it can be catalytically decomposed into oxygen and steam, and 

(3) reliability of operation. 


Ll. Physical Properties. 


Formulas H,05 and H50p + Hp0. Molecular weight 34. 


Hydrogen peroxide solutions ranging from 50 to 100 percent by weight 
are of interest in propulsion applications. Ninety percent peroxide 
and: 76 percent peroxide have received major consideration: 90 percent 
as an oxidizer and rocket propellant and 76 percent for gas generator 
applications. Ninety percent hydrogen peroxide has the advantage of 
a higher specific impulse and a higher density, but the disadvantage * 
of a higher freezing point. Seventy-six percent peroxide has a lower 

freezing point and a lower flame temperature, which are quite important 

for gas turbine applications. Some of the more important properties 

of these solutions are given below: 


90 Percent Ho05 76 Percent HO, 
Freezing point 12°F _ 9308 
Boiling point 284°F 266°F 
Density, liquid 1.4 g/eu om at 63°F 1.3 g/cu cm at 68°F 
Vapor pressure Negligible Negligible " 
rere of - 
decamposition ca. 23 kilo-cal/g mole ca. 23 kilo-cal/g mole 

& Bs 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


J 
irene 2 AAS PBS NL OT TT TT Te eT aT Ra a Te aaa ES: AUER OTS MRS eS NE IE 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


2. Performance. 


a. Monopropellant. 


7 Chamber Specific Density Chamber 
Pressure, Impulse, Impulse, Temperature, 
H505 P.» psia I, lb-sec/1b i. Lg, 
90 percent 300 132 190 1, 360 
75 percent 300 105 138 690 


As a monopropellant, hydrogen peroxide requires a 
decomposition catalyst. In the past, calcium permanganate solutions 
have been used as well as catalyst stones (high-temperature treated 
eement stones incorporating manganese, chromium, and lead). The present 
emphasis in this country is on the development of silver screen catalysts. 


b. Bipropeliant. 


(1) Comparison with Different Fuels. 


7 Chamber Specific Density Chamber 
Pressure, Impulse, impulse, Temperature, 
99.6 Ho0p Pg pela <1, lbp-sec/1b Zs Dag E 
93 percent 
EtOH 500 2hO 320 4,600 
JP-4 500 248 320 4,830 
Hydrazine 500 265 325 4,690 


(2) Comparison with Different Oxidizers. 


Chamber Specific Density Chamber 
Pressure, Impulse, Impulse, Temperatures, 
JP-4 Py» psia I,, lb-sec/1b 1. ne 
Ho0. 500 248 320 4,830 
RFNA 500 2ho0 310 5,150 
a LOX 500 265 260 5,770 
Hydrogen peroxide is a moderate performance oxidizer 
= but is not self-igniting with most fuels. 
eo ae 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


3. Materials and Handling. 


Concentrated hydrogen peroxide reacts vigorously on contact 
with many inorganic compounds such as potassium permanganate and ferrous 
sulfate and with many organic compounds such as hydrazine, carbonyls, 
and phenolics. Its decomposition is catalyzed by many substances, among 
which are oxides of manganese, cobalt, lead, and silver; and by metals, 
such as platinum, silver, lead, mercury, manganese, cobalt, and others. 
However, in suitable containers free of contaminants, hydrogen peroxide 
canibe kept for long periods of time. 


a. Materials Good for Long-Time Contact. 
99.6 percent Al and 2S Aluminum Alloy 
Polyethylene, Teflon, Kel-F 


Fluorolubes, Kel-Flo Polymers, Perfluorolube Dils, 
Hydrocarbon Oils 


eRe A eRe RR hoes Mecano et 


Aluminum 43, 528, 56S, 61S, 638, 1508 


Stainless Steels 303, 304, 309, 310, 316, 317, 318, gf 
321, 322, 347 


Durimet 20 
Koroseal, Polystyrene, Vinylite, Reloform 


Pumps should be of self-priming centrifugal type made of 
cast aluminum-alloy 43. Teflon packing and fluorolube lubricent should 
ce used. Tanks may be made of 99.6 percent aluminum, heliarc-welded 
with pure aluminum. Tanks in missiles can be of collapsible plastic, 
such as vinylite Vu 1930, if the peroxide is to be stored for only a 
few days. Polyethylene shows no change even after long exposure. 
Spring-loaded check valves with Teflon pintle and packless bellows 
valves with Teflon disk which seats on SS 347 are in current usage. he: 
Valves larger than 1 inch should be flanged. 


~ TO - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Neen ee ee ae ee ae 40001001 0000 2-3 ae 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A0 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


4. Passivation of Materials to Be Used with Hydrogen Peroxide. 


Plastics can be prepared by scrubbing with a synthetic soap 
solution. Aluminum should be degreased by scrubbing with detergent, then 
treated with dilute sodium hydroxide (NaOH), then with sulfuric acid 
(H,80), ), and finally rinsed with distilled water. Stainless steel should 
be degreased and passivated with a nitric acid solution. All equipment 
should be flushed (rinsed) with dilute hydrogen peroxide pefore placing 
in concentrated peroxide service. 


5. Stability. 


If above precautions are followed, concentrated peroxide 
solutions are quite stable at ambient temperatures. At temperatures 
greater than 100°F, however, decomposition becomes more rapid. Hydrogen 
peroxide is not sensitive to shock. 


The addition of stabilizers is recommended for controlling 
trace impurities present in hydrogen peroxide solutions. Tin is added 
as sodium stannate or hydrous stannous oxide to absorb heavy metallic 
ions. Phosphates are used to complex heavy metal ions. These sta- 
bilizers are added in the order of parts per million. 

6. Production Methods. 

a. Barium Peroxide Method. 

Six to 3 percent hydrogen peroxide prepared by the 


reaction between barium peroxide and 70 percent sulfuric acid plus a 
few percent of phosphoric or hydrochloric acid. 


BaQy + HyS0, —> BaSO, + Hap 


This process is reported to be used by only one US company (Westvaco) 
and accounts for 10 percent of annual production. 


es he & 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


! Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


§-H-C-R-E-? 


b. Electrolytic Process. 
Cell reaction: 2H250), —> HaSo08 + Ho 
(Peroxysulfuric acid) 
Hydrolysis: HpS00g + 2H20 —> 2H280), + Ho0e (35 percent ) 


Ninety percent hydrogen peroxide is obtained by distil- 
lation and rectification. This Process requires high capital investment 
and high electrical requirements. In addition, chemicals and electro- 
lytes must be of high purity. 


on Nonelectrolytic Process. 


The reported basis for Du Pont’‘s new hydrogen peroxide 
processes is to take an oxidizable "carrier," or organic hydroxyl com- 
pound such as anthraquinone, oxidize it toa pure state, then decompose 
it tlo a ketone, with hydrogen peroxide being evolved. The ketone is then 
hydrogenated back to the hydroxyl state and is ready for recycling. 

Very little information is available in respect to process variables such 
as the nature of the organic starting materials, solvent, catalyst, and 
method of oxidation. The advantages of this process are a lower capital 
cost. of plant and simpler plant operation. Shell is reported to be using 
the Liquid-phase oxidation of isopropyl alcohol with oxygen at pressures 
greater than atmospheric and at a temperature range of 194° to 28hOn, 
Nonelectrolytic processes should bring the cost of peroxide down. 
Technical know-how, however, is very important in these processes. 


., 


{. Sources of Information. 


The following organizations have had extensive experience 
with hydrogen peroxide: the Buffalo Electrochemical Co., the Bureau of 
Aeronautics, the MIT-Hydrogen Peroxide Laboratories, and the E.I. 
du Pont de Nemours & Co. Both Shell Chemical and Columbia-Southern are 
entering the field with nonelectrolytic processes. 


8. Miscellaneous Application of Hydrogen Peroxide. 


i ora a at reba rma canna ag 
i 


| An interesting application of hydrogen peroxide as a mono- 
propellant to provide auxiliary power for helicopters has been recently 
developed. This work was done by Reaction Motors under sponsorship of 


- ]2 - 


5S-E-C-R-E-T 


mmm an itizbd Approved For Rolosso 7 GIA REPOS DOS SERDODTOOTOOUOES 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


the Bureau of Aeronautics of the Department of the Navy. Hydrogen 
peroxide is carried in a tank on the rotor shaft and fed by centri- 
fugal force to a small catalyst chamber mounted on the tip of each 
rotor. There it is decomposed, and the exhaust jet is used to provide 
additional driving power for the rotor. This system was applied to 

a Sikorsky helicopter used by the Marine Corps. The entire weight 

of the filled hydrogen peroxide system is about 350 pounds, including 
about 280 pounds of 90 percent hydrogen peroxide. With this auxiliary 
power, the payload, the rate of ascent, and the hovering ceiling of 
the helicopter are greatly increased, and the permissible area for 
landing, in case of failure of the main powerplant, is increased at 
least fourfold. 


B. Ethylene Oxide. 


Ethylene oxide has a boiling point of 51°F, which is undesir- 
ably low, and a freezing point of minus 171°F. To keep it as a liquid 
within the range of normal temperatures, some pressure is required. 
Its density is 0.9 g/cu em. Ethylene oxide is easy to handle, and 
military regulations suggest that ethylene oxide be handled like 
aviation gasoline. Fumes from the liquid are to be avoided. Ethylene 
oxide forms a wide range of explosive mixtures with air from 3 to 100 
percent ethylene oxide. Ethylene oxide has a specific impulse of 159 
to 168 sec. Catalytic ignition does not appear possible. 


The materials for the production and storage of ethylene oxide 
are usually steel, stainless steel, or glass. Corrosion is not a problem, 
but some materials (acids, bases, chlorides, and oxides) increase the 
rate at which ethylene oxide polymerizes. 


Two commercial methods of production are employed. The earlier 
process involves the reaction between ethylene, which is found in natural 
gas, and hypochlorous acid, which is formed from the reaction of chlorine 
and water. The resulting material is treated with sodium hydroxide to 
produce the ethylene oxide. The second process is a direct catalytic 
conversion of ethylene and oxygen to the oxide. Most new installations 
employ the second process. Production of ethylene oxide in 1953 was 
about 500 million pounds at a price of about 14 cents per pound. 
Producers include Union Carbide and Carbon, Dow Chemical, Jefferson 
Chemical, Wyandotte Chemical, and Mathieson Chemical. 


-13- 


S-H-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


a aN: 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Cc. Propyl Nitrate. 


Both propyl nitrate and its mixture with ethyl nitrate (60 
percent ethyl - 40 percent propyl) have similar properties; so they 
will be discussed together. Their freezing points are below minus 148°R, ~ 
and their boiling points are above 211°F, thus providing a wide useful 
liquid range. Their density is about 1 g/ou em. Nitrates in general 
are impact sensitive, and these nitrates are no exceptions. Some explo- 
sions have occurred with these materials. Unfortunately, propyl nitrate 
and its mixture corrode ordinary steel, but stainless steel and sluminun 
can be used with them. 


Production methods involve just a simple nitration of the 
corresponding alcohol. Propyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, and ethyl 
alcohol are available commercially in large quantities, and the 
nitration step is a well-known operation. The production is almost 
insignificant. The British have done a great deal of work with the 
isopropyl nitrate, whereas in this country the normal propyl nitrate 
has received the greatest attention. The principal producer is Du Pont, 
although the Ethyl Corporation also is interested in these compounds. 


Their specific impulse is slightly higher than that of . 
ethylene oxide, being about 165 to 170. In summary, the two things 
to remember about this system are that production is very low and that 
the materials are sensitive to impact. . 


D. Hydrazine. 


Another monopropellant is hydrazine. It has been given fairly 
wide publicity because of the important and difficult chemistry and 
engineering work performed in developing its manfacturing process. 
Some of its prorerties are given in Figure 12. Its molecular formula 
is NoH,. Its freezing point is important in its use as a propellant. 
It is higher than that of water, and this is the main drawback in its 
use. The boiling point is sufficiently high, and the vapor pressure 
is reasonably low at ambient temperatures. Its density and viscosity 
are about equal to those of water. The heat of formation is in the 
desirable range. The monopropellant performance characteristics of 
hydrazine are given in Figure 13. As a monopropellant, its specific ° 


-~ 1h. 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


impulse is of the order of 169. Because its density is approximately 
that of water, its density impulse is about the same value. 


One of the drawbacks in using hydrazine as a monopropellant is 
that it is difficult to initiate combustion. Once it is started, it 
seems to proceed satisfactorily. Hydrazine is toxic, flammable, and 
rather expensive by our criteria at the present time. 


In handling hydrazine it must be kept away from any oxidizing 
materials such as rust, peroxides, ani copper salts. It can be stored 
and shipped in glass, in stainless steel, or in polyisobutylene-lined 
drums. These drums must be sealed tightly, and normally the drums are 
blanketed with nitrogen after being loaded. Other materials which are 
usable with hydrazine are chrome-nickel, polyvinyl chloride, natural 
rubber, and low-sulfur buna rubber. 


The toxicity of hydrazine is relatively high. It can be 
absorbed through the skin, by ingestion or by inhalation, so that 
protective clothing and ammonia gas masks are recommended. Hydrazine 
is not sensitive to shock, and it is thermally stable below about 320°F . 


The normal production method for hydrazine is the Raschig 
process, in which ammonia is reacted with sodium hypochlorite. This 
gives & low-concentration product which then can be concentrated. The 
urea process, using urea instead of ammonia, is also desirable. The 
cost recently is of the order of $3.00 per pound. Some long-range 
estimates indicate that it might drop to as low as 50 cents a pound. 
It is produced by the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation. 


Because of the high freezing point of hydrazine, a great deal 
of work has been done in an attempt to find additives which might 
lower the freezing point. Ammonium thiocyanate is one of these additives 
and is actually used in the present LAR air-to-air rocket. The addition 
of 32 percent ammonium thiocyanate to hydrazine will lower the freezing 
point to minus 65°F. 


In addition to its use as a monopropellant, which is not very 
extensive, hydrazine is also used in bipropellant systems. It is used 
as a fuel in combination with various oxidizers. With red fuming nitric 


acid, its specific impulse ranges from 285 for pure hydrazine to 265 with 
the addition of 32 percent ammonium thiocyanate. With liquid oxygen, 


26% 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


hydrazine's specific impulse is about 280 and with liquid fluorine 
about 320. 


It is obvious from a consideration of those few performance 
values that the bipropellant systems, in general, are significantly 
higher in their performance than the monopropellant systems. The 
monopropellant systems are used only for very specialized applications, 
where benefit can be derived from using only a single substance. 


BE. Nitromethane. 


Another monopropellant, not of such importance as hydrazine, is 
nitromethane. Its characteristics are illustrated in Figures 12 and 
13. Its freezing point is minus 20°F, a lower and more desirable value 
than that of hydrazine. Its boiling point is sufficiently high at 21h°F, 
and it has a high density, about 14 percent higher than that of water. 
The specific impulse for this rather high-energy monopropellant is 217. 
Again, there are difficulties with ignition -- that is, initiating com- 
pustion. Consequently, many times a bipropellant system with liquid 
oxygen as an oxidizer is used to initiate combustion. Once ignited, 
the nitromethane is used alone as a monopropellant. 


Nitromethane has good availability. It is not corrosive and 
has low toxicity. The major disadvantage in using nitromethane as a 
monopropellant is that good combustion is difficult to achieve and that 
large motors are required to get something approximating complete 
combustion. 


With regard to handling, nitromethane is not classified as a 
dangerous material by the ICC, but it is sensitive to adiabatic com- 
pression and explodes in gunfire tests. It is usually shipped in 
55-gallon drums lined with plastic. Stainless steel and plastic-coated 
steel are satisfactory for use, as well as other plastic materials 
such as Bakelite. It is incompatible with copper, tin, lead, zinc, 
lined steel, and many plastics. 


Production of nitromethane is by vapor-phase nitration of 


propane, with subsequent purification by fractional distillation. 
Production in 1950 was 250,000 pounds per year at a cost of about 


= "16:< 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


25 cents per pound. Producers are Commercial Solvents and Aerojet- 
General. 


As with hydrazine, some research has been performed in an 
effort to find additives to improve the combustion characteristics of 
nitromethane and to desensitize it somewhat. A mixture with 20 percent 
ethylene oxide has shown the most promise. 


F. Methyl Acetylene. 


I would like to mention briefly two monopropellants that are 
in the research stages. As mentioned before, there has been interest 
in the acetylenic compounds. One of the more interesting ones is 
methylacetylene, or propyne, which is being developed peor see for 
ram-rocket applications. 


This compound has a relatively low boiling point (minus 10°F), 
which means that it must be handled under moderate pressures as a lique~ 
fied gas, It also possesses a fairly low density (0.68 g/cu cm), Its per- 
formance is reasonably high, approaching 200 seconds, but the density 
impulse is quite low (118). Its high heat of combustion of the product 
gases makes it desirable for ram-rocket applications. It should be 
emphasized that it is in the early stages of research and development. 

It is currently selling for $6.25 per pound; however, the predicted 

selling price for large-scale production runs between $0.50 and $1.00 

per pound. Methylacetylene has certain storage and supply problems, 

since it is a liquefied gas, and it also has combustion problems because 
there are some solid combustion products occurring in the exhaust. Much 

of the work on the development of this compound for ram-rocket applications 
has been done at New York University (by Dr. Paul Winternitz). Considerable 
work also has been done at Princeton University. 


G. Amine Nitrate Mixtures. 

The other exotic compounds are the amine nitrate mixtures. The 
possibility of combining a fuel and an oxidizer in the same mixture in 
order to gain a specific impulse comparable to that of a bipropellant 
system has been considered at different times. Recently Dr. John Clark 


of the US Naval Air Rocket Test Station at Dover, New Jersey, has been 
working with these compounds. Phillips Petroleum also has been engaged 


a7 & 


S~-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


in development work on them. The amine nitrates have monopropellant 
characteristics, with specific impulse comparable to a bipropellant 
system, but they are quite sensitive to thermal shock. The only motor 
tests that have been run to date have ended with the combustion chamber 
exploding. So there are some problems to be solved. If this sensitivity 
can be controlled, however, there exist potential applications in air-to- 
air and ground-to-air missiles, and perhaps in Jato units. It should be 
emphasized again that these two compounds are in the initial research 
stages. 


H. Summary of Monopropellants. 


| Figure 13 summarizes the monopropellants of current interest. 
The "workhorse" monopropellants are hydrogen peroxide, ethylene oxide, 
and propyl nitrate. Hydrogen peroxide has been used extensively in gas 
generators, an important application in large missiles. With a larger 
missile a turbopump system is used rather than the pressurized system 
because of the weight saving involved, since heavy high-pressure tubes 
are eliminated. Hydrogen peroxide is also of considerable interest as 
a bipropellant oxidizer, especially with JP-4 or the kerosene type of 
fuels, The Navy has been interested in this system because of the good 
burning characteristics with JP-4 and the relative ease of shipboard 
handling as contrasted with nitric acid. 


Ethylene oxide is another monopropellant that has received much 
consideration. It has been used for auxiliary power sources such as 
aircraft starters. Likewise, normal propyl nitrate has been used for 
similar applications and is also finding applications in torpedo pro- 
pulsion. The mixture of 60 percent ethyl nitrate and 40 percent normal 
propyl nitrate is also of interest as a monopropellant. Nitromethane 
has received attention in the past, and there is some current interest 
in mixtures of nitromethane and ethylene oxide. Hydrazine is of interest 
as a monopropellant, chiefly in the form of hydrazine - hydrazine 
nitrate - water mixtures which are of interest in liquid-propellant 
gun applications. There has been considerable work done on mono- 
propellant systems over the past few years. Methyl acetylene and the 
amine nitrate mixture are still in early stages of development as far 
as monopropellant applications are concerned. 


« 18 « 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


cagA ta eae Pe eee eT Ree eee eee TTR TE TT oT SAMAR RE EE ERC RE EE FRET FH FRAT RA SPE ET 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


TTT. Bipropellants. 


A bipropellant combination consists of an oxidizer and a fuel. 
We shall discuss all the oxidizers as a group and then all the fuels 
as a group. 


A. Oxidizers. 


Figure 14 is a summary of the properties of the oxidizers that. 
we shall discuss today. These are the ones that are receiving the most 
attention and are probably the ones that you may encounter. 


The first thing that I would like to point out on Figure 14 
is that all these compounds -- oxygen, red fuming nitric acid, hydrogen 
tetroxide, ozone, fluorine, chlorine trifluoride, perchloryl fluoride, 
and tetranitromethane -- have one common property. They contain either 
oxygen or fluorine, both of which are good oxidizing atoms of low mole- 
cular weight. You will note that the freezing points in this list of 
oxidizers range from minus 362°F to Plus 12°, 319, and 57°F, and the 
boiling points range from minus 297° to plus 302°F. 


Figure 14 shows that there is a big gap in the thermoconductivity 
data. The viscosities of the oxidizers are all fairly low. The densities 
of the oxidizers are the most important data on this chart, and they are 
high relative to fuels. ‘You will note that they are all greater than 
1 g/cu em, with oxygen and fluorine the lower ones at 1.1 g/cu em.* These 
are the things that you should remember about these particular compounds. 


1. Liquid Oxygen. 


Liquid oxygen is the first oxidizer to be discussed, and, as 
you may have noted from Figure 14, its most undesirable property is its 
boiling point, which is about minus 300°F, In other words, you are most 
likely to encounter it as a compressed gas. In fact, if you encounter 
it at any temperature above minus 180°F, it will be a gas. Below these 
temperatures it can be liquefied, but this sets a limitation on the 
storage facilities. Liquid oxygen is usually contained within insulated 
storage facilities vented to the atmosphere. To reduce evaporation losses, 
the heat transfer is minimized as much as possible by insulation of the 


A teenie anaes anit 


walls of the tank. In order to maintain the present supply of liquid oxygen, 


ene ae 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


it is necessary to have auxiliary equipment along with your storage 
facilities to contain the vapor and reliquefy it. The big problem with 
oxygen, therefore, is to contain it. 


Oxygen does have a fairly high density and is not toxic or = 
corrosive. However, in handling it, severe cases of frostbite can 
result. Because of its being s0 cold and because some materials are 
brittle at low temperatures, materials for handling liquid oxygen are 
limited to nickel, Monel, Inconel, copper, aluminum, 18-8 stainless 
steel, or annealed brass. Fortunately, storage methods have been 
deviged so that liquid oxygen can be transported in tank cars, but this 
is a difficult and specialized operation. During the war, liquid oxygen 
was shipped to the South Pacific with reported evaporation losses of 
about 1/2 of 1 percent per day. 


As fear as production is concerned, much specialized refrig- 
eration equipment is required to make the operation economical. This 
refrigeration equipment in turn requires considerable electrical power. 
The raw material is air, and once the air is liquefied, it is frac- 
tionated, oxygen being one of the products. The commercial production 
in 1943 was about 112,000 tons. It is produced at a cost of about 2 to 
hk cents per pound, which makes it one of the least expensive materials a 
that we have been considering. 


Because of its low cost and because it is so readily avail- oa 
able, Liquid oxygen, in spite of its disadvantages in handling, remains 
a very important oxidizer. Historically, the Germans used oxygen in 
their V-2 missiles, and, because of the technology that they hed built 
up, much of the rocket work in this country after World War TI was con- 
cerried with it. The major producers of this material include Linde Air, 
Air Reduction, Liquid Carbonic, Olin Mathieson, and Air Products. 
There are other campanies that make equipment to produce Liquid oxygen. 
Some industrial consumers buy liquid oxygen, but most large consumers 
buy a "packaged" Liquid-oxygen plant which the supplying company maintains. 


The industrial uses of liquid oxygen should also be mentioned. 
It is used in large quantities for the production of steel, some of 
which is high-pressure gaseous Oxygen, put similar facilities are 

needed for its production. A sustained major missile-launching program « 
may put eo strain on steel production or limit its increase. Another use 
of oxygen that is somewhat more restricted but is interesting is 


~ PO =- 


3-E-C-R-E-T 


em ae eeN ER ReNRNONNNSEREET "AD Droved For R nine 
| 1tized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


its use as an explosive. If liquid oxygen is mixed with carbon or 
carbonaceous materials, the combination becomes an explosive which is 
used in such operations as mining and quarrying. This is mentioned to 
indicate that contact with carbonaceous materials should be avoided 
when handling liquid oxygen. 


When speaking of performance, it is necessary to specify the 
fuel as well as the oxidizer. The specific impulse of liquid oxygen 
with JP-4 and hydrazine is 265 and 280 seconds, respectively. 


The things to remember about oxygen are as follows: (a) it 
must be kept in well-insulated storage tanks in order to maintain it 
below its boiling point, (b) it is easily produced, (c) it is a cheap 
material, and (d) a great deal is known about using it and handling it. 


2. Nitric Acid. 


Although liquid oxygen is a very good oxidizer, it is 
impossible to keep it in a tactical missile for 6 months or a year. 
Therefore, we are left with either nitric acid or hydrogen peroxide. 
Of the two, fuming nitric acid has received the most consideration 
for tactical missiles. Although nitric acid corrodes everything, 
burns poorly with JP-4, has only moderate performance with aniline, 
and is highly toxic, it remains the only oxidizer that has been stored 
satisfactorily for long periods of time. Although nobody likes to 
handle nitric acid, it has been quite satisfactory as an oxidizer. 


The fuming nitric acids that have been considered for 
propellants are white fuming nitric acid, red fuming nitric acid, 
and mixed acid. The ordinary concentrated nitric acid familiar to 
high school chemistry students is about 68 percent nitric acid and 
32 percent water. For propellant applications, we do not like to 
give this water a free ride; so we have to have something that has 
quite a bit more nitric acid in it. The first thing that was con- 
sidered was a white fuming acid which contains approximately 97 1/2 
percent nitric acid and 2 1/2 percent water. Red fuming acid contains 
from 83 to 85 percent nitric acid, from 13 to 15 percent NOo (nitrogen 
dioxide), and 2 percent water. Performancewise, there is not too 
much difference between the white acid and the red acid. Corrosion- 
wise, white fuming acid is better than the red. White fuming nitric 
acid, however, develops sizable pressures under storage conditions 


- PL - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


(of about 1,000 pounds per square inch). ‘The only way found to date 
to get around the storage pressure problem is to add something to 

the nitric acid. If 13 to 15 percent NOp and 2 percent water are 
added to the acid, one gets the minimum pressures that are possible 
with this ternary system. These pressures run between 80 and 100 psia 
at 160°F and sufficiently low for storage in ordinary low-pressure 
containers. 


This still leaves the corrosion problem. As mentioned 
before, the white fuming acid was found to be slightly less corrosive 
than the red fuming acid. Since both of them are very corrosive, 
considerable work was done toward developing corrosion inhibitors. 
Hydrofluoric acid was discovered to be a reasonably successful 
corrosion inhibitor. It is added in quantities of 4 to 1 percent. 
Once the corrosion problem is alleviated, it is possible to return 
to the decomposition problem. There one finds that by using the 
hydrofluoric acid additive with the red fuming nitric acid, it is 
possible to produce a usable and storable acid. I might point out 
that, ‘even though this corrosion inhibitor is reasonably good, there 
are still some sludging problems, and work is continuing toward 
developing better corrosion inhibitors. 


Another problem with hydrofluoric acid as an inhibitor is 
that it precludes the use of titanium as the material of construction. 

There is still interest in using titanium to handle nitric acid, although - 
there have been some violent explosions with titanium and red acid. At 

the present time the Jet Propulsion Laboratory is doing fundamental 

studies on the red acid - titanium system, and if they are able to deter- 

mine the mechanism of these explosions and can control them, there will 

be renewed interest in the use of titanium with red acid. Such results 

would necessitate development of an inhibitor other than hydrofluoric acid. 


Another acid that was considered at one time was mixed acid. 
It contains 88 percent nitric acid and 12 percent concentrated sulfuric 
acid. However, the problem of sludge formation (formation of insoluble 
iron and aluminum sulfates) virtually eliminated this acid from further 
consideration. 


Fuming nitric acids are cheap, medium-performance oxidizers 
that can be stored for relatively long periods of time and at the same 


! 
- 22 . 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


| 
i A aa rani SAL AE ER RET AE AEE TTR 


Sanitized - Approved. For Release . CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Ss a 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


time have fairly good physical properties. Red fuming acid has a 
freezing point around minus 70°F and white fuming acid around 43 to 47°F. 
The boiling point is about 140°F for the red fuming acid and 183°F for 
white acid. These freezing points and boiling points meet military 
specifications. The density is 1.6 g/cu em, which is quite high. This 
means a high density impulse with nitric acid mixtures. I would mention 
again the decomposition pressure of less than 100 psia's at 160°F for 
the red acid. The viscosities of both red and white acids are satis- 
factory. 


Performancewise the fuming acids are intermediate. They 
are not super-performance oxidizers but are good medium-performance 
oxidizers. 


Nitric acid - aniline has a specific impulse of about 
240 lb-sec/lb, and with hydrazine it will jump to about 257 lb-sec/1b. 
Nitric acid systems range around 250 lb-sec/lb, indicating strictly 
medium-performance systems. The density impulses, however, run over 
300, which is very good when one considers these systems on a volume 
basis. Red acid gives a specific impulse of about 2h0 lb-sec/1b with 
JP-4, whereas the hydrogen peroxide - JP-4 system yields a value of 
2h8 lp-sec/lb. The JP-l fuels show a specific impulse of approximately 
260 lb-see/1b with liquid oxygen. This increase does not seem very 
large, but when it is considered in the range equation, it shows an 
appreciable increase in range, since range is a function of (Tep)*- 


The nitric acid - JP-+ system would be a very desirable 
system if it could be made to burn properly, since JP-4 is carried 
aboard most aircraft. There has been considerable combustion insta- 
bility with these systems, however, and much work has been done and 
still is going on toward developing suitable additives to improve the 
combustion characteristics of these systems. 


For handling inhibited nitric acids, aluminum alloys and 
347 stainless steel are satisfactory. Teflon and Kel-F are nonmetallic 
materials suitable for contact with fuming nitric acids. The acids are 
not compatible with any organic materials or petroleum products. Fused 
silica, high-chromium and high-silicon irons and stainless steels, ceramic 
materials, and Duriron are used in the production of nitric acid. 


A few miscellaneous properties of nitric acid are of interest, 
Nitric acid is insensitive to shock, which makes it desirable from a 
handling point of view. Although it must be shipped as a corrosive 


~ 23 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


EE a aed 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


liquid, it can be shipped in carboys, drums, tank cars, or trailers. 

It is quite toxic, since the fumes contain large quantities of nitrogen 

dioxide, which is an extremely toxic gas. Tf one is in an area where 

there are large quantities of nitrogen dioxide, an independent oxygen 

supply is essential because ordinary gs masks do not give adequate i 
protection. Nitrogen dioxide does give a warning by its reddish brown 

color, so that, when these fumes are noticed, persons can be cleared from 

the area. It has this advantage over hydrogen peroxide and some of the 

other oxidizers and fuels that are sensitive to thermal shock or mechan- 

ical shock. 


Nitric acid is produced by the catalytic oxidation of ammonia. 
Air and ammonia are reacted at 750°C and at 100 lbs per square inch 
pressure with a platinum catalyst to produce the NO which is then dis- 
solved in water. This process yields 60 to 65 percent acid, the ordinary 
concentrated acid of commerce. This acid is then distilled with sulfuric 
acid to give nitric acid concentrations of 95 to 97 percent. The red 
fuming acid is made by dissolving in concentrated nitric acid. The 
actual process variables for the pr uction of red acid have not been 
published . In 1955 there were more than 2 million tons of anhydrous 
nitric acid equivalent produced, which indicates a very adequate supply. 
Obviously, there are many producers. Most of these production facilities 
could be converted to red fuming acid production in an emergency. Fhe 
General Chemical Company,* Hercules,** and Du Pont are the major pro- 
ducers of red acid for the armed forces. Cost is below 10 cents per “ 
pound in drum lots, with the inhibited acid slightly higher. The in- 
nibited red fuming nitric acid is the acid of the rocket trade at the 
present time. 


Organizations that are interested in nitric acid and have 
further information on this subject are the Wright Air Development Centers; 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and Army Ordance; Office of the Chief of 
Ordnance, Washington, D.C.; Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, Alabama; and the 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory at the California Institute of Technology, 
Pasadena, California. Nitric acid has been of most interest to the Air 
Force and the Army, since it poses problems of shipboard handling to the 
Navy because of the toxic nitrogen dioxide fumes that are given off. 
Companies that have been engaged in development work with nitric acid as 
oxidizers are Aerojet-General Corporation; Reaction Motors, Inc.; and 
Bell: Aircraft Co. 


“¥tieneral Chemical Division of Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation. 
#% Hercules Powler Company, Inc. 


~ oh. 


$-E-C-R-E-T 


p ; —— aaa: 
smenermernrenmeesSanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


3. Nitrogen Dioxide. 


In addition to the fuming acids, there has been some 
consideration of nitrogen dioxide ag a rocket oxidizer. It has a 
fairly good performance, although not quite as high as nitric acid. 
Nitrogen dioxide, however, has a relatively high freezing point (12°F), 
which makes it unsuitable for military applications. Some work has 
been done on decreasing the freezing point by the use of additives. 
The most successful additive so far has been nitric oxide (NO), another 
oxide of nitrogen. A system containing 30 percent nitric oxide and 
70 percent nitrogen dioxide has a freezing point of minus 110°F, This 
system develops storage pressures of about 300 psia at 160°F, Although 
it is not sensitive to shock, it is very toxic, and extreme care mst 
be taken in handling it. It mst be shipped in steel cylinders as a Class 
A poison. No pressure release valves are permitted. It is noncorrosive 
in the dry state. However, if a little moisture is present, it. becomes 
quite corrosive. Nitrogen dioxide is in one of the intermediate steps 
in the nitric acid production process. 


4. Mixed Acid. 


Mixed acid contains 88 percent nitric acid and 12 precent 
sulfuric acid. Its density is about 1.7 g/cu cm, and its freezing point 
is approximately minus 60°F. It has a lower performance than either 
of the fuming nitric acids, and, in addition, there is a problem of 
Sludge formation. If this problem could be solved, perhaps the Navy 
would be interested in mixed acid for shipboard application. 


5. Ozone. 


Ozone is another form of oxygen, having the molecular 
formula 03 rather than O57. Our interest in ozone stems mainiy from 
its soneuESt improved performance characteristics and its considerably 
improved density. Its density is about 1.6 g/cu em compared with about 
1.1 g/cu cm for liquid oxygen. Therefore, less volume is required to 
package it. The improvement in performance, say with JP-4 (jet fuel), 
is measurable. Liquid oxygen with JP-4 would have a specific impulse 
of about 265, while 100 percent ozone with JP- -- if we knew how to 
use a 100 percent ozone -- would be about 280. There is not a lot of 
improvement in performance, but the improvement in density seems to 
make its consideration worthwhile. 


de BG) tc 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


The stability of ozone presents the greatest problem in 
its wee. Extremely clean containers and ideal conditions are still 
not sufficient to prevent its decomposition. The only way that it has 
been used thus far in tests is in combination with liquid oxygen. 


Concentrations of about 20 to 25 percent ozone have proved possible. 


Considerable research activity is going into the problem of 


stabilizing 


ozone so that it can be used as a rocket oxidizer. It is extremely 
dangerous to handle, it is explosive, and it is somewhat toxic. It 
is, however, compatible with certain materials, such as aluminum, glass, 


stainless steel, Teflon, Kel-F, and polyethylene. 


Ozone is produced by an electric diacharge in an oxygen 
atmosphere, and its purity depend on the purity of the oxygen used 
as the raw material. Its impurity is, of course, oxygen. The potential 


production capacity of ozone is unknown because of the many 


uncertainties 


in handling it. Sources of information for ozone would include: Armour 
Research Foundation, Wellsbach Corporation, Linde, Air Reduction, and 
Olin Mathieson. Some research work has been done at Princeton University. 
The Western Development Division and the Wright Air Development Center 


have both sponsored small research projects on ozone, 


6. Fluorine, Perchloryl Fluoride, and Chlorine Trifluoride. 


enchaatnc? Mientniatan eteeonns 


Tt am going to talk briefly about the role of fluorine and 
its compounds as oxidizers. I will consider three compounds here : S 
fluorine itself, chlorine trifluoride, and perchloryl fluoride. Perhaps 
the most outstanding feature of these three compounds is their densities, 
which are 1.11, 1.77, and 1.41 g/cu cm, respectively. The freezing 
point and boiling point characteristics of fluorine itself are about 
the same as for oxygen, so that the same storage and handling problems 
exist. As one forms compounds involving fluorine, these characteris- 
tics tend to become more moderate. Except for fluorine itself, the 
densities tend to be rather high, and this has the usual favorable 


implication as far as the density impulse is concerned. 


Fluorine is one of nature's anomalies, in 4 sense. Some 


of its compounds are very highly reactive -- among the most 


reactive 


that we know of -- while others, such as the hydrocarbon analogs involving 


fluorine, tend to be just the opposite and very unreactive. 
fluorine plays a very large role in the picture of rocketry 


~ D6 « 


§-B-C-R-E-T 


ee oan Tiized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00 


Consequently, e 
-» in one case 


eee 


328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


the reactive materials as oxidizers; in the other case the inert mate- 
rials as lubricants, gaskets, and coatings. Fluorine itself shows the 
highest performance of the chemical oxidizers both with respect to its 
impulse and with respect to its density impulse. It is extremely cor- 
rosive, extremely reactive, and very toxic. 


Another important feature of fluorine is its limited 
availability. The world's resources of fluorine are low, and only a 
portion of those resources can be used for rocket purposes. This further 
limits its use. It is handled similarly to oxygen and requires the same 
type of refrigeration and insulation. It is normally produced as a 98 
percent pure material. Its boiling point is minus 306°F, its freezing 
point minus 360°F. The spread is rather narrow, but there is no need 
to worry about its freezing. 


I have some performance figures here in comparison to liquid 
oxygen. If we take hydrazine and hydrogen as fuels and fluorine as the 
oxidizer, we find that hydrazine has an impulse of 315 seconds and hydrogen 
342 seconds, whereas, if liquid oxygen is used, the impulses are 270 and 
315, respectively. So you see that it runs 10 percent or better above the 
liquid oxygen figures. When comparing the density impulses, fluorine looks 
even better because it has higher density. 


Experimentally, fluorine systems have been fired at the 
5,000-pound thrust level, and very high efficiencies have been obtained, 
up to 95 percent of theoretical performance. Work is now being done 


on the fluorine-anmmonia system at a much larger scale -- the 35,000- 
pound thrust level. 


Since fluorine is so corrosive, there is a major problem of 
materials of construction for handling it. For example, things like 
glass and concrete materials, if placed in a jet of hot fluorine, will 
react violently. These are materials that we normally consider as being 
rather inert. Fluorine reacts with practically all the metals when hot. 
It is extremely toxic, on about the order of phosgene, and, perhaps more 
to the point, the exhaust product that one typically gets when using 
fluorine as an oxidizer, hydrogen fluoride, is also quite toxic. In 
experimental work, special measures have to be taken to try and render 
harmless the exhaust products because of the safety of the workers in 
the vicinity. Aluminum alloys, particularly 61 ST alloy and type 356 


ea ae 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-H-C-R-E-1 


cast aluminum, can be used for handling liquid fluorine. Stainless 
steel, bronze, and brass also have applications where service life 

can be short. These materials will not stand up over protracted 
periods. In some cases, by treating the mechanical system carefully, 
you can achieve a coating of the metal by a relatively inert fluoride 
layer, and, apparently, success in the use of any of these materials 
may depend on that layer, its existence, and its remaining intact. 

Metal surfaces must be free of organic matter, as in the case ol’ oxygen. 
Metalliic tin has been used for labyrinth-type seals. A titanium carbide 
material is an example of a cermet that has application. Silver can be 
used in some cases. Materials such as Teflon and Kel-F have some appli- 
cation. 


Fluorine is made from hydrogen fluoride, electrolytically. 
The cost of the hydrogen fluoride used in the manufacture of fluorine is 
about $0. 20 a pound, so that you can lock for a cost of fluorine on 
the order of $0.50 to $2.00 a pound. 


As far as fluorine is concerned, there are a number of com- 
panies that have been interested and have technical knowledge, including 
Du Porit, General Chemical Co., Hooker Electrochemical Co., Harshaw Chemical 
COs, Union Carbide Nuclear Co., and Pennsalt Manufacturing Co. Work with 
fluorine is presently being sponsored by the Wright Air Development Center, 
at North American Rocketdyne, and by Bell Aircraft. Presumably, further 
information on the current developments could be obtained there, - 


Fluorine can be used in mixture with oxygen, and in these 
vases, of course, with physical properties and performance that are 
somewhere between the performance for the pure materials. Chlorine 
trifluoride is about as reactive as fluorine. It has a much higher 
density, and it is much more manageable in the sense that it has lower 
vapor pressures and a higher boiling point. The same problems of toxicity 
exist, but it is somewhat better in its chemical reactivity and corro- 
sion aspects. Chlorine trifluoride with ammonia gives a specific impulse 
of 246, compared with 310 for fluorine with ammonia. 


One of the reasons why these fluorine compounds give such 


high density impulse performance is that we utilize much higher ratios 
of oxidizer to fuel than is possible, say, in the case of liquid oxygen. 


- 238 - 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


ei eS < A 
aE a ET ANitized - pproved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


And with a material that has a high density, of course, this becomes 
an advantage where the oxidizer is present in larger quantities. 


Chlorine trifluoride can be handled in mild steel at 
ambient temperatures, but not at elevated temperatures. Iron, nickel, 
and Monel have been used. 


Chlorine trifluoride is made by the direct reaction of 
chlorine and fluorine and is subject to the same limitations as fluorine 
as far as the availability of raw materials is concerned. Pennsalt 
Manufacturing can supply this in experimental quantities and probably is 
also the best source of information. 


The third and final of the fluorine compounds, perchloryl 
fluoride, is a fairly new development. It has the molecular formula 
FC103. It has the relatively high performance characteristic of the 
fluorine compounds, and it is much less reactive as far as corrosion 
and handling are concerned. It also has a higher boiling point than 
liquid oxygen. At the moment, the estimated cost of this material is 
on the order of $30.00 a pound, so that you can realize the stage of 
its development. It is handled as the anhydrous material. I do not 
have any information on the means of synthesis, although it does in- 
volve an electrolytic’ process utilizing sodium chlorate and hydrogen flu- 
oride. Performancewise, perchloryl fluoride with unsymmetrical dimethyl- 
hydrazine has 4 calculated impulse of about 270, while unsymmetrical 
dimethylhydrazine with liquid oxygen has a calculated impulse of 277. 
From these figures it becomes apparent that this might be competitive 
with oxygen as far as impulse is concerned. It is still in the re- 
search stage of development, and the work that we know of is being done 
at Naval Air Rocket Test Station. From the production point of view, 
Pennsalt is a participant. 


{. Tetranitromethane. 


The last oxidizer which we will consider is tetrani- 
tromethane. This is a compound that has 1 carbon with 4 nitro 
groups attached to it, and, as might be expected, this would be un- 
stable and fairly explosive. The material has a freezing point of 
about 57°F, which is the highest of any of the oxidizers that we have 
considered, and from this point of view it is the least desirable. 
It has a density of about 1.64 g/cu em, which makes it one of the 


a BO) 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


highest in this desirable property. As far as safety is concerned, 
its tig drawback is that it is sensitive to heat and to thermal and 
mechanical shock. Another disadvantage with tetranitromethane is its 
fairly low production rate in this country, or anywhere, for that 
matter. Production now is practically zero. The price for this 
material has been estimated at $20.00 per pound. Conceivably it can 
be produced from about $0.25 to $1.00 a pound. 


Tt is interesting that during World War II Germany was 
considering tetranitromethane as a material to use in the V-2, but, 
after a laboratory was destroyed by an explosion, the Germans decided 
to use oxygen instead. 

| There are several ways by which tetranitromethane can 
be produced. They all involve nitric acid as a nitrating agent. Raw 
materials in the system can be acetone, acetic anhydride, or ethylene, 
and these materials are all fairly common. Acetic anhydride is prob- 
ably less common, but certainly acetone and ethylene are available in 
large quantities. 


One other interesting thing about this material is that 
it is a byproduct in the production of TNT. In the usual methods of 
producing INT a sulfide wash is employed to destroy the tetranitrometh- 
ane which has been formed. It is formed in small quantities, but 
apparently it makes the INT even more sensitive than it normally is. - 


Hefco Chemicals and Pennsalt produce tetranitramethane and 
are probable sources for more information. A good general bibliogra- 
phy on this particular compound has been compiled by the Hazeltine 
Laboratory. 

| 8. Summary of Oxidizers. 


In summary, refer again to the list of the materials shown i 
in Figure 14. I might point out again that the freezing points range 
quite considerably, as do the boiling points; that these oxidizers = 
contain either oxygen or fluorine (either the elemental material or in 
compounds) ; and, as previously mentioned, that two of these oxidizers 
are pperational. These are liquid oxygen and nitric acid. Liquid oxygen = 
is cheap , available, and easy to handle but has a low density and a prob- 
lem of storage. In fact, liquid oxygen is usually considered for use 


- 30 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


He — ee taeai eee alii 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


in a ballistic missile rather than in a tactical missile or in an anti- 
aircraft missile. Nitric acid is also a cheap, available material, but 
it presents a corrosion problem, especially in long-time storage. 


Hydrogen peroxide has a high melting point problem, but 
it is noncorrosive and fairly nontoxic. If the problem of long-time 
storage could be solved, it would perhaps become accepted as one of the 
operational oxidizers. The Navy is beginning to use hydrogen peroxide 
as an oxidizer. 


The research-stage oxidizers are ozone, fluorine, 
perchlorylfluoride, chlorine trifluoride, and tetranitromethane. 
Characteristically, they have a rather high cost and fairly low 
production. 


The following tabulation summarizes the specific im- 
pulses of the oxidizers with JP-4 and hydrazine: 


I. with JP-4 I, with Hydrazine 
Oxidizer (1b-sec/1b) (lb-sec/lb) 
Chlorine trifluoride 250 
Nitric acid 2h0 260 
Tetranitromethane 260 
Hydrogen peroxide 250 265 
Liquid oxygen 265 280 
Ozone 280 
Fluorine 280 320 


You will notice that the two materials which are 
operational do not give the highest performance. They are still 
fairly high, however, when compared with monopropellants. With 
hydrazine the materials have a specific impulse which ranges 


eee 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S~-E-C-R-E-T 


approximately 10 percent higher than with JP-4, There is a great deal 
of interest in fluorine as an oxidizer and considerable current interest 
in the fluorine-anmmonia system. 


B. Fuels, 


_ Tt has been previously pointed out that with oxidizers use is 
made primarily of compounds containing either oxygen or fluorine because 
both are low-molecular-weight elements which are oxidizing in nature. 
There| is one element which is contained in almost all fuels. This is 
hydrogen. Hydrogen is beneficial in lowering the average molecular 
weight of the exhaust products. As the molecular formula for each fuel 
is discussed, therefore, note that each usually conteins large fractions 
or hydrogen in the molecule. The choice of fuels is much larger than 
the choice of oxidizers. A number of organic materials are applicable. 
Of course, the most common organic materials which are available and 
used as fuels are those derived from petroleum. Jet fuel, kerosene, and 
gasoline are good examples. There are also some inorganic materials 
such as ammonia and hydrazine which contain large amounts of hydrogen 
and thus make good fuels. 


_ Figure 15 lists most of the fuels which seem to be of fair in- 
portance today such as ammonia, aniline, ethyl alcohol, liquid hydrogen, 
hydrazine, JP-4, and UDMH. JP-4+ is a particular specification of jet 
fuel,) and UDMH is unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine. “ 


1. Aniline. 


| 

By all our previous criteria, aniline does not really seem 
to be! a good fuel. It has a freezing point which is only slightly be- 
low that of water. It does not have a high specific impulse, being 
only about 220 with red fuming nitric acid. But there is one charac- 
teristic of this particular system, aniline - red fuming nitric acid, that 
is all-important. The two components are spontaneously combustible. 
In other words, by adding nitric acid to aniline in a motor, sufficient 
energy is produced -- and rapidly -- so that combustion is initiated 
immediately. In addition, nitric acid and aniline compose a storable 
system. These are the main reasons for this particular system being 
used. Nitric acid and a mixture of aniline and other components are 
being used in the Corporal, a missile developed at the California 


| 
| - 32- 


FPS GD SS CAT PE: 


4 — a RET me 
ogee ET Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Institute of Technology. The acid-aniline system was originally 
developed at the California Institute of Technology and was in use 
as early as 1943. 


Some characteristics of aniline are of interest. It is 
relatively inexpensive. Aniline has a high freezing point and is 
somewhat toxic. The skin must be protected, and there are inhalation 
toxicity difficulties at times. Aniline is relatively stable and can 
be shipped in a mild steel or glass container. It has a solvent action 
on most greases and lubricants as well as on some plastics, so that the 
packing problem is sometimes difficult. 


Aniline is produced by reaction of nitrobenzene in an tron 
vessel or by the reaction of chloral benzene with ammonia. Cost is 
about 20 to 22 cents a pound. Some of the manufacturers are Calico Chen- 
ical Division, American Cyanamid Co.; National Aniline Division, Allied 
Chemical and Dye Corporation; Du Pont; and US Rubber Co. There also is 
some interest in the use of the acid-aniline system on the part of the 
people at Redstone. 


In an effort to decrease the freezing point of aniline, 
some materials have been tried as additives. Propyl alcohol, which 
lowers the freezing point to about O°F, helps somewhat. ‘There is no 
appreciable effect on performance, which, of course, is already low. 
The mixture which is used in the Corporal is 46% percent aniline, 
463 percent propyl alcohol, and 7 percent hydrazine. 


Another early development which was tried in an effort 
to eliminate the freezing-point problem was the use of monoethyl aniline. 
Its freezing point is quite low, minus 82°F. The performance of monoethyl 
aniline with nitric acid is about the same as that of aniline. No use 
of monoethyl aniline is currently being made. 


2. Ethyl Alcohol. 


Ethyl alcohol is a compound with which most of us have 
some familiarity. It is common material and is produced in this 
country and throughout the world in large quantities. It has a freez- 
ing point of minus 174°F and a boiling point of 173°F. This makes it 
a@ very convenient compound to use operationally, because it has a wide 
liquid range. Its density is a little low, 0.8 g/cu cm, compared 


= 33 - 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


with some of the oxidizers, which were all greater than 1 g/cu cM. 

Ethyl alcohol does present somewhat of a fire hazard. There is no 
particular corrosion problem. Steel ani glass are adequate for handling 
and producing ethyl alcohol. 


Ethyl]. aleohol is produced primarily by two methods. The 
time-honored fermentation process followed by a simple distillation 
ean produce 95 percent ethyl alcohol. By using a more sophisticated 
distillation, 100 percent alcohol can be produced. The secomi and 
perhaps more modern way of producing ethyl alcohol is from ethylene and 
water via a catalytic process. Literally, a water molecule is attached 
to an ethylene molecule, and ethyl alcohol results. 


The two processes, as far as cost is concerned, are compet- 
itive. For example, in 1950, 80 million proof gallons were made by 
fermentation processes, and 100 million gallons were made from ethylene, 
which is a derivative of petroleum. 


I might mention that in the fermentation process almost any 
carbohydrate can be used ag a raw material. The materials most commonly 
used are grains and molasses. In fact, the price of molasses just about 
dictates the price of fermentation alcohol in this country. Molasses is 
imported from Cuba primarily. The cost of 190-proof alcohol is about 
4O cents per gallon, while 200-proof alcohol (100 percent alcohol) 
ranges between 48 cents and 61 cents per gallon. Major producers include 
most chemical and oil companies incluling specifically Du Pont, Dow, Union 
Carbide and Carbon, Commercial Solvents, Celanese, Olin Mathieson, US 
Industrial Chemicals, and Shell Chemical. 


Special considerations with the use of ethyl alcohol are its 
potability and its control by the internal revenue department. These 
factors have discouraged its use by the armed services in the past. 


Our interest in ethyl alcohol is because it is cheap and 
partially because it was used successfully by the Germans in the V-e. 
We have a lot of experience with it, and we know it works. The Germans 
made it work quite well, but the Germans did not use absolutely pure 
ethyl alcohol. They used a mixture of 75 percent ethyl alcohol - 25 
percent water. They put water in it because of a problem of cooling 
the rocket motor. They found the addition of 25 percent water to their 


- 34 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


% A a a RNAS NT LOCATE TRAN ET FEE RTT PPTL TARE nN OE OE SE A SU EN SRR BE = 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5~-E-C-R-E-T 


fuel resulted in a decrease in the temperature of the rocket motor which 
increased the life of the motors. This addition does not alter the 
freezing point or the boiling point very much but increases the density 
slightly. The specific impulse is not greatly affected. 


The specific impulse with ethyl alcohol and oxygen is 
about 240 -- slightly lower than some of the systems we talked about, 
such as with hydrazine and JP-4, but not intolerably so. 


3. Petroleum Fractions. 


This is a rather large topic to cover here, and I am going 
to do it briefly. The significant thing about petroleum products as 
rocket fuels is their availability. You might say that compared with 
most of the other fuels, petroleum products are wnlimited. We have to 
remember at the same time that rockets will be competing:for these 
materials with practically everything else that moves. Four principal 
fuels are JP-4+, JP-5, JP-X, and kerosene. They are all complex mixtures 
of various types of hydrocarbons and are quite similar in their physical 
and chemical properties, with the exception of JP-X, which has a sub- 
stantial amount of additive in it. These fuels have densities that are 
low compared with the densities that were mentioned in our discussions 
of oxidizers, ranging from 0.75 to 0.80 g/eu em. Viscosities are favorable. 
They have the problem of their inflammability and the explosive vapors that 
are generated in air atmospheres. These may require special techniques 
for handling and ventilation. The JP-4 is a broad hydrocarbon cut; the 
JP-5 is a somewhat narrower cut in a higher temperature boiling range. 


The JP-X is a mixture of JP-4 (60 percent) and UDMH 
(40 percent). Specific impulses do not vary widely among the various 
hydrocarbon fuels. For the JP-4, we have a specific impulse of 2h0 
with red fuming nitric acid, 265 with liquid oxygen, and 280 with 
fluorine. The density impulse is 260 with liquid oxygen, 310 with 
red fuming nitric acid, and 340 with fluorine, with the principal 
advantage coming from fluorine. 


There is a problem with JP-4, and it was this problem that 


led to JP-X, ina sense. It is difficult to ignite, and it shows a 
high degree of combustion instability with nitric acid. Both of these 


- 35 - 
S~E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E~C-Re-E-T 


topics have been the subject of extensive investigations by Reaction 
Motors, Aerojet-Genera]., and others. The addition of 40 percent un- 
symmetrical dimethylhydrazine to JP-4 was made with the hope that 
eombustion stability would be improved, that ignition delay would be 
reduced, and that, in general, it would perform more satisfactorily, 
and this is the case. There is still a tendency to consider JP-X as 
a petroleum fuel, but the 40 percent of UDMH puts it pretty well 
over into the field of a synthetic chemical fuel. Problems of cost, 
availability, and so on connected with UDMH might be fairly serious. 
JP-5, because of its higher flash point and higher boiling point range, 
is rartieularly suitable for shipboard use, and that is where it is 
primarily used. The Army is using a mixture of JP- and UDMH which 
is different from the JP-X mixture -- 83 percent JP- and 17 percent 
UDMH in the Nike missile. 


As far as handling is concerned, these petroleum materials 
are quite stable. They do tend to form gums on standing, especially 
if exposed to elevated temperatures or an oxidizing atmosphere. They 
can be made either directly as a straight-run virgin product, or they 
can be made by the usual refinery techniques of cracking. The cracked 
materials are less stable. 


There are no particular problems with storage or shipping. 
The Interstate Commerce Commission has adequate regulations covering 
these materials. Construction materials that are compatible incluwie 
mast of the common ones -- steel, black iron, tin, magnesium, and 
aluminum. One must be a bit careful. about the sulfur content of some 
of! these fuels. It can cause corrosion problems under some conditions. 
The specifications, if I recall correctly, however, are pretty low in 
sulfur. The principal problem in storing and handling these materials 
is the explosive nature of the vapors. They are also to some extent 
Eerie, but this is not as serious as the explosion hazard. 


I think all I need to say about the production of these 
iategians is that most any refinery can produce them in direct 
proportion to the amount of crude which they have to process. These 
materials can be made at the sacrifice of other products that are turned 
out by a refinery. Perhaps the ideal. situation would be to have one 
petroleum hydrocarbon fuel that could be used for every conceivable 
purpose. But we are not quite to that point yet; so we still have to 


-~ 36 - 


S-E-C-R-l-T 


Po 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


consider such things as aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, lubricants, 
and diesel fuels in competition with the rocket fuel. As far as in- 
formation is concerned, there has been much published on these materiais. 
Physical data can be obtained from any refinery and from many reports 
that are in the hands of the military. 


Performance of these fuels has been measured by North 
American, the Wright Air Development Center, and the Navy. JP-X has 
been worked on by Aerojet and WADC. 


There is one additional topic which may be a little bit novel. 
That is the production of slurries, wherein the fluid is JP-4, for example, 
and the solid materials suspended may be metallic. Work has been done by 
Reaction Motors, Aerojet, and M.W. Kellogg. Slurries of metal powders 
suspended in hydrocarbon fuels have been considered and have been tested 
with the objective of increasing range or thrust and getting superior 
combination characteristics. Some of the metals that have been used are 
aluminum, boron, and magnesium. Aluminum was eliminated finally because 
of its tendency to form 4 molten exhaust product, aluminum oxide, which 
would coat the parts of the motor. Boron gave indication of providing 
increased range. I want to distinguish here between boron slurry in a 
hydrocarbon and boron fuels, which will be discussed later. Magnesium did 
not increase range particularly, but it did increase the thrust. 


The major problem with metallic slurries is the difficulty of 
stabilizing the suspension. The metal particles tend to separate out in 
long storage. There must be some means provided for resuspending them 
from time to time, especially just prior to use. Surface-active agents 
have been added in an attempt to improve the suspensions. Other problems 
that are always attendant in handling slurries through pumps and valves 
exist here also, such as errosiveness, tendency to clog, and so on. 


The magnesium slurries that were tested had a higher reactivity, 
higher thrust potential, and higher impulse characteristics per unit volume 
of the slurry. This would make them valuable, for example, in after-burners, 
where maximum thrust is required for take-off. The 50-50 magnesium - JP-4 
slurry is the result of a compromise between handling and preparation 
characteristics and combustion characteristics. Not only have hydro- 
carbon fuels been used in investigating slurries, but other fuels as 
well, such as aluminum and JP-4, aluminum and ethylene oxide, berylliun 
and nitromethane, boron and nitromethane, boron and JP-4, boron hydrides 
and JP-4, and magnesium and JP-4. 


- 37 - 


5-E-C~R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


4. Unsymmetrical Dimethyl Hydrazine (UDMH). 


Hydrazine has been previously discussed as a monopropellant 
and as a Puel used with an oxidizer in bipropellant systems. In bi- 
propellant systems, however, it is beginning to be superseded by UDMH, 
a fairly recent development. 


Figure 15 shows a comparison of some properties of UDMH and 
hydrazine. The main difference is in the freezing point, minus 72°F for 
UDMH and 35°F for hydrazine, an obvious advantage for UDMH. Figure 15 
shows ‘that the density of hydrazine is higher than that of UDMH. So there 
might be certain cases where hydrazine would be used in preference to UDMH. 
For mast operational uses, however, UDMH would be superior because of its 
lower freezing point. The viscosity is higher, but this is still well 
within the usable range. 

Performancewise, UDMH is about 1 to 2 percent lower with 
most cxidizers than is hydrazine. Its density is reasonably high, and 
its storage properties are good. It is used as an additive with JP-4, 
and it has excellent combustion properties. UDMH is hypergolic with 
nitric acid and might replace aniline, which is used with nitric acid 
primarily because of its hypergolicity. UDMH with white fuming nitric 
acid has a specific impulse slightly over 240 compared with about 220 
for aniline. 


UDMH is flammable and fairly toxic. It is insensitive to 
shoek but should be stored below about 120°F. Most common materials, 
iron and steel, nickel and aluminum, are satisfactory for use with UDMH. 
Among the plastics, Teflon, polyethylene, asbestos, glass, and wood are 
used. Rubber and neoprene are not recommended. 


The production method is unknown to us, but at the present 
time it is available in the range of price of about $4.00 to $6.00 
per pound from Olin Mathieson, Aerojet-General, and Metalectro. 

Both North American and Aerojet-General have done important rocket 
development work using UDMH. 


A rather recent development is the use of a mixture of 


UDMH with diethylene triamine (DETA). The mixture of 60 weight per- 
cent UDMH - 40 weight percent DETA has been proposed as an alternative 


eae 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


t " 
SSF {1 SRE 2 RR Fe EE EI ED ma SAA + BURL, ae ee ee: eA ER NUM SR aE ee a RR + Pct a eal ce 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


to ethyl alcohol - water mixtures. This particular mixture has about 
the same density as ethyl alcohol ~ water mixtures and yet gives about 
about 20 percent higher performance than does ethyl alcohol with liquid 
oxygen. Its specific impulse with liquid oxygen is about 275, while 
that of ethyl alcohol is of the order of 2ho. 


There are other advantages besides performance. The 
mixture is somewhat less toxic than UDMH. Also, DETA is much cheaper 
than UDMH, so that the mixture, of course, would be cheaper as well. 
Information sources on this mixture are Westvaco and North American. 


5. Ammonia. 


Ammonia. is & very important industrial chemical and is 
available in large quantities. It has one great disadvantage as far 
as rocket fuels are concerned in that its boiling point is minus 28°F. 
In other words, it has to be handled in much the same way as Liquid 
oxygen or liquid fluorine. It has a fairly low density, 0.7 g/eu cm, 
but it has some advantages, one of which is that it is stable. The 
toxicity problem of ammonia is not too great. It is toxic, but it is 
detectable at concentrations considerably below the limit at which it 
becomes toxic. The human nose is a reliable detector in this case. 


One of the characteristics of ammonia is its solubility 
behavior. It is extremely soluble in water. Among the more common 
gases it is the most soluble, about 30 percent, at normal pressure and 
temperature. It is also a good solvent. It will dissolve materials 
like sodium, potassium, calcium, and lithium. I mention these metals 
because these materials themselves (sodium, potassium, lithium) are 
potential high-energy fuels. But they are metals, and when dissolved 
in ammonia a liquid system is obtained. In fact, there has been a lot 
of work done in the past with these particular metals. 


Corrosion is not much of @ problem with ammonia. The 
materials which should be avoided are copper and tin, because ammonia 
will dissolve them. Normal steel and glass are perfectly acceptable 
to use with ammonia. 


Ammonis. is made commercially by the classic Haber process. 
This is a high-pressure catalytic reaction between nitrogen and hydrogen. 


- 39 - 
S-E-C~R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S~teC-R-E-T 


This process was developed in Germany prior to World War I and supplied 
Germany with a source of nitrates for World War I. In fact, many people 
say that without the Haber process World War I would not have been fought. 
In effect, this process has made every country in the world independent 
of Chilean nitrate, an important economic, as well as military, fact. 

The problem is not so much one of a method to produce it as one of 
getting raw materials. Hydrogen is available in large quantities. It 
can be produced from carbon monoxide and water by a catalytic process. 
That is probably the way most of the hydrogen is made for ammonia sys- 
thesis. Nitrogen is produced from the air. Both raw materials are fairly 
cheap and are readily available. The production in this country amounted 
to approximately 4 million tons last year, which makes it one of our larg- 
est chemicals. 

A number of companies have recently built anmonia plants to 
fulfill the demand for liquid ammonia as a fertilizer. Almost every 
chemical and oil company produces liquid ammonia. O11 companies became 
interested because they have a great deal of hydrogen left after their 
refining operations. 

Ammonia plays an especially important role in the rocket fuel 
program because the commercial process for nitric acid uses ammonia as 
& principal raw material. Almost all nitric acid is made by the catalytic 
oxidation of ammonia. Therefore, nitric acid production is tied to ammonia 
prodyction. 
As previously mentioned, an important disadvantage of hydrazine 
is its high freezing point. Since ammonia is similar to hydrazine and, 
in addition, has a lower freezing point, the two should make a good com 
bination. An attempt was made to produce a composite fuel of these two, 
but the result was not too satisfactory. The melting point can be lowered 
to about minus 30°F with such mixtures. However, the boiling point is 
Lowered to a point between zero and 70°F. The addition of ammonia to 
hydrazine does not particularly extend the liquid range but does lower it. 
The specific impulse for this system is of the order of 260 to 270 sec 
depending on the oxidizer used. 


~ hO « 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


I. BUSA A AL Ih HN NOD NN SO PLT aT A TE Tm A MIN UNREST € I OUTING BENE BOM: 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


6. Boron Compounds. 


The next class of compounds to be discussed is the boron 
compounds, three groups of which have been considered for rocket fuels. 
These are the boranes, their organic derivatives, and their metal 
derivatives. The boranes are compounds that are analogous to hydro- 
carbons, such as diborane, B,H-; tetraborane, B,H,,; pentaborane, B.H,; 
and hexaborane, Bglho. Their organic derivatives are compounds suck Bs 
methyl borohydride, CH3B5H., while their metal derivatives contain com- 
pounds such as aluminum borohydride, A1 (BH), )3, or lithium borohydride, 
LiBH), Conceivably as many as 100 boron compounds could be considered 
in these categories. Their melting points range all the way from minus 
165°F for B to 275°F for lithium borohydride. The boiling points range 
from minus 92°F to 213°F. A wide temperature range in which to select a 
compound is available. Densities are in the order of about 0.6 g/cu cm 
for this class. 


Most of the interest centers about one or two of these 
compounds. Diborane, which perhaps has received the most interest, is 
@ gas at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. Tt is important 
because it is the intermediate compound from which all the boron compounds 
are made. 


The source of boron compounds is borates, most of which are 
located in California. The ores contain primarily sodium borates and 
calcium borates, in the form of borax, kernite, colemanite, or ulexite. 
There are other sources of raw materials widely distributed throughout 
the world. The US is fortunate in that the California deposits are 
more concentrated than those of other countries. Europe has quantities 
of boron compounds. 


In producing the desired boron compounds from the boron ores, 
certain materials are important intermediates, and these are, as they 
are encountered, boric acid, boron trifluoride, and diborane. The boron 
ores are treated with sulfuric acid to produce boric acid. The boric 
acid can be processed one of two ways to produce boron trifluoride, BF., 
which is reacted with lithium hydride to produce diborane, Bolg » The ~ 
diborane is then converted into the desired compound through various 
processes which differ with the end product desired. 


-4l- 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5~-H-C-R-E-T 


In the process route sketched above, the production of boric 
acid is quite simple, but a great deal of industrial know-how goes into 
the production of BF... The problems encountered in its production are 
formidable, and any fountey would have difficulty in solving them. 

One of the two processes uses fluorosulfonic acid, which is not a readily 
available material. The other process uses calcium chloride to produce 
the boron trichloride. The Lithium hydride required to produce diborane 
fron BF. is an expensive material which takes a lot of power to produce. 
Most of our producers of lithium hydride are located near Niagara Falls. 
Three of the interesting end products which are produced from diborane 
are BoHo, derivatives of BsHj1, and aluminum borohydride. These liquid 
compounds are attracting considerable attention in this country. 


The Department of Defense and its contractors are quite 
reluctant to discuss or release information about boron compowids, and 
consequently it is difficult to obtain information. If anyone has any 
further interest in this field, he can cbtain information from the 
Bureau of Aeronautics upon demonstrating the proper need to know. Some 
ef the research on the properties of these compounds is being conducted 
by the Naval Research Laboratory, the University of Chicago, the University 
of Pittsburgh, the Carnegie Institute of Technology, and the National 
Buresu of Standards. 


One disadvantage of boron compounds is that they give solid 
decomposition products which are undesirable from a heat transfer point 
of view. As far as performance with liquid oxygen is concerned, the boron 
compounds have a specific impulse of about 310 sec compared with 275 sec 
hydrazine. In spite of high cost and Inherent difficulties, their superior 
performance is the reason why boron compounds have been given so mich 
attention. 


7. Liquid Hydrogen. 


We find in looking over a table of computed specific impulse 
values that liquid hydrogen is about the only propellant that comes close 
to meeting the ideal performance characteristics (specific impulse greater 
than 350 lb-sec/1b). It has a specific impulse of about 375 with fluorine. 
The density of liquid hydrogen, however, is approximately 0.07 g/eu cm, 
which is about one-twelfth that of water. Therefore, you are faced with a 
density impulse of less than 100, which means that you need exceedingly 
large tanks to handle the large volumes of hydrogen required. 


~ 4D o 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


18 SA A EAN FT TA eT ET YE ENE PTT, FERVENT EE TELE EHS EY EN CT 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


aninaiiratsinadioaion vere ww neacmendibsricawaiiiats ee + 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


I would like to make one more point as far as judging pro- 
pellants is concerned. We have been talking about "specific impulse" 
and “density impulse” throughout our discussion. Although these are 
convenient methods for the chemist to use in evaluating a propellant, it 
is necessary for an accurate over-all evaluation to run a complete 
systems analysis for the particular mission that you wish to perform. 

In many cases the over-all cost will come out very close for a number of 
propellants ranging considerably in specific impulse, cost, and other 
factors. 


There is some consideration at the present time of the use 
of liquid hydrogen for applications that are not volume-limited. One is 
the use of hydrogen in air-breathing engines for high-altitude aircraft. 
For altitudes of 100,000 feet or more, the airplane has to be very large 
in order to provide the required wing area; hence there is a large tank 
volume available. Since ordinary jet fuels will not burn at this altitude, 
there is some speculation that liquid hydrogen might find application in 
this area. 


An estimated cost of $10.00 to $20.00 per pound was made by 
Aerojet in 1950. At that time Aerojet had a small plant producing about 
90 liters per hour. There were a few other research organizations producing 
liquid hydrogen. The University of Chicago, the University of California, 
and Ohio State University produced liquid hydrogen on a research scale. 
There have been some estimates of $0.30 to $3.00 a pound for large-scale 
hydrogen. However, I think it is important to consider what Aerojet stated 
in 1949: "Considerable design and operating experience with new expansion 
engine cycles will be required before completely satisfactory high-capacity 
production plants can be built." At that time, Aerojet estimated that a 
2,500-pound-per-month plant, still a relatively small plant, as far as 
rocket propellants go, would cost approximately $100,000. 


The organizations that have done the major portion of work 
with liquid hydrogen are the Herrick L. Johnston Enterprises, the 
Aerojet-General Corporation, the Ohio State University Cryogenic Lab- 
oratory, the University of California, and the University of Chicago. 


Hydrogen has the disadvantage also of having explosive 
characteristics with air or oxygen, but the major disadvantage is its 


extremely low density. This is the penalty that you have to pay even 
though hydrogen systems have exceedingly high performance. 


-~ 43 - 


5S-E-C-R-~E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


8. Summary of Fuels. 


Aniline is an operational fuel with good storage charac- 
teristics, although it exhibits only moderate performance. Until very 
recently the 75 percent ethyl alcohol - 25 percent water system was a 
considered for use in the Redstone missile, an intermediate-range 
vallistic missile system. As previously mentioned, there is a poss- 
ibility that this system will be replaced with the UDMH-DETA mixture, 
which has essentially the same properties as the older alcohol-water 
mixture with the exception of a higher performance. Petroleum fractions 
are cheap and readily available. Hydrazine, because of its high freezing 
point, is receiving less and less consideration with the present devel- 
opment of UDMH. UDMH is increasing in popularity as a propellant, and 
to date it has been living up to expectations. Ammonia is of current 
interest as a high-energy fuel in the ammonia-fluorine system. It appears 
that people would prefer ozone to fluorine, but to date they have not been 
too ‘successful in handling ozone. The ultimate choice between ozone and 
fluorine will depend on the outcome of research directed at controlling 
the ozone decomposition reaction. Considerable interest exists in boron 
compounds, although from the performance values previously mentioned it 
is evident that boron compounds are not the best rocket fuels. There is 
quite a bit of current interest in their applications to air-breathing 
engines. The Bureau of Aeronautics has sponsored @& project jointly with 
Olin Mathieson and Callery Chemical Co. on the development of boron fuels. 
There is information available under the title Project ZIP if you have the 

- proper clearance and need to know. High-performance liquid hydrogen is 
not, being considered too actively at present. 


IV. | Summary 
Ae Chemicals. 


I will summarize just briefly the picture as far as chemicals are 
concerned, and others here will take up materials in the sense that we 
have considered materials today. We have talked about roughly 20 to 25 
diffferent chemicals. Some of them are pure substances, some of them 
mixtures, and some complex mixtures. We have divided them into several 
groups: the monopropellants, the oxidizers, and the fuels, with about 
the same number of compounds in each category. In discussing their 


sige 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


—_— ae Caos os] Sa A EAD EIGER 


; De sea al 
ETN TTIZed - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


sources, the raw materials from which they are made, the chemicals which 
go into the processes, and the manufacturing of propellants, we have 
named just about every major industrial chemical. 


Now, what one does with all of these materials when it comes to 
a topic such as strategic control, I do not know. But it does point 
out the fact that you will have to look closely and look at everything, 
that there are no sources that can be overlooked, and that the information 
which you need to do a good job of control will be very detailed and will 
have to offer very broad coverage of the fields. 


Some of the materials we have talked about are items of commerce 
today, and'one might speculate that if we were to get into an all-out 
effort against an enemy in the near future, we would have to make use of 
these common materials. Many of the exotic materials are on the list 
here because we are still looking for the ideal material which will lend 
itself to the 5,000-mile range ballistic missile. This calls for the 
utmost in dependability in performance and dependability in storage 
because, as far as we know, if we ever use missiles of this type against 
an enemy, we would probably have to launch them on very short notice, 
which would mean having them in substantially a ready state. 


We have talked about materials that cost from about a few cents 
& pound up to many dollars per pound. Here again, for conventional 
tactical use, we are interested in materials that have a reasonable price. 
But for this one big clincher that some of us are concerned about, cost 
is no object. JI think that as far as chemicals are concerned, this pretty 
well sets the extremes. 


I want to repeat that there is much, much more information that 
can be given in the areas that we have covered here today. It is a 
question of time to get it together and to analyze it. It is to be hoped 
that all of these compilations and analyses of information will be com- 
pleted some day, so that we will have a current picture of where we stand 
and where we are going. The field of rocketry is a recent field and has 
not yet developed to the point where one would anticipate a high degree of 
stability. 


- ks - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


B. Nonmetallic Materials. 


The following list summarizes the nonmetallic materials that are 
compatible with various propellants: 


Amine Mixtures. 
Polyvinyl polymer plastics may be used. 
Ammonia. 


Ammonia is compatible with most materials that withstand the 
temperature of liquid ammonia; however, ammonia is not compatible 
with wood. 


Aniline. 


Koroseal, Vinylite, Teflon, and Tygon are compatible. 
Anilline exerts a solvent action on most greases and lubricants. 


Boron Compounds. 


Information may be available from the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics 
under Project ZIP. 


Ethyl Alcohol. 
| 


| Ethyl alcohol is compatible with most substances that are 
not oxidizers as well as with substances that are not affected by solvents. 


Ethylene Oxide. 


Nylon, Teflon, G.E. silicon rubbers, and glass are used. r 
Molybdenum sulfide is used as a lubricant and thread compound. Kel-F 
is unsatisfactory. 


Fluorine. 


No good nonmetallics have been found except "cintaniun" Ss 
cemmet (TiC-Ni), which is used for seals. 


Hydrazine. 


Polyvinyl chloride and polyisobutylene plastics, natural rubbers, 
and low-sulfur buna rubbers may be used. 


~ 6 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


AS PL NS ES NE ET OTE 


fk : 
orem Sani ized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Hydrogen. 


Teflon valve seats, asbestos gaskets, and O-ring seals (if 
kept warm) may be used. 


Hydrogen Peroxide. 

Polyethylene, Kel-F, and polyvinyl chloride are suitable for 
gaskets. Fluorolubes, halocarbon oil, and perflucrolubes are used for 
lubricants. 

Jet Fuel (JP-4). 

Buna N rubber is compatible with JP-l. 


JP-X (Jet Fuel - UDMH Mixtures). 


Teflon and Butyl rubber may be used with JP-X. 


Liguid Oxygen. 

Ground mica powder, nonlubricated asbestos, unplasticized 
grades of Kel-F, Santa Susana sealer (fluorolube, molysulfide, and 
powdered lead), oxyseal, and water glass cements have all been used 
with liquid oxygen. Nonmetallics must be screened for impact sensitivity. 

Nitric Acid. 

Teflon gaskets are satisfactory. 

Nitromethane. 

Bakelite is compatible with nitromethane. 

Ozone. 

Teflon, Kel-F, polyethylene have been used. 

Propyl Nitrate. 


Teflon, polyethylene, nylon, dacron, orlon, Mylar, bakelite, and 
Kel-F are satisfactory. 


Be ee 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E«T 


Tetranitromethane. 
Tetranitromethane is compatible with organic materials. 


UDMH. 


| Polyethylene, Teflon, Garlock 735, Mylar, Stoner, BS-55 
(a butyl rubber), vermiculite, asbestos, glass wool, and magnesium 
are compatible with UDMH. No lubricant is recommended at present. 


_ The following additional information on Teflon and Kel-F, 
two very important materials in the liquid propellants picture, may 
be of: additional value: 


Teflon. 


_ Teflon is a polymerized fluorine-substituted hydrocarbon, 
polytetrafluorocethylene. It is chemically resistant to most materials 
except molten alkali metals and fluorine. It is nonflammable, and its 
heat resistance continues upward to 500°F. Teflon has excellent machining 
qualities. It is made from fluorospar and chloroform. Hydrofluoric acid 
is first made from the fluorospar and is pyrolized with chloroform and 
then by high temperature and pressure polymerization to achieve the final 
product. Teflon is available from Du Pont, Gering Products, Resistoflex 
Corporation, and the US Gasket Co. 


Kel-F. 


| Kel-F is another substituted hyirocarbon that has been used in 
handling liquid propellants. In this case, three fluorine atoms and 

one chlorine atom are substituted in ethylene, polytrifluorochloroethylene. 
It is resistant to most everything except halogenated organic solvents. 
Kel-F is quite resistant to both acid and alkali. It is nonflammable, and 
its heat resistance continues up to 390°F. Kel-F will break down at a 
point somewhat below 600°F, and it has excellent machining qualities. It 
is available from the four companies mentioned above as manufacturing 
Teflon. In terms of comparable rubber and plastic materials, both Teflon 
and Kel-F are fairly expensive materials -- especially when large 
quantities are required. 


~ 48 - 


S-E«C-R-E-7T 


RTE REGO] RG A ST ATRIBAPSS ICT 
2 CERES OMIA EE FRE PERE PEE AE REE TE FE TP 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


C. Metallic Materials. 


In summarizing the metal requirements, it should be pointed out 
that the metals have been discussed only from the point of view of their 
use in the production and storage of the propellants. No mention has 
been made of the actual metals which might be required inside the engine 
itself. Metals are discussed here only in terms of the conditions to 
which they are subjected in processing and in storage. It is obvious that 
the metal in an engine may be subjected to conditions more extreme than 
those in the production or storage of the propellant. 


The materials that were considered have been fairly common, such 
as steel, stainless steel, and nickel. Some special materials such as 
Monel, Inconel, copper, and aluminum have been used largely because of 
special corrosion problems or low-temperature considerations. 


D. Miscellaneous. 


This section will attempt to define the problems being faced in 
applications, particularly with the most common propellants. 


Among the monopropellants, hydrogen peroxide is overcoming 4 
production problem. The electrolytic process, used for production up to 
now, requires a high capital investment and high power cost. It is 
gradually being replaced by a noncatalytic organic synthesis process which 
requires lower capital costs, simpler plant operation, and less electrical 
energy. The propane-oxidation method of Shell is also replacing the 
high-cost electrolytic process. In the production of hydrazine, still of 
fair importance among the monopropellants, engineering know-how is the 
most critical problem. 


Among the oxidizers, liquid oxygen faces problems of trans- 
portation and storage. With nitric acid the high corrosion rates with 
many of the materials is the problem. Ozone and fluorine are not suf- 
ficiently used or known in their applications to make it possible to say 
anything more than that ozone is very sensitive and that, of course, 
fluorine is very toxic and very corrosive. Tetranitromethane has extreme 
shock sensitivity. 


Among the fuels, ethyl alcohol presents no problem except its 
denaturing requirements. With JP-4 a problem exists in its application 


- 49 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


with nitric acid. There have been serious combustion problems, 
principally with combustion instabilities. UDMH is still a high- 

cost material. Ammonia, being a liquefied gas, presents problems in 
transportation and storage. Hydrogen, another liquefied gas, to have 
any real applications, will need a great deal of engineering effort to 
develop proper equipment and proper process for production. ‘The boron 
compounds are still expensive and scarce, and handling is a big problem. 


E. Sources of information. 


Before I discuss the sources of information on liquid propellants, 
I would like to mention one other application to correct any misappre-= 
hengions that you might have about hydrogen peroxide. Peroxide definitely 
is an operational propellant both as an oxidizer and as a monopropellant. 
It has certain handling difficulties that require complex passivation 
procedures be used on all equipment in contact with the peroxide. However, 
both the British and the US Navy have been interested in peroxide. The 
Ge 8 were very successful with it in World War II. In fact, they 
developed submarines at that time which would develop 25 knots, but they 
were not able to produce enough peroxide to operate them. The major 
applications of monopropellant hydrogen peroxide today is in gas generators 
to drive the turbopumps in large rockets such as the Redstone and Atlas 
missiles. A novel application that furnishes an idea of the amount of 
thrust developed in a rocket motor is the ROR (rockets on rotor) appli- 
cation of hydrogen peroxide for augumented thrust on helicopters. Here 
@ small rocket engine is mounted on each rotor blade. The engine is about 
5 inches long and consumes 3 pounds of peroxide per minute to develop a 
thrust comparable to 40 horsepower. 


Some of the people who are interested in liquid propellants are: 


| aes Department of Defense. 

| The Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Development, the Technical Advisory Panel on Fuels and Lubricants, of 
which Mr. Don Brooks is the secretary. 

2. Armed Services Representatives. 

| Representing the Air Force is (a) Wright Air Development 
Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio; (b) Western Development 


— LE a eR oT REL LTE ERA 8 ne RENE ANE oI bhp walla 


na tdiniibthanepaptnaandpuagi unis appide unpipn uaa ity cou, 
Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


—" 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Division of the Air Research and Development Command at Inglewood, 
California; and (c) the Office of Scientific Research of the Air 
Research and Development Command at Baltimore, Maryland. At WADC, 
Mr. Mare Dunam is Chief of the Fuels and Lubricants Section of the 
Power Plant Laboratory. His symbol is WCLPF-3. ‘The propulsion 
section of WDD is under the direction of Colonel Lawrence Ely, whose 
symbol is WDT. 


3. Government Contractors. 


The Aerojet-General Corporation; Experiment, Inc.; Cali- 
fornia Institute of Technology, Jet Propulsion Laboratory; Reaction 
Motors, Inc,; Metalectro Corporation; Bell Aircraft; General Electric 
Corporation; North American Aviation; Air Reduction; Buffalo Electro- 
Chemical Co.; Olin Mathieson; Phillips Petroleum; Westvaco Chlor- 
Alkali Division; Wyandotte Chemical; and various aircraft and petro- 
leum companies. 


Princeton University, New York University, and Armour 
Research Institute have done considerable work on ozone. Battelle 
Memorial Institute is compiling information on liquid propellants and 
preparing the Liquid Propellants Handbook* for the Armed Services. 
F. Propellant Systems Used_in Various Missiles. 


The following list summarizes the propellant systems for a 
number of missiles: 


Atlas (long-range intercontinental ballistic missile). 


Air Force. Liquid oxygen. Kerosene (a special West Coast 
blend of kerosene). 


¥ Distribution of the Liquid Propellants Handbook is controlled by 
the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics. Requests for copies should be sent to 


Department of the Navy 
Bureau of Aeronautics 


Ships Installation Division 
Washington 25, D.C. 


a51 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Corporal. 


Army. Red fuming nitric acid and a mixture of 46.5 percent 
aniline, 46.5 percent furfuryl alcohol, and 7 percent hydrazine. 


LAR 


Navy. Red fuming nitric acid and a mixture of hydrazine-ammonium 
thiocyanate. Tests are being run to determine the feasibility of 
using UDMH as a fuel for the LAR. 

Nalar. 

Red fuming nitric acid - turpentine. 


Nike. 


: Army. Red fuming nitric acid and a mixture containing 83 percent 
JP- and 17 percent UDMH. 


Rascal. 

Air Force. White fuming nitric acid - JP-4, 

Redstone. 
Army. Liquid oxygen and a mixture of 75 percent ethyl alcohol 
and 25 percent water. There is a possibility of replacing the 


alcohol-water mixture with a mixture containing 60 percent UDMH and 
40 percent DETA (diethylenetriamine). 


Viking. 


| Navy. Liquid oxygen and the 75 percent ethyl alcohol - 25 
percent water mixture. 


ESE 1 AO RS PG ARR A | 1 A AS: SE i Qa 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| S-E-C-R-E-T 
APPENDIX A 


DISCUSSION AND QUESTIONS 
LIQUID PROPELLANTS 


25X1A9a 


I would like to get an idea of the size and type of pumps being 
used in, say, these large intercontinental missiles. How do they get 
then Baegs oepj_ume of both fuel and oxidizer down from the tank? 


Maybe someone in the audience can give you a better answer, but I 
have seen pumps that have suction throats about a foot in diameter 


through which something like liquid oxygen is pumped at a very high rate. 
This does not answer your question very specifically, but the pumps them- 


selves are turbine driven, generally, and are quite large centrifugal 
PUBpS,, bdo not think we have anything more detailed than that here. 


With that type of pump, what are the special materials or what is 


the special design that the boys who are in these export controls niight 
try5 X94 BBG4 in case they were brought from the outside, from the West? 


As far a I know, such pumps are all specially manufactured, and they 
are, of course, highly specialized in design. I do not know enough about 
them to give you much more information than that. The companies that are 


in the manufacturing business and in experimental rocket research are 


alse piling these types of devices, North American, Aerojet, and so on. 


They are not a normal commercial item? 


a 53s 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


As far as I know, the answer to that is "No." 


o5ex ceppid not very well depend upon outside sources. 


Well, of course, they do have the contracts for manufacturing the 
power plants, too, so that they either have to make them or have to 
subcontract for them. 


Mr. Kelston: 


ee 
f 


The Bloc would have to have its own sources. The Bloc would probably 
not depend on imports for vital material of this type. 


Mr. Kelston: 
i: do have a question. How much of your information comes under 

SECRET label? Ina general way, can you give me some indication of how 

mush cones, pnder a SECRET label and how much is just general information? 


Most of the classified information that we use is CONFIDENTIAL. 
Very little of it, maybe a few of these things about applications 
and so on, and information on boron ccmpounds, perhaps, would be 
SECRET. Most of the physical properties data are UNCLASSIFIED. We 
made! no concerted effort in collecting information for the Seminar to 
distinguish between CLASSIFIED and UNCLASSIFIED. 


Senn nese rae nceenmnsnmant, 


You have mentioned some preparations of fuel mixtures -- are things 
related to UDMH and DETA classified as CONFIDENTIAL? 


Nee ee ee eee ee ee a ar i ed ts eee ae | eee eet eee 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


Data on these mixtures are CONFIDENTIAL; however, the ethyl alcohol - 
water system compositions and some of the older performance data are 
public knowledge. 


Mr. Kelston: 


I just do not want to feel that everything I have heard here is 
SECRET, especially since some of it has appeared in the public press. 
We were bound to secrecy, and I think we ought to have some indication 
of is. the real classification of the data. 

BER ABA 


I might just add a word to that. A lot of this information was 
derived from the work we are doing on the propellants handbook which 
has a classification of CONFIDENTIAL. And by the very nature of that 
work, we are not dealing with a lot of SECRET information although we 


are -glesee. for it. 
a 


The material in the Liquid Propellants Handbook is thoroughly 
referenced, so that it is very easy to determine its classification. 


Mr. Frank Boffola: 
I would like to get a little additional information on peroxide. 


While the Navy has been using this material, there have been no serious 
accidents. You mentioned that its present use is for the power produced 


in FBX FAS gpenerators * 


I meant to imply that the major monopropellant use was in gas 
generators. 


Mr. Boffola: 

Right now, if present programs carried on by the Navy materialize 
and are successful, they will need several million pounds of peroxide 
a year. It seems that additional facilities will be needed. 

- 55 - 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


25X1A5a1 


fre you talking about both monopropellant and oxidizer applications? 


Mr - Boffolas 


Sey pprggent use is largely as oxidizers. 


Mo what extent are the liquid propellants being displaced by the 
solid propellants? I think you did mention superperformance. North 


‘FA5an, was, Probably what you were referring to. 


3 do not think that there is any displacement of solids by liquids 
or liquid by solids per se. There are fairly definite areas of 
applications of each of them, and the areas of competition -- that is, 
the regions of competition -- are not large. For example, you will find 
solid propellants very useful for artillery-type projectiles, for short 
burning times, and for rather short range. There have been only very 
minor applications of liquid propellants in this particular area. In 
the same way, for long burning times in ballistic missiles, for fairly 
long burning times for some antiaircraft applications, and in other 
applications where burning times range from 4 minute to 2 to 4 minutes, 
we are talking almost entirely of liquid propellants. However, in 

some intermediate areas there is an overlapping of application, and 

for some very specific reason you might want to use liquid propellants 
where before you had used solid propellants or vice versa. There are 
even extreme applications of solid propellants for rather large ballistic 
missiles primarily for reasons of storage. Honest John is one of them. 
One of the Redstone developments is a rather large solid propellant 
rocket which has a range of about 150 miles. But this again is a rather 
extreme application. 


Thus there are areas of application which are defined primarily by 


burning time. The solid propellants are applicable for short burning 
times and the liquid propellants for long burning times. There is a 


- 56 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


A FRAT TEN I TINE RTT EE I LS LRT ETRE TH ES NNT TE 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA- "RDP62- 00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


middle range where one or the other could be used. But there has been 
no replacement, to my knowledge, in any developed missile or developed 
epPdgeatien where 4a liquid would replace a solid or vice versa. 


What would you consider a long storage time for a product of that 
king Fer jnstance, with nitric acid -- 1 month, 6 months, 3 months? 


We are talking right now about the order of 1 to 2 years for the 
longest time. However, these times are difficult to achieve with 
Liquid propellant rockets without surveillance. And, of course, this 
is where solid propellants have an advantage over liquid propellants. 
That is, 2 or 3 years' storage in ready condition is not uncommon for 


a site, Repellant. 


Six months is about the time they would like to store propellants 
for the Nike. At present the acid is being changed at 6-week intervals. 
One other point that makes the liquid propellant rocket of interest for 
a shorter range application is the variable thrust which you are able 
to obtain with a liquid propellant rocket that you can not get with a 
solid propellant. This is the primary reason why the Bureau of Ordnance 
is still interested in a liquid propellant engine for the LAR, an anti- 
aircraft missile. 


Unidentified: 


o¥S8e, avoth on and off (discontinuous) and variable thrust. 


This on-and-off characteristic is particularly important in such 
applications as superperformance in aircraft where short-time power 
is wanted. This cannot be done with a solid propellant. 


ey ae 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| 3-E-C-R-E-T 
| 25X1A5a1 


Are there further questions? 


| J would like to alert the group to one thing. We were talking 
today about liquid rockets. The group tomorrow will be talking about 
solid propellant missiles. There is an intermediate area called the 
hybrid which involves both solid and liquid. There are examples of 
hybrids using a solid oxidizer and a liquid fuel, and also the other, 
a solid fuel and a liquid oxidizer. I thought this should be mentioned 
to help round out the picture and perhaps give you a transition between 
today and tomorrow. 


= 58: 


-E-C-R-E-T 


—Sanit ized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


APPENDIX B 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


- 59 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


- To - 
{ aansty 
aquiey? poddns juol3~, 
J 


uorsnqwod 


aly. Wy 


adid el 


ysneuxd and SHES: pjopuew and 
iHOI1S JO Bulyeys 
saa 
~~ yarasind 
y-G-u-O- SS 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


yal ysneuxe 
Ayoojan ysl 


L-G-d-0- GS 


- £9 - 


Z sans] 


esejasn} 
pauljuee}s 


Jaquieyo 
uol}SNquio0s 
jeouupunjAd 


g10}0e/uI 
jen4 


L-gd-u-0-a-S 


sasnjiq 
ayequl 


yay jo 
u0l}Ia4!G 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


TURBOJET 


DIRECTION OF FLIGHT 


COMBUSTION CHAMBER 


Figure 3 


ROCKET 


DIRECTION OF FLIGHT 


COMBUSTION CHAMBER 


Figure 4 


- 65 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L--d-0-a-S 


- lg- 


c aansLy 


JIONV JONIORIAIG 
JAVA 


TOULNOD 


°L zniveadWw3l 
YwaaWVHD NOISNawod 


LL AsndHl 


2d aunssidd 
IN YadWVHD NOLSNIWOD 

N JAIWA 
) Ss TOULNOD 


See EEE NESE SSEXESTEEENE SEE SEREE ON ESERIES 


GV pap 
ivOuHL YaGWVHD NOWSNaWOD 


IHONd JO NOWIIA 


YOLOW LINDOU GFIOOONN 


(298/41 99) 


YAZIGIXO 


(228/41 JD) 
and 


—_— 


INV1T1adOUdIgd JO SLNIW313 TVdIONIdd 


L-s-Y- Oras 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


ee ee 


ei et ee 


-3 
Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


V-2 MOTOR 


Flange for 
main fuel valve 


Nipple for 
oxygen feed line 


Head element 
Head of the 


“(Se 
LYE Thrust support 
combustion unit | yy Pp 


Lower section of the 


combustion unit Cooling line 


Expansion folds 
Film cooling rings 


Fuel intake connection 


Fuel intake manifold 
End of the cooled a 
Portion of nozzle‘ 


Figure 6 


- 69 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


-3 
Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


$-E-C-R-E-T 


PRESSURIZED BIPROPELLANT ROCKET SYSTEM 


PRESSURE REGULATORS 


{ { 
f--8 
Lt CONTROL VALVE 


OXIDIZER TANK 


FUEL TANK 


GAS PRESSURE 
TANK 


ROCKET 
MOTOR 


Figure 7 
a OPT 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


PUMP - TURBINE BIPROPELLANT ROCKET SYSTEM 


PRESSURE REGULATORS 


i 1 


FUEL TANK 


OXIDIZER TANK 


PRESSURE 
TANK 


GAS 
GENERATOR 


ROCKET 
MOTOR 


Figure 8 


- 73- 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L-ad-a~O-I-s 
- oh -~ 


6 WANs 


TIXyoD 
; YdLN3D Ni ZO HLA 
(4LL3SO¥ Z-A)S13f ONY SINOD ONILDISUALNI 


‘QV3HYIMOHS) 
SNIONIdWINON 


(NVIZN3) 
aLV1dXIW 


ONIDNIdWI 
JAIT-NO-3x17 
SINOD ONIONIAIC - ONIOYZANOD 


XIW3ud 


SONIONIdWi 
ayNNA 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


tne artnet tae titania omit ieiniige en oti 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


COOLED ROCKET MOTOR SYSTEM 


(PROPOSED 1942) noe 


——— al 
pag appa neh hhh hehehehe RRR RR LE 


On 


Combustion 
chamber 


COL IT IIL IDO LI OTD DTI OILY LLP CLLLL TOLL ILL | 
leneenie es 


YZ 


j 
4 
d 


SSSA 


Coolant out 


Figure 10 


- 77 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L-#-Y-0-a-s 


TT oanspy 


$LONGOYd LSNVHXI SNONIWNINON €1 

INV100) JAILVYINI93IY V SV ALIMAVLINS ZL 

JUNSSIUd YOdVA MO1 Ll 

MIOHS TWWH3HL GNV IVDINVHD3W OL SSINJAILISNISNI OL 

ST3N4 YO SYIZIGIXO NOWWO) HLIM NOILINS! JO ISV3 6 

180} M018 

NOILLNYLSNO) JO SIVIMILVW GYVGNVLS O1 SSINJAISONXOINON £ 

$1)344] DIXOL ON 9 

UILIWILNID DIGNd/SWVUD 6:0 NVHL YILVIHD ALISNIG S 

‘afups ainjnsadwiay apim 10A0 safupys Ayisoasia yyfiys Ayo “aI-X¥ZQNI ALISODSIA HOIH 


3,09— MOTI LNIOd ONIZI3Ud € 
> 906 NVHL W3LVIN9 LNIOd ONITION Z 


(spuosas Sg Ispaj yp ‘asjndun syiseds) AQYINT HOIH | 


LNVW11ad04Ud GINDIT TVAdGI NW YOd VIdsLIaD 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


ib -e-0-9-S 


- Tg - 


ZT aanary 


vy ak MESS EOn‘HED KOF 
WOINIGIMAd %ZOF EQNfH25 %O9 


1OTINAA INIZVUCAH SNTIALDVUAHLIW «| | ANVHISWOXLIN = | 1AdOUd-N / TAHT | GLVLIN 1Adoud-N | 260IX0 SNTTAHIS N90 Be 06 
TANLXIW 0#/09 


INV T1ddOddONOW 
SINVTHdOUdONOW FWOS JO S31LdadOdd 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L~G-Y-O-g-S 


d.—Li-oH/nle 
ALIALLAGNOD IWWHIHL 


S3SIOdLLNI) 
4.04 1V ALISODSIA 


4.- T10W 91 /fild 
ALDVdW) LV3H 


710W 9/TY) 
NOLLVWHOI 40 LVIH 


w? 19/9 
2.02 1V AltsNaa 


ViSd ‘4 .0/ LY 
RUASSRAd BOdVA 


J, LN10d SNITION 


INT3Wd = LHOTM 
NOLLISOdWOD 


1HSBM YVIADTIOW 


Fon 4H? 9 -FONFH7D ' 07H 120 +°0°H vinweos aniDnow 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


PERFORMANCE OF SOME MONOPROPELLANTS 
(AT 300 PSIA CHAMBER PRESSURE AND 14.7 PSIA EXHAUST PRESSURE ) 


90% HYDROGEN PEROXIDE 


ETHYLENE OXIDE 1740 


N-PROPYL NITRATE 1840-2140 165-170 


60/40 MIXTURE 


2241 180 


aoe 4 


NITROMETHANE 3970 217 


METHYLACETYLENE 


ETHYL / N-PROPYL NITRATE 


HYDRAZINE 


PENELOPE * 


FUEL-OXIDIZER RATIO =1.10. Figure 13 


- 83 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


lie amelie anh 


ee i a eel: veel ees: 
nae 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L-d--9-d-s 


- 49 - 


FT eanspy 


; JL) 8H/fus 
~ _ _ _ — ~ - - (4,06Z~) ZL'0 
AMAL MONOD TWWRSHL 
——— —{——- {_ — +— = => 
92'l 210 — _ (4,0%€—) zy SZ" elr:0 £98" (4,862 -) 6'0 S3SIOdIENZD 
| 4,02 LV ALISODSIA 
= | dp 710W §1/fug 
— “97.00 caeod = = F . " . — 
r'0z (4,0€¢ -) ae r'lz [ee L% 66°21 upvav ivan 
‘a | | 310W 9/1) 
% 5 ae x Bow S ns = 
006'8 oor'z 009'¢ 0 oos‘ve 008‘rr I 000'1r-19 NOUYWHOI 40 1VaH 
vol rl (4.0L) 2Z't (4,908 ~) Lit (40008 — )19°L aml ryt 95°L (4,26Z-) FUL W> 1/9 
i mie | 4,02 40 ALISNIG 
(4,001) ¥r-0 081 vD 0% 4,062 = > rc (4,Z6t-) Z00°0 | £0°0 rt s0°z | a eZBL~ Visd “4,04 1¥ 
. 3, 
| wiv Sana + ss W1Y OS ZUNSSTd WOdVA 
68% es - ZzOL- a 691 - Oe OL ort L6R ~ 4, ‘INIOd ONTHO€ 
——t 7 T —t is 
8°96 Sez - o9e- cig - le ral $9 - z9¢ - 4,"INIOd ONIZ3I83 
a 4 eae 
b DEH Me INDUG LHW 
SNOYTAHNV 86 < 001 b> 001 52 = cLON KEL $°66 02 
LL — ONH %&B NOILISOdWO) 
—}— —}+—_— = We te 
8t By ve a7 oe v9 02 ze AHOHM NvINDTIOW 
ji = = ae ee = 
| £0 20%H *o2N= “onz Vvinwuod avinonow 
INVHLAWOULINVALAL | 301N0NT TAMOTHOUId |30IMON TUL INIOTHD, anéonl 3NOZO 


FIXOMId NIOOUGAH | F0IXONLaL wou] mt] oo 


SYIZIGIXO 3WOS 4O SIILWIdOUd 


U-d-Y-9-g-S 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


L@-g-d-O-a-s$ 


- 19 - 


St amnary 


_ 7 i : 6z'0 d,- 13 WH /nia 
i 4,02 LY ALIALNGNOD TWHU2HL 


(4,009 -) ; ; | S3St0d11NA) 
: (4 8E-)590°0 4,04 1¥ ALISODSIA 


(5. 0Z7-) | 2 ' + 4, —710W 21/ Ne 
‘Mpvdv) 1vaH 


Ly 


? OW 9/ TVD 
ort Zi- “MOLLVWHOd JO LVIH 


(a.str— ) ; ; : ; wo 13/9 
; £890 ‘$02 1¥ ALISNAG 


j LNIOd TVDILWD 


£00 
4.072-LV WIV 8ZL . ; ‘ 621 ma ani 


L8V—LEL 


tir - J, ‘LWIOd SNITION 


9L-> 


vev— 4, ‘INIOd SNIZ2344 


SNOILOVad 
WNa3TOULId 


meme fi 1N3DU3d | LHOEM 
HOFHSDRSL | “NOLLISOdWOD 


ZL PF 


Vée ‘ ; R LHOHM HVINDTIOW 


“HN-N 


Se! 
ma ELD 


INIZVUGAH 


07H - HO SH2D Vvinwaod svINoaI0w 


STaN4d 3WOS 4O SalLuadOUd 


Grd-d-O-a-s 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
APPENDIX C 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


(Unclassified unless otherwise noted) 


1. General. 


Battelle Memorial Institute, Liquid Propellants Handbook, US 
Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, SI-531, Contract Noa(s) 54-597 -c, Columbus, 
Ohio, 31 October 1955. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Battelle Memorial Institute, Physical Properties and Thermodynamic 
Fuels, 


Functions of Fuels, Oxidizers, and Products of Combustion, I: 
Project RAND, R-127, Columbus, Ohio, 15 August 1948. 

Battelle Memorial Institute, Physical Properties and Thermodynamic 
Functions of Fuels, Oxidizers, and Products of Combustion, II: Oxidizers, 
Project RAND, R-129, Columbus, Ohio, February 1949. 

Battelle Memorial Institute, Physical Properties and Thermodynamic 
Functions of Fuels, Oxidizers, and Products of Combustion, III: Products 
of Combustion, Project RAND, R-196, Columbus, Ohio, 1 September 1919. 

Eberhart, D.C. (Editor), Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, 


"Transportation," Chap. I, Interstate Commerce Commission, US Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D.C., 1951. 


Hodgman, C.D. (Editor), Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 36th 
Edition, Chemical Rubber Publishing Co., Cleveland, Ohio, 1954-55. 


Lange, N.A. (Editor), Handbook of Chemistry, Eighth Edition, 
Handbook Publishers, Inc., Sandusky, Ohio, 1952. 


Mellor, J.W., A Comprehensive Treatise on Inorganic and Theoretical 
Chemistry, Vol. I, Longmans, Green and Co., Ltd., London, 1927. 


North American Aviation, Inc., Theoretical Performance of Several 


Rocket Propellant Combinations, 505-X, Washington, D.C., April 1956. 


- 89 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Perry, JeH. (Editor), Chemical Engineers' Handbook, Third Edition, 
McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., New York, 1950. 


RAND Corporation, A Revised Compilation of Computed Specific Impulse 
Values, RM-505, Santa Monica, California, 1 April 1950. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Rossini, F.D., et al., Selected Values of Chemical Thermodynamic 
Properties, Circular 500, US Department of Commerce, National Bureau of 


Standards, US Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., 1 February 1952. 


Sax, N.I., Handbook of Dangerous Materials, Reinhold Publishing 
Co., New York, 1951. 


Sutton, George P., Rocket Propulsion Elements, Second Edition, 
John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1956. 


Terlizzi, P.M., Liquid Rocket Propellants, Power Plant Memo 
No. 21, part 6, US Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D.C., 
February 1948. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Timmermans, J.,,Physico-Chemical Constants of Pure Organic 
Compounds, Elsevier Publishing Co., New York, 1950. 


Washburn, E.W. (Editor), International Critical Tables of 
Numerical Data, Physics, Chemistry, and Technology, Vol. 6, McGraw-Hill 
Book Co., Inc., New York, 1929. 

Woolley, H.W., Thermodynamic Properties of Molecular Oxygen, 


Report No. 2611, US Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, 
Washington, D.C., 30 June 1953. 


2. Acetylinics and Amine Nitrates. 


Winternitz, P.F., A Monopropellant Review, Third Quarterly 
Progress Report, NYU Report No. 333-3, US Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, 
Washington, D.C., 15 April 1956. CONFIDENTIAL. 


3. Ammonia. 


Armstrong, D.I., Investigation of Liquid Rocket Propellants, 
Report No. 367 (Annual), Aerojet Engineering Corporation, 11 March 1949. 


CONFIDENTIAL. 


2°90 = 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Dow Chemical Co., Ammonia, Midland, Michigan, 1951. 


Parsons, J.W., Thompson, T.L., and Dixon, T.F., A Survey of 
Liquid Rocket Propellants, Report No. NA-47-95, North American 
Aviation, Inc., 1 April 1947. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Winternitz, Paul F., Theoretical, Laboratory and Experimental 


Investigations of High Energy Propellants, Vol. I, "Anmmonia,” Reaction 
Motors, inc., Summary Report No. RMI-293-S1, 5 July 1950. 


4, Aniline. 

Lienhard, J.H., Jr., McCarthy, J.L., and Nordquist, W.B., 
"Thermodynamic Properties of Aniline," The Trend in Engineering at the 
University of Washington, Engineering Experimental Station, Seattle, 
Washington, Vol. 6, No. 1, January 1954. 

Morris, B.T., and Walsh, E.M., Development of 1500-Pound 
Fuel-Cooled Jet Motor, Report No. 93, Aerojet General Corporation, 
Azusa, California, 7 July 1954. 


Peterson, Jed», Pickles, A.M., and Young, R.B., Testing of Model 


XLRG6-RM-2 Rocket Engine, and Design, Construction, and Testing of Model 
XLROO-AJ-2 and Type C-1 Rocket Engines, Report No 340, Aerojet Engineering 
Corporation, 3 January 1949. CONFIDENTIAL. 


5. Boron Compounds - 


Clegg, J.W., Moore, J.R., and Croxton, F.C., Propelliants for 
Supersonic Vehicles, VIII: Boron Compounds, Project RAND, RA-15042, 
Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio, May 1947. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Swager, W.L., and Lund, R. J., Propellants for Supersonic 
Vehicles, IV: The Potential Production of Diborane, Pentaborane, 
and Aluminum Borohydride, Project RAND, R-156, Battelle Memorial 
Institute, Columbus, Ohio, 15 May 1949. CONFIDENTIAL. 

6. Ethyl Alcohol. 

Kanarek, I.A., Properties and Handling and Storage Characteristics 
of Ethyl Alcohol and Liquid Oxygen, Report No. AL-123, North American 
Aviation, Inc., Washington, D.C., 1948. 

- 91 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E£-T 


Reid, R.C., and Smith, J.C., "Thermodynamic Properties of Ethyl 
Alcohol," Chemical Engineering Progress, Vol. 47, p. 415, 1951. 


Revel, N.C., and Friedman, J., Liquid Rocket Design Manual, First 
Edition, Report No. AL-259, North American Aviation, Inc., Washington, D.C., - 


1947. 
‘Ts Ethylene Oxide. 


Aoki, K.K., et al., Liquid Monopropellant Investigations, Progress 
Reports, Wyandotte Chemicals Corporation, Wyandotte, Michigan. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Giauque, W., and Gordon, J., "The Entropy of Ethylene Oxide. 
Heat Capacity from 14° to 285°K, Vapor Pressure. Heats of Fusion and 
Vaporization," Journal of the American Chemical Societ » Vol. 71, p. 
2176, 1949. 


Walters, C., and Snith, J., "Volumetric Behavior and Thermodynamic 


Properties of Ethylene Oxide," Chemical Engineering Progress, Vol. 48, 
P. 3B7, 1952. 


8. Fluorine. 
Collins, J.0., Stone, L.S., and Joyner, P.A., Background Chemistry 


Development of Liguid Rocket Oxidizers, US Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, - 
Report CCC-52208-SR-1, Contract Noa(s) 52208, Callery Chemical CO., 


Callery, Pennsylvania, August 1953. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Horvitz, D., A Review of the Physical and Chemical Properties 
of Fluorine and Certain of Its Compounds, Summary Report No. RMTI-293-5S5, 


Reaction Motors, Inc., Rockaway, New Jersey, 7 September 1950. 

Kiehl, S.J., Jr., Bircher, J.R., Moore, J.R., and Croxton, F.C., 
Propéllants for Supersonic Vehicles, V: Fluorine, Project RAWD, 
RA-15047, Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio, April 1947. 
CONFIDENTIAL. 


Simons, J.H. (Editor), Fluorine Chemistry, 2 volumes, Academic 
Press, New York, 1950. 


= (OD! -s 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


aonmnnncnccnne sw "Sanitized - Approved For Release . ClIA-RDPG2-00328A0001001 000023 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


Swager, W.L., and Lund, R.J., Propellants for Supersonic Vehicles, 
TIT: The Potential Production of Liquid Fluorine, Chlorine Trifluoride, 
and Other Fluorine Compounds, Project RAND, R-124, Battelle Memorial 
Institute, Columbus, Ohio, 15 Novenber 1948. CONFIDENTIAL. 
9. Hydrogen Peroxide. 


Buffalo Electro-Chemical Co., Inc., Hydrogen Peroxide Physical 
Properties Data Book, Buffalo, New York, 1 April 1949. 


Schumb, W.C., Satterfield, C.N., and Wentworth, R.L., Hydrogen 
Peroxide, Reports Nos. 42-45, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 


Division of Industrial Cooperation, Project 6552, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
September 1953 - December 1954. 


10. Hydrazine. 


Audrieth, L.P., and Ogg, B.A., The Chemistry of Hydrazine, John 
Wiley and Sons, New York, 1951. 


Campbell, E.D., Jenkins, H.P., Jr., and Cohen, W., A Low-Freezing 
Point Hydrazine Fuel for the LAR, US Navy, Technical Memorandum No. 1475, 


Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokern, California. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Clark, C.C., Hydrazine, First Edition, Mathieson Chemical Corpo- 
ration, Baltimore, Maryland, 1953. 


Horvitz, D., and Kircher, H., Theoretical, Laboratory, and 
Experimental Investigations of ae Energy Propellants, Vol. I, 
Hydrazine, Report No. RMI-293-S6, Reaction Motors, Inc., Rockaway, 
New Jersey, 3 August 1950. 
11. Liquid Hydrogen. 


Coplen, H.L., Liquid Hydrogen Storage, Memorandum No. 53, 
Aerojet Engineering Corporation, Azusa, California, 15 September 
1949. CONFIDENTIAL. 


- 23° 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Osborn, G.H., and Stinnett, W.D., Development of a 3000-lb. 
Thrust Liquid-Hydrogen - Liquid-Oxygen Rocket Motor, Memorandum No. 54, 
Aerojet Engineering Corporation, Azusa, California, 29 August 1949. 
CONFIDENTIAL. 


Savage, R.L., and Moore, J.R., Propellants for Supersonic Vehicles: 


Liguid Hydrogen, Project RAND, RA-15040, Battelle Memorial Institute, 
Columbus, Ohio, 8 October 1947. CONFIDENTIAL. 


12. Lox. 


Giauque, W.F., and Johnston, H.C., "Heat Capacity of Oxygen 
from 12°K to Its Boiling Point and Its Heat of Vaporization,” Journal 
of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 51, p. 2300, 1929. 


A arate et RARER Sr Serene etter no 


| Krieger, F.J., Theoretical Characteristics of Several Liquid 
Propellant Systems, Report RA-15024, RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, 
California, 1 February 1947. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Lobo, W.E., Technical Data Pertaining to Air, Its Liquefaction 
and Distillation, Report 4206, G-605.50, Office of Scientific Research 
and Development, National Defense Research Council, Washington, D.C., 
6 October 1944, 


13. Nitric Acid. 
Forsythe, W.R., and Giauque, W.F., "The Mntropies of Nitric 
Acid|and Its Mono- and Tri-hydrates. ‘Their Heat Capacities from 


Re oA 


Kay, W.B., and Stern, S.A., Physicochemical Properties of Pure 


Nitric Acid, Department of Chemical Engineering, Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio (unpublished), 1955. 


Schechter, W.H., Investigation of Preparation of Liquid 
Oxidizers, Callery Chemical Co., Callery, Pennsylvania. CONFIDENTIAL. 


eee et Reman 


- gh - 


5S-E-C-R+E..T 


sl iene indie dc dismal iba ici den adtediadhacrainaderpeaiall Llninadin anein inal element ents chigucaamiad cick cohen ee 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Many reports on nitric acid have been written over a period of 
several years by the following authors: Altman, D.; Corcoran, W.H.; 
Melina, F.J.; Mason, D.M.; Reamer, H.H.; Robertson, G.D, dJr.; and 
Sage, B.H., all of the California Institute of Technology, Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, Pasadena, California. 


14. Nitromethane. 


Kindsvater, H.M., Nitromethane Research, Final Report No. 42g, 
ATI 96967, Aerojet Engineering Corporation, Azusa, California, 3 
April 1950. 


McCullough, J.P., et al., "Nitromethane: The Vapor Heat 
Capacity, Heat of Vaporization, Vapor Pressure and Gas Imperfection; 
the Chemical Thermodynamic Properties from 0° to 1500°K," Journal 


of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 76, p. 4791, 1954. 


15. Ozone. 


Jenkins, A.C., Research on the Properties of Ozone, US Navy, 
Bureau of Aeronautics, Contract Noa (s) Tooke 1950-55, Final Report, 


Linde Air Products Co., Tonawanda, New York, 1 May 1955. 


Marshall, O.W., Evaluation of Liguid Ozone-Oxygen Mixtures 
as Rocket Oxidizers, Fourth Quarterly Progress Report, Aeronautical 


Engineering, Report No. 282-d, Princeton University, 3 September 1955. 
CONFIDENTIAL. 


Thorp, C.E., Bibliography of Ozone, Armour Research Foundation, 
2 volumes. 


Youtz, M.A., and Moore, J.R., Technical Survey Report on 
Propellants for Supersonic Vehicles, IV: Liquid Ozone, 
Project RAND, RA-15045, Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio, 
April 1947. CONFIDENTIAL, 
16. Petroleum Fractions. 
Barnett, H.C., and Hibbard, R.R., Fuel Characteristics Pertinent 


to the Design of Aircraft Fuel Systems, Report RM-E53A21, National 
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Washington, D.C., 16 June 1953. 


- 95 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
Gruse, W.A., and Stevens, D.R., The Chemical Technology of 
Petroleum, McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., New York, 1942. 


Hougen, O.A., and Watson, K.M., Chemical Process Principles 
Charts Charts, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 19 


Maxwell, J.B., Data Book on Hydrocarbons, D. Van Nostrand Co., 
Inc., New York, 1950. 


17. Propyl Nitrate. 


Ash, A.B., and Tremain, H.E., Survey o f Monopropellants in 
Great Britain, Wyandotte Chemicals Pee Wyandotte, Michigan, 


10 October 1952. CONFIDENTIAL. 


Thomson, G.W., Some Properties of Normal Propyl Nitrate, 
ethyl Corporation, Research and Engineering Department, Detroit, 


Michigan, 1954. 


Wolf, S., Propyl Nitrate as a Torpedo Propellant, US Navy, 
Technical Memorandum, US Naval Underwater Ordnance Station, Newport, 
Rhode Island. CONFIDENTIAL. 


18. Tetranitromethane. 


Hager, K.F., "Tetranitromethane,” Industrial and Engineering 
thentatey, Vol. 41, p. 2168, 199. 


Tschinkel, J.G., "Tetranitromethane, an Oxidizer in Rocket 
bossaiiaats * Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 48, 
»- 732, 1956. 


Watts, N.P., Tetranitromethane, Hazelton Laboratory, 
Falls Church, Virginia, 16 January “1953. 


- 96 - 


5-E-C-ReE-T 


Ber Te cesenitiniealiintnltsmeisnnan ielamnatsiaiaideniineanaepenhanmnaasihieiaiabhinta lint atnsthon inantbieesnaisetileasiiinedinal dipaisadiiibainaaniaabsienimmiiinesiiiialsiniadanediaedibieldidlieibaalibe bead tdedlbtielsek date deed 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62- 00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 
APPENDIX D 
SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET SOLID PROPELLANT TECHNOLOGY 


Nothing would please me more than to be able to give you “some 
aspects of foreign solid propellant technology" -- as my presenta~ 
tion has been called in the agenda. Foreign solid propellant tech- 
nology I know is meant to be Soviet solid propellant technology. 
And, I repeat, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to be 


able to give you an extensive review of the Soviet work. Unfortunately, 


that which we know of Soviet solid propellant research and develop- 
ment is very fragmentary, and much of it is speculative. Whereas we 
enjoy a somewhat favorable position in the knowledge of Soviet liquid 
propellant technology, this cannot be said for the solid propellant 
area. 


We feel, however, that whatever information we have should be 
disseminated, and our program to obtain more information should lend 
some encouragement that the most that can be accomplished under the 
circumstances is being done. 


As I understand the purpose of this seminar, it is to assist those 
of you who are charged with matters of trade and export to control the 
flow of vital raw materials and products to the Soviet Bloc. Based on 
what has been said here today and yesterday by the previous speakers, 
I can say that with few exceptions there is little that the USSR needs 


in the solid propellant area that it cannot obtain within the boundaries 


of the USSR, or certainly within the Soviet Bloc. 


The Air Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) has been studying the 
Soviet solid propellant picture on an intensified basis for more than 
18 months. We have pooled our resources with the Navy, Army, and CIA 
and, after a good look at the classified data, we have decided to 
attack this problem through a thorough study of Soviet scientific 


literature. This program has been undertaken by a qualified contractor 


and is now nearing completion. It is too early, however, to draw any 
firm conclusions from the study of this literature. We feel that the 


findings must be integrated with the classified data that are available 
pefore a convincing and reasonable assessment can be made of the Soviet 


state-of-the-art in the solid propellant field. 


-~ 9 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Let me point out reasons for my last statement that may not be 
apparent to you. First, in our search of Soviet literature we must 
1dok into three Bpineical areas: (1) the material which comprises 
some portion of the finished propellant, (2) the scientist who con- 
tributes to the Soviet solid propellant effort, and (3) the institu- 
tions where the research is conducted. Because propellant materials 
are not single-purpose materials -- that is, they can be used in 
many nonpropellant applications -- careful analysis must be made of 
research in a given material area to insure that the papers are not 
misleading in either direction. Next, we search out all the papers 
published by a particular scientist to determine again whether they 
canstitute propellant work per se or whether they have alternate 
applications but could also provide a propellant capability. Finally, 
we seek out the institutions where work of interest is conducted. 
And here we have some of our greatest problems. 


Whereas we can eventually assess the value of a group of papers 
On & given material or chemical compound or reaction, and whereas 
we can usually identify those scientists who contribute most to the 
work, it is difficult to determine and confirm exactly where this 
work is conducted. For example, institutes under the Ministry of 
Agriculture often have large military programs. The Central Scien- 
tific Research Institute of the leather industry conducts research 
on nitrocellulose materials. Cases such as these, of course, are 
relatively easy to identify when we are presented with the evidence, 
but you can readily see that there are far less discernible cases. 
It is here that we hope to integrate some of our classified data to 
give us a more realistic picture and to help us identify otherwise 
obscure work. 


I should like to touch briefly on some specific propellants to 
give you an appreciation of the extent of our knowledge of the position 
of the Russians. We believe that Soviet technology in the double- 
base propellant area -- nitrocellulose-nitroglycerin type -- is good 
and perhaps equivalent to that of the US. This is not a statement 
merely to credit the Russians with ¢ capability equivalent to ours 
because of the lack of positive information. We know that the Russians 
exhibited a keen knowledge of double-base powder manufacture during 
World War II. Their cordite was a lower temperature and slower burn- 
ing material than US compositions but was suitable for their needs. 
They continued developments with double-base formulations, and we know 
that as of late 1951 the double-base material was the propellant em- 
ployed in several rocket missile designs. They also used a double-base 


- © - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


58 AC SN ESF a Vom ER HR RO YU SAO ie <HREs  aias dot AIRMEN xia 2 Boos ttaO 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


propellant in their seat-ejection cartridge of the MIG-15. In addi- 
tion to nitrocellulose-nitroglycerin types, they have done some work 
with the German type, dinitrodiethylene glycol - nitrocellulose. 


At the present time we have practically no data on composite pro- 
pellant formilations. We do have, however, an agsessment of the 
Soviet capability to produce suitable binders. We know also of in- 
tense Soviet interest in the inexpensive oxidizer, ammonium nitrate. 
We have all kinds of indications that might lead us to assign to the 
Russians the capability to develop a cheap composite propellant based 
on ammonium nitrate. One thing is missing, and this is the positive 
assurance that they have it in being. We hesitate at this time to 
make a firm estimate until we have had more time to integrate the 
classified and unclassified data. 


In spite of our limited knowledge of Soviet solid propellant tech- 
nology, however, it is evident to us that, were we to possess con- 
siderably more information, it would not alter the fact that there 
is very little in this area in terms of propellant ingredients that 
we could deny the Russians. In other words, there are very few in- 
gredients of solid propellants known to us that the Russians could 
not produce in quantities sufficient to their needs. 


The one area of propellants where the Russians may be sui fering 
from the lack of suitable raw materials is in the boron propellants. 
An investigation recently prepared for the ATIC on boron resources 
of the USSR and Satellite nations reveals that although the USSR has 
a sizable reserve of boron ores, it does not possess ores that are 
easily processed. For example, sodium tetraborate, or what is com- 
monly referred to as borax, is almost unavailable to the Russians. 
As you know, borax is the most desirable mineral from the point of 
view of a suitable raw material for the high-energy fuel program. 

In the USSR, borax is available only in the Crimean volcanic muds 

in a concentration of 0.3 to 0.4 percent on a boric oxide basis. 
Compare this with the US borax deposits of the Kramer area ov Cali- 
fornia or with the Searles Lake brines, where the Bp03 concentration 
is over 2.8 percent. Aside from the wide degree of difference in 
concentration, the Soviet borax deposit is such that concentration 
beyond a technical grade is difficult. 


Because of the low grade of borax available to the Russians, they 
must pursue 1 of 2 alternative courses. ‘The first alternative is to 


- 99 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


process their Inder Lake and similar deposits which are high in BO 
cantent -- an average of 25 percent -- but which consist of many 
different types of ores (11 in number), each requiring a different 
method of processing. These processes consist of sulfuric acid or 
phosphoric acid digestion for the magnesium borate mineral (ascharite ) 
or, the carbon dioxide digestion of the magnesium-calcium borate 
mineral (hydroboracite ) as well as many other processes, each of 
which is considerably more complicated and expensive than a simple 
erystallization process to recover borax from brines or soluble salt 
deposits. Their other alternative is to purchase refined borax on 
the world markets, and I surmise from this seminar that the control 
of this source is to some degree the decision of this audience. To 
be sure, the denial of borax from the Western markets would not 
bankrupt the Soviet high-energy fuel program -- and the ATIC is 
convinced that the Russians have a high-energy fuel program based 

on boron. It would merely make one phase of their problem more 
difficult. When one realizes that it takes 6.5 tons of refined 
borax (sodium tetraborate plus 10 molecules of water of crystalliza- 
tion) to produce 1 ton of a typical high-energy fuel on a 100 per- 
cent theoretical efficiency basis, one can soon see the Significance 
of each shipment of borax which the Russians receive from Western 
sources. The conversion process, of course, does not approach 100 
percent by a large margin, and each shipment of borax which the 
Russians receive, therefore, goes up in significance if we assume 
that they are in an advanced development program. 


I want to point out that boron compounds have application in 
liquid rocket engines, in air-breathing engines such as turbo jets 
and ramjets, and for solid propellant compositions. Engery in- 
creases, in terms of heat content, as a result of their use can 
be as high as 50 to 7O percent above the fuel that they would re- 
place, but from a practical point of view perhaps 30 percent would 
be a more realistic figure. In the case of aircraft this increase 
is translated into increased range and, to a degree, into increased 
velocity. In rockets it means greater thrust and therefore increased 
range and velocity. But regardless of how we assign the performance 
increase, the use of boron compounds can always be translated into 
a smaller and lighter weapon to accomplish a given mission. 


- 100 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


a Liiseinaeitaimisiadmialie Adiieiield eaaibianeedusliubei dca madentanioumnbtciceic da LL Ee ee eee 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 
APPENDIX E 


DISCUSSION AND QUESTIONS 


(SOLID PROPELLANTS ) 


Unidentified: 


I believe you said this morning that the USSR has been trying to 


obtain, pArorel lulose from us. 


When we were preparing the papers for presentation here, we were 
given a list of questions to answer. One question was worded as 
follows: "Since it is known that Russia has large supplies of high- 
alpha-content nitrocellulose, why would they be trying to import it?" 

Unidentified: 


Sie gg gtion is, "Why should they have to?" 


I am guessing. It is nice to have a lot of it around. Cellulose 
has many uses. 


Unidentified: 


Is there anything in the product that would cause them to have 


60 DBRT ASAI 


We inferred from the questions directed to us that the importation 
was going forward. Our only knowledge that this is the case is the 
question directed to us. We can attempt to explain why it is true only 
on the inference that it is. 


- 101 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


| I would also like to mention that I extracted a table from a paper 
on the wood-cellulose supply situation and that the Munitions Board 
estimated chemical salts suitable for nitration purposes in 1955 (this 
is in the US) at 1.5 million pounds, made up of cotton linters, 200,000 
pounds; sulfite imports, 200,000 pounds; US sulfite production, 445,000 
pounds; and US sulfate production, 649,000 pounds. So, from that table, 
I WRG, x5 that we are importing sulfite pulp. 


| I would like to think of this meeting as Beri tn ato open a very 

close relationship which could exist between I and each of you ona 
considerably less formal basis in the future. In other words, we would 
like to place ourselves at your disposal. We have a large fund of in- 
formation. We operate at the expense of the Government, and we would 
like to serve the Government in as many ways as possible. We are close 
geceraphically to your offices in Washington, being located in Silver 
Spring, and we would like to hear from you personally at any time with 
any questions that we might be able to help you with. 


| Unidentified: 


You said that we had an adequate supply of solid propellsnts or 
adequaye resources to produce them? 
25x1A5a1 


i 
| 
1 


| Yes. 


|‘ Unidentified: 


| You meant raw materials -- or did you intend to include facilities 


BET sat 


ir 


- 


I was thinking of raw materials when I said that, but some of 
these are not on hand. On the other hand, as we tried to bring out 
in the discussion on manufacturing methods, most of the equipment 


~ 102 - 


| S-E-C-R-E-T 


=o AE EES ET ST Te NON EE Gi ell 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


required is not particularly unusual in nature and.should be readily 
available, especially since it may come from noncritical industries, 
such as candy. So I would say that, especially since we have ammonium 
nitrate propellants which we could use to release perchlorate where 
necessary, together with double-base propellants, it appears that, 
materialwise, we are in good shape. There have been a number of 
different projections of needs, so that the satisfaction of them would 
depend on the accuracy of the projection. Materials, I think, are in 
good shape. Equipment, I think, although it is not available in the 
amounts needed for mobilization, could be made readily available. I 
think thab would summarize what we think of it. 


Just as an idea of measurement for a perchlorate system, were 
you talking in terms of 1,000 tons, or 10,000 tons, or 100,000 tons 
t t i 
PETOYSET n GIUP Oo give us some idea of quantity? 


ASxXee\ Ghllion pounds a month. 


ob PREGp ium perchlorate, yes. 


2 Ra ty dB 420, 000 tons a year. 


In their mobilization studies, the cast double-base industry is 
talging Abn, terms of 6 million pounds of propellant a month. 


That is 36,000 to 40,000 tons a year. 


= 103 < 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


| S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


It depends so heavily on the sort of war that we might anticipate. 
If it is a small-scale operation, we might fire ordnance rockets by the 
thousands from fighter aircraft. With jet-assisted takeoffe, we would 
find staggering needs for propellants. On the other hand, if it were 
to be a one-shot operation, with an intercontinental ballistic missile, 
then, of course, we would cut it down to what is a large amount of 

t asi 2 0 
prong yant, for a single motor but a very small amount per war 


Yes, that would make it easier to talk about. In World War II 
the rate of demand that was laid on industry swamped us. It took us 
3 years to get in plant, so that it would take us 3 years if we had 


to atart might now. 


I would say that in each of these processes which I have described 
and in many of the variations thereof, I cannot think of one that is 
not continuously being redesigned within the limitations of what they 
can do for continuous production. The continuous extrusion of solid 
and double-base propellant anticipates a more or less automatic pro- 
duction at the rate of 2,000 pounds per hour which could be flexible. 
In other words, it could change with this war that we are talking about. 
I believe that these continuous processes can be expected to go Into 
effect as the need is seen and could actually expand and contract with 


BBS A9a 


The thing that has impressed me most in the things which you have 
brought out in the past couple of days is that practically all. of the 
products which you are talking about, with very few exceptions, are 
not articles of commercial production. You had gaskets of special 
length, not normal. Of course, we do make some, but it is not "normal" 
production. 


- 104 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


LEELA TTY eT He NT ye 
Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


A 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


Well, there are certain cases where this is true, but we brought up 
a great base of solid propellant material available from items of commerce 
by use of fertilizer-grade ammonium nitrate and any one of a large number 
of synthetic elastomers from industrial work. We can supplement this, 
then, by manufacture for wartime use only of perchlorates, for instance, 
which certainly find limited application in civilian economy, and nitro- 


eBEXTAQA 


One more question. Assuming that your rocket is designed for Thiokol 
and perchlorate, could you make a propellant of ammonium nitrate and 
polyvinylchloride that would fit into that rocket and operate -- in other 


WOT y pRberchange the fuels? 


If the rocket were designed to accommodate a certain propellant, then 
presumably you would take something less if you were to substitute another 
propellant. In other words, if you were to take a particular rocket 
designed for the ballistic characteristics of a TPhiokol-perchlorate pro- 
pellant and then find that, although you had a large number of these 
hardware items on hand, you could not load with the Thiokol-perchlorate 
propellant, you may find that you could produce a satisfactory round 
with an ammonium nitrate - butadiene rubber propellant. It would change 
the ballistics to this extent: the ammonium nitrate propellant would 
be a poorer performer. So it would reduce performance to that extent, 
and it would reduce it further to this extent: the ammonium nitrate 
performance in an optimum design would be one figure, whereas the ammonium 
nitrate performance in a nonoptimum design, such as for another propellant, 
would be another figure. So you would lose both in the performance of 
the propellant, putting in the secondary performer, and from the fact 
that you have a secondary performer in a nonoptimum aeetess However, that 
would poh gay that it would be ineffective. 


Your design, your rocket, your hardware are designed with certain 
types of fins for any weight of rocket, propellant, and so forth that 


- 105 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


goes in there. If you change on that, is that going to mean a redesign 
of Hig Fins qand all the rest of the things that go into a rocket? 


Basically, not. Naturally, the optimum design will give the optimum 
perfdrmance. Now, as you modify, as you get away from optimum by sub- 
stituting, you are going to get less than optimum performance by an 
equivalent amount, usually not a significant amount, although to compare 
Thiokol-perchlorates and synthetic rubber - nitrate, as you did, you 
would find considerably less performance in the second propellant. 


25X1A5a1 


I might add, to carry this into the commercial applications a little 
further, that you would be in good shape on Thiokol, which selis five 
times as much liquid polymer on the commercial market as it sells to 

its Hedstone facilities for use in propellants. Since Thiokol is cer- 
tainly a major contender for any composite propellant design, you would 
be HR yqienice shape materialwise. 


The worry we have for logistics is one where there would be a com- 
petition. Now the competition which Mr. Britton has just mentioned 
would be between an ordnance item and, say, asphalt tile mastic. It 

is quite plain that the asphalt tile mastic would have to be diverted. 
The problem would be with sebacate plasticizer, which we find desirable 
for the civilian economy in large quantities. The propellant use of it 
represents a very small part of it. We also find it very widely used 
in paint. So then, perhaps, under mobilization conditions, there would 
be competition between the need for paint for ship hulls and the need 
for propellants. Then you would have se competition within the mobili- 
zation necessities. The resin binder situation is generally a com- 
peti iton petyeen ordnance use and pure civilian use. 


With some rockets which have been promising -- some of them 
Service-accepted -- the development programs for propellants often 
run parallel. For example, in a Terrier unit, which now uses a cast 


~ 106 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


1 AH EC i | 
a eemSanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


8-E-C-R-E-T 


double-base propellant, a great deal of development work has been done 
to produce a composite-type propellant which would be an alternate. In 
the 2.75 inch aircraft rocket which is in Service use now, there is an 
extruded propellant, double-base. A great deal of work has also been 
done to qualify for that unit a composite-type propellant. So if there 
were a real emergency, what I suspect would happen would be that both 
types of propellants would be used. Ballistically, there might be a 
little,bitc of difference, but I think that this could be taken care of. 


In this case of the Terrier it is actually a sustainer design. 
Both rockets were designed to plug into the same missile. You would 
certainly expect the very minimum ballistics degradation resulting 
from the interchangeability, assuming that each contractor would meet 
the, specd ications required for the missile. 


First, has any work been done for the use of polyethylene in solid 


prope ents, 


I do not know of any work that has been done. Polyethylene has been 
considered in calculations and in projected systems. I have never 
heard of a polyethylene propellant. The Reaction Motors group that 
I mentioned earlier has frequently -- in making comparisons, say, 
between their typical propellant, today -- based this on a poly- 
ethylene binder. But, to the best of my knowledge, there has never 
been a propellant, at least anywhere near experimental production 
oroepasiieration, based on a polyethylene binder. I do not know why. 


I would like to ask the representative of the Air Force a question 
about his statement about the self-sufficiency of the USSR. Is that 
based on the raw materials, or is it also based on the equipment used 
for the production, say, of the materials, that make up the solid 
propellants? 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S8-E-C -R-E-T 


Mr. Kenis: 


I do not know. I think I might qualify that statement to read 
“inguedients 4 rather than propellants. 


I do not believe that they would have a really tough time getting 
a good deal of the equipment which they would need for making propellants 


suphyag & ers. 


You are talking now about, say, the fabrication of propellants -- 
that is, the mixing, kneading, and so on. 
25X1A5a1 


Yes, and also the motor, and the rocket itself, the case, and s0 
forth 
BBX 1A9a 


I am talking about, say, the equipment that is used to produce the 
ammonia, the ammonium nitrates, and so on? 


Mr. Kenis: 


Y think the question is a logical one. I think there are some 
sources of Dat Te for use in producing perchlorates. We have no infor- 
mation as to what /they/ sell four However, I think that I am right 
in saying that there is just as on) platinum in the USSR, isn't there? 
Their electrical energy is increasing -- is on a par with ours -- is it 


nothe x1 A5al 


Regardless of availability of platinum, I do not think it is an 
item that any commerce would like to consider as expendable, and in 
electrolysis considerable energy is required in going from chlorate to 
perchlorate. Platinum is used up at a relatively high rate and is 


- 108 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


eter mere ized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62- 00328A000100100002- 3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


essentially expended. I have some figures -- although I do not have 
them with me, unfortunately -- on the rate at which platinum would be 
consumed in the manufacture of perchlorate under mobilization conditions, 
and although it is a small number compared with the tons of ammonium 
perchlorate, it is a very large number for platinun. 


Unidentified: 


The reason why I asked that is that platinum has a certain amount 
of consumption in less vital industries where substitution might be 
initiated. 

25X1A5a1 


I was suprised myself when I saw the figures on the consumption 
£ platinum for chlorate oxidation just based on other platinum-based 
catalysis where consumption seemed to be almost a technicality. I can 
not recall the figures. If anyone would be interested in calling, I 


would, make oo available. 


We have heard a lot about a lot of different types of rockets, 
different types of fuels, a good many compoments of fuels, all of them 
requiring plasticizers, and all of the rest of the things requiring 
chemicals. You are going to get into a real logistics problem when 
you get into that range of products. Reaction Motors group which is 
designing a fuel with a specific impulse of 275 -- if they have got an 
ideal fuel like that or theoretical equipment to develop it from rel- 
atively available commercial products, such as acetylene, and could 
standardize on that, would it be possible to redesign the types of 
rockets so that they would all fit the same type of fuels? And is 
that the ultimate which you are aiming at, to cut down on the number 
of types of fuels, the large range of chemicals, such as you are 


ADORE ASAI 
a 


First of all, I referred to your earlier question which was related 
to this. But you were talking about a number of items on hand, stock- 
piles. Now, as far as a change of design to suit a higher performance 


~ 109 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


propellant is concerned -- a design criteria background -- our under- 

standing and knowledge of design parameters is certainly such that 

optimum design could be made for a high-performance fuel. We are 

waiting for an opportunity to have it available. We can certainly 
meke an optimum design around it. Now,. simply, if a fuel came along 
which had this outstanding performance and if all other properties 

were equal or even slightly worse than our other propellants, I am 

sure that it would certainly be the fuel of choice for our missile ae 
application. But there are an awful lot of "ifs" there. In other of 
words, it is a necessity that we have a number of systems now rather t 
than a desire, I am sure. It is quite odd, actually, that the two . 
grossly different systems, double-base and composite, can run so close : 
@race. They run neck and neck in performance and associated properties © 

and have done so throughout the course of their development. I think ° 


thaje yh dig remarkable. 


Why all the emphasis on high specific impulse? Why could not 
the! country use materials that they have with perhaps lower specific 
impulse and use a slightly smaller load in the warhead but make more 


woes ASal 


One reason why we are after higher performance is that we have 
got performance; so, as long as we have time, we might as well try 
to have more performance. Also, there are applications which are 
beyond our reach at the present time -- 1,500 miles, according to one 
calculation that I saw, seems to be the outside limit for range for a 
solid propellant ballistic missile at this time. So, if we could in- 
crease our performance, maybe we could go 1,510 miles. In other words, 
we may, by achieving increased performance, be able to do things beyond 


our oregah gt _ this time. 


‘I just wondered if we were straining at a gnat there, trying to 
gO another 10 miles when perhaps you could move your gun 10 miles closer 
or make a few more missiles with the materials which you have on hand. 


-~ 110 «= 


S-E-C-R-i-T 


RARER PLES MEN IE EPL SE RE, LETT Se ee tN TTT MeN TE TE 
= a fos 


Sanitized - Approved For R Release : CIA- RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


EE HE CE mend - 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


You know that our friends over there do not polish and shine up their 
gun barrels the way we do. They leave the outside pretty rough. They 
want, them, &Q ;shoot » and that is all they care for. 


pad AD adpes not reflect light and give away their position either. 


And I just wonder whether they could use the ordinary fuels and 
oxidizers that are readily available to them and perhaps reduce the 


load cwhiga they must carry and make more of them. 


I think perhaps part of the answer to that would be that, if you 
cannot reach the enemy, it does not matter how large the rocket is 
anyway, so that by increasing performance we may increase our range 
and be able to stand back farther from him, presumably at a safer 
distance. I do not think that it is an "all of our eggs in one basket" 

t as tha t t we ve. 
Proposition s0 much as t we just want more than we have 


This may come out a little clearer when you look in terms of 
air-to-air missiles and surface-to-surface missiles. The thrust and 
the impulse which is produced by a given rocket are very closely tied 
up with the velocity that you can get out of it. And you just cannot 
' chase Mach 2 bombers with Mach 1 missiles. So performance becomes 
very important in these applications as well as in the range applications 
for bombardment purposes; and since our enemies are presumably trying 
to get as high a performance as they can out of the weapons that they 
are going dg shoot at us, we need all that we can get. 


Can the range be increased by increasing the propellant charge? 


- lll - 


5S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


Well, presumably, if they have more energy, we can take this out any 
way! we want. If we make the nozzle a little larger so that the gas 
escapes faster, then we can expect more velocity. If we keep it smaller 3 
so that it is constrained, it will be in there longer and we can expect a 
more range. Presumably, if we have a better propellant, we can exploit f 
this advantage to suit ourselves. It is not a smooth increase, however. 
Let. us take another property of interest to us -- the burning rate -- the ; 
rate at which a propellant will burn. If it burns at 1 inch per second, 2 
at 1,000 pounds per square inch chamber pressure, it is a pretty good a 
propellant. We have some available that burn 4 or 5, though. We spoke, 
however, of the limitations of an end-burning charge, this being our 
smallest surface, the end of the cylinder. We cannot get enough gas 
off it at the rates of propellant consumption available to us now to 
get the sort of performance we want. If we could increase our burning © 
rates enough so that we could design a usable end-burning propellant, 
the increased loading density which we could get would enable us to 
get much more propellant into a case since we would not have to have 
perforations through the grain. Having that propellant in the case, 
we could expect the thing to go much further if we could get the gas 
off the end surface at a sufficient rate. Here is a case, therefore, 
where you do not advance gradually. The next advance lies here. As 
you approach it, you are getting no better off. But when you get to 
it, then you have free sailing. So we have the ultimate which we 
seek, as well as just pushing the front forward. We have real goals 


on SBX TADe 


In relation to that, is there research being supported on investi- 
gating the combustion -- I mean the fundamentals of combustion, not the 
bur} rates and all that? 

BB Aba 


tog 


I appreciate your asking that. I am sure that you have sensed 

from my own conversation that at least a personal opinion of mine is 

that there certainly is not enough. And if I had a single point to i 
make in this talk, it was that there is not enough basic research. 


- ile - 


5-E-C-R-E-T 


aA MMT ZCd - Approved For Release ; CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


The answer to your question is "yes." There are programs studying the 
basic mechanisme, the fundamental physics, and the thermal chemistry 

of combustion. This is difficult work, however, and the number of 
scientists available for it is quite limited. We mist make every effort 


to Soy impginative work in this area. 


It might be added as @ light of hope in this basic research problem 
that ONR called. a conference last week of all people who are interested 
in the light metal additives, particularly boron. They were represented 
by both university and industrial contractors, as well as government 
organizations letting contracts in this field. They are trying to organize 
an integrated program which will come up with the fundamental high-tem- 
perature equilibria data that they need in order to exploit these light- 
metal additives from the point of view of design. But it is. far from 
complete, even at turbojet and ramjet temperatures, not to mention 
rocket temperatures. 


Unidentified: 


About 20 years ago there were some people trying to do some work 
on combustion of hydrocarbons. To the best of my knowledge they never 


Bt AF ABal. 
a 


There are still a few people doing research on combustion of some 
hydrocarbons. There is, specifically, the work of Atlantic Research on 
the mechanics of propane-air flames. Here we are trying to learn some- 
thing about the cumbustion of one of the most rudimentary hydrocarbons 
which we can imagine, when we are actually dealing in our daily work 
with the infinitely more complex combustion of very complicated polymers 
which we talked about all day. 


Unidentified: 


Tt seemed to me that we were way ahead of ourselves; we had not 
found out about what A was, and we were talking about Z. 


~ 113 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
25X1A5a1 


oBeagidy. I agree with you wholeheartedly. 


Assuming that we had to get into a full mobilization, say, in 
about 2 or 3 years from now, what would be the principal solid pro- 
pellants @pd liquid propellants that would be used? 


I would have to confine my answer to solid propellants. I think 
that double-base propellants, available for large-scale production, 
would be used immediately. Composite propellants, based on Thiokol 
(polysulfide and rubber) and polybutadiene -- methyl vinyl pyridine, 
copolymer rubber, and polyurethane synthetic rubber -- would be major 
propellants. There would also be, on the composite side, ammonium 
perchlorate and ammonium nitrate oxidizers used. 


- 114 - 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


“mn eemntmenneeeanitized - Approved For Release: CIA ROPCLOUSSAUODTOOTOUUUZS— 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 


APPENDIX F 


ATTENDANCE LIST 


NAME Agency 
25X1A9a ae eee CIA 
ALEXANDER, Cdr. Clyde E. Defense 
ALLISON, Mr. John Defense 
ARMSTRONG, Mrs. Susan Defense 
BALDWIN, Miss Isabel Ann ICA 
25X1AS2 CIA 
BATES, Dr. Fred L. Defense 
BESHERS, Mr. Hugh Commerce 
BESSIO, Mr. Oscar Defense 
25X1A5a1 FFOLA, Mr. Frank Defense 


BROOKS, Mr. Donald B. Defense 


sxince I co 


DAVIS, Mr. T. Allan Commerce 


25X1A9a 
: Mi Dr. R.E. 


FINEGOLD, Mr. Edmund L. Defense 


; GEORGE, ode she Commerce 


GRANT, Mr. John Defense 

REEN, Col. Robert W. Defense 
25X1A9a CIA 
CIA 

i HARPER, Capt. Talbot E. Defense 
25X1A0 i Cl 

HINMAN, Mr. Edmund Defense 

S45" 

S-E-C-R-E-T 


: 


dd bd DS Dd DG PS OS OS bd bd bd Dd Dd bE Dd DE Dd BS Dd DS Dd DS OS DS PS Pd DS OS ad 


24 June 


a. aie) be Sd OP OS 


b4 Dd SS Od Bd BG BS BS OM 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


S-E-C-R-E-T 
NAME Agency _ 13 dune 14 June 
HOLLAND, Miss Angel Defense xX : 
JEFFREY, Mr. Earl Commerce Xx xX 
KEILTY, ur. John Defense Xx x e 
KELSTON, Mr. Leon Commerce xX 
KENIS, Mr. Ivan ATIC x xX 
CIA xX 
25X1A9 CTA Xx x 
CIA 25X1A5a1 x x 
25X1A Defense xX x 
x 
CIA x X 
25X1A9 CIA X X 
NUSSON, Mr. Fred Commerce xX 
MARTIN, Mr. Charles D. State x 
5 - Raver 2 1 x x 
| X 
MIKAITIS, Mr. Daniel W. Commerce x xX 
JE: Mr. Herschel e xX x 
x 
25X1A9a CIA xX » 
POMERANTZ, Mr. Philip Defense X 
POMEROY, Mer. Leonard H. State xX x 
POUROWSKI, Mr. Carl X X : 
Aakd Aad. Jeannetta x x 
X x 
Mr. Murra: x 
x 
X Xx 
25X1A9 | _ 
SCHEIMAN, Mr. William Defense X 
SEMMETT, Mr. William ‘Defense X X 
SLAGHT, Mr. L. Malcolm ICA x x 
25X1A CIA - x Xx 
SWEENEY, Mr. Wilson Commerce xX 
TUCKER, Mr. John E. ICA Xx 
VICTOR, Mr. Harry Defense xX x 
WEIRICH, Mr. Leonard Conmerce x we 
WRIGHT, Mr. Royce MDAC X 
WYSKIEL, Mr. Chester Defense x Xx 
- 116 - 
S-E-C-R-E-T 


eae en Dod Approved FOr ROTSESET CIR ROPRLOOSTAUOO TOON OIOIZ 


woes 
“Zor > 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62- 00328A000100100002- 3 
SECRET 
NOT RELEASABLE TO £D 
FOREIGN NATIONALS Ig be fC 
a 


PROPELLANTS SEMINAR 
13-14 June 1956 


LIQUID PROPELLANTS 


(With Appendixes Containing the Previously Unpublished Proceedings 
on Solid Propellants) 


(Edited Transcript) 


30 April 1957 


ECONOMIC DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE 
WORKING GROUP ON PROPELLANTS AND FUEL ADDITIVES 


NOT RELEASABLE TO 
FOREIGN NATIONALS 


SECRET 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


ke 


- OK ‘ 
Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


. 


WARNING 


This material contains information affecting 
the National Defense of the United States 
! within the meaning of the espionage laws, 

Title 18, USC, Secs. 793 and 794, the trans- 
: mission or revelation of which in any manner 
: to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law. 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 
SECRET 


NOT RELEASABLE TO 
FOREIGN NATIONALS 


NOT RELEASABLE TO 
FOREIGN NATIONALS 


SECRET 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP62-00328A000100100002-3 


