alla. of 


Approved For 


8B 


we ne 


The SEC b 
arp significant to investor's primarily be- 
cause ‘they raise questions of the 
inbnagement, 
the integrity of financial accounts and re- 
porting,” according to Chairman Ray Gar- 
gett Jr. Yn addition, SEC official 
stockholders have a right to know i 
Ginuation of a company’s operations in a for- 
‘eign country depends on making payoffs to 
Officials there and what-the ris 
the payotis might be. : f 
4 *But because disclosure of such payments 
¢an upset a company’s dealings abroad, the 
SEC is debating how mucn sunlight to let in, 
The agency is very aware that “a lot otf 
these companies ware in a very difficult 
Squeeze because if they disclose some of 
this, they. may jeopardize economic inter- 
ests abroad,” Commissioner Sommer says. 
i .'Thus, the: agency is faced with the prob- 
Tein that its efforts to force disclosure of for- 


ee) 


could have the opposite effect, “Stockhold- 
érs aren't going to praise us if the disclo-, 
Sue: we require leads to the nationalization 
ef:$100 million in-assets in some foreign 
country,’”? an SEC enforcement official re- 
‘marks. “We don’t want to protect share- 
holders so well that there's nothing left to 
protect.” ; S.4 

How Much Detail? - : ae 

1 (One. New. York. -sécuritiés lawyer adds 
that if faced with thé propésition that a pay- 
ment to a foreign official will protector pro- 
yicte a company’s business abroad, “you, 
Know that most stockholders would say if: 
H's going to help your earnings per ‘Share, 
and my stock price, do it.’’) a Al 
: .Phillips Petroleum, Gulf and Northrop : 
have, as part of consent settlements of SECO 
charges, agreed to file full reports on their 
slush funds with the SEC. But the agency 
hasn't decided how detailed these reports 
will have to be. It's not yet clear, for in- 
stance, whether they must name the. offi- 
‘cials who received the money, state the rea- 


Pad gastro eS, 


;S0ns for the payoffs and indicate if the com-!! 


Panies got what they were promised. The 
first report dealing with foreign payoffs, 
from Phillips, isn't due until later this 
month, and when the reports do come in the 
eompanies may scek confidential SEC treat- 
Fment of some of the information. 

Even if the commission doesn't grant an 
application for secrecy, it could be months 
before the information comes out. Northrop 


report it filed in December under a court 
erder in another case, and the SEC just re- 
a June hearing on that re- 


cently scheduled 
fee : 


89: ae Te at a pod We wand « * 


AR A A trp es bette eet ete S mnnceinde ne soe 


SR ae ae eC For Release 2011/08/03 : CIA-RDP02-06341R000302420011-5 ~ 00, 


requested confidential treatment of part of aj; 


Peeeeeeen = _ 
Release 201 1/08/03 : CIA-RDP02-06341R000302420011-5 


‘~ WALL STREET JOURNAL 


A 


ll: Full- Disclosure 


elieves the slush-fund cases| ; 
quality of 


the quality of earnings and} } 


s believe | mer says, 
f the con-' | 


ks ut stopping « 


“€ign payments in order to protect investors | Way of Life - 


i 
' 


‘traditional 


lS PAY tazs 


: ae 
See 


Push 


y SEC on Firms Alarms Critics 


4 


The commission insistence on full disclo- 
sure will probably trouble banks in particu- 
lar. SEC officials maintain that investors 
have a right to know how the recession is af. 
fecting a bank’s loan portfolio, particularly. 
at a time when some analysts believe that 
jbanks are overextended. . 

‘Exaygerated Dangers Scen ' 

Some banks have balked at SEC de. 
mands. Several months ago Chemical New] 
, York Corp., parent of Chemical Bank, can- 
{celed a $100 million debenture offering after |. 
the SEC insisted that the bank holding com. |: 
pany give detailed information on loans on 
which borrowers, particularly real estate in- 
vestment trusts, have fallen behind in pay- 
ments of interest or principal. Proposed of- 
ferings by other banks have been delayed 
for similar reasons. — 

Officials at the Federal Reserve Board 
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Cur- 
rency argue that the SEC disclosure de- 
mands exaggerated the dangers that. banks 
face. These officials fear disclosures might 
cause some nervous depositors to withdraw 
their funds and might make it harder for 
banks to raise needed capital. ; 


Bank -regulators and SEC Officials are 
trying to work out a disclosure plan that 
Would balance protection of banks and their 
depusitors wilh protection of investors, But 
the SEC is reluctant to adopt a milder dis-|- 
closure standard for panks than for other 
| businesses. “I have difficulty with the con. 
Velusion that because’ banks are important 
j they should be treated differently from 
cae companies,’ Mr. Loomis says. $ 


One reason for the six-month delay is 
t the SEC hasn’t yet decided how it's 
going to handle foreign-payoff cases in the 
‘long run. So far it has acted on them one by 
one without taking an overall view of all the 
problems they raise. “I think we have got to 
determine policies on these matters rather 
than make it a hit-or-miss issue,’ Mr. Som. 


'tha 


“So many people are involved and so 
much. money is involved, because of the 
growth of international trade in recent 
Years, “that I doii’t ‘think governments “have 
caught up with this problem yet," Says for- 
mer Secretary of State William Roger's. He 
Suggests that foreign governments. should 
act to clear up confusion about how business 
is done in their countries, with particular at. 
tention to transactions calling for fat com. 
missions or agent's fees, some of which may 
end up in the pockets of government offi- 
cials. Mr. Rogers proposes a legal require- 
ment that all commissions be disclosed in 
each sales contract, : 


Uncertainty over what constitutes an ac. 
ceptable commission abroad is troublesome 
to the US. businessman, Mr. Rogers adds. 
“The difficulty is, he is often advised that in 
some countries this is a way of life ard if he 
wants to do business in that country, he 
must go along” -and ‘meet demands for un- 
usually high commissions, 

For the time being, at least, disclosures 
of foreign disbursements and the resulting 
complications are likely to spread. The SEC 
is about to bring several more cases involy- 
ing foreign payofts, including one ageinst 
Ashland Oil Inc., and the SEC's enforcement 
division is asking a number of companies, 
including banana producers and defense coni- 
tractors, for information on their dealings 
with commission agents and governments 
abroad. “If we have reason to believe that 
firms in an industry are doing things they 
Shouldn't, then we can have an investigation 
of a whole industry,’’ says Commissioner 
John R. Evans. : . 

In addition, some SEC officials Suggest 
that the Global Marine case, which involves 
the CIA's efforts to Salvage a sunken Rus- 
sian submarine, may spark a quiet commis- 
sion search for other corporate failures to 
disclose potentially controversial dealings 
with the CIA. “We would like to know from 
the agency how many other public compa- 
nies are doing the same type of thing,’’ an 
SEC official says. . ae 

The ‘efforts to force disclosure of- 
payments come on top of SEC moves to ex- 
pand corporate disclosure in other, more 
areas. The agency is currently 
studying comments on proposals designed to 
bolster the information in quarterly financial 
reports that firms file with the agency and 
to increase the accuracy of corporations’ 
profit forecasts, The commission is also con- 
sidering whether it should require compa- 
nies to disclose information on such non-fi- 
nancial matters as hiring practices and en- 
vironmental standards. 


t 


foreign 


ae 
poe ae 


