UNCLASSIFIED 


Hefvutduoed 
tuf  the 


ARMED  SERVICES  TECHNICAL  INFORMAnd  AGENCT 
ARUNGTON  HALL  STATION 
ARLINGTd  12,  VIRGINU 


UNCLASSIFIED 


SOTICK:  Vhen  govenment  or  other  dravings,  speci- 
fleations  or  other  data  axe  used  for  way  purpose 
other  than  in  connecticm  vlth  a  definitely  related 
goverment  proeuxeBent  opexation,  the  U.  S. 

Gtorennaent  thereby  Incurs  no  responsibility,  nor  any 
obligation  uhatsoeverj  and  the  fact  that  the  Gksrexn- 
■ent  BMiy  have  foxBulated,  fuxnlshed,  or  In  any  way 
supplied  the  said  drawing,  specifications,  or  other 
data  Is  xiot  to  be  regarded  by  Inpllcatlon  or  other¬ 
wise  as  In  any  Banner  licensing  the  holder  or  any 
other  person  or  corporation,  or  conveying  any  xrlf^ts 
or  pexBlsslon  to  aanufacture,  use  or  sell  any 
patented  Invention  that  nay  In  any  way  he  related 
thereto. 


GAS  TURBINE  AND 
JET  ENGINE  FUELS 


PROGRESS  REPORT  NO.  I 
NAVY  BUWEP  CONTRACT  RESEARCH 
MARCH,  1961 


PHILLIPS  PETROLEUM  COMPANY 


PHILLIPS  PETROLEUM  COMPANY  -  RESEARCH  DIVISION  REPOIT  2873-61R 

April  6,  1961 


Progress  Report  No.  1 
Navy  Contract  N0(w)6l-0590-d 

GAS  TURBINE  AND  JET  ENGINE  FUELS 


by 

W.  L.  Streets 


34 


SUMMARY 


The  first  bimonthly  period  under  Contract  N0(w)6l-0590-d  has  been 
spent  continuing  the  study  of  the  effects  of  sulfur  in  jet  fuels  on  flame  tube 
durability,  >*iich  was  started  under  Contract  NOa858-310-d,  Amendments  1  and  2, 
and  continued  under  Contract  NOas  60-6009-c.  Efforts  during  this  period  have 
included  preliminary  evaluation  of  the  combined  effect  of  sulfur  and  ingested 
sea  water  on  jet  combustor  flame  tube  corrosion  using  the  Phillips  2-inch 
Research  Combustor.  Initiation  of  this  study  has  been  brou^t  about  as  a 
result  of  reports  of  markedly  decreased  life  of  jet  engine  "hot  section"  com¬ 
ponents  in  engines  operating  on  sulfur-containing  fuels  in  sea  water  laden 
atmospheres.  Results  of  testing  carried  on  to  date  in  this  laboratory  have 
indicated  the  followings 

1.  Sjmthetic  sea  water  (ASTM  D655)  showed  no  significant  tendency 
to  increase  or  decrease  flame  tube  metal  loss  above  or  below 
the  values  observed  for  operation  on  1  per  cent  sulfur  fuel 
without  sea  water  injection,  even  at  concentrations  as  higji  as 
5000  times  that  indicated  in  the  literature  as  representative 
of  the  concentration  of  airborne  sea  water  vapor  at  an  altitude 
of  50  feet  over  the  ocean. 

2,  Natural  sea  water  (Gulf  of  Mexico)  did  cause  increased  metal 
loss  both  with  operation  on  1  per  cent  sulfur  fuel  and  with 
nearly  sulfur-free  fuel.  However,  the  magnitude  of  these 
Increases  was  nearly  the  same  without  sulfur  as  with  sulfur, 
indicating  that  the  corrosive  effects  of  sulfur  and  this 
particular  sea  water  were  not  synergistic  but  independent. 


IBR24ig61 


Researdi  DlTlsion  Report  2d73-6lR 


PHILLIPS  PETROLEUM  CGHPANT 
BARTLESVILLE,  OKLAHOMA 

Progress  Report  No »  1 
Mavy  Contract  N0(w)61-0^0"<i 

GAS  TURBIME  AND  JET  ENGINE  FUELS 


I.  INTRCDUCTION 


The  first  bimonthly  period  under  Navy  Contract  N0(w)6l-0590-d  has 
been  spent  continuing  the  study  of  the  effects  of  sulfur  in  jet  fuels  on  com¬ 
bustor  flame  tube  durability,  ^diich  was  started  under  Contract  NOas  58-310d, 
Amendments  1  and  2,  and  continued  under  Contract  NOas  60-6009c,  Efforts  during 
this  period  have  included  evaluation  of  the  effect  of  sea  water  on  flame  tube 
durability  during  operation  with  both  low  sulfur  and  hi^  sulfur  fuels.  Initi¬ 
ation  of  this  program  has  been  brou^t  about  as  a  result  of  the  reports  of 
several  observers  of  markedly  decreased  life  of  combustor  and  turbine  "hot 
section"  components  in  engines  operating  in  the  presence  of  sea  water  laden  air. 
These  reports  have  indicated  an  even  greater  acceleration  of  corrosion  rates 
in  cases  where  these  engines  were  also  operating  with  fuels  containing  sulfur 
at  concentrations  within  the  specification  maximum  of  0.4  per  cent.  It  is 
therefore  the  purpose  of  the  present  investigation  to  establish  under  con¬ 
trolled  conditions  in  the  laboratory  the  effects  of  sea  water  and  sea  water 
plus  fuel  sulfur  on  jet  engine  "hot  section"  components.  This  report  will 
discuss  the  results  of  preliminary  experiments  involving  operation  with  and 
without  sjnthetic  and/or  natural  sea  water  and  with  and  without  sulfur  in 
the  fuel. 


II.  TEST  PROGRAM 


The  apparatus  utilized  in  this  investigation  was  the  Phillips  2-inch 
Research  Combustor  which  has  been  described  in  complete  detail  in  previous 
reports  (l).  Briefly,  this  is  a  2-inch  diameter  social  flow  combustor  em¬ 
bodying  the  principal  features  of  modem  jet  engine  combustion  systems.  Air 
is  supplied  to  this  combustor  in  controlled  amounts  from  a  compression  suid 
heating  plant  described  in  (l),  while  fuel  is  supplied  to  the  swirl  type 
nozzle  by  nitrogen  pressurization.  The  design  of  the  combustor  is  such  as  to 
allow  ready  removal  of  flame  tubes  for  inspection,  weiring,  etc. 

The  flame  tube  metal  loss  test  procedure  consists  of  cleaning  and 
weiring  a  new  flame  tube  before  each  test,  installing  it  in  the  combustor 
test  assembly  and  measuring  the  wei^t  loss  (by  difference)  following  each 
of  three  consecutive  one-hour  test  periods. 


Research  DlTielon  Report  2673-61R 

Page  2 


Test  conditions  employed  for  the  present  program  were  identical 
to  those  used  for  previous  investigations  of  the  effect  of  sulfur  type  and 
concentration  on  flame  tube  durability  which  have  been  reported  on  in  (2). 
Combustor  pressure  was  held  at  350  in.  Hg  abs.,  inlet  air  temperature  at 
700  F  and  inlet  reference  velocity  at  100  fps,  providing  a  severity  level 
\diich  is  reasonably  realistic  for  high  compressor  ratio  turbojets  operating 
at  relatively  low  altitudes.  Puel-air  ratio  remained  at  0.010  lb  fuel  per 
lb  of  air  for  the  complete  sequence  of  tests. 

Since  previous  investigations  (2)  of  the  effect  on  flame  tube  dura¬ 
bility  of  a  variety  of  sulfur  compounds  added  to  a  nearly  sulfur-free  base 
fuel  had  shown  sulfur  compound  type  to  be  unlii?)ortant  as  compared  to  sulfur 
concentration,  it  was  decided  for  purposes  of  the  present  test  program  to 
use  Just  the  single  compound  ditertiary  butyl  disulfide,  which  is  relatively 
ineaqjensive  and  readily  available  at  hi^  purities.  In  order  to  exaggerate 
the  sulfur  severity  for  testing  purposes  it  was  decided  to  employ  this  com¬ 
pound  at  sufficient  concentration  to  realize  2.5  times  the  jet  fuel  specifi¬ 
cation  sulfur  limit  of  0.4  per  cent,  or,  in  other  words,  1.0  per  cent  sulfur, 
since  considerable  previous  data  were  available  at  this  concentration. 

The  base  fuel  selected  for  this  work  was,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
previous  investigations,  a  JP-5  type  isoparaff inic  alkylate  containing 
0.005  per  cent  or  less  sulfur.  Typical  properties  of  this  base  fuel  are 
shown  in  Table  1. 

Pilot  tests  were  undertaken  at  the  beginning  of  this  test  program 
to  determine  the  best  means  for  injecting  the  sea  water  into  the  combustion 
system.  Since^  in  the  case  of  the  engines  themselves, the  sea  water  enters  as 
vapor  in  the  air  stream,  attempts  were  initially  made  to  simply  spray  the  sea 
water  into  the  air  stream  at  a  point  just  upstream  of  the  combustor  nozzle 
holder.  This  method  was  found  to  be  unsatisfactory  due  to  deposition  of  most 
of  the  salt  on  the  upstream  side  of  the  nozzle  holder  and  associated  hardware 
before,  it  had  a  chance  to  enter  the  combustion  zone.  Next,  an  attempt  was 
made  to  inject  the  sea  water  directly  into  one  of  the  primary  air  ports  of 
the  combustor.  Again,  however,  most  of  the  salt  deposited  on  the  walls  of  the 
port  before  entering  the  combustion  zone  and,  additionally,  channeling  along 
one  side  of  the  flame  tube  wall  was  observed  vben  smae  salt  did  manage  to 
enter  the  combustion  zone.  Since  these  techniques  did  not  seem  promising 
enough  to  explore  further,  the  next  method  considered  was  that  of  injecting 
the  sea  water  into  the  fuel  stream  by  means  of  a  mixing  tee  placed  Just  out¬ 
side  the  combustor,  or,  in  the  case  of  very  small  quantities,  by  including  it 
in  the  fuel  using  suitable  emulsifiers.  Pilot  tests  were  conducted  using 
both  of  these  methods  and  the  results  seemed  to  be  operationally  quite  satis¬ 
factory.  It  was  then  decided  to  use  the  emulsification  route  where  the  de¬ 
sired  sea  water  input  was  so  small  as  to  be  difficult  to  meter  by  the  usual 
means  and  to  use  the  mixing  tee  system  idien  flow  rates  were  sufficient  to  be 
readily  measurable. 


Research  Division  Report  2873*-6lR 

Page  3 


It  was,  of  course,  desirable  prior  to  beginning  the  test  mrk  In 
this  program,  to  attempt  to  establish  from  the  available  literature  a 
realistic  magnitude  of  sea  salt  intake  for  low-level  fli^t  over  the  ocean. 

For  this  puipose  reference  was  made  to  the  work  of  Woodstock  and  Ca.fford  (3) 
in  ehlch  air  borne  sea  salt  sas^les  were  obtained  at  altitudes  ranging  from 
50  feet  to  3d00  feet  over  the  ocean  near  Bermuda.  Inspection  of  their  data 
indicated  that  of  the  several  sampling  altitudes  involved  a  maximum  concen¬ 
tration  of  salts  was  observed  at  an  altitude  of  50  feet.  This  altitude  also 
seemed  to  coincide  reasonably  well  with  typical  carrier  aircraft  operation 
and  so  it  was  decided  to  employ  the  salt  concentration  data  obtained  at 
50  feet.  Conversion  of  Woodstock's  data  to  a  corresponding  salt  Intake  for 
the  Phillips  2- Inch  Research  Combustor  operat^g^  under  the  conditions  cited 
above  indicated  a  salt  flow  rate  of  8.86  x  10“®  Ib/hr  of  salt.  Conversion 
of  this  value  to  the  necessary  flow  rate  of  a  4.2^  (wt.)  salts  solution 
(synthetic  sea  water  to  be  described  later  herein)  showed  that  a  synthetic 
sea  water  flow  rate  of  2.11  x  10^  Ib/hr.  would  be  required.  However,  since 
it  had  been  arbitrarily  decided  to  use  2.5  times  the  specification  maximum 
for  sulfur,  it  was  also  decided  to  arbitrarily  increase  this  sea  water  input 
by  2.5  times  in  the  hope  of  increasing  the  severity  for  teat  purposes. 
Additionally,  since  it  had  been  decided  to  emulsify  the  sea  water  in  the  fuel 
for  such  small  salt  input  rates  it  was  necessary  to  determine  the  necessary 
concentration  of  sea  water  in  the  fuel  corresponding  to  the  above  sea  water 
flow  rate  (calculated  in  air)  consistent  with  the  desired  fuel  flow  rate  for 
the  intended  conditions  of  operation  of  the  combustor.  This  worked  out  to 
be  17  parts  (wt.)  of  synthetic  sea  water  per  million  parts  of  fuel.  As  will 
be  eaiplained  later,this  very  low  synthetic  sea  water  input  proved  to  have  no 
measurable  effect  on  flame  tube  durabilitjj  so  it  was  decided  to  carry  out 
some  tests  using  the  mixing  tee  arrangement  with  veiyimrch  hi^er  sea  water 
input  rates.  For  these  tests  the  synthetic  sea  water  flow  rate  of  2.11  x  10”^ 
Ib/hr.  suggested  by  the  data  of  Woodstock  and  Gifford  was  multiplied  by  a 
factor  of  approximately  5000  to  arrive  at  a  greatly  increased  rate  of  1  Ib/hr. 
of  sea  water.  This  rate  corresponds  to  3.1^  of  the  fuel  plus  sea  water  input 
and  these  tests  are  therefore  identified  in  the  data  of  Table  2  in  this  way. 

At  this  point  it  would  seem  well  to  mention  that  the  original  in¬ 
tention  was  to  run  all  of  these  tests  using  type  304  stainless  steel  flame 
tubes.  As  testing  progressed  it  was  noticed  that  repeated  tests  conducted  with 
the  base  fuel  treated  with  1%  sulfur  failed  to  check  previously  obtained  metal 
loss  values  and  were  also  poorly  repeatable  within  themselves.  Metallurgical 
examination  of  the  used  flame  tubes  revealed  that  the  fabricator  had  acci¬ 
dentally  made  several  of  the  tubes  from  type  316  rather  than  type  3C4  stainless 
steel.  The  remaining  new  flame  tubes  were  checked  by  a  spot  test  technique 
and  further  testing  was  carried  on  using  only  those  tubes  established  as 
type  304  staj.nless  steel.  Although  not  too  conclusive  because  of  their  poor 
repeatability  the  results  of  the  tests  in  which  type  316  tubes  were  used  have 
been  included  herein  since  at  this  time  they  represent  the  only  data  available 
on  the  effect  of  a  very  low  salt  intake  level.  Although  the  accidental  use 
of  the  type  316  stainless  steel  flame  tubes  would  appear  to  be  unfortunate,  it 
does,  nevertheless,  point  up  the  interesting  fact  that  this  material  is  con¬ 
siderably  less  predictable  with  regard  to  sulfur  corrosion  than  type  304 
stainless  steel.  It  is  intended  in  future  work,  however,  to  repeat  the  tests 
at  the  17  ppm  concentration  using  known  type  304  tubes. 


Research  Division  Report  2873-61R 

Page  U 


As  previously  mentioned,  the  decisions  with  regard  to  sea  water 
flow  rates,  etc.,  were  predicated  i^jon  the  use  of  a  synthetic  sea  water 
fomulation.  The  formulation  chosen  for  this  study  is  that  described  in 
ASTM  Test  Method  D665-60.  A  complete  description  of  the  conqionents  of  this 
formulation  and  their  concentrations  is  shown  in  Table  3.  In  addition  to 
this  synthetic  sea  water,  a  sample  of  natural  sea  water,  obtained  at  the 
site  of  an  offshore  drilling  rig  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  was  also  employed, 
fhiulsifi cation  of  the  synthetic  sea  water  in  the  fuel  was  brou^t  about 
throu^  the  use  of  17  ppm  of  a  50/50  mixture  of  sorbitan  monolaurate  and 
polyoxyethylene  sorbitan  monolaurate  ashless  non-ionic  surfactants.  Since 
these  surfactants  %rare  present  at  very  small  concentrations  and  since  there 
is  little  reason  to  believe  they  would  influence  metal  losses,  no  attempt 
was  made  during  this  initial  testing  to  isolate  their  possible  effects. 


III.  DISCUSSION  OF  EXPERIMENTAL  RESULTS 


Considering  first  the  data  plotted  in  Figure  1,  which  includes  only 
those  tests  inadvertently  run  on  type  316  stainless  steel  flame  tubes,  it 
would  appear  that  the  addition  of  synthetic  sea  water  at  an  input  level 
corresponding  to  2.5  times  that  observed  by  Woodstock  and  Gifford  at  an 
altitude  of  50  feet,  failed  to  Increase  the  rate  of  corrosion  beyond  that 
observed  for  operation  on  fuel  containing  1%  sulfur.  Although  these  results 
are  somewhat  clouded  by  the  erratic  sulfur  corrosion  observed  with  the 
type  316  stainless  steel  tubes,  it  is  apparent  that  the  inclusion  of  the 
synthetic  sea  water  did  not  cause  metal  losses  to  rise  above  the  hipest 
value  observed  for  the  tests  on  the  \%  sulfur  fuel  alone.  No  data  are 
available  for  comparison  with  the  test  on  the  base  fuel  plus  synthetic 
sea  water  (no  sulfur).  However,  based  on  previous  experience  with  304 
stainless  steel  flame  tubes  operating  on  the  isoparaff inic  alkylate  base 
fuel  alone,  it  would  appear  doubtful  that  this  low  concentration  of 
synthetic  sea  water  had  any  appreciable  effect  on  flame  tube  durability 
either  with  or  without  sulfur  in  the  fuel. 

Since  the  results  of  the  tests  described  above  had  failed  to  show 
any  positive  deleterious  effects  of  sea  water, it  was  decided  to  increase  the 
sea  water  input  rate  drastically  to  a  level  5000  times  that  suggested  by  the 
data  of  Woodstock  and  Gifford  and  to  include  also  some  tests  using  natural 
sea  water  taken  from  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  The  results  of  these  tests,  using 
type  304  stainless  steel  flame  tubes, are  shown  in  Figure  2,  again  as  plots  of 
accumulated  flame  tube  metal  loss  versus  test  time.  Tests  conducted  at  this 
greatly  increased  sea  water  input  are  identified  as  those  in  >diich  the  sea 
water  was  injected  into  the  fuel  stream  at  a  rate  corresponding  to  3»1/^  of 
the  combined  sea  water  plus  fuel  input.  Tests  were  run  both  with  and  without 
sulfur  added  to  the  base  fuel  and  also  on  the  base  fuel  alone  with  neither 
sulfur  nor  sea  water. 


Research  Division  Report  2873-61R 

Page  5 


Inspection  of  the  data  plotted  in  Figure  2  shows  that  the  synthetic 
sea  water  formulation  appeared  to  have  very  little  effect  on  flame  tube 
durability  even  at  this  exaggerated  Injection  rate  regardless  of  tdiether 
sulfur  was  present  in  the  fuel  or  not* 

Considering  next  the  tests  in  i^ich  the  natural  sea  water  was  used 
it  may  readily  be  seen  from  Figure  2  that  this  material  did  cause  increases 
in  flame  tube  metal  loss.  Ibis  was,  however,  evident  both  in  tests  idiere  the 
fuel  had  been  contaninated  with  1^  sulfur  and  in  tests  where  it  had  not. 
Additionally,  it  will  be  observed  from  the  3-hour  data  of  Figure  2  that  the 
magnitude  of  the  increase  in  metal  loss  when  injecting  the  natural  sea  water 
was  nearly  the  same  with  sulfur  as  without  it.  Thus,  it  would  appear,  on  the 
basis  of  these  preliminary  results,  that  the  corrosive  effects  of  sulfur  and 
of  the  natural  sea  water  are  independent.  The  composition  of  the  natural  sea 
water  employed  here  is  being  checked  by  chemical  analysis. 


IV.  COJCLUSIOMS 


Preliminary  evaluations  of  the  ccmibined  effect  of  sea  water  and  jet 
fuel  sulfur  on  jet  combustor  flame  tube  durability  conducted  using  the  Wiillips 
2-Ineh  Research  Combustor  have  indicated  the  following: 

1.  Synthetic  sea  water  injected  into  the  combustor  at  rates  2.5 
and  5000  times  that  indicated  in  the  literature  as  repre¬ 
sentative  of  the  concentration  of  airborne  sea  water  v^or 
at  an  altitude  of  50  feet  over  the  ocean  surface  showed  no 
significant  change  in  flame  tube  metal  loss  values  from 
those  observed  for  operation  on  a  synthetic  1%  sulfur  fuel 
without  sea  water  injection. 

2.  Natural  sea  water  taken  from  the  Qulf  of  Mexico  did  cause 
increases  in  flams  tube  metal  loss  with  operation  on 
synthetic  1^  sulfur  fuel  and  with  operation  on  a  nearly 
sulfur-free  fuel.  However,  the  magnitude  of  these  in¬ 
creases  was  nearly  the  same  without  sulfur  as  with  sulfur, 
indicating  that  the  corrosive  effects  of  sulfur  and  this 
particular  sample  of  sea  water  were  not  synergistic  but 
independent. 


V.  OUTLINE  OF  RROJECTH)  WORK 


It  is  intended  to  further  investigate  the  effect  of  sea  salts  in 
combination  with  fuel  sulfur  on  combustor  durability  during  the  second 
bimonthly  period  under  Navy  Contract  N0(w)6l-0590-d.  It  is  eiqwcted  that 
these  efforts  will  include  further  testing  with  natural  sea  water  at  the  17  ppm 
level  and  attempts  to  establish  the  reason  for  the  difference  in  corrosiveness 
observed  between  the  synthetic  sea  water  and  natural  sea  water. 

Consideration  will  also  be  given  to  extending  this  study  into  the 

area  of  turbine  blading  corrosion.  Additionally,  it  is  intended  during  this 


Research  Division  Report  2873-61R 

Page  6 


period  to  better  establish  the  role  of  sulfur  conpoands  on  Jet  fuel  thermal 
stability,  using  a  low  sulfur  aviation  grade  kerosine  as  base  fuel  and 
various  pure  sulfttr  compounds  as  poisoning  agents.  The  objectives  will  be 
to  establish  whether  previous  trends  observed  at  450  F  temperature  in  the 
CFR  Fuel  Coker  with  alkylate  base  fuel,  are  confirmad  with  a  less  in¬ 
herently  stable  base  fuel  at  the  300  F  specification  teii9)erature  level  ~ 
and  with  total  sulfur  concentrations  below  specification  maximum. 


REFERENCES 


1.  Fromm,  E.  H.;  "Design  and  Calibration  of  Phillips  Jet  Fuel  Testing 
Facilities,"  Phillips  Research  Division  Report  1252-55R,  December,  1955. 

2.  Kittredge,  G.  D.  and  Streets,  W.  L.;  "Gas  Turbine  and  Jet  Engine  Fuels," 
Summary  Report  For  Navy  Contract  NOas  60-6009-c,  Phillips  Research 
Division  Report  2760-60R,  January,  1961. 

3.  Woodstock,  Alfred  H.  and  Gifford,  Mary  M. ;  "Sampling  Atmospheric  Sea- 
Salt  Nuclei  Over  the  Ocean,"  Journal  of  Marine  Research,  Volume  VIII, 
1949. 


Research  Division  Report  2873-61R 

Pago  7 


TABLE  I 

TYPICAL  PROPERTIES  OF  ISOPARAFFINIC  ALKYLATES  USED  AS  BASE  FUEL 
FOR  FLAME  TUBE  DURABILITY  TESTS  WITH  SEA  WATER  AND  SULFUR 

ASTM  Distillation 

BP,  F  357 

10^  Evap.  367 

50^  Evap.  390 

90%  Evap.  472 

EP  549 

API  Gravity  53 *0 

Bromine  Number  1 . 4 

Aniline  Point,  F  191.5 

Copper  Corrosion,  3  hre.  •  212  F  1 

Flash  Point,  F  145 

Doctor  Test  Ne  gative 

Color,  Saybolt  +30 

Kinematic  Viscosity,  cs  at  32  F  4.05 

cs  at  100  F  1.77 

Sulfur  Content,  ^  Wt,  Total  0.005 

Hercaptans  0.001 

Composition,  Vol,  %  Essentially  100^  Paraffins 


[ 

f 

t 

I 

I 


Resaareh  DlTislioii  Baport  2873*^1B 

Pag*  8 


EFFECT  OF  SEA  WATER  CM  FLAME  TUBE  DURABILITY  IN  PHTTJ.TPS  ?-TMf!H  RESEARCH  COMBUSTOR 


R«8«areh  DivisioA  Rsport  2873-61B 

Pagi  10 


T/fflLZ  III 

SIMTHETIC  SEA  WATER  FORMULATION  USED  IN  EYALDATION  OF  EFFECT  OF 
SEA  WATER  AND  SEA  WATER  PLDS  SDUDR  OM  FLAME  TUBS  DURABILITY 

Source:  A5TM  Method  0665-60 


Component 


Concentration.  (h»ama/llter 


Had 


MgClo* 
Hiusa, 
CaClo^ 


6H2O 


KCl 

NaHCOo 

KBr 


H^O* 

Srai»6H20 

NaF 


24»54 

11.10 

4.09 

1.16 

0.69 

0.20 

O.TO 

0.03 

0.04 

0.003 


PHILLIPS  PETROLEUM  COMPANY 
RESEARCH  DIVISION  REPORT  287 3- 6  1  R 


FIGURE  1 

EVALUATION  OF  THE  EFFECT  OF  SEA  WATER  AND  FUEL  SULFUR  ON  THE 
DURABILITY  OF  TYPE  316  STAINLESS  STEEL  FLAME  TUBES 


ACCUMULATED  FLAME  TUBE  METAL  LOSS, 


PHILLIPS  PETROLEUM  COMPANY 
RESEARCH  DIVISION  REPORT  2873- 6  1R 


70 


TEST  conditions:  P»  380  III.  Hf  aU  m  V«  100  PPS;  IAT«  700  FJ  F'A«  0,010 
FLAME  TUBE  MATERIAL!  304  STAINLESS  STEEL 
BASE  fuel:  380- 880  F  alkylate 

SULFUR  contaminant:  ditertiary  butyl  disulfide 


TEST  HOURS 


FIGURE  2 

EVALUATION  OF  THE  EFFECT  OF  SEA  WATER  AND  FUEL  SULFUR  ON  THE  DURABILITY  OF 

TYPE  304  STAINLESS  STEEL  FLAME  TUBES 


ACCIHMULATED  FLAME  TUBE  METAL  LOSS,  g 


