‘ 
Ads hr! , 
Ou 
*. we * 
’, Ait DA. 
a Q f ey wt envi. 6 at 

me hse pbb. tia , 
. masses ; 4 mf i et ' Se) 
¥ s ; . 4 eee ¥P bore 
‘a x ari ¢ rhe f ; et tie 
a ; MUM ORN wX) datone iy, ’ . %Y is NS ty ey ay 

CEN UM nM eee fe ji 


Fr) 
* “ Af 
j ’ MAL IADS > e ry 
Baa ees chs tially es Ss iaiichy Rie eee NISMS ESV Pree ee 
1 . - “ah iv Se $ 2 is aN 3 d ores 
; Anan ak 9.8, ng A hy J 5 
oye ; ; ee s . * 


4) 
o 
EN 


tee 
Bane’ 


eee 


Job ; f » \ ah 


$2. y! 


f) ? 7 1 hy . y adhd hds Lae ht 
i Aan } ; 

< sly t Dogins ‘ Y y 3 3 F ‘ f : : 
ey . ft f rye wd a finelctt. 4 mf 


ae ey Fre 3 : é MA aed 


see 


De A 
if 
oy 
a 
Buds A Ad 
4 dain 


pas 

ot 8 ot 
~ Y 

DAgS 
ey 


wtastivh 


4 wy 


hve oe 
Lee aoa Sa? 
er eee b Bo. 
Chet na ss 

be een be 


Pe 
Crete 


42 
ele & an ob 


a ; m=) be) ’ 
On, <i?) 


Bo fat 
Se, HE 


> 


shee Dg ; ir) 


Cae ae 


al | 
; ae 


‘Ure a 


} 
‘yy 


4 


Og i 
We 


may not ea® 
@ ng 


_ > seer et 


cant 


oe? 
st be ree" 


y a« A » 

SP er At Se! 
“ 

ig. : 


ee we 
8.9 °r 


aes G 
a Ss ey ghee 


Hart, Achaffner & Marx Prize Cssays 


XLIV 


A FINANCIAL HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN 
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


A FINANCIAL HISTORY 
OF THE 


AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE 
INDUSTRY 


A STUDY OF THE WAYS IN WHICH THE 
LEADING AMERICAN PRODUCERS OF 
AUTOMOBILES HAVE MET THEIR 
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 


BY : 
LAWRENCE H. SELTZER, Pu.D. © 


Associate Professor of Economics and Sociology 
in the College of the City of Detroit 


: BOSTON AND NEW YORK 
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 
The Riverside Press Cambridge 
1928 


COPYRIGHT, 1928, BY HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX 


ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 


The Riverside Press 
CAMBRIDGE - MASSACHUSETTS 
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A. 


TO 
FRED M. TAYLOR 
THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY 
DEDICATED 


Ye’ 
ws Wi eee 2 A ee 4 
we) An 2 de 
ae OEE 
, mir 4 4 re “ : 4 P is js Pi 
) Pry yl 4 hte “fe ‘ 
é ; wt yaa + ty “sS 


A Cal? 
aie te 
at did Ve) 

ny tae, 


PREFACE 


Tuis series of books owes its existenee to the generosity of 
Messrs. Hart, Schaffner & Marx, of Chicago, who have 
shown a special interest in trying to draw the attention of 
American youth to the study of economic and commercial 
subjects. For this purpose they have delegated to the un- 
dersigned committee the task of selecting or approving of 
topics, making announcements, and awarding prizes an- 
nually for those who wish to compete. | 

For the year 1926 there were offered: 

In Class A, which included any American without re- 
striction, a first prize of $1000, and a second prize of $500. 

In Class B, which included any who were at the time 
undergraduates of an American college, a first prize of $300, 
and a second prize of $200. 

Any essay submitted in Class B, if deemed of sufficient 
merit, could receive a prize in Class A. 

The present volume, submitted in Class A, was awarded 
First Prize. 


J. LAURENCE LAUGHLIN, Chairman 

University of Chicago 
Joun B. CLARK 

Columbia University 
EpwIn F. Gay 

Harvard University 

THEODORE E. BuRTON 

Washington, D.C, 
WEsLEyY C. MITCHELL 

Columbia University 


AUTHOR'S PREFACE 


Our knowledge of the economic processes, long summarized 
in a valuable body of ‘principles’ or ‘laws,’ has experienced 
the promise of much enrichment in recent years as the result 
of a host of inductive studies of concrete economic phenom- 
ena. Such studies need not aim at new large generalizations. 
Apart from their value in special fields, their worth is amply 
established if they but serve to refine, to clarify, or to enrich 
by specific illustration, the body of economic theory that has 
thus far been the fruit of a priort reasoning most largely. 
The aim of the present study is to take a place with countless 
other empirical investigations, the joint product of which, it 
is hoped, will be an expansion of our knowledge of the eco- 
nomic processes. 

One of the outstanding characteristics of contemporary 
industry is the striking mobility of economic resources. The 
enormous advances of the past century in the means of com- 
munication and in the arts and sciences have greatly ac- 
celerated the rate of economic change. New products and 
new methods of production appear almost daily; older lines 
change rapidly in importance. Consumption habits and 
industrial practices, alike, display a remarkable flexibility, 
ready ever to stimulate and to accommodate the new and to 
modify relations among the old. | 

Changes in industry appear to take place Pentaie diate. 
for they are brought about by thousands of individuals and 
groups, each acting more or less independently of others, and 
each motivated and guided by the hope of profits. Initiative 
in business is controlled by no central institution, but is open 
to all who can command the necessary productive resources. 
This initiative, and hence, the resources, are attracted to all 
lines of enterprise that offer relatively large returns. The 
existence of different and changing rates of profits in differ- 


x AUTHOR’S PREFACE 


ent fields operates constantly to regulate the employment of 
productive resources by causing them to be diverted from 
less to more profitable channels. In consequence, the prevail- 
ing distribution of productive agents among the various in- 
dustries, products, and services is always tentative, and is 
achieved by a process of constant readjustment. 

While changes in industry are motivated chiefly by profits, 
they are largely conditioned by the actual readiness of land, 
labor, capital, and business initiative to shift from one em- 
ployment to another. Perfect mobility in these agents is an. 
important postulate of traditional economic theory; and the 
practical limitations upon such mobility are responsible for 
various apparent anomalies in the world of competitive 
business, such as continuing discrepancies in the compara- 
tive prices, wages, profits, and interest rates of different 
countries, sections, trades, and industries. In modern in- 
dustry, important changes are peculiarly conditioned by the 
mobility of capital. The large-scale industrial technique of. 
our times requires the employment of enormous quantities of 
resources for mediate uses — for tools, machines, buildings, 
products in process, reserves against fluctuations, etc. The 
commercial production of an important new good, the auto- 
mobile, for example, is conditioned, therefore, by the avail- 
ability of free economic resources to be.employed for such 
mediate uses in its connection; is conditioned, in other 
words, by the availability of free capital. 

The nature of capital as an economic category has been 
somewhat variously conceived and far more variously articu- 
lated; but the purposes of the present study do not require an 
extended examination of the theoretical content of this con- 
cept. In accordance with a prevailing view, it is sufficient to 
say that capital in general is best conceived as consisting of 
economic resources devoted to mediate or instrumental uses, 
as contrasted with resources employed for current consump- 
tion; and that, for some purposes, capital may be regarded as 


a fund of economic goods permanently dedicated to mediate 
employment. 


AUTHOR’S PREFACE xi 


The availability of capital for new or expanding industries 
may be said to depend, in general, upon the rate at which the 
supply of capital is increased and upon the efficiency of the 
institutions and practices that bring together owners of 
capital and entrepreneurs. These broad conditions depend 
in turn upon many other factors, some of which are fre- 
quently ignored. Many writers, for example, are content to 
discuss the processes of capital mobility solely in terms of the 
liquid funds marshalled and directed by the organized 
financial markets and by business men. In so doing, they 
suggest a simplicity and directness that are not easily ob- 
servable in the facts of industry. Capital in the form of 
money is, indeed, capital par excellence, for in this form it is 
synonymous with the power to employ virtually all kinds of 
economic resources in ‘roundabout,’ ‘time-consuming’ 
methods. At any given moment, however, the bulk of a com- 
munity’s capital is not to be found in the form of money, but 
in the form of concrete capital goods. How capital so em- 
bodied is constantly redistributed to meet the changing needs 
of industry, and the factors that variously influence this 
mobility, constitutes a set of processes that transcend the 
operations of the money markets. 

The purpose of the present study is to illustrate several 
aspects of these processes by reference to the history of the 
American automobile industry. Stated more broadly, it is 
purposed to answer, for a single industry and within re- 
stricted scope, the following question: Given the existing 
organization of industry, and given a new important product, 
just how have the producers of this product come to com- 
mand the economic resources required for its extensive pro- 
duction? z 

In confining our attention to the American automobile 
industry, we do not presume that its development has been 
perfectly typical of that of all new industries. The auto- 
mobile industry, nevertheless, lends itself peculiarly well to 
the purposes of this study. In the first place, the industry is 
scarcely thirty years old. Its birth and development, there- 


xii AUTHOR’S PREFACE 


fore, have taken place under the most modern conditions of 
financial and industrial practice. In the second place, the 
industry has attained a position of great importance. Where- 
as, prior to 1899, its operations were too insignificant to re- 
ceive separate notice in the Census of Manufactures, in 1925 
it ranked first in value of products among all American manu- 
facturing industries. Finally, unlike the characteristic financ- 
ing of other large-scale developments of recent years, such as 
public utility enterprises, the growth of the American auto- 
mobile industry has taken place without great reliance upon 
capital derived from the public sale of securities. A study of 
the means whereby its expanding capital requirements have 
been met should direct attention, therefore, to the less overt 
and less recognized processes of capital mobility. 

Our attention will be limited largely to a consideration of 
the sources and growth of the capital employed by eight of 
the leading producers of automobiles in the United States. 
Little attempt will be made to examine the sources of the 
purchasing power and capital of consumers of automobiles; 
or of the capital employed by producers of raw materials and 
finished components purchased by automobile manufactur- 
ers; or of the capital employed by selling and distributing 
companies, gasoline and oil companies, garages, and other 
lines of enterprise ancillary or incidental to the production 
and use of motor vehicles. In thus delimiting the scope of our 
study, we nevertheless leave for examination a very large 
industry, the rapid provisioning of the capital of which should 
offer abundant empirical illustration of the chief ways in 
which a growing industry may finance its expansion. 

» In prosecuting the present investigation, I have been 
forced to turn most largely to primary sources: there is a 
marked paucity of published data of comprehensive scope 
dealing with the automobile industry; and only in recent 
years, with the growth of widespread ownership of the se- 
curities of automobile companies, have financial and operat- 
ing data been made at all accessible. As against the difficul- 
ties of investigation, on the other hand, I have experienced 


AUTHOR’S PREFACE xiii 


the most generous treatment at the hands of the leading 
officials of the companies included in this study. It is due to 
their aid in allowing me access to various original or official 
records that this study has achieved such measure of, ade- 
quacy as it may be judged to have attained. Special mention 
is due to Messrs. Pierre S. Du Pont, Meyer L. Prentis, 
Thomas S. Merrill, Frank F. Kolbe, A. B. C. Hardy, A. P. 
Warriner, and Howard Chapin, of the General Motors 
Corporation; W. H. Alford and the late James J. Storrow, of 
the Nash Motors Company; Roy D. Chapin, A. Barit, and 
E. W. Sheldrick, of the Hudson Motor Car Company; Alvan 
Macauley, M. A. Cudlip, and A. C. Bennett, of the Packard 
Motor Car Company; and Ransom E. Olds and George L. 
Brown, of the Reo Motor Car Company, among others, for 
such courtesies. Messrs. Norman G. Shidle and K. W. Still- 
man, editors of ‘Automotive Industries’; O.  P. Pearson, 
statistician of the National Automobile Chamber of Com- 
merce; Senator James Couzens, formerly vice-president of 
the Ford Motor Company; and the Detroit and Washington 
representatives of the Automotive Division of the Bureau of 
Foreign and Domestic Commerce, have given me valuable 
assistance. Specific acknowledgment of the aid of these and 
other individuals, as of published sources, is made in the foot- . 
notes wherever possible. 

The original draft of this essay was accepted as a doctoral 
dissertation at the University of Michigan in 1925. The 
subject had been suggested by Professor David Friday, and 
the study was worked out under the direction of Professors 
E. E. Day, Fred M. Taylor, Charles H. Cooley, I. L. Sharf- 
man, and R. L. Masson. The aid of these and other teachers 
and colleagues at Michigan is gratefully acknowledged. Since 
its submission in the Hart, Schaffner & Marx competition in 
1926, the study has been expanded and rewritten under the 
editorial supervision of Professor Sharfman, who has thus 
added to my numerous obligations to him. I am indebted to 
Mr. Frank F. Kolbe, assistant treasurer of the General 
Motors Corporation, for his critical reading of the original 


4 


xiv AUTHOR’S PREFACE 
manuscript, and tomy colleague, Professor Chester F. Kuhn, 
for reading the proof of the present essay. 


LAWRENCE H. SELTZER 


Detroit, MICHIGAN 
November 7, 1927 


CONTENTS 


I. INTRODUCTORY 
II, THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 
1. Invention 
. American Beginnings 
. Early Sources of Capital 
. Origins of Some Early Leaders 
. Localization of Manufacture 
. The Risks of Automobile Production 
. The Ford-Buick-Reo-Maxwell Combination Project 
9. The General Motors Combination 
10. The United States Motor Fiasco 
11. The Selden Patent 
12. Standardization and ‘Coéperative Competition’ 
13. Pooling of Patent Rights 
| 14. Expansion of American Automobile Manufacture 


2 
3 
4 
5. Early Failures 
6 
7 
8 


15. The Automobile Finance Company 

16. Concentration, Integration, and Competition 

17. Success and Failure 

18. International Superiority of the United States 

19. Statistical Summaries of the Development of the 
Industry | 


III. Toe Forp Motor Company 
1, Volume and Importance of Business 
2. Origin of Ford Motor Company 
3. Henry Ford’s Acquisition of Control 
4. Expansion 
5. The Selden Patent Litigation 
6. Sales and Operating Policies 


69 


Xvi CONTENTS 


. The Dodge Suit 
. Reorganization of the Ford Motor Company 
. The Crisis of 1920-21 


Oo om 


10. Recovery and Integration 

11. The New Ford Car 

12. Summary of the Financing of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany 


IV. THE GENERAL Motors CorporaTION 

. Nature and Importance of Business 

. The Buick Nucleus 

. Beginnings of the General Motors Company 

Stock-Watering: The Heany Lamp Companies 

. Financing Acquisitions and Operations 

. Funding of General Motors’ Indebtedness 

. Régime of the Bankers’ Control 

. Reaccession of William C. Durant: the Chevrolet 
Motor Company 


On AN & &® N 


9. Formation of the General Motors Corporation 
10. Acquisition of United Motors Corporation, etc. 
11. The Post-War Boom 
12. The Post-War Crisis 
13. The Stock Market: Resignation of William C. 
Durant 
14. Liquidation and Operating Reorganization 
| 15. Manufacturing Expansion 
16. Results of Recent Financial Operations 
17. Summary of the Financing of General Motors 


V. OrHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 
1. The Studebaker Corporation 
2. Dodge Brothers, Inc. 
3. The Packard Motor Car Company 
4. The Nash Motors Company 
5. The Hudson Motor Car Company 


104 
109 
114 
118 
120 


124 


134 
134 
145 
151 
158 
160 
163 
166 


172 
177 
183 
19I 
197 


202 
208 
212 
217 
223 


234 
235 
240 
247 
252 
255 


CONTENTS XVii 


6. The Reo Motor Car Company 258 
7. The Financing of the Six Producers 262 


VI. SuMMARY AND CoNcLusIONS: THE MoBILIty oF CAPITAL 264 


I. Summary 264 

II. General Conclusions 266 

A. Indirect Diversion of Capital 266 

B. Capital Mobility and Risk 270 

C. Relation to Industrial Technique 271 

D. Profits and Capital 273 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 279 


INDEX 285 


ae ih i 
a 


Uy a 


Vg . me 


h 
a! 
by 


con OO 


Oo 


10. 
II. 


I2. 


7% 


14. 
15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


TABLES 


. Relative and Aggregate Importance of Eight Leading 


Automobile Producers, 1926, Measured by Output and In- 
vested Capital 


. Number and Wholesale Value of American Motor-Vehicle 


Output by Periods 


. Number of Motor Vehicles Produced by Ten of the Leading 


Producers, 1912, 1917, 1923, and 1926 


. Wholesale Value of American Motor-Vehicle Output Com- 


pared with Wholesale Value of Manufactured Components 
and Equipment Purchased from Others by Automobile 
Producers, 1922-26, inclusive 


. Number of Entrances and Exits of Active Automobile Pro- 


ducers, by Years, 1902-26, inclusive 


. Output of Leading Automobile-Producing Countries in 1926 
. Per Capita Income of Various Countries in 1914 
. Volume and Wholesale Value of American Motor-Vehicle 


Production, by Years 


. Distribution of American Motor-Vehicle Production be- 


tween Passenger Cars and Trucks 

Growth in American Motor-Vehicle Registration 

Census Summaries of Growth of Motor Vehicle and Motor- 
Vehicle Bodies and Parts Industries 

Number of Cars, Trucks, and Busses Registered, and Num- 
ber of Inhabitants per Vehicle, for Principal Countries, 1926 
Passenger-Car Production, by Retail Price Groups, United 
States and Canada 

United States Imports and Exports of Motor Vehicles 
Exports of Motor Vehicles and Parts from the United 
States and Canada 

Exports of Motor Vehicles from the United States by Prin- 
cipal Countries of Destination, 1926 

Relative Importance of Leading States in the Automobile 
Industry 

Output of Ford Motor Company Compared with Total 
American Output, 1913-26, inclusive 

Output, Receipts, Profits, and Net Worth of Ford Motor 
Company, 1903-08 


12 


47 


TABLES 


. Output, Receipts, Profits, and Net Worth of Ford Motor 


Company, 1909-13 


. Output, Receipts, Profits, and Net Worth of Ford Motor 


Company, 1914-18 


. Output, Receipts, Profits, and Net Worth of Ford Motor 


Company, 1919-23, inclusive 


. Receipts, Profits, and Net Worth of Ford Motor Company, 


1903-26 


. Percentage of Profits to Net Worth and of Receipts to Net 


Worth, of Ford Motor Company, by Years 


. Dividend Record of Ford Motor Company 
. Average Ratio of Cash Balances to Gross Sales of Ford 


Motor Company and Other Large Manufacturers, 1914-16 


. Average Ratio of Total Working Capital to Gross Sales of 


Ford Motor Company and Other Enterprises, 1914-16 


. Output and Financial Volume of Sales of General Motors 


Corporation and Ford Motor Company, and Aggregate 
American Output, 1920-26 


. Output of Vehicle-Producing Divisions of General Motors 


Corporation, 1922-26 


. Acquisitions of General Motors Contoene 1908-10 
. Output, Sales, Profits, and Reinvested Earnings of General 


Motors Company, 1909-15 


. General Motors Sales of Cars and Trucks by Months, 


1919-20 


. Financial Sources of Fixed Capital Expansion of General 


Motors Corporation, 1918-20 


. Stock-Market Prices of General Motors Common Stock in 


1919 and First Three Months of 1920 


. Stock-Market Prices of General Motors Common Stock in 


the Last Eight Months of 1920 


. Relative Importance of General Motors Operating Divi- 


sions by Groups, 1920-22 


. Sales of General Motors Vehicles by Months, 1919-23 

. General Motors Vehicle Sales by Divisions, 1919-23 

. General Motors Output, Sales, and Profits, 1919-23 

. Participation of Employees in Net Operating Profits of 


General Motors Corporation, 1922-26 


. Net Sales, Net Profits, and Net Worth of General Motors 


Corporation, by Years 


201 
203 
204 
210 
212 
213 
213 


222 


230 


42. 


53: 


55: 


TABLES 


Cash Dividend Payments and Reinvested Earnings of 
General Motors Corporation, by Years 


. Percentage of Profits to Net Worth and Percentage of 


Profits Reinvested, of Generali Motors Corporation, by Years 


. General Motors Ratio of Sales to Net Worth, Percentage of 


Profits to Net Worth, and Percentage of Profits to Sales, by 
Years 


. Output, Receipts from Sales, Net Profits, and Net Worth of 


the Studebaker Corporation, by Years 


. Disposition of Net Profits of the Studebaker Corporation, 


by Years 


. Output, Sales, Profits, Reinvested Profits, and Net Worth 


of Dodge Brothers, Inc., by Years 


. Output, Net Sales, Net Profits, and Net Worth of Packard 


Motor Car Company, by Years 


. Disposition of Earnings of Packard Motor Car Company, 


by Years 


. Output, Net Sales, Net Profits, and Net Worth of Nash 


Motors Company, by Years 


. Disposition of Net Profits of Nash Motors Company, by 


Years 


. Output, Net Profits, Dividends, Reinvested Profits, and 


Net Worth of Hudson Motor Car Company, by Years 
Output, Net Sales, Net Profits, and Net Worth of Reo 
Motor Car Company, by Years 


. Disposition of Net Profits of Reo Motor Car Company, by 


Years 
Net Aggregate Reinvested Profits as a Source of Present 
Tangible Invested Capital 


CHARTS 


. Value of Automobile Products by States, 1909 
. Value of Automobile Products for Leading States, 1909 


and 1904 


. Production of Passenger Cars, Trucks, and Busses in the 


United States and Canada 


. Automotive Exports from the United States and Canada, 


except Electrics 


. Corporate Structure of the General Motors Corporation 


231 


232 


233 
238 
239 
246 
250 
251 
253 
254 
257 
260 
261 


266 


27 
28 
47 


70 
134 


) ar 
v WM 


Teenie 


"A FINANCIAL HISTORY 
OF THE ) 
AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


here 

ae) ee he 
TOV ae Be 
‘ - -_ Mink 
. ¢ AE 


q 


2 


og 
; 


e i 
fe el | 


: ‘Aon, ; 
‘ 7 Leak’ } rs v 


ears 


sve 

Be: 
? 

aod 


id 
7 
; 
ORE Ay ay 


mh Wier? ¥ 
: ay of we ; ae | 

1 aa 3 atone 

Me ae 


A Financial History 
of the 
American Automobile Industry 


CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTORY 


THE swift rise of the motor vehicle from a crude and ex- 
pensive toy to an important element in the everyday living 
of millions of persons is a striking chapter in recent indus- 
trial history. Little more than twenty years ago the ap- 
pearance of an automobile on a city street was an odd occur- 
rence, arousing much the same amused curiosity as at- 
tends a circus marvel. ‘Get a horse!’ was the cry directed at 
the driver; and it was as a freakish ‘horseless carriage’ that 
the automobile first became known. Few there were who 
regarded it as anything more than a new plaything of the 
wealthy. 

Swifter than horse or bicycle, the automobile became the 
center of a new racing sport. Speed, endurance, and various 
mechanical tests, conducted with great newspaper publicity, 
aroused widespread interest. Demand for the vehicles in- 
creased. Numerous small producers were soon recruited 
from many quarters. Then, with great suddenness, the 
automobile was transformed from an unimportant luxury 
into an instrument of rapidly expanding use. Stimulated by 
the appearance of efficient low-priced vehicles, after 1908, 
demand grew apace; production quickly followed. As 
against an output of 65,000 motor vehicles in 1908, that of 


4 INTRODUCTORY 


1914 exceeded half a million; that of 1916 was more than 
1,600,000. Despite many confident predictions to the con- 
trary, the industry continued, with only brief recessions, its 
remarkable growth. By 1922, its output had passed 2,500,- 
000; and in the four years ended in 1926, American motor 
vehicle production aggregated 16,427,549 cars and trucks 
valued at wholesale at more than $11,000,000,000. On 
January I, 1927, there were more than 22,000,000 motor 
vehicles registered in the United States." 

To-day, the purchase and operation of motor vehicles 
absorbs perhaps one-tenth or more of the total annual in- 
come of the American people. Our retail purchases of pas- 
senger cars and trucks amounted to about $4,000,000,000 in 
1926, as in 1925; and our aggregate expenditures for gasoline 
and oil, tire and parts replacements, repair services, garage 
rentals, license fees and taxes, and other items incidental 
to the use of motor vehicles have been estimated at more 
than another $4,000,000,000 annually.? It is interesting to 
observe, by way of comparison, that our annual expendi- 
tures for railroad transportation have been estimated at 
$5,500,000,000; for shelter, $4,500,000,000; for bread and 
foodstuffs, $2,400,000,000; and for fuel and light, at $2,900,- 
000,000.3 

Motor-vehicle manufacture outranks all other American 
manufacturing industries in wholesale value of product.‘ 
Automobiles rank first in value among American exports of 
manufactured goods, and are preceded only by raw cotton 


*See Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927, National 
Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 

 Ibid.; cf. also Moody's Industrials, 1926, p. xxxiv (which estimates 
American automobile expenditures at eleven ‘billions annually); C. C. 
Hanch, The Safety Zone in Automobile Financing, published by the 
National Association of Finance Companies; J. C. Long, Motor Trans- 
port and Our Radical Frontier, in the Journal of Public Utility and Land 
Economics, January, 1926; Automotive Industries, vol. 56, no. 7, Pp. 219; 
Caldwell & Slosson, Science Remaking the Modern World, p. 30. 

3 Moody's Industrials, 1927, p. xxxiv. 

4 Census of Manufactures, 1925. 


INTRODUCTORY 5 


and mineral oils, in value, among all the commodity exports 
of the United States.t American car and truck factories 
represented a capital investment of $2,000,000,000 in 1926; 
they employed more than 375,000 workers; and, directly 
and indirectly, the automobile industry as a whole was 
estimated to employ more than 3,743,000 workers.? The 
important relation of automobile manufacture to other 
American industries is suggested by the proportions of their 
total output absorbed by automobile production in 1926: 
iron and steel, 14 per cent; plate glass, 50 per cent; rubber, 
85 per cent; upholstery leather, 63 per cent; nickel, 28 per 
cent; aluminum, 25 per cent; tin, 21 per cent; copper, 13 
per cent; hardwood, 11 per cent.3 Nearly 900,000 carloads 
were required to transport automobile parts and completed 
vehicles on American railroads during 1926.4 

Indicative of the enormous financial importance of the 
industry, apart from the data already cited, we may note 
that $4,000,000,000 of credit was required in 1925 to finance 
wholesale and retail purchases of finished vehicles alone; 5 
that the securities of automobile companies listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange appreciated more than a billion 
dollars in market value during 1925;° that the net profits of 
the General Motors Corporation in 1926 (more than $186,- 
000,000) exceeded those of any other American business 
enterprise; and that a firm of investment bankers, Horn- 
blewer & Weeks, offered a billion dollars in 1925, and again 
in 1926, for the capital stock of the Ford Motor Company.’ 
In the opinion of Messrs. Foster and Catchings, the growth 
of the automobile industry has been the greatest single 


z Ste Yearbook, 1926, United States Department of Commerce, 
p. 430 ff. 

2 Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927. 

3 Ibid. 4 Ibid. 

s Hanch, The Safety Zone in Automobile Financing, acta by the 
National Association of Finance Companies. 

6 As computed by Automotive Industries, vol. §4, no. 4, Pp. 130. 

7 Testimony of John W. Prentiss, a member of the firm, before the 
Federal Board of Tax Appeals, in Washington, February 2, 1926. 


6 INTRODUCTORY 


cause of American prosperity during the past fifteen 
years." 

The phenomenal expansion of the automobile industry is 
less surprising when we consider that, more than an ordinary 
addition to our stock of useful contrivances, the motor 
vehicle has provided a new, flexible, and widely serviceable 
means of transportation. The routes and means of travel 
have always been factors of supreme economic and social 
significance; and they have always claimed a substantial 
proportion of economic effort. Waterways are of limited and 
uneven distribution; railed transportation is restricted by its 
rigid routes and by its great capital costs; the common 
roads, until the advent of the automobile, did not afford 
rapidity of locomotion. The motor vehicle, swift, flexible, 
and relatively low in capital cost, accompanied, as it has 
been, by a tremendous extension and improvement of the 
common roads, supplements all other forms of transporta- 
tion with extraordinary efficiency, and supplies many special 
types of transportation service hitherto largely unavail- 
able. 

The private passenger automobile is, in effect, an enor- 
mously useful tool for personal locomotion. Unlike the rail- 
road and the trolley, it offers flexible response to individual 
requirements; in contrast with horse-drawn vehicles, it 
provides much of the speed and ease of railed transportation. 
Employed for business or pleasure, it economizes time and 
energy and effectively reduces distance. There is no way of 
measuring accurately how far it pays for itself by enhancing 
productive efficiency alone, though there is little doubt that 
it has contributed greatly to recent increases in urban and 
suburban real estate values.? In any event, the value placed 
upon its service is best attested by actual expenditures: the 
wholesale value of the American passenger car output dur- 


* Business Without a Buyer, chap. vi, the sub-title of which is, ‘Could 
Prosperity have Come without the Automobile?’ 

* Cf. J. C. Long, ‘Motor Transport and Our Radial Frontier,’ in the 
Journal of Public Utility and Land Economics, January, 1926. 


—-——_ ———_ =... 


INTRODUCTORY 7 


ing the ten years ended in 1926 aggregated 17.3 billions of 
dollars; and passenger cars constituted 89 per cent of the 
total American motor-vehicle output during this period.? 
The motor vehicle’s combination of speed, ease, and 
flexibility makes it capable of rendering distinctive services 
in connection with freight haulage and public transportation. 
The motor truck has all but entirely supplanted the horse- 
drawn vehicle for the delivery of goods from store, ware- 
house, factory, and ship and rail terminal. In nearly all 
large cities motor omnibuses are ‘feeding’ and otherwise 
supplementing electric traction service; in many smaller 
cities, local street-car service has been entirely replaced by 
motor-bus lines; and many communities hitherto unserved 
by regular transportation facilities now possess organized 
motor service. Both competing with and supplementing 
railroad service in interurban transportation, the motor 
vehicle possesses the advantages of low capital costs, low 
overhead expenses, flexible routes, elimination of terminal 
reloading, frequent stops, relative economy in less-than- 
carload lots, etc. Requiring only common roads, the con- 
struction and improvement of which have assumed the 
proportions of a major industry in the United States,’ 
motor-vehicle freight and passenger service may be quickly 
introduced and as quickly shifted, extended, or withdrawn. 
Indeed, a growing use of the motor vehicle is that of replac- 
ing ‘short lines’ of railroads, many of which have long been 
overburdened with high overhead costs, and of creating 
‘feeders’ for their main lines. In 1926, sixty steam railroads 
were employing motor busses to supplement their passenger 
service, sixty-one were using motor trucks for terminal 
operations and for store door delivery, and eleven were 
employing motor trucks to replace local freight trains. So 


t See Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927. 

2 The United States Bureau of Public Roads estimates the 1926 ex- 
penditures for rural road construction and maintenance at $1,030,000,- 
000. (Bulletin of March 21, 1926.) 

3 Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927. The National 


8 INTRODUCTORY 


extensive have the routes of motor transportation lines be- 
come that there is now scarcely a point on a paved road in 
the United States at which motor transportation cannot be 
had to near and far centers; and several measures are now 
before Congress providing for the regulation of interstate 
motor transportation. 

Other new or more specialized transportation and power 
services have been made available by various applications 
of the internal combustion motor. The potentialities of the 
aeroplane are daily becoming matters of less distant signi- 
ficance. The automotive farm tractor is an outstanding 
addition to the newer stock of agricultural aids. Motor- 
truck transport, ambulances, and armored tanks, were of 
great importance during the World War. The construction 
industries have combined the motor truck with various 
hoisting, hauling, and dumping devices. The taxicab has 
become a ubiquitous servant in our cities. Even gasoline- 
driven locomotives have in some places been introduced. 

As has been the case with other great inventions, the 
social and economic effects of the motor vehicle transcend 
its immediate services. The isolated American farm of the 
past is giving way to organized rural communities, built 
about the consolidated rural school, the rural social center, 
and the country church.? The motor truck has increased the 
number of marketing centers open to the individual farmer, 
has made distant farms more accessible to markets, and has 
increased the radius of profitable direct marketing in the 
vicinity of cities. Between 1918 and 1926, the number of 
horses employed on American farms declined by approxi- 
mately forty per cent, reflecting in part the increased use of 


Automobile Chamber of Commerce, basing its figures upon reports sub- 
mitted to the Interstate Commerce Commission, notes that 19,099 motor 
busses competing with Class I railroads operated over a route mileage of 
334,522 miles, and 43,207 motor trucks, similarly competing, operated 
over a route mileage of 607,029 miles, in 1926. 

* These and related effects of the motor vehicle are discussed by a 


score of writers in the Annals of the American Academy of Political and 
Social Science, vol. XXVI, no. 205. 


INTRODUCTORY 9 


motor truck and tractor.? As this tendency continues, thous- 
ands of acres of land now used for raising hay and oats will 
be released for other crops, and the quantity and irksome- 
ness of human labor on farms will be greatly reduced.? The 
motor vehicle has encouraged enlargement of the physical 
area of our citieS and a multiplication of the number of resi- 
dential suburbs, bringing thousands of acres of land into 
more valuable employment, and effecting great improve- 
ment in housing and working conditions. An important 
adjunct to the means of recreation, the automobile is rapidly 
abridging the social as well as the physical gap between 
country and city. In breaking up many neighborhood 
groups and in overcoming distance, the automobile has 
possibly caused some weakening in the sense of local unity 
_and responsibility. The widespread use of the motor vehicle 
has been accompanied by a general social atmosphere of 
haste and change: many elements contribute to this vague 
but pervasive tenor of modern life; the automobile is no 
doubt one of these. 

The very processes of automobile manufacture in the 
United States have been of widespread influence. In no 
other industry have mass production, standardization of 
product, minute specialization of labor, the automatic 
machine-tool, and clock-like organization of factory opera- 
tions, been employed to the same extent. The physical and 
psychological effects of these methods upon the workers 
have been the subject of much debate; but their immediate 
industrial superiority is causing their extension to many 
other fields. 

The automobile has raised new problems. The congestion 
of traffic in our larger cities and the enormous loss of life 
and limb in automobile accidents are causing great sums to 
be spent for traffic regulation, street-widening, and radical 


* Cf. monthly reports of Crops and Markets, published by the United 
States Department of Agriculture; and Cleveland Trust Company 
Business Bulletin of June 15, 1927. 

2 Ibid. 


10 INTRODUCTORY 


readjtistment of city-plans. Our expenditures for rural high- 
ways, which amounted to less than $3,000,000 in 1904, and — 
to less than $25,000,000 in 1914, are now absorbing a billion 
dollars annually. The perpetration of crime, no less than the 
performance of reputable tasks, is facilitated by the motor 
vehicle. To the importance of the automobile, is largely due 
the prevailing intense international rivalry for the world’s 
oil and rubber resources. 

It is beyond the scope of this study to Pare more than 
passing attention to some of the ulterior effects of the 
motor vehicle. It is sufficient here to observe that a product 
that has supplied a new and powerful means of transporta- 
tion, and that, directly and indirectly, absorbs perhaps 
one-tenth of our total national income and the energies of 
nearly one-tenth of our working population, cannot help 
but exercise a profound influence in many spheres. 

The economic development of the American automobile 
industry reflects many of the best aspects of competitive 
enterprise. Enormous profits (sometimes large losses) have 
gone hand in hand with falling prices and improved pro- 
ducts. Competition has enforced the prompt adoption of 
progressive advances in design and manufacture. The 
technical efficiency of American automobile production has 
established standards of practice and achievement that 
have aroused widespread admiration and emulation.' The 
less desirable effects of quasi-autocratic control over labor 
have been mitigated in this industry by relatively high 
wages and by intelligently planned working conditions. The 
corporate form of business organization, and, as we shall 
find, the existence of numerous independent contributory 
enterprises, have facilitated the distribution of capital and 
risk burdens; while, despite the impersonal form of corporate 
organization, the potent motive forces of personality have 
been able to play conspicuous réles.2, Due to the remarkable 


* Cf. Arnold and Faurote, The Ford Methods and the Ford Shops. 

* Compare Alfred Marshall, Principles of Economics, 8th ed., chap. 
xl, in which the late dean of English economists discusses the defects of 
the corporate form of business organization. 


INTRODUCTORY Ir 


economies of large-scale operations, the bulk of American 
automobile production has been concentrated into relatively 
few hands. Among these, there has been considerable co- 
operation, such as intercorporate standardization of parts, 
pooling of patents, and interchange of business information. 
Competition, nevertheless, has become ever more intense. 
A study of the development of this industry, therefore, 
interesting in itself, should illustrate many of the essential 
processes and tendencies of competitive enterprise. If, 
as may be alleged, the virtues of competitive enterprise in 
the automobile industry are to be attributed to the develop- 
mental character of the latter up until the present time, 
while the near future may witness a gathering tendency to- 
ward monopolistic control, then, as much as ever, the history 
of the industry is of substantial significance to the student 
of our economic institutions. 

The growth of the automobile industry has required 
enormous quantities of productive resources: plant and 
equipment for manufacturing, raw and refined materials, 
labor, and a willingness and ability to assume risks. How 

were these requirements met? How was the growth of the 
industry financed? It is the primary purpose of this book 
to throw some light on this question. Under the existing 
organization of industry, there is no man or group of men, 
no formal institution, with power to allot to a new product 
the productive resources that it requires. The new product 
- must fight for its resources. It must divert old and new pro- 
‘ductive factors from other channels. Its weapons are higher 
capital returns, higher wages, and higher prices for materi- 
als. It must likewise divert old and new purchasing power 
from other goods. Now finance is essentially the pecuniary 
aspect of the process of mobilizing economic resources for 
the various products and processes of economic life. In 
treating of the financial history of the American automobile 
industry, therefore, we are attempting to discover just how 
material resources came to be provided for its growth. 
Specific knowledge of this sort is sadly wanting. To know 


12 - INTRODUCTORY 


just how profits operate, and just how capital is mobilized 
and distributed for various industries, gives us an under- 
standing of economic matters that illumines many questions 
of public policy. 

The present study, as noted previously, is limited largely 
to an examination of the growth of the net invested capital 
of eight of the leading producers of automobiles in the 


TABLE 1. RELATIVE AND AGGREGATE IMPORTANCE OF EIGHT 
LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS, 1926, MEASURED BY 
OUTPUT AND INVESTED CAPITAL 


INVESTED 
CAPITAL® 


COMPANY Output? DATE 


Ford Motor Company 1,442,950 $714,902,288 | Dec. 31, 1926 


General Motors Corpo- 

ration: ;vasiae scene 1,234,850 636,678,004 | Dec. 31, 1926 
Studebaker Corpora- 

87 ee ee III,315 119,033,833 | Dec. 31, 1926 
Dodge Brothers, Inc. 331,764 114,978,610 | Dec. 31, 1926 
Packard Motor Car 

Company 4 @i.4.45 34,000 46,480,944 | Aug. 31, 1926 
Hudson Motor Car 

Company..... Ate 244,667 43,078,016 | Nov. 30, 1926 
Nash Motors Com- 

PTY 4 ix & 55a Ke Hea te 137,376 38,563,350 | Nov. 30, 1926 
Reo Motor Car Com- 

WY...) wa eae ote S 34,542 27,993,424 | Aug. 31, 1926 


Totala.’< is Jiess.0'e. 43s 75 AOS $1,741,708,469 


Aggregate United States and Canadian production........ 4,428,286 
Percentage produced by eight producerS.......--+eeee% ie 80.65 
Aggregate net tangible capital of automobile producers in — 

United States... 606. Ui pc Che ee heer es wee wes emse 6 2,080,498,325° 


Net tangible capital of eight producers. .....scsseeceseres 1,657,813,200% 


a Data obtained from the offices of the companies, from their annual reports, or from — 
Standard Statistics Company, Inc. The Ford figure does not include output of Canadian 
plants or other foreign branches; those of other producers do. Ford output was con- 
siderably curtailed in 1926 by reason of preparation for the production of new models. 

b Invested capital is here defined as net equities of stockholders and bondholders; 
Dodge Brothers, Inc., alone, of these companies had any bonded indebtedness at the — 
dates given. Data obtained from the annual reports of these companies. } 

c As computed by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce; the figure repre- 
sents only capital invested in this country; and, because of varying interpretations of 
the questionnaire upon which it was based, it is believed to be somewhat overstated. 

d Intangible assets as follows: Ford, $20,517,786 (last given separately in 1924; now 
lumped together with cash, etc., but believed to be uncharged in amount); 

Motors, $43,570,005; Studebaker, $19,807,277; Dodge and Packard, $1 each. ‘ 


INTRODUCTORY 13 


United States. The method of treatment will be as follows: 
After a survey of the development of the automobile in- 
dustry, presented in Chapter II, a detailed study of the 
histories of the Ford Motor Company and the General 
Motors Corporation will be presented in Chapters III and 
IV, respectively. The remaining six producers will be 
treated in more summary fashion in Chapter V. The 
study will be concluded with a brief summary and discussion 
of its findings. That the eight companies under examination 
constitute a large part of the automobile manufacturing 
business of the United States will be evident from the ac- 
companying table (Table 1), in which their aggregate and 
relative importance are roughly indicated. 


CHAPTER II 
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


1. INVENTION 


LIKE other complex artifacts, the automobile was evolved 
rather than invented. The efforts of the earliest ‘inventors’ 
of the motor vehicle flowed from a long succession of dis- 


coveries and innovations; and the modern product rests no — 
less upon the developed arts of manufacture than upon the | 


achievements of the numerous inventors who have contrib- 
uted directly to its design. The automobile is the product of 
the labors and learning of many men, directed at diverse 
objects, and pooled through the channels of communi- 
cation. 

Wind-driven or ‘sailing’ carriages are said to have been 


employed ‘from immemorial times on the plains of China — 
and Spain.’* Mechanical road transport may be said to have © 


started its present development in the eighteenth century, 


following the improvements of Watt and others in the sta-— 


tionary steam engine; and the steam-driven road vehicle 
naturally preceded the steam railroad. In 1760, Captain 
Joseph Nicholas Cugnot, a French military engineer, con- 
structed a steam-driven wagon designed to haul heavy can- 
non — probably the first self-propelled road vehicle ever 
built; ? in 1787, Oliver Evans, of Philadelphia, obtained a 
patent from the State of Maryland for a steam-propelled 


carriage; in 1801, Richard Trevithick, in England, con-— 


structed the first steam-driven stage-coach. Preceding and 


* Attributed to Bishop Wilkins, writing in 1648, by Talbot, Motor 
Cars and Their Story, p. 3, Cassell & Co., Ltd. 

* For a fairly non-technical account of the development of steam and 
gasoline vehicles, see Doolittle, Romance of the Automobile Industry; 
Talbot, Motor Cars and Their Story; Jenkins, Motor Cars; and Souvestre, 
Histoire de l’automobile; from all of which much of the present account is 
abstracted. 


— 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 15 


accompanying the development of the railroad, a number of 
steam-driven omnibuses began to offer regular transporta- 
tion in England; and by 1836, a single such enterprise, oper- 
ated by Walter Hancock, was transporting 12,000 passen- 
gers a year. 

The early steam-driven road vehicles rapidly gave way to 
the railroad, however. Their fuel and water requirements 
made them of enormous weight (three to four tons un- 
loaded) ; their huge metal-rimmed wheels (six feet in diam- 
eter) operated on the uneven dirt roads of the time; they 
were constructed of wood and of crudely made metal; and 
they did not have the benefit of modern lubricants nor of 
modern spring suspension. The excessive vibration and 
friction caused the vehicles to deteriorate rapidly; they did 
great damage to the roads; and they caused fright and an- 
noyance to horses and populace. As a result of 'the latter 
factors, and of the bitter opposition of horse-haulage inter- 
ests, toll-gate keepers in England imposed prohibitive fees 
for the passage of the vehicles over turnpikes and bridges. 
Despite a favorable report of its Select Committee, Parlia- 
ment refused in 1833 to intercede in behalf of the operators 
of steam carriages; and in 1861 and 1865, a series of strin- 
gent restrictions were enacted which, among other things, 
stipulated that every mechanically propelled vehicle oper- 
ating on the common roads carry three drivers, limit its 
speed to four miles an hour, and be preceded by a man bear- 
ing a red flag.t These measures, which did much to retard 
English motor-vehicle experimentation, were not removed 
until 1896.2 In America, as in England and France, the rail- 
road absorbed most of the energies of creative workers in the 
field of land transportation for many years. 

The discovery of large quantities of petroleum in the 
United States, coupled with advances in distillation methods 
that brought kerosene and gasoline into wide use after the 


t See Rolls, Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. xvii, p. 914 ff. 
‘2 Ibid. They had been held, in 1881, to apply to gasoline, as well as 
to steam vehicles 


“16 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


middle of the nineteenth century, opened up new possibil- 
ities for self-propelled road vehicles. Because of their great 
energy per pound of weight, the new liquid fuels were infi- 
nitely superior to coal and wood for the generation of power 
on light vehicles. Almost simultaneous with the appearance 
of improved steam carriages burning kerosene’was the ap- 
plication of internal combustion hydro-carbon motors, first 
used for stationary power purposes, to the road vehicle. 
Siegfried Markus, whose gasoline-propelled carriage was 
displayed at the Vienna Exhibition of 1875, is said to have 
produced his first model in 1865; Lenoir, in 1863, had con- 
structed a vehicle employing street gas; hence Markus has 
been designated by the Austrian and German automobile 
clubs as ‘the inventor of the automobile,’ while a French 
commission has claimed this distinction for Lenoir.? 

Lenoir had used an electric spark to ignite the gas in his 
engine. In 1876, Otto, in Germany, invented an engine in 
which the gas was compressed before ignition, vastly in- 
creasing its propulsive power. In 1885, Gottlieb Daimler, 
an employee of Otto, and, in 1886, Carl Benz, patented 
motor vehicles of greatly improved design. In 1887, Le- 
vassor, of the French firm of Panhard & Levassor, who had 
acquired rights to the Daimler patents, introduced so many 
improvements in general chassis construction and in power 
transmission, that he, too, like Markus, Lenoir, Daimler, 
Benz, Otto, and others, has been called ‘the father of the 
automobile.’ ? 

The present-day motor vehicle is the product of far more 
than the labors of these early inventors. Without the rubber 
tire, to take a single example, the automobile, however 
otherwise improved, was subject to enormous traction diffi- 
culties; difficulties which did much to transform the early 
steam Carriages into locomotives and trains designed for use 
on prepared rails. The character and importance of the 
modern automobile rest upon literally thousands of later ad- 

* Talbot, Motor Cars and Their Story. Introduction. 

* Cf. Doolittle, Jenkins, Talbot, and Souvestre, op. cit, 


ee 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 17 


vances in design and construction, and upon great improve- 
ments in the arts of production. 


2. AMERICAN BEGINNINGS 


The United States lagged behind the Old World, at first, 
in the technical development and commercial production of 
the motor vehicle. Stationary gasoline motors had been in- 
troduced into this country soon after their appearance 
abroad; and on May 8, 1879, George B. Selden, of Roches- 
ter, New York, had filed application for the first American 
patent on the hydro-carbon motor vehicle. But Selden 
waited many years before constructing a vehicle based upon 
his patent model, and during most of this time American 
invention made little progress. When, in 1895, the Selden 
‘patent was finally issued, the inventor was unable to procure 
financial support for the exploitation of his patent.t Other 
American inventors, however, building largely upon Euro- 
pean practice, had now entered the field. Charles E. Duryea 
produced a gasoline automobile in 1892; Henry Ford and 
Ransom E. Olds each completed one in 1893; Elwood 
Haynes and the Apperson brothers in 1894, and a dozen 
other individuals and groups produced experimental models 
or began commercial manufacture before the end of the 
century. 

The ascendency of the gasoline automobile was threatened, 
for a few years, by the improved kerosene-burning steam 
vehicle and by the lately invented electric carriage,? pro- 
duction of both of which had been-undertaken by a num- 
ber of bicycle, wagon, and machinery manufacturers. The 
steam car was far less noisy than the early one- and two- 
cylinder gasoline vehicles; and the promise of the electric 
vehicle was furthered by the large development, at this 
time, of electric traction and lighting systems and by wide- 
spread rumors of startling improvements in electrical ap- 


* Doolittle, p 
- 2 Produced 7 pik (1884), Ward (1886), Volk svat Morrison 
(1891), and others. 


18 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


paratus of all kinds.* In 1900, at the first American auto- 
mobile show, nearly two-thirds of the show space was de- 
voted to steam cars, and most of the remaining space, to 
electrics. Almost immediately thereafter, however, the gas- 
oline automobile eclipsed its rivals. As against the steam 
car, it offered greater freedom from mechanical care and 
readier starting; as against the electric, it offered greater 
distance before refueling and greater power and endurance 
— important factors in view of American road conditions 
and distances. By 1904, American production of gasoline 
automobiles was more than six times the combined output 
of steam and electric vehicles.” 

While the earliest American automobile producers were 
being torn between the steam, electric, and gasoline vehi- 
cles, France, concentrating largely upon the gasoline auto- 
mobile, had taken the lead in the new industry.3 Imports of 
European automobiles into the United States began in 1895, 
and served to stimulate American activity. But the provi- 
sion of a 45 per cent ad-valorem duty on such importations 
(under the heading of ‘manufactured metal’ in the Dingley 
tariff), combined with the rapid growth of the domestic in- 
dustry, enabled American producers virtually to monopo- 
lize the domestic market almost from the start. By 1907, 
the value of American automobile exports was exceeding 
that of imports; and in the years following, exports in- 
creased progressively, while imports soon dwindled into in- 
significance.4 

The automobile was at first regarded as an interesting 


t Doolittle, op. cit., p. 61 ff. 2 Census of Manufactures, 1914. 

3 Rolls (Encyclopedia Britannica) estimated French automotive ex- 
ports for 1899 at 4,259,000 francs. French automobile output in 1902 
totaled 16,500 vehicles, as against American output in 1903 of 11,000 
vehicles, according to the Automotive Trade Journal, vol. xx1x, no. 6, 

4 The value of American imports of automobiles reached a maximum 
of $4,041,025 in 1907, 1176 cars being imported in that year; exports in 
1907 for the first time exceeded imports. By 1912, American exports 
had risen to $21,550,139, as compared with imports valued at $2,134,181. 
Cf. Wallace, ‘The Automobile,’ Journal of Education, vol. 68, p. 57 ff. 
(July 2, 1908); and the reports of the Bureau of Commerce. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 19 


novelty — it did, indeed, serve as a circus attraction in 1896. 
Then, following the widespread development of automobile 
racing, which brought the vehicle into great public promi- 
nence, its practical value was established by numerous .dis- 
tance and endurance contests; contests which educated the 
producers no less than potential consumers. More than any 
of these factors, however, the production of low-priced auto- 
mobiles, which had begun as early as 1900,% served to stimu- 
late public interest in the new product and to spur demand 
and production. 


3. EARLY SOURCES OF CAPITAL 


There was no lack of initiative even at the very beginning 
of American automobile manufacture. By 1899, fifty-seven 
producing establishments were already in operation, and by 
1904, this number had increased to 121.7, Few of the pro- 
ducers were endowed with more than meager resources; but 
both technological and financial factors made entrance into 
the business extremely easy, and expansion of output did not 
wait upon the direct commitment of large amounts of capital. 
Indeed, as will be shown in detail in subsequent pages, the 
growth of the American automobile industry was character- 
istically the expansion of originally small enterprises that 
obtained the bulk of their increasing capital from reinvested 
profits. 

The early. producers met the capital requirements of auto- 
mobile production, in largest measure, by shifting the burden 
to owners of already existing capital equipment. The auto- 
mobile was a new product chiefly as an assembled unit: its 
component parts were much akin to those of a number of 
other products. As a result of the previous development 
in the United States of the technique of standardized in- 
terchangeable parts manufacture — a technique which had 


* The Olds Motor Works produced 1400 cars selling at $650 each in 
1900. (From data obtained by the writer from Mr. A. B. C. Hardy, 
president of the existing company in 1924, in an interview in Lansing, 
Michigan, on December 24, 1924.) 


2 Census of Manufactures, 1921. . 


20 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


been extensively employed by the sewing machine, bicycle, 
wagon, and other American industries — numerous estab- 
lishments were in existence equipped with the tools, ma- 
chines, and technical skill for the manufacture of wood and 
metal sub-products.t Specialized automobile factories were 
therefore not essential. Orders for parts were given to scores 
of wood- and metal-working enterprises; carriage-makers 
were available for the manufacture of ‘bodies’; and the pro- 
ducers of rubber goods and electrical equipment soon added 
their contributions. The chief business of the automobile 
producer, after the design of his product and the placing of 
orders for parts, was the assembling of the major components 
and the sale of the completed vehicle. The process of as- 
sembling was a short one; it required neither large plant nor 
elaborate equipment; and lands and buildings were as often 
rented as purchased. 

Thus, the bulk of the fixed capital required for the produc- 
tion of automobiles was not provided by the producers them- 
selves, but by the parts-makers; and the provision of this 
capital did not wait upon the willingness of its owners to 
assume the new and large risks of automobile production 
proper. In part, the automobile diverted capital from other 
goods; to some extent, however, the needs of the new pro- 
duct were met by a more efficient utilization of capital: idle | 
utilities residing in the equipment of machine-shops and 
other enterprises were brought into use through additional 
orders coming from the new industry. 

The working capital burdens of automobile manufacture 
were similarly shifted and distributed. The practice of pur- 
chasing parts made to order minimized the current financial 
requirements for wages. The process of assembling was not 
only short, but was often shorter than the credit period of 
thirty to ninety days allowed by the parts-makers. And the 
demand for automobiles was such that, in exchange for 


* See W. L. Thorp, Integration of Industrial Operation, Census Mono- 
graph no. 3, p. 86 ff., Government Printing Office, in this connection, 
for the example offered by the carriage and wagon industry. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 21 


exclusive territorial rights for dealers and distributors, the 
automobile producers were able (1) to exact advance cash 
deposits of twenty per cent or more upon all orders; (2) to 
require full payment immediately upon delivery of the com- 
pleted vehicle (sight draft being attached to the bill of lad- 
ing); and (3) to ship cars immediately upon production, ir- 
respective of current retail sales, according to a prearranged 
schedule with each selling establishment. Thus, Senator 
James Couzens, who was an active officer of the Ford Motor 
Company from its inception in 1903 until 1919, replying to 
some questions of the present writer, declared: ! 

I recall that by a rule of the industry generally deposits from 
dealers were a requisite to their securing cars and this in itself ac- 
cumulated quite a fund which could be used in manufacture. Of 


course, parts manufacturers extended credit and were pay in ac- 
cordance with the usual terms in the industry. 


Similarly, Mr. Roy D. Chapin, chairman of the board of 
directors of the Hudson Motor Car Company, and one of the 
pioneers of the industry, explained in substantially the fol- 
lowing language the conditions under which the industry 
operated as late as 1909, when he, with a few others, founded 
the Hudson company:? 

It is said that the Ford Motor Co. started with $28,000. We 
started with much less than that... . 

Dealers’ deposits often paid half the sum necessary to bring out a 
full year’s production; and if the assembling were efficiently directed, 
drafts against the finished cars could be cashed as rapidly as the bills 
from parts-makers came in. 

We sold directly to Ameeitore from ‘ie first. We looked for in- 
dividuals of substantial capital and financial responsibility who 
would be sure to fulfill their engagements. 


4. ORIGINS OF SOME EARLY LEADERS 


The remarkably favorable factors just outlined, combined 
with the corporate form of business organization, which per- 
* In a letter dated February 2, 1924. 


2In an interview with the writer in Detroit, December 11, 1924, 
The quotation was transcribed from notes taken during the interview. 


22 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


mitted the limited liability of stockholders and the easy 
division of the residual capital and risk burdens, enabled 
scores of small enterprises to enter upon automobile produc- 
tion. Such entrance was stimulated by the rapid growth in 
demand and by the large profits of successful production. 
Some of the automobile inventors, sponsored by small 
groups or financed by local subscription to capital stock, 
quickly entered the field; a number of manufacturers of 
bicycles, wagons, and carriages ventured timidly into the 
business by turning over portions of their facilities to the 
automobile; machine-shop enterprises, after a more or less 
brief experience with parts manufacture, undertook auto- 
mobile production proper; associates and employees of suc- 
cessful producers broke away to found independent com- 
panies. 

In 1899, Samuel L. Smith, a Detroit capitalist who had 
grown wealthy in the lumber industry, was seeking openings 
for his two sons. His attention was drawn to the efforts of 
Ransom E. Olds, of Lansing, Michigan, to obtain support for 
the exploitation of his one-cylinder ‘Oldsmobile.’ With 
Smith’s aid, the Olds Motor Works was thereupon started in 
Detroit.t When, because of disagreement with the Smiths, 
Olds retired from the Company in 1905, some citizens of 
Lansing organized the Reo Motor Car Company, offered 
Olds a controlling interest for his services, and thus induced 
him to lead another automobile manufacturing enterprise.? 

Henry Ford was financed by a small group of Detroiters in 
1902 under the name of the Detroit Automobile Company. 
Disagreeing with his associates, he joined another group for 
a short time, organized as the Henry Ford Automobile Com- 
pany. Unsatisfied still, he succeeded in enlisting the aid of 
Alexander Y. Malcomson, a Detroit coal merchant, and was 
thus enabled to form the Ford Motor Company in June, 
1903, with a total cash capital of $28,000.3 


t From data obtained from Mr. Olds in an interview with the writer in 
Lansing on December 24, 1924. 


2 Ibid, 3 See Chapter III, below. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 23 


William E. Metzger, a Detroit bicycle dealer, and others 
of the group that had originally financed Ford, induced the 
Leland & Faulconer Machine Company, which was making 
parts for various producers, to join them in a new enterprise, 
the Cadillac Motor Car Company, which proceeded to manu- 
facture a car designed by Alanson P. Brush, one of the Le- 
land & Faulconer employees. Brush later left the Company 
to start another automobile enterprise under his own name. 

The Buick Motor Car Company was formed in 1903 by 
Benjamin Briscoe, a parts-maker, who had acquired rights 
to a model designed by David Buick. A year later, the Com- 
pany was taken over by a Flint, Michigan, wagon enter- 
prise. The year following, it came into control of William C. 
Durant, then a Flint carriage manufacturer, who, a few 
years later, made it the nucleus of the General Motors Com- 
pany. : 

Briscoe, in the meantime, became interested in another 
model, designed by J. D. Maxwell, one of the dozen promi- 
nent graduates of the two Olds enterprises. The Maxwell- 
Briscoe Motor Company was organized in 1904; an invest- 
ment, first of $10,000, and then another of $100,000, was 
procured from the elder J. P. Morgan; after a few years of 
successful operation, this Company was made the nucleus of 
the short-lived United States Motor Company, out of the 
ashes of which came the Maxwell and then the present 
Chrysler companies. 

The Packard was first produced by J. W. Packard, of 
Warren, Ohio, manufacturer of electric cables, in 1900. 
Henry P. Joy, a Detroit capitalist, purchased one of the 
early models, and then persuaded some of his friends to join 
him in acquiring a controlling interest in the business and in 
moving it to Detroit, where it was established in 1903. The 
Studebaker carriage and wagon organization, after first 
choosing the electric vehicle, entered the gasoline field in 
1908 as distributing agent for the Everitt-Metzger-Flanders 


* See Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ published in the 
Detroit Saturday Night of January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. 


24 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Company, which it absorbed shortly after. The Overland, 
originally the product of an Ohio buggy manufacturer, be- 
came important after 1908, when it was taken over by John 
N. Willys, previously a bicycle and motor-car salesman. 
Four graduates of the Olds enterprises, Roy D. Chapin, 
Howard E. Coffin, R. B. Jackson, and F. O. Bezner, inter- 
ested a Detroit merchant, J. L. Hudson, in a new design in 
1908; with $10,000 of cash so acquired, together with smaller 
amounts otherwise collected, the Hudson Motor Car Com- 
pany was organized a few months later. The blueprints of 
R. C. Hupp, coupled with the modest support of a small 
group of Detroit business men, similarly became the basis of 
the Hupp Motor Car Company. 

Elwood Haynes and the Apperson brothers, sponsored by 
local groups, had undertaken commercial production soon 
after the completion of their original models. The Winton 
(1898), the Pierce-Arrow (1901), the Jeffery, later Nash 
(1903), the Thomas Flyer, and a few others, grew out of 
bicycle-manufacturing enterprises; the Peerless issued from 
the Peerless Wringer Company; the White, first steam and 
then gasoline, from the White Sewing Machine enterprise. 

In ways such as these, then, modestly launched, for the 
most part, did automobile-producing companies spring up. 


5. EARLY FAILURES 


If entrance into the automobile manufacturing business 
was easy, failures, too, were swift and numerous. Even 
before the industry was well started, it had already been 
prolific of misguided promotions and unsuccessful manu- 
facturing ventures. Many of these originated in that heyday 
of financial promotion generally, the few years on either side 
of the turn of the century, when, as in many other industries, 
numerous newly projected enterprises issued large amounts 
of securities based, it would seem, on little that was more 
tangible than a general optimism. The automobile compa- 
nies thus originated quickly became mere names: the Woods 
Motor Vehicle Company ($10,000,000 capitalization); the 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 25 


Automobile Company of America ($5,000,000); the Auto- 
mobile Forecarriage Company ($5,000,000); the Horseless 
Vehicle Company, International Automobile & Vehicle 
Company, Pneumatic Carriage Company, Automatic Air 
Carriage Company, and others.? 

A few large promotions persisted for some years. The 
Electric Vehicle Company, which had acquired ownership 
of the Selden patent in 1899, issued more than $20,000,000 
of securities by 1902; in 1907, it went into receivership, to be 


reorganized in 1909 as the Columbia Motor Car Company, 


with its capitalization scaled down to little more than 
$2,000,000; this company likewise failed, and was finally 


liquidated.? Similarly, the Pope Manufacturing Company, - 


which had ventured into the electric vehicle business from 
that of bicycle manufacture, failed in 1907; failed again 
after a reorganization; and, finally, what was left was ab- 
sorbed by the Willys-Overland Company. Of all the auto- 
mobile manufacturing enterprises sufficiently important to 
be listed in the ‘Manual of Statistics’ for 1902, none survives 
to-day except as a vestigial element incorporated in some 
other enterprise. 

As American production got under way, the large profits 
of successful enterprises were widely advertised, and became 
the basis of extravagant promises on the part of sanguine or 
unscrupulous promoters. Hence, new waves of promotion, 
initiating scores of companies, took place irregularly for 
some years. If the number of all entrants into the industry 
be compared with the number of survivors, the mortality 
rate will be judged to have been high indeed. As against the 
Census figure of 265 automobile producers in 1909, the 
magazine ‘Motor,’ in July, 1909, contained a list of 639 
firms that had ‘engaged’ in the industry up to that time. 
Most of these firms, however, had never attained to the stage 
of commercial manufacture. A recent study indicates that 
seventy-seven enterprises had produced automobiles on a 
commercial scale between 1902 and 1909, inclusive; and that 
_ * Doolittle, op. cit., p. 288 ff. 2 Ibid, 3 Ibid. 


r 


26 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


of these, only eight had retired from business during the 
interval.t In other words, failures, while numerous, were 
largely confined to the promotion stages. 

The successful producers flourished rapidly. Their ex- 
pansion was facilitated by the same fortunate practices that 
encouraged prolific entrance into the industry; and the bulk 
of their large profits was promptly reinvested in the business. 
Increases in their output, stimulated both by the rapidly 
growing general demand and by the cumulative growth in 
the reputations of particular ‘makes,’ did not require im- 
mediate and large additions to their plants nor to their 
working capital. The facilities of parts-makers steadily in- 
creased; competition among distributors and dealers for the 
profitable sales rights permitted the continuance of the 
practices of advance dealer deposits and cash sales; and the 
parts-makers allowed the boon of open accounts. It was in 
this way that the Buick, Cadillac, Ford, Maxwell, Olds, Reo, 
and other producers, each starting with surprisingly small 
resources, grew in size and importance. 

American automobile production, little obstructed by 
limitations of capital, expanded rapidly. The output of 2500 
motor vehicles valued at $4,750,000 in 1899 was increased to 
130,986 vehicles valued at $193,800,000 in 1909; ? and at the 
end of the latter year, the United States was already exceed- 
ing Europe in physical and financial volume of automobile 
production and in total number of automobiles in use. 


6. LOCALIZATION OF MANUFACTURE 


The growth of the American automobile industry was ac- 
companied by a rising tendency toward localization of manu- 
facture. Charts I and II, drawn from the Census of 1910, 
reflect the early prominence of the States of Michigan, Ohio, 
New York, and Indiana; and Table 17, below, shows the 


* R. C. Epstein, ‘The Rise and Fall of Firms in the Automobile Indus- 
try,’ a Harvard doctoral dissertation in 1926, extracts from which ap- 
peared in the Harvard Business Review, vol. vy, numbers 2 and 3. 

* Census of Manufactures, 1909. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 27 


6061 ‘SALVIS AT SLONGOUd ATIGOWOLAV AO HNTVA “I LUVHD 


0006828 Tey; sso’y 
_C00'O0R'tS 07 O60‘oSze 
000‘6S8°s$ 03 OCa‘009'T$ 
000°690'CS 9) Cco‘oss'st 
eco’cco'ss 


(@0800 


‘Osm { 
preeee oe a 


- 
Ore @-erm.e.n, J ee 
° 


: 
MvON  Y NOw 


28 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


large extent to which this leadership has since been retained. 

Various circumstances, partly adventitious, contributed to 
the early emergence of Michigan and Ohio, in particular, as 
the leading automobile-producing States. In the first place, 


bam 1909 1904 Millions of Dollars 
0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84 96 

Michigan 1 ga ote 

Ohio : es 

New York 

Indiana 

Connecticut 

Wisconsin 

Mamachusatts Za 

Illinois pat 

Pennsylvania # 

Rhode Island § 

New Jersey 

Missouri 

California 


CHART II. VALUE OF AUTOMOBILE PRODUCTS FOR LEADING 
STATES: 1909 AND 1904 


a surprising number of the pioneer inventors and manu- 
facturers were among their residents: Henry Ford, Ransom 
E. Olds, David Buick, Charles King, Henry M. Leland, and 
others, of Michigan; Alexander Winton, the White family, 
the Peerless group, and others, of Ohio. Stimulating both 
invention and manufacture of motor vehicles in these States 
was the prior and contemporaneous existence of various re- 
lated industries. In Michigan, early iron and copper mining, 
and the State’s great timber resources, among other factors, 
had resulted in the development of stove, brass, shipbuild- 
ing, carriage- and wagon-manufacture, and other wood- and 
metal-working industries, among which was the production 
of gasoline and steam engines for stationary power uses. 
Similar industries, with more emphasis upon steel pro- 
ducts, including, particularly, the bicycle, had developed 
in Ohio. Most of these industries, moreover, were not in- 
tegrated, but comprised large numbers of independent parts- 
making, assembling, and sales enterprises. In consequence 
inventive and manufacturing talent familiar with the ma- 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 29 


chine technique, and factories equipped with the physical 
facilities and traditions of parts manufacture, were readily 
available in both States for automobile production. And 
in Michigan in particular, were found a surprisingly large 
number of men willing to risk capital and energy in the new 
industry. 

More immediately important than any of these influences, 
however, was the fact of the initial successes of a large num- 
ber of Michigan and Ohio automobile producers. While en- 
trants from other States were more numerous in the aggre- 
gate and accounted for the larger part of American automo- 
bile production for a few years, Michigan, conspicuously, pos- 
_ sessed the most successful enterprises: the Buick, Ford, Olds, 
Cadillac, Packard, and other Michigan companies led the 
field as early as 1907. Their success attracted the attention 
of the men of capital and energy about them, and of would- 
be automobile producers located elsewhere. It stimulated the 
local development of specialized contributory and ancillary 
enterprises and of technical talent and skilled labor. Thus, 
the successful producers soon gave to their locations an im- 
mediate and real superiority for automobile manufacture. 
And, since the growth of the leading producers was cumula- 
tive, it was their localities which soon contributed the bulk 
of American automobile output. 

In an attempt to discover specific causes for the early 
localization of American automobile manufacture, the writer 
has interviewed a score or more of individuals who have been 
identified with the industry from its early years; the opinion 
of Mr. Roy D. Chapin reflects that of many others. Mr. 
Chapin declared: ? 


Three men, Henry Ford, Ransom E. Olds, and Charles King were 
responsible for the origin and development of Detroit and the sur- 


*In April, 1926, a subsidiary of the American Car & Foundry Com- 
Jany, with the entire country to choose from, decided to locate its motor 
dus plant in Detroit, far removed from the main plants of the parent 
company. 

* In an interview with the writer in Detroit, Michigan, December II, 
1924. | 


30 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


rounding territory as the center of the automobile industry. The 
cars they made and the companies they established were successful, 
while many of those made in other cities were not. The Detroit suc- 
cesses stimulated more local effort and attracted others from other 
districts. 

The existence of the desired types of skilled labor in this vicinity 
had something, though not much, to do with the Detroit location. 
In fact, we had to import our really skilled labor from the east in the 
early years. 

The banks here played an important part. There was a great deal 
of prejudice in other parts of the country on the part of bankers, par- 
ticularly in the east. They lacked the business sense that was needed. 
The Detroit bankers had it and were not afraid of our sight drafts. 


That the localization of industry is quite commonly deter- 
mined by the adventitious success of some single or small 
group of producers within a restricted district of a much 
larger area of possible location is reflected by the following 
freely arranged excerpt from the Twelfth Census of the 
United States: * 


In most cases it will be found that the original establishment of an 
industry ina locality was largely a matter of chance. . . . Somewhere 
within the possible area .. . an enterprising man started the pioneer 
establishment of a certain industry. . .. His success proves that the 
economic conditions are favorable — that he is within the possible 
area of thatindustry. But it does more, it creates a local bias toward 
this particular industry. This bias affects all three classes necessary 
to its expansion: entrepreneurs, capitalists, and laborers. 


7. THE RIskKs OF AUTOMOBILE PRODUCTION 


Commercial bankers, from the beginning, had viewed the 
automobile industry with great distrust; and its rapid de- 
velopment soon aroused their positive hostility. Writers and . 
lecturers in the banking fraternity cited the growing popu- 
larity of the automobile as an ominous sign of extravagance, 
luxury, and waste; the automobile was pictured as a siren, 
luring men to mortgage their homes, to liquidate their in- 
vestments, to reduce their savings accounts, to divert pur- 
chasing power from all legitimate channels of consumptio 


t Vol. vil, pp. 210-14 (1900). 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 31 


and investment. Depression in the bond market, reces- 
sions in various branches of trade, and other ilis were laid to 
the motor car. 

The hostile conservatism of the bankers, shared, in part, 
by other sections of public opinion, was accentuated by what 
appeared to be chaotic conditions among the automobile 
producers. New promotions, some of them fraudulent and 
most of them unsuccessful, appeared with great frequency. 
Each new company claimed revolutionary improvements in 
design, forcing older producers to make similar claims with 
respect to each succeeding model, and causing a continuous 
state of unsettlement within the industry.?, Large numbers 
of automobile companies were born to but a few short months 
of life, and dozens were swept away in the panic of 1907.% 
The fact that it was possible to undertake and to expand pro- 

duction on a minimum of owned capital encouraged trading 
on the thinnest of equities. In the sense that few automobile 
producers possessed sufficient reserves of working capital to 
tide them over possible periods of diminished sales, the whole 
industry may be said to have been undercapitalized. Rela- 
tively small and temporary difficulties in production or sales 
therefore constituted a serious threat to all producers. 

On the other hand, there was every incentive for success- 
ful companies to expand their volume of business. Profits 
were large, and permitted substantial reinvestment of earn- 
ings. Increased volume of production lowered manufactur- 
‘ing costs by permitting large-scale production of standard- 
ized parts, either by the manufacturer directly or by parts- 
makers working to order. A larger volume of output cumu- 
atively increased the market for any particular company by 
permitting an increase in the number and fuller territorial 

« Cf., for an excellent example, an article by Franklin Escher, ‘The 
Auto and the Bond Market,’ in the Bankers’ Magazine, vol. 81, p. 508 ff. 
(October, 1910). 


2See Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ in the Detrott 
Saturday Night of January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. 


3 Doolittle, op. cit., p. 38; and Dalton, ‘When To-morrow’s Roll is 
Called,’ in Motor, January, 1925, p. 72 ff. 


32 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


distribution of dealers and service agencies, as well as by 
adding to the maker’s reputation. And the technological 
and financial practices prevailing in the industry, to which 
allusion has been made, minimized the capital requirements 
of expanded production. 

Nevertheless, expanded output brought its perils. There 
was great temptation to employ the profits of a successful 
year for fixed plant and equipment, despite the availability 
of the plant facilities of parts-makers, for the latter’s profits 
were large. The demand for automobiles generically was un- 
doubtedly great, but the tentative technical character of the 
product, both real and fancied, caused great fickleness on the 
part of the buying public with respect to particular ‘makes’ ; 
hence the success of any single year’s model of any producer 
was uncertain. Commitments for parts and materials, 
nevertheless, had to be made; a single bad year, therefore, 
might easily be a fatal blow. The situation of the Maxwell- 
Briscoe Company, for example, was thus described by Mr. 
Briscoe: ? 

Our business grew very fast in spite of our lack of good, or even 
fair facilities. ... With me, however, there was always the thought 
that if we should ever experience a ‘silly season,’ should ever drop so 
far behind competition as to make it difficult for us to sell our 


product ‘off the fire,’ we... would find ourselves in a very un- 
fortunate financial position. 


These conditions and others, which led a number of auto- 
mobile producers to attempt a combination as a means of 
pooling the risks of automobile manufacture, were further 
described by Mr. Briscoe as follows: 


In the spring of 1908, the conditions that confronted the auto- 
mobile industry were thought by some of us to besomewhat ominous, 
especially for such concerns as had large fixed investment in plants, 
machinery, tools, etc. Not a few of the concerns of the day were run 
by what might have been called ‘manufacturing gamblers.’ 

In many cases, the management had adopted methods that were 
described as ‘plunging.’ In fact we all plunged, and conditions came 


* “The Inside Story of General Motors,’ in the Detroit Saturday Night of 
January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. ‘ 
i 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 33 


about which were thought by some of us to predicate disaster. The 
influence of several companies was always exciting and sometimes 
disturbing. The business of even the sanest among the manufactur- 
ers was influenced by them, for they had to submit to be crowded into 
business risks which they would not have entered into had they not 
been fearful that some other concern would gain a few points on 
them.... . 

There was even a greater menace to the industry in the piratical 
attitude of what were called ‘skimmers.’ Concerns which did not 
have a worthy car or any manufacturing ability, but with large 
stock issues to sell, and by ingenious exploitation would succeed 
in stirring up the trade and the public, creating the impression 
that the automobile business was an unstaple one, that the older con- 
cerns were robbers, and that they, through some newly discovered 
combination of geniuses, were enabled to sell gold dollars for fifty 
cents, in automobiles. 

These practices had a considerable effect on the trade, preventing 
a proper and conservative public view of the business, and bringing, 
through misrepresentation, a great deal of discredit upon the in- 
dustry. 

Again there were many parts-makers who, by extending accom- 
modations and by taking long chances with small automobile manu- 
facturers, threatened a demoralization by encouraging into the busi- 
ness uncercapitalized concerns and inexperienced makers, and al- 
though such companies were generally short-lived, this condition 
hurt while it lasted; in any event, many such companies were bound 
to get a large share of the local business. Concerns of this type were 
springing up everywhere, and even though their scope was limited . 
to their own localities, the business which they did in the aggregate 
was very considerable. 

Taking all in all, therefore, in this year of 1908, many of us thought 
that the industry was beset with difficulties and so came the desire 
70 some of us to form a combination of the principal concerns in the 
ndustry, not with the desire to sell all of the automobiles that were 
-o be sold, but rather for the purpose of having one big concern of 
such dominating influence in the automobile industry, as for instance, 
che United States Steel Corporation exercises in the steel industry, 
0 that its very influence would prevent many of the abuses that we 
relieved existed. ... 

... This was the basis of my thought at the time we of the Max- 
vell-Briscoe Motor Co. had over-traded ... all of these things had 
yrought me to the conclusion that some change must be made and 
‘hat to effect a combination would probably be the most desirable 
‘hing to do. 


34 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


I was in this frame of mind, therefore, when I accepted Mr. 
Durant’s invitation to visit him in Flint. 


8. THE ForD-BuICK-REO-MAXWELL COMBINATION PROJECT 


Briscoe’s interview with Durant, just alluded to, took 
place early in the summer of 1908, and resulted in a project 
for a large combination of automobile manufacturers, with 
the Buick, Ford, Reo, and Maxwell-Briscoe companies as a 
nucleus. The Buick Motor Car Company had been taken 
over by William C. Durant, previously a wagon-manu- 
facturer, three years before, and in 1908 it was the largest 
producer of automobiles in the United States.t The Ford 
Motor Company, the next largest, and the Reo and Maxwell- 
Briscoe companies were likewise very prominent producers; 
and the combination of these four alone might have given 
their owners, as Briscoe hoped, a predominant position in 
the industry. 

Briscoe, who had manufactured parts for the Ford and the 
two Olds enterprises, arranged for a conference between 
Durant, Ford, James Couzens (of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany), Olds, and himself. At this preliminary meeting, held 
in Detroit, it was tentatively decided to organize a new 
company that would purchase the assets of the four others 
by the issue to them of preferred stock in amounts equal to 
the appraised value of their assets, and by the issue of com- 
mon stock on a basis later to be determined.?, Numerous 
conferences in New York followed, in the offices of Ward, 
Hayden & Satterlee; the last-named, a son-in-law of J. P. 
Morgan, Sr., was attorney for the Maxwell-Briscoe Com- 
pany. Ford and Couzens had been reluctant to place the 
project in the hands of Satterlee, preferring their own New 
York attorney, Job Hedges; and this adverse choice of at- 
torney is believed by Briscoe to have caused the hesitancy 

* The Buick Motor Car Company produced 8487 automobiles in 1908 
as compared with 6181 produced by the Ford Motor Company. 

The present account of these and the subsequent negotiations is 


based upon Briscoe’s articles of January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 
1921, in the Detroit Saturday Night. 


{ 
4 
y 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 35 


that they displayed throughout the negotiations. Finally, 
audits and appraisals having been completed, a tentative 
agreement providing for the distribution of both classes of 
stock in the projected combination was arranged. At. the 
final meeting held for the consummation of the negotiations, 
however, Couzens unexpectedly announced that his com- 
pany had decided to enter the combination only on condition 
that it receive at least $3,000,000 in cash. R. E. Olds then 
insisted that his company must be accorded similar treat- 
ment. As neither Couzens (whose demands might have been 
met had they not involved similar demands on the part of 
Olds) nor Olds could be persuaded to modify his position, the 
whole project was relinquished. 


9g.- THE GENERAL Motors CoMBINATION 


Durant then proposed to Briscoe that the Buick and Max- 
well-Briscoe companies combine to form the nucleus of an- 
other group of automobile producers. With the aid of 
George W. Perkins, of J. P. Morgan & Co., who agreed to 
underwrite $500,000 of the $1,500,000 of new capital desired, 
a charter was drawn up for a company to be called the Inter- 
national Motors Company. The legal aspects of the new 
negotiations were turned over to Francis L. Stetson, one of 
the Morgan attorneys. It was Stetson, according to Briscoe, 
who prevented the consummation of the new project. When 
the question of obtaining the prior approval of the Buick 
stockholders was raised, Durant is said to have replied that, 
while no general announcement had been made, there was no 
question about the ratification of the project whenever he 
chose to present it. Stetson then objected that some of the 
Buick stock had been changing hands during the course of 
the negotiations, and that the sellers should be given oppor- 
tunity to repurchase their stock in view of the new project. 
(It cannot be said whether or not this was a direct intima- 
tion that Durant had been privately purchasing Buick stock 
during the progress of the conferences.) Durant is said to 
have replied that he was following the advice of his own 


36° THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Michigan attorney, John J. Carton, of Flint, and that he in- 
tended to continue to do so. Whereupon Stetson declared 
that he would advise the Morgan firm to drop all connec- 
tion with the project. Durant was in favor of proceeding 
with the combination in any event, but Briscoe, who was 
under obligation to the Morgan interests for their aid in the 
formation of the Maxwell-Briscoe Company, was obliged to 
withdraw. 

Durant nevertheless proceeded on his own account to ef- 
fect the organization of the General Motors Company, a 
name which had been suggested previously by George W. 
Perkins. The Company was incorporated in New Jersey on 
September 16, 1908, with a capitalization of $7,000,000 of 
preferred and $5,500,000 of common stock. The entire stock 
of the Buick Motor Car Company was immediately acquired 
by exchange of securities. On October 5, 1909, Durant ob- 
tained an option, on behalf of the Combination, to purchase 
the entire capital stock of the Ford Motor Company at a 
price of $8,000,000, $2,000,000 of which was to be paid in 
cash and the remainder in one- and two-year notes.? Be- 
cause the funds of the Combination had been largely ab- 
sorbed by other acquisitions and by plant expansion, and 
because it was impossible to procure an adequate loan, this 
option was allowed to lapse. A similar project for the 
acquisition of the Maxwell-Briscoe Motor Company was 
abandoned for much the same reason. By 1910, however, 
partly by exchange of stock, partly by means of cash realized 
from the sale of securities, and partly by use of the current 
large profits of its constituents, the General Motors Company 
had acquired an entire or controlling interest in some twenty 
automobile and parts-producing enterprises; and it was 


t Briscoe, loc. ctt. 

? From a memorandum included in the minutes of the board of di- 
rectors of the General Motors Company at this time, access to which was 
obtained through the courtesy of Frank F. Kolbe, assistant treasurer, 
and other officers of the present Corporation. 

3 Cf. Briscoe, loc. cit., and W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in 
Motor, January, 1923. 


om. ee 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 37 


marketing ten different brands of motor vehicles, the com- 
bined output of which constituted about 21 per cent by 
volume and 22 per cent by value of the total American 
automobile output.? 

The primary object of the Combination, that of a 
the risks of automobile production by offering a variety of 
automobile products, appeared to be on the high road to 
realization. But this object required the active operation of 
many plants; and, because most of the constituents were 
poorly equipped, the liquid resources of the Combination 
were soon exhausted by fixed capital expansion, and large 
obligations were incurred to banks and suppliers. In 
September, 1910, through a voting trust agreement made in 
this connection, control of the Company passed into the 
hands of a syndicate of investment bankers, who, in return 
for something less than $12,500,000 in cash, received $15,- 
000,000 of the Combination’s five-year sinking-fund notes 
(secured by deed of trust) and a bonus of a large block of 
stock. Under the conservative management of the bankers, 
the financial troubles of the General Motors Company 
quickly disappeared, but its original purpose was largely 
forgotten: the number of motor-vehicle brands was sharply 
reduced, and, by 1915, the Combination’s share of the aggre- 
gate American automobile output had fallen to 8.5 per cent 
by volume and 13.6 per cent by value.? 


10. THE UNITED STATES Motor FIASCO 


While Durant was organizing the General Motors Com- 
pany, Briscoe had proceeded with a separate attempt at 
combination. In September, 1910, the United States Motor 
Company, which had been quietly incorporated with a 
nominal capital in New Jersey two years before, increased 
its authorized capitalization to $30,000,000, divided equally 
between preferred and common stock; and, in the following 

« The promotion and history of the Company are treated in detail in 
Chapter IV. 

2 See Chapter IV, below. 


38 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


month, largely by exchange of securities, obtained control 
of nine automobile and parts-manufacturing enterprises.* 
The new combination, aided by the financial support of 
Anthony N. Brady and other Eastern financiers, immedi- 
ately embarked upon a large program of expansion. Within 
a few months, its working capital was depleted and it was 
forced to issue $6,000,000 of debenture bonds, which, ac- 
companied by a common stock bonus, were sold to Eugene 
Meyer & Co. and largely retained by this firm. With the 
funds thus realized, the United States Motor Company 
renewed its expansion policy. But the failure of virtually all 
of its twenty-eight distinct models of automobiles, produced 
under seven trade names, to meet with popular approval, 
and the large needs of scores of sales and parts-producing 
companies that it had purchased or organized, forced a 
receivership in 1912. More than a hundred and fifty distinct 
corporations possessing diverse and complicated interrela- 
tions were found to be controlled by the United States 
Motor Company. The bulk of these were liquidated; many 
of the plants, distributed over five states, were sold; and all 
of the automobile products were discontinued. 

A reorganization committee composed of a large number 
of prominent financiers — George W. Davison, Charles H. 
Sabin, Benjamin Strong, Jr., Albert H. Wiggin, James C. 
Brady, and Eugene Meyer, Jr., among others — effected the 
organization of a new company, the Maxwell Motor Com- 
pany, which, with $3,000,000 of fresh capital, took over the 
remains of the United States Motor Company. In order to 
procure the services of Walter E. Flanders, then head of the 


Flanders Motor Company, to displace Briscoe, the Flanders © 


Ee ee ee 


enterprise was purchased by the new company, and, in ad- — 


dition to a large salary, Flanders was offered a bonus propor- 


tioned to prospective profits. Most of the claims of creditors © 


* The following account is based largely upon a typewritten manu- 
script entitled ‘History of the Maxwell Organization,’ prepared for the 
new president of the Maxwell company in 1921 by Mr. J. C. Holmes, 
who had been connected with the enterprise almost from the beginning, 
and who is now assistant comptroller of the Chrysler Corporation. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 39 


of the old combination were met by generous allotments of 
stock in the new enterprise; whence the Maxwell Motor 
Company started business with a capitalization of more than 
$35,000,000, divided between first and second preferred 
stocks and common stock. Under Flanders’s management, 
the Maxwell company prospered for some years, during 
which its promoters and bankers were able to profit greatly 
by selling large blocks of stock originally received for promo- 
tion services. Later, after the crisis of 1920-21, another re- 
organization took place, resulting, eventually, in the present 
Chrysler Corporation. 


I1. THE SELDEN PATENT 


The several attempts at combination just described re- 
sulted in no perceptible diminution of competition in the 
automobile industry. More than a decade previously, how- 
ever, the industry had faced the imminent threat of monopo- 
listic control; and the prolonged legal litigation that fol- 
lowed had important effects upon the competitive relations 
of American automobile manufacturers. 

Reference has been made to the filing of the first automo- 
bile patent application in the United States by George B. 
Selden, of Rochester, New York, on May 8, 1879. Selden, 
an attorney, dubious of the immediate prospects of exploit- 
ing his invention, had managed to keep the application 
‘alive’ in the Patent Office by various legal means for more 
than sixteen years before causing the patent to be issued. 
When, on November 5, 1895, the patent was finally issued, 
apparently embodying Selden’s wide claims to the original 
application of the internal combustion hydro-carbon motor 
to the road vehicle, the inventor was unable to enlist finan- 
cial support for its exploitation. In 1897, the wave of in- 
dustrial combination then sweeping the United States was 
carried to the nascent automobile industry by William C. 
Whitney, the well-known traction financier, who organized 
a combination of numerous electric vehicle enterprises under 

* 172 Federal 923. . 


40 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


the holding company ownership of the Columbia & Electric 
Vehicle Company.t On November 4, 1899, this company, 
which was succeeded a few months later by the Electric 
Vehicle Company, acquired exclusive rights to the Selden 
patent under an arrangement whereby, eventually, the in- 
ventor received a total of about $200,000 in royalties.? 

The Electric Vehicle Company, coming into possession 
of what appeared to be the basic gasoline automobile patent 
at precisely the time when the gasoline vehicle was supersed- 
ing both steam and electric automobiles, set about immedi- 
ately to enforce its claims. A test suit was started against 
the Winton Motor Carriage Company on November 5, 1900, 
and similar suits were soon brought against others. On 
March 5, 1903, the Winton company and nine other 
automobile producers formed the Association of Licensed 
Automobile Manufacturers, the members of which agreed to 
recognize the validity of the patent and to pay a royalty of 
1.5 per cent of the retail price of all automobiles sold by 
them, two-fifths of the royalties to be returned to the As- 
sociation. This arrangement cleared the air for members of 
the Association, but it threatened to create a partial mono- 
poly of the gasoline automobile manufacturing business of 
the United States, for licensing under the patent was the 
exclusive privilege of members of the Association, the doors 
of which might be closed at any time to new manufacturers. 

The Ford Motor Company, organized a few months pre- 
viously, refused an invitation to join the Association; and on 
October 21, 1903, at the behest of the Association, the 
Electric Vehicle Company brought suit for infringement 
against C. A. Duerr & Co., the New York agent of the Ford 
Company, to which the latter was joined as defendant. 
In the stress of the long legal battle that followed, the 
doors of the Association were thrown open to nearly ninety 
per cent of American automobile manufacturers; the royalty 

* Doolittle, op. cit., p. 60 ff. 

2 Ibid. 

3172 Federal 923. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 41 


rate was reduced first to one per cent, then to four-fifths of 
one per cent, and finally, toa maximum of $150,000 annually, 
the remainder of the four-fifths of one per cent still collected 
being retained by the Association for its general purposes.’ 
After nearly six years of legal proceedings, the record of 
which filled thirty-six large volumes, Judge Charles M. 
Hough, in September, 1909, rendered a decision upholding 
the patent in every particular.2 The case was immediately 
appealed to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, 
which, in January, 1911, rendered an opinion formally 
sustaining the Selden patent, but holding that it did not 
apply to the Ford automobile: the latter, the Court decided, 
was based upon the Otto type of gasoline engine, whereas 
Selden’s claims were held to describe an engine known as 
the Brayton type. This decision effectively vitiated the 
Selden patent and destroyed the original basis of the As- 
sociation of Licensed Automobile Manufacturers, for vir- 
tually all American automobiles employed the Otto type of 
engine. 

It is interesting to note that this decision was rendered ata 
time of pronounced public hostility to all forms of combina- 
tions and monopolies. The Association had come in for its 
share of criticism on this ground, despite its liberal conces- 
sions. 

The extent to which the Selden patent litigation actually 
retarded the development of American automobile manu- 
facture is difficult to appraise. The patent claims probably 
discouraged a measure of financial support for some pro- 
ducers; on the other hand, licensing under the patent had 
soon become open to all; the numerous licensees developed a 
large business; the royalty fees cannot be judged to have 
been excessive; and the Ford Motor Company, against which 
the claims were most strenuously pressed, became, during 
the pendency of the suit, the most important automobile 
manufacturer in the world. An important consequence of 

* The usual activities of trade associations. 
2172 Federal 923. 3 184 Federal 893. 


42 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


the litigation, moreover, was the acceleration of a movement 
toward intercorporate standardization and codperation 
among American automobile producers. 


12. STANDARDIZATION AND ‘COOPERATIVE COMPETITION’ 


The traditions and technique of American manufacture 
had virtually enforced some measure of standardization in 
product by each automobile producer from the very begin- 
ning. Most of the components of his products were ordered 
in quantity from independent parts-makers; they could be 
efficiently assembled into finished vehicles only if the latter 
were confined to a few standardized models. The enormous 
economies of mass production of parts and of mass assem- 
bling were progressively accentuated as the demand for auto- 
mobiles increased. The motor vehicle was an intricate piece 
of machinery, moreover, and had to be adjusted and repaired 
by divers local establishments; hence approximate identity 
in construction in the products of each manufacturer was 
a great advantage. Finally, the generic demand for auto- 
mobiles was soon so great that problems of production, 
simplified by standardized practice, rather than those of 
sales, were long uppermost in the minds of automobile pro- 
ducers. 

The great diversity in design of components that at first 
obtained among different automobile producers, was com- 
bated by the influence of the parts-makers, many of whom 
contributed similar components to a number of different 
producers. When the first trade association in the industry 
was formed in 1900, parts- and tire-producers were ad- 
mitted as associate members; and a number of recommen- 
dations for standardized practice were soon adopted. With 
the beginning of the Selden patent controversy, the move- 
ment for intercorporate standardization of minor parts was 
greatly accelerated, the community of interest existing with 
respect to the patent, among the unlicensed, as well as among 

* The National Association of Automobile Manufacturers adopted a 


standard guarantee on automobiles, standard spacing of tire lugs, and 
standard lamp brackets and rim sections, in 1902. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 43 


the licensed, producers being made the basis for wider codper- 
ation. The charter of the American Motor Car Manufac- 
turers’ Association, formed to combat the patent, provided 
for the interchange of technical information by employees 
of the different producers with a view toward standardiza- 
tion of various components; and the Association of Licensed 
Automobile Manufacturers, in 1905, established a Mechan- 
ical Branch, under the leadership of which intercorporate 
standardization of parts and materials was actively and suc- 
cessfully prosecuted. 

When the Selden patent was finally adjudged inapplica- 
ble to existing automobiles, the National Automobile Cham- 
ber of Commerce was formed to succeed the previous trade 
associations; and the field of technical research and the 
_Teadership in the movement for standardization were taken 
over by the Society of Automotive Engineers. By virtue of 
its representative membership, its effective research achieve- 
-ments, its bulletins and conferences, and the codperation of 
parts- and tire-makers (who had organized as the Motor and 
Accessory Manufacturers’ Association), the Society of Auto- 
motive Engineers succeeded in standardizing many scores of 
parts and many kinds of materials. Whereas, for example, a 
single parts-maker was at one time supplying 800 different 
lockwashers to be used with bolts of only slightly varying 
diameter, requiring, therefore, 800 different producing dies, 
the number of lockwashers was reduced to 16; more than 
1600 sizes of steel tubing gave way to less than 20; the num- 
ber of alloy steels was reduced from more than 200 to less 

than 50;and soon.? No attempt has been made to standard- 
ize the design of the larger components of the various 
‘makes’ of automobiles; and the elimination of needless 
variation in hundreds of small hidden parts and in many 
kinds of materials has not detracted substantially from the 
individuality of the different brands of motor vehicles. Such 
standardization, on the other hand, has effected large econo- 


* See John K. Barnes, ‘The Men Who “Standardized ” Automobile 
Parts,’ in the World’s Work, vol. 42, p. 204 ff. 


44 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


mies in manufacture, and has greatly facilitated expansion 
in output. 


13. POOLING OF PATENT RIGHTS 


Striking as was the progress in standardization of parts 
and materials, a more unusual achievement of intercorporate 
codperation among American automobile producers was the 
pooling of patent rights. Patent litigation in the industry 
had not been confined to Selden’s basic claims. As in the 
sewing machine, agricultural implement, electrical, and 
other industries in which machine-made parts are of great 
importance, numerous patented improvements appeared 
constantly. A competitive scramble for these diverse ad- 
vances was likely to give no single producer a pronounced or 
prolonged advantage: exclusive rights to a preponderant 
proportion of the improvements were not likely to come into 
the possession of any single manufacturer; each advance? 
might be quickly superseded by another; and a wide dis-} 
tribution of the patents would leave each producer at a dis- 
advantage with respect to some improvements. The indus- 
try as a whole, moreover, would be prevented from uni- 
formly adopting progressive advances in product. 

As against the natural difficulties of effecting a free dis- 
tribution of patent privileges among active competitors, 
American automobile producers possessed a keen apprecia- 
tion of the costs, delays, and uncertainties of patent contro- 
versy. Even before the Selden suit had been finally adjudi- 
cated, various proposals for cross-licensing of patents, there- 
fore, had been made.' When, by 1915, the volume of patent 
litigation in the industry was threatening to increase i 
definitely, the sentiment for minimizing this source of ex: 
pense and uncertainty overcame all obstacles. Through the 
agency of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerc 
approximately 100 automobile producers signed a cross- 
licensing agreement whereby, with few exceptions, licenses 
under all patents owned by any party to the agreement w 

* Doolittle, op. ctt., p. 186, 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 45 


to be extended to all other signatories without payment of 
royalties. Patents on large aspects of design were excepted, 
and provision was made for excepting possible radical de- 
partures from existing practice.? In addition, the Associa- 
tion was empowered to acquire patent rights in its own 
name, as trustee, for the common use of its members. The 
- pooling of patents thus achieved was a remarkable extension 
of the principle of standardization through intercorporate 
codperation. It reduced patent litigation in the industry to 
a minimum, and, by means of the provision for joint negoti- 
ation with outside patent-holders, through the Association, 
it minimized the competition for, and hence the costs of, 
additional patent privileges. 


14. EXPANSION OF AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURE 


For a dozen years prior to 1909, American automobile 
manufacture had been steadily emerging from a novel, spec- 
tacular, and uncertain development into an organized in- 
dustry of considerable promise. The technical character of 
the product had been progressively improved and was com- 
manding increasing public confidence; a number of success- 
ful producers had appeared; and the automobile was steadily 
outgrowing exclusive use as an expensive toy and as an agent 
of sport. Less than 230,000 motor vehicles had been pro- 
duced by the end of 1908, but twenty-five per cent of these 
had been manufactured in the latter year; and, as respects 
both demand and productive capacity, the ground had been 
prepared for great and rapid growth. 

In 1909, the industry entered upon a long period of re- 
markable expansion. The low-priced automobile, which had 
previously made only brief appearances, due perhaps to the 
narrow range and sportive character of the early demand, 
now found a ready market. Led by the Ford Motor Com- 
pany, there was a marked diversion of resources to low- and 
medium-priced vehicles, and a corresponding increase in the 
total volume of sales. The output of 1909 exceeded that of 

* No exceptions have yet been made on this score. 


46 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


1908 by more than 100 per cent, and during the four years 
following, 1,260,000 motor vehicles valued at more than 
$1,292,000,000 were produced.t By 1912, automobiles re- 
tailing at prices under $1000 had climbed to 43.8 per cent of 
the total output, and, by 1915, to 72.3 per cent.? 

Many influences helped to speed the growth in demand. 


Each increase in output was accompanied by a multiplica- | 


tion of sales and service establishments. Municipal, county, 


state, and federal agencies undertook extensive construction 
and improvement of roads. As the automobile became 


more reliable in operation, there was a growing appreciation . 


of its services in the ordinary conduct of business. The Ford 
car, selling at extremely low and falling prices, appealed to 
an enormous market, and served as a powerful educative 
force for potential purchasers of higher-priced cars. And as 
the use of automobiles became more and more common, 
motives of emulation and display reénforced the immediate 
services of the vehicle as important elements in the demand. 
Until 1918, when American participation in the World War 
caused the diversion of much of the industry’s productive 
resources to the manufacture of military products, there was 
a sharp, though varying, increase year by year in the output 
of motor vehicles. At the close of the War, the industry 
quickly renewed its expansion. When, during the depression 
of 1921, the crest of the automobile demand appeared now 
to have been passed, the industry again confounded all pre- 
dictions. Between 1921 and 1926, according to the prelim- 
inary estimates of the National Bureau of Economic Re- 
search, the average income per person gainfully employed in 
the United States increased by more than one-third in pur- 
chasing power; * the automobile claimed a goodly proportion 
of this increase. Through an extensive development of the 
installment-payment plan for the retail sale of automobiles, 
and through sharp reductions in prices, hundreds of thou- 
sands of new purchasers were brought into the market. 
* See Table 8, below. 2 See Table 13, below. 
3 News-Bulletin of February 21, 1927, published by the Bureau. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 47° 


More motor vehicles were produced and sold in the United 
States between 1922 and 1926, inclusive, than had been 
manufactured previously in the entire history of the Ameri- 
can industry.? Various aspects of the expansion of the 
American automobile industry are reflected by the tables 
presented at the end of this chapter; the growth in the out- 
put of passenger cars and trucks (the former constituting 
about 90 per cent of the total during the past decade) is 
summarized in Table 2, and the recent expansion is graphi- 
cally portrayed by Chart III. 


TABLE 2. NUMBER AND WHOLESALE VALUE OF AMERICAN 
MoTor-VEHICLE OuTPUT BY PERIODS* 


PERIOD NUMBER WHOLESALE VALUE 
DUMNMPTEOMYS oe Pc lely dy sia hh va vele's 136,830 $233,579,439 
SEMIP TE OTA wis bie wha vais bie Ve Peon 970,986 I,151,948,529 
MRRP RASS FaNe dhe cield'ple\ 9 FS. 4 «a4. #0 5,515,641 3,961,504,292 
MINS Sl es ie Ala os eas 0 3 wie 9,665,355 8,399,539,044 
USE ME ie ie ae oe 16,427,549 11,021,791,821 


* Includes output of Canadian plants making vehicles of United States design. 
Figures from the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 


While the tremendous expansion of American automobile 
manufacture had its primary source in the utilities offered 


NUMBER IN THOUSANDS 
D 1000 1500 eh 7300 3000 = 00 3S 4000 


AVERAGE 
I9ti-15 ZZ |_| 

1921 LLL LLL 

1922 a L 


1923 LLL LLL ae oe a a 
1924 MMMM a oe 

WILLA LLL LLL LLL 
1925 LLL LLL LLG LLL 
1926 VILLE LEE 


PASSENGER CARS MOTOR TRUCKS AND BUSSES) 


CHART III. PRODUCTION OF PASSENGER CARS, TRUCKS AND 
BUSSES IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA 
From Commerce Yearbook, 1926, p. 434.) 


* See Tables 8 and 14, below. 


48 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


by the motor vehicle, the ability of American producers to 
uncover the enormous lower layers of demand and to re- 
spond so rapidly to their appearance must be explained 
in terms of the industrial organization of the industry, its 
technical processes, and its finance — factors to which we 
have previously alluded. 

The industry inherited, we have noted, a technique of 
manufacture built upon the machine-tool, interchangeabil- 
ity of parts, and codperation of independent enterprises 


supplying convergent sub-products. This technique it pro- — 


ceeded to employ and to extend to an unprecedented degree. 


The number and complexity of the components of the auto- — 
mobile and the great precision necessary in their manufac- — 
ture encouraged the widest distribution of manufacturing ~ 


burdens among specialized suppliers of parts and materials. © 
This distribution, in turn, permitted the early introduction — 
of machines and processes more specialized or elaborate - 
than was justified by the output, at first, of any single pro- — 
ducer; it stimulated a nice attention to detail; and it early | 


resulted in the manufacturing and marketing economies of © 
large-scale operation. As demand increased, the pressure 
upon the parts-makers became ever greater, forcing the 


adoption of every kind of labor-saving and time-saving de- 
vice; and the inventors and producers of machine-tools were 
in turn stimulated to extraordinary ingenuity. 

The factories of automobile producers had at first con- 
sisted of unspecialized buildings equipped with relatively 
little machinery and devoted chiefly to final assembling. 
As output expanded, the assembling operations alone took 
on huge proportions; and as reinvested profits swelled their 
capital resources, a number of producers undertook the di- 
rect production of various components. The Ford Motor 
Company had begun in 1908 to concentrate its efforts upon 
a single standardized model; due to this policy, to the manu- 
facturing genius of Henry Ford and others, and to the re- 
markable expansion of its business (effect as well as cause), 
it was able to introduce radical improvements in factory 


i a ae 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 49 


design and operation;* improvements later copied by other 
producers. ‘Henry Ford taught the rest of us much of what 
we know of automobile production methods,’ said Mr. Roy 
D. Chapin in an interview with the writer.2 The achieve- 
ments of Frederick W. Taylor in ‘scientific management,’ 
the Ford conveyor system, and specialized processes origi- 
nated by various parts-makers, were incorporated in modern 
automobile factory buildings and in the plants of suppliers. 
Internally, the factories became, almost literally, huge re- 
volving machines. Materials entered in the original freight 
cars; reloaded on to divers belts, rollers, monorails, and 
factory trains, they were carried progressively to machine 
after machine, each of which, supervised by one or more 
workers, performed in a few strokes a simple or complex 
operation. The components thus struck off and progres- 
sively refined were subjected to rapid inspection by workers 
armed with instruments of the most remarkable precision. 
Leaving the testers and still carried on moving apparatus, 
the components passed down the assembling lines to be 
joined successively in some major unit or in the finished ve- 
hicle. So certain and accurate became the technique of 
automobile manufacture that the need for final testing of the 
completed vehicles was largely eliminated; and a number of 
producers came to save enormous sums in freight charges by 
shipping parts rather than assembled automobiles to various 
distributing centers at home and abroad. 

To expedite production as well as to meet the deficiency 
of skilled workers, labor tasks were progressively subdivided 
and redivided until hundreds of operations previously re- 
quiring skilled mechanics were taken over by untrained work- 
ers, including a growing number of women in recent years, 
each of whom, aided by minutely specialized machine- 
tools, performed but a simple routine task. The clock-like 


« Cf. Arnold and Faurote, The Ford Methods and the Ford Shops. 

2 In Detroit, Michigan, December II, 1924. 

3 See Wages and Hours in the Motor Vehicle nha 1922 and 1925, 
United States Department of Labor. 


50 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY. 


movement of materials and components, the scientific ar- 
rangement of machines, and the enforcement of experi- 
mentally determined standards of output, minimized time, 
space, and motion, and rigidly limited the vagaries of in- 
dividual workers, hence speeding volume and reducing costs. 
To counteract the aversion of factory operatives to the 
monotony and strain of routine work performed under con- 
ditions of mechanically enforced regularity and speed, and 
to stimulate individual and group effort, a variety of 
bonus systems based upon output, attendance, and length 
of service were introduced, and relatively high wages, on a 
piece-work basis wherever possible, were paid.t In recent 
years, due to continued improvement in the organization of 
operations, and to the unremitting substitution of mechan- 
ical power for human workers (there was an increase of 44 
per cent in the volume of primary horsepower employed per 
worker in the combined vehicle- and parts-producing 
branches between 1923 and 1925 alone’), the effectiveness 
of labor has markedly increased. While statistical data in 
this field are often subject to misinterpretation,’ it may be 
noted that an index of physical productivity based upon the 
output of 1914 as 100 shows the average productivity per 
worker to have increased to 249 in 1922, 270 in 1923, 262 in 
1924, and 272 in 1925.4 The average annual earnings of 
wage-earners in the combined industries increased from 
$802 in 1914 to $1630 in 1923; between 1922 and 1925, the 


*See Wages and Hours in the Motor Vehicle Industry, 1922 and 1925, 
United States Department of Labor. 

2 Census of Manufactures, 1925. 

3 Because of the varying distribution of workers among the parts- 
making, assembling, and tool- and machinery-producing branches of, 
or allied to, the automobile industry. Thus, while the number of workers 
in automobile factories proper declined by 43,628 between 1923 and 1925, 
the number employed by parts-makers increased by 64,852. (Census of 
Manufactures.) On the other hand, the net increase in the number of 
workers in the combined industries was only 5 per cent, whereas the in- 
crease in the value of product was I1 per cent. 

4 Monthly Labor Review, January, 1927, and Wages and Hours in the 
Motor Vehicle Industry, 1925, United States Department of Labor. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 51 


average full-time weekly earnings increased from $32.92 to 
$36.37. Because of the great variety of trades involved, 
the rapidity with which the necessary skill for most of them 
can be acquired, and the relatively high wages prevailing, 
there has been little attempt to unionize the employees of 
automobile factories. 

The technical efficiency of American automobile manu- 
facture resulted in falling costs of production, falling prices, 
improved products, and an expanding market; it placed the 
industry well in the forefront of American manufactures; 
and, in its own field, gave it an overwhelming international 
superiority. The average unit value of the American pas- 
senger automobile at the factory in 1914 was $762; in 1925 
it was $692.2 The volume of low-priced vehicles was vastly 
greater in the latter year than in the former, of course; on 
the other hand, the decline in average wholesale value took 
place in the face of a much higher price level and despite 
costly improvements in the product (the proportion of 
closed cars, for example, rose from less than five per cent to 
more than sixty per cent between 1914 and 1925). ‘The 
automobile is one of the few important manufactured com- 
modities that can be bought to-day at less than pre-war 
prices,’ said the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce 
in its 1926 Yearbook. 

The manner in which the great and rapid expansion of the 
industry was financed has been roughly indicated and will 
}receive more detailed consideration in subsequent pages. 
The collateral growth of the various branches of the indus- 
try gave great flexibility to the capital requirements of in- 
lividual automobile producers and permitted most of them 
-o rely chiefly upon reinvested earnings to increase their own 
nvested capital. There was no lack of distributors and 
lealers willing to contract in advance for a year’s output 


Wages and Hours tn the Motor Vehicle Industry, 1925. 

7 Commerce Yearbook, 1926, United States Department of Commerce, 
432. 

3 Ibid., p. 438. 


52 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


and to pay cash upon delivery of the vehicles. The parts- 
makers increased in number and in scale of operations, many 
of them, like the producers proper, building up huge enter- 
prises almost solely out of reinvested profits. Between 1914 
and 1925, the number of establishments engaged in the man- 
ufacture of ‘motor vehicle bodies and parts’? increased 
from 971 to 1358; the wholesale value of their products, 
from $129.6 millions to $1523 millions; the average number 
of their wage-earners, from 47,785 to 228,382.? 

Individual financiers made sporadic investments in auto- 
mobile enterprises from time to time, but the organized 
fixed-capital markets, until very recent years, played a rel- 
atively small rdle in financing the expansion. The five-year 
note issue of the General Motors Company in 1910 was the 
first important public offering of automobile company secu- 
rities. In the same year, investment bankers aided in putting 
together the unfortunate United States Motor Company, pre- 
decessor of the Maxwell and Chrysler companies. In 1911, 
the Studebaker Brothers Manufacturing Company, in ab- 
sorbing the Everitt-Metzger-Flanders Company as a means 
of entering the gasoline vehicle field, reincorporated as the 
Studebaker Corporation, which realized $8,328,802 in cash 
from the sale of $13,500,000 par value of seven-per-cent pre- 
ferred stock; 3 a few months later, this company sold $8,000,- 
ooo of ten-year five-per-cent bonds.4 The securities of the 
General Motors, Maxwell, and Studebaker enterprises were 
the first of the industry to be admitted to the list of the New 
York Stock Exchange. In 1915, the Willys-Overland Com- 
pany sold issues of common and preferred stocks in con- 
nection with its acquisition of a number of small companies; 
and the Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware), which soon 
after obtained control of the General Motors Company, 
marketed nearly $7,000,000 par value of common stock. 


* Exclusive of producers of tires, springs, ignition apparatus, etc., as 
classified by the Census of Manufactures, 1914, 1925. 

* See Table 11, below. 

3 Erskine, History of the Studebaker Corporation, p. 37 ff. 4 Ibid, 


(DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 53 


These issues represent the chief public offerings of automo- 
bile company securities up to the end of 1915. In subsequent 
years, partly to raise new capital, but much more largely for 
the purpose of liquidating and distributing the holdings of 
original owners, the capital structures of most of the lead- 
ing producers were readjusted; their securities were mar- 
keted in substantial quantities through investment bankers 
‘and became active in speculative and investment circles; 
and banker-representatives became attached to their boards 
of directors. The greatest part of their existing invested 
capital, however, it will be shown, has been derived from the 
reinvestment of profits. ! 

The capital, risk, and technical burdens of large-scale 
automobile manufacture, diffused in varying measure among 
hosts of independent enterprises, each of which possessed its 
own sources for augmenting capital and credit and its own 
specialized organization, offered singularly small resistance 
to the growth of the industry. To the elasticity of this type 
of industrial practice must be attributed much of the ease 
and rapidity with which the expansion of American auto- 
mobile manufacture took place. 


15. THE AUTOMOBILE FINANCE COMPANY 


We have observed that the ability of automobile manu- 
facturers to produce and to market a large and increasing 
quantity of product has been due in important measure to 
the shifting of capital burdens to dealers and distributors as 
well as to suppliers of parts and materials. The producers 
possessed neither the physical facilities nor the capital to 
store and ‘carry’ large inventories of finished product 
through periods of seasonal fluctuations in retail sales; but 
they were able to contract with wholesalers and retailers for 
orearranged schedules of shipments, irrespective of current 
sales to consumers, and to exact immediate cash payment 
ipon delivery. Distributors (virtually wholesale agents), 
ind, to a lesser degree, retail dealers, were chosen largely 
iccording to financial responsibility, the producers expect- 


54 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


ing to be relieved by them from all burdens incident to th 
final sale of the products. 

In the earlier years of the industry, the selling agents were 
able to finance themselves from their own capital and by 
ordinary banking accommodation. With the tremendous 
expansion of output, the number of dealers and distributors 
was increased, but their average capital resources declined, 
and adequate financing of their costly inventories could no 
longer be undertaken by commercial banks: the possible 
banking collateral arising from their operations consisted of 
chattel mortgages and warehouse receipts that were not read- 
ily adaptable to the requirements of routine banking prac- 
tice, while the amount of credit required exceeded that which 
the banks would lend on unsecured promissory notes. On 
the other hand, the needs of dealers and distributors were 
essentially legitimate commercial credit needs. A special 
credit institution to serve as a financial intermediary be- 
tween sales agents and commercial banks was a natural re- 
sponse to these conditions. 

More important, however, in stimulating the growth of 
specialized automobile finance companies was the extensive 
development, particularly after the World War, of the 
practice of selling automobiles at retail on installment-pay- 
ment plans. The automobile was one of the most expensive 
of consumers’ goods; to encourage sales, dealers were forced 
to extend an increasing amount of credit to their customers. 
In some cases, the promissory notes accepted in payment of 
vehicles could be discounted at commercial banks; but credit 
accommodation was demanded by (and, as a result of com- 
petition, offered to) large numbers of individuals who lacked 
conventional credit standing. This situation, even more 
than the one alluded to above, called for a specialized type 
of credit institution: (1) the dealers’ capital was better em- 
ployed in their own business — namely, the purchase and 
sale of automobiles, rather than in ‘carrying’ the notes of 
customers; (2) such notes could not be readily discounted at 
commercial banks because of the unconventional form of the 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 55 


security — that is, chattel mortgages or conditional-sale 
agreements on Cars in active use and subject to rapid depre- 
ciation — and because of the difficulty and expense of provi- 
sions for the investigation of risks and the ‘repossessing’ 
and sale of cars in cases of default; (3) the substitution of the 
notes of an intermediary finance company for those of in- 
dividual customers not only provided commercial banks 
)with paper better adapted to their operations, but it also 
permitted a wider distribution of such paper among banks 
and a wider distribution of risks (by pooling the notes of 
‘many customers purchasing different ‘makes’ of cars in 
idifferent localities). 

The automobile finance company, therefore, does two 
kinds of business: it finances the purchases of distributors 
and dealers from manufacturers, and it finances purchases at 
retail. Its funds are derived from invested capital, issues of 
collateral trust notes, and direct borrowing from commer- 
tial banks.t The number of automobile finance companies 
yperating in the United States was recently estimated at 
six hundred;? some of them, such as the General Motors 
Acceptance Corporation, are subsidiaries of automobile pro- 
lucers; others have exclusive contracts with various manu- 
Jacturers for the business of the latter’s distributors and 
lealers; most of them operate independently. More than 
eventy-five per cent of motor vehicle sales in the United 
jtates in 1925 were made on the installment-payment plan; 
he volume of installment paper issued in that year exceeded 
12,500,000,000; the average contract on new vehicles called 
or a cash payment of one-third of the list price, with the 
valance, including financing charges, payable in twelve 
qual monthly installments; the nominal interest and serv- 
se charges averaged ten per cent of the full amount of the 
npaid balance (the actual rate, allowing for monthly repay- 


See Estey, ‘Financing the Sale of Automobiles,’ and Hodges, ‘Fi- 
ancing the Automobile,’ in the Annals of the American Academy of 
olitical and Social Science, vol. CXVI, no. 205. 

* Ibid. 


56 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY { 
ment of fractions of the loans, was measurably greater). 
The statement that the capital turnover of an automobile 

finance company may easily exceed twenty to thirty times a 

year, made by the treasurer of one of these companies,’ re- 
flects the extent to which the ultimate financing is done by 

commercial banks. The legitimacy of the wide use of com- 

mercial banking credit in this connection may be open to 

question; but there can be little doubt that the extensive 

application of the installment-payment system has been 

partly responsible for the enormous growth in the sales of 

automobiles in the United States in very recent years. 


16. CONCENTRATION, INTEGRATION, AND COMPETITION 


Fairly early in the development of the industry, the 
‘greater part of the business of finished vehicle production 
began to be concentrated into relatively few hands. The de- 
mand for the more successful ‘makes’ of cars grew cumula- 
tively by force of reputation and example. The successful 
producers, in expanding output, increased the number and 
distribution of their sales agencies, thus accentuating their 
marketing advantage. Greater output brought economies 
in the purchase and manufacture of components and mate- 
rials, and in assembling operations, permitting lower prices. 
The competitive advantage of the larger producers was pro- 
gressively augmented, moreover, by the important réle of 
reinvested profits in financing expansion of output. By 1912, 
when at least fifty-seven different enterprises were produc- 
ing motor vehicles on a truly commercial scale, more than 
half the American output was produced by seven companies. — 
In 1917, ten out of seventy-six active producers were re- 
sponsible for seventy-five per cent of the physical output of 
the American industry; in 1923, the same ten produced 
more than ninety per cent of the output; and in 1926, these 


* From data collected by the National Association of Finance Com- | 
panies, and published in Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 
1927. 

* Hodges, loc. cit. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 57 


ten contributed about 88.7 per cent of the output (the re- 
duced proportion in 1926 being due to the diminished activi- 
ity of the Ford Motor Company pending redesign of its 
chief models). Table 3 presents the unit output of some of 
the leading producers, and the total American output, for 
the years I9I2, 1917, 1923, and 1926. 


TABLE 3. NUMBER OF MOTOR VEHICLES PRODUCED BY TEN OF 
THE LEADING PRODUCERS, 1912, 1917, 1923, AND 1926* 


COMPANY 1923 1926 
MEME b's vies so 0b o'6 2 785,432 | 2,090,959 | 1,442,950 
General Motors......... 203,119 798,555 | 1,234,850 
Ae 42,357 145,167 111,315 
SEE AS gels d poh a> due 90,000 179,505 331,764 
Willys-Overland........ 130,988 196,038 179,103 
Maxwell-Chrysler 81,667 67,374 175,020 
OL a ee 21,320 88,184 244,667 
NE oc ip cs cus «esse « 30,246 31,880 34,542 
Packard..... Fae kar as 19,475 22,930 34,000 
ae Di eidde aise 12,179 56,569 137,376 


OE ae a 195,557 | 1,416,783 | 3,677,161 | 3,925,587 
Total United States | 378,000 | 1,873,949 | 4,079,992 | 4,428,286 


(a) Manufacture not yet undertaken at beginning of 1912. 


* The data here presented are not strictly comparable: the fiscal years of these com- 
panies vary by as much as six months; the figures for United States output are for 
calendar years and include production of Canadian plants making vehicles of United 
States design; the Ford figure for 1926 does not include output of its Canadian com- 
pany. The data were obtained from the offices of the companies, from listing applica- 
tions filed with the New York Stock Exchange and from the National Automobile 
Chamber of Commerce and Standard Statistics Company, Inc., except that the Dodge 
output of 1917 was estimated. 


An increasing measure of industrial integration has ac- 
companied the concentration of production in recent years. 
The Ford Motor Company, which has adopted the slogan, 
‘From Mine to Finished Car, One Organization,’ has been 
most conspicuous in this respect: iron, coal, and lead mines; 
extensive timber properties; blast furnaces, glass and textile 
factories; and even rail and water transportation have been 
added to the scope of its operations.t ,The General Motors 
Corporation, through its purchase of a large number of 


t See Chapter III, below. 


58 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


parts-making enterprises in 1918, and through its subsequen 
acquisition of the Fisher Body Corporation, has likewis 
achieved a large measure of integration. Other leading pro 
ducers, in varying degree, have similarly undertaken the} 
direct manufacture of an increasing proportion of the com-} 
ponents of their products. This tendency has been facili- 
tated by the curtailment of the number of models that fol- 
lowed the widespread appreciation of the enormous econo- 
mies of standardized mass manufacture, and it has been en- 
couraged by the availability of funds derived from reinvested 
profits for financing such extension of operations. The es- 
tablishment of factory-owned wholesale organizations and 
the direct operation of retail stores in the larger cities, by a 
number of producers, are developments in the same direc- 
tion. Integrated production entails larger requirements for 
fixed and working capital, and, to the extent that it effects 
substantial economies, competitive superiority becomes a 
function of size. The rapid growth of industrial integra- 
tion in the automobile industry in very recent years is 
partly reflected by Table 4, in which the total wholesale 
value of the American motor-vehicle output is compared 
with the wholesale value of parts, tires, and accessories 
purchased by automobile producers from others for the 
production and original equipment of their vehicles, 1922 to 
1926, inclusive. 

Despite the concentration and integration of manufacture, 
competition among automobile producers has increased, 
rather than diminished, in recent years. As a result of the 
tremendous expansion of manufacturing facilities and of the 
marked improvements in the utilization of plant equipment, 
since the World War, the productive capacity of the indus- 
try has been increased to a point far beyond any demand 


* See Chapter IV, below. It may be noted, also, that the Du Pont in- 
terests which control the General Motors Corporation have recently 
purchased 100,000 shares of common stock of the United States Steel 
Corporation (see annual report for 1926 of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & 
Co.) —a step which has moved the Federal Trade Commission to start 
an investigation of the interrelations involved. 


| DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 59 


yet made effective. As against the record output of 4,428,- 
286 motor vehicles in 1926, the combined capacity of Ameri- 
can producers has recently been estimated at 7,300,000 cars 
and trucks per annum.! In the year 1923, for perhaps the 


TABLE 4. WHOLESALE VALUE OF AMERICAN MoTor-VEHICLE OvT- 
pur COMPARED WITH WHOLESALE VALUE OF MANUFACTURED 
COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT PURCHASED FROM OTHERS BY 
AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS, 1922-26, INCLUSIVE 


VALUE OF FINISHED |VALUE OF PURCHASED 
VEHICLES 4% COMPONENTS ® PERCENTAGE 


$1 ,787,122,708 


ee Batsietutens:s $982 ,952,384 55 
B23. 000s Bet nstoia ty mtals 2,582,398,876 1,270,000,000 49 
1924 melee 610 a 2,318,249,632 900,321,000 39 
1925..... alone! : 2,957,386,637 1,128,648,000 38 


|e RARE een 3,163,756,676 823,394,000 


@ As reported by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 
b Based on records of Motor & Accessory Manufacturers’ Association, as reported to 
National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 


'\first time, many distributors and dealers found themselves 
unable to sell all the vehicles for which they had contracted. 
In consequence, a number of producers have relinquished the 
practice of producing all the cars that dealers can be made 
to absorb, and have substituted production schedules based 
upon current retail sales. So dependent is the existing organ- 
ization of the industry upon a large volume of output, how- 
sver, that there is constant threat of ‘price-war’ in times of 
declining sales, each important manufacturer being tempted 
0 protect the scale of his operations even at great sacrifices. 
If our output were reduced by only ten per cent, our costs 
vould rise far too high to permit us to retain our present 
srices,’ declared one executive in an interview with the 
vriter.? 

At a time when its productive capacity has reached new 
eights, the industry no longer possesses the vast virgin 


t Automotive Industries, vol. 56, no. 7, p- 219. 
4 Mr. Roy D. Chapin of the Hudson Motor Car Company, in Detroit, 
Yecember II, 1924. 


60 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


market of previous years; replacement sales, which alrea 
in 1924 constituted more than half the total,* must be r 
lied upon to absorb an increasing proportion of the outpu 
Hence, whereas problems of production have hitherto be 
uppermost in the minds of automobile producers, those 
distribution and sales are now claiming first attentio 
Great emphasis is being placed upon the improvement 
dealer-organizations; indeed, perhaps the chief obstacle co 
fronting new entrants into the automobile-manufacturin 
business, at present, is the difficulty of obtaining adequa 
dealer-representation.2, A market dominated by the ‘r 
placement demand,’ moreover, introduces new elements 
uncertainty for the individual producer: purchasers are a 
to take for granted the fundamental mechanical efficienc 
of present-day automobiles and to be swayed in importa 
degree by the less tangible qualities of general appearanc 
color-scheme, various aspects of body design, interior a 
pointments, etc. — qualities best summarized, perhaps, b 
the word ‘style.’3 Because the passenger automobile is 
conspicuous article of personal and family use, some of th 
individuality demanded in clothing, furniture, and othe 
personal possessions, is coming to be required of it. Th 
standardized product, so effective from the manufacturin 
standpoint, encounters increasing ‘sales resistance.’ In th 
attempt to capture the new whims of purchasers, changes i 
models have been made with growing frequency during th 
past few years, and there has developed a renewed tendency 
toward a multiplicity of models and types: some producers 
have increased the number of body types mounted on a sin 


*C. E. Griffin, The Life History of Automobiles, published by the 
Bureau of Business Research of the University of Michigan. 

* The recent failures of the Rollins, Rickenbacker, and other new pro 
ducers, in the opinion of the writer, were largely due to this difficulty 
Dodge Brothers, Inc., it may be noted, has provided for the representa 
tion of its dealers on its board of directors. 


3 These considerations apply chiefly to passenger cars, of course, bu 
they are not altogether without force with respect to commercial vehi 


cles; the former, however, constitute the bulk of American motor ve 
hicle output. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 61 


sle chassis; others have introduced complete new lines of 
vehicles, in lower or higher price-classes, to supplement 
heir previous lines.t In 1909, Henry Ford was able to de- 
‘lare, ‘Any customer can have a car painted any colour that 
1e wants so long as it is black.’ Even the Ford Motor Com- 
yany, however, has recently been forced to make belated 
‘oncessions in this and other respects; and, in 1927, fully 
roused finally by the inroads upon its business made by 
ome of its more versatile competitors, it virtually closed 
lown its enormous plants for the better part of a year in 
der to design a new car adapted to the tastes of a more 
ophisticated motoring public. 

The marketing advantages of a variety of models are op- 
osed, however, to the manufacturing economies of stand- 
tdized production; and this clash necessitates important 
ecisions of policy by each producer. One result of this 
ntagonism promises to be a partial reversal, at least tem- 
orarily, of the tendency toward integration of manufac- 
ire: the delays and expense incident to frequent readjust- 
ient of integrated establishments for changes in models are 
kely to lead to increased reliance, once more, upon the 
1ore elastic organizations of the parts-makers. Between 
1e beginning of 1926 and the middle of 1927, it may be 
dated, the twenty-five largest automobile producers in- 
‘eased their outside purchases of such major components as 
igines, clutches, transmissions, steering gears, and rear 
cles, by substantial proportions.3 

While the long period of large new accessions to the total 
=mand is probably passing, it is a mistake to conclude that 
ie industry as a whole necessarily faces a critical period of 
iarply curtailed operations. The average physical life of 
se automobile, at present, is approximately seven years, as 


t See Norman G. Shidle, Editor, in Automotive Industries, vol. 57, no. 
p. 145 ff. 

* My Life and Work, p. 72. (Henry Ford in collaboration with Samuel 
owther.) / 


‘See N. C. Shidle, in Automotive Industries, vol. 57, no. 5, p. 145 ff. 


62 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


computed from registration data;* on this basis, the volum 
of output required merely to replace the number of vehicl 
scrapped in the United States is now in excess of 2,000,00 
a year. The effective replacement market, moreover, in th 
opinion of the present writer, already approximates 3,000, 
000 vehicles annually: from the standpoint of automobil 
producers, the replacement market is not limited to th 
number of automobiles actually scrapped each year, bu 
includes the demand for the replacement of a very larg 
number of deteriorated, though still serviceable, vehicle 
that no longer satisfy potential new-car purchasers. Mos 
purchasers of new automobiles, it is well known, ‘trade-in 
their cars on new ones before the end of the third or fourt 
year. Such used cars may be sold to second-hand purchaser 
and operated for some years thereafter; but, except to th 
extent that the latter are drawn from the ranks of potentia 
new-car buyers, the continued existence of the used car 
from the manufacturers’ standpoint, does not postpone the 
appearance of a demand for a new car to ‘replace’ the old. 
That used cars, after their third or fourth year, offer very 
little competition with new vehicles — and that their pur- 
chasers are not usually drawn from the classes of potential 
new-car buyers — is clearly evidenced by the wide discrep. 
ancies between the prices of new and used vehicles. Data 
obtained from the National Used Car Market Reports? show 
that the average value of a three-year-old automobile is 
less than one-fourth of its original price, and that the bulk 
of four-year-old cars sell at less than $100 each. It is sub- 
mitted that the buyers of these $100 or even $200 machines 
are not commonly drawn from the ranks of potential new- 
car customers. Estimates of the automobile replacement 
demand that assume that so long as a vehicle is in use, 


t Ayres, The Automobile Industry and Its Future, Cleveland Trust 
Company; and Griffin, The Life History of Automobiles, Bureau of Busi- 
ness Research, University of Michigan. 

* Published by the Chicago Automobile Trade Association. 


hid a . also the Cleveland Trust Company Business Bulletin of April 15, 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 63 


vhether by its first or its fifth owner, it takes the place of a 
‘ew car that otherwise would be sold, must be said to be 
‘reatly understated.’ 

The domestic replacement demand alone, then, assures 
. continuing large volume of business for American automo- 
ile producers. The practical limits to the expansion of the 
virgin market, moreover, are still uncertain. In 1921, Mr. 
eonard P. Ayres, a careful student of the industry, wrote, 
The use in the near future of anything like twice the present 
1umber of motor vehicles seems most unlikely ’;? neverthe- 
ess, American registrations more than doubled in the next 
ix years; and Mr. Ayres has since raised his estimate of the 
heoretical ‘saturation point’ to 27,500,000 motor vehicles.’ 
\s against other predictions of stabilization at a point when 
the number of motor vehicles in the United States approxi- 
nates the number of families (or when there is one motor 
rehicle to each five persons), we may note that on January 
‘, 1927, there were twenty States in which the proportion 
»f motor vehicles to population was greater than one to five, 
ind that, in the United States as a whole, there was already 
yne motor vehicle to every 5.4 persons.‘ It is not altogether 
mpossible that radical reductions in the prices of the cheap- 
st automobiles may make an average of two or more cars 
yer family the rule.’ And with respect to trucks and busses, 

t This objection must be made to the estimates of Griffin, The Life 
Tistory of Automobiles, and Ayres, The Automobile Industry and Its 
Suture. The sense in which the term ‘replacement’ is here used may be 
ypen to criticism on ground of conflict with common usage, but it is 
yrecisely this sense, here termed ‘effective replacement,’ which is of 
nost significance in the present connection. The estimate of a present 


fective replacement demand approximating 3,000,000 vehicles an- 
1ually, ventured above, is based upon computations made by the writer. 

2 The Automobile Industry and Its Future, Cleveland Trust Company, 
202 . 

3 Journal of Society of Automotive Engineers, February, 1925, p. 195. 

4 Cf. Automotive Industries, vol. 56, no. 7, p. 235 ff. 

s More than 2,700,000 families, or about ten per cent of the total 
umber in the United States, owned two or more automobiles in 1927, 
ccording to a survey made by the General Federation of Women’s 
“lubs and checked by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 


64 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


little basis for prediction may be found in present popula 
tion-motor-vehicle ratios. Finally, the American expo 

trade in motor vehicles already absorbs ten per cent of th 
output, and is still growing. : 


17. SUCCESS AND FAILURE 


The history of the American automobile industry has been 
marked by such conspicuous financial successes that the 
large number of unsuccessful entrants is sometimes ignored. 
As in a lottery, only the great prizes catch the eye, though 
the winnings are confined to a few. There were many 
would-be competitors for the large rewards of successful 
automobile manufacture: nearly one thousand distinct 
enterprises are on record as having been organized at one 
time or another for entrance into the field.t Four-fifths of 
these, however, passed little beyond the promotion stage, 
falling early victims to one or more of the numerous hazards 
that attended all initial efforts in the industry. Between 
1902 and the beginning of 1927, some 181 enterprises reached 
the stage of production in commercial volume; of these, only 
44 were still in existence in the latter year. Excluding short- 
lived promotions, and disregarding changes in name or in 
corporate ownership, the record of entrances into and exits 
from the industry by years for this period is presented in 
Table 5, the data for which were drawn from a recent study 
of failures in the industry.3 

A high rate of mortality among automobile producers was 
not unnatural. The industry was new; its product, complex. 
Technological and business factors encouraged the entrance 
of numerous small enterprises. Successful operation re- 


* Such a list has been compiled by Mr. O. P. Pearson, statistician of the 
National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 

* From data obtained from Dr. Ralph C. Epstein, parts of whose 
study, ‘The Rise and Fall of Firms in the Automobile Industry,’ were 
published in the Harvard Business Review, vol. 5, numbers 2 and 3. 

_5 Ibid. The vehicle-producing units of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion are treated as distinct enterprises, and the Rambler-Jeffery-N 
companies are regarded as a single continuing concern. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 65 


TABLE 5. NUMBER OF ENTRANCES AND Exits oF AcTIVE AUTO- 
MOBILE PRODUCERS, BY YEARS, 1902-26, INCLUSIVE 


YEAR ENTER ExItT REMAIN 
BEER ds Ole ed ot) 9 12 
M4 ha o'ntobainlc 4/45 13 1 24 
i Eek eee ee 12 I 35 
BONG hots than p niet 5 2 38 
BOO a iehals < etaigiciacs 6 I 43 
ROTI L Ete sto 4 ws 9 \0' I re) 44 
BO is hd iain rns ds 10 2 52 
EDO BE ssilc jot este 18 I 69 
RTL tas tb oars I 18 52 
RUE ROR de cosa 5.5 whee 3 2 53 
OE AR 12 8 57 
BE 5 ae yeas 4's 20 7 70 
EGRA Sev vat teas. 8 7 71 
AYE Rigid vai sb is cable: 10 6 75 
BOLO kia tee k's (ol 0 6 7 74 
MES ie eine ts Sie 8 6 76 
1 SE Ae I 6 73 
DO EO re ais fini d 10 4 a7 
jt Te act hoe hegpieg Air 12 5 84 
Ba ilae elias A 5 I 88 
tre SMA yee 4 9 83 
FOODS AG cee hia I 14 70 
ate ¢ UL A aay ae 2 15 57 
TORR Si Saks sis « re) 8 49 
Te EE SE Es Oye I 6 44 


‘quired frequent prevision of and prompt adjustment to cur- 
‘ent advances in the design of the motor vehicle and in 
ynethods of manufacture. The advantages of large-scale 
sroduction caused an increasing proportion of the business 
(0 go to relatively few enterprises, forcing numerous exits 
among the smaller producers. Specific causes of failure 
mcluded the whole range of those operative in business 
zenerally, as well as elements peculiar to the automobile 
dustry. 

Most of the large number of retirements in I910 were 
orecipitated by the radical changes in automobile design 
chat were then occurring, and by a retrenchment in credit 


66 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


caused by the grave and widely known difficulties of the 
General Motors Company. In addition, an absolute as well 
as relative decline in the demand for high-priced vehicles” 
had begun to manifest itself just previously: this change in 
the character of the market caught many producers una- 
wares, and was responsible for a large number of further 
retirements in the years following. Twenty-two new enter- 
prises were started during the post-war boom of 1919-20; 
most of these joined victims of accumulated difficulties in 
the many exits of 1922-26. 

Numerous as the failures have been (and not all the exits 
from the industry were precipitated by technical insol- 
vency), relatively few of them resulted in large losses. We 
have noted that most of the producers started with small — 
resources; and that the amount of capital ‘staked’ or risked — 
in automobile production proper was minimized by the wide ~ 
diffusion of capital burdens that obtained. Of the total num- | 
ber of 181 active producers, approximately thirty per cent re- 
tired within three years; more than half dropped out within 
six years; and two-thirds, within nine years. Many of those 
who subsequently retired, earned and distributed or rein- 
vested large profits for some years. Bond issues were rare. 
Few large enterprises, moreover, failed. The present Chrys- 
ler Corporation, now highly successful, is the only important 
producing enterprise that is the product of a receivership. 
Of the ten largest producers in 1909 (measured by physical 
volume of output), five were still among the ten largest in 
1926; and of the ten leading producers in 1918, eight held 
places among the first ten in 1926. 

However great the danger of rationalization, and how- 
ever large the rdle of accident, it is almost impossible to 
escape the conclusion that, transcending and underlying 
sundry advantages of location, design, finance, or good 
fortune, the elusive and imponderable qualities of personal-— 
ity have been the most effective causes of conspicuous suc- 
cesses in the automobile industry. Outstanding talent for 
manufacturing proper was possessed by Henry Ford, Ran- 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 67 


som E. Olds, Henry M. Leland, Walter E. Flanders, Howard 
E. Coffin, Walter P. Chrysler, Charles W. Nash, the Dodge 
brothers, and others. These men paid meticulous attention 
to design, materials, and factory operation. Ford and Olds 
still dominate enterprises initiated more than twenty years 
ago. Leland, after some years of parts-making, developed 
the Cadillac company. Flanders, likewise previously a 
parts-maker, was called in by Henry Ford in 1908 to effec- 
tuate the latter’s newly launched program for greatly ex- 
panded production. Subsequently, Flanders performed 
similar services for a number of other producers, notably 
Briscoe, Everitt-Metzger-Flanders, Studebaker, and Max- 
well. Coffin contributed unusual engineering talent to the 
Thomas-Detroit, Chalmers, and Hudson enterprises, as well 
as to the movement for intercorporate standardization of 
parts and materials in the automobile industry. The Dodge 
brothers, after many years of parts manufacture for the 
Ford Motor Company, brought out the Dodge automobile 
in 1914; within eleven years, their original investment of 
$5,000,000, augmented only by reinvested earnings, became 
an enterprise that was sold in 1925 for $170,000,000.? 
Chrysler and Nash, previously Buick factory executives, as 
well as Flanders and several other men, took over new or 
moribund enterprises and energized them with striking 
rapidity into leading producers. This was the case with 
William C. Durant, who, after a long business experience in 
the carriage and wagon and other industries, became in- 
terested in the failing Buick company, and, within three 
years, made it the largest automobile producer in the United 
States:? his subsequent exploits with the General Motors, 
Chevrolet, and United Motors enterprises, were likewise 
evidence of unusual promotion and organizing talent. John 
N. Willys performed a feat similar to Durant’s, in connection 
with the Willys-Overland Company. Roy D. Chapin, 
Howard E. Coffin, and R. B. Jackson developed the Hudson 
Motor Car Company into one of the world’s largest pro- 
* See Chapter V, below. 2 See Chapter IV, below. 


68 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


ducers from an original investment of less than $15,000. 
Henry P. Joy, one of the few men of wealth who entered the 
industry from unrelated fields, brought to the Packard a 
passion for excellency which the product has traditionally 
reflected. Erskine of the Studebaker; Hastings of the Hupp; 
Jewett of the Paige; Metzger, Briscoe, and others, were men 
of unusual business ability. 

It seems hardly too much to say that individuals capable 
of large and direct accomplishments constituted the primary 
condition of outstanding success in the automobile industry. 
The Ford Motor Company, dominated though it has always 
been by Henry Ford, owes much to a number of such men;" 
and the presence of unusual personal capacity has been 
conspicuous in the history of every other prominent pro- 
ducer. Ample rewards went to those, often chosen from the 
ranks, who demonstrated ability to achieve quick and signi- 
ficant results: salaries ranging as high as or exceeding $100,- 
000 a year; bonuses proportioned to corporate profits; and 
large stock interests — sometimes enough for effective con- 
trol — were available to such men.? The late James J. 
Storrow, of Lee, Higginson & Co., formerly chairman of 
the board of directors of the General Motors Company, il- 
lustrated the transcendent importance of personality in the 
automobile, as in other industries, in explaining to the 
writer the origin of the Nash Motors Company. Mr. Storrow 
said: 3 

Charlie Nash had been a good wagon manufacturer, and then a 


* Cf. Marquis, Henry Ford: An Interpretation. 


?See, for examples, the reorganization agreements of the United 
States Motor and Maxwell companies. Hugh Chalmers, to take an- 
other example, then sales manager of the National Cash Register Com- 
pany, was given effective control of what became the Chalmers Motor 
Car Company in order to enlist his services. The General Motors Cor- 
poration, it may be noted, now regularly provides for substantial profit- 
tare for stock-ownership, by its executive employees. (Cf. Chap- 
er IV. 

3 In an interview in the New York offices of Lee, Higginson & Co. on 
August 27, 1925. The quotation was transcribed from the writer’s 
notes immediately after the interview. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 69 


fine Buick factory man. I picked him to be head of General Motors. 
In five years, he turned a wreck into a concern having $25,000,000 in 
the bank. When Durant took control of General Motors away from 
us, I wired Nash to come here, and I said: ‘Charlie, you did a fine 
job of G.M.; if you could do that once, you can do it again; look 
around for another wreck; I’ll back you.’ He picked the Jeffery out- 
fit, which we bought for less than $5,000,000. Nash made a hundred 
million dollars out of it for us in seven years. There was nothing to 
the Jeffery outfit. Nash was everything. He could do the same with 
a railroad. 


18. INTERNATIONAL SUPERIORITY OF THE UNITED STATES 


Despite the earlier start of the industry in Europe, notably 
in France, the United States has become preéminently the 
world’s greatest producer, consumer, and exporter of motor 
vehicles. American producers accounted for more than 
eighty-five per cent of the aggregate motor-vehicle produc- 
tion of the world in 1926, the average monthly output of the 
United States being far in excess of the entire year’s output 
of its nearest competitor.t Of a total world registration of 
more than 27,500,000 motor vehicles at the beginning of 
1927, nearly eighty per cent were registered in this country.? 
Exports of motor vehicles from the United States and Can- 
ada (the latter’s output is produced by subsidiaries of United 
States enterprises almost exclusively) totaled 478,928 in 
1926, or more than twice the entire output of any other 
country. Automotive exports, we have observed, rank first 
in value among all the manufactures exported from the 
United States, and are exceeded in value only by raw cotton 
and mineral oils among all American commodity exports. 
The comparative importance of the leading automobile-pro- 


. = See Table 6, below. 2 See Table 12, below. 

3 Here, as at other points, slight discrepancies are found between the 
records of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce and those of 
the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. The present figure, 
which includes 99,348 vehicles assembled abroad from units exported as 
‘parts,’ is from the latter. The number of motor-vehicle exports re- 
corded by the former for 1926 was 487,289 (Facts and Figures of the 
Automobile Industry, 1927, p. 42). See Tables 6 and 15, below. 


70 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


JE_IN MILLIONS 


errs IN THOUSANDS 


TL 
CC COCA 
CCOEEE ACC 
CORA E 
SOL Ae 
SAN ABA 
Loum 


NUMBER IN THOUSANDS VALUE_IN + 


HHEREMOREMAND 
Crineramasae=| CCT 
CTT ALC 
COPENCH CEE 
COC ACL Ae 
BI/ARSU4R 772000 
IZ = Aa 


150 
Eves 


CHART IV. AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES 
AND CANADA, EXCEPT ELECTRICS 
(From Commerce Yearbook, 1926, p. 440.) 


ducing countries in 1926 is reflected by Table 6, and the 
growth of American automotive exports, by Chart IV. 

It would be difficult to measure all the various influences 
that account for the preéminence of the United States in 
the automobile industry; several outstanding considerations, 
however, may be noted briefly. 


* Further data bearing upon the American export trade in motor 
vehicles may be found in Tables 14, 15, and 16. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 71 


TABLE 6. Output OF LEADING AUTOMOBILE-PRODUCING CoUN- 
TRIES IN 1926 * 


United States.... 4,223,170 Czecho-Slovakia..... 7,500 
CIN. Fe iia ss .. 205,116 Belgium....... ..++. 6,000 
ie el ee - 200,000 ARTE, 5640 vb eek <0 5;2900 
United Kingdom.. 198,699 Somithsc. Us ie natadwer Ae 
Germany........ 75,000 Hungary... cas schemesd pager 
PAINTS oie a kes *¥ 64,760 Deninark)  .p'4 icc ets aoe 


® Produced by subsidiaries of United States enterprises almost exclusively. 

* Figures from the Automotive Division of the Department of Commerce, except 
that the Canadian total is that given by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. Since 
the United States and Canada are the only countries that compile official automobile- 
production records, the figures presented for the other countries are estimates. 


The greater per capita income, and, presumably, the wider 
distribution of moderate and liberal incomes, in the United 
States, early made possible a larger domestic market in this 
country than abroad. Adequate and comparable data re- 
specting the per capita incomes of various countries are not 
available, but such data as we have clearly point to the su- 


-periority of the United States in this respect. The most 


trustworthy estimates of comparative annual per captia in- 
comes discovered by the writer are for the year 1914 only, 
and are as follows: 


TABLE 7. PER Capita INCOME OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES IN I914 * 


COUNTRY Per Capita INCOME 
Riettee PeMIER ER, ooo ssn sos bk dank aon t aoe ee 
Australia....... aoe OP LEEPER OOO CRT eae! 
United Kingdom..... irs CF Wea wate tu akile: ae 
Ee Se See BS aye Say Gane Ate ane a 
PAT ON Es ah Sa ra SOL tO Ghee ae ee 
Germany....... ecards oun Be wid Maw dean cere 1462 
TRAPS a va eke eked s habe h Gass Mex ee awe 112° 
Austria-Hungary. .......... Gaus dea Ma Saale 102 ¢ 
MIA d. ki cies qghaen es Py ee 54° 
OTR 2 oS cidn  Bie Rah as Gam RAs een 292 


« Estimated as not likely to be inaccurate to a greater extent than Io per cent. 

+ Estimated as not likely to be inaccurate to a greater extent than 20 per cent. 

¢ Estimated as not likely to be inaccurate to a greater extent than 40 per cent. 

é Estimated as not likely to be inaccurate to a greater extent than 30 per cent. 

* From Income in the United States, vol. 1, Summary, p. 85; published under the 
auspices of the National Bureau of Economic Research. The sources of these esti- 
mates are explained on p. 81 ff. (sbid.). 


The estimated per capita income of the United States for 


72 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


the years 1909 to 1913, which also may be compared perti- 
nently with the per capita incomes of other countries in 1914, 
was as follows:* 


OOO. sd ewae oases $333 TOYS. s decease wavan $348 
TOIG Zeiss ave wens 349 I9lS sas oh ae eee 354 
IOI bei couswaaans 338 


It seems reasonable to conclude that the greater per capita 
income of the United States and the presumably broader 
distribution of income made the American market a superior 
one for the sale of automobiles. That this market was 
obtained by domestic rather than foreign producers is to be 
explained by various considerations of economic and cultural 
import. 

Throughout the developmental period of American auto- 
mobile manufacture, the domestic industry was ‘protected’ 
by anad-valorem duty of 45 per cent levied against imported 
motor vehicles.2, Superimposed upon shipping costs, this 
duty offered almost insuperable obstacles to the importa- 
tion of any but relatively high-priced vehicles. It is tempt- 
ing, therefore, to point to the American automobile industry 
as a glowing example of the force of the ‘infant industries’ 
argument for tariff protection, alleging that, in the absence 
of such protection, the early efforts of the American pro- 
ducers would have been smothered by the competition of the 
more experienced French manufacturers.3 While tariff pro- 
tection was not without some influence, such a claim, in the 
opinion of the present writer, would be of extremely doubt- 
ful validity. Imports spur and educate the home producer, 
as well as compete with him: much was learned by American 
inventors and manufacturers from imported French ma- 
chines, and a number journeyed abroad at various times to 
acquaint themselves with the development of the French 
art. ‘There was no lack of inventive genius in the United 
States; there was an abundance of the required natural re- 

* From Income in the United States, p. 144. 


* Under the heading of ‘manufactured metal’ in the Dingley tariff. 
3 Cf. Rolls, Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. xvi, p. 914 ff. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 73 


sources; and, most of all, this country possessed a manufac- 
turing technique peculiarly well adapted to automobile 
manufacture, that, even now, is largely lacking abroad. The 
ease and rapidity with which technical knowledge and ma- 
terial means of production were mobilized for the American 
automobile industry indicate that, even in the absence of 
tariff protection, foreign producers could have hoped for 
but a temporary advantage in the American market. 
European automobiles, moreover, were better adapted to 
the excellent roads of France and England than to those of 
the United States, Canada, Australia, and other newer, less 
populous, or less developed countries — a fact which still 
operates to give the sturdier American vehicle a distinct 
advantage in such markets. The European tendency to- 
ward light-car construction, which might have resulted in 
the early appearance of low-priced vehicles, was discouraged, 
moreover, by European governments, which, with an eye to 
the military possibilities of the motor vehicle, inaugurated 
various subvention schemes that encouraged the manufac- 
ture of heavier, though not more powerful, vehicles. Thus, 
for some years prior to 1914, the French Government of- 
fered a subsidy of about $1400, payable over a period of 
four years, for each motor vehicle earmarked for potential 
military use; in Germany, the subsidy amounted to more 
than $2000 per vehicle; and in England, to about $584." 
These subsidies, shared in varying proportion by producers 
and purchasers, coupled with the narrow upper-class mar- 
kets abroad, served to divert European efforts to the manu- 
facture of relatively costly vehicles. In the United States, in 
contrast, less expensive automobiles of rugged construction 
and great power dominated the industry. Even so far as 
international trade is concerned, the American automobile 
industry grew up quickly indeed: by 1907, we have observed, 
the value of American exports of motor vehicles was already 
exceeding that of imports; and in the years since, the export 


t Wyatt, ‘The Motor Industry and the War,’ in the Quarterly Review, 
July, 1915, p. 179; and The Motor Industry (Pitman), p. 13 ff. 


74 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


leadership of the United States has become ever more 
pronounced. 

Certain less tangible considerations of tradition and 
culture must be credited with an important réle in the supe- 
rior development of the American industry. The sparsity 
of population over great areas in this country for many 
years, and the rapid development of the means of trans- 
portation and communication, had early fostered geograph- 
ical centralization of American manufactures and the meth- 
ods of large-scale production. The widespread purchase 
of standardized commodities, produced in large volume in 
relatively few centers, became a familiar characteristic of 
our economic life. This modern development proceeded 
more slowly abroad, where smaller national areas, made 
economically distinct by tariff barriers, and where the 
greater density of population and an older tradition of 
manufacture to order, had long encouraged local manufac- 
tures. Thus, in the United States, with its traditions of 
large-scale, standardized production, and its greater per 
capita income, the automobile came naturally to be pro- 
duced in standardized patterns and in large quantities, with 
consequent great economies; whereas in Europe, with its 
traditions of individualized products, and its lower per 
capita incomes, the automobile was produced on an in- 
comparably smaller scale of operations and in a great variety 
of patterns. 

The continuing technical superiority of American manu- 
facturing methods is clearly evidenced by the extent to 
which American producers are able to hurdle European 
tariff walls, and by their success in operating branch plants 
abroad in competition with European producers. In July, 
1927, there were twenty-five American-owned assembling 
and manufacturing establishments in foreign countries. The 
benefits derived from the latter practice are obvious: saving 
in ocean freight by shipping unassembled parts; saving in 
duty by reason of the fact that some countries assess a lower 
rate on parts for assembly than on complete vehicles; the 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 75 


ease with which distribution may be made to foreign dealers 
through local plants; the ability to adhere more closely to 
local preferences in design and equipment; and, in some 
markets, the advantage accruing from lower costs of labor 
and materials. 


19. STATISTICAL SUMMARIES OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF 
THE INDUSTRY 
The tables following summarize various aspects of the 
development of the American automobile industry. 


TABLE 8. VOLUME AND WHOLESALE VALUE OF AMERICAN 
MorTor-VEHICLE PRODUCTION, BY YEARS * 


Year Speirs Waren 
LER RR a Aas 4,192 $4,899,443 
DOMES Ch urea w dlele bis asia d,e Agee 11,000 12,650,000 
BRIM W ais been his, o ales whe'e, Wi e-o06' 8.9 22,830 24,629,439 
SE Suess ewes CRETE e's co 25,000 40,000,000 
SEEPS Sie ial} Gite e's disc g achie e's 34,000 62,900,000 
MOG Ps bates ea 6 se ee ridin 6.66 bis 44,000 93,400,000 
DEMO HL Ay nies altars wee 6 baie 65,000 137,800,000 
A IS eS ae seeee 130,986 165,148,529 
ALU FER IE De Se seseee. , 187,000 225,000,000 
ROLE csaet ne eevsescscscee | 210,000 246,000,000 
BORD SAG Wied p's 016 A's sie 6:10 bab 15>,37 5,000 378,000,000 
RO RGS DE s aie hee. alle abe ae kisieiave 485,000 443,902,000 
DS cava bod b-s oA wee oh eseese 569,054 458,957,843 
BOIS iit ce wei +c ce khie-s see es) 060,030 701,778,000 
BOLO OU EIe wis a cg'alh cr. vawbelee ck Ol7,; 700 1,082,378,000 
TOUT ii dee 83 Speaveauas even d,0¢a,040 1,274,488,449 
SORE al te y kale ao x-au ata od 1,170,686 1,236,106,917 
BOL Sas tls wo 5 else Vekan 1,974,016 1,885,112,546 
20900275 6.0: TSP viele sas aoe 2,204,947 2,232,420,323 
Lb yh en ean OE ae ead 3 cet C00.004 1,258,776,550 
WOR PTs sos oo « passdb oes 2,008,024.) 1,787,122,708 
Sete N? waldo vic oie a bs 4,079,992 2,582,398,876 
cee Ft ee) Rea nee 3,606,815 2,318,249,632 
ioe hee Dee Ca ae PE eae Oe Re 2,957,386,637 
DORM ls aa", 5.9. aca so. ced es 4,428,286 3,163,756,676 


* For fiscal year ended June 30, 1900. » Includes output of plants located in Canada, 
tking vehicles of United States design. 
)* As compiled by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. 


76 


THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 9. DISTRIBUTION OF AMERICAN MoTOR-VEHICLE PRO- | 
DUCTION BETWEEN PASSENGER CARS AND TRUCKS * 


PASSENGER CARS 


YEAR 
Number 
i ee 4,192 
OO ce penka wars 22,419 
$QOO ss cisco ov ous 127,731 
IQIOVN. cs cwrcccess 181,000 
NOL Iwas nig asda 40 199,319 
SOS9. Vase ale bte wk 356,000 
(>) eae ny es = 461,500 
IQIA..cecvecesace 543,679 
BOER Do uy a 260s os 895,930 
191G.c540 an « eeeee] 1,525,578 
iy ew aa vans 1,745,792 
Wiles dob ek ease 943,436 
TOIQ cc we wiveh d oe es 1,657,652 
1920. .«cescsersss 1,905,560 
ROSR Pade sins oniean's 1,514,000 
SOAS odes cae 2,406,396 
ROGS Po saa a aie 3,694,237 
1924 °..... es 4 Me 3,243,285 
COGS .Gecnaes cece 3,839,302 
ie BE OERLAR 3,936,933 


3 For fiscal year ended June 30, 1900. 
making vehicles of United States design. 


Wholesale Value 


$4,899,443 


23,682,492 
159,918,506 
213,000,000 
225,000,000 


335,000,000 
399,902,000 
413,859,379 


575,978,000 
921,378,000 


1,053,505,781 

801,937,925 
1,461,785,925 
1,809,170,963 
1,093,918,000 


1,567,003,041 
2,276,399,270 
2,011,038,288 
2,523,642,558 
2,730,385,507 


TRUCKS 
] 
Number | Wel 
4II $946,94 
3,255 5,230,02 
(a) (a) 

10,681 | 21,000,00 
22,000 | 43,000,00 
23,500 44,000,006 
25,375 | 45,098,46 
74,000 125,800,0 OC 
92,130 | 161,000,00¢ 
128,157 | 220,982,668 
227,250 | 434,168,99 
275:943 | 423,326,62 
321,789 | 423,249,416 
146,802 | 164,858,55¢ 
249,228 | 220,119,66 
385,755 | 305,999,606 
363,530 | 307,211,344 
473,154 | 433,744,076 
491,353 | 433,371, 10¢ 


> Includes output of plants located in Canada 


(a) Separate records of truck production for the years prior to 1904 and betwee 
toos and 1910, are not available; a total of 10,374 trucks, valued at wholesale z 
$20,485,500, was produced between 1903 and ror10, inclusive. 

* As compiled by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce, 


TABLE 10. GROWTH IN AMERICAN MOTOR-VEHICLE REGISTRATION 


N 
wiie tsbeniay Ree fara REGISTRA- 
EA TIONS T 
Reone’ | 1000 Popu. Recona | 1000 Poru- 
TOUS ones 1,258,062 13 9,231,941 
I914...... 1,711,339 17 10,463,295 
SOR he at 2,445,664 24 12,238,375 
I916...... 3,512,996 35 15,090,936 
IQI7...... 4,983,340 48 17,591,981 
11S seus: 6,146,617 59 19,937,274 
I9QIQ...... 7,565,446 72 


* From the Census of Manufactures, 1925. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 77 


TABLE 11. CENSUS SUMMARIES OF GRowTH OF MorTor VEHICLE 
AND MotTor-VEHICLE BoDIES AND ParTS INDUSTRIES * 


YEAR (average 
number) 
THE TWO 
BRANCHES 
1904. Rees 12,049 
POO» «so 0,0 6 75,721 
SMES hb waters '0'% 127,092 
MED 5 vite e's 's 343,115 
{O21 eeeeee 212,777 
OES Sr Aa 404,886 
EST obs csice 420,110 
MOTOR 
VEHICLES 
[S00..... ; 
BUPA iisia cops 
909 “ee oe eee 
EO sy ds % via. 6 
OL ts ; 
921 LaNehs 
_ See 
DPR Seoha tet) an o/s ia 
{OTOR-VEHICLE 
BODIES AND 
PARTS @ 
WO4.... ‘ 1,810 
BNO Ae G ove 5 ie 24,427 
AA oe dy ds 47,785 
919 alate ot 132,556 
921 eee 69,119 
BEES Wiis y's bie 28's 163,530 
SE es > 4 228,382 


PRIMARY 
HORSE- 
POWER 


9,966 

74,253 

172,875 

539,003 
I 


860,633 
Et 72,0%3 


2,979 
7,517 
49,772 
104,963 
282,323 
(*) 


435,545 
509,758 


(1) Not called for in 1921 Census. 
* The importance of this branch of the automobile industry is not adequately re- 
ected by the Census data because of ‘the large number of establishments in other 
idustries, which manufacture engines, motors, parts of machinery, tools, rubber tires, 


ad other parts and accessories of automobiles.’ 


7,159 
48,604 
I01I,927 
491,121 
318,753 
659,877 
713,931 


1,321 
6,179 
33,180 
66,034 
312,166 
221,974 
406,730 
341,210 


980 
15,513 
34,993 
178,956 

96,779 
253,147 
372,721 


Cost oF 
MATERI- 
ALS 


VALUE OF 
PrRopuctTs 


Thousands of dollars 


13,151 
131,646 
356,208 

1,940,679 
1,321,027 
2,711,571 
2,970,913 


30,034 
249,202 
632,831 

3,080,074 
2,079,404 
4,176,440 
4,721,403 


1,804 
11,658 
107,731 
292,598 
1,578,652 
1,107,062 
2,147,463 
2,108,192 


4,748 
26,645 
193,823 
503,230 
2,387,903 
1,671,387 
3,163,328 
3,198,123 


3,388 
55,379 
129,601 
692,171 
408,017 
1,013,112 
1,523,280 


1,493 
23,914 
63,610 

362,027 
213,065 
564,107 
862,721 


VALUE 
ADDED BY 
MANU- 
FACTURE 


16,882 
117,556 
276,624 
1,139,395 

758,377 
1,464,870 
1,750,489 


2,944 
14,987 
86,092 

210,633 
800,252 
564,325 
1,015,805 
1,089,931 


1,895 
31,465 
65,S91 

330,143 
194,052 
449,005 
660,558 


(Cf. Census of Manufactures, 1919.) 


* From the Census of Manufactures, 1921, 1923, 1925. This data must be interpreted 
: accordance with the classifications and practices of the Census Bureau. 


78 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 12. NUMBER OF CARS, TRUCKS, AND BUSSES REGISTERED, 
AND NUMBER OF INHABITANTS PER VEHICLE, FOR PRINCIPAL 


COUNTRIES * 


ae * INHAB- 
id UMBER |ITANTS 
COUNTRY oe pan Country oF Cars | PER 
PER CAR 
CAR 
North America: Europe — continued 
United States (con- Rumania... ; 5c ves s 16,700} 1,003 
tinental).......-. 22,137,334 5| Portugal..... secece 15,735 383 
Canada eet Be 820,220 II Russia (total 
CMs secre wiles 38,038 89 U.S.S.R.). os ceees 20,162| 6,883 
Mexico. .... waa bale 51,751] 275] Spain......... seeee| 135,000 161 
South America: SwWedeM i i074 acs alee 99,220 61 
Argenting <0 4.5 <i 222,610 Switzerland....... F 51,560 76 
BYa2it on i oa a agents 81,100] 41 United Kingdom....] 1,043,651 43 
CRG. tioc sate bw arte 18,000 217 | Asia: 
WUGUAY c00 esse sae 30,060 54 British Malaya..... 26,868 124 
Europe: Chitia e255 0iGe 18,529 | 23,531 
PAUISETIN bs cas bees 20,600] 317 Dutch East Indies. 47,000} 1,050 
Belginit fea se cat 97,213 80 Sceal AASB Peel ee 81,9025 | 3,015 
Czecho-Slovakia 27,100} 518 Japan ie... ee 45,600] 1,207 
Denmark........ q 80,750 42 Philippine Islands...| 22.325 499 
Finland......... zen 17,741 | 197 | Oceania: 
PORUCE Aiea ken 801,000 44 Australia...... seivel- S74 717 16 
Germany... 53. 319,000 196 Hawail,-..+ oe 37,735 10 
Irish Free State..... 35,647 89| New Zealand....... 123,224 It 
etalys eee oes a wees 128,800 308 | Africa: 
Netherlands........ 69,094] 106 pain Hp Pies (ahi 27,851 208 
MOCWRY a Kk ean ee 30,320 90}  Eeyptcyivn cess Rae 17,740 783 
POON ¢o.¥ ick be seis 19,400 | 1,468 Beet of South 
Airicascereecus Ar 76,550 95 


* China proper. 


b Japan proper. 
* From Commerce Yearbook, 1926, United States Department of Commerce, p. 446. 


TABLE 13. PASSENGER-CAR PRODUCTION, BY RETAIL PRICE 
Groups, UNITED STATES AND CANADA * 


YEAR 
CN ae oa 289,400 
1916; 5-5> 976,400 
£020.,04 5 1,118,600 
ROSE cs ts 1,044,700 
3OS8 se 1,774,400 
TOSSi45 5 3,034,900 
F024, oo. i 2,391,900 
SOAS s2,. x 2,808,500 
5020.07%.3 3,025,700 


* From Commerce Yearbook, 1 
compiled by Automotive Indus 


UNDER $1000 


Number | Per cent 


OhWAORON 


$1000 To $2000 


o_o | + | | | | 


131,500 
578,500 
619,600 
352,800 
522,700 
609,900 
786,100 
896,000 
770,200 


HHH HM RDADAUH 
AcswWnNUhwnNO 


mt RW bw 


eH 


$2000 TO $3000 | $3000 AND OVER 


0 AW O0m3 Wy & © Oo 


926, D. 436, United States Department of Commerce, as 
es. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 79 


TABLE 14. UNITED STATES IMPORTS AND EXPORTS OF 


Moror VEHICLES * 


IMPORTS 
YEAR ¢ 
Number ; Value 
1906..... awa as vis 1,106 | $3,844,505 
I 1,176 4,041,025 
oS ie eles Ae 1,045 2,500,000 
E909. . 002200 eores 1,624 2,905,391 
MUUEUTEia\t's 2 8 o's 5309 © 1,473 2,851,446 
US aia b’n! a’ a's ieee 6, 6 972 2,098,481 
AE ae 868 1,999,587 
SERRE a a's 6 6 9 0 016 04.6 + 492 1,154,873 
RET a en's ape aia wh 296 493,305 
Le manta rele ae Wc eee 327,296 
OS Bale wie os a'9.< 1,429 770,319 
ee 78 112,440 
ULL aA 73 39,733 
I9I9.. ies & 117 123,025 
oy DL Ae Pile whips 926 1,026,518 
MMI atla ee keane s 522 876,163 
> ee vias a 483 802,285 
IFAS os a'o see e's 853 884,125 
ae eles oo aie the 604 841,524 
Bee eo es hiG ats, e's @ 678 1,079,560 
7926. .... paisa A's wis iis 813 1,352,984 


EXPORTS 


Number Value 
1,850 $3,497,016 
2,862 4,890,886 
2,477 4,656,991 
3,184 5,387,021 
6,926 9,548,700 
15,807 15,924,361 
23,720 23,703,989 
26,889 27,030,451 
25,765 28,507,464 
63,958 94,884,393 
80,843 96,673,108 
80,235 88,628,141 

- 47,244 63,093,244 

82,730 | 109,125,964 

171,644 | 212,031,702 
38,430 42,817,675 
78,234 | | 59,320,724 

151,894 106,010,330 

178,732 | 131,733,983 

302,931 222,589,000 

305,256 | 223,560,000 


* Figures for the years 1906 to 1910, inclusive, are for the fiscal years ended June 
30; the remaining figures are for the calendar years. 

* Exclusive of exports of Canadian branches and of part of the output of foreign 
assembling plants. Data from the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. 


80 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 15. Exports OF Motor VEHICLES AND PARTS FROM THE © 
UNITED STATES AND CANADA * 
(Values in thousands of dollars] 


PASSENGER Motor Trucks| AUTOMOBILE , 
Cars¢ AND BUSSES ¢ ENGINES TOTAL 


bre VALUE 


Number! Value |Number|] Value | Number} Value 


FROM UNITED 


STATES 
I I eee eee 25,344 8,815 ,O31 
teh dl 73,701 31,358 136.426. 
TONG. s ok aen 165,256 30,581 303,262 
WON as cartes 32,534 9,632 83,749 
ee ae pa 51,050 44,986 102,751 
19435 be ves 90,692 40,868 170,326 
LOSR och ae oe 112,535 30,768 200,684 
$048.2: ass 184,886 145,848 318,190 
BGG sce% ae a 176,481 118,428 320,018 

FROM 

CANADA 
it PER ee 3,395 3,606 
10433 cote es 21,060 24,080 
TOA aS Sum es 7 29,325 ( 37,359 
O44 s a d5 i ate 22,080 31,501 
TOSS OAs ones 27,795 39,418 
YOM. 0s aa 25,780 38,222 


(a) Unknown 

* The totals of unit vehicle exports do not include a large, though uncertain, num- 
ber of vehicles that have been assembled abroad from exported parts, but that have 
not been so reported. It is the practice of all Canadian producers and of most Ameri-— 
can producers to declare exports of parts, whenever possible, as the equivalent of so 
many complete vehicles. A varying proportion of foreign assemblies, however, is the 
product of exported parts that have not been so declared; such assemblies are not 
commonly included in either export or home production totals, whereas the former 
are. On the other hand, to add all foreign assemblies to the home production and 
unit export totals involves duplication of vehicle units already counted, though ex- 
ported in the form of parts. A similar distinction must be observed in computing the 
value of American automotive exports. In the first six months of 1927, the Bureau 
of Commerce found that between 43 and 55 per cent of foreign assemblies of American 
automobiles were made up of exported parts that had not been declared as the equiva- 
lent of so many complete vehicles. (Cf. Commerce Reports, September 12, 1927, p. 
657 ff.) Such assemblies should be added to the home production and export totals 
(United States and Canada). The total unit volume of foreign assemblies of Ameri- 
can vehicles for the years 1922 to 1926, as compiled by the Automotive Division of the 
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, was as follows: 

204928 i550.43 spat eee 1924. ccccvcces 131,745 
T0223. cccccsece 106,110 1902S. -csccvcce 239,391 
T9060. eeu sane OOsaae 
* From Commerce Yearbook, 1926, p. 441. 


DEVELOPMENT OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 81 


TABLE 16. Exports OF MOTOR VEHICLES FROM THE UNITED 
STATES BY PRINCIPAL COUNTRIES OF DESTINATION, 1926 * 


VALUE 
CouNnTRY NUMBER (thousands of 
f ollars) 

DOL (Gia sete 'es's ¢s; 305,236 223,560 
PAMMIRANEL Us wiaitds ay a 00}) 64,110 44,329 
eR CAA ae 28,440 24,365 
PAMOPRTIC ITY cic sacn ate we. o bo! 28,027 19,165 
PU IN hia y'e Wetatiodk si erais 22,589 12,893 
British Affica........cc5s 18,473 14,948 
Denmark........ awa ses 13,421 7,193 
DRORAOO, Sis s ives Seek ae ite 12,011 8,285 
NEW COAIANG ss bee Ue a © sce 10,822 8,775 
United Kingdom......... 10,721 7,840 
POOMETUEEIR ah din ss,» feral ative 4) (8,408 7,094 
BU MMESD eo L IE AOS eo allel bres she's 7,283 6,193 
BRI soa a aa ee 4 sess 6,663 4,505 
Philippine Islands........ 5,824 3,786 
MCCEEL eS NS co wed ba 5 3,976 3,891 
RETURN VE ain! Da ciae ap ihh) « seed a 220 3,439 
PIMITNOTH Centon e ca ts aie'e 9 64,188 46,859. 


: * Data from Commerce Yearbook, 1926, p. 443 ff. Exclusive of units exported as 
‘parts’ and assembled abroad. 


82 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 17. RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF LEADING STATES IN THE 
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY * 


WAGE- 


van Sanus | Eames, | Fasoocts 
1904 
United States total....... 178 12,049 $30,034,000 
PAICHUZEN 6 5 bass ore vale ou bee 33 2,735 7,997,000 
Oi Gee eS ARE er at i 22 2,722 6,358,000 
New YORK ceoc ahs ho ke br 35 1,849 4,260,000 
Teitians.3) Sonn kesou-sh II 816 1,639,000 — 
1914 
United States total....... 1,271 127,092 $632,831,000 
PAURIPAN LCi cn oe iaee 205 67,538 398,289,000 
SING soa axaightuic ale aieke'a es a9 102 18,752 85,711,000 
INOW 2 OFEeG is ae o's lee cle at 247 12,122 42,115,000 
ERAGE ove banc ae, Me te 86 7,219 29,389,000 
1925 | 
United States total....... 1,653 426,110 | $4,721,402,556 
Wiichigat $32.5 eee ee ee 176 234,492 2,442,197,465 
OD yaaa wee ie csnd 184 43,791 514,775,843 
INOW OF cen ves genes be 196 26,012 261,445,894 
INUISGA 8 Oe tax ws ac xiaiee 104 28,026 233,589,813 


* Census of Manufactures. Includes motor vehicle and motor-vehicle bodies and 
parts industries; the figures, particularly for value of products, therefore involve con- 
siderable duplication. 


= 


CHAPTER III 
THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 


1. VOLUME AND IMPORTANCE OF BUSINESS 


THE Ford Motor Company, judged by physical volume of 
output and by amount of invested capital, is the largest 
producer of automobiles in the world. The first unit of its 
famous ‘Model T’ was produced on October 1, 1908, some 
five years after the Company’s incorporation; the millionth 
unit of this model left the factory on December 10, 1915; 
between this date and June 4, 1924, 9,000,000 more were 
produced; and on May 26, 1927, the fifteen-millionth 
“Model T’ rolled off the assembly lines.? During the four- 
teen years ended in 1926, the output of the Ford Motor 
Company averaged well above forty per cent of the aggre- 
gate volume of American motor-vehicle production. A 
comparison of the Company’s annual output during this 
period with that of the American industry as a whole is 
presented in Table 18. 

While the Ford Motor Company is primarily a producer 
of finished automobiles, motor trucks, and automotive farm 
tractors, a vast program of industrial integration, initiated 
some years ago, has carried its operations into many fields; 
and to-day it is a business with far-flung properties and 
diverse, though related, interests. The aim and result of 
this program was expressed in a pamphlet entitled ‘Ford 
Products,’ issued by the Company in August, 1924: 

A self-contained industry produces Ford cars, trucks, and Ford- 
son tractors. It is the Ford industry, whose resources go back to the 
standing timber and unmined ore. They include Ford-owned coal 


mines, blast furnaces, glass factories, huge manufacturing units, as- 
sembly plants, and an organization of trained men whose combined 


ESE fa SB EEE RST RE OR LOA 
t See Table 1, above, for the comparative position of the Ford Motor 
Company as respects amount of invested capital. 


* From various public announcements of the Company. 


84 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 18. OurpuT oF Forp Motor CoMPANY COMPARED WITH 
ToraL AMERICAN OUTPUT, 1913-26, INCLUSIVE * 
TOTAL AMERICAN 


YEAR Forp OUTPUT s Ourput é 

IOUZ vcccecessnt os 181,951 485,000 
OTA Jos unasvi sexs 264,972 569,054 
IQI5..ccccceccees 283,161 969,930 
1916) 5 os Hen sets 534,108 1,617,708 
IQU7 s+. cccsavecns 785,433 1,873,949 
IGISS iy dh aes ke. 708,355 1,170,686 
XOIGLS + ees was ees 939,434 1,974,016 
TOIO yi cn bales eis 1,074,336 2,204,947 
SORE vec oe seraes ss 1,013,958 1,660,082 
Ose vanes Pee Cnt Pek: 2,655,624 
1O23cry ss Sos ebevs) 2,000,060 4,079,992 
IQQA Cais ay twaw ens 1,993,419 3,606,815 
TOAS Cai sea nae eh oe 1,990,995 4,312,456 
TOA ss dae ea os 1,447,915 4,428,286 


6 Fiscal years ended September 30, for 1913 and ror4; July 31, for rors to ror8, 
inclusive; remaining figures for calendar years except that 1919 figure is for the seven- 
teen months ended December 31, 1919. Figures for 1913 to 1923, inclusive, from 
The Ford Industries, published by the Company; the remainder, from Moody's Man- 
ual of Industrials, 1927. 

+ As reported by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce; for calendar 
years; includes Canadian production. 

* The data are not strictly comparable for the years up to 1920 because of the vari- 
ous fiscal periods employed by the Ford Company, as contrasted with the calendar 
year basis of the American totals. 


activities comprehend every phase of human endeavor. From widely 
scattered Ford-owned sources, raw materials are brought by Ford 
transportation units to Ford factories where they are refined, 
moulded, machined and assembled under the most favorable of in- 
dustrial conditions. ... 


The chief manufacturing units of the Company are located 
in Highland Park and Fordson, Michigan, on the outskirts of 
Detroit, and employ approximately 100,000 workers. In 
addition, the Company operates thirty-six branch assembly 
and manufacturing plants in the United States, and, through 
foreign associated companies, it conducts manufacturing 
and assembling operations in the principal countries of 
Europe and South America.t_ Legal ownership of the great 

* In 1924, the domestic branches of the Company employed 24,323 


workers, and the foreign branches, 11,028, according to a Company an- 
nouncement quoted in the Detroit News of February 11, 1924. 


4 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 85 


bulk of the Ford properties is vested directly in the Ford 
Motor Company, a Delaware corporation. The Ford Motor 
Company of Canada, Ltd., is a separate corporate entity, 
as are the other foreign Ford enterprises, control of which is 
maintained through the stock-ownership of Henry and 
Edsel Ford. Control of the Detroit, Toledo & Ironton Rail- 
road, acquired in 1920, is maintained in the same way. The 
Michigan Iron, Land & Lumber Company, incorporated in 
September, 1920, and the Fordson Coal Company, incor- 
porated in February, 1923, are direct subsidiaries of the 
Ford Motor Company, which owns all of their capital stock. 
This is likewise the case with the Lincoln Motor Company, 
acquired at a receiver’s sale on February 4, 1922, and now 
operated as a ‘division’ of the Ford Motor Company. 

The Ford organization may be said to include more than 
the Company’s immediate interests and those of its sub- 
sidiaries. More than 52,000 sales agencies and service sta- 
tions, individually owned by their operators, are directly 
supervised by the Company’s executives. The Company 
determines the retail prices of its cars, trucks, and parts; 
suggests the design of sales rooms and service quarters; fixes 
the charges for repair work; and supervises the accounting 
system and advertising policy of its dealers.? In its financial 
crisis of 1920-21, the Company felt free to call upon its 
dealers to absorb shipments of cars in excess of contracted 
allotments, exacting immediate cash payment, and thereby 
shifting to its dealers much of the burden of the emergency 
financing.? The Ford organization may also be said to include 
a number of independent parts-makers whose chief or ex- 
clusive customer is the Ford Motor Company. In many 
cases, the latter purchases the necessary materials, supplies 
the patterns, investigates the accounts to determine upon 
prices, and sometimes helps to finance the business of such 


Cf. The Ford Industries, published by the Company, p. 125; and 
Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 60. 

2 Cf. the Detroit News of July 22, 1921, in which James Swineheart 
‘reports an interview with Henry Ford. 


86 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


suppliers.! ‘There are hundreds of concerns from which we 
take the major part of their output...’ Henry Ford was 
quoted as saying in July, 1921.’ 

The chief commercial products of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany are the Ford automobile, produced in various body 
styles; the Ford truck; the Fordson farm tractor; the 


Lincoln automobile; and, very recently, the Ford (Stout © 


Metal) airplane. The most important of these by far, need- 
less to say, is the Ford passenger automobile, which has 
been produced and sold in incomparably greater quantities 
than the product of any other automonile manufacturer. 
The distinctive characteristic of the Ford cars, from an eco- 
nomic standpoint, is that they have long been the lowest- 
priced automobiles produced in the United States, and, 
therefore, in the world. For many years, all other automo- 
biles retailed at prices exceeding those of the Ford cars by 
$200 or more. The productive technique that made possible 
its low prices, and the enormous volume of demand that 
resulted from them, made the Ford Motor Company the 
largest producer of automobiles in the world. More than 
15,000,000 Ford cars and trucks, we have noted, have been 
produced and sold; the tenth million required only 132 
working days to produce. 


2. ORIGIN OF Forp Motor COMPANY 


Unlike the United States Steel Corporation, the General 
Motors Corporation, the great railroad enterprises, and 
other very large business organizations, the Ford Motor 
Company acquired its present enormous assets and achieved 
its present position in industry neither by combinations and 
consolidations nor by the aid of a large body of investors. 
Competitive superiority in the largest field of automobile 


* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 

* Detroit News, July 22, 1921. 

3 Announcement of the Ford Motor Company, quoted in the Detroit 
News of June 5, 1924. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 87 


manufacture — the field of low-priced automobiles — and 
the continuous reinvestment of much of the large profits of 
the enterprise, are the principal factors that explain the 
present position of the Ford Motor Company. 

Henry Ford, the founder of the Company, first com- 
pleted the construction of a gasoline automobile in 1893, 
when only one other gasoline vehicle had been built in the 
United States. After devoting five years to the improve- 
ment of his model, Ford resigned from his position as chief 
engineer of the Detroit Edison Company, and set out to in- 
terest capital in the manufacture of his vehicle. By entering 
his model in a number of automobile races, he attracted the 
attention of a small group of men, and, with their aid, or- 
ganized the Detroit Automobile Company, in 1898. This 
company was capitalized at $50,000, of which P1O,000) was 
contributed in cash.” 

At the end of three years, during which time the Coane 

had produced two cars, Ford, dissatisfied with his one-sixth 
interest and consequent lack of control, sold his stock and 
resigned from his position as the Company’s chief engineer. 
The Detroit Automobile Company later became in turn the 
Cadillac Automobile Company and the Cadillac Motor Car 
Company. 
- A second Ford company, the Henry Ford Automobile 
Company, was incorporated in Michigan on November 23, 
1901, with a paid-in capital of $38,000, of which Henry Ford 
was credited with $10,000.2, This company was dissolved 
in less than a year, the victim of dissension among stock- 
holders and officers, most of whom, it is said, insisted upon 
the manufacture of large and expensive automobiles as 
against Ford’s desire to produce low- priced cars in large 
quantities.3 

Ford now entered into an arrangement with Alexander 


t Arnold and Faurote, Ford Methods and the Ford Shops, p. 13. 


2 Annual report of the Henry Ford Automobile Company for 1901; 
Michigan Secretary of State. 


3 Henry Ford’s Own Story as Told to Rose Wilder Lane, p. 112 ff. 


88 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Y. Malcomson, a prosperous Detroit coal dealer, whom he 
had met during his employment with the Detroit Edison — 
Company, whereby, in return for a 25.5 per cent interest in 
the projected Ford Motor Company, Malcomson was to — 
guarantee the financing of the production of the Ford auto- 
mobile up to the amount of $3000." Malcomson was com- 
mitted for $7000 before the Ford Motor Company was 
finally organized. 

The Ford Motor Company was incorporated in Michigan 
on June 16, 1903, with an authorized capitalization of 
$150,000, all common stock, of which $100,000 was issued. 
Of the latter, $49,000 was listed as issued for cash; $40,000 
for ‘letters patent issued and applied for’; $10,000 for ma- 
chinery and stock; and $1000 for ‘contracts for supplies.’ ? 

Ford and Malcomson each received $25,500 of stock; 
John S. Gray, president of the German-American Savings — 
Bank of Detroit, subscribed for $10,500, with the presidency 
of the Company, and with Malcomson’s personal guarantee 
against loss, offered as inducements; 3 John W. Anderson and 
Horace H. Rackham, Malcomson’s attorneys, each sub- 
scribed for $5000; John F. Dodge and Horace E. Dodge, 
proprietors of a machine shop, subscribed for $5000 each, 
paying for their subscriptions with promissory notes which 
they later met from their profits on orders filled for the new 
company;4 James Couzens, then a clerk in Malcomson’s 
coal office, paid $1000 in cash and $1500 in promissory 
notes for $2500 of stock; Albert Strelow, Vernon E. Fry, and 
C. H. Bennett each subscribed for $5000; and C. J. Woodall, 
Malcomson’s bookkeeper, subscribed for $1000. Only 
$28,000 in cash was actually received by the Company, and, 
according to a Ford publication issued in September, 1920, 
this was all the cash ever paid in on its capital stock.s 

* Benson, The New Henry Ford, p. 102. ; 

* Articles of incorporation. 3 Benson, p. 121. 


* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 
5 ‘The company was capitalized for $100,000, but no more than $28,- 
000 was ever paid into the treasury of the company.’ (From Facts from — 
Ford, p. 6, published by the Ford Motor Company.) 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY | 89 ' 


Operations were begun in June, 1903, in rented quarters in 
the rear of a carpenter’s shop. A small amount of space 
was sufficient because engines, chassis, bodies, and most of 
the assembling operations were to be completed by inde- 
pendent establishments, the work of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany being confined to a small amount of final assembling 
and to sales. The Company’s plan of operations is de- 
scribed in some detail in the following quotation, taken from 
a letter written just prior to the incorporation by Anderson, 
one of the stockholders mentioned above, in which letter 
Anderson asked his father to procure a loan of $5000 to en- 
able the son to make good his subscription to the Company’s 
stock: ? 


... After canvassing the matter thoroughly, ... they determined 
to enter into contracts with various concerns to supply the different 
parts and simply do the assembling themselves. 

So they entered into a contract with the Dodge brothers, who own 

a machine shop here, to manufacture the automobile complete — less 
the wheels and bodies — for $250 apiece, or $162,500 for the 650 
_ machines which are to be delivered at the rate of 10 a day, com- 
mencing July 1, if possible, and all by October 1. I drew the con- 
tracts, so know all about it. 
_ Now, to comply with this contract, which was made last October, 
' Dodge Brothers had to decline all outside orders and devote the 
entire resources of their plant to the turning out of these automobiles. 
_ They were paid only $10,000 on account, and had to take all the rest 
of the risk themselves. They had to borrow $40,000, place orders for 
castings all over the country, pay their men from last October (they 
have a large force), and do everything necessary to manufacture all 
the machines before they could hope to get a cent back. ... 

In addition to this, contracts for the remaining parts of the auto- 
mobile — the bodies, seat cushions, wheels and tires — were made so 
they were to be supplied as wanted. The bodies and cushions by the 
C. R. Wilson Carriage Co. at $52 apiece and $16 apiece, respectively. 
The wheels by a Lansing, Mich., firm at $26 a set (4 wheels). The 
tires by the Hartford Rubber Co. at $40 a set (4 wheels). 

They found a man from whom Mr. Malcomson rents a coal yard 
on the Beltline Railroad with a spur track running into it. He agreed 
to erect a building, designed by Mr. Ford for their special use, for 
assembling purposes (which will cost between $3000 and $4000), and 


* The letter is quoted in full in the Detroit News of January 14, 1927. | 


90 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


rent it for three years to Mr. Ford and Mr. Malcomson at $75 a 
month.... 

To this assembling plant are shipped the bodies, wheels and tires 
and the machines from Dodge Brothers, and here the workmen, ten 
or a dozen boys, at $1.50 each and a foreman, fit the bodies on the 
machines, put the cushions in piace, put the tires on the wheels, the 
wheels on the machines and paint them and test them to see they 
run ‘O.K.,’ and it is all ready for delivery. Now this is all there is to 
the whole proposition. | 

Now, as to the investment feature. You will see there is absolutely 
no money to speak of tied up in a big factory. There is the $75 a 
month rent for three years, and a few machines necessary in the as- 
sembling factory. All the rest is done outside and supplied as or- 
dered, and this, of course, is a big saving in capital outlay to start 
with. 

The machines sell for $750, without a tonneau. With a tonneau 
the price is $850. This is the price of all medium-priced machines and 
is standard. It is what the Cadillac and Great Northern sell for here, 
and what other machines elsewhere sell for. Now the cost, figured in 
the most liberal possible estimate, is as follows: 


Machine (fixed by contract) ,'\. sacle ses 560s mereas cue ard ena 


Body (fixed by contract)....... sense de6e nla hoch ee tate wei ane ee 
Wheels (fixed by contract)...... S iviee cud. denies man ne as ee 
Upholstering (fixed by contract)..... ow se nS eye be ee le Beh che 
Tires (all these fited. by contract) } J) .\s s\) cnew cee eae er aenes 40 
Cost of assembling (this includes wages, rent, insurance, and 

all incidentals'at the factory)... .'. /2.\'st.ueue Gee ens Use 20 


Cost of selling (this includes advertising, all salaries, commis- 
sions, etc., 20 per cent on each automobile — it will be 


nearer to IO or I2 per cent......... connese ee socccece ees 150 
Cost without tonneau........ ain db sb els divas Meena woe $554 
Cost of tonneau “eee eeeeeeve @eeeeoeceeeoeespeeseeneeeeoceeeveeeeee 50 
Total cost with tonnes... ... ..ss00teebkabka eee saeens sPOOd 
Selling price with tonneau, . ss .d.s ec secenceieiwecees ipewes O50 
Cost price with tonneau...... o be noie'l'y oh pala een eed evasi Ok 

$246 
Throwing off (for any possible extra contingency)........--- 46 
Profit on each with tonneau...........seceee hae SS) 5 Poe $200 
Selling price without tonneau.......ccccccccceccccccscees 750 
Cost price without tonneau......... saddcacnone meh daaeaen 554 

$196 
Throwing off (for any possible extra contingency)...... giteav tae 
Profit on each without tonneau................ Jae kwevens tee 


On the season’s output of 650 machines it means a profit of 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY OI 


$97,500, without a tonneau, and more in proportion to those sold with 
tonneaus.... ; 

Now, the demand for automobiles is a perfect craze. Every 
factory here (there are three including the Olds — the largest in 
the country — and you know Detroit is the largest automobile 
center in the United States), has its entire output sold and can- 
not begin to fill orders. Mr. Malcomson has already begun to be 
deluged with orders, although not a machine has been put on the 
market and will not be until July 1.... And it is all spot cash on de- 
livery, and no guarantee or string attached of any kind. 


The Ford Motor Company was a business success from 
the start. Sales for the three-and-one-half-month period be- 
tween June 16 and September 30, 1903, totaled $132,482, 
and resulted in a net profit of $36,958. On October 1, 1903, 
a dividend of 2 per cent was paid; a month later, 10 per cent; 
in January, 1904, 20 per cent; and six months later, 68 per 
cent.? Ina little more than fifteen months from the date of 
incorporation, the Ford Motor Company had paid dividends 
totaling 100 per cent of the issued capital stock. 
~ As soon as commercial production had been started, the 
Company began the construction of special racing cars, for 
the widespread popular interest in automobile racing caused 
great publicity to be given to enterprises producing the win- 
ning cars, and ‘practically every noteworthy automobile 
company entered its cars in the races.’3 Henry Ford per- 
sonally piloted the Ford racers in a number of national con- 
tests, and later delegated this task to Barney Oldfield, one 
of the most successful of the professional racing pilots. 

During its first year of operation, the Company produced 
a single model, selling at $950 f.o.b. Detroit. During the 
second year, influenced partly by the enthusiasm for racing, 

‘perhaps, and partly by the importunities of some of the 
‘stockholders,4 the Company produced three models, one of 
which was a large six-cylinder motor car selling at $2000; 


* Benson, p. 131. 

2 Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 

3 Ford Motor Company, Facts from Ford, p. 6. 4 Benson, p. 145. 


92 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY | 
the others were modifications of its first model, and sold . 
at $900 and $1000 respectively. In the third year, ended 
September 30, 1906, the Company produced only the $2000 
and $1000 models. . 


3. HENRY Forp’s ACQUISITION OF CONTROL 


During this year internal dissension among the stock- — 
holders resulted in the purchase by Henry Ford of the 255 
shares of stock held by Alexander Y. Malcomson. A short 
time later, Ford purchased the 10 shares of C. J. Woodall; 
and in 1907, he purchased 65 of the 150 shares sold by three 
other small stockholders, bringing his holdings up to 57 per 
cent of the Company’s issued stock. James Couzens pur- 
chased the other 85 shares sold at this time. In the mean 
time, the death of John S. Gray, president of the Company, — 
resulted in the transfer of his stock to the John S. Gray 
Estate and in the election of Henry Ford to the presidency 
of the Company. 

During its fourth fiscal year, ended September 30, 1907, the 
Company discontinued its expensive models and produced 
two types of low-priced vehicles, retailing at $600 and $700, 
respectively. Striking gains in production, receipts, and 
profits accompanied the change: output jumped from 1599 
to 8759; receipts, from $1,491,626 to $5,773,851; and profits, 
from $102,398 to $1,124,675. The following year, however, 
the Company reintroduced its $2000 model, and sold its 
smaller cars at $700 and $750. Its output suffered by the 
change, but its profits increased. The results of the Com- 
pany’s operations during its first five years are summarized 
in Table 19. 

The successful character of the Company’s operations is 
readily reflected by the table. In addition to the profits re- 
invested in the business, which caused the Company’s net 
worth to grow from less than $100,000 to more than $2,000,- 
000 in five years, the Company had paid dividends approxi- 

* The annual report of the Ford Motor Company to the Michigaail 
Secretary of State, for 1907, shows these changes. } 


4 
} 


\ 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 93 


mating 100 per cent on its outstanding capital stock during 
each of these years.' Writing of the Company’s condition at 
this time, Henry Ford says, ‘We had plenty of money. Since 
the first year we have practically always had plenty of 
money. We sold for cash, we did not borrow money, and we 


TABLE 19. Output, RECEIPTS, PROFITS, AND NET WorTH OF 
ForD Motor Company, 1903-08 * 


OuTPUT RECEIPTS PROFITS NET WorTH 


$1,336,800 


A ES 1,708 $283,037 $220,758 
BPS ao Ses tro 1,695 1,914,903 290,194 231,807 
0 ES ee 1,599 1,491,626 102,398 297,867 
A 8,759 5,773,851 1,124,675 1,038,822 
OS Aa 6,181 4,701,298 1,150,983 2,028,553 


* For fiscal years ended September 30, except that the 1904 figures are for the pe- 
riod from June 8, 1903, to September 30, 1904, and that the net worth figures are those 
reported as of September 30 of each of the years. 

* Sources: Output figures are those reported by the Company in The Ford Indus« 
tries: figures for profits and receipts were taken from the books of the Company by 

Benson, and reproduced in The New Henry Ford, p. 143; net worth figures represent 
_ the net equity of the stockholders as disclosed in the annual reports of the Company 
to the Michigan Secretary of State. } 


sold directly to the purchaser.’? In addition, it may be 
noted, the Company received advance deposits from dealers 
on all orders, and, whereas it received immediate cash pay- 
ment for its product, its own purchases of materials and 
parts were made on the usual thirty- and sixty-day credit 
basis.3 

By the end of its fifth year of operation, the Company had 
already laid the foundations for its present domestic sales 
system, and for the development of foreign business. Care- 
fully selected agents, who were required to maintain service 
facilities for owners of Ford cars, and whose advertising and 
soliciting were supervised by the Company, were appointed 


* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 

? Ford, My Life and Work, p.59. It should be noted that the Company 
sold very little of its product directly to consumers, but regularly sold its 
cars to independent sales dealers, whom it termed ‘agents.’ 


$ See letter of James Couzens to writer, quoted elsewhere above. 


94 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


in every section of the country.t Ford cars were entered in 
races and endurance contests in England and in France, and 
every attempt was made to stimulate sales in these coun- 
tries.2 The Ford Motor Company of Canada, Ltd., was in- 
corporated in the province of Ontario on April 17, 1904. In 
exchange for half of its $125,000 capital stock, tendered to 
the Ford Motor Company of Michigan, the Canadian com- 
pany was granted exclusive rights to the manufacture and 
sale of the Ford automobile and allied products throughout 
the British Empire, with the exception of England, Scotland, 
and Ireland, and the privilege of using all the devices and 
improvements of the American company without cost. The 
right to the English field was reserved for the Ford Motor 
Company, England, Ltd., organized three years later, the 
entire capital stock of which, as was the case with subsid- 
iaries later organized in other foreign countries, was retained 
by the Ford Motor Company of Michigan in the pro-rata 
interest of its stockholders. 

By the end of the fifth year, six of the original thirteen 
stockholders had sold their stock to others of the original 
investors; the remaining seven stockholders now held stock 
as follows: 4 


Henty Ford .32sdacsvea beaten maeeien .- 585 shares 
James: Couzens’), . 0)... «sade anteaeeen 110 
The Gray’ Estate: s\0.0s canta eee 105 
John F},Dodgés:... .icess nape eee 50 
Horace E. Dodge; .'\-< sss «ss hae eee 50 
J. W. Andersons 420i cakaee AR ere ee 50 
H.'H, Rackham)... Jc. oceawewaee eee 50 
1000 shares 


In October, 1908, the charter of the Company was 
amended, increasing the authorized capital stock from 
$150,000 to $2,000,000; and on October 22, the board of 


directors declared a stock dividend of $1,900,000. Shortly 


* Ford, My Life and Work, p. 59 ff. 2 Ibid. 


3 Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 


‘ Annual report of Ford Motor Company, as of September 30, 1908. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY | 95 


thereafter a regular cash dividend policy of five per cent 
monthly, payable quarterly, was instituted. 


4. EXPANSION 


With the year 1909, the Ford Motor Company began a 
remarkable series of strides in production, receipts from 
sales, and in profits, which placed it far in the forefront of all 
motor-car manufacturers. 

In the latter part of 1908, the Company contracted for 
the services of Walter E. Flanders, then an outstanding ex- 
pert in machine production, with the view of greatly aug- 
menting its output. Henry Ford had designed a new auto- 
mobile model — the famous ‘ Model T,’ and was prepared to 
initiate a radical program of quantity production. Flanders 
was to receive a bonus of $20,000 in addition to his salary if 
the Company’s output in the year ending September 30, 
1909, reached 10,000 cars.? The actual output was 10,660, 
the Ford Motor Company being the first automobile manu- 
facturer to achieve such a volume of output. 

During the next five years, the business of the Company 
increased by leaps and bounds. Its annual output was 
multiplied by seventeen; its net profits increased by nearly 
goo per cent; and, despite the payment of special dividends 
aggregating $15,000,000 in addition to regular dividends of 
60 per cent annually,3 the net worth of the Company in- 
creased by more than 1300 per cent. The results of its opera- 
tions during these five years are summarized in Table 20. 


5. THE SELDEN PATENT LITIGATION 


The growth of the Ford Motor Company up to the year 
1911 took place during the pendency of the bitterly contested 
patent suit brought against the Company by the owners of 
the Selden patent. The Ford Motor Company, then just be- 


t Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 204 Mich., 464. 
2 Doolittle, Romance of the Automobile Industry, p. 152. 


3 Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 


96 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 20. Output, RECEIPTS, PROFITS, AND NET WORTH OF 
Forp Motor CoMPANny, 1909-13 * 


RECEIPTS PROFITS Net WortTH 
L600) Seale aeeetes $9,041,291 | $3,125,876 | $2,101,723 
FOU ys a kas ak 3 es 16,711,299 4,127,208 4,408,961 
CHET Nach wees been 24,656,768 | 7,288,303 | 9,956,535 
IOS se Bocca aeons : 42,477,677 | 13,552,239 | 16,867,366 


Ai abe Wiaccoe boii ate els 181,951 | 89,108,885 | 27,001,203 | 30,259,214 


¢ Fiscal years as in Table 19; save that the profit figure for 1909 is that of the calen- 
dar year. 
* Sources as in Table rg. 


ginning its career, had refused to join the Association of 
Licensed Automobile Manufacturers, and suit for infringe- 
ment of the Selden patent had been started on October 21, 
1903. After six years of strenuous litigation, as we have 
noted, the Selden patent was sustained in every particular 
by the United States Circuit Court of the Southern District 
of New York.t The Association of Licensed Automobile 
Manufacturers immediately instituted a campaign of news- 
paper advertising, warning the public against the purchase 
of Ford cars, and asserting that every owner of a Ford car 
was liable for damages. The Ford Motor Company coun- 
tered this attack by advertisements announcing that it had 
deposited a bond with a New York trust company to protect 
its customers; and it appealed from the decision to the Cir- 
cuit Court of Appeals. A reversal of the decision appeared to 
be unlikely, for the opinion of Judge Hough had been ren- 
dered only after one of the lengthiest patent suits in Ameri- 
can history. 

The Ford Motor Company, during the year previous to 
Judge Hough’s decision, had entered into preliminary ne- 
gotiations with Messrs. William C. Durant, of the Buick 
Motor Car Company, Benjamin Briscoe, of the Maxwell- 
Briscoe Motor Company, and Ransom E. Olds, of the Reo 
Motor Car Company, for the formation of a combination of 
motor-car manufacturers; but had dropped the negotiations 

* 172 Federal 923. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 97 


when its demand for a cash payment of $3,000,000 had been 
refused.t Shortly after the Company’s reverse in the patent 
litigation, however, Durant, on behalf of the newly organized 
General Motors Company, as we have observed,” succeeded 
in obtaining an option, dated October 25, 1909, to purchase 
all of the capital stock of the Ford Motor Company for 
$8,000,000, of which $2,000,000 was to be paid in cash, and 
the remainder, in one- and two-year notes. Durant allowed 
the option to lapse because he could not obtain the funds for 
the initial payment. The possible subsequent history of the 
Ford enterprise under the auspices of the General Motors 
Company is a tempting subject for speculation. The de- 
cision of Judge Hough, however, was reversed by the Cir- 
cuit Court of Appeals in January, 1911;3 the chief obstacle 
in the path of the meteoric rise of the Company was thus 
eliminated. 

The Selden patent suit strained the resources of the Ford 
Motor Company at times,‘ and hence may have retarded its 
growth. Nevertheless, the records disclose no sign of this: 
while the litigation was at its height, the Company was 
emerging as the leading producer of automobiles in the 
world. Even an adverse decision might not have had serious 
consequences for the Company. In the opinion of James 
Couzens, then and for many years vice-president of the 


Company, a license under the patent would have been 
easily obtainable;5 the royalty rate had never exceeded 1.5, 


per cent of the retail value of the licensed automobiles, and, 
at the time of the decision, the rate was only four-fifths of 
one per cent; the bulk of the royalties, moreover, were pay- 


t See Chapter II, Section 8, above. . 

2 See Chapter II, Section 9, above. 3 184 Federal 893. 

4See Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 60 ff. 

s ‘TI cannot conceive that a declaration of the validity of the patent 
would have had any great effect upon the industry, although at the time 
it, of course, seermed of very great importance. I mean by this, if the 
patent had been declared valid, I doubt if there would have been any 
difficulty in getting a license.’ (From a letter to the writer under date of 
February 9, 1924.) 


98 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


able to the Association of Licensed Automobile Manufac- 
turers for trade association purposes, a maximum of $150,000 
annually being all that was payable to the patent-holders. 


6. SALES AND OPERATING POLICIES 

The great spurts in the business of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany during the five years beginning with 1909 were stimu- 
lated by successive reductions in the price of the product, by 
a more aggressive sales policy, and by improvements in 
manufacturing organization. 

The initial price of the ‘Model T’ in 1909 was $950. In 
1910, the price was reduced to $780, and sales jumped from 
19,051 to 34,979 cars. In 1911, the price was reduced to 
$690, and sales nearly doubled, reaching 76,150 vehicles. 
In the following year, with the price cut to $600, sales 
totaled 181,951; and in 1913, with the price reduced to $550, 
sales increased to 264,972 cars. 

Soon after its organization, the Company had established 
branch retail stores in the larger cities. These were now 
eliminated, and the number of independent sales dealers 
was greatly increased. By March 1, 1913, the Company 
had one or more sales agents in every city or town of 1000 
population or more in the United States. Branch sales 
offices were established by the Company in various parts 
of the country to supervise and to stimulate the efforts of 
the dealers. Among the general instructions issued to the 
latter, was the following: ? 

A dealer or salesman ought to have the name of every possible 
automobile buyer in his territory, including all those who have never 
given the matter a thought. He should then personally solicit by 
visitation if possible — by correspondence at the least — every man 
on that list and then making necessary memoranda, know the auto- 


mobile situation as related to every man so solicited. If your terri- 
tory is too large to permit this, you have too much territory. 


* Testimony of Norval A. Hawkins, sales manager of the Company 
in 1913, before the United States Board of Tax Appeals, February 1, 
1927. 

* From Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 60. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 99 


Every dealer was required to maintain a stock of Ford 
parts sufficient to make prompt replacements, and to keep 
every Ford car in his territory in active service; to maintain 
a thoroughly equipped repair shop operated by skilled 
mechanics; a comprehensive bookkeeping system; a ‘follow- 
up’ sales system; and suitable signs, quarters, and publicity.* 
When the seasonal character of the demand for automobiles 
began to create problems of production, warehousing, and 
credit, for the Company, a campaign of ‘education,’ by 
newspaper advertisement and letters, was prosecuted to 
convert both dealers and consumers to the policy of dis- 
tributing purchases throughout the year.? Dealers were re- 
quired to submit orders by months for a year in advance, the 
unfilled orders being subject to cancellation upon a month’s 
written notice; and the strong influence of the Company 
was exerted upon the dealers to anticipate their spring and 
summer requirements by stocking up during the winter 
months. 7 

Improvements in manufacturing organization; as well as 
price reductions and an improved selling organization, con- 
tributed to the great growth of the Company’s business from 
1909 to 1914. In 1906, the original quarters of the Company 
had been deserted for a three-story factory building, the 
construction of which had been financed by funds taken from 
the Company’s working capital. Here, the Company had 
begun to manufacture a few of the parts of its products, and 
to do more of the assembling. In 1909, the Company pur- 
chased sixty acres of land in Highland Park, a suburb of 
Detroit, and constructed one of the largest manufacturing 
plants in the world. ‘To pay for the new lands and buildings, 
I slightly raised prices,’ wrote Mr. Henry Ford in his au- 
tobiography. 

In the new plant, the Company introduced many and 
radical improvements in factory and shop practice, innova- 


*From Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 60. 
2 Ibid., p. 166 ff. 3 Ibid., p. 73. 


100 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


tions which have since been widely copied.t In contrast 
with the prevailing practice in the automobile industry, the 
Company concentrated its already large and growing re- 
sources upon the manufacture of a single model (motor and 
chassis, on which were mounted several types of bodies). 
And, while other producers continued to make large financial 
outlays for annual changes in their numerous models, the 
Ford Motor Company standardized its product (making 
even small changes in design only infrequently), and em- 
ployed its resources for improvements in production tech- 
nique. 

The large volume of its output and its standardized pro- 
duct permitted the employment of the most specialized 
tools, machines, and processes. This specialization it ex- 
tended to its suppliers, most of whom came to make but 
a single component of the product. Whole independent 
organizations were moved to Detroit from other cities to 
take care of Ford orders. The Ford Motor Company pur- 
chased materials for its components-makers, reorganized 
their manufacturing processes, supervised their larger poli- 
cies, and, in some cases, aided them in financing production.? 
The Company became so dependent upon the production 
of its specialized suppliers that its own operations were fre- 
quently within thirty minutes of suspension because of 
tardy deliveries of parts or materials.3 

In its new plant, the Company gradually took over the 
direct production of more of the components. This limited 
integration proceeded slowly, however, for the Company 
needed the resources of its suppliers to sustain the volume of 
its output; and, in contrast with its more recent policy, the 
Company was not then averse to purchasing virtually all of 
its materials and parts from independent producers.4 Never- 


* For a full and technical discussion of the radical innovations in 
factory organization and operation initiated by the Ford Motor Com- 
pany, see Arnold and Faurote, Ford Methods and the Ford Shops. 

* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 


3 Ibid. 4Ford, My Life and Work, p. 52 ff. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 101 


theless, it found the business of parts-manufacture extremely 
profitable. ‘We were very careful to make the parts our- 
selves which wore out the quickest. .. . In the case of frames, 
we did not begin to make them ourselves for some years 
because they lasted so long,’ said Mr. Norval A. Hawkins, 
formerly sales manager of the Company.' Because parts- 
manufacture was so lucrative, and because supervision of 
independent concerns under the purchase system proved 
difficult, the Company gradually extended the range of its 
own manufacturing operations. 

And, whenever the Company took over the manufacture 
of any parts, ‘it always made them cheaper than the former 
makers.’? The Company had special machines and tools 
designed and constructed ‘to do just that one job, whereas 
the outside manufacturer had to consider other products 
with the same machine.’3 Thus, a bolt previously purchased 

from the Western Automatic Screw Machine Company at 
“$50 a thousand was produced directly by the Ford Motor 
Company at a cost of $8.70 a thousand, according to the 
Company’s books, during the first year of its manufacture of 
this bolt; a saving of $582,635 for the year resulted.4 Ana- 
logous savings were effected by the substitution of direct 
manufacture for purchase of transmissions, springs, push- 
rods, and other parts.s 

It is pertinent at this point to note briefly some of the 
operating policies introduced by the Company between 1909 
and 1914 that have been recognized as contributing greatly 
to its manufacturing efficiency.® 


t Testimony of Norval A. Hawkins, before the United States Board of 
Tax Appeals, in Washington, February 1, 1927. 

2 Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070. Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 

3 Ibid. 4 Ibid. 

5’ Ibid. The direct manufacture of push-rods, previously purchased 
from the Michigan Bolt & Nut Works, effected a saving of $153,258 the 
first year that the Company undertook such manufacture; transmissions 
formerly purchased from Dodge Brothers were made directly at a saving 
of from $9 to $10 a car; the direct manufacture of front springs effected 
a saving of $86,171 the first year; etc. 

6 Cf. Arnold and Faurote, The Ford Methods and the Ford Shops. 


102 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


1. The minute subdivision of labor tasks and production 
processes, making possible the wide use of the machine- 
tool and of unskilled labor. Tasks previously requiring 
skilled workmen were broken up into many small operations, 
skill in any one of which could be acquired in a few hours; 
and tools and machines were substituted for virtually all 
hand operations. The importance of this practice is ap- 
preciated when it is recognized that the existence of a large 
class of skilled machinists and wood-workers in various 
localities early influenced the location of automobile fac- 
tories; yet the present scale of the Ford operations would be 
impossible did it depend upon skilled labor.t The specialized 
tool and machine; the subdivision and specialization of 
labor tasks, making possible the efficient use of all grades of 
labor; even the stimulus to invention that results from 
specialization ? — these applications of long-known theoret- 
ical advantages of large-scale production and specialization 
contributed much to the manufacturing efficiency of the 
Ford Motor Company. 

2. The economy of factory space and of working time by 
the use of internal factory trains, monorails, moving belts, 
and the ‘endless chain production line.’ The use of belts 
carrying materials above the floor released floor space. The 
use of trains and monorails throughout the factory for carry- 
ing materials permitted the placing of machines with re- 
ference solely to their use in the progressive assembling of 
the product, and eliminated walking and the carrying of 
materials by the workers. The ‘endless chain production 
line’ eliminated further carrying of materials because it 
permitted the product in process to be carried along from 
worker to worker and from machine to machine by power- 


* ‘Sufficiently skilled men to the number needed could not have been 
trained in a hundred years. A million men working by hand could not 
even approximate our present daily output. No one could manage a 
million men.’ (Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 78.) 

* Hundreds of suggestions emanating from the workmen, most of 
whom are foreign-born, as to changes in machines and as to new devices, 
have been incorporated by the Company. (Jbid., p. 100 ff.) 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 103 


driven chains. The Ford Conveyor System — ‘which is 
responsible for a great part in the success of Ford quantity 
production’ *— has now been adopted by nearly all large 
automobile factories. 

3. The shifting of the final assembling of the product from 
the main manufacturing unit in Highland Park to a large 
number of branch assembling plants distributed throughout 
the United States and in foreign countries. This practice 
greatly facilitated the physical distribution of the enormous 
volume of product; economized factory space in the chief 
producing center; and effected tremendous savings in freight 
costs. 


During this period of rapid growth, the Ford Motor Com- 
pany was virtually free from effective competition in the 
field of low-priced automobiles. Potential competitors did 
appear; thus, the Olds Motor Works produced an automo- 
bile selling at $650 as early as 1900 and for three years there- 
after; and, in 1909, the Hupp Motor Car Corporation pro- 
duced a car selling at $750 as compared with the Ford at 
$950; but in each of these as in other cases the potential com- 
petitor deserted the field for that of higher-priced cars, or 
went out of business. The widespread conception of the 
automobile as a luxury, and the large profits per car in the 
higher-priced field served to divert the Company’s potential 
competitors. In addition, the restraint imposed by the As- 
sociation of Licensed Automobile Manufacturers, operating 
under the Selden patent (which Ford, alone, among the im- 
portant producers, refused to recognize), undoubtedly re- 
tarded the appearance of competitors. Before the influence 
of these factors had greatly diminished, the Ford Motor 
Company had become firmly established, and had already 
begun its policy of distancing potential competitors by pro- 
gressive reductions in the price of its product and by high 
technical efficiency. 

The expansion of the Company during this period ap- 

* Facts from Ford, 4th ed., p. 12, Ford Motor Company. 


10646 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


peared to be conditioned only by the physical limits of pro- 
duction. In addition to the favorable circumstances noted 
in the foregoing, the Company encountered none of the usual 
obstacles in matters of finance. The large profits of the en- 
terprise easily yielded the increasing sums required for fixed 
capital; and, because of the prevailing practices in the auto- 
mobile industry, whereby the Company received payment in 
cash for its product immediately upon delivery, while its 
suppliers of parts and materials extended the customary 
commercial credit of thirty or sixty days, its working capital 
requirements were remarkably small. 

On September 30, 1914, the Ford Motor Company pos- 
sessed aggregate assets of $59,801,836, of which $27,092,713 
consisted of cash, and was subject to total liabilities of only 
$5,926,610. During the year ended on that date it had paid 
out $11,000,000 in special dividends, in addition to the regu- | 
lar quarterly dividends totaling $1,200,000;? it had inau- 
gurated on January 1, of the year, an employees’ ‘profit- 
sharing’ plan providing for a minimum wage of $5 a day for 
adult employees, and entailing an increased annual expendi- 
ture of $10,000,000;3 and in July of that year it had an- 
nounced a ‘buyers’ profit-sharing agreement’ whereby ap- 
proximately $15,000,000 was to be returned to purchasers of 
its cars at the end of the ensuing year if a Company’s sales 
attained a stipulated volume.‘ 


7. THE DODGE ay 


During the same year the Company began plans for a vast 
program of expansion, involving the duplication of its High- 
land Park plant on a large site in River Rouge, Michigan, 
and the construction of blast furnaces, foundries, glass 
factories, and othér plants, with a view toward the integra- 

* Annual report of the Ford Motor Company, 1914, to the Michigan 
Secretary of State. 

* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 204 Mich., 464. 

3 Facts from Ford, p. 53, Ford Motor Company. 


‘ Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 105 


tion under its ownership of many of the industries necessary 
to its final product. In order to accumulate the funds re- 
quired for this program, the Company postponed a reduc- 
tion in the prices of its products during the year 1915-16; 
and, in consequence, its profits that year totaled $59,994,- 
918.* On August I, 1916, the Company announced a reduc- 
tion of $80 in the price of its touring car — from $440 to 
$360 — and proportionate reductions in the prices of its 
other models. The new prices represented a decrease of 
$40,000,000 in anticipated receipts if the volume of produc- 
tion and sales remained the same as in the year preceding.? 
The expectation was, of course, that the volume of output 
and sales would be greatly increased as a result of the lower 
prices. 

This sharp reduction in prices and the large expansion pro- 
jects of the Company, coupled with an announcement by 
Mr. Henry Ford on August 31, 1916, that the bulk of the 
profits of the Ford Motor Company would thenceforth be 
reinvested in the business of the Company, led to the filing 
of a suit by John F. Dodge and Horace E. Dodge, owners of 
ten per cent of its capital stock, to enjoin the Company from 
all further expansion, and to compel the distribution of ac- 
cumulated earnings held in cash and all future earnings.4 

The Dodge brothers had resigned from directorships in 
the Ford Motor Company and had ceased to manufacture 
parts for the Company in 1914, when they had organized a 
separate enterprise of their own for the manufacture of auto- 
mobiles. This company was now operating successfully as 
Dodge Brothers, Inc.; and the demand of the Dodges for 
a distribution of the profits of the Ford Motor Company may 
be supposed to have been motivated by the desire to expand 
their own business and to restrict the expansion of a com- 
petitor. 

The bill of complaint, filed on November 2, 1916, and 


t Ibid. 2 Ibid. 3 Detroit News, August 31, 1916. 
4 Bill of Complaint, Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. 
Ct. Briefs and Records. 


106 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


amended on April 26, 1917, charged the Ford Motor Com- 
pany with violation of the Michigan statute limiting the 
capital stock of a corporation to $25,000,000 (the legislature 
increased this limit to $50,000,000 during the hearing of the 
suit); with ultra-vires expansion projects, such as those for 
blast furnaces and foundries; with reckless price reductions 
and reckless plans for expansion; with domination of the 
Company by Henry Ford; with the sacrifice of the stock- 
holders’ interests for philanthropic purposes; and with an 
intent to monopolize the automobile business. 

The answer of the Ford Motor Company and of Henry 
Ford, James Couzens, and others who were made co-defend- 
ants, admitted the allegations of facts with respect to the 
Company’s profits and expansion projects, but denied all 
the equities in the bill of complaint. The answer cited the 
record of special dividends; referred to the unanimous vote 
of the stockholders on various decisions with respect to the 
Company’s expansion; declared that the extensions were 
made necessary by the inadequacy of the existing equipment 
to satisfy the demand for the Company’s products; as- 
serted that the reductions in the prices of its models were 
only in keeping with its traditional price policies; and de- 
clared that the maintenance of large cash balances was es- 
sential to the safety and well-being of the Company. 

The plaintiffs, on December 9, 1916, procured an injunc- 
tion from the Wayne County Circuit Court (Michigan), 
enjoining the Ford Motor Company from further expendi- 
tures on its expansion program. On appeal to the Supreme 
Court of Michigan the Ford Motor Company was granted 
an alternative order of mandamus against the Circuit Court 
judges, ordering the dissolution of the injunction and the 
substitution of a bond for $10,000,000 to protect the plain- 
tiffs against loss. 

Hearing of the suit began before Judge George S. Hosmer 
of the Circuit Court on May 21, 1917. The chief legal issues 
argued concerned the power of the Company to engage in 
the smelting of ore and other alleged wlira-vires activities, 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY Bey iy 


and the question whether the Michigan statutory limitation 
on the capital stock of a’corporation was synonymous with 
a limitation on the total value of property to be owned by 
a corporation. : 

The judge’s decision, delivered on December 5, 1917, was 
based exclusively on the second issue, and held that the 
statutory limitation on capital stock applied equally to 
property. The continued construction of the Ford blast 
furnaces was therefore enjoined as ‘an excessive investment 
beyond the legal limit,’ and, since the Ford Motor Com- 
pany’s investments already exceeded the legal limit, the 
Court held that the excess should be distributed as requested 
by the plaintiffs. The Court ordered that one-half of the 
earnings of the fiscal year ended July 31, 1916 — $29,500,000 
— less all dividends declared during the pendency of the 
suit, leaving $19,275,385.96, should be distributed as a 
special dividend. 

An appeal from this decision to the Michigan Supreme 
Court was filed on April 9, 1918; and additional briefs and 
testimony were presented. The Supreme Court, in a decision 
delivered on February 9, 1919," held that the statutory limi- 
tation on the capital stock of a corporation could not be con- 
strued as limiting subsequent additions to the property of 
a corporation through reinvestment of profits; and hence the 
decree of the lower court restraining the Ford Motor Com- 
pany from proceeding with its expansion program was re- 
versed. The Court held that the expansion projects of the 
Ford Motor Company were not ultra vires; and to the charge 
that the Company was intent upon a monopoly of the 
automobile manufacturing business, the Court replied: 

Where no monopoly will accrue to a corporation by reinvesting 
its profits in expanding its plant other than such as accrues to a con- 


cern which makes what the public demands, there is no violation of 
any anti-trust laws in such policy of expansion. 


Sustaining the contention of the plaintiffs, however, that 
profits were being retained by the Company for philan- 
* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 204 Mich., 402 ff. 


108 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


thropic uses at the expense of the stockholders, the Supreme 
Court upheld that part of the lower court’s decision which 
directed the payment of a special dividend. Two newspaper 
pronouncements of Mr. Henry Ford, the authenticity of 
which was admitted, and which provided the basis for the 
Court’s decision on this point, are here reproduced: 


My ambition is to employ still more men, to spread the benefits of 
this industrial system to the greatest possible number, to help them 
build up their lives and their homes. To do this we are putting the 
greatest share of our profits back into the business. .. . With regard 
to dividends, the company paid 60 per cent on its capitalization of 
$2,000,000, or $1,200,000, leaving $68,500,000 to reinvest for the 
growth of the company.? 

I have been fighting to hold down our income right along. ... We 
made an enormous profit last year because we needed the money for 
expansion and the benefit will eventually go to the buyer and the 
laborer. We could easily have maintained our prices for this year 
and cleaned up from 60 to 75 millions; but I don’t think it would 
have been right to do so, so we cut our prices and are now clearing 
$1,500,000 to $2,500,000 a month, which is all any firm ought to 
make — maybe more — unless, as I said, the money is to be used for 
expansion.? 


On this point, the Supreme Court declared: 


It is not within the lawful powers of a board of directors to shape 
and conduct the affairs of a corporation for the merely incidental 
benefit of the shareholders and for the primary purpose of benefiting 
others. ... Where a corporation would have a surplus of approxi- 
mately $30,000,000 after paying for approved expansion and im- 
provement of its plant, and could reasonably expect a profit of 
$60,000,000 a year, refusal by the board of directors to distribute 
extra dividends was arbitrary, and the decree of the court below de- 
termining that $19,275,385.96 (one-half of the cash surplus, less 
special dividends declared after the filing of the bill) should be dis- 
tributed as an extra dividend is affirmed. 


The growth of the Ford Motor Company during the five 
years between September 30, 1913, and July 31, 1918, is 


reflected in the summary of the results of its operation 
presented in Table 21. 


The fixed capital investment of the Company was greatly 
* Detroit News, August 31, 1916. 2 Ibid., March 14, 1917. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 109 


increased during this period. On September 30, 1913, the 
value of its real estate, plant and equipment, and inventories 
aggregated $19,853,339; on July 31, 1918, these assets, 


TABLE 21. Output, RECEIPTS, PRorits, AND NET WorTH OF 
Forp Moror Company, 1914-18 * 


RECEIPTS PROFITS NET WorRTH 


rd Fe ee 


SOIR... +++--| 264,972 | $119,489,317 | $24,923,449 | $53,875,226 
RE Guns ete ws 283,161 121,200,871 23,426,662 61,135,771 
IQIG.. ..s0006--) 534,108 206,867,327 57,056,429 | 114,060,908 
IQI7.wseeees 785,433 | 274,575,052 | 26,715,944 | 133,604,907 


708,355 | 308,719,034 | 30,341,057 | 156,268,721 


* Fiscal years ended September 30 for 1914, July 31, for 1915 (10 months), and July 
31 for each of the other years. 
* Sources as in Table 19. 


without inventories, were valued at $66,453,345.: On the lat- 
ter date, the Company possessed $91,471,851 in cash and 
sight drafts. 3 

During 1917 and 1918, a large part of the facilities of the 
Ford plants had been employed for the manufacture of war 
materials; in consequence, commercial production of auto- 
mobiles and trucks had been somewhat curtailed. The war- 
time price movements had likewise interrupted the Com- 
pany’s series of price reductions. The price of its touring car 
in 1913 was $550; in 1914, $490; in 1915, $440; in 1916, 
$360; in 1917, $450; and in 1918, $525. 


8. REORGANIZATION OF THE Forp Motor CoMPANY 


The decision of the Michigan Supreme Court in the Dodge 
‘case was widely construed as greatly strengthening the legal 
position of minority stockholders; and it caused Henry Ford 
to consider relinquishing active participation in the adminis- 
‘tration of the Ford Motor Company and to plan a new 
automobile enterprise in which he should possess entire 
control. Even before the suit had been finally adjudicated, 
Ford had organized a separate corporation, owned entirely 


* Annual reports to the Michigan Secretary of State. 


110 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


by himself, his wife, and his son, for the manufacture of an 
automotive farm tractor which he had designed. On Decem- 
ber 31, 1918, he resigned from the presidency of the Ford 
Motor Company, declaring that he desired to devote his 
time ‘to other organizations,’ and that he wished to be 
‘relieved of all responsibilities and obligations arising from 
holding a salaried office in the Company.’? A short time 
later, wide currency was given to a newspaper interview 
with Henry Ford in which he was reported to have an- 
nounced his intention to build a new and lower-priced 
automobile in a factory of his own.’ Instead of organizing 
this competing enterprise, however, Ford set out to acquire 
the minority stockholdings in the Ford Motor Company; 
and, as they allege, the minority stockholders were coerced 
into selling their stock to the Fords at unduly low prices be- 
cause of the threatened formation of a competing Ford 
company.‘ 

For the purpose of financing the purchase of the minority 
stock, the Fords organized two holding companies, Henry 
Ford & Son, Inc. (New York), and the Eastern Holding 
Company (Delaware). To the first. of these, they trans- 
ferred their stock in the Ford Motor Company (Michigan), 
save for directors’ qualifying shares. The Delaware corpora- 
tion, which had been incorporated on July 9, 1919, to deal 


* Henry Ford & Son, which was incorporated in Michigan in August, 
1917, with a capitalization of $1,000,000. By resolution of February 2, 
1916, the board of directors of the Ford Motor Company had relin- 
quished all claims to the Ford tractor, and had released the right to the 
name ‘Ford’ for the latter, with the proviso that the name ‘Henry’ pre- 
cede ‘Ford’ in the name of the tractor enterprise, and, further, that the 
Ford Motor Company be free to enter upon tractor manufacture upon 
payment of $46,810. (Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. 
Ct. Briefs and Records.) The tractor enterprise was subsequently taken 
over by the Ford Motor Company. 

4 The letter of resignation is quoted in full in the Detroit News of Jan- 
uary 15, 1927. 

3 See stipulations of appellants before the United States Board of Tax 
Appeals, as reported in the Detroit News of January 15, 1927, and at 
various times during the ten weeks following. 

4 Ibid. 


a - 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY It 


in investments, then radically altered its charter six days 
later: its name was changed to the Ford Motor Company, its 
authorized capital stock increased from $100,000 to $100,- 
000,000, and its chartered powers made to include the manu- 
facture of automobiles, aircraft, motors, railroad cars, 
locomotives, and allied products. On July 16, 1919, this 
Company concluded arrangements with a syndicate com- 
posed of Bond & Goodwin, the Chase National Bank, and 
the Old Colony Trust Company, for a $75,000,000 one-year 
credit, the proceeds of which were used for the purchase of 
the minority stock of the Michigan company. The obliga- 
tion of the Delaware corporation was evidenced by ninety- 
day notes with the privilege of three renewals, discounted at 
the prevailing market rate for commercial borrowings.‘ The | 
Ford Motor Company (Delaware) used only $60,000,000 
of the credit, and repaid the entire loan in serial install- 
ments within the one-year period.?, The record of stock- 
holders in the annual report of the Ford Motor Company 
of Michigan for July 31, 1919, reflects the stock-purchase 
transactions: 


Henry Ford & Son, Inc., New York.. 11,697 shares 


Ford Motor Company, Delaware..... 6,100 
AE MIRONG Ss ow inie's Fis. coo eeig'a «be 2,180 
DAC he he FIGUBB SS 5 yu ce og od sone chive 
RUPTIP TIGA S ou Paros eso car's < a's eens ¢ I 
BOELI MOREL a a eis Vay aeiets eae bbe aay ES | 
F, L. Klingensmith...........-e00. Oe AGS 


The remaining minority stock of the Ford Motor Company 
of Michigan was purchased from James Couzens and his 
sister, Mrs. A. P. Hauss, in September, 1919. 

The prices at which these minority interests were sold 


t The first notes were discounted at 5.5 per cent; $50,000,000 was re- 
newed on October 16, 1919, at a discount of 5.25 per cent; $42,500,000 
was renewed at 6 per cent on January 16, 1920; $35,000,000 was re- 
newed at 6 per cent on April 16, 1920; and this balance was retired on 
July 16, 1920. (Cf. announcement of President Edsel Ford, quoted in 
Moody’s Industrials, 1919, p. 2954, and in the Commercial and Financial 
Chronicle, vol. 109, p. 275.) 


2 Ibid. 


112 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


present a striking contrast with those that obtained a few 
years earlier. In 1906, Henry Ford had brought his holdings 
up to fifty-one per cent of the Company’s stock by pur- 
chasing for $175,000 the 25.5 per cent interest held by his 
original supporter, Alexander Y. Malcomson, Ford paying 
for the stock partly in promissory notes and partly in bor- 
rowed funds.' In 1907, four other stockholders sold out to 
Ford and Couzens at $500 a share.? In 1908, a stock di- 
vidend multiplied each share by twenty. In 1919, Henry 
and Edsel Ford purchased the minority holdings of these 
shares at $12,500 and $13,444.43 a share, the latter price 
going only to Couzens and his sister.3 The Dodge brothers 
thus received $25,000,000 in cash for their original subscrip- 
tion of $10,000 par value of stock, after having drawn div- 
idends totaling $9,871,500 (cash); the Gray Estate received 
$26,250,000 for its holdings, after having received cash div- 
idends aggregating $10,355,075; John W. Anderson and 
Horace H. Rackham each received $12,500,000 for their 
original investments of $5000, after each had received $4,- 
935,750 in dividends; and Senator Couzens obtained $29,- 
308,858 and his sister, $260,000, for a joint investment of 
$2000, augmented by later stock purchases made possible 
by their dividends.‘ 

When the Ford Motor Company of Delaware had com- 
pleted its purchases of the minority interests in the Michigan 
corporation, it proceeded to take over the assets and busi- 
ness of the latter and of those of Henry Ford & Son, Inc. 
(New York), and Henry Ford & Son, Inc. (Michigan). 
The three latter corporations were then dissolved. In its 
annual report to the Michigan Secretary of State on De- 
cember 31, 1920, the Ford Motor Company of Delaware, 
now the operating company, gave the list of stockholders 
as follows: 


* Benson, op. ctt., p. 105. * Ibid., pp. 114, 126. 

’ See stipulations of appellants before United States Board of Tax 
Appeals, January, 1927. 
_ 4 Benson, op. cit., p. 121 ff. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 113 


RIMCUEM OMNES CaN ISA a bat ah gs dikes 95,321 shares 
EN ep PEERS aR age efi 71,91! 
SRNIE EON Sn cease a sades fates et 5,413 


———— 


172,645 shares 
Total authorized: 1,000,000 shares, par value $100 a share 


In the consolidation of the Ford interests into a family 
corporation, no attempt was made to purchase the mi- 
nority stock ownership in the Ford Motor Company of 
Canada, Ltd., or in other of the associated Ford companies 
incorporated in foreign countries. The American company 
controls these by means of working agreements and by 
means of stock ownership held in the names of the American 
company’s stockholders; and it aids in financing them by 
deferring claims for parts and materials supplied them.! 
The Canadian company, the largest of the associated Ford 
companies, had a net worth on July 31, 1926, of $35,552,- 
579, all of which, except for the original investment of $125,- 
000 (half of which was contributed by the American com- 
pany in the form of franchise rights) had been built up by the 
reinvestment of profits.? The officers of the Canadian com- 
pany include (1927) Henry Ford, president, and Edsel B. 
Ford, vice-president. The stock of the Company is listed 
on the Detroit Stock Exchange and occasionally enjoys an 
active market. 

The elimination of the minority stockholders in the Ford 

* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 


Records. 


2 Annual reports of Ford Motor Company of Canada, Ltd. The Cana- 
dian company follows the same operating methods, with respect to 
production, branch assembling, and sales as the American company, 
The original capitalization was increased from $125,000 to $1,000,000 in 
191I, and to $10,000,000 authorized capital stock in 1915, of which 
$7,000,000 has been issued — all but the original $125,000, in the form 
of stock dividends. Cash dividends have been paid as follows: 1905, 6 
per cent; 1908, 10 per cent; 1909, 25 per cent; I910, 100 per cent; IQII, 
100 per cent (and 500 per cent stock); 1912, 20 per cent (and 33% per 
cent stock); 1914, 10 per cent; I9I5, I10 per cent; 1916, 600 per cent 
stock; 1917, 5 per cent; 1918, 5 per cent; I919, 35 per cent; 1920, I5 per 
cent; I192I, 30 per cent; 1922, 30 per cent; 1923, IO per cent; 1924, Io 
per cent; 1925, 20 per cent; 1926, 10 per cent. 


114. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


organization was followed by a vigorous renewal of the 
policy of expansion. The blast furnaces, foundries, paper 
and glass factories, and other plants constructed on the 
River Rouge site were rapidly put into full operation, and 
the Company began to acquire holdings of timber and ore 
lands, coal mines, water-power sites, and other primary 
sources of power and materials. Its investment in real estate, 
plant, machinery and equipment, in 1918 was $66,453,345; 
in 1919 (July 31), $79,188,320; and on April 30, 1920, $127,- 
210,862. During the calendar year of 1919, the Company’s 
net profits total $69,924,411;? and during the calendar year 
1920, the production of cars and trucks (a light commercial 
truck had been added to the Company’s line of products 
early in 1918) broke all previous records, totaling 1,074,336.5 
An output of 1,250,000 cars and trucks was planned for the 
year 1921. 


9. THE CRISIS OF 1920-21 


But it was during this year that the Ford Motor Company 
was faced with the greatest, and, so far as the records dis- 
close, the only, financial crisis in its history. 

The post-war boom in general business had shown signs 
of imminent collapse early in 1920, and, as summer came, 
the automobile business experienced a marked slackening 
in sales. The business of the Ford Motor Company slumped 
with that of others. On September 21, 1920, President Edsel 
B. Ford announced a reduction in the prices of the Ford 
products, that of the touring car being cut from $575 to 
$440, and other models being similarly reduced. The new 
prices meant a loss on the immediate orders of the Com- 
pany, according to the announcement, because of the large 
volume of inventories purchased at the high prices pre- 
viously prevailing; but the reductions were made to stimu- 


* Reports of Ford Motor Company; balance sheets reproduced in 
Moody’s Industrials. 


* Benson, The New Henry Ford, p. 144. 
§ Facts from Ford, p. 29, issued by the Ford Motor Company. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 115 


late sales. A short spurt in the business of the Company fol- 
lowed the price cuts, but sales soon fell off again. 

In view of the period of liquidation in general business 
which was then setting in throughout the country, the 
vulnerable financial position of the Ford Motor Company 
at this time may be seen from a survey of its balance sheet 
of December 31, 1920:? 


ASSETS LIABILITIES 
PU OMBUP  A bs cree oe cong $50,861,001 Capital stock... 5 y o6s vi weal $17,264,500 
Other tangible goods...... 124,350,295 Liability on unsecured 
EER orl eee a ate bw ere ainate 13,557,245 indebtedness........ceee 143,025,301 
OL Og! ae nea 21,262,833 SUIPIUS 7 oi siecs ate eresieteeiste 124,265,141 
RURUTIEN sihiva hos oh c aiv clale eis. 6 54,438,634 
U.S. Bonds 
Stock in subsidiaries 
Prepaid expenses 20,084,934 
Investments in other 
companies 
$284,554,942 $284,554,942 


In spite of the new insertion of a good-will item of $21,- 
262,833 in the list of assets, the net worth of the Company 
as exhibited by the balance sheet above showed a decrease 
of more than $60,000,000 as compared with the net worth 
on July 31, 1919. Liability on unsecured indebtedness had 
increased from $96,271,959 to $143,025,301; credits had 
decreased from $96,182,704 to $54,438,634; cash had de- 
creased from $59,829,279 to $13,557,245; and tangible goods 
other than real estate had increased from $88,506,436 to 
$124,350,295. 

In this situation, the Company took radical steps, open 
only to a concern of its size, to force down the prices of raw 
materials and of manufactured parts, and thus to permit it 
to stimulate its sales by further price reductions. Cognizant 
of the effect of its action on many firms of which it was the 
sole or chief customer, the Company suddenly ceased pur- 
chases of raw materials and parts; and, while maintaining 
its production at highest pitch, it made preparations for 
a sudden shut-down of the great Highland Park plant so 
soon as the accumulated inventories of materials had been 


t Annual report to the Michigan Secretary of State. 


116 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


turned into finished products. In justifying the action of 
his Company, Henry Ford is quoted as having said:* 


I knew something drastic had to be done, and was determined to 
do it. When the war ended, the excuse for war prices ended, but 
those who sold us raw materials did not seem to know it. 


Late in December, 1920, after its inventories had been 
made up into finished parts and shipped to its thirty-five 
branch assembling units throughout the country, the Com- 
pany suspended operations at its Highland Park plant — 
first, for two weeks, and then, ‘indefinitely.’ 

During January, all the assembled cars were shipped from 
the Company’s branches to the more than 10,000 Ford 
dealers, draft bills of lading attached. About 125,000 cars 
were thus marketed, and much of the burden of emergency 
financing was thus shifted to the dealers, who were re- 
quested to take up the cars under their annual quota-ar- 
rangement with the Company. At the same time, foreign 
agents were called upon to remit $3,000,000 on outstanding 
accounts; $3,700,000 was realized from the sale of by- 
products of the Ford operations; and $7,900,000 from the 
sale of Liberty bonds.? After six weeks of shutdown, the 
Highland Park plant was reopened for operation. 

Striking economies were now effected in the productive 
operations. The office force was cut in half; all order blanks 
and statistical forms that did not aid directly in production 
were abolished; sixty per cent of the-telephone extensions 
were removed; the number of foremen was cut to one-fourth 
of the previous number (one foreman being now employed 
for every twenty men instead of one for every five men); 
the number of employees per car per day was reduced from 
fifteen to nines ‘We cut the overhead charge from $146 
to $93 a car, and when you realize what this means on more 

* Benson, The New Henry Ford, p. 184. 


* Henry Ford, My Life and Work, p. 173 ff.; seealso, Dow, Jones & 
Co., Buoted in the Literary Digest, September 30, 1922; Benson, op. cit., 
p. 187 ff. ' 


3 Ibid. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 117 


than four thousand cars a day you will have an idea how... 
it is possible to make an impossible price,’ wrote Mr. Henry 
Ford, in discussing these changes, in his autobiography.* 
Continuing, he declared: 


Most important of all, we found out how to use less money in our 
business by speeding up the turnover. And in increasing the turn- 
over rate, one of the most important factors was the Detroit, Toledo, 
& Ironton Railroad — which we purchased. ... We discovered... 
that freight service could be improved sufficiently to reduce the cycle 
of manufacture from twenty-two to fourteen days. That is, raw 
material could be bought, manufactured and the finished product 
put into the hands of the distributor in (roughly) 33 per cent less time 
than before. We had been carrying an inventory of around $60,000,- 
000 to insure uninterrupted production. Cutting down the time one- 
third released $20,000,000. .. . Counting the finished inventory, we 
saved approximately $8,000,000 more — that is, we were able to re- 
lease $28,000,000 in capital....Qn January 1 (1921), we had 
$20,000,000. On April 1, we had $87,300,000, or $27,300,000 more 
than we needed to wipe out all our indebtedness.? 


The success of the Ford Motor Company in extricating 
itself from financial embarrassment without the customary 
expedients of long- or short-term borrowing provoked wide- 
spread comment. While operating economies played a large 
role in this success, an equally important one was that in- 
volved in the shifting of the burden of credit to the Com- 
pany’s sales dealers and suppliers. When other firms were 
facing acute embarrassment by reason of the sudden cancel- 


t Page 173. 

2 Control of the Detroit, Toledo & Ironton Railroad was acquired by 
Henry Ford on July 9, 1920, by the purchase of approximately 97 per 
cent of the outstanding securities of the road, according to an announce- 
ment by Fosburgh, Pratt & Osborn, of New York, who negotiated the 
sale. (Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 111, p. 294.) The 
total price was approximately $5,000,000 and was paid at the rate of 
$600 per $1000 bond; $5 per share of preferred stock; and $1 per share of 
common stock. The road was acquired ‘because its right of way inter- 
fered with some of our improvements on the River Rouge. We did not 
buy it as an investment, or as an adjunct to our industries, or because of 
its strategic position.... We bought the railway because it interfered 
with our plans. Then we had to do something with it.’ (Henry Ford, My 
Life and Work, p. 224.) | 


118 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


lation of orders by their customers, the Ford Motor Com- 
pany prevailed upon its dealers to accept shipments (sight 
drafts attached) in advance of orders; and, at the same time, 
persuaded its suppliers of parts and materials to extend 
credit. The power of the Company to employ such expe- 
dients in a period of acute distress in general business can be 
explained only by the extraordinary profitableness to its 
dealers and suppliers of their relations with the Ford 
enterprise. 


IO. RECOVERY AND INTEGRATION 


The Ford Motor Company emerged from its embarrass- 
ment with a greatly improved manufacturing organization 
and in a liquid financial condition. In the six months be- 
tween December 31, 1920, and June 30, 1921, its cash and 
bank balances rose from $13,557,245 to $54,844,538; its 
current liabilities (including reserves and accruals) declined 
from $143,025,301 to $89,417,027.2 The fruits of its new 
manufacturing economies were strikingly displayed in the 
years immediately following. The price of the Ford touring 
car was reduced from $440 to $355 in 1921; the Company’s 
net profits in this year of depression totaled $75,890,836.3 
In 1922, the Company’s net worth increased by more than 
$133,000,000; 4 and in 1923, with the price of its touring car 
reduced to $295, the Company’s output and sales exceeded 
2,000,000 vehicles — the largest volume it has yet achieved. 


* Dow, Jones & Co., quoted in the Literary Digest of September 30, 
1922, summarize the expedients employed by the Ford Motor Company 
during the crisis and depression of 1920-21 in substantial agreement with 
the account given in Henry Ford’s autobiography. 

Annual reports to the Michigan Secretary of State. 

3 Benson, op. cit., p. 144. The contrast between the large profits of the 
Ford Motor Company and the large deficits of other important enter- 
prises in 1921 is somewhat mitigated, however, by the fact that the Ford 
Company readjusted its valuation accounts in conformity with the 
changed business situation in 1920, whereas most others waited until 
1921. 

4 See annual reports to Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations 
and Michigan Secretary of State. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 119 


The operations of the Company for the years 1919-23, in- 
clusive, in so far as they are reflected by figures of output, 
receipts, profits, and net worth, are summarized below. 


TABLE 22. OUTPUT, RECEIPTS, PROFITS, AND NET WorRTH OF 
Forp Motor CoMPANY, 1919-23, INCLUSIVE 


YEAR OvuTPUT?| RECEIPTS ® PROFITS ¢ NET WortTH 4 
TUNED sss s< tie 537,452 $305,637,115 | $60,924,411 | $202,135,296 (July 31) 
401,982 
1920. .seeeneseeesss| 1,074,330 | 429,866,663 | 53,448,480 | 141,529,641 (Dec. 31) 


483,896,483 
IO2L..eeseseeceees| 1,013,058 | 546,049,450 | 75,890,836] 173,951,173 (June 30) 


IQ22.cccesseccesess| 1,351,333 | 608,341,082 | 133,248,623 | 307,199,796 (June 30) 
359,962,693 (Dec. 31) 


POTS ies ces Date ate S.vnk 2,090,959 | 858,863,758 | 99,342,888 | 459,305,581 (Dec. 31) 


* From The Ford Industries, p. 11, published by the Ford Motor Company. Upper 
figure for 1919 represents output for the 12 months ended July 31, 1919; lower figure, 
for the five months ended December 31, 1919; remaining figures are for calendar years. 

> Figure for 1919 is for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1919; upper figure for 1920 is 
for the nine months ended April 30, 1920, and lower figure, for the eight months ended 
December 31, 1920; the remaining figures are for calendar years. Figures for the 
years I919, 1920, and 1921 were taken from Benson, loc. cit., who obtained them from 
' the books of the Company; those for 1922 and 1923 were obtained from Moody's 
Industrials, 1926, p. 2499, and do not include interest on bank balances or bond in- 
vestments, rents on buildings, etc. | 

¢ Figures are for the calendar years; those for 1919, 1920, and 1921 were obtained 
from Benson, loc. cit.; those for 1922 and 1923 represent the differences in the Com- 
pany’s surplus account as shown in its annual reports to the Michigan Secretary of 
State and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations, and, therefore, do not 
reflect profits distributed in dividends. They may, on the other hand, reflect changes 
in valuation practices. 

4 From the annual reports of the Company to the Michigan Secretary of State and 
the Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations, 


Looking forward to the future with undiminished con- 
fidence, the Company made great strides in its policy of 
industrial integration and in further expanding its produc- 
tive capacity. On February 4, 1922, at a receiver’s sale, it 
paid $8,000,000 for the plants and other assets of the Lincoln 
Motor Company, producer of high-priced automobiles; in 
December, the Michigan Land & Lumber Company, a sub- 
sidiary, purchased 30,000 acres of timber property, including 
sawmill and logging railroad; in February, 1923, the Com- 
pany acquired the Allegheny Plate Glass Company, of 
Glassmere, Pennsylvania; in the same month, the Fordson 
Coal Company was incorporated in Delaware with a capital 
stock of $15,000,000 to take over coal properties in West. 


120 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Virginia and Kentucky; in June, the Company obtained per- 
mission from the Federal Power Commission to develop 
electric power at the high dam between St. Paul and Min- 
neapolis, for a new $10,000,000 manufacturing unit; in 
September, 400,000 acres were added to the holdings of its 
timber-owning subsidiary; in October, the factories of the 
Johannson Gauge Company, of Sweden and of Poughkeepsie, 
New York, were purchased; etc.? In 1924, 1925, and 1926, 
large additions were made to the blast furnaces, rolling 
mills, and other units of its River Rouge plants; new as- 
sembling factories were opened in Dallas, Texas; Somerville, 
Massachusetts; Copenhagen, Denmark; Plozensee, Ger- 
many; Yokohama, Japan; and in several other places. Im- 
portant additions were made to a number of foreign and 
domestic manufacturing branches; tire, battery, and textile 
manufacture were introduced into the Company’s Highland 
Park plant; and, among various other things, the Company 
began manufacture of airplanes, through the Stout Metal 
Airplane Company, a subsidiary.’ 


11. THE NEw Forp CAR 


Its vast program of expansion was not accompanied, how- 
ever, by a corresponding growth in output and sales. In 
each of the three years after 1923, declines rather than gains 
in output were recorded: 

Cs, eee 2,090,959 1925....6+++ 1,990,995 

OS4s st Gives 1,993,419 1996. se cows 1,447,915 
In 1924 and 1925, the Company introduced a number of 
changes in its models: the body-lines were redesigned for 
greater grace; the traditional black finish gave way to lac- 
quer paints in red, green, and gray; a few internal improve- 
ments were made; and new accessories were added. These 

* Standard Statistics Company, Inc., Miscellaneous Companies, 1923 
to 1927. 

* Ibid. | 
3 Figures for 1923, from The Ford Industries, published by the Com- 
pany; the others, from Moody's Manual of Industrials, 1927. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 121 


small innovations, tardily incorporating only a few of the 
refinements previously introduced by most other manu- 
facturers, were made only with great difficulty, expense, and 
delay; and they did not suffice to regain for the Company its 
lost momentum of ever-growing sales. As demand continued 
to remain stationary or to decline, the Company adopted the 
five-day week for the bulk of its employees, in order to 
maintain the size of its working force against an expected 
renewal of growth;' a little later, most of its factory workers 
were given only four, three, or even two days of employment 
per week. Hourly and daily wage-rates were raised some- 
what to compensate the workers for diminished employment, 
but most of such wage increases were conditioned by, and 
proportioned to, increased productivity per worker.? The 
sales of other producers, on the other hand, continued to 
expand: in 1925 and in 1926, new high records of output were 
made by the American automobile industry. 

The enormous material and technical resources of the 
Ford Motor Company had, perhaps, too long been directed 
at the single task of augmenting and perfecting its manu- 
facturing organization. Too little attention had been paid 
to the changing character of the automobile market in 
recent years. During the long period when the bulk of 
automobile demand had come from first-time purchasers, 
the combination of cheapness, reliability, and practical 
utility had given the Ford car an unrivaled supremacy; now, 
a more discriminating market demanded that these elements 
be supplemented by minor technical refinements, and by 
various concessions in matters of color, fittings, body-design, 
accessories, etc. Extensive new construction and improve- 
ment of roads had greatly increased the pleasure use of the 
automobile; the relative importance of speed had grown. 

t Henry Ford, in various published interviews, explained the five-day 
week as a measure designed to promote efficiency and to give workmen 
greater leisure. 

2 See announcement of the Company, November 13, 1926, paraphrased 


by the Standard Statistics Company, Inc., in the latter’s Miscellaneous 
Companies, 1927. 


122 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


In a ‘pleasure car,’ moreover, elements of ‘style’ are mat- 
ters of great marketing importance. The products of other 
manufacturers, less secure in their ‘price-classes,’ had un- 
dergone progressive and conspicuous refinement, and much 
effort had been made to enhance their marketing appeal 
by external embellishment of various kinds. The Ford 
Motor Company had lagged conspicuously behind other 
producers in accommodating its product to the changing 
tastes of the public. Its essential philosophy of manufac- 
ture, to which all its vast resources had long been devoted, 
and to which it owed much of its remarkable success, 
rested securely upon the quantity production of a stand- 
ardized, substantially unchanging, automobile. Only in 
the technique of production did its massive, centralized 
organization exhibit ready flexibility and elasticity. 

Even in the field of price-competition, moreover, the Com- 
pany was losing some of the pronounced advantage that it 
had long enjoyed. A number of other important producers 
had introduced attractive automobiles retailing at various 
prices ranging downward from $1000 to little more than 
$500, and these cars had found an expanding market. The 
unit sales of three of such low-priced vehicles (one of which, 
the Chevrolet, retails for very little more than the Ford car) 
in the five years ended in 1926 were as follows:* 


YEAR CHEVROLET DopcE Essex 
1934s veseawnes ues 243,322 164,037 34,962 
IQAR ook bemeant ae 480,126 179,505 41,999 
194 chs a te Vie cens 314,733 225,641 72,702 
WGAR Welk cae testers 512,309 259,967 154,536 
EQIG i aint ain bo ee 732,145 331,764 167,716 


The competitive advantage of the lower prices of the Ford 
models was diminished also by the great development of the 
installment-payment practice. The initial cash payment 
required for the purchase of other cars became relatively 

* Figures as published by the Companies; those of the Essex are for 
fiscal years ended November 30, except that the figure for 1926 is for the 


thirteen months ended December 31; figures for the others are for 
calendar years. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 123 


little more than that required for the Ford; and the small 
differences between the operating costs of the lowest- and 
those of somewhat higher-priced automobiles further re- 
dounded to the advantage of other producers. 

Tardily appreciative of considerations such as these, the 
Ford Motor Company, in the latter part of 1926, finally de- 
cided to discontinue the production of its famous ‘Model 
T,’ and to replace it with a brand new Ford car designed 
to possess the speed, beauty, and appointments that have 
latterly become important to automobile purchasers. 

The new car, according to President Edsel B. Ford, will 
be produced ‘in greater quantities than ever before.’! If this 
expectation is to be realized, however, it may be ventured, 
the Company must be prepared to change its models with 
far greater frequency than in the past. The ‘style’ element 
in motor cars appears to be increasing rather than diminish- 
ing in importance; and the competition of other producers, 
no longer merely potential even so far as price is concerned, 
promises to grow. The domestic automobile market, at 
least, is rapidly approaching stabilization; and in a market 
dominated by the replacement demand, a standardized ve- 
hicle, however attractive, which is produced in enormous 
quantities, must encounter great marketing difficulties.? 
Grave technical obstacles, moreover, confront an attempt 
to introduce frequent changes in a uniform product that is 
produced in quantities of 2,000,000 or more a year. The 
relatively slight changes in the Ford models in 1924 and 
1925 occasioned much difficulty and delay; and the vast 
Ford plants were nearly at a standstill throughout the 
greater part of 1927, pending completion of the design of the 


« Cf. various newspaper announcements; among others, those quoted 
in the New York Times of May 26, 1927, and the Detroit Free Press of 
June 1, 1927. 

2 Since this was written, the new Ford car has appeared, embodying 
numerous refinements in construction, appearance, and equipment. 
Making further concessions to the new character of the automobile mar- 
ket, the Company is offering each of the six body styles in four different 
color schemes. 


124 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


new car and factory readjustments for its production. A 
considerable degree of inelasticity appears to be an inexor- 
able penalty of great and highly centralized organization.* 

A realization of the impending stabilization of the auto- 
mobile market may have been partly responsible for the 
program of industrial integration carried on by the Ford 
Motor Company: such integration, alone, perhaps, could 
provide adequate outlet for its enormous resources. And it 
is easily possible that, in the near future, the Company will 
find that a single standardized automobile will no longer 
suffice to absorb its productive facilities: like the General 
Motors, Studebaker, Nash, Dodge, Willys-Overland, Reo, 
Hudson, and other producers, it may yet be forced by mar- 
keting considerations to introduce a wide variety of auto- 
mobile products.? 


12. SUMMARY OF THE FINANCING OF THE ForpD Motor 
COMPANY 


The foregoing account of the corporate history of the 
Ford Motor Company has necessarily reflected the Com- 
pany’s financial history and financial policies; hence, little 
more than a summary and analysis of these aspects remains 
to be presented. 

The Ford Motor Company has always been a close corpo- 
ration, and its policies, operating and financial, have con- 
spicuously reflected the desires and judgments of its founder, 
Henry Ford, and, toa lesser degree, those of James Couzens.3 
On the operating side, this has been responsible for the Com- 
pany’s specialization in the field of low-priced vehicles, pro- 

t The producing units of the General Motors Corporation, it may be 


noted, possess separate plants and technical staffs, and possess a large 
measure of autonomous control over their operations. 

2 The Lincoln enterprise, though not acquired specifically for this pur- 
pose, may be regarded as a step in this direction. 

3 Horace Rackham, one of the original Ford stockholders, and a co- 
defendant in the Dodge suit, declared in a deposition, ‘This defendant 
states that the policy of the Ford Motor Company during its entire 
history has been suggested and directed by Henry Ford and James 
Couzens, up to the resignation of said Couzens’ (1919). 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 125 


duced in a standardized pattern and in tremendous quan- 
tities; and, on the financial side, it has caused the policies of 
the Company to reflect its founder’s repugnance to all kinds 
of direct borrowing.? Partly in consequence of this attitude 
toward borrowing, partly because of factors common to the 
automobile industry as a whole, and partly asa result of the 
extraordinary profitableness of the Company’s operations, 
the Ford Motor Company presents the striking case of a 
great and far-flung business enterprise that has consist- 
ently financed its operations and growth out of its own earn- 
ings, without resort to long- or short-term borrowing. 

Turning first to the provision of fixed capital, we may 
repeat, what has several times been observed in the fore- 
- going, that at the outset of the Company’s history no great 
amount of capital was necessary to engage in the automo- 
bile manufacturing business. The automobile was a product 
_of several thousand parts, each of which could be and was 
manufactured by a host of metal-working and wood-working 
shops. The assembling of the automobile was a relatively 
simple process requiring no elaborate machinery and no 
special plant, and virtually all of the assembling, also, could 
be and was completed by independent shops working under 
contracts made in advance. The bulk of the fixed capital 
required for the manufacture of the automobile could be 
obtained by diverting to this employment plant and ma- 
chinery already in existence and owned by numerous con- 
cerns engaged in the business of making wood and metal 
products. 

Thus the Ford Motor Company at its beginning was faced 
by no large problems of fixed capital. It rented small 
quarters in the rear of a carpenter’s shop, and ordered from 
others the manufacture of the parts and most of the assemb- 
ling of its product. Three years elapsed before the Company 
found it necessary to move to a new plant. Then it con- 


« ‘Mr. Ford’s policy was to keep the company in such condition that 
it would never be necessary to borrow any money whatsoever.’ (Rack- 
ham, tbid.) 


126 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


structed a three-story building and devoted it almost en- 
tirely to assembling operations. On October 1, 1905, the 
Company valued its total machinery and equipment at 
$28,671; and two years later, on September 30, 1907, when 
its net worth had increased to $1,038,822, its real estate 
employed in the business was valued at $21,733, and its 
buildings, machinery and equipment at $238,778. 

The fixed investment of the Company expanded rapidly 
in the years following, but this expansion was financed 
solely by the reinvestment of profits. The unusual notion 
that investments made by the stockholders through the 
corporate reinvestment of profits differed radically from in- 
vestments made with borrowed money, in that the former 
did not subject the business to a continuing charge whereas 
the latter did, is thus expressed by Henry Ford in discussing 
the purchase of the Highland Park site and the construction 
of the new plants:! 


In order to pay for the new land and buildings, I slightly raised 
prices. I did exactly the same thing a few years ago — or rather, in 
that case I did not lower the prices as is my annual custom — in 
order to build the River Rouge plant. The extra money might in 
each case have been had by borrowing, but then we should have had 
a continuing charge upon the business and all subsequent cars would 
have had to bear this charge. 


The confidence with which the Ford Motor Company faced 
the project of expending approximately $40,000,000 for new 
plants and equipment at River Rouge, Michigan, was re- 
flected in the testimony of C. Harold Wills, then its chief 
engineer, who, when the wisdom of the expenditures was 
called into question in the Dodge suit, declared that the 
economies resulting from the new plant would be sufficient 
to pay for the entire cost of construction in little more than 
one year. In the mean time, the cost was to be defrayed 
from profits retained in the form of cash. 

The remarkable liquidity of the operations of the Ford 
Motor Company throughout its history may be seen from 

* Ford, My Life and Work, pp. 73-74. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 127° 


Tables 23 and 24. Table 23 presents the net worth of the 
Ford Motor Company at the beginning of each fiscal year; 
its receipts from sales during the year; and its profits for 
the year. Table 24 shows the ratio of receipts to net worth 
and the ratio of profits to net worth for each year. 

Two facts which bear directly upon the financing of 
the Company are strikingly reflected by these tables. In 
the first place, the high ratios of receipts to net worth 
during the earlier years of the Company’s existence reveal 
the fact that the amount of invested capital required was 
relatively small as compared with the volume of business. 
Measuring the turnover of its invested capital by the ratio 
of receipts to net worth, we find that the average turnover 
of the net invested capital of the Company during the first 
ten years of its history was eight times a year.? In the second 
place, the annual profits of the Company were more than 


adequate to finance its. great expansion directly out of earn- 


ings. The absolute size of these profits is shown in Table 
23, and their potency when reinvested in the business should 
be considered in the light of the rapid turnover of the Com- 
pany’s capital. Solely through such reinvestment of earn- 
ings, the Company’s net worth rose from a nominal $100,000 
to nearly $17,000,000 during its first ten years of operations. 
During this period, moreover, greater sums were disbursed 
to its stockholders than were reinvested in the business. The 
dividend record of the Ford Motor Company, so far as the 
data are available, is presented in Table 25. 

The working-capital requirements of the Ford Motor 
Company were minimized by factors common, as we have 
observed, to all American automobile producers. The great 
demand for automobiles and the large profits available for 
sales agents, in the early years of‘the industry and of the 
Ford enterprise, enabled the producers to exact substantial 


t It is recognized, on the other hand, that ratios of profits and of sales 
based upon the amount of net invested capital held at the beginning of 
each year overstate the facts to the extent that invested capital is in- 
creased during the year; like other similar tables, those just presented 
are somewhat inaccurate on this ground. 


128 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 23. RECEIPTS, PROFITS, AND NET WoRTH OF FoRD 
Motor ComMPANny, 1903-26 * 


YEAR? RECEIPTS PROFITS Net WortTH 

SOOE Ses 25 Sabah aeee $1,336,800 $283,037 $100,000 (June 16, 1903) 
008) Fs 5, bose Le 1,914,903 290,194 220,758 (Oct. 1, ain 
SO0Gsckewaudn tins 1,491,626 102,398 231,807 (Oct. 1, 1905 
TOUTS ob ass ni dtala dune 5,773,851 1,124,675 297,867 (Oct. I, 1906) 
W608 i's ba dake soe wuue 4,701,298 1,150,983 1,038,822 (Oct. 1, 1907) 
SOON ls s duxdwcua sae ae 9,041,291 3,125,876 * 2,028,553 (Oct. 1, a 
TIO co da codea dd via eee 4,521,510 2,101,723 (Oct. 1, 1909 
ent Pee Uncebat vaeae eee 6,275,031 4,408,061 (Oct. I, 1910 
SOUB ue eas acxas eats 42,477,077 13,057,312 9,956,535 (Oct. I, 1911 
FOUR. co.uk Fas cneccave ld eo tones 25,046,767 16,867,366 (Oct. I, 1912 
1984. ts aciane eee G at 110, 4eO ALT 30,338,455 30,259,214 (Oct. 1, 1913) 
TOEC COC eran enees 121,200,871 24,641,423 53,875,226 (Oct. I, 1914 
ROIGs secu Hace ces + odes RaQ UT ase 59,994,918 61,135,771 (Aug. I, 1915 
TOETs Sule was cue ba cas Chie 4-91 5s0ns 26,715,044 114,060,908 (Aug. 1, 1916 
TOG. shade cece ao ee tee os 30,314,057 133,604,907 (Aug. I, I917 
POG sh cckcds asks ccsast mais (a) 156,288,721 (Aug. I, 1918) 
TOI 4.50. has ue pases 460,773,302 60,323,345 7 | 156,288,721 (Aug. 1, 1918) 
102045355. Su sista kine oe 644,830,550 50,007,386 4 | 202,135,296 (Aug. I, 1919 
$O2E ita cue Pr RAs 532,030,257 64,804,262 / | 141,529,641 (Dec. 31, 1920 
OAS de ate ole es x ~...| 608,341,082 115,797,361 4 | 173,951,173 (June 30, 1921 
TOSS CS wcdecacnwewbent SD 005 758 93,030,282 4 | 359,962,693 (Dec. 31, 1922) 
ro) kp i sci t ORN eeeeee}| 750,905,928 9 | 115,105,416 4 | 459,305,581 (Dec. 31, ayaa 
SOREL ie daus.k 5 ee ae (b) 94,560,396 * | 559,740,997 (Dec. 31, 1924 
10967 Bt Vey URE We (b) 75,270,895 * | 639,631,303 (Dec. 31, est 
tir 7 PPR ete a ee eee (b) (b) 714,902,288 (Dec. 31, 1926 


(a) Profit figure for fiscal year ended July 31, 1919, unavailable; profits for the five 
months ended December 31, 1919, totaled $10,371,690. (Benson.) 

(b) Unavailable. 

@ Fiscal years: ended September 30, from 1904 to 1914, inclusive; July 31, from 191g 
to 1919 (upper line), inclusive; calendar years thereafter. 

> For the 1544 months from date of incorporation to September 30, 1904. 

¢ For the 10 months ended July 31, 1915. 

4 Full calendar year of 1919; upper 1919 figure for fiscal year ended July 31, 1919. 

* Profits for the calendar year 1909. 

/ Exclusive of interest from bonds and bank balances, rents, etc. (and after federal 
taxes). 

2 Up to November 12, 1924. 

+ Represents gain in surplus account, plus estimated dividends of $14,670,000. 

*‘ Represents gain in surplus account without addition for possible dividends. 

* Sources: Figures for receipts up to and including fiscal year 1919, from Benson, op. 
cit., p. 138 (obtained by him from the Company’s books); subsequent receipt figures are 
those certified to by Herbert L. Lester, chief auditor of the Company, in chancery court, 
and reproduced by Standard Statistics Company, Inc., Miscellaneous Companies, 1927. 
Figures for profits between 1903 and 1909, inclusive, and for 1917 and 1918, from Ben- 
son, loc. cit.; for 1910 to 1916, inclusive, from Ford Motor Company’s Exhibit 6 in Dodge 
suit (1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and Records); for 1919 to 1923, inclusive, from certified 
report of Lester, loc. cit.; for 1924 to 1926, computed from Company’s annual reports to 
Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations and from estimated dividends paid. Net 
worth figures represent net equities of stockholders as disclosed in annual reports to the 
Michigan Secretary of State and Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations, as of the 
dates given. The net worth at the beginning of each fiscal year (at end of preceding fiscal 
year) is given on the same line with figures of subsequent receipts and profits during the 
year in order to facilitate calculation of rates of profit. Some of the figures in this table 
differ from those in preceding tables, it will be noted, because of the differing fiscal 
periods upon which they are based. 


: 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 129 


TABLE 24. PERCENTAGE OF ProrFits TO NET WORTH, AND OF 
RECEIPTS TO NET WorTH, OF Forp Motor CoMPAny, 


BY YEARS * 

PROFITS TO RECEIPTS 
YEAR® Net WortTH To Net WorTH 

(Per cent) (Per cent) 
DOMMES ile a4 w.&'e vis o's (RORLO «fave a oeirl at 6.9.5 4 1337. 
BOONE die 0:4 ja.0.0 <5 )6's 130.6 tea cable vot ante 867. 
SOE as ches chore ARS velig ged au emisa ey 643. 
SEITE ee Ne © fie CSET Ole one te dele Rape U8. & 
LO Se ARIES § (0 TU rE Te ne 452. 
LOO Gy Pitas 6 'e.0,5'0'e'e AR eh LM Pp ee -- 446 
ENSEDSSS divin's >a a algo 21S 2 eas diaein'e a steiore tad 
C4 0 Bate Ae ae Cafe area es ese sine wees ate 559 
SIE Asa we vic in Riek AOR Ls lets a's pe Bypee ie &.t. 0 
TOES rie awh pata a 14D Sp cavoveee inn dege 528. 
ROEM el aioe oxi a LOO PS oP 395 
TOLLE es ders PAO ab ASH TLL 366 bxewabmiated 225 
SUN ad Pac ou os | |} 00s Le seinys a0,5¥0 Shih etsheae 338. 
SESW a Se yiact aeie's op p AS chen nd bos nee ge 241. 

MURS Rake Re Pa aid x ao 22 57 =a ajeie'n Sisle awe a4 231. 

BOE yee adeeins 5 359) p32+7 feo eco ure ai wadeae 196. 
EE AS he delat BO.0-%s aide sme NR AO 
Seer rail ta bie lae's isl SAT Aicm vie ashe ee Si yatG 
Tio iclaue ss Pe ey ahd Sa) vita clad. sie s soe ee dy a7 
ee fo eg Yee eee AG Of eeo. oles Lr ae 
ce, Bae moe 1a iS 144 BU Ae en ee 
Rae es hs aie 250 Lire cise tee sRa eee 
Re ee real (LOO ch castes cers ws ee) 
MEEPS i dardy ae alas sg A Nis ado 8o mn <0 Pe hye - a) 


(a) Data unavailable. 


Fiscal periods as in Table 23 except as otherwise noted below. The percentage is 
computed in each case on the basis of the net worth shown at the beginning of each fiscai 
period. 

> The profit figure for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1909, is not available; 
hence, the figure was ‘constructed’ by adding three-fourths of the profits for the calendar 
year 1909 to one-fourth of the profits for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1908. 

¢ The profit figure for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1919, is not-available; hence, the 
figure was ‘constructed’ by adding seven-twel!ths of the calendar year profits of 1919 
to the known profits for the five months ended December 31, 1918. 

¢ Calendar year profits and receipts of 1919 compared with net worth of August 1, 
1918. 

¢ Calendar year profits and receipts of 1920 compared with net worth of August 1, 
1919. 

¢ Net worth of December 31, 1921, not available; hence, the figure was ‘constructed’ 
by adding to the net worth of June 30, 1021, one-third of the increase between the latter 
date and December 31, 1922, and the calendar year receipts and profits were compared 
with this figure. 

* Computations based upon figures derived from sources of Table 23. 


130 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 25. DIVIDEND RECORD OF Forp Motor Company * 


Year me orate YEAR id isco 
TO08 346 dopa nb ebee st PLO TOTS Wee ccccdeus cuell @OCueD 
1004s. 5s Seuss pale eke 88,000 IQIA iNeap nen eee 12,200,000 
SUMMER VL inh Sint ole wine e 100,000 IOMS.. vnedWoawuewes 16,200,000 
pe PPS RR, NI ary ars PRS 100,000 IQ1G,.. 0.6 u,o'o.e0 Mb ae Cnn 
IOO7 Press aaa aes - 100,000 1917. .cvesveebbeesa, GpaOOue 
ROOM sdk co Wad oa ie on oT OS IQ1S 2. aces we cles ss eOOLOGE 
TO00 LC ise sve ace ee eel 1,800,000 1Q1Q.ccccvecccccecs 24,175,385 
TSI. Saks iek ae gust. On 

) eee ee dein 'a's wn tek ae OOS Ie 

ROG CA, Satna woaretiek 5,200,000 


* Sources: For years 1903 to 1906, inclusive, Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 
Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and Records, in which, however, the dividends for 1905 and 1906 
are said to have ‘approximated’ 100 per cent annually; figures for the remaining years 
were submitted in stipulations filed by some of the Company’s former stockholders before 
the United States Board of Tax Appeals in February, 1927. The amount of dividends 
paid each year since 1919 can only be roughly estimated from the tax returns of Henry 
and Edsel Ford; they are believed to have approximated $14,670,000 a year. 


advance deposits of cash for all orders and to require cash 
payment upon delivery of the vehicles (sight draft being 
attached, usually, to the bill of lading). The suppliers of 
parts and materials, on the other hand, extended book-ac- 
count credit of thirty to ninety days. Thus the automobile 
producer had a month or more in which to assemble and 
sell his vehicles before bills from suppliers became due; and 
much of his labor costs could be paid from dealers’ deposits. 
Since the assembling process was short, and sales, imme- 
diate, the manufacturer could maintain a liquid condition 
without possessing a great amount of working capital and 
without excessive dependence upon banking accommoda- 
tion. Senator James Couzens, in a letter to the present 
writer (previously quoted in part), declared:! 

As I have stated I do not recall that we asked any credit from the 
banks in the early years, because in addition to the advance deposits 
made by the dealers, the industry was on a strictly cash basis which 


enabled the company, in many cases, to receive payment for the cars 
before it was necessary to pay the parts manufacturers. 


The expansion of the Ford Motor Company nevertheless 
* Under date of February 2, 1924. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY. 131 


necessitated great increases in its working capital: overhead 
expenses rose; operating policies had to be initiated far in 
advance of current business, requiring advance purchases of 
large quantities of parts and materials; and the automobile 
industry as a whole faced an uncertain future in which sud- 
den declines in sales might be experienced. Against such 
requirements and contingencies, the Company early de- 
veloped a policy of maintaining unusually large balances in 
a number of widely distributed banks. The Company delib- 
erately avoided the usual policy of arranging for possible 
banking accommodation against periods of unusual stress 
(though for no obvious good reason), and sought to make it- 
self independent of banking support. Table 26, taken from 
a compilation made by the Detroit Trust Company for sub- 
mission in the Dodge suit, compares the Ford Motor Com- 
pany’s average ratio of cash balances to gross sales for the 
years 1914, 1915, and 1916 with those of other large manu- 
facturing companies. : 


TABLE 26. AVERAGE RATIO oF CASH BALANCES TO GROSS SALES 
OF ForD Motor CoMPANy AND OTHER LARGE MANUFACTURERS, 
1914-16, INCLUSIVE 


; . PER CENT 
FOWL LOLOE: COMPANY, sic os als as s'e o wleelaleears 28.5 
American Locomotive Company..........e+. 32.6 
General Electric Company....¢2..0escsc000 20.9 
Railway Steel Spring Company............6. 19.1 
American Telegraph and Telephone Company. 18.1 
United States Steel Corporation............. 18.1 
General Motors Corporation.........2.2.00- 15.0 
Republic Iron & Steel Company............. 13 
United States Rubber Company............. II.o 
Lackawanna Steel Company...........sse0- 9.0 
American Tobacco Company.........e.e0. AREY: Bay 
Central Leather Company..........-cese0ee0. 8.1 
seudeDaker Corporation «ass aucaaescieesceeae 7.8 


Defending the Company’s policy of maintaining large 
cash balances, when this policy was criticized during the 


* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. ~ 


132 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Dodge suit, Frank L. Klingensmith, then treasurer, de- 
clared that ‘we have no banking connections that could 
furnish us money’ in the event of a depression; that a slump 
in sales might force the Company to sell its cars on credit; 
and that its cash balances necessarily constitute a large pro- 
portion of the Company’s working assets since its practice 
of sales for cash deprives it of current receivables as a form 
of working assets; and, further: ? 


We have never borrowed money but one season. That was 10 or 
II years ago... If our production should be shut off for 30 days, we 
would have to borrow money. It has been testified before in this case 
that we have been 30 minutes away from a shutdown last winter; 
and if by an emergency we should be short of materials that would 
enable us to manufacture everything but one unit, which would 
prevent our selling completed cars, yet with our expenses of close 
to a million dollars a day, we are only 30 days from the end of 
our bank balance, including all our reserves ...and everything else 
we have. 


Table 27, taken from another compilation submitted in 
the Dodge suit, compares the Ford Motor Company’s 
average ratio of total working assets to gross sales for the 


TABLE 27. AVERAGE RATIO OF TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL TO GROSS 
SALES OF Forp Motor COMPANY AND OTHER ENTERPRISES, 
1914-16, INCLUSIVE 


PER CENT 
Ford Motor Company............ REE MARIE 37.7 
Central Leather Company........... ae 82.2 
General Electric Company... sccstsesteucee 73.5 
American Tobacco Company.......ccceseees 71.0 
Railway Steel Spring Company............-. 60.4 
Lackawanna Steel Company..........-+.+-- 49.2 
United States Steel Corporation............. 47.5 
United States Rubber Company............. 46.2 
American Locomotive Company........ Reyes’ C44 
Studebaker. Corporation 5 0). ji bce ss naaweenes 42.7 
Republic Iron & Steel Company............. 42.1 
General Motors Corporation...........+.-+: 29.5 


American Telegraph and Telephone Company. 29.0 


* Dodge v. Ford Motor Company, 1070 Mich. Sup. Ct. Briefs and 
Records. 


THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 133 


years 1914, 1915, and 1916 with those of other large manu- 
facturing enterprises. 

The Ford Motor Company, during the years cited, em- 
ployed a relatively smaller amount of working capital in 
proportion to volume of sales than did certain other pro- 
ducers. It cannot be concluded from this fact, however, that 
its financial condition was less liquid than that of others. 
By contract with its sales dealers, the Company was assured 
of a cash market for its product immediately upon produc- 
tion, irrespective of current retail sales. The Company was 
thus relieved of the burden of carrying the accounts of its 
dealers and of carrying a large inventory of finished product. 
Its inventories of raw materials, moreover, were converted 
into finished goods at a very rapid rate: its cycle of manu- 
facture, from the receipt of raw materials and parts to ship- 
ment of finished vehicles, was only twenty-two days before 
1921; and it was cut to fourteen days by the radical econ- 
omies effected during that year. In recent years, the integra- 
tion of the Company’s operations has diminished the rate of 
its capital turnover; and the difficulty of employing great 
amounts of capital effectively has diminished its rate of 
profit. 

The book value of the Company’s net assets on December 
31, 1926, was $714,902,288; the market value of the Com- 
pany was at least $1,000,000,000 (the price offered by Horn- 
blower & Weeks, who expected to reseli it to the public, by 
the issue of securities, for perhaps twenty-five per cent more 
than this price).1_ With the exception of $28,000 invested in 
cash, and patents, contracts, and other intangible items 
valued at $72,000 more, the entire gigantic investment of the 
enterprise has been built up out of reinvested profits. 

t Testimony of John W. Prentiss, partner in Hornblower & Weeks, 


before the United States Board of Tax Appeals, in Washington, D.C., 
February 2, 1927. 


CHAPTER IV 
THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 


1. NATURE AND IMPORTANCE OF BUSINESS 


THE General Motors Corporation, because of its great size, 
the wide range of its automobile products, its high degree 
of industrial integration, the volume and activity of its se- 
curities in the investment and speculative markets, and its 
important financial connections, is widely regarded as the 
dominant organization in the automobile industry. In 
many quarters its position is held to be analogous to that of 
the United States Steel Corporation: the current volume of 
its operations is regarded as reflecting the state of the entire 
automobile industry and as indicative of the trend of general 
business. 

It has been observed that, as respects amount of invested 
capital and volume of motor-vehicle output, the General 
Motors Corporation is exceeded in importance in the auto- 
mobile industry only by the Ford Motor Company. The 
difference between the amounts of invested capital of these 
two companies, however, is relatively small, and may be 
more than offset by differences in their valuation practices; 
and the General Motors Corporation has recently out- 
stripped the Ford Motor Company in financial volume of 
sales, as well as approached it in volume of physical product. 
The motor-vehicle output and financial volume of sales of 
each of the two enterprises and the aggregate American auto- 
mobile output for the seven years ended in 1926 are pre- 
sented in Table 28. 

The net profits of the General Motors Corporation in 
1925 were exceeded only by those of the American Tele- 
phone and Telegraph Company and the United States 
Steel Corporation among American corporations; in 1926 
its net profits surpassed those of any other American business 


ut ee 


St Pe 8 els seta aa cad t nae 
Si a . > the yy bee? te Reet = 
- are | > 1 i = 


oe a 


both Si 


1 “ cd 
SV 


Pe 
Vo 


ie oo 


Wh 7 


, on ee f 635 ; 


a 
: 


> os 
¥, 
rd 


eee , 


ae 
see rime 
aie, Lae 


y % abheel, s | 
ade ie a 


~~ 


@ 


a 


rae, 


Py 


4 
Al on 


P . i. ; : os 
ay FP reet reek 7” ye. J 
hs I tudinal es at dae & 6 


ae = 
4 2 md 
ime 
. 


Aa 


eh Fi ? es 


, ah 4 
ete 
te Y 


ent 
“< 
an 


Ad 
— —— 


rs 


“art 
cP 


=) 
4 


BUICK MOTOR DIVISION 


CADILLAC MOTOR CAR DIVISION 


FISHER BODY DIVISION 


FISHER BODY ST. LOUIS CO. 


FISHER-DELTA LOG CO. 


FISHER LUMBER CORPORATION 


CHEVROLET MANUFACTURING 
COMPANIES 


MANUFACTURING UNITS 
Passenger and Commercial Car Group 


CHEVROLET MOTOR DIVISION 


OAKLAND MOTOR CAR DIVISION 


OLDS MOTOR WORKS DIVISION 


NATIONAL PLATE GLASS CO. 


TERNSTEDT MANUFACTURING CO, 


FLEETWOOD BODY CORPORATION 


GENERAL MOTORS OF CANADA, 
Limiteo 


( Controlled ‘ompanies) 


FISHER BODY OHIO CO, 


YELLOW TRUCK & COACH MFG, CO. 


Accessory and Parts Group 


ARMSTRONG SPRING DIVISION 


BROWN-LIPE-CHAPIN DIVISION 


HYATT BEARINGS DIVISION 


DELCO-REMY CORPORATION 


DELCO-LIGHT COMPANY 


FRIGIDAIRE CORPORATION 


AC SPARK PLUG COMPANY 


GENERAL MOTORS EXPORT COMPANY 


OVERSEAS MOTOR SERVICE CORP 


GENERAL MOTORS ARGENTINA, S.A. 


AL 


JAXON STEEL PRODUCTS DIVISION 


MUNCIE PRODUCTS DIVISION 


SAGINAW PRODUCTS DIWSION 


HARRISON RADIATOR CORPORATION 


NEW DEPARTURE MANUFACTURING CO. 


GENERAL MOTORS FRANCE, S. A. 
GENERAL MOTORS, G. «2s. H. 


GENERAL MOTORS INTERNATIONAL, 


GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY LrTo. 


GENERAL MOTORS OF BRAZIL, S. A. 


GENERAL MOTORS CONTINENTAL, S. A. 


Sse 


CHART V. CORPORATE STRUCTU 


WWMM a 


VU 


EXPORT AND 


AOTORS |kS a 
ATION ‘ S 


Reet 1 Fi 
CTT rarce II 
Y | | stock [ | 

iL] INTEREST [|] | 
Z B=8=8= 


SALES COMPANIES 
il Passenger and Commercal (ar Group 


iil 
MLL, WELLL 


GENERAL MOTORS OF CANADA. Limiteo 


a 

i 
tl 
ul 
q 
| 

ut 


- Accessory and Parts Grou 
| il ry 5 Group 
=S=e=e=0 
; ll 
. 
' 
MMM 
|_| 


iil MISCELLANEOUS GROUP 


u | 


[ GENERAL MOTORS BUILDING CORPORATION 
MODERN HOUSING CORPORATION 


ill 
‘GROUP l=8=58 


AMM 
MOTORS (NEW ZEA 


GENERAL MOTORS URUGUAYA, S.A 
DELCO-REMY & HYATT Limireo 


GENERAL 


GENERAL MOTORS PENINSULAR, S. A. 


LAND) Lro 


f GENERAL MOTORS LIMITED | 


( 

GENERAL MOTORS NEAR EAST, Lro. GENERAL MOTORS SOUTH AFRICAN, Lro. VAUXHALL MOTORS, Limireo x) 
=~ 

OLCEMOER 31. 1926 a. AC ESR 


GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 


s¢ 


er 
Ta Cet Se 


a Bie | ha os M) 


go? 
yf 
‘a 
P *- wy 
ey | 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 135 


TABLE 28. OuTPUT AND FINANCIAL VOLUME OF SALES OF GENERAL 
Morors CoRPORATION AND ForD Motor COMPANY, AND 
AGGREGATE AMERICAN OUTPUT, 1920-26 * 


AGGRE- 


GATE ForpD G.M. 
AMER. Output OurTPut Forp Sates | G.M. SALES 
OUTPUT 


eS | | LL 


$567,320,603 


ROA Sileh ys 0 np 2,204,947 | 1,074,336 393,075 | $644,830,550 

BOS ess ai ce ess 1,660,082 | 1,013,958 214,799 532,030,257 304,487,243 
TO22 vas dV cans 2,655,624 | 1,351,333 456,763 608,341,082 463,706,733 
SRS ee ae «tbo > 4,079,992 | 2,090,959 798,555 858,863,758 698,038,947 
ROQAS Soa ats'els eure 3,606,815 | 1,993,959 587,341 750,905,928 568,007,459 
pao) 2 ere 4,312,456 1,990,995 835,902 750,000,000 4 734,592,592 
Ory St) Ian ee 4,428,286 | 1,447,915 | 1,234,850 600,000,000 | 1,058,153,338 


* Estimated. 

* Sources: Aggregate American output as reported by National Automobile Chamber 
of Commerce; Ford output, 1920-23, inclusive, from The Ford Industries, loc. cit., and 
1924-26, inclusive, from Moody's Industrials, 1927; General Motors output as reported 
by the Corporation in its annual reports; Ford sales as in Table 23 above; General 
Motors sales as reported by the Corporation in its annual reports. 


enterprise.t The securities of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion are among the most active on the New York Stock 
Exchange; their market values fluctuate greatly; at their 
high points in 1926, the aggregate value of the Corpora- 
tion’s securities was more than $2,000,000,000. 

The General Motors Corporation owns directly most of 
the physical properties employed by its manufacturing 
units; primarily, therefore, it is an operating company. 
Some of its multifarious interests, however, are in the hands 
of separate companies whose capital stock it owns entirely 
or in large part; to this extent it is a holding company. The 
corporate structure of the General Motors Corporation is 
graphically portrayed in Chart V. Most of its subsidiaries, 
it should be noted, are separately incorporated for legal con- 
venience alone, and their nominal capitalizations bear little 
relation to their volume of business. 

The chief products of the Corporation and its subsidiary 
and affiliated companies fall into three groups: motor cars 
and trucks; automobile parts and accessories, a portion of 
the output of which is sold to independent automobile manu- 
facturers; and miscellaneous products and services, some of 


t Standard Statistics Company, Inc., report numbered G 19. 


136 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


which are, and others of which are not, connected with the 
automobile industry. 

The first and most important group, that of finished cars 
and trucks, comprises seven distinct lines of passenger 
vehicles, produced in 72 different models and retailing at 
prices ranging from $525 to $4350, and several lines of 
motor trucks and motor busses. The passenger cars are 
produced by five separate operating organizations, known 
as ‘divisions,’ all of the assets of which are owned directly 
by the Corporation;* and connected with each division is 
a sales unit of similar name (for example, Buick Motor 
Company), the nominal capital stock of which ($10,000 in 
each case) is owned by the Corporation. Two of the pas- 
senger-car divisions also produce commercial vehicles, the 
Chevrolet and Pontiac trucks; the latter, like the Pontiac 
passenger cars, are produced by the Oakland division. One 
other division, the Cadillac, also produces two lines of 
passenger vehicles— the Cadillac and La Salle. Most of the 
truck-producing operations of the Corporation have been 
centered in the Yellow Truck and Coach Manufacturing 
Company, which the Corporation controls by ownership of 
a majority of the voting stock. The Corporation owns all 
of the common stock of Vauxhall Motors, Ltd., an English 
producer of motor vehicles; and all of the capital stock of 
General Motors of Canada, Ltd., Canadian producer of 
General Motors vehicles. Fifteen foreign subsidiaries con- 
duct assembling operations and supervise the distribution of 
the Corporation’s products in Europe, Asia, Africa, Aus- 
tralia, New Zealand, and South America.? 

The Corporation’s announced policy is to ‘establish a 
complete line of motor cars from the lowest to the highest 
price that would justify quantity production.’ 3 This policy 


* The Chevrolet division has several manufacturing units which are 
separately incorporated, all of their stock being owned by the Corpora- 
tion. 

* These statements of fact are based upon data contained in the an- 
nual reports of the General Motors Corporation. 

3 Annual report for 1923. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 137 


has been pursued with great success in recent years, and its 
vehicles have become leading competitors in their respective 
price-classes of the products of nearly all other American 
automobile producers. Data bearing on the relative 
financial importance of its various constituent organiza- 
tions are largely withheld by the Corporation, but it is in- 
formally conceded by several of the leading officials that the 
Buick division, up to the end of 1926, has been by far the 
most important and the most profitable.t The Buick leader- 
ship is now being challenged, however, by the Chevrolet 
division. As respects volume of output, the relative im- 
portance of the Corporation’s vehicle-producing divisions 
in recent years is reflected by Table 29. | 


TABLE 29. OuTPUT OF VEHICLE-PRODUCING DIVISIONS OF 
GENERAL Motors CORPORATION, 1922-26 * 


DIVISION 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 
SRUMUTONET Sb vic'a os o 00.0 3 2 243,322 | 480,126 | 314,733 | 512,309 | 732,052 
SUE Tea era's wo so « 138,501 | 218,286 | 166,952 | 208,575 | 280,009 
MTGE HS Onn aipin'e dixinl 2 20,853 | 35,974] 36,512] 45,380] 58,537 

A OE ee 77,134 
Oldsmobile.........-.. 22,434 | 34,853] 45,731 | 43,935! 59,536 
UTES Oe as Se 22,021 | 22,201] 17,905] 22,773| 27,489 


oe" Bae be 5,277 7,012 5,652 


« The Pontiac was introduced by the Oakland division in 1926; the General Motors 
Truck division was transferred in 1925 to the Yellow Truck & Coach Manufacturing 
Company, the operations of which are not consolidated in the accounts of the Corpora- 
tion; the Cadillac division introduced the La Salle car in 1927. 

* From data compiled for the writer by members of the treasurer’s staff of the General 
Motors Corporation. Does not include discontinued lines. 


Acquisitions by purchase or by exchange of securities of 
various parts- and accessories-producing enterprises have 
done much to integrate the manufacturing operations of the 
General Motors Corporation. The operations of thirteen of 
such enterprises, which the Corporation controls by owner- 


t It may be noted that the Buick organization won first place at the 
New York Automobile Show in each of the nine successive years 1918- 
26, inclusive, by reason of leadership in financial volume of sales over 
all other members of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce; 
in 1927, it was displaced by the Chevrolet organization. 


138. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


ship of physical assets or capital stock (cf. Chart V), are 
consolidated in its accounts with the business of its vehicle- 
producing units. Some of them, like the Fisher Body division 
and its subsidiaries, are exceedingly important enterprises 
which transact a large volume of business with independent 
automobile producers. Their products are extensively ad- 
vertised in automobile trade publications, and the Corpora- 
tion maintains, in the main, their operating autonomy.? 
Through the Fisher Body division, the Corporation owns 
standing timber, operates hardwood mills, glass and hard- 
ware factories, etc., and manufactures automobile bodies 
for its own vehicle divisions and for independent pro- 
ducers. 

The Corporation includes among its accessory and parts 
organizations, the Delco-Light Company, producer of water 
pumps, farm lighting and power plants, and electric re- 
frigerators; and the Frigidaire Corporation, a sales subsid- 
iary for the distribution of Frigidaire refrigerators. These 
products, extraneous to the automobile industry, were added 
to the Corporation’s lines as if by accident, as parts of 
sundry acquisitions made in 1919; and for some years their 
réle was unimportant. Recently, however, with the growing 
use of electric refrigerators, this branch of the Corporation’s 
activities has expanded tremendously: the Corporation’s 
investment in refrigerator manufacture has increased to 
approximately $40,000,000, and the Frigidaire earnings in 
1926, according to President Sloan, were more than sufficient 
to pay dividends on all the preferred stock of the General 
Motors Corporation.3 


* This is true of the A. C. Spark Plug Company, Delco-Remy Corpo- 
ration, Brown-Lipe-Chapin division, Hyatt Bearings division, New 
Departure Manufacturing Company, and Harrison Radiator Corpora- 
tion, among others. 

* Cf. Stockholders’ Bulletins of General Motors Corporation. The 
advertisements of these organizations frequently make no mention of 
their affiliation with General Motors: see, for example, Automotive 
Industries, vol. 56, no. 7. 

3 See statement of President A. P. Sloan, paraphrased in Automobile 
Industries, April 27, 1927. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 139 


Included in the Corporation’s balance sheet under the 
heading of ‘Investments’ on December 31, 1926, were the 
following: (1) The General Motors Acceptance Corporation, 
which is engaged in the business of financing the wholesale 
and retail purchase of General Motors products. Organized 
under the banking laws of New York, its entire capital stock, 
$25,000,000, is held by the General Motors Corporation. 
Apart from its paid-in capital and surplus, this subsidiary 
obtains most of its funds by debenture note-issues: it sold 
two note-issues of $50,000,000 each through J. P. Morgan 
& Co. in 1926 and 1927. (2) The General Motors Building 
_ Corporation, which owns and operates the General Motors 
Building in Detroit. (3) The Ethyl Gasoline Corporation, 
owned jointly by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey 
and the General Motors Corporation (each holding 7500 
shares of $100 par value common stock), distributor of 
Ethyl gasoline, a compound originated by a General Motors 
research agency. (4) The General Exchange Insurance 
Corporation, which writes insurance on vehicles financed by 
the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. (5) The Yel- 
low Truck and Coach Manufacturing Company, which, as 
before noted, has taken over the Corporation’s truck divi- 
sion. The Corporation’s investment in this Company is 
valued on its books at $24,091,000, and includes fifty-seven 
per cent of the voting stock; the Company will probably be 
merged shortly with the General Motors Corporation. (6) 
Vauxhall Motors, Ltd., which, also noted previously, pro- 
duces and sells Vauxhall motor cars in England. The Cor- 
poration owns all of its ordinary stock, valued at $2,575,201. 
(7) Five enterprises engaged in providing housing facilities 
for the Corporation’s employees. The Corporation’s in- 
vestment in these enterprises was $8,461,334 on December 
31, 1926, the capital stock of each being owned by the 
Corporation or one of its subsidiaries. 

In addition to the interests already cited, the Corporation 
and its subsidiaries own all of the capital stock of more than 
a score of sales companies connected with one or another of 
its various products. 


140 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


The administration of the host of interests which comprise 
the General Motors Corporation — its factories, alone, are 
located in some forty different cities — offers a fruitful field 
for extended exposition; the limits of this study, however, 
permit only a brief description. The underlying principle of 
the Corporation’s administrative policy is that of a federa- 
tion of codrdinated but semi-autonomous organizations. 
Each organization possesses its own physical facilities, its 
own operating personnel, and a large measure of control 
over its operating policies. ‘For the sake of efficiency, we 
deliberately preferred to be a collection of small or moderate- 
sized units, well codrdinated, rather than one large consol- 
idated business,’ declared the Corporation’s president in a 
recent published article.t ‘It is a General Motors policy to 
decentralize control, at the same time taking advantage of 
the strength, resources, and experience of the organization 
asa whole... .’ declared one of the operating vice-presidents 
in a similar article? The existing scheme of administration, 
while it permits a large measure of operating autonomy for 
each of the constituent organizations, provides for cen- 
tralized supervision of capital expenditures, inventories, 
purchases, and cash resources. Maximum budget allow- 
ances for each unit limit the capital and inventory ex- 
penditures. Interplant transactions are settled chiefly by 
book entries. The cash reserves of the Corporation are 
pooled in a dozen New York and Detroit banks. The daily 
receipts of each unit are deposited in a local bank, which, 
through the telegraph service of the Federal Reserve Sys- 
tem, transmits all but a stated maximum local deposit, to 
the Corporation’s chief banking depositories. The latter 
transmit funds by telegraph, whenever needed, to any of the 
banks in thirty-three cities that carry disbursing accounts 
of the Corporation. The deposits of the Corporation are 


t Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., ‘The Most Important Thing I Ever Did,’ in 
System, August, 1924. 


2C. S. Mott, ‘Organizing a Great Industrial,’ in Management and — 


Administration, May, 1924. . 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 141 


everywhere made to draw interest, and each account serves 
as the basis of a possible line of bank credit averaging five 
times the size of the average deposit balance.t A num- 
ber of advisory bodies and ‘interdivision relations com- 
mittees’ maintain constant contact with every unit and 
seek to establish codrdinated policies with respect to 
sales, purchasing, advertising, operating, and engineering 
problems. 

The management of the Corporation proper is in the 
hands of a board of directors of thirty-two men, evenly 
divided between representatives of important stockholding 
interests and active officers of the Corporation; a finance 
committee of thirteen, among whom nationally known 

financiers are conspicuous; and an executive committee of 
nine. In addition to the chairman of the board of directors 
and the president of the Corporation, there are sixteen vice- 
presidents, most of whom are the chief executives of the 
Corporation’s larger constituents. | 

“ The General Motors Corporation stands ninth among 
American corporations in volume of securities outstanding, 
and among the first three or four in total market value of 
securities. Its capital structure, however, is extremely sim- 
ple. When certain changes in its capitalization, authorized 
between 1924 and 1927, are completed, the Corporation will 
have outstanding only two classes of securities: common 
stock of $25 par value (17,400,000 shares issued, and 
30,000,000 shares authorized); and seven per cent preferred 
stock. The capitalization on December 31, 1926, prior to the 
substitution of two shares of $25 par value common stock 
for each share of no par value common stock (authorized 
September 12, 1927), and to the completed conversion of 
older issues of preferred and debenture stocks, was as fol- 
lows: 


t Donaldson Brown, ‘Pricing Policy in Relation to Financial Control,’ 
and Alfred H. Swayne, ‘ Mobilization of Cash Reserves,’ in the February, 
1924, and January, 1924, numbers, respectively, of Management and 
Administration. Mr. Brown and Mr. Swayne are vice-presidents of the 
Corporation. 


142. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Seven per cent preferred stock (authorized, $500,000,000) . .$105,333,200 


Six per cent preferred stock (outstanding and authorized).... 1,795,900 
Six per cent debenture stock (outstanding and authorized)... 2,786,900 
Common stock, no par value (book value $50) .......... 435,000,000 
Sarplus oso. (ebb dclua eackeels ale can vies Sona ee wi sie: . OOyaaT Aue 
Interest of minority stockholders in subsidiaries......... 2,420,685 

$636,678,003 


The total number of stockholders during 1926 ranged be- 
tween 47,805 and 72,665; on March 12, 1927, the number of 
common stockholders was 36,536. 

Control of the General Motors Corporation is possessed 
by E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. and affiliated interests. 
The Du Ponts first acquired stock in the Corporation in 1915; 
by the end of 1917, E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. had 
acquired 27.6 per cent of the Corporation’s outstanding 
common stock.? In November, 1920, through a subsidiary 
organized for the purpose, the Du Pont interests purchased 
the holdings of William C. Durant, then president of the 
General Motors Corporation, and Pierre S. Du Pont replaced 
Durant as president of the Corporation.? In 1923, when the 
Du Ponts, by previous arrangement, were called upon to sell 
Durant’s holdings, approximately 2,250,000 shares, to the 
Managers Securities Company for resale to executive em- 
ployees of the General Motors Corporation, they sold, in- 
stead, a thirty per cent interest in the General Motors Se- 
curities Company, a Du Pont subsidiary which owned about 
7,500,000 shares of General Motors common stock — thus 
retaining undiminished control of their holdings. On Sep- 
tember 9, 1927, following receipt of notice from the Federal 
Trade Commission that relations between the Du Pont 
company, General Motors, and the United States Steel 
Corporation were under investigation, Mr. Irénée Du 
Pont made public a statement declaring that the Du Pont 
company now owned the equivalent of 1,966,244 shares of 


* See 1918 annual report of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
+ See 1920 annual report of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. 


3 See 1923 reports of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. and the General 
Motors Corporation. 


] 


‘ 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 143 


General Motors common stock, or 22.6 per cent of the total 
outstanding.’ 

Control of the General Motors Corporation by the Du 
Pont interests is furthered not only by the wide distribution 
of General Motors common stock, which makes effective 
minority control possible, but also by the large stockhold- 
ings of groups affiliated with the Du Pont company. J. P. 
Morgan & Co. acquired a substantial interest in the com- 
mon stock of the Corporation in June, 1920, when it under- 
wrote an issue of 3,219,856 shares at $20 a share,? and six 
Morgan representatives were shortly thereafter elected to 
the board of directors. The Morgan firm increased its 
General Motors holdings in November, 1920, when it ob- 
_ tained a one-fifth interest in the Du Pont Securities Com- 
pany for its services in underwriting $20,000,000 of one-year 
collateral trust notes issued by the latter to finance the pur- 
chase of approximately 2,250,000 shares of General Motors 
common stock from Durant.4 Nobel Industries, Ltd., a 
British firm, subscribed jointly with the Canadian Ex- 
plosives, Ltd., for 1,800,000 shares of the Morgan under- 
writing of General Motors common stock in June, 1920. 
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. is a stockholder in the 
Canadian enterprise; ’ and, because of their similar indus- 
trial interests (explosives and chemicals), may be presumed 
to be allied with the British concern. 

The control of the Corporation by the powerful Du Pont 
and Morgan industrial and financial interests undoubtedly 

t Associated Press dispatch of September 9, 1927, published in the 
Detroit Free Press of the following day. Two shares of $25 par value 
common stock have since been substituted for each share of no par value 
etiam increasing the Du Pont holdings to the equivalent of 3,932,488 
shares. 

2 Cf. announcement of J. P. Morgan & Co., Commercial and Financtal 
Chronicle, vol. 110, p. 2390. 

3 E. R. Stettinius, George F. Baker, Seward Prosser, C, M. Wooley, 
W. H. Woodin, and Owen Young. 

4 Cf. 1920 report of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. This subsidiary 
was later consolidated with the General Motors Securities Company. , 

s See 1922 report of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. 


144 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


promotes a more generous accommodation of the Corpora- 
tion’s financial requirements at the hands of commercial 
banks. Like other American motor-vehicle manufacturers, 
its credit needs are extremely small in ordinary times. 
Nevertheless, the integrated character of its operations re- 
quires the maintenance of large inventories of materials, 
and any slackening in the rate of production quickly results 
in enormous increases in these inventories, commitments 
for which are made far in advance; hence, at times, the 
Corporation may require very substantial banking accom- 
modation. The chief issue of preferred stock, it may be 
noted, is scarcely calculated to jeopardize the control of the 
common stockholders: the preferred stock has no direct 
voice in the management, except that it may veto mortgag- 
ing of the Corporation’s properties; and its contingent con- 
trol, effective after two successive defaults in its quarterly 
dividend claims, is limited to the election of twenty-five per 
cent of the board of directors. Its dividend rights, on the 
other hand, are exceedingly well protected: additional 
issues of preferred must wait upon equal increases in cor- 
porate surplus or in issued common stock; no cash dividends 
are payable on common stock unless the excess of quick 
assets over current liabilities remains at seventy-five per 
cent or more of the par value of the outstanding preferred, 
and unless the common stock and surplus equity behind the 
preferred remains at least as great as it was in 1924, when 
the present preferred stock was issued to consolidate previ- 
ous varieties; and the preferred dividends are cumulative. 
The General Motors Corporation, under the name of the 
General Motors Company (New Jersey), was the first large 
combination in the automobile industry. Since its forma- 
tion in 1908, several other important combinations have been 
projected or actually organized; but it alone has proved 
conspicuously successful. The General Motors enterprise 
was likewise the first automobile manufacturing organiza- 
tion to enlist the services of investment bankers in any large 
measure; and the volume of its corporate financing through 


— ———————s 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 145 


these agencies has exceeded that of any other automobile 
company. The association of the enterprise with Eastern 
banking houses and financiers soon after its birth, and its 
status then as a holding company, early gave it a financial 
rather than industrial character; and in diminished degree 
this character has persisted to the present day. 

The present General Motors Corporation was incorpo- 
rated under the laws of Delaware on October 13, 1916. By 
exchange of securities it acquired all of the capital stock of 
the General Motors Company, which had been incorporated 
in New Jersey on September 16, 1908. The latter company 
was dissolved on August I, 1917; its principal constituent 
companies were likewise dissolved at this time, and the 
General Motors Corporation took over direct ownership and 
operation of the bulk of the physical properties previously 
controlled by the holding company and its subsidiaries. 
The history of the General Motors Corporation, to which we 
now turn, begins, therefore, with that of the original New 
Jersey company and its constituents. We begin with the 
Buick Motor Company, the nucleus of the original combina- 
tion, and its most important single constituent since. 


2. THE Buick NUCLEUS 

David Buick, in 1900, entered the business of manufactur- 
ing stationary motors for farm use under the name, the 
Buick Manufacturing Company. He became indebted for 
materials to Benjamin Briscoe, then a producer of sheet- 
metal stampings and later an important figure in the auto- 
mobile industry. To secure this indebtedness of about 
$2000, and a loan of $1500 more that Buick needed for his 
experiments with an automobile motor, Briscoe arranged 
with Buick to form the Buick Motor Company, $99,700 of 
the $100,000 capital stock of which was pledged to Briscoe to 
secure the latter’s claims.! This company was incorporated 
in Michigan on May 19, 1903. 

« Cf. Benjamin Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ pub- 


lished as a series of four articles in the Detroit Saturday Night of January 
15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. 


146 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Briscoe planned to take over ownership and operation 
of the Buick Motor Company in September, 1903, if Buick 
was not then able to meet his obligations, for Briscoe’s 
business of metal stampings had already developed into an 
enterprise principally devoted to the manufacture of auto- 
mobile radiators and parts. Becoming interested in a motor 
designed by J. D. Maxwell, who had collaborated with the 
Apperson brothers, Elwood Haynes, R. E. Olds, and other 
pioneer automobile designers, Briscoe decided to dispose of 
his interest in the Buick company and to ally himself with 
Maxwell in what became the Maxwell-Briscoe Motor 
Company.?, An arrangement was made with the Flint 
Wagon Works, of Flint, Michigan, which had begun to ex- 
periment with automobile manufacture, whereby that com- 
pany took over the operation of the Buick enterprise. The 
Buick Motor Company was reincorporated on January 30, 
1904, with a capital stock of $75,000, half of which was listed 
as paid for in cash, and $15,000 of which was given to David 
Buick.s The new company quickly became involved in 
difficulties: a total of sixteen vehicles was produced in 1903 
and only thirty-six in 1904; the Company was obliged to 
give liens on its property to secure its creditors; finally, its 
obligations to Flint banks late in 1904, said to have been 
large enough to threaten the safety of three of the town’s 
financial institutions, forced a reorganization.4 It was in 
connection with this reorganization that William Crapo 
Durant, later promoter of the General Motors Combina- 
tion and one of the outstanding figures in the automobile 
industry, first entered the automobile business. 

Durant, a grandson of a former governor of Michigan, 
had been millhand, drug clerk, patent-medicine salesman, 

* Cf. Benjamin Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ pub- 
lished as a series of four articles in the Detroit Saturday Night of January 
15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. 

2 Id. 

. 3 Cf. articles of incorporation filed with the Michigan Secretary of 
tate. 

Cf. W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in Motor, January, 1923. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 147 


real estate and insurance agent, traveling salesman for a 
cigar company, and secretary of the Flint Water Works, all 
before he had attained the age of twenty-five. In 1886, with 
the aid of J. Dallas Dort, then a clerk in a Flint hardware 
store, Durant acquired rights to a patented road cart; 
and, with a total capital of $2000, the two men organized 
the Durant-Dort Carriage Company. In a few years, with 
Durant supervising sales and Dort in charge of factory 
operations, this enterprise became one of the largest in the 
wagon industry, operating fourteen plants in the United 
States and Canada, and producing 150,000 vehicles a year.? 

In 1904, the Durant-Dort Carriage Company, capitalized 
at $2,000,000, was one of the largest and most successful 
business enterprises in Flint; its large earnings had already 
' previously tempted its principal owners, who were forty- 
three and forty-two years of age, respectively (in 1904), to 
engage (albeit unsuccessfully) in bicycle manufacturing and 
other ventures; Durant, by virtue of his business success, his 
wide acquaintance, and his personal popularity, possessed a 
very high reputation in the Flint community; and the wagon 
and carriage business in 1904 was commonly considered as 
closely related to the growing automobile business. In view 
of these factors, it is not surprising that, when the prospec- 
tive failure of the Buick Motor Company threatened to in- 
volve important Flint creditors, Durant was called upon, 
and was willing, to undertake the reorganization of the 
Company.? 

Durant immediately had the authorized capitalization of 
the Company increased from $75,000 to $500,000, and pro- 
cured subscriptions to $250,000 of the stock. It does not 
appear that he was able to obtain new cash capital for the 
Company immediately, but he did succeed in obtaining new 
credit and extensions of time from old creditors.3 The next 

t W. A. P. John, loc. cit. 2 Ibid. 
3 Only $75,000 of the $250,000 of stock subscribed on November 26, 
1904, was listed as paid in, and this amount included the investment 


of the old stockholders. In its annual report for 1905 the Company lists 
all of its issued common stock as having been paid for in property. The 


148 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


several months were spent in improving the design of the 
Buick automobile and in reducing the Company’s capital 
requirements by arranging for the purchase of automobile 
parts from other firms. Durant procured the rights (in his 
own name) to a number of patented and unpatented engine 
and chassis improvements, and on August 1, 1905, formally 
transferred these rights, plus a contract for parts with the 
Weston-Mott Company (in which several of his friends 
shortly after became interested), and real estate valued at 
$5000, to the Buick Motor Company in return for $115,000 
of the common stock.? By the middle of 1905, the Buick 
Motor Company had begun to produce and to market the 
Buick automobile in profitable volume, selling 673 cars by 
the end of the year. | 

On September 11, 1905, the Company increased its au- 
thorized capital stock from $500,000 (all common stock) to 
$900,000 of common stock and $600,000 of seven per cent 
cumulative, full-voting, redeemable, preferred stock. On 
this date $619,000 of the common stock was listed as sub- 
scribed, of which $388,170 was paid in; and $568,170 of the 
authorized preferred stock was listed as subscribed and paid 
in. The consideration received for the paid-in common stock 
was listed as ‘property’; $300,000 of the preferred stock was 
issued for cash; and $268,170, for the surrender of claims 
against the Company.? 

As has just been noted, the Buick Motor Company had 
received no actual cash for its common-stock issues up to 
this time. According to data furnished by Durant for a 
magazine article,3 $303,800 of the original $500,000 of com- 
bulk of the creditors’ claims ($268,170) was converted into preferred 


stock on September 11, 1905. (Cf. amendment to charter filed as of this 
date with the Michigan Secretary of State.) 

‘Formal notice of these transactions was filed with the Michigan 
Secretary of State on October 7, 1905; the Weston-Mott contract was 
valued at $25,000. 

* Amendments to charter filed with the Michigan Secretary of State 
as of September 11, 1905. 

3 W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in Motor, January, 1923. Mr. 


John submitted the first draft of his manuscript to Mr. Durant before 
publication. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 149 


mon stock was issued for promotion services; of this amount, 
Durant received $202,000, which he transferred to the Du- 
rant-Dort Carriage Company; and the larger part of the 
remainder was divided between the old stockholders of the 
Company and the subscribers to the preferred stock (who re- 
ceived a bonus of twenty-five per cent in common stock with 
their subscriptions to the preferred). The annual report of 
the Buick Motor Company to the Michigan Secretary of 
State as of December 30, 1905, lists among its assets $412,865 
of ‘good-will,’ and $115,000 of patents, these items consti- 
tuting more than sixty per cent of the Company’s assets. 
In the following year the Buick Motor Company defi- 
nitely began its career of expansion and profit-making. Du- 
_ rant’s selling experience and country-wide acquaintance, 
acquired in connection with his carriage business, enabled 
him to build up quickly an effective dealer-organization; 
the Company’s new product, a four-cylinder automobile 
selling at about $1000, proved to be very popular; ma- 
chine shops and more formal parts-making establish- 
ments were already available in and around Detroit and 
Flint, enabling the Company to expand its business without 
greatly increasing its fixed capital requirements; and the 
practice of advance deposits on dealers’ orders and of sales 
for cash, which had early become established in the auto- 
mobile industry, simplified the working-capital problem. 
In 1906, the Company sold 2295 cars as compared with 673 
the year before, and was, next to the Cadillac Motor Car 
Company, the largest American producer of automobiles." 
By October 1, the ‘ good-will’ item of $412,865 of the pre-~ 
vious December had been entirely written off the books; 
and, with an increase of only $30,830 in paid-in capital 
stock equities ($15,830 of preferred stock issued for cash 
and $15,000 of common stock issued for ‘property’), the 


t Figures obtained from the records of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion. The Cadillac production in 1906 was 4045, the Ford, 1599; the 
latter figure is for the fiscal year ended July 31, however; the others, 
for the calendar year. 


150 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


net worth of the Company had nevertheless increased to 
$1,077,076." 

In 1907, despite the disturbed financial condition pre- 
vailing in the country, the Company increased its business 
by more than fifty per cent, its volume of output (sold) being 
3848 cars, as against 8759 cars sold by the Ford Motor Com- 
pany, and 2867 by the Cadillac Motor Car Company. On 
June 3, 1907, the Company increased its authorized amount 
of common stock from $900,000 to $2,000,000, and a stock 
dividend of $250,000 par value of common stock was de- 
clared. By October 1, 1907, all intangible assets had been 
written off the books of the Company, and its net assets, 
consisting of real estate, plant and equipment, cash, and 
receivables, less its outside liabilities, had risen to $2,880,- 
478.7 

In 1908, the year of the organization of the General Mo- 
tors Company, the Buick Motor Company was the largest 
producer of automobiles in the United States, producing 
a total of 8487 cars, as compared with 6181 produced by the 
Ford Motor Company, and 2380 by the Cadillac Motor 
Car Company. Its large earnings in this year enabled it to 
more than double its investment in real estate, plant and 
equipment, to retire $100,000 of its preferred stock, and to 
make investments in various parts-making enterprises.4 On 
October 1, 1908, the date of its acquisition by the General 
Motors Company, its net worth totaled $3,417,142, almost 
all of which had been built up by the reinvestment of earn- 
ings. 

: boi report to the Michigan Secretary of State as of October 1, 
1906, 

* Annual report to the Michigan Secretary of State as of October 1, 
1907. 

3 Figures for Buick and Cadillac, obtained from the records of the 


General Motors Corporation, are for calendar years; the Ford figure (see 
Table 19 above) is for the fiscal year ended July 31. 


* Cf. annual reports to the Michigan Secretary of State as of October 
I, 1908, and October 1, 1909. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 15! 


3. BEGINNINGS OF THE GENERAL Motors CoMPANY | 


Such had been the brief history and such was the status of 
the Buick Motor Company when, in the middle of 1908, 
plans were first broached for a combination of the larger 
motor-car manufacturers. The first efforts in this direction 
and some of the factors that provided the impulse for the 
movement have already been noted.? We have observed that 
the automobile industry during this period was an extremely 
speculative one: large numbers of small companies, meagerly 
financed, absorbed the greater part of the market;? the ten- 
tative technical character of the automobile, real and fan- 
cied, made the future of any particular ‘make’ very uncer- 
tain; and even the largest producers possessed so small a 
margin of liquid capital that a single unpopular model 

threatened their existence. Combination offered the op- 
portunity of diversifying risks among a variety of automobile 
products, and of obtaining readier access to investment 
capital. Thus, as we have seen, four of the largest producers 
— the Ford, Buick, Reo, and Maxwell-Briscoe enterprises — 
came within an ace of combining their interests. 

Undaunted by the failure of several combination projects 
which he and Benjamin Briscoe had initiated, Durant, on 
September 16, 1908, effected the incorporation in New 
Jersey of the General Motors Company, which obtained a 
perpetual charter containing a very broad grant of powers. 
The initial capitalization of $2000 was increased two weeks 
later to $12,500,000, of which $7,000,000 consisted of seven 
per cent preferred stock and $5,500,000, of common stock, 
both classes being of $100 par value. On October 1, 1908, 
in exchange for 18,870 shares of the common stock of the 
Buick Motor Company, $500,000 in cash, and an under- 
writing agreement assuring the sale of $2,000,000 par value 


* Chapter II, Sections 7, 8, 9. 

2 The combined output of the Ford, Buick, Cadillac, and Olds com- 
panies in 1908 was 18,411 (figures from records of General Motors 
Corporation and from The Ford Industries); the total American output 
was 65,000. 


152. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


of its preferred stock, the General Motors Company issued 
to Durant $2,387,000 par value of its preferred and $2,193,- 
500 of its common stock; $1,000,000 of the latter was im- 
mediately donated back to the Company for reissue as a 
fifty per cent bonus with the sale of its preferred stock. The 
nature of this transaction may be seen from the following 
itemization: 
Issued for 18,870 shares of Buick common: 
$1,887,000 General Motors preferred and 
$943,500 General Motors common; 
Issued for $500,000 cash: 
$500,000 General Motors preferred and 
$250,000 General Motors common; 
Issued for underwriting agreement, and donated 
back to the Company for reissue as bonus 
with sale of preferred stock: 
$1,000,000 General Motors common. 


The remaining capital stock of the Buick Motor Company 
was acquired on the same day on substantially the same 
terms (one share of preferred and one-half share of common 
of General Motors for each share, common or preferred, of 
the Buick Company). In the months following, partly for 
cash and partly by exchange of securities, one enterprise 
after another was brought into the Combination. Within 
two years after its incorporation, the General Motors Com- 
pany had acquired a stock interest in more than two dozen 
different enterprises: these included eleven automobile-pro- 
ducing companies and a variety of parts, accessory, and 
lamp companies. Most of these interests were acquired 
piecemeal: Durant’s procedure was to come to an arrange- 
ment with one or more of the principal stockholders of a 
company, and to offer similar, though not always identical, 


* The bulk of the financial and other data here presented was com-: 
piled for the writer from the records of the General Motors Corporation 
by and through the courtesy of Mr. Frank F. Kolbe, assistant treasurer 
of the Corporation, and his assistants, Messrs. A. Philip Warriner and 
Howard Chapin, with the generous consent of Messrs. Pierre S. Du Pont, 
chairman of the board of directors, John J. Raskob, chairman of the 
finance committee, and Meyer L. Prentis, treasurer. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 153 


terms to the remaining stockholders.? A list of the acquisi- 
tions, the consideration in cash and securities paid for them, 
and an approximate statement of the net worth of the com- 
panies at the time of acquisition, are presented in Table 30, 
the data for which were compiled from the records of the 
General Motors Corporation.? 

Of the car-producing enterprises thus acquired, only 
three warrant special consideration: the Buick Motor Com- 
pany, the history of which has been detailed above; the 
Cadillac Motor Car Company, and the Olds Motor Works. 

Next to the Buick, the Cadillac Motor Car Company 
was the most important acquisition made by the Combina- 
tion. This company had been incorporated on October 27, 
1905, to succeed the Cadillac Automobile Company and 
the Leland & Faulconer Manufacturing Company, a parts- 
making enterprise; its entire capital stock, $1,500,000 of 
common, had been issued for the assets of its predecessors.3 
Its principal stockholders, Clarence A. Black, Lem W. 
Bowen, William H. Murphy, and W. W. White, had pre- 
viously supported Henry Ford in the Detroit Automobile 
Company, and, after Ford’s withdrawal, had organized the 
Cadillac Automobile Company. 

The Cadillac automobile had early become popular: its 
sales in 1904 totaled 2534; in 1905, 3920; in 1906, 4045; in 
1907, 2367; in 1908, 2380. On November 12, 1908, Ben- 
jamin Briscoe obtained an option on sixty per cent of the 
Company’s stock at $150 a share.4 This option expired dur- 
ing the progress of Briscoe’s negotiations with J. P. Morgan 
& Co. for the financing of the purchase. Durant, in the mean-: 


From data given the writer by Mr. Thomas S. Merrill, secretary of 
the General Motors Corporation. 

2 Except that most of the figures for net worth were obtained from 
the reports of these companies to the Michigan Secretary of State as of 
the dates nearest the time of acquisition. 

3 Including $275,000 of ‘good-will.’ Cf. articles of incorporation filed 
with the Michigan Secretary of State. 

4 Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ published in the 
Detroit Saturday Night of January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 1921. 


154 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 30. ACQUISITIONS OF GENERAL Motors CoMPaNny, 1908-10 * 


CONSIDERATION PAID ¢ 


NET 
COMPANY ¢ b 
Worsn Cash Preferred Common 

Buick Motor Company......... $3,417,142 $1,500 | $2,498,500] $1,249,250 
Cadillac Motor Car Company... 2,862,709 | 4,400,000 275,000 
Olds Motor Works 4........... 2,961,769 17,279 1,827,694 1,195,880 
Oakland Motor Car Company... 305,523 305,523 
Marquette Motor Car Company. 300,000 100 161,200 32,200 
Cartercar Company............ 266,486 2,780 137,700 
Elmore Manufacturing Company ¢ 600,000 600,000 
Randolph Motor Car Company.. 207,400 204,400 
Reliance Motor Truck Company. 

RY out of 16,575 shares.... 164,590 I1II,993 
Rapid Motor Vehicle Company 

36,465 out of 50,000 shares.... 647,563 412,348 51,500 
Weston-Mott Company 

ee out of 5000 shares....... 199,302 230,000 94,000 7,000 

. T. Stewart Body plant (assets) 160,000 160,000 0,000 
Michigan Motor Castings Co. / 

1650 out of 5000 shares....... 112,500 37,125 
Northway Motor & Manufactur- 

itig Conipany #37255. c cree 212,075 212,075 
Ewing Automobile Company.... 88,900 37,800 51,100 
Dow Rim Company 

700 out of 1000 shares...... rh 100,000 41,200 28,800 
Welch Motor Car Company / 

60 out of 2500 shares......... 250,000 6,000 
Michigan Auto Parts Company.. 76,7360 76,736 
 Laieicrer at page cero Company 122,450 122,450 

ovelty Incandescent Lamp Co. 

750 out of 1000 shares........ 86,668 65,000 
Heany Lamp Companies *...... 112,759 I,II1I,000 5,908,500 
McLaughlin Motor Car Co., Ltd. 

5000 out of 10,030 shares..... 


Champion Ignition Company é 
750 out of 1000 shares ...... 
Brown-Lipe-Chapin Company Me 


500 out of 7500 shares ..... reg 
Oak Park Power Company ¢ 
$330 Out Of 2000 whares 556k 6. boccsseeceeeesen hee eee ees Leone ee eee 


$13,161,813 | $6,127,668 | $7,268,804] $8,512,830 


Stock reacquired (deduct)..... 1,654,000 581,700 


Stock issued to subsidiaries for 


their disposal (add).......... 312,400 
$5,927,294 | $7,931,130 
Issued for cash ($4,504,306 realized) 4,114,8 1,639,500 
Stock dividend (150 per cent). . 6,249,200 


Total stock issues to September 


SK: COLE had pe uelete ake $10,042,100 | $15,819,830 


¢ Entire capital stock acquired except as otherwise noted. 

+ Approximate net worth at time of acquisition, as indicated in nearest annual report 
or by cash and preferred stock issued in payment. 

* Does not include purchases by subsidiaries; cf. (f) and (i), below. 

4 Net worth includes patents valued at $626,450, and reflects cancellation of the Com- 
pany's note liabilities of $1,044,177, held by its president, S. L. Smith, for which the 
latter received $1,044,174 par value of General Motors preferred stock and $1,000,000 of 
common stock. This payment is included in the considerations listed as paid for the Com- 
pany. 

¢ The $600,000 of preferred stock paid for this Company was repurchased by the 
General Motors Company some months later for $709,291 cash, when the Elmore stock- 
holders exercised an option to this effect. 

Rd Remaining capital stock acquired by Buick Company and transferred to General 
otors. 

¢ Note liabilities of $112,075 were canceled as part of the transaction. 

+ The assets of these companies consisted of patent rights later voided; the transaction 
is discussed in detail below. 

* Acquired by Buick Company and transferred to General Motors. 

* Compiled from the original records in possession of the General Motors Corporation. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 155. 


time, had offered $160 a share; and, on July 1, 19009, finally 
obtained a purchase-contract at a price of a little more than 
$300 a share — $4,400,000 cash and $275,000 par value of 
General Motors preferred stock.* 

The Cadillac purchase, in the light of its then-current 
earnings and of its subsequent history, was exceedingly well 
advised. For the year ended August 31, 1909, the Company 
reported earnings of $1,969,382 ? — the equivalent of a forty- 
two per cent return on the amount of General Motors’ 
investment; its net worth, after the payment of $675,000 in 
dividends, was $2,862,709.3 The willingness of its stock- 
holders to sell out can be explained only by the speculative 
character of the automobile industry at the time, coupled 
with the relatively high price offered for the stock as com- 
pared with its book value. 

The acquisition of the Olds Motor Works, which pre- 
ceded that of the Cadillac Company, appears, in contrast, 
to have been a great extravagance. This enterprise had been 
organized originally as the Olds Motor Vehicle Company in 
1896 by Ransom E. Olds, one of the pioneer automobile 
inventors. In 1899, Olds had procured the financial support 
of a Detroit capitalist, S. L. Smith; the Company was re- 
moved from Lansing to Detroit, and reincorporated as the 
Olds Motor Works, with a paid-in capital of $200,000. In 
1900, its ‘Curved-Dash Oldsmobile,’ retailing at $650, gave 
it great prominence, and it promised for a time to become the 
leading American automobile producer: its output in 1900 
Was 1400 Cars; in I9OI, 2100; in 1902, 2500; in 1903, 3000; 
in 1904, 5508. Its orders for parts initiated into the industry 
many later-important producers, and its operating organiza- 
tion included so many individuals subsequently prominent 
in the industry that Olds has been called ‘the schoolmaster 
of the automobile industry.’ 4 In 1905, however, as a result 
of a controversy over the Company’s product — Smith’s 


t From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 
2 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 89, p. 1666. 3 Ibid. 
4 Doolittle, Romance of the Automobile Indusiry, p. 44. 


156 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


sons desiring to substitute an expensive automobile for the 
low-priced car — Olds sold his interest in the Company, and, 
shortly after, became head of the Reo Motor Car Company, 
which had been specially organized for him by citizens of 
Lansing, Michigan. With Olds’s departure, the Olds Motor 
Works went into a decline: in 1905, its output dropped to 
2381; in 1906, to 1372; in 1907, to 1045; in 1908, it was 1146. 
Its balance-sheet on August I, 1908, showed unsecured 
liabilities of $1,472,693, gross tangible assets of $2,763,838, 
and net tangible assets of $1,291,145. On November 12, 
1908, the General Motors Company purchased the entire 
outstanding capital stock (200,000 shares of $10 par value) 
and $1,044,174 of its note-liabilities (held by S. L. Smith, the 
Company’s president) for $1,827,694 of General Motors pre- 
ferred stock, $1,195,880 of common, and $17,279 in cash. 
Durant purchased the Company chiefly for its reputation, 
according to Mr. A. B. C. Hardy, later its president.* 

The remaining eight lines of automobiles acquired by the 
General Motors Company during its first two years were 
untried or unimportant products, all but one of which, 
the Oakland, were subsequently abandoned. The Oakland 
had been in active operation for less than a year; ? the Mar- 
quette had been organized by Durant only in March, 1909; 3 
the Reliance had been incorporated only a year earlier; 4 
the Cartercar had been purchased because it boasted a 
‘friction-drive,’ and ‘maybe friction-drive would be the 
thing’; the Elmore had been acquired for a similar reason 
— it produced a two-cycle motor, and ‘maybe two-cycles 
was going to be the thing for automobiles’; the Randolph 
had only just been incorporated; 5 the Welch Motor Car 
Company had produced less than a dozen cars; * and another 


* As stated by Mr. Hardy in an interview with the writer. 


: Srne rand in Michigan on August 28, 1907; 278 cars produced in 
1908. 


‘ 3 Cf. articles of incorporation, March 16, 1909, Michigan Secretary of 
tate. 


4On May 19, 1908. 5 In Illinois, on December 11, 1908. 
* From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 157 


Welch Company, the Welch Company of Detroit (not in- 
cluded in the table of acquisitions because organized and im- 
mediately acquired by the General Motors Company in 
1909, with negligible expenditure *), was, like the others (ex- 
cept the Oakland), soon withdrawn. 

The philosophy that motivated the acquisition of this 

large assortment of motor-car products has already been 
recited: while the generic demand for automobiles was large, 
that for any particular ‘make’ was uncertain; risks could be 
pooled and minimized by producing a variety of automobile 
products. Durant’s policy was summarized by Mr. A. B. C. 
Hardy, who had been intimately associated with him, as 
follows: ? 
_ Durant bought a lot of different companies, most of which were 
not much good; but he paid for them largely in stock. He didn’t 
want the actual assets of these companies; most of them were head 
over heels in debt, anyway. He wanted to have a lot of ‘makes,’ so 
that he would always be sure to have some popular cars. I heard 
him explain this one day in this way: 

“They say I shouldn’t have bought Cartercar,’ he said. ‘Well, 
how was any one to know that Cartercar wasn’t to be the thing? It 
had the friction drive and no other car had it. How could I tell what 
these engineers would say next? Maybe friction drive would be the 
thing. And then there’s Elmore, with its two-cycle engine. That’s 
the kind they were using on motor-boats; maybe two-cycles was 
going to be the thing for automobiles. I was for getting every kind 

of car in sight, playing safe all along the line.’ 


In addition to the car-producers actually acquired and to 
the various parts-making enterprises purchased, the General 
_ Motors Company, as we have noted, made a serious attempt 
to acquire the Ford Motor Company and the Maxwell- 
Briscoe Motor Company. Mention has been made of the 
option obtained by Durant from the Ford Motor Company 
following the latter’s reverse in the Selden patent decision of 

* Incorporated in Michigan on July 10, 1909; annual report as of 
December 31, 1909, showed total assets of $104,262 and liabilities of 
$148,505. 

2 In an interview with the writer in Lansing, Michigan, December 24, 
1924. Quotation transcribed from the writer’s notes. 


158 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


1909 — an option that Durant failed to exercise only be- 
cause he could not procure the funds necessary for the ini- 
tial payment. The projected acquisition of the Maxwell- 
Briscoe Company failed for the same reason. A memoran- 
dum dated July 19, 1909, provided for the purchase through 
exchange of securities of the Maxwell-Briscoe Company at 
a valuation of $3,500,000; and of the Brush Runabout Com- 
pany and the Briscoe Manufacturing Company, valued at 
$100,000 and $460,000, respectively. ‘But, through the 
taking in of the Heany companies at about that time’ (to 
be discussed below) ‘we were to “‘sweeten”’ the operation 
so that Maxwell-Briscoe would have gotten about $5,000,- 
ooo of stock in the combination.’? Briscoe tried to obtain 
the consent of the Morgan interests, who had financed his 
operations, to this transaction, but was told that a substan- 
tial cash payment, approximating $2,000,000, would be nec- 
essary to obtain their consent. 


4. STOCK-WATERING: THE HEANY LAMP COMPANIES 


The acquisitions of the General Motors Company recited 
in the foregoing were frequently consummated informally 
and antedated formal authorization by the board of direc- 
tors. This fact, coupled with the relatively large amounts of 
stock issued for several of the smaller companies, opens the 
door to a suspicion that several of the transactions were 
made occasions for the unofficial distribution of ‘promotion 
stock’ to individuals associated with the management of the 
parent company. It is difficult, of course, to obtain author- 
itative comment or official data in corroboration of this in- 
ference. In the case of the Heany Lamp companies, how- 
ever, the facts themselves, and the remark of Mr. Briscoe, 
quoted above, that the Heany transaction made it permis- 
sible to ‘sweeten’ the consideration to be paid for the Max- 
well-Briscoe properties, crystallize such a suspicion. The 
facts were substantially as follows: 


* Briscoe, ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ Joc. cit. a Ibid. 


3 From the Official Gazette of the United States Patent Office, p. 934 
fi., and the records of the General Motors Corporation. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 159 


John Albert Heany, on December 29, 1904, filed applica- 
tion for a patent on an improved electric lamp bulb; and on 
August I, 1906, and November 19, 1906, filed additional ap- 
plications, alleging that these were revisions of his original 
ones and therefore entitled to the original dating. Heany 
was granted the patent in 1907, and shortly after became in- 
volved in litigation with rival claimants who had assigned 
their rights to the General Electric Company. In the fall of 
1907, Heany, his attorney, H. E. Everding, and a patent- 
office clerk, Ned W. Barton, were charged with altering the 
original application to permit the later ones to be classed as 
revisions: Barton and Everding were found guilty in federal 
court and were sentenced to prison; Heany was acquitted. 
‘The latter, in the meantime, had organized the Heany Com- 
pany, the Heany Lamp Company, the Heany Electric Com- 
pany, and the Tipless Lamp Company, to which he had as- 
signed his patent rights. The stocks of these companies were 
acquired by the General Motors Company on January 4, 
1910, in return for $1,111,000 of General Motors preferred 
stock, $5,908,500 of its common stock, and $112,759 in 
cash.t Since the principal assets of the Heany companies 
consisted of cloudy patent rights, which were later voided by 
the United States Commissioner of Patents, the General 
Motors Company received a negligible consideration for 
a volume of securities greater than it had issued for any 
automobile enterprise and greater than its payment for the 
Buick and Olds Companies together. On September 30, 
1910, its holdings in the Heany companies were transferred 
on its books to ‘good-will,’ and, a little later, they were 
written off the books entirely.? 

It is not a little striking to record that on October I, 
1927, the securities issued for the Heany companies (as 
multiplied by stock dividends) had a market value in 
excess of $320,000,000; that, by this date, more than 
$50,000,000 in cash dividends had been paid on them; and 


t See Table 30, above. 
# From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 


160 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


that they now command annual dividends in excess of 
$10,000,v00. 


5. FINANCING ACQUISITIONS AND OPERATIONS 


On September 30, 1910, the General Motors Company 
had outstanding (exclusive of treasury holdings of the par- 
ent and subsidiary companies) $10,042,100 par value of pre- 
ferred stock and $15,819,830 of common stock. The author- 
ized capitalization of the Company had been increased on 
September 15, 1909, to $40,000,000 of common and $20,030,- 
ooo of preferred; and on November 15, 1909, a stock divi- 
dend of 150 per cent, aggregating $6,249,200 par value of 
common stock, had been declared. The origins of the stock 
issues of the Company up to September 30, 1910, and its 
capital receipts and expenditures, may be summarized as 
follows:? 

CasH PREFERRED CoMMON 


Issued for motor-car properties... .$6,014,909 $6,157,894 $2,604,330 
Issued for cash and underwriting 
agreement (from which a total of 


$4,504,306 was realized)......... 4,114,806 1,639,500 
Issued for the Heany Lamp com- 

POTION 6:7 ,'u ls kb cate ee eas 112,759 1,111,000 5,908,500 
Issued to subsidiaries and by them 

WWIBBUE ES achat Whe ok aren 312,400 
Stock dividend on common stock. . 6,249,200 
Deduct because reacquired........ 1,654,000 581,700 

Total securities issued and cash 
1 Cs a He pea le Ey Gia! $6,127,668 $10,042,100 $15,819,830 


It will be seen at once that, while the Company paid out 
in excess of $6,000,000 in cash for its acquisitions, its receipts 
of cash from the sale of securities only slightly exceeded 
$4,500,000. The current earnings of its constituents, parti- 
cularly of the Buick Motor Company, and the proceeds of 
loans negotiated chiefly in the latter’s name, provided the 
Combination with the remainder of the capital funds re- 
quired. Thus, the Cadillac purchase was originally made by 
the Buick company, the latter procuring the funds by dis- 


* From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 161 


counting its short-term notes, secured by the Cadillac stock 
as collateral, with various commercial banks.” 

The capital requirements of the General Motors Company 
were not limited, however, to the provision of funds for the 
direct acquisition of properties. The purpose of the Com- 
bination required the production of the full line of motor 
vehicles it had acquired. Most of the constituents, however, 
were small and untried enterprises, badly in need of equip- 
ment and of inventories; and many of them were in debt. 
In the attempt to develop all of its lines of motor vehicles, 
the Combination, in the year ended September 30, 1910, 
during which few important acquisitions were made, in- 
creased its investment in fixed plant from $6,078,447 to 
$14,094,906; and the book value of its inventories rose from 
$8 520,920 to $39,802,483.? 

Fortunately, the earnings of 1909 and I910 were very 
large: net profits applicable to capital stock of the General 
Motors Company totaled $9,114,498 in 1909 and $10,225,- 
367 in 1910, of which only $1,060,568 had been paid out in 
dividends during the two years. But the operations of the 
Combination had expanded rapidly in its second year, the 
financial volume of sales rising from $29,029,875 in 1909 to 
$49,430,179 in 1910;3 and the increased volume of business 
accentuated the inadequate provision in the financial plan 
for liquid capital. In consequence, despite its large current 
earnings, the General Motors Company and its subsidiaries 
became more and more heavily indebted to suppliers and to 
commercial banks. To further aggravate the situation, the 
sales of the Buick Motor Company, the bulwark of the 
Combination, began to fall below the scheduled volume in 
the summer of 1910, adding the commitments of this com- 
pany to those of the smaller enterprises.‘ 


«Cf, Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 89, p. 228; from the 
records of the Corporation. 

a Cf. annual reports of General Motors Company for 1909 and IgIo. 

3 Ibid. 

4Sales of the Buick company totaled 20,758 cars for the year as 


162 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


The immediate solution of the difficulties of the Combina- 
tion seemed to lie in the sale of securities for cash. The 
times, however, were not propitious for the sale of automo- 
bile company stocks. In 1910, bankers and others, in maga- 
zine articles and in public addresses, were pronouncing fre- 
quent warnings against the continuing growth of the auto- 
mobile industry. A common assertion was that the industry 
was diverting the productive resources of the country into 
unproductive channels. The industry was charged with 
being responsible for the then-prevailing stagnation in the 
bond market by absorbing funds which would otherwise be 
invested in securities; with reducing the average size of 
bank accounts; and with other evil influences. 

Late in August, 1910, with a view, possibly, to facilitate 
the sale of common stock by increasing the number of shares 
and thus reducing the market price per share, William C. 
Durant, chairman of the executive committee, announced a 
plan for increasing the capitalization of the Company and 
distributing a stock dividend of 400 per cent.? Before this 
plan could be put into effect, however, the merchandise and 
bank creditors of the Buick Motor Company (the name and 
credit of which were largely employed by the parent concern 
for the requirements of the entire Combination) met in New 
York to determine upon a common policy.3 The bank in- 
debtedness of the Buick company was found to total ap- 
proximately $2,700,000, and its indebtedness to merchan- 
dise creditors, between $4,000,000 and $5,000,000. A gen- 
eral committee of creditors was appointed for the purpose of 
effecting ‘a reorganization of the management and a restric- 
tion of enthusiasm’; and arrangements were made to extend 


against a scheduled volume of 30,000, most of the decline falling in the 
summer of 1910. From the records of the Corporation. 

* Cf. particularly an article by Franklin Escher (recently a lecturer on 
foreign exchange at New York University), entitled ‘The Auto and the 
Bond Market,’ in the Bankers’ Magazine, vol. 81, p. 508 ff. (October, 
1910); cf. also, Briscoe, loc. cit. 

* Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 90, p. 592. 


+ Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 90, p. 719. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 163 


a credit of one year, and to advance $2,500,000 on new notes 
secured by the capital stocks of the Olds and Cadillac 
companies. 


6. FUNDING OF GENERAL Motors’ INDEBTEDNESS 


The General Motors Company had no sooner completed 
arrangements for temporary financial relief than steps were 
taken to fund the Company’s indebtedness and to supply it 
with additional working capital. Late in September, 1910, 
negotiations were concluded with a syndicate headed by Lee, 
Higginson & Co., of Boston, and J. & W. Seligman & Co., 
and the Central Trust Company, of New York, for the 
underwriting of $15,000,000 (of a total authorized issue of 
_ $20,000,000) six per cent sinking fund, five-year notes, 
dated October 1, 1910, and redeemable on any interest 
date at 10214. The plan for the issue of the notes, secured by 
a deed of trust, and protected by the deposit of a majority 
of the outstanding preferred and common stock of the 
General Motors Company under a voting-trust agreement, 
was formally adopted by the Company’s board of directors 
on November 11, 1910. How thoroughly the provisions of 
the deed of trust protected the note-holders may be seen 
from a survey of its principal elements.? 

1. The real estate, plants, patents and other fixed assets of the 
Buick, Cadillac, Olds, Oakland, Elmore, Northway, Marquette, 
Rapid, Reliance, Welch of Detroit, Welch Motor, Champion Ig- 
nition, Jackson-Church-Wilcox, Michigan Motor Castings, and Oak 
Park Power companies were transferred to the General Motors 
Company of Michigan, theretofore the holder merely of some pieces 
of idle real estate in the city of Detroit; and this company issued 
$13,300,000 of First Mortgage, six per cent five-year notes, secured 
by a first mortgage on all the property it then owned or would after- 
wards acquire, to the Central Trust Company, as trustee; these 
notes being pledged as part of the security of the notes issued by the 


parent company. 
2. The General Motors Company (New Jersey) pledged all its 


* Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 90, p. 719. 
* From the listing application of General Motors Company to the 
New York Stock Exchange, June 22, 1911. 


1644 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


holdings in subsidiary companies directly connected with the manu- 
facture of motor cars and parts (constituting substantially all of 
its assets, except for the stocks of the Heany Lamp companies and 
its small holdings in Brown-Lipe-Chapin Company); and agreed 
that any evidences of indebtedness issued by any subsidiary, a ma- 
jority of whose stock was pledged, other than those issued for cur- 
rent operating expenses, would be acquired by the parent company; 
that none of such subsidiaries would issue stock having preference 
over that pledged; and that if any company, stock of which was 
pledged, increased the amount of its capital stock, the General 
Motors Company would acquire and pledge the amount of the in- 
crease proportionate to its pledged holdings. 

3. The General Motors Company agreed that while any of the 
notes were outstanding, the Company would not distribute in cash 
dividends on its common stock more than one-half of the net profits 
subsequent to October 1, 1910, applicable to such dividends; and 
that it would maintain net quick assets equal to at least 133% per 
cent of the amount of notes outstanding plus an amount equal to the 
total cash dividends, if any, paid on the common stock. 

4. The sinking fund provisions called for the annual cash payment 
to the trustee, on or before October 1 of each year, of the following 
amounts: I9II, $1,500,000; 1912, $1,500,000; 1913, $2,000,000; 
1914, $2,000,000; and the balance at maturity. 


Under the voting-trust agreement, a majority of the pre- 
ferred and common stock of the General Motors Company 
was deposited with a board of five members, three of whom 
represented the underwriting syndicate. The members of 
this board were: James N. Wallace, of the Central Trust 
Company; Frederick Strauss, of J. & W. Seligman & Co.; 
James J. Storrow, of Lee, Higginson & Co.; William C. 
Durant, vice-president of the General Motors Company; and 
Anthony N. Brady, a large stockholder. 

The stringent terms exacted by the banking syndicate for 
the underwriting of this note-issue offer abundant testimony 
of the uncertain, speculative character of the automobile 
industry, in the opinion of bankers and investors, at this 
period. Within the industry, the General Motors Company 
possessed excellent prospects: its constituents, together, con- 
stituted the largest single producer of automobiles in the 
country — their net sales in the year just then ended had 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 165 


exceeded $49,000,000; their business did not require the ex- 
tension of long credits to purchasers or the maintenance of 
large inventories of finished goods; the net profits of the 
Combination had exceeded $19,000,000 in the two years of 
its existence; and the demand for its products appeared to 
be increasing. 

The General Motors Company received about $12,500,- 
000 in cash for its $15,000,000 of notes.t In addition to the 
cash discount, the bankers received a bonus of $5,169,200 
par value of the Corporation’s preferred stock.? By arrange- 
ment with several of the large common stockholders, much 
of this preferred was exchanged for common stock in order 
to permit the bankers to offer a bonus of the latter with the 
notes. Voting-trust certificates for the preferred stock 
ranged in price on the New York Stock Exchange between 
$86.625 and $74.50 a share during 1911. At the lowest mar- 
ket price during 1911, the preferred stock bonus given the 
bankers had a cash value of $3,851,054. 

In view of the speculative character of the automobile 
industry in 1910, the terms imposed by the bankers (the 
voting-trust agreement gave them complete control of the 
board of directors and its principal committees, to which 
they elected themselves and individuals affiliated with them 
shortly after the issue of the notes) are believed in some 
quarters to have been fully warranted, and their assistance 
has been characterized as courageous and liberal. Little 
difficulty appears to have been experienced, nevertheless, in 


*Cf. Wall Street Journal of September 9, 1910, and Briscoe, Joc. cit. 
The former, referring to the preliminary negotiations, names $85 as the 
issue price to the bankers; Mr. Briscoe, who declares that he was called 
upon to examine the financial statement of the General Motors Company 
in advance of the financing, states that the corporation received ‘about 
$12,000,000.’ 

2 From data compiled from the records of the General Motors Cor- 
poration for the present writer by, and through the courtesy of, Mr. 
Frank F. Kolbe, assistant treasurer. 

3 Ibid. 

4 Cf. Doolittle, Romance of the Automobile Industry, p. 294. 


166 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


the disposition of the note-issue. On October 18, 1910, a 
Boston financial publication declared: * 


Private subscriptions have been coming in so rapidly to the 
$15,000,000 First Lien Five-Year General Motors notes that it seems 
doubtful whether there will be any public issue or any chance for the 
general public to subscribe. Applications have already been received 
... for more than a majority of the notes. We understand that these 
applications are based on 96 and interest for the notes, with a 20 per 
cent stock bonus. The common stock has been dealt in on the New 
York Curb at 40 to 45 these last two or three weeks. ... 


In November, 1910, the bankers announced that all of the 
notes had been sold in advance of public offering. 


7. REGIME OF THE BANKERS’ CONTROL 


The condensed consolidated balance-sheet of the General 
Motors Company and its subsidiary companies on October 
I, I910, immediately after the new financing, was as fol- 
lows: ? 

ASSETS 


Fixed assets: 
Real estate, plants and equipment........+.+++++++$14,094,909.55 


Patents, agreements, etc... ......cceccecces Sue tna «e+ 1,959,416.30 
Miscellaneous investments..........eeeee0: pC yy se 408,944.07 
Current and working assets: 
Cash in banks and on hand........ $15,000,473 .66 
Notes and accounts receivable...... 4,090,028 .81 
Deferred charges... si janesee ees 107,302.16 
Inventories..... sles kia.d oie blambale ss elf Osea dae 
39,000,287 .90 


Good-will, representing excess of ap- 
praised value over book value of 
stocks of subsidiary companies owned 14,853,855.91 


$70,317,413.73 


* Boston News Bureau. 

* Excluding companies unconnected with motor-car manufacture — 
the Heany Lamp companies, principally. From listing application of 
General Motors Company to the New York Stock Exchange, June 22, 
IQII. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 167 


LIABILITIES 
Capital stock: 

Preferred stock (authorized 

$20,000,000) issued............. $18,038,400 .00 
Less in treasury of General Motors 

Company, $1,882,000 
Less in treasuries of subsidiary com- 

PENIS, PI,093, 100... 0. ccc c.sce0 3,575,100.00 


$14,463,300.00 
Common stock (authorized $40,000,- 
PP Ys MA $19,874,030.00 
Less in treasury of General Motors 
Company, $3,730,500 
Less in treasuries of subsidiary com- 
SNIMEN BAL OMOO esl aie insé-a\¢,0,s é 6.3.0 4,049,000 .00 
$15,825,030.00 
First lien six per cent five-year sink- 
er eUING POId MOLEH.), since. ee ess eecccccccccees 15,000,000.00 
Outstanding capital stock (par value) 
and surplus of subsidiary companies, 
being the portion not owned by the 
General Motors Company 


Capital stock.......... seeccees $1,495,520.00 
POREPOLELE vc we iat «ein ave GARY a aaa 724,341.40 
2,219,861 .40 
Current liabilities: 
Notes and accounts payable....... 14,089,016.25 
Mortgages payable......... eePuee 180,500.00 
14,269,516.25 
ee Ne Re Fou pelctcidsiip lesan s seven ’7,1890,917.0% 
COUR cts oo. ane ee elit og AE eI eke ekaae Mead tak Os7 aL a 


$70,317,413 -73 


Examination of the affairs of the Company by a firm of 
chartered accountants resulted in a report, issued November 
14, 1910, but applicable as of September 30, 1910, declaring 
that the Company’s net equities in its subsidiaries, exclusive 
of allowances for patents, good-will, agreements, etc., and 
exclusive of ‘other investments which are carried at a book 
value of $7,663,940,’ * were valued at $37,770,363; and that, 
after all bank loans and other maturing obligations had 
been met, the Company would have a cash balance of ap- 


* Consisting principally of the stocks of the Heany Lamp companies. 


168 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


proximately $3,000,000 from the proceeds of its note-issue.* 

The immediate direction of the Company was placed in 
the hands of a finance committee chosen from members of 
the board of directors. Of the eleven lines of motor vehi- 
cles only four were continued intact (the Buick, Cadillac, 
Olds, and Oakland); three were consolidated into a single 
unit, the General Motors Truck Company; and the remain- 
der were soon discontinued. Freed from its temporary 
financial embarrassment, the Company soon began to enjoy 
untroubled prosperity. On November 12, 1910, the board 
of directors voted the regular three and one-half per cent 
dividend on preferred stock, due October 1, but payment 
of which had been postponed. On March 3, I9QII, a cir- 
cular letter issued by Lee, Higginson & Co. declared that 
the plants of the Company were in full operation; that the 
earnings of two of the smaller subsidiaries, the Elmore and 
Northway companies, were exceeding those of the preceding 
year, when their earnings alone would have been adequate to 
meet the interest requirements of the outstanding note-issue; 
and that $500,000 had already been paid into the sinking 
fund for the purchase of notes in the open market.? 

An ambitious program of plant expansion and of acquisi- 
tion by purchase, financed and to be financed largely through 
the current earnings of its subsidiaries, had brought the Com- 
pany into the bankers’ hands. With the advent of the vot- 
ing trust, a conservative administrative policy was adopted; 
and the financial affairs of the Company soon reflected the 
unusually favorable conditions, as respects fixed and work- 
ing capital requirements, experienced by virtually all Ameri- 
can automobile producers. During the five years of the 
bankers’ control, dividends on preferred stock were paid 
regularly, though no disbursements were made to the com- 
mon stockholders; and earnings aggregating more than 


* Marwick, Mitchell & Co., quoted in the Commercial and Financial 
Chronicle, vol. 91, p. 1576. 

* Letter quoted in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 92, 
Pp. 264. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 169 


$30,000,000 were reinvested in the business. Substantial 
additions were made to the plants of subsidiaries, and the 
Company had no difficulty in regularly anticipating the 
sinking-fund requirements of its note-issue. In addition to 
current charges for depreciation, the plant and inventory 
valuations of 1910 were reduced by $9,960,000 by charges 
against the growing surplus; and the book value of the Com- 
pany’s intangible assets, which had totaled $16,813,272 in 
1910, was reduced to $8,347,698. In 1915, the Company 
was able to redeem the last of its outstanding notes and to 
carry on a greatly augmented volume of business without 

-any borrowing whatever from commercial banks.? Some of 
the results of the Company’s operations during the five years 
of the bankers’ control and during the two years preceding 
are summarized in Table 31; and the comparative balance- 
sheets of 1910 and 1915, which, however, must be inter- 
preted in the light of the heavy deflationary hand of the 
bankers on the valuation accounts during the intervening 
period, are presented on the page following. 


TABLE 31. OUTPUT, SALES, PROFITS, AND REINVESTED EARNINGS 
OF THE GENERAL Motors CoMPANy, 1909-15 * 


EARNINGS 


YEAR ENDED OuTPUT SALES NET PROFITS | peINVESTED 
ONE 40, TQ09. .0ses ees 30,981 | $29,029,875 | $9,114,498 | $8,696,877 
Sept. 30, 1910.........| 39,300 | 49,430,179 | 10,225,367.| 9,582,420 
July 31, 1911 %....,.... 35,752 | 42,733,303 | 4,066,251 | 2,474,177 
July 31, 1912.......... 49,538 | 64,744,496 | 4,746,756 | 2,856,082 
DURE FLOR S oleedis 0's «'s 46,719 | 85,603,920] 8,184,053 | 6,410,937 
Me AE SOLAS as ee sicans 58,987 | 85,373,303 | 7,819,968 | 6,201,055 
EES ATONE Te cg. ares lela Jo 76,068 | 94,424,841 | 14,794,191 | 13,408,839 


« Ten months. 

* From the records of the General Motors Corporation. Sales figures are exclusive of 
intercompany transactions; net profits represent net profits on operations after deduc- 
tions for taxes, interest on short-term indebtedness, and normal depreciation charges, 
but before ‘write-offs’ applicable to previous years and before deduction of interest 
paid on funded debt. The profit figures for 1909 and 1910 are probably exaggerated to 
some extent. 


: Cf. annual reports of the General Motors Company, IgII to 1915, 
inclusive. 


2 See report for 1915. 


170 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE-SHEETS OF OCTOBER I, 1910, AND 


JULY 31, 1915 


ASSETS 
I9gro 

Real estate, plant, equipment... ..$14,094,909.55 
Patents, agreements, etc.......... 1,959,416.30 
Miscellaneous investments. ....... 408,944.07 
Cash in hand and in banks....... 15,000,473 .66 
Marketable securities............ 
Notes and accounts receivable.... 4,090,028.81 
Deferred charges / 20's ds weoe oe 107,302.16 
Inventories duis 18 ctrise clea eeees 19,802,483 .27 
Prepaid expenses............005. 
Good-will, representing excess of 

appraised value over book value 

of stocks of subsidiary com- 

panies owned........... Beaks 14,853,855.91 


$70,317,413.73 


LIABILITIES 
Preferred stock (authorized $20,- 


000,000) net outstanding....... $14,463,300.00 ® 


Common stock (authorized $40,- 


000,000) net outstanding....... 15,825,030.00 ® 


First lien six per cent sinking-fund 

five-year gold notes............ 15,000,000 .00 
Outstanding capital stock and sur- 

plus of subsidiary companies, be- 

ing portion not owned by Gen- 


eral Motors Company.......... 2,219,861 .40 ¢ 
Notes payable and accounts pay- 

able NA cio, Sete ae 14,089,016.25 
Mortgages payable...........0.. 180,500.00 
ACETUALBS cin! ss ike be hn hv Meno 
Reserve for preferred dividend..... 
Reserve for sundry contingencies. . 
PROOET WES 6 ahs s osianid clad ke ee 7,189,917 .O1 
UMD. ales c's'enk ato nebo oun tae 1,349,789 .07 


$70,317,413-73 


* Net, after deducting $6,933,570.68 reserve for depreciation. 


IOIs 


$15,819,851 .85 ¢ 


413,500.00 
367,184.50 
14,526,124.14 
1,001,000 .00 
3,944,680 .75 


14,049,298. 15 
533585 -97 


7,934,198 .14 


$58,589,423 .50 


$14,985,200.00 ® 


16,506,783 .05 ® 


2,328,000 .00 


982,423.14 ° 
1,380,907 .94 4 
1,270,302 .43 

262,241.00 

888,406.00 


19,985,159 .94 


$58,589,423 .50 


» Excluding stock held in treasury of parent company and subsidiaries: ro1o, parent 
company held $1,882,000 preferred and $3,730,500 common, and subsidiaries held 
$1,693,100 preferred and $318,500 common; I915, parent company held $3,053,200 


preferred and $3,367,246.95 common. 


* 1910, capital stock (par value), $1,495,520.00; surplus, $724,341.40; 1915, capital 


stock (par value), $528,000.00; surplus, $454,423.14. 
¢ Accounts payable only. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 171 


The substantial achievements of the voting trust, particu- 
larly as respects financial management, are generally con- 
ceded. As respects industrial expansion, however, the facts 
suggest that the Company might have fared better in the 
hands of an administration less wedded to conservatism. 
The period of the bankers’ control was one of tremendous 
growth in the automobile industry: the aggregate American 
output rose from 187,000 vehicles valued at $225,000,000 in 
1910 to 969,930 vehicles valued at $701,778,000 in 1915. The 
General Motors enterprises had contributed about 21 per 
cent of the total physical output and about 22 per cent of the 


_ wholesale value in 1910; by 1915, their combined share had 


fallen to about 7.8 per cent of the physical output and to 


about 13.3 per cent of the total wholesale value. One of the 


operating vice-presidents of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion, speaking informally in an interview with the present 
writer, declared: ? 


The bankers were too skeptical about the future of the automobile 
industry. They were chiefly interested in trying to realize savings, 
so they closed down some plants, concentrating in others. They 
didn’t take advantage of the opportunities. Under Durant, the 
Company might have had a little financial difficulty now and then, 
but it would have grown much faster and its earnings would have 
been much greater. 


As the final year of the voting trust drew to a close, the 
board of directors, in announcing the first cash dividend to 
be distributed to the common stockholders of the Company 
— a dividend of fifty per cent — declared: 3 


The common stock has never received a cash dividend since the 
company was organized on September 16, 1908. 

Your directors have followed the policy of building up the cash 
assets and credit of the company and have so accumulated and held 
large cash balances pending the maturity of the six per cent notes, the 
original issue of which was $15,000,000, and the last of which will be 
paid October 1, next.... 


* Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927. 
* Name withheld by request. 
+ Annual report of General Motors Company for 1915. 


172 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Your board does not believe in running into debt; hence one 
million dollars has been invested in short-time securities against 
probable extensions. 

The large write-offs amounting to $12,531,013.19, required dur- 
ing the past five years to bring your plants, machinery, merchan- 
dise, and other assets down to a conservative figure are now, we 
believe, at an end.... 

From the balance of cash available your directors have to-day de- 
clared a dividend of 50 per cent on the Common Stock, being $50 per 
share, payable October 15, 1915, to stockholders of record at the close 
of business, September 10, I9I5. 


8. REACCESSION OF WILLIAM C. DURANT: 
THE CHEVROLET MoToR COMPANY 


During the régime of the bankers’ control, William C. 
Durant, erstwhile promoter of the General Motors Com- 
pany and chairman of its executive committee, had played a 
passive réle in the administration of the enterprise. Though 
a member of the board of voting trustees, he had transferred 
his energies, shortly after the accession of the bankers, to the 
organization of a new automobile enterprise, the Chevrolet 
Motor Company. This enterprise, incorporated in Michigan 
on November 6, 1911, acquired a small automobile factory 
operated by William H. Little, and started manufacture of 
an automobile designed principally by Louis Chevrolet, a 
well-known racing pilot. In 1913, soon after production in 
commercial volume was under way, Durant and his associ- 
ates obtained control of the Republic Motor Company, of 
Tarrytown, New York, and, after changing its name to the 
Chevrolet Motor Company of New York, Inc., operated the 
Tarrytown factory as an assembly plant for Chevrolet ve- 
hicles, most of the parts being purchased from parts-makers.* 
The Chevrolet automobile struck the public fancy: output 
in the two years ended August 14, 1915, totaled 15,919 ve- 
hicles; net sales, $11,707,954; and net profits, $1,305,784; ? 


t Cf. listing application of General Motors Corporation to the New 
York Stock Exchange, January 20, 1919. 
* Ibid. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 173 


and a number of associated Chevrolet enterprises were soon 
organized in various cities. 

Durant’s ulterior object in establishing a New York 
Chevrolet factory was that of interesting Eastern capitalists 
in his automobile projects, and, possibly, of procuring the 
support of some of them in an attempt to regain control of 
the General Motors Company, according to one of his 
associates, who declared :? 

The automobile business was foreign to these Eastern bankers. 
They wouldn’t come all the way out to Michigan to see what the 
_ industry was doing. With a factory at Tarrytown, we thought that 
they could run up and see it; and even if it were only an assembling 
plant, they would be impressed by seeing the actual automobiles 
_being turned out. That was Durant’s object in this Tarrytown 

factory — to get a few of them interested in his operations. 


Durant evidently succeeded fully in this object. As the 
expiration of the voting trust drew near, great activity 
was displayed in the New York stock market by the 
voting-trust certificates for the common and _ preferred 
stocks of the Company. Trading in these securities — 
the first stocks of any automobile enterprise to be listed 
on the Exchange?— had been relatively light for the 
first three or four years, and fluctuations in the price of 
the common stock, while substantial, had not been ex- 
ceptional: between 1911 and the beginning of 1915, the 
‘low’ price had ranged between 25 and 37.37, and the 
‘high,’ between 40 and 99.3 Early in-1915, however, Durant 
and his new supporters — principally, Pierre S. Du Pont, of 
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., and Louis G. Kaufman, 
president of the Chatham & Phcenix National Bank, New 
York — began to purchase General Motors common stock 
in the open market,‘ and a startling ascent in its price was 

* Mr. A. B. C. Hardy, long associated with Durant, and later vice- 
president of the General Motors Corporation, in an interview with the 
present writer in Lansing, Michigan, December 24, 1924. 

2 Listed on July 31, 1911. The first lien notes had been listed on June 
28, IQII. 

3 Ch. summaries of Commercial and Financial Chronicle. 

‘From information given the writer by Mr. A. B. C. Hardy. 


174. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


soon under way: on January 2, 1915, the closing price of the 
stock was 82; by December 9g, 1915, it reached a ‘high’ 
of 558. On October I, 1915, in the meantime, when the vot- 
ing trust expired, Durant and his associates controlled 
enough stock to elect nearly a clear majority of the board of 
directors; and the chairmanship of the board went to Pierre 
S. Du Pont, Durant’s chief supporter. 

In order to place his tenuous, but effective, control of 
General Motors on a surer basis, Durant proceeded to effect 
a reorganization of his Chevrolet enterprises. The latter had 
been established without public financing, most of their 
securities having been issued for property and services.‘ On 
September 23, 1915, Durant organized the Chevrolet Motor 
Company of Delaware; on October 21, $13,200,000 par 
value of the authorized capital stock ($20,000,000, all com- 
mon, of $100 par value) was exchanged for the stocks of the 
Michigan and New York Chevrolet companies and of several 
small enterprises; and $6,800,000 par value was offered to 
the public through an underwriting syndicate headed by 
Hornblower & Weeks.? This firm announced that the man- 
agement of the Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware) was 
identified with that of the General Motors Company; that its 
product was to be a new low-priced passenger car; that the 
current earnings of the constituent companies were at the 
rate of $2,000,000 a year; and that the purpose of the public 
offering was to provide funds for increasing the output from 
100 to 300 cars a day.3 The association of Durant’s name 
with the enterprise led numerous motor-car dealers and Gen- 
eral Motors stockholders to subscribe to the new stock; 4 

* The original capitalization of the Chevrolet Motor Company of 
Michigan, the parent and most important of the group, was $100,000; 
this was increased, a month after the incorporation, to $2,500,000 (all 
common stock), of which $316,900 was listed as issued for cash; on June 
18, 1913, $500,000 of the common stock was converted into seven per 
cent cumulative full-voting preferred stock; and on this date, $999,500 of 


the common stock was listed as issued. Cf. articles of incorporation and 
amendments as filed with the Michigan Secretary of State. 

* Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 101, p. 1094. 

3 Ibid, 

‘ From information given the writer by Mr. A.'B. C. Hardy. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 175 


and on October 1, before the issue had been formally author- 
ized, the underwriting syndicate announced that the sub- 
scription books had been closed, applications for the stock 
having exceeded ten times the amount offered. The public 
sale was at $85 a share,’ the price to the underwriters, about 
$65 ; ?and, soon after the books were closed, the stock sold on 
the New York Curb market at $97 a share. 

No sooner had this reorganization and financing been 
completed than Durant approached a number of the larger 
stockholders of the General Motors Company, many of whom 
had been associated with him in its original promotion, 
and offered to exchange stock in the Chevrolet Motor Com- 
pany (Delaware) for their holdings of General Motors at the 
rate of five shares of the former for each share of the latter.4 
The response to this offer was evidently adequate, for on 
December 23, 1915, the stockholders of the Chevrolet Motor 
Company voted to increase the authorized capital stock 
from $20,000,000 to $80,000,000 (all common); and author- 
ized the board of directors to issue the additional stock as 
the latter saw fit, specifically empowering them to issue 
Chevrolet stock for General Motors common stock at a 
ratio not greater than five to one.’ Durant and his associates 
exchanged a large portion of their General Motors holdings 
at this rate; and a public offering of Chevrolet stock on a 
similar basis met with sufficient response to warrant a clos- 
ing of the offering on January 25, 1916.° 

The evident plan of the Chevrolet Motor Company to ac- 
quire control of the General Motors Company met with the 
opposition of a number of the directors of the latter company; 
and in January, 1916, a circular letter, signed by eight mem- 

* Cf. announcement of Hornblower & Weeks, quoted in the Commercial 
and Financial Chronicle, vol. 101, p. 1094. 

2 New York Times Annalist, vol. 7, p. 51 (January 10, 1916). 

3 Cf. listing application of General Motors Corporation to the New 
York Stock Exchange, January 20, I9I19. 

4 From information given the writer by Mr. A. B, C. Hardy. 

8 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 101, p. 2147. 

§ Ibid., vol. 102, p. 439. 


.176 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


bers of the board of directors of the General Motors Com- 
pany, was addressed to the latter’s stockholders, proposing 
a new voting trust of three years, and inviting the codpera- 
tion of the stockholders. The letter read as follows:? 


The undersigned directors have received many inquiries in regard 
to current reports that the control of the General Motors Company 
was about to be acquired by another company, and asking informa- 
tion in the premises. 

Under the circumstances, they would state that no one of the 
undersigned is a party to any arrangement looking to the vesting of 
control of the General Motors Company in any other corporation. 

We believe that the results achieved with President Nash at the 
head of the Company have been satisfactory to the stockholders. 
It has been suggested by some shareholders that it would be well 
to form a three-year voting trust beginning November, 1916, at 
which date the term of the present board of directors expires. The 
majority of the present board of directors favors this plan. Witha 
sufficient number of stockholders wishing to unite in forming this 
voting trust, action to that end will be taken. 

The slip enclosed, on which the shareholders may express their 
wish for a voting trust of five members of the present board acting as 
trustees, to be selected by the present board of directors, should be 
returned at once to Standish Backus, Secretary of the General Mo- 
tors Company, Detroit, Mich. 


The document was signed by Samuel F. Pryer, Albert 
H. Wiggin, Thomas Neal, Charles H. Sabin, J. J. Storrow, 
C. S. Mott, Albert Strauss, and Emory Clark. 

The response to the letter was probably slight, for on 
March 18, 1916, another appeal was addressed to the Gen- 
eral Motors stockholders, this time signed by thirteen 
stockholders ‘unconnected with the management.’ *? Among 
other things, the writers declared: 

Granting that the present effort to vest control of the General 
Motors Company in the Chevrolet Motor Company has not suc- 
ceeded, it is quite possible that a renewed effort in this direction will 
be made or that an attempt may be made to change the control by 


some other method.... 
We do not believe that control by the Chevrolet Motor Company 


* Quoted in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 102, p. 157. 
2 Ibid., vol. 102, p. 1063. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 177 


would result in any improvement in the management. The following 
have consented to act (as trustees of the three-year Voting Trust 
proposed): C. W. Nash, E. W. Clark, C. S. Mott, C. H. Sabin, J. J. 
Storrow, and Albert Strauss. 


This appeal, as the preceding one, bore little fruit; and the 
evident strength of the Durant support is believed to have 
caused a number of the large stockholding interests to dis- 
pose of their holdings, thus facilitating the attainment of 
Durant’s objective. Mr. Pierre S. Du Pont, in answer to 
some queries addressed to him by the present writer, de- 
clared:* | 

The purchase of General Motors stock (and afterward its ex- 
change in part for Chevrolet Motor Company stock) by the E. I. 
Du Pont de Nemours & Company undoubtedly had an influence on 
Mr. Durant’s control of General Motors Corporation, as the rela- 
tions of the Du Pont Company with Mr. Durant were always cordial 
and coéperative. However, I believe that the sale of stock by inter- 
ests that might otherwise have been adverse to Mr. Durant, had a 
greater influence in strengthening the latter’s control. I do not be- 
lieve that the Du Pont Company and Mr. Durant ever had an actual 
majority of shares, but they, together with their following, that is, 
investors who were willing to trust the management of the company 
to them, undoubtedly represented the large majority. 


Ten weeks after the issue of the second appeal for the 
formation of a voting trust, William C. Durant, president of 
the Chevrolet Motor Company, succeeded Charles W. Nash 
as president of the General Motors Company; and a short 
time later, James J. Storrow, Emory W. Clark, and Albert 
Strauss resigned from the board of directors. The Chevrolet 
Motor Company had acquired a clear majority of General 
Motors common stock! ? 


9. FORMATION OF THE GENERAL Motors CORPORATION 


With Durant once more in control, the General Motors 
Company again pursued a policy of vigorous expansion. The 


t In a letter dated March 10, 1925. 

2 Cf. annual report of Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware) for 1916. 
Included among the assets as of December 31, 1916, were 450,000 shares 
of General Motors common stock; the outstanding total of the latter 


178 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


year ended July 31, 1916, was one of striking increases in 
output, sales, and profits, as may be seen from the following 
summary: * 


OuTPUT SALES NET PROFITS 
IQI5..es000- 76,069 $94,424,841 $14,794,191 
TGfG ss Nacwe 132,088 156,900,296 28,812,288 


After distributing $11,779,123 in dividends, the Company 
ended the fiscal year with a net addition of $17,010,437 to 
its surplus account, and with a cash balance of $22,476,575. 
Its earnings applicable to common stock had exceeded 168 
per cent of the par value of the latter, and, in consequence, 
the market value of the common stock reached new heights.? 
On August 31, 1916, in order, among other things, ‘to afford 
the present stockholders a more liquid and satisfactory in- 
vestment,’ the board of directors voted to readjust the cap- 
italization of the Company.’ On September 16, 1916, it was 
announced that a plan for the formation of a new company 
had received the approval of a majority of the stockholders, 
and would go into effect on November I. 

The General Motors Corporation was incorporated in 
Delaware on October 13, 1916, and acquired the capital 
stock of the General Motors Company (New Jersey) on the 
following terms: one and one-third shares of the six per cent 
preferred stock of the new company were exchanged for each 
share of seven per cent preferred of the old (a total of 199,803 
of the new for 149,582 of the old); and five shares of the new 
company’s common stock were exchanged for each common 
share of the old (a total of 825,590 for 165,118); 4 the new 
was 825,589. Five shares of General Motors Corporation common stock 


had been issued in exchange for each share of General Motors Company 
common stock. 

* Annual reports for 1915 and 1916. Net profits here include interest 
on funded indebtedness, but exclude interest paid on short-term notes. 

2 The stock sold between $405, on April 24, and $850, on October 25, 
in 1916, 

3 Cf. announcement cited in Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 
103, p. 1214. 

4 See listing application of General Motors Corporation to the New 
York Stock Exchange, November 20, 1916. Fractional shares were re- 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 179 


stocks, like the old, were of $100 par value. The General 
Motors Corporation then proceeded to dissolve most of its 
operating subsidiaries, acquiring direct title to their physi- 
cal assets; sales companies of nominal capital ($10,000 in 
each case) replaced the sales organizations of the constitu- 
ents; and, on August 1, 1917, when these changes had been 
completed, the General Motors Corporation formally be- 
came an operating rather than a holding company, prima- 
rily.? 

Durant, in the meantime, continued vigorously to extend 
the operations of both the General Motors and Chevrolet 
enterprises. In the seventeen months between July 31, 1916, 
and December 31, 1917, the fixed-plant investment of Gen- 
eral Motors more than doubled, reaching $38,657,835 on the 
latter date; its inventories rose from $25,100,450 to $46,- 
559,394; and its net quick assets increased from $22,706,207 
to $55,943,929. Reinvested profits in this period totaled 
$27,810,043, after more than $11,000,000 had been distrib- 
uted in dividends.?, The Chevrolet enterprise likewise made 
great strides. In 1915, it had introduced a new low-priced 
car retailing at $550. Previous to this time, the Ford Motor 
Company alone had catered effectively to this largest price- 
class of automobile purchasers. So great was the demand for 
automobiles of such price, moreover, that the Ford com- 
pany’s chief problem was the adequate expansion of its out- 
put; and the Chevrolet company was therefore able to ab- 
sorb part of this waiting market. Branch plants, financed in 
part by local capital, were established in different cities; a 
truck-producing subsidiary was organized; and investments 
were made in various parts-making enterprises. Independ- 
ently of its control of General Motors, therefore, the Chevro- 
let company was developing into an important automobile- 


deemed in cash at the rate of $150 a share for common stock and $100 
a share for preferred. 

* See annual report for 1917. The New Jersey corporation was dis- 
solved on October 6, 1917. 

* Annual reports for 1916 and 1917. 


180 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


manufacturing enterprise. A consolidated record of the 
output, financial volume of sales, and net profits of the 
Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware) and its predecessors 
and subsidiaries, from the beginning of the commercial op- 
erations of the original enterprise to the end of 1917, is pre- 
sented below (exclusive of dividends received from stock- 
holdings in the General Motors and other ‘unconsolidated’ 
enterprises, and of the operations of such enterprises) : * 


PERIOD ENDED OUTPUT SALES PROFITS 
July 31, 1914 (I2 mos.).. 6,041 $4,838,639 $486,654 
August 14, 1915 (12% mos.).. 9,878 7,094,919 964,971 
December 31, 1915 (4 % mos.).. 11,888 6,417,328 1,128,590 


December 31, 1916 (12. mos.).. 50,048 24,481,351 4,115,184 
December 31, 1917 (12 mos.)..128,266 71,743,056 4,965,337 


Shortly after the beginning of 1918, negotiations were 
begun for the acquisition by the General Motors Corpora- 
tion of the Chevrolet Motor Company and its subsidiaries. 
Since the latter Company owned a clear majority of the 
common stock of the former (450,000 out of 768,733 shares 
outstanding, exclusive of treasury holdings), and since the 
Durant-Du Pont holdings were adequate for effective control 
of both,? an agreement was speedily concluded, whereby all 
the assets of the Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware), 
except its holdings of General Motors common stock, were 
to be transferred to the General Motors Corporation in re- 
turn for $28,268,400 par value of the latter’s common stock 
and the assumption by the latter of the outstanding liabil- 
ities of the Chevrolet Motor Company.’ The General Mo- 


* From the listing application of the General Motors Corporation to 
the New York Stock Exchange, January 20, 1919. 

2 E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., in February, 1918, announced the 
acquisition, ‘almost entirely by private contract,’ of substantial holdings 
in both the Chevrolet and General Motors corporations, in which, with 
W. C. Durant, they ‘own a controlling interest.’ These holdings were 
acquired chiefly from Pierre S. Du Pont and other individuals connected 


with the Du Pont company. Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, 
vol. 106, p. 824. 


3 See listing application of General Motors Corporation to the New 
York Stock Exchange, January 20, 1919. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 181 


tors Corporation increased its authorized capitalization from 
$20,000,000 of six per cent preferred stock and $82,600,000 
of common stock to $50,000,000 of preferred and $150,000,- 
000 of common, in order to provide for this and other pend- 
ing acquisitions. The sale became effective on May 2, 1918; 
and on October 11, 1918, the Chevrolet Motor Company 
proposed to its stockholders the dissolution of the Com- 
pany and the exchange of the outstanding stock at the 
rate of one share of the latter for one and one-seventh 
shares of General Motors common and 44 cents in cash (the 
cash resulting from General Motors dividends). 

The net worth of the Chevrolet Motor Company two days 
before it was acquired by the General Motors Corporation, 
exclusive of its holdings of General Motors common stock, 
which it retained for distribution to its stockholders, was 
$36,330,939, inclusive of ‘good-will’ valued at $11,953,099.? 
Much the greater part of this net worth had been built up by 
reinvestment of earnings. The origins of the capital stock 
issues of the Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware) had 
been as follows:3 

For the outstanding capital stock of the Chevrolet Mo- 

tor Company of Michigan ($235,100 par value pre- 
ferred and $1,418,350 par value of common); the out- 


standing capital stock of the Chevrolet Motor Com- 
pany of New York, Inc. ($872,000 par value); and 


EE RMR E CMMI eS Asie its 4's d's's.de ec ecete Chie soe $20,000,000 
Less difference between $248,000 par value returned 
and $107,500 reissued............ cits baceaee che she 140,500 
19,859,500 
For 450,000 shares of General Motors common stock.... 43,400,000 


For properties of National Cycle Manufacturing Com- 
pany and National Motor Truck Company, and 
TS TS SE NA ii ae a 850,000 


$64,109,500 


* Tbid. 

2 Cf. balance-sheet included in listing application of General Moters 
Corporation to the New York Stock Exchange, January 20, 1919. 

3 Ilid. 


182. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Since the net worth of the Chevrolet Motor Company of 
Michigan, two months after its acquisition by the Delaware 
Chevrolet corporation, was only $2,598,156, and that of the 
New York Company much less;? and since the Delaware 
company received only sixty-five cents on the dollar for the 
stock sold for cash, we may conclude that considerably more 
than one-half of the original $20,000,000 of capital stock re- 
presented promotion services and financing charges. The 
stock issued in exchange for General Motors common stock 
had proved to be a profitable investment, apart from the 
control it purchased, for the Chevrolet company received 
dividends aggregating $4,500,000 in 1917 and $2,700,000 in 
the first four months of 1918, from this source. Most of the 
‘water’ in the original capitalization of the Chevrolet Motor 
Company (Delaware) had been eliminated through the rein- 
vestment of earnings by the time the enterprise passed to the 
General Motors Corporation: of the aggregate income of the 
former, up to April 30, 1918, $9,601,210 had been distributed 
to its stockholders, and $13,309,511 had been reinvested in 
the business.2, The General Motors Corporation paid $1.12 
par value of its common stock per dollar of the net tangible 
book assets acquired from the Chevrolet company, and 
seventy-eight cents per dollar of the latter’s total net book 
assets, inclusive of ‘good-will.’ General Motors common 
stock sold on the New York Stock Exchange at prices rang- 
ing between $106.75 and $164 a share during 1918, however. 
The net operating earnings of the Chevrolet Motor Com- 
pany during the fiscal year just preceding the purchase had 
been at the rate of 17.5 per cent on the par value of General 
Motors’ investment in the Company. 


* The report of the Michigan Chevrolet company as of December 31, 
1915, is on file with the Michigan Secretary of State; the New York com- 
pany was doing about one-half the volume of business of the former (cf. 
listing application above cited), but its net-worth figure at this date is 
not available. 

4 See listing application of General Motors Corporation to the New 
York Stock Exchange, January 20, 1919. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 183 


10. ACQUISITION OF UNITED Motors CorporATION, ETC. 


The purchase of the Chevrolet Motor Company had not 
been consummated before the General Motors Corporation 
took steps to acquire the assets of a large combination of 
parts- and accessory-manufacturers, known as the United 
Motors Corporation. This combination had been promoted 
by Durant shortly after his reaccession to the control of 
General Motors, with the purpose, in part, of protecting the 
latter’s sources of supplies.t The Company had been incor- 
porated in New York on May 16, 1916, with an authorized 
capital stock of 1,200,000 shares of no par value, 5000 of 
which, denominated Class B stock, possessed sole voting 
power. It had issued 1,101,640 shares in gross for the follow- 
ing: ? , 

Dayton Engineering Laboratories Company — entire issue of 
common stock ($150,000 par value). 

Remy Electric Company — entire issue of outstanding common 
stock ($796,300 par value). 

Hyatt Roller Bearing Company — entire outstanding capital stock 

($399,700 par value, later reduced to $150,000). 

New Departure Manufacturing Company — 23,429 shares ($2,342,- 

900 par value) of the 25,000 shares of common stock outstanding. 
Perlman Rim Corporation — 97,637 shares of no par value of the 

100,000 shares outstanding. 


A large block of the stock thus issued — it is impossible to 
say how much — went to the promoters: Durant is said to 
have received a block valued at $9,000,000, and is known to 
have donated 106,000 shares of the issue to the Chevrolet 
Motor Company (Delaware); 3 Louis G. Kaufman, president 
of the Chatham & Phcenix National Bank (New York), 
who participated in the promotion, likewise is said to have 


1 See announcement by Durant, quoted in the Commercial and Finan- 
cial Chronicle, vol. 102, p. 1816. 

2 From listing application of General Motors Corporation, January 20, 
1919. 

3 Cf. article, ‘That Man Durant,’ by W. A. P. John, in Motor, January, 
1923. The manuscript of this article was read by Mr. Durant before 
publication. 


184 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


received a block valued at $9,000,000.! Some of the stock 
obtained by individuals was sold by them to investment 
bankers, who offered the shares to the public in May, 1916, 
at $62 a share.? 

The United Motors Corporation started purely as a hold- 
ing company; it soon acquired the physical assets of the com- 
panies of which it owned the entire capital stock, however; 
and, with the profits derived from its constituents, it made 
direct investments in other enterprises. One of its divisions, 
the Jaxon Steel Products unit, took over the physical assets 
of the Perlman Rim Corporation, which, like the United 
Motors Combination, had been sponsored by W. C. Durant. 
The Corporation added to its original parts-making enter- 
prises by acquiring a controlling interest in the Harrison 
Radiator Corporation and in the Klaxon Company, pro- 
ducers of automobile radiators and horns, respectively; and 
it established a servicing organization, known as the United 
Motors Service, Inc., to provide repair service for its various 
lines of accessories. In the two years and three months 
ended September 30, 1918, the aggregate profits of this Com- 
bination had totaled $18,487,519, of which $17,944,083 had 
been reinvested in the business.‘ 

On August 27, 1918, the authorized capitalization of the 
General Motors Corporation was increased as follows: pre- 
ferred stock, from $50,000,000 to $100,000,000; common 
stock, from $150,000,000 to $200,000,000. A month later, 
the General Motors Corporation offered to acquire the 
assets of the United Motors Corporation, and to assume the 
latter’s liabilities, paying therefor: $33,049,200 par value of 


* This allegation, made by several officials of the General Motors 
Corporation, is not verifiable. 

2 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 102, pp. 1902 and 1998. 

3 See letter of President Louis H. Perlman, April 11, 1916, quoted in’ 
the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 102, p. 1,441. The United 
Motors Corporation paid $5,500,000 in cash for the assets of the Perlman 
Rim Corporation, which was dissolved on July 30, 1918. (General 
Motors listing application of January 20, 1919.) 

4 General Motors listing application of January 20, 1919. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 185 


General Motors preferred stock and $11,016,400 par value 
of common stock. Before official action was taken, however, 
it developed that the General Motors Corporation had 
agreed with the Listing Committee of the New York Stock 
Exchange that it would issue no additional preferred stock 
possessing priority equal to that of the existing issue.? Ata 
special meeting of the stockholders, held December 10, 
1918, it was decided, therefore, to decrease the authorized 
issue of preferred stock to $20,000,000 par value, and to 
authorize the issue of $150,000,000 par value of 6 per cent 
debenture stock, $33,049,200 of which was to be issued in- 
stead of preferred stock as part payment for the assets of 
the United Motors Corporation, and $20,000,000 of which 
was to be reserved for the redemption of the outstanding 
preferred stock. 

The new debenture stock was given distinctive rights and 
privileges as compared with those of the then existing issue 
of preferred stock. Its dividend rate, like that of the pre- 
ferred stock, was six per cent, and cumulative, but: (1) it 
was given equal voting rights with common in the event 
that the Corporation’s net earnings were not at least one 
and one-half times the amount required for the payment of 
debenture-stock dividends; (2) in the event of a six months’ 
default in debenture-stock dividends, it was to be given sole 
voting power, to the exclusion of the common stock; (3) no 
new debenture stock was to be issued unless the net assets 
of the Corporation above all direct liabilities other than 
capital stock should equal one and one-half times the 
amount of debenture stock outstanding after the new issue; 
(4) no mortgage was to be placed on any of the assets of the 
Corporation, other than purchase-money mortgages, the 
assumption of mortgage liabilities on property purchased, 
and the pledge of stocks for periods less than three years, 


t Ibid. Cf. also announcement of Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., then president of . 
the United Motors Corporation, quoted in the Commercial Financial 
Chronicle, vol. 107, p. 1486. 

2 See announcement of W. C. Durant in the Commercial and Financial 
Chronicle, vol. 107, p. 2101. : 


186 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


without the approval of at least three-fourths of the de- 
benture stock outstanding; (5) the priority of the debenture 
stock as regards dividends and assets in case of dissolution 
was to be pari passu with the preferred stock; and (6) the 
debenture stock was to be redeemable on any dividend date 
after October 31, 1919, at $115 a share. 

The stockholders of the United Motors Corporation ac- 
cepted the amended offer, and voted on November 6, 1918, 
to dissolve the Corporation and to distribute the proceeds 
of the sale of the assets among the stockholders.t The 
General Motors Corporation, by turning in for cancellation 
the 106,000 shares of the former’s stock which it had ac- 
quired through acquisition of the Chevrolet Motor Com- 
pany, reduced the purchase price from $33,049,200 of de- 
benture stock and $11,016,400 of common stock to $29,- 
869,200 and $9,956,400, respectively, of these stocks.? 

The General Motors Corporation took over the assets of 
the United Motors as of December 31, 1918, and thereby 
acquired, in addition to the physical assets of the latter, the 
following stock interests: 3 


ISSUED ACQUIRED 

Dayton Engineering Laboratories Co. Pref. $200,000 

(Delco electrical systems.) Com. 150,000 $150,000 
New Departure Mfg. Co. (Ball Pref. 500,000 

bearings.) Com. 2,500,000 2,342,900 
Jaxon Steel Products Co. (Selling 

agency.) Com. 10,000 10,000 
Hyatt Roller Bearing Co. (Selling 

company.) Com. 150,000 150,000 


* Cf. listing application of General Motors Corporation, dated January 
20, 1919. 

* Ibid. The stocks thus issued to the United Motors Corporation were 
given the right to dividends from October 1, 1918. 

3 In addition to the physical assets of the Jaxon Steel Products Divi- 
sion, the Hyatt Roller Bearing Division, and the Remy Electric Division, 
of which the selling companies listed here were the respective sales 
organizations. Cf. listing application dated January 20, 1919. The 
General Motors Corporation subsequently acquired the remaining out- 
standing capital stock of these companies, save a portion of the preferred 
stock of the New Departure Manufacturing Company. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 187 


IssuED ACQUIRED 

Remy Electric Co. (Selling com- 

pany.) Com. $796,300 $796,300 
Harrison Radiator Corp. (Radia- Pref. 791,300 400,000 

tors.) (no par) Com. 10,000 shs. 10,000 hid 
Klaxon Co. (Electric horns.) Pref. 400,000 175,000 
Com. ara 500,000 

United Motors Service, Inc. Com. 50,000 50,000 
Bearings Service Co. (Service Com, 50,000 25,000 

companies) 


In the United Motors group of enterprises, the General 
Motors Corporation acquired a number of the most impor- 
tant parts- and accessories-producers in the country. The 
par value of the securities issued for this acquisition con- 
stituted approximately 78.6 per cent of the book value of 
the assets acquired, inclusive of intangible items valued at 
$21,536,155; excluding intangible assets, the General Motors 
paid approximately $1.28 in par value of its securities per 
dollar of net tangible assets. The net income of the United 
Motors Corporation in the year ended June 30, 1918, had 
been $6,926,851,? or about 15.7 per cent of the par value of 
General Motors’ investment. It is interesting to note that 
nearly one-half of the net tangible assets of the United 
Motors group had been built up through the reinvested 
profits of the period of two years and three months ended 
September 30, 1918.? 

Several other acquisitions of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion during 1918 may be noted briefly: the entire capital 
stock of the Lancaster Steel Products Company, producer of 
cold-drawn steels; the entire capital stock of the Chevrolet 
Motor Company of Canada, Ltd.; the remaining $503,000 
par value common stock of the McLaughlin Motor Car 
Company, Ltd., and the entire capital stock of the Mc- 
Laughlin Carriage Company, Ltd., producer and selling 
agent, respectively, of the Buick car in Canada; the re- 
maining outstanding preferred stock of the Harrison Radia- 
tor Corporation; 22,975 shares of no par value of the 

* See Genera) Motors listing application of January 20, 1919. 

* Ibid. 


188. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Scripps-Booth Corporation, producer of the Scripps-Booth 
automobile (of which 4008 were produced in 1918);* the 
entire capital stock and the entire common stock, respec- 
tively, of the Samson Sieve-Grip Tractor Company and 
the Janesville Machine Company, the plants of which 
were consolidated for the production of tractors. A total 
of $1,588,700 in cash was paid in connection with these 
acquisitions, the larger part of the purchase-prices having 
been paid in General Motors securities.? 

As a result of its numerous acquisitions and of the sale 
for cash, in December, 1918, of $24,000,000 par value of 
its common stock (from which the Corporation realized 
$28,800,000 3), and of sundry small stock transactions, the 
outstanding capital stock of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion increased by nearly $100,000,000 during 1918. Its net 
investment in fixed plant increased by $38,098,596; its 
‘good-will, patents, copyrights, etc.,’ by $23,743,290; and 
its operations during the year resulted in profits of $14,825,- 
530, of which all but $1,668,353 was distributed in divi- 
dends.4 The capital-stock transactions of the Corporation 
during the year are summarized below: 


PREFERRED DEBENTURE CoMMON 

Exchanged for preferred stock of 

General Motors Co. (N.J.)..... $7,500 
Acquired through McLaughlin Car- 

Pino Cis Littl.) acters cae so 13,300 4 
Issued for Chevrolet Motor Co. (Del.) $28,268,400 
Issued for United Motors Corp..... $29,869,200 9,956,400 
Issued for Canadian Chevrolet and 

McLaughlin Motor Companies. . 4,900,000 


Issued for Lancaster Steel Prod. 
Co. plus $1,566,000 par value of 
General Motors debenture stock. 500,000 1,617,500 
4 Decrease 


t This acquisition, together with 13,650 shares previously held by the 
Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware), gave General Motors a control- 
ling interest. 

2 From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 

3 Annual report for 1918. The stock was marketed in 1919, after hav- 
ing been underwritten ‘without cost to the corporation.’ 

4 Ibid. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 189 


DEBENTURE CoMMON 
Issued for 22,975 shares of no par 
value of Scripps-Booth Corp. com- 
a Eke Ma) Ge an $331,200 


1S SARS aaa $387,100 
Issued to employees under bonus plan 1,361,900 
Issued for services................ 21,200 
Acquired through purchase of Lan- 

caster Steel Products Co.......... 1,556,000 4 
New issue sold for $28,800,000 cash 24,000,000 
Acquired in treasury, miscellaneous. . 15,000 

$5,800 4 $29,175,300 $70,506,600 
4 decrease. 


The changes wrought by the acquisitions and the opera- 
tions of 1918 are reflected by the condensed comparative 
consolidated balance-sheet of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1917, and 
December 31, 1918: 1 


ASSETS 
IQI7 1918 
Real estate, plant, equipment (net) $38,657,835.06 $76,756,431.13 
Investments in allied companies. ... 2,030,273 .48 2,839,531 .23 
Cash in banks and on hand........ 18,865,645 .27 30,636,621 .48 
Sere onde... s. i. lyse. eh. - 1,255,000.00 28,852,018 .00 
Marketable securities............. 172,304.86 
Sight drafts against B/L attached... _7,590,279.25 3,316,384 .90 
Due from U.S. on war contracts..... 449,855.83 7,305,626.76 
Notes and accounts receivable...... 5,555,403 .34 21,995,359 .50 
Inventories at cost or less.......... 46,559,394.15 91,137,512.59 


Total current and working assets $80,275,577.84 $183,415,828.09 


Deferred expenses................ 854,434.61 762,651.85 
Good-will, patents, copyrights, etc... 11,971,603.48 35,714,893 .43 


$133,789,724.47 $299,489,335.73 


* Annual report for 1918. 


1909 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


LIABILITIES 
I9QI7 1918 
Debenture stock (authorized $150,- 

000,000) issued $30,756,300; less in 

treasury of corporation, $1,581,000 $29,175,300 .00 
Preferred stock (authorized $20,- 

000,000) issued, $19,684,300; less 

in treasury of corporation, $13,- 

BOG CIOTE) A ant wate ace $19,676,800 .00 19,671,000 .00 
Common stock (authorized $200,- 

000,000) issued $151,301,100; less 

in treasury of corporation, $3,921,- 

BOO CIOLS) cn so cages y aeties 76,873,300.00  147,379,900.00 
Purchase-money bonds............ 225,000.00 
Outstanding capital stock and sur- 

plus of subsidiaries, not owned: 


CAMICAL SOCK 254% 1 ee sa ares 540,500.00 2,960,400 .83 
UTP NTS icon Cate ates es hake ees 859,083.18 427,754.20 
Accounts payable..... ‘ale wah awe $10,665,717.52 $18,453,316.99 
Notes payables WiHe. scene eacte ee 4 10,802,154.11 


Taxes, payrolls, sundries, accrued... 4,858,326.57 3,769,865 .29 
Total current liabilities.......... $15,524,044.09  $33,025,336.39 


Reserve for two months’ proportion 
of debenture and preferred divi- 


COGS ioe Saleh go tip emetra nie aint 196,768 .00 488,463.00 
Reserve for federal taxes and ex- 
traordinary expenditures ........ 6,939,018 .55 25,863,823 .23 


Reserve for sundry contingencies... 1,671,818.08 3,863,420.65 
SHULDIUBL ab cialsicce slo dis eaiita db aie a sity bd ke eT eae eo 36,408,937 .43 


$133,789,724.47 $299,489,335.73 


In its annual report for 1918, E. I. Du Pont de Nemours 
& Co. formally announced its acquisition of a ‘27.6 per cent 
interest in the common stock of the General Motors Cor- 
poration,’ and declared: 


We feel fortunate also in our partnership with Mr. William C. 
Durant, president of the General Motors Corporation and the father 
and leader of the motor industry not only in the United States, but 
in the world. The alliance leaves the management and general con- 
duct of the General Motors Corporation as heretofore except that 
the responsibility for financial management is now shared by the 
officers of our company. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 191 


President Durant, in his annual report of 1918, recipro- 
cated by declaring: 

The Genera] Motors Corporation is to be congratulated upon the 
association with the E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Company re- 
sulting from the acquisition of a large stock interest by that com- 
pany which insures financial stability and the codperation of the 
finest engineering organization in the country. 


11. THE Post-War Boom 


The year 1919 was one of unparalleled prosperity for the 
General Motors Corporation, as, indeed, for American in- 
dustry as a whole. Under the impetus of the post-war boom 
and of the accumulated demand for automobiles, the pro- 
duction of which, like that of other goods, had been curtailed 
during the War, the General Motors Corporation increased 
its output of cars, trucks, and tractors by nearly sixty per 
cent, as compared with the output of 1918. Its financial 
volume of sales, reflecting in part the large acquisitions of 
the year previous, rose above half a billion dollars — an in- 
crease of nearly ninety per cent. And the net profits of the 
Corporation jumped from less than $15,000,000 in 1918 to 
more than $60,000,000 — an increase of more than three 
hundred per cent. 

A tremendous expansion in the fixed investment of the 
Corporation accompanied these increases in its volume of 
business.! Approximately $20,000,000 was expended for 
plant additions to the car-producing factories. Work was 
begun on a $20,000,000 office building in Detroit, which ab- 
sorbed more than $4,000,000 during 1919. A sixty per cent 
stock interest was acquired in the Fisher Body Corporation, 
the largest producer of automobile bodies in the world, 
General Motors paying therefor approximately $5,800,000 
in cash and $21,851,000 in five-year serial notes.? In addi- 

1 The details of this expansion may be found in the annual reports of 
1919-21, inclusive. 

2 The General Motors Corporation purchased 300,000 newly issued 


shares of no par value of the Fisher Body Corporation, these shares being 
_ deposited with four trustees, two representing the former and two the 


192 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


tion, more than $20,000,000 in cash and $12,481,100 par 
value of General Motors’ debenture and preferred stocks was 
expended for a large housing-construction program, initiated 
for the benefit of the Corporation’s employees; the organiz- 
ation of the General Motors Acceptance Corporation to aid 
in financing distributors, dealers, and retail purchasers; and 
the acquisition of new or additional interests in nine parts- 
making enterprises and in the Guardian Refrigerator Com- 
pany (later, Frigidaire, producer of electric refrigerators), 
the Dayton Products Company (producer of detonators, 
pressure indicators, etc.), and the Domestic Engineering 
Company (producer of Delco-Light power plants). In all, 
in the single year 1919, the General Motors Corporation 
increased its ‘investments in unconsolidated companies’ by 
$50,558,960; expended $47,741,698 directly for real estate, 
plant, and equipment; acquired physical assets valued at 
$12,439,459, less $6,063,229 for depreciation, by consolida- 
tions; and, as a result of a reappraisal of its properties, added 
$29,888,896 further, less $6,959,612 for depreciation, to its 
plant accounts, applying this net addition toa reduction of 
its ‘good-will’ valuation.t During 1920, further capital ex- 
penditures of more than $79,000,000 were required to com- 
plete this expansion program.? 

In May, 1919, the Corporation Aur an issue of $30,000,000 
of debenture stock, from which it realized $25,425,000; it 
converted $28,638,780 of Liberty bonds into cash; and, of 
the profits of 1919, $38,468,431 was reinvested in its busi- 
ness.3 From these sources the Corporation procured most of 
latter, under a five-year voting trust. An agreement dated November 9, 
1917, provided that the General Motors Corporation purchase sub- 
stantially all its automobile bodies from the Fisher corporation for a 
period of ten years at prices equal to cost of production plus 17.6 per 
cent, and that the Fisher corporation distribute quarterly dividends 
aggregating at least $10 a year per share of common stock, so far as 
earnings permitted. The Fisher Body Corporation was consolidated 


with General Motors in 1926. (Cf. annual reports for 1919 and 1926, and 
Standard Statistics, Bulletin F 11.) 


* Annual report for 1919. 2 Annual report for 1920. 
3 Annual reports for 1919 and 1920. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 193 


the funds for its capital expenditures. The total increase in 
the Corporation’s net worth in 1919, as measured by the in- 
creases in issued capital stock and in surplus, was $84,714,- 
060, made up as follows:' 


Added to surplus through reinvestment of 1919 
earnings, after dividends as follows: 


EMRIs ip 6 e's did's'y slo hs, 300 9.4 $1,032,376 
PERRET BROCE 4 a ic s'y «bec bo 0 5.0003 9:5 0's 3,180,137 
RMTETICETLOREANONC Naat cle cts nied a's Ss 'g's w'o'a olalere 17,324,541 $38,468,431 
Added to surplus through acquisition of pro- 
perties and through other adjustments..... 3,764,529 
Sale of $30,000,000 par value debenture stock... 30,000,000 


Issue of $6,450,000 debenture and $6,031,100 

common stock for properties, less $100 par 

DRT TETAS ROCUINE (oe piss bias ae sicns sence s 12,481,100 
Issue of $2,714,000 debenture stock for con- 

version and cancellation of equivalent 

Bent OL PECLEKTed BLOCK i. cccccesncdelecs | | tees wenee 


$84,714,060 


The expansion of the fixed capital investment of the Cor- 
poration was not accompanied by a corresponding increase 
in working capital. Despite the huge increases in the former 
and the tremendous growth in the Corporation’s volume of 
business, its net working assets at the end of 1919 were only 
$8,852,472 greater than at the end of the preceding year. 
The ratio of its current assets to current liabilities had fallen 
from 5.55 to I, to 3.84 to 1; and much of these current as- 
sets consisted of specialized inventories easily subject to 
‘freezing’ in the event of a falling-off in the rate of auto- 
mobile production. To facilitate the raising of new working 
capital, the Corporation’s stockholders, on June 12, 1919, 
had approved an increase in the authorized amounts of 
debenture and preferred stocks to $500,000,000 each. The 
original offering of the debenture stock underwritten just 
previously ($30,000,000), to which allusion has been made 
above, was for $50,000,000. Due, probably, to the heavy 
discount at which the Corporation was forced to issue this 
stock (15.25 per cent, to the underwriters 5), the remaining 

1 Ibid. 

® Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 108, p. 2025, vol. 109, Pp. 176, 

3 Cf. annual reports for 1919 and 1920. 


194 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


$20,000,000 of the offer was withdrawn; but the need for 
additional working capital remained. 

On November 26, 1919, the board of directors voted to 
recommend to the stockholders the adoption of the follow- 
ing changes in the capitalization of the Corporation: ? 


1. Common Stock: That the authorized amount of common stock 
be changed from 5,000,000 shares of $100 par value to 50,000,000 
shares of no par value; and that 15,699,190 shares of the new stock 
be issued in exchange for the 1,569,919 shares of outstanding com- 
mon stock, at the rate of 10 shares of the new stock for each share of 
the old. 

2. Six per cent Debenture Stock: That the authorized amount 
of six per cent debenture stock be reduced from $500,000,000 to 
$90,000,000, par value. 

3. Seven per cent Debenture Stock: That $500,000,000 of seven 
per cent debenture stock be authorized; that this stock rank equally 
with the six per cent debenture and six per cent preferred stocks as 
respects priority in dividends and in assets in case of dissolution; 
that its dividends be cumulative; that in the case of default in divi- 
dend payments for six months, the seven per cent debenture stock 
share with the six per cent debenture stock the exclusive right to 
vote, as against the common and preferred stocks; that the two de- 
benture issues share equally with the common stock the right to vote 
in case the net earnings during any year be less than nine per cent of 
the par value of the outstanding six and seven per cent debenture 
issues; that the consent of three-fourths of -the debenture issues be 
required to enable the Corporation to mortgage its property (ex- 
cept for purchase-money mortgages maturing within three years); 
and that the seven per cent debenture stock be redeemable on any 
dividend date at $120 and accrued dividends per share. 

4. Preferred Stock: That no change be made in the preferred 
stock issue. 


In connection with these recommendations, President 
Durant announced that holders of the existing six per cent 
debenture and preferred stocks would receive subscription 
warrants permitting them to purchase two shares of the 
seven per cent debenture stock at par for each share of the 
older issues held, payment to be made either wholly in cash 
or fifty per cent in cash and fifty per cent in six per cent 


* General Motors listing application of June 23, 1919. | 


\ 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 195 


debenture or preferred stock.t In the same announcement, | 


explaining the purpose of the new debenture issue, President 
Durant declared: 


Large capital investments will be necessary which will be better 
financed by a seven per cent senior security than by a six per cent 
senior security. If all subscription rights are taken up, the plan will 
bring in $85,000,000 in cash, which, added to the present cash items, 
will make $175,000,000, enough to care for a gross business of 
$800,000,000 in 1920. 


The plan was ratified by the stockholders at a special 
meeting on January 6, 1920, and temporary certificates for 
the new debenture stock were issued immediately.? Despite 
special appeals to the stockholders, pointing out that 
holders of the existing preferred securities had an oppor- 
tunity to substitute a seven per cent return for a six per 
cent return by the investment of an additional $100 per 
share owned,3 only $10,998,700 par value of the offering of 
$217,602,400 was subscribed; and since $4,091,900 of these 
subscriptions was paid in the form of stock, the Corporation 
realized only $6,906,800 in cash from the offering, instead of 
the expected $85,000,000.4 

In this predicament, with many of the large units of its 
building program still in process of construction, and with 
its inventories of materials steadily mounting, the Corpora- 
tion sought and procured the intermediation of J. P. Morgan 
& Co. On June 2, 1920, the board of directors voted to issue 
3,287,803 shares of the new no-par value common stock at 
$20 a share, the issue to be underwritten by J. P. Morgan & 


* Circular letter dated November 26, 1919; cf. Commercial and Finan- 
cial Chronicle, vol. 109, p. 2075. 

2 The absence of proxies for about thirty-five per cent of the debenture 
stock prevented the ratification of the plan at the first meeting, Decem- 
ber 30, 1919. The new no-par value common stock was exchanged for 
the previous issue at the rate of ten for one beginning May 3, 1920. 

3 Letters of W. C. Durant, president, and T. S. Merrill, secretary, 
quoted in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 109, p. 2075, and 
vol. 110, p. 265, respectively. 

4 Annual report for 1920. 


196 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Co. and the Explosives Trades, Ltd. (of London, England), 
subject to the rights of the common stockholders to sub- 
scribe to amounts up to twenty per cent of their present 
holdings.‘ In a letter to the common stockholders, President 
Durant declared that the proceeds of the new issue would 
provide $64,000,000 in cash for the working capital require- 
ments of the Corporation, particularly for the requirements 
of the truck, tractor, and farm-implement lines.2 J. P. 
Morgan & Co. announced at the same time that they had 
acquired a substantial interest in the Corporation through 
their underwriting of 1,419,856 shares of the offering, the 
remaining 1,800,000 shares having been underwritten by 
English interests (the Explosives Trades, Ltd., later named 
Nobel Industries, Ltd.); and that the Morgan firm would 
shortly be represented on the Corporation’s board of 
directors by Messrs. E. R. Stettinius, of the firm; George F. 
Baker, of the First National Bank (New York); Seward 
Prosser, of the Bankers Trust Company (New York); Owen 
Young, of the General Electric Company; W. H. Woodin, 
of the American Car and Foundry Company; and Clarence 
M. Wooley, of the American Radiator Corporation.s These 
representatives were elected to the board a few weeks later; 
and on July 17, 1920, it was announced that more than 
ninety-nine per cent of the common stock offering had been 
subscribed.4 

As the price of their services, the bankers are said to have 
demanded the right to purchase 200,000 shares of common 
stock at $10, instead of $20, a share. To avert possible 
criticism, however, they are said to have obtained the stock 
at this price from the Chevrolet Motor Company (Dela- 
ware), instead of from the Corporation directly; and Durant 
is said to have exacted a promise that the Corporation would 
be enabled later to return a similar block to the Chevrolet 


* Cf. listing application dated June 12, 1920, and announcement of 
J. P. Morgan & Co., cited in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, 
vol. 110, p. 2390. 

2 Ind. 3 Ibid. 

4 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 111, p. 299. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 197 


company on the same terms.? The Chevrolet Motor Com- 
pany (Delaware), after the sale of virtually all of its assets 
except its holdings of General Motors Corporation stock, 
had not been dissolved, contrary to a previous announce- 
ment, but had continued to function as a holding company, 
with Durant and the Du Pont interests as the chief stock- 
holders.? 


12. THE Post-WaAR CRIsIS 


The proceeds of the sale of common stock netted the Gen- 
eral Motors Corporation about $60,000,000 by December 
31, 1920 (254,764 shares having not been fully paid for at 
that time); and the funds and financial backing thus ac- 
quired were of tremendous aid to the Corporation in meet- 
ing the emergency created by the sudden curtailment of the 
demand for its products that set in in August and Septem- 
ber, 1920. 

The year 1920 had begun very auspiciously. The Cor- 
poration had just completed the most successful year in its 
history. The demand for its cars had continued at a high 
level throughout the closing quarter of the year just ended; 
and this demand increased afresh in the early months of 
1920. Both volume of sales and net profits promised to 
exceed the record-breaking volume of 1919; and indeed, this 
promise was realized for financial volume of sales. On Feb- 
ruary 2, 1920, the Corporation paid a cash dividend of $3 a 
share to the common stockholders of record on December 


«W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in Motor, January, 1923. Mr. 
Durant personally provided Mr. John with much of the material for 
this article and read the manuscript before publication. 

2 Each share of Chevrolet Motor Company (Delaware) stock repre- 
sented 1.3195 shares of General Motors common stock on December 31, 
1919. See annual report of E. 1. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. for 1919. 

3 Cf. annual report of General Motors Corporation for 1920. The Cor- 
poration lists the total proceeds from the sale of common stock at $98,- 
494,835. This figure includes, however, stock issued as a bonus to its 
employees, stock issued for the assets of the Chevrolet Motor Company 
of California, and stock issued as stock dividends on the common stock 

— all calculated at $20 a share. 


198 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


31, 1919; on May 1, it paid an initial quarterly dividend of 
25 cents in cash and one-fortieth of a share of common stock 
on its new no-par value common stock; it paid similar 
dividends on August 2 and on November 1, 1920. This was 
equivalent to an annual rate of return of $10 in cash, and 
(at a valuation of $20 per share of no-par value stock) of 
$20 in stock on the preceding common stock of $100 par 
value. (The no-par common stock sold at a ‘high’ of $42 
a share on March 26, 1920, and did not decline to less than 
$20 a share until after the week of September 21, 1920.) 

The early promise and actuality of an increased volume 
of business, however, led to heavy increases in the volume 
of inventories. Starting at the beginning of the year at 
$128,696,652 (as compared with $91,137,513 at the opening 
of 1919), the inventories mounted rapidly, reaching a total 
of $167,965,641 on April 30, and $209,000,000 by the end 
of October, when a tremendous decline in the demand for 
the Corporation's products had already set in.* 

The large increase in the financial volume of inventories 
occasioned concern as early as the month of March, 1920; 
and at that time, the Executive Committee approved a 
definite program of production with a view toward minimiz- 
ing the inventory requirements.? The administrative organ- 
ization of the Corporation, however, made it extremely 
difficult to enforce the rulings of the Executive Committee. 
While the Corporation had become chiefly an operating com- 
pany, the actual administration of its plants was in the hands 
of divisional managements, each concerned with the ex- 
panded production of its own product. In May, 1920, a 
special Inventory Allotment Committee was appointed to 
establish a more effective control over the inventory de- 
mands of the various divisions; but the rulings of this com- 
mittee obtained no more adherence on the part of the operat- 
ing divisions than had the more general injunctions of two 
months previous. Thus, in his annual report for 1922, Presi- 
dent Du Pont declared: 

t Annual report for 1922. * Thid, 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 199 


The report of the Inventory Allotment Committee was presented 
and approved before June 1, 1920. It was unfortunate that the rul- 
ings of the Executive and Finance Committees and their cautions 
remained unheeded. As a result, inventories reached a total of 
$209,000,000 at the end of October, 1920, exceeding by $60,000,000 
the allotments of the Executive and Finance Committees and by 
$100,000,000 the amount in actual use during the active summer of 
1922. This excess accounted for about 70 per cent of the borrowings 
at that time. 

It was doubly unfortunate that the spirit of the committee rulings 
was totally disregarded by a few of the Divisions, the losses of which, 
due to expanded inventories and commitments for the future, 
amounted to $48,579,872, or much more than the total operating de- 
ficit of the whole corporation during the year 1921. The operating 
losses of these Divisions during the liquidation and reconstruction 
period of 1921 added $15,330,938, making a total of $63,910,810 on 
their account. : 


Not only was the Corporation cailed upon to finance its 
growing volume of inventories, however, but the fulfillment 
of its program of fixed-plant expansion, involving the com- 
pletion of construction projects already under way, entailed 
a capital expenditure of approximately $79,161,951 in 1920, 
nearly $15,000,000 of which was required merely for its new 
office and administration building in Detroit. A sudden 
decline in sales in the late summer and fall of 1920, there- 
fore, created an exceedingly embarrassing situation. The 
extent of this decline and its effect, in view of the Corpora- 
tion’s greatly expanded investment in fixed plant and in- 
ventories, may be seen from Table 32, in which the Corpo- 
ration’s sales of cars and trucks are presented by months 
for 1919 and 1920.7 

On its face, the ability of the General Motors Corporation 
to weather this storm, the results of which were seriously 
aggravated by the obsolescence and decline in value of 
inventories, plant, and equipment purchased or constructed 
at ‘boom’ prices, was fairly remarkable. More than $100,- 
00,000 was written off the books of the Corporation be- 


* Annual reports of 1920 and 1921. | 
2 From the records of the General Motors Corporation. 


200 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 32. GENERAL Morors SALES OF CARS AND TRUCKS 
BY MONTHS, I919 AND 1920 


MONTH 1919 1920 
Janaaly Nays cceven vuesewe wee 25,039 34,313 
February.c) i awks coh tea awa eee 25,936 33,864 
MACH AG cd eiroacnek bene hedne 29,844 42,504 
ARI. io scb/eivia ss Ab Abed Boece 32,991 42,183 
MAY. os cet rtalaW cakakeedueen 39,130 42,653 
FERNS a wiv eal kG eid & we Slee ace elie 34,710 46,852 
Gf PRS eligi ape Bit APs a Ae 31,720 45,479 
FURUSE son neil Pbk au Voces enters 31,986 32,899 
Seotembercssseorcnedeaee tee re 33,437 28,796 
CRGIIGE F ois Soin Cola dade a pia me Wie 41,847 18,302 
November. .bipradacadiscaanen 36,329 12,798 
Déctimibes is s.videice hoc si ema kas 28,770 12,432 


391,738 393,975 


tween 1920 and 1922 for the devaluation of plant, equip- 
ment, and inventories, and for operating and liquidation 
losses.t In the three years ended in 1920, the Corporation’s 
fixed capital expenditures had aggregated $281,556,104; and 
in a period of pronounced distress in the money markets and 
in general business, it found itself in possession of more than 
$200,000,000 of depreciating inventories, with further com- 
mitments already made.? On the other hand, the following 
favoring factors may be noted and emphasized: 

(1) The Corporation’s program of fixed-capital expansion 
had been soundly financed: it had not entailed the flagrant 
absorption of working capital in fixed assets nor the use of 
short-term obligations for such additions. Indeed, except for 
purchase-money obligations and small mortgages assumed, 
it had not involved the creation of any funded debt whatever. 
The financial sources of the expansion program are sum- 
marized in Table 33.3 

(2) While the Corporation’s program of fixed-capital ex- 
pansion had not provided for commensurate additions to its 
working capital, the previous strength of its working-capital 
condition permitted considerable extension without serious 

* Annual reports for 1920, 1921, 1922. 2 Ibid., 1922. 3 Ibid, 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 201 


TABLE 33. FINANCIAL SOURCES OF FIXED CAPITAL EXPANSION 
OF GENERAL Motors CoRPORATION, 1918-20 


From net earnings reinvested: 
Net earned income, 1918, 1919, 1920, ex- 
clusive of extraordinary write-offs of 


ESTES gale Sow Calan tA di0'e Se sine $193,801 ,804 
Less federal taxes......... $47,274,750 
Less dividends paid....... $57,386,370 $89,140,684 
From sale of securities (cash): 
MUTINY BLOCK ajas win ve vey ce ecsees wees 98,494,835 
Six per cent debenture stock........... 25,425,000 
Seven per cent debenture stock......... 6,906,800 4 


Employees’ bonus, deducted from in- 
come but paid in newly issued stock 13,569,144 


134,395,779 


Securities issued for properties: 
_ , Debenture and common SHOCK Sis deco = > 122,141,520 
Fisher Body purchase-money notes (net 
RUMERROEI A ads yc cde nin 2 ds cov es 9 9,840,000 
Mortgages assumed.........-ceee0- Dye 1,020,070 
133,610,590 


$357,147,053 


2 Represents actual cash received from $10,998,700 par value of this stock issued; 
the remainder ($4,091,900), was paid in six per cent debenture stock. 


jeopardy. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities 
at the end of 1918 was 5.5 to 1; at the end of 1919, 3.84 to 
1; at the end of 1920, 2.24 tor. The last-named ratio reflects 
large ‘write-offs’ for inventory depreciation, and, like the 
others, allows for accruals of interest and of preferred and 
debenture dividends. We have several times observed, more- 
over, that the working-capital requirements of automobile 
producers were minimized by various practices peculiar to 
the industry. Finally, we may note that the new capital 
investment in the Corporation between 1918 and 1920 ex- 
ceeded the total of fixed-capital expenditures by more than 
$75,000,000. (See Table 33.) 

(3) The ability of the General Motors Corporation to 
withstand the situation occasioned by the sharp slump in 
its sales in the latter part of 1920 is not adequately explained, 

} however, by reference to the fact that its current assets at 


202 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


the worst were approximately two and one-quarter times the 
amount of its current liabilities. To the extent that these 
assets consisted of inventories that could not be liquidated 
presently, the working capital ratio is misleading. The 
actual cash position of the Corporation and its ability to 
borrow were, in fact, of far greater importance. In these 
emergency essentials, the Corporation was fortunate indeed. 
The net earnings of 1920, before special ‘write-offs’ and be- 
fore the setting-up of a ‘reserve for unforeseen contingen- 
cies,’ but after all other operating and income charges save 
dividends, had aggregated $67,273,313; the Corporation had 
realized approximately $60,000,000 in cash from the sale of 
common stock in July, 1920; and, with the support of the 
powerful financial group that had become identified with its 
financial management in connection with this stock issue, it 
was able to borrow a maximum (on October 13, 1920) of 
$82,784,824 on its short-term notes in the midst of the acute 
financial situation of late 1920." By reason, most immedi- 
ately, of these financial operations, the Corporation was able 
not only to maintain its solvency, but to pay full dividends 
on its debenture and preferred stocks, totaling $5,620,246, 
in 1920, and to disburse quarterly in 1921, from the earn- 
ings of 1920, a total of $17,893,288 in cash dividends on 
common stock. 


13. THE StocK MARKET: RESIGNATION OF WILLIAM C. 
DURANT 


Throughout the year 1919 and the first three months of 
1920, the common stock of the General Motors Corporation 
had sold at almost constantly rising prices on the New York 
Stock Exchange. The following table shows the price at 
which the last sale was made in substantially the last week of 
each of the fifteen months of this period, and the volume 
of trading each week.? 


* Annual reports for 1920, 1921, 1922. 
* Compiled from the weekly summaries published in the New York 
Times Annalist. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 203 


TABLE 34. STOCK-MarKET PRICES oF GENERAL Motors Common 
STOCK IN 1919 AND First THREE MONTHS OF 1920 


Wsex Expe Hy Te Mae reed 
BOMMBIVIER TOTO Gi v's fais 6 sbi oo «es $123.50 15,300 shares 
WISE alc cities Cb ees haler nce 156.50 102,700 
March 29..... yey ea’s woe wis wei’ 169.50 97,200 
PAURIURU. s 8s ee 8 SE ee 180.50 54,300 
May 31..... SGA tle eh eure ate we 209 .00 80,000 
June 28...... RNG vette aia basa’ 236.00 112,850 
La US MP A A ee ea eens 230.50 37,800 
Pea MOT ate Lids Oitale ccwls 8c 0 ocare 236.25 50,500 
Tee Se baa le dl aa a 255.625 66,100 
LPO Se cledw cc tadkccesc seve « 326.50 63,900 
DOPUMMECTIAZO © cob d ts cde sd edas sas 325.50 100,900 
December 27....... Pe thidwakiccda 837.75 27,400 
January 31, 1920..... Prada nuke 307.75 80,200 
February 28..... Betulaiais ie ehbla: es esa" 241.75 185,400 
RCMP ANGELL ciaich' a vies 6,04 0,0 05:4 376.00 221,400 


The turn in the stock market came abruptly. Between 
March 27 and May 1, 1920, the stock dropped from $376 
to $295 a share (a stock dividend of two and one-half per 
cent accounted for some of this decline); and the new no- 
par value common stock, ten shares of which had been is- 
sued for each share of the old, was sold at $24 a share on 
May 24. From this time forward to the end of 1920, with 
few interruptions, the price of the stock continued to fall. 
The following table shows the decline in the stock-market 
quotations of General Motors common stock during the 
last eight months of 1920." 

During this continuous decline in the market value of 
General Motors common stock, William C. Durant, presi- 
dent of the Corporation, had been constantly buying the 
stock on his own account to support the market.? Not only 
did he support the market directly, but also, aided by certain 


* Compiled as in Table 33. 
*W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in Motor, January, 1923. 


204 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


of his associates, he purchased many large blocks of stock 
privately to prevent them from being thrown on the market: 
at one time he and his friends purchased a single block of 


TABLE 35. STOCK-MARKET PRICES OF GENERAL Motors COMMON 
STOCK IN THE LAst EIGHT MONTHS OF 1920 


Weex ENDED Duet sale merely 
Mayi20:192032sawahk swine we eee $27 .625 133,900 shares 
Furie 2G C7: haa a heave oes Wolke ele 24.00 84,800 
PUY 20 Sats cn cle eb o wee 6 ofa weta wiatell 22.25 181,100 
August 28. 4'..05'% cael new ae aes 21.25 40,500 
September 25......ccees oun enma 20.00 107,500 
Octaberso te juss ewe nt hehe 17.00 84,500 
November '27 7.5 ixtecs cee ananuaes 15.75 246,600 
Deteniber 25... mated niin dc Maia 13.25 58,800 


@ Stock dividends of one-fortieth of a share, each, were declared on the common stock 
of record on July 15, and October 5. 


150,000 shares from a Western syndicate at a cost of $4,500,- 
000, it is said, payment being made in notes endorsed per- 
sonally by Durant, with common stock of the Chevrolet 
Motor Company (Delaware) offered as collateral.t As the 
price continued to fall, Durant formed a number of succes- 
sive buying syndicates, the members of which he personally 
guaranteed against loss, to support the market.? Despite 
these maneuvers, the price of General Motors common stock, 
in sympathy with a large part of the market, continued to 
decline. Durant’s motives in thus risking his personal for- 
tune are ascribed by his friends to a mixture of confidence in 
the essential value of the stock and of his sense of noblesse 
oblige — the obligation he felt to protect the hundreds of in- 
vestors who had consistently given him a personal allegiance 
in his motor-car enterprises. 

Late in November, after General Motors had begun to 
drop below $15 a share, Durant was no longer able to main- 


* W. A. P. John, ‘That Man Durant,’ in Motor, January, 1923. 
2 Ibid. 
3 Ibid. The writer has heard this opinion from numerous persons in 


Detroit. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 205 


tain his position. His personal indebtedness to forty-four 
brokerage houses was estimated by Dow, Jones & Co. at 
$27,000,000." 

On November 22, 1920, Durant announced that he had 
sold ‘a substantial block of stock of the General Motors 
Corporation to the Du Pont Securities Corporation of Wil- 
mington, Delaware, which has been formed by Pierre S. Du 
Pont and his associates, and in the stock of which I will have 
a large interest.’ On November 30, 1920, the General 
Motors Corporation announced the resignation of Durant 
from the presidency of the Corporation, and the succession 
of Pierre S. Du Pont. 

The financing of this purchase by the Du Pont interests 
is summarized in the annual report of E. I. Du Pont de 
Nemours & Company for 1920 as follows: 


- 


Late in November last, William C. Durant, then president of the 
General Motors Corporation, requested that we take over the man- 
agement and control of that corporation, advising that he desired to 
resign and sell his interest in the corporation in order to liquidate his 
personal indebtedness, which was very large and pressing. 

Negotiations were conducted by us through the Du Pont American 
Industries, Inc., which is owned entirely by your company, and the 
Chevrolet Motor Company, in which it owns a controlling interest, 
and resulted as follows: 

I. Incorporation of Du Pont Securities Co. in Delaware with a 
capital consisting of (a) $7,000,000 eight per cent cumulative 
voting preferred stock, and (6) 100,000 shares of no-par com- 
mon stock, non-voting. 

2. (aa) $4,200,000 preferred and 36,000 shares of common stock 
was sold to the Du Pont American Industries, Inc., for 
which it paid $4,200,000 in cash and loaned to the Du Pont 
Securities Co. 824,179 shares of General Motors common 
stock. 

(bb) $2,800,000 preferred and 24,000 shares of common stock 
were sold to the Chevrolet Motor Company, for which it 
paid $2,800,000 in cash and loaned to the Du Pont Se- 


* Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 111, p. 2233. W. A. P. 
John (loc. cit.) declared that, after clearing this indebtedness, Durant’s 
personal fortune of $90,000,000 had been wiped out. 

2 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 111, p. 2143. 


206 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


curities Co. 549,453 shares of General Motors common 
stock. 

The above supplied $7,000,000 in cash to the Du Pont 
Securities Co. and 1,373,632 shares of General Motors 
common stock on loan. 

3. (cc) The Du Pont Securities Co. then sold at par $20,000,000 

of one-year eight per cent collateral trust bonds, through 

J. P. Morgan & Company. These bonds are secured by 

4,000,000 shares of the General Motors Corporation com- 

mon stock which the company acquired as follows: 

(a) 2,504,273 shares purchased from W. C. Durant, as 
hereinafter recited. 

(b) 122,095 shares purchased from Syndicate, as here- 
inafter recited. 

(c) 824,179 shares loaned by Du Pont American Indus- 
tries, Inc. 

(d) 549,453 shares loaned by Chevrolet Motor Co. 

Out of a total of 60,000 shares of no-par common stock 
of the Du Pont Securities Co. which the Du Pont and 
Chevrolet companies received as above stated, 20,000 
shares were paid as a commission. to the purchasers of this 
bond issue, which covered the complete cost of financing. 

4. Du Pont Securities Co. purchased (a) 2,504,273 shares of Gen- 
eral Motors common stock from Mr. Durant, paying him there- 
fore $23,790,600 in cash and 40,000 shares of the Du Pont Se- 
curities Co. common stock of no-par value; (6) also 122,095 
shares of General Motors Corporation common stock from a 
syndicate in which the Du Pont and Chevrolet companies and 
W. C. Durant were interested, paying therefor $2,163,557 in 
cash, all of which latter stock has since been sold. 

5. A few weeks ago, the Du Pont American Industries, Inc., pur- 
chased from W. C. Durant his 40,000 shares of common stock of 
the Du Pont Securities Co., paying him therefor 230,000 shares 
of General Motors Corporation common stock. 

Summary: Summarizing the above, the Du Pont Securities Co. 
owns outright upwards of 2,500,000 shares, and has borrowed 
1,373,632 shares of General Motors common stock from the 
Du Pont and Chevrolet companies. ... 

By conversion of General Motors common stock for Chevrolet 
Motor Company stock, this company (E. 1. Du Pont de Ne- 
mours & Co.) has now acquired about two-thirds ownership in 
the Chevrolet Motor Company, whose assets consist essentially 
of General Motors Corporation common stock... . 

Du Pont Securities Co. now has outstanding: (a) $20,000,000 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION. 207 


eight per cent collateral-trust bonds due November 22, 1921; (b) 
$7,000,000 in eight per cent cumulative voting preferred stock 
($4,200,000 of which is owned by Du Pont American Industries, 
Inc., and $2,800,000 by the Chevrolet Motor Co.); (c) 100,000 
shares of no-par non-voting common stock, of which 64,000 
shares are owned by Du Pont American Industries, Inc., and 
16,000 shares by the Chevrolet Motor Co., the remaining 
20,000 shares being owned by the underwriters of the bond 
issue. 


On December 31, 1919, the Du Pont interests had owned 
directly or through subsidiaries the equivalent of 4,484,560 
shares of no-par value common stock of the General Motors 
Corporation; as a result of their acquisitions of 1920, their 
holdings were increased to more than 7,000,000 shares out of 
the total of 20,538,345 shares of common stock issued and 
outstanding.? In addition, the Du Ponts were associated to 
some extent with the British and British-Canadian interests 
that had subscribed to 1,800,000 shares of the General Mo- 
tors common stock offering of 1920.2 The previous Durant- 
Du Pont control of the General Motors Corporation had not 
rested upon actual ownership of a majority of the common 
stock. Mr. Pierre S. Du Pont, in a letter to the writer un- 
der date of March 10, 1925, declared: 


I do not believe that the Du Pont Company and Mr. Durant ever 
had an actual majority of shares but they, together with their follow- 
ing, that is, investors who were willing to trust the management of 
the company to them, undoubtedly represented the large majority. 


By the end of 1920, by virtue of the larger and still growing 
number of stockholders, and by reason of the more active 
stock-market character of the common stock, conditions 


* See annual reports of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., for 1919 and 
1920, and letter of Mr. Irénée Du Pont, dated May 1, 1921, cited in the 
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 112, p. 2087. 

2 Annual report of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., for 1922. 

3 The employment of the Chevrolet Motor Co. (Delaware), as a hold- 
ing company for General Motors common stock enabled those in control 
of that company, which did for a time hold a majority of General Motors 
common stock, to function as the majority interest in the General Mo- 
tors Corporation. 


208 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


were much more favorable to the control of the Corporation 
by a large, closely held minority interest than they had been 
previously. The growth in the total number of General 
Motors stockholders of all classes between 1917 and 1923, 
inclusive, was as follows: 


ROE ives dios oa aban scent: 2:020 1021s weantcas eure ote ee 66,837 
IQIS i sc tiaspieises sive. 4,739 TQAI, Vowaue pase <6 es «) OS1065" 
TOGO Meicdsice staal wen oe 18,214 IG23 its shapeieree deme cehuee 68,063 
TQOZ0 eke veda eaek Seuae 36,894 


* The number of common stockholders in 1920 and in 1921 is not known; in 1922 
there were 44,000 common stockholders, 37,000 of whom owned less than 100 shares, 
and in 1923, there were 46,587 common stockholders, 31,812 of whom owned less than 
100 shares. The Du Pont holdings were adequate, therefore, for the exercise of effective 
control of the corporation. 


14. LIQUIDATION AND OPERATING REORGANIZATION 


The depression of 1921 was acute, if short-lived; and, as in 
the case of many another American enterprise that had ex- 
panded in undisciplined fashion during the boom period just 
preceding, the General Motors Corporation made the period 
of liquidation the occasion for a thoroughgoing houseclean- 
ing. 

No apologies were voiced by the management for the 
previous expansion program: 


... the troubles of the past years were not related to an ill-financed 
expansion program or to delay in receiving the proceeds of financing. 
It is certain that the funds provided before the close of the year 1920 
were sufficient to carry out the whole program and also to finance new 
business offered during the year 1921 and the first half of the year 
1922. It is equally certain that disregard for control of inventories 
and purchase commitments cost the Corporation a very large sum of 
money, of which the greater part might have been saved by proper 
safeguards in Divisions now differently managed. Further, it is im- 
portant to know that the financial misfortunes of the Corporation in 
the past were only slightly related to the manufacture and sale of its 
products, but that these misfortunes were directly related to loose 
and uncontrolled methods which are now corrected.? 


With respect to one element of the program, however, and 


* For the last quarter of each year —from the annual reports of the 
General Motors Corporation. 


2 President Du Pont in the Corporation’s annual report for 1922. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 209 


one that developed into a veritable fiasco, President Du 
Pont placed the blame squarely on the shoulders of Durant: 
the Samson tractor enterprise. 

The Corporation had entered the business of manufactur- 
ing automotive farm tractors in 1917, following the lead of 
Henry Ford & Son. By October 31, 1920, it had invested 
nearly $30,000,000 in the Samson tractor plants. After 
the product had been finally developed, it was found that 
it could not be marketed profitably at the announced price 
of $650; and prices were raised only to discover that sales 
could not be made in competition with lower-priced. trac- 
tors.‘ Despite increasing operating losses, which aggre- 
gated $12,000,000 in four years, commitments had neverthe- 
_ less been made in 1920 for an output of 130,000 tractors. 
The liquidation of these commitments and of the division’s 
inventories resulted in a loss of more than $21,000,000; and 
the Corporation retired from the tractor field after net 
operating and liquidation losses aggregating more than $33,- 
000,000.2. The tractor venture had been initiated and 
administered by Durant, according to President Du Pont.’ 

Operating deficits during 1920 and 1921 were confined 
to only a few of the divisions, but nearly all of them suf- 
fered large inventory losses. In all, the Corporation was 
forced to write off more than $90,000,000 from its valuation 
accounts and to absorb operating deficits of more than $15,- 
000,000.4 Large as were these book losses, it is interesting 
to observe that the net profits of the three years, 1919, 1920, 
and 1922, were amply sufficient to absorb them and to 
leave a comfortable margin of net gain. 

A careful examination of the Corporation’s affairs dis- 
closed the fact that ten out of its thirty-four operating divi- 
sions had been responsible for nearly two-thirds of its gross 
losses, and that the other twenty-four, on the whole, had 
been satisfactorily conducted. In the table below, which 
shows the relative importance of the two groups, the latter 
is labeled Group I and the former, Group II.s 

* Annual report for 1922. 2 Ibid. 3 Ibid. 4 Ibid. s Ibid. 


210 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 36. RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF GENERAL MOTORS 
OPERATING DIVISIONS BY GROUPS, 1920-22 


Group I Group II 


Net Sales Net Profits 


Net Sales | Net Profits 


$362,409,005 | $68,525,545 | $204,911,599 | $18,336,690 


TGST Acie in scotd Raia 208,438,201 22,802,537 96,048,952 | 15,330,938 (d) 
T0934, ic he winiesic Sie dinette 206,750,778 59,078,448 | 161,713,088} 11,007,517 


$150,406,530 | $462,673,639 | $14,013,269 


$867,604,074 


Inventory adjustments, 
losses, and extraordi- 
nary ‘“‘write-offs”’ (De- 
WITCE ere isie ie od nite 

Operating losses of 1921 
before extraordinary 
adjustments......... 


36,290,020 ' §4,267,963 


15,330,938 (d) 
$40,254,654 (D) 


Net gain or loss........ $114,116,410 


(d) Operating deficit, deduct once. 
(D) Total deficit for Group, net. 


The divisions of Group II included, among others, the 
Oakland, Oldsmobile, Sheridan, and Scripps-Booth pas- 
senger-car units, and the Samson Tractor division. The 
Oakland and Oldsmobile divisions were radically reorgan- 
ized; the Sheridan and Scripps-Booth enterprises were 
liquidated and discontinued;? and the Samson plants, as 
noted before, were diverted to automobile manufacture. In 
order to release for other uses much of.its investment in the 
General Motors Building, Detroit, which had been con- 
structed at a total cost of $20,786,000, the Corporation 
organized a subsidiary, the General Motors Building Cor- 
poration, which sold to S. W. Strauss & Co. an issue of $12,- 
000,000 of seven per cent serial bonds secured by a first 
mortgage on the building and by an agreement with the 
General Motors Corporation whereby the latter leased the 
building at an annual rental sufficient to provide the interest 
and retirement requirements of the bond issue.? 

t Cf, annual report for 1922, and Commercial and Financial Chronicle, 
vol. 112, p. 2310, and vol. 113, pp. 2084 and 2317. The Sheridan division 
had been organized in 1920 and produced 1796 vehicles in 1921; the 


Scripps-Booth Corporation had produced 8128 cars in 1919; 8848 in 1920; 
3056 in 1921. (From the records of the Corporation.) 


2 Cf. Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 113, p. 2189. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 211 


In September, 1921, new operating policies were an- 
nounced by the Corporation. The executive offices were 
removed from New York to Detroit. A close control over 
inventories and over capital expenditures was inaugurated 
by means of a centrally administered budget system. Inter- 
company cash remittances, which had previously caused a 
continuous ‘float’ of approximately $10,000,000, and segre- 
gated cash reserves and balances, which had been previously 
controlled by the various divisions without regard for the 
requirements of other units or of common needs, were re- 
placed by a system of debit and credit book entries and 
centralized administration of all cash balances.2, A number 
of the smaller manufacturing units were consolidated, and 
_ various inter-divisional bodies were established to integrate 
the policies of the different divisions with respect to pro- 
ducts, sales, purchasing, advertising, and other matters. 
The program of coérdinated but decentralized administra- 
tion of the Corporation’s numerous activities thus formally 
initiated was developed in detail in the years immediately 
ensuing. On the basis of its own past experience and of that 
of others, the Corporation established systems of forecast- 
ing and definite, though flexible, standards of capital in- 
vestment, inventory requirements (physical as well as fi- 
nancial), ‘normal’ rates of profits to be attained, and fixed 
and varying costs— all measured, chiefly, by volume of 
business. Along with the exercise of these quasi-scientific 
statistical tools of centralized control, however, it main- 
tained or increased the operating autonomy of its various 
divisions: each retained its own personnel and its own plants; 
and each retained control of its own policies, subject only 
to the veto of the president of the Corporation. 


t Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 113, p. 2189. 

2 Cf, series of articles by officers of the General Motors Corporation 
cited in the first section of this chapter. 

3See pamphlet published by the Corporation, entitled Financial 
Control Policies of General Motors, which reproduces a paper read by 
Albert Bradley, assistant treasurer, before the American Management 
Association in March, 1926. 


212 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


15. MANUFACTURING EXPANSION 


The crisis and depression of 1920-21 were followed by a 
recovery as rapid, unexpected, and complete as the depres- 
sion had been acute. In each of the early months of 1922, 
the sales of General Motors vehicles were more than double 
those of the corresponding months of the preceding year; 
in June, the output of the Corporation reached a new 
monthly record, which was broken again in November. By 
the middle of the year, the Corporation had paid off all its 
bank loans, of which $48,974,996 had been outstanding six 
months before, and of which $82,784,824 had been outstand- 
ing on October 31, 1920.? In 1923 the Corporation brought 
out radically improved models in each of its lines of cars, and 
its output, sales, and profits, as was the case, indeed, with 
the automobile industry as a whole, rose above all previous 
levels. The following table, in which the Corporation’s 
sales of cars and trucks are presented by months for the 
years I919 to 1923, inclusive, reflects both the sharpness of 
the preceding slump and the rapidity and fullness of the 
recovery. 


TABLE 37. SALES OF GENERAL Motors VEHICLES By MONTHS, 
1919-23 * 


393,075 | 214,799 798,555 


* From the records of the Corporation. 


* Annual report for 1922. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 213 


Nearly all of the Corporation’s branches shared in this 
revival and growth, but the expansion of the Chevrolet 
division, producer of its lowest-priced vehicles, was most 
striking. The distribution of the Corporation’s sales among 
its vehicle divisions for the years 1919 to 1923, inclusive, is 
summarized in Table 38; and its aggregate output, financial 
volume of sales, and net profits for these years are presented 
in Table 39. 


TABLE 38. GENERAL MOTORS VEHICLE SALES BY DIVISIONS, 
1919-23 * 


DIVvISION 1921 1923 


ee | er ce | nee | es ee 


Passenger cars 
PeesICK . «.'s...0 eeeee] 119,853 | 116,213 | 83,888 | 135,501 | 218,286 
SeatilaG. eps ress} 19,051 15«19,790 | 1,430 | 22,021 | . 22,201 
Chevrolet........| 132,710 | 144,502 | 75,667 | 240,390 | 464,800 


2 Re 54,451 37,244 | 12,661 | 20,853 | 35,974 

Oldsmobile....... 33,345 | 26,241 | 20,245 | 21,216 | 33,356 
Commercial cars 

Chevrolet........ 2,632 4,938 1,489 2,932 | 15,326 

GMC Truck.... 7,730 5,137 2,760 5,277 6,968 

Oldsmobile....... 7,782 8,383 466 1,218 1,497 
Totals 


Passenger cars....| 360,210 | 343,990 | 203,591 | 442,981 | 774,617 
Commercial cars..} 18,194 18,458 4,715 9,427 | 23,791 
Miscellaneous ®...| 13,334 | 30,627 6,493 4,355 147 


— | 


Grand totals....... 391,738 | 393,075 | 214,799 | 456,763 | 798,555 


® Discontinued lines. 
* From the records of the Corporation. 


TABLE 39. GENERAL Motors OuTPvut, SALES, AND PROFITS, 
1919-23 * 


NET SALES NET PROFITS 


OUTPUT 


DEINIG Gs Hieinin © 4.5 0 po os ep o's 0 391,738 $509,676,694 $60,005,484 
YE gs 5 6 393,075 | 567,320,604 | 37,759,375 
BR Soret etkee sec cess 214,799 | 304,487,243 | 38,680,770 : 
OS ES Beth ale ss 456,763 | 463,706,733 | 51,496,135 
BRU MURE ees 792,555 | 698,038,947 | 62,067,526 


4 Deficit. 
* From the records of the Corporation; profits include earnings of ‘unconsolidated’ 
subsidiaries only to the extent of dividends received. 


214. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE {NDUSTRY 


At the end of 1923, the General Motors Corporation 
looked forward, with the completion of certain unfinished 
construction projects, to a manufacturing capacity of 1,300,- 
ooo cars and trucks a year.? Its volume of business in the 
year Just then ended had been the largest in its history; its 
motor-car products had been extensively remodeled, and 
realigned with respect to price; its manufacturing operations 
now included the production of much of the materials and 
parts required for its chief products, Through the successful 
financial intermediation of the General Motors Acceptance 
Corporation and by other means, its sales organization had 
been greatly improved. Its foreign subsidiaries (both manu- 
facturing and selling companies) were growing in impor- 
tance. And its financial condition, with an excess of current 
assets over current liabilities of more than $140,000,000, 
was one of great strength. The keynote of the Corporation’s 
policies, therefore, as reflected by its annual reports of 1923 
and 1924, was one of stabilization. Thus:? 

The problem from the operating standpoint has become one of in- 
ig efficiency in management and greater refinement in pro- 

UCT eas 

In the earlier history of the Corporation demand so far exceeded 
supply that very little consideration was needed on that point. In 
1921 a definite policy was adopted. The Corporation should estab- 
lish a complete line of motor cars from the lowest to the highest price 
that would justify quantity production.... 


And again:3 


The motor car industry... has now certainly passed the point 
where tremendous annual increases are possible: In 1909-production 
increased 100 per cent over 1908; in 1923 the increase was only 55 
per cent; 1924 produced fewer cars than 1923; while in 1925 a reason- 
able gain is anticipated. The gain will not be tremendous; the days 
of immense increases are past.... The Corporation’s plans do not 
contemplate such increases. 


The year 1924 was one of moderate recession in the whole 
automobile industry; the output and profits of the General 
Motors Corporation each fell off by about 26 per cent; and 
_ ® Annual report for 1923. 2 Ibsd. 3 Ibid., 1924. 


‘THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 215 


this accounts, no doubt, for the sober note sounded in the 
last few lines quoted from the Corporation’s 1924 report. 
The gains of the next three years, however, surpassed all ex- 
pectations; and, far from resting content with a modest rate 
of growth, the Corporation greatly expanded its plant capa- 
city, madea bid of $124,650,000 cash for Dodge Brothers, Inc., 
added two new lines of passenger cars, reorganized its truck 
manufacture, absorbed the Fisher Body Corporation, and 
vigorously expanded the operations of its parts-producing 
and other branches (including, particularly, the manufac- 
ture of the Frigidaire electric refrigerator, which is now pro- 
duced in greater volume than any other similar device). 
Both in 1925 and in 1926, the Corporation’s automobile out- 
put and financial volume of business reached new high 
levels; but its most striking gains took place in the volume of 
profits. The latter clearly reflected the new manufacturing 
efficiency that the Corporation had been progressively 
developing since 1922. In 1925, with output and dollar- 
sales exceeding those of 1923 (the best previous year) by ap- 
proximately 5 per cent, net profits rose by more than 73 per 
cent; and in 1926, when output and sales recorded a further 
increase of 47 and 44 per cent, respectively, over those of 
1925, net profits again displayed a disproportionate gain, ris- 
ing by more than 65 per cent over those of 1925. In 1927, 
when the aggregate American motor-vehicle output suffered 
a decline of 20 per cent, General Motors scored further sub- 
stantial gains. The Corporation’s output, sales, and profits 
for the four years ended in 1927 are summarized below:* 


Net SALES 


OuTPUT NET PRoFITs* 


$45,330,888 
106,484,756 
176,085,144 
238,319,009 


$5 68,007,459 

73415921592 
1,058,153,338 
1,269,519,673 


587,341 

835,902 
1,234,850 
APO eee eee 1,562,748 


1925. -cccceseccesceccsese: 


* Net earnings available for dividends; does not include earnings of ‘unconsolidated’ 
subsidiaries except to extent of dividends received. 


8 Annual reports for 1925, 1926, and 1927. 


216 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


The part played by the Chevrolet division, producer of the 
Corporation’s low-priced car, in this expansion of output, 
may be seen from the following figures: 

Chevrolet output: 


TOBA)  osccccderweshespooeures ccoccscce 314,733 
1925. n dideldiwenabnecnvewaceena ecoses «- 512,309 
IGZO. a ei dh dee ee ieeevaeotanns ee 732,145 
O27 ouseseebvupicscvsvesvcabedkaasans & 1,001,142 


Despite the fact that this product was manifestly competing 
with the Ford car (the small price difference between the 
two vehicles was partly compensated for by the additional 
equipment provided with the Chevrolet), President Sloan 
of the General Motors Corporation denied, though some- 
what equivocably, the intention of the Corporation to 
dispute the lowest price-field with the Ford Motor Company. 
In an address to a convention of publicity men on September 
27, 1927, President Sloan declared :? 

If the past is any indication of the future, the new Ford car will be 
a car that will appeal to a great mass of people.... 

General Motors is in quite a different position. General Motors’ 


idea is to make a car of greater luxury than Ford —a car that 
properly belongs to the next higher class... . 


The object of the Ford Motor Company’s new car, however, 
be it noted, is precisely to yield greater luxury than the old. 
Mr. Sloan, moreover, did not fail to remark: 

To make a long story short, it seems to me that both Ford and 
General Motors are governed by the same economic principles: viz., 
to give the greatest possible value in their respective price classes. 

There is absolutely no reason why General Motors cannot to-day 
give a greater per dollar value than any one in the world. 


Of the Corporation’s various manufacturing divisions, 
only the truck branch had failed to make substantial gains. 
The field of the motor bus, in particular, had been preémpted 
by competitors, while the Corporation’s passenger-car divi- 
sions had surpassed the truck unit in the field of light 
commercial vehicles. In September, 1925, the Corporation 


* Annual report for 1927. 
* Quoted in the Detroit News of October 2, 1927. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 217 


transferred the assets of its truck division, valued at about 
$11,000,000, and some $6,000,000 in cash, to the Yellow Cab 
Manufacturing Company, a large independent truck-pro- 
ducer.* The latter was reorganized as the Yellow Truck & 
Coach Manufacturing Company, its entire common stock 
issue, 800,000 shares of no-par value, going to the General 
Motors Corporation. The stockholders of the predecessor 
company received $15,000,000 par value of seven per cent 
preferred stock, and $6,000,000 par value of Class B stock 
in the new enterprise; the latter stock was given equal voting 
power with common, and preference over the latter for three 
years with respect to dividends of seven and one-half per 
cent.? In 1926 this Company realized about $14,000,000 in 
cash from the sale of $7,000,000 par value of its Class B 
stock; the issue was underwritten by the General Motors 
Corporation, which subscribed to $4,045,500 par value of 
the offering. The unsatisfactory character of the Compa- 
ny’s operations during 1926 has led to rumors of its impend- 
ing consolidation with the Corporation. 


16. RESULTS OF RECENT FINANCIAL OPERATIONS 


The ambitious merger and combination projects that 
marked the history of the General Motors enterprise up to 
1921 have played a relatively small rdle in the Corporation’s 
recent history. The only important acquisition of the last 
half-dozen years has been that of the Fisher Body Corpora- 
tion, which was absorbed in 1926, but control of which had 
been acquired in 1919. 

The Fisher Body Corporation had been incorporated in 
New York on August 21, 1916, to combine into an operating 
and holding company several body-manufacturing enter- 
prises that had been organized by the same interests in 
1908, 1910, and 1912. Until very recent years, virtually all 
automobile producers purchased ‘bodies’ from such in- 
dependent enterprises; and the original Fisher Companies, 
financed largely through reinvestment of earnings, had ex- 


* Annual report of 1925. 2 Ibid. 3 Ibid., 1926. 


218 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


panded rapidly. In 1919, as already noted, the Fisher Body 
Corporation increased its capitalization from 200,000 shares 
to 500,000 shares of common stock, selling the increase to 
the General Motors Corporation at $92 a share, and, at the 
same time, entering into an agreement with the latter 
whereby virtually all of the General Motors body require- 
ments were to be supplied by the Fisher company at cost 
plus 17.6 per cent.? This contract was a very profitable one 
for the Fisher company; and the volume of its profits 
probably had much to do with the reluctance displayed by 
the minority interests, which were closely held,? in agreeing 
to dispose of their holdings to the General Motors Corpora- 
tion. Such an agreement was made, however, in the spring 
of 1926. In return for their 39.92 per cent interest in the 
Fisher Body Corporation, the minority stockholders re- 
ceived 664,720 shares of the common stock of the General 
Motors Corporation (at the rate of one and one-half shares 
of the former to oneshare of the latter).3 The sale took place 
as of June 30, 1926, and the General Motors Corporation 
immediately took over the physical assets of the Fisher 
company. The net worth of the Fisher Body Corporation 
on March 31, 1926, was $92,277,010, including intangible 
assets of $3,405,614; its net earnings in 1925 aggregated $27,- 
057,425.4 The minority interests exchanged a book equity 
of approximately $36,836,982 in the Fisher Body Corpora- 
tion for a book equity of approximately $57,283,687 in 
General Motors, receiving 11.46 per cent of the latter’s entire 
common-stock issue.’ At this rate the Fisher Body Corpora- 
tion was valued at about $143,000,000; its 1925 earnings, it 
may be noted, were equal to a return of 18.9 per cent on 

* See Standard Statistics Company, Bulletin F 11, and annual report 
of General Motors Corporation for 1919. 

? Chiefly by the six Fisher brothers and by Louis Mendelssohn. 

3 General Motors’ listing application to the New York Stock Ex- 
change, June 1, 1926. 

4 Ind. 

5 Four of the Fisher brothers, Charles T., Fred J., Lawrence P., and 
William A., were elected to the Corporation’s board of directors. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 219 


this valuation. On the other hand, the market value of the 
General Motors stock issued for only 39.92 per cent of the 
Fisher capitalization was approximately $130,000,000. 

The dividend policy of the General Motors Corporation 
in recent years has been marked by great liberality. In 
1924, as we have noted, the Corporation simplified its cap- 
ital structure, consolidating its four types of preferred and 
debenture stocks into a single issue of seven per cent cum- 
ulative preferred stock, and substituting one share of no- 
par value common stock, capitalized on its books at $50 
a share, for each four shares of the previous no-par value 

common which had been capitalized at $10 a share.t The 
regular dividend rate of $6 a share on the new common stock 
was soon multiplied by special disbursements, causing the 
‘market value of the stock to soar. In September, 1926, 
several months after the regular rate had been increased 
to $7, a 50 per cent stock dividend was declared, and the 
new $7 rate, augmented by special dividends, was retained. 
In the boom market of 1926 and 1927, the increased number 
of shares did not prevent the stock from again reaching 
prices of $250 and more a share; and another ‘split-up,’ this 
time the substitution of two shares of $25 par value for each 
share of no-par value common stock, was authorized on 
September 12, 1927. In the meantime, in February, 1927, 
in order ‘to strengthen the Corporation’s cash position,’? 
an issue of $25,000,000 par value of its seven per cent pre- 
ferred stock was sold, through J. P. Morgan & Co., at $120a 
share. This issue, in view of the Corporation’s enormous 
cash resources, evidently aroused critical comment, for 
President Sloan felt called upon to justify it in a special 
letter to the stockholders.3 Between 1922 and 1927, in- 
clusive, the cash dividend disbursements of the General 


* The provisions of the new seven per cent preferred stock were noted 
in Section 1 of this chapter. 

2 President Sloan, in a letter to the stockholders, June 13, 1927. 

3 The Corpcration had cash balances, sight drafts, and marketable 
securities aggregating $147,471,820 on December 31, 1926. 


220 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Motors Corporation aggregated $405,665,914, of which the 
common stockholders received $360,682,070. During 1927 
alone the Corporation’s payments to its common stock- 
holders totaled $134,836,081, a greater sum than had ever 
before been paid in a single year on the common stock of 
an industrial enterprise. General Motors’ profits in 1926 
and 1927 exceeded those of any other manufacturing com- 
pany. 

The leading executives, lesser salaried officials, and 
ordinary employees have been permitted to share in varying 
measure in the recent prosperity of the Corporation. Under 
a bonus plan inaugurated in 1918, ten per cent of the amount 
by which the net earnings of the Corporation exceeded seven 
per cent of the invested capital was employed annually for 
five years in purchasing General Motors common stock on 
the open market for gratuitous distribution to employees 
who, ‘ by their inventions, ability, industry, loyalty, or other 
exceptional service’ contributed in special degree to the 
Corporation’s success.t In 1923, this plan was modified to 
apply chiefly to the Corporation’s junior officials, its ap- 
propriations, determined as indicated above, being reduced 
to five per cent; and separate provision was made for the 
senior executives. About seventy of the latter were invited 
to form a Managers’ Securities Company, to which they 
contributed $5,000,000 in cash in return for the Company’s 
entire common stock; the General Motors Corporation 
agreed to contribute annually to this Company, for a term 
of eight years, a sum equal to five per cent of the amount by 
which the Corporation’s earnings should exceed seven per 
cent of its invested capital, these contributions to be in- 
vested in General Motors common stock.? To provide the 
Managers’ Securities Company with initial holdings of 
2,250,000 shares, the Corporation offered to purchase com- 
mon stock from its stockholders at $15 a share. Since 


t Annual report of the Corporation for 1918. 
2 Annual reports of General Motors Corporation and E. I. Du Fors 
de Nemours & Co., for 1923. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 221 


virtually no stock was offered by others, E. I. Du Pont de 
Nemours & Co., as the Corporation’s largest stockholder 
(it owned about thirty-six per cent of the outstanding com- 
mon stock at the time) agreed to supply this amount. This 
it did by causing its subsidiary, the General Motors Securi- 
ties Company, the sole assets of which consisted of 7,500,000 
shares of General Motors common stock, to increase its 
capital stock, and to sell the increase, amounting to thirty 
per cent of its total common stock, to the Managers’ Securi- 
ties Company in return for $4,950,000 cash and $28,800,000 
of the latter’s seven per cent cumulative preferred stock.? 
The leading executives of the Corporation thus acquired a 
thirty per cent interest in 7,500,000 shares of General Mo- 
_ tors common, while the Du Pont company retained entire 

control of its General Motors holdings. By reason of the 
large payments of the General Motors Corporation to the 
Managers’ Securities Company in recent years, and by rea- 
son of the great market appreciation in the value of the Cor- 
poration’s common stock, most of the Corporation’s leading 
executives have become exceedingly wealthy men. It is 
expected that this plan will be renewed at its expiration in 
1930.3 The ordinary employees of the Corporation are en- 
titled to invest twenty per cent of their annual wages, but 
not to exceed $300 a year, in a Savings and Investment 
Fund, to which the Corporation contributes a bonus of 
fifty per cent of the savings (one hundred per cent prior to 
1922), in addition to six per cent interest.4 Savings with- 
drawn for home-purchasing are entitled to the bonus; and 
an extra payment of two dollars annually for five years is 
made to employees who invest the proceeds of the Fund in 
the Corporation’s seven per cent preferred stock.s All the 
employees of the General Motors Corporation and its sub- 
sidiaries are protected by a Group Life Insurance Policy of 


t Ibid. 2 Thid. 
3 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 124, p. 2287. 
4 See letter of President Sloan to the stockholders, March 12, 1927. 


5 Ibid. 


‘922 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


$1000 per individual, written without medical examination, 
the costs of which are shared by the employees and the 
Corporation. The extent to which the various classes of 
employees have participated in the Corporation’s operating 
profits during the six years ended in 1927 is summarized 
in Table 40." 


TABLE 40. PARTICIPATION OF EMPLOYEES IN NET OPERATING 
PROFITS OF GENERAL Motors CORPORATION, 1922-26 


EMPLOYEES’ 
SAVING AND 


EMPLOYEES’ MANAGERS’ 


YEAR Bonus @ ep fet ber INVESTMENT 

LOSP cee vkee es $1,341,997 $1,477,216 
1 C8 oe ERA Hey ge LW i 48 1,906,495 $1,876,119 1,980,583 
IQA} .vs cid wee vetenins 785,616 1,140,190 1,991,990 
1925 0.560 eeeee 3,969,227 4,633,535 2,355,524 
LOG vaisie's ‘eta ceaee 8,274,099 8,274,099 3,461,992 
AOA 7 caciph x sit sides 10,488,072 10,488,072 7,214,662 
Yaa Git $26,765,506 $26,412,015 $18,481,967 


* Amounts appropriated for purchase of General Motors common stock for distribu- 


tion to deserving employees. 
’ Amounts contributed by the Corporation. 
¢ Amounts contributed by the Corporation. 


Despite the large cash disbursements to stockholders and 
employees, the profits reinvested by the General Motors 
Corporation during the six years ended in 1927 aggregated 
about $275,000,000. In these six years, the Corporation’s 
net worth increased by $391,500,000, or by more than 100 
per cent. More than three-fifths of this increase resulted 
from reinvested profits, and most of the remainder, from the 
absorption of the Fisher Body Corporation. The expansion 
of General Motors in recent years, therefore, has been 
mainly due to the striking growth in its manufacturing 
operations, rather than to wholesale acquisitions of inde- 
pendent enterprises. In 1925, however, the Corporation 
narrowly missed absorbing another large automobile pro- 
ducer — Dodge Brothers, Inc. At the invitation of the 
latter’s owners, J. P. Morgan & Co., acting for the General 

* From the annual reports of the Corporation, 1922 to 1927, inclusive. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 223 


Motors Corporation, submitted two bids for this enter- 
prise: a cash bid of $124,650,000, and a bid of $59,000,000 
cash and $90,000,000 of non-interest-bearing notes matur- 
ing serially over a period of nine years.t The enterprise was 
sold, however, to a syndicate of investment bankers, headed 
by Dillon, Read & Co., who offered $146,000,000 cash. 

At the beginning of 1928, the General Motors Corporation 
occupied a commanding position in the automobile industry 
of the world. In the year just ended, it had produced forty- 
four per cent of all of the motor cars manufactured in the 
United States and Canada, as against less than seventeen 
per cent only three years before. Its parts-producing 
branches not only supplied much of the needs of its own 
_ large variety of motor vehicles, but also conducted an ex- 
tensive business with independent manufacturers. A joint 
policy of integrating and diversifying its industrial interests 
had accompanied its recent ascendancy. Approximately 
one-half of the unrivaled volume of its profits in 1927 had 
been derived from other sources than its motor-car opera- 
tions as such — from the production of components, re- 
frigerators, lighting and power plants, etc., and from its 
banking and insurance business.3 The balance-sheet of the 
Corporation on December 31, 1927, presented on page 224, 
valued its net book assets at $760,000,000; the market value 
of its securities on March 9, 1928, was 2.77 billions. 


17. SUMMARY OF THE FINANCING OF GENERAL Motors 


William C. Durant was a vigorous promoter and salesman 
rather than an operating executive; 4 and the career of the 


1 Formal announcement of General Motors Corporation, April 10, 
1925, quoted in the Detroit News of April 11, 1925. 

2 Announcement by Clarence Dillon quoted by Associated Press April 
8, 1925. 

3 Cf. annual report for 1927. 

4 This characterization of Durant accords with that made by every 
member of the existing General Motors organization whom the writer has 
interviewed. ‘Durant is the greatest salesman in America,’ is the state- 


224 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


ASSETS LIABILITIES 
Real estate, plant, etc...... $480,473,509 | Seven per cent preferred... $130,835,700 
Investments in affiliated Six per cent preferred..... 1,713,400 
and other companies not Six per cent debenture..... 2,366,900 
consolidated.......see. - 98,262,014 Common stock $25 par 
Good-will, patents, etc..... 43,687,708 value, 17,400,000 shares.. 435,000,000 
Deferred expenseS....seee- 12,436,188 re 
Treasury stock....escesese 31,338,034 Total capital stock...... $569,916,000 
Total fixed assets.....-. $666,197,453 Interest of minority stock- 
—-—— holders in subsidiaries... 2,603,976 
Cash in banks and on hand.$132,272,218 
Linked Shaten seciarise occ hes kee GOR Surplus... 7. be vodcedte tors 7, arO.00s 
Other marketable securities 301,282 Total capital stock and 
Sight drafts and C.O.D. surplus..... arebescdese 6700030050 
on) pe eae tans 4 - 14,649,007 EE yes eo 
Notes receivable........ on 1,500,678 Accounts payable....... -e 51,828,549 
Trade acceptances and ac- Taxes, payrolls, accruals... 27,236,070 
counts receivable, less Income taxes, United States 
reserve for doubtful ac- and foreign. ... 0.5.40 35,224,309 
COUNTIES. 2... one o eecceeeces 32,646,089 Accrued dividends on pre- 
Inventories...... EAU eG sae MET SOA 7710 ferred and debenture st‘ks 1,567,219 
Prepaid expenses....eceees 3,600,345 Extra dividend on common 


Stock) piles tiie eee aerate 43,500,000 
Total current assets..... $432,280,123 ne 


Total current liabilities. . $159,356,147 


Reserves 
Real estate, plant, etc.... $141,872,940 
Employees’ investment 


fund ines. we wesceses 6,316,320 
Employees’ savingfund.. 14,033,834 
Bonus to employees..... TI,7IS 710 


Sundry contingencies.... 3,943,566 
Total reserves.....2-- $178,782,370 


Total assets. .cecceces + $1,008,477,576 Total liabilities. .....$1,008,477,576 


General Motors combination, until very recent years, has 
largely reflected his personality. His temperament and his 
unbounded confidence in the automobile industry led him 
to seek rapid growth. He desired a wide array of ‘makes’ at 
the outset in order to keep his eggs distributed in many 
baskets; he came to desire a balanced line of parts and ac- 
cessory enterprises; and, whenever the funds of his organiza- 
tion permitted or whenever suitable enterprises could be 
acquired by exchange of securities, he was ready to expand 
by acquisition. And he was content to rely for his control 
upon the support of large stockholders and upon his ability 
to ‘trade on the equity’ of the ‘uncontrolling stockholders,’ * 
ment. attributed to E. R. Stettinius, of J. P. Morgan & Co., by W. A. 
P. John, in a biographical article (Joc. cit.). 


t These suggestive expressions are employed and developed by Hast- 
ings Lyon in his Corporation Finance, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1916, 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 225 


rather than upon actual ownership of a majority stock in- 
terest. In all its larger aspects, the present General Motors 
Corporation is of Durant’s making. 

In its first two years of existence, the General Motors 
Company acquired control of some twenty automobile and 
parts-producing companies. In addition to the liberal issue 
of securities, the Combination paid out $6,347,993 in cash 
for such acquisitions, while it realized only $4,504,306 in 
cash from its sale of stock. It is clear, then, that no large 
amounts of working capital were obtained by the sale of 
_ securities, but that, on the contrary, current assets and earn- 
ings were employed for fixed-capital expansion. The net 
sales of the Combination in this two-year period totaled 
$78,460,054. It was able to handle such a large volume of 
business despite its small provision for working capital for 
reasons already considered: the prevailing business practices 
in the industry permitted advance deposits on dealers’ 
orders, sales for cash immediately upon completion of the 
short process of assembling, and credit from suppliers; and 
its current earnings were large. The working-capital burden, 
in other words, was largely shifted to others. 

The profits of the Combination during its first two years 
aggregated $19,339,865, of which $18,279,297 was rein- 
vested in the business. In order to realize its primary object 
— the production of a large variety of automobiles — the 
bulk of these earnings was employed for fixed-plant ex- 
pansion and for the large inventories required by its eleven 
‘makes’ of cars. Thus, in the single year ended September 
30, 1910, when it realized less than $2,000,000 from the sale 
of securities, and when new acquisitions costing only 
$1,229,230 in cash and preferred stock were made, the 
Combination’s fixed-plant investment rose from little more 
than $6,000,000 to more than $14,000,000, and its inven- 
tories rose from $8,520,920 to $19,802,483. Because of its 
unduly large diversion of current earnings and working 
capital into fixed plant and inventories, the Combination be- 
came involved in financial difficulties at the end of its second 


226 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


year; and a $15,000,000 note-issue, from which it realized 
about $12,500,000 in cash, was floated. 

The bankers’ voting trust during the next five years 
brought financial stability, though at some sacrifice of in- 
dustrial expansion. The number of ‘makes’ was reduced to 
six, additional issues of capital stock for properties were 
small, and profits were largely devoted to the attainment of 
a liquid financial condition. This last was not difficult, for 
we have noted how modest were the ordinary working- 
capital requirements of automobile producers. The General 
Motors Company ended the five-year period with its note- 
issue retired, with no bank indebtedness, with $15,000,000 
in cash, and with a net worth augmented by nearly $20,000,- 
000. The reinvested profits of these five years had totaled 
$31,351,090, but the bankers had charged $12,531,014 
against the surplus account for extraordinary devaluation of 
plants and inventories. 

If we assume that the original invested capital of the 
General Motors Company consisted of its nominal net 
worth (represented by capital stock and surplus) on Sep- 
tember 30, 1909, less the amount of profits reinvested during 
the fiscal year ended on that date, we find that 75.86 per 
cent of the Combination’s net worth at the end of 1917 had 
been derived from reinvested profits, after reducing the 
latter by the amount of extraordinary surplus charges. 
(The actual total of reinvested profits constituted more 
than 87 per cent of the Combination’s net worth on De- 
cember 31, 1917.) Even this striking figure allows nothing 
for the reinvested profits of the subsidiaries prior to their 
acquisition (and these accounted for the bulk of their net 
worth), nor does it include deductions for fictitious or over- 
valued assets represented by watered stock in the original 
capitalization. 

In the three years, 1918 to 1920, inclusive, new invest- 
ment from without became the principal source of the 
Combination’s capital expansion; in these three years the 
net worth increased by $316,551,469, or by 293 per cent. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 227 


The sources of this increase may be summarized as follows: 


From sale of securities for cash *............... $132,204,745 
From issue of securities for properties ®......... 114,737,221 
From stock issued for employees’ bonus........ 11,014,880 
From reinvested earningS..............ceeeeee 54,372,843 
Added to surplus by adjustment of common 
stock to $10 book value per share............ 7,625,180 
$320,044,869 
Less preferred stock retired. ....ccceccssssees: 3,493,400 
$316,551,469 


@ Includes ‘ paid-in surplus’ arising from excess of cash or property value received over 
par or book value of securities issued therefor. 


It is pertinent to observe that the property acquisitions of 
the General Motors Corporation during these three years 
consisted principally of enterprises that had built up their 
net worth largely by reinvestment of profits. We have noted 
that the Chevrolet and United Motors companies, which 
were the most important of the acquisitions, had originally 
issued large amounts of securities — half or more of their 
initial capitalizations — for promotion services; and that, 
in spite of this fact, substantially one-half of their net book 
assets at the time of their consolidation with the General 
Motors Corporation had been derived from direct reinvest- 
ment of their earnings. Such considerations require empha- 
sis because the absorption of going concerns by any enter- 
prise tends to disguise and to minimize the full réle of re- 
invested profits as a source of invested capital. 

In 1921, operating deficits, dividends, and ‘special write- 
offs’ reduced the net worth of the General Motors Corpora- 
tion by $65,459,057. In the five years following, however, 
because of a remarkable growth in the operations and manu- 
facturing efficiency of its constituent units, and the re- 
sultant increase in profits, the net worth of the Corporation 
increased by nearly 75 per cent, of which more than two- 
thirds came from reinvested earnings. The absorption of 
the Fisher Body Corporation, which accounted for nearly 
all of the remaining third, is subject to the same comment 
as that made above with respect to the Chevrolet and 
United Motors acquisitions. 


228 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


We have already called attention to the enormous cumu- 
lative effect of early promotion ‘water’ or business mis- 
judgment in the case of the Heany Lamp companies: the 
$5,908,500 par value of common stock issued for these du- 
bious assets in 1910 (exclusive of the $1,111,000 par value 
of preferred stock and $112,450 cash also paid for them) 
now represents more than 2,381,000 shares of the Corpora- 
tion’s $25 par value common stock, with a market value in 
excess of $320,000,000. The bankers, also, it will be re- 
called, received a bonus of $5,169,200 par value of preferred 
stock early in 1911, and exchanged much or most of this for 
common, offering the latter as a 20 per cent bonus to mem- 
bers of the underwriting syndicate of the note-issue; this 
stock, too, now represents an enormous interest in the 
General Motors Corporation. And so with other blocks of 
securities issued directly or indirectly for promotion and 
financing services, both in connection with the original 
formation of the Combination and with subsequent con- 
solidations. 

Disregarding all such considerations, and without going 
behind the formal book figures, we find that of the net worth 
of the General Motors Corporation on December 31, 1926 — 
$634,257,318 — approximately 55 per cent had been derived 
from investment from without by way of cash, property, 
and services exchanged for securities (including more than 
$64,290,000 of recognized intangibles); about 41.5 per cent 
had resulted from the direct reinvestment of profits; and 
about 3.5 per cent, net, from surplus transactions reflecting 
realized gains and losses in the value of the Corporation’s 
assets. At the end of 1927, reinvested profits accounted 
for 47 per cent of the net worth. 

Turning now to the working-capital aspects of the Cor- 
poration’s financing, we may note that it is significant of the 
essential liquidity of its operations that its borrowings from 
banks have been due, in nearly all cases, to special causes 
rather than to the routine nature of its business. Thus, in 
the three years beginning with 1915, when the difficulties of 


~THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 229 


the original Combination had been eliminated, the Com- 
pany was able to finance a large and sharply mounting 
volume of business without any bank borrowing whatever. 
The crisis and depression of 1920-21, coming on the heels of 
its enormous expansion program, caused a great and acute 
need for banking accommodation, but we have seen how 
rapidly these loans were repaid. Despite the great growth 
in the volume of the Corporation’s operations in 1925, 1926, 
and 1927, no sign of bank indebtedness appeared in its fi- 
nancial statements. The short cycle of manufacture, credit 
from outside suppliers, a manufacturing program attuned to 
current retail sales, and receipt of cash for its vehicles im- 
mediately upon production, make it possible for the Cor- 
poration to conduct the vast volume of its operations with- 
out any borrowing whatever in ordinary times. 

We conclude this review of the financing of the General 
Motors Corporation by appending tables which reflect in 
summary fashion various aspects of the Corporation’s his- 
tory: Table 41 lists the record of receipts from sales, net 
profits applicable to capital stock, and net worth (net 
equities of capital stock at the beginning of each year), by 
years. Table 42 presents the amounts and disposition of the 
Corporation’s earnings by years. Table 43 gives the per- 
centages of profits to net worth and of profits reinvested, by 
years. Table 44 compares the ratio of sales to net worth, the 
percentage of profits to sales, and the percentage of profits to 
net worth, by years. 


230 


THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 41. NeT SALES, NET PRoFits, AND NET WoRTH OF 
GENERAL Morors CORPORATION, BY YEARS * 


YEAR @ Net SALEs > NET PROFITS ¢ NET WortTH 4 
TOOO Fite es blag nate $29,029,875 $9,114,498 $9,684,491 
TOTOV teases tae 49,430,179 10,225,367 17,679,203 
IQIL. .ceceeee 42,733,303 3,316,251 31,639,119 © 
IgI2 coecee 64,744,496 3,896,293 31,456,005 
GTP. ves 85,603,920 7,459,471 32,570,578 — 
IQI4. cc reeveceees 85,373,303 7:249,734 34,407,362 
IQI5.-+eeecee tees 94,424,841 14,457,803 38,176,411 
TOTO aa ncs Stet 156,900,296 28,789,560 51,477,143 
hy BA ABN a 268,973,240 39,075,398 68,058,493 
IQIS. vecseesdeese 269,796,829 14,825,530 108,058,493 
MOLG hgesioislelela ahh 509,676,694 60,005,484 232,635,137 
1920. wceveeceeces 567,320,603 3757595375 317,349,197 
1921 eoeeceveoeoe eve 304,487,243 38,680,770 (d) 424,609,962 
TOPE ow a cere isk 463,706,733 51,496,135 366,194,136 
1923. s'sieisive 698,038,947 62,067,526 404,681,063 
1924... -eeeee . 568,007,459 45,330,888 437,079,270 
LODE 16 e's altlew ve aid's 734,592,592 106,484,756 450,106,879 
TOZO We v's boleib ate a 1,058,153,338 176,085,144 487,016,423 
LOOT Srey Nets 1,269,519,673 238,319,009 634,257,318 
(d) Deficit. 


« The General Motors Corporation was incorporated on October 13, 1916, and suc- 
ceeded the General Motors Company (New Jersey), which had been incorporated on 
September 16, 1908. The figures for 1909 and 1910 are for fiscal years ended September 
30; those for 1911, for the ten months ended July 31, ror1; figures for r912 to 1916, 
inclusive, are for fiscal years ended July 31; the 1917 figures are for the seventeen months 
ended December 31, 1917; the remaining figures are for calendar years. 

’ Figures for 1909 and 1910 include entire fiscal year’s sales of companies acquired 
during these years; figures for the remaining years include sales of acquired companies 
only after acquisition by General Motors. 

¢ Earnings applicable to the capital stock of General Motors; does not include taxes, 
interest, or undistributed earnings of ‘unconsolidated’ subsidiaries. 

4 The figures for net worth represent the net equities of General Motors stockholders 
at the beginning of each year. The figure for 1909 represents the net worth of the Com- 
bination at the end of 1909, minus the profits reinvested during that year. 

* From the records of the Corporation. 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 


231 


_ TABLE 42. CasH DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND REINVESTED EARN- 
INGS OF GENERAL Motors CorPoRATION, BY YEARS * 


EARNINGS Common Stock pad pce 
REINVESTED DIVIDENDS Divienps * 
$8,696,877 $41 7,021 
9,582,420 642,947 
2,474,177 842,074 
2,856,082 1,040,211 
6,410,937 1,048,534 
6,201,055 1,048,679 
13,408,839 1,048,964 
17,010,437 $10,730,159 1,048,964 
27,810,043 9,724,501 1,540,854 
1,667,753 11,237,310 1,920,467 
38,468,430 17,324,541 4,212,513 
14,236,660 17,893,289 5,620,426 
65,459,056 (d)| 20,468,276 6,310,010 
34,889,790 10,177,117 6,429,228 
30,408,129 24,772,026 6,887,371 
13,027,619 25,030,632 7,272,637 
36,909,544 61,935,221 7,639,991 
64,508,864 103,930,993 7,645,287 
94 373,598 134,836,081 9,109,330 
$357,482,198 $448,060,146 | $71,718,108 


(d) Deficit. 


_ ® Fiscal years as in Table 4r. 

’ Includes dividends on six per cent preferred, six per cent debenture, seven per cent 
debenture, and seven per cent preferred, stocks. 

* From the records of the Corporation. 


232 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 43. PERCENTAGE OF PROFITS TO NET WORTH AND PER- 


CENTAGE OF PROFITS REINVESTED, OF GENERAL Morors 


CORPORATION, BY YEARS * 


PERCENTAGE OF 
YEAR ¢ PROFITS TO 


NET WortTu ® 
IGOOs va wie apltie wis soa wie elle ee 94.11 
IQIGS Un ete es oa pve aalbwlee se) 57.84 
EGUT ate (shies se 5 wi divine viniu sd tte RO nae 
Igi2... bet ives aeso 
OIA a cen Roraig ahve, oie sinere Rte, 20 
TOU4 Wan. 'e's's Rane elaine ayaa ete eee 21.07 
IQGUS Vea bible eee epee Meaty o- 37.87 
1916 sca W SEE Giahia oth ald Rint 55-93 
I9I7 e ee e@eeeeeeesd J 57 -05 
TOS eee vas vanes walban eed stele 13.72 
FOTO Wea a icieinle Gi kn. stare HALAL 25.79 
T20 Ua ne oie oa Sel waa h Y . I1.90 
TOAT Sie oc von wicrw eiie's eles bo Kuclsiara - g.10 (d) 
EQA2 ald ney owen’ ie niseeele taro 
VOAS raiaiciaeteleaed sidtimiate ep Mre ee Ly, 
EOZA aries ata euis aie Widle‘ete a eine kOe 
TOR5 vs.e es iain bedia es A dnisla Ve wees tos 
IGZG i cewna ees baba sees ee etealEs 
TORT Aik sick sp aeet sn Wah ere a's 37.57 


(d) Deficit. 
® Fiscal years as in Table 4r. 


+ Net worth at the beginning of each of the fiscal periods; the net worth figures em- 


ployed represent the net equities of General Motors stockholders. 
* Based upon the published records of the Corporation. 


PERCENTAGE OF 
PROFITS 
REINVESTED 


95 -42 
93-71 


74.61 
73-30 
85.94 
85.54 
92.74 
59.09 
71.17 


11.25 
64.11 
37-71 


67.64 
49 .00 
28.74 
34.66 
36.63 
39-59 


’ 


: 


THE GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION 233 


TABLE 44. GENERAL Motors Ratio oF SALES TO NET WortH, 
PERCENTAGE OF PROFITS TO NET WorTH, AND PERCENTAGE 
OF PROFITS TO SALES, BY YEARS * 


. PERCENTAGE OF PERCENTAGE OF RATIO OF 
YEAR ¢ PROFITS TO PROFITS TO SALES TO 
Net WorTH SALES Net WortH 
(per cent) 
TQOQ. we ccerevesceens 94.11 31.40 310 
Sila esacaeis 4b 57104 20.69 280 
TORE MeT  cinice heres « 10.48 7.76 135 
Hebe Bo 0S Fe A ea AMA & Fic Oe 6.02 206 
1). Bees 22.90 8.71 263 
OTE AS A ee 21.07 8.49 248 
TQIS Ss. ae Peta tiia dela’ s 37 .87 1 aoe | 247 
BEE y a n'alelesade's'6, 4's 55-93 18.35 305 
MSDE To latiotn wis &,«°«'s hiss stings OS 14.48 393 
RUT a eters Se A A AS® te ly 5.50 250 
RIPE Sc eetai rig vale aia a saes 125370 i1.77 219 
O20 ais cidawesscwiass <0) 11.90 6.65 179 
Toate ts ee aes sss) 9.10 (d) 72 
Tee et hace ie aes 14.05 II.11 137 
T0243 foes eauescass: L135 8.89 172 
PAP elie scree sce c ss) LOST 7.99 130 
BOR ss of oie cee wy 20505 14.49 162 
Ps aise 'eds's se) GOs 15 16.64 217 
POETS METS srs o's Rey De 37.57 18.77 200 
(d) Deficit. 


® Fiscal years as in preceding tables. 
* Data based upon the preceding tables. Net worth here means net assets applicable 
to capital stock at the beginning of each of the years, including intangible assets. 


CHAPTER V 
OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 


WE have seen that virtually all of the present invested capi- 
tal of the Ford Motor Company has been derived from the 
direct reinvestment of profits; and that not far from half of 
the present net worth of the General Motors Corporation 
has been similarly derived. In the case of the latter enter- 
prise, moreover, we have noted that the acquisition of full- 
grown business units which themselves owed much to this 
source of capital has operated to disguise and to minimize 
the full rdle of reinvested profits as a source of the Corpora- 
tion’s present net worth. The combined net tangible assets 
of the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Cor- 
poration at the end of 1926 constituted about 56.7 per cent 
of the total tangible capital investment of American auto- 
mobile producers; and of the total combined net worth of the 
two enterprises on this date, only 27.6 per cent had been de- 
rived from original or subsequent investments from without 
of cash, property, or services (including promotion and 
financing services). The conditions that have made pos- 
sible so large a reliance upon reinvested profits for the pro- 
visioning of capital have been analyzed. It remains to be 
seen to what extent other leading producers of automobiles 
have similarly relied upon direct reinvestment of profits as a 
source of capital. 

Our choice of enterprises for this purpose has been 
based almost entirely upon present importance in the in- 
dustry as measured by volume of invested capital, except 
that several important producers, particularly the Willys- 
Overland Company and the Chrysler Corporation, have been 


* The National Automobile Chamber of Commerce, basing its esti- 
mate chiefly upon reports from its members, estimated the net tangible 
invested capital of American automobile producers in 1926 at $2,089,- 
498,325. Cf. Facts and Figures of the Automobile Industry, 1927. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 235 


omitted from consideration because adequate data respect- 
ing their histories have been inaccessible. The enterprises 
discussed below, however, together with the Ford and Gen- 
eral Motors companies, constitute a large majority of the 
important producers. The combined net tangible assets of 
all eight producers at the end of 1926 represented nearly 
eighty per cent of the total tangible capital employed by 
all American automobile producers.' 

Our discussion of the six enterprises to be reviewed below 
will be confined to a bare outline of their financial histories, 
with emphasis only upon the growth in their net worth; and 
we shall rely largely upon a purely tabular presentation of 
the data. 


I. THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION 


The present Studebaker Corporation is the immediate 
successor of an enterprise which, after a long career in the 
carriage and wagon industry, entered upon automobile pro- 
duction by diverting some of its resources to the new 
product. The larger part of the present invested capital 
of the Corporation has been derived from profits rein- 
vested in the business since its entrance into the automo- 
bile industry. 

The present Corporation was organized on February 14, 
I9II, to consolidate the Studebaker Brothers Manufactur- 
ing Company and the Everitt-Metzger-Flanders Company. 
The latter had been incorporated in Michigan on August 4, 
1908, to produce and sell an automobile known as the 
‘EMF’. Its operations during the two and one-half years 
of its existence had been highly successful, resulting in a to- 
tal output of 23,432 automobiles, in net sales of $21,236,415, 
and in net profits of $3,214,082. Its net worth on December 
31, 1910, was $3,649,258, of which $2,649,258 represented 

accumulated earnings.? The Studebaker Brothers Manu- 


_ *® See Table 1, above. 
* A. R. Erskine, president, History of the Studebaker Corporation, p. 21 
ff., published by the Corporation. 


236 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


facturing Company had been incorporated in Indiana on 
March 26, 1868, to manufacture carriages and wagons; in 
1905, it had begun to produce a small line of high-priced 
electric and gasoline vehicles; in 1909, it acquired sales rights 
to the ‘E M F’ car; shortly after, it purchased an extensive 
interest in the Everitt-Metzger-Flanders Company; and in 
1911, the two enterprises were merged into the present Cor- 
poration.* 

Unlike other automobile producers, the Studebaker Cor- 
poration started operations with a relatively large fixed- 
plant investment. The net tangible assets of the two pre- 
decessors totaled $15,354,121 in value, of which $9,811,990 
represented real estate, plant, and equipment.” An issue of 
$13,500,000 par value of seven per cent preferred stock, from 
which the Corporation realized $8,328,602 in cash, was sold 
through Goldman, Sachs & Co., to provide working capital. 
Nevertheless, the Corporation started operations with bank 
loans totaling $10,257,237-4 Against the physical assets of 
the predecessor companies, plus ‘good-will’ nicely calculated 
at $19,807,276.64, the Corporation issued $30,000,000 par 
value of common stock, $2,068,400 of which was returned 
to the treasury.5 

The end of the first year found the Company pressed for 
working capital; and in February, 1912, it funded its bank 
loans by the issue of $8,000,000 of five per cent ten-year 
serial gold notes. The next four years, however, brought a 
great improvement in the Company’s financial position: the 
note-issue was easily retired; net profits of $12,519,607 were 
reinvested in the business; the bank indebtedness was en- 
tirely eliminated; and $2,548,654 was set aside for the re- 
tirement of preferred stock.? | 


: A. R. Erskine, president, History of the Studebaker Corporation, p. 21 
ff., published by the Corporation. 

2 Erskine, op. cit., p. 95. 3 Ibid., p. 37 ff. 

4 Ibid., p. 95. s Ibid., p. 37 ff. 

6 Commissions and discounts on these notes created a deferred charge 
of $506,632 on the Corporation’s balance-sheet of December 31, 1912. 

7 Annual reports, 1912-15, inclusive. ‘ 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 237 


At the close of the World War, the Studebaker Corpora- 
tion, like most other automobile producers, initiated a large 
program of plant expansion; and to fund its current in- 
debtedness, which had again mounted to more than $10,000,- 
000, it sold an issue of $15,000,000 of ten-year seven per cent 
serial gold notes, dated January 1, 1919. This note-issue was 
called for redemption at the end of the year, however, and 
was replaced by an issue of $15,000,000 par value of com- 
mon stock, which was underwritten at $105 a share.t_ De- 
spite a jump of more than one hundred per cent in its fixed- 
plant investment during 1919 and 1920, the Corporation 

succeeded in reducing rather than increasing the volume of 

its inventories.2, Hence, it was one of the few automobile 
producers to escape serious reverses in the crisis and depres- 
‘sion of 1920-21. Indeed, and quite remarkably, its output, 
financial volume of sales, and net profits showed uninter- 
rupted increases between 1918 and 1923. On May 5, 1920, 
and December 29, 1922, stock dividends of $15,000,000 par 
value each were declared; and on April 1, 1924, two and one- 
half shares of no-par value common stock were substituted 
for each of the 750,000 shares of $100 par value common 
stock then outstanding. The business of carriage, wagon, 
and harness manufacture, which the Corporation had main- 
tained in diminishing measure, was discontinued in 1921. 
The results of the Corporation’s operations in very recent 
years have been somewhat erratic, both output and profits 
fluctuating irregularly. To maintain and to increase the 
importance of its position in the industry, the Corpora- 
tion has recently reduced the prices of its models sharply, 
bringing most of them into the moderate price class, and 
has introduced the ‘Erskine Six,’ a car selling at less than 
$1000. 

The history of the invested capital of the Studebaker 
Corporation may be briefly related. Its net worth on Decem- 
ber 31, 1926, was $119,033,833, made up of the following 
equities: 

* Annual report for 1919. 2 Ibid., 1918-23, inclusive. 


238 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 
Seven per cent preferred stock......... $7,500,000 
No-par value common stock at $40 a 
Bate le uebd aus eis ae aie wee sheteay 75,000,000 
36,533,833 


$119,033,833 


eecoseveeoeeeseeoceeoeoeeeee ee ee eee 


During the sixteen years of its operations up to December 
31, 1926, its total of reinvested profits, after all surplus 
charges, was $67,755,322, which accounts for 56.9 per cent 
of its present net worth. If, however, we exclude the ‘good- 
will’ item with which the Corporation started and which it 
retains unchanged on its books, we may say that 68.3 per 
cent of the present net tangible capital of the Corporation 
has been derived from reinvested profits, after reducing the 
latter by all surplus charges, including financing fees. Most 


TABLE 45. Ourput, RECEIPTS FROM SALES, NET PROFITS, AND 
NET WoRTH OF THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION, BY YEARS 


Net SALes¢ | NET Prorits?| NET WorTH * 


IOIO. se bw nosis viele be $41,431,600 
SOLE CLs Aa hieolees $28,487,847 | $1,653,582 | 42,144,911 
IQIZsweh ven sae % 35,440,327 | 2,313,245 | 43,353,852 
IQIZ..sswocecessss 41,464,950 1,772,474 | 43,505,251 
IQIA..esecs ry See 43,444,223 | 4,441,966 46,608,167 
IQI5...+- weceee 56,539,006 | 9,067,425 | 53,484,607 
1916. 552 cecve shinai 61,988,594 | 8,611,245 | 58,186,539 
IQU7 voce as pb <kis ae 50,147,516 3,500,741 58,819,730. 
IQI8...ceecceee 52,087,997 | 3,884,195 | 60,546,374 
191Q.cccccvceceses 66,383,307 9,312,284 79,425,583 
LOAD. a vsh bene e take 90,652,363 | 9,822,054 | 83,267,048 
ROSE. i a's knee 96,690,644 | 10,409,691 88,079,744 
1922. .ecdces bee 133,178,881 | 18,086,196 99,142,190 
Oy} Ve ee eqae 166,153,683 | 18,342,223 | 108,133,734 
(Ya es wiiaeie ¢ 110,240 | 135,406,055 | 13,773,869 | 113,612,603 
) | Pe die 134,664 | 161,362,945 | 16,619,523 | 116,394,038 
TOROS cave eho ans II1,315 | 141,536,652 | 13,042,119 | 119,033,833 


© Calendar years. 
’ Of automobiles, only. 


¢ Includes the sales of wagon and carriage division up to 1921. 

4 Net profits applicable to capital stock, but before surplus charges. 

* Net equities of capital stock after all income and surplus deductions at end of each 
year; includes ‘good-will, trade-marks, etc.’ valued at $19,807,277 each year. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 239 


TABLE 46. DisposITION oF NET PRoFIts OF THE STUDEBAKER 
CORPORATION, BY YEARS 


NET PREFERRED SurpLus | PROFITS 
YEAR ¢ ProFits® | DivipENDS ¢| DiviIpENDs 4] CHARGES ¢ Re- 
INVESTED / 
Dei Esidesevveassel: $3,053,582 $708,750 $944,832 
SEEN Uh wba os o's 2,313,245 930,825 1'362'420 
LR eae 1,772,474 901,075 $275,000 596,399 
pie dy ek Se 4,441,966 869,050 3,572,916 
el eee 9,067,425 830,445 | $1,396,580 817,360{ 6,023,040 
Ok DAES Ses 8,611,245 767,550 3,000,000 141,763 4,701,932 
OMT eee te nikievatsles 3,500,741 767,550 2,100,000 633,191 
SES Te utvases 6 0.0% 3,884,195 767,550 1,200,000 1,916,645 
1919. eeeoeeeeeezene 9,312,284 748,475 2,100,000 2,069,600 4,394,209 
BUM stews sense» 9,882,054 710,150} 3,937,500 872,940] 4,301,464 
SUE tales ¢ bub oes 10,409,691 686,000 4,200,000 710,995 4,812,606 
MIS 22 aos as cid o pele’ 18,086,196 673,750 6,000,000 11,412,446 
Baestisteccesaes sl | 18,372,223 638,750 7,500,000 361,929 9,841,544 
SESAY ssc’ als bv's'o 1) 13,773,800 595,000} 7,500,000 5,678,869 
aeisitasedcesesst,. 16,619,523 579,338 9,843,750 6,196,435 
SeMies ves ca dasvewsl) ) 23,042,110 542,325] 9,375,000] 1,778,510| 1,346 284 


Totals ¢......] $144,652,831 | $11,716,583 | $58,152,830 | $7,028,007 | $67,755,322 


* Calendar years. 

+ Net profits applicable to capital stock but before special surplus charges. 

¢ The preferred stock, under the Corporation’s charter, must be retired at the rate of 
not less than three per cent of the par value of the amount outstanding each year by 
purchases in the open market. 

4 Cash dividends. Stock dividends of $15,000,000 par value of common stock were 
paid in 1920 and in 1922; in 1924, the $100 par value common was replaced by no-par 
value stock at the rate of two and one-half shares of the latter for each of the former. 

* Not properly chargeable to the income of the year in which they arise. 

7 After all income and surplus deductions. 

9 Exclusion of fractional dollars gives rise to very slight inaccuracies. 


of the remaining portion of present invested capital came 
from the original investment: the total amount of capital 
subsequently derived from the sale of stock, less the 
amount of preferred stock retired, was $12,074,468." The 
aggregate net profits of the Corporation for the sixteen- 
year period totaled $144,652,831; dividends on preferred 
stock took $11,716,583; cash dividends on common stock, 
$58,152,830; surplus charges, $7,028,096; and the remain- 
der, $67,755,322, was reinvested in the business. 


t This includes $2,324,468 realized in 1915 from $2,068,400 par value 
of common stock previously held in the Corporation’s treasury, and 
$15,750,000 realized from $15,000,000 par value of common stock sold 
at $105 a share in 1919, less $6,000,000 par value of preferred stock 
retired. 


'240 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


The results of the operations of the Studebaker Corpora- 
tion are summarized in Tables 45 and 46." 


2. DopcE BroTu_ers, INC. 


The sale of the assets of Dodge Brothers, Inc., to a group 
of investment bankers in April, 1925, for a net cash price of 
$146,000,000, brought into renewed public notice the ex- 
traordinary profits of successful automobile producers. And 
the feat of Dillon, Read & Co., the principal purchasers, in 
shifting their investment to the public within two weeks at 
a gross cash profit of $13,250,000, while retaining for them- 
selves all the voting stock of the enterprise, can only be 
described as a startling piece of financial legerdemain — 
and all the more striking because it was effected with the 
utmost frankness. 

Dodge Brothers, Inc., was originally incorporated in 
Michigan on July 17, 1914, with an authorized capitaliza- 
tion of $5,000,000 of common stock, all of which, save for 
qualifying directors’ shares, was subscribed and paid for in 
cash by John F. and Horace E. Dodge.? For twelve years 
previous, the two Dodge brothers had been engaged in the 
manufacture of automobile parts for various producers, 
notably for the Ford Motor Company.: Such was the reputa- 
tion of their organization that when they announced, in 
1914, that they would produce and market a ‘ Dodge’ auto- 
mobile, they received more than 22,000 applications for 
dealers’ contracts.3 The Company started operations with 
the production of a single model of chassis on which several 
varieties of ‘bodies’ were mounted; and, like the Ford Motor 
Company, but unlike most other producers, the Company 
refrained from enlarging its line of products and from intro- 
ducing radical annual changes in its vehicles. The original 


* Both tables were compiled from the annual reports of the Corporation, 
which, in recent years, have contained summaries of the operations since 
incorporation. 


? Articles of incorporation filed with the Michigan Secretary of State. 
3 From data obtained by the writer from officers of the Company. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 241 


price of the Dodge touring car was $785; during the post- 
war period the price rose as high as $1285; at the end of 1924, 
it was $885. 

The operations of the Company were markedly successful 
from the start. The Dodge car was sufficiently low in price 
and satisfactory in character to attract and retain a large 
following. In consequence, like the Ford Motor Company, 
Dodge Brothers, Inc., was able to concentrate its efforts 
upon means of enlarging output and economizing manu- 
facturing costs. Within a few years, the Company rose to 
third place among American automobile producers in unit 
output of vehicles. Despite a considerable measure of in- 
tegration of its operations in the interval, the productivity 
_ of its factory employees, as measured by physical volume of 
finished vehicles per worker, more than tripled between 
1916 and 1925." 

The fixed-capital expansion of the Company was financed 
entirely by reinvested profits. Even the original capital of 
$5,000,000 had been chiefly the result of profits accumulated 
by the Dodge brothers in their parts-making business; and 
the Company was able to meet its increasing working-capital 
requirements without any bank borrowing whatever.? The 
net physical assets of Dodge Brothers, Inc., on April 1, 1925, 
were valued at $80,658,682.3 

John F. Dodge and Horace E. Dodge died during 1920; 
and for the next five years the Company was administered 
by the legal representatives of their heirs. Early in 1925, 
the latter opened private negotiations with various interests 
looking to the sale of the enterprise. The Company was 
first offered to Henry Ford, it is said; 4 then to promoters 
who wished to combine it with the Packard Motor Car 
Company, the Hudson Motor Car Company and the Briggs 

t From a typewritten syllabus issued by Dillon, Read & Co. in April, 
1925. 

2 Ihid. 

3 This figure reflects a reappraisal; see prospectuses issued by Dillon, 
Read & Co. in April, 1925. ; 

4 George B. Hassett in the Detroit News of April 1, 1925. 


242 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


Manufacturing Company (body-manufacturers); then, 
when two of the tentative constituents of the projected 
merger refused to join, to the General Motors Corporation.’ 
At this point, Dillon, Read & Co., who had been supporting 
the merger project, offered a cash bid for the Company. 
After a spirited contest between J. P. Morgan & Co., repre- 
senting General Motors, and Dillon, Read & Co. — a contest 
which is said to have started with an initial bid of $90,000,- 
ooo — the assets of Dodge Brothers, Inc., were sold to 
the latter for a gross price of $166,000,000 and a net cash 
price of $146,000,000: the sellers were permitted to retain 
$14,000,000 of the Company’s cash assets and were given 
rights to $6,000,000 more of accumulated dividends, these 
sums reducing the price actually paid by Dillon, Read 
& Co. to $146,000,000.? 

The sale took place as of April 1, 1925. If the net worth 
of Dodge Brothers, Inc., on this date be measured by the 
net price paid for its assets, plus the cash retained by the 
sellers, but without allowance for the latter’s rights to 
$6,000,000 more of dividends, the net worth was $160,000,- 
ooo. In its eleven years of operations, the Company had 
paid out cash dividends in excess of $29,000,000;3 and, 
solely through reinvested profits and through the apprecia- 
tion in the market value of its business, its net worth had 
been multiplied thirty-two times. 

Dillon, Read & Co. proceeded immediately to reincor- 
porate the Company in Maryland (on April 8, 1925), and to 
sell to the investing public a sufficient volume of the new 
Corporation’s securities to yield them a handsome immediate 
cash profit, while yet retaining full control of the enterprise. 
This they did in the following manner: they realized 
$74,250,000 in cash (gross, without deduction for marketing 


t George B. Hassett in the Detroit News of April 1, 1925. 

2 Announcement of Clarence L. Dillon, Associated Press of April 8, 
1925. 

3 This sum represents dividends paid only between 1921 and 1924; 
the previous dividend disbursements are not known. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 243 


expense) from the sale of $75,000,000 of the Company’s six 
per cent debenture bonds, which were offered at $99 and 
interest; they realized $85,000,000 more in cash (gross) from 
the sale of 850,000 shares of no-par value, non-voting, pre- 
ference stock bearing cumulative dividends of $7 ashare, and 
850,000 shares of no-par value, non-voting, Class A common 
stock, which were sold at the rate of one share of each for a 
joint price of $100; and they retained for themselves and 
their associates 650,000 shares of Class A common stock 
and the entire issue of 500,000 shares of Class B common 
stock, which latter class was given sole voting power in the 
Corporation.? In other words, the investing public, which 
absorbed the offerings with surprising alacrity,? paid $159,- 
250,000 in cash for the bonds, preferred stock, and 56.67 per 
cent of the non-voting common stock of Dodge Brothers, 
Inc., while the promoters and underwriters compensated 
themselves with 57.5 per cent of the Corporation’s entire 
common stock, including all of its voting stock. 

The prospectuses issued by Dillon, Read & Co. frankly 
declared that the preference and common stocks of the Com- 
pany were being issued ‘almost entirely against the estab- 
lished earning power.’ Under ordinary procedure, the bal- 
ance-sheet of the Company would have reflected this fact 
by containing a large valuation for ‘good-will’ and other 
intangible assets; and such a treatment would have afforded 
a minimum of deception. Instead, however, the bankers 
took full advantage of the opportunities for disguise made 
possible by the legalization of ‘no-par value’ securities; and, 
as a result, they were able to present an initial balance-sheet 
for the Company that contained a valuation of only one 
dollar for intangible assets. This they effected by placing 
such arbitrarily low nominal values upon the Company’s 
capital stocks as to reduce the total nominal capital lia- 
bilities to a figure consonant with the value of the net physi- 


m = Cf. prospectuses of Dillon, Read & Co. issued in April, 1925, and their 
announcements, through the Associated Press, of April 10 and II, 1925. 


2 Cf. Associated Press reports of April 10 and II, 1925. 


244 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


cal assets. In other words, instead of inflating property 
values by the insertion of a large ‘good-will’ item, they de- 
flated the capital liabilities to only a fraction of their market 
value. Thus, the preference and Class A common stock sold 
to investors for $85,000,000 were carried on the books at a 
total value of only $935,000! The preference stock was given 
a book value of $1 a share; the two classes of common stock, 
Io cents a share. Hence, while the asset side of the Dodge 
Brothers balance-sheet is innocent of the deception sup- 
posed to inhere in the inclusion of intangible items, the lia- 
bility side is highly (though not technically) misrepresenta- 
tive of the true state of affairs. Perhaps one reason for the 
adoption of this procedure was a desire to minimize the ap- 
parent quantity of securities obtained by the bankers for 
their promotion and underwriting services: the 650,000 
shares of Class A common stock and the 500,000 shares of 
Class B common stock that they received, constituting a 
clear majority of the entire common-stock issues, were given 
a total book value of $115,000! 

The balance-sheet of Dodge Brothers, Inc., of Maryland, 
at the beginning of its operations was substantially as fol- 
lows: * 


| ASSETS 
Real estate, plant and equipment, after allowance for de- 

DERCEA LION zealand Rp Une aie UTA 2 ea ai eR aR $47,619,687 
INVENCONIES aly cde kV aks oe ue ulcers 4 ¢ aR Rees 16,014,478 
Accounts feceitmble ys (al iiev ca Rte duc eemeneauw eens 10,153,923 
CASS Oh Mee nea ise Mara eae ae tie eee amie te Sink ee 13,621,440 
WMarketable securitiegs 0/0. 4 Ve ae oe Pe eee 12,632,480 
Secured: notes receivable f. 0/25 40 Ak 1,150,000 
Land contracts receivables ¢i Viens tel see cae 1,067,054 
Investments in subsidiaries including accrued surplus..... 412,733 
Prepaid insurancecy sou adige s sine ahr ae cee eae ane 94,698 
GSD 5 2°4's es ais MU Sh hat d Oe Cs tele Ora Ec ree Cm ge I 


“ 
‘ 


$102,766,494 
RELL ake Eee URE ILS et EE Me, ERS Bel 


* General balance-sheet as of April 1, 1925, giving effect to acquisition 
of the Michigan corporation and to the proposed issues of securities; 
the new company formally opened its books on May 1, 1925. Cf. pro- 
spectuses issued by Dillon, Read & Co. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 245 


LIABILITIES 
Six per cent sinking fund gold debenture bonds.......... $75,000,000 
Preference stock, no-par value; cumulative preferred divi- 
dends of $7 a share annually; 850,000 shares.......... 850,000 


Common stock of Class A, no-par value; issued, 1,500,000 
shares; additional 1,035,000 shares authorized for conver- 


REC IMIT CUTE (IONICS 0 6, 6G bisa a's cio bis's od ass vin eh owed 150,000 
Common stock of Class B, no-par value; issued, 500,000 
EEE a eS Gh Gi ek alsa Hees wiped ec deyn aso oe 50,000 
Capital surplus...... Repvare Rrgtae dicate a aca wwiee ss casa 4,608,682 
EUMMLS SA VADIC ANG ACCIUAIS, tcc crcccescsevievsvesse 14,241,074 
PTR eee Gn de wh nce Vials siewe cud aeeserd glee 591,410 
Remainder of 1924 Federal income taxes..............4. 1,832,508 
Reserve for contingencies and for Federal income tax..... 5,442,820 


$102,766,494 


We have noted that only the Class B common stock was 
given voting power; in other respects, both classes of com- 
mon stock were granted equal rights. The preference stock, 
which was made redeemable at $105 a share upon sixty 
days’ notice at the option of the Company, was given no 
measure of even contingent control. The debenture bonds 
‘were made convertible into Class A common stock at the 
option of the holders until a maximum of $30,000,000 had 
been so converted. For this purpose, the Class A common 
stock was to be valued at $30 a share for the first $5,000,000 
of debentures converted; and at $35, $40, $50, $60, and $70, 
a share, respectively, for the succeeding blocks of $5,000,000 
of debentures converted. 

' The operations of Dodge Brothers, Inc. (Maryland), in 
1925 were highly satisfactory, substantial gains in output, 
financial volume of sales, and in profits being recorded 
over those of the predecessor company in 1924. In 1926, 
further gains in output and sales were made, though profits 
‘declined slightly. Net profits applicable to capital stock 
were equal to $16.17 and $25.40 a share of the preference 
‘stock in the last eight months of 1925 and the calendar year 
of 1926, respectively; leaving $4.02 and $6.46 a share, re- 
‘spectively, available for the common stock. Under the 


t Annual reports for 1925 and 1926. 


246 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


impetus of these large earnings, more than $15,000,000 of 
debentures were converted into Class A common stock, de- 
spite the fact that no dividends had yet been paid on the 
latter. The reinvested profits of the Corporation during 
1925 and 1926 totaled $25,571,389. 

On October 1, 1925, the Company acquired a 51 per cent 
interest in Graham Brothers, Inc., which had long employed 
a Dodge Brothers engine in the commercial vehicles that it 
manufactured; and on May 1, 1926, the remaining stock in 
this company was purchased, giving rise to an issue of 


TABLE 47. OUTPUT, SALES, PROFITS, REINVESTED PROFITS, AND 
Net WortTH OF DoDGE BROTHERS, INC., BY YEARS * 


PROFITS NET 
YEAR @ Output | NeTSaLes | Prorits® | piinvesteps | Wort é 

ep ML i GE $266 #5.000.008 
1915 17,959 266,250 5,266,250 
1916 199,3 | #202,008,203 6,774,803 12,041,053 
IQI7 1344 14,521,229 26,562,282 
1918. 85.459 73,768,885 3,280,399 30,842,681 
I9I9.. 121,010} $120,970,810 | $24,194,352 14,985,318 5,827,999 
1920.. 145,389 161,002,512] 18,601,780 18,551,732 4,379,735 
LOaLde 92,476 83,666,284 2,801,370 4,118,889 (d) | 60,260,842 
1922. 164,037 130,625,774| 19,054,008 6,582,951 (d) | 53,677,895 
1923. 179,505 141,332,685 | 11,590,637 10,083,606 63,761,497 
1924. 222,236 191,652,440 | 19,065,440| 16,897,185 (a) 

1925. 255,322 216,841,368 | 28,698,846 9,841,969 92,055,604 
1926. 331,764 252,997,484 | 27,793,073 15,729,419 114,978,610 


$100,230,070 


(a) Unavailable. 
(d) Deficit. 

* Dodge Brothers, Inc., was first incorporated in Michigan on July 17, ror4. Figures 
for 1915 and 1916 are for the fiscal years ended June 30; the others, for calendar years; 
except that the output figure for 1916-17 is for the thirty months ended December 31, 
1917, and the sales figure for 1915-16-17, for the forty-two months ended on that date. 

+ Net profits before deductions for federal taxes and (after 1924), interest on indebted- 
ness. 

¢ Up to 1925, these figures represent merely the net gain or loss in capital and surplus 
as revealed by the Company’s annual reports to the Michigan Secretary of State; hence 
the figures reflect surplus adjustments as well as reinvested profits. Except for the original 
investment of $5,000,000, and for $8,250,000 more borrowed by the successor company — 
in 1926, the growth in the net assets of the enterprise took place entirely through rein- — 
vestment of earnings and through appreciation in the value of properties. 

4 Up to 1925, these figures represent the net equities applicable to capital stock; in 
1925 and 1926, they represent the equities of bondholders and noteholders, as well. In 
both cases, they represent only the tangible book equities: the enterprise was sold in 
1925 for a net cash price of $146,000,000; hence the net worth at the end of 1925 and 
1926, representing only tangible assets, is understated. 

* Compiled from the annual reports of the Company and its predecessor, and from 
prospectuses issued by Dillon, Read & Co. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 247 


$8,250,000 of five per cent notes maturing serially in three 
years.’ In 1926and 1927, Dodge Brothers’ four-cylinder, low- 
priced product was radically redesigned, and, in addition, 
the Company entered the $1500 ‘price-class’ with a series 
of six-cylinder automobiles. And in 1928, the Company 
introduced a third line of cars, the ‘ Victory Six,’ to occupy 
an intermediate price position ($1095) between its ‘Senior 
Six’ and its four-cylinder line ($875). 

The nominal net worth of Dodge Brothers, Inc., on De- 
cember 31, 1926, as measured by the book equities of its 
stockholders, bondholders, and noteholders, was $114,978,- 
610. If we go behind the formal book figures, and measure 
the net worth by the price paid for the predecessor company, 
plus subsequent capital additions derived from reinvested 
profits and from the sale of $8,250,000 of three-year notes, 
the figure becomes $193,821,389. All but $13,250,000 of 
either total has been derived from reinvested profits and 
from appreciation in the value of the tangible and intangible 
assets of the enterprise. 

Table 47 presents a summary of the output, financial 
volume of sales, profits, reinvested profits, and net worth, 
by years, of the original company and its successor. 


3. THE PACKARD Motor CAR COMPANY 


The Packard Motor Car Company, through its predeces- 
sor of the same name, is one of the oldest of American auto- 
mobile manufacturers, the original company having been 
founded in 1900. The enterprise has confined its efforts to 
the production of relatively expensive vehicles and motors 
of exceptionally high quality; and, through its subsidiaries, 
it has engaged to a substantial extent in the wholesale and 
retail marketing of its products. In consequence, the Com- 
pany’s capital requirements have been relatively greater 
than those of other automobile producers. 

The present Company was incorporated in Michigan on 
September 3, 1909, to succeed a West Virginia corporation 

t Annual reports for 1925 and 1926. 


248 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY. | 


of the same name. The latter had been formed on October. 
24, 1900; in 1903, it had come into the control of a group of 
Detroit capitalists, who transferred the business from War- 
ren, Ohio, to Detroit;* the paid-in capital at this time was 
$400,000, all represented by common stock.? Shortly after 
its removal, the Company sold an issue of $250,000 of five- 
year notes, the purchasers of which received a bonus of 
$250,000 par value of common stock.3 In the next five years, 
through the reinvestment of profits, the net worth of the 
enterprise increased to $5,842,869. The West Virginia cor- 
poration was now dissolved, and its stockholders were given 
$160 par value of preferred, and $160 par value of common, 
stock in the newly organized Michigan company for each 
share of common stock of the predecessor.‘ 

The Michigan corporation started with a capitalization of 
$10,000,000, evenly divided between common and preferred 
stock. Except for the original investment of $400,000, 
all of its net worth at this time had been derived from the 
reinvested profits of its predecessor. In March, 1910, the 
Company sold to Hayden, Stone & Co. $250,000 par value 
of preferred stock, accompanied by a bonus of an equal 
amount of common, these securities having come into its 
treasury from the treasury holdings of the West Virginia 
Company.’ In the following month, a group of the Com- 
pany’s stockholders sold $1,000,000 par value of preferred 
stock to William A. Read & Co., who marketed it at $108 a 
share.® 

Because the quality of its product required the direct 
production of many of the components, the Company was 
frequently pressed for additional capital. Early in 1912, it 

* Henry B. Joy, R. A. and F. M. Alger, P. H. McMillan, and T. H. and 


J. S. Newberry, principally. Cf. annual report for 1903 to the Michigan 
Secretary of State. 


2 From data compiled by Vee writer from the books of the Company, 
through the courtesy of its officers. 


3 Ibid. This sum was charged against the income of 1904. 
4 Ibid. 5 Ibid. 
* Cf. Doolittle, op. cit., p. 291, and annual report for 1910. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 249 


‘sold $2,000,000 of five-year debenture notes; an additional 
$1,000,000 was sold in 1914; two years later, $3,000,000 par 
value of preferred stock was marketed. Later in the same 
year (1916), in order to refund its maturing note-issue and 
to provide further working capital, the Company issued 
$5,000,000 of three-year five per cent notes; and in June, 
1919, it sold an additional $7,500,000 par value of preferred 
stock (the authorized limit of which had been raised to 
$20,000,000), using part of the proceeds to retire the 
$5,000,000 note-issue maturing October 15, 1919." The cri- 
sis and depression of 1920-21 forced it to borrow $10,000,- 
000 more, eight per cent debenture bonds being issued. ‘The 
rapid recovery of the two years following, however, enabled 
the Company to call the bonds for redemption on April 14, 
1923. | 

Marked improvements in manufacturing efficiency, the 
market success of its new six- and eight-cylinder automo- 
biles, and substantial increases in the demand for its avia- 
tion and marine motors, enabled the Company to expand 
sharply the volume of its business in 1925 and 1926. The 
net profits of 1925 reached $12,191,081, as compared with 
profits of $4,805,175 during the year previous; and those of 
1926 totaled $15,843,587. Throughout 1925, the Company 
purchased its preferred stock in the open market, and, at 
the end of the year, it called in the outstanding balance at 
a premium of $10 a share, these measures requiring a cash 
expenditure of $12,780,447.’ 

The net worth of the Packard Motor Car Company on 
August 31, 1926, was $46,390,944. The gross reinvested 
profits of the enterprise between 1903 and 1926 aggregated 
$54,014,634, or some $7,600,000 more than its present net 
worth. The difference is accounted for principally by the 

‘retirement of the original preferred stock of 1909, and of 
subsequent issues, through reinvested profits. In addition, 
the enterprise paid out cash dividends of more than $35,000,- 
000 between 1903 and 1926. The capital structure of the 


t From the Company’s annual reports. a Ibid. 


250 


THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 48. Output, NET SALES, NET PROFITS, AND NET WORTH 
OF PACKARD Moror Car CoMPAny, BY YEARS * 


YEAR 4 NET SALES ¢ Net Prorits 4 NET WoRTH ¢ 
TOO3 ceviche e's ‘ $486,949 
TOOLS Ue euien soe $472,721 $298,662 (d) 188,287 
IQO5.ccccccveece 1,425,626 216,137 339,424 
LQOGi vied sob cast 2,711,613 721,569 930,993 
IQO7 .ccveccecs: 4,915,169 1,386,063 2,122,056 
TOOSLUTUS ore vac 6,005,399 1,412,832 3,252,088 
L900. s5 sss 9,818,843 | 2,879,131 5,842,869 
IGEOL Savas ces os 14,969,000 2,776,951 11,927,612 
TOU eras wer 11,516,000 1,406,410 12,984,022 
WOIBsvip dn calvelas 14,460,000 | 2,182,376 11,198,784 
1913 cues 15,076,000 2,157,472 13,006,256 
TOYA sete ae 12,639,000 1,141,564 13,863,120 
IQUS 10's dials s/s 15,547,000 | 3,166,478 16,679,598 
FOG Ueittae alas 35,495,000 | 6,206,420 25,038,390 
TQI7.cesceee 19,745 | 40,498,453 | 5,400,691 28,953,471 
IQI8...ceeeee+| 21,280 | 50,492,362 | 5,616,702 33,314,791 
IQ1Q..eeeeeeee-| 12,937 | 55,180,656 | 5,433,634 44,333,180 
TOPO. e we peie's 21,650 | 58,894,525 6,276,863 47,662,272 
192) debe ayy) 11,153 | 30,822,812 987,366 (d) | 42,598,796 
IQ22.ccccecess-| 16,632 | 37,988,000 | 2,115,828 43,679,338 
I923.ccceveees-| 22,930 | 55,670,465 | .7,081,879 47,122,424 
1924.ceeeeeeee-| 16,153 | 46,003,679 | 4,805,175 44,962,943 
1925..0eeeeee++| 24,246 | 60,475,990 | 12,191,081 38,940,538f 
1926....++ee0es 34,000 | 77,363,954 | 15,843,587 46,390,944 


(d) Deficit. 

6 For fiscal years ended August 31. 

6 Of passenger and commercial vehicles; production of latter was discontinued in 
1923. 

¢ Includes receipts from sales of airplane and marine engines. 

¢ Net profits applicable to capital stock. 

* Net assets applicable to capital stock at end of fiscal period. 

J Decrease occasioned by retirement of preferred stock. 

* Compiled from the books and annual reports of the Company, except that a number ~ 
of the output figures were obtained from secondary sources, chiefly Moody's Manual of — 
Industrials. 


Company at the end of 1926 included only common stock 
and surplus. 


In spite of its consistent policy of reinvesting a substan- 
tial proportion of its earnings, the Packard Company, until 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 251 


TABLE 49. DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS OF PACKARD Motor 
Car COMPANY, BY YEARS * 


we 
i Net Prorits > ai stane (Specalea es noes | : 

ROOA..:., $298,662 (d) $298,662 (d) 
1905..... 216,137 $65,000 151,137 
1906..... 721,569 130,000 591,569 
oy aoe 1,386,063 195,000 1,191,063 
BOOS 26. 1,412,832 282,800 1,130,032 
1909.... 2,879,131 288,350 2,590,781 
BOTO....; 2,776,951 298,572 $261,250 2,217,129 
BOD... 1,406,410 350,000 1,056,410 
BEES? S\s-5 oe 2,182,376 350,000 1,832,376 
1913... 2,157:472 350,000 1,807,472 
IQI4..... 1,141,564 350,000 791,564 
RT Si sicia's 3,166,478 350,000 2,816,478 
1916..... 6,206,420 395,602 455,000 5,355,818 
OO) Ga 5,400,691 910,636 560,000 3,930,055 
1918.. 5,616,702 710,382 560,000 4,346,320 
1919..... 5,433,634 1,539,245 560,000 | 3,334,389 
tO; fs ss 6,276,863 1,483,144 1,028,297 3,765,422 
a 987,366 (d) 297,128 1,049,282 2,333,776 (d) 
oh Se 2,115,828 1,035,286 1,080,542 
es AR 7,081,879 2,495,871 1,029,322 3,556,686 
7 ae 4,805,175 2,852,424 1,140,332 812,419 
BOIS. 00 12,191,081 4,746,046 686,993 6,758,042 
BOZO. s a's 15,843,587 8,302,221 7,541,366 

$89,132,815 | $24,992,421 | $10,115,762 | $54,024,632 


Less original preferred stock retired........------- $5,000,000 
Less surplus adjustments......... Woe de hielo etate sot, wa Sai 
$45,990,944 

(d) Deficit. 


6 Fiscal years ended August 31. 

’ Net profits applicable to capital stock, before special surplus charges. 

¢ Before special surplus charges. 
- * Compiled from the annual reports of the Company to its stockholders and to the 
Michigan Secretary of State, and from the Company’s books. 


very recently, has been forced to resort to the financial 
markets fairly frequently. As has been suggested, both the 
fixed- and working-capital requirements of this Company 


252 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


have been relatively greater than those of other automobile 
producers because (1) it has specialized in the production of 
high-priced vehicles, the manufacture of which permits a 
slower rate of inventory turnover and a lesser reliance upon 
the products of independent parts-makers; and (2) it has 
undertaken the wholesale and retail marketing, through 
subsidiaries, of a substantial proportion of its output (35 
per cent in 1917 and 40 per cent in 1921 7), which policy has 
prevented it from realizing cash for its product immediately 
upon production, in contrast with the policy of most other 
automobile producers. 

The results of the operations of the Company and its 
predecessor, by years, are summarized in Tables 48 and 49. 


4. THe NAsH Motors CoMPANY 


The Nash Motors Company is an example of a compara- 
tively recent entry into the automobile-manufacturing 
business that has attained a position of considerable im- 
portance through an expansion financed entirely out of re- 
invested profits. 

In May, 1916, James J. Storrow and Charles W. Nash, 
formerly chairman of the board of directors and president, 
respectively, of the General Motors Company, purchased 
control of the Thomas B. Jeffery Company, of Kenosha, 
Wisconsin, for which they paid about $5,000,000.? On July 
29, 1916, they organized the Nash Motors Company, in- 
corporated in Maryland, to which they transferred the as- 
sets and business of the Jeffery company in return for 
$5,000,000 par value of preferred stock and 49,990 shares of 
no-par value common stock; the remaining ten shares of the 


authorized common stock were sold for $500 cash. The — 


: 


Nash Motors Company started operations with an invested — 


* Cf. annual reports for 1917 and 1921. 
2 From data given to the writer by Mr. Storrow in an interview in New 
York on August 27, 1925. 


3 Listing application of Nash Motors Company, July 1, 1922, to New 
York Stock Exchange. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 253 


TABLE 50. Output, Net SALEs, Net PROFITS, AND NET 
WortTH oF Nasu Morors CoMPANY, BY YEARs * 


YEAR @ NET Prorits > | Net WortTH ¢ 
EDs asks as ‘ $5,875,851 
op peas kel ath Caos $16,761,795 | $2,027,784 7,466,134 
LP a aa 41,072,304 1,473,638 7,553,831 
BRED Saat iy bes bo. 41,754,094 5,089,036 | 11,761,367 
BARU. 'a's/0. 0.0 616 0.6'9'0 57,185,767 7,007,471 17,531,838 
BEAL: swe seeccee sc) 25,428,297 2,226,078 | 17,928,095 
EAS sce'k so 0 0'6.4 3 40,237,765 7,613,246 | 24,137,172 
ee ee 58,590,252 9,280,032 | 26,156,587 
EER nly 5. 4'0 90 oieie 6 57,283,891 9,280,541 | 30,848,165 


NI Toes tas ea. og 97,821,157 | 16,256,216 | 34,718,272 
a a oa 137,376 | 131,174,855 | 23,346,306 | 38,563,350 


@ Fiscal years ended November 30. 

+ Net profits applicable to capital stock. 

¢ Net assets applicable to capital stock at end of fiscal period, except that 1916 figure 
{is that of original net worth. 

* Compiled from the annual reports of the Company and from data given to the 
writer by Mr. W. H. Alford, vice-president of the Company. 


capital of $5,875,851 (all tangible assets), most of which had 
been accumulated through the reinvested profits of the 
Jeffery company and its predecessors: the reinvested profits 
of the Jeffery enterprise had totaled $4,696,349 by May 31, 
1916.* 

Entering the most competitive of automobile price-classes, 
that of medium-priced vehicles, the Nash Motors Company 
quickly became one of the most successful of American auto- 
mobile producers. In 1919 and 1920, the Company realized 
$460,000 from the sale of 4600 shares of common stock to 
its employees; but in the same period it retired $500,000 
par value of its preferred stock.? In the next two years, 
$1,000,000 more of the latter was retired, and on February 
I, 1923, the remainder of the original issue was redeemed at 
$110 a shares On December 28, 1922, in the meantime, 
the Company issued $16,380,000 par value of new seven 
per cent preferred stock and 218,400 shares of no-par value 


t Ibid. + Annual reports for 1919 and 1920. _ 
3 Annual reports for 1921 to 1926, inclusive. 


254 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 51. DISPOSITION OF NET PROFITS OF NAsH Motors 
CoMPANY, BY YEARS * 


PREFERRED COMMON PROFITS 
DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS REINVESTED ¢ 


i | | | 


Net Prorits ® 


IQI7..ceeeeee $2,027,784 | $437,500 $1,590,284 
1918.4... 1,473,638 350,000 | $1,050,000 73,638 
IQIQ..e- 5,089,036 336,000 832,000 3,921,036 
1920. ..00- 7,007,471 315,000 872,000 5,820,471 
IQZI. wcccee 2,226,078 288,750 873,600 1,063,728 
192Z.scc0 7,613,246 262,500 873,600 6,477,146 
) (1 fy phe ye 9,280,032 1,207,850 1,638,000 6,434,182 
1924 ny tia shes 9,280,541 1,103,263 2,730,000 5,447,278 
1925. cece 16,256,216 1,051,309 4,368,000 10,836,907 
1926.cceces 23,346,306 140,908 | 10,920,000 | 12,285,398 
$83,600,348 | $5,493,080 | $24,157,200 | $53,950,068 
Add preferred stock dividend redeemed...| 17,007,587 
Dedtict Same) 528 oaks aes he dee Koes 17,077,587 
Deduct original preferred stock retired.. 5,000,000 
Add sundry surplus additions, net....... 355,018 


$41,234,787 | $32,227,499 4 


« Fiscal years ended November 30. 

b Net profits applicable to capital stock. 

¢ Before special surplus adjustments. 

4 Net profits reinvested after all deductions. 

* Compiled from the annual reports of the Company. 


common stock as a dividend to its common stockholders: 
three shares of preferred stock of $100 par value each and 
four shares of no-par value common stock were distributed 
for each share of the original common stock.' About one- 
half of this new issue of preferred stock was retired out of 
earnings during the next three years, and the remainder 
was called for redemption at $105 a share on February 1, 
1926.2 Some two weeks after this date the common stock- 
holders received a stock dividend of 900 per cent in common 
stock.3 | 

The net worth of the Nash Motors Company on Novem- 
ber 30, 1926, was $38,563,350. Virtually all of the original 
invested capital had been repaid by the retirement of the — 


* Annual reports for 1921 to 1926, inclusive. * Ibid. 3 Ibid. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 255 


initial issue of preferred stock. During the ten years of the 
Company’s operations, it had earned net profits totaling 
$83,600,348; it had disbursed to its stockholders, in direct 
cash dividends and through the redemption of the preferred 
stock issued as a common-stock dividend, about $46,650,- 
ooo. The earnings of the Company, therefore, were more 
than sufficient to finance its fixed-capital expansion. The 
ease with which its working-capital requirements have been 
met is reflected by the fact that none of its annual state- 
ments has contained any evidence of ordinary commercial 
borrowing from banks. 

The results of the Company’s operations, by years, are 
summarized in Tables 50 and 51. 


5. THE Hupson Motor CAR COMPANY 


The Hudson Motor Car Company affords another ex- 
ample of a leading automobile-manufacturing enterprise 
whose present invested capital has been built up almost 
entirely through the reinvestment of profits. 

The Company was incorporated in Michigan on Feb- 
ruary 24, 1909, to succeed to a partnership formed a few 
months earlier by a group of men who had previously 
been connected with the Olds Motor Works and the E. R. 
Thomas Company.! Nearly all of the original stockholders 
are still active in the direction of the enterprise. The Com- 
pany started with $15,000 in cash; models, patterns, and 
dies valued at $25,000; and subscriptions later paid in cash 
aggregating $58,990. Its initial product was a medium- 
priced passenger car; in 1917, a lower-priced vehicle, the 
‘Essex,’ was added. 


t The partners, and the original stockholders of the Hudson Motor 
Car Company were: Roy D. Chapin, Hugh Chalmers, H. E. Coffin, R. B. 
Jackson, F. O. Bezner, J. J. Brady, J. L. Hudson, and Lee Counselman. 
Cf. the Company’s listing application to the New York Stock Exchange, 
June 7, 1922. 

2 Ibid.; cf. also articles of incorporation filed with the Michigan 
Secretary of State. 


256 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY - ~ 


Except for $106,000 par value of capital stock sold to its 
employees in 1913, and 10,000 shares of no-par value stock 
given to its factory manager in 1925 for ‘cash and services,’ * 
the expansion of the Company has been financed entirely 
through reinvested profits. This statement is nominally in- 
accurate. Essex Motors, a Michigan corporation, was incor- 
porated by the stockholders of the Hudson Company on 
September 16, 1917, ‘to satisfy a demand from the distrib- 
utors of the Hudson Motor Car Company for a small and 
more inexpensive car... .’? The Essex car was manufactured 
in the Hudson plants, but the latter Company did not for- 
mally acquire the capital stock of Essex Motors in its own - 
name until May 27, 1922, when it issued 200,000 shares of its 
no-par value common stock for the same.’ Prior to this con- 
solidation, the operations of the Essex company, which had 
started with a capital of $250,000 in cash and $250,000 in 
‘property,’ had resulted in a total net loss of $732,794.4 

The Hudson Motor Car Company was one of the first to 
anticipate the recent market trend toward enclosed rather 
than open automobiles. By reason of marked economies in 
manufacture, it was able to market ‘closed’ models of both 
of its lines of cars at relatively low prices, its Essex car, in 
particular, becoming an important contender in the low- 
price class. Hence, in very recent years, the volume of its 
business has expanded considerably. 

The net worth of the Hudson Motor Car Company on 
December 31, 1926, was $43,078,016, nearly all of which had 
been derived from reinvested profits. Up to this date the 
net profits of the Company had aggregated $65,270,534, of 
which $22,817,854 had been disbursed in cash dividends, and 
$42,452,680, retained in the business. The capital structure 
of the Company has consisted only of common stock, the 


t Judging from the income accounts and balance-sheets of the Com- 
pany for 1924 and 1925, the Company received $125,000 for the 10,000 
shares. 

2 Listing application of the Hudson Motor Car Company to the New 
York Stock Exchange, June 7, 1922. 

3 Ibid. 4 Ibid. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 257 


TABLE 52. Output, NET Prorits, DIVIDENDS, REINVESTED 


PROFITS, AND NET WorRTH, OF Hupson Moror 
Car COMPANY, BY YEARS * 


YEAR ® Output | Net PRorits ¢ Hires : fo ieee Wom . 
1909 ....-.- $98,990 
I910......| 4,107] $587,355 $50,000} $537,355} 662,576 
IQII... 5,448 451,643 451,643 | 1,090,288 
ZOIZi vcs) 5,449 822,415 205,000 617,415 | 1,689,811 
BIOL S a 'win's 6,221 840,741 220,000 620,741 | 2,246,782 
ROTA ow dues 7,199| 1,256,260 37,800 | 1,218,460] 3,192,529 
BATS cues > a 10,918} 1,427,517 576,400 851,117 | 4,036,115 
1916....... 33,186 | 2,734,947 192,000| 2,542,947| 7,282,678 
OG ES 21,320] 1,492,511 521,292 971,219 | 8,662,897 
1918.....-. 13,343 | 1,226,601 475,193 751,408 | 9,331,057 
ks BR SAAS 39,286 | 2,287,104 516,992 | 1,770,112 | 11,189,259 
1920.....-.. 48,439 | 1,156,452 715,795 440,747 | 11,629,658 
I92I....---| 25,415 915,850 915,850 | 12,495,547 
1922....-.-| 61,233] 7,242,677] 1,761,489 | 5,481,188 18,480,475 
1923....-.-.| 88,184] 8,003,624] 3,601,255] 4,402,369 22,660,979 
1924....+..| 128,664 8,073,459} 3,781,394| 4,292,065 26,703,044 
IQ25--+ 000s 263,937 | 21,378,504] 4,974,562 | 16,403,942 | 43,001,985 
yh eae 244,667 | 5,372,874} 5,188,772 184,102 | 43,078,016 


$65,270,534 |$22,817,854 [$42,452,680 | 


@ For fiscal periods ended as follows: roro and Io9II, June 30; 1912, eleven months 
ended June 8; 1913, thirteen months ended June 30; 1914, eleven months ended May 
31; 1915, May 31; 1916, eighteen months ended December §; remainder, for years ended 
November 30, except that the 1926 figures are for the thirteen months ended December 
31, 1926. ; 

+ Includes output of Essex Motors prior to consolidation (1919, 1920, 1921). 

¢ Net profits applicable to capital stock; before special surplus adjustments. 

4 Exclusive of sundry surplus adjustments. 

* Net assets applicable to capital stock at end of fiscal period. 

* Compiled from the reports of the Company to the Michigan Secretary of State, 
from its published annual reports, and from data compiled for the writer by and through 
the courtesy of Mr. E. W. Sheldrick, accounting manager of the Company. 


number of shares of which has been increased time and again 
by stock dividends. In April, 1922, several of the larger 
stockholders sold 400,000 shares of no-par value common 
stock to the Bankers Trust Company (New York) for $7,- 
000,000;' this block was subsequently sold to the public at 


t Statement of Hudson Motor Car Company before the Michigan 
Securities Commission, April 29, 1922. | 


258 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


$20 a share; and on June 14, 1922, the stock of the Company 
was listed on the New York Stock Exchange, whereby 
participation in the ownership of the Company was thrown 
open to the public. 

The results of the Hudson Company’s operations, by 
years, so far as the data are available, are summarized in 
Table 52. 


6. THE REO Motor Car COMPANY 


The Reo Motor Car Company is a long-established auto- 
mobile-producing enterprise which has reached its present 
size by relatively gradual growth. During the more than 
twenty-two years of its existence it has omitted the payment 
of cash dividends in only a single year; and its present net 
worth, except for an original investment of $170,000 in cash 
and $130,000 in ‘property,’? has been built up exclusively 
out of reinvested profits. 

The Company was named after Ransom E. Olds, of 
Lansing, Michigan, who, we have observed, was one of the 
pioneer American automobile inventors and manufacturers. 
In 1904, after severing his connection with the Olds Motor 
Works, of Detroit, Olds had decided to retire from the auto- 
mobile business.? He was investigating peat fields in north- 
ern Michigan when he received a telegram from a number of 
Lansing business men inviting him to head a new automo- 
bile enterprise in which he would be given a controlling in- 
terest for his services. The Reo Motor Car Company was 
incorporated in Michigan on August 17, 1904; Olds was 
given $50,000 par value of preferred stock, which was soon 
converted into common, and $260,000 par value of common 
stock; the remaining stock, $240,000 par value of common, 


* The ‘property’ consisted of the patents, inventions, models, etc., 
of R. E. Olds, valued at $105,000, and $25,000 of real estate. Cf. articles 
of incorporation of the R. E. Olds Company, the original name of the 
enterprise. 

?7From data obtained from Mr. Olds in an interview in Lansing, 

Michigan, December 24, 1924. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 259 


was subscribed by Lansing citizens, who, however, were 
eventually called upon to pay only fifty per cent of their 
subscriptions. 

Whereas Olds had previously been the first to produce 
a low-priced automobile — the ‘Merry Oldsmobile’ — he 
now contented himself with the more limited market open 
to a medium-priced vehicle. The Company prospered stead- 
ily, though not extravagantly. A large proportion of its 
earnings, particularly in its earlier years, was paid out in 
dividends, but its reinvested profits alone were sufficient to 
finance a gradual, then more marked, expansion. On Octo- 
ber 8, 1910, the Company organized a subsidiary, the Reo 
Motor Truck Company, to produce commercial vehicles; 
in 1913, it distributed to its stockholders, pro-rata, its hold- 
ings in this subsidiary; but in 1916, it reacquired the stock of 
the latter, paying share for share in its own common stock.” 
Like only a few other automobile producers, the Reo Com- 
pany established a number of retail sales branches, sepa- 
rately incorporated, in various cities. In very recent years, 
the Company’s truck business has exceeded that of its pas- 
senger cars;3 but in 1927 it redesigned its passenger cars and 
added a new line of lower-priced automobiles (retailing at 
prices just above $1000), with a resultant large increase in 
the popularity of its passenger products. 3 

In its twenty-two years of operations up to August 31, 
1926, the Reo Motor Car Company obtained aggregate net 
profits of $48,931,712;4 it paid out $21,903,429 to its stock- 
holders;s and, including the reinvested gains of its truck 
subsidiary prior to the consolidation, its reinvested profits 


t Cf, articles of incorporation and annual reports filed with the Mich- 
igan Secretary of State. 

2 Annual reports for 1914 and 1917. 

3 Between 1920 and 1926, inclusive, the Company produced 95,153 
trucks and 73,152 passenger automobiles. 

4 Exclusive of sundry income and surplus adjustments, and exclusive 
of the profits of the Reo Motor Truck Company, 1913-16. 

s Exclusive of dividends paid by the Reo Motor Truck Company. 


260 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 53. Output, NET SALES, NET PROFITS, AND NET WoRTH 


oF REo Moror Car CoMPANY, BY YEARS * 


YEAR @ Output ?® NET SALES ¢ NET Prorits ¢ | NET WorRTH ¢ 
IO0E sae ae eineties (a) $130,000 
LGOS ss iene cast) Mea $955,905 $323,457 380,217 
WWOG eT wae ees (a) 1,848,192 459,824 866,787 
SOOT ius baleies eas (a) 2,919,250 767,429 1,123,716 
AGG sh tive wate ate (a) 3,216,981 810,812 1,189,329 
TOOT eb ol anieinie.e 5,728 4,199,805 1,334,727 2,182,076 
TOTO adie eeu 6,588 5,534,902 1,502,889 2,500,395 
VOUT views aes 5,728 4,360,216 543,301 2,798,999 
TOLD. y caip swe otate 6,342 5,030,264 453,322 3,381,150 
WONT sb sicre oir ee 7,047 5,462,592 1,069,552 3,522,842 
SOTAG sos heared) 145745 11,964,609 2,535,592 4,694,082 
TOISAL cas veel ae eeAT 12,201,847 2,569,720 6,661,802 
VOTO Vitae pw eke ee 18,908,717 3,786,934 9,300,286 
yA peg arene Bac 19 4. ST 24,904,301 1,868,761 11,584,165 
TOLO Gere dc doc) ee LaG 20,717,257 1,859,520 12,432,078 
TQ1Q..seeeeeee| 16,483 19,353,574 1,564,687 13,327,584 
IG2G i laesiode Melshiy aero 43,381,506 4,622,801 16,684,560 
LOZ isieaecsntis: easaae 31,783,400 1,022,232 16,722,917 
LOZ Feces ocinn Pani eeaikos 29,322,524 3,140,530 19,594,414 
TO23i Pues vars ed aheoe 38,322,047 5,603,479 22,819,007 
192A. evav ed anesieanOol 35,863,795 3,412,041 23,990,146 
TORS Ndiveaelntiel ease 42,069,073 5,422,182 26,935,504 
1926....200+-6-| 34,542 44,059,627 4,257,920 2719931424 


(a) Unavailable 


« Figures for output, sales, and profits are for the fiscal periods ended August 31, 
except that those for 1911 are for the thirteen months ended September 30, 1911; those 
for 1912, for the year ended September 30, 1912; those for 1913, for the eleven months 
ended August 31, 1913; those for 1914, for the fourteen months ended October 31, 1914; 
and those for 1915, for the ten months ended August 31, 1915. The net-worth figures 
represent the net equities of the stockholders as disclosed in annual reports to the Mich- 
igan Secretary of State as of the following dates: 1904, August 16; 1905, September 7; 
1906-1913, inclusive, December 31; 1914, October 31; 1915-1926, inclusive, August 31. 

> Figures for the years up to 1909 are not available. : 

¢ Figures for 1925 and 1926 represent ‘gross’ sales. 

4 Net profits applicable to capital stock, except that certain figures for the earlier 
years variously do or do not include small income and surplus adjustments. 

* Net assets applicable to capital stock; includes intangibles up to $162,656 prior to 
1913; none thereafter. 

* Most of the data in this table were compiled for the writer by and through the 
courtesy of Mr. George L. Brown, auditor of the Company; the remainder were obtained 
from the annual reports of the Company to the Michigan Secretary of State or to its 
stockholders. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 261 


TABLE 54. DISPosITION OF NET Prorits oF REO Moror Cax 
CoMPANY, BY YEARS * 


CASH 


YEAR ® Net Prorits > Paciaemnas papa csi 
SME slr kc eis callie as $323,457 $50,000 $273,457 
SERN aa wine's vx 9 ah vos 459,824 187,500 272,324 
oy een ee ee 767,429 650,000 117,429 
DEPRES i 5/0 ein alg e'ais'o 6 b's 810,812 800,000 10,812 
I1909....- eovecces oe 1,334,727 1,200,000 134,727 
TGIO . wpasacconensevces 1,502,889 600,000 902,889 
IQILT. cc ceccrvaccecves 543,301 543,301 
Ba tw ialeeik'e ais Dalai oiivh eels 453,322 400,000 53,322 
MODS CG pcig wi cave ries sisis 1,069,552 200,000 869,552 
BLA nies aiv's'¢ e sia's 0 oie.s e.0' 2,535,592 1,050,000 1,485,592 
BRED ie vaci es w/b as.e Lies 2,569,720 1,050,000 1,519,720 
PRO es auras ses os pinta’ 3,786,934 1,218,725 2,568,209 
RAED Wnts ge me ss 49 0 i. 1,868,761 693,725 1,175,036 
UE ea ag saiseieis ss © © 1,859,520 693,725 1,165,795 
IQIQ. wrccdcvccesccccses 1,564,687 693,725 870,962 
TOO si win vvecr aes uicesecces 4,622,801 693,725 3,929,076 
SEE Gi ose s@ alas a 6906 6. 1,022,232 693,725 328,507 
DEE Niateward belews vedievees 3,140,530 1,040,587 2,099,943 
1923 oc ccccccccvcccecees 5,603,479 2,062,992 3,540,487 
1924. ccccccccvccesesces 3,412,041 2,250,000 1,162,041 
1925. co cccccsccccccccess 5,422,182 2,475,000 2,947,182 
1926. scveccccccccveeces 4,257,920 3,200,000 1,057,920 


$48,931,712 | $21,903,429 | $27,028,283 


Add reinvested profits of Reo Motor Truck Company, 
financed by the parent company and then consolidated. 930,493 


$27,958,776 

—_——————————————— sa ae 

* Fiscal years as in Table 53. 

» Net profits applicable to capital stock, before special surplus deductions, but reported 
somewhat inaccurately for some of the earlier years. 

¢ Exclusive of dividends paid by the Reo Motor Truck Company. 

¢ Before surplus deductions other than dividends. 

* Compiled from the annual reports of the Company to the Michigan Secretary of 
State and to its stockholders, and from data compiled for the writer by and through 
the courtesy of Mr. George L. Brown, auditor of the Company. 


262 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


totaled $27,958,776, or more than ninety-nine per cent of its 
present net worth.? 

A summary of the results of the operations of the Com- 
pany, so far as the data are available, is presented in Tables 


53 and 54. 


7. THE FINANCING OF THE SIX PRODUCERS 


The financial practices and policies of the six enterprises 
reviewed in this chapter are widely representative of vir- 
tually all the types of financing employed by successful 
American automobile producers. 

The Studebaker Corporation alone, of the six, started 
with a relatively large investment in fixed plant — an invest- 
ment derived, chiefly, from the earnings of the Studebaker 
wagon and E M F automobile enterprises. Up until 1926, 
only two of the six companies, the Studebaker and Packard, 
had found it necessary to resort to the financial markets to 
meet expanding capital requirements. With the exception 
of the Dodge enterprise since 1925, they are the only ones, 
likewise, which have had frequent resort to borrowed funds 
for long or short term periods. Two of the six had been able 
to retire original issues of preferred stock out of earnings; 
two others (and the Dodge Company prior to 1925) had 
issued only a single type of security, common stock; and 
the present invested capital of all of them, and very par- 
ticularly of five out of the six, has been largely derived 
from reinvested profits. 

There is no need to reiterate the conditions that have 
facilitated the expansion of these companies and of others 
with so little reliance upon additional capital, either fixed 
or working, other than that provided by reinvested earn- 
ings. It may be repeated that the two enterprises that have 
looked to outside sources for additional capital at times have 
been those that sought an early integration of their opera- 


t Part of the original investment, as well as of subsequent reinvested 
earnings, has been reduced in the accounts by elimination of intangibles 
and other surplus charges. 


OTHER LEADING AUTOMOBILE PRODUCERS 263 


tions. The others, engaging in the direct manufacture of com- 
ponents only as increasing resources permitted, and selling 
almost exclusively to independent distributors and dealers, 
have been carried along by the stream of incoming cash and 
by their reinvested profits. 


CHAPTER VI 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS: THE MOBILITY OF 
CAPITAL 


I, SUMMARY 


THE purpose of the present study was to answer, within 
somewhat limited scope, the following question: 

Given the existing organization of industry, and given a new im- 
portant product, how have the producers of this product come to 
command the economic resources required for its extensive pro- 
duction? 


More particularly, it was purposed to illustrate, by reference 
to the history of the American automobile industry, some 
of the specific processes whereby mobility in the employ- 
ment of capital is effected. 

The results of our inquiry require no extended elucida- 
tion. We have found that the fixed- and working-capital 
requirements of automobile manufacture were met, initially, 
by a wide diffusion of the capital burdens among a host of 
subsidiary, ancillary, and contributory enterprises; that, 
through such means, the entrepreneurs of the new industry 
were enabled to produce a maximum volume of product with 
a minimum capital contribution of their own. This was 
made possible, in part, by the large profits of successful 
automobile producers, profits which permitted them to out- 
bid producers of other goods for the services and resources 
of materials-suppliers, parts-makers, and marketing enter- 
prises. In part, this shifting and diffusion of capital burdens 
was facilitated by the technological character of the new 
product: the automobile made no impossible demands upon 
the capital equipment, technical process, and business prac- 
tices of then-existing contributory enterprises. 

The expansion of automobile manufacture was financed 
by a large growth in the capital resources of both the final 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 265 


producers and their suppliers and distributors. Despite the 
fact that the latter’s resources were not nominally controlled 
by the automobile producers proper, the effect was much 
the same as if they had been. Indeed, the producers ex- 
ercised a considerable measure of even direct control over 
the business of parts-makers and sales-dealers: uniform re- 
tail prices and service policies, to take a single example, were 
established at the factories for all dealers. Only meager at- 
tention has been directed to the sources of the capital expan- 
sion of parts-makers and distributing agents, but sufficient 
evidence has been presented, perhaps, to suggest the im- 
portant réle of reinvested profits. The careers of eight of the 
leading producers of automobiles have been studied in some 
detail. We have found that the greater part of the growth in 
their capital resources was derived directly from reinvested 
profits; and that this source accounts for much the greater 
part of their present invested capital. 

While most of the statistical data presented in this study 
was obtained from original or official records, large allow- 
ances must be made for loose, arbitrary, and divergent ac- 
counting practices; and, in a few cases, for the omission of 
significant data.? In consequence, aggregate computations 
based upon these materials must be subject to some measure 
of inaccuracy. Nevertheless, the following table, in which 
the net tangible invested capital at the end of 1926 of each 
of the eight companies studied is compared with its net ag- 
gregate reinvested earnings, gives a rough, though conserv- 
ative, measure of the extent to which the present tangible 
capital investment of these producers has been derived from 
reinvested profits. 


t Such as lack of distinction between charges applicable to income and 
to surplus; varying treatment of appreciation; valuation of ‘patents,’ 
‘good-will,’ and ‘investments’; etc. 

2 Chiefly, special surplus charges made in connection with devaluation 
of ‘good-will’ and inventories. 

3 No allowance is here made for the reinvested profits of independent 
enterprises that were later absorbed by automobile producers, the total 
net worth of such enterprises being treated as new capital contributions; 


266 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


TABLE 55. NET AGGREGATE REINVESTED PROFITS AS A SOURCE 
OF PRESENT TANGIBLE INVESTED CAPITAL 


TANGIBLE Net AGGREGATE 


COMPANY INVESTED CAPITAL € fp apa pe 

Ford Motor Company..... wseeee+-$694,384,502  $694,344,502 
General Motors Corporation....... 593,107,999 306,221,101 
Dodge Brothers, Incorporated...... 114,978,609 101,728,609 
Studebaker Corporation....... wees 99,226,556 71,797,967 
Packard Motor Car Company...... 46,390,943 45,990,944 
Hudson Motor Car Company...... 43,078,016 42,748,026 
Nash Motors Company...... oa wales) N38, 503,450 32,227,499 
Reo Motor Car Company.......... 27,993,424 27,693,424 

$1,657,723,399 $1,322,752,071 

Reinvested profits to invested capital........ 79.79 per cent 


@ At end of calendar or fiscal year, 1926. Includes equities of minority stockholders in 
‘consolidated companies,’ in the case of General Motors, and equities of bondholders 
and noteholders, in the case of Dodge Brothers; otherwise denotes net tangible assets 
applicable to capital stock. 

> These figures reflect surplus adjustments occasioned by gains and losses not ap- 
plicable to the operations of any single year, as well as immediate profits reinvested; 
hence they are not comparable with preceding figures for gross reinvested profits. The 
present totals represent the difference between original and subsequent capital contribu- 
tions from outside sources, less amounts of capital stock retired out of earnings, and pre- 
sent tangible invested capital. For reasons previously noted, they are not perfectly 
accurate. 


Il. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 


It would be unwise to generalize very broadly on the basis 
of these findings. The capital requirements of different 
branches of industry vary greatly and must be met in dif- 
ferent ways. Railroad construction and operation, for ex- 
ample, could scarcely be financed in a manner analogous to 
the financing of the automobile industry. Nevertheless, our 
investigation has revealed the importance of certain general 
aspects of the process of capital mobility that are com- 
monly disregarded in the theoretical analysis of this subject. 


A. INDIRECT DIVERSION OF CAPITAL 


The réle of profits as a guide to the employment of eco- 
nomic resources is often described only in large and direct 
terms: large profits serve to attract entrepreneurs and capi- 
and, in some cases, fictitious or doubtful assets, acquired probably as 


a means of stock-watering, are accepted at face value as capital contri- 
butions. 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 267 


talists, and, through them, the material resources required 
for the production of any good; hence, the productive fac- 
tors, particularly capital, tend to flow automatically to the 
industries most needing them, the importance of their need 
(and the risks involved) being roughly measured by the rate 
of return offered. 

This summary view, while valid in a general way, suggests 
a directness in capital movements that was certainly lacking 
in the development of the automobile industry. In the ab- 
sence of further analysis, it ignores the specialized, concrete, 
durable character of most capital goods: it implies that 
capital consists of a liquid fund of immediately mobile re- 
sources. And it postulates, without examination, the exist- 
ence of practices and institutions that insure the adequate 
mobility of capital. 

The early classical economists, who were much more em- 
pirical in outlook than many of their followers, implicitly 
recognized the obstacle to capital mobility that inheres in 
the specialized character of capital goods by distinguishing 
between ‘fixed’ and ‘circulating’ capital. Many later writ- 
ers, however, intent upon theoretical uniformity, or pre- 
occupied unduly with the easy transfer of liquid funds in 
the organized financial markets, have brushed over this diffi- 
culty by regarding capital as a fund of ‘free,’ ‘uninvested’ 
resources. This concept of capital, particularly as developed 
by J. B..Clark,! is useful for many purposes; but, since it 
presupposes the essential mobility of capital, it commonly 
leads to a complete neglect of the specific means whereby 
such mobility is in fact effected. Clark’s highly valuable 
work, and the otherwise excellent study by Gustav Cassel, 
‘The Nature and Necessity of Interest,’ among others, 
suffer from this defect, in the opinion of the present writer. 

In more specific analyses of the immediate processes of 
capital mobility, attention is often confined to two con- 
spicuous sources of capital for new or growing industries: 
(1) a portion of the temporarily idle capital and credit of 

t Essentials of Economic Theory, particularly chapters x1 and XVIII. 


268 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


business men is held in the form of money and bank deposits, 
and these, particularly when guided by organized financial 
institutions, are highly mobile; and (2) new additions to 
capital, through savings, commonly take the form of money, 
initially, and in this form such capital too may be readily 
directed into new profitable channels. As was first empha- 
sized by Walter Bagehot,? however, the larger part of a com- 
munity’s capital at any moment is in the form of specialized 
durable instruments — machines, roads, buildings, etc. — 
and the essential problem is to explain how capital so em- 
bodied may be transferred to new uses. A partial answer was 
given by Bagehot: concrete capital goods are destructible; 
the prevailing practice of the business world is to maintain 
‘capital’ intact, however short or long the life of particular 
machines; this maintenance of ‘capital’ frequently requires 
the substitution of new instruments, designed for new uses, 
for the old ones; and the rate at which particular forms of 
capital goods are ‘used up’ is partly determined by the 
changing forms in which ‘capital’ is demanded.? In the 
opinion of the late Alfred Marshall, not less than one-fourth 
of the total stock of capital, ‘even in a country in which the 
prevailing forms of capital are as durable as in England,’ 
must be replaced annually.3 This great replacement fund, 
which at one time or another largely takes pecuniary form, 
makes possible a considerable mobility of capital. The re- 
sults of the present study, in the opinion of the writer, per- 
mit us to extend and to refine this analysis. 

The réle of profits in the direction of productive resources 
is not limited to the direct attraction of capital to profitable 
industries. A new or growing industry may divert existing 
capital resources, through the purchase of materials and 
sub-products, without formally attracting to it the owner- 
ship of these resources; and such indirect diversion of capital 
to new uses is, in fact, one of the most important means 
whereby capital is transferred from one employment to 

t Economic Studies, p. 45 ff. 4 Ibid. 

3 Principles of Economics, 8th ed., p. 592. 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 269 


another. An enormous proportion of this country’s capital 
is invested in mines, railroads, iron and steel manufacture, 
textile mills, and other primary industries, as well as in 
general merchandising and financial establishments, the 
products and services of which are at the command of all 
profitable industries. The capital so invested is, in effect, 
constantly mobile among the various products employing 
its services. The proportion of such capital that may be 
diverted to any new good is extremely elastic; it may be 
increased readily and sharply without formal change of 
ownership; and such indirect diversion of capital does not 
require a movement of liquid funds guided by organized 
financial institutions. Large profits serve in this connection 
to enable new or growing industries to outbid competitors 
for the services of capital equipment owned by others, and 
thus, in effect, though not on the surface, to mobilize such 
capital for new purposes. 

It was in this way, most largely, that the early producers 
of automobiles met the capital requirements of their pro- 
duct. Lands and buildings were frequently rented rather 
than purchased; independent enterprises, supplying their 
own capital equipment, produced virtually all of the com- 
ponents and completed virtually all of the physical assemb- 
ling; sales of automobiles were made to independent dis- 
tributors who maintained their own establishments; and, 
whereas the latter paid cash for the vehicles immediately 
upon production, the suppliers extended credit to the auto- 
mobile producers. Thus, the capital burdens of automobile 
manufacture were largely shifted to, and borne by, owners of 
capital who remained essentially outside of the new industry. 
The producers of automobiles were entrepreneurs par excel- 
lence; they alone were effectively responsible for the product, 
but their own capital contributions were at a minimum. 
The new industry readily obtained the services, but not the 
ownership, of large quantities of capital. 


270 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


B. CApitaL MOBILITY AND RISK 


This indirect process of capital mobility, which is far 
more widespread than has been formally recognized, has 
important effects upon the deterrent influence of risk in the 
financing of new and speculative industries. The flow of 
capital into such industries is commonly said to be greatly 
impeded by the large risks necessarily involved; and many 
writers appear to assume that the capital available for such 
industries is limited to the resources of speculatively in- 
clined individuals, or, at any rate, to funds more or less 
definitely earmarked for speculative purposes. In the case 
of American automobile manufacture, however, the develop- 
ment of the industry did not wait upon the direct assump- 
tion of large risks by the owners of the bulk of the capital 
that became diverted to its use; and the industry was able 
to tap far richer sources of capital than the so-called specu- 
lative fund. 

The explanation of this fact has already been anticipated. 
The wide distribution of the capital burdens of automobile 
manufacture involved a considerable diffusion of the risks 
of the industry, and therefore greatly diminished their deter- 
rent influence. Speculative as the industry appeared, poten- 
tial producers did not face the necessity of risking large 
sums of capital in their operations: the immediate manufac- 
ture of the product was shared by numerous independent 
enterprises which supplied the capital required for the man- 
ufacturing operations as such, and which assumed the im- 
mediate subsidiary risks involved therein. On the other 
hand, responsibility for the final product, and the essential 
risks of final design, integration of the purchased compo- 
nents, and factory sales, did not face those who actually, 
though indirectly, provided the bulk of the capital employed. 
Resources that would not be directly committed to the 
fortunes of automobile production proper were nevertheless 
attracted to and then supplied by hundreds of enterprises 
engaged in providing materials, components, and sales facil- 
ities for the new product. Mobility in the employment of 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ort 


capital did not in this case require a wholesale assumption 
of new risks, nor, on the surface, a radical diversion of ex- 
isting capital. In other words, there was a far greater di- 
vorce between the functions of responsibility-taking and 
capital contribution than is commonly thought possible in 
new and speculative industries. In consequence, the diver- 
sion of capital to the automobile industry was greatly facil- 
itated. 

Such distribution of the capital burdens of particular 
industries, involving a partial diffusion and effective reduc- 
tion of risks, is far more common than is usually recognized, 
and accounts for a considerable measure of the actual 
mobility of capital. 


C. RELATION TO INDUSTRIAL TECHNIQUE 


The ability to shift and widely distribute the capital 
burdens involved in the production of any good depends to 
a large extent upon the relation of the product to the prevail- 
ing industrial technique. A product capable of employing 
materials, machines, buildings, and business institutions 
in common use will, other things being equal, require less 
capital on the part of its final producer than one that re- 
quires brand new materials, machines and equipment made 
of metals not now produced, and buildings of great peculiar- 
ity in design and construction. In the former case, the pro- 
ducer avails himself of capital resources already existing 
but owned by others, by purchasing only their current 
services as these are reflected in the intermediate products 
that he buys from their owners. In the latter case, while 
the producer may conceivably induce others to provide and 
to continue to own the peculiar capital goods that he re- 
quires, the probability is vastly greater that he himself will 
be forced to supply much of the capital necessary for the 
intermediate operations involved in the production of his 
product. Different products vary considerably in this re- 
spect, but that the former situation is, on the whole, more 
common than the latter, can scarcely be doubted. _ 


272 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


The automobile industry was particularly fortunate in 
this respect. Partly by reason of the time of its develop- 
ment, and partly by reason of the character of the product, 
it inherited an industrial technique peculiarly congenial to 
its requirements. The prior development of the rifle, sewing- 
machine, carriage and wagon, and other industries, had 
brought into existence numerous well-established wood- and 
metal-working enterprises which were equipped with special- 
ized tools and machines for the large-scale manufacture of 
a wide variety of sub-products. Carriage and wagon manu- 
facture, in particular, was in the hands of a great number of 
such enterprises. The resources and technique of these pro- 
ducers of components, as well as those of suppliers of primary 
materials, were easily mobilized for the automobile. 

A new product may command capital resources not only 
by diverting these from other goods, but also by effecting 
the utilization of hitherto idle utilities residing in existing 
capital equipment. Such increases in the efficiency of cap- 
ital are tantamount to absolute additions to the stock of 
capital; and while they are rarely reflected in pecuniary 
measurements, they may be of great practical importance, 
particularly in a period of improving technology. Some of 
the capital early devoted to automobile production came 
from the idle resources of machine shops and similar estab- 
lishments, which added automobile components to their 
lines of products without, at first, diminishing their output 
of other goods or increasing their capital equipment. It is 
often observed that productive capacity is rarely employed 
to its fullest extent: the actual output of American industry 
as a whole in 1923, according to the Census of Manufactures, 
for example, was only 72.2 per cent of the possible output, 
and in 1921, only 57.1 per cent.t The capacity of American 
automobile factories has been enormously increased in recent 
years without commensurate additions to the capital em- 
ployed, through the extensive use of mechanical power, 
machine-tools, scientific factory management, and other 

t Census of Manufactures, 1923, p. 1201. 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . 273 


such means. Improvements in financial practice that permit 
the various reserve funds of industry to be reduced in size 
and given fuller employment, and improvements in trans- 
portation that make possible significant reductions in in- 
ventories of all kinds, storage facilities, goods-in-transit, 
etc., similarly release capital for new or extended uses. 
These considerations are intended to suggest that a com- 
munity may finance a considerable expansion in the volume 
and variety of product without a concomitant and propor- 
tional increase in the absolute volume of capital employed. 
There can be little doubt that the great growth of the Amer- 
ican automobile industry has been financed by the country 
as a whole through just such economies, in significant though 
uncertain measure, rather than entirely through new savings 
and the diversion of capital from other products. 

Speaking broadly, we may say that a wide distribution 
of capital among industries supplying raw materials, sub- 
products, and various kinds of services, and an improving 
technology, facilitate the mobility of capital. The concen- 
tration of capital in highly integrated industries, on the 
other hand, would seem to render capital less mobile. If, 
twenty-five or thirty years ago, industrial practice had re- 
quired that each final product be produced by a highly 
integrated enterprise that directly controlled the sources of 
the raw materials and all the intermediate manufacturing 
stages, entrance into the automobile industry necessarily 
would have entailed a considerable measure of concentrated 
risk. Indirect diversion of capital, with its attendant dif- 
fusion of risks, would have been virtually impossible. In 
contrast with what has actually taken place, the develop- 
ment of automobile manufacture must have waited upon 
the direct commitment of large quantities of capital to the 
major risks of a new industry. 


D. PROFITS AND CAPITAL 


The striking reliance of the leading automobile producers 
upon reinvested profits as a source of capital is to be attrib- 


274. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


uted partly to the difficulty of procuring fresh capital for 
direct investment in a new industry, and partly to the 
ability of the controlling stockholders to retain undiminished 
ownership of their enterprises by indirectly shifting much of 
the capital burdens to others when expedient. The remark- 
able extent to which the present invested capital of automo- 
bile producers has been derived from their reinvested profits 
suggests the possible widespread importance of this source 
of new capital. Any more positive statement of this kind 
applied to industry generally must necessarily be based upon 
a wide range of inductive studies; but there is much evi- 
dence already to suggest that the importance of this source 
of capital is very great indeed.* 

This fact, if generally true, is significant alike for pro- 
blems of economic theory and for questions of public policy. 
Do corporate savings commonly entail the same psychic 
sacrifice that is imputed to individual savings? A substan- 
tial measure of retention of profits is fostered in all continu- 
ing enterprises by the fear of future reverses and by the de- 
sirability of providing against possible changes in products 
and markets. Such saving takes place automatically, as it 
were, being firmly grounded in the prevailing standards of 
judicious corporate administration; and it is interrupted 
only at times of exceptional reverses. In the case of new or 
growing industries, moreover, substantial further reinvest- 
ment of earnings by the individual enterprises is powerfully 
fostered because such reinvestment is often needed merely to 
maintain competitive positions. To the extent that corpor- 
ate reinvestment of profits is an expected and standard pro- 
cedure, discounted by investors, the abstinence of the indi- 
vidual investor, while real, is little more voluntary, con- 
scious, or direct than that of the taxpayer, part of whose 
income is diverted by government to the construction of 
public buildings, roads, etc. 


* In 1922, only 50 per cent of the net book profits of American cor- 
porations was distributed in dividends, according to Senate Document 
Number 85, 68th Congress, First Session, Distributed and Undistributed 
Profits of Corporations. 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 275 


Large as have been the reinvested profits of automobile 
producers, their cash dividend disbursements have been no 
less striking. No extreme deprivation of current income on 
the part of the individual stockholder accompanied the 
building-up of great corporate surpluses: the payment of 
substantial cash dividends was the rule from the first. The 
annual net profits of automobile producers, until very recent 
years, have borne little relation to the amounts of capital 
actually risked. The rewards of their initiative might con- 
ceivably have been much smaller, and yet have sutticed none 
the less to attract their energies. It would seem that great 
corporate profits might be taxed far more heavily than they 
are now, without gross injustice and without stifling busi- 
ness initiative. 

Any policy of heavy taxation of business profits must 
reckon with ulterior consequences, however. Since profits 
constitute an important source of capital, any substantial 
public appropriation of them must result either in a slower 
accumulation of capital or in a diversion of capital from 
ordinary industry to publicly owned capital improvements. 
The latter use of profits taxes might indeed yield indirect, as 
well as direct, benefits by making possible a more extensive 
employment of government construction projects as a 
“balance wheel’ to mitigate the severity of business fluctua- 
tions. It is clear, in any event, that there is a close connec- 
tion between capital accumulation and profits taxation. 

It cannot be ignored, moreover, that profits function not 
only as a stimulus and reward to enterprise, but also as a 
guide to the employment of economic resources. The ready, 
if indirect, flow of capital and labor into the automobile 
industry, for example, took place largely in response to the 
promise of unusual profits. Had all but a modest rate of re- 
turn been subject to public appropriation, the diversion of 
productive resources into the new industry would have been 
slow and uncertain — unless, indeed, equivalent stimulus 
had been provided under a policy of centralized regulation of 
industrial development. In fact, a policy of radical public 


276 THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY 


appropriation of large business profits would seem to imply 
some measure of centralized control of business activity, for, 
under the existing organization of industry, profits consti- 
tute the chief guide for, and regulator of, the distribution 
of productive resources. 


THE END 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


(Most of the following references have been cited in the text. The 
Annals of the American Academy of Political and Soctal Science are 
here referred to merely as the Annals.) 


Arnold, H. L., and Faurote, F. L. Ford Methods and the Ford Shops. 
New York: Engineering Magazine Co., 1915. 

Automotive Industries. Philadelphia: Chilton Class Journal Co., 
annual statistical issues. 

Automotive Trade Journal. Philadelphia: Chilton Co., Silver Anni- 
versary Issue, December, 1924. 

Ayres, Leonard P. The Automobile Industry and Its Future. Cleve- 
land: Cleveland Trust Co., 1921. 

—— ‘Maturity of the Automotive Industry,’ Journal of the Society 
of Automotive Engineers, March, 1927. 

Bagehot, Walter. Economic Studies. London: Longmans, Green & 
Co., 1880. 

Barber, Herbert Lee. Story of the Automobile. Chicago: A. J. Munson 
& Co., 1917. 

Barnes, J. K. ‘Men Who Created Codperative Competition,’ World's 
Work, May, 1921. 

‘The Men Who Standardized Automobile Parts,’ World’s Work, 
June, 1921. 

Benson, Allan Louis. The New Henry Ford. New York: Funk & 
Wagnalls Co., 1923. 

Bibbins, J. Rowland. ‘Traffic Transportation Planning and Metro- 
politan Development,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Bradley, Albert. Financial Control Policies of General Motors. New 
York: General Motors Corporation, 1926. 

Briscoe, Benjamin. ‘The Inside Story of General Motors,’ Detrott 
Saturday Night, January 15, 22, 29, and February 5, 192I. 

Brown, Donaldson. ‘Pricing Policy in Relation to Financial Con- 

trol,’ Management and Administration, February, March, and 
April, 1924. 

Bushnell, Sarah T. The Truth about Henry Ford. Chicago: The Reilly 
& Lee Co., 1922. 

Caldwell, Otis W., and Slosson, Edwin E. Science Remaking the Mod- 
ern World. Garden City: Doubleday, Page & Co., 1923. 

Cassel, Gustav. Nature and Necessity of Interest. London: Mac- 
millan & Co., 1903. | 


280 BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Chapin, Roy D. ‘The Motor’s Part in Transportation,’ Annals, 
November, 1924. 

Clark, John Bates. Essentials of Economic Theory. New York: Mac- 
millan Co., 1907. 

The Distribution of Wealth. New York: Macmillan Co., 1899. 

Coale, James J. ‘Influence of the Automobile on the City Church,’ 
Annals, November, 1924. é 

Collings, Harry T. ‘The Relation of the Automobile Industry to 
International Problems of Oil and Rubber,’ Annals, November, 
1924, 

Columbia Motor Car Co. et al. v. C. A. Duerr & Co. et al., 184 Fed- 
eral 893. 

Commercial and Financial Chronicle. New York: William B. Dana 
Co., sections on industrial companies, from 1895 on. 

Dalton, James. ‘When Tomorrow’s Roll is Called,’ Motor, January, 
1925. 

Dillon, Read & Co. Prospectus and Supplementary Data on Dodge 
Brothers, Inc. New York: Dillon, Read & Co., 1925. 

Dodge Brothers, Inc. Annual reports to Michigan Secretary of State 
and to stockholders. 

Dodge v. Ford Motor Co. 1070 Michigan Supreme Court Briefs and 
Records. 

204 Michigan 464. 

Doolittle, James Rood (editor). The Romance of the Automobile 
Industry. New York: The Klebold Press, 1916. 

Drake, J. Walter. ‘The Rubber Industry and the Automobile,’ 
Annals, November, 1924. 

E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. Annual reports to stockholders, 
1918 to 1927, and Listing Applications to New York Stock Ex- 
change. 

Electric Vehicle Co. et al. v. C. A. Duerr & Co. et al., 172 Federal 
923. 

Epstein, Ralph C. ‘The Rise and Fall of Firms in the Automobile 
Industry,’ Harvard Business Review, January and April, 1927. 
Erskine, Albert R. History of the Studebaker Corporation. South Bend: 

The Studebaker Corporation, 1924. 

Escher, Franklin. ‘The Auto and the Bond Market,’ Bankers Maga- 
zine, October, 1910. 

Estey, C. A. ‘Financing the Sale of Automobiles,’ Annals, Novem- 
ber, 1924. 

Follin, James W. ‘Taxation of Motor Vehicles in the United States,’ 
Annals, November, 1924. 

Forbes, Bertie C., and Foster, O. D. Automotive Giants of America. 
New York: B. C. Forbes Publishing Co., 1926. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 281 


Ford, Henry (Crowther, Samuel, collaborator). My Life and Work. 
Garden City: Doubleday, Page & Co., 1922. 

Ford Motor Company. Facts from Ford. Detroit: Ford Motor Co., 
1921. 

— Ford Industries. Detroit: Ford Motor Co., 1925. 

Annual reports to Michigan Secretary of State and Massachu- 
setts Commissioner of Corporations. 

Foster, W. T., and Catchings, Waddill. Business Without a Buyer. 
Cambridge: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1927. 

General Motors Corporation. Annual reports to stockholders, List- 
ing Applications to New York Stock Exchange, and Stockholders’ 
Bulletins. 

Gibson, C. R. Motor Car and Its Story. London: Seeley, Service, 
1927. 

Gourlie, John C. ‘Future is Bright for the Parts Makers,’ Auto- 
motive Industries, January 29, 1927. 

Graham, George W. ‘Safeguarding Traffic,’ Annals, November, 
1924. 

Griffin, C. E. ‘Evolution of the Automobile Market,’ Harvard Busi- 
ness Review, July, 1926. 

The Life History of Automobiles. Ann Arbor: University of 
Michigan, School of Business Administration, Bureau of Business 
Research, Michigan Business Studies, Vol. I, No. 1, 1926. 

Grimes, William A. Financing Automobile Sales by the Time-Payment 
Plan. Chicago: A. W. Shaw Co., 1926. 

Hanch, C. C. The Safety Zone in Automobile Financing. New York: 
National Association of Finance Companies, 1925. 

Harbeson, John F. ‘The Automobile and the “ Home ” of the Future,’ 
Annals, November, 1924. 

Hodges, H: G. ‘Financing the Automobile,’ Annals, November, 


1924. 

Holden-Stone, Geoffrey de. The Automobile Industry. London: 
Methuen & Co., 1904. 

Holmes, J. C. History of the Maxwell Organization. Typewritten 
manuscript in possession of the Chrysler Corporation. 

‘Hours and Earnings in the Motor Vehicle Industries,’ Monthly Labor 
Review, August, 1926. 

Hudson Motor Car Co. Annual reports to Michigan Secretary of 
State and to stockholders, and Listing Applications to New York 
Stock Exchange. 

Hyde, Jr., Dorsey W. ‘Linking Up Railroad and Water Transporta- 
tion,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Ihlder, John. ‘The Automobile and Community Planning,’ Annals, 
November, 1924. | 


282 BIBLIOGRAPHY 


‘Index of Productivity of Labor in the Steel, Automobile, Shoe, and’ 


Paper Industries,’ Monthly Labor Review, July, 1926. 

Jenkins, Rhys. Motor Cars. London: T. F. Unwin, 1902. 

John, W. A. P. ‘That Man Durant,’ Motor, January, 1924. 

Kelly, H. H. ‘The Export Trade in Automobiles,’ Annals, Novem- 
ber, 1924. 

King, Clyde L. (editor). The Automobile, Its Province and Problems. 
Philadelphia: American Academy of Political and Social Science, 
1924. 

King, LeRoy A. ‘Consolidation of Schools and Pupil Transportation 
— the Use of the Automobile in Education,’ Annals, November, 


1924. 

Kirby, R.S. (editor). Proceedings of Motor Vehicle Traffic Conference 
of 1924. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1924. 

Klapper, Edmund. Die Entwicklung der deutschen Automobil- 
Industrie. Berlin: Boll u. Pickardt, 1910. 

Lane, Rose Wilder. Henry Ford’s Own Story. New York: E. O. 
Jones, 1917. 

Lee, J. R. ‘The So-Called Profit Sharing System in the Ford Plant,’ 
Annals, May, 1916. 

Levin, S. M. ‘Ford Profit-Sharing, 1914-1920,’ Personnel Journal, 
August, 1927. 

‘The End of Ford Profit-Sharing,’ Personnel Journal, October, 
1927. 
Long, J. C. ‘Motor Transportation and Our Radial Frontier,’ 
Journal of Public Utility and Land Economics, January, 1926. 
‘The Motor’s Part in Public Health,’ Annals, November, 1924. 
MacDonald, T.H. ‘The Financing of Highways,’ Annals, Novem- 
ber, 1924. 

Marquis, S. S. Henry Ford: An Interpretation. Boston: Little, 
Brown & Co., 1923. 

Marshall, Alfred. Principles of Economics, 8th ed. London: Mac- 
millan & Co., 1920. 

McKee, John M. ‘The Automobile and American Agriculture,’ 
Annals, November, 1924. 

Moody's Manual of Industrials. New York: Moody’s Investors 
Service, published annually. | 

Morris, Henry C. ‘The Development of the Foreign Oil Policy of 
the United States,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Mott, C. S. ‘Organizing a Great Industrial,’ Management and Ad- 
ministration, May, 1924. 

Nash, C. W. ‘The Automobile Dealer,’ Motor, March, 1925. 

Nash Motors Company. Annual reports and Listing Applications 
to New York Stock Exchange. 


eS ee ee ee ee ee ee ; 


a. * 


—— 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 283 


National Automobile Chamber of Commerce. Facts and Figures 
of the Automobile Industry, published annually by the Associa- 
tion. 

National Bureau of Economic Research. Income in the United States. 
New York: Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1921. 

Packard Motor Car Company. Annual reports to Michigan Secre- 
tary of State and stockholders, and Listing Applications to New 
York Stock Exchange. 

Pipp, E. G. Henry Ford, Both Sides of Him. Detroit; E. G. Pipp, 
1926. 

— The Real Henry Ford. Detroit: E. G. Pipp, 1922. 

Poor’s Manual of Industrials. New York: Poor’s Publishing Co., 
issued annually. 

Powell, T. C. ‘Function of the Motor Truck in Reducing Cost and 
Preventing Congestion of Freight in Railroad Terminals,’ Annals, 
November, 1924. 

Reitell, Charles. ‘Machinery and Its Effect upon the Workers in the 
Automotive Industry,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Reo Motor Car Company. Annual reports to Michigan Secretary of 
State and stockholders, and Listing Applications to New York 
Stock Exchange. 

Rolls, C. S. ‘Motor Vehicles,’ Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. xvi, 
p. 914 ff., 11th ed., 1911. 

Seligman, Edwin R. A. The Economics of Instalment Selling. New 
York: Harper & Brothers, 1927. 

Shidle, N. G. ‘Trend Toward More Car Models Helping Parts 
Makers,’ Automotive Industries, July 30, 1927. 

Sloan, A. P. ‘The Most Important Thing I Ever Did,’ System, Au- 
gust, 1924. : 

Souvestre, Pierre. Histoire de ’ Automobile. Paris: H. Dunod et E. 
Pinat, 1907. 

Spurr, Henry C. Motor Vehicle Transportation. Rochester, Neva 
Public Utility Reports, Inc., 1922. 

Standard Statistics Co., Inc. Bulletins on individual companies. 

Studebaker Corporation. Annual reports and Listing Applications to 
New York Stock Exchange. 

Swayne, Alfred H. ‘Mobilization of Cash Reserves,’ Management 
and Administration, January, 1924. 

—— ‘The Automobile and Allied Trades and Industries,’ Annals, 
November, 1924. 

Talbot, Frederick A. Motor Cars and Their Story. London: Cassell 
& Co., 1912. 

Taylor, Fred M. Principles of Economics, 9th ed. New York: The 
Ronald Press Co., 1925... 


284 BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Thompson, Huston. ‘Distribution of Gasoline and Methods of Price 
Control,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Thorp, Willard L. Integration of Industrial Operation. Washington: 
Government Printing Office (Census Monograph No. 3), 1924. 
United States Bureau of the Census. Census of Manufactures (sec- 
tion entitled ‘Motor Vehicles, Including Bodies and Parts’), 1899, 

1904, 1909, 1914, 1919, 1921, 1923, 1925. 

United States Children’s Bureau. Minors in Automobile and Metal 
Manufacturing Industries. Washington: Government Printing 
Office, 1923. 

United States Department of Commerce. Commerce Yearbook. 
Washington; Government Printing Office, issued annually. 

United States Department of Labor. Wages and Hours in the Motor 
Vehicle Industry, 1922. Washington: Government Printing Office, 
1923. 

—— Wages and Hours of Labor in the Automobile Industry, 1925. 
Washington: Government Printing Office, 1927. 

Wallace, R. W. ‘The Automobile,’ Journal of Education, July, 1908. 

Weeks, L. H. Automobile Biographies. New York: Monograph 
Press, 1904. 

Wennerlund, E. Karl. ‘Quantity Control of Inventories,’ Manage- 
ment and Administration, June, 1924. 

White, Percival. Motor Transportation of Merchandise and Passen- 
gers. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 1923. 

Wilcox, Delos F. ‘Public Regulation of Motor Bus Service,’ Anuals, 
November, 1924. 

Wilson, Warren H. ‘What the Automobile Has Done To and For 
the Country Church,’ Annals, November, 1924. 

Wyatt, H. M. The Motor Industry. London: Pitman’s, 1917. 

—— ‘The Motor Industry and the War,’ Quarterly Review, July, 


1915. 


INDEX 


Abstinence, 274-75 

Accidents, 9-10 

A. C. Spark Plug Co., 138 

Aeroplane, 8 

Agriculture and motor vehicle, 8-9 

Alford, W. H., xiii, -253 

Algeria, registrations, 78 

Alger, F. M., 248 

Alger, R. A., 248 

Allegheny Plate Glass Co., 119 

American beginnings, 17-24 

American Car & Foundry Co., 29 

American Locomotive Co., 131, 132 

American Motor Car Manufactur- 
ers’ Association, 43 


American superiority in auto- 
mobile industry, 69-75, 78, 79, 
80, 81 


American Telephone & Telegraph 
Co., 131, 132, 134 

American Tobacco Co., 131, 132 

Anderson, John W., 88, 89, 94, 112 

Annals of the American Academy of 
Polttical and Social Science, 8,279 

Apperson brothers, 17, 24, 146 

Argentina, imports from U.S., 81; 
registrations, 78 

Arnold & Faurote, Ford Methods 
and the Ford Shops, 10, 49, 87, 
100, IOI, 279 

Assembling, 20, 49, 74-75, 80 

Associated Press, 223, 243 

Association of Licensed Auto- 
mobile Manufacturers, 40-41, 
43, 96, 98, 103 

Australia, imports from U.S., 81; 
income, 71; registrations, 78; 

roads, 73 

Austria, income, 71; output, 71; 
registrations, 78 

Austria-Hungary, income, 71 

Automatic Air Carriage Co., 25 

Automobile Company of America, 


25 

Automobile finance companies, 53- 
56 

Automobile Forecarriage Co., 25 


Automobiles, busses, 7-8, 64, 80; 
contributions, 6-9; expenditures 


for, U.S., 4; exports, U.S., 18, 64, 
69, 70, 73-75, 79, 80, 81; im- 
ports, US., 18, 72, 73, 74, 79; 
invention, 14-18; number and 
value of U.S. output, 3-4, 26, 27, 
28, 47, 64, 75, 76, 77, 78; number 
registered in principal countries, 
78; output, U.S., by price classes, 
78; output of leading States 
U.S.), 27-28, 82; output of 
principal countries, 71; passenger 
cars, 6, 60-64, 76, 80; social ef- 
fects, 8-10; trucks, 6-9, 47, 64, 
76, 80 

Automotive Industries, 4, 5, 59, 61, 
63, 78, 138, 279 

Automotive Trade Journal, 18, 279 

Ayres, Leonard P., The Automobile 
Industry and Its Future, 62, 63, 
279; ‘Maturity of the Automo- 
tive Industry,’ 63, 279 


Backus, Standish, 176 

Bagehot, Walter, Economic Studies, 
268, 279 

Baker, George F., 143, 196 

Bankers, 30-31, 52-53, 165, 228 

Bankers’ Magazine, 31 

Bankers Trust Co., 257 

Banks, 30-31, 53-56, 131-32, 140, 
142-44, 162-72, 195-97, 202 

Barber, Herbert Lee, Story of the 
Automobile, 279 

Barit,Aiy xu 

Barnes, John K., ‘The Men Who 
Standardized Automobile Parts,’ 
43, 279; ‘Men Who Created Co- 
operative Competition,’ 279 

Barton, Ned W., 159 

Bearing Service Co., 187 

Belgium, imports from U.S., 81; 
output, 71; registrations, 78 

Bennett, A. C., xiii 

Bennett, C. H., 88 

Benson, Allan Louis, The New 
Henry Ford, 88, 91, 112, 114, 116, 
118, 119, 228, 279 

Benz, Carl, 16 

Bezner, F. O., 24, 255 


286 , INDEX 
Bibbins, J. Rowland, ‘Traffic| making the Modern World, 4, 
Transportation Planning and 


Metropolitan Development,’ 279 

Black, Clarence A., 153 

Bond & Goodwin, III 

Bond issues, 38, 66, III, 163-66, 
169, 228, 236, 237, 242-43, 249 

Bonus, employees’, 50, 68, 189, 
220-22 

Boston News Bureau, 166 

Bowen, Lem W., 153 

Bradley, Albert, Financial Control 
Polictes of General Motors, 211, 


279 

Brady, Anthony N., 164 

Brady, James C., 38 

Brady, J. J., 255 

Brayton engine, 41 

Brazil, imports from U.S., 81; 
registrations, 78 

Briggs Manufacturing Co., 241, 
242 

Briscoe, Benjamin, 23, 36, 96, 145, 
146, 151, 153, 158, 165; ‘The In- 
side Story of General Motors,’ 
31-34, 36, 145, 146, 153, 158, 162, 


279 
Briscoe Manufacturing Co., 67, 158 
British Africa, imports from U.S., 


8I 
British Malaya, registrations, 78 
Brown, Donaldson, ‘Pricing Policy 
in Relation to Financial Control,’ 
141, 279 
rown, George L., xiii, 260, 261 
Brown-Lipe-Chapin Co., 138, 154 
Brush, Alanson P., 23 
Brush Runabout Co., 158 
Buick, David, 23, 28, 145, 146 
Buick Division, 137, 168, 187, 213 
Buick Motor Co., 23, 34-36, 67, 
136, 137, 145-52, 153, 154, 160, 
161, 162, 21 
Bushnell, Sarah T., The Truth 
About Henry Ford, 279 
Business initiative, ix, x, 19, 274- 


75 
Busses, 7-8, 64, 80 


Cadillac Automobile Co., 87, 153 
Cadillac Division, 136, 137, 168, 


213 

Cadillac Motor Car Co., 23, 87, 
136, 137, 149, 150, 153, 154, 155, 
160, 161, 163 

Caldwell and Slosson, Science Re- 


279 

California, early position in auto- 
mobile industry, 27-28 

Canada, exports, 69, 70, 80; imports 
from U.S., 81; income, 71; out- 
put, 71; registrations, 78 

Canadian Explosives, Ltd., 143 

Capital, amount invested in auto- 
mobile industry, 5, 12; diffusion 
of burdens of, 19-21, 51-53, 264- 
73; early provisioning of, 19-26; 
mobility of, ix, x, xi, xii, II, 12, 
19-24, 26, 31, 51, 52, 53, 54-56, 
124-33, 223-29, 262-63, 264-75; 
nature of, x, 267, 268; reinvested 
profits as source of, 19, 26, 31, 51, 
53, 56, 66, 67, 125-33, 155, 169, 
181-82, 183-87, 201, 217, 223-24, 
226, 227, 228, 231, 234, 238-39, 
241, 242, 247, 248-49, 251, 253- 
55, 250-58, 258-61, 262-63, 264— 
66, 273-76 

Cartercar Co., 154, 156, 157 

Carton, John J., 36 

Cash sales, 21, 26, 53-54 

Cassel, Gustav, The Nature and 
Necessity of Interest, 267, 279 

Central Leather Co., 131, 132 

Central Trust Co., 163 

Chalmers, Hugh, 68, 255 

Chalmers Motor Car Co., 67, 68 

Champion Ignition Co., 154 

Chapin, Howard, xiii, 152 

Chapin, Roy D., xiii, 21, 24, 29, 49, 
59, 67, 255; ‘The Motor’s Part in 
Transportation,’ 280 

Chase National Bank, 111 

Chevrolet, Louis, 172 

Chevrolet Division, 122, 136, 137, 
213, 216 

Chevrolet Motor Co. (Delaware), 
174-77, 179-82, 183, 186, 187, 
188, 196, 197, 204, 205, 206, 207, 


227 
Chevrolet Motor Co. (Mich.), 172, 


174 ; 

Chevrolet Motor Co. of New York, 
IncsbigariTs 

Chicago Automobile Trade Associ- 
ation, 62 

Chile, registrations, 78 

China, registrations, 78 

Chrysler Corporation, 23, 38-39, 
52, 57, 66, 234 

Chrysler, Walter P., 67 


_ —_— 


INDEX 


Cities, influence of motor vehicle 
upon, 9-10 

Clark, Emory, 176, 177 

Clark, John Bates, Essentials of 
Economic Theory, 267, 280; The 
Distribution of Wealth, 280 

Classical economists, 267 

Cleveland Trust Co., 
Bulletin, 9, 62 

Closed cars, 51 

Coale, James J., ‘Influence of the 
Automobile on the City Church,’ 


280 
Coffin, Howard E., 24, 67, 255 
Collings, Harry T., ‘The Relation 
of the Automobile Industry to In- 
ternational Problems of Oil and 
. Rubber,’ 280 
Columbia & Electric Vehicle Co., 


39-40 

Columbia Motor Car Co., 25 

Columbia Motor Car Co. et al. v. 
C. A. Duerr & Co. et al. See 
Selden patent 

- Combination, 32-39, 56-58, I51 

Commerce Reports, 80 

Commerce Yearbook, 5, 47, 51, 78, 
80, 81, 284 

Commercial and Financial Chront- 
cle, 111, 117, 143, 155, 161, 162, 
163, 168, 173, 174, 175, 176, 178, 
180, 183, 184, 185, 193, 195, 196, 
205, 207, 210, 211, 280 

Competition, 6~9, 10, II, 42-45, 
56-64, 103, 122-23, 216 

Components, 19-20, 58-59, 61, 80. 
See also Parts-makers 

Concentration, 11, 12, 56-61 

Conditional sale agreements, 55 

Connecticut, early position in auto- 
mobile industry, 27-28 

Consolidated rural school and the 
motor vehicle, 8 

Conveyor system, 49 

Cooley, Professor Charles H., xiii 

Codperative competition, II, 42-45 

Copper, proportion consumed in 
automobile manufacture, 5 

Corporate form of business organ- 
ization, 10, 21-22 

Counselman, Lee, 255 ny 

Couzens, Senator James, Xi, 21, 
34-35, 88, 94, 97, III, 112, 124, 


130 
Credit, 5, 20-21, 26, 53-56, 130. 
See also Parts-makers 


Business 


287 


Cross-licensing of patents, 44- 

Crowther, SEN My Life raed 
Works, by Henry Ford in col- 
laboration with, 61, 281 

Cuba, imports from U.S., 
registrations, 78 

Cudlip, M. A., xiii 

Cugnot, Captain Joseph Nicholas, 
I 


81; 


4 
Czecho-Slovakia, output, 71; regis- 
trations, 78 


Daimler, Gottlieb, 16 

Dalton, James, ‘When To-morrow’s 
Roll is Called,’ 31, 280 

Davison, George W., 38 

Day, Professor E. E., xiii 

Dayton Engineering Laboratories 
Co., 183, 186 

Dayton Products Co., 192 

Dealers and distributors, 20-21, 


51-56, 59-60, 85, 130, 225, 264- 


5 
Delco-Light Co., 138, 192 
Delco-Remy Corporation, 138 
Demand for motor vehicles, 22, 26, 
45-48, 60-64, 66, 120-24 
Denmark, imports from U.S., 81; 
output, 71; registrations, 78 
Depression of 1921, 46, 85, 114-18, 
197-202 
Detroit, Michigan, as center of 
automobile industry, 21-24, 26- 


30, OI 
Detroit Automobile Co., 22, 87, 


153 

Detroit Edison Co., 87, 88 

Detroit Free Press, 123, 143 

Detroit News, 84, 85, 86, 89, 195; 
108, I10, 216, 223 

Detroit Saturday Night, 23, 31, 32, 
34, 145, 146 

Detroit, Toledo 
road, 85, 117 

Detroit Trust Co., 131 

Dillon, Clarence, 223 

Dillon, Read & Co., 223, 240, 241, 
242, 243-44, 246, 280 

Dingley tariff, 18,72. 

Distributed and Undistributed Pro- 
fits of Corporations, 274 ; 

Distributors. See Dealers and dis- 
tributors 

Dividends, 91, 92, 93, 947 95» 96, 
104, 107-08, I12, 130, 202, 219- 
20, 231, 237, 239, 242, 249) 25% 


& Ironton Rail- 


288 
251, 253-54, 257, 258, 261, 274- 


75 

Dodge Brothers, Inc., 12, 57, 60, 
67, 89, 90, IOI, 105, 122, 215, 
222-23, 240-47, 262, 266, 280 

Dodge, Horace E., 67, 88, 94, 105, 
112, 240, 241 

Dodge, John F., 67, 88, 94, 105, 
112, 240, 241 

Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., 86, 88, 
91, 93, 94, 95, 100, IOI, 104-08, 
110, 126, 128, 130, 131, 132, 280 

Dominion Bureau of Statistics, 71 

Doolittle, James Rood, Romance of 
the Automobile Industry, 14, 16, 


17, 18, 31, 40, 95, 155, 165, 248, 
280 


Dort, J. Dallas, 147 

Dow-Jones & Co., 116, 118 

Dow Rim Co., 154 

Drake, J. Walter, ‘The Rubber 
Industry and the Automobile,’ 
280 

Duerr, C. A. & Co., 40 

Du Pont American Industries, Inc., 
205, 206, 207 

Du Pont, E. I., de Nemours & Co., 
58, 142, 143, 177, 180, 190, I9I, 
197, 205, 206, 207, 280. 

Du Pont, Irénée, 142, 207 

Du Pont, Pierre S., xiii, 142, 152, 
173, 174, 177, 180, 198, 205, 207, 
208, 209 

Du Pont Securities Co., 143, 205, 
206 

Durant-Dort Carriage Co., 147, 149 

Durant, William C., 23, 34, 35, 36, 
37, 67, 96, 97, 142, 146, 147, 148, 
149, I51, 152, 153, 156, 162, 164, 
174, 175, 177, 180, 183, 184, 185, 
190, I9I, 194, 195, 196, 197, 202, 
203, 204, 205, 206, 207, 209, 223, 
224, 225 

Duryea, Charles E., 17 

Dutch East Indies, registrations, 


78 


Eastern Holding Co., 110, III 
Economic theory, ix, x, xi, 266-75 


Efficiency of American automobile | 


industry, 10, 48-51, 69-75 
Egypt, registrations, 78 
Electric Vehicle Co., 25, 40 
Electric Vehicle Co. et al. v. C. A. 
Duerr & Co., et al., 280. See 
also Selden patent. 


INDEX 


Electric vehicles, 17-18, 40 

Elmore Manufacturing Co., 154, 
156, 157, 168 

Elwell, 17 

England, steam vehicles, 14-15; 
subsidy, 73. See also United 
Kingdom 

Entrances into and exits from the 
automobile industry, 64-69, 77 

Epstein, Professor Ralph C., ‘The 
Rise and Fall of Firms in the 
Posy Mele Industry,’ 26, 64, 65, 
280 

Erskine, Albert R., History of the 
Studebaker Corporation, 52, 68; 
235, 236, 280 

Escher, Franklin, ‘The Auto and 
the Bond Market,’ 31, 162, 280 

Essex, 122 

Essex Motors, Inc., 256 

Estey, C. A., ‘Financing the Sale 
of Automobiles,’ 55, 280 

Ethyl Gasoline Corporation, 139 

Europe, earlier start in automobile 
industry, 17-18; smaller incomes, 
71-72; light cars, 73; subsidies, 
73; traditions, 74; registrations, 


y. 
Evans, Oliver, 14 
Everding, H. E., 159 
Everitt-Metzger-Flanders. Co., 23, 
52, 67, 235, 236, 262 
Ewing Automobile Co., 154 
Explosive Trades, Ltd., 196 
Exports (U.S.), 18, 64, 69, 70, 73- 
. 751 79, 80, 81 


Factory operations, 48-50, 102-03 

Failures, 24-26, 31, 33, 37-39, 60, 
64-69 

Federal Reserve System, 140 

Federal Trade Commission, 58, 142 

Finance companies (automobile), 

Financial markets, xii, 5, 52-53 

Financing of automobile manu- 
facture. See Capital 

Finland, registrations, 78 

Fisher Body Corporation, 58, 138, 

IQI, 192, 215, 217-19, 222, 227 

Fisher, Charles T., 218 

Fisher, Fred J., 218 

Fisher, Lawrence P., 218 

Fisher, William A., 218 

Flanders Motor Co., 38 

Flanders, Walter E., 38, 67, 95 


INDEX 


Flint Wagon Works, 146 

Follin, James. W., ‘Taxation of 
Motor Vehicles in the United 
States,’ 280 

Forbes, Bertie C., and Foster, 
O. D., Automotive Giants of 
America, 280 

Ford car, 46, 120-24, 216 

Ford, Clara J., 113 

Ford, Edsel B., 85, 111, 112, 113, 
114, 123 

Ford, Henry, 17, 22, 28, 29, 34, 
49, 61, 66, 67, 68, 85, 86, 87, 91, 
92, 93, 94, ‘106, 108, 109, I10, 
III, 112,213, 116,117, 121, 124, 
125, 126, 153, 241; My Life and 
Work, 61, 94, 97, 99, 100, 102, 
116, 117, 126, 281 

Ford, Henry & Son, Inc. (N.Y.), 
110, III, 112 

Ford, Henry & Son, Inc. (Mich.), 
110, 112, 209 

Ford, Henry, Automobile Co., 22, 
87 | 

Ford Motor Co., 12, 21, 22, 34-35, 
45, 48-49, 57, 61, 67, 68, 83-134, 
135, 149, 150, 151, 157, 179, 216, 
234, 235, 240, 241, 266; assemb- 
ling system, 84, 102-03; bankers’ 
purchase offer, 5, 133; banking 
relations, 131-32; buyers’ profit- 
sharing plan, 104; capital, orig- 
inal, 88; working, 127, 129, 130- 
33; cash policy, 131; combina- 
tion project, 34-35, 36, 96-97; 
competition with General Motors 
Corporation, 122-23; crisis of 
1920, 85, 114-18; dealers, 85, 117- 
18; Detroit, Toledo & Ironton 
Railroad, 117; dividends, 91, 92, 
93, 94-96, 104, 107, 108, 112, 130; 
Dodge suit, 104-08; employees’ 
profit-sharing, 104; ‘Facts from 
Ford,’ 88, 91, 103, 104, 114, 281; 

- five-dollar minimum wage, 104; 
five-day week, 121; financing, 
93, 104, IIO—-II, 114-18, 124-33; 
Henry Ford’s acquisition of con- 
trol, 92; integration, 83-84, 99- 
IOI, 104-05, 114, 119-20, 124: la- 
bor, use of unskilled, 102; ‘ Model 
A,’ 120-24; operating policies, 
98-104, 120-24; option for sale 
to General Motors, 36, 97; ori- 
gins, 86-91; output, 12, 84, 93, 
96, 109, 119, 120, 135; prices, 9I- 


289 


92, 98, 103, 105, 106, 109, 114, 
118; profits, 91-92, 93, 95, 96, 
105, 107, 108, 118, 127, 128, 129, 
266; reincorporation, 109-13; 
sales, 93, 96, 109, I19, 120-24, 
128; sales system, 93-94, 98-99; 
Selden patent suit, 40-41, 95-98; 
size and importance, 12, 83-84; 
subsidiaries, 85, 119-20; supply- 
ers, 85, 117-18; ‘The Ford In- 
dustries,’ 84, 85, I19, 120, 135, 


281 
Ford Motor Co. of Canada, Ltd., 


85, 94, 113 
Ford Motor Co. of England, Ltd., 


94 . 

Fordson Coal Co., 85, 119 

Foreign branches of American pro- 
ducers, 74-75, 80 

Fosburgh, Pratt & Osborn, 117 

Foster, William T., and Catchings, 
Waddill, Business Without a 
Buyer, 5, 281 

France, early leadership, 18; in- 
come, 71; output, 71; registra- 
tions, 78; subsidy, 73 

Freight haulage by motor vehicles, 


7 
Friday, Professor David, xiii 
Frigidaire Corporation, 138, 192, 


215 
Fry, Vernon E., 88 


Gasoline, 15-16 

Gasoline vehicles, 18, 40 

General Electric Co., 131, 132, 159 

General Exchange Insurance Cor- 
poration, 139 

General Federation of Women’s 
Clubs, 63 

General Motors Acceptance Cor- 
poration, 55, 139, 192, 214 

General Motors Building Corpora- 
tion, 139, 210 

General Motors Company. See Gen- 
eral Motors Corporation — 

General Motors Corporation, 12, 
23, 35-37) 52; 57-58, 66, 67, 68, 
124, 131, 132, 134-233, 234, 
235, 242, 252, 266, 281; acquisi- 
tion of original constituents, 151- 
60; acquisition of Chevrolet 
Motor Co., 180-82; acquisition 
of control by Chevrolet Motor 
Co., 172-77; acquisition of 
Fisher Body Corporation, 19I- 


290 
92, 217-19; acquisition of United 
Motors Corporation, 183-87; 


administrative organization, 140—- 
41, 211; attempted purchase of 
Dodge Brothers, Inc., 215, 222- 
23, 242; attempted purchase of 
Ford Motor Co., 36, 97, 157- 
58; attempted purchase of Max- 
well-Briscoe Motor Co., 36, 158; 
banking relations, 55, 139, 140, 
142-44, 162-72, 192, 195-97, 
202, 214; bond issue, 36-37, 
162-66, 210; bonus to bankers, 
37, 165, 196, 228; bonus to 
executives, 142, 220-22; bonus 
to other employees, 221-22; 
Buick division, 137, 168, 187, 
213; Cadillac division, 136, 137, 
168, 213; capital, see financing; 
Chevrolet division, 122, 136, 137, 
213, 216; constituents, 137-39; 
control of, 142-44; corporate 
structure, 134-39, I41I-42, 144; 
crisis of 1920, 197-202, 208-10; 
dividends, 168, 171-72, 178, 197— 
98, 201, 202, 219-20, 231-32; Du 
Pont and, see Du Pont, Pierre S., 
and E. I., de Nemours & Co.; 
Durant and, see Durant, William 
C.; financing, 151-71, 180-82, 
183-87, 190-202, 209-10, 217-33; 
General Motors Truck division, 
137, 168, 213; integration, 137- 
39, 183-88, 191-92, 215, 217-19; 
Managers Securities Co. and, 
142, 220-22; Morgan, J. P., & 
Co., and, see Morgan, J. P., & 
Co.; Oakland division, 136, 137, 
156, 168, 210, 213; Oldsmobile 
division, 137, 168, 210, 213; 
origins, 35-37, 144-48, 151-60; 
output, 12, 36-37, 169, 213, 215, 
223, 230; profits, 5, 134, 160, 
161,169; 20760108 207 2074, 
212-13, 215, 220, 222, 230, 231, 
232, 233; profits reinvested, 
168-69, 178, 201, 202, 222, 225- 
29, 231, 232, 266; promotion 
charges, 37, 158-60, 165, 183-87, 
196-97, 217-19, 228; sales, 36- 
37, 169, 213, 215, 230, 233; 
size and importance, 12, 134-35, 
223-2 

General Motorsof Canada, Ltd., 136 

General Motors Securities Co., 
142, 143, 221 . 


INDEX 


General Motors Truck Division, 
137, 168, 213 

Germany, imports from U.S., 81; 
income, 71; output, 71; registra- 
tions, 78; subsidy, 73 

Gibson, C. R., Motor Car and Its 
Story, 281 

Goldman, Sachs & Co., 236 

Gourlie, John C., ‘Future is Bright 
for the Parts Makers,’ 281 

Graham Brothers, Inc., 246 

Graham, George W., ‘Safeguard- 
ing Traffic,’ 281 

Gray, John S., 88, 91 

Gray Estate, 91, 94, I12 

Griffin, C. E., The Life History 
of Automobiles, 60, 62, 63, 281; 
‘Evolution of the Automobile 
Market,’ 281 

Grimes, William A., Financing 
Automobile Sales by the Time- 
Payment Plan, 281 

Guardian Refrigerator Co., 192 


Hanch, C. C., The Safety Zone in 
Automobile Financing, 4, 5, 281 

Hancock, Walter, 15 

Harbeson, John F., ‘The Automo- 
bile and the ‘‘Home” of the 
Future,’ 281 

Hardy,'7A. By Col ex, O07 tsa. 
157, 173, 174, 175 ! 

Harrison Radiator Corporation, 
138, 184, 187, 189 

Hartford Rubber Co., 89 

Harvard Business Review, 26, 64! 

Hassett, George B., 241, 242 

Hastings, 68 

Hauss, Mrs. A. P., 111 

Hawaii, registrations, 78 

Hawkins, Norval A., 98, ror 

Hayden, Stone & Co., 248 

Haynes, Elwood, 17, 24, 146 

Heany, John Albert, 159 

Heany Lamp companies, 154, 158— 
59, 166, 167, 228 

Hedges, Job, 34 

Highway expenditures, 10 

Hodges, H. G., ‘Financing the 
Automobile,’ 55, 57, 281 

Holden-Stone, Geoftrey de, The 
Automobile Industry, 281 

Holmes, J. C., History of the Max- 
well Organization, 38, 281 

Hornblower & Weeks, 5, 133) 174s 
175 


eat mat 


INDEX 


Horseless Vehicle Co., 25 

Horsepower, increase in automo- 
bile manufacture, 50, 77 

Horses, decline in number, 8-9 

Hosmer, Judge George S., 106 

Hough, Judge Charles M., 41, 96, 


97 

‘Hours and Earnings in the Motor 
Vehicle Industries,’ 281 

Hudson, J. L., 24, 255 

Hudson Motor Car Co., 12, 21, 24, 
57; 67, 124, 241, 255-58, 266, 281 

Hungary, income, 71; output, 71 

Hupp, R. C., 24 

Hupp Motor Car Co., 24, 68, 103 

Hyatt Rearings Division, 138 

vi Say Roller Bearing Co., 183, 
I 

Hyde, Jr., Dorsey W., ‘Linking up 


Railroad and Water Transporta- 
tion,’ 281 
Ihlder, John, ‘The Automobile 


and Community Planning,’ 281 
Illinois, early position in automo- 
bile industry, 27-28 
Imports (U.S.), 18, 72, 73, 74, 79 
Income, per capita, of leading 
countries, 71-72; proportion of 
U.S., used for motor vehicles, 


4, 46 

‘Index of Productivity of Labor in 
the Steel, Automobile, Shoe, and 
Paper Industries,’ 282 

India, registrations, 78 

Indiana, position in automobile 
industry, 26-28, 82 

Industrial technique, 48-51; and 
capital mobility, 264-73 

Infant industries argument for 
tariff protection, 72 

Insolvency. See Failures 

Installment-payment system, 46, 
54-56, 122-23 

Integration, 56-61, 83-84, 99-IOI, 
104-05, 119-20, 183-88, 191-92, 
215, 217-19, 273 

Interchangeable parts, 19-20, 48- 


49 
International Automobile & Vehi- 
cle Co., 25 
International Motors Co., 35 
International trade, 69-75. 
also Exports and Imports 
Invention, 14-17 
Inventors, 14-17 


See 


291 


Irish Free State, registrations, 78 

Iron and Steel, proportion con- 
sumed in automobile manufac- 
ture, 5 

Italy, income, 71; output, 71; 
registrations, 78 


Jackson-Church-Wilcox Co., 154 

Jackson, R. B., 24, 67, 255 

Janesville Machine Co., 188 

Japan, registrations, 78 

Jaxon Steel Products Corporations, 
184, 186 

Jeffery Co., Thomas B., 24, 69, 


252 
Masa a Rhys, Motor Cars, 14, 16, 
282 


Jewett, 68 

Johannson Gauge Co., 120 

John, W. A. P., ‘That Man Dur- 
ant,’ 36, 146, 147, 148, 183, 197, 
203, 204, 205, 224, 282 

Journal of Public Utility and 
Land Economics, 4 

Journal of Society of Automotive 
Engineers, 63 

Joy, Henry P., 23, 68, 248 


Kaufman, Louis G., 173, 183 

Kelly, H. H., ‘The Export Trade 
in Automobiles,’ 282 

Kerosene, 15-16 

King, Charles, 28, 29 

King, Clyde L. (editor), The 
Automobile, Its Province and 
Problems, 282 

King, LeRoy A., ‘Consolidation of 
Schools and Pupil Transporta- 
tion —the Use of the Automo- 
bile in Education,’ 282 

Kirby, R. S. (editor), Proceedings 
of the Motor Vehicle Trafic 
Conference of 1924, 282 

Klapper, Edmund, Die Entwick- 
lung der deutchen Automobil- 
Industrie, 282 

Klaxon Co., 184, 187 

Klingensmith, Frank L., 111, 132 

Kolbe, Frank F., xiii, 36, 152, 165 

Kuhn, Professor Chester F., xiv 


Labor, bonus for, 50, 68, 189, 220 
22: efficiency of, 50; influence 
upon localization of industry, 30; 
mass production and, 9, 49-59% 
number employed, 5, 77: SP 


292 INDEX 


cialization of tasks and, 49; re- 
placement by machines, 50; 
diminished need of skill, 50-51; 
102, 104; profit-sharing, 104, 
220-22; absence of unions, 51, 
women, 49; wages, 10, 50-5I, 77 

Lackawanna Steel Co., 131, 132 

Lancaster Steel Products Co., 187, 
188, 189 

Land utilization and the motor 
vehicle, 8-9 

Lane, Rose Wilder, Henry Ford’s 
Own Story, 87, 282 

Large-scale operation, IO—II, 31, 
48-50, 56-61, 99-103, 120-22 

Leadership in the automobile in- 
dustry, 12, 21-24, 26-30, 56-57, 


64-69, 78, 82 

Leather, upholstery, proportion 
consumed in automobile manu- 
facture, 5 


Lee, Higginson & Co., 68, 163, 168 

Lee, J. R., ‘The So-Called Profit 
Sharing System in the Ford 
Plant,’ 282 

Leland & Faulconer Machine Co., 


23, 153 

Leland, Henry M., 28, 67 

Length of life of automobiles, 61-62 

Lenoir, 16 

Lester, Herbert L., 128 

Levassor, 16 

Levin, S. M., ‘Ford Profit-Sharing, 
1914-1920,’ and ‘The End of 
Ford Profit-Sharing,’ 282 

Lincoln Motor Co., 85, 119, 124 

Literary Digest, 116 

Little, William H., 172 

Localization of automobile manu- 
facture, 21-24, 26-30, 82, 9I 

Long, J. C., ‘Motor Transport and 
Our Radial Control,’ 4, 6, 282; 
‘The Motor’s Part in Public 
Health,’ 282 

Low-priced cars, 19, 45-48, 51, 78 

Lyon, Hastings, Corporation F1- 
nance, 224 


Macauley, Alvan, xiii 

MacDonald, T. H. ‘The Financing 
of Highways,’ 282 

Machine-tools, 48-50, 100-03 

McKee, John M., ‘The Automobile 
and American Agriculture,’ 282 

McLaughlin Carriage Co., Ltd., 
187, 188 


McLaughlin Motor Car Co., Ltd.; 
154, 187, 188 

McMillan, P. H., 248 

Malcomson, Alexander Y., 22, 88, 
QI, 112 

Management and Administration, 
140, 141 

Managers Securities Co., 142, 220- 


22 

Manual of Statistics, 25 

Market for automobiles, 59-64. 
See also Demand 

Marketing of automobiles, 59-64, 
122-23, 252. See also Dealers 

Markus, Siegfried, 16 

Marquette Motor Car Co., 154, 
156 

Marquis, S. S., Henry Ford: An 
Interpretation, 68, 282 

Marshall, Alfred, Principles of 
Economics, 10, 268, 282 

Marwell, Mitchell & Co., 168 

Mass production, 48-50, 99-103 

Massachusetts, early position in 
automobile industry, 28 

Masson, Professor R. L., xiii 

Maxwell-Briscoe Motor Co., 23, 32, 
33, 34-35; 36, 146, I5I, 158 

Maxwell Motor Corporation, 23, 
38-39, 52, 57, 67, 68 

Maxwell, J. D., 23, 146 

Mendelssohn, Louis, 218 

Merrill, Thomas S., xiii, 153, 195 

Metzger, William E., 23, 68 

Mexico, imports from U.S., 813 
registrations, 78 

Meyer, Jr., Eugene, 38 

Meyer, Eugene, & Co., 38 

Michigan, predominance in auto- 
mobile industry, 26-30, 82 

Michigan Bolt & Nut Works, Io1 

Michigan Iron, Land & Lumber 
Co., 85, 119 

Michigan Motor Castings Co., 154 

Michigan Securities Commission, 
257 

Michigan Supreme Court, 106-08 

Missouri, early position in auto- 
mobile industry, 27-28 

Mobility of capital, ix, x, xi, II, 12, 
19-24, 26, 31, 51, 52, 53, 54-59% 
124-33, 223-29, 262-63, 264-75 

Monopoly, I1, 40 

Monthly Labor Review, 50, 281, 282 

Moody’s Manual of Industrials, 4, 
84, III, 114, 119, 120, 135,250,282 


INDEX 


Morgan, |. P., 23; 34, 158 

Morgan, J. P., & Co., 35, 139, 143, 
153, 195-97, 206, 219, 223 

Morris, Henry C., ‘The Develop- 
ment of the Foreign Oil Policy of 
the United States,’ 282 

Morrison, 17 

Motor, 25, 31 

Motor & Accessory Manufacturers’ 
Association, 43, 59 

Motor busses. See Automobiles 

Motor, internal combustion, hydro- 
carbon, 8, 17-18, 39-40 

Motor vehicles. See Automobiles 

Nistt.- ©: 5...) 840, 153, .176,. 177; 
‘Organizing a Great Industrial,’ 
140, 282 


Nash, Charles W., 67, 68, 177, 252; 
‘The Automobile Dealer,’ 282 
Nash: Motors Co., 12, 24, 57, 68, 
124, 252-55, 282 

National Association of Automobile 
Manufacturers, 42 

National Association of Finance 
Companies, 4, 57 

National Automobile Chamber of 
Commerce, 43, 44-45; Facts and 
Figures of the Automobile In- 
dustry, 4, 5, 7, 12, 57, 59, 63, 64, 
69, 75, 76, 84, 135, 171, 234, 283 

National Bureau of Economic Re- 
search, 46; Income in the Umtted 
States, 71, 72, 283 

National Cash Register Co., 68 

National Cycle Manufacturing Co., 
181 

National Motor Truck Co., 181 

National Used Car Market Reports, 
62 

Neal, Thomas, 176 

Netherlands, registrations, 78 

Newberry, J. S., 248 

Newberry, T. H., 248 

New Departure Manufacturing Co., 
138, 183, 186 

New Jersey, early position in auto- 
mobile industry, 27-28 

New York, position in automobile 
industry, 26-28, 82 

New York Stock Exchange, 5, 52- 
53, 57) 155, 173, 202-05, 219, 221, 

8 


25 

New York Times, 123 

New York Times Annalist, 175, 
202 


293 


New Zealand, imports from U.S., 
81; registrations, 78 

Nickel, proportion consumed in 
automobile manufacture, 5 

Nobel Industries, Ltd., 143, 196 

Northway Motor & Manufacturing 
Co., 154, 168 

Norway, registrations, 78 

Novelty Incandescent Lamp Co., 
154 

Number of motor vehicles in prin- 
cipal countries, 78; United 
States, 63, 64, 69, 76; world, 69 


Oakland Division, 136, 137, 156, 
168, 210, 213 

saan Motor Car Co., 
163 

Oak Park Power Co., 154 

Official Gazette of the United States 
Patent Office, 158 

Ohio, prominence in automobile 
industry, 26-29, 82 

Old Colony Trust Co., 111 

Oldfield, Barney, 91 

Oldsmobile Division, 137, 168, 210, 


I 54, 156, 


213 

Olds Motor Works, I9, 22, 103, 153, 
154, 155, 156, 210, 213, 255, 258 

Olds, Ransom E., xiii, 17, 22, 28, 
29, 67, 96, 146, 155, 156, 258, 259 

Otto, 16, 41 

Output, by price-classes, 78; con- 
centration of, 11, 12, 56-61; of 
leading States (U.S.), 27-28, 82; 
of low-priced cars, 45-46, 51, 78; 
of passenger cars, 76; of principal 
countries, 71; of trucks and bus- 
ses, 76; of United States, 3-4, 26, 
27) 28, 47; 64, 75: 76, 77) 78; 
wholesale value of, U.S., by years, 


75, 76 


Packard, J. W., 23 

Packard Motor Car Co., 12, 57, 68, 
241, 247-52, 262, 266, 282 

Paige-Detroit Motor Car Co., 68 

Panhard & Levassor, 16 

Panic of 1907, 31 

Parts-makers, 20-21, 26, 29, 32, 33, 
42-44, 48-49, 52, 56, 59, 61, 77, 
85, 100-01, 117-18, 130, 137-38, 
183-84, 187, 223, 225, 204-05 

Passenger cars, 6, 60-64, 76, 80 

Patents, pooling of, 44-45. See also 
Selden patent 


294 


Pearson, O. P., xiii, 64 

Pecuniary measurement, 272-73 

Peerless, 24, 28 

Peerless Wringer Co., 24 

Pennsylvania, early position in 
automobile industry, 27-28 

Perkins, George W., 35, 36 

Perlman, Louis H., 184 

Perlman Rim Corporation, 183, 
184 

Personality and success in the auto- 
mobile industry, 66-69 

Petroleum, 15-16 

Philippine Islands, imports from 
U.S., 81; registrations, 78 

Piece-work, 50 

Pierce-Arrow, 24 

Pipp, E. G., Henry Ford, Both 
Sides of Him; and The Real 
Henry Ford, 283 

Plate glass, proportion consumed in 
automobile manufacture, 5 

Pneumatic Carriage Co., 25 

Poland, registrations, 78 

Pontiac car, 136, 137 

Poor’s Manual of Industrials, 134, 
283 

Pope Manufacturing Co., 25 

Portugal, registrations, 78 

Powell, T. C., ‘Function of the 
Motor Truck in Reducing Cost 
and Preventing Congestion of 
Freight in Railroad Terminals,’ 
283 

Prentis, Meyer, xiii, 152 

Prentiss, John W., 5, 133 

Prices, 10, 45-46, 51, 56, 59, 78 

Problems raised by the motor 
vehicle, 9-10 

Producers, Census statistical sum- 
maries of, 77; early, 19-26; lead- 
ing, 12, 56-57, 64-69; number of, 
64-65, 77; relative importance, 
12, 56-57, 234-35 

Production. See Output 

Productive capacity of automobile 
industry, 58-59 

Productive efficiency, 48-51, 272-73 

Profits, rdle of, ix, x, 264-76; vol- 
ume of, see Ford Motor Co., Gen- 
eral Motors Corporation, Dodge 
Brothers, Inc., Hudson Motor 
Car Co., Nash Motors Co., 
Studebaker Corporation, Pack- 
ard Motor Car Co., Reo Motor 
Car Co, 


INDEX 


Profits reinvested as source of 
capital, 19, 26, 31, 51, 53, 56, 66, 
67, 125-33, 155, 169, 181-82, 
183-87, 201, 217, 223-24, 226, 
227, 228, 231, 256-58, 258-61, 
262-63, 264-66, 273-76 

Profit-sharing, 50, 68, 104, 142, 189, 
220-22 

Promotion charges, 37, 38-39, 88, 
148-49, I51-60, 165, 181-82, 
183-87, 196-97, 206, 217-19, 227, 
228, 236, 240, 242-45, 248, 255- 
56, 258-59 

Promotions, 21-26, 31-37, 67, 87— 
OI, 145-49, 151-60, 178-82, 183, 
235-36, 240, 242, 247-48, 252-53, 
255-56, 258-59 

Prosser, Seward, 143, 196 

Protective tariff, 18, 69-75 

Pryer, Samuel F., 176 

Public transportation by motor 
vehicles, 7-8 


Racing, 3, 91 

Rackham, Horace H., 88, 94, 112, 
124, 125 

Railroads and the automobile 
industry, 5-9 

Railway Steel Spring Co., 131, 132 

Randolph Motor Car Co., 154, 156 

Rapid Motor Vehicle Co., 154 

Raskob, John J., 152 

Read, William A., & Co., 248 

Real Estate and the motor vehicle, 


Recreation and the motor vehicle, 


6,9 
Red Flag Acts, 15 
Registration of motor vehicles, 
principal countries, 78; United 
States, 63, 64, 69, 76; world, 69 
Reliance Motor Truck Co., 154, 
156 
Remy Electric Co., 183, 187 
Reo Motor Car Co., 12, 22, 34-35, 
57; 124, 151, 258-62, 266, 283 
Reo Motor Truck Co., 259, 261 . 
Replacement demand, 58-64 
Republic Iron & Steel Co., 131, 132 
Republic Motor Co., 172 
Retail factory branches, 98, 252, 


259 
Rhode Island, eariy position in 
automobile industry, 27-28 
Rickenbacker, 60 
Risks of automobile production, 


INDEX 


19-21, 24-26, 30-34, 37, 51-53; 
I51, 157, 270-73 

Rollins, 60 

Rolls, C. S., ‘Motor Vehicles,’ 15, 
18, 72, 283 

Rubber, proportion consumed in 
automobile manufacture, 5 

Rubber tire, importance, 16 

Rumania, registrations, 78 

Russia, registrations, 78 


Sabin, Charles H., 38, 176, 177 
Sales. See Output, Market, Market- 
ing, and Ford Motor Co., General 
Motors, etc. 
Sales policies. See Dealers and 
distributors, Marketing 
Samson Sieve-Grip Tractor Co., 188 
Samson Tractor Division, 209, 210 
Satterlee, 34 
Saturation point, 60-64 | 
Scripps-Booth Corporation, 
189, 210 
Seasonal fluctuations, 53 
Selden, George B., 17, 39-42 
Selden patent, 17, 25, 39-42, 95-97 
Seligman, Edwin R. A., The Eco- 
nomics of Instalment Selling, 283 
Seligman, J. & W., and Co., 163 
Sharfman, Professor I. L., xiii 
Sheldrick, E. W., xiii, 257 
Sheridan, 210 
Shidle, Norman G., xiii; ‘Trend 
Toward More Car Models Help- 
ing Parts Makers,’ 61, 283 
Sloan, Alfred P., Jr., 138, 185, 216, 
219, 221; ‘The Most Important 
Thing I ever Did,’ 140, 283 
Smith, Samuel L., 22, 155, 156 
Social effects of motor vehicle, 8-10 
Society of Automotive Engineers, 


188, 


43 

Souvestre, Pierre, Histoire del’ A uto- 
mobile, 14, 16, 283 

Spain, imports from U.S., 81; in- 
come, 71; output, 71; registra- 
tions, 78 

Spurr, Henry C., Motor Vehicle 
Transportation, 283 

Standardization, 11, 19-20, 42-45, 


48-49, 58, 

Standard Oil Co., of New Jersey, 
139 

Standard Statistics Co., Inc., 57, 
120, 121, 128, 135, 192, 283 

States, automobile output by, 82; 


295 


early localization in certain, 26— 
30 

Steam vehicles, 14-18 

Stetson, Francis L., 35 

Stettinius, E. R., 143, 196, 224 

Stewart, W. T., Body Co., 154 

Stillman, K. W., xiii 

Stock Market, 5, 52-53, 155, 173, 
202-05, 219, 221 

Storrow, James J., xiii, 68, 164, 176, 
177, 252 

Stout Metal Airplane Co., 86, 120 

Strauss, Albert, 176, 177 

Strauss, Frederick, 165 

Strauss, S. W., & Co., 210 

Strelow, Albert, 88 

Strong, Benjamin, Jr., 38 - 

Studebaker Brothers Manufactur- 
ing Co., 23, 52, 235 

Studebaker Corporation, 52, 57, 67, 
68, 124, 131, 132, 235-40, 262, 
266, 283 

Style element in motor cars, 22, 60- 
61, 122, 123 

Subsidies to automobile industry, 


73 

Success and failure in the auto- 
mobile industry, 64-69 

Superiority of United States in\ 
automobile industry, 69-75, 78, 
79, 80, 81 

Supplyers. See Parts Makers 

Swayne, Alfred H., ‘Mobilization 
of Cash Reserves,’ 141, 283; 
‘The Automobile and Allied 
Trades and Industries,’ 283 

Sweden, imports from U.S., 81; 
registrations, 78 

Swineheart, James, 85 

Switzerland, registrations, 78 


Talbot, Frederick A., Motor Cars 
and Their Story, 14, 16, 283 
Tariffs, 18, 69-75 
Taylor, Professor Fred M., 
Principles of Economics, 283 
Taylor, Frederick W., 29 
Taxation of profits, 274-75 
Thomas-Detroit, 67 
Thomas, E. R., Co., 255 
Thomas Flyer, 24 Ny Saat 
Thompson, Huston, ‘Distribution 
of Gasoline and Methods of 
Price Control,’ 284 
Thorp, Willard L., Integration of 
Industrial Operation, 20, 284 


xiii; 


296 


Tin, proportion consumed in auto- 
mobile manufacture, 5 

Tipless Lamp Co., 159 

Tractor, automotive, 8, 191, 196, 


209 
Trading on the equity, 224 
Traditions, influence of, 19-20, 48, 
73, 74, 271-73, 
Transportation services of motor 
vehicle, 6-9 
Trevithick, Richard, 14 
Trucks, 6-9, 47, 64, 76, 80 


Union of South Africa, registrations, 


78 

Union of Soviet Socialist Repub- 
lics, registrations, 78 

United Kingdom, imports from 
U.S., 81; income, 71; output, 71; 
registrations, 78. See also Eng- 
land 

United Motors Corporation, 67, 
183-87 

United Motors Service, Inc., 184, 
187 

United States, beginnings in auto- 
mobile industry, 17-30; exports, 
18, 64, 69, 79, 73-75, 79, 80, 81; 
imports, 18, 72, 73, 74, 79; in- 
come, 71-72; leadership in auto- 
mobile industry, 69-75, 78, 79, 
80, 81; output, 3-4, 26, 27, 28, 47, 
64, 75, 76, 77, 78; registrations, 
63, 64, 69, 76, 78 

United States Board of Tax Ap- 
peals, 5, 130 

United States Bureau of the Cen- 
sus, Census of Manufactures, 
xii, 4, 18, 19, 26, 50, 52, 76, 77, 
82, 272, 284; Twelfth Census, 
30; Thirteenth Census, 26, 27, 28 

United States Bureau of Public 
Roads, 7 

United States Children’s Bureau, 
Minors in Automobile and Metal 
Manufacturing Industries, 284 

United States Department of Com- 
merce, Automotive Division, 
xili, 51, 69, 71, 79, 80; Commerce 
etbey 5, 47, 51, 78, 80, 81, 
284 

United States Department of 
Labor, Wages and Hours in the 
Motor Vehicle Industry, 1922, 
and Wages and Hours in the: 
Automobile Industry, 1925, 49, 


INDEX 


50, 51, 284; Monthly Labor Re- 
view, 50, 281, 282 

United States Motor Co., 23, 37- 
39, 52, 68 

United States Rubber Co., 131, 
132 

United States Steel Corporation, 
33, 58, 86, 131, 132, 134, 142 

University of Michigan, Bureau of 
Business Research, The Life 
History of Automobiles, 60, 62, 
63, 281 

Uruguay, registrations, 78 

Used Cars, 62-63 


Value of motor vehicle output, 


U.S., by years, 47, 59, 75, 76, 77 
Value of products of parts-makers, 


77 
Value of purchased components of 
automobiles, 5 
Vauxhall Motors, Ltd., 136, 139 
Volk, 17 


Wage-earners, 5, 9, I0, 30, 49-51, 
77, 104. See also Labor 

Wages, 59-51, 77 

Wallace, James N., 164 

Wallace, R. W., ‘The Automobile,’ 
18, 284 

Wall Street Journal, 165 

Ward, 17 

Ward, Hayden & Satterlee, 34 

Warriner, A. Philip, xiii, 152 

Watered stock. See Promotion 
charges 

Weeks, L. H., Automobile Bio- 
graphies, 284 

Welch Company of Detroit, 157 

Welch Motor Car Co., 154, 156 

Wennerlund, E. Karl, ‘Quantity 
Control of Inventories,’ 284 

Western Automatic Screw Ma- 
chine Co., Io1 

Weston-Mott Co., 148, 154 

White, Percival, Motor Transporta- 
tion of Merchandise and Pas- 
sengers, 284 . 

White Sewing Machine Co., 24, 28 

White, W. W., 153 

Whitney, William C., 39 

Wiggin, Albert H.,.38, 176 

Wilcox, Delos F., ‘Public Regula- 
tion of Motor Bus Service,’ 284 

Wilkins, Bishop, 14 

Wills, C. Harold, 126 


INDEX 


297 
Willys, John N., 24, 67 Woodall, C. J., 88, 91 
Willys-Overland Co., 25, 52, 57,| Woodin, W. H., 143, 196 
67, 124, 234 Woods Motor Vehicle Co., 24 


Wilson, C. R., Carriage Co., 89 Wooley, Clarence M., 143, 196 
Wilson, Warren H., ‘What the| Wyatt, H. M., The Motor Industry, 
Automobile Has Done to and for} and ‘The Motor Industry and 
the Country Church,’ 284 the War,’ 73, 284 
Winton, Alexander, 24, 28 
Winton Motor Carriage Co., 40 Yellow Cab & Manufacturing Co., 
Wisconsin, early position in auto-| 217 
mobile industry, 27-28 Yellow Truck & Coach Manufac- 
Women in automobile factories,!| turing Co., 136, 137, 139, 217 
49 . Young, Owen, 143, 196 


Ie 


= 


Mr eee 


r¢é 
i 


BOSTON PUBLIC L 


Il H i My M IM i] Wl 


| 3 775 658 7 


‘es : rye ts YP q : r a : "ha terry 
4 0 ' ) ? ae : " a coy eveys 


A ay 


‘ ws ; ; , J 
vwreryr Ape eg ore ‘ S . J N , . } * J ‘eo * * 
ere Vere erase : : ; ‘ cry ) i ( A - ; WAAAA LSS 

Rida ted Ch AK Ray r - 7 iy 
Led -rrre 
7+ 
et ve 
rr; 
i? 


a 


vt 
+ 


tf wi 7 ‘ : E Fy aay P oa x 
Ak a 
oe pp seh f : 
lg : : 4 ‘ ; pee AA 
’ crywe : 
che , i i AY A ¥ 8 At 
c x j : ; ehh gh Re Ill dah Se oe ah ol ' 
ees Lig Phy : AAAS SAN EAN Ae ah 4 
: . ayy LASIK ELIT LD ed 
eepe yen ¢ 
ht whe 8 LAA SAS Wf 
tor AS AAA AA AO 
ae. os) CAA ARK ROAR 
AR ry ‘ 
Ape grrhy ( 
Ap ste hy! 
WORK <9 


. ¥ : KS | Ww yyspe yg" ‘ ve Ne 
Opal ipa Kame koa : 
7 
eA 


r : “" Lee 
A Nes 3 yi 


how rhn aXe aA Rw ae ; 
¥. aes atx ators nee 
eke? rh ey ae 


r 7 pare pe Ae ban A of OPE hal 


4 
fy 
, 
es 


