DOCUMENT RESUME 


ED 073 079 SP 006 119 

AUTHCR Bennett, Roger V. 

TITLE Cardinal Principles Report: An Educational 
Classic. 

PUB CATE 72 

NOTE 95p. 

EDRS PRICE MF-$0.65 HC-$3.29 

DESCRIPTORS *Curriculum Development; *Educational Change; 


*Educational History; Educational Objectives; 
*Evaluation; *Secondary Education 
IDENTIFIERS *Cardinal Principles Report 


AESTRACT 


"A Report of the Commission on Reorganization of 
Secondary Education" (C.R.S.EF.), otherwise known as the Cardinal 
Principles Report, is examined in this document. Emphasis is placed 
on the historical origins, social and educational context, 
philosophical foundations, curricular implications, and evaluation of 
the C.R.S.E. The appendix includes the original C.R.S.E. report. 
Footnotes and a 20-item bibliography are included. (Author/MJM) 


—————- ——- Ee ss eer mre rhc ore 


~~ 


FILMED FROM BEST AVAILABLE COPY 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
EDUCATION & WELFARE 
OFFICE OF EDUCATION 

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REPRO 
DUCED EXACTLY AS RECEIVED FROM 
THE PERSON OR ORGANIZATION ORIG 
INATING IT. POINTS OF VIEW OR OPIN 
IONS STATED DO NOT NECESSARILY 
REPRESENT OFFICIAL OFFICE OF EDU 
CATION POSITION OR POLICY 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CARDINAL PRINCIPLES REPORT.............. 1 


Historical Significance........ Toe ee eRe Peer ee 


Curriculum POEMS EORMMOOS 6 5:5 vids bs 546 eek ew ic eenn~ odcneok. 2 


SECONDARY EDUCATION DURING ITS ADOLESCENCE .cccacsccccsecccee 3 


Physical Growth.......... Eee eT Ee ee 
Changes in sansicbainininteh REECE TTR TT COC TRC TP ae 3 


Environmental In Mua nicpnad CEE EEOC Se CO 4 


fos 


Social wd cede aiec? ALERT EET OCT TE ETT TEC TOS ere 5 
Scientific Management....... eee e eee ee ee ee soa ee 
Vocationalism........ MALS EL EO Ue EL ee Oe Oe ee ee 


7 
i 
cisiigictuitnsne TRE ERE CE eT eT Cann l 


t 

‘ 

; Origin, Sponsorship and Organization of the Commission. 2] 
Member + ; in i > ¥ .] 

i 1€ ers OF the iewlny Ut kag | a e eoeeeeececeses Lh 

t 

{ NATL YSTC or Tin “ARDINAL PRINCTPIFC prpop 5 

i ANALYSIS OF THE CARDINAL PRINCIPLES REI eee e eT err e re ee eee 


i “2 , ae ae ae 
[ Curricular Approach of the Le LL EERE TERT ee ee Terrase + 
t 


‘Onmenda ; r rArTdineae a 3 ’ “ric: 2"cofioOn:< wae 
Recommendations Regarding Ma Jor Curricuium Questions... 26 

D ~~ eacra tee ee } ) f 
Keai and Hidden Authors of the ROP OE Gc cc cccceccccecesae 34 

“LTA YT 4 Y » . A ‘ . > Pe | 
EVALUATION OF Ti CARD io ERAMCEPLES REPORT. oc iéccccconccean +3 
Critici hentai ibe CCL ATA Ee eT TE RECTOR 

Use M Se ag tee rer eee ee Se Pe ee ee a 
Summary and ( PEM OWOe Pe reew ck oak ba ddd eacin tebeesee 49 


PLOMAVMNE NTS 594 chad eaweedRd vKeRees ihe wed mednwkecsecevkcc. a/ 
APPENDIX A CARDINA PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION..... 62 - 92 


Bennett-l 


SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CARDINAL PRINCIPLES REPORT 


Otfictally designated, "A Report of the Commission on 


. n , tal 


Reorganization of Secondary Education"! iC.R.S8.E; 


ad 


» the Cardinal 
- Principles Report is Significant for at least three reasons. First 
i Qo ? 
i¢ is a document of major importance in the history of the secondary 
ste —_ : —- 7AM C } thi Cr secondly it nr . .) 
education movement of the United States. secondly, it represents a 
istinct reorientation to curriculum planning. Third, it deals with 
many of the cducational problems and issues that persist today. The 
Philosophical and methodological means employed to cope with these 


problems and issues, therefore, is worthy of careful reflection. 


Historical Sicnificance 
ae cance 


Published in 1918, the Cardinal Principles Report was 
formulated during a transitional period in the nistory of American secondary 
Ceucafion. The age of "moderate revision" (1890-1905) was past and the 


cra of the Progressive Education Association (1919-1950's) had not yet 
begun.* Devel ped during the intervening period, which had its own 


distinctive characteristics, the report of the C.R.S.E. Summarized past 
> i BJ 


traditions, compromised contemporary trends and anticipated subsequent 


educational developments. Recognition of the historical Significance of 
‘ this report pri pted Cremin to write: 


1 simply, the contribution of the Comnission on the 
zation of Secondary Education was to redefine the 
role of the secondary school. To the extent that in doing 
S able to grasp certain new and highly 
Significant and intellectual forces in American life, its 
nt lever for needed change and reform. 
The efteets of the Cardinal Principles have been legion. 
kt - 1& docs seem amiss to argue that most of the 
and influencial movements in the field since 
simply been footnotes to the classic itself.3 


Bennett-2 


Curricular Sienificance 


Besides redefining the role of the secondary schools the 
Cardinal Principles has curricular sipnificance for several other 
reasons. First, it reflects a shift away from the emphasis placed on 
ividualism during the age of "moderate revision" Co a new base for 
Curriculu:n thinking, namely social processes. Krug describes the 
period during which the Cardinal Principles were formulated as a time 
of "anti-individualistic reaction, "4 
Secondly, thx report is important because it made specific 
recommendations regarding the four Crucial questions which must be 
considered in al] Curriculum planning. These questions are concerned 
with: (1) the formulation of objectives, (2) the selection of 


learning activities ang instructional method 


79) 


» WS) the Organization of 
educational] experiences and (4) Cvaluative techniques. The Specific 
recommendations of the Commission will be discussed in a later portion 
of this review. | 

Thirdly, the report of the C.R.S.E. has curricular significance 
because it considers a wide range of controversial issues in secondary 
education, Amonp Cnese issues are the heen wus problem; individual 
differences; organization of the elementary, junior, and senior 

high schoo} ladder; departmentalized instruction; universal secondary 
education; vy Cattonal guidance and education; differentiated curriculums; 
comprehensive vs. specialized high schools; methods of Organizing and 
administering curriculum planning committees; the administrator's role 
in curriculi:: ‘velopment; part-time and compulsory education 


requirements as well a the inclusion and functions of numerous so-called 


. 


REN Hea > 


Bennett-3 
Finaily, the Cardinal Principles Report has curricular 
significance because it represented "...a system of classifying 
educational objectives..." which raised the question: "Is the school 


responsible for all of the major areas of living?""? 


SECONDARY EDUCATION DURING ITS ADOLESCENCE 


"During the first two decades of the twentieth century the 
pusiiec high school movement was growing out of its childhood days of 
private schools and ccademics and was rapidly approaching its adulthood 
where a variety of large metropolitan secondary schools prevailed. 

This period of transitional growth and change might well be concetved 


of as the adolescent years of the secondary education movement. 


Physical Growth 


Krug icentifies the year 1890 as the beginning of a period 
4 
/ 


of rapid growth in secondary education. During the short span of 
approxisately twenty years the number of high school pupils, teachers 
and buildings increcsed at a tremendous rate. National enrollments 
grew from 500,009 students in 1900 to nearly 2,000,000 by 1920, 
During this same period the number of teachers increased nine- 
fold. Between 1900 and 1920 from 6,000 to 14,000 high schools were 
buiit in all regions of the United States .8 

Referring to "changes in the secondary-school population," 


the Carcinal Principles report suggested some of the implications of 


this rapid rate of prowth. 


Bennett-4 


The number of pupils has increased, according to. 
Federal returns, for one for every 210 of the total 
population in 1889-90, to one for every 89 in 1909-10, 
and to one for every 73 of the estimated population 


in 1914-15,9 

Other dimensions of the growth taking place during these 
years and the overall significance of this period of rapid change are 
Sugsested by Butts and Cremin in the following statement: 


By 191t there was little doubt that the struggle had 
been conclusively won. Public high schools of every 
kind existed throughout the Union. There were com- 
prehensive high schools-by far the most common- 
vocational high schools, manual training high schools, 
industrial trade and commercial high schools. High 
School populations were Clearly rising and although 
continued, public secondary. cducation had 


{ 
\ 


controvers\ 


y 
wice support among the American people, 


Changes in Character 


ew 


Butts and Cremin's preceding description of the various 
types of high schools emerging during the early 1900's calls 
attention to a change in the character of secondary education during 
this transitional period. High schools were no longer conceived of as 
institutions desiened largely for a population whose destination» 
were predominately college. Instead secondary schools were itomesine 
to meet the diversified needs of many different adolescent groups. A 
growing committment to the major ideals of free, popular and universal 
education’! was undoubtedly contributing to this baste character 
-ransforination, The Cardinal Principles Report called attention to 
this transformation when it Stated; 
r of the secondary-school population has 


e 

: ified by the entrance of large numbers of 

pupils of widely varying capacities. a titudes, social 
i 7 7 © ’ Pp > 


i 


Bennett-5 


heredity, and destinies in life. Furthennore, the 
7?) ’ 
broadening of the scope of secondary education has 
brought to the school many pupils who do not 
& i 

complete the full course but leave at Various stages 
> 

of advancement, 12 


While these changes were occurring in the nature of high schools, 


other forces were operating in American society which would also 


/ 
4 
j 


profoundly influence education. 


Environmental Influences 


Between the years 1905 and 1920 the American educational 
scene was cominated by three powerful social mevements: social 


efficiency, scientific management, and vocationalism. 


social efficiency was founded on the premise that human 
beings achieved contro] Over their environment primarily because 
they were social beings. As such they were capable of developing 


and utilizing social speech, thought and institutions. Like George 


Herbert Mead and James Baldwin, proponents of social efficiency saw 


p= 


though: and intellipence as essentially tools to be used to achteve 


@ particularly desirable goal -- an efficiqnt society. Thus, it wae 


f 
e 
c? 
- 
ie) 
2) 


hools be used to develop these tools which would 


not only help man adapt to his environment, but would also allow him 


~ 


to manipulate his environment, for his own purposes 13 


Krug, it will be recalled, identified one of the basic 


characteristics of this age of social efficiency when he described 
it in terms of an " iti-individualistic reaction." Rejecting the 
Stress placed on ‘ividualism during the era of the "moderate 


revision" of the 1890's, supporters of social effictenc emphasized 
r A P 


2 OR ORT Ge eee 


7 gure ct 


social processes. /® 


Besides reorienting the thinking about 


curriculum planning, 
observable consequences in the field of 
sciences received more attention. This 
whole efficiency movement received much 
of highly articulate social scientists. 
status as a legitimate discipline. 
the term "social studies 

Advocates of social efficienc 


distinct viewpoints regarding the role 


: 
Tn 


The first can best be described by th 


‘ 


second viewpoint was characterized by 


orientation. 


became popular in academic circles. 


Bennett-6 


j 
; 


the bases of 


this new emphasis had at least three other 


education. First, the social 


was due to the fact that the 
of its support from a group 


Secondly, sociology achieved > 


. 


Finally, the concept, as well as 


15 


ney frequently represented two 
of the school in socicty. 
e term “social control." The 


a more moderate “social service" 


1 pocs. author of Social Control which was published 


Edward KROSS, 


in 1901, was one of the leading spokesman 


faction. Ross believed the masses should 


for the social controiist 


be controlled by the leaders 


1 ike most social controlists, he was motivated by a 


of society. Like most 


strong sense of goodness. Krug sugges 


s this group might well be 


‘éé lers.’ It was their sincere intention to convert 


labeled "co goodcrs. 


everyone to be good. Thus, 


that could be used to achieve this end. 
§ Baw 3 a me £ . 4 l 
considered a means oO: social control. 


Ernest Groves, a prominent so 


1900s gave ¢ siderable support to Ros 
ae, -ctulinwn tectieta ota: 
socicty « d termine individual cha 


education was seen as a major vehicle 


The school was therefore 


6 
ciologist during the early 
s3's views. Groves believed 


racteristics. He also believed 


Bennett-7 

the schools could and should manipulate the immature adolescent to 
insure his proper development. Groves advocated the study of 
anthropology because he considered primitive societies good examples 
of the proper exercise of adequate social control.!? 

Another leading sociologist who supported social control was 
Charles Ellwood. He believed that compulsory education as it existed 
was inadequate because it was based on the arbitrary criteria of age, 
Ase did not determine social efficiency, according to Ellwood. 
Therefore, he argued all children should be "sentanced" to school 
until the age of at least sixteen. If by that time they were unable 


to demonstrate a satisfactory degree of social efficietty they should 


oe 


be institutionalized.+ 
17 q hredlvy ne f ‘hain e i fluencia] "“—OD0 om a & 
Uncoubtedly, one of the most influencial proponents o 

social control was David Snedden. A former student of Ross, Snedden 


t 


served as the first Conmissioner of Education in Massachusetts and 
later became a professor of education at Teacher's College, Columbia, !9 
Writing numerous articles and actively participating in the National 
Education Association (N.E.A.), he strongly advocated full social 
control through the schools.29 One of the major responsibilities of 


the schools was to separate the "goats from the sheep" and to educate 


adolescents for their particular social and vocational 


~ 
ros 
"S 
rs 
@ 


roles in adult socicty. 


Accquate preparation for these anticipated roles meant 


1 


separate specialized high schools, according to Snedden. The complex 
technical nature of modern industrial occupations required intense and 
specialized training. No single comprehensive curriculum could 


rs] 


Bennett-8 
adequately provide the kind of training necessary for numerous 
specific vocational roles, Therefore, Snedden argued, students with 
an aptitude for railroad engineering should attend a separate 
Specialized high school where the curriculum was exclusively designed 
Co train railroad ensineers. Only when everyone was channeled into 


the proper role according to his aptitude would there be a socially 


- n > 7 
efficient society,¢l 


Snedden, | ike many of his contemporaries was highly 


Critical of the so-called traditionally academic curriculum. Instead 
he favored an educational rogram based on goals defined "...in terns 
¥ ) . * . . . 
of human good,''42 Typical of his denunciations of the academics was 
& yP 


the following statement: 


We drive our boys and girls hard up the slopes of 
Latia, French and German, but we are forced to fall 
back on mystical and uncertain faiths in the endeavor 
Co justify our driving...Seldom can we measure 
tangible results of our teaching. 4? 


Although he was particularily vchement in his attacks on Latin, it 
should not be inferred that Snedden was opposed to subject matter per 
se. Rather he believed that the traditional academic subjects should 
be replaced by more practical courses of Atudy. 24 

Like Snedden, but considerably more moderate in their 
approach, the advocates of social service also considered the school 
agency. However, emphasis was ‘placed on service and not on 
control. One of the major responsibilities of the school therefore, 
was to provide the community with needed social services, The 


neighborhood school social-center appeared to be a direct expression 


ee ee. 


Bennett-9 

Impetus for this notion of community service stemned primarily 
from tivo sources: the rise of social work and the settlement house 
moverent. The acceptance of social work as a respectable profession 
in the early years of the twentieth century did much to advance the 
idea of conmunity service.“ Beginning in the 1890's the sett leneit 
house movement provided the spark for the idea of social service. It 
is significant to note that it was during this period that John Dewey, 
then at the University of Chicago, became associated with Jane Addams 


founder of Hull House. This association was undoubtedly the source of 


many of Dewey's ideas regarding the school's role in society. Jane 


ae ao i , ; ss ee aera 
Dewey-Janc Addam's namesake, wrote about this relationship in 1939 
4 > 
= } tar 2. 
and stated: 
- ' e} . , . 3 ine ~ ; 
Dewey's faith in democracy as a guiding force in 
education took on both a sharper and deeper meaning 
: a 
because of Hull House and Jane Addams.“® 


John Dewey identified himself with the social effictlency 


- 
the rt Laon ; , . +r T anrwersaer.s ne Anca ; tan . } 
movem t when he wrote ats BCC acy and Educat lon, Une of the major 
aa . _ ie } i. | ae ‘ Ci wt ame n2/ *‘ancid ring hie 
aims of the schcol is social efficiency.”” Considering his support 


for the idea of school social centers and his association with Jane 
Addams, Dewey must be classified on the social service side of the 
efficiency mo ent. Although he occasionally leaned toward social 
mtrol he detinitely cannot be associated with the extreme Snedden- 
Elwood posit 1.“° While it is not feasible to explore all the aspects 


of Dewey's chilosophy of education within the scope of this review, it 


is imsortent scocnize that many of his ideas did represent the 


Bennett-10 
Dewey's interpretation of the role of the school in relation 
to this movement was considerably different from that of many of his 


contemporarics.* Examination of some of his views indicates he stood 


in marked contrast to Ross, Snedden, Ellwood and other social 


controlists. Such a contrast is evident in the following statement 


in which Dewey said: 


,..social efficiency is nothing less than the 
socialization of mind which is actively concerned 
in making experiences more communicable, in 
breaking down the barriers of social stratification 
which make individuals impervious to the interests 
of others 49 
This statement sccmed to be in direct conflict with Ross's idea that 


the masses should be controlled by their social leaders. It also 
7 


-— 
appeared to turn the controlists hierarchy of values upside down, 


Instead of viewine the school as a means of insuring social efficiency 
Dewey seemcd to be advocating that social efficiency be used as a 


means for improving education. Commenting on the educational value 


of social efficicncy Dewey wrote; 
But social efficiency as an educational purpose should, 


tivation of power to join freely and fully 
in shared on common activities.° 


Social efficiency, according to Dewey did not mean that everyone 
should b« ated for a particular set of social roles, but rather 


it meant the “cultivation of power." 
Dewey did not accept the idea of external control or 
ition or the educative process as the best means of achieving @ 
socially efficicnt society. Instead he argued that: 


nt truth, means only an emphatic form of 
direction of powers, and covers the regulation 


Bennett-ll 


gained ‘vy an individual through his own efforts 


quite as touch as that brought about when others 


take tne lead, 
For Dewey the ultimate goal of education was ‘simply more education. 
It was a process of continuous reconstruction of experiences, an idea 


which "...i's marked off from education as preparation for a remote 


Dewey's thoughts on education encompassed both the emphasis 


placed on the individual during the cra of "moderate revision" and 
KS the concern for social processes which emerged during the socfal 
‘ficiency movement. The educational process, according to Dewey had 


two sides: the psycholopical and the sociological. 


h ts...eThese powers interests and habits must be 
anslated into 
te. . of their social equivalents -- into terms Ol 


a 33 


what they are capable of in the way of social service. 


SP Or a 
Fees . 
a a ee 

. 
one 
- 

4 ae 
- 
~ 
> 

~~ “ 

_ 

t 

- - 
_ 
er) 
¢ 


ividualistie reaction of 


[ Even though he rejected the extreme anti-in 


z 
; many of his contemporaries, Dewey may still be identified with the 
3 } 

j 

5 SOoc1lk @Laeicii 7 ramenc, 


| , Schools were essentially social GSE SSUS SORE in Dewey's 

opinion and education was basically a social process. Therefore, he 
remand the 4 tould be desi das re communi 

i uUeQG ( 4 noua O¢ ac signe as a minature community 

, si PR { . ant . { ; - oe , 134 

represen ...present life as real and vital to the child. The 
ideal sch ding to Dewey, would be an embryonic community life 
¢ 
alive with ities that reflected occupations of the larger society.” 


Her: ej nind Dewey's “activities program." 


i ate PO ae FSS pe ay 


ee: 


ee 


= 


O 


v 
do 


Bennett-12 


gnizant of the changing environnent in industrial America, 


, 


believed education had to be open-ended, Its purpose should be 


, 
‘ 


nserve a received tradition, nor produce a new society 
some prescribed blueprint. Rather education had to 

ins for selecting from the best impulses of people and 
ielp society move along the lines of the most promising 


[This type of social service could best be provided for 


an open-ended educational process, Thus he argued: 
A s tty which is mobile, which is full of channels 
for the distribution of a change occurrin: anywhere, 
must to 1¢ that its members are educated to 
pe Initiative and adaptability. Otherwise, 
they ll be overwhelmed by the changes in which 
they are caugnt and whose significance or connections 
5 
tl cy do not perceive, f 
Complimenting this conception of education as an open 
2 ' oat rr : . oe n > ‘ ‘ 
s WAS Dewey's “problem-solving approach." This implied 
exa itcomes of any educational experience were never 
learning emerged through a process of reflective 
\ ) began with a problem and proceeded to explore, 
. a. : , SI | . } 38 . 
‘+, and test various solutions to that problem. Since 


oud never be completely anticipated it might be argued 
ild reject the idea of social control on the grounds that 
be sure what he was controlling for. 
important to Dewey's philosophy of education was hig 
democratic way of life. Throughout Democracy and 
nually emphasized the im 


yvortance of a cooperative 


hims, common beliefs, common attitudes and 


Bennett-13 

experiences, Typical of this committment was the following 
statement 

In order to have a large number of values in common 

111 the menbers of the Group must have an equable 

Opportunity to receive and take from others. There 

must be a large variety of shared undertakings and 

39 

CapcirLrence...~ 
Butts and Cremin summarized Dewey's comnittment to democratic 
prineiples when they stated, "Dewey made the democratic ideal and 
democratic way of life the fundamental for his whole conception of 
education, '49 

Like the social controlists, Dewey also attacked the : 
traditional concept of 


pC of subject matter, However, his attack, unlike 


that of Snedden, was not aimed at eliminating any particular so-called 


Nacad Courses," Dewey was instead concerned about the traditional 

metho r 1 classifications and isolation of subjects. He argued 
‘i | | 

that individual subjects should not be used to train one or even a 


; Set of faculties. Rather the whole child functioning in a complete 


and unified environ 


4 
nment was the proper course of study, 44 Thus, he 


wrote: 


ject matter from 


. 
~~ 
r 
— 
~~ 


a social context 
ruction in current practice to 
. Py e ye 
ring a general training of mind.¢ 


oe voi ks Sitemauel ~— aie = 


‘ Subjects re not ends in themselves but rather beginning points for 
Dewey He 1 not interested in doing away with traditional courses 
of study, but rather he favored recreating the curriculum to develop 

43 
new \ ( { { 


i Thus, it seemed that while the leaders of the two branches 


| of the ; Li pekacironcy movement disagreed about whether education 


— 


Bennett-14 ‘ 
should be reorganized for the purposes of social control or social 
service, they did share an anti-academic bias.“4 Both factions were 
opposed to the traditional curriculum founded on so-called “academic" 
subjects. However, it is important to recognize that this bias was 


not against all subject matter. 


Scientific Management 


Additional support for this bias came from the scientific 
management movement which also developed during the carly decades of 
the twentieth century. Like social efficiency this movement exercised 
considerable influence in academic circles. Krug indicates that the 
development of scientific management encouraged more anti-academic 

45 
bias than any other single force.*%? 

Orginating in the time study movement in the tatlor industry, 
scientific management was soon applied to educational plauning. Un- 
fortunately, the basic concepts of this movement suffered a two-fold 
distortion in the hands of zealous curriculum workers. The first dis- 
tortion resulted when educators inferred that when scientific manage- 
ment was applied to curriculum Sve Lustsem AS raised the question: How 


good are these particular subjects? While this inference was not in 


itselt harmtul it did lead to a second distortion. Once the initial 
question hac Seen raised curriculum workers made an ideological jump 
which prempted them to ask such questions as: Does arithmetic produce 
good citizens? or Does Latin produce vocationaliy efficient people? 
Many Cracitional subject-matter specialists were forced to admit they 


lacked th tuic cata to support an affirmative answer to this query. 


h 


} 


Sen sea 


~* 


Ren i OE ere 


a TD ed 


Bennett-15 
One result was the development of a strong anti-academic bias, 
Spreading quickly, this bias prompted cducators to challenge 
all acadenic subjects to prove their right to exist. Each subject 
was asked to justify its presence in the curriculun and to do so in 
relation to' the goals of social efficiency. Thus, such subjects as 
Latin, Greck, and ancient history were asked to cither prove that 


they contributed to good citizenship and vocational efficiency or 


‘ 
. 


get out of the eurriculun. 
Confronted with such a scemingly impossible challenge, many 
academicians developed ingenious justifications for their particular 
Subject, Any opportunity which offered such justifications was quickly 
seized, One such opportunity presented itself when the supporters of 
scientitic management expressed concern over the eight hour working 
day. Obviously there was great danger in workers having an excess of 
leisure and recreation time. As a result preparation for the soctally 
efficient use of leisure time became a responsibility of the school. 
Subjects now could justify their presence in the curriculum on the 


basis of their ability to contribute to the efficient use of leisure 


: 4 
time. 6 


Vocaticralisn 


t 


vocationalisma actually began as early as 1876 when the 
industrial supremacy of the United States was serlously challenged for 
the first time at the Philadelphia Centennial. Exposition. From the 
beginning, the relation of education to national progress had been a 


major theme of tne Centennial. Much to the Surprise of many Americans, 


Bennett-16 
a few displays from Russia dominated the show. What happened in effect 
was that these displays showed the West that Russian educators had 
scored an important breakthrough regarding the problem of organizing 
meaningful, instructive manual training. “7 
From tais inception the movement toward vocational education 
grew rapicly. By-the late 1870's the N.E.A. had become an arena for 


debate concerning manual training. 8 The 1890's witnessed a rapid 


Cowl of manual training and homemakine courses in secondary schools. 
It was also curing the 1890's that the trade school idea emerged .49 
Tne year 1910 proved to be the turning point in the vocational education ° 
movement, according to Cremin. Twenty-nine states were then sponsoring 
some form of industrial education. 29 

eapport for the movement came from. labor through the American 
Feder. Sion of Labor (A.PF.L.), from agriculture via the Crange and 
from manuf.cturers through the National Association of Manufacturers .?} 
such support as this led to the formation of the Commission on National 
Aid to Vecational Education in 1914. This group strongly recommended 


that feceral funds be used to Support teachers and supervisors of 


trade, indestrial and agricultural subjects at the secondary level, 


Wanclly, in 1917, the Smith-Hughes Act was passed by Congress and 


i ; feceral ; Lo vocational secondary education was approved, 
sf ' 
4 suggested five reasons for this rapid rise of vocational 
ry 
* 
‘ education i Aner.ca, First, there was an increased esteem in 
democratic soci for manual labor. Second, vocational occupations 
« 
# aceuircd 1 | tipe. Third, industry based on skilled technology 


replaced the pecvious rule of thumb method which had been handed down 


Bennett-17 e 
from ene Generation to the next. Fourth, the pursuit of knowledge, 
Particularly in sclence, became more experimental and less dependent 
upon literary tradition, Fifth, advances in the Psychology of learning 
fell into line with the increased importance of incustry in American 
lite.” * 7 | 

Krug suggests vocattonalism had its most dramatic impact on 
Seconcary cducation as a result of Douglas's Report of 1905. This 
report of the sovernor's comaission in Massachusetts Souiiind 
attention on 25,000 students between the ages of 14 and 16 who dropped 
out of elementary school and were uncmployed or employed in dead-end 
Jobs. The comnrission concluded that the reason these students had 
left school was because the educational program had failed to provide 
Chem with an ecequate practical preparction for life, This of course 
inmpiiec vocationa] education, Copies of this report were widely 
circulaced throughout the United States, Krug indicates this report 
Was the highlicht of the voc.utional movement and Suggests that its 

54 
impact on education was Comparable to that of Sputnik in 1954, 
Vocationalism Supported the educational demands of the 


Social e!fvJicfency and scientific managenent movements in two ways, 


First, those who tavored vocational education attacked the traditional 


academic subjcets. Second, they called for a more practical curriculum 


a? =r 


designed to ‘repare youth for everyday living, including of course, 
Vocétional res; onsibility, 

Inspite of the insistence of these leaders to the Contrary, it 
becas: avparent around 1910 that many of the pupils entering the high 


School siili preferred the traditional academic subjects, Conceding 


Bennett-18 
to these demands the Supporters of vocationalic: pushed for differen- 
tiated curriculums in the high school. A two track system was 
advocated. One track, with a vocational emphasis, would be designed 
for pupils who saw high school as Cerminal education. The other track, 
with an academic {lavor, would be intended for those Students preparing 
for collese. It wags reconmended that such a differentiation begin as 
early as fifth érade or at least no later than seventh prade, Unfortunately 
much of the dualism which resulted when certain subjects were labeled 
ters vocational subjects stil] remains today, 
Evidence of the general unity of thought among the Supporters . 
Of vocationalism and Social efficiency can be found in a brief 


Dp 
‘ 


examination of the carly career of Charles rosser, As an educational 


leade; during tl] years 1910 to 1920, Prosser served in two important 

1 , ’ : od . , «= 
positions Initia) e€ was an’ Assistan Conmissioner of Education in 
d sachusetts under David Snecden, Subsequently he beeame the 


secretary of the Nati nal Society for the Promotion of Vocational 
ducation. Undoubt ‘ly, he achieved his Greatest prominence many 
years ] r when he 1 posed the now famous Prosser Resolution of 1945 
wnich ushered in the life adjustment movenent, Nevertheless, tt is 
Significant to note that during the early 1900's he was an example of 
those wl br ht together the ideas of social efficiency and 


voeatior 1S! 


RefLormism 


early years of the Cwentieth century, physical 


growth » an the character of Secondary education along with 


Bennett-19 
social efficiency, scientific management and vocationalism combined 
to create an atmosphere charged with Cemands for educational reform, 
Dworkin refers to the educational changes that were promoted during 

5? 
this period as part of "...a nationwide comprehensive reform movement." 
May asserts that thy waole culture of this era was "...a fundamentally 
unstable compound. It called for questioning ideas and institutions ,"98 
Krug concurs when he describes this age as one wherein the intellectual 
atmosohere was dominated by a general fecling of reforin and a desire of 
. ° 59 , 

Social improvement. Perhaps the most detailed analysis of this 


Seneral trend toward reform is contained in the following statement; 


Dewey's criticisms Of traditional educational theory and 
Practice were part of a General and various movement 

Or revolt. Other kinds OL psycholovrists were finding 
Current methods tnadequat. > businessmen and farmers 

were calling classica} education Useless; worried 
Cilizens were demandin; Cnat the schools t ake on 

more boldly the job of assimilating the imigrants, 
efficiency e Per€s and social Scientists were 


m Reflecting the anti-academic bias engendered by social 
efficiency, gs tentiric management and vocationalism, numerous writers 
of this period called for educational reform. Among these are George 


eantayana who in 1912 labeled past American idealism, "The Genteel 


j »» the academic philosophies of 1911 were completely 
Out Of Couch with the busy, practical American mind, 

, ‘CS philosophies had become an clegant pastime 
instead of a guide to life, Ol 


4bother article which appeared in the Saturday Evening Post, 


4 


March 9, 1912? rey ted this same Practicalist attack on traditional 


Bennett-20 < 


»»ehow long will our medieval hich schools be dowinated 
by the belicvers in that snobbish. us » indefinable 
concevt--culture? oe When will the high school start 
Cecching men how to get jobs and women how to keep 
house? 62 


e le . 
’ Liss 


Undoubtedly, one of the most comprehensive expressions of reformism 
was made by George Strayer at the National Education Association 
proceccings in June 1918. Because Strayer's remarks were made in 1918 
they reflected many of the major themes incorporated in educational 
eeeGits movement. Echoing the prevailing diseachantment with the 


traditional concention of education, Strayer'expressed concern about 


26 Certain al ing deficiencies in our scheme of secondary education," 
Similar to many ern day reformists Strayer substantiated his fears 
by po icin 4 UL Cnet: 


layrean boys end girls of eirchteen years of ape are 
Pron imacely two years behind their European con- 
Cempovarics in intellectuel Craining. 


Reflecting one of the major themes of the vocational 


movement he continued by calling for "...diffcrentiated courses of 


Study in th ntermediate schools" (refers to junior high schools), 
According to Strayer, such courses should: 
' ++. Provide not only for those who gO on through high 
hovl d college, but also for those who are to go 
f & ¢ rece and industry. 


empuasizing the practical orientation of social efficiency, 


scienti unaovement and vocattionalism Strayer urgued; 
A very much larger provision should be made in the 
h ld arts, including cooking, Sewing, millinary, 
d) ing, Cesigning, household cecoration, for 
gir) »mMaxe their greatest contribution along 


Bennett-21 

Pursuing this same logic, which seemed to reflect views of David 
Snedden and other social controlists, he continued, "An attempt 
should also be made to find Similar abilitics and discover aptitudes 
of boys." 

Continuing in the reformist vein, Strayer argued that 
courses necded to be revised, "...so as to provide in them some de- 
finite relationship to the everyday experience and work."' This idea of 

\ 

revising courses rather than climinating them seemed to come close to 
Dewey's philosophy of "recreating the curriculum." Nothing is lost in 
teaching mathematics which can be used in the shop or science which ¢ 
is related to our everyday life," argued Strayer. 

Concluding his remarks Strayer advised, "Schools must keep up 
with modern needs...We must provide reorganization..." 
Consi¢ering the changes that had occurred in secondary 


1e¢ influcnce of social efficiency, scientific 


6 


education and t 


~~. managerent and vocationalism, it appears that Strayer had summarized 
the trend toward educational reform. Furthermore, looking back, his 
remarks also seemed to provide considerable justification for the work 


~ 


of the Coumission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education (C.R.S.E.) 


OVERVIEW OF THE C.R.S.E. 
Understanding the direction taken by this commission requires 
some knowledye of its origin, sponsorship, organization and most 


important of all, the mémbers of the main reviewing committee. 
/ 
J 


4 


Bennett-22 


Origin, Sponsorship, and Organization of the Comnission 


Officially organized in 1913, the commission was a direct 
outgrowth of the 1911 N.E.A. committee on the articulation of high 
65 


school and college. In its report this counittee attempted to 


redefine he function of the secondary school. It recommended the 
modification of college entrance requirements so that the high school 
could adjust its program to meet the needs of all students without 
closing to them opportunities for continued higher learning. 66 The 
recognition of the high scnool as an institution that should serve 
e-bound and non-college bound students implied a need for 


both colle; 


> 


further reorganization, This need led directly to the creation of the 
Commissicn on the Reorganization of Secondary Education. 

onsored by the National Education Association (N.E.A.) and 
the U. S. Gffice of Education, the commission was organized into 
Seventeen committces. Sixteen of these comnittees were responsible 
for issuing reports dealing with the general organization and 
administration of secondary school as well as the aims, methods, and 
content of specific courses of study. The seventcenth committee, 
designated as the main reviewing Pinter Se was responsible for 
evaluating the work of the other committces, holding annual meetings, 


concucting correspondence and outlining" ...in one brief report those 


principles that would be most helpful in directing 
167 


funda: 


secondary education 


mbers of the Reviewins Committees 


Charged with these responsibilities, the reviewing committce’ 


was composed of the sixteen comnittee chairmen, a general chairman and 


Bennett-23 
ten members at large. This committee was unusual in at lease four 
Fespects, Fi.st, as a group, it represented an extremely diversified 
collection of professional interests and backgrounds. Ineluded in 
this group were: a state high supervisor, the United States 
Commissionér of Education, six professors of education from various 
collescs and universities, a representative of the New York City 
Ethical Culture School, two representatives of the international Y.M...A 
4 principal of a technical high school, a dean of the Cleveland School 
of Art, two high school Classroom teachers, two representatives of the 


United States Bureau of Education, a director of music and an associate ‘ 


superintendent of schools , 68 


Second, this revicwing committee had the unique distinction of 
being the first national &roup to be headed by a relatively unknown 
former classroom teacher. Clarence Kingsley, the general chairman was 
the first man to step into such a position directly from the classroom. 
Kingsley was formerly a mathematics teacher at the Boy's Technical 


2 


High School in Brooklyn, ke achieved some prominence: because of his 
tireless efforts as the chaimman of the N.E.A.'s 191] committee on the 
articulation of the high school and college. It was because of his 
outstanding work on this earlier committee that he became chairman of 
the reviewing conmittee of the C.R.S.E, More will be said about 
this unusual man in subsequent portions of this review. 

Third, this reviewing committee was unusual because even 
though it included six professors, none of these men represented any 


of the traditional acadezic disciplines. Instead all six were 


Bennctt-24 

Fourth, this reviewing committce vas unusual because of its 
obvious shortage of classroom representatives, Although the commission 
was primarily concerned with the reorganization of secondary education 
there were only two secondary classroom teachers on the reviewing 
committee. It must be acknowledged however, that there were other 
represcntatives of Secondary education on this committee, e.g. 
Clarence Kingsley and the two high school principals, Nevertheless, 
there were only two classroom teachers. 

Inspite of their diversified backsrounds and the unusual 
characteristics of this group, the revicwing committee was able to 
accomplish a number of noteworthy achievements. Without a doubt, 
the most sipnificant accomplishment of all was the creation of the 


Cardina!} Principles Report. 


ANALYSIS UF THE CARDINAL PRINCIPLES REPORT 

Earlier in this review it was sussested that the Cardinal 
Principles Report had curricular Significance because it represented a 
shift in the basic approach to curriculum planning. Analysis of this 
report would not | complete without an understandins of the 


\ 


Particular approach taken by the C.R.S.E. 


ricular Approach of the Te A Se 


Herric! atea there are only three basic referents or 
Orientations pos ible to consider in the development of curriculum 
patterns 7 s¢ three referents are: (1) man's organized knowledge 
Which is presery mn the various subject fields, (2) Society with 


its instituti 21 Clal processes and (3) the individual with 


Bennett-25 

his own unique needs, interests, abilitics and developmental patterns, 71 

Consideration of these three basic referents-subject matter, 
Society and the individual- leads inevitably to the critical question 
of priority. Any approach to curriculuia planning must consider all 
three referents, It is never a question of which one to consider, 
Rather a far more complex problem arises when it becomes necessary to 
arrange the three referents in Some priority of importance. Curriculum 
approaches differ een one another only in the way in which they order 
Subject matter, Society and the individual. Like all curriculum 
planning groups the reviewing committee of the C.R.S.E. was faced with 
the problem of deciding which of these referents it was going to 


emphasize, 


to 
te 


cally, there are only three distinct approaches to 
curriculus planning: (1) the subject-centered approach, (2) the 
el : ' ae ee , , 72 
socicty-centered approach and (3) the individual-oriented approach, 


Deciding where to place the emphasis is largely a matter of value 


judgement. Just as it 1s true of all other Curriculua planning Sroups, 


the approach used by the C.R.S.E. was Supported by a particular concept 
of the schools function in society, a partfcular philosophy of 


education and a specilic viewpoint regarding the interaction between 

the learner, the situation and the teacher during the learning procesa, 
eurveylag the Cardinal Principles Report it appears that the 

three basic referents were consistently arranged in a definite priority 


of importénce. The first sentence of the report was indicative of 


that ynriority. " reads as follows: 


oe 


ad 


a ee ae 6 ae 


Bennett-26 4 


secondary education should be determined by the 


neecs of the society to be Served, the character 


¢ 
of the individuals to be educated and the knowledge 
of educational Cneory and practice available. 


Judging from this introduction it appears that the C.R.S.E. had adopted 


a society-centcred curricular approach. While this Single statement 
cannot be considered conclusive proof by itself, it can be recognized 
as an indication of the commission's basic approach, 

Besides this initial statement there Seems to be at least four 
other indications that the Cardinal Principles Report was written from 
a society-centered orientation. First, the nembers of the reviewing 
conmittee were undoubtedly influence by the existing educational climate, 
It will be recalled that the general tenor of the atmosphere between 
1915 and 1918 leid heavy emphasis on social processes and soctetial 
needs, Furthemnore, the existing anti-acadenic bias of social 
cleiclency, scientific management and vocationalism appeared to 
Giscourage the use of subicct matter as the primary referent in 
curriculum planning. In addition, it will be remembered that the 
Proposals of aducational reformists were primarily motivated by a felt 
need to keep pace with a changing society. It must also be vecognized 
that while educators like Snedden and Dewey considered the individual 
in their writings, it was usually in relation to the more important 
rererent-society. Since the members of the C.R.S.E. lived in thie 
climate it seems reasonable to assert that it did influence their 
thinking. 

yecond, the priority of values which characterizes the 
Socicty-centered approach was Clearly in evidence in the first section 


of the Cardinal Prin iples Report, Discussing the need for 
i k © 


Bennett-27 
reorganization the report directed attention first to change in 
society, sccond to the nature of the high school seueente and finally 
74 


to new knowledge in educational theory. 


Third, further investigation of subsequent sections of the 


report revealed numerous references to such terms as "society," 


*; "democracy," "democratic society" and “community.” Cursory 

4 examinatior. indicated there were less frequent references to such 

‘ terms as the: "individual," "student" or "pupil." There appeared 

y 
to be sill fewer references to terms or ideas directly related to 

3 
subject matter. : 

Fourth, specific recomendations mady by the C. R. S. E. regarding 

four major curriculun questions appear to be indicative of a society- 

} 

; centered approach. It will be recalled that earlier in this paper 


these four major questions were defined as being concerned with (1) 
the formulation of objectives, (2) the selection of learning 
activities and instructional methods, (3) the organization of 


educational experiences and (4) evaluative techniques. 


Recommendations Reparcing Major Curriculum Questions 
he A) ER YA And % wb ig Shs 


Regardine the formulation of objectives the C.R.S.E. 
reconmended that the activities of the individual be analyzed in order 
to detcrmine appropriate aims for education. Using an approach which 

ri t 


Bobbitt and Cheorters subsequently adopted, the reviewing committee pro- 


ceeded to examine various activities involved in an individual's social 
rolcs as: citicen, a worker, an independent personality, a member of a 


family end wnber of a vocational group. /? The specific skills and 


, 
Bennett-28 
personal attributcs required by each of these roles led the conmnittee 
Co recommend the following as the main objectives of education; (1) 
Health, (2) Command of fundenental processes, (3) Worthy home- 
membership, (4) Vocation, (5) Citizenship, (6) Worthy use of 
leisure and«(7) Ethical character, 76 
Followins, the discussion of how these objectives were 
formulated, the reviewing committee devoted five additional sections 
> & 
or the Cardinal Principles Report to; (1) the role of secondary 
education in achieving these objectives, 7? (2) the interrelation of 
the objectives in secondary education,78 (3) the recognition of the 
Sanh ss e2 — tt . or} ~t , : ' 79 Z 
objectives in reorcanizing high school subjects, (4) the 
: a ae ae intian raewtmuatlund®? a 
recognit.on of the objectives in planning curriculums and (5) 
the recognition of the objectives in Organizing the school, 
Jucging from the discussions within cach of these sections it 


appcers thet there was a’ great deal of importance attached to the 
Seven “main ebjectives of education." It seems that these aims were 
considered mach more than merely mastheads. There were several 
specific recommendacions in the Cardina}l Principles Report regarding 


the function and importance of these objectives that are noteworthy, 


} 


constitute the principal aims of 


education, 
The obj ives outlined above apply to education 


as a whole-clementary, secondary higher.8 


Each ; © now taught in high schools is in 
need o. “NGL Ve reorganization in order that it 
may c ute cffectively to the objectives 


Out i ri. ole F ’ 


Bennett-29 


No curriculum in the Secondary school can be regarded 
as Satisfactory unless it Bives due actention to each 
of the odjectives.,, 


une 


i 
The objectives must determine the organization,, ,86 


-» objectives Outlined herein are adoptcd as the controlling 
aims of cCucation, 


One final ob *Servation regardinp the seven main objectives 
Should be noted, Through various discussions the reviewing comnittee 


Strongly empnasized the Social implications of specific aims. Several 


< 


examples may be Cited. One such example was found in the discussion 
of the firs: major objective of "health," The Cardina} Principles 
Report indicated thet health needs Could not be neglected "..swithout 
SCrious Caager to the ndividual and to the race 188 This statement 
not only callee “tiention to the Obvious values health has for the 
individual, but i¢ also related this particular aim to the welfare of 
all SOocicty, 

Another example of the emphasis placed on the social 
implications of the main objectives was revealed in the discussion of 
"worthy-home mesoership.” fe was recommended that: 
Stucles should deal with the home as a 


fundements) socia) institution end clari sy its 
relation to the wider interests Outside, 


Stiil enother example of how the seven uims were related to 
Society ji; Mbereal was found in the discussion Of the vocational 
objective, Th, reviewing conmittee declared: 


Vocational educstion should equip the individual to 


Secure fivelihosod foe himself...to Serve society 
well th coh his Vocation, to maintain right 9 
relation ‘*pS Coward nis fellow workers and society, 0 


Bennett-30 , 

Numerous other examples were also evident in subsequent 
discussions of Civic education and the worthy use of leisure. All of 
these examples sceomed to indicate that the reviewing comittees had 
adopted a Society -ccntered approach toward the formulation and use 
Of objectives, 

Relative to the second major curriculum question, concerning 
the sclection of learning activities and instructional methods, the 
committee made several reconmendations. First, it was recommended 
that activities, methods and subject matter be Ssclected on the basis 
of their ability to develop: (1) desirable social attitudes, (2) ; 
knowledge about Social institutions and (3) necessary social skills, 
Tae section of the Cardinal Principles Report which dealt with civic 
education was replete with examples indicative of this recommendation, 
Sone of the specific statements found in this Section of the report 
are as follows: 7 

For such citizenship the followin: are essential: 

A many sided interest in the welfare of the 


tis < 
communitics to which one belongs, 92 


.+ePpractica!l knowledge of Social apencies 92 


~- 
¥ Ce . + . : 93 
*+-COrdial cooperation in Social undertakings,.. 
++ -GSSipnment of Projects and problems to Sroups of 
Pupils for Cooperative solution and the socialized 
. , U4 
recication,, 


---@l1l subjects should contribute to pood citizenship, 
the socia} studics-peography, history, civics and 


econonics-should have this as their dominant aim, 


Civics...siould direct attention to social agencies 
‘ Yo 
Close at hand, 


° ’ . . : os . . ¢ 
Tic work in English should kindle s0cial ideals... ,?7 Other 


Sections of the Cazdinal Principles Report indicated that the reviewing 


a me. 
’ . 
: Bennett-31 
< 
committec's recomacadations regerding the selection of activities, 
methods and content were directed fron a Socicty-oricnted approach, 
Particularly relevant were the sections of the report which dealt 
Ss - zc : ee . . 4 — ! ; , 
with: the unifying fuaction of Secondary education's differentiated 
© curriculums, the comprehensive high school and secondary education 
; 8 
essential for all youth. 2 
Kumercous recomendations were made Ly the reviewing committee: 
: , S . : * , . * ‘ 
a’ rejerd co the third major curriculum question, which deals with the 
organization of ecucational experiences. These recommendations were 
concerned with two levels of organization: (1) the overall 
~ * £ ; ’ -< } ‘4 99 1 . 
Organazation of tie educational ladder and (2) the oryanization of 
. or 100 
the hign school prosraa, 
Concerning the overall organization of the educational ladder 
the committee made three specific recommendations. First, it 
4 
: recommended a complete reorganization of the entire school system. 
The treciticnal pattem of eight years of clomentary schooling and 
four years of high school should be cnanged to a pattern of six years 
for clenentary and six years for secondary education, 10 
Second, it was recommended that the Six years devoted to 
F . 
seconcery ecucation be organized into two periods "...designated as 
.. : ‘ . = ) . — af . 2102 mL a . . * 
the junioc cad seniecr periceds,. ne rationale for this organization 
Was expr: / in the Cardinal Principles Report as follows: 
4ivicual differences in pupils and the varied needs 
suclaty alike demand that education be so varied 
to the leadins aspects of occupational, civic 
; leisure life. To this end the curriculuns must be 
at appropriate stages and the work of pupils 
progressively differentiated, 103 
7 ‘ 
§ 


: Bennett-32 ‘ 
Thivd, the Cardinal Principles Report implied another 
recommendation regarding the organization of education at all levels. 


° . , 


Although this was not an explicitly stated recommendation it did appear 


»~ 


that the revicwing cemmittee felt all three levels of education should 
be organized on the bases of the seven main objectives of education, 
Two statements seemed to suggest this implied recommendation. These 


Statements were as follows: 


The cbjectives outlined above apply to cducation as 


° ’ } Z 
a whole--elementary, secondary and higher} . 


Tne cbhjectives must determine the organization or 
‘ ; Sierey 105 ; 


else the organization will cetermine the odjectives 
It must be acknowledged that the second statement was used in the 
Cercinal Principles Report in reference to the internal organization 
, it seems reasonable to assume 


Or zne high sceheeli program. however 


thet the revicwing cossmittee would apply the same principle to the 


overail organization of the entire educational ladder. 

All three of these recommendations regarding the reorganization 
of the whole cducational system were based on the expressed desire to 
meet both the needs of society and the individual. It is significant 
to no that the rationale behind these recommendations emphasized 
the indivicual as well as society. In some instauces it even 
appeared that the individual may have been the primary referent. 

f Discus.ing the organization of the high school program the 
§ revicwing committee recommended the following: comprehensive secondary 
schools; differentiated curricular tracks; school guidance; a wide 


rancse of subjects to be broken down into constants; variables and 


~< 


frec electives; election by cuvriculum tracks; and the adaptation of 


3 

o 
ey 
| 


Bennett-33 
106 


< 


content and methods to pupil interest, needs and capacities. These 
recotmencations were derived primarily from two related beliefs, 

First, the Cardinal Principles Report stated that the high 
school should serve the needs of all pupils regardless of their 
backgrounds, or destinations. This belief was clearly expressed in 
the following statement: 

Consequently, we recommend that secondary schools admit, 

anc provide suitable instruction for all pupils who are 

in any respect so mature that they would derive more 

benefit from the secondary school than from the 

elementary school. v/ 

Second, the report declared that the high school should serve 
two basic functions: specialization and unification. Specilalization 
meant organizing the program in such a way as to help individuals 


"...becoue effective in the various vocations and other fields of 


BOG wei es ; ; ; ; 
human endeavor." ~" Unification implied the type of organization that 


would assist mombers of a democracy obtain: 


mmon modes of 
cooperation, 


those conmon ideas, common ideals and co 
thoueht, Lecling and action that make fo 
social conesion and social solidarity, 19 


r 
9 
Again, it is significant to note the basic referent in both 
of these beliefs. In the former the emphasis appeared to be clearly 
on the indiv. ual. In the latter there seemed to be a dual referent- 
the individual and society. 

ther recommendation made by the committee, which seemed to 


have an indirect bearing on the organization of the high school 


program should be noted. It was recommended that: 


~..,ecucation should be so reorganized that every 

n .} yy and yirl will be encouraged to remain : 

in school to the age Or tes on full time if possible, t 
LO 


otherwise on part time, 


Bennett-34 
Tais statement had two implications for any organizational plan. It 


a 


Incant the ecucational program would have to be organized to meet the 
© & 


necds of more pupils who would remain in school for a longer period 


of time. It also implied a curriculum flexible enough to provide for 
part time as well as full time students who remain in school until 


a] ° 


he committee recomnacnded an organization of . 


~ 
e 
o> 
ra) 
jae 
r 
ct 
QO 
la 
‘ 
~ 
° 
3 


Subject matter that would meet the needs of carly drop-outs. The 
Cardinal Vrincinoles Keport stated: 


Should be so orpanized that the 


fivse year o: work will be ot definite value to those 


who #0 on further; and this principle should be 
anplicd to the work of each year. +4 
dl 2 
? of » } ¢ ‘ ; +s ‘ 7 eee oe 5 
Ges wnese reco.mendations, it was also proposed that a 
ae ‘ - : + 1 al , fem § ~}; } os 
principal S&S Councis be establisned in the high -CNOOL, Essentially, 
» 1 . mena’ - @ a ae - a a San tes . 1 
Suns < Nels C be Tesponsiolie Lor studying, and organizing various 


school activities so as to maximize their contributions to the seven 


mein objcctive It was recommended that the council be made of 


teaci wo woulc perform the duties associated with the following 
ples: it health director, a citizenship director, various curriculum 
Ce for each track in the couwprehensive high school), a 
\ 
lirector of yocational and educational guidance, and a director in 


harge of ration of leisure. Finally, it was recommended that 
the orincina yoint various teacher committees to assist the council 
of the Cardinal Principles Report reveals no 

exp! corzneadations pertaining to the fourth major 


rea Wray ogy tion, which deals with evaluative techniques. However, 


i 


ae 


Ce. 6 le ee 


Bennett-35 


at least one general inference may be d 


rawn from a summary of the 
other recommendations made by the reviewing committee, Sucmarized 
briefly, these recommendations indicated that the committee supported 


the following: 


le A society-centered curriculum approach. 
‘ 


y Seven main objectives for all education. 
ae The selection of activities and methods which 
| ; ; 
would' support and contribute to the major aims. 
4. A comprehensive and flexible organization of 


educational experiences designed to accomplish 
! 

the seven key objectives. 
One might infer from these beliefs that the committee recommended eval- 
uative ctechnicues which used the seven aims as a frame of reference for 
appraisal. Tne following statement taken from the Cardinal Principles 
Report seems to support this interence: 

No curriculum in the secondary school can be regarded 


S 
as satisfactory unless it gives due attention to cach 
1 
fe 


of tne objectives o ducation.../4 


Real erd Bidden Authors of the Report 


“uch has been written about the recomnendations of the main 


revievi C tree of the C.R.S.E. Perhaps the continuous reference 
to this group has been somewhat misleading. It could easily be inferred 


r~ 


thet the Cardinal Principles Report reflected only the views of the 
seventeen members of this committee. Such an interpretation is not 
rate because many others also contributed ideas, Those 


S| 1. ' 
COmoOLeteiy accurace 


who were actually responsible for writing the final report might be 


* «= se s 
Bennett-36 ‘ 
called its real authors. Those whose ideas constituted a reservior 
of culture! heritage which these nen drew upon might be called the 
: hidcen authors of this cocument, 


Clarence Kingsley was the chief architect of the Cardinal 


Principles Report, Serving as the general chairman of the C.R.S.E. 

he drew idecs from three related Sources. First, he relied on many of 
his owa views. second, he utilized the ideas of his contemporaries, 
Prive, he bor-zowed Fron the traditions of the past, 


Kingsley's own views of education developed from his 


a 
experiences 2s a social worker in New York and mathematics teacher in : 
: oe , ; ah 
a tecanical high school. Undoubtedly, many of these ideas were 
ime ae ae oe eee Es ti wok ; £2 , om e l 
remperce Dy tne social cfficiency, scientific management and vocationa 
WOVE eRe Ss 
Many of the recommendations included in the Cardinal Principles 

Report cen be directly cttributed to Kingsley. Speaking at the N.E.A, 

| in 1914, he identified seven general problems confronting the C.R.S.E. 

i dnese problems weve as follows: (1) the ambiguous terminology of 

' 

secondary caucation, (2) the construction of a general and vocational 
Curcicelem, (3) the articulation of these Cwo curriculums, (4) the 
extension of sccondary education downward to youth of twelve years of 
age, (5) cconcentretion in the work of the individual pupil, (6) spon- 
Cancous ectivities to develop appreciation and (7) the needs of small 

1} , , 7 

nigh schcols,**? Uiscussing these issues, Kingsley made several 
recomncucetions which were later incorporated into the Cardinal Principles 


; Bennett-37 


Regarding the construction of a general and vocational 


a 
curriculum, Kingsley recommended: 
: -+-the poneral curriculum should furnish those common 


elements of education needed by all members of society 
re Wiatever their vocational choice...and it should help 
tne pupil choose his vocation...and should provide 
electives whereby each pupil may secure elements o 
culture along the line of his Special abilities, 


a ey 


icant to note that the Cardinal Principles Report favored 


I 
ct 
». 
un’ 
m 

~ 
3 
re 
my 


“ 

Q 

% ‘ - ° Pp 9 ° ? 

i differentiated curriculum traccxs which were to be determined largely 
: on the basis of vocational interests and needs. It also should be 

i 


noted that the report advocated “pupil election by tracks as well 
i as elective subjects,+}/ Furthermore, it was stated that; 


ifs protest against any 


»--Chis comnission enters j ‘ 
ll plans, however well int. nuded, which are in 


and ) 
and ail 


danger of Givorciag vocation end socio-civic education, /18 
RKefecring io subject matter, Kingsley declared: 

The place occupied by each of the high school 
subjects...will Gepend largely on the degree to 
wnich those familiar with that subject demonstrate 
S value \ reaching the ends of general 


t at 
1C 
education, ll 


Note the similarity to the following statement taken from the Cardinal 


Kach subject now Caught in high stivects is in need 
Ok extensive reorganization in order that it may 
contrisute more effectively to the objectives 
tined hercin, and the place of that subject in 

lary education should depend upon the value 
such contribution, 140 


Another oxanple of the direct relationship between Kingsley's 


views and the recommendations put forth in the Cardinal Principles 


Report may 7 S@en in the following comparison. Kingsley stated: 


Bennett=-38 


In planning, each subject in the general curriculum, 
it is important that the pupil who takes one year 
of a subject shall secure Cangible results, that 
the pupil taking two years shall spend time to the 
utmost advantage and at the same tine lay a satis- 
factory foundation for work that may follow, 1 


The Cardinal Principles Report expressed the same idea by declaring; 
»..cach subject should be so Organized that the 
first year of work will be of definite value to 
those who fo no further; and this principle 


should be applied to the work of cach year, 12 


ho 


Numerous other comparisous could be made. However, for the 
purposes of this paper it suffices to Say that Clarence Kingsley was 
perhaps the most influencial of all the real authors of the Cardinal 
Principles Report. 

Regarding the hidden authors of this document, it appears 
that Kingsley utilized the ideas of at least two of his contemporaries: 
John Dewey and David Snedden. Many of the statements made in the 
Cardinal Principles Report seemed to reflect some of the basic notions 
of these two men. 

Considering the impact of Dewey's work, May asserted that: 


Dewey's influence can be seen Clearly...in the 1913 report 


Ol the National Education Association's Committee 
on tne Reorgenization of Secondary Education,+¢3 
7, 17 : - . _ a . an AYr ' ye rA 
The followine ¢ PtrLsons seem to lend support to May's assertion, 


For the sa! of brevity the letters C.P.R,. will be used to refer to 
a 


the Cardinal Prin iples Report, . 
a (C.RiP.) “This commission holds that education is essentially 
bal X 4 1 3L 
unit.ry and continuous process,,,'"4¢4 
(Devey) -..the educative process is a continuous process of 


as its aim at every stage an added capacity 


Bennett-39 


II. (C.?.8.) "EZducetion in the United Stat Should be guided by 
@ clear Concepcion of the meaain if democracy, "12 
(Dewey ) 21Cic of his book Domoer. y and Cducation, is indicative 
of Dewey's belief in aa educacional system based on democratic 
ideas further evidence may also be found in Chapter ‘seven of 
this same book. Dovey stresses tho importance of a clear 
concention of democracy as a base for a sound educational 
Pprogrsn, 

SSE (C.P.R.) "tome membership as an objective should not be thought 


to future 
if the school helps the p 


Coward present home 


of solely with reference 


seme 
guaran 


attitude 


teed 


responsi 


(Dewey) "It is not of course a guest 
' ) ‘ ~ 

Seoula prepere for the future, Tf 

WUSC progressively realize present | 

make individual better fitted to cope 


LV. "Vocational 
C.zon of the 
nd 


O1 


education shoul 
si; : 

& clear conception of x 
4 chosen vocat 10oOn, bet 


wMLIlcance of 


. fay 
CoO eid y « 


the members 


erouns, between e: Dloyer and <¢ ployee, 


c . 
(De) Y) se »-Giscovery of the relatio 
cluding his relations to Others who 


enlist: nis intel)s, ‘ne 
Production 


S vedueed 


interest in wW 
often 
CO a mechanical 
» inteliectual and 


is, vi3l 


BEECH icy in de 


But 
the 


Le i 
technica] 
ere 
is 


Cempting to accept these 


! . oe Y *h awa - . . 
fay's assertion, there are several arguments w 
a temptation. First Simply because there are 
not establish a cause and effect linkage 


second, 


expressed by others, Therefore, it is extreme) 
waich i ideas the commission used, 

to exag te Dewey's influence because of his 
man « Dewey's key ic 

the Cc L1@r int 


duties, 
1p. ] 


bilities. 


education 


DOS: 


d 
the 


ween 


us Ol 


rouline 


many ideas attributed to Dewe 


> prominence, 


his review it was pointed 


These are better 
fo take the right 
W128 
Lon of whether education 
is prowth it 
ivilities, and thus 


i ee 
With later requirements ,"'129 
< 
aim to develop an : 
to the 
relations between 
ditferent vocational 


vocation 
' 
Lene 


uw" l 30 


aman to his work- 
Cake partewhich will 
it he te doing, 


S division of labor, 


unless workers see 


Social relationships involved 


comparisons as proof of 
hich caution against such 


Similarities, this does 


between Dewey and the Cardinal 


y were also 


y difficult to determine 


nird, many writers tend 


Fourth, 


deas are noticeably absent from the report of 


out that Dewey 


Bennett-40 


stroncly advocated the "problem solving approach," the “activities 
progrem" and the process of "reflective thinking." There is very 
little evidence &f any of these distinctly Deweyian concepts in the 

. Cardinal Principles Report. Finally, it should be noted that this 
document reflected many of David Snedden's ideas, which were in basic 
disagreement with much of Dewey's philosophy, 

Snecden, Like Jowey was one of the prominent educators of the 
era of the C.R.S.E, | Therefore, it may also be asserted that he too 
influenced the thinking of this commission, It is Significant to note 
that Clarence Kingsley, chairman of the C.R.S.E., worked under Snedden 
in the Massachusetts state department, 32 

Analysis of the Cardinal Principles Re port reveals several 
SCalemeats which are indicative of the basic position held by Snedden, 
It will be recalled that earlier in this paper Snaedden was identified 


as advocating educational program based on poals defined in terms 


Th 3% , , . 
of human good.'"'422 There can be little doubt that the Cardinal 
Principles Report stood squarely behind such a program, Aims such as, 


worthy use of leisure, citizenship, worthy home membership and ethical 


character are clear examples of "poals defined in terns of human good," 
} s 


\mother statement taken from the Cardinal Principles Report 
wnich was susvestive of Snedden is as follows: 
individual choose that vocation and those 


forms of social service in which his personality may 
; deve) and ecome most efrective, oe 


o> 
land 
a 


Disrecarding the purase "social service", this statement appeared to 
reflect Snedden Gea of educating individuals according to their 


apC.toces for the benefit of society, 


Bennett-4] 
Another possible Suecesfion of Snedden's influence might be 
found in the recormendation that various curricular tracks be 
determined lurgely in terms of vocation. This may have been a 
concession to Snedden's idea of intense specialized training for 
modern industrial occupations, 135 
Stil) another example of a statement made in the Cardinal 
Principles Pp port which seemed to reflect Snedden's influence is ag 
follows 
To the extent to Vaich the object ives outlined herein 
are adopted as the controlling aims of education, to 
Chat extent will it be recoonized that an extended 
ucatlion for every boy and sirl js essential to the 
Welfare, and even to the existence » OL democratic 
soctety,136 
Tae reference ¢ ontrolling aims" and the insistence on educating 
boys and girls for th, Welfare of Society are clearly reflectflous of 
nea mn! > Vi 
Again it is Cempting to accept these inferences ag proof of 
one man! intluence, However, the same Cautions that were recognized 
in the ciscussion of Dewey's influence on the C.R.S.r. are also 
app ie ' David snedden, 
exactly how much influence Snedden or Dewey had on Clarence 
Ki ‘ley or other menabers of the C.R.S.E. ts a difficult question to 
resolve, UU; motedly, Kingsley did utilize Some of the ideas of these 
Cwo conti iries, However, judging fron the Cardinal Principles 
Report it appears that there was a great deal of 6electivity exercised 


Bennett-42 


Seeking the Strongest foundation possible for the reor anization 
© 4 : 


of secondary education, Kingsley supplemented h own ideas and those 


of his contemporaries by borrowing from past traditions, 


Much that was Written into the Cardinal Principles Re ore 
} 


was reflective of the educational traditions established by Horace 


fann as carly as 1837. [t is not within tho scope of this paper to 


analyze all of these traditions in depth, Therefore, tt will suffice 


Co point out a few of the SAaring similar 


ities between Mann and the 


Like the comnission, Mann saw intellectual, moral and civic : 


education as e ential aims for thi sch ris.) y Furthermore, Mann 


Saw the fund l I tal processes " Wi ich he ident Lf ic d as reading, writing 


and ciphering, as the foundation for a ‘trong curriculum. He also 


Proposed human Prysiology as a Subject to be included in the school 


Program. The main purpose for this subject in school was "an 


me 


‘ , v7 ‘ } & 
exposition of ¢t) AaWS Of Health and Life.138 


Bin 
- 
. 
C 
- 
_ 
3 
5 
rw 
8 


many of the ideas, which were later 


== 


p 

i recommended in the Cardina] Principles Report at least seventy-e4 he 

f ‘ , y 34 

% 

r years before thy C.R.S.E. was Organized, ann advocated universal 
j educat i bi “he saw it as the "balance wheel of soctal machinery," 
4 the reat l4a.arver of human conditions," and the creator of undreamed 
‘ 

i Of wealt! no snort, he expressed an uncompromising faith {tn the 
4 : : : ; - :; 
} ability of the schools Co improve society. This faith was one of the 
| mainstays of t} irdinal Principles Report, 


ger 


Bennett-43 

Herbert Spencer also had a deep faith in the power of the 
schools to inprove society. Spencer argued that human society should 
be viewed in Darwinian Cerms. This meant that society was to be seen 
as being engayed in a Struggle for existence and Survival of the 
fittest. This ideology of "Social Darwinism" proved to have a profound 
effect on social scicntists and educators alike, 140 

Using "Social Darwinism" as his base, Spencer wrote in 1859 
that the function of schools was to prepare for “conplete living." 
According to Spencer this implied five categories of human activities: 
(1) those activities, ministering directly to self preservation, 
(2) those that secure the necessaries of life, (3) those concerned 
with the rearine and discipline of off{springs, (4) those that maintain 
proper social and political relations and (5) those devoted to the 
Gratification of tastes and feclings, 41 The ideal education would 
provide complete Preparation in all these categories. Thus, Spencer 


declared: 


For the maintenance of health, for earming a living, 


for Parenthood, for civic duty, for the perfect 
production and highest enjoyment of the arts, and for 


Giscipline in all forms « intellectual, moral and 
relisious = seience was the most efficient Study of 


The similarity between the educational goals identified by Spencer in 


the seven main objectives of education enumerated 


this statenent 
by the C.R.s.E, is unaistakeable, For the purposes of comparison, 
tne seven aims of the Cardinal Principles Report were (1) Health, 
(2) Command of fundam ntal processes, (3) Worthy home membership, 
(4) Vocati ) Citizenship, (6) Worthy use of leisure, and 


(7) Ethical character. 


‘SS Glee med) 6A . 
. 
~ , Bennett-44 ; 
Considering this evidence it seens reasonable to assert that 
Clerence Kingsley drew Several of the ideas Lucorporated in the 
avdinal Principles Neport from Herbert Spencer, 
Clarence Kingsley drew ideas from many men. Horace Mann and 
‘ 
Rersert Spencer are only two examples of those from the past. Further 
analysis of the Cardinal Principles Report Suggests traces of many 
ochers such as: George Nerbert Mead, William James, G. Stanley Hall, 
Alosion Small, Charles Sumner and Lester Frank Ward. Exactly who 
coneributed waat to the final report of the C.R.S.E. is not the 
important issue. What is important however, is the realization that 
Kingsley drew upon iceas or his own, those of his contemporartes and 
also those advanced Sy men of the past, 
EVALUATION OF THE CARDINAL PRINCIOLES REPORT 
Although the Cardinal Principles Revort offered very little 
thet wes new, it did have a powerful impact on the whole field of 
education, It was sharply criticized and highly praised. It wag used 
end misused. Perhaps most important of all it did Stimulate thinking 
anc spark action, f 
Criticism and Praise 
7 Snortly after its publication, David Snedden wrote a sharp 
| | Critique of the Cardinal Principles Report. He began by praising the* 


QO 
7 
ie) 
sa 


wWitying ",..certain alleged defictencies tn our present 


nl43 


Syscem of Secondary education. The commission was also praised for 


| its hard work and special sub-committee reports. 


eee 


Bennett-45 

Once the niceties were over, Snedden attacked the report on 
Several counts. He contended: 

It can readily be inferred that the reviewing 

conmittse has noc easily arrived at its final 

fornulations of cardinal principles. One Suspects, 

anceed, from the very brevity and abstractness of 

the lenguage used that the committee often found 


itseics unavle C>, agree on concrete exemplifications 
; 14 
of its meaning 


oe ‘ 

Snedecon continued his attack by declaring there was much 
confusion about vocational education in the report. He attributed this 
to the fact that the comnittee had failed to distinquish between the 
Study of vocations for purposes of civic understanding, guidance and 
Cultural enlishtenment and the scucy of specific vocations for the 
scke of becoming efficient producers, 145 

Next, he accused the committee members of being preoccupted 
With liberal education. He arpucd that since they could not ignore 
vocational motives they used them as a means of furthering Liberal 
education. Sa dden brought home his point by saying: 

inspite of its insistence to the contrary it is hard 


to believe the sonnission is genuinely interested in 
iny vocational education, +49 


Relentless in his attack, Snedden went on to criticize the 
Cardinal Principles Report for: (1) recomuending the comprehensive 
high school, (2) under-playing the vocational needs of society, (3) 
using a "hopelessly academic" philosophy, 147 (4) failing to utilize 
Sociological guideposts and (5) proposing aims that were not 
serviceable. 


Hacingy oa a somewhat cheery note, Snedden concluded his 


Caustic cricicisns by offering one final note of praise, The commission 


Bennett-46 


had sone beyond tredition and had Opened the way for more extended and 
o J ‘ y 


detailed analysis 


149 


Kingsley made an immediate reply to Snedden's attack, Two 


months later in the same publication which Snedden had used, he wrote 


@ defense of the 


compromise and the 


according to Kingsley, Furthermore, the seven main objectives were 


derived fron < pr 


the recormnendation 


soughe, 


Principles ; I 
anfluencial in sh, 
and 1Ost UaAvD Le 
Purthe: tore, Une 
in E ober , 


Cardinal Principles Report, 190 The report was not a 


brevity of its language was not a Sign of weakness, 


relly sociological base. Kingsley went on to defend 


made by the C.R.S.E. by citing the advantages 


these two men did not continue this debate, others 


tics is Franklin Loobitt, who in 1920 wrote; 
Commission on the R Treanization of the 
Edi ‘ NYS Presented g Gace ut of 
° - , . ‘ ’ 
1S Of educati malo JeeCives which should 
© work ot high scho ls, ..Certain 


"BS are painfully evident, 151 


“OLCt attributed these Shortcowings to the seven aims 


neral to be useful, 


the attack of such Critics were men like William 


sated several contributions made by the Cardinal 


Oven pointed out hat the report had been widely 
‘ang the content and method of one of the newest 


udjects in secondary education-social studies, 


‘eport had influenced the Shape of several textbooks 


nd problems of democracy: The report on English 


‘y acopted and had been endorsed by the North Central 


Standard for both high school work and admission to 


Ee 


——— 


—~ oni we & 


Bennett-47 


Collece, Finally, Qven Pointed out that over “00,000 coptes of various 


comaittee reports of the C.R.S.E. had bee, 


~- 
ir 


stribuced, 152 


Many others entered the fray, Speaking cither for Or against 


{ Principles Report, Undoubtedly, this praise and criticisms 
did much to Popularize the report. As a result it was both used and 


misused, 


Uses and Misuses 


Krug has indicated that the Cardinal Principles were very 


Popular during the 1920's. lt was Almost mandatory that every teacher 


memorize tho 


even major ains, However, by the middle 1930's these 
J 
Principles had become worn out cliches, Although the Popularity of the 
report quickly waned, its influence lingered for MiNny years, Ag Krug 
Stated; 
Yet mor ecent ater C to redefine the ob jfectives 
Of secondary edy "Cion have not departed far from 
’ 5 
th« 191% : tatement, | rs 
One 1 CCeupt may be seen in the following sBCaCement of 
Urposes from the LaGrange, Illinois School System, 
tat. t l »S 
] ©, Iilinois has roposed the following Statement of 
’ ti o 
Urposes for the el, entary school in 1948+% 
+ help the child build a healthy, well-developed body 
the habits and understandings that will enable him 
Lo Cp it So, 
lop habits of Clean thinking and wholesomeness, 
} the child in developing Personal habits of safe 
“& 4nd concern for the Safety of others. 
RY. footnote was not included in thy references listed 
t review, LaGrence Clementary Schools, "Objectives of the 
f LaGrange," Mineo ipucd statement No. rs LaGrange, 
- 


UW 


. 
, 
Bennett-48 < 
TO assist the child Cay develo; his moral and 
‘plracual courage and the will ¢vo carry out his 
coavictions, 
#0 develop within himself that resourcefulness which 
cares tor work and leisure time. 
ro provide individual and group activities which 
will vive every child the satisfaction of contributing 
to t yroup and a chance to develop those qualittes 
‘ ‘ t 1 
Which i1] help his to lead as wel] ag to follow. 
. 
4- Yle the child to gain increasing control of 
t tools of le ning, language, reading, wri ting, 
ai arit eti in relation to their use in social 
n 
! Cae child to express himself effectively and 
( eat 1\ ¥ « 
) assist the child in increasing and } roadening his 
upply of useful information, 
To » a warm interest and sensitivity to things 
4 > 
the child in developing belief in the oneness 
Fay id with proper attitudes toward minority 
fost ictivities which will cultivate in the child 
lunking, planning, making decisions, acting, 
ne an a) ] . TLL9 ! hea t Ge f d 
Ins results; quicken OOSe€rvalCions; an 
/ 


‘ests and appreciations, 


i 


ee -alee Se ee 


Bennett-49 
13. To help the child to believe in freedom and to seek 
CO preserve and improve it, 
14, To promote better home and school relationships, 
For purposes of illustration, the following analysis igs 
Presented: . 
Sevens La Grange 
Cascinnl Py cinles Statement of Purposes 
as eee SP LOS Sree 
Be Eealth included in statements one, two, three. 
Be Comnand of Sunda. 
mental processes included in statements seven Cight, nine twelve 
i > , > 
Be Worthy home 
membership included in statement fourteen 
. 
4.0 | Vocation indirectly referred to 
In statements nine, twelve 
- P Citizenship included in statements six, cleven, thirteen 


and fourteen 


Go. LOorehy U5e@ O£ 
leisure included in statements five, cight, ten 
a Ethical character included in statements Cwo, four, eleven, 


thirteen 


More recent attempts to define the main objectives of education 


have inevitably reflected the seven aims specified in the Cardinal 


Principles Rcpert. Besides being used as Guideposts for other statements 


of o jectives, the Cardinal Principles Report was also the basis for 


Several educational movements, Willing, et al. 


———... 


have suggested that the 


Character ecducetion movenent of the 1920's was anticipated by the 


Carding] Principles' aim of ethical character, 
thas the C.r.s.s. réport ". «undoubtedly Zave fu 
Cencency to move in this Girection." These same 


dandicate that +}, “Gvocates of life adjustment e 


These authors Stated 
rther inpetus to the 
authorities went on to 


ducation pointed out 


iS eet 


; Bennett-50 
the need for doing more with such objectives as, health, citizenship, 
fraily living and personality development, Tacrefore, they contended: 

in one sense, ...life edjustinent education consists 
Of a renewed envhasis on the point of view 154 
Symoolized in the "saven principles" stated in 1918, 
While the Cardinal Principles Report was used to advantage 
in many cases it was also misused in others, Apparently, it was misused 
because, as Krug puts it; 
Specialists in all fielecs show the Cencency to 
become intoxicated by the apparently unlimited 
Vistas opened by such Statements as the Cardinal 
t 
) cn 
Principles Report, 199 
Thus it appears that the use of the Cardinal Principles ina variety 
of courses led to -- artificiality in unit designations and to 
ea , W156 
unwarrented cuplications ane overlapping in content, 7 School systems 
in there over zealous efforts to use the Cardinal Principles went to 
Great extrenes to build the whole curriculum dround the seven major 
objectives. As a result elaborate schenes were devised and committed 
CoO paper in the form of Curriculum guides to show how particular 


subjects contributed to all seven aims. 


b| ‘ ? 24 7 
Suanary and Con lusion 
oe US LON 


The Cardinal Principles Report may be considered an educational 
Classic tor several] reasons. First, it had both historical and 
Curricular sipnificance. Second, it was formulated during a pertod of 
critical chanze in secondary education- the adolescent years of the 
public high school movement. Third, it sumuarized the changes within 


Secondary ed son and reflected the influence of social effictency, 


Sclentific manavement and vocationalism. Fourth, it included specific 


Bennett-5l 


Or inferred recomnendations regareing the (1) fomnulation of objective, 


c 


(2) the selection of activities and instructional methods, (3) the 
rgenization of educational experiences aid (4) evaluative techniques, 

Pifth, it utilized past traditions and contemporary ideas, Sixth, it 

represented. a compromise between the practical vs. academic extremes. 

‘', inspite of a continuing debate over its merits and weaknesses, 

the Cardinal Principles Report did provide a strong base line for future 


educational) development. 


Few people saw this document as a final culmination. Rather it 


was intended to summarize and lead on, In that sense it served as an . 
evaluative instrt ene, taking stock of current circumstances and 

Provicines puide) s Lor future plannii: AS Cremin said, "The effect 

( irdinai Principles have been ion," 


Total words 12, 133 


* 
Kine Bennett-52 
Footnotes 
Sama 
loo: mission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
"Cardinal Prine iples of agent is Education," Washington, D.C., U.S. 
Government Pr inting Offic » Bulletin Number 25, 1918, title page 
2udward A. Krug, "Social Issues and Education," Education 115 
University ‘of Wisconsin, September 20, 1963, lecture 
Lawrence A. cremin, "The Revolution in American Secondary 
Education, 1893- 1918, Teachers Collcse Record, March, 1955, p. 307 
a encanta 
“Eaward A. Krug, Op.cit., September 23, 1963, lecture 
Marparet Ammons, "Seminar in Elementary School Curriculum" 
Education 140, University of Wis sconsin, September 24, 1963, lecture 
“Commission On the Reorganization of Secondary Education, ; 
Ge; CLe. 
4, H. Willine, John Guy Fowlkes, Edward Krug, Russell Grege 
‘ and Clifford Liddl » Schools in Our Democratic Society, New York; 


‘arper and Brothers, 1951, p. 159 


Sdvard A. Krug, "Secondary School Cur riculum," Education 141 
iscoasin, March 1, 1963, lecture 


IComn ilssion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


R. Freeman Butts and Lawrence A, Creminu, A History of 
Educetion in American Culture, New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 
: a Ll ture 


Edward A, Krug, The Secondary Schoo! Curriculum, New York: 
Harper and By thers, 1960, p- 1 \ 
i. : . 9 
~“Commission on the Re corganization of secondary Education 
pO. eet » Pp 3 
ie 3 
“~R. Freeman Butts and Lawrence A, Cremin, Op. cit., p 8 
1s d A. Krug, "Social Issues and Education," op, Cit. . 
Sept. 20 903, lecture, 
I Jory 4 
4 a 
16,, - 
~ 


Bennett-53 


18tHid, 
ctemaiipanas 
Malter Drost, University of Wisconsin, September 16, 1963 
Personal interview, 
20 
Edward A, Krug, "Social Issues an Education," op. cit, 
September 20, 1963, lecture 


9} 


““Snecific reference not located, 
aa - ui 
David Snedden, "Ney Problems of Secondary Education, 
American Ecucation, February, 1916, p. 332-336. 

CC LON 


"Eaward A, Krug, "Social Issues and Education," op. cit, 
September £3, 1963 lecture’ 


5 
Ibid, 


eee 


26 , :, . ; 
Lawrenee A, Cremin, The Transformation of the School, New 
rere ENOOL 


Le » Ay . ne +t ehaw 4.9 ‘ . 
York: Alfred SNoOpr, Publisher, 1962 Ps OF 


n Dewey, Democracy and Education, New York: Macmillan 


Edvard A, tug, "Social Issucs and Education," op. cit, 
c mye, ” 1G 2 


> t r ‘ ? ’ ~ 7? ~~ 
“John Dewey, My Pedocogic Creed, New York: Teachers College, 
centre, nati aeeeeeee guineas athena 
Columbia Un; Crsity, 1959, yp. 22, 
34 ; 
me 


John Dewey, The School and Society, Chicago: University of 


Chicago, 1953 chapter one, 


Henry May, The End of American Innoce 


nce, New York: Alfred 


Sean ae ET CAN innoce: 
Knopf, } li ae | ', B. 51 
a> 
J » Venocracy and Educa OR, OP. cit., p. 88 


Bennett-54 


38ibid., chapters ll and 12 


39tsid, p. 85 


eee 


40 . , , 
Op. Freeman Butts and Lawrence A. Cremin, op. cit., p. 347 


luenry May, op. cit., p. 150 
lenceria, 
42 # | 
John Dewey, Democracy and Ecucation, Op. cit., p. 67 


4s3Martin S. Dworkin, Dewey on Education, New York: Teachers 
College, Columbia University, 1959, p. 10 


4 4 t 


Reward A. Krug, "Social Issues and Education," op. cit., 
Sept. 25, 1963, lecture. 
45 
Ibid, 


481 id, ' 
47 ; , ) , : 
Lawrence A, Cremin, The Transformation of the Schools, Op. 


/ 


/ " 
7O yr, d y 99 
4 *» i ‘ 
(a8) 
Me Ibid » De 33 
¢ 
0, d : p 50 


ie | . . s P 
““John Dewey, Democracy and Education, op. Cit., p. 313-315 
5435 ee . ‘ 
Ecward A. Krug, "Social Issues and Education," Op. cit., 
sept. 25, 1963, lecture 
c 
S 
) I ] 
"'Marti Dworkin, op. cit., p. 9 
»8,, - 
~Heary Ma Op. cit., p. 28 
‘Edward A, Krug, "Social Issues and Education," op. cit., 
Septe Por hs cture / 


til 


Bennett-55 
Slipid., p. ll 


Oz ibid. p. 137 
©3ccorge strayer, "The Emergency in Secondary Education," 
Netional Education Association, Journal of Procecdings, June 1918, 


pp. 187-188 


4 Ibid, 


en 


65... : ! . , . 
Comalkssion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


Op. cit., p. 35 


S6rdward Krug, The Secondary School Curriculum, op. cit., p. 35 


S7Comnission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


Oop eit. preface, 


1) Jew 2 , m ° 7) 
tuward A. Krug, "Social Issues and Education," op. cit., ., 


Sept. 23, 1963, lecture. 
Lt a ee : ae Pa 
Wad Ee Urost, on. cit., interview 
'’Viretl E. Herrick, Collected P ners and Source Material on 
Curriculum eretions and Structure, Madison, Wisconsin; College 
Printing id Typi CO., 4962, p. 2 


CommlSsion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


OO, €10,.° 0; 7 


a Sa 


'~ Ib "Es ae i 
fi ) 
Li ., pp. 10-11 


1¢£ 
» DP. 16 
79 
, , -* 20 
’ — 
bid., p. 27 
o Y 


Bennett-56 


83 


Ibid, 
E4ibid. 


85 


Ibid., 


86Ibid., p. 27 


Ibid., p, 16 


Bennett-57 


“Walter Drost, op. cit., interview : 
"Problems Contronting the Commission on 

the Reorganization of Secondary Education," N,E.A. Journal of Proccedings, 
1914, pp. 453-483 


2 - ar . 
Ciarence Kingsley, 


Loid. Pp 485 
se, ‘ p " ° ° ~ } + 
wali iSS10n on Che Reorganization of secondary Education, Op.* 
CiC.» Pp. 22-23 
7 
Ao 


19Or J 
120 = } c I  seay 


r ac eS ; . 4 
56100 OA “Lhe Reorganization 0; vCCOonaary Education, 


bk : sath 

“Clarence Kingsley, on. cit. » Pp. 485 

L22 , ; 

~ Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


lienry May, op. cit., p. 152 


oe 1ssion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
¢ Cit., ps. j \ 
es ‘ 
ie Dewey, Democracy and Education, op. c1t., Os 3 
; ssion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
D. } 
John Dewey, Democracy and Education, Op. cit., chap. 7 
gies LSSion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
4 4 . 
vias D 1, Democracy and Education, op. cit., pp. 55-56 
/ 
ion on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, : 
~if ¢ ) 


Bennett-58 


131 john Dewey, Democracy and Mducation, op. cit., p. 85 


132 iter Drost, op. cit., interview 


133 Refer to page 7 of this paper. 


134commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
op. cit., p. 9 


135 Refer to page 7 of this paper. 


136co..mission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
op. cit., p. 29 


137i awrence A. Cremin, The Republic and the School, New York: 
Teacher's College, Columbia University, 1957, p. Ill 


Ibid., pp. 11-14 
Ibid.,-p. 8 
Freeman Butts and Lawrence Cremin, op. cit., Pp» 349 


d p ; 
141) awrence A. Cremin, The Transformation of the Schools, 
op. cit., p. 92 


Mer Kid... p. 93 


ee 


M43 pnavid Snedden, "Cardinal Principles of Secondary Education, 
School and Socicty, Volume IX, May 3, 1919, p. 517 


144 bid., p» 518 


ees 


4S tbid., p. 526 


: M46 rb id., p. 527 
uJ “7 
| 47 Thid., p. 522 
| « 
| M48 rKid., p. 519 
: bie: 

149 . 


Ibid., p. 527 


1505) arence Kingsley, "Cardinal Principles Report of Secondary 
Education," School and Socicty, Volume X, July 5, 1919, pp. 18-20 


Lol eyanklin Lobbitc, "The Objectives of Secondary Education," 
School Revier, Volume 28, December 1920, pp. 738-749 


1S? 
‘1s 11iam Owan, "Report of the Commission on the Reorganization 
of Seconcary Education," N.E.A. Journal of Proceedings, July 1921, pp. 
163-167 


, Bennett-59 
153 ; . ‘ ope ne : 
Edward A. Krug, The Secondary Schoo} Curriculum, op. cit., 
p. 36 
154 
M. H. Willing, op. cit., p. 212-220 
1 Segward Krug, The Secondary School Curriculum, op. cit., 
p. 381 
see sd, p. 403 
1371 awrence A. Cremin, "The Revolution in American Secondary 


Education," op, cit., p. 307 


The following fodtnote Which appears on page 47 was not 
included in this study: La Grange Elementary Schools, 
"Objectives of the Elementary Schools of La Grange," 
Mimeographed statement No. 7, La Grange, Ill., 1948. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Publications 


Butts, Freeman R. and Cremin, Lawrence A. 


Dewe 


Jews 


"“ . 
weve 


Kerri 


Krug , 


Ps ‘ oy es 
‘ s 4 sa v 


Bennett-60 


A History of Education in 


a ee 


slture. New York: Rinehart and Winston, 1953. 


in. Lawrence A. The Tronsfornation of the School. New York: 


Alfred Knopf, Puolisher, L9o2. 


min, Lawrence A. ane Republic and the Sct 


College, Columbia University, 1995/7. 


Princ:o.c: € Secondary Ecuccstion. 


ol. New York: Teachers 


issioa on the: Reorganization of Secondary Education. Cardinal 
Washington, D. C.: 


Government Printing QOilice, Bulletin Number 35, 1918, 


© 


Y> John. My 3 AartoPviCc Creed. New York: 


g > 


y, John. The School and Society. Chic 


1953. 

xin, Martin S. D ‘vy on CACLON. 
Colunvia University, 199%. 

LCd, Vir evil. liected P. rs and S« 


l Od « 


Teachers College, Columbia 


4.agG1son, 


Publisne. L951. 


wikes, John Guy, Kruz, 


iddle, Clifford. Schools in Our De: 


vy. John. Denocracy and Education. New York: Macmillan Co., 1951. 


University of Chicago, 


York: Teachers College, 


ce Materials on Curriculum 


Wisconsin: Collegs 


Edware A “ne Secondary School Curriculum. New York: Harper 


New York: Alfred Knopf, 


Edward A., Gregg, Ruseell, and 


veratic Society. New 


York: Herper and Brotners, 1951. 


Bennett-61l 


Articles 


Bobbitt, Franklin. "The Objectives of Secondary Education," School 
Review, Volume 28, (Dec., 1920), 738-749, 


Cremin, Lawrence A, "The Revolution in American Secondary Education, 
1843-1918."" Teachers College Record, March, 1955, 


a § 


Kingsley, Clarence. "Cardinal Principles Report." School and Society, 
Volume X, (July 5, 1919), 18-20. 


Kingsley, Clarence. "Problems Confronting the Commission on the 


Reorganization of Secondary Education," National Education 
Association Journal of Proceedines, 1914, 483-488. 


Owen, William, "Report of the Commission on the Reorganization of 
secondary Education." National Education Association of 


Prock d ae July, 1921, 103-167. 


Snedden, David. “Cardinal Principles of Secondary Education." School 
ty, Volume IX, May 3, 1919, 517-527. 
Sn dden, I vid « "New Problems f Secondary Education," American 
} ruary 1916, 332-336. 
Strayer, C v ihe Emergency in Secondary Education." National 
ucation A jation Journal of Proceedings, June, 1918, 
— - - -_—— -_- oe ——— ae ee 


APPENDIX A 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


ee eee ens. Seen eee ee ee en . a ar a 
‘ie a —* [suseanuteaceemaniiooe 
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION 
a —- ouamenseaseemee aoe ee ee eee cee no 
| 


BULLETIN, 1918, No. 35 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF 
SECONDARY EDUCATION 


A REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON 
THE REORGANIZATION OF SECOND- 
ARY EDUCATION, APPOINTED BY THE 
NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION 


—— 
g*,7 


. ’ 
\\ wt ee He 
A = 

NEE 
| 
{ 
i 
! 
j - ole —— a 


1| UNITED STAT 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 


| WASHINGTON 1902 
nett gn 


ee 


63 


ee 


= 
cere. - ee eee wo... - — ~_ —— — ee ee 
CONTENTS 
Pare 
rennet acess valnsteepandesseiekeraicees. tics 2. 5 
Membership of the reviewing committee of the commission... 2... 6 
I. The need for ee Me isk tees snestauarenvecsse...,... 7 
II. The goal of educatign ina democracy..__. LLL Terre 9 
Ill. The rain objectives of COW oo osnceccncnavecccesss,.. aan 9 
IV. The role of secondary education in achieving these objectives. _ __ }} 
bc FOR ecate sens cute cc. © ORO em eebeseccccccces 1] 
2. Command of fundamental processes..... see 1] 
3. Worthy home-tnembership Lift Tee 7 ° 12 
SR ite <itnessisudihusintlecccccll.... ; ie 13 
5. Civic education......0. be . 13 
6 Worthy use of intestate eT ee 1h 
7. [ithical character... eee Cee re ee 15 
V. Interrelation of the objectives in secondary education._____ — 16 
VI. Recognition of the objectives in reorgalizing high-sehoo) bubjecta. 16 
VII. Education as a process of growth.......... Se eee ane 16 
VIII. Need for explicit valuce....2.. 0 ‘ ee pha eee oe 17 
IX. Subordination of CE NR isi vinsxesannninccccc.... 17 
X. Division of education into elementary and secondary._._....._ 17 
XI. Division of secondary cducation into Junior and senior periods 18 
Xi. Articuiation of secondary education with elementary education ae 19 
XIII. Articulation of higher education with secondary education... ._- 19 
XIV. Recognition of the objectives in planning curriculums pwawe we dad 20 
XV. The specializing and unifying functione of s: condary education 21 
XVI. The comprehensive high school as the standard secondary school. 24 
XVIT. Recognition of the objectives in Organizing the school........ 27 
XVIII. Secondary education ersential for ol i oe, A ee ie een 29 
XIX. Part-time schooling asa compulsory minimum requirement_.__ | 30 
ee ON ctsceindecNie cL “ 31 
8 


—— ne 


ee os eer 


A epee 


6y 


oe 


Se 


—— 


RSE Ory aman eee een” 


PREFACE 


The Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education 
presents herewith the cardinal principles which, in the judgment of 
its reviewing committee, should guide the reorganization and devel- 
opment of secondary education in the United States. 

The commission was the direct outgrowth of the work of the com. 
mittee on the articulation of high school and college, which submit- 
ted its report to the National Education Association in 1911. That 
committee set forth briefly its conception of the field and function of 
secondary education and urged the modification of college entrance 
requirements in order that the secondary school might adapt its work 
to the varying needs of its pupils without closing to them the possi- 
bility of continued education in higher institutions. It took the 
position that the satisfactory completion of any well-planned high- 
school curriculum should be accepted as a preparation for college. 
This recommendation accentuated the responsibility of the secondary 
school for planning its work so that young people may meet the 
needs of democracy. 

Through 16 of its committees the commission is issuing reports 
dealing with the organization and administration of secondary 
schools, and with the aims, methods, and content of the various 
studies. To assist these committees through constructive criticism, 
a reviewing committee was organized in 1913. Besides conducting 
continuous correspondence, that committee has each year held one or 
two meetings of from one to six days’ duration, at which reports of 
the various committees were discussed from many points of view, and 
as a result some of the reports have been revised and rewritten sev- 
eral times. In addition to its task of criticizing reports, it seemed 
desirable that the reviewing committee itself should outline in a sin- 
gle brief report thase fundamental principles that would be most 
helpful in directing secondary education. In its desire to determine 
the principles that are most significant and to set them forth ade- 
quately, the reviewing committee has been three years in formulating 

nd revising the report which is presented in this bulletin. 

The reports already issued by seven committees and listed on the 
last page of this bulletin are, for the most part, in fundamental agree- 
ment with the principles herein set forth. 

The translation of these cardinal principles into daily practice will 
of necessity call for continued study and experiment on the part of 
the administrative officers and teachers in secondary schools. 

_Cuarence D. Kryastey, 
Chairman of the Commission. 
. 5 


wee eee 


, iil Tr — J —— —— oe —_— ™_ — 
ee a ed . * 
po tlle tn Ana sl (mm em ws ew mene ~< 


THE REVIEWING COMMITTEE OF TITE COMMISSION ON THR 
REORGANIZATION OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


(The Reviewing Committce consists of 206 members, of whom 16 are chairmem of com- 


mittees and 10 are members at large) 


Chairman of the Commission and of the Reviewing Committee: 


Clarence ID. Kingsley, State high-school supervisor, Boston, Masa, 


Memobcra at large: 


Hon. P. P. Claxton, United States Commissioner of Education, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Thomas H. Briggs, aseociate professor of education, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, New York City. 

Alexander Inglis, assistant professor of education, in charge of secondary 
education, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 

Henry Neumann, Ethical Culture School, New York City. 

William Orr, senior educations! secretary, international Y. M. C. A. com- 
miter, WH bast boo: i. cightn Strect, New York City. 

Willem B. Owen, prisciim& Chicaco Normal Coli ce, Chicage, 1 

EKéward O. Sisson, pres:dent, University of Moutana, Mis.oula, Mont 

Joseph 8. Stewart, professor of seconcary education, University of Georgia, 
Athens, Ga 

Milo If. Stuart, principal, Technical High School, Indianapolis, lod. 

H, L. Terry, State bis) schol supervisor, Madison, Wis. 


Chairmen of Committers. 


Organization and Administration of Secondary Education—Charles Hughes 
Jebaston, professor of secondary education, University of Illinois, Urbana, 
mh’ 

Agriculture-—A. V. Storm, professor of agricultural education, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minn. 

Art Education—-Hemry Turner Bailey, dean, Cleveland School of Art, 
Cleveland, Ohio ° 

Articulation of High School and College-Clareuce D. Kingsley, State high- 
school inspector, Boston, Mass. 

Business Fducation—-Cleesmin A. Herrick, president, Girard College, Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

Clepeical anguaces—Walter Eugene Foster, Stuyvesant High School, New 


English—James Fleming Hosic, Calicuy) Nortial Clerc, ©! , I 

Household Arts—Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, United States Bureau of Educa 
tion, Washington, PD. C. 

Industrial Arts—Wilson H. Henderson, extension division, University of 


as 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wis. (now Major, Sanitary Corps, War Depart- 


ment, U. 8S. A) 

Muthematice—Willfam Heard Kilpatrick, associate professor of education, 
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York Clty. 

Modern Languages—-Kuward Manley, Englewood High School, Chicago, Ill. 

Music——Will Earhart, director of nimsic, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Physical Education—James IL Mcturdy, director of normal courses of 
physical education, Iuternationui Y. M. C. A. College, Springfleld, Mass. 
(now in France, tn charge of YM. C A. recreation work). 

Sciences—Otis W. Caldwell, director, Lincoln School, and professor of edu- 
cation, Teachers College, Colurnbla University, New York City. 

Social Studiee—Thomas Jesse Jones, United States Bureau of Educatioh, 
Washington, DL. C. 

Vocational Guidance--Frank M. Leavitt, associate superintendent of schools, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 


* Deceased, Sept. 4, 1917. 


—_— 
SS 


~ Sa 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


—. 


I. THE NEED FOR REORGANIZATION 


Secondary education should be determined by the needs of the so- 
ciety to he served, the character of the individuals to be educated, 
and the knowledge of cducational theory and practice available. 
These factors are by no means static. Society is always in process 
of development; the character of the secondary-school population 
undersroes modification; and the sciences on which educational theory 
and practice depend constantly furnish new information, Secondary 
education, however, like any other established agency of society, is 
conservative and tends to resist modification. Failure to make ad- 
justments when the need arises leads to the necessity for extensive 
reorganization at irregular intervals. The evidence is strong that 
such a comprehensive reorganization of secondary education is im- 
perative at the present time. 

1. Changes in society.—Within the past few decades changes have 
taken place in American life profoundly affecting the activities of 

4 the individual. As a citizen, he must to a greater extent und in a more 

, direct way cope with problems of comp; ihity life, State and National 
Governments, and international relation hips. Asa worker, he must 

. adjust himself to a more complex economic order. As a relatively 
Independent personality, he has more leisure. The problems arising 

' from these three dominant phases of lifo are closely interrelated and 
call for a depres of intelligence and efliciency on the part of every 

| _ citizen that can not be secured through elementary education alone, 

“or even through secondary education inless the scope of that edu- 
cation is broadened. 

The res; onsibility of the secondary school is still further increased 
because many social agencies other than the schoo] afford less stim- 
ulus for education than heretofore, In many vocations there have 
come such sipnificant changes as the substitution of the factory sys- 
tem for the domestic system of industry; the use of machinery in 
place of manual labor; the high specialization of processes with a 
corresponding subdivision of labor; and the breakdown of the ap- 
'prentice System. In connection with home and family life have fre- 
quently core lessened responsibility on the part of the children; the 
withdrawal of the father and sometimes the mother from home oc- 
cupations to the factory or store; and increased urbanization, result- 

7 


ON ge . en ee a - So eee — le ee eee wren 


N CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


ing in less unified family life. Similarly, many important changes 
have taken place in community life, in the church, in the State, and 
in other institutions. Thess changes in American life call for ex- 
tensive modifications in secondary education, 

2. Changes in the secondary school population—In the past Os 
years there have been ruarked changes in the secondary-school pop- 
ulation of the United States. The number of pupils has increased, 
according to Federal returns, from one for overy 210 of the total 
population in 1589-90, to one for every 121 in 1899-1900, to one for 
every 89 in 1909-10, and to one tor every 73 of the estimated total 
population in 1914-15. The character of the secondary-school pop- 
ulation has been modified by the entrance of sarge numbers of pupils 
of widely varying capacities, aptitudes, social heredity, and destinies 
in life. Further, the broadening of the scope of secondary education 
has brought to the school many pupils who do not complete the full 
course but leave at various stages of advancement. The needs of these 
pupils can not be neglected, nor can we expect in the near future 
that all pupils will be able to complete the secondary school as full- 
time students. 

At present only about one third of the pupils who enter the first 
year of the elementary school reach the foyr-year high school, and 
only about one in nine is graduated. Of those Who enter the seventh 
school year, only one-half to two-thirds reach the first year of the 
four-year high school. Of those ho enter the four-year high school 
about one-third leave before the beginning of the second year, about 
one-half are gone before the beginning of the third year, and fewer 
than one-third are graduated. These facts can no longer be safely 
ignored. 

8. Changes in educational theory.—-The sciences on which ediica- 
tional theory depends have within recent years made significang 
contributions. In particular, educational psychology emphasizes the 
following factors: 

(a) Individual differences in capacities and aptitudes among sec- 
ondary-school pupile—Already recognized to some extent, this factor 
merits fuller attention 

(b) The reexamination ai d reinterpretation of subject values and 
the teaching methods with reference to “general discipline.”- While 
the final verdict of modern psychology has not as yet been rendered, 
it is clear that former conceptions of “general values” must be thor- 
oughly revised. : 

(c) Importance of applying knowledge—Subject values and 
teaching methods must be tested in term of the laws of lecrning and 
the application of knowleige to the activities of life, rather than 
primarily in terms of the ( mands of any subject as a logically or- 
ganized science. : 


ee 


oe 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF Sia i ic¥ LDUCATION +f] 


(d) Continuity in the development of children.—It )ias long been 
held that psychological changes at certain, Stages are so pronounced 
88 to overshadow the continuity of development. On this basis 
secondary education has been sharply separated from elementary edu- 
cation. Modern psychology, however, Bes to show that the develop- 
ment of the individual ig jn Most respects g continuous process and } 
that, therefore, any sudden or abrupt break between the elementary 
and the secondary school or between any two successive stages of f 
education is undesirable, 

The foregoing changes in society, in the character of the seconda ry- 
school population, and in educational theory, together with many 
other considerations, call for extensive modifications of secondary 
education. Such modifications have already begun in part. The 
present need is for the formulation of a comprehensive program of 
reorganization, and its adoption, with sultablo adjustments, in all 
the secondary schools of the Nation. Hence it i8 appropriate for @ 
representative body like the National Education Association to out- 
line such a program. This is the task entrusted by that association 
to the Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 


FP Oe eee 


Il. THE GOAL OF EDUCATION INA DEMOCRACY 


Education in the United States should be guided by a clear con- 
ception of the Ineaning of democracy. It igs the ideal of democracy 
that the individual and society may find fulfillment each in the 
other. Democracy sanctions heither the exploitation of the individ- 
val by society, nor the disregard of the interests of BOCiety by the 
individual. Mors explicitly— 

The purpose of democracy is so to organize society that each member 
may develop his personality primarily through activities designed for the 
Well-being of his fellow members and of society as a whole, 

This ideal demands that human activities be placed upon a high 
level of efficiency ; that to this efficiency be added an appreciation of 
the significance of these activities and loyalty to the best ideals in- 


bd 

at of social service in which his personality may develop and become | 
most effective. For the achievement of these ends democracy must 

sd Place chief reliance upon education, 
i Consequently, education in a democracy, both within and without the 

a school, should develop in each individual the knowledge, interests, ideals, 

a habits, and powern whereby he will find his Place and use that place to 

shape beth himself and society toward ever nobler ends, 


lIt. THE MAIN OBIE: TIVES OF EDUCATION 


In order to determine the main objectives that should guide educa- 
tion in a demo racy it is necessary to analyze the activities of the 
individual Normally he is a member of a family, of vocational] 


eet te ee 


10 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDA IY ELtUCATION 


group, and of various civic groups, and by virtue of these relation- 
ships he is called upon to engage in activities that enrich the family 
life, to render important vocational services to hic fellows, and to 
promote the common welfare. It follows, therefore, that worthy 
home-membership, vocation, and citizenship, demand attention ag 
three of the leading objectives. a 

Aside from the immediate discharge of these specific duties, every 
individual should have a margin of time for the cultivation of per- 
sonal and social interests. This leisure, if worthily used, will re- 
ereate his powers and enlarge and enrich Nfot', reby making him 
he cep able to meet his respon tbilitis teal Lt nworthy use of Jeisure 
Impairs health, disrupts jee life, losers yen 5 L eflietener, «od 
destrovs civic-mindedness. The tenden ¥y in industria! lite, wlaed by 
legislation, is to decrease the working hours of large groups of peo- 
ple. While shortened hours tend to lessen the harmful reactions that 
arise from prolonged strain, they increase, if possible, the Importance 
of preparation for leisure. In view of these considerations, educa- 
tion for the worthy use of leisure is of increasing importance as an 
objective. 

To discharge the duties of life and to benefit from leisure, one 
niust have good health. The health of the individual is essential also 
to the vitality of the race and to the defense of the Nation. Health 
education is, therefore, fundamental. 

There are various processes, such as reading, writing, arithmetical 
computations, and oral and written expression, that are needed as 
fools in the affairs of life. Consequently, command of these funda- 
mental processes, while not an end in itself, is nevertheless an indis- 
pensable objective. 

And, finally, the realization of the objectives already named is de- 
pendent upon ethical character, that 18, upon conduct founded upon 
{ right principles, clearly perceived and loyally adhered to. Good 

eitizenship, vocational excellence, and the worthy use of leisure ro 

i hand in hand with ethical character; they are at once the fruits of 
. sterling character and the channels through which such character jg 
developed and made manifest. On the one hand, character is mean- 

ingless apart from the will to discharge the duties of life, and, on 

the other hand, there is no fuarantee that these duties will be rightly 

} discharged unless principles are substituted for impulses, however 
{ well-intentioned such impulses may be. Consequently ethical char- 
; acter 1s at once involved in all the other objectives and at the same 
time requires specific consideration in any program of national edu- 


“nite dh ali tn itachi sat cae 


A 
{ cation, 
‘ This commission, therefore, regards the following as the main ob- 
f 
| Jectives of education: 1, Health. 2, Command of fundamental proc- 
o 


ee Sen 


oe 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


L THE NEED FOR REORGANIZATION 


Secondary education should be determined by the needs of the so- 
ciety to be served, the character of the individuals to be educated, 
and the knowledge of cducational theory and practice available. 
‘These factors are by no means static. Society is always in process 
of development; the character of the secondary-school population 

' undergoes modification; and the sciences on which educational theory 
and practice depend constantly furnish new information, Secondary 
education, however, like any other established agency of society, is 
conservative and tends to resist modification. Failure to make ad- 
justments when the need arises leads to the necessity for extensive 
reorganization at irregular intervals. The evidence is strong that 
such a comprehensive reorganization of secondary education is im- 
perative at the present time. 

1. Changes in society Within tho past few decades changes have 
taken place in American life profoundly affecting the activities of 
the individual. Asacitizen, he must toa greater extent and in a more 
direct way cope with problems of community life, Stote and National 
Governments, and international relationships. As a worker, he must 
adjust himself to a more complex economic order. As a relatively 
independent personality, he has more leisure. Tho problems arising 
from these three dominant phases of life are closely interrelated and 
call for a deyree of intelligence and efficiency on the part of every 

citizen that can not be secured through elementary education alone, 
or even through secondary education unless the scope of that edu- 


-_—-—- 


i cation is broadened, 
bes The responsibility of the secondary school is still further increased | 
P 1 because many social agencies other than the school afford less stim- 
i ulus for education than heretofore. In many vocations there have 
” come such significant changes as the substitution of the factory sys- 
tem for the domestic system of industry; the use of machinery in | 


place of manual labor; the high specialization of processes with a 

corresponding subdivision of labor; and the breakdown of the ap- 

prentice system. In connection with home and family life have fre- 

quent!y come lessened responsibility on the part of the children; the 

withdrawal of the father and sometimes the mother from home oc- 

cupations to the factory or store; and increased urbanization, result- 
7 


oe eT ee a oa eee -- NN ee Se etree 
‘ 


CARDINAL PRINCIULES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION ll 


esses. 3. Worthy home-membership, 4. Vocation. 5, Citizenship. 
6. Worthy use of leisure. 7. Ethical character. 

The naming of the above objectives is not intended to imply that 
the process of education can be divided into sepnrated tields. This 
can not be, since the pupil is indivisible. Nor is the analysis all- 
inclusive. Nevertheless, we believe that distinguishing and naming 
these objectives will aid in directing efforts; and we hold that they 
should constitute the principal aims in education. 


IV. THE ROLE OF SECONDARY EDUCATION IN ACHIEVING THESH 
OBJECTIVES 


The objectives qutlined above apply to education as a whole—-le- 
mentary, secondary, and higher. It is the purpose of this section to 
consider specifically the rdle of secondary education in achieving each 
of these objectives. 

For reasons stated in section X, this commission favors such reor- 
ganization that secondary education may be defined as applying to 
all pupils of approximately 12 to 18 years of age. 

1, Health.—Health needs can not be neglected during the period 
of secondary education without serious danger to the individual and 
the race. The secondary school should therefore provide health in- 
struction, inculcate health habits, organize an effective program of 
physical activities, regard health needs in planning work and play, 
and cooperate with home and community in safe-guarding and pro- 
moting health interests. 

To carry out such a program it is necessary to arouse the public 
to recognize that the health needs of young people are of vital im- 
portance to society, to secure teachers competent to ascertain and 
meet the needs of individual pupils and able to inculcate in the entire 
student body a love for clean sport, to furnish adequate equipment 
for physical activities, and to make the school building, its rooms and 
surroundings, conform to the best standards of hyyiene and sani- 
tation.’ 

2. Command of fundamental processes —Much of the energy of 
the elementary school is properly devoted to teaching certain funda- 
mental processes, such as reading, writing, arithmetical computa- 
tiens, and the elements of oral and written expression. The facility 
thet a child of 12 or 14 may acquire in the use of these tools is not 
siifficient for the needs of modern life. This is particularly true of 
the mother tongue. Proficiency in many of these processes may be 
increased inore effectively by their application to new material than 
by the formal reviews commonly employed in grades seven and eight, 


‘For the outlines of @ health program, ece a report of this commission lasued by the 
Bureau of bLducation es Bulletin, 1917, No. 50, "Physical Education jo Secondary Schools” 


Genes note 1 OngSEN = owews ree HE OPO Ye -<Orerer = & — enerQEe + ares + 


me 


- 


ew -  ™” 


ro 


ae 


——— 


12 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECUNDANY bi | 


Throughout the secondary school, it.:truction and practhe must eo 
hand in baud, but as indicated in the report of the committee on 
English, only so much theory should be taught at any one tine as 
will show results in practice, . : 

8. Worthy home-membership.—Worthy home-membe1 lip as an 
objective culls for the development of those qualities that make the in- 
dividual 2 Worthy member of a family, both contributing to and de- 
riving benetit from that membership, 

This objective applies to both boys and girls. The social studies 
should deu with the home as a fundamental social institution and 
clarify its relation to the w ider interests outside. Literature should 
interpret und idealize the liiman elements that £0 to make the home, 
Music and art should result in more beautiful homes and in greater 
joy therein. The coeducational school with a faculty of men and 
women should, in its organization and its activities, exemplify whole- 
some relations between boys and girls and men and women. 

Home membership as an objective should not be thought of solely 
with reference to future duties. These are the better guaranteed if 
the school helps the pupils to take the right attitude tow ard present 
home responsibilities and interprets to them the contribution of the 
home to their development, 

In the education of every bigh-school girl, the household arts 
should have a prominent place because of their Importance to the 
girl herself and to others whose Welfare wil] be directly in her keep- 
ing. The attention now devoted to this phase of education is in. 
adequate, and especially so for girls preparing for occupations not 
related to the household arts and for yirls planning for higher insti- 
tutions. ‘The majority of girls who enter Wage-earning Oo cupations 
directly from the high school remain in them for only a few years, 
after which home making becomes their lifelong occupation. For 
them the high-school period offers the only assured Opportunity to 
prepare for that lifelong occupation, and it is during this period 
that they are most likely to form their ideals of life’s duties and re- 
Sponsibilities. For girls planning to enter higher institutions— 
our traditional ideals of Preparation for higher Institutions are particularly 
Incongruous with the actual uceds and future responsibilities of girls. I¢ 
would seein that such high-school work ag Is carefully designed to develop 
capacity for, and interest in, the Proper manoxement and conduct of a home 
should be regarded ne of Importance at least equal to that of any other Work. 
We do not understand how society can properly continue to sanction for girls 
high-school curriculums that disregard this fundainental need, even though 
such curriculums are plained in response to the demands made by some of the 
colleges for women? 

‘Bureau of Education Bulletin, 1917, No 2, “Reorganization of English in Secondary 


Behools.” 
* Report of the Committee on the Articulation of High Schoo! and College, 1911 


EE 


ae oe oe oe ee ee oe a) ee 


Ot OU 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY FDUCATION 13 


In the education of boys, some opportunity shonld be found to 
give them a basis for the intelligent appreciation of the value of the 
well-appointed home and of the labor and skill required to maintain 
such a home, to the end that they may cooperate more effectively. 
For instance, they should understand the essentials of food values, 
of sanitation, and of household budgets. 

4. Vocation.—Vocational education should equip the individual to 
secure a livelihood for himself and those dependent on him, to serve 
society well through his vocation, to maintain the right relationships 
toward his fellow workers and society, and, as far as possible, to 
find in that vocation his own best development. 

This ideal wands that the pupil explore his own capacities and 
aptitudes, and make a survey of the world’s work, to the end that he 
may select his vocation wisely. Hence, an effective program of vo- 
cational guidance in the secondary school is essential.’ 

Vocational education should aim to develop an appreciation of 
the significance of the vocation to the community, and a clear con- 
ception of right relations between the members of the chosen vocation, 
between different vocational groups, between employer and eniployee, 
tnd between producer and consumer. These aspects of vocational 
education, heretofore neglected, demand emphrtic attention. 

The extent to which the secondary school should offer training for 
a specific vocation depends upon the vocation, the facilities that the 
school can acquire, and the opportunity that the pupil may have to 
obtain such training later. To obtain satisfactory results those pro- 
ficient in that vocation should be employed as instructors and the 
actual! conditions of the vocation should be utilized either within the 
high school or in cooperation with the home, farm, shop, or office. 
Much of the pupil’s time will be required to produce such efficiency. 

5. Civie education should develop in the individual those qualities 
whereby he will act well his part as a member of neighborhood, town 
or city, State, and Nation, and give him a basis for underst anding in- 
ternational problems, 

For such citizenship the following are essential: A many-sided 
interest in the welfare of the communities to which one belongs ; 
loyalty to ideals cf civic righteousness, practical knowledge of social 
agencies and institutions; good judgment as to means and methods 
that will promote one social end without defeating others; and as 
putting all these into effect, habits of cordial cooperation in social 
undertakings. 

The school should develop the concept that the civic duties of men 
and women, while in part identical, are also in part supplementary. 


‘For a comprehensive program of vocational guidance see a report of thia commission 
lesued as Bureau of Education Bulletin, 1918, No. 10, “Vocational Guidance in Secondary 
Reboots.” . 


PORT ae ree ae - — em = ae liniiestadhte gee 


ee 


— ~oee — —- S 


+ ee ee 


_—_—ow ee ee IR Petites ee < etaletanlal 


14 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF S1° ONDARY EDUCATION 


Differentiation in civic activities is to be enconraced, but not to the 
extent of loss of interest in the common problems with which all 
should cope, 


Among the means for developing attitudes and habits linportant , 
in a democracy are the assignment of projects and problems to 
groups of pupils for cooperative solution and the socialived revita- 

tion whereby the class as a whole develops a sense of collective 

: responsibility. Both of these devices give training in collective think 
ing. Moreover, the democratic organization and administration of 

‘ the school itself, as well as the cooperative relations of pupils and 
teacher, pupil and pupil, and teacher and teachor. are Indispensable 

While all subjects should contribute to good citizenship, the social 
studies—geography, history, civics, and economics— should lave this 


as their dominant aim. Too frequently, however, does mere in- 
' formation, conventional in value and remote in its bearing, make 
up the content of the social studies. History should so treat the 
growth of institutions that their present value may be appreciated 
Geography should show the interdependence of men while it shows 
their common dependence on nature. Civics should concern itself 
Jess with constitutional questions and remote governmental functions, 
and should direct attention’to social agencies close at hand and to 
the informa] activitics of daily life that regard and seek the common 
good. Such agencies as child-welfare organizations and conswners’ 
leagues afford specific opportunities for the expression of civic quali- 
ties by the older pupils. 

The work in English should kindle social ideals and give insight 
into social conditions and into personal character as related to these 
conditions. Hence the emphasis by the committee on English on 
the importance of a knowledge of social activitie: Social movements, 
and social needs on the part of the teacher of English. 

The comprehension of the ideals of American democracy and 
loyalty to them should be a prominent aim of civic education. The 


ae 


ee 
A en a a 


. ime eee ss 
i 


pupil should feel that he will be responsible, in cooperation with 
é { others, for ke jing the Nation true to the best inherited con: eptions 
$; { of democracy, and he should also realize that democracy itself is an 
rf { ideal to be wrought out by his own and succeeding generations. 
i" Civic education should consider other nations also. AS & pao- 
ple we should try to understand their aspirations and ideals that we 
may deal more syinpathetically and intelligently*with the immi 
grant coming to our shores, and have a basis for a wiser and more 
} kYMpathetic approach to international problems. Our pupils should 
. learn that each nation, at least potentially, has something of worth 
to contribute to civilization and that humanity would be incom 
plete without that contribution. This means a-study of specific 
nitions, their achievements and possibilities, not ignocing their limi- 
4 
: 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SLi UNDAKY LDUCATION 15 


tations. Such a study of dissimilar contributions in (he lixht of the 
ideal of human brotherhood should help to establish a genuine in- 
ternationalism, free from sentimentality, founded on fact, and ac- 
tually operative in the affairs of nations. 

6. Worthy use of leisure.—Education should equip the individual 
to secure from his Jeisure the re-creation of body, mind, and spirit, 
and the enrichment and enlargement of his pu onality, 

This objective calls for the ability to utilize the common means of 
enjoyment, such as music, art, literature, drania, and social inter- 
course, together with the fostering in each individual of one or more 
special avocational interests. 

Heretofore the high school has given little conscious attention to 
this objective. It has so exclusively sought intellectual discipline 
that it has seldom treated literature, art, and music so as to evoke 
right emotional response and produce positive enjoyment. Its pre- 
sentation of science should aim, in part, to arouse a genuine appre- 
ciation of nature. 

The school has failed also to organize and direct. the social activi- 
ties of young people as it should. One of the surest ways in which 
to prepare pupils worthily to utilize leisure in adult life is by guiding 
and directing their uge of leisure in youth. The school should, there- | 
fore, see that adequate recreation is provided both within the school 
and by other proper agencies in the commiunity, The school, how- 
ever, has @ unique opportunity in this field because it includes in its ! 
membership representatives from all classes of society and conse- 
quently is able through social relationships to establish bonds of 
friendship and common understanding that can not be furnished by 
other agencies. Moreover, the school can s0 organize recreational 
activities that they will contribute simultaneously to other ends of 
education, as in the case of the school pageantor festival, 

7. Ethical character.—In a democratic society ethical character be- 
comes paramount among the objectives of the secondary school. i 
Among the means for developing ethical character may be men- 
tioned the wise selection of content and methods of instruction in all 
subjects of study, the social contacts of pupils with one another and i 
with their teachers, the opportunities afforded by the organization and 
administration of the school for the development on the part of pupils 
of the sense of personal responsibility and initiative, and, above all, 
the spirit of service and the principles of true democracy which 
should permeate the entire school—principal, teachers, and pupils. ; 

Specific consideration is given to the moral values to be obtained 
from the organization of the school and the subjects of study in the 


le ee 


a 


o_o 


'For a further discussion of civic education, eee the reports of this coinmission on “The 
Teaching of Cr untiy Civtes” and “Social Studies In Secondary Education ', lesued — 
@e Burvan of Bducutton Bulletiua, 1935. No 23, and 1916" No, 28, respectively 


( Otevers r —— 


Po a ee Se nate anal. mca. . aan. ite a a a 
16 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


report of this commission entitled “Moral Values in Secondary 
Education”? That report considers also the conditions under which 
it may be advisall« to supplement the other activities of the school 
by offering @ distinct course in more! instruction. 


¥V. INTERRELATION OF TUK ORJECTIVES IN SECONDARY EDUCA 
TION 

This commission holds that education is essentially a unitary and 
continuous process, and that eich of the objectives defined above 
must Le recognized threughont the entire extent of secondary edu- 
cation Health needs are evidently important at ell stages; tho ¥- 
cational parpose an? content is coming properly to be recog). 
as a necessary and valuable ingredient even in the early stages and 
even when specific preparation is postponed; citizenship and the 
worthy use of leisure, obviously impor.ant in the earlier stages, in 
volve certain phases of education that require maturity on the part 
of the pupil and hence are indispensable also in the later stages of 
secondary education. 

Furthermore, it is only as the pupil sees his vocation in relation 
to his citizenship and his citizenship in the light of his vocation 
that he will be prepared for effective membership in an industrial 
democracy. Consequently this cormission enters its protest against 
any and all plans, however well intended, which are in danger of 
divorcing vocation and social-civic education. It stands squarely for 
the infusion of vocation with the spirit of service and for the 
vitalization of culture by genuine contact with the world’s work. 


VL RECOGNITION OF THE OBJECTIVES IN REORGANIZING HIGH 
SCHOOL SUBJECTS 


Each subject now taught in bigh schools is in need of exten ive 


1 iy reorganization in order that it may contribute more effectively to the 
by! objectives outlined herein, and the place of that subject ‘n secondary 
SM education should depend upon the value of such contribution. In 
‘4 Section IV of this report various references have been made to 

; necded changes. For fuller treatment the reader is referred to re- 


» 1 ports of this commission dealing with the several subjects. ‘hese 
' ¢ reports indicate important steps in such modifications. In each 
report the cominission attempts to analyze the aims in terms of the 
objectives; to indicate the adaptation of methods of presentation to 
the aims accepted; and to suyyest a selection of content on the basis 
of aims and methods. 


| VIl. EDUCATION AS A PROCESS OF GROWTH 


me ee ae 


Education must be conceived as a process of growth. Only when 
go conceived and so conducte) can it become a preparation for life. 


a ee 


‘1 Wereem of Féucation Belletin, 1917, No SL. 


ee ee 


re 


(a A a il Ri es nt ee te oe 


-_— 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF BECONIDARY EDUCATION 17 


Insofar as this principle has been ignored, formalism and sterility 
have resulted. 

For example, civic education too often has begun with topics re- ; 
mote from the pupil’s expernence and interest. Reacting ayainst this 
formalism, some would have pupils study only those activities in 
which they can engage while young. This extreme, however, is 
neither necessary nor desirable. Pupils should be led to respond to 
present duties and, at the same time, their interest should be aroused , 
in problems of adult life. With this interest as a basis, they should | 
be helped to acquire the habits, insight, and ideals that will enable 
them to meet the duties and responsibilities of later life. Similarly 
in home-inuking education, to neglect present duties and responsi- 
bilities toward the family of which the pupil is now a member, is to 
court moral insincerity and jeopardize future right conduct. With 
present duties as a point of departure, home-making education should 
arouse an interest in future home-making activities and with that in- 


me 


terest as a basis give the training necessary, 
VIIT NEED FOR EXPLICI! VALUES ' 


The number of years that pupils continue in school beyond the 
compulsory school age depends in large measure upon the degree to 
which they end their parents realize that school work is worth while 
for them and that they are succeeding in it. Probably in most com- 
munities doubt regarding the value of the work offered causes more 
pupils to leave school than economic necessity. Consequently, it is 
important that the work of each pupil should be so presented as to 
convince him and his parents of its real value. 


IX. SUBORDINATION OF DEFEKRED VALUES 


Many subjects are now so organized as to be of little value unless 
the pupil studies them for several years. Since a large proportion of 
pupils leave school in each of the successive years, each subject | 
should be so organized that the first year of work will be of definite 


value to those who go no further; and this principle should be ap- 
hy pled to the work of each year. Courses planned in accordance with 
y . 

thie principle will deal with the simpler aspects, or those of more 


ais direct application, in the earlier years and will defer the refinements 
i for later years when these can be better appreciated. The course as a 
whole will then be better adapted to the needs both of those who i 
continue and of those who drop out of school. 


X. DIVISION OF EDUCATION INTO ELEMENTARY AND SECONDAKY 


Individual differences in pupils end the varied needs of society 
alike demand that education be so varied as to touch the leading 
aspects of occupational, civic, and leisure life. To this end curric- 


ne an ee el - 


—_— — — 7 — 2 oe eee ee Ty 


18 CARDINAL PRLNCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


ulumsa! must be organized at 9] \ropriate stages pnd the work of 


et te all tllins 


pupils progressive ly differentiated. 

To accomplish this differentiation most wisely the pupil should 
be assisted ordinarily at about 12 or 13 years of age tocbegin a 
preliminary survey of the activities of adult life and of his own 
aptitudes in connection therewith, so that he may choose, at least 
tentatively, some field of human endeavor for special consideration. 
Following the period of preliminary survey and provisional choice, 
he should acquire a more intimate knowledge of the field chosen, in- 
cluding therewith an appreciation of its social significance. ‘Lhose 
whose schooling ends here should attain some mastery of the technique 
involved. The field chosen will ba for some as sharply detined as a 
specific trade; for others, it will be but the preliminary choice of € 
wider domain within which a narrower choice will later be made. 

These considerations, reenforced by others, imply, in the judyment 
of this commission, a redivision of the period devoted to elementary 

condary education The eight years heretofore given to ele- 


mentary education we not, as a rule, been effectively utilized. The 
last two of these years in part) ‘ular have not been well adapted to 
the needs of the adolescent. Many pupils lose interest and either 
drop out of school altogether or form habits of dawdling, to the 
. serious injury of subsequent work. We believe that much of the diffi- 
culty will be removed by a new type of secondary education begin- 
ning at about 12 or 13. Furthermore, the petiod of four years now 
allotted to the high school is too short a time in which to accomplish 
the work above outlined. 

We, therefore, recommend a reorganization of the achool system 


ss . | 


i whereby the first sir years shall be devoted to elementary education 
designed to meet the needs of pupils of approximately 6 to i. years 


of age; and the second siz years to secondary education designed to 
meet the needs of pupils of approximately 12 to 18 years of age. 


XI. DIVISION OF SECONDARY EDUCATION INTO JUNIOR AND 


| SENIOR PERIODS 


The six years to be devoted to secondary education may well be 
divided into two periods wuich may be designated as the junior and 
senior periods. Inthe junior period emphasis should be plac ed upon 
the attempt to help the pupil to explore his own aptitudes and to 


ee ee 


niake at least provisional choice of the kinds of work to which he will . 
devote himself. in the senior period emphasis should be given to 
training in the fields thus chosen. This distinction hes at the basis 


of the organiz.tion of junior and senior high schools. 


~~ 
eae ee 


'The term ‘currie m' {a used by thie commission to designate @ systematic arrange 

ment of subjects a: wa in t © gubjecta, both required and elective, extending 

; through twe or ore years and de wt for @ group of pupils whose common aime and 
i probable careere foay properly ditere ute a considerable part of thelr work from that of 


other groups ia (lies 


a= -<- | 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY LOUCATION 19 


In the junior high school there should be the pradual introduction 
of departmental instruction, some choice of si) jects under guidance, 
promotion by subjects, prevocational courses, and a social orgniza- 
tion that calls forth initiative and develops the sense of personal 
responsibility for the welfare of the group.” 

In the senior high school a definite curriculum organization should 
be provided by means of which each pupil may take work system- 
atically planned with reference to his needs as an individual and as 
a member of society. The senior high school should be characterized 
by a rapidly deveioping social consciousness and by an aptitude of 
self-reliance based upon clearly perceived objectives, 

Under ordinary circumstances the junior and senior periods should 
each be three years in length so as to realize their distinctive pur- 
poses. In sparsely settled cominunities where a senior high school 
can not be maintained eifectively, the junior high school may well 
be four years in length, so that the pupils may attend school nearer 
to their homes for one more year. 

The commission is not unmindful of the desirability, when funds 
permit, of extending secondary education under local AUSPICeS SO as 
to in-tude the first two years of work usually offered in e lleges, and 
constituting what is known as the junior college, but it has seemed 
unwise for the commission to attempt to outline the work of this 
new unt. 


XII. ARTICULATION OF SECONDARY EDUCATION WITH ELEMENTARY 
EDUCATION 

Admission to high school is now, as a rule, based upon the com 
pletion of a prescribed amount of academic work. As a result many 
over-age pupils cither leave school altogether or are retained in the 
elementary school when they are no longer deriving much benefit 
from its instruction. Should a similar conception of the articulation 
of the two schools continue after the elementary program has been 
shortened to six years, similar bad results will persist. Experience 
in certain school systems, however, shows that the secondary school 
ean provide special instruction for over-age pupils more suc essfully 


than the ele mentary school can. Consequent?y we recommend that 


8% ry schools admit, and provide suitable instruction for. all pu- 
pile care m any respect so mature that they would derive mora 
enett from the secondary achool than from the elementary school. 


XU. ARTICULATION OF HIGHER EDUCATION WITH SECONDARY 
EDUCATION 


In view of the important role of secondary education in achieving 
he objectives essential in American life, it follows that higher insti- 
ut) of Jearnil are not justified IN Maintaining ertrance re juire- 


a ee ee ee Se ee 


oe ape weer oa ee 


—- 


et eae oe 


20 C/MDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


ments and examinations of a character that handicap the secondary 
school in dischargitug its proper functions in a democracy. 


i As stated in Section XII of this report, the secondary school 
:| should admit all pupils who would derive greater benefit from the 
; secondary than from the elementary school. With the demand of 


democratic society for extended liberal and vocational education for 
an ever-increasing number of persons, the higher institutions of 
learning, taken as a whole, are under a similar obligation with refer- 
ence to those whose needs are no longer met by thie secondary school 
and are disposed to continue their education. The conception that 
higher education should be limited to the few is destined to disap- 
pear in the interests of democracy. 

The tradition that a particular type of education, and that exclu- 
sively nonvocational in character, is the only acceptable preparation 
for advanced educition, either liberal or vocational, must therefore 
{ give way to a scientific evaluation of all types of secondary edu- 
cation as preparation for continued study. This broader concep- 
tion need not involve any curtailment of opportunities for those 
who early manifest academic interest to pursue the work adapted 
to their needs. It does, however, mean that pupils who, during the 
secondary period, devote a considerable time to courses having voca- 


tional content should be permitted to pursue whatever form of higher 


Poa Se 


education, either liberal or vocational, they are able to undertake 
with profit to themselves and to society. 


AIV. RECOGNITION OF THE OBJECTIVES IN PLANNING 
CURRICULUMS 


oye 
alent tee 


No curriculum in the secondary school can be regarded as satis- 
factory unless it gives due attention to each of the objectives of 
education “tlined herein. 

Health, as an objective, makes imperative an adequate time assign- 
i ment for physical training and requires science courses properly 


’ focused upon personal and community hygiene, the principles of 
sanitation, and their appleations. Command of fundamental proc- 
esses necessitates thorough courses in the English language as a 
} meats of taking in and giving forth ideas. Worthy home-member- 
} ship calls for the redirection of much of the work in literature, art, 
; and the social studies. For girls it necessitates adequate courses in 
{ household arts. Citizenship demands that the social studies be given 
‘ &@ prominent place. Vocation as an objective requires that many 
! pupils devote much of their time to specific preparation for a detinite 
trade or occupation, and that some pursue studies that serve as @ 

basis for advanced work in higher institutions. The worthy use of : 
} leisure calls for courses 11 literature, art, music, and science so taught 


ee A tts cc. | et es “ i ne Nt 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDAR* ED. CATION 21 


as to develop appreciation. It necessitates also a marvin of free 
electives to be chosen on the basis of persona! avocational interests. 

Due recognition of these objectives will provide the elements of 
distribution and concentration which are recognized as essential for 
a well-balanced and effective education. 


ge a eee wee 


XV, THE SPECIALIZING AND UNIFYING FUNCTIONS OF SECOND.- 
ARY EDUCATION 


1. Their significance.—The ideal of a democracy, as set forth in 
Section II of this report, involves, on the one hand. specialization 
whereby individuals and groups of individuals may become effective 
in the various vocations and other fields of juman endeavor, and, 
. on the other hand, unification whereby the members of that democ- 
racy may obtain those common ideas, common ideals, and common 
modes of thought, feeling, and action that make for cooperation, 
social cohesion, and social solidarity, { 
Without effective specialization on the part of groups of individ- 
uals there can be no progress. Without unification in a democracy 
there can be-no worthy community life and no concerted action for 
necessary social ends, Increasing specialization emphasizes the need } 
fur unification, without which a democracy is a prey to enemies at | 
home and abroad. 
2. Lhe specializing function.—Secondary education in the past has 
met the needs of only a few groups. The growing recognition that 
progress in our American democracy depends in no small measure | 
upon adequate provision for specialization in many fields is the chief 
bp cause leading to the present reorganization of secondary education, 
Only through attention to the needs of various groups of individuals 
by as shown by aptitudes, abilities, and aspirations can the secondary 
school secure from each pupil his best efforts. The school must capi- 
tulize the dominant interest that each boy and girl has at the time 
and direct that interest as wisely as possible. This is the surest 


Se oe ee ~ ee 


—— 


method by which hard and effective work may be obtained from each 
pupil | 
Specialization demands the following provisions in secondary 
education: 
(a) A wide range of subjecte.—In order to test and develop the 
Many inportant capacities and interests found in pupils of secondary- { 
: &chool age, the school should provide as wide a range of subjects as 
utocan offer effe clively. 


(0) #xploration and guidance.—-Especially in the junior high 
school the pup:] should have a variety of experience and contacts 
in order that he may explore his own capacities and aptitudes. 
Through a system of educational supervision or guidance he should 


oe e - ee eee oo ee 


Fo nT ee ee ee “~ Ade ne ° 2 atone 


i! 22 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECOND \[:y EDUCATION 

4) 

7 be helped to determine his education and his vocation. These de- 

; cisions should not be imposed upon him by others, 

“{ (¢) Adaptation of content and methods.— Vb content and teach- 

“3 ing methods of every stndy should be adapted to the capacities, in- 

Hy terests, and needs of the Pupils concerned, [1 certain studies these 

factors may differ widely for various groups of pupils, e. pg. chemis- 

Hy try should emphasize different Phases jn agricultural, commercial, 
industrial, and household-arts curriculums. 

|! (ad) Flexibility of organization and administration.—Flexibility 

i Should be secured hy “election” of Studies or curriculum, promotion 


by subjects from the bezinning of the junior high School, possible 

trans fer from curriculum to curriculum, provision for maximum and 

minimum assigninents for pupils of greater and Jess ability, and, 

under certain conditions, for the rapid or slow Progress of such 

i{ pupils, 

(¢) Differentiated curriculums.—The work of the senior high school 
Bhould be oryanized into differentiated curriculums. The range of 
Buch curriculums should be as wide as the school can offer e tec. 
tively. ‘The basis of differentiation Should be, in the broad sense of 
the term, vocational, thus justifying the names commonly given, 


Raonoune 


i Buch as agrici|t iral, business, Clerical, industrial, fine arts, and 
household-arts ; urriculums. Provisions Should be tade also for those 
having distinctively academic interests and needs. The conclusion 
that the work of the sevior hich school should be or ranized on the 

: g 

\ basis of curriculums does not nuply that every study should be differ- 

HT ent in the variou. curriculums, Nor does it imply that every study 

i g7%) ‘ J 

, should be determined by the dominant element of that curriculum. 
Indeed any such practice would ignore other objectives of education 

J J 

é Just as important as (hat of vocational efficiency, 

j 3b. Lhe umifying function.—Iy, some countries a common heredity, 
& strongly centralized Bevernment, and an estab! shed religion con- 
tribute to social Olidarity, In America, racial stores are widely dij- 

} : areny 
Versified, various forns of social heredity come into contliet, differing 
‘ religious behefs do not always make for unification, and the members 


' Of different vocations often fail to recognize the interests that they 
have in common With others. The school is the one avency that 
nay be controlled detinitely and consciously by our democracy for the 


; purpose of unifving its people. In this Process thie secondary school 
{ must play an unportant part because the elementary schoo! with its 
? ‘ ? 

; Immature pupils ean yor alone develop the common Knowledge, com- 


mon ideals, and common interests essential to American democr icy. 
Furthermore, children of immigrant Parents attend the secondary 
school in large and increasing numbers ; secondary education comes 
At a stage in the di velopment of boys and girls when social interests 


a eee 
2 - 


a ee ie 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 23 


develop rapidly; and from the secondary school the majority of 
pupils pass directly into participation in the activities of our society. 
The unifying function calls for the following provisions in second- 
ary education: 
(a) Studies of direct value for this purpose, especially the social 
studies and the mother tongue, with its literature. | 
(6) The social mingling of pupils through the organization and } 
administration of the school. 
(c) The participation of pupils in common actwitws in which 
they should bave a large measure of responsibility, suci: os athletic 
games, social activities, and the government of the school. 
4. Specialization and unification as supplementary functions.— 
With increasing specialization in any socicty comes a corresponding 
necessity for increased attention to unification. So in the secondary 
school, increased attention to specialization calls for more purpose- 
ful plans for unification. When there was but little differentiation 
in the work within the secondary school, and the pupils in attendance t 
were less diversified as to their heredity and interests, social unifica- 
tion in the full sense of the term could not take place. | 
The supplementary character of these functions has direct bearing 
upon the subjects to be taken by secondary-school pupils. To this 
end the secondary school should provide the following groups of 
studies: 
(a) Constants, to be taken by all or nearly all pupils. These 
should be determined mainly by the objectives of health, command of 
fundamental processes, worthy home-mmemberchip, cittrenshap, and 
ethical character. 
(0) Cuericulum warielles, peculiar to a curriculum or to a group 


of related curriculums. These should be determined for the most 
part by vocational needs, including, as they frequently do, prepara- 
tion for advanced study in special fields. | 


(c) Free electives, to be taken by pupils in accordance with in- 
dividual aptitudes or special interests, generally of a nonvocational 


be nature. These are significant, especially in preparation for the } 

; worthy use of leisure. 
The constants should contribute definitely to unification, the cur- 

i riculum variables to specialization, and the free electives to either or y 

; both of these functions. 

‘ In the seventh year, that is the first year of the junior high school, 

A the puml shonld not be required to choose at the outsat the field to 

i which he will devote himself. For those who do not at this time 

have a definite purpose, opportunity should be given to gain some 


experienve with several significant types of work, such as some form 
Of industrial arts, gardening or other agricultural activity, type- 
writing or problems drawn from business, household arts for giris, 
and for at least a part of the pupils some work in a foreign language. 


ee ee ns -. . . 


24 QARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


It may be found feasible to organize several such subjects or projects 
into short units and to arrange the schedule so that every pupil may 
take several of them. The work thus offered may and should be of 
real educational value, in addition to its exploratory value. 

In the two following years of the junior high school, some pupils 
should continue this trying-oul process, while others may well devote 
one-fourth to one-half of their time to curriculum variables. Pupils 
who will probs! ly @nter jwdustry at the end of the ninth grade may 
well give #5 much as two-thieds of their time to vocational prepara- 
tion, but they must not be permitted to neglect preparation for citi- 
zenship and the worthy use of leisure. 

In the senior high school the relative proportion of the three 
groups of subjects will vary with the curriculum. Pupils who are 
to enter a gainful occupation before the completion of the senior high 
school may well devote a jarge proportion of their time to the cur- 
riculum variables, especially during their last year in school, 

In brief, the greater the time allowed for curriculum variables, the 
more purposeful should be the time devoted to the constants in order 
that the school mav be effective as an agency of unification. Above 
all, the greater the differentiatien in studies, the more important be- 
comes the social raingling of pupils pursuing different curriculums. 

The supplementary character of the specializing and unifying 
functions has a direct bearing also upon the type of high school best 
suited to the needs of democratic society, as discussed in the next sec- 
tion. 


XVL THE COMPREHENSIVE IIGH SCHOOL AS THE STANDARD 
SECONDARY SCHOOL 


The comprehensive (sometimes called composite, or costnopolitan) 


e high school, embracing al! curriculums in one unified or;ranization, 
* * should remain the standara type of secondary school in the United 
States. 


Junior high schools must be of the comprehensive type, whatever 
policy be adopted for the senor high schools, since one of the pri- 
mary purposes of the junior high school is to assist the pupil through 
a wide variety of contacts and experiences to obtain a basis for in- 
telligent choice of his educational and vocational career. In the 
judgment of the commission, seior high schools and four-year high 
schools of the older organizations should, as a rule, be of the compre-_ 
hensive type for the following reasons: 

1. For effectiveness of vocational education—When effectively or- 
ganized and administered (sce pp. 27 to 29) the comprehensive 
high school can make diiferentiated education of greater value to 
the individual and to society, for such value depends largely upon 
the extent to which the individual pursues the curriculum best suited 


wee, A “Mie 


i a int ———_--* Kee ee ek «thé ious TD x eee ed 
Lf 

| 
a CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SKCONDARY EDUCATION —-. 95 


——- 
a 


to his needs. This factor is of prime importance, although fre 
quently ignored in discussions regarding the effectiveness of voca- 
tional and other types of differentiated education. 4 
In a system of special-type schools many influences interfere with | 
| 
! 
{ 


the wise choice of curriculum. Ths many pupils choose the high 
schoo] nearest to their homes, or the school to which-their friends 
have gone or are going, or the schoo! that provides the most attractive 
social life or has the best athletic teams. Still others are unwisely 


influenced by the notions of neighbors and friends of the family. 
After entering a special-type school, many pupils drop out because } 
the work is not adapted to their needs, while comparatively few | 
transfer to another school. 

In a comprehensive school the influences interfering with a wise 


choice of curriculum may be reduced to a minimum. When an un- 
wise choice has been made the pupil may be greatly aided in discover- 
ing a curriculum better adapted to his needs because he can see other 
work in the school, talk with school companions, and confer with 
teachers who are able to give him expert advice regarding such cur- 
riculums. When such a pupil has found a curriculum better adapted 
to his rieeds, he can be transferred to it without severance of school ] 
relationshi})s and, what seems to him, the sacrifice of school loyalty. 
Moreover, pupils in comprehensive schools have contacts valuable 
to them vocationally, since people in every vocation must be able to 
deal intelligently with those in other vocations, and employers and 
i 

‘ 


employees must be able to understand one anether and recognize 
common interests. Similarly, teachers in comprehensive schools have 
a better opportunity to observe other curriculums and are thereby 
better uble to advise pupils intelligently, 
Summarizing under this head, the well-organized comprehensive 
school can make differentiated education of greater value than can 
the special-type school, because it aids in a wise choice of curriculum, 
assists in readjustments when such are desirable, and provides for 


i wider contacts essential to true success in every vocation. } 
2. For unification.—When administered by a principal who him- 
' self recognizes the social value of all types of secondary education 
j and inspires a broad spirit of democracy among teachers and pupils, 
the comprehensive high school is a better instroment for unification. 
Through friendslups formed with pupils pursuing other curriculums 
’ and having vocational and educational goals widely different from 
i their own, the pupils realize that the interests which they hold in 
common with others are, after all, far more important than the 
differences that would tend to make them antagonistic to others, 
Through school assembles and organizations they acquire common 
ideas. ‘Through group activities they secure training in cooperation, 


Through loyalty to a school which includes many groups they are 


I gS ale” ti eal es Sp 


a 
i 
i 
| 
i 
j 
; 
} 
i 
{ 
i 
i 
| 
i 
‘ 
i 


~ *. SB wd & — 7c 
_- = _s ae —s Cetin wes + dtiens + to menepenen — . —_ | 
‘i 
i 26 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 
. , i: 
prej, ii for loyalty to State and Nation. In short, the coinpre- . 
hensive school is the Prototype of a democracy in which various 
N groups must have a depree of Self-consciousness us ftoups and yet n 
| be federated into a larger whole through the recognition of common } 
{ interests and ideals. Life in such a school is a natura! and valuable 
) preparation for life in a democracy. F 
3. Kor objectives other than vocation—A comprehensive high 


school can provide much more effectively for health education, educa- 
tion for the worthy use of leisure, and home-making education than 
a number of smaller special-type schools can. 

The most effective health education requires adequate equipment 
and instructors competent to diagnose health needs aid direct health 


My activities. Expenses and difficulties of duplication of such facilities : 
in every smaller special-type school are alimost prohibitive. Prepara- 
{ tion for the worthy use of leisure is best achieved when there is a 


wide variety of activities from which pupils may select, such as 

arts and crafts clubs, literary and debating socitics, and musical 
{ organizations. All of these require for their success enthusiastic 
leadership such as can best be secured from a large faculty. Girls 
in all curriculums should have the advantages of work in household 
arts under efficient directors and With adequate equipment. Such 
conditions are most readidy provided in the comprehensive school 
where there is a strong department of household arts. 

With the establishment of a Special-type high school it frequently 
happens that various important phases of education are neglected 
or minunized in the other schuvols of that system. 

4. For accessibility —In cities large enough to require more than 
one hizh school it is desirable to have each school so located as to 
; serve a particular section of the city, thereby reducing the expense 

and loss of time involved in travel on the part of pupils. The 
proxtmity of the school to the homes results also #h greater interest 


Ce ies 


—-“-s 


{ in education on the part of pupils and parents, and consequently 
bin . i increases the drawing and holding power of the school. 
wi 5. Adaptation to locai needs.—In reconimending the comprehensive 
ce : high school as the standard secondary school the commission recog- 
F nizes that in large cities where two or more high schools are needed 
it is not always possible to provide every curriculum in each high 
school, such a practice being precluded by the fact that certain 
curriculums would thereby enroll in the several schools too few , 
; pupils to permit economical organization and administration. In 
such cues a few curriculums may well appear in selected comprehen- 
iE Blve Schools or even in a single school only, while other curriculums 
‘ ‘ appear ii. every school 


The commission also recognizes the impracticability of offering 
4 every curriculum in every small rural high school. In such cases it 


4 ™ . ? “ » 
: 
“4 g 
‘ 
i oe ee ee en ah he ~ tT te m= tle lt, 
| 
; CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 27 | 
: 
’ ;, is desirable that a curriculum for which the number of pupils does ; 
; not warrant such duplication should be offered in selected schools, 
and that pupils needing that curriculum should go to those schools, 
This plan is substantially the same as that recommended for the ' 
large city. \ 
- 6. Effective organization of curriculums in comprehensive high 
7. echools.—Finally, the commission recognizes that in the past rela- 
ed tively ineffective instruction has been afforded in some comprehen- 
j i sive schools. This has been due in part to the fact that every- 
i; where vocational «ducation has been passing and is still passing 
through a period of experimentation. ‘Ihe commission believes, 
however, that the most serious defect in vocational education in the 


comprehensive high school has been due to a lack of proper organiza- 
tion and administration. Effective vocational education can not be 
secured when administered like so many accidental groupings of sub- ’ 
jects. To remedy this situation the commission recommends that 
each curriculum, or group of closely related curriculums, in the 
large comprehensive high school be placed under the supervision of 
a director whose task it shall be to organize that curriculum and 
maintain its efictency. The curriculum directors must work under 
the general directien of the principal, who must be the coordinator of 
all the activities of the school. Especially is it necessary that each 
director shall be selected with the same care that would be exer- 
cised in choosing the principal of a special-type school enrolling as 
many pupils as are enrolled in the curriculum or curriculums under 
his direction. In medium-sized high schools unable to employ 
directors for the various curriculums, the teachers should be or- 
ganized into committees to consider the problems of the various 
curriculums, all working under the direction of the principal. 
Unless the various curriculums are effeetively organized and ad- 

ministered, and unless the democratic spirit pervades the school, the 
comprehensive high school is in danger of failure; with these factors 
present, it has every promise of success, 


— — 


es 


XVII RECOGNITION OF THE OBJECTIVES IN ORGANIZING THE | 
SCHOOL 

The objectives must determine the organization, or else the or- 
gamzation will determine the objectives. If the only basis upon 
which @ high school is organized is that of the subjects of study, } 
each department being devoted to some particular subject, there j 
will result an over-valuation of the importance of subjects as such, 
and the tendency will be for cach teacher to regard his-function as 


merely that of leading the pupils to master a particular subject, 
rather than that of using the subjects of study and the activities of 
the school as means for achieving the objectives of education. The 


{ 
i 
| 


— —+- ~ ren we ee - -- 


t 
{ 
' 


Se ee ewe 


_— = 3 


a. — 


28 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY FDUCATION 


departmental organization s desirable but needs to be supplemented. 
The two following methods are suggested: 


(A) The Principals Council. 

The principal may select from his teachers a council, each member 
of which shall be charged with the responsibility of studying the 
activities of the school with reference to a specific objective. Plans 
for realizing these cbjectives should be discussed by the principal 
and the council. Without impairing in any way the ultimate re 
sponsibility of the principal, it will, as a rule, increase the efficiency 
of the school if the principal encourages initiative on the part of 
these council members and delegates to then: such responsibi lites © 5 
he finds they can discharge. The members of such @ council and 
their duties are suggested as follows: 

Health director—TVhis council member should seek to ascertain 
whether the health needs of the pupils are adequately niet. For this 
purpose he should consider the ventilation and sanitation of the 
building, the provisions for lunch, the posture of pupils. the amount 
of home work required, the provisions for physical training, and 
the effects of athletics. He should find out whether the pupils are 
having excessive social activities outside of school, and devise means 
for gaining the cooperation of parents in the proper regulation of 
work and recreation. He may well sce whether the teaching of 
biology is properly focused upon hygiene and sanitation. 

Citizenship director —The citizenship director should determine 
whether the pupils ire developing initiative and the sense of per- 
sonal responsibility. He should foster civic-mindedness through the 
school paper, debating society, and general school exercises, and give 
suggestions for directing the thinking of the pupils to significant 
problems of the day, 

Curriculum directors—As discussed in Section XVI of this re- 
port, for each important group of vocations for whfich the school 
offers a curriculum, or group of curriculums, there should be a 
director to study the needs of these vocations and find out the respects 
in which the graduates are succeeding or failing in tneeting legiti- 
mate vocational demands. With the knowledge thus gained he 
should strive to improve the work offered by the school. 

One of these curriculum directors should have charge of prepara- 
tion for colleges and normal schools. He should obtain the records 
of graduates attending those schools and find out the strong and 
weak points in their preparation. He will advise with pupils in- 
tending to enter (hese institutions as to the work that they should 
take in the high school. 

Director of vocational and educational guidance —This member of 
the council should collect data regarding various vocational and edu- 


i ee. Or a0 Po seu 


a a ee ee ee 


— i onal 


—— « a oS oe - 


| a | 


et MM sine sees 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 29 


cational opportunities and the qualifications needed. If the school 

is small, he may help individual pupils in acquiring an intelligent 

attitude toward the choice of a vocation or of a higher education; 

but if the school is large, he must train others who can know the 

pupils more intimately, to assist in this service, always holding him- 

Belf ready to give advice. | 
Director of preparation for leixure—This council member should, 

$o far 15 possible, see that the pupils are developing interests that 

wi!l assist tem in later lifo to use their leisure wisely. He should 

consider lly the musical organizations, the sehool library, the 

art clubs and classes, and the various ways in which pupil: are 


spending their leisure. 
The large school may have need for additional directors to deal 

with other vital phases of education. 

{B) By Committees. 
The principal may appoint committees of teachers each of which 


would be charged with duties similar to those described. An ad- 
vantage of the committee plan is that a larger number of teachers 
will be stimuluted to acquire a broad educational point of view. 

Theoretically, it is possible for the principal himself to supervise 
the teaching ary! direct ali the activities of the school. Practically, 
however, the majority of administrators tend to become absorbed in 
a few aspects of education. In fact, intensive creative work along 
any one line on the part of the principal leads naturally to at least a 
temporary neglect of the other aspects of education. Consequently, 
either a principal’s council or committees of teachers seem essential 
in order that none of the objectives may be neglected. 

It is not intended that the council or the committees should in 
any way Jessen the ultimate responsibility of the principal, but that 
by this means the cooperation of the antire teaching body may be 
secured and all the objectives held in view. 


ee ye ee ee 


} 

XVIII SECONDARY EDUCATION ESSENTIAL FOR ALL YOUTH 
To the extent to which the objectives outlined herein are adopted 

as the controlling aims of education, to that extent will it be recog- | 

nized that an extended education for every boy and girl is essential 

i 


to the welfare, and even to the existence, of democratic society. 
The significance of these objectives is becoming more and more ap- 
parent under modern conditions in our democracy. These conditions | 
grow out of increased knowledge of science with its rapidly extend- | 
Ine appheations to all the affairs of life, keener competition with 

its attendant dangers, closer contacts of peoples of varied racial and 
religious types, and greater assertiveness of all men and women in 

the control of their own destinies. These and many other tendencies | 


_ " ~ 


ee ee 


s 


30 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 


increase the significance of health, worthy home-membership, voca- 
tion, citizenship, the worthy use of leisure, and ethical character, 

Each of these objectives requires for its realization not only the 
training and habit formation that the child may secure, but also the 
intelligence and efficiency that can not be developed before ado- 
Jescence. In fact, their realization calls for the full period allotted 
to both the junior and senior high schools. 

Consequently, this commission holds thot education should be 80 
reorganized that every normal boy and girl will be encuuraged to 
remain in school to the age of 18, on full time if possible, otherwise 
on part time. 


———-s - 
tebe 2 alerts - saci a + werke. et ere Le 


: XIX. PART-TIME SCHOOLING As A COMPULSORY MINIMUM 
REQUIREMENT 


As stated in Section I of this report, only one American youth in 
@bout three reaches the first year of the four-year high school, and 
ouly one in about nine remains in school to the end of the high- 
' school course. This condition IS, in the last analysis, due principally 
to four causes: First, the limited range of instruction commonly 
offered by secondary schools; second. the failure on the part of the 
school adequately to demonstrate to young people and their parents 
the value of the education offered; third, the lure of einployment, 
be together with the desire for increased economic independence on the 
J part of young persons; and fourth, economic pressure in the family, 
’ real or imagined. 
F The firs! of these causes is rapidly disappearing through the intro- 
‘ duction of curriculums with rich vocational content. The second 
may be removed by subordinating deferred values and reoryanizing 
' instruction so as to make the values more evident to the learner, as 
, discussed in Sections VIII and IX. The third may be diminished 
in its «fect by greater virility in school work. Economic pressure 
; will continue until social conditions an be materially improved, 
in the meantime, @ sound national policy dictates th. urgent need 
for legislation whereby all young persons, whether employed or not, 
shall be required to attend school not less than eight hours in each 
week that schools are in session until they reach the age of 18. 


eee 


as 
ite 


Attendance for eight hours in each week will make possible im- 
portant progress not only in vocational efficiency but also in the 
promotion of health, preparation for worthy home-membership, 
{ civic intellipence and efficiency, the better utilization of leisure, and 
i ethical developinent. All these objectives are evidently as impor- 


tant for the young warker as for those who remain in full time at- 
lendance at school. « 


The value of part-time instruction, if properly organized, is out of 
all proportion to the time involved, because it can utilize as a basis ' 


we 


i Oy a" 
» .. WE ataton. 


— ———e we ete te me ~a me s - - =~ a 


CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY RDUCATION 31 


the new experiences of the young worker and his new social and 
civic contacts. Moreover, continued aitendance at school will afford 
an intellectual stimulus too often lacking to these young persons 
under the modern subdivision of labor. 

Consequently, this commission recru 
lation whereby all young persons up tu ihe age of 15, whether em- 
ployed or not, shall be required to attend the secondary school rat 
less than eight hours tn cach week: that the schuols are im session. 

In some States it may be held to be impracticable at the outset to 
require such part-time attendance beyond the ave of 16 or 17, but the 
commission holds that the imperative needs of American democracy 
can not be met until the period is extended to 16. 

To make this part-time schooling effective it will be necessary to 
adapt it specifically to the needs of the pupils concerned. More- 
over, teachers must be trained for this new type of work. Without 
such provisions there is great danger of failure and a consequent re- 
action against this most valuable extension of secondary education. 

In view of the importance of developing a sense of common inter- 
ests and social solidarity on the part ef the young worker and those 


} 


of his fellows who are continuin,: jn full-time attendance at seh vl, 


13 the enactment of legis- 


it appears to this commission that this part-tuine education shoul. be 
conducted in the comprehensive secondary school rather than jn 
separate continuation schools, as 1s the custom jn less democratic 
societies. By this plan the part-time students and the full-time 
students may share in the use of the assembly hall, gymnasium, and 
other equipment provided for all. This plan has the added advan- 
tage that the enrollment of all pupils may be continuous in the see- 
ondary school, thus furthering employment supervision on the one 
hand and making easier a return to full-time attendance whenever 
the lure of industry or the improvement of economic conditions in 
the family makes such a return inviting and feasible. 

The part-time attendance for eight hours a week of all persons 
between 14 and 18 who are not now in school will require a large 
increase in the teaching force in secondary schools. No other single 


piece of « jucational legislation could, however, do more to raise 
the level of intelligence and efficiency and to insure the welfare of 
den ocracy. 


XX. CONCLUSION 


In concluding this report on the cardinal principles of secondary 
education the commission would call attention to its 17 other reports 
in which the principles herein set forth are apphed to the various 
acs ects of secondary education. The reports now available are listed 


rm thy t page of this bulletin, and others are near lv ready for pub- 


licutio One report will consider in detail the application of these 


ae ee ee 


—— 


ee 


-_ 
~ = 
72 
ee Jindal sae ea atctlh de a de «mie tical 
e. 
i 
{ 32 CARDINAL PRINCIPLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION t 
i 
principles to the organization and administration of secondary 
schools. Thirteen reports deal with the aims. methods, and content 
of the various subjects of study and curriculunis in the lizht of these ; 
principles. Three others discuss vocational guidance, physical edu- | 
cation, and the mora! values that should be derived from secundary- 
schoo! organization end instruction. 
i It is becoming increasingly apparent that the problems of sec- 
ondary education merit much more serious attention than they have j 
received heretofore. The study of the best methods for adapting sec. 
ondary education to the needs of modern democratic life is but begun, 
The physical, intellectual, emotional, and ethica! characteristics of 
young people are still but vaguely comprehended. Such know ledge of 
’ social needs and educational theory and practice as is already avail- 
5 able has been seriously studied by comparatively few administrators 
and teachers. Progress will depend very largely upon adequate pro- 
; fessional training of teachers both before and after entering: upon 
service. Plans must be adopted for pooling the results of suc essful 
i experimentation on the part of individual teachers. To make the 
reorganization effective, competent supervision and constructive Jead- 
ership must be provided in the various fields of Secondary education. 
It is the firm belicf of this commission that secondary education 
in the United States must aim at hothing less than complete and 
| worthy living for all youth, and that therefore the objectives de- ' 
scribed herein must find place in the education of every boy and 
girl / 
Finally, in the process of translating into daily practice the cardi- 
nal principles herein set forth, the secondary school teachers of the 
j United States must themselves strive to explore the inner meaning 
4 of the great democratic movement now struggling for supremacy 


The doctrine that each individual has a right to the opportunity to 
develop the best that is in him is reinforced by the belief in the po 
tential, and perchance unique, worth of the individual] The task of 
education, as of life, is therefore to call forth that potential worth. 


While see kings to evoke the distinctive excellence: of individ lals 
and groups of individuals. the secondary school must be equally 
zealous to develop those common ideas, common ideals. and ¢ ommon 
modes of thought, feeling, and action, whereby America, thr ue w 

rich, unified, common life, may render her truest service to a world 


seeking for demo racy among men and nations. 


