tfixezzr- Jo 7? 7 


NASA Technical Memorandum 85797 


NASA-TM-85797 19840025763 


A REVIEW OF CHEVRON-NOTCHED FRACTURE SPECIMENS 


J. C. NEWMAN, JR, 


For Reference 


SEPTEMBER 1984 


HOI TO BE TAfcEN FflOM THIS 8008(5 ^ 


LIBRARY COPY 


LANGLEY RESEARCH CENTER 
LIBRARY, NASA 
HAMPTON, VIRGINIA 


NASA 

National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration 

Langley Research Center 

Hampton, Virginia 23665 




A REVIEW OF CHEVRON-NOTCHED FRACTURE SPECIMENS 


J. C. Newman, Jr. 

NASA Langley Research Center 
Hampton, Virginia 

SUMMARY 

This paper reviews the historical development of chevron-notched fracture 
specimens; it also compares stress-intensity factors and load line displace- 
ment solutions that have been proposed for some of these specimens. The 
review covers the original bend-bar configurations up to the present day 
"short" rod and bar specimens. In particular, the results of a recent 
"analytical" round robin that was conducted by an ASTM Task Group on Chevron- 
Notched Specimens are presented. 

In the round robin, three institutions calculated stress-intensity 
factors for either the chevron-notched round- rod or square-bar specimens. 

These analytical solutions were compared among themselves, and then among the 
various experimental solutions that have been proposed for these specimens. 

The experimental and analytical stress-intensity factor solutions that were 
obtained from the compliance method agreed within 3 percent for both speci- 
mens. An assessment of the consensus stress-intensity factor (compliance) 
solution for these specimens is made. 

The stress-intensity factor solutions proposed for three- and four-point 
bend chevron-notched specimens are also reviewed. On the basis of this 
review, the bend-bar configurations need further experimental and analytical 
calibrations. 





The chevron-notched rod, bar, and bend-bar specimens were developed to 
determine fracture toughness of brittle materials, materials that exhibit 
"flat" or "nearly flat" crack-growth resistance curves. The problems 
associated with using such specimens for materials that have a rising 
crack-growth resistance curve are reviewed. 


A 

a 


a 0 

a 1 


b 

B 


C* 


E 

F 


F* 


F 


* 

c 


F* 

m 


H 

K 


K lcv 

K R 


NOMENCLATURE 

normalized stress-intensity factor defined by Barker 

crack length measured from either front face of bend bar or load 
line 

initial crack length (to tip of chevron notch) 

crack length measured to where chevron notch intersects specimen 
surface 

length of crack front 

thickness of bar specimen or diameter of rod specimen 
normalized compliance, EBV L /P, for chevron-notched specimen 
Young's modulus of elasticity 

normalized stress-intensity factor for straight-through crack 
specimen 

normalized stress-intensity factor for chevron-notched specimen 

normalized stress-intensity factor determined from compliance for 
chevron-notched specimen 

minimum normalized stress-intensity factor for chevron-notched 
specimen 

half of bar specimen height or radius of rod specimen 
stress-intensity factor (Mode I) 

minimum stress-intensity factor for chevron-notched specimen 
plane-strain fracture toughness (ASTM E399) 

plane-strain fracture toughness from chevron-notched specimen 
crack-growth resistance 


2 



k 


P 

p 

max 



w 


x,y,z 

a 


v 


shear-correction parameter in Bluhm's slice model 
applied load 

maximum test (failure) load 
load-point half-displacement 

half-displacement measured at top of specimen along load line 

specimen width 

Cartesian coordinates 

crack- length- to-width (a/w) ratio 

crack-length- to-width (a^/w) ratios defined in Fig. 2 
Poisson's ratio 


INTRODUCTION 

Chevron- notched specimens (Fig. 1) are gaining widespread use for 
fracture toughness testing of ceramics, rocks, high-strength metals, and other 
brittle materials [1-7], They are small (5- to 25-mm thick), simple, and 
inexpensive specimens for determining the plane-strain fracture toughness, 
denoted herein as K j c v" Because they require no fatigue precracking, they 
are also well suited as quality control specimens. The unique features of a 
chevron-notched specimen, over conventional fracture toughness specimens, 
are: (1) the extremely high stress concentration at the tip of the chevron 

notch, and (2) the stress-intensity factor passes through a minimum as the 
crack grows. Because of the high-stress concentration factor at the tip of 
the chevron notch, a crack initiates at a low applied load, so costly pre- 
cracking of the specimen is not needed. From the minimum stress-intensity 
factor, the fracture toughness can be evaluated from the maximum test load. 
Therefore, a load-displacement record, as is currently required in the ASTM 
E399 plane-strain fracture toughness (K lc ) test procedure, is not needed. 


3 



Because of these unique features, some of these specimens are being considered 
for standardization by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). 

This paper reviews the historical development of chevron-notched 
fracture specimens. The paper also compares the stress-intensity factor and 
load-line displacement solutions that have been proposed for some of these 
specimens. The review is presented in four parts. 

In the first part, the review covers the development of the original 
chevron-notched bend bars, the present day "short" rod and bar specimens, and 
the early analyses for these specimens. 

In the second part, the results of a recent "analytical" round robin 
conducted by the ASTM Task Group on Chevron-Notched Specimens are presented. 
Three institutions participated in the calculations of stress-intensity 
factors for either the chevron-notched round-rod or square-bar specimen. They 
used either three-dimensional finite-element or boundary-integral equation 
(boundary-element) methods. These analytical solutions were compared among 
themselves and among the various experimental solutions that have been deter- 
mined for the rod and bar specimens. An assessment of the consensus stress- 
intensity factor (compliance) solution for these specimens is presented. 

In the third part, some recent stress-intensity factor solutions, pro- 
posed for three- and four-point bend chevron-notched specimens, are reviewed. 

In the last part, the applicability of chevron-notched specimens to 
materials that have a rising crack-growth resistance curve is discussed. 



HISTORY OF CHEVRON-NOTCHED SPECIMENS 


In 1964, Nakayama [1,2] was the first to use a bend specimen with an 
unsymmetrical chevron notch. His specimen configuration is shown in Figure 1 . 
He used it to measure fracture energy of brittle, polycrystalline, refractory 
materials. All previous methods which had been developed for testing homo- 
geneous materials were thought to be inadequate. This specimen is unique in 
that a crack initiates at the tip of the chevron notch at a low load, then 
propagates stably until catastrophic fracture. Because of the low load, the 
elastic stored energy in the test specimen and testing apparatus was small so 
that the fracture energy could be estimated from the area under a load-time 
history record. 

Tattersall and Tappin [3] in 1966 proposed using a bend bar with a 
chevron notch symmetrical about the center line of the specimen, as shown in 
Figure 1 . They used this specimen to measure the work of fracture on 
ceramics, metals and other materials. The work of fracture was determined 
from the area under the load-displacement record divided by the area of the 
fracture surfaces. 

In 1972, Pook [4] suggested using a chevron-notched bend bar to determine 
the plane-strain fracture toughness of metals. He stated that, "If the 
against crack length characteristic is modified, by the introduction of 
suitably profiled side grooves, so that there is a minimum at a/w 13 0.5, and 
the initial Kj is at least twice this minimum, it should be possible to omit 
the precracking stage, and obtain a reasonable estimate of K lc from the 
maximum load in a rising load test. Pook's "suitably profiled side grooves" 
is the present day chevron notch. However, he considered only the analytical 
treatment needed to obtain stress-intensity factors as a function of crack 
length for various types of chevron notches. He did not study the experimental 
aspects of using a chevron-notched specimen to obtain 


5 



The nomenclature currently used for a straight-sided chevron notch in a 
rectangular cross section specimen is shown in Figure 2. The specimen width, 
w, and crack length, a, are measured from the front face of the bend bar (or 
from the load line in the knife-edge- loaded specimen) . The dimensions a Q 
and a 1 are measured from the edge of the bend bar (or load line) to the 
vertex of the chevron and to where the chevron intersects the specimen 
surface, respectively. The specimen is of thickness B and the crack front 
is of length b. 

Pook [4] used the stress-intensity factor solution for a three-point bend 
bar with a straight-through crack (8] and a side-groove correction proposed by 
Freed and Kraft [9] to obtain approximate solutions for various shape chevron 
notches. The stress-intensity factors for a chevron-notched specimen, K CN , 
was given by 



where K STC is the stress-intensity factor for a straight-through crack in a 
bar having the same overall dimensions. Figure 3 illustrates the unique 
stress-intensity factor solution for a chevron-notched specimen compared to a 
straight-through crack specimen. The dashed curve shows the normalized 
stress-intensity factors for the straight-through crack as a function of 
a/w. This curve is a monotonically increasing function with crack length. 

The solid curve shows the solution for the chevron-notched specimen. For 
a = aQ, the stress-intensity factor is very large but it rapidly drops as the 
crack length increases. A minimum value is reached when the crack length is 
between a Q and a., . For a > a 1 , the stress-intensity factors for the 
chevron-notched specimen and for the straight-through crack specimen are 
identical because the configurations are identical. 


6 



The analytical procedure used by Pook [4] to determine the stress- 
intensity factor as a function of crack length was an engineering approxima- 
tion. At that time, no rigorous analysis had been conducted to verify the 
accuracy of equation ( 1 ) . 

In 1975, Bluhm [10] made the first serious attempt to analyze the 
chevron- notched bend bars. The three-dimensional crack configuration was 
analyzed in an approximate "two-dimensional" fashion. The specimen was 
treated as a series of slices in the spanwise direction. Both beam bending 
and beam shear effects on the compliance of each slice were considered but the 
inter-slice shear stresses were neglected in the analysis. Then by a 
synthesis of the slice behavior, the total specimen compliance was determined. 
The slice model, however, introduced a "shear correction" parameter (k) which 
had to be evaluated from experimental compliance measurements. Experimental 
compliance measurements made on an "uncracked" chevron-notched bend bar 
(a Q = 0 and cx-j = 1 ) were used to determine a value for the "shear 
correction" parameter for three- and four-point bend specimens . Bluhm 
estimated that the slice model was capable of predicting the compliance of the 
cracked Tattersall-Tappin type specimen (see Fig. 1) to within 3 percent. 

Bluhm did not, however, calculate stress-intensity factors from the compliance 
equations. Later, Munz et al. [7] did use Bluhm's slice model to calculate 
stress-intensity factors for various chevron-notch bar specimens. 

In the following, the concept proposed by Pook [4] to determine the 
K lc value for brittle materials using chevron-notched specimens will be 
illustrated. Figure 4 shows stress-intensity factor, K, plotted against 
crack length. The solid line beginning at a Q and leveling off at K lc is 
the "ideal" crack-growth resistance curve for a brittle material. The dashed 
curves show the "crack-driving force" curves for various values of applied 
load on a chevron-notched specimen. Because of the extremely large K value 


7 



at a = ag, a small value of load, like P^ , is enough to initiate a crack at 
the vertex of the chevron. At load P 1 , the crack grows until the crack-drive 
value is equal to K lc , that is, the intersection point between the dashed 
curve and horizontal line at point A. Further increases in load are required 
to extend the crack to point B and C. When the maximum load, p max r is 
reached the crack-drive curve is tangent to the K lc line at point D. Thus, 
the K value at failure is equal to Kj c . The tangent point also corresponds 
to the minimum value of stress-intensity factor on the crack-drive curve 
(denoted with a solid symbol) . Therefore, K lcv is calculated by 


K = F* 

lev _ /— m 


( 2 ) 


b/w 


where P__„ is the maximum failure load and F* is the minimum value of the 

llldA 

normalized stress-intensity factor. Because F* is a predetermined value for 
the particular chevron-notched configuration, it is necessary only to measure 
the maximum load to calculate K Icv . 

This maximum load test procedure can only be applied to brittle materials 
with flat or nearly flat crack-growth resistance curves. Many engineering 
materials, however, have a rising crack-growth resistance curve. The problems 
associated with using chevron-notched specimens for these materials will be 
discussed later. 




Chevron-Notched Rod and Bar Specimens 
Although the bend bars were the first type of chevron-notched specimens 
to be tested, the knife-edge loaded rod and bar specimens have received more 
attention. In the next sections, the rod and bar specimens are reviewed. 
This review also includes the analytical round robin; in which, the rod and 
bar specimens were analyzed. In a later section, some recent results on the 
chevron-notched bend bars are also reviewed. 


8 




Barker [5,6] in the late 70' s, proposed the "short" rod and bar specimens. 
Figure 1, for determining plane-strain fracture toughness. These specimens are 
loaded by a knife-edge loading fixture [5,7] resulting in an applied line 
load, P, at location L, as shown in Figure 5(a). Figure 5 shows the 
coordinate system used to define dimensions of the most commonly used rod and 
bar specimens. (Here the chevron notch intersects the specimen surface at 
x = w or a 1 = 1 . ) 

Rod Specimens .- Since 1977, the chevron-notched rod specimen, with 
w/B = 1 .45, has been studied extensively. Figure 6 shows a comparison of the 
minimum normalized stress-intensity factor as a function of the year the 
result was published. The open symbols denote the method by which the values 
were obtained. Each method will be discussed. The solid symbols show the 
results of corrections that have been made by the author. 

In 1977, Barker [5] used the K Ic value obtained from ASTM E399 compact 
specimens made of 2014-T651 aluminum alloy to determine the minimum stress- 
intensity factor for the rod configuration by a "matching" procedure. The 
minimum stress-intensity factor was given by 



where A is Barker's normalized stress-intensity factor that accounts for the 
configuration. By equating K m to K lc , the value of A was 20.8. 

Equation (3) can be rewritten into the form 


K 

m 


F* 

bA 7 m 


(4) 


where the value of F* is 26.3 (v = 0.3). (Equation (4) is the form commonly 
used for compact and knife-edge loaded specimens. The same form will be used 
herein.) Table 1 summarizes the minimum normalized stress-intensity factors 


9 



obtained by various investigators; also listed are particular dimensions of 
the rod configuration used. 

In 1979, Barker [11] replaced the term (1-v ) in equation (3) with unity 

without changing the value of A. Thus, the value of F* dropped by about 

5 percent. The value of F* should have remained at 26.3 for v = 0.3. 

m 

Barker and Baratta [12] in 1980 extensively evaluated the fracture tough- 
ness of several steel, aluminum, and titanium alloys using the rod specimen 
and K lc values measured according to ASTM Standard Method of Test for Plane- 
Strain Fracture Toughness of Metallic Materials (E399-78). They found that 
the critical stress-intensity factors, calculated from the rod specimen data 
using F* = 25.5 [12], were consistently low, averaging about 6 percent below 
the K lc values. They concluded that F* for the test configuration used in 
their study should be increased by 4 percent to a value of 26.5. 

Earlier, Barker and Guest [13] had conducted an experimental compliance 

calibration on the rod specimen and had obtained a value of F* as 29.6. 

Their specimen, however, had a w/B ratio of 1.474 [14], Subsequently, the 

value of F* was corrected to a value corresponding to a w/B ratio of 1 .45 

by using a "constant moment" conversion described in reference 15. The 

corrected value of F* (28.7) was about 3 percent lower than the compliance 

m 

value from reference 13, as indicated in Figure 6. 

Beech and Ingraffea [16,17] were the first to rigorously numerically 
analyze a chevron-notched specimen. They used a three-dimensional finite- 
element method to determine stress-intensity factor distributions along the 
crack front and stress-intensity factors from compliance for the chevron- 
notched rod. The specimen they analyzed, however, differed from the proposed 
standard (w/B = 1.45; <Xq = 0.332; and 0 ^ = 1) specimen analyzed in the ASTM 
round robin in three ways: (1) the load line was at the front face of the 


10 



specimen rather than at 0.05B into the specimen mouth, (2) the slot height 

(0.03B) was modelled (see Fig. 5(a)) as zero, and (3) the square- or V-shaped 

cutout at the load line was not modelled. (The effects of these differences 

in specimen configuration on stress-intensity factors are discussed in 

reference 15 and will not be repeated here.) The stress-intensity factors 

reported in references 16 and 17 from their crack front evaluations were 

considerably lower (6 to 17 percent) than their values determined from a 

plane-strain compliance relation. They used their plane-strain compliance 

results to obtain a minimum stress-intensity factor. The value of F* from 

m 

reference 17 was 4 percent higher than the value given in reference 16. The 

difference in these results was due to the manner by which the compliance 

derivative was evaluated. The values of F* given in Table 1 were their 

m 

plane-strain compliance values and, in parentheses, values obtained from a 

plane-stress compliance relation. The reason for using plane stress, herein, 

was that the displacements remote from the crack front are more nearly 

controlled by plane-stress conditions and, consequently, the plane-stress 

compliance relation would be more correct than using plane strain. (Also, all 

other results reported in Table 1, which were determined from compliance, were 

made with the plane-stress relation.) If the plane-strain compliance relation 

(with V = 0.3) had been used, the F* values would have been about 5 percent 

m 

higher than the plane-stress values (square and triangular symbols) shown in 
Figure 6 . 

Bubsey et al. [18], Shannon et al. [19], and Barker [15] used the experi- 
mental compliance (plane stress) relation to evaluate stress-intensity factors 
for the "short" rod specimen. Bubsey et al. and Shannon et al. used aluminum 
alloy specimens with w/B ratios of 1 .5, 1 .75 and 2 for a wide range in 
ciq. Their values in Table 1 and Figure 6 were interpolated for ctg = 


0.332 



and extrapolated to w/B = 1 .45 by using second degree polynominals in terms 

of cxq and w/B, respectively. Because the proposed standard dimensions are 

quite close to those used in the experiments, the interpolation and 

extrapolation procedure is expected to induce only a small error (probably 

less than 2 percent). Barker [15], on the other hand, used fused quartz 

(v = 0.17) on specimens with w/B = 1.45. He reported a value of A as 

23.38, therefore, F* would be about 28.2. 

m 

Raju and Newman [20] , using a three-dimensional finite-element method, 

studied the effects of Poisson's ratio ( v) on stress-intensity factors for the 

rod specimen (w/B = 1 .45) . Their results indicated that a specimen with 

v = 0.17 (fused quartz) would have a stress-intensity factor about 2 percent 

lower than a specimen with v = 0.3 (aluminum alloy). Thus, if Barker [15] 

had used an aluminum alloy specimen, his experimental compliance value (F*) 

m 

would have been about 28 .8 . 

Raju and Newman [20] and Ingraffea et al. [21] determined the minimum 

stress-intensity factors for the rod specimen (w/B = 1 .45) using compliance 

calculations from three-dimensional finite-element analyses. Each used the 

plane-stress compliance relation. Raju and Newman obtained a value of F* 

m 

as 28.4 (as plotted in Fig. 6) and Ingraffea et al. obtained a value of 28.3 

(not plotted). The result from Raju and Newman, however, was estimated to be 

about 1 .5 percent below the "true" solution based on a convergence study. 

Thus, the corrected value of F* would have been about 28.8. 

m 

Ingraffea et al. [21] also used a boundary-element (boundary-integral) 
method to determine the minimum stress-intensity factor from compliance. They 
obtained a value of F* as 28.3 (as plotted in Fig. 6), the same as from 
their finite-element analysis. The results from Ingraffea et al. [21] and 
Raju and Newman [20] were part of the analytical round robin, previously 
mentioned, and these results will be discussed and compared later. 


12 



A comparison of minimum stress-intensity factors for the rod specimen 

(w/B = 1 .45) shows several interesting features. First, the method of using 

K t _ to determine F* gives results that are about 8 percent below experi- 
•*- c m 

mental and analytical compliance methods. Although the specimen used by 
Barker [5,11] and Barker and Baratta [12] was somewhat different than the 
proposed standard specimen, these differences are not expected to be signifi- 
cant (see ref. 15, page 309). The specimens used in references 11 and 12 had 
chevron notches with curved sides instead of straight sides. Barker [14] 
argues that the calibration should be the same in a straight-sided and a 
curved-sided chevron-notch specimen, provided that the crack front length (b) 
and the rate of change in b is the same in both specimens at the minimum 
stress-intensity factor. He determined that the a Q and a 1 for an 
"equivalent" straight-sided chevron-notch specimen should be 0.343 and 0.992, 
respectively. These values are quite close to those for the specimen analyzed 
in the ASTM round robin with straight-sided chevron notches. Therefore, at 
present, the 8-percent discrepancy in the values of F* cannot be explained 
from differences in specimen configuration. 

One possible source of error in the K^-matching procedure may be due to 
the different loads used in each test procedure. In the K lc test, the 
5-percent secant offset load, Pg, is used to calculate The Pg load 

is always less than or equal to p max > the maximum test (failure) load. 
Whereas, in the chevron-notch specimen test, the maximum load is always used 
to calculate K Icv . For example, if P max was used to calculate K lc 
instead of Pg, then K lc would tend to be higher than the current value. 

Thus, the value of F* would also tend to be higher than the current value 

m 

(circular symbols in Fig. 6). This would make the value of F*, determined 

m 

from the K lc ~matching procedure, in closer agreement with the experimental and 
analytical compliance values shown in Figure 6. 


13 



Second, the experimental [13, 15, 18, 19] and the recent analytical 

[20, 21] compliance determination of the minimum stress-intensity factor agree 

within about 3 percent of each other. Accounting for the fact that one of the 

analyses [20] was about 1 .5 percent low, based on convergence studies, and 

that reference 15 used fused quartz, which has a low value of Poisson's ratio 

so that a slightly lower value of F* would be expected (about 2 percent), 

the agreement generally is within about 1 percent. Thus, for the rod specimen 

with w/B = 1.45, olq = 0.332, and a-| = 1 (straight-sided chevron) the 

value of f* is estimated to be 28.9 ± 0.3. The dashed lines in Figure 6 
m 

show the expected error bounds on F* . 

m 

Bar Specimens .- Two types of chevron-notched bar specimens have been 
studied. In 1978, Barker [6, 15] proposed a rectangular cross-sectioned 
bar specimen with an H/B ratio of 0.435 (see Fig. 1). This specimen was 
designed in such a way that the same minimum stress-intensity factor was 
obtained as for his rod specimen [5] . However, because the early compliance 
calibration for the rod specimen was about 8 percent low (see Fig. 6), it was 
not clear whether the bar and rod specimens now have the same value. Raju and 
Newman [20] analyzed both specimens and found that the compliance calibration 
for the rectangular bar specimen was about 3.8 percent lower than the rod 
specimen. 

In 1980, Munz et al. [7] proposed a square cross-sectioned bar specimen 
(H/B = 0.5). They conducted a very extensive experimental compliance calibra- 
tion on bar specimens with w/B = 1.5 and 2 for ccq ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 
and a-] = 1 . From these results, they obtained minimum values of stress- 
intensity factors for each configuration considered. Using the assumption 
that the change of compliance with crack length in a chevron-notch specimen 
was the same as that for a straight-through crack specimen, they obtained an 


14 



equation that was identical to equation (1 ) as 



for dp < a < . For specimens with an Oq of about 0.2 and 0.35, the 

difference between experimental and analytical (eqn. (5)) minimum normalized 
stress-intensity factors was less than 1 percent. For an Oq value of about 
0.5, the difference was 3 to 3.5 percent. They concluded that equation (5) 
should only be used to obtain minimum values because experimental and 
analytical values differed greatly at small crack-length- to-width (a) ratios 
near <Xq. 

Shannon et al. [19] have developed minimum stress-intensity factor 
expressions for chevron-notched bar (square) and rod specimens with a 1 = 1 
and 0 Cq < 0.5. These expressions were fitted to minimum stress-intensity 
factors determined from experimental compliance measurements . For the square- 
bar specimen, the w/B ratio was 1 .5 or 2 and for the rod specimen, the 
w/B ratio was 1.5, 1.75 or 2. 

The use of chevron-notched specimens with materials that have a rising 
crack-growth resistance curve may require stress-intensity factors as a 
function of crack length instead of using only the minimum value. Recently, 
Shannon et al. [22] have developed polynomial expressions that give the 
stress-intensity factors and load-line displacements as a function of crack 
length for square-bar and rod specimens ( = 1). These expressions were 
obtained from experimental compliance measurements made for various w/B 
ratios. The w/B ratio for the square-bar specimen was, again, 1 .5 or 2, and 
for the rod specimen was 1.5, 1.75, or 2. The expressions apply to a Q 
between 0.2 and 0.4, and a varying from Oq to 0.8. Some of these results 
will be compared with the results from the ASTM analytical round robin in the 
next section. 


15 



Analytical Round Robin on Chevron-Notched Rod and Bar Specimens 


In 1981, plans were formulated for a cooperative test and analysis 
program on chevron-notched square-bar and round-rod specimens by an ASTM task 
group on Chevron-Notched Specimen Testing. Four configurations were selected: 
the square and round versions of a relatively short specimen (w/B = 1.45); and 
the square and round versions of a longer specimen (w/B = 2). These configu- 
rations were chosen so as to include as many features as possible of prior 
work [5-7] . The coordinate system used to define the specimens is shown in 
Figure 5. The specimens were loaded by a knife-edge loading fixture that 
results in an applied load, P, at the load line L in Figure 5(a). Specimens 
had either a square cutout [7] at the load line or a V-cutout [15] at the load 
line (not shown). The chevron notch. Figure 5(b), had straight sides and 
intersected the specimen sides at x = w (or a 1 = 1 ) . The following table 
lists the dimensions of the specimens considered: 


Specimen 

w/B 

a Q / w 

H/B 

Bar 

1 .45 

0.332 

0.5 

Bar 

2 

0.2 

0.5 

Rod 

1 .45 

0.332 

ID 

• 

O 

Rod 

2 

0.2 

0.5 


The analysts were asked to calculate results for crack-length- to-width 
(a/w) ratios of 0.4, 0.5, 0.55, 0.6, and 0.7. The information required from 
the analyses were: 

(1) K-distribution as a function of z and a/w (see Fig. 5(b)). 

(2) K-value from the plane-stress compliance relation as a function of 
a/w: 


1 6 



1/2 


( 6 ) 


K = 


_ dV T 
EP L 


b da 


(3) Normalized displacements EVB/P at points L and T (see 
Fig. 5(a)) as a function of a/w. 

The participants in the round robin where: 


INVESTIGATORS 

A. R. Ingraffea, R. Perucchio, 
T. Y. Han, W. H. Gerstle, 
and Y. P. Huang 

A. Mendelson and L. J. Ghosn 


I. S. Raju and J. C. Newman, Jr. 


INSTITUTION 
Cornell University 

Case-Western 
Reserve University 

NASA Langley 
Research Center 

the three-dimensional method (s) 


The following table lists the investigators, 
used in the analyses, and the particular configuration ( s) analyzed: 


INVESTIGATORS 


METHOD 


ROD 


BAR 


w/B 1 .45 2 1 .45 2 


Ingraffea et al. [21] 


Finite-element 

Boundary-element 


X 

X 


Mendelson and 
Ghosn [23] 


Boundary-element 


Raju and Newman [20] 


Finite-element 


X X 


All analyses were conducted on models of specimens with the square cutout at 
the load line, as shown in Figure 5(a). The slot height (0.03B) shown in 
Figure 5(a) was not modeled in any of the analyses (that is, the height was 
taken as zero) . 

Rod Specimen - Ingraffea et al. [21] and Raju and Newman [20] determined 
the distribution of normalized stress-intensity factors along the crack front 
of a rod specimen (w/B = 1.45) with a = 0.55 using boundary-element and 
finite-element methods, respectively. These results are compared in Figure 7. 


17 



The normalized stress-intensity factor (F*) is plotted against 2z/b. The 
center of the specimen is at 2z/b = 0 and the crack intersects the chevron 
boundary at 2z/b = 1, see insert. Ingraffea et al. used only one element, a 
quarter-point singular element, to define one-half of the crack front length 
(b/2); they showed a nearly linear distribution. On the other hand, Raju and 
Newman used five layers of singularity elements to define one-half of the 
crack front and they showed nearly constant stress-intensity factors for 
2z/b < 0.5. Their stress-intensity factors increased rapidly as 2z/b 
approached unity. The results from Raju and Newman were 0 to 16 percent 
higher than the results from Ingraffea et al. The difference is probably due 
to ingraffea et al. using only one element along the crack front. 

A comparison of experimental and analytical load-point displacements 
for the short chevron-notched rod (w/B = 1.45) is shown in Figure 8. The 
normalized displacement, EBV L /P, is plotted against a/w. Load-point dis- 
placements (V L ) were either measured or calculated at z = 0 (see Fig. 5(b)) 
as a function of crack length. Because the experiments and analyses were 
conducted on materials with different Poisson ratios, the displacements have 
been adjusted, using results from Raju and Newman [20] on the Poisson effect, 
to displacements for a Poisson ratio of 0.3. Barker [15] measured load-point 
displacements on fused quartz (v = 0.17) using a laser-interferometric 
technique. His displacements have been reduced by 3 percent to compensate 
for the differences in Poisson ratios; his data are shown as circular 
symbols. In contrast, Shannon et al. [22] measured displacements (V T ) at the 
top of aluminum alloy (v = 0.3) specimens (see Fig. 5(a)). They measured 
displacements for specimens with various values of a Q (0.2 < < 0.4) and 

with w/B equal to 1.5, 1.75, and 2. The results (square symbols) plotted in 
Figure 8 were interpolated to Oq = 0.332 and extrapolated to w/B = 1.45, 


18 


respectively, using second degree polynomials. These results agreed well with 
Barker's results. 

Load-point displacements from Raju and Newman's finite-element analysis 
[20] and Ingraffea et al.'s [21] boundary-element analysis are also shown in 
Figure 8. The displacements from Ingraffea et al. have been reduced by 
1 percent to compensate for a slight difference in Poisson's ratio. Both 
analytical results were from 4 to 6 percent below the experimental results. 
Based on beam theory [24], however, about 2 percent of this difference is 
caused by neglecting the notch (0.03B) made by a saw blade or chevron cutter 
(see Fig. 5(a)). These displacements were used by each investigator to 
determine the stress-intensity factors from the plane-stress compliance 
method. These results are described in the following section. 

Experimental and analytical normalized stress-intensity factors (F*), as 
functions of a/w, for the chevron-notched rod are compared in Figure 9. (Note 
the use of a broken scale.) The experimental and analytical results were 
obtained from the plane-stress compliance relation (eqn. (6)) as 



where C* is the normalized compliance, EBV^/P. The load-point displacement 
(V L ) was either measured or calculated at z = 0 as a function of crack 
length. Barker [15] measured the load-point displacements on fused quartz 
(v = 0.17) using a laser-interferometric technique. The displacements were 
then fitted to an empirical equation in terms of crack length. This equation 
was differentiated to obtain the compliance derivative. Barker's results are 
shown as circular symbols. Shannon et al. [22] measured displacements (V T ) at 
the top of aluminum alloy (v = 0.3) specimens. They assumed that dV T /da was 


19 



equal to dV L /da to obtain stress-intensity factors. Again, these results 
were interpolated and extrapolated to a = 0.332 and w/B = 1.45 using second 
degree polynomials. Shannon's results (square symbols) are a few percent higher 
than Barker's results. As previously mentioned, Raju and Newman [20] have shown 
by a three-dimensional stress analysis that there is a slight difference (about 
2 percent) between stress-intensity factors for v = 0.17 and 0.3; these results 
agreed with the observed experimental differences. 

The analytical results from Raju and Newman [20] and Ingraffea et al. [21] 

are also shown in Figure 9. Based on a convergence study [20] , the analytical 

results are expected to lie about 1 .5 percent below the "true" solution. The 

analytical results agreed well (within 3 percent) with the experimental results 

near the minimum value of F* . 

c 

Figure 10 compares how analyses and test results (F*) vary with a/w for 
the chevron-notched rod with w/B = 2. The solid curve represents an equation 
proposed by Bubsey et al. [18] for the rod specimens. The equation they used 
was equation (5) where F was the normalized stress-intensity factor for a 
straight-through crack in the same configuration [18]. 

Shannon et al.'s [22] results shown in Figure 10 were obtained from 

equation (7) using measured load-line displacements (V T ) on the rod 

specimen. Their results agreed well (within 1 percent) with the equation from 

Bubsey et al., except at small values of a. From previous work [7], it was 

recognized that equation (5) overestimates values of F* for values of a 

approaching a Q . The finite-element results of Raju and Newman [20] were 

about 2.5 percent below the results from Bubsey et al. and Shannon et al. . 

Based on all of these results, the value of the minimum normalized stress- 

intensity factor (F*) is estimated to be in the range 36.2 ± 0.4. 

m 

Bar Specimen .- Mendelson and Ghosn [23] , using the boundary-element 
method, and Raju and Newman [20], using the finite-element method, determined 


20 



the distribution of boundary-correction factors along the crack front of a bar 
specimen with w/B = 2 and a = 0.55. The results are compared in Figure 11. 
Here F* is plotted against 2z/b. Mendelson and Ghosn, in contrast to 
Ingraffea et al. [21], used five elements to define one-half of the crack front 
length. Their elements were assumed to have either linear tractions or linear 
displacements. They determined F* values by using either crack-surface dis- 
placements or normal stresses near the crack front. For 2z/b < 0.9, their 
results were 3 to 16 percent higher than the results from Raju and Newman, 
whereas the previous results from Ingraffea et al., using the same (boundary- 
element) method (Fig. 7), gave results on a rod specimen that were consistently 
lower than the results from reference 20. The reason for the discrepancy 
between references 20 and 23 on stress-intensity factor distributions is not 
clear. 

Experimental and analytical load-point displacements at z = 0 for the 
chevron-notched bar with w/B = 2 are compared in Figure 12. Normalized 
displacement is plotted against a/w. Shannon et al. [22] measured displace- 
ments at the top of aluminum alloy specimens (circular symbols). The solid 
curve represents a polynomial equation from reference 22 that was fitted to 
the experimental data. The finite-element results from Raju and Newman [20], 
v = 0.3, ranged from 3.5 to 6 percent lower than the experimental data. And 
the boundary-element results from Mendelson and Ghosn [23] were 8 to 1 1 per- 
cent lower than the experimental data. (Results from reference 23, v = 1/3, 
were increased by 1 percent to compensate for the small difference in 
Poisson's ratio from v = 0.3.) Again, these displacements were used by each 
investigator to determine the stress-intensity factors from the plane-stress 
compliance method (eqn. (7)). 

The normalized stress-intensity factors (F*), as functions of a/w, for 
the bar specimen with w/B = 2 are shown in Figure 13. The experimental 


21 



results and polynomial equation of Shannon et al. [22] are shown as circular 
symbols and solid curve, respectively. The dashed curve shows an equation 
proposed by Munz et al. [7] for bar specimens. For the chevron-notched 
specimen, Munz et al. used equation (5) where F was the normalized stress- 
intensity factor for a straight-through crack in the same configuration [7] . 
Again, equation (5) overestimates F* for a approaching a Q . But for 
larger values of a, the equation underestimates Fj based, at least, on the 
present experimental results [22]. 

The analytical results of Mendelson and Ghosn [23] and Raju and Newman [20] 

are also shown in Figure 13. Near the minimum F* value, the results from 

Mendelson and Ghosn were about 1 .5 percent lower than the experimental results 

but overestimated F* on either side of the minimum. The results from Raju 

c 

and Newman were about 2.5 percent lower than the experimental results. From 
all of the experimental and analytical results, the minimum F* is estimated 
to be 29.8 ± 0.3. 

In Figure 14, experimental and analytical normalized stress-intensity 

factors, as functions of a/w, are compared for the bar specimen with 

w/B = 1.45. The experimental results from Shannon et al. [22] were,, again, 

obtained by interpolation and extrapolation to cig = 0.332 and w/B = 1 .45 

from results obtained from specimens with various Oq and w/B ratios. 

The solid curve shows the equation proposed by Munz et al. [7] . Near the 

minimum F*, the equation agreed well with the experimental results (within 
c 

1 percent) but, again, overestimated results for a/w ratios less than about 
0.55. The analytical results from Raju and Newman [20] were 0 to 1 .5 percent 
lower than the experimental results. The minimum value from Raju and Newman 
was 24.43, from Shannon et al. was 24.85, and from Munz et al. was 24.66. 

From these results, the minimum value of F* is estimated to be 24.8 ± 0.3. 


22 



Chevron-Notched Bend Bars 


As previously mentioned, Nakayama [1,2], and Tattersall and Tappin [3] 
were the first to introduce and to determine fracture energies from chevron- 
notched bend bars. Pook [4] and Bluhm [10] were the first to provide 
approximate stress-intensity factors and compliance expressions, respectively, 
for these specimens. This section reviews the more recent experimental and 
analytical stress-intensity factor solutions that have been proposed for 
chevron-notched bend bars. 

Munz et al. [25] compared stress-intensity factors for various four-point 
bend specimens with 0.12 < < 0.24, 0.9 < <1, and w/B = 1 or 1.25. 

Two analytical methods were studied. The first was by the use of equation (7) 
wherein dC*/da, the compliance derivative of the chevron-notched specimen, 
was assumed to be equivalent to dC/da, the compliance derivative of a 
straight-through crack. Under this assumption, equation (7) reduces to 
equation (5) or Pook's equation [4], The second method was by using Bluhm's 
slice model [10], Bluhm's slice model is probably more accurate than Pook's 
equation, but neither method has been substantiated by experimental compliance 
measurements or by more rigorous analytical (three-dimensional elasticity) 
methods. The slice model was, however, calibrated to experimental compliance 
measurements made on uncracked chevron-notch bend bars. A comparison of the 
two analytical results showed that the differences ranged from -5 to 10 per- 
cent for the particular configurations considered. 

In 1981, Shih [26] proposed a "standard" chevron-notched bend bar 
configuration for three-point loading with a maj or- span- to- width ratio (s/w) 
of 4. The w/B ratio was 1.82 with a = 0.3 and = 0.6. Shih [26] used 

the K lc value from 7079-T6 aluminum alloy and the failure (maximum) load on 
the chevron-notched bend bars to estimate the minimum stress-intensity factor; 
this value is shown in Figure 15 as the horizontal dashed line. The equation 


23 



proposed by Pook [4] (upper solid curve) gave a minimum value very close to 
the value determined by Shih. Later, however, Shih [27] re-evaluated the 
minimum by testing 7079-T6 aluminum alloy compact specimens and chevron- 
notched specimens made from the same plate. The new K lc value dropped by 
19 percent from the old value and, consequently, the minimum value (F*) 
dropped to 10.17, as shown by the dash-dot line in Figure 15. 

Wu [28] used equation (5) to determine the stress-intensity factors for 
three-point bend chevron-notched specimens. His equation gave essentially the 
same results (within 1 percent) as that shown for Pook in Figure 15. Wu [29] 
also used Bluhm's slice model to determine specimen compliance and then used 
equation (7) to determine F* as a function of a (or a/w) . His equation 
was used herein to calculate F* in Figure 15. Here the minimum value from 
Wu's equation was about 4 percent higher than the new minimum values proposed 
by Shih [27], From these results, it is obvious that Pook's equation and 
Bluhm's slice model give drastically different values of stress-intensity 
factors, and that the determination of minimum values by matching K lc and 
K m must be approached with caution. 

EFFECTS OF MATERIAL FRACTURE TOUGHNESS BEHAVIOR 

For a brittle material, a material which exhibits a "flat" crack-growth 
resistance curve as shown in Figure 4, the use of a chevron-notched specimen 
to obtain K j cv is well justified. But what if the material has a "rising" 
crack-growth resistance curve as shown in Figure 16? Because most engineering 
materials, under non-plane-strain conditions, have rising crack-growth 
resistance curves or K R -curves, the answer to this question is of utmost 
importance. The objective of this paper, however, is not to answer this 
question, but to review some of the problems associated with using these 
specimens for such materials. 


24 



Figure 16 illustrates the application of the l^-curve concept [30] to a 
material with a rising K R -curve. The stress-intensity factor is plotted 
against crack length. The hypothetical K R -curve (solid curve) begins at the 
initial crack length, a Q . The dashed curves show the "crack-driving force" 
curves for various values of applied load on a chevron-notched specimen 
(w = constant) . As the load is increased, the crack grows stably into the 
material (point A, to B, to C, to D) until the load reaches p max * At this 
load and crack length, crack growth becomes unstable (point D) . As can be 
seen, the instability point (tangent point between crack-drive curve and 
K R -curve) does not correspond to the minimum K value (solid symbol). 
Consequently, the maximum load and minimum K value cannot be used to compute 
the stress-intensity factor at failure, although the difference might be 
small. But if the specimen width is smaller than that used in Figure 16, then 
the instability point would occur at a lower point on the K R -curve. 

Conversely, the instability point for a larger width specimen would occur at a 
higher point on the K R -curve. Thus, a specimen size (or width) effect exists 
and it has been the subject of several papers on chevron-notched specimens 
[12, 31-35]. 


25 



DISCUSSION 


Chevron-Notched Test Specimens 

Many investigators have shown the advantages of using chevron-notched 
specimens for determination of plane-strain fracture toughness of brittle 
materials. The following table summarizes some of the advantages and 
disadvantages of these specimens: 

ADVANTAGES DISADVANTAGES 

• SMALL SPECIMENS • RESTRICTED TO "BRITTLE" MATERIALS 

O NO FATIGUE PRECRACKING • MATERIAL THICKNESS LIMITATIONS 

© SIMPLE TEST PROCEDURE • NOTCH MACHINING DIFFICULTY 

• MAXIMUM LOAD TEST 

• SCREENING TEST 

• NOTCH GUIDES CRACK PATH 

• HIGH CONSTRAINT AT CRACK FRONT 

The chevron-notched specimens can be small because their width and height are 
of nearly the same size as their thickness (5 to 25 mm), so only a small 
amount of material is needed. Consequently, they are very useful as quality 
control specimens. They may be useful in alloy development programs where 
small amounts of material are produced. They can also be used to determine 
toughness profiles through the thicknesses of large plates. Because they 
require no fatigue precracking, they cost less than current fracture toughness 
specimens. For brittle materials, the test procedure is very simple; once the 
minimum stress-intensity factor has been obtained, it is only necessary to 
record the maximum failure load to calculate fracture toughness. Even for 
ductile materials, the specimens may be used in screening tests to rank 
materials . 

The chevron notch tends to guide the crack path and, therefore, these 
specimens can be used to test particular regions of a material, such as 


26 



heat-affected zones. The notch also constrains the crack front, which helps 
set up an approximate plane-strain condition around the crack front. 

The major disadvantage in using chevron-notched specimens with the 
maximum load test procedure - for plane-strain fracture toughness testing - is 
that they are restricted to brittle materials, such as ceramics, rocks, high- 
strength metals, and other low toughness materials. Further studies are 
needed on more ductile materials to see if these specimens can be used for 
fracture toughness evaluation. They are also limited in the thickness that 
can be tested. Thin materials, less than about 5 mm, cannot be easily tested. 

Stress-Intensity Factors 

Several methods have been used to determine stress-intensity factors and 
minimum stress-intensity factors for these specimens. In the first method, 
the minimum value was obtained by matching to K-j- c from ASTM E399 

standard specimens. For the "short" rod specimen, the minimum value obtained 
from K lc -matching [5,11,12] was about 8 percent below several experimental 
compliance calibrations and two recent three-dimensional elasticity solutions. 

In more recent applications of the K lc -matching procedure [26,27], the minimum 
values for a three-point bend specimen differed by about 20 percent. Thus, 
the K lc ~matching procedure should be used with caution. 

The second method is derived from the assumption that the change in 
compliance with crack length of the chevron-notch specimen is equal to the 
change in compliance of a straight-through crack specimen. The stress-intensity 
factors derived from this method match those from Pook's equation [4]. For the 
rod and bar specimens, researchers have shown that this method gives accurate 
values of minimum stress-intensity factors, but is unreliable on either side of 
the minimum. In contrast, this method gave very large differences on a three- 
point bend specimen. Again, this method must be used with caution. 


27 



The third, a more refined approximate method for chevron-notched 
specimens, is the slice model proposed by Bluhm [10], This model has been 
used extensively on three- and four-point (chevron-notched) bend specimens. 
Munz et al. [7] has used this model on chevron-notched bar specimens. The 
problem associated with this method is the "shear-correction" parameter (k) 
that must be determined from experimental compliance measurements. If the 
shear-correction parameter, k, is determined experimentally from uncracked 
chevron-notched specimens close to the desired configuration, then this method 
will probably give reliable results. But a systematic study to evaluate the 
accuracy of stress-intensity factors computed from the slice model has not 
been undertaken. 

The fourth method is three-dimensional elasticity solutions, such as 
finite-element and boundary- integral equation methods. These methods can give 
accurate stress-intensity factors if care is taken especially in conducting 
convergence studies. These methods, however, tend to be expensive if a large 
number of solutions are desired. 

The last method is experimental compliance calibration. This method can 
also give accurate stress-intensity factors if the tests are done carefully. 
But the method is limited to the particular specimen configurations studied. 
Coupled with Bluhm' s slice model, this method may provide a reliable and 
inexpensive way of obtaining stress-intensity factors for a wide range of 
configuration parameters. 

A summary of the consensus minimum normalized stress-intensity factor, 

F*, for the four configurations considered in the analytical round robin and 
for the rectangular bar specimen [6, 15, 20] are shown in the following table. 


28 



Specimen 

w/B 

a 0 

a 1 

H/B 

F* 

m 

Bar 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 

0.435 

27.8 ± 0.3 

Bar 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 

0.5 

24.8 ± 0.3 

Bar 

2 

0.2 

1 

0.5 

29.8 ±0.3 

Rod 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 

0.5 

28.9 ± 0.3 

Rod 

2 

0.2 

1 

0.5 

36.2 ± 0.4 


The stress-intensity factor solutions for three- and four-point bend 
chevron-notched specimens have only been obtained from the K lc -matching 
procedure, Pook's equation, and Bluhm's slice model. Of these, the slice 
model is probably the most reliable. However, it is recommended that a 
detailed finite-element or boundary-element analysis, or careful experimental 
compliance calibrations, be performed on various chevron-notched bend bar 
configurations . 

CONCLUSIONS 

The historical development of chevron-notched fracture specimens and the 
stress-intensity solutions that have been proposed for these specimens was 
reviewed. The review covered the three- and four-point bend bars as well as 
the "short" rod and bar specimens. The stress-intensity factor solutions and 
minimum stress-intensity value for these specimens had been obtained by using 
several different methods, either experimental or analytical. Results of a 
recent ASTM analytical round robin on the rod and bar specimens were 
summarized. Some problems associated with using these specimens for materials 
with rising crack-growth resistance curves were discussed. Based on this 
review, the following conclusions were drawn: 


29 



1 . For the chevron-notched round-rod and bar specimens, the experimental 
compliance calibrations and the analytical (finite-element, 
boundary-element, and some approximate methods) calculations agreed 
within 3 percent. When the lower bound convergence of the finite- 
element and boundary-element techniques were accounted for, the 
agreement was generally within about 1 percent. 

2. Chevron-notched bend bars need further experimental and analytical 
stress-intensity factor calibrations. Although some recent stress- 
intensity factor solutions agreed within 5 percent, they were 
obtained from methods which have not been adequately substantiated. 

3. Further studies are needed on using chevron-notched specimens with 
materials that exhibit a "rising" crack-growth resistance curve 
behavior. 


30 



REFERENCES 


[1] Nakayama, J.: A Bending Method for Direct Measurement of Fracture 

Energy of Brittle Material, Japan Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 3, 
1964, pp. 422-423. 

[2] Nakayama, J. : Direct Measurement of Fracture Energies of Brittle 

Heterogeneous Materials, Journal of the American Ceramic Society, 

Vol. 43, No. 11, Nov. 1965, pp. 583-587. 

[3] Tattersall, H. G. and Tappin, G.: The Work of Fracture and Its 

Measurement in Metals, Ceramics and Other Materials, Journal of 
Materials Science Vol. 1, 1966, pp. 296-301. 

[4] Pook, L. P. : An Approach to a Quality Control K lc Testpiece, 

International Journal of Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 8, 1972, 
pp. 103-108. 

[5] Barker, L. M.: A Simplified Method for Measuring Plane Strain Fracture 

Toughness, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 9, 1977, pp. 361-369. 

[6] Barker, L. M.: Short Bar Specimens for K lc Measurements, Fracture 

Mechanics Applied to Brittle Materials, ASTM STP 678, American Society 
for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA, 1979, pp. 73-82. 
(Proceedings Eleventh National Symposium Fracture Mechanics, 
Blacksburg, VA, June 1978.) 

[7] Munz, D.; Bubsey, R. T.; and Srawley, J. E.: Compliance and Stress- 

Intensity Coefficients for Short Bar Specimens With Chevron Notches, 
International Journal of Fracture, Vol. 16, No. 4, 1980, pp. 359-374. 

[8] Brown, W. F. and Srawley, J. E.: Plane strain Crack Toughness Testing 

of High Strength Metallic Materials, ASTM STP 410, American Society 
for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, 1966. 


31 



[9] 


Freed, C. N. and Kraft, J. M.: Effect of Side Grooving on Measurements 


[ 10 ] 

[ 11 ] 

[ 12 ] 

[13] 

[14] 

[15] 

[16] 
[17] 


of Plane-Strain Fracture Toughness, Journal of Materials, Vol. 1, 

Ho. 4, 1966, pp. 770-790. 

Bluhm, J. I.: Slice Synthesis of a Three-Dimensional "Work of Fracture" 

Specimen, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 7, 1975, pp. 593-604. 

Barker, L. M.: Theory for Determining Kj c from Small, Non-LEFM 

Specimens, Supported by Experiments on Aluminum, International Journal 
of Fracture, Vol. 15, No. 6, 1979, pp. 515-536. 

Barker, L. M. and Baratta, F. I.: Comparisons of Fracture Toughness 

Measurements by the Short Rod and ASTM Standard Method of Test for 
Plane-Strain Fracture Toughness of Metallic Materials (E399-78), 
Journal of Testing and Evaluation, Vol. 8, No. 3, 1980, pp. 97-102. 

Barker, L. M. and Guest, R. V.: Compliance Calibration of the Short Rod 

Fracture Toughness Specimen, Terra Tek Report TR 78-20, April 1978. 

Barker, L. M.: Discussion of "Compliance Calibration of the short Rod 

Chevron-Notch Specimen for Fracture Toughness Testing of Brittle 
Materials", by Bubsey, R. T.; Munz, D.; Pierce, W. S.; and shannon, 

J. L., Jr., International Journal of Fracture, Vol. 19, 1982, 
pp. R3-R5 . 

Barker, L. M.: Compliance Calibration of a Family of Short Rod and 

Short Bar Fracture Toughness Specimens, Engineering Fracture 
Mechanics, Vol. 17, No. 4, 1983, pp. 289-312. 

Beech, J. F. and Ingraffea, A. R.: Three-Dimensional Finite Element 

Calibration of the Short-Rod Specimen, Geotechnical Engineering Report 
80-3, Cornell University, 1980. 

Beech, J. F. and ingraffea, A. R.: Three-Dimensional Finite Element 

Calibration of the Short-Rod Specimen, International Journal of 
Fracture, Vol. 18, No. 3, 1982, pp. 217-229. 


32 



[18] 


Bubsey, R. T.; Munz, D.; Pierce, W. S. and Shannon, J. L., Jr.: 


[19] 


[ 20 ] 


[ 21 ] 


[ 22 ] 


[23] 


[24] 


Compliance of the Short Rod Chevron-Notch Specimen for Fracture 
Toughness Testing of Brittle Materials, International Journal of 
Fracture, Vol. 18, No. 2, 1982, pp. 125-133. 

Shannon, J. L. , Jr.; Bubsey, R. T.; Pierce, W. S.; and Munz, D.: 

Extended Range Stress Intensity Factor Expressions for Chevron-Notched 
Short Bar and Short Rod Fracture Toughness Specimens, International 
Journal of Fracture, Vol. 19, 1982, pp. R55-R58. 

Raju, I. S. and Newman, J. C., Jr.: Three-Dimensional Finite-Element 

Analysis of the Chevron-Notched Fracture Specimens, Symposium on 
Chevron-Notched Specimen: Testing and Stress Analysis, April 21, 

1983, Louisville, KY. 

Ingraffea, A. R.; Perucchio, R.; Han, T. Y.; Gerstle, W. H. and Huang, 

Y. P.: Three-Dimensional Finite and Boundary Element Calibration of 

the Short-Rod Specimen, Symposium on Chevron-Notched Specimens: 

Testing and Stress Analysis, April 21, 1983, Louisville, KY. 

Shannon, J. L., Jr.; Bubsey, R. T. and Pierce, W. S.: Closed-Form 

Expressions for Crack-Mouth Displacements and Stress-Intensity Factors 
for Chevron-Notched Short Bar and Rod Specimens Based on Experimental 
Compliance Measurements, NASA Lewis Research Center, NASA TM 83796, 

1984. 

Mendelson, A. and Ghosen, L. J. : Three-Dimensional Analysis of Short 

Bar Chevron-Notched Specimens by Boundary Integral Method, Symposium 
on Chevron-Notched Specimens: Testing and Stress Analysis, April 21, 

1983, Louisville, KY. 

Timoshenko, S. and Goodier, J. N.: Theory of Elasticity , second 

edition, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 1951. 


33 



[25] 


Munz, D. G.; Shannon, J. L., Jr. and Bubsey, R. T.: Fracture Toughness 


Calculation from Maximum Load in Four Point Bend Tests of Chevron- 
Notch Specimens, International Journal of Fracture, Vol. 16, 1980, 
R137-R141. 

[26] Shih, T. T.: Chevron V-Notched Bend Specimen for K IC Measurement of 

Brittle Materials, Journal of Testing and Evaluation, Vol. 9, No. 1 , 

1 981 , pp. 50-55 . 

[27] Shih, T. T.: An Evaluation of the Chevron V-Notched Bend Bar Fracture 

Toughness Specimen, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 14, No. 4, 

1981 , pp. 821-832. 

[28] Wu, Shang-Xian: An Investigation of Chevron-Notch Three-Point Bend 

Fracture Toughness Specimen, International Journal of Fracture, 

Vol. 19, 1982, pp. R27-R30. 

[29] Wu, Shang-Xian: Compliance and Stress-Intensity Factor of Chevron- 

Notched Three-Point Bend Specimen, Symposium on Chevron-Notched 
Specimens: Testing and Stress Analysis, April 21, 1983, 

Louisville, KY. 

[30] Fracture Toughness Evaluation by R-Curve Method, ASTM STP 527, ed. by 

D. E. McCabe, American Society for Testing and Materials, 

Philadelphia, PA, 1973. 

[31] Munz, D.; Bubsey, R. T. and Shannon, J. L., Jr.: Performance of 

Chevron-Notch Short Bar Specimen in Determining the Fracture Toughness 
of Silicon Nitride and Aluminum Oxide, Journal of Testing and 
Evaluation, Vol. 8, No. 3, 1980, pp. 103-107. 

[32] Munz, D.: Determination of Fracture Toughness of High Strength Aluminum 

Alloys with Chevron-Notched Short Rod and Short Bar Specimens, 
Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 15, No. 1-2, 1981, pp. 231-236. 


34 



[33] 


Munz, D.; Himsolt, G.; and Eschweiler, J. : Effect of Stable Crack 


[34] 


[35] 


Growth on Fracture Toughness Determination for Hot-Pressed silicon 
Nitride at Elevated Temperatures, Fracture Mechanics Methods for 
Ceramics, Rocks, and Concrete, ASTM STP 745, S. W. Freiman and 
E. R. Fuller, Eds., American Society for Testing and Materials, 1981, 
pp. 69-84. 

Barker, L. M.: Specimen Size Effects in Short Rod Fracture Toughness 

Measurements, Symposium on Chevron-Notched Specimen: Testing and 
Stress Analysis, April 21, 1983, Louisville, KY. 

Shannon, J. L., Jr. and Munz, D. G.: Specimen Size and Geometry 

Effects on Fracture Toughness of A1 2 0 3 Measured with Short Rod 
and Short Bar Chevron-Notched Specimens, Symposium on Chevron- 
Notched Specimens: Testing and Stress Analysis, April 21, 1983, 
Louisville, KY. 


35 



Table 1 Chronological development of minimum normalized stress-intensity 

factors (F*) for short chevron-notched rod 
m 


Investigator ( s) 

Year 

Ref. 

w/B 

3 0 /w 

a T /w 

F* 

m 

Barker 3 

1977 

5 

1 .45 

0.31 b 

0.96 b 

26.3 

Barker and Guest c 

1978 

13,14 

1 .474 

0.343 d 

0.992 d 

29.6 

Barker 

1979 

1 1 

1 .45 

0 .3 1 b 

0.96 b 

25.1 

Barker and Baratta 3 

1980 

12 

1 .45 

0.343 d 

0.992 d 

26.5 

Beech and lngraffea e 

1980 

16 

1 .5 

0.35 

1 .0 

31 ,4( 30 .0) f 

Beech and Ingraffea 3 

1982 

17 

1 .5 

0.35 

1 .0 

32.7(31 .2 ) f 

Bubsey et al. c 

1982 

18 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 .0 

29.0 

Barker 0 

1983 

15 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 .0 

28.2 

Shannon et al. c 

1983 

22 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 .0 

29.1 

Raju and Newman e 

1983 

20 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 .0 

28.4 

Ingraffea et al. e '^ 

1983 

21 

1 .45 

0.332 

1 .0 

28.3 

a F* determined from 
m 

matching K lc 

from ASTM 

E399 specimens 

• 




^Dimensions estimated from photograph. 

C F* determined from experimental compliance . 

^Curved-sided chevron notch used in test, equivalent dimensions for straight-sided 
chevron notch used for table. 

e F* determined from finite-element analysis and compliance. 

^Values are from plane-strain (plane-stress) assumption. 

^F* determined from boundary-element analysis and compliance. 




Figure 1.- Various chevron-notched fracture specimen configurations. 



«• w ► 


Figure 2.- Chevron-notched fracture specimen 


PARAMETERS 
a = a/w 
«0 = a 0 /w 
a l = aj/w 

w/B Ratio 


lature .. 







(a) z = 0 plane. 





z 

(b) y = 0 plane. 

Figure 5.- Coordinate system used to define dimensions of 
knife-edge loaded chevron-notched rod and bar 
specimens . 




32 r 


30 H 


Rod 

W/B = 1.45 

Beech and Ingraffea [16,17] 
Barker and Guest [13] Ns & 


28 


26 


24 


t 


75 





Bubsey et al. [18] 


Shannon et al . [19] 

^ -T* 

j_2 percent 
Raju and Newman [20] 
Ingraffea et al . [21] 
Barker [15] 


Barker [ 5 ] 


\ 

Barker and Baratta [12] 


t 


Barker [11] 


o Match Kj c 

0 Experimental compliance 
A Finite-element compliance 
v Boundary-element compliance 

t — i i i 


77 


79 


81 


83 


85 


Year 


Figure 6.- Comparison of minimum normalized stress-intensity factor for 
chevron-notched rod. 


1.45 



2z 

b 


Figure 7.- Comparison of distribution of normalized stress-intensity factors 
along crack front for short chevron-notched rod. 


Barker C15] 
(Experimental ) 


Figure 8 


50 


Rod 


W/B = 1.45 
a Q = 0.332 


0 


Shannon et al. [22] 
(Experimental ) 


0 



Raju and Newman [20] 
(Finite-element) 





Ingraffea et al. [21] 
(Boundary-element) 


0 L 

0 


—L 

.2 




i 


.4 


.6 

a 

w 


.8 


j 

1 


- Comparison of experimental and analytical load-point displacements for 
short chevron-notched rod. 


o * 


45 

332 



a 

w 


Figure 9.- Comparison of experimental and analytical normalized stress-intensity 
factors for short chevron-notched rod. 


o * 



(Finite-element) 


30 - 

°0 1 A t 

a 

w 


Figure 10.- Comparison of experimental and analytical nc 
factors for long chevron-notched rod. 


/ 

Bubsey et al . [18] 
(Equation) 


-t- . . ,i 

,8 1 


lized stress-intensity 




2z 

b~ 


Figure 11.- Comparison of distribution of normalized stress-intensity factors 
along crack front for long chevron-notched bar. 



a 

w 


Figure 12.- Comparison of experimental and analytical load-point displacements 
for long chevron-notched bar. 


o * 



a 

w 


Figure 13.- Comparison of experimental and analytical normalized stress-intensity 
factors for long chevron-notched bar. 


.45 

.33: 



w 


Figure 14.- Comparison of experimental and analyti 
factors for short chevron-notched bar. 



-I l 

.8 1 


al normalized stress-intensity 


o * 



W 


Figure 15.- Comparison of normalized stress-intensity factors for chevron-notched 
three-point bend bar. 



w = constant 



Crack length, a 


Figure 16.- Fracture of "rising K R -curve" material using a chevron-notched specimen. 



1. Report No. 2. Government Accession No. 

NASA TM-85797 

3. Recipient's Catalog No. 

4. Title and Subtitle 

A REVIEW OF CHEVRON-NOTCHED FRACTURE SPECIMENS 

5. Report Date 

September 1984 


6. Performing Organization Code 

505-33-23-02 

7. Author(s) 

J. C. Newman, Jr. 

8. Performing Organization Report No. 

10. Work Unit No. 

9. Performing Organization Name and Address 


NASA Langley Research Center 
Hampton, VA 23665 

11. Contract or Grant No. 


13. Type of Report and Period Covered 

12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Washington, DC 20546 

Technical Memorandum 

14. Sponsoring Agency Code 

15. Supplementary Notes 


16. Abstract 


This paper reviews the historical development of chevron-notched fracture speci- 
mens; it also compares stress-intensity factors and load line displacement solutions 
that have been proposed for some of these specimens. The review covers the original 
bend-bar configurations up to the present day "short" rod and bar specimens. In 
particular, the results of a recent "analytical" round robin that was conducted by an 
ASTM Task Group on Chevron-Notched Specimens are presented. 

In the round robin, three institutions calculated stress-intensity factors for 
either the chevron-notched round-rod or square-bar specimens. These analytical solu- 
tions were compared among themselves, and then among the various experimental solu- 
tions that have been proposed for these specimens. The experimental and analytical 
stress-intensity factor solutions that were obtained from the compliance method 
agreed within 3 percent for both specimens. An assessment of the consensus stress- 
intensity factor (compliance) solution for these specimens is made. 

The stress-intensity factor solutions proposed for three- and four-point bend 
chevron-notched specimens are also reviewed. On the basis of this review, the bend- 
bar configurations need further experimental and analytical calibrations. 


18. Distribution Statement 

Unclassifed - Unlimited 

Subject Category 39 


page) 21, No. of Page* 22. Price 

53 AO 4 


17. Key Words (Suggested by Author(s)) 

Fracture mechanics, stress-intensity factor, 
cracks, finite-element method, boundary- 
element method, crack-opening displacement, 
chevron-notch specimen 

20. Security Classif. (of this 

Unclassified 


19. Security Classif. (of this report) 

Unclassified 


N-305 


For sale by the National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Virginia 22161 
























