DOCUMEST RESUBE 
BD 188 295 Ir 005 179 


AUTHOR Hall, Homer J. 

TITLE User Values in the Selection of Inforrmation Services. 
Final Report. 

INSTITUTION Exxon Research and Engineering Co., Linden, N.J. 

SPONS AGENCY National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C. Div. of 
Science Information. 

REPORT NO EXXON /GERU.1IDK.77 

PUB DATE 15 Feb 77 

CONTRACT NSF C-1027 

NOTE 87p. 


EDRS PRICE MF-$0.83 HC-$4.67 Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS Data Analysis; Decision Saking; Discriminant 
Analysis; *Ewaluation Methods; *Inforegation Services; 
Inforrgjation Utilization; Interaction Process 
Analysis; Matrices; Purchasing; *Selection; 
Semantics; *Use Studies 


ABSTRACT 

The value systeas by which the users of purchased 
information services select which one to use or buy are foun? to 
differ sharply among different user populations, but the variable 
found to control thera is a function of use, not of the user as an 
individual. Selection variables are summarized in a matrix of user 
walues and interaction effects. The researcher prefers original 
documents, and tends to choose subjectively. The operating nanager 
more often stops with abstracts and emphasizes quantifiable factors. 
The planning manager wants a digest of ideas, not references, and 
tends to judge a serwice first as to its reliability. These three 
functions attach entirely different connotations to the same words 
for key parameters. They can be linked to the structure of language: 
operations is the present participle (doing), research concerns the 
verbal adjective (state of the art), and planning is in the 
subjunctive mode (could or should). Apparent conflicts, which may be 
resolved by dimensional analysis of difference in values perceived, 
are illustrated by case histories, interviers, and questionnaire 
results. (Author) 


HORSE EES SEES EEERESEE EHS EEEEEES OE EOE EEEERESEES E984 499444949984 944 448044 
* Documents acquired by ERIC include many informal unpublished * 
* materials not available from other sources. ERIC makes every effort * 
* to obtain the best copy available. Nevertheless, items of marginal * 
* reproducibility are often encountered and this affects the quality * 
* of the microfiche and hardcopy reproductions ERIC gakes available ou 
* via the ERIC Document Reproduction Service (EDRS). EDRS is not * 
* responsible for the quality of the original document. Reproductions * 
* * 
s 


supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made from the original. 
SAK SKE ESE ESS ONEEEEEESEEREEEEEEES OOS SESS HERES OESS EEE EEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEE 


USER VALUES IN THE SELECTION OF INFORMATION SERVICES 


US. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, 
EOUCATION & WELFARE 
MATIONAL INSTITUTE OF 

BOUCATION 


THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REPRO- 
OUCEO EXACTLY AS RECEIVED FROM 
THE PERSON OR ORGANIZATION ORIGIN. 
ATING IT POINTS OF VIEW OR OPINIONS 
STATEO OO NOT NECESSARILY REPRE- 
SENT OFFICIAL NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF 
EOUCAT'ON POSITION OR POLICY 


Contract No.: NSF C-1027 


June 30, 1975 to September 30, 1976 


0148295 


by 
Homer J. Hall 


Exxon Research and Engineering Company 
Government Research Laboratories 
P.O. Box 8 

Linden, New Jersey 07036 


February 15, 1977 


EXXON/GRU.1DK.77 


FOREWORD 


This is a first-year report of research on improvements in the use of scientific and 
technical information (STI) supported by the Division of Science Information (DSN, 
National Science Foundation. It provides a systematic investigation of criteria 
applied in decision-making by a wide variety of individuals who are users or 
managers of purchased information services in the commercial sector of the 
information industry. DSI is interested in criteria for the comparative evaluation 
of information services, including variables that influence cost and those that do 
not. We are supporting research on methods to measure the value of these 
services, as part of our overall program to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the utilization of STI. 


Your suggestions and comments on this report will be appreciated. 


ee G. Burchinal 
Director 
Division of Science Information 


HIGHLIGHTS. ....- 


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .. . . . 


User Populations. ...... ° 
Priorities. « « «© 6 « ee * 6 ° ° 
Environment of the Use-Event. . . e 
Interviews and Questionnaires . oS 
Conflict in Meanings of Key Words ° 
Applications of the Functional Approach 


INTRODUCT ION . . o o . . e e - . . e 
Acknowledgements. . ....++e-s. 


DEF INIT IONS s e 2 . a e e e . « 


Types of Service. ....+22-s 
Selection-Factor Dimensions . . 
User Populations. .....e- 


MATRIX OF VALUE INTERACTIONS. .. 


Priorities in Selection Values. . 
Environment of the Use-Event. ... 
Conflict in Meanings of Key Words . 


CASE HISTORIES IN SELECTION FACTORS 


Initial Purchase of an Expensive Service. 
Selection of the "Approved List". .... 
Special Topic Bulletins .......2e. 
A University Science Library. ...... 
Upgrading the Special Branch Library. . . 


5 . CONCLU S IONS . . . . . . . 


APPENDIX A - PROJECT APPROACH . 


Bias As a Working Tool. ... 
Dimensional Analysis. .... 
Overlapping New Technologies. 
What Will Be Actually Used? . 


APPENDIX B - DEVELOPMENT. . . 


Proposal Postulates .... 
Initial Interviews. .... 

User Population Groups. . . 

Management Viewpoints... ° 

Managers and User/Workers Agree in Function 


APPENDIX C - SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE .. . 


Variables for Analysis. ....+s-. P 
Preliminary Design of Questionnaire . ° 
Vimeal Draft ..sececees sevens . 
Procedure and Initial Results... . ° 


SELECTED RE FERENCES . a7 . . . * . . . . . e 7 s e ° . . . eo 


4 


fii 


LIST OF TABLES 


Summary Matrix of User Values and Interactions. .. 


Conflict in Sets of Meanings for the Same Key Words 
(Pent TRG Ghee wee 8 oe ee ee 


Table 1 - Dimensions in Selection Factors ..... 
Table 2 - User Population Characteristics ..... 
Table Value Priorities According to Function of 


Table Matrix Eupembione < sss 6 ses s 6S 8 


Table Types of Search at Different Stages . 


Table see Summary, page xvi 


Table - 4 Generations of Information Processing . 

Table Discriminating Factors Applied (4 Users). ... 
Table Factors in Selection Between Competing Services 
Table Questionnaire Returns (Raw Data). ....+s««-s 


Questionnaire: User Evaluation of Information 
Services. ... 


LIST OF FIGURES 


A-1 - Relationship Between Idea Value and Development Stage 
A-2 - Growth Rates in Science and Technology. ....... 


A-3 - Growth Rates of Journals and Abstract Journals. ... 


USER VALUES IN THE SELECTION 
OF INFORMATION SERVICES 


HIGHLIGHTS 


Which information service to use, and why? Users' preferences 
among services and their variations from time to time are analyzed in this 
study for the User Requirements Section of NSF. The controlling variable 
was found to be the. function for which processed information is desired: 
for research (how to do things), for planning (what to do), or for informa- 
tion operations (doing things with the information itself). User popula- 
tions which differ in their values for purchased services can be grouped 
according to this use function. The services considered were categorized 
as access tools for direct use, or paid searching, or information analysis 
and evaluation. 


The principal finding of this study is that the value system which 
a given user applies in selecting an information service varies from time 
to time, depending upon use as an event rather thar the user as an 
individual. There is a subtle but distinct difference from the initial 
proposal for this study, which was to identify groups of users who agree and 
disagree and to explore the characteristic patterns of use by which they 
might be distinguished. The identifying variable is useful to a vast 
variety of users: a given person may be acting as a scientist today, a 
searcher tomorrow, and a planner the next afternoon, and the service he 
prefers will depend upon his function at the moment. This functional rela- 
tionship may explain why previous user studies tend to gloss over the 
behavior of the individual, as being an erratic and upredictable unknown. 


Each group of users has its own set of priorities and special 
connotations for variables in the selection process. Workers involved in 
the research/development function (scientist, engineer or patent attorney) 
place high value on subjective factors of service quality or convenience. 
Those involved in information operations (searching or retrieval) are more 
concerned with the quantifiable factors of time, cost, and facilities 
available. Planning (management, staff, or individual) is more judgmental, 
and seeks an individual whose purchased service can be trusted before even 
considering factors of cost or convenience. Managers or users of informa- 
tion services whose function at the moment is research or operations or 
planning may attach quite different connotations to the same key words, 
such as useful information, pertinence vs. relevance, depth vs. breadth, 
timeliness, time, and costs. The result is a conflict in value systems 
which is often unrecognized. 


This basic finding and its implications were developed by direct 
interviews with some 60 individuals. The technique applied was a dimen- 
sional analysis of the factors in the selection process which each user 
considers most important. Selection factors can be grouped in three 
dimensions as quantifiable, qualitative, and judgmental: these are all 
recognized as important by all user groups, but with sharp differences 
in the relative values they perceive. The emphasis on the individual was a 
direct opposite of what some people prefer when they use the "Delphi 
approach" and mask all personal differences in anonymity, to arrive at a 
statistical consensus. Lists of discriminant factors were first prepared in 


interviews with specialists who spend over 50% of their time in information 
research, and expanded to include users who are scientists, engineers, 
attorneys, and planning staff. Each of these populations included four to 

six individuals in the basic group of 30 interviews in--house. Preliminary 
conclusions were augmented and confirmed by interviews with an equal number 

of users and managers of information services in other companies. These 

drew special attention to the experiential and intuitive components in manage- 
ment judgment, as distinct from the quantifiable/rational and qualitative/ 
subjective components in conventional evaluations of cost effectiveness and 
cost /benefits. 


A Matrix diagram is proposed to summarize the diverse effects of 
many factors and interactions in the user's selection process. The major 
variables are entered in matrix rows: selection factors, user populations, 
and types of information service. Sub-element dimensions are expanded in 
separate charts. The columns in the matrix represent how these variables 
are defined by function, how they are perceived by the user, and how they 
interact. One interaction effect is the difference in priorities of dif- 
ferent user groups. Other interactions involve the environment of the use- 
event: user concerns, management concerns, and maturity of the project. 


A questionnaire was developed at the end of the study to examine 
the acceptability of the parameters selected and the definitions proposed 
for them. This was addressed to 89 individuals who consider thenuselves as 
users of information services, out of a random sample of 240 professional 
employees at Exxon. A preliminary analysis of the returns shows significant 
differences between the statistics for research scientists and for engineers. 
Only a third of the engineers had used the published literature to search 
for information durine the year 1975-76, vs. nearly half of the scientists. 
Scientists tend to value the the published information more, and they gave 
a much higher response to the questionnaire. They used or specified more 
services by title during the year and requested many more searches. Perceived 
values were strongly positive for scientists and negative for engineers, in 
preferring original documents versus abstracts, requesting the use of a 
specific service, or asking a known individual to collect the information. 
This preference for a known person was even stronger for searches ordered by 
patent attorneys, who cited it as their primary basis for selecting a service. 
All users agreed that they want to get key references promptly before a fur- 
ther search, and there was a strong vote against expecting the customer who 
gets the information to know how to use a computerized system. It must be 
recognized that these replies were in an environment where information services 
are tailor-made to company interests, and available on request. 


Case histories developed during the study have shown that this 
approach can defuse many areas of potential conflict. The junior staff 
employee need not feel that a management change in his recommendations 
implies a criticism or lack of confidence; a new business which is small 
still needs both a broad view of information for corporate planning and 
specific details for R&D; the information specialist in a small 
library may be valued most for non-computerizable skills in upgrading the 
input to the system, not as a paid searcher. It was possible in each of 
these cases to detect points of view which could be easily recognized by 
parties who had been in disagreement, as different but not opposites. 
Accepting these as a valid basis for joint action avoided the destructive 
effects of a forced choice between them. 


vi 


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 


Improvements in the dissemination and use of scientific and 
technical information have created a growth industry of competing informa- 
tion services whose survival depends upon users and customers. Users 
differ, and the value systems by which they decide which service to select 
at a given time are a complex function of identifiable variables and 
relationships. The present study has been conducted for the User 
Requirements section of the NSF* to explore two questions: who wants to 
use what services, and how does the user decide? 


Different groups of users are found to differ sharply in the 
priorities they assign to major variables in the selection process. A 
primary goal of this study is to help each user to identify his or her 
own patterns of use. Related goals are to explore weaknesses in the 
user's methods of selection and where to look for help, to recognize 
others whose points of view are similar or different, and to benefit 
more readily from shared experience as a result. This is an analysis 
of controlling variables from the viewpoint of the user, as distinct 
from that of the designers or vendors of services who have contributed 
most of the literature on the subject. Field of coverage is an important 
variable but it is excluded from this study by definition, since if 
there is only one service in a given field there is no competition. 


The selection between services is seen as a dynamic process, 
in which each user can assign his (her) own values to the factors involved. 
These value judgments can change for the same person for each use event, 
depending on the environment of use, the type of service, and the 
function for which the information is desired. It is necessary for this 
discussion to give clear and arbitrary definitions to a set of basic 
terms: 


STI - the whole gamut of recorded scientific and technical 
information, and associated access tools. 


Purchased information service - a commercial enterprise 
providing its users and customers with processed 
information, which saves them from having to get it 
from original sources. 


User - the one who selects whi.h information service to 
buy or use and works directly with the service selected, 
so choice is based on personal experience. 

* National Science Foundation Division of Science Information (formerly 
NSF/OSIS) Contract C-1027 with Exxon Research and Engineering Company, 
on "Improvements in the Dissemination and Use of Scientific and 
Technical Information" funded June 30, 1975; Homer J. Hall, 

Principal Investigator. (retired, December 1976) 


Customer - the one who pays for the information supplied, 
directly or indirectly, but may not have any part in 
the use of the service or in the selection process. 


User population - an identifiable group of users who have the 
same basic needs and values for information services. The 
difference lies in what function the user is exercising at 
a given time: the same individual may be functioning as a 
scientist today, a searcher tomorrow, and a planner the 
next afternoon. 


User populations and some of their characteristic similarities 
and differences have been examined in this study by interviews with 60 
known users or managers of information services, half of them within ER&E 
and half outside. This included a strong program of field discussions and 
conferences during formative stages, to test and refine the preliminary 
results. Conclusions drawn on this basis were then checked by question- 
naire, based on a 240-name random sample of professional employees at ER&E 
who are potential users of purchased services. 


A Matrix diagram is shown which summarizes the differences observed 
in user values and their interaction effects. The major variables for analysis 
are presented in the matrix rows, as selection factors, user populations, and 
types of information service. The matrix columns represent how these variables 
are defined, how they are perceived by the user, and how they interact. 


There are many discriminant factors which can be considered 
significant in the selection process. Initial interviews suggested that 
these can all be categorized as quantifiable, qualitative, or judgmental. 
Variables in each of these dimensions are so linked that they tend to move 
together in any change or comparison. For example, data on cost, time, 
physical facilities, or personnel can be considered as one such group, in 
the dimension of quantifiable factors. That is to say, any circumstance 
which has a major effect on cost, time, facilities, or staff requirements 
is likely to have some effect on other variables in the same group. This 
concept of dimensions in evaluation is taken from earlier studies on the 
value of research projects. 


A second dimension which is well recognized includes the whole 
gamut of qualitative factors that cannot be measured exactly but which 
can be handled by the technique of subjective ranking. The exact names 
given to such information service concepts as convenience, flexibility 
or responsiveness are hard to define, but they tend to be interrelated 
and move together when any one of them is significantly changed. 


The decision process also involves factors of judgment which 
can have a yes/no answer. Judgment is a function of management, and the 
manager may be the same person as the user Or someone else. The judgmental 
dimension is hard to argue with, based on neither numerical facts nor 
subjective rankings alone but a "common sense" blend of these with intuition, 
based on experience. Reputation, suitability or future prospects often 
involve a major contribution from the judgment of other managers. Outside 
of management these factors are often deferred to others and then taken 
for granted. 


MATRIX OF USER VALUES AND INTERACTIONS 


Variables* 


Parameters Defined as 


Selection-Factor Dimensions 


Quantifiable Budget/costs 
Qualitative Convenience 
Judgmental Reputation 


User Populations 


Scientist, engineer, R/D function 
attorney 

Searcher, Info operations 
information analyst 

Manager Planning function 


Purchased Information Services 


Access tools Self-service 
Searching Pre-defined questions 
Analysis Optimized during search 


Perceived Values Interaction Effects 


Rational 
Subjective 
Intuitive 


Users' Priorities 


Wants 
Originals 


Abstracts 
abs + orig 


Evaluation 
Environment of use 


User-worker concerns 
Management concerns 


Impersonal Maturity of project 


Intermediary 
Highly individual 


* Variables as listed are typical, not all-inclusive 


The specific factors listed are typical of many others. The 
important point is that dimensions in the selection process can be 
recognized, regardless of the exact names associated with them, and that 
they can be used to characterize parts of the selection process. The 
dimensional approach has the advantage that the categories named are 
complementary, not opposites, and therefore less likely to leave holes 
in the matrix. 


The literature on the relative importance of user-selection 
factors is biased at this point, since it depends largely on who wrote 
what. Articles which emphasize the importance of cost tend to be written 
by vendors, including in-house managers, who have a service to sell. 

Both are continually asking in the literature for cost data from others 

to compare with their own. Other authors examine cost/benefit relation- 
ships that include subjective factors. This viewpoint is characteristic 
of the social scientist. The judgmental approach is commonly recognized 
in journals of industrial management but it can be anathema to the “purely 
rational person" who prefers budget numbers and considers even cost/benefit 
ratios as a compromise. These strong differences in priorities and points 
of view tend to confirm the validity of using the dimensions chosen, as 
separate factors in the decision process. This is not to say that any one 
user of services will base his choice entirely on one set of values -- all 
of them are important. What it does say is that while the same variables 
apply to all users, they are differently perceived. 


User Populations 


The central feature of the matrix comprises three groups of user 
populations which can be distinguished by function and how they use the 
information supplied. This distinction is shown by whether the informa- 
tion they most want to have "hands-on" is original documents, selected 
abstracts and references, or evaluated overviews. First is the research 
function which includes scientists, engineers, and patent attorneys, profes- 
sional men whose information need is for original documents, but for 
different reasons. The scientist wants to study and compare different 
sets of original data, or the methods by which they were obtained. The 
engineer wants a single set of reliable data and the conditions held 
constant to obtain them, but not all the data there are. The attorney 
drafting a patent or a new agreement needs the complete and exact wording 
of selected originals, but is less concerned about data. 


The information operation of searching (or the individual who 
is acting as a paid searcher and not as a scientist or as a manager) is 
frequently satisfied to stop with an abstract or reference by title only. 
This identifies useful source documents and where to find them, but does 
not require their physical production. 


Planning as a function of management may be delegated more or less 
completely to planning staff or to others. Planning prefers an overview or 
information digest, for the selection of target areas. Typically pressed for 
time, the planner wants immediate access to all available viewpoints and 
suggestions on how to evaluate them, to decide which ones to pursue. He is 
looking for ideas and is less concerned at the moment with originals, or 


where to find them. 


=~ 


Priorities 


The simplistic statement for any user who has a rhoice is that 
he wants "the best service he can afford, for a given use." This dif- 
cerence in function depends upon the specific use event, rather than 
emphasizing the variable needs of a given individual. Inte--iews with 
users in different populations suggested completely different priorities 
in these relationships:. 


- The research scientist/engineer chooses fix~st of all the 
service he finds most convenient to use. de accepts 
the judgment of a manager as to what systems to consider, 
but he pays little attention to the quantifiable factors 
of cost, time, or facilities as long as the systems avail- 
able give him the answers he needs. 


- The planning staff or manager makes a first choice on 
whether the service in question is reliable and “suits 
our way of doing things.” He has to consider budgets 
on all the quantifiable factors, but may include 
qualitative factors only after he has ruled out services 
which he finds unreliable or too expensive. 


- The literature on information operations emphasizes cost, 
time, and all the quantifiable factors a vendor must 
control to keep his customers. Qualitative factors may 
be recognized in cost/benefit studies, but somewhat 
grudgingly because they cannot be accurately measured. 
Judgment as a separate dimension is not so clearly 
recognized in the literature on information services as 
it is in discussions on business management. 


It must be emphasized that these “priorities” are all relative 
values, not absolute. Cost data, for example, appear to be less signi- 
ficant to the scientist than convenience or reliability: this is not to 
say that cost data can be ignored, but only that the scientist is more 
likely than the vendor or manager to put other factors ahead of cost. 


Purchased services from which any user may select fall into 
three major categories: 


- access tools for direct use, at all levels of complexity. 
These include indexes, abstracting services, and computer 
data bases in routine use. 


- a purchased service that does searching for known facts, 
where the question is defined before the search begins; 


- a service for information analysis, where the user pays 


someone else both to find and to analyze the information 
available. 


13 


The same information services, even the most sophisticated 
ones, may be used for self-help, for paid searching, or for information 
analysis: the difference lies in the user, and how the information 
tools and services are applied. In general, the information analyst 
is applying a higher level of skills than in searching alone, because 
the analyst must understand the technical language of the literature and 
the customer's needs, as well as the inner workings of the searching 
procedures used. 


Environment of the Use-Event 


Interactions with the environment of user concerns, management 
concerns, and speci‘ic project are an active part of the selection process, 
where the three types of service defined differ significantly in their effects. 
The routine use of an index or abstracting service is perceived as impersonal 
and for this the user/worker will accept any competent assistance. The user 
who is buying a literature search is more concerned, to be sure that the 
intermediary employed understands the points agreed upon in negotiating the 
question. The user who has asked for information analysis paying someone 
to think for him. This is a highly individual matter involving the user's 
self-esteem, and he wants to know exactly who the analyst is. 


Personal impacts are high in a situation where the user feels 
that he is applying his highest skills. This interacts with user function: 
research is concerned with finding gaps or inconsistencies; the searcher 
is concerned with completing the reference file; the planner may consider 
one of his essential tasks as browsing in selected sources to find useful 
results from another field. In whatever area each user considers critical 
he is likely to insist on the services of a person he feels he can trust, 
or he may reject any such help as undesirable interference and do this part 
of the work himself. 


Other impacts of the environment include both limitations on 
the user and positive effects. A guiding principle here is Mooer's law, 
which says that the user of information tends to avoid any action which 
gives him pain. For example, freedom of choice can be sharply restricted 
by limited authority for cost approvals. Within the user's limits of 
approval, the "free vs. fee" argument may impose a forced cost decision 
on users whose value system would always place convenience or quality first. 
Their skills in the budget/cost area may be so poor that a forced choice 
is arbitrary or capricious, ignoring cost/benefit trade-offs which they 
normally defer to someone else. Conversely, utilization may be improved 
by setting up for the user clearly defined blocks of services for which 
approval for him is free, or easy to get, or more difficult for special 
situations. 


Another user concern is the capability of the individual to 
use the information supplied. This is not the same thing as knowing how 
to use the service, nor does it mean that he is actually going to use it. 
It helps to avoid overkill or answering the wrong question. Information 


can be tested out in many ways, say by computer modelling or by discussion. 
The point is that the selection and use of information is easiest and most 
effective in areas within the user's experience. Personal interest and 
self-esteem may lead the user to invent reasons for trying the newest and 
most sophisticated techniques, as part of the learning process. Values in 
such a case accrue in actual use, not potential use, as witnessed by the 
experience of firms who overbought on computers as a status symbol. 


In an information operation where performance standards are main- 
tained, accuracy and completeness may be taken for granted. This is not 
always true, and where it is not these parameters quickly become vital. 
Vulnerability to poor data or negative information varies with the specific 
use: it is high for a quick answer taken at face value. Even unreliable 
results which are properly reported may be valuable in research for detect- 
ing a result which seems out of line. This can be a nuisance in searching 
and even more so in planning, unless the uncertainty itself is important. 

A definite lack of concern for the scientific quality of information applies 
to certain operations of the planner surveying a new field, who wants the 
widest variety of points of view available. He is not necessarily concerned 
with whether a new viewpoint comes from a scientist or a tabloid columnist. 
The tabloid bias may be just as important t:, him, if he wants to examine 
this bias and use it in planning his own work. 


Management concerns are a major element in determining the 
environment of use. Choices in this area are a matter of individual 
style, as much as company policy: the manager who values the informa- 
tion approach allows extra time for it where the manager who is 
unsympathetic may not. There are other such concerns which apply to 
information as a whole, as well as to the use of purchased services as 
one means of obtaining it: 


- are individual efforts and team work both encouraged? 
- is innovation desirable or a threat to established lines? 
- is a quick answer or no answer an acceptable response? 


- is any premium allowed for quality of information? 


- are benefits realized in this project expected to help 
support other information services, or vice versa? 


The maturity of the specific project bears directly on how 
much information Is needed and what type of service will supply it. 
Breadth of coverage, detail, and when to stop are interactive decisions 
which apply at all stages of urgency and justifiable expense. Basic research, 
patenting, and market development may all benefit from a state of the art 
review. A novelty search is more specific, once a project has been 
defined. Project negotiations or contracts must define and clarify those 
aspects of the new development that someone is willing to pay for. The 
over-riding question of liability has grown far beyond the caveats of 
business law, in response to government demands by such agencies as the 
EPA and FDA. Complete evaluation, best available technology, and 
environmental impact statements represent a significant part of the 
present total demand for information services. 


Interviews and Questionnaires 


Initial interviews with the major users of information services 
confirmed the concept of dimensions in selection factors, and identifiable 
user populations as a reason for differences in the values they perceive. 
Further interviews to identify additional variables and their interactions 
surveyed the pattern of selection for specific populations of informatior 
searchers, patent attorneys, a university library, and the users of a small 
branch library. 


A more detailed questionnaire was developed to explore the 
characteristics of the user populations identified, and improve the defini- 
tion of acceptable terms. This was designed as an opinion survey for use 
in hand, with written definitions, to decrease the effects of the variable 
bias of the investigator during interviews. It was addressed to a random 
sample of 240 named individuals picked from the professional employees at 
ER&E. In this sample 130 individuals were located at the engineering 
research center, 90 in laboratory research and 20 in smaller groups such 
as information specialists or patents. These sub-sets represent 10-20% 
of the employees sampled. The list was then checked or a telephone call 
was made to ask: have you during the past full year (1975-1976) done any 
searching in the published literature apart from reading current journals, 
either yourself or by asking someone else to conduct a search for you? 

A questionnaire for this survey was sent to a total of 89 who were known 
as users or who thus identified themselves. This 4-page form took an 
average of 15 minutes to respond. 


The initial query showéd that 49 of the 130 engineers use available 
literature services to search for information versus 81 who search only in 
company sources or current journals. This ratio is nearly 1 to 2 and the 
same ratio for research was 40 to 50 or near 1 to l. The greater interest 
of the researchers in information services is reflected in responses 
received, which was 38 out of 40 from research versus 32 out of 49 from 
engineering. Similar trends appear in the average number of searches made 
during the year, which was about 2 for the engineers and over 4 for research. 
The same applies to familiarity with different information services; a 
check list by title of those used at least once during this period showed 
an average of one for the engineers, and three or more for research. 


Values perceived by these two groups were ranked on a 5-point 
scale (vital, yes, neutral, not needed and prefer not). The weighted 
average was strongly positive for research and negative for engineers 
on the use of originals versus abstracts, using known services, and 
asking a known individual to collect the information. Both groups agreed 
(90 vs. 80%) that it is important to get key references promptly, before 
any further search. Both ranked completeness in a search ahead of accuracy, 
the engineers a little more so. The strongest agreement was on two ques- 
tions with heavily negative response and 10-20% of the total as "prefer not," 
for the importance of knowing exact dollar costs to compare services and 
for the user/customer himself to know how to use computerized information 
systems. 


These replies are in an environment where information services 
are available upon request and an abstract service tailor-made to company 
interest is distributed to all employees. Without this bias, it is felt 
that the ratio for originals vs, abstracts would be even stronger for 
research. Different rankings might also be expected on some factors, 
e€.g-, Om accuracy vs. completness. Further inspection in this particular 
sample showed that the only engineers who preferred originals were 3 
men out of 33 respondees who had come into engineering from 4 background 
in research. 


Conflict in Meanings of Key Words 


A major conclusion of this study is the completely different 
connctations which different groups of users attach to the same key 
words. A functional approach to this semantic problem is shown in 
Table 6. 


Timeliness of information has a special meaning for R/D, namely, 
information produced at the right time - neither too early nor too late. 
This may create special values for a redundant service which can produce 
pertinent information recently current, but not yet adequately covered in 
the comprehensive abstract/index systems. 


The manager of R/D makes a basic choice as to the amount of time 
he will allow for the use of -information, frequently about 10-20% of total 
project time, as distinct from going out in the laboratory or the field to 
get more data. The choice is labor~intensive, depending on competing 
values for the worker's time. It may be changed little if any by a high- 
powered new service which produces more information in less time but 
requires more time fr proper analysis. There is a strong consensus that 
the time devoted to more effective services is essentially subtracted 
from less effective sources of information. 


Priorities in selection for research are addressed to details in 
pertinent references, having a clear stress on a definite concept or request. 
The search can stop when you get the answer, or new targets may be defined. 
Dependable quality as a resource material is a primary concern. Costs and 
cost/benefits are applied separately to each project. 


work flow to keep the information system operating uses 100% of 
the time available, for the workers and managers concerned. This is split 
between routine operations and output. The operation is labor-intensive, 
with a strong component of indirect costs to maintain the system. 


Timeliness for operations is measured in terms of prestated time 
schedules to get new items out, and how dependable this production schedule 
is for the user. The schedule times which are frequently most important to 
the user are the earliest date when he might get the information, and the 
latest date to which this may slip when things go wrong. These can be much 
more significant than the average time, which the operators of the system 
might prefer as a measure of performance. 


17 


Table 6 


Conflict in Sets of Meanings for the Same Key Words 


Parameters of Connotations for Different Functions of Use 
Valve to the User for R/D Function for Information Operations for Planning Function 


Useful how to do things, or what accessible output; target selection, what to do; 
information not to do; knowledge work flow, doing insight 


Specificity pertinent to specific target cover all good sources relevant to target areas 


"Hands-on" access all pertinent originals abstracts and references digest of points of view 
Depth vs breadth details, on selected items breadth of coverage breadth of view, not details 
Timeliness not too early, not too late at the time promised immediately, on demand 


Total tume 10-20% (info. vs lab) 100% (routine + output) elapsed time to deadline 
allowed 


Attitude toward cautious, subtracts from promote multiple uses, if it provides answers needed, 
new facilities total time available to lower unit costs worth what it costs 


Cost factors per item charged, justify overall program, total costs: time is costly; 


labor-intensive labor > capital capital > labor 


Many of the same parameters appiy to the manager of a commercial 
information service and the manager of an in-house information system. 
Both seek to optimize the use of special new facilities which increase 
their capability for special projects, and in general encourage multiple 
uses for the same item. Their priorities in the selection of information 
tend to emphasize breadth of coverage, according to preseribed standards 
of output, so as not to miss a good reference. If a choice must be made, 
it may be more important to cover all sources and not all details. The 
work output frequently stops with references and abstracts, and biblio- 
graphic coverage may be enough. A preferred criterion of success for 
future demands is not the total output, but how much of it is actually 
used. Cost justification and cost efficiencies are examined for all 
items in the program, and cost benefits are considered in general for the 
whole operation, rather than for single items. 


Planning is strict on elapsed time, and ignores or places a heavy 
discount on information received after the decision has been made. Back- 
ground information is selected for relevance, a traceable or logical 
connection to the area concerned, and cannot stop with pertinence to a 
single point. The planner will use whatever sources he needs and can 
find within the time allowed, and often has well-developed sources for 
information outside the published literature. Within this time frame, 
costly special services may be justified as a capital expenditure, worth 
what it costs. 


Timeliness of information for planning is measured in terms of 
speed, to meet special requests. This involves current operations. It 
frequently benefits from previously prepared document collections, vertical 
files, or abstracts preselected for browsing in areas of interest. These 
are available for immediate use on demand, to seek information relevant to 
projects being planned. Speed is essential to relevance. 


Priority in the selection of useful information is addressed to 
overview, not details. The planner wants a collection of different 
points of view for looking at his problem, and is particularly interested 
in methods for evaluating the information available. The potential value 
of a given information service for future reference depends in part of 
the reliability with which it can be expected to present a specific point 
of view. Repeat business typically requests the work of a known 
individual. The planner is extremely conscious of total costs; time is 
worth money as a part of the total project. Long-range planning towards 
areas of future interest rather than immediate projects may be less 


stringent on the time scale, but is equally concerned with the evaluation 
of sources and points of view. 


The principal point in Table 6 is that the differences observed are 
linked to function: they are not completely random as to the individual. 
Thus, relevance and over-view tend to relate to planning, where pertinence and 
detail are of more interest in research. These linkages can help to reduce 
semantic confusion. Note again that in this comparison as elsewhere we are 
considering only relative values, not absolutes. 


Function as here defined has to do with the structure of language: 


information operations are concerned with doing, the present active participle. 
The research/development function is concerned with how to do, the art or 


xvii 


20 


developing state of the art of the patent attorney. Planning’ management 
is concerned with target evaluation or what to do, which can be considered 
the subjunctive mode of might or could or should. The engineer who con- 
siders himself a builder and not a researcher may prefer to define the 
three functions as scientist/engineer/manager rather than research/opera- 
tions/planning, and the table can be read just as well with these terms 

as column headings. The differences observed appear to be real and 
characteristic, regardless of which labels are applied. 


Applications of the Functional Approach 


In practice, this approach has helped to defuse areas of apparent 
conflict in assessing information needs. Specific examples are cited. 
Junior staff could see that a management change in decision based on 
additional aspects of information may not at all represent a lack of 
confidence. In a small business situation, management could allow for 
the information priorities of both scientists and planners, corresponding 
to their real differences in function. The patent attorney has a strong 
component of planning (target selection) in the use of information, and the 
patent searcher he likes and trusts is the one who gets his business. For 


an abstract service, the opinions of the searcher on the importance of 
access to originals may be easier to obtain than those of the scientist, 


but they are not the same. For a special library with limited staff 


serving all three functions (research, operations, and planning) a marked 
improvement in the service to one may result in a definite loss in 
service to the others, unless an improvement can be made in them as well. 
In this case a review of user values has identified a "non-computerizable" 
skill as the ability of the staff to upgrade the input to the system, by 
checking the originals of documents selected from the incomplete informa- 
tion found in titles and abstracts. 


This study is concerned with the value preferences of the user 
of information services, the individual scientist or engineer or person 
from other populations who wants to use the published literature for more 
than current reading. It is not directed to those who don't care. Most 
scientific and technical information systems are not used solely for 
research or for planning or for service functions, and most users are not 
purely rational or subjective or judgmental. The person least sensitive 
to the cost effectiveness of dimensions in value other than his own may be 
one who thinks his system could become all things to all people, if it 
could only get enough support. The selection and optimization of a service 
requires an awareness of the varied ways in which it will be valued by dif- 
ferent users. Differences in points of view may be more readily resolved 
when they are recognized as multi-dimensional, and not necessarily as 
opposites. 


1. INTRODUCTION 


The rapid expansion of information research services has created 
an industry that tends to be ingrown, with users and producers who are their 
own best customers. The number of such services is well over a thousand 
and continually growing. Many of these services are directly competitive, 
and it is increasingly difficult for the potential user to know which 
service to select for a specific use. 


This report is a study of the selection process by which different 
groups of users decide to buy or use different information services, for 
searching in the published literature. It has been conducted for the 
National Science Foundation, Division of Science Information (formerly 
NSF/OSIS) under Contract Number C-1027, as a part of the larger current NSF 
project on "Improvements in the Dissemination and Use of Scientific and 
Technical Information (STI)." 


The postulate proposed and developed herein is that there are 
identifiable groups of users with different types of needs who differ in 
how and why they choose one type of service over another, in STI and 
related fields. The characteristic value systems applied by different 
users in this selection process are not the same, depending on variables 
which can be defined by dimensional analysis. The results obtained confirm 
this thesis, with the subtle but significant difference that the identifying 
variables relate more to use as an event than to the user as an individual. 


A matrix constructed to represent these variables and patterns 
in use provides a convenient means to explore their similarities, differences, 
and linkages between them. This matrix of user-value systems was developed 
on the basis of individual interviews with some 30 regular users of purchased 
information services in various divisions of the Contractor, Exxon Research 
and Engineering Company. It was then tested and refined by interviews 
with an equal number of managers and users of information services in other 
companies. This checking with outside sources was stipulated in the project 
scope of work, as an expanded program to disseminate the results obtained. 
A questionnaire was developed and tested at the end of the study to examine 
the acceptability of the parameters selected and the definitions proposed 
for them. Preliminary test results and suggested modifications are discussed. 


This is the first-year report in a proposed two-year project. The 
objective for the second year will be to examine the factors involved in the 
success of systems and services for information analysis. Interacting 
relationships to be explored include’the effects of location (the information 
analysis center), of personnel (the analyst and the user/customer), of 
procedure (the analysis), and personal impacts in both directions between them. 
The plan for the second year includes individual interviews and case histories 
of a number of such systems. 


As a matter of policy, no identification is published herein of 
the exact sources of the individual opinions and experiences reported. 


22 


Acknowledgements 


This study has benefited throughout from the supervision of 
Ms. Helene Ebenfield, Technical Monitor, and Joel Goldhar, Program Director 
for the User Requirements Section of NSF/DSI, and from critical reviews 
by Messrs. Isidor Kirshenbaum and Ben Weil of Exxon Research and Engineering 
Company. Particularly helpful comments have been received from an Oversight 
Review Committee including Ms. Gloria Cohen, Madeline Henderson, and 
Messrs. Ed Bartkus, Walter Grattidge, and Homer Sarasohn, managers of 
information operations or departments at G. D. Searle, the National 
Bureau of Standards, DuPont, General Electric and IBM. 


The correlations and conclusions in this report represent a 
systematic study of conflicting opinions from some 60 users of information 
services. Their willing cooperation ‘o explore and define areas of 
agreement and disagreement is gratefully acknowledged. The questions they 
were asked to consider were provocative or even controversial, and it is 
fully recognized that there are some misunderstandings which may have been 
overlooked or left unresolved. These are the sole responsibility of the 
author: it is hoped that they will stimulate further discussion. 


ae ee 


2. DEFINITIONS 


The purpose of this study is to provide a guide for the user of 
scientific and technical information services, to help him/her* identify 
his patterns of use and needs. It is addressed to the user who has decided 
to invest time or money for information services, and who wants to select 
from all the services available those which will meet his own requirements. 
It explores the value systems observed by different groups of users in the 
process of such selections, so that each can identify others whose points 
of view are similar or different, to benefit more directly from shared 
experience. The study excludes by definition a choice based on field of 
coverage alone: if there is only one service that covers a given field 
there is no choice, and it gets all the business. Usually, if not always, 
there is some alternative route, and therefore a choice between competitors. 


The literature on the evaluation of information systems is beset 
by semantic confusion, with conflicting or contradictory definitions for 
the same key words. Much of this literature has been addressed to the design 
and performance of a given system or service, where our concern is the 
chotce between services. It is necessary for the purposes of this study to 
give clear and arbitrary definitions to a set of basic terms: 


The user we are considering may be anyone who is selecting an 
information service; he may be a scientist, an engineer, a library 
searcher, or an information analyst. In centers where these services are 
readily available, it may be unusual for the same person to be both "user" 
and customer (the one who is asking for information); more often the "user" 
is collecting information at least in part for someone else. "Purchased" 
requires that the service be commercially available and therefore viable, 
on the market either as a service to order or one readily available to many 
users. Such a service provides processed information, which saves the user 
from having to dig it directly out of original sources. Our study is 
directed specifically to scientific and technical information; similar 
principles may apply to other areas of knowledge with different parameters, 
e.g-, for time or the nature of data. 


Types of Service 


Purchased services from which any user may select fall into three 
major categories: 


- access tools which the user can use himself, at all levels 
of complexity. These include indexing and abstracting services, 
or computer data bases used for routine retrieval. 


* With due apologies for the English language, "he" will be used herein- 
after to include "she" or "they"; "hers" is included with "his" or 
"their"; "himself" equals "herself" or "themselves", etc. 


24 


«ke 


- paid searching for known facts, where the question is 
defined before the search begins. 


a service for information analysis, where the user pays 
someone both to find and to analyze the information 
available. 


The distinction here is that in "searching" the question is 
pre-defined. Definition may be a lengthy process, but any change in the 
question once agreed upon is considered as a new search. It is also only 
a search for facts, or references, not the evaluation of facts. Asa 
corollary of this, a commercial service which does such searching may 
state that any searcher on the staff, with proper training, can accept 
an incoming question and come up with the same answer. The customer for 
a search may get all the original literature and references, or he may 
make selections from a search report (bibliography) and request specific 
items. The customer does his own evaluating, either way, or arranges to 
have it done as a separate step after the search is completed. 


"Information analysis" introduces a new set of interactions that 
go beyond searching: the user continuously redefines the question by 
analyzing the information being obtained. "What is...?" can be a simple 
or complicated search; "What if..." is quite different, and requires a 
different level of personal or staff ability and experience. This may 
involve conferring with the customer, or the user may do all the analysis 
and supply only a digested product. The same information services, even 


the most sophisticated ones, may be used either for searching or for infor- 
mation analysis: the difference lies in the user, and how the information 
tools and services are applied at this specific time. In any case, the 
information analyst is applying a higher level of skills than in searching 
alone, because the analyst must understand the technical language of the 
literature and the customer's needs, as well as the inner workings of the 
searching procedures used. 


The value system which the user applies can be viewed as a set 
of interactions which determine what group of factors he considers most 
important in his selection of services. Principal parameters in the 
decision process are the selection factors preferred, the type and function 
of use, and the type of services. 


Selection-Factor Dimensions 


A dimensional approach to this complex system is recommended. 
There are a large number of discriminant factors which can be considered 
significant in the selection process. As a first step in this development 
these can all be categorized in three dimensions, as quantifiable, 
qualitative, or judgmental. This type of dimensional analysis is based 
on previous studies of multivariant systems for the evaluation of projects 
in research (see Appendix A). The idea is to group variables which are so 
linked that they tend to move together in any change or comparison. 
The list in Table 1 suggests that cost, time, physical facilities and 
personnel can be considered as one such group, in the dimension of 


Table 1 


Dimensions in Selection Factors 


(Aside from Area of Coverage) 


Quantifiable Costs - Direct Cost/efficiency, 
(numeric) - indirect Cost /benefits 


Comp leteness Fields, numbers, % 


Time Entry into text or 
index 
Retrieval speed 
Timeliness 


Qualitative Appearance 
(ranking) Uniformity 
Convenient access 


Flexibility Depth can be varied 


Responsiveness Change priorities, 
Accept suggestions 


Feedback To/from user 


Feeling aspects "I like it" 
Public relations 


Management Judgment Reput ation “Our way of doing things' 
(yes/no) Past recommendations 


Viability Will it work? 
Will, it last? 


Consistency Dependable bias 


=§- 


quantifiable factors. That is to say, any circumstance which has a major 
effect on cost, time, facilities, or staff requirements is likely to have 
some effect on other variables in the same group. 


The background of Table 1 is explained in Appendix B. Initial 
interviews with a few major users of information services developed a list 
of discriminant factors which they consider as practical criteria in select- 
ing between services preferred. Examination of these lists showed that the 
factors tabulated were all quantifiable, but there was always a column of 
comments which were not. Entries by different users for specific services 
showed quite good agreement for the quantifiable factors, but not in the 
comments. These were different for each user, or for the same user for 
different uses. Most of the comments refer to a second dimension which is 
well recognized as the whole gamut of qualitative factors that cannot be 
measured exactly, but which can be handled by the technique of subjective 
ranking. The exact names given to different factors or relationships in 
this group are harder to handle than the fact that so many of them tend to 
be interrelated, and to move together when any of them is significantly 
changed. Differences and relationships between quantitative and qualitative 
factors are frequently recognized in the design and optimization of infor- 
mation systems. One such statement is that if you can completely structure 
the input to the system (the definition of user needs), then you can structure 
the output (what type of service or report will meet these needs) and the 
qualitative aspect tends to vanish as a variable (see Appendix B). Stated 
differently, if you can give the customer a product he likes and wants to 
use, he doesn't care too much about other aspects of quality. 


The decision process is not based just on facts and personal 
preferences, however. There is an elusive element of judgment or "common 
sense" which is not either quantitative or qualitative. Eloquent testimony 
on this can be offered by many a development engineer who is baffled when 
management has turned down a pet project that looked good on paper. Manage- 
ment judgment tends to be a yes/no answer. This judgmental dimension is hard 
to argue with; it is based on neither numerical facts nor subjective rankings 
alone, but on a blend of these with intuition, based on experience. The 
evaluation of reputation, suitability or future prospects often involves a 
major contribution from the judgment of other managers. It is harder to 
define and is less often discussed in the literature on information systems 
than either cost or cost/efficiencies/benefits, but perhaps this is only 
because it is so often deferred to others and then taken for granted (see 
Appendix B). 


Quantitative and qualitative variables can be characterized as 
rational and subjective. After consultation with behavioral analysts, the 
dimension of business judgment was recognized as correspondingly "intuitive." 
The dimensional approach on this basis has the advantage that the categories 
named are complementary, not opposites; it is therefore less likely to leave 
holes in the Matrix of values and interactions. 


The list of selection factors in Table 1 is by no means all- 
inclusive. It carefully avoids some obvious words such as "reliability," 
which could be put several places but with quite different meanings. Many 
discriminating factors (such as completeness or accuracy) have effects in 
several dimensions. As these effects were examined more critically during 
the study, it appeared that the special meanings or implications attached 


24 


to key words (such as timeliness or intended use) are a characteristic part 
of the distinction between different groups of users. The starting point 
is that dimensions in the selection process can be recognized, regardless 
of the exact names associated with them, and that they can be used to 
characterize parts of the selection process. 


The literature on the evaluation of information is biased, at 
this point. Part of the problem is semantic. As a point of departure, 
each author tends to invent some new word or attach a limited special 
meaning to an old one. Such articles are often contradictory, reflecting 
strong individual points of view. Much of this literature is written by 
the purveyors of information services who emphasize their concern with 
matters of cost, or by system managers concerned with the value of time. 
These groups agree with each other on the importance of cost, however, 
although other users may not. There is a basic reason for this: both are 
in a sense vendors who must sell their time and services to someone else 
to stay in business. 


This information-evaluation literature seems to have started with 
heavy emphasis on factors of cost (1), changing gradually over the years 
to include cost/effectiveness and cost/benefit factors (2-7, 8). These 
are progressively more difficult to quantify, because they involve subjective 
elements (9). Many authors have recognized and bemoaned the problems of 
evaluating complex variables containing both objective and subjective elements 
which cannot be exactly measured (10). The total number of factors recogniz- 


able in the selection between services can be expanded almost at will: a 
recent checklist recognizes 144 of them, under 7 different headings. Many 
of these are closely linked, however, and they are not stated as independent 
variables (11, 12). Judgmental statements tend to be kept out of the open 
literature or to be phrased vaguely, in general terms, regardless of how 
important they may be in the decision process (10). 


User Populations 


Identifiable groups of users are found to differ sharply in the 
value systems they apply, in deciding what services to select for a given 
use. The grouping of selection factors into dimensions tends to be con- 
firmed by parallel differences in their appeal to different user populations. 
This study started with selected heavy users of scientific and technical 
information and services for access to it. Those interviewed included 
scientists, engineers, patent attorneys, information searchers and analysts, 
planning staff and managers. These user populations can be conveniently 
grouped into three categories, as suggested in Table 2, on the basis of 
whether the information they most frequently want to have "hands-on" for 
their own use is original documents, selected references (by title or 
abstract), or evaluated overviews. The identifying characteristic proposed 
to distinguish broadly between them is their function in the use of 
information: for R/D, for information operations, or for planning. 


- 8 - 


Table 2 


User Population Characteristics 


Typical Preference for 
User Populations "Hands-On" Access Special Concerns 


Research Function 


Scientist all pertinent originals reasons for differences 


Engineer representative originals data, design details 


Patent Attorney highly selected originals exact wording 


Information Operations 


Searcher references requested coverage pre-defined 
Information Analyst selected as relevant optimized during search 


Planning Function 


Planning staff all viewpoints evaluation methods 


Manager (planning) overview of field 2 reliability of elements 


i as 


Users concerned primarily with the research function include 
scientists, engineers, and attorneys. These are professional men whose 
information need is for original documents, although for quite different 
reasons. The scientist frequently wants to study and compare different 
sets of original data, or the methods by which they were obtained. The 
engineer usually wants a single set of reliable data, not all the data 
that there are. The attorney drafting a patent application or a new 
agreement needs the complete and exact wording of selected originals, 
but is less concerned about data. 


Differences between engineers and scientists in their usage of 
information services were noted in initial interviews, and confirmed in 
discussions with a number of information managers and librarians. Statistical 
data in support of these results were then obtained in the preliminary 
results from an internal survey by questionnaire (see Appendix C). The 
typical engineer tends to rely first on information from handbooks or from 
colleagues, and particularly from company reports and correspondence. 

When he asks for a literature search, he is usually satisfied with seeing 
whatever selected references are readily available. The same tendencies 
appear in both engineering technology and in engineering design. These 
observations are fully in line with previous studies in the literature (13). 
The research scientist also wants his references as quickly as he can get 
them, but he is often willing to wait for days or even weeks to get the 
last article on his selected list. There was a unanimous agreement among 
engineering librarians that this distinction between the typical scientist 
and the engineer is real. 


In information operations, the user concerned may be a paid 
searcher or analyst, or the manager of a system providing such services. 
It is worth repeating that this study is seeking the viewpoint of the 
user of services rather than the producer or vendor, even though this may 
be another function of the same individual. The searcher (the individual 
who is acting as a searcher and not as a scientist or as a manager) is 
frequently satisfied to stop his search with an abstract that identifies 
useful source documents; he may not require their physical production, but 
leaves this choice to the customer. This difference between the viewpoints 
of the searcher and the research worker has a significant corollary in the 
value of access to the original. The searcher is satisfied that he has 
added a valid reference to his report, but the selected reference which 
cannot be found after concerted efforts has a negative value to the customer 
for wasted time and effort. The abstracting or indexing service whose 
"customer feedback" comes mostly from searchers will not,get this reaction 
as strongly from them as it would from the chemist or other customers 


(see Appendix C). 


Planning is a function of management which fs often delegated 
in varying degrees to others. Outlines of policy for the selection of 
targets may be prepared by a special planning staff, or by other levels of 
personnel. The planning function involves special sources of information, 
often unwritten, for such matters as organization policy or future pros- 
pects. These include questions entirely different from either the 
quantities of costs/budgets or the subjective qualities of performance, 
relating closely to judgment and experience. Lacking personal experience 
with the services to be selected, the managers interviewed said that they 
would rely on other sources of judgment. They suggested reasoning by 
analogy, considering the opinion of another manager they can trust, or the 
reputation of the producer as an individual or as an organization. 
"Organization" in the generic sense includes any enterprise such as a library, 
university, agency,or corporation involved in the processing of scientific 
and technical information. 


Planning is concerned with the selection of targets for future work. 
The planner is typically pressed for time, and more interested at the moment 
in an overview or digest of information than in details or exactly where to 
find them. He wants immediate access to relevant ideas, available viewpoints, 
and suggestions on how to evaluate them. His problem is quite analogous 
to the hunter selecting what weapons to take to hunt for squirrel or 
partridge or deer, and selecting a strategy to suit the target. He has 
secondary but vital choices such as to what to do if he comes across a 
bear, and the most important actual choice he may have during the day is 


whether to quit looking for deer that aren't there and pick raspberries. 


3. MATRIX OF VALUE INTERACTIONS 


The Matrix diagram presented in the Summary involves a complex 
system of variables, interactions, and changing values which different © 
users apply in thefr selection of services. The matrix approach helps 
to indicate that certain patterns and linkages in the user's choice are 
predictable. The push/pull effect of related factors within a given 
dimension has been discussed: push either personnel or facilities and you 
affect time or costs; push either reputation or suitability and you affect 
future prospects. The Matrix rows present the major variables or elements 
defined above: dimensions in selection factors, user populations, and types 
of service. Matrix columns represent how these variables are defined, how 
they are perceived by the user, and how they interact. User/function inter- 
actions appear in the different priorities in value assigned to selection 
factors in each dimension; user interactions with the event or environment 
of use appear as concerns of the user, management, and the specific project. 


The Matrix also helps to emphasize that the concepts involved are 
all considered as relative, not absolute, as preferences in a dynamic situa- 
tion. The development of the matrix is outlined in Appendix B: interviews, 
initial analysis, preliminary conclusions modified, tested and redefined 
among different users and managers, so as to be acceptable to each. Pre- 
liminary results specific to scientists and engineers were augmented and 
confirmed by a user-survey and questionnaire, whose development and analysis 
are outlined in Appendix C. 


Priorities in Selection Values 


A simplistic statement can be made for any user who has a choice: 
he wants the best service that he can afford for his use. Differences 
arise when the individual as user is forced to consider what function he 
is serving at the time, and what selection factors he considers most important 
for that specific use. The searcher and the scientist differ, and neither 
of them gives first value to the factors of cost that seem so important in 
the literature. Value preferences expressed in interviews with different 
user populations suggested the following apparent relationships, which are 
summarized by function in Table 3. 


Table 3 


Value Priorities According to Function of Use 


Dimensions Apparent Priorities 
of Selection Factors in Order of Importance 


Quantifiable, Numeric for information operations 
(Cost, Time, Facilities) for planning function 
for research function 


Qualitative, Ranking for research function 
(Subjective, Convenience) for operating function 
for planning function 


Judgmental, Yes/No for planning, management 
(Intuitive, Experiential) for research function 
for information operations 


The scientist/engineer chooses first of all the service 
he finds most convenient to use. He accepts the judgment 
of a manager as to what systems to consider, but he pays 
relatively little attention to quantitative comparisons 
of costs or facilities as long as the systems available 
give him the answers he needs. 


The planning staff or manager makes a first choice on 
whether the service in question is reliable, likely 

to stay in business, or "suits our way of doing things." 
The planner tends to consider budgets on the quantifiable 
factors overall, and may include qualitative factors 
only after he has ruled out services that he finds 
unreliable or too expensive. 


There is a considerable body of literature on operations which 
implies that all other values can and should be linked to cost, 
time, and the quantifiable factors a service manager or vendor 
must control to keep his customers. Qualitative factors may 

be recognized in cost/benefit studies, but somewhat grudgingly 
because they cannot be accurately measured. Judgment as a 
separate dimension is well recognized in discussions on business 
management, but not so clearly in the literature on information 
services. 


It must be emphasized that all of these factors are recognized by 
all the user groups, but in an entirely different order. The cost of an 
information service, for example, appears to be less significant to the 
research scientist than convenience or reputation: this is not to say that 
costs can be ignored, but only that the scientist is more likely than the 
vendor to put other factors first. 


The order of priority is clearest for each function to what choice 
comes first, and secondary choices may vary. The information analyst, for 
example, carries out an operating function in searching and a research 
function in evaluating the information found. The petent attomey is 
assiduous both in searching and in planning, not necessarily at the same 
time. Earlier drafts of Table 3 named user groups for each function and 
ran into difficulty in where to place the title "manager". It seemed first 
to belong with "planner," but on further thought it could belong just as 
easily with the searcher, or, the manager of research. This forced the 
realization that the manager views things differently when he is concemed 
with the function of research, or information operations, or planning. 
Furthermore, from this viewpoint, the priorities of the manager and the user/ 
worker are much the same, for a given function of information services. It 
is the function, not just being a manager, which appears in Table 3 as the 
identifying variable. 


Environment of the Use-Event 


The environment of use is part of the dynamic Matrix. Personal 
impacts, management concerns, and the nature and maturity of the information 
project interact constantly with the user in his selection of services. In 
general these interactions enter into the Matrix as parameters or operating 
principles, which may help explain to the user why his priorities in 
selection are what they are. Appendix A includes a background discussion 
on the overall impact of rapid changes in technology. Subheadings which 
illustrate these effects are listed in Table, which presents a matrix 
expansion index. This shows the relationship between the summary table and 
additional details presented in the text Tables 1 to 6, for various parts 
of the Matrix of values and interactions. 


Personal impacts of the working environment on the user include 


limitations and positive effects, both direct and indirect. Freedom of 
choice between services may be sharply affected by limited authority for 
cost approvals, if it enters into a restricted area within which approval 
by someone else is required. 


- Within the user's limits of approval, the "free vs. fee" 
argument constitutes a hazard when it imposes a forced cost 
decision on users whose value system would always place con- 
venience or quality first. Their skills in the budget/cost 
area may be so poor that a forced choice is arbitrary or 
capricious, ignoring cost/benefit trade-offs that they would 
normally defer to someone else. 


34 


The restricted area where a second approval is required 
tends to repress rather than encourage the use of "fee" 
services -- all such service, not only those which are 
most expensive. 


An alternative which does not discourage use of the 
proper information services is to define some area, 
starting with free access to the library, within which 
the professional participant or employee can select 
which service to use. Each operating system draws 

its own lines between services that are free, or easy 
to request, and those that are charged to a group or 
to a specific project. 


Another personal concern is whether the information worker has 
himself the skills and facilities for direct use of the information he 
supplied. This does not mean that he is going to use the information, 
and it is not the same thing as knowing how to use the service. Personal 
experience and capabilities have a direct influence on the ease with which 
the worker can find and select information he understands (14). This applies 
particularly to the user/worker who is doing a search or: information analysis 
for someone else. Two questions of this type are related: 


- Does the searcher or analyst know how the information will 
be used? 


- Does he know what specific information would be most 
useful, if it could be found? 


These skills can either enhance or limit the value of the information selected. 
They need not be actually used, if they are familiar and understood. Such 
information can be processed very quickly and fed back into the system, to 
define a desirable new search or a new approach in analysis. Facilities 

for testing do not necessarily mean laboratory equipment or field units; 

many types of information can be tested out in other ways, say by computer 
modelling or by discussion. 


Personal interactions include the user's evaluation of the aspects 
of information handling in which he feels that he is using his own highest 
skills. This has two effects: in such an area the user tends to choose the 
services of a specific individual, whom he feels he can trust, or he may 
want to reject any such help as undesirable interference and do this part 
of the work himself. The aggressively individual researcher may reject 
any analysis of original references by someone else in his areas of special 
interest. He prefers to find for himself any research leads or holes in 
the data. The planning manager may consider one of his essential tasks as 
browsing in selected sources to find potentially useful information from 
results in another field. For any user, the impact of paying someone else 
to think for you in information analysis may mean that you want to know 
exactly who is doing the work, and to be notified at least if the individual 
analyst is changed part way through the search. This personal impact varies 
with the type of service, as indicated in the Matrix: it is high for infor- 
mation analysis, and low for routine access tools. 


35 


- 15 - 


Table 4 


Matrix Expansions 
(see Matrix, Summary page ix) 


Variables Interactions 


Selection Factor Dimensions 
(see Table 1; B-2) Users’ Priorities 
(Table 3) 


User Populations User Functions 
(see Table 2) (see Table 6) 


Environment of Use 


Types of Service (Table 4,5) 
(see Definitions) 


Interactions with Environment of Use: 


Personal Concerns of the User-worker 


approval authority limitations, repressive effects 
forced cost decisions; areas of free choice 


experience on how the information will be used 
‘ what would be most useful; immediate feed-back 


areas perceived as own highest skills 
reject help or choose the person; browsing; analysis 


new techniques as a status symbol; economics 
expands utilization if cost-justified; operations vs. research 


vulnerability to negative data or wrong information 
research can benefit; planning less strict as to source. 


Management Concerns 


partly matters of individual style, as much as company policy 
total time allowed for information vs. other work 

either individuality or team effort can be overdone 

is innovation desirable or only a threat to present lines 

any premium allowed for quality of information, or special areas 

debits for alternatives: quick answer, best answer, no answer 


Project Maturity 
how essential is it to get how much information 


types of search: for background, project definition, R/D, patenting 
evaluation of government agency requirements, publications, proposals 


depth of search: breadth, detail, when to stop. 


The interested user finds a certain satisfaction in knowing and 
using the newest and most sophisticated techniques, and is likely to invent 
reasons for using them as part of the learning process. This is valid if 
the purchase or availability of the service selected has been justified on 
other grounds, not just as a pretty new toy. The experience of firms which 
overbought on computers is very much in point. This hazard may be reduced 
by trying the basic cost justification for special facilities to actual 
extent of use, and allowing only incremental value to new functions that 
are expensive but seldom used. 


The time and costs which different managers are willing to allot 
to special new service features may differ radically as a function of use. 
The vendor-manager wants to find new features that he can add to his service 
as selling points, at minimum production cost, to make his product sound 
unique to potential customers. The manager of research or production will 
not resist if this meets an unfilled need, such as a fail-safe system for 
patent problems. He does not want to keep paying for a special feature if 
it is rarely used, and he will guard carefully against wasting budget dollars 
or the time of his people to receive or process information that they don't 
need. The operating manager of the information system is in between: he 
seeks to maximize or to find multiple uses for new features in the systems 
that he has bought, since they increase the overall range and flexibility 
of his operations. 


Completeness and accuracy may be taken for granted in a service 
where performance standards are maintained. This is not always true and 
where it is not, these parameters quickly become vital. Vulnerability to 
poor information or negative data from the literature varies with the user 
and the specific use. It is high for any quick answer, which is taken at 
face value. Wrong data can be a significant factor in the reputation of a 
service, downgrading judgments on reliability for future purchases. This 
is not the same thing as negative data, or even unreliable results which 
are properly reported. The research planner may derive definite advantages 
from detecting a result which seems out of line compared to some observable 
trend or average, and in exploring the reasons for this discrepancy. 
Uncertainty or negative data can be an important part of the total picture. 
This can be a nuisance in searching and even more so in planning, unless the 
uncertainty itself is important enough to become a target for study. 


A definite lack of concern for the scientific quality of informa- 
tion applies to certain operations of the planning staff. The planning 
manager, seeking a quick overview of the information available in a field 
new to him, wants the widest variety of points of view which can be applied 
in evaluating the situation. He is not overly concerned with whether a new 
viewpoint comes from a Nobel Laureate or a tabloid editorial, since he is 
trying to look at things from all angles. The tabloid bias may be just as 
important to him, or even more so, if he wants to examine where this bias 
came from and what if anyting can be done about it. 


a BE 


Management concerns are a major element in determining the 
environment of use. Each manager makes a basic choice as to the importance 
which he attaches to scientific/technical information as a whole, from 
any source, compared togoing out in the shop or the field to get new data. 
Choices in this area may be a matter of individual style, as much as 
company policy: a popular average value is from 10-20% of total professional 
time allowed to acquire and process relevant information. This may vary 
from zero to 50% or more at times, but the manager who values the informa- 
tion approach will allow extra time for such work, where the manager who is 
unsympathetic may not. Most of the information scientists interviewed in 
this study agree that the basic time allowance which the manager sets for 
the people under his direction is changed very little by the success of a 
new technique. A few are more optimistic, but there is a strong consensus 
that the time devoted to more effective information services is essentially 
subtracted from less effective sources of information; total time allowed 
will remain the same. 


The choice between individual research vs. team efforts is a 
matter of company policy, as well as the managers involved. Information 
analysis tends to flourish in a team environment, and it may be less 
appreciated where individuality is strongly emphasized or completely denied. 
The emphasis on individuality can be overdone either way, with complete 
isolation between workers or none allowed, and the interaction of selection 
factors in this area merits further study. 


The importance of innovations also depends on whether management 
does or does not want anything new. A new development may be a threat to 
business, of direct interest in a competitive situation. Or it may be 
a threat to established practice in some specific aspect of the business 
where a change is deemed inadvisable for any reason. In either of these 
cases, the information desired may place heavy emphasis on finding reasons 
why the new development will not work as described. The normal assumption 
is that innovations are desired, but that such information is mostly for 
current awareness and much less often for specific action. 


The question of whether there is or is not a premium on the 
quality of information supplied for a given request depends partly on the 
specific project, but it often involves matters of company policy as well 
as the manager's style. Whole areas of casual interest may be defined in 
which only superficial information is desired, with no premium for details, 
and other areas where specific details are of interest byt no action is 
planned barring some major surprise. These serve as exclusion parameters, 
to narrow the area in which it pays to even consider coverage in depth. 
Management policy as to the extent of concern in a whole related area enters 
into the decision as to the depth of search: is the area worth while, 
regardless of the specific project? Alternatives may be compared in terms 
of the risks involved in accepting a quick answer, or no answer, rather than 
looking for a best answer to the question involved. 


38 


The time constraints which apply to any search for information 
include several different variables. Times for performance which are of 
interest for research or for operations may include the time for soonest 
notice under favorable conditions, and some measure of the risk of late 
notice when things break wrong. Both are vital for patent problems, or 
for competitive developments of special interest. They are measured only 
approximately by the average time for performance, which the vendor of 
services would like to use as his yardstick. All of these refer to the 
time it takes for the service to process information from the current 
literature into its finished product. In an abstracting or indexing 
service, this processing time must include whatever indexes or other 
means of access are normally supplied and required for effective use in 
retrieval, as well as for current awareness. 


The time constraint for management includes time to let the 
information "soak," to rebalance the rational and subjective and judg- 
mental inputs in reaching a final decision. Similar parameters of time 
apply to the problem of the retrieval and use of originals which are 
difficult to find, as noted above, for users who require the original 
to meet their needs. The extent to which these requirements are met 
enters into the reputation of a service for future purchases. 


The tolerance allowed for extra time to reprocess information 
as received before it can be used is another variable. The concern for 
such extra time can be a major threat, when there was a need or expecta- 
tion for direct use. The supply of more information, even if it is better 
information, only makes the problem worse if it still has to be digested 
and there is no time available. 


The question of timeliness has quite different meanings to 
different managers and users: appropriateness for unscheduled need, 
dependability according to schedule, or immediate response to urgent 
request. These can be linked directly to the function of use (for 
research, operations, or planning). Similar conflicts in meanings and 
implications are found for many parameters in the selection process. 
This is discussed further below (see Table 6). 


The maturity of the specific project interacts with both the user 
and with management concerns in deciding what type of search is desired. 
It enters directly into such questions as to how essential it is to get how 
much information, and when. Breadth of coverage, detail, and when to stop 
are interactive decisions which apply at all stages of utgency and justifi- 
able expense. 


Types of search which may be required at different times are 
summarized in Table 5. The arrangement is essentially chronological, and 
in increasing order of urgency. This table was derived from variables 
identified in different types of patent searching and generalized for 
other areas that are now equally important. Patent searching is one of 
the earliest areas where differences in procedure were systematically 
developed for different types of information need. 


39 


Table 5 


Types of Search at Different Stages 


Type of Search Use Project Stage Characteristic Concerns 


State of the Art project planning, for research, patents, broad view, moderate depth; 
background marketing, or manufacture what has been done and how 


Novelty specific data, during research, patents, what works and doesn't; methods, 
Gur=ng 
positive or negative marketing, manufacture what will appeal to the public 


Contracts define limitations, for negotiations, what will other managers pay for 
ranges, alternatives infringement study 


Liability civil limits, caveats, all of the above evaluations, differences, 
government regulations (FDA, EPA, etc.) best technology; ultimate effects 


A broad state-of-the-art review before project planning may be 
requested as background for research, patent planning, marketing, or 
manufacturing. The novelty search is more specific: it is needed once 
a project has been defined, to determine what direction is best for the 
new development. This also applies to the complete spectrum of use, for 
research strategy, patent drafting, market development, or methods of 
manufacture. While contract negotiations often center on patent infringe- 
ment, they may be generalized to define and clarify those aspects of new 
development that someone is willing to pay for. The overriding question 
of liability has been broadened far beyond the caveats of business law 
because of the government regulations issued by a large and growing list 
of agencies. The Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental 
Protection Agency are typical. This effect is discussed further in Appendix 
B. The very large requirements which these agencies set for complete 
evaluation, best available technology, and ern:vtronmental impact statements 
represent a significant part of the present total demand for special infor- 
mation services. 


A major information search may include any or all of the functions 
of research, operations, and planning, to provide background for project 
definitions, evaluation, patenting, publication, or proposals to management. 
Any of these types of search can be broad or narrow, simple or complex, 
short or long. Depth of search and the decision when to stop are parts 
of a dynamic process. In general, you stop when you get a good answer. 

In reference calls to retrieve a specific document or a known fact, the 
answer is obvious. The less defined your needs, the more expensive is 

the service. In a patent novelty search the right answer may be just as 
obvious, but either simple or far more difficult to obtain. Breadth of 
search and the number of special services employed can be expanded 
indefinitely in many such cases, depending on the skill of the searcher 
and the importance of the subject. The customer (attorney) in such a 
patent search may do all of the analysis of references supplied and make 
all the decisions for search, or he may employ the services of an informa- 
tion analyst who can conduct and modify the search more or less completely 
on his own. The more complex the search the more continuous is the inter- 
action required, whatever type of use or service is involved, and the more 
important it is for the service to be able to accomodate and if possible 
anticipate these changes in depth and direction. 


Conflict in Meanings of Key Words 


The semantic confusion of conflicting connotations for the same 
key words can be reduced by associating sets of meanings with each of the 
functions identified. This is an end product of working out definitions 
which are acceptable to people who disagree. Conversely, these different 
sets of connotations help to characterize the functions with which they 
are linked. This is illustrated for eight “parameters of value to the user" 
in Table 6, which appears in the Summary (page xvi) with accompanying text. 


- 21 - 


4. CASE HISTORIES IN SELECTION FACTORS 


The examination of variables in the selection process and linkages 
between them started with the search for identifiable user populations and 
dimensions in their evaluation, as discussed above and in Appendix B. 

Surveys and interviews developed as empirical concepts the interaction 
effects of user priorities and the environment of use, linked to the function 
for which the service is desired. Actual case histories noted during this 
deve?.>ment illustrate typical situations where a number of variables are 
invoived, all at the same time. As a matter of policy in this report, 
locations and examples are not specifically identified. 


Initial Purchase of an Expensive Service 


The first example referred to an expensive indexing service which 
had been examined on a trial basis at a central library but left untouched 
on the shelves and returned to the vendor. It was unfamiliar to potential 
users, and required training to be useful to them. While the initial 
reaction was negative, "trade information" over ensuing years indicated 
unique potential advantages and satisfactory experience elsewhere. On 
a subsequent visit to the vendor an improved indexing system was offered, 
based on additional years of experience, but requiring a substantial initial 
purchase cost. By happy coincidence, upon returning from this trip, the 
manager concerned was informed by Accounting that an unanticipated balance 
of $X,000 was left in a capital reserve account, and the new service was 
purchased at once. Six weeks later Accounting called again to say they had 
made a mistake, but by that time the new service was already in use, with 
enough experience to easily justify its continued cost. 


Analysis of this story reveals several factors: first, the 
“energy barrier" to the initial purchase was apparently too high. Along 
a different line, this and similar experiences in the evaluation of research 
innovations suggest that a successful experiment is frequently accompanied 
by what appear to be lucky breaks but are in fact a basis for serendipity 
or management hunches, based on experience. The exact converse of this is 
that in experiments which turn out to give negative answers, or failures, 
there appear to be many unexpected gremlins or quirks which there was no 
logical reason to anticipate. The frequency of such events suggested that 
intuition or the manager's hunch is in fact an essential dimension to con- 
sider in the decisior.-making process. 


A second case history identified was somewhat analogous. In this 
case a major service offered in several sections had been purchased (in 
part) by an affiliate library, based on information in sales brochures. 

It had piled up unused on the shelves because of the considerable clerical 
time required to set it up and get started, and to interfile additional 
sections as received to keep it current. A major search request was 
received at the research center which could justify the time to convert 
this file to usable form, and it was boxed up and shipped off promptly by 
the affiliate which was glad to clear its shelves. The result again was 


43 


a complete success, and led to expanded usefulness based on further 
experience. These cases confirm as major variables in the selection 
process, the personnel time required for maintenance and training, as 
well as initial and continuing service costs. 


Selections for the "Approved List" 


The normal everyday problem confronting the user is which infor- 
mation service to pick from a list of those already available, not the 
purchase of a new service. The approved list of services he finds at hand 
is based on decisions made at another time and place; frequently once a 
year. While this previous decision is based on contributions from all 
users of the service, the individual may be quite willing to defer it 
entirely to someone else. 


Almost any user of information services has access to the services 
of some manager whose experience he can consult, for daily use as well as 
for additions to the approved list. This is frequently the manager of an 
information center or the manager of an information service. Both of these 
are vendors of a product which they must sell to stay in business. They 
share a common interest in prices, production costs, and quality standards 
which can be set as specific targets. Quality standards cover a very wide 
range: managers interviewed report that many services have no standards at 
all, except to get the information out. Some of the simplest quality 
standards are the requirement that every item of information supplied must 
come from a known source, or the ability to train staff so that the same 
question can be given to different searchers and come up with the same 
product. 


Cost comparison between competing services is an area of decisions 
most frequently deferred by the worker to someone else, in administration or 
management. It is a common observation that the scientist or professor or 
supervisor who decides to use a service on hand is actively annoyed by 
being asked to think about costs, and if the requirement is enforced he 
identifies it with discouragement. 


The administrator who makes these decisions finds that simple cost 
comparisons for budgets and accounting are tempered to allow for differences 
in the service offered. The assumption is that market forces keep directly 
competing services close to each other in price, and that the service which 
costs more has something more to offer - if this feature is one you want to 
buy. To the extent that this is true, cost becomes a secondary factor in 
the selection between services, as long as they are within the same general 
range. This may be entirely contrary to the trade literature published by 
the vendors, who are highly cost conscious and anxious to use this point 
as a selling tool. 


On this basis, there would be only three significant ranges of 
cost: on the market, too cheap, and too expensive. Differences within 
each range might be considered as relatively unimportant, although varying 
over as much as one order of magnitude including the average. Prices far 


44 


below the average are suspect, because they suggest dangers to privacy or 
some defect in the service offered. Adjustments are necessary for the 
number of customers, varying from a service which is cheap because of cost 
sharing to a service which is proprietary and expensive because any dis- 
tribution to other customers is rigidly excluded. Prices within perhaps 
50% of the average are assumed to correspond to desirable extra features 
or allowable omissions, and may not be questioned seriously as long as the 
user has made up his mind as to what he wants. Prices above this range 
bring in new questions of their effect on total budgets, of available 
alternatives, and of the probability of use sufficient to justify special 
purchase. 


An example of this factor of cost by range is the decision of a 
central library to cancel its standing order for continuing index volumes 
in a series such as Beilstein, which are recognized as valuable tools for 
access to information. The problem is that Beilstein in Supplement IV has 
now reached the range of $400-500 per volume. Five such volumes appearing 
at unscheduled intervals in one year can ruin the book budget in even a 
fairly large library. Prices so far above the average force the careful 
consideration of alternative sources and procedures, no matter how useful 
the item. 


The question of probable extent of use interacts with costs 
somewhat differently in different ranges. For average costs, even within 
budget, many libraries insist that a single user must make the purchase 
recommended with his own funds, unless he can demonstrate that the service 
will enjoy multiple use by others as well. This requirement is most likely 
to be waived for requests of low or average costs, in a new field of 
interest, where there is a presumption that others will become users after 
the new service is made available. Predictions of probable use and 
acceptance become more useful with increasing skill and experience. 


Special Topic Bulletins 


The opening of any new field of scientific and technical information 
is likely to be greeted by one or more new newsletters or special bulletin 
services, as soon as it can be expanded into a recognizable market. These 
bulletins may be aimed primarily at the planning function for a small user 
who does not have his own information service. This may be an individual 
in even a large corporation, however, in a new field where interest is 
limited, or where the user does not know how to ask for information. Since 
these services are expensive and tend to become full of trivia, special 
quality factors can be developed for their selection including such criteria 
as the following: 


qualitative 


items come from primary sources, not just old material 
information cumulates, access routes supplied 

tied to known sources, improve access to other material 
suitable for browsing, organized by related ideas 
honest claims as stated, for breadth and depth 


- 24 - 


judgmental 


- reputation of publisher, probably a quality product 
- importance to major company interests 


quantitative . 


- priced within the current market range 
- number of readers, sufficient to justify central purchase 


As a “selective reminder" of relevent information for planning 
use, these services are in competition with S.D.I., the trade literature, 
and review articles in the standard journals. The one characteristic in 
which there was the strongest agreement in planning staff interviews is 
that a special information service may be of no help unless it is 
provided by an individual whose judgment can be trusted, based on experience. 


A University Science Library 


A comparison of the work environment and other variables between 
a University and an industrial research laboratory indicates some shifts 
in emphasis in the selection of purchased information services, but many 
of the same principles apply. The following list was suggested at a nearby 
University Library of Science and Medicine: 


- The Library does no searchirzg as a regular service, 
for itself or for other people, but only provides 
tools for others to use. 


- Semi-public use of the facilities by unskilled users 
creates serious problems of misfiling, as compared to 
the industrial library which may enjoy a more protected 
environment and users of higher average skill. Thus, 
the University Library refuses to purchase card 
services, or loose-leaf with a steady flow of supple- 
ments, because they involve a block of time to get 
into business, interminable interfiling thereafter, 
and the constant hazard of items which are lost or 
misfiled. 


- The Library is leary of highly specialized materials, 
and requires a minimum number of users, no matter who 
they are. This applies particularly to special 
interest newsletters, which are used for retrospective 
searching very seldom, if at all. 


~ Any individual research project or contract reports 
can be temzinated, and leave an orphaned, broken file. 
An index or access system which is needed by only one 
man must be purchased and maintained by him, therefore, 
out of project funds, regardless of how valuable it is 
to him. Such a file may be transferred to the Library 
at a later date, but only after sufficient use by 
others has been established by experience. 


46 


- 25 . 


- Uniqueness of a given service on the market compared to 
its competitors comes before cost, in deciding which 
ones to keep and which to discard, although both factors 
must be considered. 


Upgrading the Special Branch Library 


The problem of how to improve the operations of a special branch 
or departmental library without losing its advantages or even destroying 
it goes deeper than personnel. It involves what the system is and why it 
exists. The small special library may be in essence an expansion of the 
personal library of the department manager, created as a service center 
and not just as an information source. It operates in a closed market, 
which is not likely to be expanded regardless of any improvements. The 
special services it offers serve the department staff as a way of doing 
business, and limitwtions on the time of its user/customers are as 
stringent as limitations on cost. 


A detailed analysis of such an operation was made for the special 
library serving an environmental health research unit. The first con- 
clusion was that even this small unit covers a complete spectrum of 
demand, in its use of literature services. Toxicologists are doing basic 
research, with heavy use of the published literature. Industrial hygienists 
are operating engineers, who consult company sources first and find the 
literature less informative. Management planning is concerned with govern- 
ment regulations and new areas where it must be able to get relevant infor- 
mation immediately on demand. 


All three groups are users of information services, but in quite 
different ways. In this particular location, the typical research/toxicologist 
likes to do his own searching, asks the librarian where to look (and 
whether it is worth looking), wants the special search files kept up to date, 
and often wants to get specific references in the original. The industrial 
engineer/hygienist wants the librarian to provide the search, seldom does 
his own, and is usually satisfied with a collection of whatever references 
are typical and available. The manager requires the monitoring of specific 
government documents and company literature, and likes to get on his desk 
with the new item a pre-selected "vertical file" or relevant documents and 
reports. 


These three groups correspond closely to the three functions of 
information use outlined herein. To a certain extent there is a tendency 
for each group to assume that its own part of the operation is most 
important, and take the others for granted. Thus, upgrading any one aspect 
of the operation is not a complete answer. Success may backfire and make 
other users suffer: if an improvement in one function alone makes that 
part of the service better and justifies an increased demand, the limited 
time of the staff must be taken away from others, unless improved efficiency 
can be engineered to release time for other functions. 


47 


In this specific case, an analysis of the special services performed 
by the staff was made to define those skills which are valued most highly, 
both the staff and by its customers. The primary skills identified were 
(1) upgrading the input to the system by selecting and re-abstracting all 
originals of selected documents, for hidden data or meanings not adequately 
recognized in the abstract (or in the original); (2) creating pre-selected 
vertical files for major areas of current or expected interest; and (3) a 
current awareness and retrospective guide for where to look, for what is 
in the files. 


These "premiun skills" are listed in the inverse order of which 
ones might be helped most easily by improved computer services. Thus, the 
guide to what is in the files may need only shallow indexing for the company 
literature, and the basic research literature will benefit more quickly 
from commercial services shared with users at other locations. Computer 
services may also be able to assist in items (1) and (2) by providing the 
staff a selected input for special processing, but without in any way 
replacing the total operation. 


The basic principle in this case, as elsewhere, is to look for 
help in areas that are weak, so as to preserve strengths and provide more 
time to use them to advantage. 


5. CONCLUSIONS 


The Matrix of variables and interactions proposed suggests 
a number of relationships which have been stated above. Some of these 
have both positive and negative elements. The positive statements can 
be summarized first: 


- Use-as an event is much easier to describe than the 
user as an individual. The same individual may be a 
research scientist today, a searcher for a known 
document tomorrow, and a project evaluator next week. 
His needs and choice of services to fill them change 
directly for each function or role. 


The concept of user value-systems is an extension of 
the identification of user-groups by function. Users 
concerned with the research function appear to place 
the highest value on qualitative factors, the opera- 
ting function emphasizes quantitative factors (cost/ 
budgets) and the planning function the factors of 
management judgment. 


The fact that an item of information is new to the user may 
be enough for some (R/D planning, marketing), but for other 
users evaluation is vital (patents, contract negotiations). 


Cost is a strong factor in deciding whether to purchase 
services or not, but once this decision is made, relative 
costs of the same order of magnitude may be only secondary 
in the choice between services. 


Information analysis differs by definition from a search 
routine which "anyone with adequate training can carry 
out and get exactly the same anser." The value judgment 
and skills of a specific individual are a necessary 

part of the product. 


Negative Conclusions or Unlinkages Observed 


Many conclusions can be stated more cogently in negative terms, 
as “unlinkages" or falsé correlations to be avoided: 


No matter how thoroughly well developed any one dimension 
may be in the user-selection process, it runs into the 
law of diminshing returns. What is most needed is 
whatever is missing - a bit of public relations or common 
sense, or cost data, as another valid way to look at 
matters from an entirely different angle. The person 
least sensitive to values in another dimension may be 

the enthusiast who thinks his system could become all 
things to all people if it could only get enough support. 


A forced decision between services based on direct dollar 
costs may be a bad decision if it has to be made by a 
user who prefers to think in terms of quality and is not 
trained in cost/benefit analysis. Costs are important 
for the operating manager, but most users put convenience 
and reliability first and consider costs only within an 
order of magnitude. 


There are negative values, not zero value, for information 
which may be attractively packaged but never used. There 
is a recurring debit each time this item is considered and 
rejected again; it takes up space and time, and the system 
would be better off without it. This minus value can be 
projected in mathematical terms as a vector transform, from 
an origin in wishful thinking to a revised basepoint of 
more realistic needs. 


There are also strongly negative values for an "important 
reference” for which no original can be found, for informa- 
tion received too late, or for any information which is 
rejected for cause and left in the file without annotation, 
to be either wrongly accepted or reprocessed for another 
rejection the next time around. 


Time involves major factors in indirect costs which are 
often overlooked, particularly the time required by the 
user/customer to reprocess information which cannot be 
used directly as received (e.g., a 3-inch stack of computer 
printouts). : 


- 29 - 


APPENDIX A 


PROJECT APPROACH 


Bias As a Working Tool 


It is an interesting exercise to read backwards through the tran- 
script of a panel discussion on information systems and services, and 
discover how easy it is to identify (without labels) who is saying what. 
Differences of this type appear during the evaluation of any large body of 
information, involving the value judgments of different men from dif- 
ferent points of view. How to handle subjective differences in these 
points of view can be a serious problem, that is not always recognized. 
One approach to this was developed in a project on the "Evaluation of 
Soviet Research in Catalysis," completed at Exxon Research and Engineering 
in 1970 (15). The problem in this instance was that the ratings of the 
experts in different parts of the project were difficult to handle, since 
they were more or less heavily biased; many of them said the Soviet results 
were no good at all. 


In this case, some 6,000 pertinent abstracts were collected from 
the Soviet literature and rough-cut into a dozen subject areas. Each 
subject area was assigned to a cognizant expert, who selected from his set 
(or reclassified to other sets) those items which he felt to be most signi- 
ficant for further study. These items, representing about a 10% sample of 
the whole, were then critically evaluated by each expert for his own area. 


The ratings of these experts were then collated for further analysis. 
At this point it became apparent that in many cases the same project or 
program had been rated quite differently by different experts, each from his 
own viewpoint, and these ratings were not at all compatible. The next step 
was to consider as a group all of the ratings of a given expert. When this 
was done it appeared that one expert might feel that in his area all of the 
Soviet research suffered from a serious lack of experimental data. For him, 
the statement that a given report contained some poor experimental data might 
turn out to be the highest compliment he offered. An effort was made to 
determine the bias used by each expert, and his rankings were then arranged 
in the order of what seemed to look the best to him, within the constraints 
of his own vocabulary. On this basis there was a much closer agreement 
between the experts. 


The next step was to identify and then compare the differences in 
the bias of different experts, to look for a second generation 6f conclusions. 
One of these has already been mentioned, in the apparent difference in the 
attitude of Soviet and U.S. scientists toward the importance of experimental 
data. This derivative conclusion could be checked independently against the 
observation that some of the best-known Soviet scientists in catalysis 
(e.g. Balandin) seemed to be quite erratic in the quality of the data they 
reported. It appeared on further study that the quality of the data in these 
instances could be correlated well with the later quality of the work done 
by the junior author, but not that of the senior author at all. 


ol 


~ 30 - 


This approach is similar to the perturbation analysis of astro- 
nomical data to find an unknown planet. An enormous mass of data is first 
arranged to determine that some bodies seem to move in orbits among the 
stars. On closer study it appears that these orbits show some erratic 
effects, and areas are identified in which these effects seem most likely 
to occur. These effects are then examined from all angles to see if a 
reason for them can be surmised. A variety of tentative conclusions are 
made and tested against other known facts, and the location of a new 
planet involves a third or fourth derivative of the original orbit. 


The perturbation-analysis approach examines who is saying what, 
and why, and goes beyond this to consider the reasons for the bias of 
different experts. It is a direct opposite in this sense of the Delphi 
approach, which masks differences in anonymity in order to arrive at a 
consensus. In the Soviet study, pertinent conclusions directed attention 
to the lack of training in Soviet universities in what we call chemical 
engineering, but with the companion observation that work of the highest 
quality can result in areas of R/D that receive a high "national priority." 
Specific conclusions directed attention to areas which would be of probable 
interest to the USSR (as of 1970) in any future interchange with the U.S. 
in science and technology. 


These principles were derived from the analysis of subjective 
observations. They have since been tested and in general confirmed by 
subsequent experience. The basic technique is to select an area of in- 
formation for careful scrutiny, based on preliminary correlations, to 
predict the nature of a variable and where to look for it. This correla- 
tion can then be checked against what may be very fragmentary data at a 
specific point, for further refinement. 


The application of the perturbation technique to the present study 
involved an aggressive search for areas of agreement and disagreement among 
the experts interviewed. The object was to detect and define significant 
variables in their criteria for the selection of an information service. 

As this approach was confirmed, it became standard practice to (1) ask each 
expert to identify others whom he would expect to disagree with his state- 
ment of priorities, then (2) go to these or others like them, and (3) work 
out between the two a statement of variables and definitions acceptable to 
both, to describe the differences in their points of view. The emphasis 

on examining reasons for individual value systems requires a continual 
awareness of the personal bias of the investigator and the special environ- 
ment of the study. The awareness of these hazards helps to avoid their 
effects, and it is also helpful in interviews continually to seek for areas 
of disagreement or divergent viewpoints. 


The special environment of much of this study is a corporate 
research laboratory where in-house information services are highly valued, 
and are provided as a corporate-service function to all professional 
employees. The effects of this bias are recognized herein as an explanation 
for some of the statistics obtained, and also for differences from selected 
interviews with the managers of a variety of information service operations 


- 31 - 


at other locations. An example of personal bias is the tendency to draw 
generalizations, which must be guarded against as a hazard of ambiguity 

in the results, or hidden constraints. For iuls reason, the conclusions 
drawn herein are concepts to be considered as a skeleton for the organiza- 
tion of ideas -- as a guide rather than a directory. 


Dimensional Analysis 


Business literature on the evaluation of research goes back for 
several decades. Efforts to relate the value of research to ordinary 
business parameters alone (such as DCF) have shown that this approach 
sacrifices entirely too much regarding the value or probability of a 
different outcome. Improved systems for the analysis of uncertainties find 
some means to include and to operate on subjective evaluations. In a one- 
dimensional analysis, uncertainty factors and numerical factors such as cost/ 
benefit aspects are frequently entwined, and it is necessary to resolve them. 


The dimensional approach to the analysis of complex variables 
in project evaluation was advanced 15 years ago for the rational selection 
between projects in industrial research. Harris (Monsanto) described a 
profile scheme with 5 "aspects" as headings for 26 factors, each ranked 
on a four-iit scale from very good to very bad (16). This system for 
the evaluacion of research was not widely adopted, and later studies 
suggested that 5 major headings is still too cumbersome. A more limited 
number of dimensions is preferred (17). Three dimensions has this 
advantage and is the minimum required to escape the hazard of "Flatland": 
false cause and effect conclusions from two-dimensiona’ thinking regularly 
assume that if a thing is not black, it must be white, forgetting all 
about red or green (18). 


Systems of this general type have been tested extensively for use 
in research planning and the evaluation of projects. One key to success 
is to be able to break the analysis down into a small number of discrete 
chunks that are analyzable segments that can be examined separately. One 
such system to rate the "Value of an idea" in R/D chose the three headings 
of novelty, potential value, and ability to commercialize, with suitable 
subheadings under each such as patentability, technieal uniqueness, or com- 
mercial novelty. Ratings for each factor were a subjective ranking of 
value judgments, in terms of probability or extent. Each main heading was 
then rated as an average of the subheadings rated separately. A number of 
in-house research projects were rated in this way, and were compared with 
a numerical rating of the final stage reached in their development toward 
a commercial success. A plot of these data, in Figure A-l shows a clear 
correlation between Idea Value and the development stage attained. It is 
significant that parallel ratings by independent panels of experts who 
were equally qualified showed check results which were remarkably close, 
within a few percent on a numerical average of ratings. The extent of 
this agreement was reported with some surprise, as it had been by Harris 
and others before, since it was assumed that subjective ratings would be 
inherently less consistent than those based on physical data. 


~ 32.- 


Figure A-1 


Relationship. Between Idea Value 
and Development Stage 


Commercial- 
ization 


Commercial 
Development 


Pilot Plant, 
Market Dev. 


ZONE A 
PROJECT HAS PROCEEDED TOO 
FAR 
Selection 
Of Best 
Route (s) 


Review Of 
Technical 
Alternates 


Laboratory 


Proposal 


| 
6 


Idea Value 


o4 


The dimensional approach makes no effort to compile exhaustive 
check lists of variables, so the sub-headings in the text Tables 1, 2, and 3 
above are all typical, not complete. The principle is that the same amount 
of effort is more productive when it is spent in looking at things from as 
many viewpoints as are necessary to establish perspective. It is the dif- 
ferences in the viewpoints which are represented in the summary Matrix of 
variables and interaction effects. 


The particular dimensions chosen in this study to reflect the 
value systems of different users received a direct input from behavioral 
analysis. They are taken directly from the Jungian system of psychology, 
which considers the objective/rational, subjective/qualitative and judg- 
mental/intuitive aspects and their interactions with the environment as 
fundamental characteristics of behavior. These patterns of behavior help 
explain why the scientist or engineer is so baffled when management says 
"No" to a well-planned project, and equally why the rational planner can 
expect his system to be all things to all people if only he can get them 
to absorb the necessary costs. 


Overlapping New Technologies 


The simultaneous development of different new methods of access 
to information confronts the user with an uncomfortable choice as to which 
tools to buy, and which buttons to push. It overlaps significant user- 
designed improvements in the older familiar systems, some of which the 
user himself may have helped create. 


Science and technology have now reached the 4th or 5th generation 
of information access tools, with new tools coming on so rapidly that the 
lines between generations are blurred. A host of special services of every 
imaginable type are superimposed on journals, abstract journals, indexes 
to abstracts, and computer access to indexes. The design of new systems 
and services is itself a well-established discipline, so that the avail- 
ability of new technology is less and less of a limit. The number of 
information services available is in the thousands and still growing, and 
each of them has been created to meet the challenge of specific user needs. 


Current statistics on the growth of information services amply 
support these indications. The number of "abstracting and indexing services" 
listed in Ulrich's International Periodicals Directory has grown to about 
1250 in 1975 from 1200 in 1973, up from an estimate of 300 in 1950. The 
number of "information service centers" listed in Kruzas (International) 
Encyclopedia of Information Systems and Services rose to 1750 in 1974 
(2nd Edition), an increase of over 100% since 1971. The number of computer 
data bases available for scientific information was about 88 as of mid-year 
1976, 57 in 1975, and 30 in 1974, doubling every 1 to 2 years (19). The 
same trends appeared earlier in the NSF "Guide to Non-conventional 
Scientific and Technical Information Systems in Current Use" from 1958 
to 1966, when the number of mechanical sarting systems in use showed a 
doubling period of four years (e.g., edge punched, tabulating cards, 
peek-a-boo systems). This rapid growth was all but obliterated by computer 
systems which increased at a sustained doubling rate of less than two years, 
from 17 in 1962 to 118 in 1966 (out of 175 non-conventional systems reported). 


sys) 


The cumulative effect of these statistics is indicated in Table 
A-l1. The rapid growth of the scientific literature, abstract journals and 
more ‘sophisticated electronic methods of access to information was cited 
as a classic example of the "Diseases of Science" in a remarkably predictive 
essay in 1961 by deSolla Price. The. growth of technology and science leads 
to new technologies, and each new generation in a given field of knowledge 
tends to grow faster (20). 


Price discusses growth curves of three types. The normal growth 
pattern in nature is the S-shaped symmetrical logistic curve, where the 
supply of food or some other resource is limiting. Free growth rises 
rapidly at first, has a nearly linear middle portion for a few doubling 
periods in time, and then levels off just as rapidly as it runs into a 
shortage of food, water, or some other basic resource. The usual end 
result unless there is some new supply is that the whole system collapses. 
This applies to the normal growth of bacteria in a culture, fruit flies in 
a bottle, or jack-rabbits in Australia. 


The growth pattern for the number of scientific journals has been 
strikingly different, with a doubling period of fifteen years which has been 
nearly constant for 16 doublings over 250 years, from the first few journals 
to a hundred thousand. This is a straight line semi-log plot. Price finds 
the same pattern for the growth of abstract journals which started when the 
number of primary journals exceeded 300, or more than one man could read. 


The semi-log plot of the growth of scientific journals and abstracts 
has too often been quoted out of context, ignoring Price's main point. 
Continued linear growth may apply to money at compound interest but even 
there it collapses if the bank fails, and it ceases if the interest is with- 
drawn. An unlimited supply of all necessary resources must include time, 
money, and social values as well as food or air or water or new information. 
Free access to all of these is an illusion: a constant linear doubling 
rate for the total number of universities or scientific journals or infor- 
mation services can continue "“indefinitei;" for only so long as society is 
willing or able to allow unlimited access to time, money and ali of the 
facilities required. The difference between the linear and logistic curves 
is very well illustrated by the difference between theoretical and actual 
returns for a chain letter, as it runs out of gullible victims. If there 
is no means by which supplies can be replénished, growth goes negative and 
the system dies. The fallacy of the chain letter applies ultimately to 
every situation which assumes continued exponential growth. 


Even more instructive is the fact that the growth of new technology 
in a given field leads to families of growth curves which grow at an ever 
increasing rate. The reason for this is that each related new technology 
benefits from the tools and experience of the ones before it. Price 
illustrates this with the growth rate of the total number of scientists 
which doubled in the United States over the past 200 years about once every 
ten years, compared to a 300-year average doubling period in Western Europe 
of 15 years. The doubling time in Russia since 1918 has been more rapid, 
about once every 7 years, and in China from 1940 to 1960 it was even faster, 
doubling every 5 years. He applies exactly the same principle to the growth 
of new technolegies for access to scientific information. 


o6 


Table A-l 


4 Generations of Information Processing 


Information Process Doubling Time 
or Service Information Provided Years (Period) Current Comment 


Access Tools 


Scientific journals Original data : (1750-1970) apparently slowing down 
(controversial) * 


Abstracts and indexes Reference + content (1875-1975) 1950-75 
close to 1875-1950 


Mechanized indexes Index to abstracts (1958-1966) growth overwhelmed by 
computers 


Electronic sorting, Index to references; (1958-1966) data bases in 70's = 
computer data bases interactive searching (1970-1976) computer systems in 60's 


Information Service Centers 


Searching and retrieval Any of the above (1971-1974) services and centers 
(with or without analysis) total over 3000 (1976) 


* Constant doubling times assume a vanishing border line between science plus technology and other 
bodies of information. 


The chart which Price uses to illustrate the effect of increasing 
growth rates in such a family of technologies has been modified slightly in 
Figure A-2, to fit the data given in Table A-l. The only difference is 
that in his family of curves on the number of scientists it was the 4th 
curve for China where growth was truncated by a cultural revolution. In 
the growth of information services it is the intermediate curve for mechanized 
index systems where growth was overwhelmed by a younger generation. The 
computer systems which Price referred to as "electronic sorting" in 1961 
doubled in less than 2 years during the ‘60s, and this same rate of growth 
is continuing into the 70's in the phenomenal increase in the number of data 
bases available. The growth of information service centers fits the same 
family of curves. It uses all the tools available, and its doubling rate 
of 3 years is exceeded only by that of the computer data bases, the newest 
generation. 


The doubling period for the number of abstracts and indexing 
services is only slightly shorter than for scientific journals, and Price 
drew them as of 1950 as parallel lines on his semi-log plot. His plot is 
reproduced in Figure A-3 with the addition of the recent data as a double 
point at 1200/1250 for the years 1973/75. This extrapolates as a straight 
line continuing the slope of the original data for 1875 to 1940. The first 
half dozen entries for abstract journals appear off the curve as precursors, 
for the same reasons as cited by Price for the first few scientific journals. 
They are properly omitted in determining the statistical slope of the line. 


No firm data are available as to whether the number of scientific 
journals as of 1975 is anywhere near the 400,000 which would be predicted by 
a continued linear extrapolation. The question is considered controversial, 
and an answer is beyond the scope of this report. Whatever overall data one 
accepts, there is clear evidence that by 1960 to 1974 the rate of growth in 
the United States was significantly below that for the rest of the world (21). 
The question of what is a "scientific journal" becomes more and more dif- 
ficult to define as the borders of science expand farther into society. It 
might be agreed, for example, that Popular Science Magazine is a journal 
of technology, if not of science. It is not so easy to decide whether to 
count either popular magazines or more serious journals devoted to para- 
psychology, astrology, or the mysteries of the pyramids. It is no easier to 
decide just whére to stop counting the abstract journals. Such ambiguities 
cannot be avoided if the extrapolation is continued toward the point where 
there is one "scientific journal" or more per capita. Other results which 
Price predicted have become surprisingly real: the costs of each new technology 
tend to increase as the square or the cube of the number of men involved; 
the printed paper may be doomed, unless we can get even better methods for 
"abstracting the abstracts;" and the most persistent need may be a national 
science policy to set consistent goals for the effective use of technical 
information. The gradual disappearance of printed papers and the emergence 
of electronic data centers for every man, woman and child do not seem nearly 
so remote now as they did in 1961. The final prediction is that whatever new 
technology comes next, it can only be expected to grow faster, and have a still 
shorter time before it has used up its share of all the resources society will 
allow for the growth of science. 


Figure A-2 


Growth Rates in Science and Technology 


- 1,000,000 


Total 
Growth 
(arbitrary 
scale) 


Years (linear scale) 


~ 36 


Figure A~3 


Growth Rates of Journals and Abstract Journals 


Number of Journals 
+ 1,000,000 


Scientific Journals 


What Will Be Actually Used? 


The designers and vendors of information services would like to 
assume that major improvements in the services they offer would find new 
customers. But the total market expands only slowly at best, and compared 
to the rapid growth of new services it can be considered as almost a con- 
stant. To this extent, any increase in the amounts of time and money which 
the users of STI devote to purchased information services will be taken 
away from other functions, such as laboratory research and development. 

For one service to expand it must take business away from others, and the 
vendor finds himself competing with his own established lines for the same 
customers. 


Intense competition places the emphasis on what service is actually 
used, not what looks useful. Even the best of services can go out of busi- 
ness under adverse economic conditions, as happened to Chemisches Zentralblatt 
and British Chemical Abstracts in postwar Germany and England. A more common 
occurrence is for a new newsletter or special journal to fail to find enough 
customers to survive, regardless of high quality in the first few issues. 
Technical society journals benefit from having a guaranteed market, and 
generally improved communications in both directions. Thus, a close response 
to the needs and wishes of its customers has been a major factor in the 
success of the Chemical Abstracts Service, created by chemists for chemists. 


The problem of original source documents which are not available for 
abstracts in print may be partly a question of who wants what. Data from a 
brief statistical review based on the Chemical Abstracts Service Source 
Index for the years 1973-74 indicate that this occurs often enough to be a 
problem, with sources cited from behind the Iron Curtain. Larson has stated 
that 7% of all the sources indexed are not available in the U.S. (22). Many 
of these are sources cited no more than once a year. A random sampling and 
identification was made of the sources cited on 50 pages out of the 2000 
in CASSI. For this sample, one fourth of the sources "not available in the 
U.S." could be found in other libraries listed, but three fourths of them 
are not available anywhere in the free world. 


A further analysis of this sample is being made with the coopera- 
tion of Chemical Abstracts Service. One assumption which can be made 
depends upon the fact that the professional searchers who are most likely 
to talk to CAS are often willing to accept references in their reports by 
title only, or title plus abstract. The scientist or other researcher who 
wants the original document is a step removed from this direct contact. 
When he fails to get what he needs, his sense of frustration is directed 
primarily at the librarian and may stop there. Such a reference is of 
negative value to the customer, not zero value, since it wastes more time 
and effort every time a potential user finds it interesting. One approach 
has been to question the practice of even having an abstract which may 
have been translated from Referativnyi Zhurnal, when it proves impossible 
to get more information. A simpler recommendation to save this annoyance 
and expense would be to place some definite marking in the abstract or 
index whenever it is known that the original is not available. This could 
provide the citation for what it is worth, without the frustration of 
trying to find more. 


62 


The quantity factor in the demand for information services has 
probably been distorted in recent years by subsidized government requests 
for "all the information available" cn a given subject. The effect of 
these open-ended requests is hard to place in proper perspective. 
Government agencies had the first computerized index systems, in such 
places as the U.S. Patent Office, NASA, and the Department of Defense. 
Civilian agencies were invited to bid for government contracts to assist 
in evaluating the information available in these files. Many subsidized 
contracts of this type were let by the Environmental Protection Agency and 
other branches of government. Their purpose was to evaluate the informa- 
tion collected for publications on criteria for standard setting, or the 
best control techniques available for potential pollutants in air or water. 
Other subsidized requests were simply bibliographic at first, to load 
potential source material into the files. 


As the number of these subsidized requests increased, more users 
became involved, and the information tools available for them were con- 
tinually improved. The literature review for a 1 to 2 year project might 
be completed in two to six weeks, with a large number of references but 
no extra time for their evaluation. Direct subsidies for simple biblio- 
graphic compilations have become unusual, and the same thing will pre- 
sumably happen to the demand for published compendiums of all the infor- 
mation available on a special topic. The distortion comes about when it 
becomes progressively easier to produce references in any quantity desired, 
without requiring that they be digested or used. 


The quality factor in the growth of services into new market 
areas has a different set of limits. These can be illustrated by referring 
to Prices’ chart on families of new technology, in Appendix Figure A-2. 

The competition between overlapping new technologies means that most of 

the market for the youngest generation will ordinarily be subtracted from 
the business available to its predecessors. A rapid new development may 
break through the previous limits to growth into a new mavket area, above 
the earlier curve, only when it can draw upon some new resource not pre- 
viously available. One example of such a new resource is the high speed of 
computerized searching, coupled with multiple uses for the same user train- 
ing and facilities. The trouble is that this may come at the expense of 
other parts of scientific research, not in addition to it. It is too soon 
to tell whether the enormous amounts of information poured into official 
requirements for environmental impact statements or best available technology 
add to the total amount of time and money devoted to science and technology. 
At the moment it appears that until they are completed, they are displacing 
other aspects of research and development. 


The interactions of new technology and its potential users can 
be very disappointing. Two cogent statements of basic principle in this 
area have been made which are entirely negative: 


Mooer's Law: an information retrieval system will tend not 
to be used whenever it is more painful and troublesome for 
a customer to have information than for him not to have 
it (23). 


63 


Zipf's Law, as modified by Allen: statistical analysis of 
the choice of information channels shows a direct relation- 
ship to ease of access, with far less attention to the 
effective use of time, and no correlation between perceived 
technical quality and frequency of use (13). 


Mooer's Law can be considered as a modern paraphrase of the old 
maxim "Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise," and both of these 
statements are related to Zipf's original studies on "The Principle of 
Least Effort" (24,25). Allen's study of the information source-selecting 
criteria of electrical engineers at MIT is being updated in a new edition, 
which reaches the same basic conclusions. Others have reached the inference 
that "the ease of use of an information gathering method is more important 
than the amount of information expected" (26,27). 


The rapid growth of technology superimposes upon this negative 
attitude the fact that constant training is required to use the newest 
tools to advantage. The information intermediary has an increasingly 
important function in liaison between the service and its potential user- 
customers. This is one element in the question; will it be used? Does the 
customer want to use it, does he know how to use it, does he need help to 
use it? (28) "Information broker" is the new word for 1976, and additional 
new titles can be expected as this function becomes more complex. Repeated 
efforts to train the customer himself to use the more sophisticated services 
have suggested that the person most likely to look for help is the experienced 
customer, who knows the value of information. No matter how much or how 
little such training the scientist may have, the information expert has more. 


The inherent conflict between quantity and quality of information 
is made worse by this division of effort. The technical function of pro- 
ducing references is the work of a specialist, and the evaluation of infor- 
mation is the job of somebody else. New technology produces a large increase 
in the quantity of information to be processed. Without an intermediary, it 
is the customer's time which must be used to reject the trash before the 
"information" produced can be used. The quantitative selection is by per- 
tinence or relevance, not by "value." The threat is that bad data will 
push out the good. This tends to repress the accepted value of any single 
fact, and if ten bits of information are not enough, it is possible to 
produce a thousand. To meet this threat, it is vital to recognize that 
both the operating function which produces the information and the 
research or planning functions which use it are necessary and independent. 
Neither can function properly alone. 


APPENDIX B 


DEVELOPMENT 


Proposal Postulates 


Throughout this project, the identification of variables con- 
sidered as significant by different users in their selection of informa- 
tion services has been based on one-to-one interviews in the field. The 
survey and its developing conclusions were discussed with each person 
on the average two or three times during the year, for periods of about 
5 to 30 minutes. The object was to recognize and discuss the working 
bias of each user interviewed, give full acceptance to its validity, and 
thereby establish it as data for a generalized approach. 


Several postulates to be examined were set forth in the proposal 
for Contract C-1027. Others were developed during the project. The 
following initial postulates were drawn, based on several decades of 
experience in information research: 


- There are identifiable groups of users of information 
services who differ from each other in their basis for 
selections between competing services; 


The examination of different points of view can be far 
more productive in the analysis of an information 
problem than an exhaustive study of any one viewpoint; 


The many factors used for comparisons between services 
are interrelated, and principles can be found by which 
they interact for different categories of users and 
different types of services. 


Statements on the relative values of information 
services in the literature or elsewhere must be 
considered in the light of who says what, and when; 


The consideration of who says what is in one sense a 
direct opposite of the "Delphi approach" which masks 
personal differences in anonymity, on the assumption 
that a statistical consensus is more useful. 


Initial Interviews 


The first interviews were conducted with individuals who spend 
from 50% to 100% of their time in the use of information services, to look 
for areas of agreement and disagreement in how they select which service to 
use. These interviews addressed two questions: (1) What specific 
abstracting/indexing services do you find most useful, in your daily work?" 
and (2) “What discriminating factors would you recommend in telling someone 
how to choose between them?" 


65 


Four full-time searchers were interviewed, spearately and together; 
their conclusions were in good agreement, as summarized in Table B-l. 
Counting related publications by a given publisher as a single source, 
they named a half-dozen services as "unique" for their use, not replaceable 
by anything else. The second column in this table shows the discriminating 
factors they selected as the basis for comparisons. These were used as 
column headings to expand the table into a grid, with entries for each 
service listed. 


No attempt was made to expand the obvious heading of "specific 
fields covered." Upon further consideration this variable, important as 
it is, was excluded from the study by definition: if there is only one 
service covering a given field it gets all the business there is, because 
there is no competition. If there is competition, the choice is based on 
other factors (completeness, quality, etc.) and not just on the field of 
coverage. 


The column for cost was left largely blank in filling out this 
grid, even by the most experienced searchers. They referred to the staff 
administrator in charge of budget for more accurate information. The same 
thing happened repeatedly in other interviews whenever costs were mentioned. 
While cost is a factor in initial-purchase decisions, the choices that 
turn out well seem to involve an essential component of experience or 
the manager's hunch. Once the service has been purchased and on the shelves, 
its purchase cost is no longer considered as regards day-to-day use. 
Operating costs become a larger variable, and it soon became apparent that 
cost is a factor that is commonly deferred to someone in management. A 
number of the discriminating factors named are related to physical facilities, 
space, and the time required to keep the service usable. These are all 
budget items, related to indirect costs. 


In developing Table B-l1 it became apparent that the variables 
listed as column headings deal with quantifiable factors, while quality 
factors tend to appear in the comments. The deferral of part of the 
decision to management was interpreted at first as based on costs and 
budgets, but conferences with various managers emphasized a strong 
experiential component in management decisions. A typical statement was: 
"If I were considering a service where I had no experience, I would try to 
find another manager whom I could trust, who did have some experience I 
could consult." Behavioral analyst consultants helped identify this 3rd 
dimension as the judgmental/intuitive aspect in the decision process. This 
aspect is characteristic of management, but is by no means so limited. 


The "bases for comparison" in Table B-l were next expanded to a 
table of factors grouped in the 3 dimensions named. One draft of this 
is shown in Table B-2. The lines between categories are not always sharp, 
since there are some factors which can go in more than one place, but the 
pattern can be clearly recognized. This Table B-2 was next shown to several 
scientists who are frequent customers for information searches and other 
services. They agreed on the significance of the factors and dimensions 
named, but disagreed on their relative importance. The scientists all 
said that they would put qualitative factors first in their selection: 
"Which service is a pleasure to use?", and pay relatively little attention 
to the quantity factors as a group. 


66 


TABLE B-1 


DISCRIMINATING FACTORS APPLIED (4 USERS) 


"Unique" Services, 
Most Used 


Chemical Abstracts 


Index Hard Copy 
Text Microfilm 


Derwent - C.P.I. 
API - Abstracts: 


Patents and 
Literature 


Science Citation Index 


Predicasts, 
CMA, Funk-Scott 
Engineering Index 


Applied Science and 
Technology Index 


Bases for Comparison 


Fields covered 


Cost $/yr 
Shelf space/yr 


Timeliness: text + index 
User requirements 


training 
skill 


Minimum use required 
Maintenance time 


Comments 


TABLE B-2 


FACTORS IN SELECTION BETWEEN COMPETING SERVICES 


Dimensions in the Selection Process: 


(a) quantitative factors 


= numerical 
(objective) 


(b) qualitative factors: 


= rankings 
(includes subjective) 


(c) business judgment: 


= go/no-go 
(includes intuitive) 


cost factors, (for first look or continued use) 


coverage of selected fields 
completeness (no. of documents in field) 
(% of available literature in field) 
time factors for delivery 
(soonest and latest, as well as average) 


format of report 
~ appearance 
- orderly presentation 
- convenient access within report, 
indexes, arrangement 


flexibility of coverage 
- ability to vary (+ select) 
depth of coverage, details 
- ability to highlight selected items 
by closeness of match to question 


responsiveness 
- can it change priorities 
- add new items on request 
- tolerate ambiguities 
- will suit "our way of doing things" 


feedback 
- communication with or by user 
- to redefine question during search 
- suitability for browsing 


reputation 
- recommendation of past users 
reliability, uniformity of quality 
confidentiality 
viability, will it last? 
familiarity, to imp:ove efficiency 


factuality 
- if he says a thing is so, does he 
have a basis for it? 


consistency 
- recognized dependable bias 


experience in actual type of work involved 
(not just the field) 
- skill to anticipate problems 
- optimization of procedures 


66 


The three-dimensional outline and the headings in Table B-l were 
next checked independently with the managers of two outside information 
centers - a pharmaceutical research library and a university science 
library. They confirmed the headings selected and the same list of 
services. They recommended the BIOSIS and Medlars/Medline services as 
"unique" in their field (replacing the API abstracts) with the notation 
that initial trairing time and regular continued practise are essential 
to maintain the minimum skills required for their effective use. Overall, 
the lists of services and discriminating factors obtained independently 
from these interviews showed a high degree of agreement, with minor 
differences in the order for specific individuals. 


In an attempt to generalize why this agreement was realized, it 
appears that these are services where the same amount of basic training, 
experience, and facilities makes it possible to answer more different types 
of questions than a competing service, which is rated less valuable. A 
different conclusion based on the same data could be that because these 
services are used more often, the users became more skilled in them and 
find them easier to use. This is not necessarily a different conclusion, 
however, since both may be related to the observation that this service is 
more flexible, for more users. 


No such agreement appeared in efforts to prepare a broader list 
of this type for the same users, to rank the 30 to 50 abstracting/indexing 
services they consider most useful: titles and rankings beyond the few in 
Table B-1 were completely different for each user/searcher, or for the same 
searcher for different searches. This suggested a further analysis of the 
data to consider what types of questions get the widest fluctuations from 
one worker or one use to another, and what questions are most likely to give 
a better matching of answers. The "unique" list was probably a good question 
on this basis, and the second list was not. The failure of this effort led to 
a new direction in the study, to look for areas or circumstances of pre- 
dictable agreement or disagreement in the basis of selections. Stated 
differently, the important variable is not just the user as an individual, 
but a combination of user characteristics with the specific use at hand. 


Perceived values in the importance of direct and indirect costs 
are an obvious area of disagreement. Subsequent interviews indicated that 
time is another variable with aspects which differ greatly in their relative 
importanca to different users. There is a question of whose time is most 
valuable axid when, what portions of the total information request the customer 
is willing to delegate at a given time to someone else, and how much of 
this work the customer prefers to do for himself, to become more familiar 
with the material. These were examined further as interaction effects 
which involve both the user and the environment of use. 


User Population Groups 


This confirmed the original strategy decision to examine as 
carefully as possible the nature and reasons for individual bias and 
report them anonymously at the end rather than concealing them throughout, 
so as to develop a fuller understanding of the decision-making process. 


63 


The review of areas of agreement and disagreement found in the 
initial interviews s).gested a more detailed survey of usage patterns among 
the 15-20 regular users of information services at the Exxon Research and 
Engineering Central Library who spend some 502% or more of their average 
working day in searching the literature. A third of these are library 
staff, half of them information analysts or searchers who have special 
areas of interest, and others include scientists who are strongly oriented 
toward the use of the literature. All of these groups comprise individuals 
with different levels of training, skill, and responsibility - including 
the freedom to decide which searches are most worthwhile, and what informa- 
tion will actually be used. 


The first step in the survey proposal was to conduct a preliminary 
interview with major users, based on their records of past experience, to 
determine what information services each one uses most and about how often. 
This was to decide what questions are worth asking, and what services 
should be added or removed from the previous lists for tabulation. Pre- 
liminary indications were that many users have one or two favorites, which 
this individual uses more than all other services put together, (e.g., CA, 
Derwent, API abstracts). The plan was to ask for a complete tally from 
each user for several weeks, with follow-up discussion, after eliminating 
for each individual as a convenience those services used most often 
(i.e., 50 to 90% of all uses). That is, the survey was to be simplified 
for each participant by identifying this pattern in the preliminary inter- 
view, confirming it, and concentrating thereafter on incremental uses of 
other services. 


This set of preliminary interviews led directly to the identifica- 
tion of the “user populations" referred to above. At the time the survey 
was started, the distinction had been drawn between searchers, scientists, 
and information managers as user groups having different sets of priorities. 
Completion of the initial interviews identified the seven sub-groups of 
user populations discussed in the report, Table 2, and their differences 
in value priorities as reflected in Table 3, This filled out two elements 
in the Matrix proposed, and redirected attention to a closer study of the 
characteristics of the user groups and possible interaction effects between 
the type of user and the type of use. A more immediate problem was the 
question of acceptable definitions for user groups, and where to put the 
"manager" as a user of services. 


Management Viewpoints 


Improvements in the use of scientific and technical information 
constantly run into the limitation that the number of managers who are 
greatly interested in information systems and services remains about the 
same, regardless of the changes and improvements made. The original scope 
of work of this project and initial conferences with NSF emphasized the 


ee 


importance of getting input from different managers and disseminating the 
results widely to the attention of managers outside of the information 
field itself. This proved to be a profitable approach. 


The original outline of dimensions was discussed informally at 
the Engineering Foundation Conference on STI Services at Henniker, N.H. in 
August 1975, and expanded at the ASIS meeting at Boston in October 1975. 
Two important elements in the selection process were reported in numerous 
user interviews as being "deferred to manager": questions of relative cost 
(direct or indirect), and the preparation in advance of an approved list 
of services (based on costs or other factors). The operating "manager" 
was considered as a special user group, with additional functions such as 
project evaluations and the choice of a work environment. 


A first draft of Table 3 on the priorities perceived for selection 
factors in different dimensions placed "managers" with "vendors" as a user 
population to whom costs come first, whereas "scientists" and "planning 
staff" put their emphasis on factors of quality and experience. This scheme 
was not satisfactory, since the manager's viewpoint can be just as clearly 
identified with planning staff as a major function. It was changed accord- 
ingly in an Interim Report (March 15, 1976) prepared as a popular presenta- 
tion of the "Matrix of user values and interactions," to meet editorial sug- 
gestions by the editor of the ACS journal CHEMTECH. This article (29) was 
published in August 1976, addressed to a broad audience of project managers 
in chemical technology. It emphasized the impacts of growth in information 
technology (see Appendix A) and analogies between the selection of 
engineering services and information services. 


The Matrix was expanded to include user impacts as an additional 
interaction effect, and was presented at the National Information Retrieval 
Conference in Philadelphia, in May 1976. Discussions with leading experts 
in the information literature at that time confirmed the dimensional analysis 
and matrix approach presented as valid and useful. 


The presentation for NIRC was first previewed and approved by an 
Oversight Review Committee meeting at NSF the end of April 1976. Plans were 
also discussed at this review meeting for a questionnaire to expand the 
data base of replies from initial interviews. This had been designed for 
use in-hand, during follow-up interviews, to correct for the initial bias 
of replies obtained most easily from the "movers" who are most interested 
in new ideas (see Appendix C). During this discussion, particular emphasis 
was placed on the observation that the differences in value systems of 
different users would also appear differently to three different groups of 
managers. NSF directives following this discussion urged: (1) more attention 
to the differences between managers; this has been expanded as a major con- 
clusion in the Executive Summary and Text Table 6, and (2) to test the 
proposed questionnaire on a larger sample, to examine the "value preferences" 
of different user populations. This test has been made, with procedures 
and results as summarized in Appendix C. 


71 


7 


The viewpoints of different managers were explored further during 
1976 in interviews with selected individuals at the ASIS mid-year meeting 
at Nashville in May, and at the Gordon Research Conference on Information 
Problems in Scientific Research in July, as well as at NIRC and the Over- 
sight Review Meeting in April. The general trend of these comments has 
been worked into the discussion above (Text Table 6). The following are 
highlights of the comments of different managers consulted: 


- Preference rankings in the value systems discussed are 
relative, not absolute: a low ranking does not imply 
zero value, but only that other values are considered 
more important. 


The fact that an item of information is new to the user 
may be enough for some (R/D planning, marketing) but not 
at all for others (patents, contract negotiations). 


User-impact interactions may have an effect on revisions 
in the management decision as to how much time can be 
devoted to looking at information rather than other work 
(such as the effect on user self-esteem of paying someone 
else to do thinking for you, rather than simply looking 
up facts). 


The balance between direct and indirect cost effects has a 
major interaction with time constraints, which differs 


with the type of user/manager and the environment of use. 


When service is satisfactory, credit values for the service 
as a whole may be much more easily recognized than "critical 
incident" values, which seem to cause conflict in claims 

for credit. 


A desirable end result of the present approach is a set of 
classifications by which people can find a home for their 
viewpoint, with segments from the user end rather than, 
as usual, from the manager or provider of the service. 


Individuality is difficult to promote in any bureaucratic 
system, and functions which require it are likely to be 
downgraded or unrecognized. 


Personal skills of individuals in the system are clearly 
recognized whenever special services for special customers 
are desired. 


Judgmental values are not well appreciated by the "rational 
man" who expects his system to be all things to all men, if 
only it can get enough support. 


- Planning staff never has extra time, has access to patterns 
of decision not available to the scientist, and is more 
concerned with plausibility of a point of view, and means 
to evaluate it, than where it comes from; time means money. 


The university environment is very different from the 
industrial one, with cheaper labor and fewer time con- 
straints, but strictly limited capital. Industrial systems 
are far more sensitive to time/labor costs, which depend 
strongly on whose time is being spent. 


A major management concern before purchase of a service is 
to be certain that different bases of decision have at 
least been recognized, and not overlooked because of a lack 
of extensive data. 


Managers and User/Workers Agree in Function 


On further study of the priority values of managers in field 
interviews, it gradually appeared that the word "manager" could be placed 
just as well one place as another in Table 3. Every user population 
includes manager/users as well as user/workers, and every user can be a 
bit of a manager. As the initial confusion was resolved, several con- 
clusions appeared: 


- Different groups of managers can be found, just as with 
other groups of users, who differ in the values they 
perceive for different factors in their selection of 
services. 


The difference lies in what the information service is 
being used for at the moment: the research function, the 
planning function, or information operations. 


Managers and user/workers involved in the same function share 
the same relative values for the priorities perceived, and 
the same set of meanings or connotations for the words used 
for key parameters in the selection process. 


Accordingly, Table 3 was changed to refer to user function 
generically, rather than to specific user populations. Text Table 6 on the 
conflict in connotations for key words was developed to characterize the 
differences apparent to different managers. Here too, the same differences 
apply to both manager and worker for a given information service function. 
It is the function which controls, so the word "manager" was dropped from the 
caption of this table without changing its content. It may be noted that 
several of these words can still be accepted as terms in Text Table l 
(timeliness, time, depth), because their connotations in conflict all fall 
in one dimension. This is not true for the term "reliability" which was 
rejected as ambiguous, because it may refer to different factors in time 
(quantity), in uniformity (quality), or in reputation (judgmental). 


« 52 


The unifying character of this agreement in function is significant. 
The fact that the manager/users and user/workers see things the same way from 
this viewpoint appears to validate the concept of user functions, just as 
the disagreements and agreements on priorities of different user-populations 
appear to validate the concept of dimensions in selection factors. The 
skilled manager or any user applying management skills can apply the 
dimensional approach to identify areas in which he is strong and not so 
strong, and delegate or seek assistance in the weaker areas to improve 
cost effectiveness for the same total effort. 


oo 58 


APPENDIX C 


SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE 


Variables for Analysis 


The analytical procedures and interview approach discussed in 
Appendix A and Appendix B led to an initial Matrix containing three 
variables and three interaction effects. These formed the basis for the 
survey questionnaire. The first variables outlined were the classifica- 
tion of selection factors into dimensions (see text Table 1), user popula- 
tions into groups (text Table 2) and information services into types, as 
they interact with the user (see Definitions). The differences perceived 
were sharpened by the concept of priorities in user value systems as an 
interaction effect, characteristic of the user group (see text Table 3). 


A second interaction effect characteristic of the type of service 
was identified as the personal impact of the user paying someone to do 
thinking for him, in information analysis as contrasted to more routine 
services. This was generalized to a desire to know and choose a specific 
individual, whenever the user is selecting an information service which 
he perceives as involving his own highest skills. This could be searching 
for the searcher, indexing for the indexer, or analysis for the analyst. 


Differences and similarities were accentuated in the interviews 


by "perturbation analysis" (see Appendix A), asking each person who agreed 
with a given correlation to identify others who would either agree or 
disagree with his point of view. The next interviews sought to work out 
with both parties a suitable working vocabulary to identify the differences 
they perceived. A simple set of definitions acceptable to people who 
disagree on priorities and values is far from easy to achieve. 


The next step was to examine each area where an interaction 
appears to exist, and try to find words to describe it. This identified 
a third interaction effcct: user populations who agree in their ranking 
of priorities in selection factor value also tend to agree in the importance 
which they attach to having the originals of selected references in hand 
for their own use, rather than abstracts, titles only, or a digest review. 


Further consideration of the procedures used to reach this stage 
suggested a danger that the results obtained could be influenced by subtle 
changes in phrasing the questions addressed to different user groups. Each 
interview for the analysis of variables covered the same general area, but 
the emphasis kept shifting as new correlations were found. This led to 
plans for a standard questionnaire to be used in hand for second-round 
interviews, to get a clearer view of the differences between groups when 
the same questions were asked in the same way. 


Preliminary Design of Questionnaire 


The first plan for a formal questionnaire was for a usage survey 
based on the concept of different priorities for different users (see text 
Table 3). This was to be addressed in-house to some 20 heavy users of 
information service, from different backgrounds (see Appendix B). The 
object was to examine the concept of priorities and look for other variables 
in the selection process. The table of priorities at this time listed the 
names of separate user groups, by specific discipline: scientist, engineer, 
patent attorney, searcher, information analyst, manager (as the one to whom 
cost decisions are deferred), vendor (as an author interested in data on 
cost effects). Comments on the concepts of selection-factor dimensions and 
user-value priorities had also been obtained from separate surveys of the 
users of a small special library, managers of information services at an 
outside conference, and the sources selected for 300 patent searches in 
special subject areas ordered by a group of patent attorneys over a period 
of 2 years. 


Requirements proposed for the usage survey questionnaire were 
first to identify the user, in terms of discipline or user population at 
the time of a specific use event. This would be followed by a simple grid 
for each user with entries for each special event, and variables arranged 
as column headings to be checked for a subjective ranking of perceived 
importance. The format was to include six variables for each use or 
user: the three dimensions of selection factors, and the relative importance 
attached to recovering original documents, abstracts, or reference by title 
only. Additional variables might be added. The idea was to simplify 
record-keeping for each user by a preliminary interview covering these 
questions completely for those services which he used most of the time, 
and ask him to check the questionnaire only when for some special reason 
he used a different service. 


This format was modified and not used after the preliminary inter- 
views, because it was clear that it placed the emphasis in the wrong place 
(see Appendix B). There were repeated indications that the ranking of 
factors for the selection process depends upon the type of question or how 
the information is to be used, and not on the user's discipline. One such 
indication is how easy it is to design a loaded question which will make 
any desired one of a set of services look best, then ask other questions 
designed to completely reverse the order. This game can be played with 
any of the leading competitors, and it is a favorite ploy of the salesman 
for a new service. 


The original postulate that usage patterns could be tied primarily 
to the individual was thus discarded. Further attempts to set up correlations 
with “service most used," subjective rankings, or field of interest were 
based more on studying the use at a given moment. Unfortunately, this com- 
plicates the problem of the definition of terms which do not mean exactly 
the same thing in one use as they do for another. This was identified as 
a cause of ambiguity in the statement of priorities for the "manager" and 
resolved when it was recognized that here, too, the controlling variable 
is not the person or his job title but his use for the service selected. 


76 


The questionnaire strategy was redesigned on this basis to develop 
a standard set of definitions for variables and priorities from the view- 
point of use rather than the user's discipline. The same set of propositions 
were to be presented in hand to the original cooperating set of 36 users 
for re-interviews, including any modifications made after their first 
comments. Personal impacts between the user and the service were added as 
an interaction effect for study, based on observations that the users of 
information analysis, patent attorneys, or planning staff want to select 
a searcher they know, even if he moves to a new firm. 


An outline of the format proposed was presented and approved at 
the Oversight Review Committee meeting in April 1976, at the ninth month of 
the l-year contract period. The Project Director and the Committee sug- 
gested that raw data of greater interest might be obtained in a limited time 
by sending the questionnaire to a larger sample of the populations avail- 
able, instead of using it in-hand for re-interviews. This sample should 
also help to reduce the bias due to getting initial replies only from 
individuals known to be actively interested. 


Final Draft 


A draft of the questionnaire was discussed internally and reviewed 
with outside experts at NIRC in May, with particulate attention to questions 
in the dimension of budget/costs. A second draft was prepared and presented 
informally to individuals and interested groups at the Midyear ASIS meeting 
at Nashville. A number of suggestions on principles and methods of cor- 
relation were received from operating managers who had conducted user sur- 
veys at Battelle, Rand, and Rutgers. A helpful line by line review was 
also conducted in a breakfast discussion with a group of students from 
Syracuse University. 


These suggestions were combined into another draft and reviewed 
with a consulting behavioral analyst, who recommended a final check with 5 
“guinea pig" critics to take the test without oral instructions. The 
results from this suggested the clarification of definitions and instructions 
at several points. 


The final form of the questionnaire is attached hereto. This was 
deemed ready enough in this form for internal use, where the returns could 
be followed up easily by telephone. It was recognized that further changes 
in format would be desired if a similar questionnaire were to be used 
again. The form Q is in four pages, with contents as follows: 


Page 1 - preamble with definition of terms, expanded after 
the "guinea pig" test to minimize misunderstandings. 


- "anonymous" definition of user background 


- frequency of use for three types of search request 


- 55 - 


frequency of use for specific named services 

ranking of selection factors and costs for named 
services known to the user 

relative importance of selection factors by types of use 


% of references wanted as originals, abstracts, title only 


opinion check list on personal impacts and preferences 


Page 4 - open-ended questions, to help counteract the problem of 
forced definitions and ambiguities 


Questionnaire returns show 100% replies to the identification 
question 1, 78% provided the optional signature, and only two persons 
removed the mailing label for an anonymous reply. The most effective 
questions for statistical review were the frequency check lists in 2, 3, 
5b, and the specific preference list in question 6. The two questions 4 and 
5a on the relative rankings of selection factors were too complex and read 
differently by different respondents. The concepts of text Table 6 were 
developed from this experience, to clarify the importance of the functions 
identified and their different characteristic connotations for the same 
key words. 


The open-ended questions on page 4 received an 85% response, and 
over half of these replies provided some detailed comment. 


Procedure and Initial Results 


The sample chosen as the basis for test was a random list of 
240 named individuals picked from the professional employees at Exxon 
Research and Engineering Company. In this sample 130 individuals were 
located at the engineering research center, 90 in laboratory research and 
20 in smaller groups such as information specialists or patents. These 
sub-sets represent 10-20% of the employees sampled. The list was then 
checked or a telephone call was made to ask: have you during the past 
full year (1975-1976) done any searching in the published literature apart 
from reading current journals, either yourself or by asking someone else 
to conduct a search for you? The questionnaire was sent to a total of 89 
who were known as users or who thus identified themselves. Response to 
the form took an average of 15 minutes. 


The initial query showed that 49 of the 130 engineers used avail- 
able literature services to search for information during the year, versus 
81 who searched only in company sources or current journals. The same 
ratio for research was 40 to 50, or nearer 1 to 1. The list of 89 "known 
users” amounts to 40% of the total random sample of 220 from these two 
locations. This means that the other 60% of the test sample do not consider 
these information services as important to them. They satisfy their infor- 
mation needs in other ways, i.e., from original journals, company sources, 
or their colleagues in the invisible college, as indiciated elsewhere (13,30). 


Table C-l 


Questionnaire Returns (Raw Data) 


Engineers 


Total Sample 130 


used literature services, 1975/76 49 
not used during 1975/76 


Questionnaires Returned 
Number of Searches Requested 

0-1 

2-3 

4+ 
Number of Services Specified 

0-1 

2-3 

4+ 
Ranking of Selection Factors (replies) 


quality/reputation/costs 
all equal 
costs first 


Prefer Originals to Abstracts (or reverse) 


for R/D 
for reports 
for decision 


Perceived values (average) 


know the individual 

use known service 

know approximate costs 
compare on exact costs 
computer-customer training 
accuracy > completeness 
prompt key references 


Open-ended comments 


total 
detailed 


Research 


The greater interest of the researchers in information services 
is reflected in responses received, which was 38 out of 40 from research 
versus 32 out of 49 from engineering. Similar trends appear in the 
average number of searches made during the year, which was about 2 for 
the engineers and over 4 for research. The same applies to familiarity 
with different information services; a check list by title of those used 
at least once during this period showed an average of one for the engineers, 
and three or more for research. 


A preliminary table of questionnaire returns is given in Table 
C-1. These are presented as raw data, since Contract C-1027 required only 
that a questionnaire be prepared suitable for testing and allowed no time 
or funds for statistical analysis. The arbitrary distinction between 
"engineers" at the engineering center location and "research" at the 
research center shows a number of interesting correlations. Both groups 
agree that factors of quality (convenience) and judgment (reputation) 
are ranked as most important (4 or 3) in their selection of services, 
where time and cost factors were ranked as almost nil (1 or 0). 


Different values perceived by these two groups were ranked on 
a 5-point scale (vital, yes, neutral, not needed, and prefer not). The 
algebraic average was strongly positive for research and negative for 
engineers on the use of originals versus abstracts, using known services, 
and asking a known individual to collect the information. Both groups 
agreed (90 vs. 80%) that it is important to get key references promptly, 
before any further search. Both ranked completeness in a search ahead 
of accuracy, the engineers a little more so. The strongest agreement 
was on two questions with heavily negative response and 10-20% of the 
total as "prefer not," for the importance of knowing exact dollar costs 
to compare services, and even more against expecting the user/customer 
himself to know how to do computer searching. The two groups responded 
equally well to the request for comments. 


The preference for using abstracts rather than originals for 
purposes other than research was stronger than expected and it seemed to 
increase for uses further from research, for report writing or for decisions. 
This preference may reflect a local bias at this location, where an aggres- 
sive effort is made to provide good abstracts directed at material of 
company interest. 


The differences observed between the user-habits of research 
scientists and engineers checks a survey of the same group of engineers 
made during a previous year, when 100% of the library requests received 
for literature references came from 41% of the engineers. Both research 
engineers and design engineers were included. Requests ranged from 25% 
of "light users" averaging 4 requests per year, to less than 1% of "heavy 
users" (5 men) averaging 5 requests per week. These are the "information 
gatekeepers," only 1 out of the 5 on senior staff. This indifference to 
the literature may be a factor in the Zipf-law results reported by Allen 
among electrical engineers at MIT. It should be noted again in this con- 
nection that in contrast to scientific journals and reports, the engineer 
does not typically expect to find answers to his problems in the published 
literature, and it is unusual to find engineering know-how in written form. 


80 


ATTACHMENT Q 


Return To: Homer J. Hall 
Govt. Research Labs 
ERC-28, Rm. B-109 


USER EVALUATION OF INFORMATION SERVICES 


(NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION CONTRACT C-1027) , 


This is a survey conducted for NSF on "Improvements in the Dissemination and 
Use of Scientific and Technical Information". Its aim is (a) to explore the value 
systems which users of information services apply in deciding which information service 
to buy or use and (b) to provide a guide for user selections, among the many competing 
services available. "Service" is defined herein as any means of access to the liter- 
ature other than your own reading of journals or books. This may be an abstracting/ 
indexing service, or the personal services of a literature searcher/analyst. 


This questionnaire is addressed to a random sample of Exxon professionals at 
Linden and Florham Park who are known users of information services which the Company 
provides. Its purpose is to examine the basis upon which yeu ordinarily decide which 
service(s) you like best, for a specific use. Telephone enquires about this form are 
welcome; your answers can be given by phone, or by interview if you prefer (ERC x2555). 


1. Your Division Year employed by Exxon 


First college degree and year 


2. During 1975-76, how often have you asked someone to carry out for you any kind of 
information search (estimate)? 


Number and Complexity of Searches 


for a for a question for a report to 

g specified fact, redefined include analysis 

Requested from (names) reference, or copy during search of information 
(Transmitted suggestions) ( ) ( ) ( ) 


Please enter on the last line above the approximate number of these searches 
where you were transmitting a request suggested by someone else. 


81 


oe Q2 


3. During 1975-76, how often have you used yourself or asked someone to use for you 
a specific information service? Please add the names of other services not listed, 
which you particularly like and use. 


O = never 3 = often (average once a week) 
1 = at least once 4 = daily (constant use) 
2 = several times 


Chemical Abstracts Air Pollution Abstracts 
API Abstracts Applied Sci/Tech Index 
Derwent Patents Current Contents 
Science Citation Index Environment Abstracts 
Predicasts Fetroleum Abstracts 
Engineering Index ERDA Energy Abstracts 
NTIS/GRA Index 


Lockheed/Dialog 
Medlars/Medline 
SsDC/Orbit 


How do you rate the services that you know in the above list (3), aside from the 
question of subject area? Please enter your list below, by name or number, and 
rate every factor for which you have an opinion, on a scale from 0 = poor; 1 = 
uncertain; 2 = satisfactory; 3 = good; to 4 = excellent. 


Judgment 
Quality Factors Budget Factors Factors 


Service 
(by name or number) 


to my needs 


accurate 
efficiency 
response 
breadth of 
coverage 
reputation 
prospects 


cost 


easy) to 
use 
responds 


Chemical Abstracts 


API 


*Please enter in Column 10 (a) your estimate of how much this service costs, per year 
ana ** other reasons why you particularly like or do not like this one (use footnotes 


as needc. * 


82 


- 60 - Q-3 


What factors are most important to you in deciding what information service(s) to use? 
Since this may vary with your intended use, please specify this, and indicate for 

each type of search which factors you rank as most important in your selection of 
services (on a scale 0 to 4, zero to vital). Consider all quality factors as a group, 
all budget factors, and all judgment factors, as separate dimensions in the selection 
process: 


Relative importance (0,1,2,3,4) of 
factors in selecting Usual % of references 
Type of Search a service for this use: you want to see, as 


information search intended quality budget judgment title/ 
for use* (convenience) (costs) (reputation) originals abstracts author 


a specified fact, 
reference 


patent information 


state of the art 
review 


browsing, 
general background 


project selection 


* specifv, as use for R/D (planning ‘otiils); report (writing); client (for sending to someone); 
decision (management); other 


In your evaluation of information services, how important is it in your opinion to 


-- - ° + ++ 
(prefer not) (not needed) (neutral) (yes) (vital) 


know the individual who 
will do the searching 


use a service I have 
used before 


know myself how to do 
computer searching 


know approximate costs 
(order of magnitude) 


know exact dollar costs 
for comparing services 


rank accuracy ahead of 
completeness of coverage 


get key references promptly, 
before the final report 


—e « 


Other + or - factors which seem significant to me include: 


What effect does it have on you if a service which gives good resuits is 


expensive? 


or, hard to use? 


of uncertain reputation? 


contains hidden errors? 


Why do you think people particularly like to use or avoid certain types of 
information services? 


This survey of user values systems is in no way a reflection on the 
information services supplied by ER&E. Thank you for your time and interest. 
It will help if you sign, but if you don't want to, leave it off. 


(optional) 


SELECTED REFERENCES 


"Annual Review of Infcrmation Science and Technology," ed. Cuadra, 


C. A. (Wiley, New York) see Volume 2 (1967) pp. 1-86; Volume 6 
(1971) pp. 1-73. 


Lancaster, F. W., “Information Retrieval Systems: Characteristics, 
Testing, Evaluation,” (Wiley, 1968); see also, "Evaluating the 
Economic Efficiency of a Document Retrieval System," J. of Doc. 

24(1) 16-40 (1968). 

Hannay, N. B., (Chairman) "Cost Effectiveness of Information Systems," 
Am. Chem. Soc., Sub-Committee on the Economics of Chemical 

Information (1969). 


King, D. W. and Caldwell, N. W., "Study of the Cost-Effectiveness of 
Retrospective Search Systems," Am. Psychol. Assn. (1970); ERIC 
report ED 46, 446; see also ED 46, 460. 


King, D. W. and Bryant, E. C., "The Evaluation of Information Services 
and Products," (Information Resources Press, Washington, DC, 1971). 


Lancaster, F. W., "The Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Information 
Retrieval and Dissemination Systems," J. Am. Soc. Info. Science 22 
12-27 (1971). 


Kabi, A., "Use, Efficiency and Cost of External Information Services," 
Aslib Proceedings 24(6) 356-62 (1972). 


Cawkell, A. and Garfield, E., "The Cost-Effectiveness and Cost Benefit 
of Commercial Information Services," Current Contents 8/25/75, 6-12. 


Cooper, W. S., "On Selecting a Measure of Retrieval Effectiveness," 
J. Am. Soc. Info. Science 24 87-100, 413-24 (1973). 


Wooster, H., "An Information Analysis Center Effectiveness Chrestomathy,' 
J. Am. Soc. Info. Science 21 149-154 (1970). 


Marshall, D. B., "User Criteria for Selection of Commercial On-Line 
Computer-Based Bibliographic Services," Special Libr. 66(11) 501-8 
(1975). 


Vickers, P. H., "A Cost Survey of Mechanized Information Systems," 
J. of Doc. 29(3) 258-280 (1973). 


Allen, T. J. and Gerstberger, P. G., "Criteria for the Selection of an 
Information Source," MIT Sloane School of Management, 1967 
(NTIS Report PB 176 899). 


~ 63 - 


Kaback, S. M., "The Literature-Research Chemist," J. Chem. Doc. 2 
167-169 (1962). 


Hall, H. J., "Soviet Research in Catalysis," Ind. and Eng. Chem. 
62(3) 33-40 (1970). 


Harris, J. S., "New Product Profile Chart," C&E News, 4/17/61, 
110-118. 


Kepner, C. H. and Tregoe, B. B., "The Rational Manager," (McGraw Hill, 
New York), 1965. 


Abbott, E. A., "Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions,"; see "The 
World of Mathematics," J. R. Newman, Vol. 4, 2383-96, (Simon and 
Schuster, 1956). 


Lawrence, B., "Use of Data Bases in Combination," Paper 76-153, 
Midyear ASIS Mtg, Nashville, May 1976. 


deSolla-Price, D. J., Chapter 5, "Diseases of Science," pp. 96-124 in 
"Science Since Babylon" (Yale Univ. Press 1961). 


King, D. W., "Statistical Indicators of Scientific and Technical 
Communication, 1960-1980. Vol. I, Summary Report," National Science 
Foundation, 1976. 


Larson, J., Tannehill, R. S., and Wood, J. L., "Availability of 
Scientific Serials," presented at SLA, Denver, June 1976. 


Mooers, C. N., "Mooer's Law or, Why Some Retrieval Systems Are Used 
and Others Are Not," Am. Documentation 11(3) ii (July 1960). 


" stanza 20. 


Gray, T., "Ode on a Distant Prospect to Eton College,' 
Zipf, G. K., "Human Behaviour and the Principle of Least Effort, 
An Introduction to Human Ecology," (Hafner, New York, 1965). 


Rosenberg, V., "Factors Affecting the Preferences of Industrial 
Personnel for Information Gathering Methods," Info. Storage and 
Retrieval, 3(3) 119-27 (July 1967). 


Buckland, M. K. and Hindle, A., "Library Zipf," Documentation Notes, 
J. of Doc. 25(1) 52-57 (1969). 


Reeves, E. D., "Measuring Research Effectiveness," (Am. Management 
Assn., General Management Series #180, 1956). 


Hall, H. J., "Selecting Information Services," Chemtech, 6(8) 
504-5 (August 1976). 


Pohlmann, J. and Abel, B., "“Informationsbedurfnisse und Informations- 
gewohnheiten der Verfahrens-Ingenieure als Bedarfstrager wissenschaftlich- 
technischer Informationen - Eine empirische Untersuchung," Chem.-Ing. 
Tech. 48(4) 327 (1976). 


8b 


BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATA 1. Report No. 4 3. Recipient's Accession No. 
SHEET 
4. Title and Subtitle §. Report Date 

February 15, 1977 


User Values in the Selection of Information Services > 


7. Author(s) 8. Performing Organization Rep. 
Homer J. Hall NoEXXON/GRU .1DK.77 


9. Performing Organization Name and Address 10. Proyect: TasksWork Unit No. 


Exxon Research and Engineering Company 
Government Research Laboratories 
P.O. Box 8 Linden, NJ 07036 NSF C-1027 


VV. Contract ‘Grant No. 


12 Sponsoring Oreanization Name and Addre<s 13. Type of Report & Period 


Covered 
National Science Foundation une 30 ne ae 1 
Division of Science Information 7 : P : 
Washington, DC 20550 . 


15. Supplementary Notes 


16. Abstracts The value systems by which the users of purchased information services select 


which one to use or buy are found to differ sharply between different user populations, 
but the variable found to control is the function of use, not the user as an individual | 
Selection variables are summarized in a Matrix of user values and interaction effects. 
The research function user (scientist, engineer, attorney) prefers original documents, 
and tends to choose subjectively. The operating manager (or searcher) more often stops 
with abstracts and emphasizes quantifiable factors. The planning manager (or individual)] 
wants a digest of ideas, not references, and tends to judge a service first as to its 
reliability. These three functions attach entirely different connotations to the same 
words for key parameters. They can be linked to the structure of language: operations 
is the present participle (doing), research concerns the verbal adjective (state of the 
art), and planning is in the subjunctive mode (could or should). Apparent conflicts may 
be resolved by dimensional analysis of differences in values perceived are illustrated 
| by case histories, interviews, and questionnaire results. 


17. Key Words and Document Analysis. 170. Descriptors 


Information services Use functions Usage survey 
Purchased services Discriminant factors Information access 
Selection process Quantifiable Access tools 

User values Qualitative Routine searching 
Value priorities Judgmental Information analysis 
Value dimensions Interaction effects Management planning 
User populations Conflicting definitions Decision analysis 


. Identifiers /Open-Ended Terms 


Matrix interactions Working bias 
Semantic linkages Verbal functions 
Perturbation analysis Concept analysis 


We. COSATI Field/Group 5B Documentation and Information Technology 

18. Availability Statement 19. -_ urity Class (This 21. No. ot Pages 
“P" Unclassified 82 

20. Security Class (This 22. Prive 


Page 


Approved for Public Release, 
Distribution Unlimited 


FORM wTIS-35 (REV. 3-72) "$COMM OCC '48952.P 72 


