ED 121 330 
AUTHCR 
TITLE 


INSTITUTION 
SPONS AGENCY 
PUB DATE 
NOTE 


EDRS PRICE 


DESCRIPTORS 


IDENTIFIERS 


ABSTRAC’ 


DOCUAENT RESUSE 
Ik 003 328 


Hall, Homer J. 

Generalized Method for the User Evaluation of 
Purchased Information Services, Report Number Three; 
Monthly Report (October 1 to November 30, 1975). 
Exxon Research and Engineering Co., Linden, N.J. 
National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C. 

11 Dec 75 

11p.; For related documents see IR 003 327-329; 
Prepared by Government Research Laboratory 


MF-$0.83 HC-$1.67 Plus Postage 

Branch Libraries; Cost Effectiveness; *Decision 
Making; Indexes (Locaters); *Information Services; 
*Library Material Selection; Library Research; 
Research Libraries; Sciences; Special Libraries; 
Technology; University Libraries; *Use Studies 
Exxon Research and Engineering Company 


Four case histories were studied in an on-going 


project to develop a method for user selection of purchased 
scientific and technical information services. The issues involved 


were: 


a company technical library; 
used for selecting items of very high or low costs; 


(1) the value of computer search services to a small branch of 


(2) the special decision-making factors 


factors applied when purchasing expensive special topic bulletins; 
and (&) the differences in work environment and other variables 
between a university science library and an industrial research 
library. A surwey of usage patterns for scientific and technical 
information services at the Exxon Research and Engineering Company 
Central Library was planned. (PF) 


(3) the judgement 


RRA AREA AREER AAR ERE AEERER ER EARRERRARERAREREAE REAR RRERARER EERE ERE EEE 
Documents acquired by ERIC include many informal unpublished 


. * 
* materials not available from other sources. ERIC makes every effort * 
* to obtain the best copy available. Newertheless, items of marginal * 
* reproducibility are often encountered and this affects the quality * 
* of the microfiche and hardcopy reproductions ERIC makes available * 
* via the ERIC Document Reproduction Service (EDRS). EDRS is not * 
* responsible for the quality of the original document. Reproductions * 
* . 
« * 


supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made from the original. 
SRRRERKE ERE EREARAEAAERERAREEREEREEARAAEE RARER RERAERRAARARAREEEES SE REREE 


IR 003 328 


GENERALIZED METHOD FOR THE USER EVALUATION 
OF PURCHASED INFORMATION SERVICES 


Contract No.: wWws?F C-1027 


Project: Improved Dissemination and Use of 
Scientific and Technical Information 


Report No.: 3 - Monthly Report 


Period: October 1 to November 30, 1975 


By 


Homer J. Hail 


Exxon Research and Engineering Compe-w 
Government Research Laboratory 
P.O. Box & 

Linden, New Jersey 07036 


December 11, 1975 


ws OE ree TENT OF HT ALTE 
EOuC eTION 6 WEL Fate 
watroma meST TUTE OF 
€oucetT ow 
. een Serre 
owteo Guactuy @ SEecerveo *eow 
Te PERSON O8 OBGEN: TATION eG . 
at + Ore TS OF view C8 OF HONS 
sta TED GOO WOT WE £65484 * etree 
SENT OF Frc remy WOTIOMM wri Tete oO 
€Ouc at os &OS Toe oe FOR ‘ 


A Cemeralized Methed for the User teedeotéce 
Selection of Purchased information Serw ic es 


Objectives and Definitions 


The definition of the tere services as weed herein hes been 
consigered further in the light of ite functions! signif Licance 


A “simple searching service” ts one tn wich the question te 
completely defined Sefore the search is started, and any resetetenent 
of the question represents « sew search. The dietinetion ilies tn how 
the service is weed, net the sechentos of the epeten. Redef inition of 
the question during the search requires « auch higher degree ef skill 
and training on the part of the weer. Such redefinitions ere character 
is"ice eof information eaalyeis. In terrae of the present eeotrect Phase I 
is addressed to simple searching services, anid Phase Tl will add the 
parameters for informatica analysis. 


Thie stetement of the critica”. dietinetion between Phase I and 
Phase Tl is taken in pert from the traieiag principles for enginee-« ceed 
by [t: statement of the probles te be enlwed ie called inpet te the 
system, process operations are internal te the system, end Gutput is 
\ailered te meet predefined needs. Two guiding principles are Fecaga ized 


a) the more sharply iapwt can be defined, the easter 
it is to define an escoepteble cuetpet, end the leave 
problem it is te satisfy the qualitative eapects 
ef weer seeds; 


b) any interaction between the customer end the syetes 
éuring precessing changes the input ne eetter how 
slight the change. 


This creates 4 new statement of the problem, end cosets which may be 
ruinous, unless the changes ere made by an expert wre understands com- 
pletely the langeage of the machine as well as the lengeage of the pre- 
bles. This may seve owerall costs or it may aot, efece it depends on 
whether the tire of such en erpert is evellabice os call, oc well os 
whether he can é0 the job in enough lees time te sore thas balance bic 
higher enit rere. 


This definition clarifies our comept of services te be 
included in Phase I, simce it says thet whee « compiles (computerieed) 
service is being used for routine operation, thie aay be « etaple search, 
even though the same equipment cen be used iw sophisticated ways for 
information analysis. 


+ * 
tii 4 * 
: 
™ 


a “ nets ” - “ 
. mw * a ey 
- « a i $7 
. Eee - ae Cd ” - od 
” , ~ “ ” ‘ - tae 
“ - ad eae 
a 
a a 
lhe J * € Saal 
_ 
a = a “ 
* " 


