ED 266 124 SP 027 204 


AUTHOR Dunbar, Jeffrey B. 

TITLE Teacher Education and the Liberal Arts. Wingspread 
Conference of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest 
Report (October 11-13, 1985). 

INSTITUTION EXXON Education Foundation, New York, N.Y. 

PUB DATE 22 Nov 85 

NOTE 37p.; Tabular material contains small print. 

PUB TYPE Collected Works - Conference Proceedings (021) -- 
Reports - Descriptive (141) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1/PCO2 Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS Curriculum Development; Higher Education; 
*Intercollegiate Cooperation; *Liberal Arts; *Schools 
of Education; Student Financial Aid; Teacher 
Education; *Teacher Education Programs 


ABSTRACT 

Teams of faculty members from the 13 institutions of 
the Associated Colleges of the Midwest examined how liberal arts 
colleges can play a significant role in addressing the demand for 
good teachers in America's public schools. More specifically, they 
examined the characteristics of good teachers, the relation of these 
characteristics to the liberal arts, and the ways that liberal arts 
colleges might support teacher education, both as individual 
institutions and as members of a consortium. The purpose of this 
conference was to establish: (1) cross-departmental working 
relationships to improve and promote teacher education at their 
respective colleges; and (2) cross-college working relationships to 
develop, fund, and promote consortium teacher education improvement 
projects such as a consortium five-year program in teacher education, 
and a consortium cancellable-loans program for teacher candidates. 
The first part of this report is an executive summary, detailing the 
consultant's findings for the conference. The second part is a 
consultant's-responses report, containing the consultant's questions 
and rationales, ideas, and recommendations which emerged from the 
conference proceedings. The third part of the report is a 
chronological-narrative report in the form of an appendix providing 
elaborative information for each of the findings stated in the 
Executive Summary. (JD) 


KEKKKKEKEKEEKEKEKEKREEKTERKREKKKEKREEKREEKEEEKKEKEKEEREEKEEEKEEKKKEREKKEEEEEER 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made * 


* from the original document. * 
REKKEKEEKKKEEEKEKEETEREEKEREERERKEKERRREKKREKKKEKREKEERKKEREKREEEREKREKKKREEREE 


ED266124 


REPORT 


THE EXXON EDUCATION FOUNDATION 


THE WINGSPREAD CONFERENCE OF THE ASSOCIATED COLLEGES OF THE MIDWEST 


TEACHER EDUCATION AND THE LIBERAL ARTS 


OCTOBER 11-13, 1985 


JEFFREY B. DUNBAR, CONSULTANT 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
ALLEGHENY COLLEGE, PENNSYLVANIA 


NOVEMBER 22, 1985 


NT OF EDUCATION “ 
C= PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 


NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION MATERIAL HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


CENTER (ERIC) 

7 a document has been reproduced as 
received from the person or organization 
onginating nt 
Minor changes have been made to improve 
reproduction quality 


—-~ ———— a TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


ment do not necessarily represent official NIE 
position or policy 


"America always buys what 
it wants-- 
if it wants it badly enough." 


film, High School 


"When one is studying the child, 
one is studying 
humankind." 


Dean John Palmer 


"To be fully human, 
one must 


serve." 


film, High School 


REPORT CONTENTS 


The following report is on the Associated Colleges of the 


Midwest Wingspread conference, "Teacher Education and the Liberal 
Arts" which took place October 11-13, 1985. The report is in three 
parts. The first part is an executive-summary report; this 


report comprises the consultant's findings for the conference. 


The second part of the report is a consultant's-responses report; 
this report comprises the consultant's questions and rationales, ideas, 


and recommendations which emerge from the conference proceedings. 


The third part of the report is a chronological-narrative report 
in the form of an appendix; this report comprises the elaborative 


information for each of the findings stated in the Executive Summary. 


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
THE ASSOCIATED COLLEGES OF THE MIDWEST WINGSPREAD CONFERENCE 
"TEACHER EDUCATION AND THE LIBERAL ARTS" 
OCTOBER 11-13, 1985 


CONFERENCE PURPOSE STATEMENT 


Teams of faculty members from the thirteen institutions 
of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest will examine how 
liberal arts colleges can play a significant role in 
addressing the demand for good teachers in America's public 
schools. More specifically, they will examine the 
characteristics of good teachers, the relation of these 
characteristics to the liberal arts, and the ways that 
liberal arts colleges might support teacher education, both 
as individual institutions and as members of a consortium. 


CONFERENCE ORIGIN 
The Associated Colleges of the Midwest (ACM) Conference was 


proposed by the ACM presidents. They wanted this conference to 
establish concretely: 


1) cross-departmental working relationships to improve and promote 
teacher education at their respective colleges, and 

2) cross-colleges working relationships to develop, fund and 
promote consortium teacher education improvement projects such as 


a consortium five year program in teacher education, and a 
consortium cancellable-loans program for teacher candidates. (see 
Appendix A ) 


CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS 


The ACM colleges, teams, programs, and projects have quality 
diversity, commonality, and experience with respect to 
liberal-arts-based teacher training overall, and extended-year-program 
teacher training, and teacher-training financial-support programs in 
particular. 


The ACM demonstrates evidence that it has the resources to 
accomplish the stated purpose? of its conference, "Teacher Education 
and the Liberal Arts." The teacher-education programs are in place, and 
they are of a size and composition to enable the ACM to move towards 
extended-year programs. There exist within the consortium 
teacher-educators with the experience, and the faculty and the student 
pools with the quality, requisite for implementing extended-year 
teacher-education programs. There exists within the consortium 
experience with teacher-education financial-incentive programs. There 
is demonstrated ACM administration and liberal-arts faculty 
teacher-education interest, involvement, and leadership to implement 
both such programs. Finally, the ACM has the funding base and the 
funding track-record to suggest that it can secure the necessary 
funding support for its teacher-education proposals. (See Appendix B) 


CONFERENCE OBSERVERS 


Selected national foundations are reviewing for the first time 
teacher education, liberal-arts-based teacher education, and 
liberal-arts-colleges-consortia for teacher education. Further, these 
and other foundations and agencies demonstrate real or defacto 
collaboration for teacher education support nationally. 

The ACM conference was preceeded by eight related conferences, 
five of which were for the Holmes Group Consortium (HGC); two other 
conferences were an early-childhood education conference, and an 
undergraduate-instruction-improvement conference respectively. 

The ACM conference was observed by one foundation in particular in 
addition to the Exxon Education Foundation (EEF); the Rockefeller 
Foundation (RF) was observing the ACM generally, and was considering 
the ACM's cancellable-loan-program proposal, specifically. 

When collated, the ACM conference, two of the eight ACM conference 
observers, the preceeding seven Wingspread conferences, and their 
concomitant sponsors, constitute the real or defacto collaboration of 
the following foundations and agencies: 


The National Institute of Education 
The U. S. Department of Education 
The Ford Foundation 
The Carnegie Corporation of New York 
The Johnson Foundation 
The Joyce Foundation 
The Rockefeller Foundation 
The Exxon Education Foundation 
(See Appendix C) 


KEYNOTE PLENARY SESSION 


Dr. John Palmer, Dean of the School of Education, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison and member of the Holmes Group Consortium (HGC), 
recommends partnerships of research universities as represented by the 
HGC, and liberal arts colleges like the ACM constitutes, for 
teacher training; the HGC seeks to merge the strengths of the liberal 
arts colleges with the strengths of the research universities into a 
six-year teacher training program. 

John Palmer spoke about the characteristics of good teachers, the 
relationship of the liberal arts to teacher-training, the 
teacher-training role of liberal arts colleges, the relative quality of 
liberal arts students, and the future need for teachers. He based his 
remarks upon four assumptions, plus data from the Carnegie Committee 
and other sources. He particularly spoke about restructuring teacher 
education--the necessary changes in both the composition of 
undergraduate courses, and the structure and function of 
student-teaching and internship-year experiences. One model, the Kenyon 
College 5-STEP Program, was later presented which approximated Dean 
Palmer's description of restructured teacher-training. Dean Palmer 
also discussed the financial and the time problems of liberal arts 
students going into teaching. He also stated that society no longer has 
a group (women) to turn to for cheap teaching labor--one participant 
replied that there still is a group: the incompetents. (See Appendix 


=o 


6 


D) 

Liberal arts colleges have the quality and the programs, and 
Universities have the numbers and the resources. It was left 
unclear, however, especially in light of the faculty/student ratios of 
liberal arts colleges, and the quality of liberal arts faculties and 
students, that the university represented by the HGC is significantly 
more able to provide pedagogical/clinicz1 teacher-training experiences 
than is the liberal arts college represented by the ACM. It was also 
left unclear how the universities cepresented by the HGC could provide 
liberal-arts-based teacher-training for their own students. 


CONFERENCE DAY TWO PLENARY AND DISCUSSION SESSIONS 


The ACM participants focused upon restructuring, improving, and/or 
promoting consortium teacher edu-ation; the resultant inventories of 
selected current program practices, new ideas and suggestions, and 
identified problems and concerns, represented participants" pragmatic, 
authentic, and can-do thinking relative to the following selected 
questions: 


1) How are teacher education programs perceived by liberal 
arts faculty and students? 

2) How can teacher education be integrated into the overall 
liberal arts curriculum? 

3) What can liberal arts colleges do about the shortage of 
math and science teachers? 

4) What ought the relationship be of teacher training and of 
industry? 

5) What are the gender issues in teacher education? 

6) What are the possibilities of fifth year/ninth 
semester/M.A.T. programs? 

7) How can links with local schools be strengthened? 

8) What special courses and programs do education students 
need? 

9) How should state and national education policy be 
influenced? 
10) How is the ACM Urban Education Program a resource? 


Selected ACM education programs outlined the flux of the current 
political contexts within which they operated. Participants identified 
and explored ACM programs already in place which modeled the ACM agenda 
for improved teacher education--program quality, program awareness and 
attractiveness, program support, and program involvement with liberal 
arts faculties and public schools; especially examined were five-year 
programs and financial-support programs. Participants also identified 
and explored ACM practices already in place for attracting students to 
teaching, and for affirming the teaching profession. The ACM Urban 
Education Program was examined as an ACM resource for improved 
teacher-training. Finally, ACM participants experienced actual 
preservice-education and inservice-education demonstrations. 

Based on the above explorations the ACM seems to have strong, 
extensive, and experiential resources with which to address the 
interrelated, pragmatic questions concomitant with the ACM agenda for 
restructured and improved teacher education. It is significant to note 
that neither in group discussions nor in the plenary-report sessions 


=3- 


7 


were there participants’ comments to the effect, "This can't be done." 
(See Appendix E) 


CONFERENCE DAY THREE PLENARY SESSIONS 
The ACM participants focused upon two questions: 


1) What does it mean to recruit good students to be teachers? 
2) What does it mean to make teacher education a priority on a 
liberal arts campus and in a liberal arts consortium? 


The final two plenary sessions of the ACM conference provided 
participants both synthesis and closure relative to the essential 
question of the conference. The first session focused upon the area of 
attracting good students to teacher education. The second session was 
a forum for the ACM colleges' leadership to state what it means to make 
teacher education a priority at a liberal arts college and within a 
liberal arts consortium. 

An ACM participants" panel presented current and proposed ways for 
the ACM to attract good students to teaching; especially focused upon 
was the attractiveness of the five-year teacher-education programs for 
students. Specific components of particular models for five-year 
and/or entended-year programs which mediate problems that liberal arts 
students encounter when pursuing teacher-training also were examined. 
For instance, sequential programs without an education major help 
students confirm their career decision in a way that does not take away 
from their liberal arts interests. 

The second of the final two plenary sessions of the ACM 
conference reviewed the meaning of making teacher education a priority 
at liberal arts colleges. 

Selected ACM presidents and deans spoke about the ways 
liberal-arts-college [top] leaders can themselves improve their 
respective college's teacher-education awareness and support, and their 
respective college's support and/or affirmation of the teaching 
profession. In particular, the presidents discussed the role 
foundations such as EEF and RF can and should perform in the ACM 
teacher-education mission; most notably, the foundations should provide 
financial support and/or incentive programs for liberal-arts-students 
who are teacher-education candidates; an ACM cancellable-loans program 
was specifically proposed. Both of the above ACM panel foci constitute 
the essential ACM contribution to its mission of providing good 
teachers for America's schools. (See Appendix F) 


SUMMARY 

The ACM presidents achieved their purposes for the ACM conference 
"Teacher Education and the Liberal Arts." The presidents wanted their 
respective colleges, and the ACM as a whole, to respond to America's 
need for good teachers by renewing the ACM commitment to 
liberal-arts-based teacher education; further, they wanted this to be 
college wide, not just education department, renewal. 
Cross-departmental working relationships, and cross-colleges working 
relationships for ACM teacher-education changes were initiated and 
demonstrated before the conference, and at the conference. The 
conference constituted a concrete first step for renewed emphasis upon 
ACM teacher-education. 


CONSULTANT'S RESPONSES REPORT 


The Associated Colleges of the Midwest (ACM) Wingspread conference 
"Teacher Education and the Liberal Arts" constituted a forum from which 
the consultant derived three groups of questions, ideas, and 
recommendations: those relating to ACM teacher education, those 
relating to teacher education nationally, and those relating to basic 
education nationally. Selected questions, ideas, and recommendations 
are stated below. 


RELATING TO ACM TEACHER EDUCATION 


AN EXECUTIVE TASK GROUP--The ACM has individual faculty (education and 
liberal arts) and administrators who seemed especially proactive and 
resourcefui relative to the ACM conference foci. These individuals 
might well form an executive task group for ACM teacher education 
change and renewal. Such a group could provide the guidelines, the 
proposals, and the experiential resources to form a concrete program 
for the consortium. The program would produce individual college and 
overall consortium teacher education change consistent with the ACM 
presidents' agenda for producing good teachers for today's schools. 
Nine of the individuals who might form an ACM executive task group 
ares 


Roxie Alexander, Beloit College--catalytic energy and 
influence; positive, pointedly-humorous, grounding, home-spun 
analogies and commentaries; "A Midwest Sam Ervin" (Dunbar). 


Keith Anderson, St. Olaf College--steady, sound, wise voice 

of experience; a doer (see St. Olaf's links with schools, 
Appendix); a voice of conscience for the group(" ...noticed that 
no teacher was part of this conference..."). 


Jane Cauvel, Colorado College--competent, in-charge 
qualities; askes insightful questions ("...would 

there be any differences in liberal arts classes which 
[do/do not] have education students present?"); 
facilitating task-group leader. 


George Drake, Grinnell--natural, articulate, personable 
qualities; a doer leader (see Grinnell's free tuition, 
Appendix); a visionary. 


Roger Hull, Beloit--young, vigorous, take-charge qualities; a 
doer leader (see Beloit's cancellable-loans proposal, 
Appendix); a pragmatic activist. 


John McCall, Knox College--senior, but with young, sound, action 
thinking based on calm, clear, confident experience; a doer leader 
(see educational-lobbying, Appendix); a practical sage. 


Charlotte Mendoza, Colorado College--strong, clear, 


restrained presence and commentary; a doer leader (see 
Colorado's M.A.T.'s, Appendix); a voice of exemplary, high 


oje- 


standards, no-nonsense, everyday implementation experience 
relative to extended-year programs. 


Seymour Schuster, Carleton College--educational activist; 
voice of priorities ("...we [keep avoiding] the primary 
question in this conference: what are we going to do about 
getting teachers' salaries raised?"); a science voice for 
humanitarian agendas. 


Marilyn Turkovich, ACM Urban Education Program--understated, 
clear, insightful, experienced, right-mindedness in 
commentaries and actions; an active-learning teacher (see 
Cultural Differences Demonstrations, Appendix); a 
reality/ideal balancer. 


There are, and undoubtedly there will yet emerge, other such 
individuals as described above who make or will make proactive 
contributions to the ACM agenda for teacher education; the above list 
is representative, not exclusive. 


FIVE-YEAR/EXTENDED-YEAR/NINTH-SEMESTER CONFERENCE--the ACM can and 
should have a conference which examines specifically five-year, 
extended-year, and ninth-semester teacher-education programs; programs 
both within the ACM and outside of the ACM nationally, should be 
examined. The ACM seems to perceive five-year programs primarily as 
facilitating tools for liberal arts colleges to provide teacher 
training for their liberal arts students. 

The particualar aspects of such programs which constitute 

better teacher training than is provided by traditional programs 

need equal, if not more, emphasis; the same is true for particular 
aspects of five-year programs which mitigate problems found in both 
traditional programs and in "add-on" programs--especially when such 
programs have education majors (see Day-Three, Plenary Session I, 
Appendix). In addition, it seemed clear that most, if not all, the ACM 
participants who are not already involved with some form of 
extended-year programs are eager and ready to know more specifically 
about such programs--what they entail, how they are done day-to-day, 
what problems must be surmounted when implementing such programs, and 
what benefits such program provide to liberal arts students, to the 
respective education programs, to the respective liberal arts colleges, 
and to the schools. 


RELATING TO TEACHER EDUCATION NATIONALLY 


EXEMPLARY TEACHER--EDUCATION-PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION PROJECT--as 
evidenced within the ACM, liberal arts colleges nationally represent a 
range of quality of institutions (and therefore faculty and student 
pools for teacher education) and a diversity of education-program 
types. Approximately 700 liberal arts colleges offer teacher education 
nationally; some of these colleges--like Colorado College within the 
ACM, and Allegheny College outside of the ACM--are exemplary for 
liberal-arts-based teacher training as proposed by the current 
literature on teacher-education improvement. Much like the Educational 
Testing Service national study "The Study of Induction Year Programs 
for Beginning Teachers (1980)," exemplary liberal-arts-based teacher 


a2 


10 


education programs--programs including components in addition to the 
induction-year component~--should be identified and described 
nationally. When considering the magnitude of the problem of training 
good teachers (see Carnegie Committee, Appendix), when considering 
where the good teacher-training-candidate students are primarily (see 
Dean Palmer, Appendix), and when considering the need for large 
research universities to provide liberal-arts-based teacher training 
(see Dean Palmer, Appendix), the liberal arts colleges that have 
exemplary programs have the potential to make specific contributions to 
teacher education nationally. All effective programs--small 
liberal-arts programs, and large research-university programs--are 
needed to supply the future need for teachers; good 
liberal-arts-colleges programs will need special support to continue to 
train good teachers; knowing what these good programs are will be 
useful for allocating teacher-education-support resources nationally, 
and for disseminating teacher-education improvement information 
nationally. 


RESEARCH QUESTION--One question left unanswered by the proceedings of 
the ACM conference was: 


Are graduates of exemplary liberal-arts-college education 
programs more effective (better) teachers than graduates 
of research-university education programs? 


This question can and should be researched. From a quality 
standpoint, other than the overall need for all the good teachers 
America can get from small and large programs alike, is the allocation 
of resources to small teacher-training programs warranted? A research 
answer to the above question will be useful for allocation-of-resources 
decision making. 


RELATING TO BASIC EDUCATION NATIONALLY 


PROPOSAL QUESTION--in the spirit of supporting efforts for instituting 
educational change in America--especially changes which constitute the 
restructuring of American education-~-and in the spirit of making 
lasting changes, the following question is proposed: 


Might a system of ongoing national conferences be 
constituted such that education research-and-application 
groups could form and implement, as outcomes of their 
nationally coordinated and cooperative work, a national plan 
for comprehensive basic-education improvement?" 


National foundations especially, by pooling their discrete 
resources for supporting educational change, can support 
comprehensively--and probably effectively--a system of change 
efforts which seem requisite for real and lastias basic education 
restructuring. Albeit possibly unrealistic in terms of magnitude and 
complexity, the question speaks to a design likely to hold greater 
change potential than does the current and long standing pattern of 
related but independent national groups working individually; even when 
these groups are appraised of each other's work ("linked") these 
groups are not [yet] “connected.” 


CHRONOLOGICAL NARRATIVE REPORT 
ASSOCIATED COLLEGES OF THE MIDWEST WINGSPREAD CONFERENCE 
"TEACHER EDUCATION AND THE LIBERAL ARTS" 
OCTOBER 11-13, 1985 
APPENDIX A 

CONFERENCE ORIGIN 

The presidents of the thirteen colleges of the Associated Colleges 
of the Midwest (ACM) directed Elizabeth Hayford, President of ACM, and 
John Schilb, Vice President, to form and to conduct the conference 
"Teacher Education and the Liberal Arts." The ACM presidents decided 
that their liberal arts colleges should recommit themselves to the 
mission of producing knowledgeable, well-trained, effective teachers 
for the nation's schools. Further, as a part of their renewed mission, 
the presidents concluded that more of their colleges' faculties--not 
just their education faculties--should participate in the effort. The 
presidents decided to proceed based on the following beliefs and 
facts: 

1) Each ACM college has an existing teacher-training program; 

several of the programs have components recommended by 

various national commissions which call for improved teacher 

training. 


2) The ACM has an effective, established, and staffed joint 
urban-based (Chicago) student teaching program. 


3) The ACM students who want to become teachers are top 
students; they attend quality liberal-arts higher education 
institutions. 


4) Quality liberal arts programs such as the ACM colleges 
have constitute the strongest knowledge base for teacher 
training. 


5) As a consortium, the ACM can pursue national funding to 
implement its renewed teacher-education mission. 


6) Each ACM college has written a cross-departmental 
teacher-education project to conduct, and to report upon in 
the spring of 1986. 


Each ACM college sent a team of cross-departmental college faculty 


ale 


12 


(appointed by the respective college deans) and administrators to the 
conference. Ech team convened with the other consortium teams to 
become more knowledgeable about each other's current teacher-education 
programs, projects, problems, and promising current or proposed 
program practices. The ACM teams also convened to consider initial 
consortium teacher-education-change proposals. One such proposal 

was, and is, to use the ACM Urban Education Program as a resource for 
developing, funding, and implementing a consortium five year program in 
teacher education--both for improved teacher training and for 
attracting good students to teacher education. A second such proposal 


was, and is, to create a consortium teacher-education financial support 


program, such as forgivable-loans, in order to attract good students 


=o teaching. 


APPENDIX B 
CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS 
The descriptive data for the ACM colleges show the following 


Table 1): 


1) The colleges have institutional ratings which range from 
"competitive" and "competitive +", to "highly competitive” 
and “highly competitive +" (Barron's Profiles of American 
Colleges, 14th Edition); approximately two-thirds of the ACM 
colleges equal or exceed the quality of very competitive 
liberal arts colleges nationally. There is reason to assume 
that the ACM has a quality pool of liberal arts faculty from 
which to draw for cross-departmental teacher training. 


2) The colleges have students whose average-combined-SAT 
scores (SAT's) range from 950+ to 1,200+ (Ibid); over 
three-quarters of the ACM colleges have students whose SAT's 
exceed 1,000; all the ACM colleges have students whose SAT's 
exceed the average SAT's of 836 reported for all students 
nationally who indicate that education is their intended area 
of study (College Board Report, 1985). Nearly half of the 

ACM colleges have students who equal or exceed the quality of 
the students of Allegheny College, PA (SAT's: 1113); 
Allegheny is a liberal arts college that has an exemplary 
extended-year education program like that which the ACM is 
considering. The data suggest that the ACM has a quality pool 
of students from which to draw for extended-year-program, 
liberal-arts-based teacher training. 


3) The colleges all have education programs for elementary 
and/or secondary teacher training; two programs offer 
M.A.T.'s (Colorado, CO; Beloit, WI); one program offers 
special education certification (Monmouth, Il); one program 
has liberal-arts-major teacher training--there is not an 
education major (Beloit, WI). In addition, one program 
(Grinnell, IA) has a teacher-education financial-support 
program. 


4) All of the ACM teacher education programs are small; 
eleven of the thirteen ACM colleges produce twenty-five or 
fewer teachers per year respectively. All of the ACM colleges 
employ four or fewer full-time education faculty 
respectively; over half employ two each. It should be noted, 
however, that: 


--all of the ACM programs enlist some form of adjunct or 
part-time teaching assistance; 


--nine of the programs have cross-departmental working 


=3- 


14 


TABLE I: LD CIES PE ASSOCIATED COLLEGES OF THE MIDWEST AS PARTICIPANTS OF THE WINGSPREAD CONFERENCE, 
"TEACHER EDUCATION AND THE LIBERAL ARTS,” OCTOBER 11-13, L985 


EDUCATION = =—- EDUCATION CERTIFICATION AREAS 


AM COLLEGES 


Reloit, WI 


Carleton, MN 


Coe, IA 


Colorado, OO 


Cornell, IA 


Grinnell, -LA 


Lake Forest, 
IL 


Lawrence, WI 


Macalester, 
MN 


Monmouth, IL 


Ripon, WI 


St. Olaf, MN 


M¥TII- COMBINED — ADMINTSTRATION/CHAIRS 
SAT'S® REPRESENTATION 


1VENESS 
Very 
Competitive 


Highly 
Compet itive 


Competitive 
Highly 
Competitive 


Competitive 


Competitive 


Very 
Competitive 


Very 
nee 


Very 
y veel 


Ce itive 


Competitive 


Competitive 
+ 


Compe itive 


Vice President 
Dean 
Qnair, Education 


* Barron's Profiles of American Colleges...l4th Edition 


15 


FAQULTY 
3.5 full 


GRADUATES. 1984; GRADUATE DEGREES = ENROLLMENTS 
ementary (5 
14 ay t. ts) Stable 
9 Secondary (9) Stable 
mrdey’ (19) Increasing 


fecoegry (I yy tis 


Secondary (12) Stable 


Increasing 


Seomery (ies Increasing 


Goma {73 increasing 


Seconery’ (8) 
Secondary (16) 


Seconsery” (10) 


— 
omay (f 


BEST COPY AVAILABLE 


PROJECTS AND REMARKS 

a t: Integrate education programs 
liberal arts =: - 

No education ma jor inth semester progran 

Project: offer non-certification 

Project: Attract better students to 


education via gaat awards, and a 
ninth-term plan.. 


"Creative Spree inspired learning" 
ra A.T. field 
Two new M.A.T.'s of fered—1985. 
Project: Appoint a new education department. 


Project: Cross-departmental, cooperative 
Ninth semester progran—f ree tuition for 1 
Propet: Get students/faculty to reevaluate 
attitudes toward teacher a ty 
Liberal arts faculty teach education courses (2) 
Liberal arts faculty and public school teachers 
teach methods. 
Pro cts Establish rationale for instituting 
an B.A.T. we 
Liberal aculty teach education courses (3) 
Project: music teachers... 
Public A — teach methods 
Project: Involve liberal arts faculty with 
Li faculty se student teachers. 
Project: Rethink academic ms jors w/respect to 
Liberal arts faculty teach secondary methods . 
of class—tencher education. 
Project: Identify perceptions of the facult 
~~ ernst ators relative to , 
teacher ZL. 
ss innageate education program w/liberal 


t 
reas ty ff ic SBT teacher part-t 


cee eg eo 


1b 


relationships for teacher training. 


--no ACM teacher education department seems too large and/or 
too specialized for program flexibility, and 


--twelve programs have faculty/student ratios of 1:1 to 
1:4; thus, the programs do not seem too large and/or too 
impersonal for individualized teactier training, or for 
responsive clinical and/or internship supervision. 


5) All of the ACM education programs are maintaining 
enrollments; over half of the programs are increasing in 
enrollments. 


6) All of the ACM colleges sent interdisciplinary teams, 
helped lead, and/or participated in the ACM conference; eight 
of the thirteen colleges sent teams which included 
administrators, education faculty, and liberal arts faculty; 
three college presidents attended; five college vice 
presidents and/or deans attended; one college (Beloit, WI) 
sponsored the attendance of a teacher-education student as a 
Wingspread Conference Center (WCC) fellow. The data suggest 
that the ACM faculties and administrators demonstrate initial 
support for the teacher-education agenda of the ACM 
presidents. 


In addition to the above descriptive data, it should be noted that 
the ACM was created from an athletic conference in which the colleges 
participated; the consortium was formed in part so that the ACM 
colleges could pursue national-foundation and government-agency funding 
for such consortium projects as summer NEH institutes for, and by, 


public and private school teachers. 


APPENDIX C 
CONFERENCE OBSERVERS 

The conference convened the evening of October 11 with opening 
remarks and introductions. Among the introductions were special 
guests; the Exxon Education Foundation (EEF) observer was introduced, 
as were the respective representatives of the Rockefeller Foundation 
(RF), the Association of American Colleges (AAC), the Joyce Foundation, 
and the Great Lakes Colleges Association (GLCA). Of this group, one 
was directly connected with the proceedings: the Joyce Foundation 
collaborated with the Johnson Foundation (JF) and the ACM to form the 
ACM conference. 

The two respective RF and AAC observers reported that they were 
present on behalf of their organizations "...to find out more about 
teacher education [because we have been involved little, or not at all, 
with it in the past]..." and "...to see how we might get involved in 
funding support in this area." In particular, the RF observer, Lynn 
Szwaja, Program Associate, was present because the RF was independently 
approached by one of the ACM colleges for support for a 
teacher-training incentive proposal (Beloit) which was turned down 
because, "...the RF will not fund a single-college proposal; the 
numbers are too smali." A consortium of such colleges, though, may be 
considered. The RF has a history of seeking ways to support other 
education efforts such as the consortium now envisions for teacher 
education; the RF also has a history of seeking cooperative-funding 
arrangements with other foundations (Ford Foundation) and with 
government agencies (NEH). 

As stated above, the ACM conference was collaboratively formed by 


the JF and the Joyce Foundation; it was, and is, one of the many 


“— 48 


national conferences representing a renewed focus upon American 
education in general, and upon teacher education in particular, 
sponsored by foundations and government agencies. Further, several of 
these conferences were, and are, "linked" by the respective sponsoring 
groups. 
RELATED CONFERENCES 

Preceeding the Associated Colleges of the Midwest (ACM) 
Conference, "Teacher Education and the Liberal Arts," the Johnson 
Foundation (JF), the primary support-source for the conference, 
appraised participants of the relationship of the ACM conference with 
the other conferences which the foundation most recently hosted at its 
Wingspread Conference Center (WCC) (Henry Halstad, Vice President, 
letter of October 4, 1984) The ACM conference was the eighth education 
conference cited. Four conferences over the previous year, and a fifth 
conference immediately preceding the ACM conference, were the Holmes 
Group Consortium (HGC) conferences; special topics of the HGC's fifth 
meeting were early childhood education, vocational education, special 
education, and bilingual education. 

Two other meetings preceded the fifth meeting of the HGC. First, 
the National Association of Elementary School Principals, the National 
Institute of Education, and the JF sponsored a research and practice 


conference on "...the relationship between what is known about child 


development and school improvement." Stated outcomes of this conference 


were: 


1) Teachers are more than providers of knowledge and with few 
exceptions are inadequately grounded in child development. 


2) Among research supported findings that are widely ignored 
in educational policy and practice are the following: 


--age is an inadequate criterion for school placement decisions. 


~ 


19g 


--individuals differ; 


--development is a continuum. Levels and stages are not 
discrete; 


--there are sex differences in learning, and 

--learning problems begin in grade schools and homes. 

Second, the national conference on Improvement of Undergraduate 
Education took place at WCC. Michael Timpane, President of Teacher's 
College, Columbia University, informed "...chief executive and academic 
officers of colleges and universities, faculty members, education 
associated heads, state and federal education officers and foundation 
executives..." about the work of the HGC; they also heard President 


Timpane stress "...the importance of arts and sciences faculty playing 
a role in guiding able students toward careers in teaching, and 
education itself becoming one of the social institutions seen as 


appropriate for study in undergraduate programs." 


When the ACM conference convened October 11, 1985, the "link" was 


concretely made by the JF between the ACM proceedings and those of the 


HGC (concluding midday, October 11, 1985) in the person of HGC member 
John Palmer, Dean of the School of Education, University of 


Wisconsin-Madison, who was the ACM-conference keynote speaker. 


APPENDIX D 

KEYNOTE PLENARY SESSION, DR. JOHN PALMER, DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF 
EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON, AND MEMBER OF THE 
HOLMES GROUP CONSORTIUM (HGC) 

The ACM conference keynote address was delivered by John Palmer. 
His address essentially constituted a review of the HGC deliberations 
which related to the liberal-arts-knowledge-base for teacher training 
which the HGC espouses--especially as those deliberations relate to 
such colleges and teacher-training programs as represented by the ACM. 
One interesting point to note, in terms of his formal remarks to the 
ACM, is that Dean Palmer himself is a graduate of an ACM college, Knox 
College, IL. 


The three ACM conference questions the keynote address answered 


1) What are the characteristics of good teachers? 


2) What is the relationship between the liberal arts and the 
training of good teachers? 


3) What role might liberal arts colleges play in training good 
teachers? 


Especially since he had concluded his fifth HGC Wingspread 
conference the noon prior to his keynote address to the ACM conference, 
it seems reasonable to assume that Dean Palmer's remarks were, and are, 
essentially those of the HGC. Confirmation of this assumption may occur 
in the forthcoming document, "Goals for Educating Teachers as 


Professionals," which is the working-document predecessor of the 


group's conclusions, recommendations, and justifications in book form 


to be published by Random House in the Spring of 1986 (Wingspread 


Journal, Summer, 1985). 


ASSUMPTIONS 


Dean Palmer based his remarks on a set of assumptions, 
including: 


1) Because of a proliferation of demands upon them, little is 
done well by the public schools. 


2) Public schools are "...out of synch with society..."; they 
are a battleground for society's ideological conflicts. 


3) Good teachers who the schools do succeed in attracting 
will not stay in the schools as they are now constituted. 


4) The intellectual skills required of the good teacher are 

the same skills as a good liberal arts education requires. 
TEACHER PREPARATIONS 

Dean Palmer then went on to make several points which defined the 


good teacher and his/her requisite training: 


1) All teachers must have a strong, planned, general 
education. 


2) All teachers must complete an academic major. 


3) The demands placed upon a teacher in today's schools 
require supervised pedagogy. 


4) 1-3 require more than four years. 

Further, required of the good teacher is a general education that 
equips him/her to relate to the world both as it is, and as it was. The 
same is true in order for the teacher to relate to his/her subject 
matter. Finally, the good teacher develops and demonstrates: 

1) A humane viewpoint. 

2) A reflective, analytical, inquiring sort of mind. 

3) Integrity, honesty, and industry. 

4) Fluency with the rules of professional pedagogy, but 

not "tied" to these rules. 
LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES AND TEACHER TRAINING 
Dean Palmer spoke next about the potential of colleges like the 


ACM for providing the general education component of teacher 


=—Gu 


22 


training. He said he hopes colleges like those in the ACM will 


",..take up the challenge...” cognizant of such considerations as: 


1) Liberal arts colleges have the faculty and size to 
respond well to the need for this general education of the good 
teacher. 


2) Teaching is a moral act--courses in ethics are 
part of good general education. 


3) Today's students are different in schools--only 17% of 
American families are now of the Dick and Jane sort where 
dad works, mom is at home, and there are two children and a 
dog. 


4) The assumption that education courses and liberal arts 
courses are poles apart is not necessarily correct. 


5) "When one studies the child one is studying humankind." 
RESTRUCTURING CHANGES 

Dean Palmer then explained several changes he said were indicated 
for the general and the pedagogical training of teachers, and the role 
of the liberal arts college in helping to prepare teachers. First, the 
nature of undergraduate courses must change; the pattern of each 
subsequent course being a narrowing preparation for each subsequent 
course leading towards a major, and then towards a graduate school, is 
the wrong way to prepare teachers. What is needed, in terms of course 


content, is for the epistemology of the subject to be taught; the 


structure of mathematics, for example, needs explicit attention. 


Further, all faculty who help prepare a teacher should sit down and 


talk to each other about what those who will teach need in and from 
courses in their [subject areas]. During their four years of general 
education, those who will teach need to develop a mature content 
interest and to have field experiences and exposure. But, during a 
fifth year, they need specific pedagogical training; "...practice 


teaching must become a clinical program, not a dump-and-run program.” 


This must be a supervised experience where students are guided to 


apply what the knowledge base indicates should be done in schools. One 
teacher-training role of the four year college, then, is to provide the 
general education part of the teacher training process; the research 
university is in the best position to provide the pedagogical 
fifth-year training and the supervised internship sixth-year training. 
Thus, the four year liberal arts college might well join with a 
research university for such a six-year teacher-training program 
instead of adding a fifth year to the college's four year program. Two 
further points relate to this concept: 

1) The Carnegie Committee has, or soon will have, reported 

their finding that in the near future America will need 1/2 

of the upper 1/2 of today's higher education pool for future 

teachers; 

2) The bottom 1/4 of liberal arts college students are 

probably at or above the national mean for the cohort of 

higher education students nationally. 
THE 5-STEP MODEL 

Albeit subsequent to his talk in the conference events, but 
germane here, one near model of Dean Palmer's proposal for liberal arts 
colleges was concretely presented at the conference. The model came 
not from an ACM school but from a member of the Great Lakes Colleges 
Association. On the second conference day, the Association Vice 
President, Neil R. Wylie, handed out the Kenyon College brochure, 
"S-STEP," to discussion-group members of the session, "Fifth Year/Ninth 
Semester/M.A.T. Programs." The 5-STEP Program is an 
undergraduate/graduate cooperative 3-2 model with an urban-based 
internship (New York City) for Kenyon's undergradates who want to 


teach; the cooperating graduate schools are Bank Street College of 


Education (Early Childhood/Elementary) and Columbia University Teachers 


24 


College (Secondary). 
THE INCOMPETENTS 

Two further points should be noted about Dean Palmer's keynote 
address. First, when remarking on the need for future teachers and on 
the need for better teaching salaries and workplace conditions to 
attract teachers, Dean Palmer stated that, "...no one is in a box 
anymore that we can skin..." (meaning that women, for instance, no 
longer have only teaching for a career choice, and therefore can be 
employed for low wages); the audience reply, from a liberal arts 
professor, was,"I know a group society can still skin: the 
incompetents!" Second, upon hearing from the participants about the 
parents of liberal-arts students arguing with their children that they 
would be spending too much time and money to become teachers, Dean 
Palmer: 


1) Seemed surprised at such a reaction because, more and 
more, any college education is tending to take more than four 
years, 


2) Seemed not to acknowledge the large college-expense 
difference between the state schools of which he was a part, 
and the private schools--he did, however, suggest that his 
perception of the two institutional contexts was skewed when 
he said, "...I tend to think in terms of a campus of 8,090 as 
being small." 


The comments above suggest that relative to the nation's need for 
teachers: 


1) The liberal arts colleges represent the capability of 
providing the top quality students with top liberal arts 
educations, but in small numbers. 


2) The universities represent the capability of providing 
large numbers of moderate quality students with 
distribution-type undergraduate educations, but with top 
research-application and curriculuar preparation. 


APPENDIX E 


CONFERENCE DAY TWO PLENARY AND DISCUSSION-GROUP SESSIONS 
OPENING PLENARY SESSION 

The opening plenary session described for all participants 
the state-education context within which the various education programs 
in the respective ACM states functioned, Albeit describing a complex 
picture of often-perceived-as misdirected state efforts to improve 
teaching through often unrealistic standards revisions, the panel 
communicated that: 

1) All of the ACM programs were in similar circumstances and 

flux with respect to the new standards and other expectations 

of their state legislatures and departments of education. 

2) All of the ACM programs were working as positively and 

productively as possible to move ahead with their 

teacher-training programs irrespective of the educational 

flux existing in their states. 

The content of the panel's commentary could well have set a 
depressing tone for the day, but it did not; in fact, something was 
communicated to the conference's WCC Fellow, Linnae El’enson (a Beloit 
teacher-education candidate), that was so affirming of teacher 
education that she exhorted, "I'm more proud than ever to be part of 
teaching...and I'm going to talk-up education more than ever when I get 


back on campus." 


DISCUSSION-GROUP SESSIONS 


Subsequent discussion sessions resulted in participants exchanging 


information about selected [restructured] education programs, and 
current or proposed practices which: 
1) Raise the quality of given teacher education programs. 
2) Raise campus awareness of and opinion of the respective 


education program. 


1 30 


26 


3) Make teacher education more attractive to students. 


4) Show more valuing of local schools, local good teachers, 
and teacher alums. 


5) Make more integrated the teacher-training faculties of 
teacher education, the liberal arts, and the public schools. 


LIBERAL ARTS FACULTIES AND TEACHER EDUCATION 

Three of the initial discussion groups which followed the first 
planning session of the second conference day focused on the campus 
context for liberal-arts-based teacher training and the process of 
attracting good students to teacher training. In particular, there 
were concerns about having liberal arts faculty teach education 
courses. First, the rewards-structure of various ACM colleges for 
liberal arts faculty teaching education course was unclear/undefined. 
What credit would a faculty person--especially a junior faculty 
person--get for teaching education courses; what credit in terms of 
course loads, in terms of tenure, and/or in terms of promotion? 
Second, would colleagues, especially in their own departments, see 
faculty who taught education courses, a) teaching inferior students in 
inferior subject matter, and/or, b) see the education-course faculty 
competing with the liberal arts faculty for majors? The third concern 
is related primarily to the role majors play in liberal arts colleges. 
Why encourage the best, or even the better students, to go into teacher 
education when the primary interest (real or defacto) of a liberal arts 
department is to encourage such students to go into graduate programs 
in the departments' respective fields? This becomes more sensitive an 
issue if the liberal arts faculty see teaching as a vocation; 
vocationalism is not part of the liberal arts tradition. 


In one session, in counterpoint to the above concerns, one 


27 


chemistry professor, Seymore Schuster (Carleton College), answered the 
question about the shortage of math and science teachers by saying, 
"That's not a problem at our college; we have no shortage of math and 
science teacher-education candidates." Why? "To be candid, the math 
department at our college tends to be [strongly liberal]...the physics 
department has students explore social problems....One political 
science professor pushes his students to get involved in public 
service...and, these faculty members encourage their students to go 
into teaching." 

It should be noted, in the context of the above commentary, that 
program-restructuring questions about courses for teacher-education 
candidates were raised and explored. Relative to having education 
students take education courses from liberal arts faculty, three 
questions were: 


1) What liberal arts courses could/should liberal arts 
departments offer for teacher-education students? 


2) What liberal arts courses could/should teacher-education 
candidates take along with regular liberal arts students? 


3) What, if any, differences would/should there be in regular 

liberal arts courses in which teacher-education students are 

present and/or comprise the class? 
ACM MODEL FIVE-YEAR PROGRAMS AND FINANCIAL-SUPPORT PROGRAMS 

Subsequent to the above discussions, the ACM conference 
participants examined selected operating ACM education-program models. 
These teacher education programs closely modeled improved teacher 
training programs proposed in the literature, and by the HGC. As 
reported by Charlotte Mendoza, Education Chair, Colorado College's five 
year program, in fact, has a five-year teacher-education program. In 


conjunction with the ACM Urban Education Program, Colorado College's 


teacher education program, much like Allegheny College's (PA) Extended 


= {= 


28 


Year Program in teacher education, has: 


1) Liberal-arts-based teacher education, a minimum of 
methods training/a maximum of content background. 


2) Over twenty years of experience with teacher training in 
ways now proposed as needed changes for teacher education 
nationally. 

3) Off-campus, urban-based student teaching; student 
teaching, not with the easiest of student populations in 
schools much like most liberal- arts students came from, but 
with the inner-city student population in diverse schools. 
4) Induction-year, graduate training and supervision. 


5) A graduate-degree program at an undergraduate liberal 
arts college. 


Beloit College's ninth-semester program also has a model of a 
restructured teacher-education program. As reported by John 
McDonnell (Education), Beloit College's program, again like Allegheny 
College's program, has: 


1) No education major; liberal arts majors are trained to 
teach and get certified. 


2) Sequential teacher education; students begin teacher 

training during their undergraduate years and continue that 
training into their first graduate year. 

The ACM conference participants also examined two ACM programs for 


providing students with financial support/incentives for teacher 


education. The first of these was, and is, for four-year liberal arts 


students for ninth-semester teacher education. Grinnell College (IA), 


grants tuition remission to teacher candidates for their last semester 
of training. The second of these support/incentive programs was, and 
is, for graduates who are not certified to teach but who wish to pursue 
graduate teacher-training. Colorado College's M.A.T. programs include 
a paid-internship teaching arrangement with local school districts; 
interns do not take the place of regular teachers, but are employed for 


purposes of reducing class sizes and freeing up teacher planning 


-16- 


29 


times. 

The Colorado, Beloit, and Grinnell programs--already 
models--also pursue the ACM agenda for teacher-education-program 
change. Beloit and Grinnell each seek to integrate teacher 
education programs with liberal arts programs. Colorado has added two 
new M.A.T.'s to the one it already offered. 

ATTRACTING STUDENTS TO TEACHING AND AFFIRMING TEACHING 

ACM teacher-education-program-change foci were weighed 
heavily towards attracting good students to teaching. First, most ACM 
colleges explored how their programs could be restructured, along the 
lines of Colorado College's Five Year Program or Beloit's 
Ninth-Semester Program, in order to attract good liberal arts students 
to teaching. Good liberal arts students would have the option of 
getting teacher certification without diminishing their liberal arts 
background by having a fifth-year, ninth-semester, or M.A.T. program 
available. Second, all the ACM colleges explored how their programs 
could attract students via: 

1) Referral from their liberal arts faculties who themselves 

have been made more appreciative of, aware of, and/or a part 

of teacher education on their respective campuses. 

2) Having the option of getting free tuition, 

loan-forgiveness, or some additional form of financial 

support for teacher training. 

3) Seeing that the whole college--administration, liberal 

arts faculty, and education faculty value and affirm 

teaching. Example ideas are: 

--publicized, concrete recognition for good local 
public school teaching (see Grinnell College awards 


below). 


--publicized, concrete recognition for good teaching 
by education alums. 


--admission brochures which emphasized 
teacher-training as an important educational 


-17- 


30 


opportunity offered by the ACM college. 

Participants exchanged information about two particular programs 
for attracting good students to teaching by affirming teaching as 
a profession. As reported by Keith Anderson (Associate Dean), St. Olaf 
College has two programs for working with public school teachers in 
profession-affirming ways: 

1) Selected outstanding secondary teachers are invited to teach 

as part-time faculty for liberal arts courses at the 

college. In 1985-86, two such teacher arrangements are 

established, one in math, and one in science. 

2) Summer symposia are established which are made up of 

equal numbers of college and secondary school faculty 

members who explore common issues and/or content in single 

subject areas. 

In addition to St. Olaf's programs, Grinnell College (IA) reported 
that it experiences marked success with a teacher-awards program. As 
part of commencement, the senior students solicit, call, and select 
from student-nominees the most influential teacher from their public 
schooling. Two are selected, and they receive cash awards, get a 
plaque, and give a commencement speech to the graduating seniors . 

In addition to focusing upon attracting good students to teaching, 
ACM participants exchanged ideas for addressing selected specific other 
questions. For the question of strengthening links with schools, one 
group reported an inventory of thirty-six specific things done across 
the participants’ respective colleges; some of these were: 

1) Consulting. 

2) Sharing facilities. 

3) Aide work in classrooms. 

4) Sponsoring language festivals. 


5) Serving on curriculum committees. 


For the question of state and national education policy, one group 


=] @- 


31 


recommended that the ACM have a conference for and with legislators 
much like the ACM conference for liberal arts and education faculties. 
The questions about teacher training and industry and gender 
issues resulted in general discussions about industry's interest in 
educational research, effective instruction, effective schools, and 
in getting males to enter teaching, respectively. 
THE ACM URBAN EDUCATION PROGRAM 
The question about the ACM Urban Education Program as a resource 
led to an inventory of identified benefits to prospective and to 
induction-year teachers from experiencing such a program. Much like 
the outcomes reported by the Cleveland-Area (OH) practicum and 


induction year components of Allegheny College's (PA) education 


program, selected beneficial outcomes of the ACM Urban Education 


Program which were reported by its director, Marilyn Turkovich, are: 


1) Learning survival skills; they learn to identify their 
needs and to find ways to get (and give) help. 


2) Learning how to rely upon, and to be a contributing part of, 
group that has a common purpose in a common circumstance. 


3) Learning about new and diverse settings and pupils; 49% 
of urban Chicago students are born outside of the U.S., and 
the urban schools have in excess of 170 language programs. 


4) 1-3 above result in "staying power;" many more ACM teachers 
than the national average for teachers with 1-4 years of 
experience are still in the classroom after 4 years. 


ACM EDUCATIONAL DEMONSTRATIONS 


Selected ACM conference participants and leaders conducted for 
small groups of the other conference participants hands-on 
demonstration workshops of preservice and inservice education training 
exercises. Included were demonstrations of: 

1) Multicultural [dance and music] appreciation and awareness. 

2) The [Bay Area] writing workshop. 

3) Geography--maps, globes, and charts. 

4) Model inquiry. 


APPENDIX F 


CONFERENCE DAY THREE PLENARY SESSIONS 
PLENARY SESSION ONE: PARTICIPANTS' PANEL 

The participants" panel plenary review of the process of 
attracting good students to teacher education resulted in: 


1) Confirmation of the idea that extended-year programs for 
teacher training will attract good students; good students 
want all they can get from their four-year liberal-arts 
program--they're interested in everything; if they can get 
trained to teach in addition, they will more likely consider 
teaching. Also, many choose their career late--especially a 
liberal-arts college; extended-year programs allow these 
students to choose teaching. Finally, when the college adds 
to the extended-year program financial supports and 
selectivity criteria, the college is saying that the student 
who chooses teaching is special. 


2) Basic statements about the essential motivatinal factors 
of persons who choose to enter a profession, some if which 
are: 


--"[I] want to join the profession; yes, because of 
love of [my] subject, but moreso because I saw who 
was in it and I wanted to be part of 
them...colleagueship." 


--"In teaching [I] have an outlet for [my] ideas, 
my need/want to serve, and my need for at least 
[my] first-choice step into professional work." 


--"[I] seek in [my] profession prestige, standing 
in the world, and significance." 


3) Statements such as made by Stephen Preskill (Carleton, 
Education) about steps education programs at liberal arts 
colleges ought to take; such steps include: 


--counseling prospective teacher-education 
candidates with full information about the state of 
the profession--potentials and problems. 


--affirming the profession--with students, with 
colleagues, with administrators, and with 
teachers. 


--making education courses more demanding; 
retitling education courses to represent 
respectable content and skills. 


-20- 


33 


--closely and consistently supervising, 
criticizing, and cheering teaching out in the 
field. 


--counseling prospective teacher-education 
candidates that teacher-training is a preparation 
for more than teaching; it leads to other 
professional work within, and outside of, 
education. 


--establishing five-year teacher education 
programs, and with subsidies. 


--eliminating the isolation of education majors 
from regular liberal arts majors. 


PARTICULAR FIVE-YEAR AND/OR EXTENDED-YEAR TEACHER EDUCATION 
MODELS 


In counterpoint to selected perceived problems which 
liberal-arts students encounter when considering teaching, 
according to John McDonnell (Beloit, Education), Paul Kuerbis 
(Colorado, Education), and Jeff Dunbar (Allegheny, Education), 
particular models of five-year and/or extended-year programs have 
components which mitigate or eliminate the following problems in 
the following ways: 


--students who are tentative about teaching have 
the opportunity to negate or confirm their choice 
via multiple early field experiences associated 
with sequential undergraduate/graduate programs; 


--students who discover that teaching is not for 
them afterall have the opportunity to drop teacher 
training without having to switch majors when they 
are in programs for which there is not an education 
major; 


--students who feel there is a stigma attached to 
being an education major do not experience this 
feeling when they are in programs for which there 
is not an education major; 


--graduates who decide to become teachers can do so 
without making up a great deal of undergraduate 
work in programs which offer M. A. T.'s, and 


--good first-year and subsequent-year teachers 
who otherwise would likely drop out of teaching 
have staying-power when in programs which have the 
supervised induction-year, and/or the urban-based, 
residential student teaching. 

By this point in the conference it was clear that most 


participants were eager and ready to know specifically about how to 


implement five-year and/or extended-year teacher education programs. 

One additional observation made by Vice President Anderson 
should be noted: it came to him that with all that had been said and 
done at the conference, not one classroom teacher was invited to 


participate. 


PLENARY SESSION TWO: PRESIDENTS AND DEANS PANEL 

The presidents and deans panel plenary review of the meaning of 
making teacher education a liberal arts priority resulted in the 
following selected comments made by the following ACM administrators: 
John McCall, President, Knox College 


The presidents must take the lead in teacher education; they 
must talk to the college's education students, and talk to the 
state boards of education; they must write both in professional 
forums and the local papers about the shame of low teachers' 
salaries. They must lobby for education; they must organize as 
did the HGC, but not for burdensome regulations and such--liberal 
arts colleges should argue for their education programs 
deregulation, independence, and simplicity based upon the quality 
of the liberal arts institutions, faculties, and students. 


Roger Hull, President, Beloit College 


[We] must do everything possible to encourage the young 
persons of the respective ACM campuses to go into 
teaching--however long they stay in it. Foundations like the EEF 
and the RF need to support a consortium cancellable-loan program 
for all the debt of students who go into teaching; America is 
a war situation--militarily, economically, but also in education. 


George Drake, President, Grinnell College 


[We] must talk about teaching. The film, High School, is 
beautiful--it shows why and how teaching is the height of human 
activity; [we] need to promote the beauty and the craft of 
teaching. "I like the rhythm of this conference...there are rays 
of hope...if we have committment, we needn't shoot ourselves in 
the [consortium] foot." 


Doug Northrop, Vice President, Ripon College 

Foundations need to fund programs which provide reduced costs 
for the 3-5 years of course work taken by liberal-arts students 
who go into teaching. 
Keith Anderson, Vice President, ST. Olaf College 

"I make a motion that we resolve to clean up our language 
when talking about our education programs...that we stop saying, 
liberal arts, and, education, as if they were different." "Also, 
[our] job is not finished when [our teachers] walk across the 
stage--we need continuity." 
William Heywood, Dean, Cornell College 


"Education departments must be staffed [by us] in ways so 


~23- 


36 


they can respond to high expectations such as offering rigorous, yet 
human and responsive courses... 


