DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 247 104 SE 04+ 700 


TITLE Science Education in the United States: Essential 
Steps for Achieving Fundamental Improvement. A Report 
on a Meeting of Educational Leaders Hosted by the 
Exxon Education Foundation (New York, New York, 
January 17-20, 1984). 

INSTITUTION EXXON Corp., New York, N.Y. 

PUB DATE 84 

NOTE 27p. 

AVAILABLE FROM Exxon Education Foundation, 111 West 49 Street, New 
York, NY 10029-1198. 

PUB TYPE Collected Works - Conference Proceedings (021) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1/PCO2 Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS Curriculum Development; *Educational Improvement; 
*Educational Objectives; Educational Quality; 
Educational Research; Educational Trends; Elementary 
Secondary Education; *Inservice Teacher Education; 
*Preservice Teacher Education; *Science Curriculum; 
*Science Education; Science Instruction; Scientific 
Literacy; Teacher Role; Technological Literacy 


ABSTRACT 

This report summarizes a meeting which was held to 
explore some of the major issues raised by the current call for 
science education reform, and to make recommendations regarding what 
steps should be taken to ensure that the needed improvements in 
elementary and secondary science will actually be made in schools 
across the country. Included are discussions of: (1) the science 
education improvement effort to date; (2) the need for a new 
conceptual framework ror scientific and technological education; (3) 
science education goais, curricula, and materials; (4) preservice 
teacher education; (5) inservice teacher education; (6) the role of 
teachers and supervisors in improving science education; (7) 
harnessing educational research; (8) organizing for science education 
improvement; (9) science education improvement and the non-public 
schools; and (10) the context of science education improv:=mert. Among 
the recommendations offered are the adoption of a new framework for 
science education based on scientific and technological literacy for 
all citizens, systematic efforts to develop model K-12 science 
curricula which would be fully supportive of the literacy goal, a 
reappraisal and reform of both pre- and in-service teacher education, 
and substantial involvement of school building-level educators in 
bringing about real change. (JN) 


KEEEKKEEKEKEKEKKEKEEEEEKEKEKEEKEKEEERKEEKKEEKEEEREKEEEEEEKREEEREERERREKEKEREESR 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made ° 


* from the original document. ° 
KREKEKEKEKEEKEKEEEEEEKREKKREEREKEKEKEEEEKEEKREEEKEKRETRERRKEKKRKRKEREKRRRKREE 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUT® OF EDL -ATION 
YUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


— 


ENTER IE 
N 
y e 46 oe t e 
os tr ¢ “ry 33 


A REPORT 
ON A MEETING 
OF EDUCATIONAL LEADERS 
HOSTED BY 
TH EXXON EDUCATION FOUNDATION 


JANUARY 17-20, 1984 


PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


Ex son Cox poco’ an 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


2 


Preface 


On January 17, 1984 a group of educational leaders 
assembled in New York City for a two-and-one-half 
day discussion of science education hosted by the 
Exxon Education Foundation. The purpose of the 
meeting was to define more precisely what actions 
will be required to achieve the broad-based, sus 
tained improvement in science education called for 
by several of the recent reports on the status of 
schooling in America. A majority of the participants 
were senior Officials in major national organizations 
which represent elements of the educational com- 
mu.uty that will participate either directly or indi- 
rectly in bringing about changes in science 
education in the years ahead.' Several participants 
were experienced science teachers. The chair- 
person of the meeting was Dr. Paul DeHart Hurd, 
Professor Emeritus of Science Education, Stanford 
University. Dr. Hurd has long been one of the 
nation’s most thoughtful leaders in science 
education. 


Prior to the meeting, a team of science education 
consultants with diverse backgrounds was asked to 
identify critical, unresolved issues in the science 
educaticn improvement debate.? Their work pro- 
vided the starting point for the meeting's 
discussions. 


What follows represents the consensus of the partici- 
pants. Their respective endorsements of this report 
reflect their personal views, not those of the organi- 
zations with which they are associated. 


1. See Appendix I for list of participants 
2. See Appendix II for list of consultants 


Providing a forum in which educational leaders can 
attempt to sharpen thinking on major issues is an 
important way in which an organization such as ours 
can be of assistance to the educational system. Con- 
sequently, even though elementary and secondary 
school science education is not a primary program 


matic focus of the Exxoa Fducation Foundation, we 
are pleased to have convened this meeting. We 
believe that the conclusions of the group should be 
of interest to all those concerned with furthering the 
improvement of science education in the United 
States. 


Robert L. Payton 
President 
Exxon Education Foundation 


Executive Summary 


The majority of recent national reports on education 
in the United States has identified science as an area 
of pressing concern. Science is neglected in the ele 
mentary schools and rejected by a large proportion 
of students in the upper grades. Student achieve 
ment has been declining for more than a decade. 
These conditions are compounded by a shortage of 
qualified science teachers. 


The concern expressed in the national reports is 
heightened by the sense that students of today and 
tomorrow will need a much different, more exten- 
sive science education than elementary and sec- 
ondary schools have provided in the past. 
Historically, science education has been primarily 
concerned with insuring that a sufficient number of 
students in each generation would be prepared for 
the pursuit of sctentific and engineering studies on 
the college level. However, there is a growing 
feeling that the scien-ific and technological dimen- 
sions of our society, government, and econom, are 
now sufficiently extensive that virtually all citizens 
must become scientifically and technologically 
literate.” 


The purpose of the meeting of educational leaders 
hosted by the Exxon Education Foundation was to 
explore some of the major issues raised by the cur- 
rent call for science education reform, and to make 
recommendations regarding what steps should be 
taken to ensure that the needed improvements in 
elementary and secondary (K-12) science will 
actually be made in schools across the country. 


The participants agreed that the first step should be 
the development of a ne w conceptual framework 
for science education which reflects the scientific 
and technological dimensions of the world in which 
our young people will reside. The group agreed that 
the task should be undertaken by scientists, engi- 
neers, and educators working in collaboration. 


The participants also agreed that a reformulation of 
science education of this kind would rapidly lead to 
the need for model articulated K-12 science curri- 


3 


cula and associated new instructional strategies and 


materials. It also would require the concomitant 
development of new approaches to preservice and 
inservice training for teachers. Finally, it would 
demand more effective use of relevant educational 
research, 


Given the country’s decentralized approach to edu 
cation, the group concluded that it will be difficult to 
undertake a fundamental reappraisal and reen 
gineering of an area as complicated as science edu 
cation in a manner that will lead to real changes at 
the classroom level in most schools. In order to 
improve significantly the prospects of achieving a 
broad-based reform, the participants recommended 
that a consortium be established composed of (but 
not limited to) naticnal education organizations of 
the kind represented at the meeting as weil as of the 
scientific and engineering professions. This con 
sortium would play a leadership and coordinating 
role for the reform effort. li initial responsibility 
would be to undertake an evaluation of the pro- 
posed scientific and technological literacy approach 
to K-12 science. The consortium would be designed 
to remain in existence for several years to ensure 
that the necessary commitment to science education 
reforin is sustained. 


Central to the consortial approach is the recognition 
that change in education must involve many actors 
associated with K-12 shooling, including university 
faculties, chief state school officers, state and local 
school boards, superintendents, curriculum special 
ists, building-level administrators and supervisors, 
teachers and parents, and the scientific and engi- 
neering communities. Previous reform efforts have 
not adequately recognized the importance of 
involving all these groups—especially the teachers — 
from the beginning. The participants concluded that 
this is a shortcoming which must be avoided if the 
current improvement effort is to succeed. The group 
concluded that a consortial a,yproach is an important 
means of ensuring their full involvement. 


Introduction: The Science Education 
Improvement Effort to Date 


A common conclusion of many of the recent 
national reports on the status of K-12 schooling in 


the United States is that several subjects, including 


science, must be improved substantially if the edu 
cational needs of Our young people and the country 
are to be met. The National Science Board (NSB) 
Commission on Precollege Mathematics, Science and 
technology report, Educating Americans for the 
2Ist Century, provides the most specific guidance on 
the direction that science education improvement 
efforts should take. The NSB Commission empha 
sizes two key points: 


(1) Science education must be modified to include 
a substantial technological component. 


(2) “Scientific and technological literacy”’ should be 
established as one of the primary academic goals of 
K-12 education for ail students. 


These two recommendations stand in marked con- 
trast to the approach to science education sup- 
ported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) 
and accepted by the educational community from 
1950 until about 1980. During that period, attention 
was focused almost exclusively on the educational 
needs of students aspiring to scientific and engi- 
neering careers, and technology was deliberately 
downplayed. 


The call for science education improvement comes 
at a time when schocl science is beset by many 
problems, including declining science achievement 
scores for 17-year-olds, declining high school sci- 
ence enrollments, virtual absence of science in the 
elementary schools and a shortage of science 
instructors with a r.:h, current educational back 
ground in the subjects they are teaching. 


To foster a major improvement in K-12 science edu- 
cation, the several reports propose a variety of 
changes, each of which falls within one of three 
areas: 


(1) those that would lead to more science instruc- 
tion in the general education core for each student; 


(2) those (following the NSB Commission's lead) that 
would promote a different kind of science educa 
tion diiferent in goals, subject matter and contest- 
from what is generally now provided by most 
schools; and 


(3) those that would place greater emphasis on 
intellectual excellence in the use of scientific and 
technciogical education. 


The national reports have stimulated much dis- 
cussion and considerable action—particularly on the 
part of state governments—directed at science edu 
cation improvement. So far, state action has tended 
to focus on things that can be mandated by legisia- 
tion or regulation. For example, by early 1984, 
thirty-five states had increased the number of sci- 
ence courses required for graduation from high 
school to two years or more. Some states also had 
raised the scores required on achievement tests for 
students to receive their high school diplomas. 
Other states had mandated that science teachers 
Must pass proficiency tests to obtain or retain certifi- 
cation. Some states had taken steps to increase the 
number of science courses that college students pre- 
paring to become teachers have to complete before 
they can be certified. 


In contrast, little ha, been done to date by the states 
to promote fundamental reappraisal of K-12 science 
courses and/or teacher preparation programs at state 
colleges and universities from the perspective of 
scientific and technological literacy. This is not 
surprising, since mandating-type actions are more 
consistent with the standard-setting responsibilities 
of state ¢ ernment. They are also much easier to 
undertake. 


The Need for a New Conceptual 
Framework for Scientific and 
Technological Education 


The meeting participants were very sympathetic to 
the basic premise in the national reports that sub- 
stantial changes in K-12 science education are 
needed. However, they concluded that it is not yet 
clear what an improved science education really 
would be, bow it could be most effectively pro- 
vided, or what actual benefits to individuals and 


6 


society could realistically be expected. For this 
reason, they expressed some doubts about the ini- 
tial heavy reliance on mand?ting more coucsework 
and higher performance standards in traditional 


courses. Given the evidence that many students 
often have found existing science offerings to be 
unrewarding, they felt that “more of the same” via 
the mandating approach might lead to little improve 
ment in the absence of a fundamental reappraisal of 


K-12 science education. 


In this regard, the participants believed that the NSB 
Commission's call for scientific and technological lit- 
eracy for al! citizens might hold the key to the 
reconsideration of science education that the current 
reform movement requires. Although participants 
felt that “scientifte and technological literacy” in its 
present form is more of a slogan than a well-devel- 
oped, unifying concept, it is a notion which suggests 
two important reasons why a more extensive, 
reformulated K-12 science program is needed: 


(1) Scientific and technological understanding is a 
key to adjusting to and participating in a world that 
will continue to change rapidly technologically for 
the foreseeabie future. 


(2) Because these changes occur in all realms of 
life—work, civic affairs and personal—the case that 
such education is relevant to virtually all Americans 
seems compelling. 


From this perspective, scientific and technological 
literacy seems to call for a future-oriented science 
curriculum. Such a curriculum weuld provide stu- 
dents with basic concepts and the intellectual tools, 
in an applications context, relevant to their lives. 


The interconnections among science, technology 
and human affairs also appear to demand a science 
program more intercisciplinary in nature, with lirk- 
ages among the sciences, and between the sciences 
and the humanities. Consequently, the participar.ts 
concluded that the science curriculum now found in 
most schools is probably much too narrow in scope 
and too bound to traditional disciplines to meet the 
requirements of true scientific and technological 
literacy. 


To the extent that there is a conceptual framework 
that now identifies science education, its major 
features seem to be 


(1) courses organized to represent the structures of 
discrete scientific disciplines, supported by profes 
sional information selected to illustrate the cumula 
tive state of knowledge and theories of each 
discipline as viewed by researchers; 


(2) inquiry skills taught in the context of how new 
scientific information is presumed tc have been 


discovered; 


(3) virtual absence of instruction directed at tech 
nological and engineering concepts or methods of 
thinking in these areas; and 


(4) general avoidance of questions of ethics and 
values raised by science and technology except in 
the context of the professional conduct of scientists 
(e.g. intellectual honesty and falsification of data). 


This framework for science education in America is 
rooted in over 200 years of tradition. The recom 
mendations of the NSB and other national reports for 
restructuring science education are clearly in 
contrast with this traditional approach. 


Given this situation, the participants concluded that 
an essential next step in the science education 
improvement effort is to develop more fully the 
notion of scientific and technological literacy 
through a process that will allow it to be tested rigor 
ously for cultural, scientific, and technological 
validity and learnability. Assuming that the results 
were positive, scientific and technological literacy 
would then become the basis for identifying which 
concepts, intellectual skills, and types of applications 
should be taught in K-12 science education. 


This substantial undertaking would require unprec- 


edented cystematic, goal-directed collaboration 
among scientists and engineers, science teachers, 
and other educators. It would also entail consid 
erable participation by sociologists, philosophers of 
science and technology, and others who can inform 
and/or help provide legitimacy to the development 
of the new framework. 


8 10 


It could take several yeers for such a dialogue to pro 
duce a complete conceptual framework, along with 
supporting documentation and educational options, 
that is fully supported by the diverse participants in 
the process. Moreover, if the fuiure-oriented con 
ception of science education is correct, there may 
actually be no “tinal” statement of the framework. 
Rather, it could become the subject of continuing 
discussion and change, reflecting new devel 
opments in science and technology ard their impact 
upon human affairs. 


The meeting's participants felt that the reconstruc 
tion of the school science curriculum could begin 
before the full formulation of the new conceptual 
framework. Each of the national reports have to 
some degree identifed educational aitributes that 
their authors believe would improve the quality of 
science education. Broadly, their recommendations 
show remarkable agreement, enough in the partici- 
pants’ view to justify the development of prototype 
curricula and instructional materials for testing with 
classes. For the elementary school, the immediate 
task is one of restoring a balanced curriculum with 


adequate daily time for science. 


Science Education Goals, Curricula 
and Materials 


If a new framework for science education is to be 
adopted based on scientific and technological lit- 
eracy for all citizens, the participants concluded that 
systematic efforts must be undertaken to develop 
model K-12 science curricula which would be fully 
supportive of the literacy objective. 


The initial task would be to determine what is 
worth knowing about science and technology that 
has significance for most people. This would entail 
selecting appropriate subject matter from all that has 
been learned in the natural sciences and technology 
that might reasonably be taught to children and ado 
lescents in the time available. (If the recommenda 
tions of the various national reports on schooling are 
followed, science would be taught every day at all 
grade levels from kindergarten through grade ten as 


1] 


a requirement, a total of approximately 2,000 hours. 
Advanced science or preprofessional courses for the 
interested student would be offered during the last 
two years of high schost.) 


The curriculum reform effort would include the 
identification of the cognitive skills essential to the 
OPlinal use of scientific and technological knowl 
edge in civic and personal affairs. In the present sci 
ence curriculum the cognitive skills are limited in 
the main to those associated with scientific inquiry. 
In any new curriculum, the range of skills probably 
would need to be extended to include those essen 
tial for coping with certain types of science/tech 
nology issues Common to most social settings and to 
most people's lives. This approach also would 
require students to work with certain non-science- 
specific notions such as ethical judgment, probabi- 
listic reasoning, and risk assessment in a scientific/ 
technological context 


An overall objective of any new science curriculum 
would be to enable students to become better 
problem-solvers and decision-makers through che 
use of science-based information and skills. Con 
sequently, it is important to recognize that scientific 
and technological literacy is an operational objective 
and exists only in the context of intepreting and 
seeking wise solutions to problems. 


Participants recognized that determining how a cur 
riculum should be organized vertically through the 
grades and within specific courses is essential. Tradi 
uonally, the organization of the science curriculum 
in most school systems has tracked closely the hier 
archy and cumulative development of the basic sci 
ences. This organization is described as a “spiral 
curriculum,” with courses designed to portray the 
“structure of disciplines” and to provide opportuni 
ties for students to learn “inquiry skills used by 
scientists.” The subject matter of these courses is 
chosen in part for its professional significance to 
researchers. 


The participants believed that qualitative changes 
proposed in the national studies of education would 
require a science curriculum that goes beyond the 


10 12 


limitations imposed by specific disciplines. The 
combining of information from the sciences and 
technology with the goal of optimizing its appli 


cation to human affairs would require a cross-dis 


ciplinary perspective on science education 


The development of model science curricula 
designed for all students should be carried out with 
an awareness that it is at least a ten-year program. 
What is sought is a coherent curriculum of science 
and technology fostering increasingly higher levels 
of understanding from kindergarten through sec 
ondary school. The major task is to make it possible 
for scientific and technolcgical concepts to be 
enlarged in meaning at higher grade levels while fos- 
tering the continual growth of intellectual skills. 


rhe development of alternative model curricula 
would set the stage for educators, textbook pub 
lishers and others to consider new instructional strat- 
egies and the creation of new science texts and 
other materials. The role of new textbooks in pro- 
moting improved science education was seen by the 
group as particularly important because it is so often 
the primary learning resource for students. Over the 
long term, the participants felt that individual text- 
books might play a reduced role as supplementary 
materials become more available through computer 
information banks and the use of out-of-schocl 
sources. However, such a shift was seen as unlikely 
in the next few years. 


Preservice Teacher Education 


The national studies on the condition of education in 
America have emphasized the central role of 
teachers in bringing about improvements in 
schooling tot the obvious reason that it is with 
teachers and .tudents in the classroom that the 
improvement effor ust finally manifest itself. In 
the case of the proposed change in direction of K-12 
science education, the participants concluded that 
the focus on teachers is particularly important. In 
the group's view, a science/technology/society-ori- 
entec curriculum will require major changes in 
both preservice and inservice teacher education. 


13 


Concerning the preservice component, the partici 
pants felt it is necessary to recognize that teaching is 
an applied profession in the same sense as engi 
neering, medicine, and law. There are bodies of 
knowledge and practice considered necessary for 
those entering these fields. More so in other coun 
tries than in the United States, precollege teaching is 
regarded as a professional field, and science teachers 
are trained in colleges or institutes where academic 
courses appropriate for teaching science are offered. 
For the most part, secondary school science teachers 
in the U.S. are trained in science departments that 
rarely make adjustments in courses that would 
make them more suitable to the educational! goals 
precollege teachers must seek to achieve. Instead, 
prospective teachers take courses designed for 
aspiring scientists 


Moreover, the few required courses in pedagogy are 
not adequate in many schools of education. Typi 
cally, these courses constitute too little time (aver 
aging only 25 semester hours of the prospective 
science teacher's 120 semester hours of course 
work ), do not have sufficient connection to the “real 
world of science teaching,’ and are often inade 
quately supported by their host institution. These 
courses also often tend to ignore the results of the 
growing knowledge base regarding both generic 
teaching skills and those associated with effective 
science teaching. This circumstance, in combination 
with the fact that many prospective secondary 
school teachers have a major in biology or chemistry, 
in which there may be little that can be applied 
directly to teaching high school life sciences or 
physical sciences, creates a major problem. The 
result is that “newly minted” science teachers in the 
United States often might be described best as half 
trained researchers who are not well prepared to act 


as the interpreters of science and technology for the 
nation’s young. 


Beyond these current problems is the issue of how 
preservice programs need to be modified to prepare 
prospective teachers for a new curriculum with a 
substantial technological component. Althcugh 
more than twelve hundred colleges and universities 


14 


l > 


now have courses or programs on science tech 
nology society, these offerings generally have been 
neither adapted to precollege teacher education pro 
grams nor required for certification. The participants 
believe that early attention needs to be given to the 
development of models for preservice teacher prep 
aration which are based on the new science and 
technological literacy perspective 


In making these observations and recommendations 
regarding the improvement of preservice teacher 
education, the group was aware that it is now fash 
ionable and easy to criticize schools of education 
The participants recognized, however, that many 
probiems associated with preservice preparation are 
to a considerable extent a function of circumstances 


beyond the control of these schools. For example, 


many needed improvements in teacher education 
would de costly to implement, and would depend 
in part on the ability of schoois of education to 
attract a greater number of academically well-qual 
ihed students. Owing to the low pay and prestige of 
teaching, these are formidable structural obstacles to 
improvement. Nonetheless, because the participants 
believe that sound professional training is as neces 
sary for teachers as for physicians, lawyers or busi 
ness executives, they concluded that ways of 
overcoming these obstacles must be found soon 


Inservice Teacher Education 


\s important as reappraisal and reform of preservice 
science preparation are to the current school 
improvement effort, the meeting participants con 
cluded that the inservice component is even more 
urgently in need of renewal. This is the case for 


several reasons 


(1) With continued declining enroliments at the 
middle school and high school levels in several areas 
of the country in the next few years, there will be 
few Openings during this period for new science 
teachers in many districts 


(2) Experience has shown that most teachers, on 
their own, will not have the time, inclination, or 
resources to embrace new approaches to subject 
matter. Moreover, past inservice efforts have yielded 


I5 


very disappointing results in terms of actually 
leading to substantial changes in how the average 
teacher conducts his or her class and how much 


students learr 


scientific and technological literac y-for-all 
‘f accepted, will lead to changes 


irriculum content, and orga 
ill leveis, K-12. This means that 


more teacne than in any previous reform effort 
would be i I # extensive and systematic 


INISETYV kK ¢ ma sustamed hasis 


these circumstances, the participants believe 

that there are two pressing issues which educators 
and policymakers must address. First. effective 
vaches must be identified and/or 

developed for the new arproach to science educa 
tion. Second, the question of how more extensive 
inservice training is to be paid for must be resolved. 
unds for inservice cfaining are quite limited in 


mest school districts. ) 


The Role of Teachers and Supervisors in 
Improving Science Education 


national reports on schools make it clear that 

effort to reform science education must con 

the process of change as well as the outcomes 
expected. Past experience with NSF-supported 
innovative science courses demonstrates that reform 
anna be mandated, and that development of a 
new curnculum does not insure its proper imple 
mentation. Moreover, the research on curriculum 
implementation indicates that there is no proven 
model, no linear path, to curriculum reform in 
schools. Nonetheless, the participants believe that 
the evidence is clear that early and substantial 
involvement of school building-level educators is a 
key to bringing about real change 


In this regard, research has shown the pivotal role 
supervision plays in effecting lasting change. Princi 
pals and department heads influence or determine 
teaching schedules, equipment and text purchases, 
and tenure and promotion. First-line supervision is a 
powerful influence on what classroom teachers do. 
Thus, the informed support of supervisors is indis- 


1+ 16 


pensable to any significant change in content or 
teaching practice. Therefore, the participants con 
cluded that representatives of the building-level 
supervisory groups should be integrally involved 
from the beginning in the planning of changes in 
science curriculum and classroom practice. 


Equally if not more important, the group concluded 
that the proposed change in science curriculum 
must “begin” rather than “end” with teachers. This 
emphasis on early involvement of teachers recog 
nizes the fact that it is the teacher who is the final 
arbiter of what is taught in the classroom, and how it 
is taught 


In the group's view, the participation of teachers 
means tnat they should be well represented in the 
planning and development phases of each area 
involved in the science education improvement 
effort. For example, any group charged with devel- 
oping a new conceptual framework for science edu- 
‘ation should include experienced, practicing 
science teachers who have distinguished them 
selves in the classroom. Similarly, science teachers 
should be involved in the curriculum and materials 
development efforts. Later in the process, the sci- 
ence faculty of a particular school district or schocl 
should be deeply involved in the tailoring of the 
new curriculum to local circumstances and the 
demands of their individual classes. 


Through such a participatory process, teachers 
would be given the absolutely necessary opportu- 
nity to engage in discussion of the rationale for pro- 
posed curricular and other changes as well as the 
chance to consider the supporting data and philo- 
sophical assumptions. They would also have an 
Opportunity to demonstrate their professional 
“equality” with university-level science educators, 
practicing scientists and others. 


Many observers of previous science education 
improvement efforts believe that a major reason 
why those efforts achieved much less than had been 
intended is that teachers and building-level adminis- 
trators and supervisors were not full participants 
in the development process. The group concluded 


- 


1S 


that it is essential that this round of science educa 
tion reform avoid that shortco.ning. 


Harnessing Educational Research 
There is now an extensive body of educational 
research as well as practical experience that is rele 
vant to a reform of science education. The researcn 
that has been done on child development, for 
example, provides a fair idea of whether children 
can master a certain scientific cor-cept at a specific 
age range. Although teachire is frequently consid- 
ered an “‘art,” its scientific basis can be backed by a 
substantial amount of data. Therefore, the criticism 
that research on iearning and teaching is not useful is 
incorrect. Part of the problem is that many teachers 
are not taught how, or given the opportunity to use, 
research findings to increase their effectiveness 
in the classroom. Much of what is known from 
research on learning and the use of knowledge also 
has tended to be neglected by curriculum devel- 
opers and textbook authors. 


If a comprehensive improvement in K-12 science 
education is to be achieved across the country, the 
meeting participants concluded that relevant educa- 
tional research will finally have to be harnessed. For 
this to happen the group concluded that it will be 
necessary to: 


(1) organize and synthesize the available research 
on science edv«ation, and rewrite it in terms useful 
to practitioners; 


(2) develop mechanisms for continuously trans- 
mitting the findings of research to teachers, school 
administrators, policy-makers, teacher educators, 
and parents; 

(3) integrate the research findings into preservice 
and inservice teacher education programs; 

(4) encourage educational researchers to direct 
more of their attention toward solving educational 
problems of importance to teachers; and 


(5) develop a systematic .nd ongoing analysis of 
educational research to determine gaps in what is 
known and what might be useful for advancing sci- 
ence education. 


The number of people capable of synthesizing 
research results and/or translating academic 
research analys* into usable forms for practitioners is 
small. Consequently, there is a need to increase the 
number of these specialists 


Achieving the desired improvement in science edu 
cation will doubtlessly entail added expense for the 
nation as a whole, as well as for individual school dis 
tricts. Finding ways to use pertinent research could 
be one way to enst're not only that the desired 
improvement in science education will occur, but 
also that it wil! be achieved in a cost-effective way. 


Organizing for Science Education 
Improvement 


The initial efforts to bring about a major restruc- 
turing of science education along the lines being 
suggested really began around 1970. During the 
1970s lutie visible progress was iuade toward either 
generating 4 broad awareness of the need for sub- 
stantial changes, or actually implementing them. 
However, the large number of studies documenting 
the need for improvement that nave appeared! since 
1980 have succeeded in focusing considerable 
national attention on the issue. The question now is 
whether this attention can be translated into action 
in the several areas discussed in previous sections of 
this report: the creation of a new conceptual frame- 
work for science education; the development of 
model courses and supporting instructional strate- 
gies and materials; the improvement of preservice 
and inservice teacher preparation programs; the 
early involvement of teachers and supervisors; and 
the harnessing of relevant educational research. 


Ordinarily, it is assumed that local districts and 
schools will have primary responsibility for bringing 
about needed educational improvements for their 
students. Indeed, under the nation’s decentralized 
approach to education, our nearly 16,000 school dis- 
tricts and approximately 80,000 schools have histori- 
cally been a source of immense creativity and 
vitality. Nonethcless, on matters that require an 
unusually large commitment of financial resources 
and/or extensive analysis, most school districts 
must look outside for assistance. The current need 


19 of 


for fundamental science education improvement is 


clearly one of those matters requiring outside help. 


As has been demonstrated by the early response to 
the several national reports, local districts can 
expect state governments to become involved. 
However, most seem likely to play a relatively lim 
ited role in promoting fundamenta! curricular and 
other changes. Similarly, the federal government can 
be of assistance, particularly financially. However, in 
our decentralized educational system the federal 
government does not have a mandate to provide 
central direction to a curricular change. (The group 
felt that this is probably as it should be.) 


Several nongovernmental groups, including scien- 
tic and engineering societies, professional educa 

tion associations, colleges and universities, as well as 
other elements of society (such as the business com 

munity), have expressed a willingness to be of 
assistance in the reform of science ecucation. None- 
theless, their ability to be of help current!y is limited 
for the following reasons: 


(1) Each sees the reform from a limited point of 
view bas« G on specific interests and partial data. 


(2) There are few avenues of communication 
between the groups that make it possible to share 
ideas and data and to effect a dialog on the sub- 
stantive issues. 


(3) There is no mechanism or forum through which 
conflicting ideas can be mediated and policies 
shaped. 


Under these circumstances the participants believe 
that it would be extremely desirable if some entity 
existed which could provide leadership and coordi- 
nation for the science education improvement effort. 
Since in the group’s view no existing organization 
appears to be in a position to assume this responsi 
bility, the participants concluded that a new organi- 
zation probably would need to be established. 


The following are some of the essential capabilities 
that the group determined a new organization 
would have to possess to be effective within the 
nation’s decentralized educational environment: 


18 oo 


(1) the ability to marshall the mix of people essential 
for developing and legitimizing a conceptual frame- 
work for science education that can serve as a guide 
to nationwide educational programs and practices; 


(2) the capability to encourage and/or assist efforts 
that individual districts cannot be expected to 
perferm (e.g. development of model curricula, syn 
thesis of relevant educational research, and identi- 
fication of qualified consultants); 


(3) the ability to work with state and local educators 
and to incorporate their several perspectives into 
the organization: s work; 


(4) the ability to enlist the cooperative efforts of key 
non-educational constituencies, such as scientists, 
e neers, and the business community; and 


(5) the capacity to play a leadership/coordinating 
role in the reform movement for an extended 
period, recognizing the long-term nature of the tasks 
involved. 


In order to function in the above manner, the partic- 
ipants concluded that the ne organization prob- 
ably would need to be a consortium with essentially 
two types of members: 


(1) national educational organizations of the kind 
represented at the meeting; and 


(2) the scientific and engineering professions. 


Others, such as representatives from the business 
community, could be considered for membership, 
but the group felt that it might be better to enlist 
their cooperation as consultants rather than formal 
members. This is the case because the consortium’s 
primary responsibility would be to serve the educa- 
tional community in the area of science education 
improvement. To be effective, the consortium 
would have to avoid becoming too large and too dif- 
fuse in its constituency. 


The group also believed that, to be successful, the 
consortium would need to be practical in outlook— 
emphasizing a pluralistic “what works’ approach to 
helping foster desired change. 


21 


Properly structured; the new organization would 
hold the promise of providing high quality guidance 
and services for school districts across the country. 


Through a participatory process, the consortium 
could prov. > an opportunity to bring about some 
thing which has proved to be particularly difficult in 
this country: a common understanding of, and 
broad-based commitment to, an educational change 
of importance to all students and to the nation. 


The participants concluded that the federal govern- 
ment might be the most appropriate source of seed 
money and core financing for such an enterprise. 
The private sector, foundations, individual school 
districts, state governments, and member organiza 
tions were seen as other sources of funding. The 
participants concluded that the consortium should 
initially do the following: 


(1) undertake a full evaluation of the appropri- 
ateness of “scientific and technological literacy” for 
all students as a major new, unifying purpose for K 
12 science education, and develop a supporting 
conceptual fremework; 


(2) facilitate developrnent of a preliminary set of 
intellectual skills, concepts, and information about 
science and technology that should be mastered by 
all students during their K-12 years; 


(3) encourage and assist in the development of 
model curricula that would provide coherent, artic- 
ulated science education experiences during the 
K-12 years through which students could be realis- 
tically expected to acquire the knowledge and 
skills essential for scientific and technological lit- 
eracy; and 


(4) establish relationships with variou sectors of 
society, including the news media, local/state/fea- 
eral government, and the business community, 
that would help promote broad understanding of, 
and support for, the science education improve- 
ment effort. 


The participants recognized that the characteristics 
and initial agenda sketched here for the new orga- 
nization represent only one approach among 
many. Therefore, any effort designed to establish 


Re 


such an organization should as a matter of course 
consider alternative approaches or options 


The participants also recognized that the consortial 
approach to educational improvement being sug 
gested in this report is usproven. There is no con 
sortium currently in existence designed to serve 
the nation’s educational systems in the complex 


manner suggested here. Nonetheless, the need for 
leadership is substantial, while the existing alterna 


tives for providing it are limited. For this reason the 
participants concluded that a consortial approach 
deserves early and full testing 


Science Education Improvement and the 
Non-Public Schools 


The non public schools of America are important 
national resources, complements to local school 
districts, and often sources of innovation or reform. 
The non-public sector is itself diverse: residential 
schovis; single-sex schools; religiously -oriented 
academies; and commuter prep schools. The oldest 
school in the U.S. is an “independent,” the Colle- 
giate School in New York City 


If our purpose is the reform of science education, 
then the ultimate justification is the benefit we 
expect to reap as a nation. The goal ‘s a well-edu- 
cated populace, irrespective of the schools from 
which they gradu:.te. All schools must be involved. 


Therefore, the group agreed that the independent 
or non-public school sector has an important role 
to play in designing and implementing reforms in 
science education 


The Context of Science Education 
Improvement 


The participants recognized that science education 
is an integral, inseparable part of a complex system 
of courses, curricula programs, and requirements. 
Any significant change in one important compo- 
nent must affect the re.t of the “organism.” The 
sense of the participants was t.at science education 
improvement must take place without disrupting 
other core programs. Recognizing that educational 


23 


resources are relatively inelastic, the group 
believed that a combination of augmented 
resources and structural economies should be the 


first approach to obtaining the necessary funds. 


Clearly, the details of the improvement strategy 
outlined here require careful study, but it is impor 
tant that the much-needed reforms that the group 
proposes not be delayed undv!y. 


Appendix I 
Meeting Attendees 


Participants 

Richard F. Brinckerhoff 
Science Department 
Phillips Exeter Academy: 


Gordon Cawelti 

Executive Director 

Association for Supervision and 
Curriculum Development 


Richard Clark 
President 
National Science Supervisors Association 


®onald Cleminson 

President 

Association for the Education 
of Teachers of Science 


Michael Cohen 

Director of State Education 
Policy Consortium 

National As s«iation of State 
Boards u, Education 


Dv ight Davis 
resident-Elect 
American Association of School Administraiors 


George Denemark 

Director 

National Council for Accreditation 
of Teacher Education 


Fred M. Hechinger 
President 
New York Times Company Foundation 


Robert C. Howe 

President 

National Association of Secondary 
School Principals 


Paul DeHart Hurd* 
Professor Emeritus of Science Education 
Stanford University 


David G. Imig 
Executive Director 
American Association of 

Colleges of Teacher Education 
John Martin 
Director of Federal State Relations 
Council of Chief State School Officers 


William McKeough 
Professor of Education 
Hofstra University 


F. james Ruinerford 

Chief Education Officer 

American Associ: tion for the 
Advancement of Science 


Robert B. Sigda 
President 
National Science Teachers Association 


Robert L. Smith 
Executive Director 
Council for American Private Education 


Mack J. Spears 

Second Vice President 

National School Boards Association 
William G. Stevenson 

Education Commission Chairman 
National Congress of Parents and Teachers 
Ronald Wolk 

Editor 

Education Week 


*Meeting chairperson 2 ba 


Observers 


Alden Dunham 

Program Officer 

Carnegie Corporation of New York 
Fred Nelson 

Program Officer 

Atlantic Richfield Foundation 


Meeting Coordinator 


L. Scott Miller 
Program Officer 
Exxon Education Foundation 


Appendix II 


Meeting Consultants 


Ann Campbell 
Former Nebraska Commissioner of Education 


Audrey Champagne 
Learning Research and Develo” ent Center 
University of Pittsburgh 


Joan Duea 
Price Laboratory School 
University of Northern lowa 


Paul DeHart Hurd* 

Professor Emeritus of Science Education 
Stanford University 

Jane Kahle 

Department of Biological Sciences 
Purdue University 

Otis Smith 

Deer Park Independent School District 
Deer Park, Texas 

Wayne Welch 

College of Education 

University of Minnesota 


Pas 
Consulting group chairperson 


