I 


[SUBCOMMITTEE  PRINT] 


i^ 


- 


MOBIL  OIL  CORPORATION:  FAILURE  TO 

DELIVER  NATURAL  OAS  TO  THE 

INTERSTATE  MARKET 


REPORT 


BY  THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE  OX  OVERSIGHT  AND 
INVESTIGATIONS 

OF  THE 

COMMITTEE  ON  INTERSTATE  AND 

FOREIGN  COMMERCE 

HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES 

NINETY-FOURTH  CONGRESS 

SECOND  SESSION 


|5   MAR 

v 


FEBRUARY  1976 


>—*****# 


66-593  O 


U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
WASHINGTON   :    1976 


3F6.5? 


>\./ 


COMMITTEE  ON   INTERSTATE  AND   FOREIGN  COMMERCE 


HARLEY  0.  BTAOGERS, 

TORBERT  H.  MACDONALD,  Massachusetts 

JOHN  E.  MOSS,  California 

JOHN  l>.  DINGELL,  Michigan 

PAUL  G.  ROGERS,  Florida 

LIONEL  VAN  DEERLIN,  California 

FRED  B.  ROONEY,  Pennsylvania 

JOHN  M.  MURPHY    New  York 

DAVID  E.  SATTERFD3LD  in.  Virginia 

BR(  >CK    kDAMS,  Washington 

W.  s.  (BILL)  STUCKEY,  .Ik..  Georgia 

BOB  ECKHARDT,  Texas 

RICHARDSON  PREYER,  North  Carolina 

JAMES  W.  SYMINGTON,  Missouri 

CHARLES  J.  CARNEY,  Ohio 
RALPH  U.  METCALFE,  Illinois 
GOODLOE  E.  BYRON,  Maryland 
JAMES  H.  SCHEUER,  New  York 
RICHARD  L.  OTTINGER,  New  York 
HENRY  A.  WAXMAN,  California 
ROBERT  (BOB)  KRUEGER,  Texas 
TIMOTHY  E.  WIRTII,  Colorado 
PHILIP  R.   SHARP.  Indiana 
wii.liam  M.  BRODHEAD,  Michigan 
W.  G.   (BILL)   HEFNER,  North  Carolina 
JAMES  J.  FLORIO,  New  Jersey 
AXTHoNY  TOBY  MOFFETT,  Connecticut 
JIM  SANTINI,  Nevada 
ANDREW  MAGUIRE,  New  Jersey 


Wesl  Virginia,  Chairman 

SAMUEL  L.  DEVINE,  Ohio 

JAMES    1.   BROYHILL,   North  Carolina 

TIM  LEE  CARTER,  Kentucky 

CLARENCE  .1    BROWN,  Ohio 

JOE   SKUBITZ,   Kansas 

JAMES  M.  COLLINS,  Texas 

LOUIS  FREY,  JR.,  Florida 

JOHN  V.  M<  COLLISTER,  Nebraska 

NORMAN  r    LENT,  New  York 

H.  JOHN  SEINZ  HI.  Pennsylvania 

EDWARD  R.  MADIGAN,  Illinois 

CARLOS  J.   MOORHEAD,  California 

MATTHEW  J.  RINALDO,  New  Jersey 

\V.  BENSON  MOORE,  Louisiana 


\V.    E.    Williamson.    Clerk 
Kenneth  J.  Painter,  Assistant  Clerk 


Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations 
JOHN  E.  MOSS,  California.  Chairman 


JAMES  M.  COLLINS.  Texas 
NORMAN  F.  LENT.  New  York 
EDWARD  K.  MADIGAN,  Illinois 
MATTHEW  J.  RINALDO,  New  Jersey 
SAMUEL  L.  DEVINE,  Ohio 
(ex  officio) 


RICHARD  L.  OTTINGER.  ,\>\v  York 
ROBERT  (BOB)  KRUEGER,  Texas 
ANTHONY  TOBY  MOEEETT,  Connecticut 
JIM  santini.  Nevada 
W.  s.  (BILL)  STUCKEY,  Georgia 
JAMES    II.    SCHEUER.    New    York 
HENRY  A.  WAXMAN.  California 
PHILIP  R.  SHARP.  Indiana 
ANDREW  MAGIIRH.  New  Jersey 
HARLEY  o.  STAGGERS,  West  Virginia 
(ex  officio) 

Michael  R.  Lemov,  chief  Counsel 

Mark   L.  ROSENBERG,  Counsel 

John  R.  Calloway.  Special  Assistant 
Benjamin  m.  Smethurst,  Special  Assistant 

William    K.   Lyons,   Auditor 


(ID 


LETTER  OF  TRANSMITTAL 


Congress  of  the  United  States, 

House  of  Representatives, 
Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations, 
Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce, 

Washington,  B.C.,  February  9,  1976. 
Hon.  Harley  O.  Staggers, 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Interstate  and,  Foreign  Commerce, 
U.S.  House  of  Representatives,  Washington,  B.C. 

Dear  Mr.  Chairman":  I  am  transmitting  herewith  a  Report  of  the 
Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations  regarding  the  Grand 
Isle  95  Field,  operated  by  Mobil  Oil  Corporation.  The  Report  con- 
cludes that  the  actions  of  Mobil,  in  refusing  to  accept  a  permit  from 
the  FPC  and  deliver  gas  to  consumers  this  winter,  were  unreasonable, 
contrary  to  the  Outer  Continental  Shelf  Lands  Act  (43  U.S.C.  §  1331 
et  seq.)  and  contrary  to  the  public  interest.  The  Report  concludes  that 
because  this  gas  could  have  been  available  this  winter  to  two  severely 
curtailed  pipelines,  Mobil's  actions  may  well  contribute  to  any  gas 
shortage  in  New  Jersey,  Ohio,  and  other  areas. 

The  Report  notes  that  this  field  contains  at  least  350  billion  cubic 
feet  of  gas,  could  have  been  producing  by  November  1, 1975,  and  could 
have  supplied  some  120  to  220  million  cubic  feet  per  day  to  Texas 
Eastern  Pipeline  and  Trunkline  Pipeline.  This  gas  could  have  sub- 
stantially alleviated  the  curtailment  problems  of  these  pipelines  and 
thus  could  have  materially  aided  their  customers  in  avoiding  any 
problems  due  to  lack  of  gas. 

The  Subcommittee  was  extremely  concerned  by  this  situation,  in 
which  Mobil  was  able  to  withhold  substantial  gas  from  the  inter- 
state market  merely  because  it  would  not  agree  to  conditions  imposed 
by  the  FPC  in  order  to  protect  the  customer.  Further,  Mobil  was  un- 
willing to  begin  to  deliver  this  gas  while  it  was  contesting  those  con- 
ditions before  the  FPC  and  the  Courts. 
Sincerely, 

John  E.  Moss, 
Chairman  Oversight  and  Investigations  Subcommittee. 

(in) 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/mobratOOunit 


MOBIL  OIL  COKPORATION:  FAILURE  TO  DELIVER 
NATURAL  GAS  TO  THE  INTERSTATE  MARKET 


During  the  summer  of  1975  the  Federal  Power  Commission  and 
the  Federal  Energy  Administration,  both  of  which  are  supporters 
of  elimination  of  Federal  price  controls  on  interstate  gas,  reported 
that  the  gas  shortfall  would  be  1.3  trillion  cubic  feet  (18.6%)  for 
the  1975-76  heating  season  (November  to  March)  and  2.9  trillion 
cubic  feet  (19.39%)  for  the  period  April  1975  through  March  1976. 
However,  the  Congressional  Office  of  Technology  Assessment  on 
November  4,  1975  disputed  the  FPC's  and  FEA's  method  of  calculat- 
ing the  "shortage''  because  both  agencies  used  contracted  quantities 
and  did  not  allow  for  lessened  actual  demand.  Therefore,  the  OTA 
estimated  the  yearly  shortfall  at  1.0  trillion  cubic  feet  (Tcf )  instead 
of  2.9  Tcf.  In  a  report  to  the  House  Government  Operations  Commit- 
tee on  October  31,  1975,  the  General  Accounting  Office  found  the 
same  weakness  in  the  FPC/FEA  analysis : 

.  .  .  requirements  data  submitted  (which  can  be  based  on  entitle- 
ments or  contract  demands)   could  be  overstated.  Since  curtail- 
ments generally  are  requirements  less  deliveries,  the  quantities 
reported  as  curtailed  would  also  be  overstated.1 
Thus,  the  natural  gas  "shortage"  will  not  be  as  severe  this  winter 
as  had  originally  been  projected.  Several  major  interstate  pipelines 
have  curtailed  substantial  amounts  of  gas,  however,  and  several  areas 
of  the  country,  notably  New  Jersey.  Ohio  and  North  Carolina  could 
still  be  adversely  affected  this  winter  due  to  a  lack  of  gas.  The  oil  com- 
panies attribute  the  natural  gas  shortage  to  Federal  price  regulation. 
A  recent  ad  by  Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  for  instance,  called  price  reg- 
ulation "A  21-year  fiasco"  and  attributed  the  shortage  to  the  "govern- 
ment's focus  on  low  prices  to  the  consumer  ..." 

The  Subcommittee  conducted  several  investigations  last  year  and 
issued  three  reports  2  dealing  with  the  industry's  failure  to  develop 
known  and  available  gas  supplies.  One  of  these  reports  (Cities  Serv- 
ice) concerned  a  delay  in  doing  a  needed  workover.  The  other  two 
reports  (Bastian  Bay  and  Garden  City)  found  inadequate  drilling  in 
two  large  fields  with  the  result  of  declining  production.  The  current 
Subcommittee  investigation  has  focused  on  the  question  of  whether 
producers  are  producing  all  that  the}^  can  in  good  faith  or  whether 
they  are  withholding  gas  from  the  interstate  market  for  sale  at  a  much 
higher  price  in  the  event  that  Congress  should  remove  the  Federal 
price  ceiling. 


1  GAO  Report  to  the  House  Committee  on  Government  Operations,  The  Economic  and 
Environmental  Impact  on  Natural  Gas  Curtailment  During  the  Winter  of  1975-76,  October 
31.  1975,  at  p.  8. 

-Preliminary  Staff  Report  Concerning  Delays  in,  •Natural  Gas  Production  by  Cities 
Service  Oil  Company  (July  1975)  ;  Natural  Gas  Supplies:  Declining  Deliverability  at 
Garden  City,  La.  (October  1975)  :  and  Natural  Gas  Supplies:  Declining  Deliverability  at 
Bastian  Bay  Field,  La.  (November  1975). 

(1) 


The  Subcommittee  investigated  the  Grand  [sle  95  Field,  a  large 
offshore  Louisiana  Held  which  is  operated  by  Mobil  ( )il  and  has  proved 
rves  of  at  least  350  billion  cubic  feel  of  gas.  It  is  likely  that  re- 
serves currently  classified  "probable"  could  make  even  more  gas  avail- 
able from  this  field.  This  field  could  have  been  on  production  by 
November  1.  1975  and  could  have  supplied  substantia]  gaa  to  two  of 
the  nation's  most  severely  curtailed  pipelines,  Texas  Eastern  Pipeline 
i  serving  Now  Jersey  and  ( )hio )  and  Trunkline  ( serving  ( )hio  through 
it-  parent  company,  Panhandle  Eastern).  Gas  from  this  field  alone 
could  have  reduced  both  Texas  Eastern's  and  Trunkline's  current 
heating  season  curtailment  by  some  7$  to  1  V'(  with  even  Larger  effects 
when  the  whole  field  is  producing. 

This  gas  is  part  of  the  Federal  Outer  Continental  Shelf  and  as  such 
must  be  sold  in  interstate  commerce.  A  Certificate  of  Public  Con- 
venience and  Necessity  from  the  Federal  Power  Commission  is  needed 
for  such  a  sale,  A  Certificate  is  also  needed  for  any  new  pipeline 
construction  to  transport  the  gas. 

The  initial  Mobil  application  to  the  FPC  on  March  10,  1975,  esti- 
mated its  share  of  the  gas  (55%)  at  120  million  cubic  feet  per  day.3 
Based  on  this  calculation.  Gulf's  45%  share  would  be  approximately 
100  million  cubic  feet  per  day.  Trunkline's  current  curtailment  is  850 
million  cubic  feet  per  day  ' — supplies  from  this  field  could  thus  have 
reduced  its  curtailment  by  about  14rr.  Texas  Eastern's  current  curtail- 
ment is  750  million  cubic  feet  per  day."  Its  share  (  100%  of  Gulf's 
share)  could  thus  have  reduced  its  curtailment  by  about  13%. 

Since  its  original  application,  Mobil  has  reduced  its  estimate  for 
initial  deliveries  from  120  million  cubic  feet  per  day  to  00  or  70 
million  cubic  feet  per  day.0  It  is  not  clear,  however,  if  any  part  of 
this  lowered  estimate  is  due  to  delav  caused  by  a  slowing  of  drilling 
efforts  until  the  sale  is  approved. 

In  spite  of  the  national  need  for  gas  and  the  availability  of  this  pas 
(the  wells  are  drilled  and  one  producing  platform  is  complete),  the 
gas  is  not  flowing  because  the  operator,  Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  in- 
sisted on  three  conditions  in  its  application  to  the  Federal  Power 
Commission  (1)  An  option  to  use  25%  of  the  gas  for  its  refinery  in 
Beaumont.  Texas:  (2)  A  10-year  contract  with  the  pipeline  even 
though  the  gas  reserves  are  estimated  to  be  produced  over  20  years: 
and  (3)  the  commitment  to  the  interstate  market  of  only  some  gas 
reservoirs  instead  of  all  available  gas  in  the  Grand  Isle  95  Field. 

On  three  separate  occasions  (August  22,  IDT.k  October  3,1975,  and 
December  19.  1975).  Mobil  refused  to  accept  Temporary  or  Permanent 
Certificates  granted  by  the  VPC  to  sell  this  gas  because  the  FPC  de- 
clined to  accept  Mobil's  conditions  without  a  full  hearing  on  their 
possible  efl'ccts.  On  January  23,  1976,  the  Subcommittee  held  a  hearing 
on  this  matter.  This  Report  is  based  on  that  hearing  and  other  evi- 
dent- developed  by  the  Subcommittee. 


8  Mobil  Application  for  Certificate  of  Public  Convenience  and  Necessity,  March  10,  107.") 
Mobil  estimated  the  sales  volume  .it  3.6  billion  cubic  feel  per  month. 

1  Information  supplied  t<>  the  Subcommittee  by  Mr.  Joseph  Salters,  Case  Manager, 
Bureau  "f  Natural  Gas,  Federal  Power  Commission,  on  January  22,  1!)7<;. 

■    M. 

timon.v  <,f  Jack  E.  Earnest.  Manager,  National  Gas  Exploration  and  Production 
Division,  Mobil  nil  Corporation,  before  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations, 
Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  January  ii."..  1976,  at  Tr.  106. 


/.  Conclusions 

(1)  Mobil's  actions  in  refusing  to  accept  any  Certificate  to  sell  gas 
from  Grand  Isle  95  were  unreasonable  and  were  directly  contrary  to 
both  to  Federal  policy  on  Outer  Continental  Shelf  gas  and  to  the 
public  interest.  While  there  was  conflicting  evidence  as  to  the  motiva- 
tion of  Mobil,  those  actions  constitute  intentional  withholding  of  gas 
supplies  from  the  interstate  market. 

(2)  Mobil's  actions  were  particularly  unreasonable  in  this  situation 
where  its  development  costs  (some  $37  million  to  date)  were  supplied 
under  an  advance  payments  agreement  with  the  pipeline — in  effect, 
consumers  have  already  paid  for  this  gas. 

(3)  Mobil's  actions  have  resulted  in  making  substantially  less  gas 
available  to  two  severely  curtailed  interstate  pipelines. 

(4)  If  factory  and  school  closings  do  occur  in  Xew  Jersey  and  Ohio 
this  winter,  they  are  at  least  partly  attributable  to  Mobil's  refusal  to 
accept  a  Certificate  for  Grand  Isle  95. 

77.  History  of  the  Grand  Isle  95  Field 

The  Grand  Isle  95  Field  is  composed  of  four  leases — Blocks  93.  94, 
95  and  96 — located  some  42  miles  offshore  Louisiana.  Blocks  94  and  95 
were  acquired  jointly  by  Mobil  Oil  Corporation  and  Gulf  Oil  Cor- 
Doration  in  the  September  1972  lease  sale  for  $21.8  million.  In  Novem- 
ber 1972,  Mobil,  as  operator,  drilled  a  wildcat  well  in  Block  95  and 
discovered  a  natural  gas  reservoir.7  In  December,  two  additional  wells 
were  drilled  in  Blocks  94  and  95  to  define  the  extent  of  the  reservoir.8 
following  which  Mobil  instituted  a  plan  of  development  for  this  field. 

In  March  1973.  Mobil  ordered  a  21 -well  drilling-production  plat- 
form— designated  Platform  "A" — and  installed  it  in  Block  95  in  Sep- 
tember 1973. 9  Between  October  1973  and  June  1974.  six  production 
wells  were  drilled  from  this  platform.  Platform  "B",  also  21-slots, 
was  set  in  Block  94  in  April  1974.  and  eleven  production  wells  were 
drilled  by  April  1975. 

In  March  1974.  Mobil  and  Gulf  iointly  acquired  Grand  Isle  blocks 
93  and  96.  for  a  total  of  $38.2  million.  A  12-slot  Platform  "C"  was 
installed  in  Block  93  in  March  1975.  To  date,  five  production  wells  have 
been  drilled  from  this  platform,  a  sixth  well  is  currently  being  drilled, 
and  two  more  are  planned.  Production  facilities  were  completed  on 
Platform  "A"  last  November  and  are  awaiting  hook-up  with  a  pipe- 
line. Similar  facilities  are  scheduled  for  installation  on  Platforms  "B" 
and  "C"  in  February  and  September  1976. 

On  March  4.  1975.  Mobil  executed  with  Trunkline  Gas  Company, 
an  interstate  pipeline,  an  advance  payment  agreement  for  Grand  Isle 
95  Field.10  Under  these  contracts.  Trunkline  agreed  to  advance  to 
Mobil  an  amount  equal  to  Mobil's  total  share  of  the  costs  of  exploring 
and  developing  the  field  (excluding  lease  acquisition  costs)  through 
May  31.  1975.  This  amounted  to  a  total  of  $30,100,000.  Additionally. 
Trunkline  agreed  to  advance  to  Mobil  semi-annuallv  amounts  equal  to 
Mobil's  share  of  additional  development  of  the  field  up  to  a  total  sum 
of  $37  million. 


7  Prepared  statement  of  Jack  E.  Earnest.  Manaqrer.  National  Gas  Exploration  and  Pro- 
duction Division.  Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  before  tbe  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and 
Investigations.  Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce.  January  23.  1976  at  p.  2. 

8  /'/. 

9  TV/.,  Exhibit  A.  at  p.  1  (Chronologv) . 

10  Id.  at  p.  3. 


At  the  same  time,  Trunkline  and  Mobi]  executed  a  sales  contract 

covering  a  portion,  but  not  all.  of  the  estimated  reserves  in  the  Grand 
I  -If  95  Field,  Under  the  contract,  Mobil  committeed  only  certain  of 
the  known  reservoirs  to  Trunkline.11  Mobil  reserved  *_;">  percent  of  the 
Lias  produced  from  its  share  for  its  own  use  in  its  Beaumont  refinery. 
hut  agreed  not  to  exercise  this  option  until  July  1.  L976.  The  term  of 
the  contract  was  ten  years  from  the  date  of  initial  deliveries.1-  'Hie 
price  specified  by  the  contract  was  so  cents  per  thousand  Cubic  feet 
for  the  first  year,  with  J  percent  increases  annually.'  The  contract 
provided  for  escalations  equal  to  Federal  Power  Commission  (FPC) 
price  increases  and  for  a  redetermination  in  the  event  of  deregulation. 

On  March  10,  L975,  Mobil  applied  to  the  FPC  for  a  Certificate 
to  sell  the  gas  in  the  Grand  [sle  95  Field  i  Docket  No.  7.v  538).  Mobil's 
application  stated  that  Trunkline,  the  proposed  purchaser,  had  "cur- 
tailed ■>"■■'>  billion  cubic  feet  during  the  last  quarter  of  1  ■>}.'}.  Mobil's 
gas  supply  from  Grand  Ish  111  ode  95  Fit  Id  "-111  serve  to  alU  viatt  tkt 
experienced  shortagi  in  substantial  respects  and  can  be  on  line  and 
producing  for  the  1975  76  winter  season  if  tJu  regulatory  determina- 
tions an  not  unduly  protracted?  (Emphasis  added) 

Mobil  requested  that  the  intermediate  decision  procedure  be  omitted 
and  that  the  Certificate  be  issued  under  an  expedited  procedure.  Mobil 
noted  that  though  its  contract  price  was  so  cents  per  Mcf,  it  agreed 
to  accept  an  initial  rale  as  determined  under  FPC  Opinion  No.  699H, 
approximately  52  cents  per  Mcf.  It  further  noted  that  it  would  not 
exercise  it.-  right  to  reserve  25  percent  of  the  gas  for  its  own  purposes 
at  that  time.  Mobil  estimated  the  sales  volume  to  Trunkline  (all  of 
Mobil's  share — 55* "c  of  production)  at  3.6  billion  cubic  feet  of  £as 
per  month  or  approximately  120  million  cubic  feet  per  day. 

On  March  17.  1975,  Trunkline  applied  to  the  FPC  for  a  Certificate 
to  construct  a  pipeline  to  transport  the  gas  from  the  Grand  Isle  95 
Field  (Docket  No.  75-273).  The  FPC  could  not  proceed  with  this 
application  until  it  had  additional  information  from  Trunkline  re- 
garding the  transporting  of  Gulf's  share  of  the  gas.  The  Commission 
requested  this  information  and  received  it  from  Trunkline  on  June  5, 
1975. 

In  another  matter  where  the  issue  of  limited  dedications  had  been 
raised,  Getty  Oil  Company,  et  al.,  Docket  Xo.  CI  75-319,  the  FPC 
issued  an  order  on  dune  :>,  1975.  At  that  time,  the  Commission  granted 
Temporary  Certificates  to  all  companies  involved  and  set  for  hear- 
ing the  issues  of  limited  dedications  and  producer  reservations. 

On  July  15,  H>7.~>.  the  FPC  requested  additional  information  from 
Mobi]  regarding  its  application,  and  Mobil,  although  disputing  the 
Commission's  authority  to  request  the  data,  submitted  it  on  July  23, 
1975.  In  this  filing,  Mobil  estimated  its  share  of  the  proved' and 
prospective  reserves  (before  royalties)  at  322  billion  cubic  feet  for 
this  part  of  the  field.  Mobil  noted  in  it-  letter  that: 

Mobil  is  particularly  concerned  over  delays  in  this  particular 
docket  because  it  is  our  understanding  that  the  pipeline  certificate 
application  for  facilities  to  connect   must  be  issued  verv  soon  or 


Federal  Power  Commission  Order  Granting  Temporary  Certificate  (Docket  Nog   CP7J 
d  «-l  75  538,  August  L5,  V->77>.  al  p.  3. 


it  p.  4. 


else  we  will  have  missed  the  construction  season  to  enable  com- 
mencement of  production  in  about  November  of  this  year.  We  feel 
very  strongly  that  there  is  no  need  for  such  a  delay.  We  are 
quite  aware  of  the  needs  of  the  pipeline  company  in  meeting  its 
customers'  1975-76  winter  needs. 
On  August  15, 1975,  the  FPC  issued  a  Temporary  Certificate  to  both 
Mobil  and  Trunkline.  The  Commission  ordered  that  the  Mobil  case 
be  consolidated  with  the  Getty  matter  for  the  purpose  of  deciding 
the  depth  limitation,  limited  term  and  producer  reservation  issues 
because  of  (in  the  FPC's  Avords)  "the  national  shortage  of  natural 
gas  and  the  declining  gas  reserves  of  interstate  pipelines  .  .  ." 14 

On  August  22,  Mobil  notified  the  Commission  that  it  was  rejecting 
the  Temporary  Certificate  which  had  been  offered.  Mobil  offered  at 
that  time  to  deplete  both  its  25  percent  producer  reservation  and  the 
depth  limitation  in  its  contract  with  Trunkline  if  the  Commission 
would  grant  it  a  Permanent  Certificate  by  September  5,  1975.  On 
September  10,  1975,  the  FPC  granted  a  Permanent  Certificate  to 
Mobil.  However,  the  Commission  ordered  that : 

Mobil's  permanent  certification  will  be  conditioned  on  either 
substitution  of  a  20-year  term  in  the  contract  amendment  to  be 
filed  as  part  of  the  rate  schedule,  or  deletion  of  the  delivery  term 
entirely  and  substitution  thereof  of  a  life-of-the-lease  (or  equiva- 
lent) term,  whichever  is  preferable  to  the  parties.  In  this  regard, 
the  Commission  notes  that  Marathon,  Texaco,  Louisiana  Land 
Offshore  Exploration  and  Texas  Eastern  Exploration,  each  of 
which  has  received  permanent  certificates  in  this  consolidated 
proceeding,  filed  20-year  term  contracts  as  rate  schedules  for  sales 
of  gas.15 
On  October  3,  1975.  Mobil  notified  the  Commission  that  it  was  re- 
jecting the  Permanent  Certificate.  Mobil  argued  that  the  Commission 
had  no  authority  to  ''dictate*'  the  terms  of  a  gas  sales  contract  and 
attempted  to  withdraw  totally  its  application  for  a  Certificate. 

The  FPC  issued  a  third  Certificate  to  Mobil  on  November  21,  1975. 
In  that  Order,  the  Commission  granted  either  a  Permanent  or  a  Tem- 
porary Certificate,  at  Mobil's  option.  The  Commission  accepted  Mobil's 
10-year  contract.  The  Commission  also  ordered  that  in  compliance 
with  Order  No.  539  (issued  October  14,  1975,  and  applicable  to  all 
producers),  Mobil  establish  a  minimum  daily  quantity  of  gas  to  be 
delivered  and  be  prepared  to  explain  any  shortfalls. 

The  importance  of  Order  539  (reprinted  as  Appendix  A)  to  the  con- 
suming public  was  summarized  by  Morton  L.  Simons,  a  Washington, 
D.C.  attorney  with  extensive  experience  before  the  FPC,  in  his  testi- 
mony before  the  Subcommittee : 

Mr.  Lemov  (Subcommittee  Chief  Counsel).  Do  you  feel  that 
Order  No.  539  is  in  the  public  interest  ? 
Mr.  Simons.  Very  definitely. 

Mr.  Lemov.  Do  you  think  that  539  would  tend  to  insure  ade- 
quate gas  supplies  to  the  consuming  public  ? 

Mr.  Simons.  It  would  certainly  give  the  Commission,  or 
through  the  Commission,  the  public  a  better  handle  on  what  the 
supplies  are. 


m  Td. 

15  Federal  Power  Commission  Findings  and  Order,  September  10,  1975,  at  p.  8. 


65-593   O  -  76 


6 

( )ne  of  tlif  problems  is  that,  when  you  go  bach  into  these  con- 
tracts, you  are  going  back  into  a  bow]  of  mush.  There  is  really 
no  obligation  to  deliver  anything.  We  used  to  deliver   L00,000 
J  MCF]  a  day;  now  it  is  10,000  [MCF] ;  bul  that  is  just  the  way  it 
is.  It  seems  to  me  ">•■;:> gives  the  Commission  a  much  better  handle.16 
On  December  19,  1(.'7.~..  Mohil  again  refused  to  accept  a  Certificate 
in  sell  this  nas  and  tiled  a  motion   for  a  rehearing  and  a  stay  of  the 
Order.  Mohil  based  it-  refusal  upon  its  opposition  to  Order  539.  On 
January  13,  L976,  the  FPC  granted  Mobil's  Motion  for  Rehearing.  To 
date,  Mohil  has  declined  to  accept  any  Certificate  for  the  sale  of  gas 
from  the  Grand  Isle  95  Field  and  no  gas  from  this  field  has  been  sold 
in  interstate  commerce. 

///.  Other  producers  which  havi   requested  similar  conditions 

Tin'  Federal  Power  Commission  has  been  rightfully  concerned  for 
some  time  about  so-called  "limited"  dedication.-,  wherein  a  producer 
attempts  to  dedicate  to  the  interstate  market  less  i_ra-  than  is  actually 
available.  The  FPC's  concern  i>  explained  by  Morton  L.  Simon-: 

The  challenge  to  Mobil's  proposed  limitations  presented  by  the 
Commission's  several  order-  are,  from  the  standpoint  of  the  con- 
suming public,  indeed  important,  for  every  limitation — whether 
it  is  the  25  percent  reservation  of  reserves  proposed  by  Mobil,  or 
the  depth  limitat  ion.  or  the  insistence  on  a  LO-year  conl  ract  rather 
than  the  traditional  20-year  contract — means  that  the  public  will 
receive  either  less  iras.  or  will  pay  more  for  the  gas  it  receives,  or 
both.17 
A-  a  result  of  the  FPC's  concern,  it  consolidated  various  applica- 
tion- containing  limited  dedications  into  one  hearing  under  Docket 
\o.  01   75-319,  Getty  Oil.  et  al.  Twenty-one  producer  applications 
have  been  a  part  of  this  case.  Of  those,  for  20  of  the  applications,  the 
producers  either  accepted  a  Permanent  Certificate  (and  withdrew  the 
limited  dedication  condition.-)   or  accepted  a  Temporary  Certificate 
and  began  to  deliver  the  pis  pending  resolution  of  the  Getty  case. 
For  four  of  those  applicat ions.lv  the  produce]--  attempted  a  "condi- 
tional acceptance."  which  was  not  accepted  by  the  Commission.  Those 
four  producers  have  begun  to  make  deliveries  of  gas  to  the  interstate 
market.  Only  Mobil  has  declined  to  accept  any  Certificate.  Appendix 
B  lists  these  applications. 

For  Outer  Continental  Shelf  Gas  such  as  Grand  Isle  95,  the  Outer 
Continental  Shelf  Lands  Act.  43  USC  ^  1331,  et  seq.  mandate-  that 
this  o-as  must  flow  in  interstate  commerce,  Therefore.  Mobil  has  no 
choice  but  to  sell  this  gas  to  the  interstate  market  subject  to  deter- 
mination of  the  FPC1  and  the  Courts  as  to  the  legality  of  its  proposed 
conditions.  George  Lewnes,  Assistant  General  Counsel  of  the  Federal 
Power  Commission  explained  the  situation  in  his  testimony: 

Mr.  Lemov.  Why  do  you  think  that  these  20  other  companies, 
all  of  which  are  consolidated  in  this  hearing  on  these  issues,  all 


16  TfstiiiK.nv  of  Morton  L.  Simon-.  Esq.  before  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and 
investigations  of  the  Committee  <>n  interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  January  23,  1070. 
civ    al  39  l 

itemenl  of  Morton  I..  Simons  before  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Invosti- 
gationa  of  the  Committee  on  interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  January  23,  1976,  at  p.  3 
of  liis  prepared  testimony. 

Oil    mi  75  319),  Atlantic  Richfield  (CI  T."»  411),  Continental  oil  (CI  75    193), 
an-i  Citiea  Service  (CI  75  I 


accepted  certificates  and  presumably  moved  the  gas  in  interstate 
commerce  while  Mobil  didn't  ?  What  is  your  view  on  that? 

Mr.  Lewnes.  I  think  the  other  producers  recognized  and  ac- 
cepted the  state  of  the  law  which  Mr.  Simons  succinctly  set  forth 
that  there  is  only  one  way  in  which  this  gas  can  move  and  it  must 
move  via  certification  by  this  Commission.  If  the  Commission's 
conditions  that  are  imposed  on  a  grant  of  a  temporary  or  perma- 
nent are  tested  in  court  and  found  to  be  wrong,  there  is  retroactive 
relief,  but  there  was  no  other  recourse  for  these  producers.19 

IV.  Recent  trend  toward  shorter  contracts 

In  recent  years,  an  industry  trend  has  developed  in  the  length  or 
term  of  contracts.  In  1970,  for  example,  out  of  424  gas  contracts  sub- 
mitted to  the  FPC,  only  eight  contracts,  or  1.9  percent,  were  for  less 
than  20  years.20  In  1974,  however,  87  of  194  contracts  submitted,  or 
44.8%  were  for  less  tham  20  years.21  And  during  the  first  10  months 
of  1975,  300  contracts  were  submitted  to  the  FPC,  155  of  which,  or 
51.7%  were  for  less  than  20  years.22  Appendix  C  is  an  analysis  of  con- 
tract terms  by  a  consultant  which  was  submitted  for  the  Getty  case 
mentioned  above. 

The  impact  of  this  trend  is  evaluated  by  Morton  L.  Simons,  as 
follows : 

Why,  then,  was  there  all  this  debate  and  dispute  over  whether 
it  should  be  ten  years  or  twenty  years?  The  answer  lies,  I  think, 
and  perhaps  the  Mobil  witness  can  explain  it  further  and  in 
greater  detail,  but  the  answer  lies  in  the  deregulation  bills  that 
are  now  pending  in  Congress.  A  major  thrust  of  many  of  those 
bills  is  that  they  will  deregulate  only  new  sales.  Those  bills  define 
new  sales  to  include  old  gas  after  the  contract  expires  and  so  the 
difference  between  a  10-year  term  and  a  20-year  term  is  simply 
this:  Under  existing  law,  no  difference;  if  the  new  gas  deregula- 
tion bill  passes,  however,  at  the  end  of  the  contract  term  this  gas 
would  become  new  gas  and  would  be  deregulated  and  could  be 
priced  at  whatever  price  Mobil  is  able  to  price  it  at  free  from 
regulatory  restraint. 

This  is  a  situation  then  in  which  the  prospect  of  a  deregu- 
lation bill  which  is  promoted  in  terms  of  being  desirable  to  elicit 
new  gas  supplies  is  producing  a  controversy  whose  very  effect  is 
to  retard  new  gas  supplies,  to  preclude  the  delivery  of  new  gas 
supplies.23 
George  A.  Lewnes,  Assistant  General  Counsel  of  the  Federal  Power 
Commission,  voiced  a  similar  viewT  and  added  further  that : 

There  is  one  other  factor,  I  think,  that  no  one  has  touched  upon 
and  that  is  that  if  you  started  accepting  the  five-year  contracts, 
the  four-year  contracts,  the  10-year  contracts,  and  as  the  long- 
term  20-year  contracts  start  expiring,  you  have  a  pipeline  with 
short-term  gas  supply  contracts.  Pipelines  have  come  before  the 

19  Testimony  of  George  Lewnes,  Assistant  General  Counsel,  Federal  Power  Commission, 
before  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations  of  the  Committee  on  Interstate 
and  Foreign  Commerce,  January  23,  1976,  Tr.  at  55-56. 

20  See  Appendix  C  to  this  Report. 

21  Id. 

22  Id. 

23  Testimony  of  Morton  L.  Simons,  Esq.,  supra  n.  16,  at  Tr.  27-28. 


8 

Commission  and  have  sought  i  higher  rate  of  depreciation — in 
Other  words,  a  shorter  period  of  depreciation  -because  they  tell 
us.  -I  only  have  10  years  of  gas  left  to  till  my  facilities."  That. 
obviously,  when  translating  to  a  rate  case  results  in  higher  rafts 
to  th<  consumers.  (Emphasis  added.)24 

r.  Comparing  thi  MobU-Trunklint  contract  to  other  contracts 
In  order  to  assess  the  three  requested  conditions  in  the  Grand  Isle 

(.».~>  application  in  the  context  of  other  recent  applications,  the  Sub- 
committee staff  analyzed  all  offshore  Louisiana  applications  submitted 
between  June  1.  L975  and  October  1.  1975.  Excluding  the  applications 
consolidated  in  the  Getty  case  (mentioned  above),  this  analysis  con- 
sists of  36  applications.  Of  those,  only  three  contracts  (or  8.3$  )  con- 
tained all  three  conditions.  Appendix  I)  summarizes  this  study.  Fur- 
thermore, these  three  contracts  were  for  small  reserves  L2  Bcf.  46.6 
Bcf,  and  59.4  Bcf.  There  were  no  applications  in  the  300-400  Bcf  range 
(as  Grand  Isle  95)  which  contained  all  three  conditions.  It  is  clear, 
therefore,  that  the  Mobil  requesl  was  an  unprecedented  one  for  a  large 
field. 

Furthermore,  the  request  was  unique  for  a  cont  ract  where  an  advance 
payment  Is  involved.  George  Lewnes,  FPC  Assistant  General  Counsel 
testified  as  follows  : 

Mr.  Lemov.  Mr.  Lewnes.  Minority  Counsel  raised  the  question 
of  whether  the  Commission  had  agreed  in  the  past  to  other  con- 
tracts similar  to  the  one  requested  by  Mobil.  I  would  like  to  ask 
you.  have  there  been  any  situations  you  know  of  where  an  applica- 
tion included  a  contract  with  these  three  kinds  of  conditions  and 
a  la  roe  advance  payment  by  a  pipeline  that  the  Commission  has 
approved '? 

Mr.  Lewnes.  And  with  a  10-year  limitation  ? 
Mr.  Lemov.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lewnes.  To  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  the  answer  is  no. 
Mr.  Lemov.  What  period  of  time  are  you  talking  about.  Mr. 
Lewnes  \  What  is  your  experience  \ 

Mr.  Lewnes.  I  have  been  with  the  Commission  since  1959.  In 
1970  I  became  Assistant  General  Counsel  and  that  covers  the  pe- 
riod since  I  have  been  with  the  Commission.-"' 

TV.  Mobiles  intention  to  withhold  supplies 

The  critical  question  is  whether  Mobil's  actions  amounted  to  a  with- 
holding of  supplies  from  the  interstate  market.  Mobil's  essential  argu- 
ment is  that  it  could  not  accept  a  Temporary  Certificate  because  it 
would  not  know  the  exact  conditions  of  the  Permanent  Certificate  until 
later.  Mr.  Jack  E.  Earnest.  Manager  of  the  Natural  Gas  Exploration 
and  Production  Division.  Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  testified  as  follows: 
Xow.  with  all   deference  to  Mr.   Simons,  who  is  an  excellent 
practitioner  and  knows  a  whole  lot  more  about  proceedings  before 
the  Federal  Power  Commission  than  T  do.  it  is  quite  difficult  for 
me  to  conceive  how  we  could  have  accepted  that  temporary  author- 
ization and  maintained  our  rights  to  appeal.  How  do  you  change 


21  Testimony  of  George  Lewnes,  supra  n.  19,  at  Tr. 

«  id.  at  Tr   52  53. 


9 

your  contract,  which  is  the  basis  for  your  certificate  application, 
and  still  maintain  your  rights  to  appeal  ? 

Mobil  has  several  times  accepted  other  types  of  conditions  on 
certificate  authorization ;  notably,  the  ones  that  limit  up  to  certain 
price  levels  that  the  Commission  has  under  consideration  or  in  the 
process  at  some  point.  We  have  accepted  the  outcome  of  those  pro- 
ceedings and  gone  ahead  under  a  temporary. 

At  any  rate,  we  were  very  hesitant  to  accept  a  temporary  au- 
thorization when  we  did  not  know  the  conditions  of  the  contract 
under  which  we  would  be  selling  our  gas.2G 
This  argument  is  unpersuasive  for  two  reasons.  First,  all  other  pro- 
ducers in  the  Getty  case  have  accepted  either  a  Permanent  or  a  Tem- 
porary Certificate  and  there  appears  to  be  no  material  difference  in 
Mobil's  position.  Second,  Mobil's  rights  are  fully  preserved  if  it  begins 
deliveries  pending  a  hearing  on  the  issues.  Morton  L.  Simons  testified 
that : 

In  looking  at  the  practice  before  the  FPC,  in  looking  in  part 

at  what  the  other  20  of  the  21  companies  did,  in  trying  to  examine 

what  the  governing  law  really  is,  it  is  difficult  to  perceive  any 

rational  basis  for  Mobil's  refusal  to  commence  service  reserves,  its 

right  to  litigate  before  the  Commission  and  the  courts  as  to  one  or 

two  or  three  of  the  conditions  that  it  wanted.27 

The  staff  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission  prepared  a  draft  order 

for  this  case  which  was  submitted  to  the  Commission  on  October  24, 

1975.  That  draft  order,  which  was  not  issued  by  the  Commission, 

stated : 

There  appears  to  be,  therefore,  no  direct  incentive  on  Mobil  to 
initiate  the  production  of  gas  since  all  of  its  expenses  are  financed 
by  the  general  public  served  by  Trunkline.  There  is  thereby  raised 
a  rebuttable  presumption  that  Mobil  is  deliberately  and  inten- 
tionally ivithholding  supplies  of  natural  gas  from  the  interstate 
market  by  its  refusal  to  initiate  sales  of  gas  from  production  prop- 
erties which  are  now  financed  by  the  general  public.  (Emphasis 
added). 
This  remains  the  position  of  the  FPC  staff,  as  shown  by  this 
testimony : 

Mr.  Lemov.  Does  that  rebuttable  presumption  remain  your  posi- 
tion today? 
Mr.  Lewnes.  (FPC)  In  my  viewT,  it  does  remain. 
Mr.  Lemov.  Mr.  Maraone,  you  wTere  involved  in  the  drafting  of 
this  order,  too.  Do  you  continue  to  believe  there  is  that  presump- 
tion? 

Mr.  Mamone.  (FPC)  Yes,  sir.27 
In  view  of  the  above  evidence,  the  Subcommittee  must  come  to 
the  same  conclusion  as  the  staff  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission. 
While  there  was  conflicting  evidence  as  to  the  motivation  of  Mobil,  the 
actions  of  Mobil  were  unreasonable,  deprived  the  public  of  urgently 
needed  gas,  and  amounted  to  an  intentional  withholding  of  gas  from 
the  interstate  market. 


26  Testimony  of  Jack  E.  Earnest,  supra  n.  6,  at  Tr.  83-84. 

27  Testimony  of  Morton  L.  Simons.  Esq..  supra  n.  16,  at  Tr.  27. 

28  Testimony  of  George  Lewnes,  Assistant  General  Counsel,  FPC,  and  Russell  Mamone, 
Supervisory  Trial  Attorney,  FPC,  before  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations 
of  the  Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  January  23,  1976,  at  Tr.  61. 


Appexdix  A 

United  States  of  America 
Federal  Power  Commission 

(18  CFR  2.S3) 

NATURAL    GAS   COMPANY — (CERTIFICATES) 

Before  Commissioners :  John  N.  Nassikas,  Chairman ;  Don  S.  Smith,  and 
John  H.  Holloman  III. 

docket  no.  em  7  6-8 

Policy  With  Respect"  to  Enforcement  of  Deliverabllity  and  Rendition  of 
Natural   Gas   Services   Under  Certificated  Arrangements 

ORDER   NO.    539 

Promulgating  Statement  of  Policy 
(Issued  October  14,  1975) 

The  Commission  has  concluded  that  it  should  formally  reiterate  its  policies 
with  respect  to  the  enforcement  of  requirements  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  15 
U.S.C.  717(a)  ct  seq.,  as  they  relate  to  deliverability  and  the  rendition  of 
natural  gas  service  under  certificated  arrangements  pursuant  to  that  Act. 

Events  relative  to  natural  gas  supplies  and  demands  for  natural  gas  service 
currently,  and  over  recent  past  periods,  warrant  our  doing  so  at  this  time. 
Questions  concerning  deliverability  and  supply  obligations  of  natural  gas  pro- 
ducers and  natural  gas  pipelines  have  arisen  in  connection  with  numerous  Con- 
gressional hearings  involving  the  Natural  Gas  Act,1  as  well  as  in  the  day-to-day 
administration  of  the  provisions  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act  by  this  agency. 

It  is  the  policy  of  this  Commission  to  enforce  all  delivery  and  supply  obliga- 
tions of  jurisdictional  natural  gas  producers  and  jurisdictional  natural  gas 
pipelines,  as  they  may  be  occasioned  by  applicable  regulations  of  the  Commission 
and  the  statutory  standards  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  which  govern — and,  there- 
fore, which  are  incorporated  within — the  certificates  for  all  certificated  arrange- 
ments authorized  pursuant  to  the  Act.  In  addition  to  these  standards,  there  are 
numerous  delivery  and  supply  obligations  arising  from  contractual  obligations 
extant  among  natural  gas  producers,  pipelines  or  distributors.  It  is  the  policy 
of  the  Commission  that  each  affected  producer,  pipeline  or  distributor  shall  take 
all  appropriate  actions  to  enforce  those  obligations,  in  the  appropriate  admin- 
istrative or  judicial  forum  at  Federal,  state  or  local  levels.  The  constraints  of 
private  contracts  operate  in  conjunction  with  and  subject  to  public  regulatory 
power. 


1  See,  for  example:  Preliminary  Staff  Report  of  the  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and 
Investigations,  House  Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  94th  Congress,  1st 
Session.  July  IS.  1975;  Hearings  on  Natural  Gas  Supplies  Before  the  Subcommittee  on 
Oversight  and  Investigations.  House  Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce.  r>4th 
Consress.  1st  Session,  June  9,  13.  26  and  27,  July  14  and  21,  1975.  Serial  Nos.  94-23  and 
94-24 :  Federal  Preparedness  to  Deal  With  the  Natural  Gas  Shortage  Emergency  This 
doming  Winter  :  Third  Report  by  the  Hou^e  Committee  on  Government  Operations.  94th 
Congress,  1st  Session,  July  25,  1975,  pp.  24  and  35  ;  Federal  Preparedness  to  Deal  With 
the  United  States  Natural  Gas  Shortage;  Hearings  Before  the  Subcommittee  on  Con- 
servation, Energy  and  Natural  Resources.  House  Committee  on  Government  Operations. 
04th  Congress.  1st  Session.  June  12  and  26,  1975  ;  Federal  Power  Commission  Oversight 
Hearings.  Committee  on  Commerce,  United  States  Senate.  93d  Congress.  2nd  Session, 
August  20  and  22,  1974,  Part  2.  pp.  331-335;  and  Hearings  on  Natural  Gas  and  Oil  Regu- 
latory Bills  Before  the  Committe  on  Commerce,  United  States  Senate,  October  10,  11  and 
24,  1973,  Part  I.  pp.  209-211. 

(11) 


L2 


We  believe  our  action  will  be  helpful  to  provide  certainty  of  legal  obligations 
nrul  regulatory  enforcement  policy,  and  to  provide  reliable  gas  service  to  the 
natural  gas  industry,  natural  gas  consumers,  Federal,  sr;;te  and  local  govern- 
mental authorities  and  members  Of  the  general  public  v.  Inch  may  be  concerned 
with  the  adequacy  and  reliability  of  natural  gas  supplies  and  services  throughout 
the  Nation. 

The  Natural  Gas  Act — Legal  authority  for  the  rendition  of  a  jurisdictional 
r  service  of  natural  gas  in  Interstate  commerce  under  the  Natural  (his  Act, 
15  r.s.r.  717.  is  evideueed  bv  appropriately  issued  eertificntes  of  this  Commis- 
sion pursuant  to  Section  7  of  that  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717f.  and  appropriately  effec- 
tive rate  schedules  pursuant  to  Section  \  and  5  of  that  Act.  15  r.S.C.  717  c  and 
d.  Without  Commission  authorization  "no  natural-gas  company  or  person  which 
will  he  a  natural-gas  company  uj>on  completion  of  any  {imposed  construction 
or  extension  shall  engage  in  the  transportation  or  sale  of  natural  gas.  subject 
to  th»  jurisdiction  of  the  Commission  *  *  *  unless  there  is  in  force  with  respect 
il  gas  company  a  certificate  of  public  convenience  and  necessity 
issued  by  the  Commission  authorizing  such  acts  or  operations  *  *  *.",  15  U.S.C. 
717f  (e).  Abandonment  of  jurisdictional  facilities  or  services  is  prohibited  unless 
the  Commission  has  found  "*  *  *  that  the  available  supply  of  natural  gas  is 
depleted  to  the  extent  that  the  continuance  of  service  is  unwarranted,  or  that 
the  present  or  future  public  convenience  or  necessity  permit  such  abandonment." 
15U.S.C.717f(b). 

Among  the  conditions  of  every  Section  7  certification  are  the  requirements  of 
subsection  7(e)  that  the  applicant  is  able  and  willing  properly  inter  alia: 
To  do  the  acts  and  to  perform  the  service  proposed  ; 

To  conform  to  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  the  requirements,  rules,  and 
regulations  of  the  Commission  ;  and 

That  the  proposed  service,  sale,  operation,  construction,  extension  or  ac- 
quisition, to  the  extent  authorized  by  the  certificate,  is  or  will  be  required  by 
the  present  or  future  public  convenience  and  necessity. 

Sections  4  and  5  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act  obligate  each  natural  gas  company 
to  render  jurisdictional  sales  or  services  which  are  just  and  reasonable  and 
without  "undue  discrimination  or  preference:  all  in  accordance  with  rates, 
charges,  classifications,  rules,  regulations,  practices  or  contracts  which  are  just, 
reasonable  and  not  unduly  discriminatory  or  preferential.  See  FPC  v.  Louisiana 
Power  <i  Light  Co.,  406  U.S.  621  (1072).  and  cases  therein  cited:  and  PennsyU 
rn-nia  Power  Co.  v.  FPC.  343  U.S.  414  (1052),  interpreting  the  comparable  rate 
and  service  provisions  of  the  Federal  Power  Act.  16  U.S.C.  S24d  and  e. 

Contractual  Arrangements — Contractual  relations  between  jurisdictional  sup- 
pliers of  natural  gas,  jurisdictional  pipeline  or  non-jurisdictional  distributors  of 
natural  gas  are  circumscribed  by,  and  are  themselves  subject  to.  the  statutory 
standards  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act.  As  the  Supreme  Court  stated  in  Sunray  Mid- 
Continent  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC,  364  U.S.  137.  153.  155-6   (1060)  : 

*  *  *  The  Power  Commission  has  from  an  early  date  taken  the  view  that 
there  is  a  continuing  obligation  to  perform  "service"  imposed  by  the  Act 
which  outlasts  the  terms  of  a  seller's  original  contract  of  sale  (at  p.  153). 

*  *  *  Mobile  recognized  that  there  were  two  sources  of  price  and  supply 
stability  inherent  in  the  regulatory  system  established  by  the  Natural  Gas 
Act — the  provisions  of  private  contracts  and  the  public  regulatory  power 
*  *  *  An  initial  application  of  an  independent  producer,  to  make  movements 
of  natural  gas  in  interstate  commerce,  leads  to  a  certificate  of  public  con- 
venience and  necessity  under  which  the  Commission  controls  the  basis  on 
which  "eras  may  be  initially  dedicated  to  interstate  use.  Moreover,  once  so 
dedicated  there  can  be  no  withdrawal  of  that  supply  from  continued  inter- 
state movement  without  Commission  approval.  The  gas  operator,  although 
to  this  extent  a  captive  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Commission,  is  not 
without  remedy  to  protect  himself."  360  U.S..  at  389.  That  remedy  he  has. 
as  the  Court  there  said,  in  the  "change"  power  under  §4(d)  when  his 
contract  has  expired  or  where  his  contract  permits  its  use  during  its  term. 
Under  a  similar  Act.  this  Court  has  held  to  the  same  effect  as  we  hold  today. 
Pennsylvania  Water  &  Power  Co.  v.  Federal  Power  Comm'n.  343  U.S.  414, 
423-424   (at  pp.  155-6). 

Within  the  referenced  cited  holding  of  the  Supreme  Court  in  the  Pennsylvania 
C  ise.  the  Supreme  Court  held.  343  U.S.  422  : 

*  *  *  To  the  extent  that  Penn  Water  is  being  controlled,  it  is  by  the 
Commission  acting  under  statutory  authority,  not  by  Consolidated  acting 


13 


under  the  authority  of  private  contract  terms  '"legalized  by  the  Commission. 
The  duty  of  Penn  Water  to  continue  its  coordinated  operations  with  Con- 
solidated springs  from  the  Commission's  authority,  not  from  the  law  of 
private  contracts. 
Enforceability  of  Certificated  Arrangements — Upon  commencement  of  juris- 
dictional sales  or  services,2  this  Commission  has  full  authority  to  enforce  the 
rendition  of,  inter  alia,  natural  gas  services,  sales  or  operations,  as  certificated 
by   the   Commission,   including  as  a   part   thereof,   necessary  deliverability   of 
production  of  natural  gas  to  meet,  inter  alia,  certificated  operations,  services, 
developments,  quantities,  volumes  or  sales. 

As  certificated,  such  factors  may  or  may  not  accord  with  the  terms  of  sales 
or  other  contractual  arrangements  among  natural  gas  producers,  pipelines  or 
distributors  in  seeking  Commission  authority  to  engage  in  jurisdictional  sales 
or  services.  To  the  extent  that  contractual  obligations  coincide  with  the  certifica- 
tion authority,  these  factors  are  thus  also  enforceable  as  a  matter  of  private 
contract  law.  However,  it  is  the  statutory  standards  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act 
which  ultimately  control  the  terms  under  which  natural  gas  companies  may 
operate  jurisdictional  facilities  and  engage  in  jurisdictional  transactions.  Cer- 
tificated obligations  are  enforceable  by  pipelines  as  a  matter  of  the  private  law 
of  contracts  as  well  as  by  this  Commission  as  a  matter  of  public  regulatory  law. 

Subsection  7(e)  of  that  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717f(e).  provides  "*  *  *  The  Commis- 
sion shall  have  the  power  to  attach  to  the  issuance  of  the  certificate  and  to 
the  exercise  of  the  rights  granted  thereunder  such  reasonable  terms  and  condi- 
tions as  the  public  convenience  and  necessity  may  require.  *  *  *"  This  conditioning 
authority  is  a  broad  authorization,  as  pointed  out  by  the  Supreme  Court  in 
Atlantic  Ref.  Co.  v.  Pub.  Serv.  Comm%  360  U.S.  378.  380  (1950)  : 

*  *  *  Section  7(e)    vests  in  the  Commission  control  over  the  conditions 

under  which  gas  may  be  initially  dedicated  to  interstate  use.  Moreover, 

once  so  dedicated  there  can  be  no  withdrawal  of  that  supply  from  continued 

interstate  movement  without  Commission  approval.  *  *  * 3 

In   addition   to   Commission   initiated  proceedings,  certificate,   rate  schedule 

or  contractual  obligations  of  any  natural  gas  company  producer  or  natural  gas 

company  pipeline  may  be  made  the  subject  of  appropriate  complaint  proceedings 

before  the  Commission.  Section  1.6  of  the  Commission's  Rules  of  Practice  and 

Procedure  provides  in  part,  18  CFR  l.G(a)  : 

Any  person,  including  any  State  or  local  commission,  complaining  of  any- 
thing done  or  omitted  to  be  done  by  any  *  *  *  natural  gas  company  in  con- 
travention of  an  act,  rule,  regulation  or  order  administered  or  issued  by 
the  Commission,  may  file  a  complaint  with  the  Commission. 
Section  16  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717o.  confers  upon  the  Commis- 
sion "*  *  *  power  to  perform  any  and  all  acts,  and  to  prescribe,  issue,  make, 
amend,  and  rescind  such  orders,  rules  and  regulations  as  it  may  find  necessary 
or  appropriate  to  carry  out  the  provisions  of  this  act.  *  *  *"'  This  is  a  most 
board  authority.  FPC  v.  Louisiana  Power  &  Light  Co..  supra,  (T/  p.  642.  Judicial 
enforcement  authority  attains  for  Commission  use  pursuant  to  Section  20  of  the 
Natural  Gas  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717s;  criminal  penalty  provisions  are  set  forth  in 
Section  21  of  the  Act.  15  U.S.C.  717t. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  provisions,  affected  parties  may  well  have  numer- 
ous judicial  remedies  available  to  enforce  certificate  rate  schedule  or  contractual 
obligations  of  any  natural  gas  company  producer,  natural  gas  company  pipeline 
or  natural  gas  distributor. 

The  Commissioner  further  finds: 

(1)  Prior  nntice  and  opportunity  for  public  participation  in  this  proceeding 
promulgating  this  Statement  of  Policy  is  not  required  either  pursuant  to  the 


2  The  exclusion  of  the  production  and  Catherine:  functions  from  the  jurisdictional  cover- 
age of  the  Natural  Gas  Act.  1.1  U.S.C.  717(b),  does  not  defe.lt  the  Commission's  pleniry 
regulatory  authority  over  '**  *  *  (1)  the  transportarion  of  natural  gas  in  interstate 
commerce;  (2)  its  sale  in  interstate  commerce  for  resale :  r>nd  (3)  natural  gns  companies 
engaged  in  such  transposition  or  sale  *  *  *".  FPC  v.  Louisiana  Pox>er  <4  Liqht,  supra. 
p.  636  :  or  preclude  the  Commission  from  considei'ins;  production  and  gathering  when 
relevant  to  the  exercise  of  the  Commission's  authority  to  regulate  such  tnnsportatlon, 
sal^s   or  compfnie*.   FPC  v.    Transcontinental   Has   Corp.,  36o  U.S.    1.   2<1    (il>f,l). 

JSpp    also.    Mitchell    Enerftv    Corporation.    Opinion    vo.    733.    i<«ued     Time    1t.    107.1,    — 

YPC — .   (apneal  pending.  Mitchell  En  emu  Corporation  v.  FPC,  C.v>.  No.  70-3110.  and 

El  Paf-o  Natural  Gas  Company,  et  ah,  Ooinion  Xo.  7.'57.  issued  July  11.  107", FIT . 

(appeal  pending  *nb  nom.,  Southland  Royalty  Co.,  ct  il.  v.  FPC,  C.\">.  Xo.  7">-"Js.".l. 

65-593   O  -  76  -  3 


14 


provisions  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717  ui)  rt  sc>].,  or  the  provisions  of 
the  Administrative  Procedure  Act,  5  U.S.C.  Subchapter  II,  553.  Moreover,  com- 
pliance with  the  effective  date  requirements  of  5  U.S.C.  553(d),  is  not  required 

Since  this  Statement  of  Policy  does  not  prescribe  an  added  duty  or  restriction. 

(2)  It  is  necessary  and  appropriate  for  purposes  of  administration  of  the 
provisions  of  the  Natural  (las  Act,  15  U.S.C.  717(a)  ct  seq.,  to  amend  Part  2; 
General  Policy  and  Interpretations,  Subchapter  A,  General  Rules,  Chapter  I, 
Title  IS,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  by  the  inclusion  therein  of  Section  SL83, 
Policy  With  Respect  To  Enforcement  of  Deliverability  And  Rendition  Of  Natural 
Gas  Services  Under  Certificated  Arrangements,  all  in  the  manner  hereinafter 
directed. 

The  Commission,  acting  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act. 
•ularly  Sections  4.  5,  7,  Pi.  20  and  21  thereof  (52  Star.  822.  823,  824,  825, 
830,  832,  S33;  56  Stat.  S3,  84;  61  Stat.  459;  70  Stat.  72;  and  15  U.S.C.  717c.  d,  f, 
0,  s  and  t.  ordt'rs: 

(A)  Part  2,  General  Policy  and  Interpretations,  Subchapter  A,  General  Rulesr 
Chapter  I,  Title  18,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  is  hereby  amended  by  adding  a 
new  Section  2. S3  to  read  as  follows  : 

2.83  Policy  With  Resi**ct.  To  Enforcement  Of  Deliverability  And  Rendition  Of 
Natural  Gas  Services  Under  Certificated  Arrangements. 

(a)  Natural  gas  companies  within  the  meaning  of  Section  2(6)  of  the  Natural 
Gas  Act  (whether  producers  or  pipelines)  shall  comply  with  all  deliverability  or 
production  of  natural  gas  requirements  to  meet,  inter  alia,  certificated  operations, 
services,  developments,  quantities,  volumes  or  sales.  The  standards  of  compliance 
shall  be  the  controlling  statutory  standards  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  chiefly  those 
of  Sections  4,  5  and  7  thereof.  The  certificate  of  the  Commission  authorizing 
jurisdictional  transactions  under  the  Natural  Gas  Act  shall  be  deemed  evidence- 
of  those  requirements,  whether  or  not  specifically  reproduced  within  the  certificate 
document  or  order.  Natural  gas  pipeline  companies  and  natural  gas  producers 
have  obligations  arising  from  the  Natural  Gas  Act  with  respect  to.  inter  alia, 
deliverability  and  receipt  of  certificated  volumes  of  natural  gas  supplies,  violation 
of  which  obligations  will  subject  either  to  the  sanction  and/or  penalty  provisions 
of  that  Act.  While  this  Commission  is  charged  with  responsibility  for  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  regulated  pipelines  and  producers  have 
affirmative  obligations  to  enforce  delivery  of  certificated  volumes  of  natural  gas 
supplies  by  reason  of  the  requirements  of  that  Act. 

(b)  The  Commission,  acting  upon  its  own  motion,  will  undertake  appropriate 
enforcement  proceedings  either  before  the  Commission  or  the  Courts  to  ensure 
compliance  with  all  delivery  or  production  of  natural  gas  requirements  to 
meet  certificated  operations,  services,  developments,  quantities,  volumes  or 
sales  as  referred  to  in  paragraph   (a)   supra. 

(c)  The  Commission  invites,  and  will  entertain,  complaints  pursuant  to 
Section  1.0  of  the  Commission's  Rules  of  Practice  and  Procedure  seeking  enforce- 
ment of  certificate,  rate  schedule  or  contractual  obligations  of  any  natural 
gas  company  producer  or  natural  gas  company  pipeline  with  reference  to 
matters   set  forth   in   paragraph    (a)    supra. 

(d)  The  Commission  shall  include,  subsequent  to  the  date  of  Order  No.  53fl. 
the  following  general  language  within  the  Commission's  Order  Issuing  Such 
Certificate  Temporary  or  Permanent : 

Applicant  natural  gas  company's  attention  is  directed  to  Commission 
Order  No.  539.  issued  October  14.  107o — F.R. — and  to  the  provisions  of  Sec- 
tion 2.S3  General  Policy  and  Interpretations.  IS  CFR  2.83.  Moreover,  issuance 
of  this  certificate  authorization  is  conditioned  to  require  Applicant,  within 
30  days  of  the  initial  reserve  determination  or  any  subsequent  redeter- 
mination thereof,  to  report  the  results  of  each  such  initial  or  redetermination 
study  to  the  Commission.  The  certificated  minimum  daily  delivery  obliga- 
tion of  the  seller  (1)  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  applicable 
provisions  specifically  set  forth  in  seller's  contract  unless  otherwise  changed 
by  the  certificate  authorization.  (21  shall  be  without  regard  to  any  con- 
tractual reservations  contrary  to  the  certificate  authorization.  (3)  and 
shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  unless  and  until  changed  bv  appropriate 
certificate  authorization  amendment  based  upon  Applicant's  full  documenta- 
tion of,  inter  alia,  the  reasons  for  any  such  proposed  amendment,  the  sales 
production  history,  the  amount  of  remaining  connected  reserves  of  Appli- 
cant dedicated  under  the  contract  and  the  status  of  Applicant's  nondeveloped 


15 


reserves  dedicated  under  the  contract.  The  certificate  authorization  is 
further  conditioned  to  require  that  Applicant,  if  it  has  not  secured  an  appro- 
priate certificate  amendment  and  there  are  circumstances  resulting  in  the 
delivery  of  a  lesser  quantity  of  natural  gas  than  any  certificated  delivery 
obligation,  Applicant  shall  file  for  each  contract  year  quarter,  a  verified 
report  setting  out  the  circumstauces  of  such  lesser  deliveries  and  the  cor- 
rective actions  which  Applicant  proposes  to  undertake  in  order  to  meet 
any  experienced  delivery  deficiency,  such  verified  reports  to  be  filed  within 
10  calendar  days  after  expiration  of  each  contract  year  quarter. 

(e)  Nothing  herein  contained  shall  be  deemed  to  preclude  the  exercise  of 
any  other  administrative  or  judicial  remedies  which  might  otherwise  obtain 
to  any  person. 

(f)  Nothing  herein  amends,  modifies  or  changes  any  existing  authorization 
for  jurisdictional  transactions  as  now  certified  or  authorized  by  the  Commission 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act.  Sections  4,  5  or  7  thereof. 

(B)  The  amendment  provided  for  herein  shall  be  effective  as  of  the  date  of 
issuance  of  this  order. 

(C)  The  Secretary  of  the  Commission  shall  cause  prompt  publication  of  this 
order  to  be  made  in  the  Federal  Register. 

By  the  Commission: 

[seal]  Kenneth  F.  Plumb, 

Secretary. 


5  *; 

a>  a> 


tO  in         tO         ifli/1         l/li/l         iO  in  iT>  tO  iO  in  iO  iO 

CX>  O         CT»         CT*  CXI         CT»  CX*         CT»  CT»  CT>  C71  CT»  CT»  CT»  CT> 

—  r-      ■  cr>       p-  cr>  _:i£>"po     •—     •     ■  p-~cr>o~  cmct^cm— ~ 

S?2f     "5.    .  9Jq.     -J  >       oj>  q.q.q.q.q.'S.^; 

3  3        "^  ^3  <"       .ii  -S       3  oiannumu 

<<      oo^<oo      oz      <  oo  oo  oo  oo  oo  oo  O 

LOa^iOiOto-iOtO'tOLn  _r> 

CT>  •  CT>  CT>  CT»  CT»        en  cr>      •  cx»  en  -en 

co   _   _  cr>  in  co  cr>       o^J"'^  en  cm" 

OO        —  O-.-.OM   o   o  O   O   O   O   OCM 

a> "°, "°,  ^     •  a>  ~  "°  ~       "°       "D'O^'d-cj-c-d-o     . 
s..a>3sa>.a)U.s  a>  a, 

— ,  ;O0<— .OO         00O         —.00  00 

uOuOinOOinOOOOOOOOOOOOOOin 
CM—  CM  CM  CM  —  —  —  CMCMCMCM  CM  CMCMCM 


si 


oooooooooo- 

1  C2  O  <=:  O  ■ 

'  o  o  o  o 


intOOTOOOtOOO 

Tf  ifi  jinotx—  oo 


•o  o  o  o  o  o  < 


I  O  C3  O  O  O  C3 


00000000( 
OCMCMOOOOC3( 


I  «3-  00  in  lO 

•  UO  XT  CT>  CT» 

I  CM  CM  CM 


in  ^  in  in  p-  p-~  ^y 


r— I 


:  CD  CD  CO  CO  CD 


o>  „,  .=  S  a>  ^  . 


I- 


»  »o  j)  Q!  o 

a)  4i*-  a)  a) 


So 


c"°. 


il 


U 

:5o 


ro  O  ^  > 


l.  ^  a:  _  LJJ  *— ' 

;5<5w  o  ^  o  S  S  o  , 

«    =    <■»    £    "T3-0 

«i«o«j°^d-  eo  co  eo 
G<OOiOh<hhh 


S  c 


"5jO_o 
aP  0^  §5  S 

^J2"<E  25  2 

0  c  —  .  a>  c  a)  " 
o  a>o  -^  "^ 
•"  c  -S  ^  c  ^ 
e  z:  >•  =  a>  ~  a> 

c  c  rr  <s  -  c  - 

0)  O  0)  ♦«  "  O  S 
K-OCXOOOl 


~E 


_  <u 


en  —  couooooo-a-  —  or--c7>ir>p-.oo  —  en 

—  — <  CD  — ■  CO  lO  —  in  0O  —  —  «3-  «T  «T  U3  U3 

n»r<j^ii/iiniOirni3rvMxrNM —  i —  cm  —  *»■  in  r 
LOininininininininininininininintD 


3^DU3( 


I"0 


o  <° 


ooooooooooooooooooooo 


(16) 


APPENDIX  C 
In  the  Matter  of 

Getty  Oil  Company,  et  al. 

Federal  Power  Commission 

Docket  No.  CI175-319,  et  al. 

EXHIBIT  TO  ACCOMPANY  TESTIMONY  OF 
MAKY  JANE  KLIPPLE 

SCHEDULE  1 

CONTRACTS  FOR  INTERSTATE  SALES  OF  NATURAL  GAS  TO  INTERSTATE  PIPELINE  COMPANIES 

[Contracts  with  specific  depth  limitations] 


Number  of  contracts 

with  depth 

limita- 

tions  as  percent  of 

South  Louisiana,  offshore 

United  States 

total  contracts 

Some 

No 

Some 

No 

depth 

depth 

depth 

depth 

South 

limita- 

limita- 

limita- 

limita- 

Louisi- 

United 

tion 

tion 

Total 

tion 

tion 

Total 

ana 

States 

32 

2 

34 

220 

204 

424 

94 

52 

33 

16 

49 

161 

117 

278 

67 

58 

45 

14 

59 

173 

123 

296 

76 

58 

31 

7 

38 

87 

63 

150 

82 

58 

34 

7 

41 

114 

80 

194 

83 

59 

49 

31 

80 

182 

118 

300 

61 

60 

Year: 


1970 

1971 

1972 

1973 

1974.. 

1975  (10  mo) 


Source:  Contracts  on  file  with  the  Federal  Power  Commission  as  rate  schedules,  or  as  applications  for  certificates  of 
public  convenience  and  necessity  through  October  1975.  All  contracts  dated  1970-74  are  sales  for  which  certificates  of 
public  convenience  and  necessity  have  been  issued.  129  of  300  contracts  included  in  1975  have  not  as  yet  received  certifi- 
cates. 

SCHEDULE  2 

CONTRACTS  FOR  INTERSTATE  SALE  OF  NATURAL  GAS  TO  INTERSTATE  PIPELINE  COMPANIES 

[Number  of  contracts  by  term  of  contract! 


Scuth  Louisiana,  i 

jffshore- 

-Term  of 

United  States- 

Term  of 

contract  (years) 

contract  (years) 

20  yr  or 

20  yr  or 

Year 

more 

15-19 

10-14 

5-9 

1-4 

Total 

more 

15-19 

10-14 

5-9 

1-4 

Total 

1970.... 

34 

34 

•  416  . 

7 

1  .. 

424 

1971.... 

48 

1 

49 

252 

6 

18 

2  .. 

278 

1972.... 

56 

2 

1 

59 

240 

31 

20 

5  .. 

296 

1973.... 

33 

4 

1 

38 

102 

6 

24 

16 

2 

150 

1974.... 

28 

2 

8 

2 

1 

41 

107 

8 

22 

50 

7 

194 

1975  (10 

rr.o)... 

47 

3 

18 

12 

80 

145 

9 

42 

55 

49 

300 

Source:  See  schedule  1. 


(17) 


APPENDIX  I) 


SUBCOMMITTEE  STAFF  STUDY  SUMMARY  OF  OFFSHORE  LOUISIANA  GAS  SALES  APPLICATIONS  BY  PRODUCERS, 

JUNE  1  TO  OCT.  31,  1975 

[36  contracts] 

Contracts  Percent 

Limited  dedication  of  reserves. 

Producer  reservation  of  reserves 

Limited  term  contracts  (less  than  20  yr)__ 

Contracts  with  all  3  of  the  above  conditions 

i  These  3  contracts  had  the  following  estimated  reserves:  (1)  12.0  BCF;  (2)  48.6  BCF;  (3)  59.4  BCF.  The  estimated 
reserves  for  Grand  Isle  block  95  field  according  to  Mobil  are  322.3  BCF. 


19 

52.8 

7 

19.4 

15 

41.7 

>3 

8.3 

(18) 


MINORITY  VIEWS 

In  these  views,  it  is  our  intent  to  take  strong  exception  to  the  con- 
clusions reached  in  the  Subcommittee's  report  especially  that  conclu- 
sion which  specifies  that  Mobil  intentionally  withheld  gas  from  the 
interstate  market.  This  is  anything  but  a  case  of  withholding.  The 
Subcommittee  in  our  opinion  could  have  hardly  picked  a  poorer  choice 
to  demonstrate  withholding  than  this  one  involving  Grand  Isle  95 
Field. 

The  record  of  the  Subcommittee  and  the  Federal  Power  Commission 
demonstrates  not  an  intent  on  Mobil's  part  to  withhold,  but  quite  to 
the  contrary,  an  effort  by  Mobil  to  bring  gas  into  production  and  on 
line  as  quickly  as  they  could.  To  illustrate  this  point  graphically,  we 
present  the  following  facts.  First,  Mobil  and  Gulf  acquired  interests 
in  Blocks  94  and  95,  Grand  Isle  area,  in  the  1972  lease  sale.  In  the  1974 
lease  sale,  Gulf  and  Mobil  acquired  Blocks  93  and  96.  Mobil  has  a  55% 
interest  in  this  field  and  Gulf  a  45%  interest.  As  of  September  1975, 
only  one  field,  Main  Pass  140  (also  owned  by  Gulf  and  Mobil),  ac- 
quired in  the  1972  lease  sale  was  in  production.  Grand  Isle  95  was  ready 
to  go  into  production  as  early  as  November  of  1975.  If  Mobil  was  intent 
upon  withholding  gas,  why  then  we  ask  did  it  develop  the  field  so  rap- 
idly so  as  to  be  ready  for  production  ahead  of  all  but  one  other  tract 
acquired  in  the  same  1972  lease.  This  certainly  does  not  appear  to  us  to 
be  the  actions  of  a  company  that  is  intent  upon  keeping  gas  from  the 
interstate  market,  but  quite  to  the  contrary,  it  illustrates  an  example  of 
a  company  that  is  striving  earnestly  and  in  good  faith  to  produce  gas 
for  the  interstate  market. 

Second,  Mobil  and  Trunkline  Gas  Company  entered  into  a  gas  sales 
contract  for  the  gas  produced  at  Grand  Isle  95  on  March  4,  1975,  and 
six  days  later  on  March  10,  1975,  Mobil  applied  for  a  certificate  from 
the  FPC  to  sell  gas  to  Trunkline  in  accordance  with  that  contract.  This 
chain  of  events  hardly  reflects  a  company  that  is  intent  upon  using 
dilatory  tactics  to  withhold  gas  from  the  interstate  market.  Mobil  was 
seeking  to  sell  their  gas  to  the  interstate  market.  They  wanted  Trunk- 
line  to  obtain  the  production  from  this  field.  Does  entering  into  a 
contract  to  sell  gas  and  seeking  promptly  an  FPC  certification  illustrate 
an  intent  to  withhold? 

Third,  Mobil's  application  for  a  certificate  further  illustrates  that 
there  was  no  intent  on  their  part  to  withhold.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  in 
that  application  Mobil  stressed  and  we  re-emphasize  stressed  that  they 
would  like  prompt  action  on  this  application  for  certificate  so  as  to 
enable  pipeline  construction  during  the  summer  of  1975.  If  prompt 
action  had  been  taken  on  this  application,  gas  would  have  been  avail- 
able to  consumers  during  the  1975-1976  winter  heating  season.  Again 
we  must  ask  the  question,  do  these  actions  sound  like  those  of  a  com- 
pany intent  upon  withholding  gas  ? 

(19) 


20 

The  problems  with  respect  to  ( rrand  Isle  95  did  Qot  begin  to  develop, 
however,  until  their  application  for  a  certificate  reached  the  FPC.  The 
Subcommittee  report  places  great  emphasis  upon  the  fact  that  Mobil's 
contract  contained  three  specific  provisions  which  arc  at  the  heart  of 
the  controversy  (259?  reservation,  depth  limitation,  and  10-year 
term).  We  hasten  to  point  out,  however,  that  in  March  1975  when 
Mobil  applied  for  this  certificate  the  FPC  had  not  in  any  way  indi- 
cated that  they  would  not  grant  a  certificate  to  a  contract  containing 
such  provision-. 

The  state  of  the  law  at  that  time  was  such  that  these  types  of  provi- 
sion- were  entirely  acceptable.  In  fact,  on  March  3,  L975,  Mobil  Hied 
an  application  covering  a  sale  to  United  Gas  Pipe  Line  Company  from 
the  West  Cameron  Block  587  Field  which  involved  advance  payments, 
a  depth  limitation,  a  ten-year  term  and  a  provision  under  which  Mobil 
could  reserve  gas  for  its  own  use.  The  FPC  had  no  trouble  in  acting 
favorably  and  promptly  on  this  application.  In  March  1975.  the  FPC 
issued  a  temporary  certificate  which  did  not  object  to  any  of  these 
contract  terms.  Why  was  it  reasonable  to  accept  the  West  Cameron 
Block  587  contract  terms  but  reject  the  Grand  Isle  Block  05  contract 
with  the  same  essential  terms?  Additionally,  the  contract  with  Trunk- 
line  was  an  "arms-length"  transaction  accepted  by  the  pipeline  and 
executed  by  them.  The  pipeline  also  asked  the  FPC  to  take  prompt 
action  on  its  application  for  certification  of  this  contract  so  that  they 
could  commence  construction  of  their  pipeline.  We  cannot  accept  as 
unreasonable  Mobil's  effort  to  have  its  contract  certificated  when  there 
was  nothing  to  prohibit  the  certification  of  such  a  contract. 

We  note  that  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  Mobil  submitted  its  applica- 
tion in  March  asking  for  expeditious  action  they  did  not  hear  from  the 
FPC  until  July  1975,  or  midway  through  the  summer  construction 
season  in  the  offshore.  The  July  notification  was  not  an  offer  to  certifi- 
cate but  only  a  request,  in  the  form  of  a  letter,  for  additional  informa- 
tion. Mobil  promptly  supplied  the  requested  information  to  the  Com- 
mission. Xo  mention  was  made  in  this  letter  of  any  FPC  objection  to 
the  terms  of  the  contract. 

It  was  not  until  June  1975  that  it  became  apparent  to  anyone  apply- 
ing for  a  certificate  that  the  FPC  was  reconsidering  its  policy  on  any 
of  the  three  types  of  conditions  contained  in  the  Mobil -Trunkline  con- 
tract. The  advent  of  the  case  of  Getty  Oil  Company  et  #/.,  Docket  Xo. 
CI-75-319  dealing  with  limited  dedications  was  the  first  inkling  that 
contracts  containing  such  provisions  may  not  be  certificated.  It  cer- 
tainly can  be  said  that  Mobil  and  Trunkline  officials  when  executing 
their  contract  lacked  prescience  about  prospective  FPC  actions,  but 
this  scenario  hardly  evidences  unreasonableness  on  the  part  of  Mobil 
in  seeking  certification  of  this  contract. 

On  August  15.  1975,  the  FPC  issued  a  temporary  certificate  to 
Mobil  and  Trunkline.  This  certificate  was  offered  to  Mobil  a  full  five 
months  after  Mobil's  application  for  certification  on  March  10,  1975. 
Recall,  that  when  Mobil  submitted  its  application,  it  asked  for  prompt 
action  on  its  certificate.  Mobil  did,  in  fact,  reject  this  offer  of  a  Tem- 
porary Certificate  offered  in  August.  In  issuing  that  Temporary  Cer- 
tificate to  Mobil,  the  FPC  ordered  that  the  Mobil  case  l>e  consolidated 
with  the  Getty  case  in  order  to  decide  the  questions  of  depth  limita- 


21 

tions,  limited  term  and  producer  reservation.  Almost  immediately  upon 
receipt  of  this  offer  of  Temporary  Certification  Mobil  contacted  Trunk- 
Jine  who  according  to  the  testimony  of  Mobil's  Manager  of  Natural 
Gas,  Jack  E.  Earnest,  had  been  advising  Mobil  that  because  of  the 
inordinate  delay  in  certification  that  it  "was  getting  terribly  late  in 
the  season  to  hope  to  get  (a  pipeline)  built."  Trunkline  at  this  time 
advised  Mobil  according  to  Mr.  Earnest's  sworn  testimony  "that  Sep- 
tember 5th  was  about  the  last  date  they  (Trunkline)  had  about  com- 
pleting the  pipeline"  in  time  for  the  winter  heating  season. 

Mobil  then  in  an  effort  to  get  this  gas  flowing  rejected  the  Tem- 
porary Certificate,  but  in  the  alternative  asked  for  a  rehearing  offering 
also  to  eliminate  two  provisions  of  their  contract,  namely  the  25% 
reservation  and  the  depth  limitation  if  the  Commission  would  grant 
them  a  permanent  certificate  by  September  5,  1975,  which  was  the 
last  date  that  Trunkline  indicated  they  could  act.  Mobil  did  not  relent 
on  its  ten-year  contract  term.  So,  the  Commission  in  response  to 
Mobil's  rejection  of  the  Temporary  Certificate  and  Application  for 
Rehearing  including  its  offer  to  delete  two  of  the  three  contract  provi- 
sions in  controversy  offered  Mobil  a  permanent  certificate  on  Septem- 
ber 10, 1975  (5  days  after  Trunkline's  last  date  and  that  date  requested 
by  Mobil)  but  specifying  that  Mobil  would  be  required  to  revise  its 
contract  to  provide  for  a  20  year  or  "life  of  lease"  term.  On  this  very 
point  of  term  of  contract,  we  must  note  here  parenthetically  that  in 
November  1975  the  FPC  reversed  itself  and  offered  Mobil  a  10-year 
contract. 

On  the  basis  of  these  facts,  we  ask  ourselves  who  is  the  malefactor 
here?  Surely,  it  is  not  Mobil.  They  submitted  an  application  in  March 
asking  for  prompt  certification  but  did  not  hear  from  the  FPC  until 
July  and  then  only  a  letter  asking  for  more  information.  They  were 
offered  a  Temporary  Certificate  on  August  15,  but  were  advised  that 
three  of  their  contract  provisions  required  further  consideration  by 
the  Commission.  Mobil  offered  to  eliminate  two  of  those  provisions  and 
the  third  was  later  adjudged  to  be  something  that  they  were  entitled 
to  in  the  first  place.  Does  that  chain  of  events  sound  as  if  Mobil  acted 
unreasonably?  We  think  not.  What  we  find  here  is  the  ever  prevalent 
morass  of  bureaucratic  "red  tape",  changing  rules  in  the  middle  of  the 
game  and  failure  to  act  with  dispatch. 

It  is  this  and  other  similar  fact  situations  that  have  made  us  call 
for  less  government  regulation.  This  is  an  example  of  what  happens 
when  the  Federal  Government  seeks  to  implicate  itself  in  the  free 
market  system.  It  appears  that  two  parties  cannot  even  enter  into  a 
contract  which  they  believe  is  fair,  just  and  reasonable  and  which  is 
consistent  with  the  present  state  of  the  law  without  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment requiring  them  to  change  three  of  its  provisions.  We  ask 
whatever  happened  to  the  centuries  old. common  law  tradition  of 
"sanctity  of  contract". 

The  saga  of  Grand  Isle  95  does  not  end  on  September  10,  because 
on  October  3,  1975,  Mobil  rejected  the  FPC  offer  of  a  permanent 
certificate.  Recall,  that  bv  granting  this  last  certificate  on  September 
10, 1975,  the  last  dav  for  Trunkline  to  start  construction  for  the  winter 
heating  season  had  passed.  The  weather  and  hijrh  seas  in  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico  during  October  and  November  virtually  preclude  pipeline 
construction.  This  period  of  the  year  we  must  also  point  out  is  the 


22 

hurricane  season  in  the  South  Louisiana  Offshore  area  and  there  waa 
in  fact  a  hurricane  last  year  during  that  time. 

There  has  been  one  subsequent  attempt  by  the  FPC  to  grant  Mobil 
a  permanent  cert  ificate  t  hat  was  on  November  21,  l'.>7:>  \\  lien  the  ( Jom- 
mission  offered  Mobil  a  permanent  certificate  and  this  time  as  we  noted 
earlier,  agreeing  to  the  10-year  contract.  The  problem  here,  however, 
is  another  rule  change  which  was  brought  abort  by  FPC  Order 
This  Order  seeks  to  impose  upon  producers  a  standard  "certificated 
minimum  daily  delivery  obligation".  Producers,  a-  Mr.  Earnest  testi- 
fied before  the  Subcommittee,  really  do  not  quite  know  what  ( )rder  539 
means  and  they  hope  that  it  does  nor  mean  what  they  think  it  may 
mean. 

If  it  means  rhar  producers  must  warrant  that  a  minimum  quantity 
of  gas  hi'  delivered  daily  by  the  producer,  producers  quite  simply 
cannot  meet  such  a  requirement.  First,  a-  the  Minority  views  to  the 
Subcommittee  report  on  the  Garden  City  Field  pointed  out.  such  a 
requirement  is  "wholly  unrealistic  when  one  examines  the  nature  of 
a  natural  gas  reservoir",  because  of  the  many  uncertainties  and  varia- 
bles which  are  simply  unknown  when  a  project  is  begun.  Producers 
because  of  these  uncertainties  simply  cannot  guarantee  that  a  field  will 
produce  a  given  quantity  of  gas.  A  case  in  point  will  be  helpful  here. 
Gulf  Oil  entered  into  a  contract  with  Texas  Eastern  Pipeline  several 
years  ago,  and  they  wan-anted  that  they  would  provide  a  certain 
amount  of  gas  to  Texas  Eastern  from  a  field  known  as  West  Delta  27. 
It  turns  out  with  respect  to  this  field  that  Gulf  had  substantially  over 
estimated  reserves  for  this  field.  The  field  turned  out  to  he  much 
•mailer  than  Gulf  originally  thought  and  they  could  not  meet  the 
guarantee  that  they  gave  to  Texas  Eastern.  Gulf  applied  to  the  FPC 
for  relief  from  this  contract  hut  received  none  with  the  FPC  instruct- 
ing Gulf  that  they  would  have  to  meet  their  obligation  under  this 
contract  from  other  sources.  By  a  strange  quirk,  Gulf's  Wr  interest 
in  Grand  Isle  95  is  committed  to  Texas  Eastern  for  just  that  purpose 
to  make  up  deficiencies  in  gas  not  available  in  West  Delta  27. 

We  would  now  like  to  treat  certain  items  in  the  Subcommittee's 
report  which  specifically  hear  closer  scrutiny.  First,  Mobil  is  criticized 
in  the  report  for  reducing  its  initial  deliveries  contained  in  its  original 
application  from  120  million  cubic  feet  per  day  to  60  or  70  million 
cubic  feet  per  day.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  Mobil  has  not  reduced 
its  estimate  from  Grand  Isle  Field  95.  The  120  million  cubic  feet  per 
day  rate  was  not  for  initial  deliveries  because  initial  deliveries  will 
come  only  from  Mobil's  platform  A  which  will  produce  at  a  rate  of 
approximately  68  million  cubic  feet  per  day. 

The  120  million  cubic  feet  figure  is  Mobil's  share  for  both  platform 
A  ami  B.  Platform  B  was  not  scheduled  to  be  available  for  produc- 
tion during  the  initial  delivery  phase.  Second,  the  Subcommittee  re- 
port reaches  the  conclusion  that : 

"Mobil's  actions  were  particularly  unreasonable  in  this  situation 
where  it-  development  costs  (  some  $37  million  to  date)  were  supplied 
under  an  advance  payment  agreement  with  pipeline— in  effect,  con- 
sumers have  already  paid  for  this  gas." 

A  few  things  need  to  be  said  about  this  issue  of  expenditure  ot 
capital  in  order  to  bring  this  issue  into  sharper  focus.  First,  with  re- 


23 

spect  to  the  advance  payment  by  Trunkline,  this  was  not  a  gift  by 
Trunkline  to  Mobil,  but  was  in  fact  a  loan  by  the  pipeline  to  Mobil 
which  Mobil  will  have  to  repay  to  Trunkline.  We  believe  the  Subcom- 
mittee report  leaves  one  with  the  impression  that  Trunkline  paid  for 
all  of  the  development  costs  and  that  their  expenditures  would  not  be 
recovered.  Second,  development  costs  are  not  the  only  expenses  that 
go  into  bringing  a  field  into  production  because  first  you  must  acquire 
the  field.  Mobil  and  Gulf  spent  jointly  $60  million  to  acquire  the  field 
which  would  mean  Mobil's  55%  share  of  the  lease  acquisition  costs 
would  come  to  $33  million. 

Third,  Mobil  is  condemned  in  the  report  for  not  accepting  the 
Temporary  Certificate  on  August  15, 1975,  and  beginning  deliveries  of 
gas  pending  a  hearing  on  the  issues  in  controversy.  The  report  con- 
tends that  if  Mobil  had  done  this  that  its  legal  rights  would  have 
been  fully  protected.  w Evidently  there  is  disagreement  concerning 
whether  Mobil's  rights  would  have  been  fully  protected  if  they  had 
adopted  such  an  approach.  The  Washington  law  firm  of  Grove,  Jas- 
kiewicz,  Gilliam  and  Cobert  prepared  a  legal  opinion  on  this  very 
point  and  concluded : 

"In  sum,  it  is  our  opinion  that  Mobil's  judicial  review  posture  could 
have  been  severely  prejudiced  had  Mobil  commenced  deliveries  under 
authorizations  it  believed  to  be  invalid;  that  Mobil  acted  prudently  in 
preserving  its  rights  to  review  by  not  initiating  deliveries;  that  for 
practical  reasons  it  would  have  been  unwise  to  commence  deliveries 
without  knowing  the  substantive  conditions  of  service ;  and  that  other- 
wise, Mobil  did  all  it  could  do  in  order  to  expeditiously  secure  a  reason- 
able and  lawful  certificate." 

We  are  attaching  as  an  Appendix  to  our  vieAvs  the  full  text  of  the 
above  referenced  letter. 

James  M.  Collins. 
Robert  Krueger. 

Grove,  Jaskiewicz,  Gilliam  and  Cobert, 

Washington,  D.C.,  January  29,  1976. 

Re  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  FPC  Docket  No.  C175-538  (Application  for  certificate,  sale 
to  Trunkline  Gas  Co.,  Grand  Isle  Block  95  Field,  offshore  Louisiana). 

Robert  D.  Ha  worth, 

Senior  Attorney,  Mobil  Oil  Corp. 

Houston,  Tex. 

Dear  Bob  :  You  have  requested  our  opinion  as  to  certain  questions  raised  in 
connection  with  the  captioned  matter.  The  'procedural  history  of  Docket  No. 
C175-538  is  summarized  in  the  January  23,  1976,  Statement  of  Jack  E.  Earnest, 
Manager,  Natural  Gas  Exploration  and  Producing  Division,  Mobil  Oil  Corpora- 
tion, before  the  House  Subcommittee  on  Oversight  and  Investigations  of  the 
Committee  on  Interstate  and  Foreign  Commerce,  and  need  not  be  repeated.  A 
Subcommittee  Staff  memorandum  also  summarized  procedural  events  in  the  pro- 
ceedings before  the  Commission. 

It  was  suggested  during  the  Subcommittee  hearings  that  "Mobil's  refusal  to 
sell  is  unwarranted,  contrary  to  the  purposes  of  the  Outer  Continental  Shelf 
Lands  Act,"  and  contrary  to  the  public  interest  because  "even  had  it  [Mobil] 
commenced  the  sale  subject  to  one  or  another  of  the  FPC  orders  in  this  case, 
it  would  have  remained  free  to  challenge,  both  before  the  Commission  and  the 
Courts,  the  propriety  of  .  .  .  standards"  on  which  the  orders  were  based.  (State- 
ment of  Morton  L.  Simons,  p.  4,  January  21,  1976).  In  our  opinion,  however, 
Mobil  has  taken  a  reasonable  position  based  upon  sound  legal,  tactical,  and 
business  considerations. 


24 

At  the  outset,  we  should  point  out  thai  this  matter  does  ao1  centrally  involve 
the  question  of  whether  the  temporary  certificate  offered  by  the  order  of  Au- 
gust 15,  1975  was  required  to  be  challenged  Immediately,  or  whether  conditions 
expressed  therein  could  be  challenged  ai  a  later  time,  e.g.,  upon  issuance  of  a 
"permanent"  certificate/  Rather,  Mobil's  opportunities  to  timely  challenge  orders 
which  contained  unlawful  conditions  must  be  assessed  in  term-  of  whether  such 
orders  were  reviewable  (after  denial  of  rehearing  thereon)  if  Mobil  accepted 
the  proferred  certificate  and  commenced  deliveries  in  accordance  with  the 
cert  [ficate. 

in  addition  to  the  August  15,  1.975  order,  which  granted  a  conditional  tempo- 
rary certificate,  the  Commission  also  issued  orders  dated  September  10  and  No- 
vember 21,  1975,  granting  conditional  permanent  certificates.  The  Latter  order 
also  issued  a  conditional  temporary  certificate  in  the  alternative.  As  to  all  three 
orders,  it  is  our  opinion  that  unqualified  acceptance  of  the  certificates  and  com- 
mencement of  deliveries  would  have  been  fundamentally  inconsistent  with  an 
attempt  to  seek  judicial  review  of  orders  Issuing  such  certificates.  Simply  stated, 
it  is  contrary  to  concept  of  "aggrievement"  for  a  person  to  accept,  and  act 
in  accordance  with,  an  order  which  he  claims  to  injure  him  :  and  the  courts  have 
so  recognized  this  inconsistency. 

For  example,  in  Sunray  Mid-Continental  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC,  270  F.  I'd  404  (10th 
Cir.  1959),  the  Court  was  asked  by  a  produer  to  review  two  Commission  orders 
granting  temporary  certificates.  With  respect  to  the  first  order,  the  producer 
had  initiated  deliveries  pursuant  to  the  temporary  auhorizat  ion.  In  this  context. 
the  Court  noted  (270  F.  2d  at  407)  that: 

•"The  right  of  this  court  to  review  orders  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission  is 
limited  by  Sec.  19(b)  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act  to  instances  where  the  petitioner 
is  presently  aggrieved  by  the  imposition  of  such  orders.  .  .  .  Sunray  is  currently 
selling  its  gas  and  has  made  no  affirmative  effort  to  cease.  The  Commission  has 
made  no  objection  to  the  status  quo." 

The  Court  thereupon  held  that  the  "present  petition  is  premature,*'  and  dis- 
missed the  case. 

In  sharp  contrast  to  this  situation,  the  producer  had  not  initialed  deliveries 
under  the  second  order.  As  to  this  order,  the  Court  held  that  the  producer  was 
entitled  to  review,  stating  (270  F.  2d  at  408)  : 

■•Siince  the  acceptance  order  of  the  Commission  is  clearly  and  unequivocally 
conditioned  in  such  a  manner  as  to  immediately  affect  Sunray  if  that  company 
should  initiate  temporary  service  it  is  apparent  that  petitioner  can  presently 
queston  the  right  of  the  Commission  to  condition  temporary  certficates  at  all 
and,  in  particular,  as  done  in  the  instant  case." 

Again,  in  Texaco  Inc.  v.  FPC,  290  F.  2d  149.  157  (5th  Cir.  1901),  the  Court 
said  with  regard  to  timeliness  of  petitions  for  review  of  conditional  temporary 
certificates  that.  "We  think  the  time  for  the  producers  to  raise  this  question 
|as  to  validity  of  conditions]  was  before  they  accepted  the  certificates  with 
the  conditions  attached. "  And  in  Hunt  Oil  Co.  V.  FPC,  334  F.  2d  474  (5th  Cir. 
10(>4).  although  aggrievement  issues  were  not  there  under  review,  the  Court 
noted  in  distinguishing  the  decision  on  the  merits  in  Sunray  Mid-Continent 
that  (334  F.  2d  at  479)  : 

"There,  unlike  here,  the  producer  had  not  yet  dedicated  its  gas  to  the  inter- 
state market.  Where  operation  had  commenced  under  a  temporary  authoriza- 
tion, the  Tenth  Circuit  in  the  same  case  dismissed  a  petition  to  review  its 
conditions.  270  F.  2d  at  407." 

Reference  is  made  above  to  an  unqualified  acceptance  of  the  certificates  as 
being  inconsistent  with  Mobil's  posture  as  an  "aggrieved  party"  seeking  judicial 
review.  An  implicit  question  thus  is  whether  Mobil  could  have  protected  its  ap- 
peal rights  by  tendering  "qualified"  acceptances  which  reserved  rights  to  chal- 
lenge the  orders,  and  other  appropriate  reservations.  In  similar  situations. 
qualified  acceptances  have  been  attempted,  hut  were  rejected  by  the  Commission. 
By  order  issued  June  3.  197.".  temporary  certificates  were  issued  to  four  pro- 
ducers,8 each  of  which  filed  a  five-year  contract  containing  depth  limitations  on 


1  In  Texaco  Inc.  v.  FPC,  290  F.  2d  140  ($th  Cir,  1961),  the  Court  held  that  an  ;ijr- 
jyrieved  producer  must  seek  review  of  n  temporary  certificate  within  no  days  after  ro- 
hearinsr  is  denied  by  the  Commission.  In  FPG  v.  Sunray  DX  Oil  Co.,  .".'it  U..S.  9,  44  (1968). 

the   Supreme   Court   noted    that    it    did    not   have   "occasion    ...    to   pass   on    the   correctness 
of  that   decision." 

-Cettv  Oil  To..  Docket  No.  0T7fi-.o»19  :  Atlantic  Richfield  Co.,  Docket  No.  CT75  HI; 
Continental    Oil    Co.,    Docket    \o.    CI75     10.",:    Cities    Service    Oil    Co..    Docket    No.    CITo    558. 


25 

dedication.  All  filed  qualified  acceptances  between  August  7  and  11,  1975  By 
letter  dated  August  19,  1975  (a  copy  of  which  is  attached  hereto),  the  Com- 
mission rejected  the  attempted  acceptances.  There  is  no  reason  to  believe  a 
similar  attempt  bv  Mobil  would  have  been  treated  differently.  In  dissenting  to 
the  August  19th  letter,  Commissioner  Smith  labeled  the  Commission's  action  a 
pointless  exercise  in  jurisdictional  gamesmanship,"  stating: 

"If  the  'rejection  of  acceptance'  is  issued  here  because  the  producers  reserve 
their  rights  to  seek  judicial  review  of  the  Commission's  earlier  Orders,  the 
rejection  denies  due  process,  and  I  dissent  thereto."  „  ,_.,         , -,  ^ 

It  consequently  is  apparent  that  there  was  not  any  way  Mobil  could  have 
commenced  deliveries  and  simultaneously  maintained  a  viable  challenge  to  the 
certificate  orders.  Assuredly,  if  deliveries  could  not  be  commenced  because  res- 
ervations of  rights  to  review  were  unacceptable  to  the  Commission,  and  only 
by  relinquishing  such  reservations  would  deliveries  be  permitted  to  commence, 
then  the  inconsistency  between  initiation  of  deliveries  based  upon  an  unquali- 
fied acceptance,  and  institution  of  review  proceedings,  is  obvious. 

Moreover,  it  appears  that  it  was  the  Commission's  intent  at  every  stage  of 
the  proceedings  to  cast  its  orders  is  such  a  way  as  to  preclude  or  delay  judicial 

review even  if  deliveries  did  not  commence.  Thus,  on  August  22,  1975,  Mobil 

filed  an  application  for  rehearing  of  the  August  15th  order.  However,  in  the 
responsive  order  issued  September  10,  1975,  the  Commsision  held  (p.  1,  fn.  1)  : 

••The  orders  issuing  temporary  certificates  and  consolidating  the  applications 
of  Texaco  and  Mobil  for  hearing  are  not  final  orders  of  the  Commission ;  there- 
fore, the  applications  for  rehearing  will  be  treated  as  petitions  for  reconsidera- 
tion." 

Under  Section  19(a)  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act,  an  application  for  rehearing 
is  a  prerequisite  for  judicial  review  :  and  although  the  Courts  have  determined 
that  an  order  does  not  have  to  be  "final"  for  purposes  of  review,4  the  Commis- 
sion's treatment  here  indicates  strongly  that  the  Commission  presumably  would 
have  maintained  in  any  subsequent  judicial  proceeding  that  a  Court  of  Appeals 
does  not  have  jurisdiction  to  review  an  interlocutory  order  of  a  procedural 
nature,  particularly  where  a  "petition  for  reconsideration,"  rather  than  an 
"application  for  rehearing"  was  filed  despite  the  label  applied  to  the  document 
by  the  producer. 

Further,  there  is  no  question  when  the  September  10th  order  issued  a  per- 
manent certificate,  the  previously-issued  temporary  certificate  ceased  to  exist.3 
Consequently,  even  if  Mobil  desired  to  challenge  judicially  the  temporary  certifi- 
cate, it  could  not  have  done  so  because  there  was  no  order  from  which  to  appeal. 
Likewise,  upon  issuance  of  the  order  of  November  21,  1975,  the  certificate 
tendered  by  the  September  10th  order  was  cancelled  since  two  certificates  for 
the  same  sale  cannot  coexist.  On  December  19,  1975,  Mobil  applied  for  rehearing 
of  the  November  21st  order,  thereby  taking  the  first  statutorily  required  step  to 
judicial  review.  On  January  13,  1976,  the  Commission  granted  rehearing,  but 
solely  for  purposes  of  further  consideration.  The  latter  action  simply  affords 
the  Commission  an  indefinite  amount  of  time  within  which  to  act  upon  the 
merits  of  Mobil's  application  for  rehearing.  Until  the  Commission  does  so  act, 
judicial  review  proceedings  cannot  be  instituted. 

In  addition  to  legal  factors,  there  are  relevant  practical  considerations  to  be 
taken  into  account  in  assessing  the  reasonableness  of  Mobil's  position  in  this 
instance.  Mobil  has  drawn  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Commission  issued  a 
temporary  certificate  on  August  15th,  despite  the  fact  that  Mobil  did  not  re- 
quest a  temporary  certificate.  In  so  doing,  we  do  not  believe  that  Mobil  was 
calling  into  question  the  Commission's  power  to  issue  temporary  authority  in 
the  absence  of  a  request  therefor.  Clearly,  the  Commission  has  such  power.0 
What  is  relevant  in  this  connection  is  that  in  practical  terms  there  is  a  signifi- 
cant difference  between  situations  where  a  producer  has  applied  for  temporary 
authorization  and  where  he  has  not.  In  FPC  v.  Sunray  DX  Oil  Co.,  391  U.S.  9 


3  Indeed,  the  Commission  believed  there  "were  similarities  between  the  Getty,  et  al., 
apniications  and  Mobil's  application  in  Docket  No.  CI75-538  sufficient  to  consolidate  them 
for  hearing  (order  issued  August  15,  1975). 

4  See.  e.g.,  Cities  Service  Gas  Co.  v.  FPC,  255  F.  2d  860   (10th  Cir.  1958). 

sAs  stated  by  the  Commission  in  Placid  Oil  Co.,  30  FPC  283.  292  (1963)  :  ".  .  .  once 
we  granted  ...  a  permanent  certificate  .  .  .  the  temporary  authorization  ceased  to  have  any 
prosnective  application  and  was,  in  effect,  automatically  cancelled." 

"See,   Hunt   Oil   Co.   v.   FPC,  344   F.   2d  474.   479-480    (5th   Cir.    1964). 


26 

(1968),  the  Supreme  Court  pointed  out  (891  U.S.  at  48),  that  temporary 
certificates  normally  are  issued  ei  parte,  upon  receipt  of  an  application  from  a 
producer;  that  Section  7(c)  of  the  Gas  Act  permits  Issuance  of  temporaries 
without  notice  to  potentially  interested  persons;  and  thai  no  one  but  the  pro- 
ducer recipient  may  be  aware  of  the  issuance  of  a  temporary  certificate  within 
the  appeal  period.  In  these  circumstances,  the  Court  said  (391   U.S.  at    n    15)  . 

When  a  producer  has  requested  permission  to  begin  delivery  of  ums  prior  to 
completion  of  normal  certification  procedures,  due  to  an  emergency,  we  think  it 
not  unfair  that  in  retuill  for  that  permission  it  accept  the  risk  that  at  the  termi- 
nation of  those  procedures  the  terms  proposed  by  it  may  he  retrospectively 
altered  to  conform  bo  the  public  interest.*' 

Where,  as  her*',  a  producer  does  not  affirmatively  request  temporary  authority, 
he  is  not  asking  that  the  normal  procedures  for  permanent  certification  he  by- 
passed, and  therefore  there  is  no  risk  to  potentially  Interested  parties  that  deliv- 
eries will  begin  under  an  authorization  as  to  which  there  has  not  been  public 
notice.  Conversely,  where,  as  here,  an  unsolicited  temporary  certificate  is  issued 
by  formal  order  with  full  public  notice,  the  producer  gains  only  the  risk  that  the 
terms  of  the  temporary  certificate  "may  he  retrospectively  altered'*  by  the  j>erma- 
nent  certificate.  From  the  producer's  vantage  point,  it  clearly  may  not  be  prudent 
to  commence  deliveries  under  temporary  authorization  pending  resolution  of 
permanent  certificate  questions  because  through  commencement  of  deliveries  he 
will  be  indefinitely  committing  his  gas  to  interstate  service  without  knowing  the 
conditions  of  permanent  service.  As  is  the  case  with  all  temporary  certificates 
issued  by  the  Commission,  the  August  loth  order  provided  that  once  begun,  the 
"•service  may  not  be  discontinued  without  permission  of  the  Commission  issued 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  Tib)  of  the  Natural  Gas  Act  whether  the 
contract  term  has  expired  <>r  not.  The  issuance  of  temporary  certificate  .  .  .  [is] 
without  prejudice  to  such  final  disposition  of  the  application  for  certificate  as  the 
record  may  require."  (Ordering  Paragraph  (E)). 

Similar  considerations  oi  prudence  also  may  apply  to  and  support  a  producer's 
decision  to  refrain  from  initiating  service  under  a  permanent  certificate,  where 
that  certificate  does  net  make  clear  the  conditions  of  permanent  service.  This  is 
particularly  applicable  to  the  Commission's  order  of  November  21.  107.1.  which 
attached  the  now-standard  "Order  539  condition."  essentially  requiring  Mobil 
to  accede  in  advance  to  a  non-contractually  based  '•certificated  minimum  daily 
delivery  obligation"  to  be  determined  in  the  future.  Mobil  accordingly  was  in  a 
posture  where  it  could  either  commence  sales  without  knowledge  of  a  crucial 
condition  of  service — later  to  be  formulated  by  the  Commission,  or  refrain  from 
commencing  deliveries  at  least  until  all  conditions  of  service  were  definite.  In 
this  context,  it  is  our  view  that  Mobil  acted  lawfully,  reasonably  and  prudently  in 
choosing  the  latter  course.  Our  view  is  based  not  only  on  the  factual  context  in- 
volved, but  also  on  expressions  and  actions  of  others,  including  the  conns. 

Relevant  ground  rules  were  established  by  the  Supreme  Court  in  CATCO.' 
There  the  Court  determined,  among  other  things,  (1)  that  the  filing  of  applica- 
tions for  certificates  "did  not  constitute  a  dedication  to  the  interstate  market  of 
the  gas  recoverable  under  these  leases":  (2)  there  was  no  doubt  "that  the  pro- 
ducers were  at  liberty  to  refuse  conditional  certificates";  and  <  3 )  that  there  was 
"nothing  illegal"  in  the  producers'  rejection  of  the  alternative  "proposed  by  the 
Commission  and  their  standing  firm  on  their  own."  (360  U.S.  at  387-388). 

Following  CATCO,  the  Courts  of  Appeals  had  occasion  to  consider  cases  involv- 
ing producers'  refusals  to  commence  deliveries  where  conditions  of  service  were 
indefinite.  In  8unr ay  Mid -Continent  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC,  270  F.  2d  4<H  i  loth  Cir.  1959), 
the  Court  noted  the  CATCO  determinations  cited  above,  and  relevantly  stated 
(270  F.  2d  at  409)  : 

"The  Act  contemplates  that  the  Commission  need  not  accept  the  conditions  con- 
tained in  an  application.  Sinirai/  Mid-Continent  Oil  v.  Federal  />(,ir< ,-  Com- 
mission, Supra  :  it  likewise  contemplates  that  the  applicant  need  not  accept 
conditions  imposed  by  the  Commission  in  its  initial  acceptance.  Where  conditions 
are  imposed  by  the  Commission  the  applicant  has  the  free  choice  to  accept  or 
reject  ;  to  dedicate  his  property  to  public  service  or  to  refuse  so  to  do;  to  submit 
to  the  jurisdiction  -if  the  Commission  or  to  remain  beyond  the  bounds  of  inter- 
state commerce.  This  choice  cannot  be  exercised  by  the  applicant  if  the  Commis- 
sion says,   in  effect  :   'Sell   your  gas;  collect  your  proposed   initial  price:  we  will 


Atlantic   Refining   Co.   v.    Puhiir  Service   Commission   of  X.Y..   360   T'.s.   378    (1959). 


27 

later  tell  you  if  you  can  keep  your  collections  :  if  we  decide  you  cannot,  you  must 
assure  refund  by  bond.'  " 

Similarly,  in  Sohio  Petroleum  Co.  v.  FPC,  298  F.  2d  465  (10th  Cir.  1961),  where 
a  producer  resisted  acceptance  of  a  temporary  certificate  on  terms  to  which  other 
producers  had  agreed,  the  Court  stated,  "We  believe  petitioner's  position  to  have 
merit."  (298  F.  2d  at  468) . 

Repeated  dissenting  opinions  by  Commissioner  Smith  to  similar  orders  issuing 
temporary  and  permanent  certificates  (including  each  of  the  three  Mobil  orders) 
well  states  the  producers'  dilemma.  For  instance,  in  dissenting  to  the  order  issued 
July  24,  1975  in  Marathon  Oil  Co.  et  al.,  Docket  No.  CI75-641,  et  al.,  Commis- 
sioner Smith  stated : 

"The  producers  here  are  offered  temporary  certificates  that  purport  to  ulti- 
mately bind  the  producers  to  sale  parameters  that  are  currently  unknown  and 
unknowable.  The  producers  are  asked  to  submit  to  the  possibility  of  permanent 
certificates  that  would  be  conditioned  upon  the  sale  of  gas  that  is  not  yet  known 
to  exist  for  a  contract  term  of  unknown  duration.  The  only  way  in  which  the 
producers  could  learn  the  extent  of  their  obligations  before  incurring  them  would 
be  by  rejecting  the  temporary  certificates  and  awaiting  hearing  and  final  Com- 
mission decision  on  the  reserved  issues,  a  process  that  could  take  several  months, 
and  one  which  most  certainly  cannot  be  completed  in  time  to  allow  construction 
of  the  pipeline  for  this  winter." 

Further,  in  dissenting  to  the  action  of  August  19,  1975,  rejecting  the  condi- 
tional acceptances  of  Getty,  et  al.,  Commissioner  Smith  declared: 

"The  Commission  has  indicated  that  the  producer  contracts  underlying  the 
instant  applications  contain  limitations  which,  after  hearing,  may  be  deemed 
unacceptable  for  incorporation  into  permanent  certificates.  If  so,  certificates 
which  contain  service  obligation  and  reserve  dedication  more  extensive  than 
those  set  out  in  the  contracts  will  be  proffered,  and  the  producers  can  either 
reject  or  accept  them.  At  this  stage,  however,  it  is  impossible  to  decipher  just 
what  the  Secretary  letter  purports  to  do.  Temporary  certificates  to  the  producers 
cannot  authorize  or  compel  service,  the  dimensions  of  which  are  to  be  deter- 
mined at  a  future  hearing,  and  hence  cannot  be  accepted  by  the  producers  until 
someone  tells  them  what  they  are  to  accept. 

******* 

"If  the  "rejection  of  acceptance'  is  issued  here  because  the  producers  reserve 
their  rights  to  seek  judicial  review  of  the  Commission's  earlier  Orders,  the  rejec- 
tion denies  due  process,  and  I  dissent  thereto.  If  this  action  is  designed  to  force 
producers  to  agree  to  accept  service  obligations  which  are  to  be  developed  in  the 
future,  it  seeks  to  accomplish  an  unlawful  objective,  and  I  dissent  to  such 
action." 

It  now  appears  that  Commissioner  Smith  is  not  alone  in  his  views  among 
Commission  members.  In  a  separate  opinion  to  an  order  issued  January  26, 
1976,  in  Natural  Gas  Pipeline  Co.  of  America,  et  ah.  Docket  No.  CP76-14,  et  al, 
Commissioner  James  G.  Watt  stated  : 

"Commissioner  Smith,  on  June  3,  1975,  dissented  in  the  Getty  Oil  Company 
case,  lead  Docket  No.  CI75-319,  and  on  November  21,  1975,  in  the  Natural  Gas 
Pipeline  Company  of  America  case,  lead  Docket  No.  CP76-14  .  .  .  [8]  He  prop- 
erly raised  questions  about  the  authorities  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission 
to  restrict  or  expand  in  individual  initial  sale  certification  applications  the 
obligations  of  the  producers.  I  share  some  of  the  concerns  he  voiced." 

******* 

"I  am  concerned  on  yet  another  issue  embodied  in  this  Order.  On  November  28, 
1975.  rhe  Commission  issued  an  Order  granting  reconsideration  of  Order  No. 
539.  There  are  several  policy  and  legal  questions  surrounding  Order  No.  539  that 
must  be  addressed  by  this  new  Commission.  Because  of  these  questions,  I  have 
reservations  regarding  the  advisability  and  thrust  of  including  requirements 
from  Order  No.  539,  (Sec.  2.83  of  the  Commission's  General  Policy  and  Inter- 
pretations) in  certificates." 

Order  No.  539  9  also  has  prompted  other  producers  to  reject,  and  refrain  from 
commencing  deliveries  under  certificates  containing  the  standard  "certificated 
minimum  daily  delivery  obligation"  condition.  See.  for  example,  Exxon  Corp.. 
Docket  No.  CT74?528,  order  issued  January  2, 1976. 


This  also  is  the  third  Mobil  order. 
1  Issued  October  14.  1975,  Docket  No.  RM76- 


28 

Ir   should  be  apparent    from  the  foregoing  that   the  reason  why  gas  is  not  now 
being  delivered  by  Mobil  from  the  Block  96  Field  (i.c,  Imposition  <»f  the  Order 
mdition),  has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the  issues  raised  by  the  Com- 
mission in  the  orders  of  August    loth  and  September  10th.   In  this  respect   Mobil 

compromised   its   position  on   three  significant   aspects  of  its  contract    (price, 

depth  reservation,  and  reservation  of  some  ;f;is  for  its  own  use),  and  the  Com- 
mission  compromised  on  one  aspect  (contract  term).  It  also  is  evident  that 
Mobil  is  not  the  only  producer  adhering  to  its  lawful  right  to  refrain  from  com- 
mencing deliveries  pursuant  t<>  a  certificate  which  it  believes  to  be  Illegally  con- 
ditioned: and  that  in  so  refraining,  no  violation  of  the  Outer  Continental  Shelf 
Lands  Act  has  been  committed. 

As  to  the  latter  point,  it  may  be  observed  that  Mr.  Simons'  testimony  accu- 
rately (piotes  a  portion  of  Section  g|  a  i  of  the  OOSLA  <  43  U.S.C.  §  1337<  an.  i.< .. 
that  the  Secretary  of  Interior  is  authorized  to  grant  leases,  --in  order  to  meet 
the  urgent  need  for  further  exploration  and  development  of  the  outer  Conti- 
nental Shelf  .  .  ."  That  the  energy  ik^mIs  of  the  public  might  be  met  in  a  timely 
fashion  is  an  undeniable  purpose  of  the  OOSLA;  and  the  statement  of  Jack  F. 
Karnest  on  behalf  of  Mobil  before  the  Oversight  Subcommittee  clearly  demon- 
strates that  Mobil  acted  with  greater  than  deliberate  speed  in  exploring  and 
developing  its  leases,  in  repeatedly  ur{rinj,r  the  Commission  to  exi>edite  action 
upon  its  application  for  a  certificate  to  sell  gas  to  Trunkline  from  those  leases. 
and  in  compromising  its  position  on  two  of  three  contested  issues.  By  the  order 
of  November  12th,  the  third  contested  issue  was  finally  resolved,  and  but  for 
the  new  Order  No.  .~>M<>  condition.  Mr.  Earnest's  testimony  shows  that  Mobil 
was  prepared  to  commence  deliveries  immediately  upon  installation  of  Trunk- 
line's  pipeline  facilities. 

In  these  respects,  it  has  been  held  that  the  OCSLA  and  the  Natural  das  Act 
are  to  be  applied  reciprocally  {Continental  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC,  'MO  F.  2d  ~>7  (5th 
Cir.  1966)  )  ;  that  refusal  by  a  producer  to  dedicate  to  interstate  commerce  gas 
from  OCS  leases  does  not  in  and  of  itself  constitute  a  violation  thereof  (Public 
sen-ice  Commission  of  N.Y.  v.  FPCt  4C>8  F.  2d  824  (D.C.  Cir.  1972))  :  and  that 
the  Commission  cannot  directly  require  a  producer  to  dedicate  its  jms  to  inter- 
state commerce  {ibid,  at  829).  Finally,  in  CATCO,  which  also  involved  OCS 
acreage,  and  which  was  decided  six  years  after  the  OCS  LA  was  enacted,  the 
Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  producers  involved  had  the  right  to  reject  con- 
ditional certificates  which  were  not  in  substantive  accord  with  their  contracts, 
and  await  the  conclusion  of  proceedings  before  committing  their  £as  to  inter- 
state commerce  (360  U.S.  at  387-388).  Mobil's  rights  are  no  less  than  the  CATCO 
producers,  and  its  position  no  less  reasonable. 

In  sum.  it  is  our  opinion  that  Mobil's  judicial  review  posture  could  have  been 
severely  prejudiced  had  Mobil  commenced  deliveries  under  authorizations  it 
believed  to  be  invalid:  that  Mobil  acted  prudently  in  preserving  its  rights  to 
review  by  not  initiating  deliveries:  that  for  practical  reasons  it  would  have  been 
unwise  to  commence  deliveries  without  knowing  the  substantive  conditions  of 
service;  and  that  otherwise.  Mobil  did  all  it  could  do  in  order  to  expeditiously 
secure  a  reasonable  and  lawful  certificate. 
Sincerely  yours, 

Philip  R.  Eiirenkranz. 


ADDITIONAL  VIEWS  OF  HOX.  W.  S.  (BILL)   STUCKEY 

I  take  exception  to  the  contentions  that  Mobil,  through  its  acts  re- 
garding the  Grand  Isle  95  Field,  has  been  solely  responsible  for  the 
delays  in  field  production  and  delivery. 

The  responsibility  for  the  Grand  Isle  controversy  should  be  shared 
by  the  Federal  Power  Commission  as  well  as  Mobil.  While  they  both 
acted  within  legal  limits,  they  neglected  the  probability  of  an  emer- 
gency during  the  1976  winter  season. 

The  FPC  showed  that  their  procedural  mechanism  was  both  un- 
reliable and  inefficient  when  they  neglected  to  expediate  consideration 
of  Mobil's  certification.  On  the  other  hand.  Mobil,  although  genuinely 
interested  in  protecting  their  legal  rights  over  some  vital  issues  under 
litigation,  did  not  act  responsibly  in  seeking  to  expediate  production 
from  Grand  Isle  95. 

The  apparent  loser  in  this  entire  controversy  was  Trunkline  Gas 
Company  and  through  them  the  consumers  who  had  contracted  for 
the  gas  and  invested  $37  million  toward  its  production  and  delivery. 
Without  the  construction  of  a  pipeline  from  the  field  to  the  delivery 
lines,  natural  gas  could  not  be  transported  during  this  winter  season. 
Trunkline  was  delayed  to  the  point  that  construction  was  not  possible 
to  achieve  delivery  for  the  winter  season. 

As  to  Mobil,  it  seems  to  me  that  profit  incentives  should  not  be 
blinders  to  the  exclusion  of  public  welfare.  A  reduction  in  supply  could 
adversely  effect  agricultural  production,  industrial  output  and  its  con- 
comitant unemployment,  and  more  importantly  public  health.  Such 
a  disregard  is  inexcusable. 

Finally,  while  I  am  acutely  aware  of  the  intricacies  of  the  legal 
issues  involved  and  can  appreciate  the  care  which  must  be  taken  so 
as  not  to  jeopardize  one's  position,  it  appears  that  this  case  demon- 
strates the  bureaucratic  ineptitude  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission. 
The  inability  of  the  FPC  to  make  a  timely  determination  that  would 
result  in  increased  natural  gas  production  and  delivery  demonstrates 
a  total  insensitivity  for  the  public  health  and  welfare. 

W.  S.  (Bill)  Stuckey,  Jr. 

(29) 


ADDITIONAL  VIEWS 

This  report  demonstrates  the  total  indifference  of  a  major 
producer  to  the  needs  of  interstate  gas  consumers.  The  American 
public  lias  a  right  to  expect  that  Federally-owned  Outer  Continental 
Shelf  gas  will  be  produced  and  delivered  to  the  interestate  market 
with  the  public's  interest  in  mind.  Of  course,  a  producer  should  be 
able  to  make  a  fair  profit  on  tin-  gas.  But  when  the  producer  is  able 
to  withhold  gas  from  the  market  and  in>ist  upon  an  excessive  profit. 
there  is  something  very  wrong  indeed. 

We  would  note  at  the  outset  that  none  of  the  Members  who  signed 
the  minority  views  was  actually  present  at  the  hearing  on  this  matter. 

Mobil's  argument,  as  stated  in  the  minority  views,  is  essentially 
that  its  Legal  position  would  somehow  be  "compromised"  by  deliver- 
ing gas  while  certain  issues  are  being  decided  by  the  Federal  Power 
Commission  and  possibly  the  courts.  The  Minority  submits  a  long 
legal  memorandum  prepared  by  Mobil's  lawyers  which,  not  sur- 
prisingly, concludes  that  such  prejudice  could  occur. 

The  Minority  contend-  that  "there  is  disagreement  concerning 
whether  Mobil's  rights  would  have  been  fully  protected"  if  Mobil 
had  commenced  deliveries  of  <ras  pending  a  hearing  on  the  issues  in 
controversy.  Mobil  argues  that  it>  "judicial  review  posture  could 
have  been  severely  prejudiced  had  Mobil  commenced  deliveries  .  .  ." 
(emphasis  supplied).  The  alleged  existence  of  this  "disagreement" 
over  the  current  state  of  the  law  on  this  matter  is  cited  by  the  Mi- 
nority as  sufficient  reason  for  Mobil  to  refuse  to  commence  deliveries  to 
interstate  commerce — its  negative  impact  on  the  consuming  public 
notwithstanding. 

The  fact  is  Mobil  would  not  be  prejudiced  in  the  ultimate  disposi- 
tion of  the  contested  legal  issues  reofardin<r  its  attempted  contract 
reservations  by  commencing  deliveries  of  natural  gas.  Elementary 
rules  of  procedural  due  process  make  it  clear  that  Mobil's  rights  in 
this  matter  are  fully  preserved  in  both  the  administrative  and  judi- 
cial contexts. 

Mobil's  legal  memorandum  alleges  that  its  judicial  review  position 
will  be  prejudiced  if  it  commenced  deliveries  under  a  temporary  cer- 
t  ificate.  However,  the1  cases  cited  by  Mobil  do  not  support  this  proposi- 
tion. Mobil  cites  Sunray  Mid-Continent  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC.  270  F.  2d 
404  (loth  Cir.  1959)  as  authority  for  Mobil's  alleged  prejudice  if  it 
begins  deliveries  under  a  temporary  certificate.  Tn  that  case,  however. 
the  company  had  a  choice  whether  or  not  to  dedicate  the  <ras  to  inter- 
Mate  commerce  and  the  FPO  condition  at  issue  was  one  which  required 
the  natural  gas  producing  company  to  continue  deliveries  once  service 
commenced.  Here  the  situation  is  entirely  different  because  Mobil's 
deliveries  of  <ras  from  the  OCS  must  flow  in  interstate  commerce.1 

Furthermore,  in  FPC  v.  Sunray  DX  Oil  Co..  391  U.S.  9  (  1968), the 
Supreme  Court  in  considering:  substantive  FPC  conditions  challenged 
by  Superior  Oil  Company,  fully  considered  the  merits  of  those  con- 

ira]    Gaa    Act.    15   D.S.C.    §7i7<n>    <t   seq.,   Outer   Continental    Shelf   Lands   Art. 
13    Q.S  <-.    I  i::::i    et    9eq 

(30) 


UNIVERSITY  OF   FLORIDA 


31 

ditions.  The  fact  that  Superior  had  begun  deliveries  under  a  temporary 
certificate  was  in  no  way  a  prejudice  to  the  full  and  fair  considera- 
tion of  the  issues.  {See  391  U.S.  at  32-36).  In  addition,  the  Temporary 
Certificate  may  be  subject  to  immediate  judicial  review.  See  Pure  Oil 
Co.  v.  FPC,  292  F.  2d  350  (7th  Cir.  1961)  ;  Sohio  Petroleum  Co.  v. 
FPC,  298  F.  2d 465  (10th  Cir.  1961). 

The  important  point  is  that  Mobil  will  be  able  to  challenge  the 
propriety  of  any  condition  attached  to  its  certificate  by  the  FPC  before 
a  Federal  appellate  court,  either  by  challenging  the  conditions  of  the 
Temporary  Certificate  immediately  or  by  seeking  review  of  the  Perma- 
nent Certificate  later.  And  any  resolution  of  those  issues  will  have 
retroactive  effect.  See  Public  Service  Commission  of  the  State  of  Neio 
York  v.  FPC.  329  F.  2d  242,  cert,  denied,  377  U.S.  963  (1964)  ;  Public 
Service  Commission  of  the  State  of  Neio  York  v.  FPC,  327  F.  2d  893 
(D.  C.  Cir.  1964) ;  American  Liberty  Oil  Co.  v.  FPC,  301  F.  2d  15  (5th 
Cir.  1962) ;  /.  M.  Huber  Corp.  v.  FPC,  294  F.  2d  568  (3rd  Cir.  1961). 

What  the  Minority  also  neglects  to  answer  is  why  Mobil's  position 
was  any  different  from  the  positions  of  producers  in  the  other  20  appli- 
cations consolidated  in  the  Getty  case  and  explained  in  the  Keport. 

Mobil  could  have  commenced  deliveries  of  gas  to  interstate  con- 
sumers and  then  fully  litigated  the  legal  issues  raised  by  its  attempted 
contract  reservations.  Instead,  Mobil  chose  to  withhold  its  gas  from 
the  interstate  market  where  OCS  gas  must  eventually  be  sold  under 
conditions  established  by  the  Federal  Power  Commission,  subject  to 
court  review.2 

It  was  irresponsible  for  Mobil  to  withhold  its  gas  from  interstate 
consumers  faced  with  serious  shortages  of  natural  gas  this  winter  when 
deliveries  from  Grand  Isle  95  could  have  significantly  reduced  curtail- 
ments to  Trunkline  and  Texas  Eastern.  Mobil's  withholding  helped 
make  its  advertisements  proclaiming  a  natural  gas  shortage  of  self- 
fulfilling  prophecy. 

The  report  also  demonstrates  the  lack  of  logic  in  the  recently  termi- 
nated FPC  program  of  advance  payments.  There  simply  was  little 
economic  pressure  on  Mobil  to  begin  delivering  this  gas  because  it  was 
proceeding  under  an  advance  payments  agreement.  Under  this  agree- 
ment, it  has  no  interest  charges  and  repayment  of  the  loan  is  deferred 
until  deliveries  begin.  Though  it  is  true  that  Mobil  had  spent  sub- 
stantial sums  on  acquiring  the  OCS  leases,  the  fact  that  the  $37  mil- 
lion development  cost  had  been  advanced  to  Mobil  reduced  the  pres- 
sure on  Mobil  to  proceed  as  quickly  as  possible.  Mobil  was  therefore 
content  to  wait  until  it  obtained  the  conditions  it  wanted. 

Mobil's  behavior  should  not  be  tolerated  by  the  FPC,  Congress,  or 
the  consuming  public.  The  use  of  natural  gas  deposits  on  Federal  lands 
as  an  economic  bargaining  tool  by  the  natural  gas  industry  at  con- 
sumer expense  must  be  ended. 

John  E.  Moss. 

Axthony  Toby  Moffett. 

Henry  A.  Waxman. 

Andrew  Magtjtre. 


2  Orders  of  the  Federal  Power  Commission  are  subject  to  review  by  a  Federal  Court  of 
ADneals  and  if  required  bv  the  Supreme  Court.  The  findings  of  the  FPC  may  be  reversed  it 
not  supported  bv  "substantial  evidence."  15  F.S.C.  §717r(b).  See  FPC  v.  Hope  ^atural 
Gas  Co.,  320  U.S.  591  (1944)  :  Interstate  Natural  Gfl.s  Co.  v.  Southern  California  Gas  Co, 
102  F.  Supp  685  (D.  Calif.  1952)  ;  J.  M  Huber  Corp.  v.  FPC,  294  F.  2d  568  (3rd  Cir. 
1961). 

O 


