363.728 

F766bx 


STX' 


FEB  0 5 2010 


INTRODUCTION 

In  many  Illinois  communities,  there  are  abandoned  gas  stations  or  other  facilities  with  no 
responsible  party  to  pay  for  cleaning  up  leaking  underground  storage  tanks.  These  environmental 
hazards  prevent  economic  revitalization  across  the  state.  The  Illinois  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  (Illinois  EPA)  intends  to  close  out  as  many  abandoned  or  orphaned  leaking  underground 
storage  tank  (Leaking  UST)  sites  as  possible  and  issue  a No  Further  Remediation  Letter  to  facilitate 
the  redevelopment  of  the  property  for  productive  re-use  as  quickly  as  possible. 

THE  THREAT  OF  CONTAMINATION 

Leaking  USTs  are  a significant  source  of  environmental  contamination  and  may  pose  the  following 
threats  to  human  health  and  safety: 
x fire  and  explosion; 
x inhalation  of  dangerous  vapors; 
x contamination  of  soil  and  groundwater; 
x contamination  of  drinking  water; 
x contamination  of  streams,  rivers,  and  lakes. 


Illinois 

Environmental 
Protection  Agency 


State  Sites  Unit,  Bureau  of  Land 
1021  N.  Grand  Avenue  East 
Springfield,  Illinois  62702 


November  2009 


CORRECTIVE  ACTION:  AMERICAN  RECOVERY  AND  REINVESTMEN' 

As  part  of  the  American  Recovery  and  Reinvestment  Act  (ARRA),  U.S.  EPA  has  provided  funding  to 
Illinois  EPA  and  other  states  to  address  these  threats.  Illinois  EPA  plans  to  use  its  current 
remediation  consultants  and  contractors  to  investigate  and  perform  the  necessary  clean-ups. 

Corrective  action  at  the  former  gas  station  located  at  1130-1154  Bellwood  Ave.,  involved 
abandoning  existing  groundwater  monitoring  wells  and  the  application  of  an  asphalt  barrier  on  the 
unpaved  portion  of  the  site.  This  barrier  will  prevent  ingestion  of  any  contaminated  soil  and  the 
further  leaching  of  any  contaminants  from  the  soil  into  the  local  groundwater  aquifer. 

The  Village  of  Bellwood  took  action  to  acquire  the  property  as  part  of  a coordinated  state,  local,  and 
federal  response  to  the  problem  posed  by  the  former  gas  station  tanks.  To  protect  the  citizens  of 
Bellwood  from  ingesting  contaminated  groundwater,  the  Village  of  Bellwood  will  rely  on  a village- 
wide ordinance  to  prohibit  the  installation  of  private  potable  water  wells  and  use  of  groundwater  at 
the  Site. 

The  adjoining  Village  of  Westchester  also  has  approved  a municipal  ordinance  that  prohibits  the 
installation  of  private  water  wells  and  use  of  the  local  groundwater  resources  and  is  in  the  process 
of  finalizing  this  ordinance  with  the  Illinois  EPA. 

State  contractor,  Shaw  Environmental,  prepared  the  corrective  action  plan  and  will  prepare  the  final 
report,  while  state  contractor,  Apex  Companies,  LLC,  completed  the  corrective  actions  during  the 
month  of  November  2009.  The  Illinois  EPA  expects  to  issue  the  City  of  Bellwood  a No  Further 
Remediation  letter  by  February  2010. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS  URBANA 


3 0112 104433740 


Printed  by  authority  of 
the  State  of  Illinois 
#36353  Dec.  2009  30 


FOR  MORE  INFORMATION:  Vanessa  Myers,  Illinois  EPA  Remedial  Project  Manager:  217-558-6046  or 

vanessa.mvers@illinois.gov 

or 

Derke  Price:  312-782-7606 
DPrice@ancelQlink.com 

httD://www.eDa.state.il.us/land/economic-stimulus/index.html  - Leaking  Underground  Storage  Tank  Program  Information 


