| 
| 
i 


\ 
AL 


* » 
y 
x 
Ba GUIDE 
£e m : 
Ds A 
L ; 


1 
/ 


LUBRICATION 
TUNE-UP AND 


LII d 0 020 9-0 4 eS SOO Sey. eyo... 


IWAN 
E i 
Fe 


ja 


A 


: 


| 
| 
1 


MARATHON 
A KEY 
Tec TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Do wA i 
* ^ E 


cU 


Symbols are used in the guide to represent lubricant recom- 
_ mendations approved by the manufacturers. The table below 
->` ` * keys the MARATHON products to those recommendations. 
For symbols not listed, use product described by manufacturer 

as shown on each individual page. 


i When you seo 
this symbol | Use this MARATHON product _ 


For API Service 


MS | EXTENDED LIFE v.er. 5w-30 | 
DG })ALL-SEASON wv.EP. 10w-30 


DM |V.EP. Heavy DUTY Detergent Motor Oils 
DS SERIES 3 vs». 
MM 


ML |ENDURANCE—Non-Detergent Motor Oil 


Note: Where manufacturer recommends SAE 5W or SAE 5W-20, use 
Extended Life V.E.P. 5W-30 Motor Oil; for 20W-40, 
All-Season 10W-30 may be used 


OUTBOARD 2-CYCLE MOTOR OIL 


MARALUBE "MOLY" —preferred 
| MARALUBE NO. 2 


ac 


MARALUBE “MOLY” 


MARAGREASE B~--preterred 
MARALUBE “MOLY” 
MARALUBF NO. 2 


WATER PUMP LUBRICANT 


570 SERIES MULTI-PURPOSE GEAR COMPOUND 
(Approved for use in Limited-Slip Differentials) 

Note: Where manufacturer recommends SAE 75, use SAE 80 

550 SERIES GEAR LUBRICANT 


~ 


AUTOMATIC. TRANSMISSION FLUID TYPE A, SUFFIX A 


‘ Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation, excep! for trade names and materials descriptive of 
4 éprodoen of Marathon Oll Company which ard the sole property of that compony. Printed in U.S.A. 
^T DX "t 5 A é A E 


e 


Tee - 


fanbase oil change interval recommendations of motor vehicle manufacturers are not 
shown on lubrication charts duo to the variation between them. Individual recommenda- 
lions, however, are important and should be considered, 


In general, the crankcase oil must be changed more frequently during cold weathor and 
lor stop-and-start driving than is necessary during warm weather and for long high-speed 
trips. Since the average car is driven 9 to 10 thousand miles a yoar, the oil, in most cases, 


should be changed on a time rather than mileage basis. This is especially true for the 
secónd car in a family where it is used for shopping and "suburban taxi service." 


Remember; Crankcase oil change and refill service, performed more frequently, offers 
assured protection; ignoring oil change recommendations offers only the possibility of 
serious damage. 


BUICK , 

Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 

epit 60 days or 6,000 miles, whichever occurs first 

1962 and prior—Anticipated lowest temperature above +32°, every 60 da 4,000 

mies, whichever occurs fist; below +32 every 30 days oi 4,000 miles, whichever occurs 

Exceptions: If there is danger of oil contamination by dust, ther fi 

during very extreme driving conditions, the oil should bo cha fare ee ta 
CADILLAC 

Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 

Deeper peto 60 days or 6,000 miles, whichever occurs first. 

prior—For prevailing temperatures above +32°, every 60 days of 4,000 mil 
eee ut first; below +32°, every 30 days or 4,000 miles, whichever occurs ust. 
'ceptio: ere is danger of oil contamination by dust, water, or other foreign material 

during very extreme driving conditions, the oil should be changed more f 

cases, an engine oil changels recommended alter 2,000, or even 1090 miles of ding 
CHEVROLET ` 


All 1963-64 ex. Corvalr 
Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 


Engine oil should be changed at 60 day or 6,000 mile intervals, which first, Undi 
Pond; dusty driving conditions, It is recommended that the p di ne oil be cha ed 


All 1962 and prior ex. Corvair 
Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 
inl drain for 409-cu. in. engine is 1,000 miles and subsequent changes same as listed 
Above +32", every 60 days or 4,000 miles whichever occurs first; below +32° or during 
adverse driving conditions, every 30 days or 4,000 miles, whichever occurs first. 


Exceptions: During extreme dusty drivi itii 
vanes dne ie by pte y driving conditions it may be necessary to change oil 


Corvair, Corvair 95 1960-64 


Initial drain: If average outdoor temperature is above +60°, drain after.500 miles of opera- 
tion; above +32°, drain after 4,000 miles or 60 days, whichever occurs first; below +32°, 
drain after 4,000 miles or 30 days, whichever occurs first. 

Average drain: Above +32°, every 60 days or every 4,000 miles, whichever occurs first; 
below +32° or during adverse operating conditions, every 30 days or every 4,000 miles, 
whichever occurs first. 

Exceptions: During extreme dusty driving conditions it may be necessary to change oil 
more often than specified above. 


CHRYSLER 


Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 

1964—Highway driving, combined with SOME SHORT TRIP, SLOWER SPEED OPERA- 
TIONS, extends the effectiveness of the engine oil and permits the oil to be changed every 
3 months, or 4,000 miles, whichever comes first. SHORT TRIPS (less than 10 miles) and 
slow speeds cause harmful condensation and sludge formation. Driving under these con- 
ditions requires that the oil be changed every 3 months regardless of mileage, 

Exceptions; Severe operating conditions, such as driving on dusty roads, or in a sandy 
geographical area, or unusually short trip driving in cold weather may require oil changes 
oftener than every 3 months. 

1963—OIL CHANGE INTERVALS of up to 4,000 miles are recommended. HOWEVER, SHORT 
TRIP OR SEVERE OPERATING CONDITIONS frequently encountered in normal diag 
can [522] reduce the protective life of the oil and NECESSITATE MORE FREQUEN 
CHANGES. For most types of driving, the oil should be changed every 2 months. 

1962 and prior—Every 4,000 miles or 2 months, whichever occurs first. 

Exceptions: Short-trip driving in cold weather, or driving on dusty roads can make a change 
of oil advisable more frequently and at times as frequent as every 500 miles. 


DODGE, DODGE DART, DODGE LANCER 
Same as CHRYSLER. 


FORD 
1963-64—Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months, whichever occurs first. 
M a replacement filter other than the Ford Rotunda filter, or engine oils other than those 
recommended are used, more frequent engine oil and filter changes may be required. 

CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 

1962 Initial 1,000 
Average 6,000 ` 
Exceptions: If engine oils or replacement filters other than those recommended are used, 
more frequent oil changes may be required, 
1960-61 Initial — 1,000 
Average 4, 
Exceptions: If your car is driven often in stop-and-go traffic, on short trips or through dusly 
areas, service more frequently. 


IMPERIAL 
Same as CHRYSLER. 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporátion. Printed in U.S.A. 


e a atari degna TL 


‘JEEP’ 
CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 
Initial 500 or 10 hours power take-off or off-highway operation. 
Average 2,000 or 50 hours power take-ofl or off-highway operation, except models 
with 6-230 engine, 6,000 miles or 50 hours power take-off or off-highway Ll] 
operation. 
Excoplions: Change engine oll more frequently depending on type and qualit. of oil used, 
severity of operating conditions and if vehicle is driven short distances in cold weather or 
allowed to idle excessively. 
LINCOLN CONTINENTAL (1961-64) mad 
CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 4 
Ini 1961, 1,000; 1962-64, 6,000. 
6,000 or 6 months, whichever occurs first. 
Exceptions: 1961-64, if engine oils or rei ment fillers other than those recommended [i 
are used, more frequent oil changes may be required. æ = 
MERCURY, MERCURY COMET " ji 
| 


1963-64—lnitialrand subsequent oll changes should be made as follows: 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months, whichever occurs first. 
If a replacement filler other than the Genuine Rotunda filter, or engine oils other than those 
recommended are used, more frequent engine oil and hiter changes may be required. 
CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 
1962 Initial 1,000 
Average 6,000 or 6 months, whichever occurs first. 
Exceptions: More frequent changes are necessary to accommodate abnormal driving condi- A 
tions. If engine oils or replacement filters other than those recommended are used, more 
frequent oil changes may be required. 
1960-61 Initial 1,000 
Second 4,000 
Average 4,000 or every 4 months, whichever occurs first. 
Exceptions: More frequent changes are required under abnormal driving conditions, such S A 
as consistent high speeds in high temperature areas, extremely dusty arggs, or frequent 
low speeds and angine idling periods in low temperature areas. 4 


OLDSMOBILE 

Initial and-subsequent oll changes should be made as follows: ^t 
1963-64 — Every 60 days or 6,000 miles, whichever occurs first. 

1962 and prior— Prevailing daylight temperature above +32°, every 60 days or 4,000 miles, 

whichever occurs first; below 4-32*, every 30 days or 4,000 miles, whichever occurs first. 

Exceptions: Certain driving conditions, such as dust storms and frequent driving on dusty 

roads, necessitate more frequent oil changes. 


T. 


PLYMOUTH, PLYMOUTH-VALIANT 
Same as CHRYSLER. * 


PONTIAC, PONTIAC TEMPEST a . 
Initial and subsequent oil changes should be made as follows: 
1963-64 — Every 60 days or 6,000 miles, whichever occurs first 
When driving on.dusty roads, in dust storms or during extreme driving conditions which 
include long periods of engine idling, the oil should be changed more frequently torpreveat * 
the di of oil contamination. . ^ * E. 
1961-62—Every 60 days above +32°, every 30 days below +32° or every 4,000 miles, f 
whichever occurs first. 


CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 
Others, Initial — 1,000 
Averago 1958-60, Above +32°, 60 days, 


Below +32", 30 days, . 

Never to exceed 4,000 miles, 1,000 miles under dusty conditions. 
Exceptions: 1958-61, adverse driving conditions, such as short trip winter driving (less 
than 10 miles average per trip), makes it advisable to change os every month. Similar short 
trips in the summer make it advisable to change oil every two months 


RAMBLER 
CHANGE INTERVAL MILES 
1961-64 Initia! — 1,000 
Favorable conditions (over 10 miles average per trip) etary. 4.08) miles; summer (over 
+32° average), less than 10 miles average per trip every 2,000 miles; winter (below +32° 
less than 10 miles average per trip every 1,000 miles. For dusty driving conditions 
every 1,000 miles. : 
For cars not equipped with an engine oll filter, all mileages shown above should be réduced 4 
by one half. e i 
^ 
STUDEBAKER ' | 


CHANGE INTERVAL 
Initial 
Average 


UR isi si 


000 

1964 and Avanti, Serial No. R-4993 and after, 6,000 miles or 60-da i 

whichever occurs first; Avanti, Serial No, R-4992 and prior and re: 

1963, and 1962 with full-flow olf filter, and prior, 2,500 to 3,000 miles. 3 
All except 1964 and Avanti, Serial No. R-4993 and after: Regardless of mileage, oil should 

be changed every 30 days suring the winter (temperatures below +32°); 60 days during 

summer (temperatures above +52°). 

All: Severe operation, dust-bow! driving, and other unusual circumstances may make more 

frequent oil changes necessary. $ 


"m 


ar 


M VP tatis sacar Bis 


BeSERVICE INSTRUCTIONS | 


SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS 


5. Use lintless cloth to clean inside of filter housing. 
6. Reinstall drain plug if previously removed. 

7. Install new element and gasket; replace cover. 
8 


Start engine; check oil pressure; check for leaks 
around filter cover. 

9. Check crankcase oil level. Generally, one extra 
quart of motor oil is needed to bring crankcase 


level to full mark on dipstick after filter clement 
replacement. 


Screw-on Type: 
This type filter can be easily removed or installed 
using a strap-type tool or by using a box end wrench 


on those filters that have a nut-like projection 
stamped into the bottom of the housing. 


To replace filter, proceed as follows: 


* Unscrew housing and discard complete unit. 
* Wipe gasket arca on filter base. 


GASKET 


Screw-on type oil filter 


e Place new gasket in retaining groove on new filter. 

Coat gasket with motor oil. 

* Install new filter. Hand tighten until gasket sur- 
face contacts mounting base. Then tighten filter 
an additional V2, 25, or full turn as specified in 
the instructions stamped on the filter housing or 
printed on the container. 

e Start engine; check oil pressure; check for leaks 
around mounting base. Stop engine. 

e Check crankcase oil level. Generally, one extra 
quart of motor oil is needed to bring crankcase 
level to full mark on dipstick after filter element 
replacement. 

The oil filter on Mercedes-Benz cars has a replace- 

able paper element and a wire strainer. Wash the 

strainer and replace the element at the intervals 
shown on the chart. 


starting motor 


Most modern starting motor bearings require no 
lubrication. Starting motors requiring lubrication 
will be equipped with an oil cup or oil hole. 


e Wipe oil cup or oil hole. i . 

e Use two or three drops of SAE 20,20W motor oil 
or grade specified on chart. 

steering 

Gear Housing: 


Steering gear housing while not an engine accessory 
is serviced from under the hood as follows: 


* Clean dirt from plug. 


8 


———— ÁREA 


* Remove plug. Fill housing to level of fill hole with 
lubricant recommended on chart. Housings with- 
out plugs are filled by removing a cover attaching 
cap screw. Some are filled through the plug hole 
to the level of an attaching screw hole. 


* Replace plug. 


Late model Hillman Minx and Husky cars have 
an unusual steering gear with two fittings. Gear 
lubricant, as specified on the chart, should be ap- 
plied while the steering gear is turned all the way 
to thc right. 


Rack and pinion steering gears generally require 
gear oil applied through a lubrication fitting. The 
correct lubricant is shown on the chart. 


Some power steering gear housings are not serviced 
externally. Refer to chart for specific information. 


Power Steering Reservoir: 


Service power steering reservoir as follows: 

* Clean around reservoir cover or fill cap. Remove 
cap or cover. 

* Check fluid level. Proper fluid level is specified 
on chart. 

* Add recommended fluid to proper level. 

* Replace fill cap or cover. 


If filter replacement is required, remove all fluid 
from the reservoir with a suction gun. Lift out the 
old filter and thoroughly clean the reservoir with a 
lint-free cloth before installing the new filter. 


CHASSIS INSPECTION 
AND LUBRICATION 


inspection 


Safety, performance and reliability are three things 
the car owner wants when he brings his car in for 
service. He orders services performed that he knows 
should be taken care of and expects the serviceman 
to inspect and find any other pending trouble. 


lifting procedures 


Use caution when positioning a car on a lift. Many 
cars require special adapters to support the car 
frame properly when free-wheel or frame-engaging 
type lift is used. Be sure the correct adapter is se- 
lected and properly positioned as indicated on the 
chart. This will prevent injury to personnel and 
damage to the car. Always keep car doors closed 
while on the lift. 


Special instructions on the chart should be followed 
when lifting cars with air suspension. 


lubrication procedures 


The front suspension and steering linkage fittings arc 
shown on the chart by black dots, Prepacked bear- 
ings requiring inspection or service are indicated by 
black triangles. 


omplete Chassis Lubrication: 
ae amplis chassis lubrication, consult the ap- 
licable chart in this Guide. for the location of every 
lubrication point, the lubricant to be applied and 
the interval at which the service should be per- 
formed. Also listed is important service information 
for automatic transmissions, wheel bearings, posi- 


tive crankcase ventilating systems and other critical 
service points. 

To double the value of your lubrication service and 
increase your profits from additional TBA sales and 
services, follow the safety inspection procedure out- 
lined on the pages titled "Your Steps to Car Safety." 
Car safety inspection can well be one of your most 
important and profitable efforts. 


Lubrication Gun Adapters: 


Use adapters to service hard-to-reach points like tie 
rod ends, control arms, and other fittings that cannot 
‘be reached in a straight line with a standard gun. 
Pressure relief adapters dispense lubricant at lower 
pressure. Instances where the manufacturer specifies 
low pressure are shown on the chart. High pressure 
on these fittings may rupture seals or gaskets or 
cause other damage. 


Ball Joint Lubrication: 


When lubricating front suspension ball joints, it is 
important that the car be lifted in a manner that will 
unload the ball joints so that the lubricant can effec- 
tively enter the joints. The design of the front suspen- 
sion dictates where the jack or lift should be placed. 


When the front coil spring is mounted between the 
upper and lower control arms, the support must be 
placed under the lower control arm as close to the 
wheel as possible. This can be accomplished by the 
use of a floor jack or by placing a heavy plank 
across the rails of a rail-type lift to properly support 
the lower control arms. À small hand-operated jack 
can be used on the rails of a drive-on type lift. 


The use of a floor 
jack will unload the 
ball joints 


A sturdy plank placed 
across the lift rails will 


properly support the 
lower control arms 


When the coil spring is mounted above the upper 
control arm, as it is on the Ford Falcon, Chevy II 
and others, the vehicle must be lifted by the frame 
to properly unload the joints. The normal use of 
the standard frame contact lift, along with the 
proper adapters, will satisfy this requirement. 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


beeg eeo eR G 


“BRP b5^5$6352334642343 


Ball Joint Lubrication Procedure: 


Follow this procedure for lubricating ball joints 
equipped with standard fittings. 


* Lift the front of the car by the lower control arm 
or frame, as previously explained, to unload the: 
ball joints. 

e Wipe fittings clean, apply lubricant intermittently, 

* Turn wheels from side-to-side to distribute lubri- 
„cant in joints. 


Apply lubricant to 
ball joint while 
turning wheels 
from side-to-side 


* Repeat procedure at other front wheel, turning 
wheels from side-to-side after lubricant has been 
applied. 

Note: The up-and-down movement of the tire and 

wheel assembly as the lubricant is applied is evi- 

dence that the ball joints are separating by the 
forceful entrance of the lubricant and does not in- 
dicate worn parts. 


* Lower car to floor. Bounce car up-and-down and 
rock it from side-to-side several times to check 
for noise. If noise is heard, relubricate joints. 


Lack of lubricant at the ball joints produces two 
distinct types of front end noise. Dry lower ball 
joints produce a crunching or squeaking noise as 
the car is slowly bounced up-and-down. Dry upper 
ball joints produce a snapping or cracking noise as 
the front end is bounced more forcibly. 


Prepacked Bearings: 

Many late model cars are equipped with prepacked 
bearings at their front suspension ball joints and/or 
steering linkage joints. The extended mileage in- 
terval at which prepacked bearings are rclubri- 
cated is made possible, in addition to changes in 
lubricants by the use of better rubber seals. Usually 
a balloon-type scal is used to replace the former 
umbrella-type. However, to prevent seal rupture, 
lubricant must be applied slowly and at low pressure 
because balloon-type seals do not readily allow ex- 
cess lubricant to escape. 


Balloon-type 


Umbrella-type 


Prepacked bearings are identified on the chart by 
black triangles. 


Copyright 1964, The Chok-Chorl Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS 


The recommended prepacked bearing service pro- 
cedure and the special lubricant to be used are listed 
on the applicable charts. 


Inspection: 


When a car equipped with prepacked bearings is on 
the lift, the seals of the bearings should be inspected 
for physical damage such as tears, ruptures or worn 
spots. Damaged seals should be replaced. Also 
make sure that the screw-in metal plug or press-in 
plastic plug is in place on every bearing. 

The relubrication of prepacked bearings requires 
the use of special lubrication adapters. A typical 
group of such adapters is illustrated below. 


Prepacked bearing lubrication adapters 


Lubrication: 

Prepacked bearings should be repacked at the inter- 
val specified on the chart or sooner if the need for 
lubricant is evident or the seals have been damaged 
permitting the loss of lubricant and the entrance of 
dirt. 

Follow this procedure for relubricating prepacked 
ball joints and steering linkage joints: 


e Unscrew the metal 
plug or pry out the 
plastic plug. Discard 
plastic plug. 


Screw the lubrication 
adapter into, or press 
rubber tip of adapter 
or special hand gun 
into the plug hole in 
the bearing and ap- 
ply the recommended 
lubricant until it is 
visible around seal or 
until seal is filled. 


e Install and tighten the 
metal plug or press in 
a new plastic plug. 


e Upper ball joint is 
serviced in the same 
manner as the lower 
joint: remove plug, 
lubricate, replace 


plug. 


Unscrew metal plug 
or pry out plastic plug 
from steering linkage 
joint. Discard plastic 


plug. 


Screw lubrication 
adapter into, or press 
rubber tip of adapter 
into lubrication hole 
and apply lubricant 
until it is visible 
around seal or until 
seal is filled. 


e Replace and tighten 
metal plug or press 
new plastic plug into 
position. 


When prepacked bearings are constructed without a 
provision for relubrication, the ball joint or steering 
linkage joint must be replaced if the joint is dry, 
worn or the seal is damaged. 


battery maintenance " 

The condition of the battery should be clfecked dur- 

ing each chassis lubrication. 

* Check electrolyte level. Add pure water to bring 
level to 3$ inch above top of plates. 

* Clean dirty battery top with ammonia water or 
baking soda solution, rinse and wipe dry. 

* Check cable connections and hold down. Tighten 
if necessary. 


SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS 


Front Wheel Bearing Adjustment: 

Adjustment procedures and torque specifications are 

listed on cach chart. 

Front wheel bearings are adjusted by either of two 

methods: 

FEEL AND DRAG METHOD — 

* Tighten wheel retaining nut until wheel drags 
slightly when rotated. Turning whecl also seats 
bearing. 

e Loosen retaining nut 14; turn (14 hex) for ball 

bearings or % turn (1 hex) for roller bearings, to 

align nut slot with cotter pin hole in spindle. 

Whecl should rotate freely. 

Insert new cotter pin. Bend one leg over end of 

spindle. Clip off end of leg if static collector is 

used in dust cap. Bend other leg over rctaining 
nut. Tap legs lightly to set. Cotter pin must be 
tight. 

TORQUE WRENCH METHOD — 

* Make sure wheel retaining nut is running free on 
threads. 

* Tighten with torque wrench to initial torque rec- 
ommended by car manufacturer, as shown on 
chart. 

* Loosen retaining nut and retighten to secondary 
torque, if recommended on chart, OR 

* Loosen torque from initial torque position, as 
shown on chart. 


Adjusting bearing with torque wrench 


e Insert new cotter pin. If necessary, loosen nut 
slightly to align cotter pin hole. 

e Bend one leg of cotter pin over end of spindle. 
Clip off end of leg if static collector is used in 
dust cap. Bend other leg over retaining nut. Tap 
legs lightly to set. Cotter pin must be tight. 

Some late model cars use a separate nut lock in con- 

junction with the wheel bearing adjustment nut. 

Adjust as follows: 

e Tighten adjusting nut to specified torque. 

e Slide nut lock over adjusting nut in a position 
that aligns the castellations on lock with cotter 
pin hole in spindle. 


D^ 


ADJUSTING: Aaa 


Placing nut lock on spindle 


e Back off both adjusting nut and nut lock together 
until next castellation on nut lock is aligned with 
cotter pin hole in spindle. 


14 


© Install new cotter pin and bend legs of pin around 
castellated flange of nut lock. 

Some imported cars have nonadjustable front wheel 

bearings with spacers, A puller is usually required 

to remove the front hub. A puller must also be used 

to remove the bearing from the spindle if the inner 

bearing or race remains on the spindle. 

* Bearings are cleaned, checked and repacked in 
conventional manner. 

Inner bearing, oil seal, spacer and outer bearing 
should be inserted in hub when reassembling. 

* Use soft metal drift on outer bearing and tap into 
position. 

* Do not back off to line up cotter pin hole when 
tightening front hub nut. 

e Hub nut must be drawn up tight because bearings 
are not adjustable. 


The 1963 Studebaker Avanti and many high- 
performance imported cars are equipped with disc 
brakes and care must be used when repacking wheel 
bearings. Unbolt and support the disc brake caliper 
without disconnecting the hydraulic brake lines. 
Check the number of shims and their position at 
the caliper mounting points before disassembly. Be 
sure to replace the shims in their original position. 
The bearings should be disassembled, washed, dried, 
repacked and adjusted using the same procedure 
used when servicing drum-type brake-equipped cars. 
Some imported cars have fittings for lubricating the 
front wheel bearings. Jaguar grease fitting, mounted 
on the wheel hub, is exposed by removing the front 
wheel. Grease appearing at a vent hole in the dust 
cap will indicate when enough grease has been 
applied on cars with disc wheels. Grease can be 
seen coming past the outer wheel bearing by looking 
into the end of the splined hub adapter on cars with 
wire wheels. 


CALIPER BOLTS ge 
AND SPACERS aF 
IN BACK 


(when used) 


Remove disc brake caliper to repack bearings 


The front hub caps must be removed to expose the 
wheel bearing fitting on some Triumph TR2 models 
with disc wheels. 

Speedometer cables normally do not affect wheel 
bearing service and are driven from the transmission 
or transmission extension housing. The Porsche and 
Volkswagen and some 1963-64 Oldsmobiles, how- 
ever, drive their speedometers from the left front 
wheel. The speedometer cable runs through the 
spindle and is driven by the dust cap which is pressed 
into the wheel hub in the usual manner. 

When performing front wheel bearing service on the 
Porsche or Volkswagen, the cotter pin which locks 
the speedometer cable to the dust cap must first be 
removed. The cable can then be withdrawn or the 


dust cap pried off, When the service is completed, a 
new cotter pin should be installed. 


Oldsmobile 


Porsche & Volkswagen 
Left front wheel speedometer drives 


For Oldsmobile, carefully pry off the dust cap with 
a screwdriver and pull the cap straight off the hub 
to avoid bending the speedometer cable. When 
reinstalling the dust cap, fit the nylon cap insert over 
the cable end, then push the cap into its hub. 


rear wheel bearings 

Rear wheel bearings of most domestic cars do not 

require lubrication service. Bearings requiring serv- 

ice have a lubrication fill hole sealed with either a 

fitting or plug as indicated on the chart. The type 

and quantity of recommended lubricant is also 

shown on the chart. 

e Wipe fitting clean. 

e Lubricate at low pressure. 

e If plug, wipe plug and adjacent area. 

e Remove plug to expose fill hole. 

e Lubricate slowly at low pressure, using taper tip 
on lubrication gun. Replace plug. 

The rear axle shaft must be removed to repack rear 

wheel bearings of some cars. Special puller tools and 

know-how are required for these operations. Thus, 

this work is generally considered a mechanic’s job. 


tire rotation 

Tire rotation greatly increases tire life because wear 
is spread evenly over all the tires. 

The various methods for tire rotation as specified on 
the individual charts are shown below: 


Rotation of dual tires usually is governed by tire 
diameter. 

Keep tires reasonably well matched. 

e Install new tire on front of truck. 

e Mount tire with most tread on outside. 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


Ls 
d 
6 
oe 
w 
v 
e 
e 
€ 
e 
o 
oe 
e 


ebb^óhb^ààd4d^4dàó$t4óS4$?4345v1L45$414$3434212$7234! 


ENGINE TUNE-UP 


when to tune-up 


Tune-Up should be recommended whenever an en- 
gine is hard to start, loses power and performance, 
or uses an excessive amount of fucl. To keep the 
engine operating at maximum efficiency, it is also 
advisable to recommend Tune-Up on both a mile- 
age interval as well as on a seasonal basis. 


The full benefits of Tune-Up will be realized when 
combined with the other periodic services shown on 
the chart, such as air cleaner service, fuel filter re- 
placement, manifold heat control valve lubrication, 
crankcase ventilator system service, crankcase drain 
and refill, and oil filter replacement. 


The operations listed in the Tune-Up Data, which is 
contained on every car model page in this Guide, 
are arranged in the sequence in which they should 
be performed. Following this procedure will save 
time and provide the most satisfactory results. 


The required equipment has been centered around 
the economically-priced, portable type of test equip- 
ment with which the average stationman is familiar. 


battery 
The battery is tested first because it is the basic 
source of energy in the automotive electrical system. 


The AABM battery group number listed in the data 
is a code number that indicates the battery’s voltage, 
physical size and shape, cell arrangement, terminal 
post position and type of hold-down. The group 
number will assure the proper selection of the re- 
placement battery. 


The ampere-hour capacity is listed because the 
ampere-hour rating of the replacement battery 
should be at least that of the original battery. The 
ampere-hour rating must also be known to perform 
certain battery tests. 


Most passenger car and truck models covered in this 
Guide are equipped with a 12-volt battery. Where a 
6-volt battery is used, it is so indicated in the Data. 
Dual 6-volt battery installations, as used in some 
makes of imported cars, are indicated by the 
symbol (2). 

Battery Testing: 

A battery may be tested for: Specific gravity with 
a hydrometer; cell voltage variations by light load 
test with a low-reading voltmeter; capacity with a 
Battery-Starter Tester. 


SPECIFIC GRAVITY TEST — 

A specific gravity test is made to determine the bat- 
tery state of charge. The hydrometer used in this 
test measures the percentage of acid present in the 
battery solution. 

If the solution has full acid strength, the battery is 
in a full state of charge and, unless it is physically 
defective, is capable of acceptable performance. 


1f the solution is weak, it is an indication that most 
of the acid is soaked into the plates. Recharging the 
battery will drive the acid out of the plates back into 
the solution restoring the battery’s strength and con- 
sequently its working ability. 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


SERVICE INSTRUCTION 


= 


Usc hydrometer to draw electrolyte from cell 
until float is freely suspended. Do not draw too 
much electrolyte. 

2. Read specific gravity on float scale at point even 
with clectrolyte level and make necessary tem- 
perature correction. 


Generally speaking, a fully-charged 12-volt battery 
has a specific gravity of 1.260 and a 6-volt battery 
has a specific gravity of 1.280. A battery with spe- 
cific gravity of 1.220 or less is in need of charging. 
3. Return electrolyte to cell from which drawn. Use 
care not to spill electrolyte on the car finish. 
CAUTION: If electrolyte contacts skin, rinse 
immediately in clean running water. 
4. Check the specific gravity of each battery cell. 
5. Add distilled or pure drinking water to the cells 
until level is about % inch above the plates or 
up to the full mark on fill wells. 


A specific gravity test indicates battery state of charge 


LIGHT LOAD TEST — 

A light load test indicates the battery state of charge 

and also reveals the presence of internal defects. 

1. Connect jumper lead to distributor primary 
terminal and to ground. 

2. Crank engine for 3 seconds. 

3. Turn headlamps on low beam for at least 1 
minute. 

4. With headlamps still on, check individual cell 
voltages. Cell readings indicate: 


CELL MAXIMUM VARIATION BATTERY 
VOLTAGE BETWEEN CELLS CONDITION 
1.95 or more, Less than Good 
all cells .05 volt 
Less than 1.95 Less than Good, but 
for any cell .05 volt needs 
charging 
Less than 1.95 Discharged. 
for all cells Charge and 
retest 
1.95 or more More than Defective. 
for any cell .05 volt Replace 
battery 


Testing individual 
cell voltage 


CAPACITY TEST — 

A battery at or near full charge can be tested for 

internal defects by a capacity test. A capacity test 

duplicates the maximum battery effort required to 

crank a cold engine. 

© Clip Battery-Starter Tester leads to battery ter- 
minals in proper polarity. 


Conducting a battery capacity test 


e Conduct test as recommended by test equipment 
manufacturer. 

e Recommend battery replacement if a 12-volt bat- 
tery drops below 9 volts; or a 6-volt battery drops 
below 4.5 volts. 


Battery Charge: 

If the specific gravity test indicates the need for 

charging, proceed as follows: 

e Add water to bring electrolyte to proper level. 

e Charge battery in accordance with instructions 
furnished with charger. 


A fast battery charger is an essential piece of equipment 
CAUTION: When recharging the battery in a car 
equipped with an alternator, remove the battery 
cables from the battery before operating the charger. 


Never use a fast battery charger as a booster to start 
an engine equipped with an alternator. 

Failure to observe these precautions may result in 
damage to the alternator diode rectifiers. 


Do not smoke and avoid creating sparks near a 
battery that is being charged. 


15 


SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS 


cylinder numbering sequence 


Cylinder numbering sequence is illustrated in the 
Data because this information varies with different 
engine designers. The cylinder used to ignition time 
the engine, usually No. 1, and its corresponding 
distributor cap tower, are identified in black on the 
engine illustration. Either of these two points can 
be used for connecting the timing light when setting 
the ignition timing of the engine. The distributor 
cap hold-down clip or screw positions are also indi- 
cated to accurately identify No. 1 cap tower position. 


Examples of No.1 cylinder position and cylinder num- 
bering sequences 


The direction of rotor rotation, as viewed from the 
top of the distributor, is indictated by an arrow on 
every distributor illustration. 


The firing order of an engine is the sequence in 
which the cylinders must be fired for smooth engine 
operation and full power. The firing order of the 
engine(s) is listed below every engine diagram(s) 
in the Data. 


Knowing the position of the No. 1 tower in the 
distributor cap, the direction of rotor rotation and 
the firing order, will serve two important functions. 
First; the cables can be properly connected to their 
respective spark plugs after the plugs have been 
serviced or replaced. Second; when replacing de- 
fective spark plug cables with a new set, the new 
cables can be correctly positioned in the distributor 
cap by starting with No. 1 position and following the 
firing order around the cap in the direction of rotor 
rotation while selecting each cable for proper length. 


When replacing cables, be sure to press the new 
cables down firmly into the distributor cap towers. 
Be certain to properly position the cables in their 
holders, when used, to prevent ignition cross-firing. 


ignition timing 
Correct ignition timing is one of the most important 


factors relative to efficient and economical engine 
operation. It must be checked on every Tune-Up. 


In most instances, ignition timing is checked with a 
timing light that is powered by battery current and is 
“triggered” by voltage applied to the spark plug to 
which the light is connected. 


The spark plug to which the timing is connected is 
generally the one in No. 1 cylinder. If this spark 
plug is inaccessible, a timing light adapter can be 
inserted between the No. | distributor cap tower and 
its spark plug cable. The light can then be con- 
nected to the adapter. 


18 


Using No. I 
distributor cap 
tower for a 
timing light 
connection 
with the aid 
of an adapter 


It is important that an adapter be used when neces- 
sary. DO NOT puncture spark plug cables with pins 
or clips to make a point for a connection. Piercing 
the insulation results in permanent damage to the 
cable which permits the loss of high-voltage current 
with resultant ignition misfiring. 


Timing setting and location of timing mark are shown 
in the Tune-Up Data. Always refer to this Data for 
ignition timing procedures and specifications because 
this information varies with different car manufac- 
turers. It is advisable to check the ignition point 
dwell or gap before setting the ignition timing be- 
cause any subsequent change in point dwell will 
change the timing. 


Timing Procedure: 


Ignition timing procedures, in general, are: 

1. Locate timing mark on harmonic balancer, crank- 
shaft pulley or flywheel. 

2. Bump engine with starter until timing mark ap- 
pears. If marks are not readily visible, coat timing 
mark and reference pointer on engine with white 
chalk or paint. 

3. Operate engine until normal operating tempera- 
ture is reached. Stop engine. 

4. Connect timing light to spark plug in No. 1 cyl- 
inder or to No. 1 cylinder distributor cap tower. 
Follow the light manufacturer's instructions. 

5. Start engine. Timing light will flash cach time 
No. 1 cylinder fires. 


AX de 

An ignition timing light 

6. Operate engine at specified idle speed. Aim light 
at timing mark. CAUTION: Be careful of re- 
volving fan blades. 


7. Reset ignition timing if timing mark appears on 
either side of reference pointer. 


Ignition timing is set by loosening the distributor 
clamp screw and slowly turning the distributor hous- 
ing against rotor rotation to advance the timing or 
with rotor rotation to retard the timing, until the 
correct timing mark aligns with the reference pointer. 
Then tighten the clamp screw and recheck the 
timing. 

Engines operating with retarded (late) ignition tim- 
ing lack performance, waste fuel and have a tendency 


to overheat. Advanced (early) ignition timing 
causes spark knock and raises combustion chamber 
temperatures to the point where spark plug and 
piston damage can result. 


DIRECTION OF 
ROTOR ROTATION 


— 


c’ 


N J 
TO RETARD TO ADVANCE 


ignition timing is set by turning the distributor housing 
in the direction of the bold arrows 


Slowly turn the distributor housing in the direction 
indicated by the arrows to secure alignment of the 
specified timing marks. 

If the ignition timing is found to be out of specifica- 
tions when checked, the condition has very likely 
been caused by wear on the rubbing block of the 
breaker point arm. Before resetting the timing, in- 
spect the condition of the points and the rubbing 
block. Replace defective points. If the points pass 
inspection, adjust the dwell angle and lubricate the 
distributor cam. Then reset the ignition timing as 
required. Readjusting the dwell angle may auto- 
matically reset the timing. 

The direction of rotor rotation may be determined 
at a glance, without removing the distributor cap 
or cranking the engine, by merely observing the 
position of the vacuum advance unit on the distribu- 
tor housing. 


The position of the vacuum advance unit can be used 
to indicate the direction of rotor rotation 


. The function of the vacuum unit is to advance the 
spark timing by moving the breaker plate against 
the direction of rotor rotation. Rotor rotation will 
therefore be away from the vacuum unit as indicated 
by the arrow in the illustration. 


fuel pump 

Fuel pump tests are made to test the ability of the 
pump to maintain the specified pressure and to sup- 
ply the proper volume of fuel to mect the fuel re- 
quirements of the engine at all speeds and loads. 
Observe all safety fire rules when conducting fuel 
pump tests. Following are the general fuel pump 
testing procedures, 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


ebbe ?9* 9-925292 2522*97»*5»259»9* 59» 9**9* *7*9* 92 959» 9» 2-29 


Pressure Test; 

*. Disconneot Mel tine at carburetor, 

* Attach. pressure. gauge to disconnected fuel Tino, 
e Mlle engine at speed specilied In Data, 

* Note pressure. roading ou. gauge, 

* Replace fuel pump U pressure le out of tilts, 


A fuel pump 
pressure test 


Volume. Test; (lor mechantoal pumpa) 

* Insert tee in fuel line at carburetor, 

© Attach length of tubing to tee. 

* Start engine and tun at recommended speed, 

e Direct gasoline flowing from free end of tube into 
pint measure held tovel with carburetor, 


A fuel pump 
volume test 


* Observe time required to collect quantity of fuel 
specitied, Replace fuel pump that delivers less 
than specified volume in time listed In Data, 


carburetor adjustment 


The adjustment of the carburetor takes. place only 
when all other conditions pertaining to ellicient on- 
sine performance have been checked, as previously 
esceibed, An initial setting of the idle mixture 
screws should be made first, Thon make the final 
adjustment, When seating the idle mixture screws, 
stop turning the scrows inward as soon as the needle 
touches its seat, Forcibly seating the mixture serews 
results in. grooving the tapered needlo tip and in 
damaging the needle seat, This condition will make 
a fine idle adjustment impossible, 


Initial Setting: 
|, With engine ir de turn adjusting scrow(s) In 
(clockwise) until seated lightly, 


Adjusting the 
Caróuretor 
dle mixture 


Geayetaht tAd, Tho Cheb. Cher Corporation, Printed ta U RA 


9, Tum adjusting serew (8) out (countorelock wine) 
tho number of tuens spoclfied in TuneUp Data, 
Do nuro to turn screws. exict samo number. of 
turna when. carburetor han two screws, 


Final Adjustment: 

4, Conneet tachometer to distributor. primary ter- 
minal or. coll diatelhutor primary terminal and 
to ground, 

4, Start and operate ongino unti] normal opernting 
temperature la reached, 

S. Adjunt throttle stop screw for correct Idle speed 
speeltled In Tune Up Data, 

6, ‘Turn dle adjusting serews In equally until ta- 
chometer needle drops back slightly. 

7, Tuen idio adjusting screws out until tachometer 
returns t0 highest reading, 

8, Adjust throttle stop crow for Idle npeed speci- 
fled In Data, 


Automate: Choke Adjustment: 

Insufflolont automatic choko actlon causes hard 
starting and continual stalling with n cold engine. 
Prolonged choke actlon cnusos oxcoativo fuel con- 
sumption, fouled spark pluga, and crankcase motor 
oll dilution. 


A sorbed or embossed Hino on the choke body or 
carburetor ale horn, called an Index mark, is used 
to provide a setting for the tension adjustment of 
the bimetal thermostatle spring of the choke mech- 
anism. Automatle choke covers nre generally marked 
to indicate direction to turn the choke cover to sc- 
cure the recommended adjustment, 


* INDEX COVER 
MARK RITAINING 
Turning the I A SCREW 


choke cover 
seis the 
automate 
choke 
adjustment 


Chokes of thin type are adjusted as follows: 

¢ Loowen tho cover retaining screws, 

e Adjust tho cover to the position specified in the 
Data, 

e Tighten the retaining screws, 


Another design has the thermostatic apring mounted 
on the maolfold, If RU In prescribed, dis- 
connect the upper end of tho rod between this spring 
and the earburetor choke lever, Hold the choke 
valvo closed and pull the rod up against (ts stop. As 
inen in the Data, the rod should be Ya to 1 
diameters above the hole In the choke lever, If nec- 
essary, bend the rod to adjust Its length. 


engine idle speed 


Correct englno idle speed is important because an 
idle speed set too low causes frequent engine stall- 
ing and an Idle speed set too high will interfere with 
proper clutch engagement. In automatic transmission- 
equipped cars an Idle speed set too high causes the 


enr to "creep" requiring constant brake application 
at traffic lights. 


Setting engine 
Idle spee 


The idle speed adjustment is made with the engine at 
operating temperature and the throttle stop screw 
rosting on the low step of the fast idle cam, The 
recommended idle speed is specified in the Data, 


A dashpot, which is a throttle slow-closing device, 
is used on many cars. [ts function is to prevent 
engine stalling when the throttle is closed suddenly, 


LOCKNUT a DAMON 
z THROTTLE 
ADJUSTMENT LINKAGE 


Adjustment of most dashpots ts a simple operation 


If, after idle speed adjustment, the engine does not 
return to the same idle speed cach time the engine is 
accelerated and idled, the throttle linkage may be 
binding or the dashpot may be malfunctioning, Re- 
lieve the Jinkage binding and replace the dashpot 
if it does not respond to adjustment, 


valve clearance 
Cars equipped with hydraulic valve lifters automati- 
cally malntaln a constant zero lash. 

Valves that require adjustment are generally ad- 
juned with the engine hot and running. If, because 
of engine design or other factors, it is recommended 
that the valves be adjusted when the engine is cold 
and not running, the Tune-Up Data will so indicate. 
The general valve clearance adjustment procedure 
is as follows: 

|, Remove rocker arm or valve chamber cover. 

2. Start and idle engine till normal operating tem- 
perature Is reached, 


v 


Adjusting 
engine valve 
clearance 


3, Pass fceler gauge between rocker arm and valve 
stem tip on all valves, 


4, Adjust valves to clearance specificd in Data, 

5, Stop engine. 

6. Replace cover. Be sure cover gasket is in per- 
fect condition, If it is not, replace it. 


19 


Body maintenance is an important part of 
every lubrication job, A car that squeaks 
after lubrication results in a dissatisfied 
customer, 


iz [e] DY Always begin by wiping off old lubri- 

L U B RI CATI O N cant and accumulated dirt witb. a solvent 
moistened cloth, Apply fresh lubricant 
sparingly. Be especially careful to remove 
any excess lubricant from places which 
customer might brush against, 


e Start with under hood points, then 
circle the car and lubricate door latches, 
hinges, weatherstrip and locks 

* Open trunk or station wagon tail gate, 
service latch, check link, hinges and 
weatherstrip 

e Lubricate fuel tank door and clean out 
body drain holes, Where found, lubri- 
cate sealing strips covering drains un- 
der doors 

* Inside body, service window vent locks, 
poe compartment, ash receiver, park- 


HOOD LATCH ; 
AND HINGES (7S 
N A 
O 


: N - ng brake and seat tracks 
ZC AUBRICATE HERE N A j © Periodically repack speedometer cable 
Latch dowel... DE Latch’plate ......-+-.. DE Hinges, at both and, on convertibles, lubricate top 
Safety catch ......,... MO sides of hood.......... Mo mechanism and zipper 


i = 


00009000000000000900000000000000000000000000000000000000 ONN 


DOOR 
HARDWARE 


Pa 


DE  Toggle-type latch Double toggle-type latch Lift bolt latch 
and striker c... MO — and striker ......-.... DE and striker ..,.. s wo 


Courtesy light 
switch button ......... DE 


LUBRICATE _ 


o MERE 


— NR st 
NU = 
LE 


Fas 
IH IHR 
| c 


Folding type check .... 


00 NOT OIL 
LOCK TUMBLER 


| Bo 
| Strapetype check... MO. 


Lock tumblers .........FG 


1 
.MO ` Weatherstrip. ... . . RRorSE — Push button ..........M0 = 
» 


22 5 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Cha/I Corperation, Printed in U.8, A. 


` m 
^ KEY TO LUBRICANTS | 
` CL Chassis Lubricant 
h Dry Stick Lubricant 
5 FG Flake Graphite 
WB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, BO DY LU BRI CATI Oo N 
-" Heavy:Duty 
MO Motor Oil 
* RR Rubber Lubricant 
" SE Silicone Grease 
| SP Speedometer Cable 

ə Grease ! 

TRUNK DOOR AND - 
- TAIL GATE 
9 $ 
~ 
® 
QITTTTTTTTT ) b $0000000060000000000000000000000000000090 
ont FUEL TANK i 

COVER 
À 
t 
"T & oh fendar orto Mo Std inm UU ASA M0 Clean out drain holes err ap e. $ 
Decccccccvcesssoesscancs ($900900096000000000000000000000000 
8 1 TS 1 = i MOVE SEAT FORWARD 

2) "aot \ LUBRICATE b^ | 
- g x 
" Seat track slides... ..... 
tt 
mai 
a 
AA 
Ji 
" ' 2 
J Cenvtigh 184d) The Chl Chart Carveratton: tered In UA, 


A iet Do REO ee 
ab cs m EUR MT Ne vara, dean 104 Fr 


GENERAL FRAME ENGAGING LIFT CHART 


Most American cars prior to 1957 can be lifted on a frame pension, low-mounted exhaust systems or where brake lines 
engaging lift without adapters. Later models with wide or "X" are exposed. Follow the procedures on this chart and posi- 


frames or unitized bodies require special procedures. Added tion adapters at points shown by red rectangles on Lubrication 
care must be used to lift cars with features such as air sus- Charts. 


«E cHEK Position 


L2 spor 


Check the lubrication chart for correct contact 
position on frame or body under which to place 
the adapters. 


Spot wheel as shown above. On extremely short 
and long wheelbase cars it may be necessary to 
spot wheel behind or in front of the wheel plate. 


Make sure all parts of the car will clear lift and 
adapter members before driving car over lift. 


Observe precautions for air suspension equipped 


Raise lift slowly until adapters or lift contact 
cars. See Lubrication Chart for lift precautions. 


understructure of car. Recheck adapter position 
and contact area. 


Swing adapters into proper position after spot- 
ting car. Be sure adapters contact at points 
shown on Lubrication Chart. 


When car is lowered move adapters back to 
original position to allow plenty of clearance so 
car can be driven from lift. 


Lift car to working level. Be sure safety support 
is in position to keep hoist from accidentally 
lowering. 


On 1962 and earlier American Motors cars be 
sure adapter engages two downward-turned body 
flanges near the rear wheels. Flange may be dis- 
torted if only one is contacted. 


Copyright 1954, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


24 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY G AanM 
Ali up No. Amp; urs; 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
1959 Manual Trans. .. minii 

Auto. Trans. . 
1960 Manual Trans. . 

Auto. Trans, ... 


Regular gas engine ........ 
Variations should not exceed 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 44S 
Gap: .035" 
Torque: 25-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .016” 
Dwell angle: 29°-31° (30: preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOO 
DOCS 


Firing Order: 1, 2, 7, 8, 4,5, 6,3 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Set idle speed to 400 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL $ 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
tum distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ing 

6. Reset to proper idle speed 


P p PNE 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manual Trans. 5°; Auto. Trans. 12°; at 400 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model 4706 


Pressure: 514-614 Ib. at 450 and 1000 rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. ‘Trans. 
1959  2-bbl. WGD VA index index 
1959-60 4-bbl. AFB 1 -— 1 rich 
1960  2-bbl. WGD 94 1 lean index 


ROCHESTER E 
1959-60 4-bbl. 4GC 1% — index 
STROMBERG 

1959 2-bbl. WW-2 3 - 1 lean 
1960 2-bbl. WW-2 1 — index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 485 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. 485 rpm in NEUTRAL* m 

*Make certain idle compensator valve is closed, 
if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 


19 1614 
18% 17 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 
Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 
Fill to level mark, when oil is warm 
Fuel FiliBt ccs aeo nai ras rip rts Replace 
Battery 1. core ton Test and fill 


E Carburetor Accelerating Pump Shaft. .. . . . MO 
Carter carburetor on LeSabre: Fill 1 screw hole on 
top and 1 hole under cover 


Manual Steering Gear (plug). ......... 90 MP 

Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Eb Wie gaue............. Wash and oil MO 
B Dytype .............. — Clean 
IB Dry type sans oon Replace 
By Polyurethane....... Wash and oil 10W MO 


Brake Master Cylinder (plug). ............ HB 
Fill to 4-1 inch below top of fill hole. 1959 power 
brake models, fill cap near lower end of steering 
column. Fill to 1 inch below top of tube 


E3 Front Suspension and 


Clutch Release Equalizer Shaft........... CL 
TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 


80 grade when consistently below -10° 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Ell Propeller Shaft Spline aire 


Remove plug, rotate shaft until fitting appears 
Lubricate sparingly — about one ounce 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 
80 grade when consistently below -10° 

Maintain level to ¥ inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 644 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
1959, metal plate under fill plug or @ stamped 
on bottom edge of carrier housing 
1960, metal plate above fill plug 


* For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


GAS TANK .......... € Gallons 
All models. ic civisissce ee chr aie emere nn 20 
TIRES ...Pressure Front Rear 


7.60-15, 8.00-15 K 24 24 
Station wagon ......... 2n 24 30 
For temperatures below 4-32? increase pressure 
2 pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


KEY TO 


Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


Steering Linkage.......... (17 fittings) CL —— 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


BUICK V-8 


1959-60 All Models 


INTERVALS SHO E 
£4 CRANKCASE... “MS” MO 
k a iow-30,10W-20 
10W-30,10W-20 
5W-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ORAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
Generator (2 oil cups)............. 10W MO 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position...... . | 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 


All except Triple Turbine. 3 12 
Triple Turbine . . : 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 2 converter plugs and disconnect fill pipe 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 

Oil Fill Caps......... .....Wash and oil MO EJ 

Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft... . MH | 

Oil Filter (under car). .............. Replace Ey 

Add extra quart oil | 

Distributor Shaft (oil cup)........... 10W MO 
pi Suspension Tank Valve............. Drain | 


Depress valve core to expel condensation. Below 
+32°, exhaust tank air supply thru valve. Re- 
move pressure line on top of tank from under 
hood and pour Y pint of methyl alcohol into tank 
thru opening 


Front Wheel Bearings........... Repack WB 


Initial torque, 30 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; final 
adjustment, 127 ft. Ib. i 


LIFTING CAUTION — AIR SUSPENSION 


Before jacking or placing car on lift, CLOSE 
SHUT-OFF VALVE at rear of radiator upper 
support. Open valve after lowering 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2” (3” for high-speed driv- 
ing) with standard brakes or more than 1" (1/97 
for high-speed driving) with power brakes, engine 
running, the need for service is indícated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Using suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
to expand shoes until wheel can just be 
turned by hand. Drag should be equal at all 
wheels 


2. Back off adjuster 15 notches 
3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles 


GiEvery 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 


H Every 5,000 miles 
MI] Every 10,000 miles 
IB Every 15,000 miles 
E Every 25,000 miles 
E] Every 6 months 


Bill. Position for lift adapter 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
Buick Part No. 980108 


MO Motor Oil 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


BUICK V-8 


1961-62 LeSabre, Invicta, Electra, Electra 225 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABN 

Group No, Amp, Nrs, 
All 60 70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


Regular gas engine 


minimum 160 
CUN minimum 180 
rua m should not exceed 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

AQ ANN high-speed operation, 42; low speed, 45S 
EA 25-30 tt. lb. 

IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .016' 
Dwell angle: 29:-31* (30` preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: ,18.23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,2, 7, 8,4, 5, 6, 3 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Disconnect vacuum hose and tape manifold 
opening 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. n rk or 
distributor cap tower SPAR Pil 
Set idle to 400 h trai i 
Sei ists speed rpm, nsmission in 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
om distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ting 

Reconnect vacuum hose and reset to proper 
idle speed 


PY pp Me 


Dd 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
12* at 400 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model HE 
Pressure: 444-6 TAE at idle rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
initiat Auto, 
CARTER turns) Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB E index 
ROCHESTER 
2-bbl. 2GC vy 1 rich* 
4-bbl. 4GC iv index 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl, WW-2 1M index 
* 1962, index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


525 rpm in NEUTRAL or PARK* 
Air Cond. 575 rpm in NEUTRAL* 
*Make certain idle compensator valve is closed, 


if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


" Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


e SERVICE AT 


1962 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 


COOLING SYSTEM Quarts 


Heater With 
PRIRA in ìt eut, Heater 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 


Fuel Filter 


More frequent service may be necessary if con- 
taminated fuel is used s 


E3Power Steering Reservoir. 
Fill to level mark, when oil is warm 


GAT Cleaner Element 
Polyurethane... Wash and oil 10W-30 Wi 
Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug) 


Eg Brake Master Cylinder (cap) 
1961, fill to Y-1 Inch below top of fill hole; 1962, 
to 14 inch below top of fill hole 


Eg Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961 


EJ Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ..(8, 9 or 13 fittings) CL 


Ey Propelter Shaft Spline. . 
Rotate shaft until plug al ins 
Remove plug, Use special Seapter 


ExConstant Velocity Joint 
Rotate shaft until depressed (pe fitting aligns 
with hole in frame, Use special pter 


80 grade when consistently below —10° 
EJ Main tain leve! to !4 inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 414 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under fill plug i 
a For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


Pressure Front Rear 
7.60-15 LeSabre, Invicta i 
8.00-15 Electra, Invicta 
* Estate Wagon and heavily jonoa cars, 28 
For temperatures below +32° increase pressure 
2 pounds 
IBiRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1944, The Chek.Chart Corporotion, Printed in U.S. AL 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


SYMBOLS 


5w20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Add only 8 to 10 drops to each oil cup 
1962 with alternator, no lubrication 


PARK position 
aic Reti = Rest 


Em 
B 1962 


Converter plugs, disconnect fill pipe 
1962) disconnect fill pipe. Do not drain dard 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 


PCV System Valve..............-..-. i 
Remove and clean valve and hose 


Dil Filter (under car) 


Ada extra quart oil 


~~ Prat wheel Bearings Repack WEED 
Initial torque, 19 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel: back 
off until besring is loose; secon: ae, Se 
back off 1/12 to 1/6 turn and insert cotter 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake peda! can be 
depressed to within 27 (3” for high-speed driving) 
f floorboard with standard brakes or within 17 
[ns for high-speed driving) of floorboard with 
r brakes, engine running, the need for service 
is indicated 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1l. use suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
d shoes until wheel can just be 
E did hand. Drag should be equal at ali 


2. Back off adjuster 15 notches (1 or 2 addi- 
tional notches if drag persists) 


3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles 


[Every 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 


Every 5,000 miles 

E Every 8,000 miles 

Every 10,000 miles 

(Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 

Every 25,000 miles 


BE Position for lift adapter 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER SLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oi! 
LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
Burk Part No. 980108 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


BK-A 


—À 
— 
-a 
[P 
amm 
— 
r^ 
m 
—À 
— 
= 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
All Stoop Ns. Amp, Hrs. 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
*« minimum 160 


x ++.Minimum 175 
Variations should not exceed 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC: 2-bbl. ^. i 

Pr E a carb., 45FF6; 4-bbl. carb., Skylark, 
Gap: .035* 

Torque: 15-20 tt. Ib.* 

* Use motor oil on threads 


IGNITION POINTS 
QS ors 
D: = 
Dwell angle: 295-31» (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


TOE 
OOOK 


Firing Order: 1, 8,4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 
Connect tachometer 
Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

engine speed to 1050 rpm, transmission 
in NEUTRAL _ TP 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
ino distributor to obtain recommended set- 


1 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to r 
idle speed pum 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
74? at 1050 rpm (preferred); or 5° at 400 rpm 
may be used 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model HQ 


Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans, Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GC lu* index index 
4-bbl. 4GC 1 % index index 
1962, 1 turn 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 525 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. 525 rpm in NEUTRAL* 

Air Cond. 575 rpm in NEUTRAL* . 

*Make certain idle compensator valve is closed, 
if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


eS SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
13% 12 


More frequent service may be necessary if con- 
taminated fuel is used 


Power Steering Reservoir 
Fill to FULL mark on dipstick, when oil is warm 


Eoi Fill Cap Wash and oil MO 


Manual Steering Gear (plug) 


Brake Master Cylinder (cap) 


1961, fill to 14-1 inch below top of fill hole; 1962, 
to % inch below top of fill hole 


Ea Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ........(17 fittings) CL 


ExClutch Release Equalizer Shaft 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.MP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or SOMO 

Eg Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 214 pints; 4-speed, 24% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Shaft Spline (pl 
Ker ft Spline (plug 


DIFFERENTIAL 


80 grade when consistently below —10* 
Eg Maintain level to 1% inch below fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under fill plug 


tive Traction differential, use special 
* frees Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


GAS TANK Gallons 


All models 


Front Rear 


* Estate Wagon and heavily loaded cars, 26 
For temperatures below +32° increase pressure 
2 pounds 


ERotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


j) 


Siaa) 


4 


HB Position for lift adapter 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


BUICK V-8 


1961-62 Special and Skylark 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


10W-30,10W-20 
10W-30,10W-20 
SW-20 


Below 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Generator (1 or 2 oil cups) 
Add only 8 to 10 drops to each oil cup 
Service 
Wash and oil 10W-30 MOE 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic..AF 
Check level, engine idling. PARK position 


CAPACITY 6 quarts, refill approx. 2 quarts 
Do not overkill * 


DRAIN and REFILL 


Front Wheel Bearings Repack WBIT] 
Initial torque, 19 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; back 
off until bearing is loose; second torque, 11 ft. Ib; 
back off y, to '4 turn and insert cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed to within 2° (3" for high-speed driving) 
of floorboard with standard brakes or within 1” 
(1!4* for high-speed driving) of floorboard with 
power brakes, engine running, the need for service 
is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Using suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
to expand shoes until wheel can just be turned 
by hand. Drag should be equal at all wheels 

2. Back off adjuster 15 notches (1 or 2 additional 
notches if dra persists) 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles 
EllEvery 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 

EFiEvery 5,000 miles 

Every 8,000 miles 

Every 10,000 miles 

IHEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 25,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


MO Motor Oil 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Standard differential lubricant must 
meet Specification MIL-L-2105B 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


BK-5 


" BUICK V-6 IE 


1962 Special ET S. 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22F 42 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All eee Tar tete epe ael minimum 160 


Variations should not exceed 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 44S 

| Gap: .035" 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Gap: .016* 


Dwell angle: 29°-31° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
i Delcos 


Capacityiine-23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Ser 
| OO 


Firing Order: 1, 6, 5, 4, 3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Connect tachometer 

. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 

Set engine speed to 1050 rpm, transmission 
in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
turn distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle sj 


2 "B9 Ne 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
715? at 1050 rpm (preferred); or 5* at 400 rpm 
may be used 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model HQ 


Pressure: 4-5!/ Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GC 1 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
. 525 rpm“ 
Manon ans 525 pags NEUTRAL* 


|. 57 m in NEUTRAL* " 
Air Ond ara Ide compensator valve is closed, 


if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Myaraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


wV- 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
12 10% 


All models ........ 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 
ESFuel Filler 1s casus Clean glass bowl 


Air conditioned models only 

[H Air conditioned models... . Replace element 

I) All other models........... Clean element 
Located at carburetor inlet 


More frequent service may be necessary if con- 
taminated fuel is used 


Ej Power Steering Reservoir............... AF 
Fill to FULL mark on dipstick, when oil is warm 


Manual Steering Gear (plug)........... 90 MP 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
Bil Fill Cap... Wash and oil MO 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB 
Fill to % inch below top of fill hole 


E3 Front Suspension and 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Steering Linkage.......... (17 fittings) C_L— 


Clutch Release Equalizer Shaft............ CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.MP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or SOMO 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 214 pints; 4-speed, 24% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


(Propeller Shaft Spline (plug)... .......... LM 


Remove plug. Use special adapter 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 
80 grade when consistently be! 10° 
Maintain level to '⁄4 inch below fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag under fill plug 

* For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No, 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


GAS TANK............. Gallons 
AM 2 E 16 
TIRES 

6.00-15 


2 pounds 


~ [Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
€ Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


w- 


Get CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 
Y Above --32* 10W-30,10W-20 
Above 0°... 10W-30,10W-20 

Below 0* .... 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts f 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


€ a L e E E Test and filg 


Oil Filter (under car)... 2...0.. Replace EJ 
Add extra quart oil 


Generator (oil cup)................ 10W MO 
Add only 8 to 10 drops 


Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Polyurethane....Wash and oil 10W-30 MOI 
PCV System Valve.............. 


Remove and clean valve and hose 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... MH 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position... 
CAPACITY 6 quarts, refill approx. 2 quarts 
Do not overfill 

DRAIN and REFILL.. 
Remove oil pan 


~— Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE} 
Initial torque, 19 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; back 
off until bearing is loose; second torque, 11 ft. Ib.; 
back off Y, to 4 turn and insert cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed to within 2” (3” for high-speed driving) 
of floorboard with standard brakes or within 1” 
(115" for high-speed driving) of floorboard with 
power brakes, engine running, the need for service 
is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Using suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
to expand shoes until wheel can just be turned 
by hand. Drag should be equal at all wheels 

2. Back off adjuster 15 notches (1 or 2 additional 
notches if drag persists) 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 


EJ Every 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 


EiEvery 5,000 miles 

EEvery 8,000 miles 

MEvery 10,000 miles 

[HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
EEEvery 25,000 miles 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant € 
LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 meet Specification MILL S088 ^ 
MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent € 


Buick Part No. 980108 | 
a WB Wheel 
MO Motor Oil Wheel Bearing Grease 


BK-6 e 


——KÀ — 


vett tt$65553555855 5255555565655 t osse cue 


TUNE-UP DATA 


‘Sve Sere Instructions (er Precedure 


TTER’ AABM 

BA a Cor ama. ws 

A xw a 

(at cramiing sated with threttie opea? w 
ERES aoe EI 

SPARK PLUGS 

Sas Bighspeed dig or muing traders. 

menza 


Ga ae 
‘Dwell angie: 297-51* (307 preferred) 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
734* at 1050 rpm (preferred): or 5? at 400 rpm 
may be used 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mode! HQ 
Pressure: 4-S!4 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volurne: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


Note: Exch Spec. Na D42 is not used Rhee 
fuor enal showd not exceed 2.000 mies 


Emit tevel to £t prag hoe 
CAPACITY 3-speec, 214 pits 4-speed, 2 pints 
recommended 


80 grade when consistently betow -107 
Masotaiín tevel to i inch below flt plug hole 


POSITIVE TRAC 

Metal tag under fil plug 

* For Positive Yraction differential, use iat 
tubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


* Sedan or Coupe. stances with heavily 
aded trunk, 200 or more, and station 
wagon, 28 


For teeperatures: below +32° increase pressure 
E3Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


Nuw Www 
uw SHU 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 mites 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
fREvery 12.000 miles 
lBEvery 18,000 miles or 18 months 
Every 24,000 miles 
[Conditional service 

|^ stering linkage only if squeaks 


Repack front wheel bearings only when 
are removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS BL Selfadjusting Brake Lubricant 


Deico Moraine Specification DM-5807 


ing Lubricant 
Bui ification No. 742 


Copyright 191, The Chek-Chort Corporatioa. Printed: le U.S.A. 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 
Buick Part No. 980108 Buick 


Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 


Part ARN REEL oc equivalent 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


BRS 


P- 


BUICK V-8 


1963 Special and Skylark | 


HOOD RELEASE: Front: 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


ABM 
BATTERY croup No, Amp. Hrs. 
AM 24 61 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


Standard CR (2-bbl. carb.)........ minimum 160 
High CR, Skylark (4-bbl, carb.),...minimum 175 


Variations should not exceed 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 2-bbl. carb. 4SFFS; 4-bbl. carb, Skylark, 
44FFS; high-speed driving or hauling trailers, 42FF 


Ip: .! 
Torque: 20 ft. Ib.* 
* Use motor oil on threads 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016” 

Dwell angle: 29°-31° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Set ine speed to 1050 rpm, transmission 
in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
fum distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ing 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


oY PY NP 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
74° at 1050 rpm (preferred); or 5° at 400 rpm 
may be used 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model HQ 


Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
idie Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GC 1 index index 
4-bbl. 4GC 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500 rpm* 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in DRIVES 
Air Cond. 550 rpm in ORIVE with unit turned OFF* 


*Make certain idle compensator valve is closed, 
if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


— 


E- a 


Im 


Æ 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 

With Heater Without Heater Above +32°.... -30 
All models ........ 13% 12 Nowa M pos 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds Below 0* Malden SW 5W.20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Power Steering Reservoir..............., PS 
Fill to FULL mark on dipstick, when oll is warm 


Fuel Filter 
IH Standard V-8 .. 


Located at carbu 


— ae Test and fill Eg 


E others o service kes bb nurus . Replace 
taminated fuel is Used may ibe pecessaly. tans 


Oil Filter (under car) 
Add extra quart oil 


but xo acne Replace 


Crankcase Dipstick....... PONEI 


Air Cleaner Element. ..... 
Polyurethane........... Wash and oil MOI 


Ea Manual Steering Gear (plug)........... 90 MP 
MAO Fill Cap... 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap)....... j 


Fill to % inch below top of reservoir 


Also remove and clean hose 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position... 
CAPACITY 6 quarts, refill approx. 2 quarts 
Do not overfill 

DRAIN and REFILL sais si eoe cre cow monies nun 
Remove oil pan 


Note: If Buick Spec. No. 742 is not used lubrica- 
tion interval should not exceed 2,000 miles 


[Steering Linkage............... (4 plugs) CL 
If squeaks develop, remove plugs, install fittings 
and lubricate with Buick Spec. No. 742. There- 
after lubricate every 6,000 miles or 6 months; if 


Buick Spec. No. 742 is not used, lubrication inter- 
val should not exceed 2,000 miles 


TRANSMISSION, Manual MP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or SOMO 

EJMaintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 214 pints; 4-speed, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


[HPPropeller Shaft Spline (plug)............. LM 


Remove plug. Use special adapter 


Ex3Constant Velocity Joint. . 
Depressed-type fitting, use s| 
Early models, no lubrication 


DIFFERENTIAL 


EFront Suspension............ (12 fittings) al 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WEB™ 


Initial torque, 19 ft, Ib. while rotating wheel; back 
off until bearing is loose; second torque, 11 ft. Ib.; 
back off v, to ?/4 turn and insert cotter pin 


Brake Self adjusting Mechanism (all wheels). BLIE 
Coat lightly star wheel point of contact and 6 
shoe rim rest surfaces 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required, If the brakes have been relined or 

the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 
ment as follows: 

1. Hold self-adjusting actuator off adjustin 
screw and turn adjusting screw until whee 
can just be turned by hand. Drag should be 
equal at al! wheels 


80 grade when consistently below “10° ` 2: Pan ra ENON Paran A S gena 
D - i es if drag persists; 
EJ Maintain level to 4 inch below fil! plug hole 3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


CAPACITY 2 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag under fill plug 

* For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No, 723 


GAS TANK .... 


All models . 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 
Every 24,000 miles 
(Conditional service 

Lubricate steering linkage only if squeaks 


aa: Gate Ga Weed teen 


BB] Position for lift adapter 
A Lubrication fitting 


* Sedan or Coupe for long distances with heavily 
loaded trunk, 200 pounds or more, and station 


wagon, 28 ; y develop 
For temperatures below +32° increase pressure €  Prepacked bearing : 
2 pounds Repack front wheel bearings only when 


E3 Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ cooling system drain drums are removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Type A, Suffix A . Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 
LUBRICANTS BL Self-adjusting Brake Lubricant LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 PS Power Steering Fluid 


Delco Moraine Specification DM-6807 
or equivalent 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Buick Specification No. 742 


Buick Part No. 1099021 or equivalent 


MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


=> SS — c- 


> > tr e S 


koa 


T o - 


oV V & & YF 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY " AABM 
AN excsgti roup No. Amp. Hrs, 
LeSabre 300 en 27 7 
1964 LeSabre 300 eng. 24 Hi 
COMPRESSI PRESSURE 
ith throttie open) i 
(minimum feo 


Variations should not d'15 psi minimum: 180 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 44S except 1964 LeSabre 300 


arenes nevting tale ori 229 re 
railers, 
Gap: 5535" e i 2n 


Torque; All except 1964 Les. 300 ? 
10; 1964 LeSabre 300 eng. 20 ft Ine ^ 3O ft 
* Use motor oi! on threa 

IGNITION POINTS 
Delco gap: .016^ 

Owell angle: 29°-31° (30° preferred) 
CONDENSER 
Deico Capacity; .18-.23 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1964 LeSabre w 
300 engine Others 
Firing Order: 


1964 LeSabre 300 eng. 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 
Others 1,2, 7, 8, 4, 5, 6,3 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. Bring engine to operating temperature 


2. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 


. Connect tachometer 


. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor Cap tower PAPE 


3 
4. 
5, Set engine to idle speed 
6. 
iz, 


- Observe timing at crankshaft damper, turn 
distributor to obtain specified setting 


. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1964 LeSabre 
300 engine 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1963: s, j 5°; Auto. Trans. 25, at idle 


: Man. Trans. 
1964; 300 eng. at 550 rom, 25 ^ 
401, 425 engs. at 500 rpm, 21% 


D 
425 eng. with dual 4-bbl. and Auto. Trans., 
at 500 rpm, 12^ 

FUEL PUMP 

AC model HE except 1964 LeSabre 300 eng., 

model JU 

Pressure: 434-64 Ib, at idle rpm except 1964 

LeSabre eng., 4-514 Ib. at idle rpm; at car- 

buretor height 

Volume: Nol required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
e 


l Choke 
Mixture — (notches) 
(initial Man. 
CARTER turns) Trans 
2/4-bbl, AFB 2 index 
4-bbl. AFB A index 
Zobor og n ind index? 
„bbl, ndex 
4-bbl. 4GC 1 ý index index** 


“1964, 2 rich — ** 1964 LeSabre 300 eng. 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED. 
1963: 500 rpm* (in DRIVE) 
Air Cond, 50 rpm* (in DRIVE), unit OFF 
1964: 300 eng., 550 rpm* (in DRIVE 
Air Cond, 600 rpm* (in DRIVE), unit OFF 
401,425 engs. 500 rpm* (in DRIVE) 
Air Cond, 550 rpm* (in DRIVE), unit OFF 
* Idle compensator valve closed, if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


BUICK V-8 


1963-64 All Except 
Specíal and Skylark 


Riviera 63 Wildcat 


WOOD RELEASE: front 


= 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS E 
COOLING SYSTEM... Quarts A CRANKCASE ......... "MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater ago AboWE -E32* orones 2020€ 100-3 
12; Above 0* 10W 5-20 
" Beim 0* os. 9€ MWO 
CAPACITY 4 
Batt RR DRAIN and P. 
a A battery installed in reverse IM and “Se Y See Service instructions, page 4 


LeSabre with 300-cu. in. engine, right side 


Fuel Filter... o.oo. V ER Replace 
More frequent replacement may be necessary if 
contaminated fuel is used 
1964 200-cu, in, engine, left side front 


Ej Power Steering Reservoir................ 
Fill to level mark, when oll is warm 
Air Cleaner Element,............... Service 
17 Diy lypé ico orum uso denomina Replace 
[E] Polyurethane. .......... Wash and oil MO 


foil Fill Cap... .. wo... Wash and oil M 
if cap is sealed type, wash and oil PCV systern 
breather filter on valve cover. Also remove and 
clean hose 


a Manual Steering Gear (plug)... ....... 90 MP 


Brake Master Cylinder (cap). ............. HB 
B Fill to % inch ciiai A Psy 


E3tlectro-Cruise Power Unit Air Filter...... Clean 


[front Suspension 


Steering Linkage 
[8 1964 (4 fittings) 
[8 Some 1964 (1 plug in idler arm) 
[3 1963 (5 plugs) à 
Soe TRE ing and lubricste with Buick 


Bpecification No. 742, Thereafter lubricate every 
6,000 miles or 6 months 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.MP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or SOMO 


Ea Maintain tevel to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 304 pints except with 300- 


ing í second 
back off 1/12 to 1/6 turn and insert 


Self-adjesting Mechanism (all wheels). BL fB 
Coat fightty star wheel point of contact and 6 shoe 
rim rest surfaces 


cu. in, engine, 2 pints; 4-speed, 21⁄4 pints 
BRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
[BPropeller Shaft Spline. TERRE ih Nae in th AM 
otate shaft until plug aligns with hole in frame 
Remove plug. Use pial Santer — ADIVETMENT 
Constant Velocity Joints................ LM Brakes are self-adjusting Adjustment is not nor- 
Eaconstant s lera; rear joint on 1964 Riviera uer rer eo End 


only 

To reach center joint, rotate shaft until depressed- 
type fitting aligns with hole in frame. Use special 
adapter 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 
80 grade when consistently below -10° 
EJ maintain level to a inch below fill plug hole 


DRAIN and L 

POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag under fill plug 

* For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


or 

ment as follows: 

1. Hold self-adjusting actuator off adjusting 
screw and turn adjusting screw until wheel 
can just be turned by hand. Drag should be 
equal at all wheels 

2. Back off adjusting screw 30 notches (1 or 2 
additional notches if drag persists) 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


GAS TANK Gallons of, KEY TO INTERVALS 
TIRES Front Rear E3Every 6,000 miles 
TAGS .,.sotsophmiatese kansas 24, e 


[BiEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 


7:60-15 24 24* . 
8.00-15 En . 24* IHEvery 12,000 miles 
A LeSabr: 2; with air con- 


ditioning, 24 

* Sedan or coupe for long distances with heavily 
loaded trunk, 200 pounds or more, 28-32. Estate 
Wagon, 28 

For temperatures below +32° increase pressure 

2 pounds 


E3Rotote tires, Method A 
(Check wheel balance 


(Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 
HjEvery 24,000 miles 
[Conditional service 


Steering Linkage: Lubricate plug-equipped 
points only if squeaks develop 

Repack front wheel bearings only when 
drums are removed for other service 


{HB Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 

€ Lubrication fitting 

@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant 


Buick Specification No. 742 or 
equivalent. If conventional chassis 
lubricant is used, interval should 
not exceed 2,000 miles 


Copyright 1964, The Chok-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, 


BL Self-adjusting Brake Lubricant MO Motor Oil 

or equivalent Specification DM-6807 MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
LM Lithium Grease, EP No. 1 PS Power Steering Fluid . 
MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent Suet tart Mos LOR READ (Or eque: 


alent 
Buick Part No. 980 ] 
Ere No: 980108 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


ie mh a n s 


y a ‘ y 


BUICK V-6 


1964 Special and Skylark 


C 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
Au 24 61 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


AIT = Sid vam minimum 
Variations should not exceed 15 psi 10 


SPARK PLUGS 


ac hij 
^ 44S; ghrapsed driving or hauling trailers, 


Gap 03: 
Torque: 30 ft fb. 


IGNITION. POINTS 

Deíco 

Gap- 

Owet! angle: 29 ?-21*. preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Deico 
Capacity: .18-23 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firimg Order: 1,6, $,4,3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to ting temperature 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold coenmg 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 

Set engine speed to idle rpm 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
turn cistnbutor to obtain recommended set- 


2; tng 
/ 7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
die speec p 


$9.9 ve 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5^ 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mocel JU 
Pressure 4-514 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume- Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 


(initiat Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi 18C 2 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. $50 rpm* in DRIVE 

Ar Cond. 600 rpm” in DRIVE with unit turned OFF 

* Mase certain idle compensator valve is closed, 
i! so equippes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic litters, nonadjustabie 


Eu 


MOOD RELEASE) Front 


3 SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM.... ... Quarts 1 CRANKCASE . ... "MS" MO 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


With Heater Without Heater Chart Abi j A 
All models ..... 1 11% y Above au , " oN Et 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds Below0* ... 5W 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Manval Steering Gear............... 90 M 


FiM thru top cover inside cap screw marked 


"Check Lube" 
FO) PU. ors oido senso d Clean 
"ro at carburetor niet. O— INGER Bats. once: ‘ . Test and NIEJ 
taminated fuel is used Oil Filter (under car). . . . ...Replacefi 
E3Power Steering Reservoir.......... .. PS Add extra HM NON 
Fill to level mark, when oil is warm Air Cleaner Element, ......... . Service 


Crankcase Dipstick......... Polyurethane.. ..... “Wash and oil MO[F] 
[noil Fill Cap... Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........MHEQ 


If cap is sealed type, wasn and oll PCV system 
breather filter on vaive cover. Also remove and 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


clean hose Check level, engine idling. PARK position: . 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial R Total Refill 
EqBrake Master Cylinder (cap).....-.... Peppa RA Mitis Rent anas 


Fill to '4 Inch below top of reservoir DRAIN and REFILL. 24 


Remove oll pan 


Also remove and clean hose 


[Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage... ...... .(12 fittings) CL——- Front Wheel Bearings... .. ....Repack WBJ 
Initial torque, 19 ft. Ib, while rotating wheel; back 
off until bearing is loose; second torque, 11 ft. 


Ib.; back off 1/12 to 1/6 turn and insert cotter pin 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.MP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or SOMO 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 24% pints 
ORAIN and REFILL Not recommende: 


Brake Self-adjusting Mechanism (ali wheels). BL EE) 
Coat lightly ster wheel point of contact and 6 
shoe rim rest surfaces 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 

Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment Is not nor- 

mally uired. if the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 
ment as follows: 

1. Hold self-odjusting actuator off adjusting 
screw and turn adjusting screw until whee 
can just be turned by hand. Drag should be 
equal at all wheels 

2. Bock off adjusting screw 30 notches (1 or 2 
additional notches If drag persists) 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


DIFFERENTIAL... ... 

80 grade when consistently below -1 

E Maintain level to '% inch below fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 

ORAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag attached to rear cover 

« For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. $31536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


GAS TANK.. Gallons 
AM models . ... 20 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EJ Every 6,000 miles 


TIRES.......... Pressure Front Rear Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
im Du jorié /Si4.. dd 28 [Every 12,000 miles 
* Bets Veri bo pounds or more 2832 n Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 
For temperatures below +32° Increase pressure B] Position for lift adapter alg te ay ses 
; Conditional service 
E3Rotate tires, Method A e Lubrication fitting Beo nsck front wheel bearings only when 
(Check wheel balance @ Cooling system drain drums are removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, BL Self-adjusting Brake Lubricant MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A paica Monine Specification DM-6807 Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PS Power Steering Flui 
LUBRICANTS Ch Chessis Lubricant se MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent Belew part Nd Ton8021 or equiv. 
equivalent; it conventional chassis Buick Part No. 980108 
read 2,000 iilos ^. "^^"^ MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. BK-10 e 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
a Group No. Amp. Hrs 
COMPRESSIO " S 
N PI 
(at cranking speed M RUNE en) psi 


Standard CR (2-bbi. 
High CR. Skylark (4-bb carb 
Variations should not exceed 


minimum 160 
minimum 180 


SPARK PLUGS 
AES high-speed driving or hauling trailers, 


Gap: .035” 
Torque: 20 ft. Ib.* 
* Use motor oil on threads 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016” 

Dwell angle: 29°-31° (30° Preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


O® 1 
OOOE 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4,3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

3. Connect tachometer 

4, Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

5. Set engine speed to idle rpm 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
tim distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ing 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 2%° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model JU 
Pressure: 4-514 Ib, at idle rpm 
Volume; Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(i 1 Man. Auto, 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. vane 
2-bbi. 1y index index 
bor ie 14 index 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


pe) riy Lee DRIVE 
uto, Trans. n 
Air Cond, 600 tpm" In DRIVE with unit turned OFF 


r 
* Make certain idle compensator valve is closed, 
it so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTE 
With Heater Without Heater 
E 15 13% 
pressure, 15 pounds 


E3Manual Steering Gear,..............90 MP 


Fill thru top cover inside cap screw marked 
“Check Lube" P ix: 


Biruel Filter. ...... ce eee 


More frequent service may be neci 
taminated fuel is used 


E3Pover Steering Reservoir................ PS 


If cap is sealed type, wash and oil PCV system 
breather filter on valve cover. Also remove and 
clean hose 


Fill to % inch below top of reservoir 


KFront Suspension and 


TRANSMISSION, Manual WP, M0 
90MP, or 40 or 50MO 

Ef Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 21⁄2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


DIFFERENTIAL...........- 90 MP* 
80 grade when consistently below —10^ 
Maintain level to 1/4 inch below fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

POSITIVE TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag attached to rear cover — 

x For Positive Traction differential, use special 
lubricant Part No. 531536, conforming to Buick 
Specification No. 723 


GAS TANK. vos. Gallons 

AM models vor enm mnn 20 

TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 
cane 2A 24* 


6.50-14, 7.00-14 . TOPPED 

Station wagons: 7,00-14, 7.50-14. ... 24 28 

* Sedan or coupe for long distances with heavily 
loaded trunk, 200 pounds or more, 28-32 

For temperatures below --32^ increase pressure 

2 pounds 


E3fotate tires, Method A 
[Check wheel balance 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant 
Buick Specification No. 742 or 
equivalent. If conventional chassis 
lubricant is used, interval shou " 
not exceed 2,000 miles MO Motor Oil 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Fill to level mark, when oil is warm 
(Choke Housing Vent Filter............. Clean 

Crankcase Dipstick..........,... Check level — — 
[Dil FillCap.......... uma Wash and oil MO 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB— —- 


Steering Linkage......... (12 fittings) £L——-| 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN B 


BUICK V-8 - 


1964 Special and Skylark 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


-w 
CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO i 


Qar Above +32°. ...2020€ — 10830 
Above 0^ .. .. 10W 5W-20 
Below 0° |. 5W — 5W20 


DRAIN and REFILL 


f 
CAPACITY 4 quarts | 
See Service Instructions, page 4 | 


EIENEN Test and figg | 
Oil Filter (under car)................ Replace | 
Add extra quart oil 
Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Polyurethane........... Wash and oil MO ff 

PCY System Valve................. Replace 
Also remove and clean hose 

24—— TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position . 
CAPACITY, quarts itial Refill Tota 
All models . 2 2 1 
DRAIN and ner AP situs aad ere tic meii ed | 


Reached 
under hood 


off until bearing is loose; second torque, 11 ft. Ib.; 
back off 1/12 to 1/6 turn and insert cotter yin 


Brake Self-adjusting Mechanism (all wheels). BL IE] 


Coat lightly star wheel point of contact and 6 
shoe rim rest surfaces 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB[3 
Initial torque, 19 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; back 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 

ment as follows: B 

1. Hold self-adjusting actuator off adjustin, 
screw and turn adjusting screw until wheel 
can just be turned by hand. Drag should be 
equal at all wheels 

2. Back off adjusting screw 30 notches (1 or 2 
additional notches if drag persists) 


3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 12,000 miles 
Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 
BüEvery 24,000 miles 


[3 Conditional service 
Repack front wheel bearings only when 
drums are removed for other service 


GE Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 

@ Cooling system drain 
ELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 


BL Self-adjusting Brake Lubricant 
Delco Moraine Specification DM-6807 
or equivalent e : 

PS Power Steering Fluid 
Buick Part No. 1099021 or equiv- 
alen! 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


BK-11 


CADILLAC 


1961-62 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 60 70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
A aininn ey eR et eir see PEREAT 165-185 
SPARK PLUGS 
AC 44 
Gap: .035* 


Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Gap: Proper gap will be obtained with dwell angle 
of 30° 
Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 
_ CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


| 
| 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 
Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
f 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 


3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7, Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 4622 
Pressure: 514-614 Ib. at 480 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 17 strokes at cranking speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
(initial Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 214 1 rich 
ROCHESTER r 
4-bbl. 4GC 14-2 1 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


480 rpm in DRIVE 
Air Cond. 900 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


ON 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Myaravulic lifters, nonadjustable 


Mam. 


PNRI 
hs 
Sa uu 


2-- SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS se 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts Ag n CRANKCASE.............. “MS” MO 
With Heater Without Heater Above + 32° .... 10W-30  20,20W 
Ait other models...) 18% ie Above 0. 1030 — 10M 
Cooling system pressure, 1315-1614 pounds CAPACITY 4 quarts SW 
ra Power S DRAIN and REFILL 
Ea Po er S steering MO s See Service Instructions, page 4 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level Wattery. onore reor Test and fillEg 
Air Cleaner Element. Generator (2 oil cups)................-- MoET 
Polyurethane. . Fuel Filter Element................. Replace iid 
Ins pect for es ed and proper seating. oil Fill C Wash and oil MO 
Polyurethane .......... — Replace nior MAD IN: = 
PCV System Valve.......... ooo COR 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (1 or 2 screw caps). . HB 


E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. . . . . Service 


E3bistributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961... ... 10W MO 


Front Suspension (4 plugs). ....... ARS BJ 


EJ Steering Linkage (4 plugs).............. AL 


Ui Parking Brake Cable 1962.......... 10W MO 


[ii Parking Brake Cables .... 


Wi] Maintain level to within 1⁄4 inch of fill plug hole 


E3Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


Remove and clean valve and hose 
Fill to 34 inch from top of filler neck or to level 
mark 


TRANSMISSION. Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position .- . - " 
CAPACITY, qua Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models 7 E] 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Severe service drain every les 

Initial drain 30,000 miles, except severe service, 


Keep valve shaft free 


16,000 miles 
Remove 1 coupling plug and transmission plug 


Oil Filter (under car)............... Replace 
Add extra quart oil 


Inspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
Detore installing new seal, Mush Joint with approx: 
MA BINE Bed see 7U eee ID Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBET] 
plug and sees Initial torque, 30 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, back off 
nut % turn then loosen just enough to insert 


Inspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. cotter pin 


After replacing seal, remove plug, use special gun 
or adapter. Install new plug 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment normally 

required. If the brakes have been relined, or the 

pdicstmant disturbed, make initial adjustment as 
follows: 

1. Remove wheel, check front wheel bearings for 
proper adjustment, and that all points of the 
parking brake system are free 

2. Tighten star wheel until drum can just be 
4 atad with two-foot bar placed between the 
studs 

3. Disengage adjuster pawl from star wheel with 
a hooked tool and back off star wheel 40 
notches with screwdriver or brake adjuster tool 

4. Install wheel, drive car alternately backward 
and forward, applying the brakes moderately 
in each direction until pedal travel does not 
exceed 1%” on moderate, approximately 30- 
pound, pedal application 

5. Repeat procedure at each wheel, except for 
making bearing adjustment at rear wheels 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


Sparingly at point where cable enters conduit 


+++» 10W MO 


ers conduit 


Sparingly at point where cab! 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 


1961, to level of fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 5 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
CONTROLLED DIFFERENTIAL IDENTIFICATION: 


Code letter "G" following axle ratio identification 
on differential carrier 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


1961 Commercial . 20 

All other models. 21 ot 
962 Comm. and M 21 

All other models. 26 

" KEY TO INTERVALS 

TIRES......... „Pressure Front Rear EE Position for lift adapter 
8.00-15, 8.20-15 24*  24* Do not use frame contact hoist EqEvery 4,000 miles 
61 or bumper jack on S 
Ho sts s py E H ES Commercial vehicles Eid: Every 16,000 miles 


, add 4 pounds 


* Sustained spee: 


Every 30,000 miles 
Twice yearly 


A Prepacked bearing 
e Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Type A, Suffix A M 


` " LL Steering Linkage Lubricant eeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 
LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant Cadillac Part No. 1474830 PS Power Steering Fluid 


Cadillac Part No. 1474829 " Cadillac Part No. 10990: e. 
CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
n-— 


* Controlled Differential, use Cadillac Part No. 1098970; may also be used in standard differential 


Copyright 1954, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Prihted jn U.S.A, sea 


bp O Fag 


CULCE VUL T1715 $ D EDATE EEA EBE EGS EE GO 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


BATTERY c eret 

o. Amp. Hrs. 
un E: 3 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


All 


+ 165-185 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 44 


Gap: .035* 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: Proper gap will be obtained with dwell angle 
Owell angle: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 7, 2,6, 5, 4,3 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
l. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 


3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap Lower ited 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommenced setting 


Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


m aop p 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model 6744 

pressura 1963, 514-614 Ib.; 1964, 514-64 Ib.; at 
idle rpm ` 

Volume: 1 pint in 17 strokes at cranking speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke 

Mixture (notches) 

(initial Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 24% 1 rich* 
ROCHESTER : 
4-bbl. 4GC 1-24 1 rich* 
* 1964, index 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 2 


480-500 rpm in DRIVE 
Ar Cond. 900 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


——ÀM 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


AE SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 
COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts "d CRANKCASE..... 
3i dañar With Heater Without Heater qo Above 432° 
All other models:;.. 17 IH 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Power Steering Reservoir. . . . . T 
Fill to FULL mark on dipstick, fluld warm 


Air Cleaner Element................Service 


s is PS 


Hi] Pol ] 
Wi Fortune) yp i nee NX \ Soe, Wy s Tet ana f 
damaged, replace HE — ——— Dil Filter ........................ Replace 
E] Polyurethane (1963); Dry type (1964).Replace ) = ran 
Crankcase Dipstick............. , ] XT U "Wenger MO 
niio Mist i- i Check d A's Fuel Filter Element.............,.. Replace 
ster Cylinder. ................. Ei PCV System Valve... aaa cc 
; (163, 2 Seton caps; 1964, cover) ©) ica and clean valve and hose 
1964; within »4 inch te Ve Inch'of top of réservoli : TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position. . 
Turbo Hydra-Matic, twist-lock dipstick on fill tube 
CAPACITY, quarts initial Real Total Refill 


Hydra-Matic E] 
All 1963; 1964 62 series except convertibles, 75 
2% 


E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. . .. . Service 


Keep valve shaft free 


series, 68 commercial chassis 
Turbo Hydra-Matic .... 2 
1964 60 and 63 seríes, convertibles 


ydr2 ic, remove 1 coupling plug and trans- 
mission plug; Turbo Hydra-Matic, disconnect fill 
ul 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Initial torque, 30 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, back off 


nut 14 turn then loosen just enough to insert 
cotter pin 


ESFront Suspension ... (4 plugs) BJ 
Inspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
Before installing new seal, flush joint with approx. 
1 or 2 oz. of lubricant, wipe off surplus. Install 
new plug and seal 


E3Steering Linkage......... (7 sealed bearings) 


Inspect seal if damaged, or if there is evidence of 
looseness, replace entire pivot assembly 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are solt adiusung: No adjustment normally 


required. If the brakes have been relined, or the 

E Parking Brake Cables Inspect..... ..10W MO 23 ustment disturbed, make initial adjustment as 
4 follows: 

Lubricate cables and linkage only if adjustment is 1. Remove wheel, check front wheel bearings for 


required. Lubricate cables sparingly at point 


where cable enters conduit proper adjustment, and that all points of the 


parking brake system are free 

z zigntën star wheel until drum can just be 
rotated with two-foot bar placed between the 
studs 

3. Disengage adjuster pawl from star wheel with 
a hooked tool and back off star wheel 40 
notches with screwdriver or brake adjuster tool 

4. Install wheel, drive car alternately backward 
and forward, applying the brakes moderately 
in each direction until pedal travel does not 
exceed 174" on moderate, approximately 30- 
pound, pedal application 

5. Repeat procedure at each wheel, except for 
making bearing adjustment at rear wheels 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL ..... 90 MP* 


Eljinspect, check level only if leakage is evident. 
Maintain level to within 1⁄4 inch of fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
CONTROLLED DIFFERENTIAL IDENTIFICATION: 
Code letter '""G" preceding axle ratio identification 
on differential carrier 


GAS TANK.............. 


Commercial and 1963 Model 6389. . 
All other models, .... usse ee. 26 


Pressure Front Rear 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


ie 32 Ul Position for lift adapter : E3Every 60 days or 6,000 miles 
dd 4 pounds, Do not use frame contact hoist 


Every 6 months or 6,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 

EJ Every 30,000 miles 

[Twice yearly 


or bumper jack on 75 series and 


except 8.00-15, 2 pounds r 0 
Commercial vehicles 


@With heavy-duty suspension components, 40 
rear, 26 front 


[Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels; on 
mileage basis only 


A  Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, CC Carburetor Cleaner MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A Meeting Specification MIL-L-210: 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PS Power Steering Fluid 
LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant Cadillac Part No. 1099021 


Cadillac Part No, 1474829 MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
x Controlled differential, use Cadillac Part No. 1098970; may also be used in standard differential 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. 


CADILLAC 


1963-64 All Models 


B 


E 
B 


d 
B 


5B 


i 


F 


CHEVROLET CORVETTE 


1953-62 All Medels 


TUNE-UP DATA 


z 
Z Cummect 
= Curcecl umreg igt t No 1 scerk pieg cr 
4 c 


Tang 
tone 1953 cary. = 
S: 242-16 
Ve De t: 
seca cam ID - . 
12. 1958-58 4^ anc wi specia! cam. 7^; 1960- 
& 12 

fue wyecic= 1957. 12 -14^, with speciai cam, 
£6; SBS, & , with specus cam, 147: 1960- 


marere (sienes) tngtenes) 

Garzia 
CARTER turns) Teens. Te: 
Troie 15b YH ij-l1'5 mancal 
4o. ers tab index index 
£t. AFB 1% mcex ocer 
Tan Loo. WCFB 54-1 inces” index* 
* Cross cn rear Carburetor onty 

SPEED 


: 
i 


sabi AFB um seci cam. E50 ED 
IC EY CODD IL Mn 
Mote: AO Acto Trans. in DRIVE 


nev? piz EL eD iron bead, andi 


; others. braaite GENS 


~~ SERVICE AT 


LLL TTE Wash and oil 


S<yt only. &cyt. located in top cf valve cover. 
So sence required 


B 
B 
B 


Fill to M inch below top of ill hole 


Craskease Digstick.... 


Brake Master (plug) 
be prepay accord gs asus 


ERE Fater Sey. only (ender cur) (—À 


EE Felt under plate (oil hole in plate) . .10W MO 
1955 Sparingty 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. 90 M 


EGjmaintain levei to AR piug hole: 1957-60 4-speec, 
35 inch below 


CAPACITY 3speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 114 pints, 
except 1961-62, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recammended 
Di werde 195959 ne a 
E3Usiverzal Joists ............. 0000n. CL 
DIFFERENTIAL .......... 90 MP* 
80-90 may be used 


Mutti-yiscosity 

EJ maintain ievel to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 1953-55. 3% pints; 195662, 4 pints 
ORAIN and REFILL 

1953-56. 1962 Not recommended 

[Y | 1957-61 
bible ad IDENTIFICATION: 
1955-62. late 1958, circular metal tag under fill 
Diug. 1958 and earlier without metal tag, prefix 
letters AN, AP, AQ, AS. AT, AU to seria! number on 
front right side of carner housing 


, ..Pressure Front Rear 
€— PPP 24* 24* 
*For sustained high-speed driving, 36 


ERotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A. Suffix A 


Caprrigt! 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporationa. Printed ia U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


Cher Kart CRANKCASE.. ee — 
TR ...20.20W* 
Y Ear eee esas 10W — 10W.30 
Below 0* Sw 5wW-20 
* 30 or 10W-30 may "be used for sustained high 
speed above 490^ 
CAPACITY S quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
Fuel Filter Element 
Single carburetor, in fuel inlet... .... Wash 
1962 AFB carburetor, bowl-type. . . Replace 
Fuel njcton 2... os cox Replace 
Generator (2 oil cups).................. MO 
1953-57, At gne overfill front cup B 
Manifold Heat Control Valve. ........ .... Mil 
Lubricate if valve shaft is not free 
6—cyL, left side 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF n 
level, engine running. NEUTRAL position EY 
roria quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Powerglide ex. 
aluminum housing. ay ay 
With aluminum 


je e housit -— 2 
Neg. Grd. DRAIN and REFILL Not —— 
1962 with aluminum housing, remove oil pan 
All others, remove drain plug 
Bathiy. nir Test and fill Pg 
ront Wheel Bearings. ........... Repack WBE} 


Initial torque, 33 ft Ib; final adjustment, 12 ft. ib. 
M necessary, loosen to insert pin 


* 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2° with standard brakes or 

more than 1* with power brakes, engine running, 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

l. Loosen parking brake cable adjustment nuts 

2. Using suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
to expand shoes until a light, uniform drag 
is felt when turning drum 

3. Back off adjuster 7 notches (12 notches on all 
1958-62 models and when metallic linings 
are used) 

Pa Repeat operation at each wheel 
Readjust parking brake cable 

Bad sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 

Power brake (engine stopped). power brake slave 

cylinder, power brake valve LR, RR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
BiEvery 2,000 miles 


El Every 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 


EiEvery 5,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles v8 
Every 25,000 miles $— 
Ki Yearly or every 10,000 miles 


[3 Conditional service e 
Se 


Clean carburetor air inlet extensions if 
necessary 

Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
MO Motor Oil 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


4... 

WB Wheel Bearing Grease e. 
e 

ni 


* For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 
cr.2 


m ————————— — —— 


431034404 85458488353**552£257m7 777 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

‘i aroue No. Amp, Hrs. 
24T 53,61 

COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking spood with throttle open) psi 


AY an E O A aAa 130 
Maximum variation between cylinders, less than 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 1958-60, 44; 1961, 45; 1962, 46 
gam 035" 
orque: 20-25 ft, Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .016" used; .019" new 
Dwell angle: 28°-35° 


CONDENSER 


Delo 
apacity: .18-.25 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOOO! 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3,6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


distributor cap tower 
Set octane selector to 0° on the scale 
Set Idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


DUM ppr 


wheel housing and turn distributor to obta 
alignment of specified mark with pointer 


Reset to proper idle speed 


- 


Timing Mark and Setting 


© 
> gras van 


Tuning Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
NEST Ga ball aligned with pointer 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model: 1958, 4433, 4666, Med 1929-62, 4434 


Pressure: MASA Ib. at idle to 1 
Volume: 1 fint n 45 seconds at 1 rpm 
* Optional for electric wipers 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
initial Mon. Auto, 
ROCHESTER urns) Trans. Trans, 
l-bbi, BC 2 1 lean Index* 


* 1962, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans.: 1958-61, 475 rpm, 1962, 500 rpm 
Auto. Trans, 425 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 


Observe timing mark through opening in n 
n 


(ient short radial mark clockwise 
from steel ball or stamped O aligned with pointer) 


1959 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM........ Quarts 
1608 With Heater Without Heater 
DENTIS 7 
9.62 š a^ u^ 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 
E3Steerlng Gear (plug)... 


Maintain loval to 34 Inch below top of fill hole 


EPower Steering Roservolr 
rear of genorato! 1958- 
Fill to FUL mark en aue i 


Fuel Filter Element "T WU Replace 
ed in 
a 1960:81 models "e" 


[d — 1962 models 


K Manifold Heat Control Valve,............ M 
Lubricate if shaft Is not troo 


BU P. ccc sicos can mnene Replace’ 


Add extra quart oil 


Eq Brake Master Cylinder (plu 
FIII to: 1958-59, Nee ll 1) 
M Inch below top of fill hole 


EPower Brake Air Cleaner Eloment........ Wash 
1958-61 only 


B 
60-61, Y4 Inchi 1962, 


EJ Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage. .. . . .(9 or 10 fittings) CL_— 


E3Clutch Cross Shaft 1959-62.............. CL 
E3Parking Brake Cables and Pulleys... Coat WG 
TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
Eg Maintain tevo! to till plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints; with overdrive, 3 pints 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive drain and fill thru transmission 


EQUniversal Joints... Repack WB: 
More often under adverse conditions 

E3Parking Brake Cable Guides......... Coat WG 
DIFFERENTIAL ......... .90 MP* 


Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be usod 
Ef Maintain tavol to till plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
1958-61 


1962 Not rocommendod 
POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
1959-62, late 1958, circular motal tag under fill 
plug, 1958 without metal tog, prefix letters AK, AL, 


AM, to serial number on front right sido of carrier 
housing 


GAS TANK... oos Gallons 
Sedan delivory, sedan pick-up vs 17 
1958-60 statlon Wagon... sss sisse wes AT 
1959-60 9-passenger statlon wagon...... 18 
1961-62 station wagon... nn nn 19 
All other models, ciem 20 
TIRES........... Rear 
7,50-14, 8.00-14 . 24 
Statlon wagons 20 


EfRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner 


„= CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The ChoksChart Cerperotlon Printed In USA, 


T irem tiq nitens 


- — —. 


CHEVROLET 6 © 


1958-62 All Models 
Except Corvair, Chevy II 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 
INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


w- 


Žž 
Ki CRANKCASE MS" MO 
oy Above 4.32... 20208*— 10830 
Above 0°., 0 10W 10W30 
Below 0° SW 5W20 


* 30 or 10W-30 may bo df 
speed above 90! used for sustained high 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL | 
Seo Servico Instructions, page 4 i 


All others 196) 62 


0 a 
Neg. Grd, 


Battery icine cc commete sx Test and fill P3 
Air Cleaner Element Service 
Oll Dati. iio casein i aian Wash and fill MOEI 
Summer, 50; winter, 20 
Wire gauze............. Wash and oil MO 
Polyurethane type. . Wash and oil 10W MORI 
PCV System Valve,...... . OM | 
Remove and clean valvo and hose ! 
Oil Fl Cap... Wash and oil MO 
1958, located forward 
Distributor Shaft (grease cup)............ CLEg 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF | 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position £9 i 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Powerglide ..........- AW au 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended j 


Models with Remove transmission drain plug I 
power steering ' 
\ | 
— P NI | 
Ro p | 
Po ar t Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBIT] 
| aa) NE 1958-60, initia! torque, 28 ft. Ib. final adjust- 
INY T L^ ment, 12 ft. Ib. . 
R 1961-62, initial torque, 15 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, 
a iC i ez - i back off 1 full flat, v, turn 
Ui ] BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
= With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be f 


deprossed more than 2” with standard brakes or 
a moro than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the noed for servico is indicated 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 
YS 7: 1. Loosen parking brake cable adjustment nuts 
2. Using suitable tool, turn star wheel adjuster 
to expand shoes until a light, uniform drag is 
felt when turning drum 


IS 3. Back off adjuster 12 notches (1958, 7 notches) 
NIMI 4. Ropeat operation at each wheel 

5. Readjust parking brake cablo 

Blooding sequonce: LR, RR, RF, LF 


2 Power brake (engine stopped), power brako slave 
cylinder, power brake valve LR, RR, RF, LF | 


KEY TO INTERVALS | 


" EyEvery 1,000 miles 

G Ex ) fl Every 2,000 miles 

— [Every 4,000 miles 

4 Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 

— A — — Every 5,000 miles 

[Every 10,000 miles 

[Every 15,000 miles 

A. EdEvery 25,000 miles 
MEET [Twice yearly 

Ki Yearly or every 10,000 miles 


[3 Conditional service 
1962, replace fuel filter element only if car- 
buretor flooding occurs 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
* Lubrication fitting 
o Cooling system drain 


WB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 

MO Motor Oil 

MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
WG White Waterproof Grease 


Fr 
CHEVROLET V-8 


1958-62 All Models Except Corvette 


TUNE-UP DATA 


‘Ree Serviee matinetdaar fec Procedure 


BATTERY LN 


s SER wn 


EE PRESSURE 
latte Spee with Ure tle open) 


Sons on 
Me ventis between RUNAS Ves than 


SPARK PLUGS 
WET ERS 


SS UN 
\ 

SRD 
IGNITION POINTS 


ES Qe used, O23", new, dual pointe, OLA“, 


Vn Nom ene 
CONDENSER 
Deico 


Firing Order 1, 8,4, 3, 6, $, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
ing me to ting temperature 
ect tachome! 
Connect IRE ent to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap to 
Disconnect Qistributor vacuum line and tape 


EN 
X 
a. 
man 
t t idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
? 


recommen: tting 
RS ect vacuum lime and reset to 
Timing Mark and Setting 
Tim Setti Before T 
EE etting ( peed Seen h 


Ss eng. 4°) 4 ass 
3506 348 eras 8 k Aoa 329 eng. 47] 1963 
ry 

D CULTE b 
FUEL PUMP 

Im mechanical 


** Hi-perform, eng. 8 


ure S^ piedra eu rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 4$ seconds at idle rpm 
1960-61, 348 eng. with spec. cam, 409 eng. 
9- 10% I. 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
tate Choke Choke 
Mixture (maaan (notches) 
f (tial an. Auto, 
CARTER urns) $. Trans. 
4-bbl. WCF& 1 Index index 
|. AFB 1 index - 
ROCHESTER 
2-bbl. 2GC i N index* Ni 
4-bbi. Suc i" 
* 1962, 1 lean ** 1982, ndex a3, "sag enge. sind 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 500 rpm; 283 eng. with fuel injec- 
tion, rpm; except 409 eng. and others with 
special cam or fuel injection, rpm 

Auto. Trans. 475 tpm in DRIVE; ts 283 eng. 


with fuel injection or specia! cam, 600 ri E. A 


VALVE CLEARANCES 4 
(engine het and running) 

with specie, cam and 409 eng. intake 008": 
gus, Hydraulic litters, nonadjustable 


n 


1002 


" 
WOOD QUAS Front 


SS SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS E 
COOLING SYSTEM . Quarts ous” 
With Heater Without Heater Th pa aga nxw* ue 
Mas E. engine ve Q* vow 10w-30 
Ns E t berow 0* NS 
Of 1OW-30 may be used for awatained a 


wS NN NA in oN 


coca Se Datan prenus, N pounds AL) ather Vea) ae WAS apa Mr —— — La 
Accumutator Tank... à 
ENAN Segen Ps (ccumulated water and ots ») 
Suspension Va Jar, ST r -— 
BEER eee maiis EX i» | ESR satus B 


uu 
CY Ac Suspension System Ar Cleaner... .. Wash YR 
teer — 
EQ Power Steering feci Vie estes 


gg SERE ME ne^ 
eno issus sits MO 


Ey Generator (2 oil cups) 


Bo not overili front reaevolr 
GCrankoase Dipstick. . . ~. sees Cheek wt —H 
Brake Master Cylinder (plu p 


ANN e TORSTEN ue 
V ele Cop i A M TWIN 


Pave oh Brake Air Cleaner Element... ... | 
ERD tender o lll) cnn cst i X oud Repla Power enims j 
an Shalt (oll ial 10W MO: | 
Cam lubricator wick. . Replace 
[UIPCY System Valve. . TIC 
Remove = lean valve aid hoso 
Ey Front Suspension a 
Steering Linkage. . . .. (8 or 10 fittings) a^ ) 
Eg Clutch Cross Statt, sss e ü 


Ey Parking Brake Cables and Pulloys. . . 
EN Turbogiide Control Shaft Linkage. . . .. “Goat We 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 NP 


EX yaintain evel to fil plug hole, 195660 4- Speed, 
inch 
CAPACITY 32008 * pinta: with ovordtive, 3 


Pints; Agpeed, 114 pinta, except 1961-62, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive drain and fll thru transmission 
Universal Joints. Repack WB 
More often under adverse conditions 
ExParking Brake Cable Guides, ....... Coat WG 
DIFFERENTIAL E 90 MP* ) 
Multi: vj sco: 80-90 may be used » 
Ey Maintain le level to ti plug hole P d 
CAPACITY 4 pints ~ 
PRAN ana REFILL 
1 
i iot recommended 


POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 


l 58, circular motal M nde a 
gu. tesa W enout metai Lag Manin y 


t 
N to serial number on front A ot ni è 


. Gallons 
iw | | 


we is. 


1? LIETIN UTION=AIR SUSPENSION 
Hw ce enon veo H gloze s H tof valve i on Trame te ten 
I! other models, 20 wath ony Mises Mee We type X ^ Somme 
ES....... Pressure Front Rear 
Tori BOONE 1555 SEEMS e Eh B] Position for litt adapter 


© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, 


Station wagons... ees ü 20 


ERotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CNECK YOUR DATTERY, 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, DA Denatured or Wood Alcohol 
: Typo A, Suffix A WB. Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner MN Graphite mixed with alcohol 


CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


a For Positraction ditterontlal, use Speciat Positraction Lubricant 


CeeprigM 1964, The Cred Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


Son okt Quarts, excep! adeu. In, engine, S 


^ Air Dry ne Clement, 


LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


wr aes Mes tost aatia «wc tn 
Polyurethane type... Wash and oil. 10W MO! 
Olt bath. coc y Mash and fill. MO 


Summer, do winter 


Fuet Füter Element Replace 
In dowbtype fuel filter... [] 
In rre fuel inlet, 1960.61 IE] 
2, only it flooding occurs [ 
Manifold N Neat Control Valve. . MNE 
Lubricate It Shaft la not tree 
ION, Automatic. AF 


Check | sens lating, NEUTRAL "n 
level, engine (di 
GARAGITY, qv out M Rem 
woran ae on. 
alunnym hovaing ay 
With aluminum 
Nr ne 


w 


aluminum housing, remove il pan 
Front Wh cel bas drain plug 


‘an APA Not recommended 
y MY Nate, poe yin tude 
with 


earings 
Mesh torque, 28 It. Id: fiat ph uat Aes 


Tus «Initial ve un {du final adjustment, 
QR 1 full tat, 


pice 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Me ine brakes cold, it tne brake pedal can be 
ith PS aw tanara brakes or 
P (n es, engine running, 
ad 
t A A e Ty N 


: essen oV ne * cal Ne adjustment mu nuts 
. Using suita turn 8 

Sese Ly ww A hant, uniform Siras Ta 
3 feck meses nd hatches nen (4958, 7 notches) 


Weste na NN NN 


s 
t eke (engine atc 
nder, power brake và 


[NU 
bowen brane slave 


e , RR, Ri 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


ExEvery 1,000 miles 
WpEvery 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 
EiEvery 5.000 miles 
(Every 10,000 miles 
IMEvery 15,000 miles 
E Every 25.000 miles 
lj Twice yearly 
Kil Yearly or every 10,000 miles 


[3 Conditional service 
1962, ex. AFB carburetor, replace fuel filter 
element only if flooding occurs 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 


shaft is not free 


(TENSA SE 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

WG White Waterproof Grease 


Ln CORVAIR - 
i c= mune ale Except 95 


961 1962 
ENGINE LID RELEASE: Sedan, top, right of rear license plate 
Station wagon, top, center of rear access panel 


SERVICE AT 


4,4 4 


ATA a 


mY, 


- 


si 
: ini 
domum variation between cylinders Tees o 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: Turbo-Air, 46FF; Super Turbo-Air, Mon; 
Eowanpide and Turbocharged engines, AFF m 


que: 20-25 ft. Ib. 
N POINTS 
Delco 


Gap: .016" used; .019* 
Dwell angle: 31°-34° c 


CONDENSER 


Delco Capacity: .18-25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1961-62 4 


Firing Order: 1,4,5,2,3,6 _ á 
TIMING PROCEDURE , 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
= connect Tachometer " lá 
. nnect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 

distributor cap tower PAIS PUE Gr 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening; except Turbocharged en- 
ines t 

5. t idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Note color of distributor olfer: Following colors 
are used: Bright (Cadmium-Zinc), copper, and 
black: See Timing Setting for recommenda- 
ions 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Turbo 
1960 1960 late, charged 
2nd type 1961-62 e 


1960 1st type 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1960: 1st and 2nd type tab, Dist. No. 1110252 
and 1110258, (Bright oiler) 4^*; 3rd type tab, 
Dist. No. 1110259 (Black oiler) and 1110260 
(Copper oiler) 13°; 3rd type tab, Dist. No. 1110256 
(Black oiler) and 1110257 (Copper oiler) 16^. 
1961-62. Turbo-Air, Manual Trans. 4°; ;Auto. 
Trans, 13° / 

Super Turbo-Air Manual Trans., 13° 
Turbocharged engines, nual Trans. 24° 

* 1st type tab, 4° is 4 distance from "O" mark 


FUEL PUMP ~ 
AC model 4704 


Pressure: 4-5 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 45 seconds at idle speed 


E3 Steering Gear (plug). . ... 2 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 


EaFront Suspension and 


ý 
Steering Linkage..........(8 fittings) C_—| 


EqBrake Master Cylinder (plug). . . 


Service thru luggage compartment 
Ma, Fill to level mark 


, Parking Brake and 
Clutch Cable and Pulleys 


Service under dash and by removing front portion 
of tunnel plate under car 


Gearshift Lever Ball & Socket Pivot. . .Coat WG 


Service thru floor and by removing front portion 
of tunnel plate under car 


EaClutch Cross Shaft 


H Gearshift Control Shaft 
Universal Joint 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
[DDORAIN and REFILL ee? p 


EjUniversal Joints Both sides. ......Repack WB 


More often under adverse conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL 


Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
[PRAN and REFILL 


POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


Gallons 
7" 
14 


6.50-13, 6.70-13 .. 
7.00-13 station wagon 


ERotate tires, Method D, then balance wheels 


Fuel Filter Element 
In carburetor fuel inlet, both sides 
KH 1960-61, more often if flooding occurs 
1962, only if flooding occurs 
| M Spyder Turbocharged 


One filter in fuel line at left of air cleaner 


E3Generator (2 oil cups). . 


Do not overfill cup near pulley 


ExEngine Oil Cooler 


Remove cover, clean with brush or compressed 


Never lift car by front or rear bumpers 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


LIFTING CAUTION 


ngs Repack WBIJ 


7 ft. Íb.; final adjustment, back off 
rn 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2* with standard brakes or 

more than 1" with power brakes, engine running. 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follow: 

1. Loosen Pacing. brake cable adjustment nut 

- Using a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 

slot in backing plate, expand shoes until a 
light uniform drag is felt when revolving drum 

3. Back off adjustment 12 notches 

4. peat operation at each wheel 

É, just parking brake cable 

Ble g sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


" 
KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
Ii Every 2,000 miles 
KiEvery 4,000 miles or 6 months 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
BHjEvery 25,000 miles 
[Conditional service 
1962, except Monza Spyder, replace fuel 


filter elements only if carburetor flooding 
occurs ^ 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic..AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . . 
CAPACITY, refill approx. 3 quarts 

Do not overfill 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Disconnect fill tube 


PCV System Valve . ... CH 


Remove and clean valve; also clean hose if clogged 


1960 and Monza Spyder, have one air cleaner 
Polyurethane . . .....Wash and oil 10W MORJ 
Monza Spyder Turbocharged 


Crankcase Dipstick Check level 
Station wagon, dipstick attached to oil fill cap 


Dil Fill Cap 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1960-61 ... 10W MOE3 


CRANKCASE 
Above +32° 

Above —10°. 
Below —10°.. 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


"MS" MO 

10W-30 
. 10W 10W-30 
SW 5W-20 


i See Service Instructions, page 4 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT R n Bl] Position for lift adapter eise ENS * 
die Choke Choke noit Filter Replace d : 
Mixture (notches) (notches) Add extra pint oil P * Lubrication fitting 

CARTER {ams} trans, Trans. - STRAT 

$ ` | LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TI IPER BLA 
1962 (1) l-bbl. YH — 3, iter ES FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLE E WIPER BLADES 
TEO teh Leb p de; index S 
1961 (3) Ibbi. H i4 manua! manual KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
1962 (2) 1-bbl. H 1 index index 


Type A, Suffix A 


MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease | 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED UBRICANTS cc Garburetor Cleaner . i | 
Manual Trans. Turbo-Air, 500 rpm; Super Turbo- L CL Chassis Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WG White Waterproof Grease | 
Pig AME d T eso pm + Positraction, use same lubricant recommended for standard differential 
VALVE. CLEARANCES Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chorl Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. CT-7 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable m 


vvbb5b565658à84à64àóà64é454t446t6441244 


Rm Cu — 32 —— L—— 


m " 
CHEVROLET CHEVY II 4, 6 


1962 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22F 42 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


AM av sw Xs ASQ 


Maximum variation between cylinders, less than 
20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 46N 


Gap: .0357 
Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 


Gap: .016”, used; .019", new 
> Dwell angle: 31°-34 


CONDENSER 


| Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


' Firing Order: 
4-cyl. 1, 3, 4,2 
6-cyl. 1, 5,3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 
Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
| manifold opening 


Set idle speed to 500 rpm 


6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
4-cyl., 4°; 6-cyl., 8 
(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC 


Pressure: 3'5-4V/, Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 

ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-cyl. 1-bbl. B 2 manual manual 
6-cyl. 1-bbl. BC 2 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


ALMA | 
E ‘perenne 
WOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


~ 


ss INTERVALS SHOWN 


TEE EEEREN 
EJ Polyurethane. ...Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 
H Manifold Heat Control Valve. . . MH 


Lubricate if shaft is not free 


Steering Gear .... T 


Remove forward and outboard 


Replace screws 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ..... 


Fill to '4 inch below top of reservoir 


f^ 


Ex Front Suspension and Steering k^ leq 
Linkage. (13 or 14 fittings) CL La d 


EqClutch Cross Shaft. CL 


GPowerglide Control Shaft Linkage. . WG 


E3Parking Brake Cable. . Coat WG 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 


Ey Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


EijUniversal Joints . Repack WB 


E3Parking Brake Cable. ...Coat WG 


DIFFERENTIAL 90 MPS 


Multi-Viscosity 80-90 may be used 

Ea maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK. `... .. Gallons 

All models — — € 16 

TIRE s Pressure Pu Reg : Bill Position for lift adapter 
6:50-13, station wagon. ::......... 24 28 Ky 


Lubrication fitting 


EiRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels ' @ Cooling system drain 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 

CC Carburetor Cleaner 

CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


MH Graphite mixed with alcol 
MO Motor Oil 


« For Positraction differential, use Speci 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation Printed in U.S.A. 


COOLING SYSTEM .. Quarts at CRANKCASE...... “MS” MO . 
Aui with Heater Without Heater E Above +32°....... ..20,20W* 10W-30 - 
HN 12 4 Above 0° - 10W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds BélQW 0* — — cvmeiÉzenss SW: 5W-20 
* 30 or^ 10W-30 may be used for sustained high 
Ex3Power Steering Reservoir E - speed driving above +90 
Fill to FULL mark on gage [2 €. |] CAPACITY 4-cyl., 314 quarts; 6-cyl., 4 quarts 
. DRAIN and REFILL 
Eq Generator (2 oil cups). . MO See Service Instructions, page 4 
Do not overfill front cup 
Air Cleaner Element. . , Service 


E ea Oil Filter 


4-cyl., add extra pint oil: 6-cyl., extra quart 


Crankcase Dipstick. . . . 


Check at engine tune-up 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF ' 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHEOK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


BY SYMBOLS 


Test and fillgrg 
Replace 


Check level 


Oil Fill Cap ..Wash and oil MORS 


Fuel Filter Element... Replace [3 
Located in carburetor fuel inlet 
PCV System Valve... .. . tem 


Remove and clean valve and hose 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position 
CAPACITY, quarts initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .......... Uu WA 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove oil pan 


Front Wheel Bearings Repack WBE} 


Initial torque, 814 ft. Ib.: final adjustment, back 
off 1 full flat, v, turn 


k 
» BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedaf can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 
more than 1" with power brakes, engine running. 
the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Loosen parking brake cable adjustment 


2. Turn star wheel adjuster until light uniform 
drag is felt when turning drum 


3. Back off adjuster 12 notches 
4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
5. Readjust parking brake cable 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


EXEvery 1,000 miles 
EJ Every 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 
BiEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 miles 
BjEvery 25,000 miles 
(Conditional service 


Lubricate manifold heat control! valve if 
shaft is not free 

Replace fuel filter if carburetor flooding 
occurs 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

WG White Waterproof Grease 


hol 


al Positraction Lubricant 


CT-8 


— CHEVROLET 6 


= 1963-64 Impala, Bel Air, Biscayne 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


v SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM ...... ..Ovztts 
Group Mo. Amp. Hrs. With Heater Without Hester 
AH 22F 44 Ail models -> 12 11% 
247 Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 15 pounds 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


prem OU TE UY PL 
SPARK PLUGS 

AC 46N 

Gap: 0357 

Torque: 20-25 ft Ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: 016° used; 019° new 
Dwell angie: 31°-34° 


Soin ERN 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: 18-25 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


* 


Brake Master Cylinder (cover). .........-- 


Fill to *4 inch below top of reservoir 


-~ 
V 
" 
d 
e 
p 
e 
=» 
F^ 
P 
a 
49 
— 
d 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3,6, 2,4 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


il. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2 Connect tachometer 
3. Connect timing fight to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
4. Disconaect digtribitor wacom ne sod tape 
manifold opening 
5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL TRANSMISSION, Manual. .$0 
6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn Multi-viscosity 80.90 may be used 
Gistributor to obtain recommended setting Eg Maintain level to f! plug " " 
7. vacuum line and reset to proper CAPACITY 2 pints; with overdrive, 3 pants 


Reconnect 
+. idle speed 
Timing Mark and Setting 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive drain and fill thru transmission 


cades, power vaie LR, ER, RF, LF 


Multiviscosity may be used 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints EqEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended - 

POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: H Every 6,000 miles 

Circutar metal tag under fili plug ' ‘ Every 12,000 miles 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center}: 
47 (Range, 4°-8°) 
(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 
Pressure: 34-4% Ib. at idie to 1000 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
LÀ 


(initial Man. Auto. S AND WIPES BLADES 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. : 

1-bbi. BV 1% * 0 AF ^ 4 

* One rod diameter above top of hole in choke KEY TO Type A, Suffix A GM Brake Fód Super No. 11 Meeting Specification M'LL-2:258 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED LUBRICANTS MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SE Steering Geer Luteacent 


Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm CL Chassis Lubricant 
Auto. Trans. 475-525 rpm in DRIVE Water Resistant EP Type MO Motor OU WB Whee! Bearing Gri 


VALVE CLEARANCES + For Positraction diferential, use Special Positractios Lubricant 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustabie Cooyright 1964, The Chet-Chort Corperction. Printed im U.S.A. os 


de n pec E = 


" CHEVROLET V-8 


1963-64 Impala, Bel Air, Biscayne 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 


TUNE-UP DATA w 
SERV 

See Service Instructions for Procedure SUE AST DNSTAEIHEVTASISS S CHOSEN 
BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 4 

. Group No. Amp. Hrs. With Without Chart 
2 engine | 22F 44 Heater Heater 
27, 409 engines 24 61 409-cu. in. engine . 22 21 With alr All other 
— 24T 70 1963 28. 327-cu. in. eni 18% 174 conditioning del: 

ESSION PRESSURE eur in: engine. 1s 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) si Cooling LA STR 13 anes with al con- 


283 engine: 1 40 ditioning, 15 pounds 


327 engi 1964 150 

409 engine | Steering Gear (plug)................... SG 
Maximum var y Maintain level to fill plug hole 

fter rust E 

AC: 33 eng. 5; 327 eng. 44; 409 eng. 43N k[] 1964 


Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 


E3Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 
With fluid at operating temperature and wheels in 
straight ahead position, fill to FULL mark on gage 


Gap: .016" used; .019* new 
Dwell angle: 28°-32° 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level: 
409-cu, in. engine, right side at front 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or plug). ..... HB 
Fill to !4 inch below top of fill hole 


E30il Filter (under car). .............. Replace 
Add extra quart oil 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 


DBPCV System ooe Test 
h CO replace valve and clean hose and 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ..... (8 or 10 fittings) CL— 


327, 409 engs. 
Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
l. Bring engine to operating temperature as 


Connect faring ent to Ni 1 spark pl 

inec! mini D 

distributor cap tower o o dne aud or Clutch Cross Shaft... sss cL 
isconnect distributor vacuum li d 

manifold opening meiend tape F4 1963 (fitting) 


1964 (plu 
1964 (plug) to lubricate 


P^ Parking Brake Cables and Pulleys... ..Coat CL 
EgPowerglide Control Shaft Linkage. . . . . Coat CL 
* TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 


„a Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 
E Maintain level to fill plug hole 
`“ CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; with overdrive, 3 
32 pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
X DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
^ Overdrive drain and fill thru transmission 


EM Universal Joints 1963........... Repack WB 


LE More often under adverse conditions 
Gn 1964, no service required 


Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL. 36 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and tu 
distributor to obtain recommended setting " 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 2 


Timing Mark and Setting S 


M 99 » UM 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


1963: 283 eng. 4°; 327 eng. 4°*; 409 en; 
1964: 283: 327 engs. WAR Wer ‘or AGO carb. 4° Parking Brake Cable Guides.......... Coat CL 
ange, H eng. wi! carb. 8° 
(Range: 62-125); 409 Sng. with 4GC carb. DIFFERENTIAL............ 80 MP* 


6°; with spec. cam, 12° 
* Hi-performance Engine, 8° 
** With solid lifters, 12° 
(Each line equals 2°) 


Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

E Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Cresc x POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Pressure: 283, 327 engs. 514-6!4 lb.; 409 eng. Circular metal tag under fill plug 

714-814 Ib.; at idle to 1000 rpm ES == 
ps [4 


Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


GAS TANK...............-.- Gallons 


CARBURETOR ‘ADJUSTMENT Station waco! is 
` dh “Choke Choke — " 
Mixture (notches) (notches) All other models 20 " 
‘initial Man Aue - . : w^ x 
CARTED cc Gm E TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear BH Position for lift adapter 
4-bbl. AFB 327 eng. 1% llean — index* LEM , ee i 
ng. -— . 
(2) 4-bbl. 409 eng. 114-2 2 rich — e a e Lubrication fitting 
POE EGO 1% — 1ljean** llean** [Rotate tires, Method B D @ Cooling system drain 
PIN pis 1-14 index index 


* ,llean 
«s 1964; Sneha rod diameter above top of hole 


in'choke lever AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED Type A, Suffix A 
Maru Tare special cam, POTE acce aoa an ae MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
Auto. Trans; 425475 romp in DRIVE; except 409 LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant \ . 

MO Motor Oil 


eng., 450-500 rpm in ORIVE 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


i ot and running) T 
engine NYER special cam: Intake .012"; 


wi Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


Water Resistant EP Type 


exhaust 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


eet — —— 


n : = 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 


« For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


BY SYMBOLS T ~ 
CRANKCASE............. “MS” MO 
Above +32°....... .20,20W* 10w-30 

0°. . 10W 10W-30 
Below 0°....... —— | 5w-20 


* Use 30 for sustained high speed or above +90° 
CAPACITY 4 quarts, e; t 409-cu. in. n 
quarts q , excep! u. in. engine, 5 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


Battery eor mre Test and fillEg 
Oil Fill Cap... onn. Wash and oil. MORA 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


Air Cleaner Element. ......... . Service 
DIY Aye Luise ete reete Check iA 


Replace if necessary. If not replaced, recheck 
element every 6,000 miles until replaced 
Polyurethane........... Wash and oil MOP 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 

Manifold Heat Control Valve 

Lubricate if shaft is not free 

Fuel Filter Element...............,. 
In carburetor fuel inlet. . ar 
In bowl-type fuel filter. ......... Liuius 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 


Rotate end for end... caiano 12 
Replace ......... ^ vicini eg ER 
Front Wheel Bearings Repack WB 


1964 .......... E 
Initial torque, 15 ft. Ib; final adjustment, back 


off 1 full flat, V, turn 


V 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required , 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


Power brake (engine stopped), power brake slave 
cylinder, power brake valve LR, RR, RF, LF k 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 6,000 miles 

(Every 12,000 miles 

Every 24,000 miles 

E Every 30,000 miles 

EiEvery 36,000 miles 

(Every crankcase oil change 

[la Conditional service 


Replace fuel filter element in carburetor 
el inlet if flooding occurs 


Lubricate manifold heat control valve, if 
shaft is not free y 


if 
SAE 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
WB Rheet Bearing Grease 


+ 


y 
, 
s 
d 
= 
" 


BE y P e b 5 6$ 6 P $ € € $ € t BE 


at 
[1 
laximum variation between cylinders, 


a. 


- “Dwell angle: 31°-34° 


TUNE-UP DATA 


„See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
"m Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
53 42 


“COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


cranking speed with throttle open) 


minimum n 
20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS ») 
AC: Turbo-Air, 46FF; Super T: 

egi Hos and Turbo Char ed creme cate with 
Torque: 15-20. Ib. SAF ROS 

IGNITION POINTS 

Delco $ 

Gap: .016" used; .019” new 


CONDENSER 3 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


riti dare 1, 4, 5, 2, 3, 6 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light t . 

distributor cap tower EOE 3 Sener pug or 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening; except Turbo-Charged on 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended HER ! 


7. Reconnect vacuum line $ 
Wie ease ine and reset to proper 


s por 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Q.---.| o 
9e----4o | 
18*-- 
A 
rbo-Ch; 
Turbo-Air eng. ™ ne ned 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): . 
1963: Turbo-Air: Man. Trans. 4^, Auto. Trans. 13^ 
S lyrbo-Air: Man, Trans, 13° 
Tu rged: Man. Trans. 24^ . 
1964: Turbo-Air: Man, Trans. 6°, Auto. Trans. 147 
Super Turbo-Air; Man. Trans. 14°, Auto, 
Trans. 14° 
Turbo-Charged: Man. Trans. 24° 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure; 4-5 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume; 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT ; 


Idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto, 
CARTER turns) ans. Trans. 
1-bbl. YH m Men >= 
ROCHESTER » ` 
(2) 1-bbl, H 15 " * 4 


* 2 turns up from free entry in lever 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans.: Turbo-Air, 475-525 rpm, 
Super Turbo-Air, 575-625 rpm 
Turbo-Charged, 825-875 rpm, . 
Auto. Trans, 475-525 rpm in DRIVE ` 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


u 


n D 


i wj 


CHEVROLET CORVAIR 


1963-64 Corvair, Corvair Spyder 


sti sg - — M 


1903 V adi. 
ENGINE Lio RELEASE To 
SEFVICE AT INTE 


4A» 


+ 
y 


` 
* 


Steering Gear (plug). i Bem ae ai OH TT $6 bs 
3 maine level to fill plug hole 
n 19593 . | | | . |) —/ À9.eeeerrneene tmt 
qj 1964 NW E 
j * Ann Pos. por S Ib; final adjustment, back off 


FgFront Suspension and vd 

n Steering Linkage. . . . . , Deom eL—-* 
x 5 s b: eu 

E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or 


plug): TEM 
/'Service thru luggage compartmen' i 
, Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top gffill hole 


[Parking Brake and — , 
ap Clutch Cable and’Pulleys.,..,.... 


“Service under dash and by removing front portion 
of tunnel plate under car 


(Gearshift Lever Ball & Socket Pivot. , Coat CL 
Service thru floor and by removing front portion 
of tunnel plate under car 


Clutch Cross Shaft... sss 
B 1963 (fitting) " 
30A 


. 1964 (plug) 
*, \ Install fitting to lubricate 


[Gearshift Control Shaft Connector... Coat .CL 
TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment i 2 
Brakes s76 uM justing. Ad; is not nor 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RP, LF » 


à KEY TO INTERVALS 
FyEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 6,000 miles 


Beo 12,000 míles 
"HiEvery 24,000 miles 


ma Mainiin evel o 1h plug hola S Every 30,000 miles SPs < 
F n! e s 4 D 
F . BR Due REN Ra Rn Bier 96.000 nies NR, 
A 4 OAL Every crankcase oi GA 
. Bl Universal Joints Both sides. ......Repack WB Pieds, 
More often under adverse conditions ^ onditional service . " 
1963 only. 1964, no service roquired A Replace fuel filter elemeggs. if carburetor 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 m" bo used 
1963, maintain level to fil! plug hole 
1964, check lubricant level with axle dipstick 
ine compartment, when checking 
anug! transmission models, ad 


flooding occurs? 


Ag 


located -inen 
crankcase. 
. lubricant thru, fill hole in transmission to level 
P. plug. hole in differential. Powerglide models, fill 
thru levejplug'hole in differentia 
CAPACITY Al, pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION:- 
Citcular metal tag under fill plug 


As required, replace vatv 
fittings 
No valve on Turbo-Charged 


TRANSMIS 


E S) 7* 
LIFTING CAUTIO 
Never lift car by front or rear bumpers 


Í + 
* GAS TANK... oos Gallons 
All models ... > 14 


IRE Pressure Front Rear 
6.5013, 6/7043 ... Leiria d 15 26 


[Rotate tires, Method B 


Fuel Filter Element... AAA "TT 
In carburetor fuel inlet, both sides 


n 
Turbo-Charged models 
One filter in fuel line at left of air cleaner 


Ix LC) 1... eee eee Test and fill 
(Generator (2 oil cups).......... io nsi „MO 


Do not overfill cup near pulley 


(Engine Oll Cooler..........-..... 005, 
Remove cover, clean with brush or compressed 
air 


E30! Filter ...... ofi ono RG nts ot 9 ee Replace 
Add extra pint oil 
Moro often with prolonged dusty driving 
s 


T : BE Position for lift adapter m. 
AM, 
wr Y © Lubrication fitting p 


T, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE OHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BEL 


* ~ -AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, 4 i , 
KEY TO. Aromat E an Hyd aule Brake Tid , Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant. 
UN MO Motor Qil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
y LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant MË Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
: BE Water Resistant EP Typo Moeting Degification MI B 
>, # Positraction, use same lubricant 4$ rone »xie 
Copyright 1964, Tha Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed In U.S A. " 2 " [20 t! 
- Ma a erae riae dai ie " P ERRAT AEN t naf ERA AO ERE, TEDPRRPRCCRRRARREEULAD UNIS 2 EST. 


" CHEVROLET CHEVY II 4, 6 


1963-64 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


COOLING SYSTEM........ 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. With Heater Without Heater 
All 22F 44 Li 9 B m 
ina ii A wia Below"... w 
; wi air con- L p " ^ 
COMPRESSI . t Use 30 for sustained high speed or above +90 
UMEN MEME O Ripe mie dedere 
LC piste Icarus ipi MR e] Power Steering BU... e uu AF TS DRAIM and REFILL 
i 3 i With flui rati ^ 
Máiimum variation between cylinders; 20 pel Straight shead posite Wie FOLE ras ers Ses serica instroctions, piste 
SPARK PLUGS Air Cleaner Element................ 
Gap: .035- IH sPolyurethane........... Wash and oil MO rice Ed 
Torque- 20-25 ft. Ib. More often with prolonged dusty driving ES (TI FRU nanoen R 
Manifold Heat Control Valve. ............ NS 
IGNITION POINTS BlManitold He trol Valv 
0167 197 
SEI || steering Gear sss 
CONDENSER EH 1364 < etico os 
Do. reri ` = aT Wash and oil MOG 
Capacity: -18-25 mtd oT tubeieent out e have: : j » With closed PCV system, sealed cap. no service 
Cylinder Numbering S leplace screws ; sel Fitter Elemest................. 
Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ........... H | HH 
= Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir Í SE aree EAEE 
e o TRANSMISSION. Automatic Jr 
Ra |, en eee 
e uU X DRAIN and REFILL Mot recommended ion 
7, O 
` vy 
fs 
(ey 
Firing Order: 
écyt 13.42 i " 
ecyt 583,624 : f on d full t 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
` ide speed Morse ! Brakes are self-adjusting Adjustment i$ not nor- 
[4 $: malty required 
Timiag Mark and Setting y 1 1 Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 
— M: 
———460* H | 
| Mo C E ; PE it KEY TO INTERVALS 
j | i E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
- EB Every 6,000 miles 
= prid Dead Center)- N IDENTIFICATION: = S Every 12,000 miles 
Gey: H- Then. 8° (Range. 67-107) HiEvery 24,000 miles 
(he eur d) ee E EB Every 30,000 miles 
= ý Every 36,000 miles 
; — E» D. at idie to 1300 mpm 
- Votume I 30-85 sconcds at idie pa — |  FIRES.-.--.------ 
ea, foe 65014. ——À—---- 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT Eo o Ra ax uw dé 
Mogere {estches) (estches) 
=e = 
— : 2 AFETY, WE CHECK TOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT 


AF Astomatic Transmission Aeid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP- Malti Purpose Gear Lubricent 


Son rent ev 13 top of bate io choke KEY TO Type A, Suffix A GM Brate Flas Super Meeting Specticetion VILL 21056 
ever " z MH Graphite mixed with zlcohol $6 Steering Gear Lubricant 
CL Chassis Lubricant ~~ 
ENGINE [OLE SPEED LUBRICANTS Weater Resistant EP Type M9 Motor 03 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Traces. 475-525 Om < For Positraction diferectial, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


jae Tease 475-525 rom in ORTVE 


var Yt foc rers. MS uin Cagycighs 1954, The Cnet Chart Corsanztian. Priced is USA. 


E m — 


b$btbetbti* ott o-27Í79393 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 


è AABM 

Afi raup No: Amp. His; 
24T 70 

COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


UN ars: Scotian: ERES 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 45 

Gap: .035* 

Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Deico 
Gap: .016” used; .019” new 
Owell angle: 28°-32° 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


QOO 
SOOO 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 


Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


y oy B UNE 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
4° (Range, 4°-8°) 
(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure: 514-61 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GV 1% * t 
* One-half rod diameter above top of hole in 
choke lever 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 450-500 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


CHEVROLET CHEVY II V-8 


1964 All Models 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


3 SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 
COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 


| 

> . Ki CRANKCASE............"Ms"M0, | 

With Heater Without Heater E Above 4-325... .20,20W* — 10W-30 1 

All models .....-.... 7 16 Above 0°.. ; 10W — 10W-30 | 
Seating system pressure, 13 pounds; with air con- Below0°..... SW 5W-20 


* Use 30 for sustained high speed or above -+90 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 
With fluid at operating temperature and wheels in 
straight ahead position, fill to FULL mark on gage 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level — e 


Battery..... dau eius Test and fillgy 
[BPCV System... Test Oil Fill Cap... Wash and oil MOG 
As required, replace valve and clean hose and With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
fittings 1 r 
Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Steering Gear... eee SG DT! DUBBI. 2 simon efe renti Check[H . 


Remove forward and outboard steering gear cover 
attaching screws. Inject lubricant into forward 
Screw hole until lubricant comes out other hole. 
Replace screws 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or plug). ..... HB 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of fill hole 


E30il Filter (under car)... ....... sisse Replace 
Add extra quart oil 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 


Replace if necessary. If not replaced, recheck 
element every 6,000 miles until replaced ^ 


Polyurethane........... Wash and oil MO 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 
Manifold Heat Control Valve. ............ Mm 


Lubricate if shaft is not free 


Fuel Filter Element................. Replace fq 


Located in carburetor fuet inlet 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. .. a 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommende 


Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 
Rotate, end for end 
Replace 


E3Front Suspension and . heel Beari 
Steering Linkage. . .(10 or 12 fittings) CL— intel traue, e b MR Spee 
o ul flat, Ye turn 


EAClutch Cross Shaft (plug)................ cL 
Install fitting to lubricate 


Ex3Powerglide Control Shaft Linkage. ... Coat CL 


ExParking Brake Cable............... Coat CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 MP 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


E3Parking Brake Cable.............., Coat CL 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 80 MP* 
Multi viscostty 80-90 may be used 
EQ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


KEY. TO iNTEPV^ 
ExXEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 
Every 36,000 miles 
(Every crankcase oil change 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


All models ...-.. ec eee nee eee eee 16 


r ront Rear eh ; [Conditional ice . 
wei E 24 B Position for lift adapter Replace fuel filter element if carburetor 
; 4 ae e  Lubrication fitting looding 


‘on’ 


)CCUIS |.— 
erga Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
Rotate tires, Metho 


@ Cooling system drain shaft is not free 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 


MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


* For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, CT-14 


r 


1963-64 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 
All 


AABM 


Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
24 61 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 44 for moderate service 
Gap: .035" 


p: 
Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Gap: .016” used; .019" new 
Dwell angle: 28°-32° 
CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4, 3, 6, 5,7, 2 


M 

TIMING PROCEDURE 

l. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


2. 
3. Connect timing light to No. 1 s li 

distributor Cap tower pars RIUgTon 
4. 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line a 
manifold opening j nastapa 


5. Set engine speed at idle with transmissi 
NEUEM i ission in 


6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to 
idle speed proper 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
250-hp, WCFB, 4° (Range, 4°-10° 
300-hp, AFB, 8° (Range, 6°-12°) ' 
340-hp, AFB, 10° 
hp, Fuel injection, 10° 
365-hp, Holley, 10° 
375-hp, Fuel injection, 10° 
(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure: 514-614 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 1% llean 1 lean 
4-bbl. WCFB 1 index index 
HOLLEY 
4-bbl. 1 1 lean 1 lean 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans.: Fuel injection, 825-875 rpm; spe- 
cial cam, 1963 725-775 rpm, 1964 775-825 rpm; 
others, 450-500 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 425-475 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot) 

340-, 360-hp. engs.: Intake .008^; exhaust .018” 
365-, 375-hp engs.: Intake .030"; exhaust .030” 
250-, 300-hp. engs.: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


MOOD RELEASE: Inside 


SERVICE AT 


SYMBOLS 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts K CRANKCASE. ...."MS" MO 
Wilh Heater rt Above +32°......., .2020W*  10W-30 
All mOQUE cos cen ux dno [17 Above 0° Haie . 10W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds Below 0°. ` 5W 5w-20 
Oil Fill Cap. xxu E ids sacs xS uua fA ait ES. * Use 30 for sustained high-speed or above Hi 
3 ines, 4 quarts; 
E3Power Steering Reservoir................ AF Erg eU enr en A a 


With fluid at operating temperature and wheels In 
straight ahead position, fill to FULL mark on gage 


Air Cleaner Element 
IH  Polyurethane. ......... Wash and oil MO 


More often with prolonged dusty driving 


Steering Gear 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Fuel Filter Element................. Replace 


E] 1963 In carburetor fuel Met... conc uet emm 
My 1964 EM ———— — | | 
R forward and outboard steeri 
attaching screws. inject lubricant Inte. forward Manifold Heat Control Valve............- MH 


screw hole until lubricant comes out of other 
hole. Replace screws 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level —————« 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ HB 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 


E30il Filter (under car) 
Add extra quart oil 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 
Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick............ 
[V] Rotate, end for end 
P] Replace 


Lubricate if shaft is not free 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position... EJ 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


: POL STRUM. LLL erre nr anri RES Test 
ij As required, replace valve and clean hose and 
i Maggi 

Battery. non ocn s Test and fill 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. .... 


3 
Initial torque, 15 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, back off 
1 full flat, v, turn 


Clutch Cross Shaft... cL 
1963 (fitting) 


1964 (plug) 
1964 (plug). to lubricate 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 MP 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


E Universal Joints 1963........... Repack WB 
More often under adverse conditions 
1964, no service required 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


Rear Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB: 
1363 
zm O yaaa joints and propeller shaft must 
be removed 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 80 MP* 


Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 6,000 miles 


Circular metal tag under fill plug m [HEvery 12,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 
nm" Gallons EiEvery 30,000 miles 
ier TANK itor again ai > aA Every 36,000 miles 
(Every crankcase oil change 
m : A Conditional service 
TIRES........... Rear Bl] Position for lift adapter Replace fuel filter element in carburetor 
670-15 ....... 24* uel inlet only if flooding occurs 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


* For sustained high-speed driving, 36 


(Rotate tires, Method B 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP+ Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


+ For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, CT-13 


Vv vv b b b b P b b 5 $ E b. P € € 3 FP € € TF t0 32 0 t3 FSS 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY B 
roup No, , Mrs. 
All oop Ame: | Hrs. 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 46N 
Gap: .035” 
Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
dco 


De 
Gap: .016” used; .01 
Owell angle: 31 1 new 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity; .18-.25 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOOOOD 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating tem 
Connect i hometer k pee 

Connect timing light to No. 1 
distributor cap tower Sper IUE. Of 
Disconnect distributor vacuum fine and tape 
manifold openin; 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

rve timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


sem 2 ey 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Hi-Thrift ange, 6^-1 x] 

Turbo-Fire, 4” (Range, 4°-B°) 

(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure; 314-414 Ib. at idle to 1000 rm 
Volume: 1 pínt in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Mai Auto. 


ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. BV 1% g . 


e ae rod diameter above top of hole in choke 
ever 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm 
Auto. Trans, 475-525 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


w- 


SERVICE AT 


g 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning) 15 pounds me 


With fluid at rating temperature and wheels in 
Straight ahead position, fill to FULL mark on gage 


Ei Manual Steering Gear... . 
Remove forward and outbo: teering gear cover 
attaching screws. Inject lubricant into forward 
screw hole until lubricant comes out other hole, 
Replace screws 


KFuel Filter Element................. Replace 
Located in carburetor fuel inlet 


KA Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MH 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 


Air Cleaner Element................ Servic 


Polyurethane......-.... Wash and oil M 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). . .......... HB 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir 


Ex3Front Suspension and 


Install fitting to lubricate 


E3Powerglide Control Shaft Linkage... . . Coat CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 MP 


Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 
Ej Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 2 pints; with overdrive, 3 pints 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive drain and fill thru transmission 


E3Parking Brake Cable Guides......... Coat CL 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 80 MP* 


Multi-viscosity 60-90 may be used 
EJ Maintain level to fili plug hole 
CAPACITY 3% pints 


POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


All models... 2 cece eee nnn A 20 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 

6.50-14, 7.00-14, 7.50-14......-..- 24 

Station wagon and El Camino...... 24* = 

* Station wagon with heavy load, front 22, rear 30 
[Rotate tires, Method B 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


E3Power Steering Reservoir..............., AF 


Steering Linkage........... (8 fittings) CL 


EBClutch Cross Shaft (plug). ............... om 


E3Parkíng Brake Cables and Pulleys. .. . . Coat CL 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended [4 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


———— ——- y 


CHEVROLET CHEVELLE 6 


1964 All Models | 


* Use 30 for sustained high speed or above +90* 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


Oil Filter Replace pg 


Add extra quart oil 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 
Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 


Rolate.180* 1... eere 12 

RODIACE y oaa anaa aaia 
Oil Fill Cap... iius. Wash and oil MOA 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


PCY System suus. Test ig 


As required, replace valve and clean hose and 
fittings 


ROMMES «2 uus Repack WB EG 
Initial torque, 15 ft. Ib; final adjustment, back off 
1 full flat, y, turn 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 
Power brake (engine stopped). power brake slave 
cylinder, power brake valve LR, RR, RF, LF 


KEY To INTERVALS 


FuEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 

[HEvery 12,000 miles 

Every 24,000 miles 

KBEvery 36,000 miles | 
(Every crankcase oil change 


[la Conditional service 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 
Replace fuel filter element if carburetor 
flooding occurs 


Bü] Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 , Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 


MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


+ For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


CT-15 


oi 


CHEVROLET CHEVE 


1964 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22F 44 
24T ‘70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
e Cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
Sie ante 50 


Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 2-bbl. carb. 45; 4-bbl. carb. 44 
Gap: .035* 
Torque: 20-25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco i 
Gap: .016” used; .019" new : 
Dwell angle: 28--32^ 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


DOOD 
VOCO 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3,6, 5,7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bng engine to operating temperature 

« Gonnect tachometer £ ? 

- Connect timing light to No. 1 spark Plug or 
distributor cap tower 

- Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening b 

Set idle speed with transmission in'NEUTRAL 

- Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 

idle speed 


~ on B oh 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


4: (Range, 4 -B-) x$. 
(Each line equals 2°) Es 
FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 
Pressure: 514-614 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initiat Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GV 1% E: 254 
4-bbl. 4GC 1% index index 


* One-half rod diameter above top of hole in 
chcke lever 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 450-500 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


LLE V-8 


Pavan 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


w w- 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts K CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 

With Heater Without Heater Above +32° 20,20W*  10W-30 

All models ...... 0.45 17 16 Above 0° . 10W 10W-30 

With air conditioning 18 17 Below0’....... . SW 5W-20 

Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds; with air con- * Use 30 for sustained high speed or above +90° 
ditioning, 15 pounds CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ErjManual Steering Gear. |... 0...0... SG DRAIN. and REFILL 


Remove forward and outboard steering gear cover Service instrüctions; Hapa 
atttaching screws. Inject lubricant into forward 
screw hole until lubricant comes out of other 
hole. Replace screws 


EgPower Steering Reservoir................ Al 
With fluid at operating temperature and wheels in 


"t Test and fill 


i ONEM CÀp..iococr crece Wash and oil MOG 
straight ahead position, fill to FULL mark on gage With cl p PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
POY SYStOM ico ener Test: , 
mee eds replace valve and clean hose and Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
fittings DIV CDOs cccrccscods EREA Check I 
Replace if necessary. If not laced, recheci 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level—__ element every 6,000 miles until replaced 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or plug). ..... HB: 


Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 


E30il Filter (under car). .......... uuu Replace 
Add extra quart oil 
More often with prolonged dusty driving 


Fuel Filter Element................ Replace [3 


Located in carburetor fuel inlet 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position... EY 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Manifold Heat Control Valve 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 


Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 
Rotate, end for end. . . . . 
Replace 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage € eed 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB E9 
Initial torque, 15 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, back 
off 1 full flat, v, turn 


Ki3Clutch Cross Shaft (plug) 


Install fitting to lubricate 
E3Powerglide Control Shaft Linkage. ... . 
E3Parking Brake Cables and Pulleys. .... Coat CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

Ed Maintain level to fill plug note 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; with overdrive, 3 
pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive drain and fill thru transmission 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 

Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 

Power brake (engine stópped), power brake slave 
cylinder, power brake valve LR, RR, RF, LF 


E3Parking Brake Cable Guides. . . . 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

ES Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
ExEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
HijEvery 24,000 miles 
EB Every 36,000 miles 
[IgEvery crankcase oil change 


GAS TANK.. 


All models ...-.45 


"I re Front Rear. - y [i Conditional service . 
H E or aou e E 24 24 BHH Position for lift adapter Replace fuel filter element if carburetor 
Station wagon and El Camino. .. ... 24* — 28* Lubrication fitti flooding occurs 
* Station wagon with heavy load, front 22, rear 30 . ubrication fitting Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 


[BiRotate tires, Method B @ Cooling system drain shaft is not free 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11, 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


* For Positraction differential, use Special Positraction Lubricant 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. CT-16 


X. uw 3 


4 


* db p & * 


Vet b bb 355644 t$dà dtasdttet 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


(Following data does not include 300 series) 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
1960 All . 27H 70 
1961 Newport, Windsor 24H 59 
27H 70 
New Yorker 27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. A 
1961 Newport ... x 3 es" 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion 12v 


Gap: .035' 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 1961 New Yorker; Autolite Others 
Gap: .014*-.019* 
Dwell angle: 27°-32° 


CONDENSER 


Chrysler 1961 New Yorker; Autolite Others 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOOE j 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 


3. Connect timing light to adapter inserted in 
No. 1 distributor cap tower 


Note: Do not puncture spark plug cable insu- a 


lation 

Disconnect vacuum line at distributor e 
Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission 
in NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


m. [Éom oe 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 10* 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2769S 
Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man, Auto. 


CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. BBD-2923SA 1 index index 
2-bbi. BBD-2924S 4 — index 
2-bbl. BBD-3132S* 1 index index 
4-bbl. AFB-2903S r2 — 1 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-2927S 12 — 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3108S 14 — 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3134S HZ — 2 rich 
STROMBERG E " 

2-bbl. WWC3-188 Ya-Ya 1 rich 1 rich 


Y- 
* With closed crankcase ventilation system 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manua! Trans. 500 rpm with headlights on high 
beam 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam . 

Air Cond. 575 rpm in DRIVE ‘with unit turned ON 
with headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic liflers, nonadjustable 


HOOD RELEASE: Inside, 1960; Front, 1961 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM...... . Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
All models ....... 17 16 
Cooling system, pressure, 14 pounds; with air 
conditioning, 16 pounds 


Uil Filter (under car). . .. 


Add extra quart oil 


[xL MARE Test and fill 


Caution: Do not ground positive terminal under 
any circumstances 


Eg Power Steering Reservoir................ PS 


Fill to level on gage. Without gage, to base of 
filler neck when cold, halfway when hot 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
Oil Fill Cap 

Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Uo PPM Clean 
v D Replace 
Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug). ............. MP 

Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below -30° , 75 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ....... ...HB 


Fill to % inch below top of reservoir 


EJ Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage.......... (8 fittings) CL 


Eg Torque Shaft s 
TRANSMISSION; Manual 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 41% pints, refill approx. 314 pints 
PD) DRAIN and REFILL 


[Gearshift Lever ............... 


Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


H Universal Joints........ <=... Repack UJ 


Use only 2 ounces in front joint 


DIFFERENTIAL MP* 
Above -10^, 90; below —10°, 80; below —30^, 75 
EG Maintain level 1⁄4 inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
HI]DRAIN and REFILL 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK....... 


Town & Country.. 
All other models, , 


B.00-15 300-F, -G. ,.... s. 24 


8.00-14 Windsor, Newport 24 22 
8.50-14 Newport Town ani 22 24" 
8.50-14 Saratoga (1960). 22 
8.50-14 New Yorker (196 22 
9.00-14 New Yorker, 300-F (1960) 22 

Town and Country........ 24* 


* With heavy load, 28 


For Captive-Air tires inner chamber pressure must 
be 4 to 6 pounds higher than outer chamber pres- 
sure shown 


z GiRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


KEY TO 


Type A, Suffix A 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CHRYSLER 


1960-61 All Models 


Windsor, Newport New Yorker | 


w 


Ka CRANKCASE... “MS” MO 
E Above -+32° .30 — 20W.40,10w-30 
Above +10° .. 20W 10W-30 
Above —10°. . 10W  10W.30, 5W-20 
Below —10* j 5W 5W-20 
Windsor, Newport CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
Fuel Filter Element. . Replace Fk] 
Generator (2 oil cups)... . -MoJ 
Alternator, no lubrication 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). . . ..M0E3 
Model 300 (grease cup)...... ... Am 


1 turn at each lubrication period 
Wick under rotor...........Sparingly MOET] 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft... . 


PCV System Valve.......... 


Disassemble and clean 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position . . 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models........... 5 " 


Remove 1 converter plug and disconnect fill pipe 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


te— Front Wheel Bearilgs:. «ooo Check WB [H 
Clean and repack if necessary 

Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 
Position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 


axle spindle, Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold. if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes 
or more than 1" with power brakes, engine run- 
ning, the need for service is indicated 

Two adjustment cams are provided on each sup- 
port plate. To tighten, turn both front brake cams 
and rear brake front cam in direction of forward 
wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 
the reverse direction 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 7 
1, Turn one adjustment cam until heavy drag is 

felt when wheel is turned 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
*  Lubrication fitting 
o Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is felt 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 

4, Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- | 
ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles | 
B Every 4,000 miles 
H Every 5,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
Every 20,000 miles 
BEEvery 23,000 miles 


MH Manifold Heat;Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part 879318 


MO Motor Oil 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No, 2084329 


CC Carburetor Cleaner : . ; ` 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant UJ Universal Joint Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MestingiSpecification/;MIE:L-2105B WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 
+ For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. CR-4 


CHRYSLER 


1962-63 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
Newport, 300 24H 59 
27H 70 
New Yorker, 300H, J 27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttie open) min. 


max. 
New Yorker, 300, N (Auto. Trans.) 130 165* 
EU LL NITE esicie 125 155** 


* Maximum 
** Maximum 


SPARK PLUGS 

hampion: 300H, 1962 413 eng. with (2) 4-bbl. 
carbs.) 1963 300, Newport with dual poi -9Y; 
300), XJ-10Y; others, )-12Y LE 
Gap: .035* 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib 


IGNITION POINTS 

SUNT REP IR MR REED cal points 
olite: avi , Newport (dual poin! 

Gap: .0147-.019* es pense 

Dwel! angle: 1963 New Yorker, single points, 28°- 

33°; others, single points and each set of dual 

points, 27°-32°; dual points total dwell, 34°-40° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler: Newport, 300, New Yorker 


Autolite: 300H, -J; 1963 300, Newport (dual points) 
Capacity: .25-.285 mtd 


on between cylinders, 25 psi 
ion between cylinders, 20 psi 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


5 


o 


S 
Autolite dist. Chrysler dist. 
Firing Orden: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
l. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 
3. Connect timing light to adapter inserted in 
No, 1 distributor cap tower 
Note: Do not puncture spark plug cables 
» Disconnect vacuum line at distributor 
Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission 
in NEUTRAL 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 
Reconnect vac, line and reset to proper idle 


Timing Mark and Setting 


P x 9 we 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
300J, 1214 °; others, 10* 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model M-2769S 

Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at idle rpm 


Ss) 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
idle Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. — Trans. 
2-bbl. BBD-3244S H index index 
2-bbl. BBD-3245S 1 index index 
2-bbl. BBD-3476S 5 2 rich 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3251S 1 2 rich 2 rich 
4-bbl. AF8-3256S 1-2 2 rich 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3259S 12 1 rich 1 rich 
(2) 4-bbl. AFB-3505S 1-2 manual manual 
STROMBERG . 
2-bbl. WWC3-201 1-1% lrich — 1lrich 
2-bbl, WWC3-221 114 1rich 1 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 500 rpm* with headlights on high 


beam 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm* in NEUTRAL with head- 
ights on high beam " 

AT Cond, 5 rpm* in DRIVE with unit turned ON 
with headlights on high beam 

* 300H, 650 rpm; 300J, 700-750 rpm , 

Air Cond. 750 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned ON 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
d .015^; exhaust .024^ 
309). inane 017"; exhoust .028* (engine not 
running) 


Others: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


62 
Newport 
WOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 
All models ........ 17 16 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air 
conditioning, 16 pounds 
E30il Filter (under car). ........ Replace 
Add extra quart oil 
[piBattery............. ES Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


EPower Steering Reservoir. . 
Fill to base of filler neck If cold, 


E3bistributor Shaft (oil cup). . 


300 (grease cup) 
1 turn at each lubrication period 


Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MO 
1963 1962 
Crankcase Dipstick........... .. Check level 
Oil Fill Cap. . . Wash and oil 30 MO 
1963 2 


EpAutomatic Trans. Filter (under car). . . . Replace 
Replace at time of transmission drain 
Ey Manual Steerin; 
Above -30°, 80; ' 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ........... HB 
Fill to !4 inch below top of reservoir 


Air Cleaner Element. ............... 


B Dy ‘type .......... een 
Dry type) coss su SERVE 


[Carburetor Choke Piston. . . 
Remove air cleaner to servi 
while moving choke valve bac! 
Front Suspension. .............. (4 plugs) BJ 

i i ti essary. 

Alter replacing seal or when relubricating, remove 

plug, use special gun or proper adapter. Install plug 
i ial adapter. Fill until grease 

Eee ion Upper Sar joint "bleed holes or lower 
Joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals, Reinstall 
plug 

E3Steering Linkage.......... (4 sealed bearings) 

Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 

Terme Sut... secs E LM 

Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 

TRANSMISSION, Manual vows AF 

i e 

Ea ETA pints, refil approx. 3% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 

EH 1962; 1963 Not recommended 

EBGearshift Lever ... ess .M0 


Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


Universal Joints ........ ———— v 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 


1963 us ética vus t Inspect 


Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
EF] 1963, repack if used under severe service 
EH 1962, repack under all service conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL ............-- MP* 


Above -10°, 90; below 10^, 80; below ~30°, 75 
* Maintain level 14 inch below fill plug hole." 


Apply cleaner 
id forth 


1962 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK Gallons 
Town & Country.. e W 
All other models 


7.60-15 300H, J... 
8.00-14 300, Newport . 
8.50-14 Newport, Town & 
8.50-14 New Yorker .... ee 
9.00-14 New Yorker, Town & Count 
* With heavy load, 28 

Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


H 1963 1962 


Bl. Position 
A  Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


for lift adapter 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 
Above +32°...... 20W-40,10W-30 
Above +10°...... 10W30 
Above —10°.... à 10W-30, SW-20 
Below —10*............ 5W-20 

* 1963, 5W-20 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


P 
Remove and clean valve; also hose and car- 
buretor, if passages are clogged 


192 0O 1963 
Service more frequently under severe service 
Crankcase Breather Outlet 
Element 1962........ Wash and oil 30 MOY 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine id 
NEUTRAL position ... 
To overcome difficult s! below -10^, replace 
1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 

CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ............ 5 s 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan on 
1963 without transmission plug 

1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service every 10.000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


1963, clean and repack 
1962, clean and repack 
Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib. 
position lock nut over adiusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 
1963. final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 
-003* end play 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes 
or more than 1” with power brakes, engine run- 
ning, then need for service is indicated 
Two adjustment cams are provided on each sup- 
port plate. To tighten, turn h front brake cams 
and rear brake t cam in direction of forward 
wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 
the reverse direction 
1962: Adjust the brakes as follows: . 
1. Turn one adjustment cam until heavy drag is 
felt when wheel is turned 
2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is felt 
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 
4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake 
1963: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not 


nori required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- 


ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 
KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31963, Twice yearly 
1962, Every 4,000 miles 
Every 5,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
jy Every crankcase oil change 
lid Twice yearly 
H Conditional service 
1963, drain and refill differential for below 
—10* requirements 
1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


El 


F Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
TS BJ Suspension Lubricant, ; 
MoPar o. 
LUBRICAN CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


« For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chert Corporation, Printed in U.S.A 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


LM Lithium Grease 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 


MO Motor Oil 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Spec. MIL-L-21058 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


CR-S 


- P 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY NL M 

roup No. Amp. Hrs. 
Newport, 300 24H 59 
New Yorker, 300K zi 20 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

cranking speed, throttl. ii 

[pu mec) ge aee 

30 165** 
20 psi 

25 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 
Ghempion J-12Y 


Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler: Newport, 300, New Yorker 
Prestolite: 300K, Newport (dual points) 
EC i 
Dwell angle: Single points, 28°-33°; each set of 
nts, 27°-32°; dual points total well, 


dual 
34° 
CONDENSER 


Chrysler: , 300, New Yorker 


Newport, 
Prestolite: 300K, Newport (dual 
Capacity: 25-285 mid (ua! Points) 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Prestolite dist. Chrysler dist. 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Bring engine to operating temperature 

Connect tachometer "E 

3. Connect timing light to adapter inserted in 
No. 1 distributor cap tower 
Note: Do not puncture spark plug cables 

$ Diaconnect vacum pne at distrioutor 

: idle speed to 47 rpm, transmissi 

in NEUTRAL ssa 

6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
Specified timing mark and pulley align 

7. Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

8. Reconnect vac. line and reset to proper idle 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
300K, 1214 °; others, 10° " 4 
FUEL PUMP 

Carter model M-3672S 

Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
TR RO - 
. y rici ric 
CARTER i" 
4-bbl. AFB-3505S 1-2 manual manual 
4-bbl. AFB-3614S 1-2 index index 
4-bbl. AFB-3615S 1-2 2rich 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3644S 12  2rich = 2 rich 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. WWC3-242 A.T. 114 1 rich 1 rich 
2-bbl. WWC3-244 M.T. 114 1 rich 1 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manusi Trans. 500 rpm* with headlights on high 
am am 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm* in NEUTRAL with head 

lights on high beam 

Air Cond. rpm* in DRIVE with unit turned ON 

with headlights on high beam 

* 300K, 700 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, not running) 

300K: Intake .017^; exhaust .028” 
Others: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


4A 


COOLING SYSTEM .........Quats 


With Heater Wittens Mester 


All models ........ 17 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air 
conditioning, 16 pounds 

E30il Filter (under car)... Replace 
Add extra quart oil 


E3Battery . Check and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


Power Steering Reservoir................ PS 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot 


Fg Ol Fill Cap............ Wash and oil 30 MO 
Service more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed eap, no service 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


E3Manual Steering Gear (plu; 
Above -30°, 80; below -30°, 75 


ExBrake Master Cylinder (cover)............ 


Fill to !4 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage........... (8 plugs) BJ 


Ei inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary. After replacing seal, relubricate " 
Efl Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until 
rease flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or 
fower joint seal lower lip. Oo not rupture seals. 
Reinstall plug 


Torque Shaft 


. LM 
Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual... .AF 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 2 

months 2 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 3% pints; 4-speed, 614 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Regular drain not recommended » 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 

tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


M Gearshift Lever ( 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


Universal Joints 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; 


; rear, grade O 
Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 


Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 7 ^ 
Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 
Above —10°, 90; below —10*, 80; below —30°, 75 
E Maintain level i4 inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottom of fill plug hole (frame hoist} 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months » 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
[JI Normal service 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: R 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


Severe service 


Nis up Xeon Rear 
8.00-14 Newport ....... sese 24 24 
8.50-14 Newport, Town & Country.. 24 24* 
8.00-14 300, 300K .... 24 22 
8.50-14 300, 300K ... 22 
8.50-14 New Yorker .. 22 
9.00-14 New Yorker, To 24* 


* Town and Country, fully loaded, 28 
HRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 


CC Carburetor Clea 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


New Yorker 


B) Suspension Lubricant 
MoPar Part No. 2298947 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 


a 


1964 All Mod 


CRANKCASE “MS” MO 
Above + 32° 30 10W30 
Above —10*... 10W 10W30 
Below —10° 5w 5w-20 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Service Instructions, page 4 


Fuel Filter |... . . Replace[T] 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). ........... ..M0 
300 (grease cup)... . n... aaa. CL 
1 turn at each lubrication period 
Wick under rotor... Sparingly MOJ 


Replace valve if clogged: also clean hose and car- 
buretor, if passages are clogged 
Service more frequently under severe service 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, ne idling and thoroughh K 
NEUTRAL posi isa E bea pisi 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 


1 d difficul! 

0 overcome icult starting below —10*, replace 
1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 

CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models 5 s 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug and parking sprag cavity 
plug; also remove oil pan 

Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles: ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Severe service, inspec 
Repack , 
Tighten front wheel ng nut to 90 in. ib, 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
Set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003* end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


CHRYSLER 


els 


. Check Ey 


W Position for lift adapter 
A Prepacked bearing 
Q Cooling system drain 


MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 
LM Lithium Grease 


MoPar Part No. 1879318 
MO Motor Oil 


ner 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Twice yearly 
EiEvery 5,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
Every 20,000 miles or 2 years 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
Hi Every 2 years or 32,000 miles 
[Conditional service 

Lubricate gearshift lever as required 


Drain and refill differential for below — 10° 


requirements 


Repack front wheel bearings as required or 


at brake overhaul 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


MP+ Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


PS 

MoPar Part No. 2084329 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


Power Steering Fluid 


a For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


CR-6 
—— 


[7 DART 6 . 


1960-61 All Models ae 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
1960 24H 
H 70 
1961 24M 50 
27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at penning speed, throttie open) min. max. 
Neteco p e bi 130 160° 


- Mix vanation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion) N-12Y 
D 
Torque: 1960, 30 ft. Ib.; 1961, 30-32 tt. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 
Gap: .0177-.023* 
Dwell angie: 1960, 36°-42°:; 1961, 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 


Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


- Sring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachomete: 
Connect timung fight to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

nect distributor vacuum line 
Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of timing mark 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idie speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1 
2 
3. 
E 
5 
6. 
r 
8. 


1960 early 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 21⁄2 ° 
FUEL PUMP 
Carter model M- 


2996s 
Pressure: 1960, 314-5 Ib.: 1961, 4-5 Ib.; at idle rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-001. BBS T index* index* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Maruca) Trans. SSO rpm with headlights on high 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam 


Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
intake .010°; exhaust .0207 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Og can CRANKCASE ...........”MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater Above +32°.... 30 20W-40,10W-30 
II 14 


13 o 
Above +10°. .. 20W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning. 16 pounds : 1961, at reor Above — 10° 10W 10w-30, 5W-20 


z 

Eg Power Steering Reservoir................ Below —10*..... SW 5W-20 
Fill to level mark on gage. Without gage, to base o CAPACITY 4 quarts 
of filler neck when cold, halfway when hot DRAIN and REFILL 


Test and fill See Service Instructions, page 4 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


Eg Generator (2 oil o 
Alternator, right side, no lubrication 


Crankcase Dipstick ............. 


Air Cleaner Element 
EOD ry type - 
B Dy type. 
E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... 


Manual Steering Gear (plug). ... .........- 
ae -10* A es 80; below -30*, 75 Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . - 
. To overcome difficult starting below -10°, 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ place 3⁄4 quart fluid with kerosine 


Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir APACITY quarts Initial | Refill Total neni 


DRAIN and REFILL.................... 
Remove 1 converter plug and transmission plug 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup)..............- 
Wick under rotor... . Sparingly MORJ 


— " Replace E3 


Disassemble and clean 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


EJ Front Suspension and T i 1 | 
ine Li i y m— Front Wheel Bearings............. Check WBE 
Clean and repack if necessary 


EJ Gearshift Rod Shift Levers............... \ Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 
i ag | Position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
Torque SRR oco E N i 49.8 i > 7 set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
f CO) 


sxe spindle. rack ce adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter 
TRANSMISSION, Manual..... ey 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 5 pints; refill approx. 4 pints 
Hi) DRAIN ang REFILL 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


mn the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
————— | B more than a with ‘standard brakes or 
z i ld ceon than 17 with power brakes, engine running, 
Remove rubber boot below steering wheel, pivot- $l the need for service is indicated 
pin assembly, then lever. Coat sparingly ball end Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 
of lever, pivot-pin hole and surrounding area. | I! ing plate. To tighten, turn both front brake cams 
Reassemble | and rear brake front cam in direction of forward 
wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 
3 | ; | opposite direction 
ei lined Ea. c. D } Adjust the brakes as follows: 
Use only 2 ounces in front joint | | Turn one adjustment cam until heavy drag is 
= j felt when wheel is turned 
DIFFERENTIAL .............- f Im 2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is felt 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below ~30°, 75 | 3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 


— cam 
Maintain level to 14 inch below fill plug hole | h | 4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake 
CAPACITY 3% pints ms j Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- 
Hj DRAIN anc REFILL : ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Meta! tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK ........ | KEY TO INTERVALS 
All Other Models «coc vete rion esit aia | | E3Every 2,000 miles 
| \ Every 4,000 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
EE Position for lift adapter Every 15,000 miles 


- Station wagon, 24; with heavy load, 28 i 
@ With heavy load, 28 e Lubrication fitting Every 20,000 miles 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain Yearly or every 10,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A MoPar Part No. 1879318 MoPar Part No. 2084329 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil f UJ Universal Joint Grease 
CL Chassis Lubricant MP*Multi-Puroose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy- -Duty Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B WG White Waterproof Grease 


MoPar Hi-Temp Brake ‘Fluid 
a For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corperation. Printed in U.S.A. DES 


= 
9 
- 
- 
= 
- 
- 
= 
`- 
= 
— 
m 
-— 
" 
a 
i 
saad 
== 
a 
— 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY Pie 

1960 Dart romp Nó; Amy Hess 

1960 early with D-500 eng. 24H 60 

1960 late -61 with D-500 eng. 24H 59 
27M 7 

1961 24H 30 
27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
318 engine .... .O13! 

1961 361 engine 
Others 


Ale . 150 180** 
ion between cylinders, 20 psi 
ion between cylinders, 25 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Shempion: With (2) 4-bbl. carbs., J-9Y; others, 
Gap: .035” 

Torque: 1960, 30 ft. Ib.; 1961, 30-32 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 

Raroia: A neo; 1961 ex. 318 eng., Chrysler 
Dwell angle: Single points, 27°-32°; 

eral ani yes single points, 27°-32°; dual points, 
CONDENSER 


Autolite: All 1960, 1961 ex. 318 eng., Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd e b 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5,7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 

NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 

specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 

Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 

alignment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


o M9 we 


| 
1961 318 eng. 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

318 engine with Manual Trans. 5°; 1960 383 
engine with (2) 4-bbl. carburetors and all 1961 
383 engine, 714°; others, 10° 


FUEL PUMP i 
Carter model: 318 engine, M-2608S; with Air 
Cond., M-2611S; 361, 383 engines, M-2769S 
Pressure: M-2769S, 31⁄4 \|b.; others, 5-7 Ib; at 
idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJ USTMENT 


1960-61 Others 


le Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. BBO 1 index index 
CARTER I 
4-bbl. AFB-2903S 1^ lrich — 1 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-29685, 
-3133S, 
-3152S 15 2 rich 2 rich 
Other AFB 1% index index 
HOLLEY . : 
4-bbl. R models 1 1 rich 1 rich 
STROMBERG . . 
2-bbl. WWC3-188,-188A '/; -*/ 1 rich 1 rich 
2-bbl. WW15 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 500° rpm, headlights on high beam 
Auto. Trans. 500* rpm, in NEUTRAL with head- 
lights on high beam P 

At Cond. 550°A rpm, in NEUTRAL with unit 
turned ON and headlights on high beam 

* With (2) 4-bbl. carburetors, 750 rpm N 
A With Holley carb., 500 rpm, unit turned O 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) . 

318 engine, 1960: Intake .010*; exhaust .018^ 
1961: intake .013^; exhaust .021 

361, 383 engines: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


a oo EE en a 


P. Zl DODGE, 
a gests pcos? DODGE DART V-8 


1960 1960 Dodge 61 
Dodge Dart HOOD RELEASE: Front Dodge Dart 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts CRANKCASE.... .. . "MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater Y Above + 32° 30 200-40, 10-30 
Dodge Dart ete : » i Above +10°. . 20W 10-30 
engine `. Above — 10° 10W 10W-30, 5W-20 
All other models... 21 20 ^ ] 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- Below —10 : 5W 5W-20 
ditioning, 16 pounds CAPACITY $ quarts 
ORAI 
EJO Filter (under car)... Replace DU — 
Add extra quart oi! 
318-cu, in. engine, right side, at rear . 
faBattery soe -Test and fill Fuel Filter Element, . .. Replace FEJ 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal Generator (2 oil cups). ...M0f3 
EgPower Steering Reservoir................ PS peneca: Pioneer, Phoenix with airconditioning, 


left side. Alternator, no lubrication 


Fill to level mark on gage. Without gage, to base Distributor Shaft (oil cu 
of filler neck when cold, halfway when hot With 318-cu. in. on ds rear wor 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level Wick under rotor....... -..Sparingly MORJ 
318-cu. in, engine, right side, at front Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft... . MHEY 
gs d il 30 MO PCV System Valve... Cc 
E30íl Fill Cap. ........... Wash and oil 30 US dt E [15] 
ir Cleaner Element........ ......- Service 
Air Cleaner Element TRANSMISSION, Automatic AF 
El Duy DE censerent yd Clean Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
Ory type ...... ... Replace PowerFlite: To overcome difficult starting below 
-10*, replace 1 quart fluid with kerosine 
Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug)...........-. MP CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below -30°, 75 PowerFilite: Seneca, Pioneer, 
Phoenix ....,. sem s 10 
E Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ HB Ms "Eu Panel 11% 
Fill to 1% inch below top of reservoir Phos a "m 
Matador, Polara . s 11 


Ed Front Suspension and 


DRAIN and REFILL. 
Steering Linkage ... 


Remove 1 converter plug and disconnect fill pipe 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


Front Wheel Bearings... Check WB[I] 


Clean and repack if necessary 

Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled nole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 


_... (8 fittings) CL —| 


EJ Gearshift Rod Shift Levers... .... z ad 
E3 Torque Shaft . . . 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... AF 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY Polara 1961, 41% pints, refill approx 
314 pints, 1960 314 pints; Matador, Seneca. 
Pioneer, Phoenix 5 pints, refill approx. 4 pints, 
except early 1960 models. 27⁄4 pints 
HI] DRAIN and REFILL BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2^ with standard brakes or 
more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 
Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 
ing plate. To tighten, turn both front brake cams 
and rear brake front cam in direction of forward 
wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 
opposite direction 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 
1. Turn one adjustment cam until heavy crag is 
felt when wheel is turned 
2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is felt 
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other cam 
Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake 
eding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- 
ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 


M Gearshift Lever . oe ss WG 
Remove rubber boot below steering wheel, pivot- 
pin assembly, then lever. Coat sparingly ball end 
of lever, pivot-pin hole and surrounding area. 


Reassemble 
Hj Universal Joints .......... ..,.Repack UJ 


Use only 2 ounces in front joint 


DIFFERENTIAL .......... ..MP* 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30^, 75 
Maintain level to '⁄ inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
HJ DRAIN and REFILL 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK ..... dg .. . Gallons 


Sierra, Suburban . 
All other models. 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 
[Every 4,000 miles 


TIRES...........Pressure Front Rear BiEvery 5,000 miles 

7.5014 ... veeweeneeseesner MO. BB GiEvery 6,000 miles 
iih 2* D 

$3014 j. (3 a 


MEvery 10,000 miles 
WeEvery 15,000 miles 
HjEvery 20,000 miles 
Every 23,000 miles 
Kl Yearly or every 10,000 miles 


* Station wagon, 24; 
For Captive-Air tires inner chamber pressure must 
be 4 to 6 pounds higher than outer chamber pres- 
sure shown 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


Wl Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 


@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A MoPar Part No. 1879318 MoPar Part No. 2084329 
CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil UJ Universal Joint Grease 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant — MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B WG White Waterproof Grease 
« For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed im U.S.A. DE.7 


F 
. DODGE LANCER 


1961 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24H 50 
27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
All 130  160* 
* Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion N-12Y 
Gap: .0357 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Chrysler 

Gap: .017^..023" 
Dwell angle: 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 

. Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed to 550 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


$ ow 9 v^ wye 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 244° 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2996S 
Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. BBS 1 index* index* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated, Replace 
unit if defective 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
beam 

Auto, Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake 010"; exhaust .020" 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


E SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM... 
With Heater Without Heater 
All models 12 ud 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds 
E3 Power Steering Reservoir 


Fill to level mark on gage. Without gage, to base 
of filler neck when cold, halfway when fot 


es at E cre Test and fill 


Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 
Crankcase Dipstick.......... . - Check level 
E3 Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........ MH 


Air Cleaner Element... Service 
ER Dry type aes acs sie. sis res tag aan T Clean 
fH Dry type . Replace 


„SG 
. HB 


Ez Manual Steering Gear (plug). . 


E3 Brake Master Cylinder (plug). ........ 
Fill to % inch below top of fill hole 


ES Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage........... 


E3Torque Shaft 


TRANSMISSION, Manual ..... AF 
PY Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 5 pints; refill approx., 4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


Gearshift Lever 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


HiUniversal Joint......... Repack, 2 oz. only UJ 


Hi) Universal Joint 


DIFFERENTIAL .............- 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30*, 75 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
HI)DRAIN and REFILL 


GAS TANK... oos Gallons 

All models |... nnn "— a 13 

TIRES ..Pressure Front Rear 
LS) meinn anen see noses 24 24° 


SEO Sant 3-seat, 2-scat fully loaded, 28 
[Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, sun A 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


Copyright 1964, The Chek.Chor! Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS E 
Ka CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 
09 Above +32°. 30 20W-40,10W-30 
Above +10° 20W 10W-30 
Above —10°... 10W 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below —10*..... SW 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Oil Fill Cap. . . ..Wash and oil 30 MOS 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup). . 
Wick under rotor 


Dil Filter ...... — Repl. 
Add extra quart oil Rep sn 
PCV System Valve. .... . -cc H 


Disassemble and clean 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling and thorough! ^ 
NEUTRAL position £ PA 
To overcome difficult starting below —10^, repl. 
34 quart fluid with keros 
CAPACITY, quarts 
All models 


Initial Refill Total Refill 
wa 4 7 


Remove 1 converter plug and transmission plug 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


He Front Wheel Bearings............. Check WB II 
Clean and repack if necessary 

Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 70 in. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 
more than 1" with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into rear adjust- 
ment hole in backing plate, expand shoes 
until light drag is felt when rotating wheel 

2. Back off adjustment 10-12 notches or until 
all drag is eliminated 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for each brake 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 
Every 4,000 miles 
EiEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 miles 
HiEvery 15,000 miles 
HiEvery 20,000 miles 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
Q Cooling system drain 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 


MO Motor Oil 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


DE-8 


a 
I 
n 
Ji 
1 
i 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY n AABM 
roup No. Amp. Hrs. 
An 24H 48,59. 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


max. 
Al... m : 140° 
Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: 1962, N-12Y; 1963, N-14Y* 
Gap: .035” 

Torque: 30-32 ft. Ib. 

* 1963, gasket not required 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler. 
Gap: .0177-.023* 
Dwell angle: 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed to 550 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retignten distributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


oN v" 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 214^ 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2996S 
Pressure: 31/-5 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial a Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. BBS 1 2 rich* ** 2 rich* ** 
HOLLEY . 
l-bbl. R 1 index*t — index*t 
STROMBERG n 
1-bbl. WA Yd - 2 rich* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 
** 1963, 4 rich 
t 1963, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
beam 

Auto. Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam 


Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
Intake .010"; exhaust .020” 


w- 


1 
L 
9 


1 
HOOD RELEASE: Front 
SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts 


rege 1962 Dart; 1963 All Models Except Dart 
GS 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


DODGE 6 


al 


AU s quine CRANKCASE. — "MS" MO 
All models ......-. a M i i vend Above ti cate oin 2M MA ieee 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- Above —10°... U , y 
ditioning, 16 pounds Belew —10° en Mi 1w, 10W. x X 20 
E3Power Steering Reservoir................ PS *1963,5W.20 ^ á 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, haltway when hot CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DAME creer ET. Test and fill ORIN and REPE cij 
Umm. Do not ground positive terminal SOE SAVICE Instructions; page 
(Fuel Filter ..... .. Replace 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level Dil Fill Cap... Wash and oil 30 MO 
1962 p 1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 


[Carburetor Choke Piston... ... . CC 


Remove air cleaner to service. Apply cleaner 
while moving choke valve back and forth 


ExManifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........MH 


Service more frequently under severe service 


Ex Manual Steering Gear (plug). . -SG, LM 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). . 


Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


Efi Automatic Trans. Filter (under car)... . . Replace 
Replace at time of transmission drain 


Front Suspension.............. (4 plugs) BJ 

E3iospect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
After replacing seal or when lubricating, remove 
plug, use special gun or adapter. Install plug 

Efl Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
Joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 

E3Steering Linkage... ...... (4 sealed bearings) 
Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 


Efl Torque Shaft ............. eese eee LM 


Disassemble, clean and repack at both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... AF 
Fy Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 


1963 Not recommended for normal service 
EH 1962; 1963 Severe service 


Universal Joints ...... leen U 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 

PARAN MH E ore Da Ea Gra d Inspect 
Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
1963, repack if used under severe service 
1962, repack under all service conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL ...........-.- MP* 
Above -10°, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30°, 75 
EQ Maintain level to ! inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
[A 1963 Normal service 
EH 1962; 1963 Severe service 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: » 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK 


Station wagon . 
All other models 


Service more frequently under severe service 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup)............... MOREY 
Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MO 

1962 A 1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 


ONFE 1o diaa tiene l 
Add extra quart oil "T «El 
PCV System Valve. 
Remove and clean ; also hose and car- 
buretor, if passages are clogged 

1962 ØB 1963 m 


Service more frequently under severe service 
Crankcase Breather Outlet 
Element 1962.... ..Wash and oil 30 MORI 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . 
To overcome difficult starting below -10°, re- 
place 1!4 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute 
more than once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Tota! Refill 
All models .-.....-.-.- 5 7 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan on 
1963 without transmission plug 
1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


ront Wheel Bearings å 
Inspect EEE 
1963, clean and repack. 


1962, clean and repack SA 
Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 
1963, final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 
.003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment normally 
required 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31963, Twice yearly 
1962, Every 4,000 miles 

H Every 5,000 miles 

KlEvery 8,000 miles 

[HEvery 12,000 miles 
lBEvery 16,000 miles 
EBEvery 32,000 miles 


H 1963 EH 1962 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, LM 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
BJ Suspension Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS MoPar Part No. 2298947 


CC Carburetor Cleaner - 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
A Prepacked bearing 
e Cooling system drain 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 


MO Motor Oil 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


(Every crankcase oil change 
^ lüjTwice yearly 
[3 Conditional service 
1963, drain and refill! differential for below 
—10° requirements 
1963, clean and repack front wheel bearings 
if wheel is removed for service 


FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Lithium Grease PS Power Steering Fluid 


MoPar Part No. 2084329 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
U) Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


MoPar Part No. 1879318 


Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


x For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


DE-9 


" vont V-8 


1962-63 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


1 
| 

| 
| See Service Instructions for Procedure 
I 

lu 


(Following data does not include 
racing-type engines) 


BATTERY a AABM 
i 318 engine CMM mre 
361, 383 engines 24H 59 


| COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max, 


318 eng. . 120 150* 
361 eng. . 125 155* 
| 383 eng. Automatic Tı 130 165** 


383 eng. Manual Tran: 180** 

,; Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 
Maximum variation between cylinders, 25 psi 

SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: 383 eng. with 4-bbl. carb., J.9Y; others, 


Gap: .035” Torque: 30-32 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
utate: len, Prestolite 

p: Autolite, Chrysler, .014"-.019"; Pi ] 
oat vi rysler, 19' restolite, 
Dwell angle: Single points, Autolite, Chrysler, 28°- 
33°; Prestolite, 26°-32°; Dual points, each set, 
27°-32°, total dwell, 34°-40° 
CONDENSER 
Autolite, Chrysler, Prestolite 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


ORO 
CE? O_O C © 


Autolite dist. Other dist. 
361, 383 engs. 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 
Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


318 eng. 


PN OP w 


318 eng. 361, 383 engs. 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1963, 361, 383 engs. 10°; others, Manual Trans. 
5°, Auto. Trans. 10° 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model: 318 eng., M-2608S; with Air Cond., 
M-26115; 361, 383 engs., M-2769S 

Pressure: M-2769S, 315-5 Ib.; others, 5-7 Ib.; at 
idle rpm . 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


die Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl, BBD 1 index* index* 
CARTER . 
4-bbl. AFB HA 2rich* 2rich* ** 
STROMBERG : 
2-bbl. WWC3 1% index* index* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective ** 1963, index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 500 rpm, headlights on high beam 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm, in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam . E 

Air Cond. 500 rpm, in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

lengine hot and running) 

18 eng.: Intake .013"; exhaust .021” 

2£1, 285 engs.: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


COOLING SYSTEM... . .Quarts 


ah Without 

ea 

361-, 383-cu. In, engines. . ex. A ý gs 
318-cu. in. engine,...... ia. 4 20 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 

(OCs Gane Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 

E3Power Steering Reservoir................ PS 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot 


OU Fill Cap. .... lii. ... Wash and oil 30 MO 
1963 1962 
kj] Automatic Trans. Filter (under car) TET Replace 
n di 


Replace at time of transmi: rain 
Air Cleaner Element..... 


ye B 
TE. 


EH Dy type ....... RENTEN Replace 


Service more frequently under severe service 
(Carburetor Choke Piston..........,..... cc 


Remove air cleaner to service. Apply cleaner 
while moving choke valve back and forth 


en Steering Gear (plug)........... SG, LM 


Above 0; 0° 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)... ......... HB 


Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 


E3bistributor Shaft (oil cup)............... MO 
383- and 361-cu. in. engines, right side at front 
Wick under rotor......... ..Sparingly MO 
1963 1962 
Service more frequently under severe service 
Front Suspension.......... ^o (4 plugs) BJ 


EJ'nspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
Atter replacing seal or when relubricating, remove 
plug, use specíal gun or proper adapter, Install plug 
Relubricate using special adapter, Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 


plug 

E3Steering Linkage.......... (4 sealed bearings) SS 
Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 

Ef Torque Shaft... LM 


Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 

TRANSMISSION, Manual 
EQ Maintain level to fill plug hole 

Fe SRO De MU TERM AF 

CAPACITY S pints; except 880, 414 pints, refill 

approx. 314 pints 

4-speed . 

Above 32^, n , 

90MP may be used if 80 is not available 

CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL gj F 

1963 Not recommended for normal service 

EA 1962; 1963 Severe service 


Efl Gearshift Lever 880 (3-speed, 4-speed). ...MO 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 
Universal Joints ..... 0... esos W 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 

1969. 25 pone aI S Inspect 

Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
1963, repack if used under severe service 

1962, repack under all service conditions 
DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP+ 
Above -10^, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30^, 75 

Eg Maintain level to 14 inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL — 

Q3 1963 Normal service — 

EH — 1962; 1963 Severe service 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK. ....Gallons 880 All others 


Station wagon .. 21V 
All other models. 20 
ont Rear 
24  22* a tet 
24 24** 
22 24** 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
A Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 


* Station wagon, 26; with heavy load, 28 
** Station wagon with heavy load, 28 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
H 1963 E 1962 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, LM Lithium Grease 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
BJ Suspension Lubricant MoPar Part No. 1879318 
LUBRICANTS MoPar Part No. 2298947 MO Motor Oil 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


All others 


LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


NKCASE........------ “MS” MO 
reed PE 2t 30 20W-40,10W-30 
Above --10^. 20W 10W-30 
Above —10° ..10W. 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below — 10^. . wes; DW 5W-20 
* 1963, 5W-20 


CAPACITY 880, 5 quarts; all others, 4 quarts 


AIN and REFILL — 
oR See Service Instructions, page 4 


Crankcase Dipstick . Check level 
383- and 361-cu. in. engines, le! 

Fuel Flller «oon . Replace fy 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft.......- MH EX 


Service more frequently under severe service 


buretor, if passages kt clogged 1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 


Crankcase Breather Outlet 
Element 1962....... Wash and oil 30 MOS 


Oil Filter (under car) . Replace E 
Addextra qt. oil. 383-, 361-cu. eftside, front 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


g and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL posit 


n... 

To overcome difficult starting below —10*, replace 
1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models -.-..-. eee 5 9 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan on 
1963 without transmission plug 

1963 Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 

tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 

1962 ^ transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearing: 
Inspect! cs ies 
1962, clean and repack 
1963, clean and repack. 

Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 

position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 

set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter Ker 

1963, final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 

.003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment normally 
required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

£1963, Twice yearly 

1962, Every 4,000 miles 
H Every 5,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
IH Every 12,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles 
EH Every 32,000 miles 
[H Every crankcase oil change 
l]Twice yearly 


[Conditional service 
1963, drain and refill differential for below 
— 10° requirements 
1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


* For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


DE-10 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY á AARM: 
m raup NS. Amp, Hrs. 
24H 48 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. 


max, 
110 140* 
ion between cylinders, 20 psi 


* Maximum variat 


SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: 1962, N-12Y; 1963, N-14Y* 
Gap: .035” 

Torque: 30-32 ft. Ib. 

* 1963, gasket not required 


IGNITION POINTS 
Chrysler 

Gap: .017"-.023* 
Dwell angle: 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2,4 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 


2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line — 

5. Set idle speed to 550 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL bud 

6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 

7. Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

B. Reconnect vacuum líne and reset to proper 


idle speed 
Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center); 272^ 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model M-2996S 

Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
BALL & BALL (uins) Trans Trans 
rns rans. E 
1-bbl. BBS "1 2rich* ** 2rich* ** 
pred 1 index*t index*t 
STROMBERG 
1-bbl. WA Wel — 2rich* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 
** 1963, 4 rich 
f 1963, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED . 
Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
bi " 
Auto, Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 


high bi É p 
Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 


Intake .010”; exhaust .020^ 


ee SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
25-cu. in. 

siam EM n 13 12 
All other models... 12 11 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 

Power Steering Reservoir............... PS 
Fill to base of filler neck when cold, halfway 
when hot 

M Battery. ........ T ....Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


(Fuel Filter 
Crankcase Dipstick 
E3 Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. . . . . . ... 


Service more frequently under severe service 


E Dry type Clean 
EA Dy type Replace 
Service more frequently under severe service 
(Carburetor Choke Piston................ cc 


Remove air cleaner to service. Apply cleaner 
while moving choke valve back and forth 


E3Manual Steering Gear (plug).......-.-. SG, LM 
Eä Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ 


Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


EflAutomatic Transmission Filter........ 
Replace at time of transmission drain 


Front Suspension (4 plugs) BJ 
Edinspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
After replacing seal or when lubricating: remove 
plug, use special gun or adapter. Install plug 
Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
132 from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 


plug 
i M. esos 4 sealed bearings) 
Editer Linkage- if uud or worn t 
ElTorque Shaft |....... oos LM 


Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL i 
1963 Not recommended for normal service 


1962; 1963 Severe service 


Universal Joints 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, 
963 ., m 


Inspect for leaks, 
1963, repack if used S ery 
1962, repack under all service conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL 

Above -10?, 90; below —10?, 80; below -30°, 75 
ggMaintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2 pints (s 


DRAIN and REFILL | 
1963 Normal service | 
1962; 1963 Severe service 


GASTANK. 0 Gallons a) = = 
1963 . 18 T a 
1962 

33 Front Rear : 
TIRES us is oon ERIS lu" Bl Position for lift adapter 


EA Wak 
Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
1963 BH 1962 


A Prepacked bearing 


H @ Cooling system drain 


Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LM Lithium Grease 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


DODGE 


1962 Lancer; 1963 Dart 6 


SYMBOLS w- 


TT "MS" MO 
Above --32*.......... 30 20W-40,10W-30 
Above 4-10* 10W-30 | 
10W-30, 5W-20 
5W-20 


* 1963, 5W-20 i 
CAPACITY 4 quarts [ 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


Wash and oil 30 MO 


1962 1963 
Service more frequently under severe service 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .............. MES | 
Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MO { 
1962 1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 


Oil Filter........ Replace, add extra quart oil FY 
PCV System Valve............0........ cc 


Remove and clean valve; also hose and car- 
buretor, if passages are clogged 
1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 
Crankcase Breather Outlet 


Element 1962....... Wash and oii 30 MOE 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling and thorough! 
NEUTRAL position |. E a EY ME 

o overcome difficult starting below —10^, replace 
1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 


CAPACITY, qua Initia! Refill Total Refill 
All models ............ 4 T7 


DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan on 
1963 without transmission plug 
1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearings. 
Inspect ........ [15] 
Clean and repack. 1962 EH 1963[3 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 70 in. Ib. 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
Set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
Slot and install cotter key 

1963, final adjustment should be 0, no preload 
to .003” end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2” with standard brakes or 

more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 

1962, early 1963: Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into rear adjust- 
ment hole in backing plate, expand shoes 
until light drag is felt when rotating wheel 

2. Back off adjustment 10-12 notches or until 
all drag is eliminated 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for each brake 

Late 1963: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment 

is not normally required 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31963, Twice yearly 
1962, Every 4,000 miles | 
Every 5,000 miles | 
Every 8,000 miles 
IH Every 12,000 miles | 
iDEvery 16,000 miles 
Every 32,000 miles 
Every crankcase oil change 
B ond yearly 
[I Conditional service 


1963, drain and refill differential for below 
—10° requirements 

1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
Power Steering Fluid 


" MoPar Part No. 2084329 
LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension pipi " MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Monar Pars Noyan MoPar Part No. 1879318 UJ Universal Joint Grease 
CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chari Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


DE-11 


F 
DODGE 6 AETA. 


bran 4 J 
1964 All Models Except Dart " 


WOOO RELEASE, Front 


Ed 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Bea Service Instructions for Procedure 


SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT 


INTERVAL 


BATTERY 
ET aroun No, Amp. Hrs. COOLING SYSTEM... vane cha pt gmt al M 
Sup "^ im Without Heater Chok Chart Above 4-32" 
—— Al model oss. 3 12 Above 2 1f 30 10.30 
PRESSURE Cooling eyatom pressure, 14 pounda; with alr oon- vo -~ 10 ' sig 10W 10-30 
ditloning, 16 pounda Below — 10"... qn. SW 5W-20 


{ret At oranking speed, throttle Open) min. max. 


APACITY 4 quarte 


p Maximum variation between aylinuere. do one Ey Power Steering Ro Lus examen - m WAIN and REPILL 
FIN tọ bane of filler neck when cold, halfway { 6 ] Boo Gorvice instructions, page 4 
SPARK PLUGS when hot 3 = 
;ampion Nays 
dap. 039" Battery... eese , ,. Chock and fill | nou. 
eve 30-32 ITIN Bn Do not ground positive terminal On, ON FIN Cap, > nae taag Wash and oil 30 MOJ 
re 
et not required (Fuel a -aa MM , Replaco 2 With closed PCV Ayala, sealed cab, Sonaitions, 
IGNITION POINTS Distrib 
Crankcaso Dipstick. iioi Chock lovol stributor Shaft (oil cup)... MO 
MP P 1 Wick under rotor, .........Sparingly MO 
Üwoll angle: 40 «50* ExManifold Heat Control Valvo Shaft.........MH oil Filter Replacegr] 
CGA DS cp a a8 sena, Replace 
CONDENSER Alr rete fent. ccs es vis os Add extra quart oil p 
ghrveler [dp (Dry typo... eene SUB CV System Valve 
Capectty: 25.205 mid E uie vce ever eevee eee Replace hepate, vales V ciopoedr is aiu a d 


carburetor, If passages are clogged 
Service more frequently under severe service 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Eyorburotor Choke Shaft,........,.Clean CC 


In carburetor alr horn, Remove alr cleonor tosorvice 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


anual Steering Gear (plug)...........80,LM Check level, engine idling and thorough! å 
Ea Manual Steering Goar (plug) ' NEUTRAL position o. n,o nS noroueniy worm: Tg 
ExBrako Master Cylinder (covor),...........HB Revere corxice, Check: Hevel'very.40000 mileb or 
1 QOO 5 — FIL to 4 Inch below top of reservoir Hoe oomen; below -10*, replace 
nts fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute mo: 
OOO 9 thán once during any one season uu more 
» CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
n x c Front Suspension and All models ,. 5 6 
ý N s Steering Linka ... (o plugs) B) peed i prm plug ond parking sprag 
[X IDE est it di ement is noces cavity plug; 8160 remove oil pan s 


sary, After replacin, bricate 

Efi Retubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball Joint bleed holes lowe: 
Joint sea! lower lip. Do not rupture seal. 


& 
Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Firing Order 1, X 2,4 


plug 
á EBTorque. Shatt AM Front Wheel Bearings..............- 
TIMING PROCEDURE, us Détente, MAG ABRE MM 
nnoct lachometor TRANSMISSION, Manual. ... AF BRECK rer carmen A PA que n 


onnect timing light to No. 1 spark 
distributor cap ower PUN Bee 
raw clstrtoutor vacuum, line 

Li speed to tpm, transmi 
MURS PP pm, transmission in 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointor aro aligned 
Retighton distributor clamp and recheck.align- 
ment of timing mark 
Reconhect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 In. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjustment nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axio spindle, Back off adjust and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003” end play 


EJ Mointoin love! to fill plug hole 
Severe service, check level avory 4,000 miles or 2 


months 

CAPACITY 8 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Regular drain not recommended 

Se ice, drain every 32,000 milos; ex. 
eervice, every 10,000 miles 


o m SE Lee 


[Gearshift Lever ....... 
Remove rubber boot from floo! pi 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


l t for | C it necessan Brakes aro self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
a favere ter spect every 4,000 malta or 2 mally ro ed 

months Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL ..............MP* 
Abovo -1 0} below -10", 80; below —30", 75 
Maintain level Inch below fill plug holo (axle 
holst); bottom of fill plug hole (frame holst 
Sevore service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Normal service EB Severe service 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E1Twice yearly 
EEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
HiEvery 20,000 miles or 2 years 


Timing Setting (Botore Top Dead Center): 214 * 


FUEL PUMP 
Carter model MS-3674S 


eraa S dart Gar Ininuto or loss a $00 tpm GAS TANK Gallons Every 32,000 miles 
Ail ote modelli, ionpeurm araea M BiEvery 2 years or 32,000 miles 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT [i Conditional service 


intu Su mene TIRES Lubri earshift lever as required 
NALE AU. ‘ita? "Man "ate 820-18 ea BE Position for lift adapter Drain and Zili differential for Below —10° 
urna, rans, rans, pl ees i ts 
»| * Add 4 pounds for fully loadod requiremen " 
MotLEY O : ache aan Astate ti wagon, 26 4 a Pripacied bearing Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
l-bbi. R 1 2rich* — 2rich* Effotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain at brake overhaul 
* Choke should not be field calibrated, Replace F 
unit If defective a FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP * Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


en Tranas ee URS OP TERRAE MaN KEY TO Type A, Suffix A Mo-Par Hi-Temp Brake Fluid Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
Auto: Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights LM Lithium Grease PS Power Steering Fluid " 
on high beam į oPar Part No, 208432 
Air Cong. $80 rpm In NEUTRAL with unit turned LUBRICANTS B! Suspension Lubricant MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent — SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
amd Rob e MoPar Part No. 1879318 UJ Universal Joint Greas: 
e 
VALVE CLEARANCES CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
» For Suro-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No, 1879414 


(engine hot and funninp) a, 


Intake .010*; exhaust DE-12 


Copyright 1962, The Chek-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 
Ais 


444423434 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY o AABM 

1 roup No. Amp. Hi 
170 engine p. Hrs. 
225 engine 22 38 


48 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion N-14Y* 
Gap: .035" 

Torque: 30-32 ft. Ib. 
* Gasket not required 


IGNITION POINTS 
Chrysler 

Gap: .017”-.023” 
Dwell angle: 40°-50° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3,6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
. Bring engine to operating temperat 
connect tachometer i p we 

nnect timing light to No. 1 
distributor captower spark, piügtor 
Disconnect distribuir vacuum line 

idle speed to b X i 

pee iale i rpm, transmission in 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified tim mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten di butor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


oN p ma, WN 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 212° 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter mode! MS-3674S 

Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute or less at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


die Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
al Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL s) Trans. Trans. 
1-bb!. BBS 1 2 rich* 2 rich* 
HOLLEY ji 
1-bbl. R j 2 rich" 2 rich* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED n ! 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
am 

Auto. Trans, 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 

on high beam " 

Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 

ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
Intake ,010"; exhaust .020" 


w- 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM , Quarts 


With Heater Without Heato: 
Super 225-cu. in. r 
engine se. 13 12 
All other models... 12 


1 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 


E3Power Steering Reservoir,........... i 


Fill to base of filler neck when cold, halfway 
when hot 


EJBattery |... Check and ^ | 


Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


[6 [2 TR 21 iero mn eee Replace 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. 


ExManifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........MH 
Air Cleaner Element. . 


Dry type ..... . Clean 
Dry type! sas vss gare ie ee Replace 
E3Carburetor Choke Shaft...... ....Clean CC 

In carburetor air horn. Remove air cleaner to service 


E3Manual Steering Gear (plug).......... . SG, LM 
EgBrake Master Cylinder (cover)... .. — HB 


Fill to !4 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage ........... (9 plugs) BJ 


EJ Inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary. After replacing seal, relubricate 

EH Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
Joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 


EH Torque Shaft .. +... soon LM: 
Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... AF 


Maintain level to fill plug hole : 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 5 pints; 4-speed, 6 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


K Gearshift Lever ........... SRI ad a M0 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mec anism 


Universal Joints |... n. nnn u 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, gr 

Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 


EA Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL .......... S UMP 


Above -10°, 90; below —10?, 80; below -30°, 75 
ES Maintain level i4 inch below fill plug hole (axle 

hoist); bottom of fill plug hole (frame oist), 

Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 

2 months à 

CAPACITY 2 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


Q3 Normal service EH 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


Severe service 


GAS TANK Gallons 
All models e ce ee .. 18 


Rear 
24  24* 


FO 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 


Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant 


MoPar Part No. 2298947 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


Copyright 1964, Tho Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


R YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN B 


DODGE DART 6 


1964 All Models 


SYMBOLS 


A CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 

Chefs Chart Above +32"....... 39 10830 
Above —10°. 10W 10W-30 

Below —10°... 5W 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Oi Fill Cap...........- Wash and oil 30 MOJ 
Service more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). . 
Wick under rotor 


Add extra quart oil ts 
PCV System Valve............ 


Replace valve if clogged; also clean hose and car- 
buretor, if passages are clogge 
Service more frequently under severe service ~ 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 mi 


To overcome difficult starting below —10^, replace 
114 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total nerui s 
All models 4 8 c 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also remove oil pan 
Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 

Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearings. 


Inspect ......... 
Severe service, inspect every 10,000 


REDACK MM ...n 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 70 in. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjustment nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter "key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Twice yearly 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
HyEvery 20,000 miles or 2 years 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
Bj Every 2 years or 32,000 miles 
[i Cónditional service 

Lubricate gearshift lever as required 

Drain and refill differential for below — 10* 

require ts 


Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
at brake overhaul 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 


A  Prepacked bearing 
[ ) Cooling system drain 


ELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


LM Lithium Grease 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 
PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 
MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 UJ Universal Joint Grease 


MO Motor Oil E WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
« For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


DE-13 


ee 


DODGE V-8 


1964 All Models Except Dart 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

318 engine rod buc "um 
361, 383 engines 24H 59 
426 engine 27H 70 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
B eng. 120 150* 
1 . 
361 eng. 880 Man. Trans. 135 les. 
e. 
383 eng. 880 Man. Trans. 130 169-- 
426 eng..... A . 130 165** 
a, Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 
Maximum variation between cylinders, 25 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

ampion: 318, 361, 383 with 2-bbl. m 
383 with 4-bbl. carb., 426, J-10Y dd 
Gap: .035* 

Torque: 30-32 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Chrysler, Prestolite 
Breil angie: Egi 
ell angle: Single points, 28°-33°; h set 
dual points, 27°-32°, total dwell, 34^ 20° T 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler, Prestolite 
Capacity: .25..285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Prestolite dist. 
361, 383, 426 engs. 


Chrysler dist. 
318 eng. 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5,7, 2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 3 
Connect timing light to 
distributor cap tower 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1 spark plug or 


2 ow 9 wh ow 


318 eng. 


361, 383, 426 engs. 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 10° 
FUEL PUMP 
Carter model: 318 eng. MS-3673S; 


728 
Pressure: MS-3673S, 5-7 tb.; MS-3672S, 314-5 Ib. 
at idle rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute or less at 500 rpm 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 

Idle Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. BBD 1 index* index* 
CARTER 
4-bbl. AFB 15 index* index* 
STROMBERG i 
2-bbl. WW3 1% index* index* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

426 eng., 900 rom z 
Others: Manual Trans. 500 rpm; heacuignts ovi) h 
beam Auto. Trans. 500 rpm, in NEUTRAL with 
headlights on high beam a 

Air Cond. 500 rpm, in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

318 eng.: Intake .013"; exhaust .021” P 
361, 383, 426 engs.: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjust- 
able 


Polar. 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


INTERVALS 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 
With Without 


: Heater Heater 
318-cu. in. engine............ 21 20 
361-, 383-, 426-cu. in, engines.. 17 16 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 

Battery... sie sine, soi . Check and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 

Power Steering Reservoir rium A 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot 


Oil Fill Cap Wash and oil 30 MO: 


Service more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


EqCarburetor Choke Shaft 


n 


Air Cleaner Element,..... 
Dry type — 
Dry type 

Manual Steering Gear (plug). . . . 
880 


Above —30*, 80; below —30*, 75 

Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 

361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, right side front 
Wick under rotor Sparingly MO 


Brake Master Cylinder (cover). . . 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 

Steering Linkage (8 or 9 plugs) BJ 
Inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary. After replacing seal, relubricate 


Ef Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until 


3 


[22] 


TIRES 


6,70-15 


grease flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or 
lower joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. 
Reinstall plug 


Torque Shaft ... LM 


Disassemble, clean and ds 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 
All except 3-speed H.D. 


3-speed H.D. ........ 

Above +32°, BOMP; below +32”, AF 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 

CAPACITY 3-speed: 880 4 pints, H.D. 2% pints, 
others 314 pints; 4-speed 6, pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Regular drain not recommended " 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


Gearshift Lever .... ( 
Remove rubber bot Y lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


Universal Joints . 

Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade O 

Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 


Repack if used under severe service 
DIFFERENTIAL . : 


Above —10°, 90; below —10^, 80; below —30^, 75 
Maintain level ¥% inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottom of fill ping hole (frame hoist) 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 
CAPACITY 4 PINTS 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Normal service 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 


. MP, AF 


Severe service 


‘Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK.....Gallons 880 All others 
Station wagon and Polara , 1 21 
All other models. ... .- s 


Pressure Front 
sanne 2 


7.00-14, 7. 
8.50-14 Sedan 
8.50-14 Suburban 


* Add 4 pounds for fi 


A Station wagon, 26 
EiRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY 


KEY TO. 
LUBRICANTS 


ype A, Suffix A 


(Suspension Lubricant . 
MoPar Part No, 2298947 
C ‘Carburetor Cleaner — ' 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
. MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid d 
* For Sure; Gri 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chorf Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


Others 


SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE..... : 
Above +32°... à .. 30 10W-30 
Above —10°. 10W 10W-30 
Below —10°.. RENE: |] 5W-20 


CAPACITY 880 and 426-cu. in. engine, 5 quarts; 
all others, 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


."MS" MO 


Crankcase Dipstick. . . Check level 
361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, left side 


\utomatic Transmission 


Fuel Filter .... Replace fT] 
361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, front of engine 
above fuel pump 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 


361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, at rear of manifold 


PCV System Valve ; Check£3 
Replace valve if clogged; also clean hose and 
carburetor, if passages are clogged e 

Service more frequently under severe service 


Oil Filter (under car). ..... Replace pJ 
Add extra quart oil. 361-, n 
gines, left side front 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. -AF 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position 

Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 

To overcome difficult starting below —10*, re- 
place 14% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not:dílute 
more than once during any one season ^. - 


titia! Refill etat Refil 


D 
> 


CAPACITY, quarts 
All models 

DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug and parking sprag 
cavity plug; also remove oil pan 

Regular drain not recommended . 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearings... . 


Inspect 
Severe service, inspect every 10,000 miles 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole 
in axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts 
one slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003" end play 


‘BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment norm- 
ally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Twice yearly 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
KH Every. 16,000 miles or yearly 
HiEvery*20,000 miles or 2 years 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
very 2 years or 32,000 miles 


[i Conditional service 


Lubricate gearshift lever as required 

Drain and refill differential for below — 10° 
requirements f 

Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
at brake overhaul 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
Prepacked bearing 
Cooling system drain 

D, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADE 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar.Part No. 2084329 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


LM Lithium Grease 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 


MO Motor Oil 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
ential, use MoPar Rear Axle LubricanfPart No. 1879414 


DODGE DART V-8 


1964 All Models 


442434 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


F SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


: BATTERY AABM 
zd An Group No. — Amp. Hr. COOLING SYSTEM Quarts 4.,£Z, | | CRANKCASE. “MS” MO 
44 4B With Høpjer Without Heater Abov S à 10W.30 
All models 7 16 Above —10° 10W. 
xl Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds) with air con. Below —10°. -30 
TOMPA ditioning, 16 pounds CAPACITY 4 qu 5w20 
(psi at MER N PRESSURE EqBattery Check and fill Ades Seni sinstrueth 
i - — - = ice In: 
-=æ BW AR e orar rei "m > miin; Ts Caution: Do not ground positive terminal structions, page 4 
E3Power Steering Reservoir I 
i SPARK Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot Jg ME" ae b 
- Shampon Na Eg Carburetor Choke Shaft mi 2 asad Nast Control Valve Sat 7 
Torque: 30-32 tt. Ib. Air Cleaner Element. . . .. i s i (fr) PCV System Valve... Ch 
— Ey Dry type Replace valve if clogged; aiso clean hose ar echEd 
á buretor, if passages are clogged ose endicar 
- IGNITION ph} Dry type - Service more frequently under severe service 
Chrysler POINTS ` Oil Filter (under car) 
Beet N o Ada extra quarto = Replace gg 
QUOTES TRAE QN, Automatic. Ar 
EdgManual Steering Gear (plug). . . . . ^ NEUTRAL ,posit on ek TEENA. thoroughly warm, pr 
CONDENSER EqDistributor Shaft (oil cup) tg i f AH es E sie itil rns MIMND 
Ča er g k - 'ercome difficult starting below -10° 
pacity: .25-.285 mid Wick under rotor 1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not 107, place 


t 
CAPACITY, quart: 


inis PiBrake Master Cylinder (cover) DRAIN and REFILL 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence B to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir Remove 1 conven 
converter plug, transmission plu; 
rking sprag cavit lug; P ang 
Reguisy drain not RA E] SENEYE Span 
Severe service, drain every 32.000 miles; 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles Se 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain _ + 


Initial Refill Total Refill 
4 8 


DOS 
P 


Ò 
NS Front Suspension and LL— Front Wheel Bearings. . . . 
DOA Steering Linkage (9 plugs) B)J——- IG i i Inspect... . 
EG inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- R - : Severe service, inspect every 
BEVA replacing seal, relubricate, iai | „Repack 
elubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease j i." Tight is T 
Firing Order: 1, 8,4,3 ‘ flows from upper bail joint bleed holes or lower position eaae "i 70 in. Ib., 
:1,8.4,3,6, 5,7, 2 joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall set of slots on lock nut aligns with ut co that one 
TIM t€ axle spindle, Back pf adjusting and lock nuts ong 
all cotter key. Fi j 
1. ue PROCEDURE. A Torque Slat A Ui dore LM should be 0 (no preload) to 003- end Duy, nent 
2 Connect Tachometer” ng temperature Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 
^ nect timing ligh 
distributor cap tower ^ NO ) Spark plug or TRANSMISSION, Manual. ....AF 
t Disconnect distributor vacuum line EG Maintain level to fill plug hole 
& iet idle s, with transmission in NEUTRAL Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 2 
- Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until months : A 
7 specified timing mark and pointer are aligned CAPACITY 3-speed, 5 pints; 4-speed, 6 pints 
~ Retighten distributor clamp and recheck align- DRAIN and REFILL 
8 ren of timing mark Regular drain not recommended 
. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idie speed savers service, drain every id ROD0. milesi ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10, 
- dir - | BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
iming Mark and Setting K Gearshift Lever ooa we I ET Bidkes: are aciPadlusiins:: Ro sin 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- mally required justment nor- 


i ii ki ector mechanism i 
cant to pivot points and yoke se! o! I Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


Universal Joints 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 
Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months " 
EH Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL .. 


Above -10°, 90; below -10^, 


below —30*, 75 


| 
i 


D fill plug hole (axl | 
z Ea panie Coto of ail pug nole rame haist, KEY TO INTERVALS 
i Severe Service: check level every 4,000 miles or | EaTwice yearly 
i . CAPACITY 2 pints . - HEvery 5,000 miles 
= Timing Setting (Before T 3 DRAIN and REFILL ; > n 
j Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center) [E Normal service EH Severe service Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
} x IDENTIFICATION: i 
t FUEL PUMP BURT arin RENT to housing near fill plug Eten SED s n er 2 years 
Carter model MS-3673S y i 
Pressure: 5:7 Ib. at idle rpm GAS TANK... Gallons HijEvery 2 years or 32,000 miles 
olume: 1'quart per minute or less at 500 rpm All models Conditional service 
SS " . ubricate gearshift lever as required 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT — l ...Pressure Front Roar EE Position for lift adapter Drain and refi differential or below =F 
D . x x requirements 
e Mixture (notches) (notches) * suburbs A Prepacked bearing Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
BALL A BALL turns) Trans. — Trans. ElRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain at brake overhaul 


n issi i ic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty — MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubri 
ENGINE ID AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic a i-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Manual E IDEE SPEED adi hts on high beam KEY TO Type A, Suffix A A un Temiprehe BIME PS Power Steering Fluid NEEE 
Auto, Trans. 500 rom in NEUTRAL with head- M Lithium Grease MoPar steering Fuld o 


light ; f ; 
A CIO uM eam LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant H Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


Air Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


ON and headlights on high beam MoPar Part No. 2298947 E. MoPar Part No. 1879318 UJ Universal Joint Grease 
CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
VALVE CLEARANCES 4 For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


(engine hot and runnin 
ng " DE-15 


Intake .013*; exhaust Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


FORD 6 


1960 All Models Except Falcon 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


COOLING SYSTEM 


BATTERY AABM With Heater Without Heater 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. All models 16 15 
All 29NF 55, 65 Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds 
27F 70 pe 
Bil Fill Cap. Below — 10° A 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE oP CAPACITY 4 quarts 
N ower Steering Reservoir 
t cranki d with throttl . DRAIN and REFILL 
BALCONE seen wit then * opem) iso 30 Fill to '4 inch below top of reservoir 2 e des Sarid Instructions. page 4 
IHFuel Filter 
SPARK PLUGS " 
Autolite: With standard „carburetor, BTF6; with Crankcase Dipstick 
buretor, P A 
Gap: With. Standard carburetor, .030"; with econ- Eg Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft ....... Test and fill gJ 
pr 
Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs Air et Element Replace EJ 
IGNITION POINTS Dry type 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W M0 
Hole RR Steering Gear (plu : D 
Beli angie. 50.389 Bs v als e REA fill plug and Housing ff 7——— TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 
h 


cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unt Check level, engine idling, PARK position. - 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. Witi 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
CONDENSER power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 5 A models d La 10 
FoMoCo steering wheel centered DRAIN and REFILL i 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd Remove 2 converter plugs and transmission plug 
EJ Brake Master Cylinder (plug) If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Fill to !4 inch below top of fill hole of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Suspension and 

Steering Linkage... . . .(8 or 10 fittings) C_— 
L3 Steering Connecting Link 
Din ren 


B lubricating models with power steering, 
remove screws from clamp at control valve to 
o» "prevent pressure damage to seal. Reassemble 


^ EyClutch Release Equalizer. . ..............CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 
Ey Maintain level to fill plug hole 


loosen Y, but not more than ¥% tum 


Front Wheel Bearings Repack WB[H 
a Lae es torque, 1114-1214 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE CAPACITY 3 pints with or without overdrive 
1. Bring engine to operating temperature DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended P 
2. Connect tachometer Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate | BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
distributor cap tower depressed more than halfway, the need for serv- 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line Speedometer Cable ice is indicated. With power brakes, engine must 
5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL : . be running 
6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn EQUniversal Joint Spline x Adjust the brakes as follows: 
distributor to obtain recommended setting On models with automatic transmission - Disconnect parking brake cable at equalizer 
3. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper Z Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
idle spee: P " urning drum 
a . EQUniversal Joints - Back off adjustment until drag is just elimi- 
Timing Mark and Setting 


. ] nated and drum turns freely 
[Parking Brake Cables TT Y - Repeat procedure at each wheel 

. f . . Reconnect parking brake cable and adjust 
GElectric-Hydraulic Mechanism 


: Bleeding sequence: RR, L F, 
On convertibles, back of rear seat back rest Eisen RR, LR, RF, LF 
Fill to bottom of fill hole 


DIFFERENTIAL 

| 4 veintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 434 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag stamped with letter "L" attached to 
left side of carrier housing 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
M IT ~ 4° (All bl E Jet ad 
Auto. Trans. 6° (allowable range 2-117)! GAS TANK Gallons 

All models .... E us 30 KEY TO INTERVALS 
FUEL PUMP 


AC mode! 48722 or 4874 Front Rear E3XEvery 1,000 miles 
ressure: 314-514 Ib. at 500 rpm - i 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds Eu less at 500 rpm D5014:,890-14 z Ell Every 4,000 miles 


* Combination fuel and vacuum pump Ades nto, Bl Position for lift adapter Every 6,000 miles 
=F tensive ‘high-speed driving and heavy Low a F 

CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT loading, add i68 pounds ' e Lubrication fitting [HEvery 12,000 miles 

Mdee Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain HiEvery 24,000 miles 
Horey — ens) 
1-bbil. 145 FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 

. AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GG Graphite Grease SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
ENGINE IDLE SRI mee KEY TO Type A, Suffix A HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
Auto, Trans. 450-475 rpm in DRIVE CL Chassis Lubricant HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant SS Special Purpose Lubricant 
With’ air conditioning, as listed above but with LUBRICANTS EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. Ford Specification No. M2C50-8 Ford Specification No, M1C-39 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes Ford Specification No. M-568-D MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent UJ Universal Joint Grease 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

VALVE CLEARANCES NT Ford Specification No. M2C33-D MO Motor Oil WG White Waterproof Grease 
(engine hot and running) * Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant 
Intake .019”; exhaust .019” Copyright 1954, The Chek-Chart’Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


FD-10 


a a 


E 


i 
Hd 
| 
Í 
[ 
[ 
| 
i 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 29NF 55, 65 

27F 70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
t cranki 

rey eee tree ee pa 
352 engine .. 1l 189200 


SPARK PLUGS 


Autolite: 292 engine, BF82; 35 i 
Gap: 0327 0367 , ? engine, BF42 
Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 


FoMoCo 
Gap: .014"-.016" 
Dwell angle: 26°-2814° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Meld} O O 
ER 
dde » a ] 


292 engine 1, 5, 4,8, 6,3, 7,2 
352 engine 1,5, 4, 2, 6, 3, 7, 8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2, Connect tachometer 


3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


Manual Trans. 3° (Allowable range, 2°-8°) 
Auto. Trans. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model 4873* or 4875 

Pressure: 4-6 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds or less at 500 rpm 
*Combination fuel and vacuum pump 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 


FORD turns) Trans. Trans. 
mana H5 ge Hm 
engine: obi. 11% 3lean 3lean 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500-525 rpm 
Auto, Trans. 450-475 rpm in DRIVE 


With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
292 engine: Intake .019"; exhaust .018" 
352 engine: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


v v». 


=a SERVICE 


EgPower Steering Reservoir..... 
Fill to 14 inch below top of reserv 


Crankcase Dipstick..... 
292-cu, in. engine, right sid 


Steering wheel centered 


Fill to 14 inch below top of fill ho! 


E3Front Suspension and 


E3Steering Connecting Link. . . . . 
Before lubricating models with 
remove screws from clamp at 


E3Clutch Release Equalizer 


n Maintain level 
CAPACITY 352- 
pints; ali other models with or wi 
3 pints 


ill plug hole 


Overdrive, check level and drai 
HüSpeedometer Cable........ Co; 
HiUniversal Joint Spline........ 
Universal Joints ............ 


(Parking Brake Cables. ....... 
GElectric-Hydraulic Mechanism . . 


On convertibles, back of rear seat 
Fill to bottom of fill hole 


DIFFERENTIAL ...... 
Gy vointein level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 41⁄4 pints 

EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 


side of carrier housing 


GAS TANK 


All models 


loading, add 4 to 6 pounds. 


KEY TO » 
LUBRICANTS  & 


FA 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


n E: 


Wick under rotor. . .. . ..Sparingly 10W MO 


< ss Check level 


Air Cleaner Element. ,..... . Service pal a Teston AE 
Dry type ......,.. osos Clean GU TIT ERR SEE Wash gy 
DYPE cies iver satires nne Replace Fuel FIET sairaan mineg Replace [A 

Vil Filter (under car). .. . ....Replace——— —* TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . FA 

Add extra quart oil, 352-cu. in. engine, forward Check level, engine idling, PARK position. tess 

H Steering Gear (plug).................... SG CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Refill 


Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug and housin; 
cover lower cap screw, Fill thru plug hole unti 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole, With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 


[Brake Master Cylinder (plug)............. HB 


Steering Linkage. .. .. . (8 or 10 fittings) CL——* 


prevent pressure damage to seals, Reassemble 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.. 


. in, engine with overdrive, 4 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


plug holes. Fill slowly thru transmission 


On models with automatic transmission 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Metal tag stamped with letter 'L" attached to left 


.Pressure Front Rear š E3Every 1,000 miles 
7.50-14, 8.00-14 . xcci E 24*  24* id ElEvery 4,000 miles 
8.50-14, 8.00-14 station wagons, a ae P 
sedan delivery s.s esee cines 24* 26* Position for lift adapter 


*For extensive high-speed driving and heavy 


GRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


FORD V-8 


1960 All Models Except Thunderbird 


AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts Ge CRANKCASE ............. MS" M0 

3imodes With usur Without Hester E Above HIO” cios coupe miri er e 10W-30 

Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds Above 4-20* ...... 10W-30 

" i i AbOVE —10* mrn emet 10W-30 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .S ly 10W MO 

Ma dutir Shaft (61l cup). SPRRE 10W M Below —10° ... iussisse 5W-20 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 
oir 


Fordomatic 352-cu. in. engine.. 5 10% 
All other models. . MEE 10 
DRAIN and REFILL.. 
Remove 2 converter plugs; Fordomatic remove 
transmission plug, Cruise-O-Matic disconnect fill 

pipe 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........ MH 


Front Wheel Bearings 


Initial torque, 1114-1214 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, 
loosen Y, but not more than 1 turn 


le 


power steering, 
control valve to 


ithout overdrive, 


n thru separate 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than halfway, the need for serv- 
ice is indicated. With power brakes, engine must 
be running 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 
Disconnect parking brake cable at equalizer 


Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drum 


Back off adjustment until drag is just elimi- 
nated and drum turns freely 


Repeat procedure at each wheel 
. Reconnect parking brake cable and adjust 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


. Coat 1 oz. SS 


mue wo pP 


back rest 


Gallons 
20 KEY TO INTERVALS 


GiEvery 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
HitEvery 24,000 miles 


e Lubrication fitting 
[ Cooling system drain 


Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 
Chassis Lubricant 


Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. 
Ford Specification No. M-568-D 


GG Graphite Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant Special Purpose Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. M2C50-B Ford Specification No. M1C-39 
MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent UJ Universal Joint Grease 
Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A WB, Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M2c33-0 MO Motor Oil WG: White Waterproof Grease 
+x Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 


FD-11 


-— 


FORD FALCON 


1960-62 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


‘Ste Service trstrections fer Pracegere 


Ge": 
Torgme- 15-20 ft. DB 
Do mot cse geskets on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 


FO 
Gas 022°025- 
Deed angie: 35°38 


Fang Order: 1,5,3,5,2.4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1 jne t s 
A operating temperature 
i Ep LEE amd 
& 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center}: 
Mane! Trans. 2^ (Allowable range. 27-97) 
Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mode! 5594897 
Pressure: 334-51; Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint m 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


iste 
Mature 
Gaitial 
HOLLEY turns) 
1-55i. 1-13 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans: 1960. 500-525 rpm: 1961-62, 500- 
550 rpm, with positive crankcase ventilation, 550- 
600 rpm 

Auto. Trens: 1960. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE. 1951- 
62. 475-525 rpm, with positive crankcase ventila- 
tion, 525-575 rpm: in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .0167; exhaust .0167 


1961 
BOTO PDLERSI. Front 


ea SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS AR 


COOLING SYSTEM . 


DIFFERENTIAL ............. 
Ej maintain teve! to 6 plug hole 

CAPACITY 214 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


* For considerable high-speed driving. add 4 
pounds 
€ Passenger and cargo loads or with snow tires, 30 


ires, Me then balance 
Rotate tires, Method A, wheels a oa for tif 


B xs 

1 — : 
More often under severe road conditions and © Lubrication fitting 
heavy imde Q Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SS Special Purpose Lubricant 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Lubricant Ford Specification No. M2C50-8 
Ford Specification No. M-568-D MO Motor Oil 


LUBRICANTS 


Ford Specification No. M2C33-D 


Cooyright 1964, The Chet-Chart Corporction. Printed fa U.S.A. 


FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid SE Steering Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal con be 


2 anto 
Opening, tumn star wheel adjuster until sight 
drag is feit when wheel ss turned 

3 Back cff adjustment unt Cun turns freely 
without crag 

4. Repeat procecure at each wheel 

S Reconnect parking brake cable and adjust 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles or 30 days 

Ej Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
HiEvery 8,000 miles or 8 months 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 2 years 
Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 


Ford Specification No. M1C-39 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
Ford Specification No. M1CS7 


wa Wheel Gearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M1C50-A 


€ & 4 4 d 


€ © 


e & v € 


© wv 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY " AAM 

roup No. Amp.. 
All ex. Auto. Trans. & A/C 29NF com 
All with Auto, Trans. & A/C 29NF 65 

27 70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All 


Max. variation; 1961.63, i6 psi; i964; 20 pa? 17 
SPARK PLUGS 


retor, BER except 1964 with economy carbu- 
: 1961-63, BTF6, .0327..036*; 

28-0325 Grab. 0927 ops 036 + 1964, BTF6, 
Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
Cen. 0247-026" 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 
CONDENSER 
FoMoC 


ol o 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. gauren ine to operating temperature 


Connect timing ligh! 
distributor ming ht to No. 1 spark plug or 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
(peti to obtain m ded setting ' 
real cuum line and reset to proper 


~ Timing Mark and Setting 


M ppe py 


1961 1962-64 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manual Y range 

nual Trans. 6° (Allowable p 2°-11° 
M. Trans. 12° (Allowable range. iy) 


Manual Trans. 4** 

Auto. Trans. 10** 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to ex- 
ceed 5^ over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial advance beyond 2° BTOC 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model: 5592872; with electric windshield wip- 
ers, recat = 

Pressure: 314 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint ift 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
[57 
initial 

me — tm 

HOLLEY 

1-bbl. 119 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans.: 1961-63. 500-525 rpm 
1964, 525-550 rpm 

Auto. Trans: — 1961, 475-500 rpm in DRIVE 
1962-63. 450-475 rpm in DRIVE 

; , 1964, 525-550 rpm in ORIVE 
With air conditioning, same rpm as listed but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

Earty 1961: Intake .0197; exhaust .0197 

Late 1951, 1962-64 models have mechanical auto- 

olus den adjusters. Periodic adjustment not 
uu 


FORD 6 


1961 All Except Falcon 
1962-64 Galaxie, 300, Custom 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS w- 


COOLING SYSTEM........ Quarts Cart CRANKCASE...... "MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater E Above +90" ........ ..10W-30 


M models ....... ` : 

A TAE a pressure, 12-15 pounds Above + 20° ETES .10W-30 
EJON Fill Cap... esse Wash MX dug nean vl 

With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow, elow — NIAE E a -20 

With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service CAPACITY 4 quarts 

Power Steering Reservoir..............., AF DRAIN and REFILL 
Bm to 14 Inch below top of reservoir See Service Instructions, page 4 
EPower Steering Filter... ............ Replace 

1963-64 only. Inside reservoir LJ 

Crankcase Dipstick. ............ Check level BOE... ces rep end x Test and fillgg 
E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... MH Oil Filter... . Replace, add extra quart oil fy 


1961-62, remove air cleaner to lubricate 
Air Cleaner Element................ 


uw Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 


[x] [Uus 

ry type .... Feel FRR s 
E] 196162 1963 1961, left side forward. .... 
E3Steering Gear (plug). ............. 1962, right side forward. . ... 


Turn wheels to left, remove fil! plug and housin 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 
steering wheel centered 


ere 
Fuel Pump Sediment Bowl & Screen 1961 .Clean IEJ 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (cap).............- HB 2510! 
Fill to 3% inch below top of cylinder Check level, engine idling, PARK position. xa 
: CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refil! 
POV AUR oecon aan Service T9613 (Quant UM Rel Total Renni 
Py Valve (1961-62, late 1963, 1964)... .Clean All 1961-82; 1963-64 19645... occ ponis 5 7A 
[IF] All parts Clean 1963-64 only power steering 1963-64 only DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
XUI NAA UE. Remove 2 converter plugs and oi! pan 


If M2C33-D is Unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, S A may be added 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . . 

Relubricate using special 
1961-62 


1963-64 


2 pl —e| 4 > = ings... ... DN 
B e 12 pagi) LM =a: A ig^ VERRAN p 


1961, initial torque, 1114-1214 ft. Ib.; final adjust- 
ment, loosen v, but not more than '4 turn 

1962-64, initial torque. 15-20 ft. |b.: then with nut- 
lock on spindle nut ghd casteilation aligned with 
hole in spindle, bag both nut and nut-lock 
together, one caste’ n and install cotter pin 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 E 
Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY With or without overdrive: 1961-62, 

3 pints; 1963-64, 334 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 

plug hole. Fill slowly thru transmission 


Ef] Universal Joint Spline 1961....Coat 1 oz. SS 


On models with automatic transmission 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are selfSdjusting. Adjustment is not 
normally required. If the brakes have been relined 


fats (lug)... acr Uu - or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as foll 
, Universal Joints (plug). ..... 1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
1961-62 s drum lightly - 


1963-64 


2. Remove drums” 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 3. 


Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel 
and back off adjustment % turn with finger 
pr@&sure onty. if’ adjustment screw does not 
turn easity, remove and lubricate 

4. Reigstall drums 

5* Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 HP* 
E Maintain leve! to fill plug hote 

CAPACITY 1961-62, 4% pints; 1963-64, 5 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 

By letters A, B or C under axle ratio listing on 

patent plate on left front door post 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
*£31961, Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 1962-64, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Station wagons ...............- aas TA D Á 
Alt other models. E 20 [Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


Every 8,000 miles or 8 months 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear m IHEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months i 
FOO ad EOIN EDO As cassis M5 26 HiEvery 24,000 miles or 2 years 
H For considerable vg speed driving or heavy &)Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 
eei E AEA C Position for lift adapter Every 36,000 miles or 3 years 
Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels = ] Cid Pcia servire y 
H Au: E. road E ee : n sobeng 1962-64, lubricate distributor shaft at time 
heavy loads @ Cooling system drain of tune-up gs 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear 
i KEY TO Type A, Suffix A Ford Specification No. M2CSO-B Š Ford e pan 
\ EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. LM Lithium Grease, with Moly Ford Specifica 
LUBRICANTS Ford Speciicalion No: MIAD Erais pectic ate eee UJ Universal Joint Grease d 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent Ford Specification No. M-1CSD 
x Ford Specification No. M2C33-D FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19AS01-A WB Wheel Bearing Gtease 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil Ford Specification No. MICI 
a Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-8 and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of Iubrican 
Ceoyr'gM 1954, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U S A. " © FO-12 


F 


| 
: 
! 


SSS ee 


FORD V-8 


1961 All Models Except Thunderbird; 


1962 Galaxie 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 
Al 


AABM 
Group No. 
29NF 


Amp. Hrs. 
55, 65 


Gap: Single points, .014"-.016"; dual points, each 
set, .019"-.021* 

Dwell angie: Single and dual points, each set, 
26°-2814 °; dual points, total dwell, 32°-34° 
CONDENSER 

FoMoCo Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 

292 engine 1,5, 4, 8, 6,3, 7,2 
390. 408 engines d, $,4,2,6,3,7,8 

“Tt G PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 
Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line (except 
dual point distributor) 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


N pp S wN 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1961: 292 eng. Manual Trans. 3° (Allowable range, 
est a Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 
29-159 
352, 390 engs. Manual Trans. 3° (Allowable 
range, 2°-8°) Auto. Trans. 6° (Allowable 
range, 27-11?) 

390 Super eng. (Allowable range, 10°-19°) 

1962: 292 eng. Manual Trans. 5° (Allowable range, 
2°-10°) Auto. Trans. 12° (Allowable range, 
2°-17¢ 3 
352, 390 engs. Manual Trans. 5° (Allowable 
range, 2°-10°) Auto. Trans, 8° (Allowable 
range, 2°-13°) 

406 eng. 8° (Minimum allowable, 2°) 390, 
2-406 Super engs. (Allowable range, 10°-19°) 

FUEL PUMP 

AC model: 5594873, -4875*, -3461e m, -3450* è m 

Pressure: 4-6 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm — — 

* With electric wipers * With Air Conditioning 

II With 352, 390, 406 engines 

CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 

Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Ma Auto. 


FORD turns) Tra Trans. 

2-bbl. 1-1% index 2 lean 

4-bbl. 1-157 index*  2lean 

HOLLEY . 

2-bbl. (Primary) 1-115 index — 
(Secondary) 3-114 = EE 

4-bbl. 1-14 index index 


* 390 engine, 2 lean 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 500-525* rpm 
Auto. Trans. 450-475 rpm** in DRIVE 
Air Cond. Same rpm, with unit turned ON 
* 390 eng. 575-600 rpm; 390, 406 Super engs. 
675-700 rpm 
** 1962, 390 eng. 475-500 rpm 
VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
292 engine: Intake .019"; exhaust .019” 
352, 390 engines: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 
390, 406 Super engs.: Intake .025”; exhaust .025" 


* 
(scm unn. M 


HOOD RELEASE: Frant 1 


af SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN 


BY SYMBOLS T 


COOLING SYSTEM... . Quarts du CRANKCASE p < “MS ue 
" Above +90°.. " . 10W-3 
With Heater Without Heater D Ow-30 
All models ........ 20 9 Above +20°. E 
Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds Above —10°. . 10W-30 
Below —10?. . 5W-20 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 


292-cu. in. engine, at reár 


IH 1961 

[E 1962 

IH Wick under rotor...... Sparingy 10W MO 
LB MM Replace 


Replace initially at 4,000 miles 
'92-. 352-cu. in. engine, at front of carburetor 


EP 1961 
Ej] 1962, except 390, 406 Super engine 
390, 406 Super eng. replace every 6,000 miles 


Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 
Fill to "F" mark on gage 


EJ Fuel Pump Sediment Bowl & Screen 1961 .Clean 
Crankcase Dipstick . Check level 
292-cu. in. engine, right side 
Air Cleaner Element........... — 

Dry type . 

Dry type .. 


Oil Filter (under car)............... 
Add extra quart oil 
352-, 390-, 406-cu, in. engines, forward 


Brake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB 


Fill to 34 inch below top of cylinder Pa 
(8 plugs) LM 


El] Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage............ 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 
Ed maintain level to fill plug hole . : 

CAPACITY, 3-speed: 352-, 390-cu. in. Special 
engines with overdrive, A pings all other models 
with or without overdrive, 3 pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 
Plug holes. Fill slowly thru transmission 


Ef] Universal Joint Spline 1961..... Coat 1 oz. SS 
On models with automatic transmission 
E Universal Joints (plug).................. UJ 


Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 4%, pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 

By letters A, B or C under axle ratio listing on 


patent plate on left front door post 


GAS TANK 


Station wagons .. 
All other models.. 


TIRES.......... Pressure Front Rear 
7.50-14, 8.00-14 ... .. 24* 2a* zu pad 
8.00-14 station wagon 24* 28* 


* For considerable high-speed driving or heavy 
loading, add 4 to 6 pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


n 1961 Bl. Position for lift adapter 
1962 i 

More often under severe road conditions and A Prepacked bearing 
heavy loads 


e Cooling system drain 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHT 


AF Automatic Transmission. Fluid, HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Type A, Suffix A 
KEY TO EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. 


LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D — 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid 
Ford Specification No. M2C33-D 
HB Hydraulic Brake.Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 
. x Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. per pint of lubricant. Heavy-Duty Dual Drive, 


LM Lithium Grease, with Moly 
Ford Specification No. M-1 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valvi 


Ford Specification No. M2C50-B; with 
409-cu. in, engine, use M2C57-A 


FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page4 


.Test and fillg 
Wash EJ 


With positive crankcase ventilation system, fill 
slowly to prevent overflow 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position. ..--.- 
CAPACITY, quarts Initia! Refill Total Refill 
Fordomatic E 5 9 
Cruise-O-Matic ..... 5 10 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Fordomatic, remove 2 converter plugs and trans- 
mission oil pan 
Cruise-O-Matic, remove 2 converter plugs and dis- 
connect fill pipe 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 
.MH 
e 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. 
On all 1961 engines and 1962 292-cu. in. 

PCV System Valve................... Clean Ed 
Dísassemble and clean all parts; also, exhaust line 
292-cu. in. engine, at front of carburetor 


Front Wheel Be 
1961 ... 
1962 


1961, initial toi 
ment, loosen ys 
1962, initial torque, 15-20 


ue, 1114-1214 ft, Ib.; final adjust- 
ut not more than Y, turn 

ft. Ib.; then with nut- 
lock on soindle nut and castellation aligned with 
hole in spindle, back-off both nut and nut-lock 
together, one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel and 
back off adjustment % turn with finger pres- 
sure only. If adjustment screw does not turn 
easily, remove and lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E31961, Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 

1962, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles or 8 months 
IHEvery 12,000. miles or 12 months 
El Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 
[Conditional service 


1962, lubricate distributor shaft at time of 
tune-up 


$, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
SS Special Purpose Lubricant 

Ford Specification No. M1C-39 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 

Ford Specification No. M-1C57 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 


C47 
e Solvent 


No. M2C58-A 
use M2C57-A 


FD-13 


»* 50556000 6b $5 5b6 5 b 6 6G B6 DU 5t t b5bt o nos 


TUNE-UP .DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs, 
All 29NF 65 
27F 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


* Permissible variation is plus or minus 20 psi 
SPARK PLUGS 


Autolite: 390 Super ong, BF32; others BF42 
; others .032*-.0367 


IGNITION POINTS 


FoMoCo 
Gap; .014"-.016^ 
Owell angle: 26°-281,° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mid 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 4, 2,6, 3,7, 8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
Gistributor cap tower Be 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


N "bh Np 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961: 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) A 
1962: 290 eng. 8^ (Minimum allowable, 2°) 
390 Super eng. 6^ (Minimum allowable, 2*) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 5593450 
Pressure: 4-6 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
Auto. 


Gnitial 
FORO turns) Trans. 
4-bbl. 11% 2 lean 
HOLLEY” 
2-bbl. fprimso I QUA index 
(Secondary) A -1 4 -— 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


1961: 450-475 rpm in DRIVE 
1962: 475-500 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 


390 Super eng.: Intake 025”; exhaust 025” 
390 eng.: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


FORD THUNDERBIRD V-B - 


1961-62 All Models 


4» 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
All models ........ 20 19 


Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 
1961 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


1962 See Service Instructions, page 4 
IH Wick under rotor...... Sparingly 10W MO 
EI Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 


Fil! to “F” mark on gage 


With air conditioning, reservoir on left fender 
apron, fill to 1 inch from top 


Dil Filter (under car)... ............ 
B. extra un oil ) Replace 


Crankcase Dipstick 
Fuel Filter 


Replace initially at 4,000 miles 
E 1961, right side under air cleaner 
AE 1962 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (cap). ............ HB 
Fill to % inch below top of cylinder 


l ap Wash gJ 
With positive crankcase ventilation system, fill l 
slowly to prevent overflow i 


DAYDE sirasi staistersrnaacrwraveys sree COON ES 


Cleang 


Disassemble and clean all parts; also, exhaust line 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 1961... MHEQ 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic.. FA 


AN models 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs and disconnect fill pipe 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Ea Front Suspension and 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Steering Linkage. ........ (12 fittings) LM 


qe — — s 
1962. aon 


Initial torque, 15-20 ft. hen with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and castell: aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


Universal Joint Spline 1961..... Coat 1 oz. SS 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Tum ster wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel and 

back adjustment % turn with finger pres- 

sure only. If adjustment screw does not turn 

easily, remove and lubricate 

Reinstall drums 

Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 

eral times 


EgUniversal Joints ...............-....... U 


Use low pressure. Relubricate using special adapter 


EüRear Spring Inserts.........-.....- Replace 


DIFFERENTIAL ..........- 90 HP* 
Ef maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 41% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 


By letter H under axle ratio listing on patent plate 
on left front door post 


ye 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E31961, Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 
1962, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


[Every 8,000 miles or 8 months 


GAS TANK... oos Gallons 


All models ....-22-- III 20 


TIRES: un cee ci Pressure jan pi] (Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
ll cvcrccoccccvceressceseres " 
Peer extensive high-speed driving and heavy Every 24,000 miles or 2 years 


loading, add 4 pounds Ej Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels Wl Position for lift adapter [Conditional service 

EH 191 B 19 Ai e Lubrication fitting 1962, lubricate distributor shaft at time of 
More often under severe road conditions and . tune-up 
heavy loads Q Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


i issi Í * Hypoid Gear Lubricant SS Special Purpose Lubricant 
KEY TO " Pc w e nue " His Specification No. M2C50-B Ford Specification No. M1C-39 
FE e LM Lithium Grease, with Moly UJ Universal Joint Grease 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid Ford Specification No. M-1C47 Ford Specification No. M1CS7 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M2C33-D MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Mo SEA No. COAA-19A501-A Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 
otor Oi 


+ Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant — 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


FORD 6 


1962-64 Fairlane All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22NF 40 
24F 55 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
m cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
M Pa Seis deem ascia ecu E Swiss ats 150-190 


: 1962-63, 10 psi; 1964, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF82 

Gap: .032”-.036” 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 


Gap: .024*-.026* 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3,6, 2,4 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


- Bring engine to operating temperature 
2 Connect tachometer £ á 
. nect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 

distributor cap tower lá pester 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1962: Manual Trans. 4° (Allowable range, 2°-9°) 
Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 
1963: Manual Trans. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 
Auto. Trans, 12° (Allowable range, 2°-17°) 
1964: Manual Trans. 6°* 
Auto. Trans. 12°* 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to ex- 
ceed 5* over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial advance beyond 2° BTDC 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model: 5594872; with electric windshield 
wipers, 5594874 

Pressure: 314-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
e 


Mixture 
(initial 
FORD turns) 
1-bbl. 1-14 
HOLLEY 
1-bbi. 1.17 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans.: 1962-63, 500-550 rpm; with posi- 
tive crankcase ventilation, “550-600 rpm; 1964, 
500-525 rpm : . 
Auto. Trans.: 1962, 475-525 rpm in DRIVE with 
positive crankcase ventilation, 525-575 rpm; 1963- 
64. 500-525 rpm in DRIVE : 
With air conditioning. same rpm as listed but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 


1962: Intake .0167; exhaust .016” 
1963-64: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts rA CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 
Kiimodsais With Heater Without Heater teal Above +90° teres ..10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 11s pounds e Pove +20" : g 4 lowon 
EJPower Steering Reservoir............. E Below —10* ........ ... 5W20 
Fill to "F" mark on gage CAPACITY 314 quarts 
R. 
EDPower Steering Filter... . ... lici oats Replace D e Service Instructions, page 4 
1963-64 only. Inside reservoir 
IHPCV System Early 1963.............. Clean 
Clean tube and separator Battery «eo case veces dios. 6 Test and fill gg 
ml 7^7 v ME Qi Flap... sss Wash 


With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


[Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup)........10W MO 


Crankcase Dipstick.............Check level 
Fuel Filter... casas vases seas .. Replace 
H) 1962 
Ej 196364 


E3Steering Gear (plug)..................0 S6 
Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug and housin 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole until 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 
Steering wheel centered 


; TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 
EBrake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB Check level, engine idling, PARK position... .... 
Fill to 34 inch below top of cylinder CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ...... esl. 4 [173 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs and transmission oil pan 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Suspension and T " 
Steering Linkage . .(8 or 10 plugs) LM——* X I |e— Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug am eeo wo 962 .. DES I. . E 3 --- 
H] 1962 a2 a. BJ 
1963-64 Spindle nut snd casteliation signed with hole in 


spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 


one castellation P pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not 

normally required.df the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 

drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel and 
back off adjustment 34 turn with finger pres- 
sure only. If adjustment screw does not turn 
easily, remove and lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times ‘ 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 EP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Power Steering 
: only 


Universal Joints (plug). ............ sss. Ul 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 
E] 1962 
kj 1963-64 


DIFFERENTIAL ............ 90 HP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 414 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Gm. Wb. am Vn. f£ 


GAS TANK... 


All models .. 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


EXEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
eens HiEvery 24,000 miles or 2 years 
s 2 : Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 
* high-speed dri h E 
endi qid apoundse id BE Position for lift adapter Every 36,000 miles or 3 years 


Rotate tires, Method A ; Conditional service 
IH 1962 A  Prepacked bearing Emate distributor shaft at time of tune- 
1963-64 @ Cooling system drain up 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 


iori 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. Ford Specification No. M2C50-B Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D LM Lithium Grease, with Moly UJ Universal Joint Grease 


FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid Ford Specification No. M-1C47 Ford Specification No. M-1C57 


Ford Specification No. M2C33-D WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. FD-15 ee 
^ 


$ 
s 
9 
~~ 
-— 
“ð 
= 


D- 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
AM 24F 55, 65 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cran speed with throttle open) 


SM azed oye; 188438 30-170 


SPARK PLUGS 
Avtolite: 289 engine with 4-bbl. carb. BF32; others, 


Gap: 1962-63 .035"; 1964 .032”-.036” 
Torque: 15-20 tt. Ib. diu 
Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs 
IGNITION POINTS 
Gap. 014 016" 

p: .014”-, exce| d 
ois onis wd pt 289 eng. with 4-bbl. carb. 
Dwell angle: -28° - 
Nei ang ede 2° except 289 eng. with 4 
CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOO! 
Oo T 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 4,2, 6,3, 7,8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
. Bring engine to operating tem, 
2 Connect tachometer Sig porate 
3 nnect timing light No. 1 
distributor cap ower SUI SRR PIE oF 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
* distributor to obtain recommended setting 
. Reconnect vacuum line an 
Reconnect i reset to proper 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1962 1963 early 


1963 late-64 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1962: 5° (Allowable range, 2°-10°) 

1963: 221 eng. Manual Trans. 4° 

(Allowable range, 2°-9° 

Auto. Trans. 12° (Allowable range, 2°-17°) 

260 eng. Manual Trans. 4° 

(Allowable range, 2°-9°) 

Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range 2°-15°) 

289 eng. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 
1964: 260, 289 (2-bbl. carb.) engs. 

Manual Trans. 4°* 

Auto. Trans. 10°* 

289 (4-bbl. carb.) eng. 

Manual Trans. 10^* 

* |f engine requirements or substandard fuels 
dictate, timing may be retarded from recom- 
mended deting to eliminate detonation but not 
to exceed 2° BTDC 

FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 4-6 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 

CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 

Idle Choke Choke 
i e (notches) (notches) 
I Man. Auto. 


FORD Trans. Trans. 
1962 2-bbl. 2 lean 2 lean 
1963 2-bbl. 4 lean 4 lean 
1964 2-bbl. 2 rich 2 rich 

4-bbl. 3 lean 3 lean 


800 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE | : 
With air conditioning, same rpm as listed but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

289 engine with 4-bbl. carb. 

Intake .018"; exhaust .018" 

Others: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


FORD V-8 


1962-64 Fairlane All Models 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM . Quarts 


bel a Ka CRANKCASE .. .."MS" MO 
r thout Heater Aboye-+90° ........ A 10W-30 
All models ........ 144 Y ? 
Cooling system pressure, is pounds 19% Mor ui j "hi - “1030 
Fuel Filter... cece eee Replace Below —10° ......... eee 5w20 
E) 1962 CAPACITY 4 quarts 
Ay 1963-64, -cu. in, engi DRAIN and REFILL 
136) 6,000 Sg 289-cu. in engine every See Service Instructions, page 4 
E3Power Steering Reservoir. . ..... E PER 
B Fill to "F" mae on gage » L e | 
EPower Steering Filter............... Battery sees SS Test and ANEJ | 
1963-64 only. Inside reservoir Ns 7— Crankcase Dipstick. . ... . -Check level 
Oil Filter (under car)... 6... 6. . 0... Ae L^ i 
Add Mar (under oil i Nus Miet: Serie 


Ex0il Fill Cap... z 
With PCV system, fill s! o 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
1962-63, right side, front of air cleaner 


H Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup). .......10W MO 
Wick under rotor. ...... Sparingly 10W MO 
E3Steering Gear (plug) $6 


Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug an housing 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 
Steering wheel centered 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). ...........- HB 


5 CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Fill to 3 inch below top of cylinder 1962-63 
221-cu. in. engine. 4 sý 
260-cu. 4 7 
1964 All .. 4 7 


Front Suspension and DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Steering Linkage. ...... (8 or 10 plugs) LM—- Remove 2 converter plugs, disconnect fill pipe, 
lelubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug E CARET MEER RA actimore iani euart 
1962 of Type A, Suffix A may be added 
Ej 1963-64 Front Wheel Bearings. ........... Repack WB 
TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 EP 1962 .......- . [30] 


1963-64 
Initial torque, 15-20 ft. Id.; then with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 1962 314 pints, with overdrive, 4 pints; 
1963-64 3-speed 314 pints, with overdrive, 314 
pints; 4-speed 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 
plug holes. Fill slowly thru transmission 


Universal Joints (plug). ......... ees UW BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug Brakes are self-adjusting. Adius t is not 
A] 1962 normally required. If the brakes have been relined 
36 1963-64 or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 
: 1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
DIFFERENTIAL ............ 90 WP drum lightly 


2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel and 
back off adjustment 34 turn with finger pres- 
sure only. If adjustment screw does not turn i 
easily, remove and lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 44 pints; 289-cu. in. engine, 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK . Gallons Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
All models .. 16 t 
£ 
KEY TO INTERVALS 
Hecho Fes o E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
73013 A et z [HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 


209-14 station wagon 28* ElEvery 24,000 miles or 2 years 
* For considerabte. nigh;apeed driving or heavy E Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 

ie a EgEvery 36,000 miles or 3 years 
Rotate tires, Method A Ti Conditional service 


[IH 1962 Lubricate distributor shaft and wick under 
1963-64 rotor at time of tune-up 


BB Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
Ford Specification No. M2C50-B; with 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gest Cub. 289-cu. in. aV engine, M2C57-A UJ Universal Joint Grease 
Ford Specification No. M do .. AM Lithium Grease, with Moly Ford Specification No. M-1C57 
Fh Ford Automate Transmission tid — Fre sonication No Melca? WH Wheel Bearing Grease 
M0 Motor Oil Ford Specification No, M1C60-A 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. FO-16 


FORD V-8 


1963-64 Galaxie, 300, Custom 


1 
WOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts (fan CRANKCASE..... 
260 Group No. Amp: Hrs, With Without Above +90° , .10W-30 
352: 390 ens: doNF 3$ 08 All t 260., 289-cu. | ‘oy “Now, A oe 
B n exce ^. "cu. in. eng.. 
406, 427; Opt. 352, 390 engs. ‘27F 70 260: 2B9-cu. in. eng... c 14 357/200 A041477 Above —10° . enne ner sane iae 10W30 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds Below —10 P keii ss. 5W-20 
(at cranking speed with throttl CAPACITY 260-, 289-cu. in. engines, 4 quarts; all 
1963; 260, 289 enge. |.. nnus open) BM EfjFuel Filter... 2s Replace thers, $ quarts s 2 
406-, 427-cu side under air nt 
cleaner, rept Instructions, page 4 
EgPower Steering Reservoir,.............. „AF 
Fill to "F" mark on gage 
...Test and fillgrg 
A : KijPower Steering Filter. ... . .. coves Replace . Check level 
Geb: 032^ 036" except O63 pred deben a eres Inside reservoir 352-, 390-, 406-, 427-cu. in. engines, left side 
engs., .0287..032* z 
NITION POINTS PEU Sanjib EOI Filter (under car)... . Replace TRANSMISSION, Automatic. FA 
iJ . g Add extra quart oil Check level, engine idling, PARK position. . 2 
SUM Polite eh oe ane points, -O14"-.016"; CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
O16" excepi 427 eng. O19 9217. ^ 1 o4 -0147 FOU EF Ci ocn cores coo ee Wash Fordomatic 
Dwell ‘angle: Sing and dual points. each set, Fill slowly to prevent overflow, With closed PCV 352-, 390-cu. in. eng.. s 9 
267-2814" except eng., 22°-24°, Dual points, system, sealed cap, no service 260-, 289-cu. in, eng.. 4 $ 
total dwell, 1965 32°-34°; 1964 33°-36° s 352-, 390-, 406-, 427-cu. in. engines, right side, Cruise-O-Matic — 
CONDENSER frostiof air elsnar 260cu in eng. e $ 5 
foMoco — Capacity: 21-25 mtd A Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup) TUR i ceo Maced n ` 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence fy — Wick under rotor..... 289-cu. in, eng....... s 7 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Air Cleaner Element... . Remove 2 converter plugs; Cruise-O-Matic, dis- 


Ory type connect fill pipe; C4 and Fordomatic, remove oil 
Dry type If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
E) 1963 of Type A, Suffix A may be added 
Steering Gear (plug).......... .... $6 Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........ MHES 
Turn wheels to left, remove fill pl housinj On 406-, 427-cu. in. engines only 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti . 
rare lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With POV SR OEE EE cas cae Service 
Firing Order: 1, 5, 4, 2, power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with Valve Cl 
TIMING PROCEDURE steering wheel centered ae ee ss .Cleang3 
Follow procedure listed on Chart FD-16 EsBrake Master Cylinder (cap).............. Hi All parts .... . -Clean [A 
Timing Mark and Setting Fill to % inch below top of cylinder Including filter, 
KiJFront Suspension and 7— — Front Wheel Bearings........... Repack WBE 


Steering Linkage. ...». (10 or 12 plugs) LM | 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


Initial torque, 15-20 ft. Ib., then with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
spindie, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


'ower Steering 
only 


TRANSMISSION): Manual. .80 EP. 
EQ Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3-, 4-speed, 344 pints, with or without 
overdrive 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 
plug holes. Fill slowly thry transmission 


1 e 
- “agen 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1963: 260, 289 engs. 


Man. Trans. 6° (2*-11*); Auto. Tj . 10* (2*-. 
352 390 enge. ); Auto. Trans. 10* (25-157) 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not 

normally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 


Man. Trans. 3° (25-87); Auto. Trans. 6^ (2°-11°) Ki3Universal Joints (plug) UJ 2. Remove drums 
390 Super, 406, 427 engs. 8° (2°-8° . ; j lal adantercRe tataii siue 3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel 
1964: 289 eng. Man. Trans. 6**; AUD. Trans. 10°° Vübricateiusing special adapter: Reinstallipiug and REL off E ajustment 34 turn with finger 


352 eng. Man. Trans. 6€ 
390 2-bbl., Man. Trans. 6 
390 4-bbi., Man. Trans. 4° 
390 Police, Man. Trans. 4° 
427 eng.. 8°* 

* If engine requirements or substandard fuels 
dictate, timing may be retarded from recom- 
mended setting to eliminate detonation but 
not to exceed 2° BTDC 

** For optimum performance and economy, tim- 
ing may be advanced to a point just short of 
audible detonation under road test load but., 
not to exceed 5° over normal setting. Do'not 


lo. Trans, 10°** 
Auto. Trans. 6°* 

Auto. Trans, 6°** 
Auto. Trans. 6°* 


pressure only. If adjustment screw does not 
turn easily, remove and lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL ..........: 90 HP* 
E Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5 pints; 406-, 427-cu. in. eng., 5% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 
By letters A, B or C under axle ratio listing on 
patent plate on left front door post 


retard initial advance beyond 2° BTDC GAS TANK. .. Gallons 
FUEL PUMP . All other models 12110102 HE: KEY TO INTERVALS 
AC mechanical Pressure: 


ExEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
IH Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 

TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear = HiEvery 24,000 miles or 2 years 

A14 tation ‘wegen. Rae 2e nS = Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 


1963, 260 eng. 4-5 Ib.; others 4-6 Ib.; at 500 rpm 
1964, 289 eng. 4-6 Ib.; others 4.5-6.5 Ib.; 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 

wit Choke Choke 


F iderable high-speed driving or he: i 
FORD Tani "eus loading, add 4 pounds P e E id Bl] Position for lift adapter EDEVAT E aud n or 3 years 
2-bbl. i d : di name: ondition i 
1 bl. poar., Sean: Rotate tires, Method A, then. "Wheels A Prepacked bearing Bc bricatesdtstTbUtor shart aad wick at time 
HOLLEY More often under severe 0} and . : ubricate distributor shaft and wick a 
2-bbi. (Primary) ; 1-1 index = heavy loads S n e Cooling system drain of tune-up 
econdary) %-11% = = 
4-bbi. (P - i = 
Seondapy ip inde S FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR.BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
* 260, 289 engs., 4 lean ** 390 eng., 2 lean " 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED y AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
Man. Trans. 575-600 rpm: ex. 427. 700-800 Ford Specification No. M2C50-B; with j " 
Auto. Trans.: 1963, 450-475 rpm in DRIVE © KEY TO p un A Suffix A 390, aoe- azeu in engines, SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
SD E AIA ORIN € «800. inal Relicé; LUBRICANTS Ford Sud, BM Gear Lib, MASSA m U see pe a 
A ue j 9 CRON Sci Sous LM Lithium Grease, with Mol niversal Joint Grease 
Sah oie concionine, same: Fb (Dut ath iunit FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid Ford Specification No. M-1C47 Ford Specification No. M-1C57 
VALVE CLEARANCES Seema Ford Specification: No, M2C33:D MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
(angina NOU and rünning) HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 
390 Police, 406. 427 engs: In. .025"; Ex. .025” « Equa-Lock, use Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant 
Others: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable - " Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. F0-17 
à T t 
O o ENEE = ng E MEC AMD ——— UAM: 


? 
* 
t 
r 
& 
- 
a 
a 
i) 
es 
2 
ap 
== 
- 
noe 
mi 
n 
a 
ae 
— 
— 
, 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22NF 40 
24F 55 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All. 190 


‘SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF82 

Gap: .032”-.036" 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gaskets on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 

Gap: .024”-.026” 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 


FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


S 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3, 6,2, 4 


í 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 

. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


3. 
4. 
H 
7. 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1963 ^ 


Manual Trans. 4° (Allowable range, 2°-9°) 
Auto. Trans. 10° (All le range, 2°-15°) 
1964: 


144 eng., Man. Trans. 8°*; Auto. Trans. 12°* 
170 eng., Man. Trans. 6°*; Auto. Trans. 12°* 
200 eng., Auto. Trans. 12°* 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to ex- 
ceed 5? over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial advance beyond 2^ BTDC 


FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 314-54 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke .Choke 
(notches) (notches) 

Man. Auto: 

D Trans. i 
Tobi manual manual* 


* 1964, 200 engine, index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500-525 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 500-525 rpm in DRIVE ith 
With air conditioning, as listed above but wi 
unit turned ON and In operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


FORD FALCON 6 


1963-64 All Models 


w SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... 7 “ms” 
With Heater Without Heater Chek Chart CRANKCASE. M "MS" MO 
All models .......5 9 [DA Above --90^ .......... —— me 
Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds Above +20° . DSi 

Fy Power Steering Reservoir. . . .... M. Above: = 10, < se arse pam 

Ai to npr Lu on gage. With air conditioning, Below —10° . . e CS REUS me AAA 5W-20 


reservoir on left fender apron; fill to % inci 


CAPACITY 31% quarts 
from top. 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Power Steering Filter............... Replace 
Inside reservoir 


TAON Fiter oie, sree TTE I OE Replace 


Add extra quart oil 


PCY System Early 1963.............. Clean 


Clean tube, filter and separator 


Oil Fill Cap. . 


Fill slowly to prevent overflow. With closed PCV 
system, sealed cap, no service 


[Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO PCV System Late 1963, 1964... ..... Service 
MAINE ais OEA EENES acces cirea e Cleangy 
Crankcase Dipstick ............. Check level — E  R————— od Clean [A 
[]Fuel Filter o ita A = TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . FA 
ý Check level, engine idling, PARK position 
Air Cleaner Element. CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Dry type UN . All models ........ = 4 T% 
Dry type A oa AA 2. fie) DRAIN and Bera "n pecommended 
Sx ore A n 
1963 Kg 1964 If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
EySteering Gear (plug) € se of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


On 1963 only. 
Reach thru opening 
in upper control arm 


Turn wheels to right, remove fill plug and housing 
Cover upper cap screw. Fill thru plug hole until 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru upper cap screw hole, with 
steering wheel centered 


gaBrake Master Cylinder (cap)............-. Li 
Fill to % inch below top of cylinder 


Front Wi heel Bearings......... „Repack WBE 


Front Suspension. .. ....... (4 or 6 plugs) LM 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug Initial torque, 12-15 ft, Ib.; then with nut-lock on 
E3Steering Linkage. ..... (5 or 6 sealed bearings) spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 


Inspect seal; if damaged, or if there is any evi- 
dence of looseness, replace entire pivot assembly 


KiPitman Arm Stud.......--....... .(plug) LM 
Models with power steering only. Lubricate using 
special adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 


Maintain level to fill plug hole . 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 214 pints; 4-speed, 44 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Self-adiusting brakes are used. Adjustment is not 

normally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes as 

follows: 

Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 

parking brake cable 

1. Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 

2. Remove brake drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from adjusting 
screw, and back off adjusting screw ?4 turn 

4. Reinstall drums and wheels 

5. Operate car in reverse and make 5 or 6 brake 
applications to bring shoes into proper adjust- 
ment 

6. Reconnect and adjust parking brake cable 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


(Universal Joints (plug). ......... sss W 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL ...........- 90 HP 
Fd Maintain level to fill plug hole 

1964, fill plug on rear cover 

CAPACITY 214 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK.. 


All models .. 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


24* pu be faEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Station w n s En HiEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months 
eae ene sr Ry BE Position for lift adapter KBEvery 36,000 miles or 36 months 
fi [Conditional service 
ERotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels à A Prepacked bearing Lubricate distributor shaft at time of tune- 
More often: under severe road conditions an [ ] Cooling system drain up 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil . 
Type A, Suffix A WP  Hypoid Gear Lubricant id Steering dh ge Me iCB7-A 
EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. Ford Specification No. M2C50-B É à 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D : u Univeral Joint Grease — 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid LM Lithium Grease, with Moly s WB Wheel Bearing reds 
Ford Specification No. M2C33-D Ford Specification No. M- Ford speeiicdton No. MICSO-A 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, FD-18 


FORD FALCON V.8 


1963-64 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No, Amp. Hrs. 
All 24F 55,65 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All 130-170 


Max variation: 1963, 10 psi; 1964, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF42 

Gap: .032"..036" 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket on tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 

Gap: 0147-0167 
Dwell angle: 26-2814 


CONDENSER 


FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


(QOO 
SOO 


Firing Order: 1, S, 4, 2, 6, 3, 7, 8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing Ment to No. 1 spark plui 

Set idie speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor as necessary to obtain recom- 
mended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


LII 


d 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1963: 

Manual Trans. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 

Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 
1964: 

Manual Trans. 6** 

Auto. Trans. 10^ * 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
Getonation under road test load but not to ex- 
ceed 5 over normal setting. Do not retard 
initia! advance beyond 2 BTDC 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure: 4-6 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Au 


FORO turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl T1 2lean*  2lean* 
* 1964, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans 575-600 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE 

With air conditioning. as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 
VALVE CLEARANCES 

Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


AES 


RU gms 
TRO | 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM . Quarts 


With Heator Without Heater 
All models V 


—€— My 13, 
Cooling system pressuro, 1 As pounds 

KTJFuel Filter S4 . Replace 

E3Power Steering Reservoir NUM 
Fill to “F° mark on gage. With air conditioning, 
reservoir on left fender apron; fill to '⁄4 inc 
from top 

Ey Power Steering Filter ... .Replaci 
Inside reservoir 

EOI! Filter (under car) 
Add extra quart oil 

E30il Fill Cap... 


Fill slowly to prevent overflow, With closed PCV 
system, sealed cap, no service 
1963, located on nght side, front of air cleaner 


Py Distributor Shaft (fill oil ew) ...10W MO 
[À — Wick under rotor. 


Air Cleaner Element... . .... Service 
Dry type «60.60... sss oe Clean 
Ory type SAA Replace 

E] 1963 1964 


E Steering Gear (plug) ee rr s = 
Turn wheels to right, remove fill plug and housinj 
Cover upper cap screw. Fill thru plug hole until 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru upper cap screw hole, 
with steering wheel centered 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). ........ Em HB 


Fill to % inch below top of cylinder 


On 1963 only 
Reoch thru opening 
in upper control orm 


E[jFront Suspension. . ....(& or 8 plugs) LM 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


E35teering Linkage. . . . . .(5 or 6 sealed bearings) 
Inspect seal; if damaged, or if there is any evi- 
dence of looseness, replace entire pivot assembly 


KBPitman Arm Stud.. ........... . (plug) LM 
Models with power steering only, Lubricate using 
special adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. 80 EP 
Ei Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 214 pints; 4-speed, 414 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


KrjUniversal Joints (plug) 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL. sso 90 HP 


Eq Maintain level to fill plug hole 
1964, fill plug on rear cover 


CAPACITY 414 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK 


1964 station wagon.. 20 
All others . € 14 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


TIRES... ....Pressure Front Rear 
60013 .... 2 om 
650-13 . 

7100:18 as iceavensis ciues 24* — 2a* 


Ranchero, station wagon. stg 24* 28* 


* For considerable high-speed driving or heavy 
loading, add 4 pounds 


E3Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
More often under severe road conditions and 
heavy loads 


A Prepacked bearing 
[ Cooling system drain 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE "MS" MO 
Above 4-90" . LOW-30 
Above +20 10W-30 
Above —10 x 10W-30 
Below —10 5W-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
Battery. Test and fillgg 
Crankcase Dipstick Check level 
PCV System . : .. Service 
Valve i . . Cleangy 
All parts . . .. -Clean fi 


Including filter on 1963 only 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. FA 
Check levet, engine idling, PARK position z 
CAPACITY, quarts Initia! Refill Tota! Refill 
All models . 4 TA 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs and oil pan 

If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Wheel Bearings .Repack WBEI] 
initial torque, 12-15 ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not 

normally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

l. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusling lever away from star wheel and 
back off adjustment y, turn with finger pres- 
sure only. If adjustment screw does not turn 
easily, remove end lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF. LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EAEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 
E Every 30,000 miles 
KjEvery 36,000 miles or 36 months 


(Conditional service 
Lubricate distributor shaft and wick at time 
of tune-up 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. M2C50-B 
LM Lithium Grease, with Moly 
Ford Specification No, M-1C47 
MO Motor Oil 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 

Ford Specification No. M-1C57 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease [m 
C 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid 


Ford Specif 
Ford Specification No. M2C33-D ASOC TEANN O: NEERA 


Copyright 1964, The Chek- Chor! Corporation, Printod in U.S.A, F0-19 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Geo Rervice Instructions tor Procedure 


BATTERY ii 
a 


i teu pm Amp, Hre, 
Meee — HW "R 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


at oranking si 
Bes Def manaia h ene! " pi 
Lote model M 


ber 
SPARK PLUGS 


Qh d Buper "wi HPI) others Brag 


api à t en b. A AN 
Oque! 19-20 she | Others, 032^..030 


Not use gasket On tapered seat plugs 
IQNITION POINTS 


M 


Mt angle ET 320057 
CONDENSER 
oM 
obey 21425 mtd 


inis 20 pe” 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Piring Orden 1, 8, 4, 2, 06,3, 7, 0 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
i ting lengine to operating temperature 


qc ome: 
ect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
lower 


istributor pst 
4 &connect distributor vacuum line 
t t idle with transmission in NEUTRAL 
" eave Vim ng et crankshaft pulley and turn 
; isi bulo to obtain recommended Selling 
` lecon jum line and reset to r 
die speed P 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Dotore Top Dead Center): 
m 6° (Allowable renge, 2*-11*) 
TID 
* For optimum pertormanga and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a po nt Just short of audibla 
detonation under road test load but not to ex: 


gaea $* over normal setting. Oo not retard 
nitia! advance beyond 2* UTOC 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 5593450 
Pressure: 1963, 4-6 Ib.) 1964, 4.5-6.5 Ib.) at 500 


Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke 
Mixture — (notches) 
initial Aut 
FORD urns) 
4-bbl. 1y’ 
NOLLEY 
2-bbi. (Primary) 143 Index 
[Ee LA Xx - 


* 1964, 1% turns 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
390 Super eng. 675-700 rpm, others, 475-500 rpm; 
in ORIVE 


With eir conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and nj operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


v = ———— a OE ara e —À 


FORD THUNDERBIRD V-8 


1963-64 All Models 


+ 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS ee 


COOLING SYSTEM. ........ Quarts Ka CRANKCASE..............“MS" MO 
Without Heater E Above +90° ........ - ++... 10W-30 

All models ,,.. 20 10 Above --20" ....... —À -.. 10-30 
Cooling system pressure, 12:15 pounds Above — 108 TETS ....10W-30 
Below OP oiiaii eere mics: WALD 


Ca Distributor Shaft (oll cup), .Sparingly 10W MO 
GH Wick under rotor.,,,..Sparingly 10W MO 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


EXPower Stooring Reservolr, i. ios 
Fill to "f" mark on gogo o7 A BADEN RE D A 


with air qondjtioning, reservoir on loft fender 
apron, fill to 1 Inch from top 


With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


E) Powor Steering Filter. , . . . .. — Roplace 
Inalde reservoir 


FAON Filtor (under cor). .... se Replace 


Repl 
Add oxtra quart oll eplace 


1964 
. , Service 


T . Cleangy 

AMVFuol Filter (under car). ...... sese Replaces N.— PM caeisvenemp ss n eek cies Clean fa 
porate Master Cylinder (cop) " TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . FA 
rake Mastor Cylinder (cap). ...... i. Check level, engine idling, PARK position....... 
Fill to * Inch bolow top of cylinder CAPACITY lee e UM nar Refi Yet Rente 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs and disconnect fill pipe 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Wheel Bearings 
adi 1963 


(Front Suspension 4 phu s) LM 
Lubricate using specia! adapter, Reinstall plug Initial torque, 15-20 ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock on 
ESteering Linkage 4 sealed bearings) spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
Inspect seal; | or If there is any evi- spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 


dence of looseness, replace ontiro pivot assembly 


one castellation and install cotter pin 


M Universal Joints (plug) 


Lubricate using specia 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required, If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Turn star wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel and 
back off adjustment ?4 turn with finger pres- 
sure only. If adjustment scrow does not turn 
easily, remove and lubricate 

4. Reinstall drums 

5. Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


daptor, Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 HP* 
Eq Maintain lovo! to till plug hole 

CAPACITY 9 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


EQUA-LOCK IDENTIFICATION: 
By letter H under axle ratio listing on patent plate 
on loft front door post 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
ExEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
fH Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 2 years 


Pressure Front Rear 


SO e Pene e 24* w Ej Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 
speed driving and heavy EiEvery 36,000 miles or 36 months 
iat AMEN BE Position for litt adapter Every 100,000 miles or 36 months 
FRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels A Prepacked bearing (Conditional service 


diti and Lubricate distributor shaft and wick under 
Mares atten Under: severe read’ GonclHone @ Cooling system drain rotor at time of tune-up 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A Ford Specification No. M2C50-B UJ Universal Joint Grease — 
Automatic Transmission Fluid ithi , with Mol ord Specification No. M- 
LUBRICANTS FA torg Spacivcstion No. M2C33-D M Dium reae Mica? WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 


« Equa-Lock, use Spec, No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. FD-20 


= 


IMPERIAL «ax. z í 
qm. 


ims 


1962-63 All Models “ny 
1962 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


y BATTERY AABM 
J Group No. Amp. Hrs, 
All 27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 


irent ue efr sss, 130 1057 
* Maximum variation belween cylinders, 25 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 
| ‘Champion J-12Y 

Gap: .035* 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 
Gap: .014^-.019* 
Dwell angle: 1962, 27°-32°; 1963, 28°-33° 


CONDENSER 


Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


(UOIO. JP 
OOOS 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect vacuum line at distributor 

Set idle speed to 500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


9? w 9 v» (Ne 


Timing Mark and Settíng 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 10 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2769S 
Pressure: 31/,-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart in 60 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke 

Mixture (notches) 
(initial Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB-3251S 12 2 rich 
4-bbl. AFB-3256S 12 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights on high 
beam 

Air Cond, 500 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned ON 
with headlights on high beam 


X. VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


DR —————————— Biani 


w 


1963 
HOOD RELEASE: Inside 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM. 


With Hoa 
7 


«Quarts 
r Witout Mental 


All models 
Cooling system pressuro, 14 pound: it 
conditfontng, 16 pounds P ae 


E301I Filter (under car). . .. . Replace 
Add extra quart oll 


(Battery... . Test and fill 


Caution: Do not ground positivo terminal 


Ea Power Steering Reservoir. spss a, Lice 
Ru to base of filler neck when cold, halfway when 
o! 


. Check level——— 
Wash and oil 30 MO 


Crankcase Dipstick. . . . 
Oil Fill Cap... 

m 1963 [8] 

EAAutomatic Trans. Filter (under car) 
Replace at time of transmission drain 
Air Cleaner Element... . 

© Dy type 

EH Dry type . 

Hi Carburetor Choke Piston. 


Remove air cleaner to service. Apply cleaner 
while moving choke valve back and forth 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover) 


Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir 


PCV System Valve cc 


Remove and clean valve; also hose and carbu- 
retor, if passages are clogged 


196. 


Service more frequently under severe service 
KJ  Crankcase Breather Outlet 
Element 1962. ... Wash and oil 30 MO 


E3Front Suspension ......(4 plugs) BJ 
Inspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary 
After replacing seal or when relubricating, remove 
plug, use special gun or proper adapter. Install plug 

Ef Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
joint seal lower lip, Oo not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 


E3 Steering Linkage .....(4 sealed bearings) 


Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 


Universal Joint Spline 
Above -10^, 90; below -10°, 80 
Disassemble, fill half-full : 
1963, lubricate spline when repacking joints 


EH 1962 


Universal Joints.......... 
1963 à 
Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
1963, repack if used under severe service 
1962, repack under all service conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL 

Above -10^, 90; below ~10 , 80; below -30^, 75 
Eg Maintain level to 4 inch below fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


1963 
1962 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK .. 


All models . . s aon 


Gallons 
23 


A Prepacked bearing 
e Cooling system drain 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant 


MoPar Part No. 2298947 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 


MoPar Part No, 1879318 
MO Motor Oil 


HB Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


.."MS" MO 


20W-40,10W-30 
10W-30 

10W-30, 5W-20 
5W-20 


2i 
CAPACITY $ quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Seo Service Instructions, pago 4 


pu MO EY 

..Sparingly MO 
[12] 1963 
Fuel Filter . . Replace [D 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft.........MHEQ 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm. 
NEUTRAL position Mex sace 
To overcome difficult starting below -10°, replace 
114 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
thàn once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quarts initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ...._.. 5 3 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan on 
1963 without transmission plug 
1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles, ex- 
tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 
Wick under rotor. 


ront Wheel Bearings. ... 
Mspect.| iu c e 
1963, clean and repack 
1962, clean and repack. 

Tighten front wheel adjusting 

position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 

set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 

axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 

slot and install cotter key 

1963. final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 

.003” end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 1”, engine running, the 

need for service is indicated 

Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 

ing plate. To tighten, turn both front brake cams 

and rear brake front cam in direction of forward 

wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 

reverse direction 

1962: Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1, Turn one adjustment cam until heavy drag is 
felt when wheel is turned 

2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is feit 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake . 

1963: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is 

not normally required 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- 

ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
£31963, Twice yearly 
1962, Every 4,000 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
EJ Every 8,000 miles 
IH Every 12,000 miles 
IB Every 16,000 miles 
Every 32,000 miles 
(Every crankcase oil change 
ülTwice yearly 
[3 Conditional service 
1963, drain and refill differential for below 
— 10° requirements 
1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


MoPar Part No. 2084329 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


+ For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, Tho Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. 


—— - 


i4$6€51322356, 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
all ir Ne. Amp. Hrs. 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


{psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
* Maximum variation between cylinder? os plo?” 


25 psi 
SPARK PLUGS 
Champion J-12Y 
Gap: .035* 
Torque: 30 ft. ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 
Gap: .014*-.019* 
Dwell angte: 28°-33° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.2B5 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4,3, 6, 5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No, 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect vacuum line at distributor 

5. Set idle speed to 500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 

7. Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

B. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 


idle speed 
Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 10° 


FUEL PUMP 


ey Sit 500 rpm 
resgure: 32-5 Ib. a 
Volume: 1 quert in 60 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


die Choke 
mixture (notches) 
Uu dm 
turas. J 
SODI AFB 3644S 1-2 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights on high 


beam 


Air Cond. 500 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned ON 


with headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic litters, nonadjustable 


perm 


oe 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


With H 
Aimo cu cac th Heater Without Heater 


Cooling system pressure, 14 ds; 
conditioning. 16 pounds BOURO WAN dir 


E30il Filter (under car)... Replace 


Add extra quart oil 


SERVICE AT 


Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


E3Power Steering Reservoir................ PS 
n to base of filler neck when cold, halfway whén 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
E30íl Fill Cap. ........... Wash and oil 30 MO 


Service more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 


Ex3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ HB 
Fill to ?4 inch below top of reservoir 


E3PCV System Valve................... Check 
Replace valve if clogged; also clean hose and 
carburetor, if passages are clogged 
Service more frequently under severe service 


Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage............ (8 plugs) BJ——-. 
EJ inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary, After replacing seal, relubricate N 
Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until 
pense flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or 
lower joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. 
Reinstall plug 


[Universal Joint Spline. . 
Above -10?, 90; below -10 
Disassemble, fill half-full 


Universal Joints ........... $us .Grade 0 UJ 
Ins, t for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
Exo: service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months . E 
EH Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 
Above -10°, 90; below —10*, 80; below -30°, 75 
Ea Maintain level y; inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottom of fill plug hole (frame hoist) 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL . 
Normal service Severe service 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: - 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK .... Gallons 


All models ee n n n t 23 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 
2 


m 4 24 
EfRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS J Suspension Lubricant 


MoPar Part No. 2298947 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HOOO RELEASE: Front 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


«— TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


A  Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP+ Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 


IMPERIAL 


1964 All Models 


SYMBOLS E- 


CRANKCASE. ss." MS" MO 
Above --327 ........ . 30 10W-30 
Above —10°....... 10W 10W-30 
Below —10°...... Sw 5W-20 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 
ORAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Fuel Filter... ., Replace I 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup)............... M0 
Wick under rotor... 5a 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position ....... een 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 

To overcome difficult starting below —10^, re- 
place 1'4 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute 
more than once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .........-- E] 3 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug and parking sprag 
cavity plug; also remove oil pan 

Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service. drain every 32.000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


.H 
RODSCK ars ecu tree eee 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib. 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
Set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole 
in axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts 
one slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
Should be 0 (no preload) to .003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment norm- 
ally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Twice yearly 
Every 5,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles or yearly | 
Every 20,000 miles or 2 years 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
HiEvery 2 years or 32,000 miles 
Conditiona! service 
Lubricate universal joint spline when re- 
packing joints 
Drain and refill differential for below — 10* 
requirements 
Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
at brake overhaul 


Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


& For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axie Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporotion, Printed in U.S.A. 


IM-S 


d 
Jeep UNIVERSAL 4 


1945-64 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY n ABM rae 
rou| o. mp. Hrs. 
1945-57 1 (6 volt Too 


1958 early 1 (6-volt 
1958 late, 1959.64 24H EY 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
L-head ex 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autoli y 1 
AROMA A7; Champion J-8 
Torque: 25-33 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Autolite 


p: .0; 
Dwell angle: 42° 


CONDENSER 
Autoltte A 

pacity: CJ-2A, -3A, .18-.26 mfd 
CJ-3B, -5, -6, 215-28 nd A 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order; 1, 3, 4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

. Bring engine to operating temperature 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 

distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 

manifold opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at flywheel or crankshaft 

damper and turn distributor to obtain recom- 

mended setting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idie speed 


on a wnn 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
5 ‘si crankshaft damper or IGN mark on fly- 
wheel 


FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical, various models 

Pressure: CJ-2A, 414 Ib. at 1800 rpm 

CJ—3A, -3B, -5, -6, 25-334 Ib. at 1800 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds or less at idle speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 
Mixture 
(initial 
CARTER turns) 
1-bbl. WO l4 
1-bbi. YF 34-194 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
600 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold) 

L-head: Intake .016"; exhaust .016” 
F-head: Intake .018"; exhaust .016° 


1955.64 
HOOD RELEASE: Both sidos 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 


With He 
All models ........ 12 Ben Witte aii 


Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


Governor ............. Crankcase grade MO 
EX with leve! plug, fill to plug hole 


üFuel Filter... 
PCV System Valve... cc 


Remove, clean valve and hose 


E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... P 
L-head engine 


E3Steering Gear (plug)................ 80 M 
E3Remote Control Gearshift........... .... CL 


Some early models 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ..... (7 to 13 fittings) CL 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap) (thru floor)... . . Hi 
Fill to !4 inch below top of fill hole 


E3Clutch and Brake Pedals................ £L 


TRANSMISSION and 
TRANSFER CASE......... MP. 

Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
Transmission, some models, plug on right side 
CAPACITY Transmission: 3-speed 3 pints; 4-speed 
6% pints, Transfer Case, 314 pints 

[EIDRAIN and REFILL 
Transfer Case, drain and fill thru separate plug 


holes 
iF Hand Brake Cable................. 
[HSpeedometer Cable .............,. 
[Power Take-Off Universal Joint... . 
Usu Bits ........- o 


Some, no lubrication 
Rear Wheel Bearings 


A enti 
Apply sparingly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole above fitting 

QE Without fittings ............. Repack WB 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL. ...80 MP* 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 
IH DRAIN and REFILL 

POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION (Front and Rear): 


Metal "B attached to housing stamped with letter 
"T" or “Use Limited-Slip Diff. Lube only" 


E3Spring Shackles ....... osse CL 


Some, no lubrication 
[Power Take-Off Universal Joint..... Repack UJ 
Power Take-Off and Belt Pulley Housing. .80 MP: 
Bs each unit to plug level 
kJ] Drain and refill thru separate plug holes 
GAS TANK .... Gallons 
All models ...... +++ 10% 
Pressure Front Rear 


B Position for lift adapter 
@ Lubrication fitting 
o Cooling system drain 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 
GG Graphite Grease 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


MO Motor Oil 


* For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, ‘Jeep’ Part No. 94557 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporotion. Printed in U.S.A 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


MP+ Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differentials: MIL-L-21058 


at 


CRANKCASE ..... .."MM" MO 
Severe driving, "MS" 

Above +32°.......... 30 10W-30 
Above +10°,......... 20,20W — 10W-30,10W-20 
Above —10°.......... 10W 10W-30,10W-20 
Below —10°..... . W 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Service instructions, page 4 


Crankcase Dipstick keonym aane Check level 

Combined with oil fill cap 

Distributor Shaft (oil cup). Crankcase grade MOES 
Wick under rotor..... Crankcase grade MOES 
Lubricate shaft and wick sparingly 

Starter (covered oil hole). ........... s. LIU x | 


Some 1950 and earlier à 
Air Cleaner Element...............- Service 
Oil bath. . .Wash & fill, crankcase grade MORJ 


FRONT DIFFERENTIAL. ..80 md 


RIT gt ru hole 
n! 

BRAIN and REMES. sess 

Front Wheel Bearings 


Front Axle Universal Joints (plug) 
Maintain level to fill plug hole. . 


ressure 
Universal and Slip Joints. ... ... 


Universals and Slip Joints. . . . 
Use low pressure 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
del ene more than 2", the need for service is 
indicate 


Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 

ing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Turn adjustment cam until drum cannot be 
turned by hand 

2. Back off adjustment cam until drum just 
turns freely without drag 


3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 


4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
Field work: Daily 
BiEvery 2,000 miles 
Field or industrial work: Every 50 hours 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 
Field or industrial work: Every 300 hours, 
except replace oil filter every 150 hours 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
Field or industrial work: Every 300 hours 
fiTwice yearly 
EjEvery 300 hours 
(Conditional service 
Repack power take-off universal joints once 
a year, if belt pulley is used frequently 
for continuous operation 


PO Penetrating Oil 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


JP- 


»vvàó53$530503.356é2323.35?4à46b524$6b5:tb:415242:2423243323 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY eiie 
6 
All NS Amp. Wee 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(at cranking speed with 
ripis ag i, IRIS. 


Variations should not exceed 15 psi ^^ 145-155 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion L-12Y 
Gap: .030" 

Torque: 28-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Autolite 
ip: .0207 
Dwell angle: 38° 


CONDENSER 


Autolite 
Capacity: .25-.28 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2, Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 
distributor cap tower spark plug oe 

4. Disconnect vacuum line at carburetor it 
equipped with vacuum spark advance and 
tape manifold opening 

5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 

distributor to obtain recommended deing 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


LÀ 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter MP-3454S 
Pressure: 314-5! Ib. at 1800 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconós or less at idle speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
HOLLEY turns) 
2300 4 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
590-600 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine cold, not running) 


Prior to engine Serial Nos. TW60C16750, SW60C- 


10484: Intake .010"; exhaust .012" » 
After Nos. listed: Intake .008"; exhaust .008 


Gamm Jeep’ STATION WAGON 6 
T emi 1962-64 6-230 4x2 including Utility 


ed Wagon, Utility Delivery 
HOOD RELEASE: Front 
INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


| 


E 
"MM" MO 


~~ 
COOLING SYSTEM......... 


SERVICE AT 


CRANKCASE.. 


With Heater Without Heater Sovero driving, "MS" 
Qvoting aystem ‘pressure, 8 pounds i Above 432°... 30 10w-30 
Above -+10°..........20,20W  10W-30,10W-20 
Above — 10°... .. 10W 10W-30,10W-20 
GOI! Fill Cap Screen,........... 0.00006 Wash Below —10*...... 5W 5W-20 
Inside valve cover, below fill cap CAPACITY 8 quarts 
L id 
[ADI Filter... ... . Replace, add extra quart oil PAA ee Service Instructions, pago 4 


EPC System Valve... osos CC 


Remove, clean valve and hose 
Crankcase Dipstick............. Check level——— — — v 


E3Steering Gear (plug)... .. ....,80 MP 
Dilittey. 5. se Test and fill 


Eerly models, battery positioned with terminals 
toward engine 


E3Remote Control Gearshift........ 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). . . . 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 


M0 
Wick under rotor, ... .Crankcase grade word 


Lubricate shaft and wick sparingly 
Fuel Filter... oss. .Clean screen fil 


Crankcase Breather,..... Wash and oil MOG 
Clean screen inside breather pipe 


Air Cleaner Element... .. 


EgFront Suspension and 


Steering Linkage..... . (8 to 14 fittings) CL——* . Repack WBE 


Front Wheel Bearings. . 


Ex3Clutch Release Shaft.......... 


On some models 
Ex3Clutch and Brake Pedals................ 


[El Transmission Overdrive Cable 
Remove cable from conduit 


[HSpeedometer Cable ..............5 


Remove cable from conduit 


TRANSMISSION 
Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 2% pints. Add 3⁄4 pint thru plug hole 
at rear of housing extension to lubricate rear 
bearing. With overdrive, 314 pints 


[rain and REFILL 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


[Hand Brake Cables....... 
DIFFERENTIAL .... i 


EG Maintain level to till plug hole 


.Sparingly CL 


Hand Brake Equalizer Arm. 
Some, no lubrication 


Universal Joint ..... 
Use low pressure 


Universal Joint Spline. . 
Some, no lubrication 


i el 
-—-A-. Í| 


EC 
|. 


Universal Joint ... 
Use low pressure 


Rear Wheel Bearings... . EN L*| 


Apply sparingly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole ‘above filing 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, If the bra! da! con be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 


CAPACITY 2 pints indicated 
[FJ ORAIN and REFILL ear ustment cams are provided on each back- 


POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal ag attached to housing stamped with letter 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 
"T" or “Use Limited-Slip Diff, Lube only" 1. 


Turn adjustment cam until drum cannot be 
turned by hand 
2. Back off adjustment cam until drum just turns 


GASTANK. oos Gallons n frooly without drag 

All models «.eeeemm n 15 3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 

TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 4, Repeat procedure at each wheel 

6035 ...eee nmm ttn 27 27 Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 

6.70-15 Captive-Alr ... 24* 24* 

6.70-15, 6 ply 24 32 

7.60-15 .. H 2 

8.20-15 i KEY TO INTERVALS 


* Outer chi r pressure shown; inner chamber 
pressure, 28. If vehicle is loaded to maximum 
Capacity, tires should be inflated outer, 30, 


Inner, 34 


[Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


E3Every 1,000 miles 

[Every 6,000 miles 

[Every 12,000 miles or yearly 
ülTwice yearly 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MO Motor Oil 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differential: MIL-L-2105B 


UJ) Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 
GG Graphite Grease 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


» For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, ‘Jeep’ Part No. 94557 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corrorotion. Printed in U.S.A IPS 


—————— 


‘Jeep’ WAGONEER 6 


1963-64 Series J-100 
Station Wagon, Panel Delivery 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 


TUNE-UP DATA -J- SERVICE AT 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 


ys VAM A aus HE: COOLING SYSTEM. Quarts 
24H 50. 60, 70 With Heater Without Heater Gat 
All models ........ 12 T E 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 
E30 Filter......... Replace, add extra quart oil 
Power Steering Reservoir... . à 
um to base of Tuer neck MIL 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


E 
CRANKCASE........... "MM" MO 
Severe operation, “MS” 
Above +32°.......... 30 10W-30 
Above +10°... ...20,20W  10W-30,10W-20 
Above —10°........ . 10W 10W-30,10W-20 


Below —10°....... 5W 5W-20 
CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Seo Service Instructions, page 4 


PCV System Valve. = 
SPARK PLUGS BE Sy and clean va T i 
Champion L-12Y , ® 
Gap: .0307 Crankcase Dipstick f BOTY s oa Test and filmy 
Torque: 28S3300. 1. 0 0  ..]. "^7 memet : Distributor Reservoir (plug). LMET] 
Air Cleaner Element Hos under rotor.......... Sparingly MOR 
1 Oil bath. . LLL LUCERE EU S Clean screen til 
b: KION POINTS E Oil Fill Cap Screen... WashES 
i : 020" E3 Dry type...... Wash in water and detergent Inside vatve cover, below fill cap à 
Dwell angle: 38° Crankcase Breather......... Wash and oil MO 
ingle: 38 BH] Dyltypesco a Replace Clean screen Inside breather pipe Bn 
Steering Gear (plug)............. TRANSMISSION, Automatic..AF 
CONDENSER B . E i p E ...80 MP Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warn: og 
utolite E3Brake and Clutch Fluid fey position .. 6.0. w ee eee eee ee 
: n 'ACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Capacity: 25-28 mtd Reservoirs (plug or cap)............,, HB All models Mr 
Fill to 14 inch below top of fil! hole DRAIN and REFILL. 
: lemove 1 converter plug and disconnect fill pipe 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence [Remote Control Gearshift. .............. CL FRONT DIFFERENTIAL. .80 MP* 
EüjSteering Bell Crank. ............ (fitting) CL BapACITY 215 pints "S^ Metti RI DIVE: Nos 
DRA d [rRNA 
ED independent Suspension Center Univ. Joint, UI Front Wheel Bearings Repack CLE 
models only. Loosen inner end of boot and. N RO 7 — LP... aaa te tt 
pull back to reach fitting. Reassembie boot ^^^ Front Axle Universal Joints (plug) non tL " 
E3King Pins... loss. (4 fittings) CL t A MN oM ind P 
2WD solid front axle models only noron 2WD ud front axle models 
Front Suspension Ball Joints. . . .(2 fittings) BJ Universal Joint.......... Use low pressure ug 
a Haud front suspension uu only es) Universal Joint. ......... Use low pressure [130 
uble Cardan joint on some 4WD models, tin, 
EijSteering Linkage.......... (6 or 7 fittings) LL Centering Section Cavity........ EP No. 1 UMED 
Firing Order: 1,5, 3,6,2,4 [Transmission Overdrive Cable... ..... Coat GG Due Hind; ore urania noD ee 
Remove cable from conduit. On some 2WD models niversal Joint Splines Da ORE Repack cum 
TIMING PROCEDURE [Speedometer Cable dC Án Coat GG Some early 1963 models (fittings)... .. . «B 
1s BANE Siig ne lo oneratina temperature lemove cable from conduit Universal Joints......... Use low pressure UJED 
2. Connect tachometer TRANSMISSION and TM 
^ GOUST tan ant e e 1 spark pug or | | TRANSFER CASE... MP ih Ue tres re tes tie poe ct DE 
: p= n vi °, 90; below +32°, ^ 
4. pisconnëct eee cuum line at car- EaMaintain level to fill EIE hole; 2WD models, depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
E * E: dies right si " " 4 
C acetate In rarer ee en NEUTRAL CAPACITY 2WD models, 2% pints, with overdrive, Two adjustment. camá (ars provided an escN' back 
a amii m, n 
| Observe min eaten Bosse camper and turn 3; P pinis —— 2% pints. Transfer case, ache habe Mane — —" 
i ` urn adjustment cam unti rum 
4e regina Vacuum ling and) reset; to; proper Transfer case and overdrive, drain and fill thru turned by hand 
separate plug holes. Fill overdrive first, then 2. Back off adjustment cam until drum just turns 
transmission. 2WD models, without overdrive, freely without drag 
add 4 pint thru plug hole in extension housing 


h 


Timing Mark and Setting EjRear Wheel Bearings.................. WB 
Apply sparingly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole above fitting 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL... .30 MP* 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
ED DRAIN and REFILL 
POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to rear cover stamped with 
“Use Limited-Stip Diff. Lube only” 


3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 


4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


For off-highway operation, reduce all lubri- 
cation and service Intervals in accordance 
with severity of operation and amount of 
mud, water and dust encountered. Under 
extremely dusty conditions, service air 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons cleaners daily 
mace UUPERE SN ORR MT NHOVIRTR A HN SIRE is s m aevo 6,000 miles 
T 4 : T ear very 12, miles 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5 $2015 d ar E Every 30,000 miles 
7.10-15 26* Twice yearly 
FUEL PUMP 7:60-15 a [3 Conditional service 
Carter model M-3561S * Captive-Air: Outer chamber pressure, 24; inner Lubricate remote control gearshift when 
Pressure: 314-5¥; Ib. at 1800 rpm chamber pressure, 28. If vehicle is loaded to o hard to shift 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds or less at idle speed maximum capacity, tires should be inflated, BH] Position for lift adapter Lubricate distributor wick under rotor when 
outer, 30; inner,.34 Lubrication fittin breaker points are replaced 
. Eg Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels e g Disassemble and repack universal joint 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT Captive-Air tires, Method C @ Cooling system drain splines when “spline grunt” is evident 
Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) = 
(initial an. Auto. FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
HOLLEY turns) Trans. Trans. 
2299 ^ index — "index AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A GG Graphite Grease MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED BJ Suspension Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Differentials: MIL-L-21058 
590-600 rpm LUBRICANTS 1 Gees Part No. 924570 LL Steering Linkage Lubricant UJ Universal Joint Grease 
c chassis ters mm Joints and Jeep! Fart iO 934571 Jaap” Part No. 934188 
E CLEARANCES Wheel Bearings; MIL-G-10924 LM Lithium Grease WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Uni t ines: ‘Jeep’ 
VALVE Rd nét running) " Part No. 934190 i d * For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, 'Jeep' Part No. 94557 


Intake .008"; exhaust .008^ Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


JP-6 


pve d._ s>gv_sesesebGbseSSSSESChSsshbsbstEt BHEGgCGEGgAY 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY S 


AU Sreup We. 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


Amp. Hrs. 
80 


psi 
Max. variation: 1961-63, 10 psi; i964, 20 pe. 


SPARK PLUGS 
Autolite BF42 
Torque: 1961-83, 20 ft. 
;l 
Do not use gasket on lesbiana dg a 
IGNITION POINTS 
Cop. 1961.63, 014" 
96163, 0147.0167; 1964, 0147-0187 
CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 4,2, 6,3, 7,8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
l. Bring ine to ting tempera’ 
pcc. qe 
Ed ^ 

distributor cap tower © o + SPark plug or 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
Eq p MUN 

wi jon in N 
Observe timing at crankshaft camper pA TAL 
iatributar to obtain recommended setting 

leconnect vacuum 

we line and reset to proper 


mpn > py 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961, 6° Perder range, 2:39] 

1962. 8° (Allowable range. 2°-13° 

1963, 4° (Allowable range, 2^-4*) 

1964, 6°° 


* It engine requirements or substandard fuels 


dictate, timing may be retarded from recom- 
mended setting to eliminate detonation but not 
to exceed 2° "roc 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model 4441; Carter model M-3175SA 
Pressure: 414-614 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume; 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
(alter Auto. 
CARTER rns) Trans. 
2-bbl. ABD 115 index* 
4-bbi. 1% 1 rich 
* 1962-63, 1 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

450-475 rpm in DRIVE 

Air Cond.: 1961, early 1962, set idle to 450-475 
rpm in DRIVE with unit turned OFF, then set idle 
to 900 rpm with idle compensator held ON 

Late 1962-64, set idle to 450-475 rpm in ORIVE 
with unit turned ON and in operation for 20 
minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


— 3 


LINCOLN CONTINENTAL - 


1961-64 All Models | 


SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


"MS" MO 
10W30 


CAPACITY (includes oil filter) 6 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL : 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Replace at first 6,000 miles 


Power Steering Reservoir................ 
aes ee p [om - 


| CO REI EIE E Test and filly 


Automatic Transmission Filter........ Replace [Fl 
On some 1961 models with external filter 


. Check level 


[Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 
EH Wick under rotor......Sparingly 10W MO 


All parts, including filter 


24 16162 + A NN" AMA NK DEM em 

12 19030494 i V. N. IN eee x d 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . 

pen Master Cylinder (cap) MEE nnl Check level, engine idling, PARK position. ....- an 


Fill to !4 inch 
4 below top of cylinder CAPACITY, quarts 


All models... 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs. Early 1961, also 
remove transmission plug. All others, remove oil 
pan; first remove reinforcing cross member at 
rear of pan 

1f M2C33-D Is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added d 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack: Y 


Initial Refill Total Refill 
5 10% 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Lin (9 plugs, 
Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


E] 1961-63 1961-62 

M3 1964 1963-64 dp B 
Centering Yoke Socket and Ball. .......... us tate tarpe, 1520 tide liked wrth hole n 
Special fitting, use special adapter spindle, back off both nuts together, one castella- 

1961-63 tion and install cotter pin 

B 1964 
Universal Joints... W 


1961-62 (fitting) BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


1963 [plu ae Self-adjusting brak d. Adjust ti t 
963 elf-ad|usting brakes are used. Adjustment is no! 
1 [^ ug) normally fired. It the brakes have been rened 
1964 (plug) orina adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes as 
allows: 
Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 
DIFFERENTIAL............ 90 HP* parking brake cable 


Expand shoes until a slight drag Is felt when 
turning drums 
Remove brake drums 


Maintain level to fil! plug hole 

CAPACITY 4X pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
DIRECTED POWER IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to differential rear cover 


Hold adjusting lever away from adjusting 
screw, and back off adjusting screw ?4 turn 
Reinstall drums and wheels 

Operate car in roverse and make 5 or 6 brake 
applications to bring shoes into proper adjust- 
men! 

6. Reconnect and adjust paking brake cable 
Bloeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


cR on c 


Ga Electric-Hydraulic Mechanism 
On convertibles. Located behind trim pad in lug- 
age compartment. Loosen fill plug. run engine at 
ast idle, raise and lower top three times. With top 
down and deck lid open, fill to bottom of fill plug 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 6,000 miles 


GAS TANK 


196v nese 2 [HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 2 years 

TIRES.......... Pressure Front Rear EJ Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 

9.00-14, 9.5014, 9.15-15.......... 24* 24° Bl] Position for lift adapter Every 36,000 miles or 3 years 


*For considerable high-speed driving, hea 
loads, or maximum fuel economy, add 4 to 
pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels, if 
required 


A  Prepacked bearing 
*  Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


(Every crankcase oil change 


[Conditional service 
Check electric-hydraulic mechanism fluid 
level as required 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP * Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
Type A, Suffix A Ford Specification No. M-2C16-B UJ Uni int G 
Transmissi i LG Long Life Chassis Grease niversal Joint Grease 
LUBRICANTS ^ Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid Vor Specification No MICHAA Ford Specification No. M:1C57 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty LM Lithium Grease, with Moly WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M-3833-D Ford Specification No. M-1C47 Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 
* Directed Power, use same lubricant as standard axle 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. LJ LN-4 


j 
o0 intimi E 


r 


MERCURY COMET 


1960-62 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


| BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs, 
| All 22NF 40 
24F 55 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
M snos: tees eee ee tee eee yes 1150190 
laxi n between cylinders, 10 psi 


N Ap PUNE 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF82 

Gap: .032”..036” 

Torque: 20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 

Gap: .024^-.026* 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 
v *.FoMoCo 
^. Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6,2, 4 


“TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold openin 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
turn distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 


idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1960 1961-62 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manus) JO 1960, 2°; 1961-62, 4° (Allowable 
ange, 2°- 

Auto. Trans, 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 314-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke Choke 
(notches) (notches) 
Man. Auto. 
HOLLEY Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. 1904 manual manual 
1-bbl. 1908 index index 
1-bbl. 1909 1-14 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
1960-61: Manual Trans. 500-525 rpm 


Auto. Trans. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE 


1962: Manual Trans. 500-550* 


Auto. Trans. 475-525 rpm** 


With air conditioning, as listed above but with 

unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 
* With smog reduction, 550-600 rpm 

** With smog reduction, 525-575 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


e 
n 


ta 


ngine hot and running) 


e .016"; exhaust .016^ 


em 


1960 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 
SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM........ Quarts 
__ with Hester Without Heater 


“i 9 B8 
sitem pressure: 1960, 12-15 pounds; 


1961-62, 13-15 pounds 


Oil Filter 

Add extra quart oil 
E] 1960-61 
[] 1962 


[Distributor Shaft (oil cup). . .Sparingly 10W MO: 
Air Cleaner Element 


s Replace 

Crankcase Dipstick . Check level 
[E] Fuel Pump Sediment Bowl 1960-61. ..... 

Fuel Filter Replace 


1961 models, right side forward of carburetor 


E] 196061 
G 1962 


[Steering Gear (plug) SG 
Turn wheels to right, remove fill plug and housing 
cover upper cap screw, Fill thru plug hole until 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru upper cap screw hole, with 
Steering wheel centered 


E3 Brake Master Cylinder (cap) 
Fill to !4 inch below top of cylinder 


ES Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . 


EqClutch Equalizer Shaft 
On 1960, some 1961 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 


EQ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 24 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Universal Joint Spline 1960-61. . Coat 1 oz. SS 


Models with automatic transmission 


iH 1960 1961 


Universal Joints 
1960 1961 


DIFFERENTIAL 

Maintain level to fill plug hole . 
CAPACITY 2 pints, except 1962, 214 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK ................. Gallons 


All models 


TIRES...........Pressure Front Rear 


6.00-13, 6.50-13 
6.50-13 station wagon og 
* With load, front 24; rear 30 
All, for extensive high-speed driving or heavy 
loads, add 4 pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels if 
required 


1960-61 
1962 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub: 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


Ford Specification No. M-568-D 


LUBRICANTS FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid 


Ford Specification No. M2C33-D 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


Copyright 1964. The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


Reach thru opening 
In upper contro! arm 


CRANKCASE enda 


< .20,20N 
NE 


Above +90°... 
Above +20°. 
Above —10°. 
Below —10°... 
CAPACITY 3% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


SYMBOLS 


.."MS" MO 
10W-30 
10W-30 
10W-30 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. F. 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position. . . a 


CAPACITY, quarts 

All models . 

DRAIN and 
19860 ... 
Remove 2 c 
plu, 


is indicated 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 


ing brake at equalizer 


g 
1961-62 Not recommended 
Remove 2 converter plugs, disconnect fill 
pipe, then remove oil pan 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Wheel Bearings Repack WBE 
1381: initial torque, 1114-1214 ft. Ib.; final adjust- 
ment, loosen V, but not more than V, turn 
1962, initial torque, 15-20 ft. Ib.; then with nut- 
lock on spindle nut and castellation aligned with 
hole in spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock 
together, one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than halfway, the need for service 


1. M frame contact lift is used, disconnect park- 


Using suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
opening, turn star wheel adjuster until a slight 


drag is felt while turnin; 


wheel 


. Back off the adjustment until the drum turns 


freely without drag 


. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
, Reconnect parking brake cable and adjust 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR. RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EgEvery 1,000 miles or 30 days 


EJ Every 4,000 miles 
Every 6,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 
EJ Every 30,000 miles 


TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


Ford Specification No. M2C50-B 


Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 


SS Special Purpose Lubricant 


MO Motor Oil 


Ford Specification No. M1C-39 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


Ford Specification No. M1C57 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


MY-8 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

" gir Amp. Hrs. 
27F d 

COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 

Lee 130-170 


Allowable tolerance between cylinders, 10 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


Ip: 
Torque: 20 ft. Ib. 
Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 


FoMoCo 
Gap: .024°-.026" 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 


FoMoCo 
Capacity: -21-25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Set idle speed to 475 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL | 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idie speed 


m 


Mom 9 PHN 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manual Trans.: 1961, 4°; 1962, 6° 
Auto. Trans.: 1961, 10°; 1962, 12° 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model: 4874 with electric wipers; 4872 with 
vacuum wipers 

Pressure: 3'4-5', Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
HOLLEY turns) 
1-bbi. 1% 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500-525 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 450-475 rpm in DRIVE F 
With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Mechanical self-adjusters 


wv 


1962 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM.........Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 

All models ...,... 16 15 

Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds 

Oil Fill Cap... Wash and oil LOW MO 


With positive crankcase ventilation system, fill 
slowly to prevent overflow 


1961 B 1962 


E Power Steering Reservoir................ AF 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir Ee) 


Crankcase Dipstick..............Check level 
Eq Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... 


Remove air cleaner to lubricate 


Steering Gear (plug)........... vers ass eSB 
Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug and housing 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 
Steering wheel centered 


E3PCV System Valve. ..... osse 


Some models only 
Disassemble and clean all parts; also, exhaust line 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap)............-. 
Fill to 14-4 inch below top of cylinder 


Ef] Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage ............ (9 plugs) LM ——| 
Relubricate using fitting. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 


Eg Maintain level to fil! plug hole " 
CAPACITY 3 pints; with overdrive, 41% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 
plug hole. Fill slowly thru transmission 


E Universal Joint Spline 1961... . Coat 1 oz. SS 


On models with automatic transmission 


Ej] Universal Joints (plug). .......... TTE 


Relubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL .......... 
Ea Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
POWER TRANSFER IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag stamped with letter “L" attached to 
left side of carrier housing 


GAS TANK 


1962 station wagon 
All other models 


Front Rear 
g Vl " 
800-14 station wago SÉ Jae 
*For highway driving, pounds 
Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels if 
required 
1961 fi 1962 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub, 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission F 

Ford Specification No. M2C33-D 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
« Power Transter, use Ford Spec. No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. of additive, 


BH] Position for lift adapter 
e  Lubrication fitting 
[5] Cooling system drain 


MO Motor Oil 


HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. M2CSO-B 
LM Lithium Grease, with Mol 
Ford Specification No. M-1C47 


luid MH Manitold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Above —10°... 
Below: —10*.... 2e 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Füel FRüe... nume ores 
Replace at first 4,000 miles 
1967, left side forward 


Dil Filter. ... ..... Replace, add extra quart oil FJ 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MOP 


Fuel Pump Sediment Bowl and Screen. . . . Clean [F 
196Lonly 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . FA 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position. .....- 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ..........- 5 3 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended . ` 
Remove 2 converter plugs and transmission oil 
pan 

If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


1961, initial torque, 1114-12! ft. Ib.; final adjust- 
ment, loosen v, but not more than V, turn 

, initial torque, 1214 ft. Ib., then with nut-lock 
on spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole 
in spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock to- 
gether, one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Seitadiusting brakes are used. Adjustment is not 
normally required. If the brakes have been relined 
or the adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes 
as follows: 
Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 
parking brake cable 
. Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 
. Remove brake drums 
. Hold adjusting lever away from adjusting 
screw, and back off the adjusting screw ?*& 
ot a turn 
. Reinstall drums and wheels 
. Operate car in reverse and make 5 or 6 brake 
applications to bring the shoes into proper 
adjustment a 
6. Reconnect parking brake cable and adjust 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
1962 Power brakes: Master cylinder, RR, LR, RF, 
LF, master cylinder 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31961, Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 
1962, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
GiEvery 8,000 miles or 8 months 
(Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
E Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No, ESW-M-1C87-A 
SS Special Purpose Lubricant 
Ford Specification No, M1C-39 
U) Universal Joint Grease 
Ford Specification No. MICS? 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. MIC60-A 


Ford Spec. No, M2C5B-A per pint of lubricant Mya 


p——————————— MP M 


r 


r 
| 


MERCURY V-8 


1961 All Models; 1962-63 Monterey 
1964 Monterey, Montclair, Parklane 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Manual Trans. Sonn mope 

Auto. Trans, 29NF 65 
27F 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttie open) 


Gap: Single points, .0147-.016^; dual poi 

set, 1961-63, 01870227. 1964, 019-021" ^^ 
a ES E CIE 
total ati 235. b 964 427 eng. dual points, 


. Capacity: .21-.25 mtd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


= 
ei 


5 
s) Q 
Q 
D 


» 352, 390, 406, 427 engs. 
Firing Order: 292 ine 1,5, 4 8, 6, 3, 7,2 
352, 390, 406, 427 engines TR 4,2,6,3,7,8 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
Follow procedure listed on Chart MY-10 

Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961: Manual Trans. 3^; Auto. Trans. 292 eng. 
107; 352, 390 engines 6° (All, range, 25-107) 
1962: Manual Trans. 5°; Auto. Frans. 292 eng. 
12°; 352, 390 engs. 8°; 406 eng. 8° (Min. 2°) 
1963: 390 eng. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°); 390 
Super eng. Manual Trans. 5° (Allowable range, 
2*-10*), Auto. Trans. 8° (Allowable range, 2°- 
11°); 406, 427 engs. 8° (Allowable range, 2°-8° 
1964: 390 2-bbl. eng. 6^*; 390 4-bbl. eng. Manua 
Trans. 4°*, Auto. Trans. 6°*; 427 eng. 8°** 

* For optimum performance: and economy, tim- 
ing may be advanced to a point just short of 
audible detonation under road test load but 
not to exceed 5° over normal setting. Do not 
retard initial advance beyond 2° BTI 

** If engine requirements or substandard fuels 
dictate, timing may be retarded from recom- 
mended setting to eliminate detonation but 
not to exceed 2° BTOC 

FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 1961-63, 292, 352, 390 engs. 4-6 Ib.; 

406, 427 engs. 514-614 Ib.; 1964, 390, 427 engs. 

42-614 Ib.; at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 pint ín 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
initial an. Auto. 
FORD turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 1% index 2 lean 
4-bbl. 1961-63 14% — 2 lean 
1964 390 eng. 1-114 lrich*  1lrich* 
HOLLEY 
2-bbl. (Primary) 1-144 index — 
(Secondary) %-1% — — 
4-bbi. 1-15 index — 


* 390 Police, 1 lean 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans.: 575-600 rpm* 
Auto. Trans.: 1961-63, 450-475 rpm**; 1964, 475- 
500 rpm:; in DRIVE 
With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 
* 1963, 406, 427 engs. 700 rpm; 1964, 427 eng. 
700-800 rpm 
** 390 eng. 475-500 rpm t 390 Police, 550-575 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, not running) 

292 engine: Intake .019"; exhaust .019” 

(engine hot and running) 

390 Police, 406, 427 engines 

Intake .025"; exhaust .025” 

352, 390 engines: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


Cn » 


: 1964 
WOOD RELEASE: Front 


w- SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN 


BY SYMBOLS w- 


COOLING SYSTEM ....... Quarts n CRANKCASE. 
With Heater Without Heater Ow Above +90°........ 

All models ...... 20 Above 4-20^. P 

Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds Above —10° 

Fuel Filter |... <. -Replace Below —10 any 777 
KJ 1961 right side under air cleaner BRAIN and R L 
" wee at first 4,000 miles See Service Instructions, page 4 
Ej 1963-64 S ium 

Spee 227i enin right side under air itir.. rean En E aneccend Test ing wes 
M Cap..... OEE Secr sams ee Wasi 
r Steering Reservoir................ 

DI "P malen tas ni Cp C ee 
EPower Steering Filter. . . . . REL Replace 96 1962-64 [n 
on Ft only. ae oi wn "- Distributor Shaft (oil Cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 

er Er 680... sese sieioys eplace’ -cu. in. engine, at rear 
m. extra eee Bozi. in. engine, a a Wick under rotor..... .Sparingly 10W MO 
Crankcase Dipstick. . . . . Check level Shaft and wick. . 1961-62 1963-64 
292-cu. in. engine, right TRANSMISSION ,Automatic. ^n 
ardiente Bow! & Screen 1961 ir" CAPACITY, qua "ditat Aen Total Refi 
Turn wheels to fete rem ‘and housin 3-speed, Multi-Drive. . 5 10 


pli 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unt 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole, With power 
brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with steer- 
ing wheel centered 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap) 


Alt 1961-62; 
i] 


* Fill to 4 inch below top of cylinder 1963-64 only a E 
Air Cleaner Element............. . . Service 
Dry type .. .. Clean 
DIE UD6. yaranana a rs eei Replace 
1961-63 1964 
Front Suspension. . (4 or 6 plugs) LM 
Lubricate using s| er. Reinstall plug 
1961-62 1963-64 
Steering Linkage . . (4, 5 or 6 plugs) LM 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 
1961-62 1963-64 1963-64 power 


steering 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 EP 


Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole " 
CAPACITY 3-speed 292-cu. in. engine, 3 pints; with 
overdrive, 4!4 pints. 352-, 390-, 406-, 427-cu. in. 
engines, Se pints. 4-speed, 314 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, check level and drain thru separate 
plug holes. Fill slowly thru transmission 


Ef] Universal Joint Spline 1961... . . .Coat 1 oz. SS 


On models with automatic transmission 


Universal Joints (plug)....... — u 

Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 
E] 1961-62 1963-64 

DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 HP* 


EJ Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5 pints; with 427-cu. in. engine, 5% 


ints 
Brain and REFILL Not recommended 
POWER TRANSFER IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag stamped with letter "L" attached to left 
side of carrier housing 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons FS E 
1962-64 station wagon eM m" "n 
All other models. . 20 

TIRES..........Pressure Front Rear 

6.70-15, 7.10-15 24* 

7.50-14, 8.00-14, 8.50-14 24* 

Station wagon: 8.00-14, 20* 


2 
* For highway driving, add 4 to 6 pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels if NU eto for ift-adapter 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Remove 2 converter plugs. 3-speed, aiso discon- 
nect fill pipe; 2-speed, remove oil pan 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 


963-64 of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... MH 
Not on 352-, 390-cu. in. engines 


lean [A 
Including filter and tube 
Front Wheel Bearings. ........... Repack WB 
1961, initial torque, 1114-12'/ ft. Ib. final adjust- 


ment, loosen V, but not more than V4 turn R 
1962, initial torque, 1214 ft. Ib.; 1963-64, initial 
torque, 15-20 ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock on spin: 
nut and castellation aligned with hole in spindle, 
back off both nut and nut-lock together, one 
castellation and install cotter pin 

1963-64 


1961 [H 1962 RJ 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Selfcadiusting brakes are used. Adjustment is not 
normally required. If the brakes have been relined 
or ie adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes 
as follows: 


Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 
parking brake cable 


1, Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 


2. Remove brake drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from adjustin 
screw, and back off the adjusting screw % 
of a turn 

4. Reinstall drums and wheels 


5. Operate car in reverse and make 5 or 6 brake 
applications to bring the shoes into proper 
adjustment 


6. Reconnect and adjust parking brake cable 

ing sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 

1962 Power brakes: Master cylinder, RR, LR, RF, 
LF, master cylinder 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E31961, Every 4,000 miles or 4 months 

1962-64, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
GiEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles or 8 months 
(Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
HiEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months 
Every 30,000 miles or 24 months 
Ki Every 36,000 miles or 36 months 
H Conditional service 


required 4  Prepacked bearing 1963-64, lubricate distributor shaft and 
EH 1961 1962 B 196364 © Cooling system drain wick at time of tune-up 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant SERO wii M Motor o T 
ord Specification No. -B;w eering bear Lubrican! 
KEY TO EP Mid extreme M Gear Lub. on ini PUR SS Hase saes ürpose Lu io ae 
Ford Specification No, M-568-D ithi n | pecia urpose ubrican 
LUBRICANTS FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid "M iE oen T M-1ca7 EIE eque A d 
Ford Specification No, M2C33-D MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent FAMAE il tease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A ed Barca ROO: MAGST 


+ Power Transfer, use Ford Spec..No. M2C50-B and add 1 oz. 
of additive, Ford Spec. No. M2C58-A per pint of lubricant 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 
MY-5 


€ 
Y 


-"-tcttttvuvttceeuttue 


€ € 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
AI 22NF 40 
24F 55 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) 
I ] 


Al . 
Allowable tolerance between cylinders, 10 psi 


psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF82 

Gap: .032”-.036” 

Torque: 20 ft. Ib. — 

Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 

Gap: .024^-.026" 
Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


= pr m5 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 7 

1962: Manual Trans. 4° (Allowable range, 2°-9° 
Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15° 

1963: Manual Trans. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 
Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2^-15?) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure: 314-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


le Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
FORD turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. 1-1% index index 
HOLLEY : 
1-bbl. 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 500-550 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. 475-525 rpm** in DRIVE " 

With air conditioning, as listed above but with 

unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 
* 1962: With smog reduction, 550-600 rpm 

** 1962: With smog reduction, 525-575 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 


1962: Intake .016”; exhaust .016" — 
1963: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


WOOO RELEASI 


= SERVICE AT 


KjPower Steering Filter..... 


1963 only. Inside reservoir 


[HPCV System Early 1963 


Clean tube and separator 


E30il Filter |... 
Add extra quart oil 


Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup) 
1962 m@m 1963 


Crankcase Dipstick . . . 
Fuel Filter 


E) 1962 1963 
[HSteering Gear (plug).............-....- SG 


Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug and Housing 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with 
steering wheel centered 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). . .... — HB 


Fill to 4-14 inch below top of cylinder 


Front Suspension. ............. (4 plugs) LM 

Lubricate using specíal adapter. Reinstall plug 
E] 1962 1963 

Steering Linkage (4 or 6 plugs) 
EM — 1962. ici nae tne nemase me LM 
jo ——— LL 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 EP 


Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 214 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Universal Joints (plug)..........-.-- . Ud 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


E] 1962 1963 
DIFFERENTIAL ....... 90 HP 


Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 414 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK. . Gallons 

All models i.s 16 

TIRES Rear 

6.50-14 24* a 
7.00-14 24* 

7.00-14 station wagon . . 24* 28* 


* For considerable high-speed driving or heavy 
loads, add 4 to 6 pounds 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
if required 


1962 1963 


[12] 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, W 


e Cooling 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
A Prepacked bearing 


zrr. MERCURY 6 


KE 1962-63 Meteor All Models 
1963 
E: Front 


COOLING SYSTEM... Quarts Gat CRANKCASE ..... "MS" MO. 
With Heater Without Heater Y Above +90°... . 30 10W-30 
All models ........ 9% LIA e E 
Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds mei TN ana s od wee 
E3Power Steering Reservoir......... ..... AF 5W-20 
Fill to "F" mark on gage 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


35 2g Test and fill 
Oil Fill Cap ..WashE3 


With positive crankcase ventilation system, fill 
slowly to prevent overflow 


Initial torque, 121% ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


PCV System Valve 1962, late 1963... Service 
Valve . re Clean 
All parts Clean 
Air Cleaner Element. ....... ... -Service 
DO DO. epera cepit rs vce Clean 3 
Dry type:.. us ine a naso Replace 
1962 M 1963 HH 
* NTRANSMISSION, Automatic. FA 
Check level, engine ídling, PARK position 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Tota! Refill 
Altirmodele enoios arza 4 7 4 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Remove 2 converter plugs and oil pan | 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added ; 
Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
1962 f 163 QQ 


Power Steering] 
only 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Self-adjusting brakes are used. Adjustment is not 

normally required. If the brakes have been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes 

as follows: 

Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 

parking brake cable 

1. Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 

2. Remove brake drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from adjusting 
screw, and back off the adjusting screw % 
of a turn 

4. Reinstall drums and wheels 

5. Operate car in reverse and make 5 or 6 brake 
applications to bring the shoes into proper 
adjustment 

6. Reconnect and adjust parking brake cable 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


Power brakes: Master cylinder, RR, LR, RF, LF, 
master cylinder 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
we [Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
HijEvery 24,000 miles or 2 years 
EüEvery 30,000 miles or 2 years 
EiEvery 36,000 miles or 3 years 
H Conditional service 

1963, lubricate distributor shaft at time of 


à tune- 
system drain unen 


TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


tic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil ' 
KEY TO ij Noe M. ufi A HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
PaT Cear Lb. Ford Specification No. M2C50-B Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
LUBRICANTS EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear CUD: LL Linkage Lubricant U) Universal Joint Grease ——— 
Fard Auta ati T smission Fluid Ford Specification Mac M-LOAB WB Wheel Bearing Grease i 
FA ford Automate No. M2C33-D LM Lithium Grease, with Moly Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation Printed in U.S.A. 


Ford Specification No. M-1C47 


MY-6 


MERCURY V-8 


1962-63 Meteor All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
m SENE: ARIS MIS: 
65 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
ut cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
hcesdv exse gei es NS Sip € m alee FS 6 130-170 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF42 

Gap: .0327-.036* 

Torque: 20 ft. ib. 

Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 
IGNITION POINTS 

FoMoCo 


Gap: .0147-.016* 
Dwell angle: 26°-2814° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo s 
Capacity: 21525 mtd 


a Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, S, 4, 2, 6, 3, 7, 8 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 
Set idle s; with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Prpp N 


N 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center} 

1962: 221 eng. 4° (Allowable range, 27-57) 
260 eng. 4* (Allowable range. 2:-5*) 

963: 221 jne ` 3 

3 Mant Tans 4* (Allowable range, 27-97) E 
Auto. Trans. 12° (Allowable range, 2°-17°) 
Mab. Trans. 4* (Allowable range. 2°-9°) 
Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 27-157) 


FUEL PUMP 
pude Pe lb. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Mie Choke C 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
Gnitiat — Man. al 
FORD Trans. Trans. 
1962 2-bbi. 1y 2tean — 2lean 
1963 2-bbl. 2-2% 4e <in 


IDLE SPEED 
boa 1962, 500-525 rpm*; 1963, 575-600 


rpm . 

Auto. Trans. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE . 
With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 
* 1962: With smog reduction, 525-575 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic tners, nonadjustable 


d. SERVICE AT 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts CRANKCASE............. “MS” MO 
All models... ‘With Master Without Heater Ly 4-905... ee ee 30 10w-30 
Cooling system pressure, 1245 pounds Above 4-20* ...20,209  10W-30 
Fuel Filter Replace Below Zio - E 
oe Te EATE e grad low — TT 
E) 1962 BH 1963 CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

E3Power Steering Reservoir. .............. AF See Service Instructions, page 4 
Fill to “F” mark on gage 

MPower Steering Filter... 

nU; "e sane Vega 

EJON Filter (under car)... usu. Replace ——— —^ f AE AERA estah ME 
Add extra quart oil Crankcase Dipstick............. Check level 
Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup)........ 10W MO 


ON FW CAP coo et tian d Wash 


With positive crankcase ventilation system, fill 
slowly to prevent overfiow 


[H 1962 1963 


Wick under rotor...... Sparingly 10W MO 
[H 1962 p 1963 


PCV System 
Air Cleaner Element... uus Service Valve 
Aids TI Tem Clean Filter 
B D. RE eorr acd Replace An distisembie snd claan all parti. Inctuding 
[BSteering Gear (plug). ........ usus SG 


Turn wheels to left, remove fill plug and housi TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . FA 
cover lower cap screw. Fill thru plug hole unti Check level, engine idling. PARK position. .. . - B 
lubricant comes out of cap screw hole. With CAPACITY, quai Initial Refill, Total Refill 
power brakes, fill thru lower cap screw hole, with All models ........ 4 ay 
steering wheel centered DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

3 Remove 2 converter plugs and oil pan 

E3Brake Master Cylinder (car) MS HB If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 

Fill to !4-!4 inch below top of cylinder of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Front Suspension.............. (4 plugs) LM LL — Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug | 1962 1963 
mone - qot d ubere ut Sk qn 
" " i ut an ion aligned wi n 
Mgt Sey n iü One castellation and Install cotter pin nee 


~~ Lubricate using special adapter, Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 EP 
EJ Maintain tevel to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3-speed, En pints, with overdrive, 

4 pints; 4-speed, 314 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, check tevel and drain thru separate 

plug holes. Fill slowly thru transmission 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Self-adjusting brakes are used. No adjustment is 


normally required. If the brakes have been relined 
or the adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes as 
follows: 


Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 

parking brake cable 

1. Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 


$ fe justine. t justi 
Universal Joints (pl — 2 ul L. id adjusting lever sway from adjusting 
= A Fes eer a Ce AS PRI Et Screw, and back off adjust screw M turn 
Lubricate using Aom et ter. Reinstall plug 4. Reinstall drums and eus T 
EH) 1962 H S. Operate car in reverse, make 5 or 6 brake ap- 
u plications to bring shoes into proper adjust- 
men! 
m 6. Reconnect and adjust parking brake cable 
DIFFERENTIAL ............ 90 HI | Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
Maintain level to fill plug hole | 


Power brakes: Master cylinder, RR, LR, RF, LF, 
CAPACITY master cylinder 


4 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


OAS TANK: cn nA eU: a E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


(Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 2 years 
Every 30,000 miles or 2 years 
very 36,000 miles or 3 years 
onditional service 


1963, lubricate distributor shaft at time of 
tune-up 

1963, lubricate distributor wick under rotor 
at time of tune-up 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
if required 
IH 1962 E31 1963 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGNTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 
Type A. Suffix A 


HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specification No. M2C50-8 Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 


LUBRICANTS EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. L Linkage Lubricant UJ Universal Joint G 
Ford Specification No. M-S6&S-0 — Uniage Lubricant Nó IG Ford Specification Nov M-1C57 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid (M Lithium Grease, with WB Whee! Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M2C33-D Ford Specification No. M-1C47 Ford Specification No. MICEO-A 
M 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation Printed ia U.S.A. "E 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS w- 


££ € 


" 
= 
* 
Ed 
d 
3 
ax J 
— 
mad 
~y 
== 
» 
"d 
E 
" 
4 
- 
D 
- 
—> 
æ 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


AABM 
BATTERY Group No. Amp. Hrs, 
All 22NF 40 
1963 Opt. 24F 55 
1964 Opt. 24F 65 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
A coagcaaiiansiniatesteae ona Suita tease zeny 150- 
1963: um cylinder vai ion, i 120 


im! , 10 psi 
1964: Maximum cylinder variation, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite BF82 

Gap: .032"-.036"* 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 


FoMoCo 
Gap: .0247-.026" 
Owell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 


FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3,6,2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 


4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1963 1964 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center); 

1963; 144 engine 
Manual Trans. 8°* 

Auto. Trans. 12^ * 

1963-64: 170 engine 
Manual Trans. 6** 

Auto. Trans. 12°* 

1964: 200 engine 
Auto. Trans. 12°* 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to ex- 
ceed 5* over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial advance beyond 2* BTDC 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 3'4-5'/ Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man, Auto. 
FORD turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbI. 1-114 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 500-525 rpm 
Auto. Trans. in DRIVE: 

144 engine, 500-550 rpm 

.170, 200 engines, 500-525 rpm " 
With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


1963 1964 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
eae With Heater with 


9 6 
m pressure, 1415 pounds " 


E3Power Steering Reservoir........ TM i 
Fill to “F” mark on gai 


EI3Power Steering Filter........ 


Inside reservoir 


PCY System Early 1963............... Clean 
Clean tube, filter and separator 


DU Geer cere rer nnan Replace 
Add extra quart oll 


[Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO 
Crankcase Dipstick..............Check level 
EBFuel Filter ....... 


Replace initially at 6,000 miles 
Air Cleaner Element. . 


ER o type . j 
Dry type . 
1963 


cover upper 
lubricant comes 
power brakes, fill thru upper cap screw hole, with 
steering wheel centered 


aster Cylinder (cap). . . . . .. POER 
Eg Brake Ma Inel inder (cap). cylinder 


On 1963 only. 
Reoch thru opening 
In upper control orm 


esso (4 0r B plugs) LM 
EaFront Suspension... T. 4 or 6 plugs) 


.. «s. (5 or 6 sealed bearings) 
pect seal; if dai ed, or if there is any evi 
dulce ‘of looseness, replace entire pivot assembly 


Pitman Arm Stud.............-.. (plug) LM 
Eae with power steering only. Lubricate using 
specia! adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. . . 80 EP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 244 pints; 4-speed, 4% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


iversal Joints (plug). ........ eee U 
Dori using Ae RS Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL ............ 90 HP. 
Maintain fevel to fill plug hole 

1964, fill plug on rear cover 

CAPACITY 234 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


—€— Gallons 
"E 
— 20 
TIRES..........- Pressure Front Rear w 
6,00-13, 6.50-13, 7.00-13 24* — 24* 
6.50-14, 7.00-14 4* — 24* 


Station wagon 
* For extensive hig 
ing, add 4 to 8 poun: 


ElRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels if 


Bl Position for lift adapter 


,24* 
speed driving or heavy load- 
A A  Prepacked bearing 


t. M pits s. 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. FA 


+——Front Wheel Bearings. . 


MERCURY COMET 6 


1963-64 All Models 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE....... ."MS" MO 
Above --90*,.... TRE. 10-30 
Above +20°........, ..20,20W  10W-30 
Above —10*...,.... .. 10W 10W-30 
Below —10*.......... 5wW-20 
CAPACITY 31% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 
BEN. ccce EE dy ooabel: Test and IEJ 
OE FW OS... oorr ... Wash eg 


Fill slowly to prevent overflow. With closed PCV 
system, sealed cap, no service 


PCV System Late 1963, 1964. . 
Valve ..,.... 


Clean 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position....._. 

CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Tota! Refill 

All models 4 % 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended | 

Tere x convaner plugs and oil pan 
is unavailable, not t 

of Type A, Suffix A may be added” PAPAN 


....Repack WBEI] 
Initial torque, 15-20 ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock on 
spindle nut and casteliation aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together 
one castellation and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined or 

the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Turn r wheel adjuster until shoes contact 
drum lightly 

2. Remove drums 

3. Hold adjusting lever away from star wheel 
and back off adjustment ¥% turn with finger 
Pressure only, If adjustable screw does not 
turn easily, remove and lubricate 

4, Reinstall drums 

5, Operate car in reverse and apply brakes sev- 
eral times 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 


EB3Every 36,000 miles or 36 months 
[Conditional service 
Lubricate distributor shaft at time of tune- 


required @ Cooling system drain up 
LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1CB7-A 
EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Lub. Ford Specification No. M2C50-B UJ Universal Joint Grease 
LUBRICANTS Ford Specification No. M-568-D LM Lithium Grease, with Moly Ford Specitication No. M-1C57 


FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid 


Ford Specification No. M2C33-D MO Motor Oil 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


Ford Specification No. M-1C47 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. M1C60-A 


MY-9 


ie m af i o i EE M 


d 
MERCURY COMET V-8 


1963-64 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Precedure 
BATTERY 


AABM 
Group No. Amp. Mrs. 
AN NF 55,65 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
la Cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


Vs memi IRA A NIIS RIA RITE A Kink Ose 130-170 
1863: Maximum cylinder variation. 10 psi 
1964: Maximum cylinder variation, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

utohte: 1963, BF42: 1964, - s 
enn bre 260 eng. BF42, 289 
Gap: .0327..036* 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 

Oo not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMeCa 

Gap: 0147-0167 
Owell 


angle: 265-2815 * 
CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 
DOGeE | 


OOO 


Firing Order: 1, S, 4,2,6, 3,7,8 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

3. Connect tachometer 

4. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 

$. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

& Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 

distributor as necessary to obtain recom- 

mended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 

idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


N 


1963 1964 


oag Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


Manual Trans. 6* (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 

,. Auto. Trans. 10° (Allowable range, 2°-15°) 

1964: engine 
Manual Trans. 6^ * 

Auto. Trans. 10: * 
289 engine 
Manual Trans. 6: * 

Auto. Trans. 8. * 

*M engine requirements or substandard fuels 
dictate, timing may be retarded from recom- 
mended setting to eliminate detonation but not 
to exceed 2. BTDC 


FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 4-6 ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 20 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


» Idle Choke Choke 

à Mixture (notches) (notches) 
{initial Man. Auto. 
FORO turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 1963 Ws 4 lean 4 lean 
1964 Lit 2 rich 2 rich 
4-bbi, 1964 104 1 lean 3 lean 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manua! Trans. 575-600 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 475-500 rpm in DRIVE 

With air conditioning, as listed above but with 
unit turned ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


1963 1964 


WOOD RELEASE: Front 


SERVICE AT 


v INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts "d CRANKCASE... 
With Heater Without Heater E d Above +90°...... 
All models ........ LI 13% 
Cooling system pressure, 12-15 pounds 
EBFuel Filter. Replace 


i CAPACITY 4 quarts 
Ea Power Ste be d c: Sisask Mis ni DRAIN and REFILL i 3 
fly Power FIN ues R See Service Instructions, page 
ER Power Steering eplace 
E301 Filter {under cat) T"-———€ Replace Test and fillg 
Battery. ..... wake 
| lll —— M t Wash 
Fill slowly to prevent overflow. With closed PCV Crankcase Dipstick. ........ ... Check level 
system, sealed a no servi 
1963, located on right side, front of air cleaner PCY Moo... woe Service 
[3 Distributor Shaft (fill oil cup)........ 10W MO Valve .... i M en 
pu Wick under rotor... ... Sparingly 10W MO All parts .. .... Clean 


Including filter on 1963 only 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position... ...- 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill, Total Refill 
All models ........... 4 7M 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs and oil pan 

M. M2C33-D Is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
ot Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Air Cleaner Element. 


On 1983 only. 
Reach thru opening 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). ............. 


Fill to 14-14 inch below of cylinder 
ElFront Suspension. .......... (4 or 6 plugs) LM +——Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE) 
Lubricate using special adapter. install plug Initial torque, 15-20 ft, Ib; then with nut-lock on 
i spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
E3Steering Linkage... .. (5 or 8 sealed bearings) spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together 


Inspect seal; if damaged, or if there is any evi- one castellation and install cotter pin 


dence of looseness, replace entire pivot assembly 


Pitman Arm Stud... (plug) LM 


Models with power steering only. Lubricate using 
special adapter. Reinstall plug 


TRANSMISSION, Manual...80 EP 
Ej Maintain tevel to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 24% pints; 4-speed, 44 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Sei-ad|usting brakes are used. No adjustment is 

normally feauired. If the brakes have been relined 

rine adjustment disturbed, adjust the brakes as 
lows: 


Note: If frame contact hoist is used, disconnect 
parking brake cable 


. Expand shoes until a slight drag is felt when 
turning drums 


Remove brake drums 


Hold adjusting lever away from adjusting 
screw, and back off adjusting screw 34 turn 


Reinstall drums and wheels 

Operate car in reverse, make 5 or 6 brake ap- 
plications to bring shoes into proper adjust- 
ment 

6. Reconnect and adjust parking brake cable 
ding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


¢ brakes: Master cylinder, RR, LR, RF, LF, 
master cylinder 


KIBUniversal Joints (plug).................. J 
Lubricate using special adapter, Reinstall plug 


DIFFERENTIAL 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
1964, fill plug on rear cover 


CAPACITY 434 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


ve wn 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
IHEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 
6.50-14, 7.00-13, 7.00-14.......... 24 29 EM Every 30,000 miles or 24 months 
Station wagon erosen 24* 28* 


EEvery 36,000 miles or 36 months 


[Conditional service 
Lubricate distributor shaft and wick at time 
of tune-up 


GB Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 
@ Cooling system drain 


* For extensive high-speed driving or heavy load: 
ing, add 4 to 6 pounds 


ERotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels if 
required 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A HP. Hypoid Gear Lubri SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Mt MM RSEN — PO GEM UE octo Ford Specification No. SW-M-1C87-A 
LUBRICANTS l reme Fressure Gear Lub. 289-cu. in, engine, M2C57-A ` UJ Universal Joint Grease 


ificati . M-568- 
Ford Specification No. M-568-D Ford Specification No. M-1C57 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Ford Specification No. MIC60-A 


LM Lithium Grease, with Moly 


FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid Ford Specification No. M-1C47 


Ford Specification No. M2C33-D 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Cher! Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. MY-10 


PAN & 


-EERHE QE | 


D 
€ 


ee vb &F a bb^ós 55405505664 655ó0255 :2^5»06:3 52260631242 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22F 42 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All 


SIENTE RT NERE oa RON alee minimum z 
* Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 809, 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC: 2-bbl. carb., 46FFX; 4-bbl. » i 

Gane D bbl. carb., Jetfire, 45FF 
Torque: 12-17 ft. Ib.* 

* Use thread lubricant 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016” 

Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


MOB! 
OOO 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 
TIMING PROCEDURE . 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

Set idle speed to 850 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed t 


wep p Shy 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
2-bbl. carb. with Manual Trans. 5° at 850 rpm 
2-bbl. carb. with Auto, Trans. 71° at 850 rpm 
4-bbl. carb. 7 ^ at 850 rpm 

Jetfire, 10° at 850 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 

Pressure: 1961, early 1962 (metal bottom cover): 
4-54 Ib. at 1800 mm 

Late 1962 (glass filter bowl): 7'/-8'/, Ib. at 1800 
rpm 


Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans, 
2-bbl. 2GC 1; index 1 lean* 
4-bbl. 4GC 15 index** index** 
RC (Jetfire) 15 manual index 
* 1962, index 


** 1962, 1 rich; fuel pump with glass filter bowl, 
2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Auto N ane 800 7 min DRIVE 

uto. Trans. rpm in 
Air Cond. 550* rpm with unit turned OFF and idle 
compensator valve held closed (Dealer installed 
unit turned ON) 
* Auto. Trans. in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


d 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
115 10 


Jettire ,... .. JA 
Air Cond. ex. 125 11 
All others ......... 12 10% 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 

K Turbo-Rocket Fluid Tank................ TR 
Check and fill as required. Jetfire only 
CAPACITY 5 quarts 

E3Power Steering Reservoir.............,., AF 
Fill to FULL mark on gage, fluid at operating 
temperature 

fuel Filter |... ooo. Service 
Clean glass bowl and clean or replace ceramic 
element 

E3Manual Steering Gear............... 80 MP 

(Oi FillCap........ Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 
Jetfire, right side forward 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
Air Cleaner Element................ Service 


Jetfire, side mounted 
IB Dry type... wk eee cece Replace 
EJ Washable type 


Service more often in extreme dust 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap)........... . HB 
Fill to !4 inch below top of fill hole 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage.......... (17 fittings) C_— 


EaClutch Equalizer Shaft.................. CL 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 MP 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 214 pints 
DRAIN and ed Not recommended ^. ` 
yd 
HiSpeedometer Cabl Coat lower 25 SP 


[Parking Brake Cables. ..... 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

ANTI-SPIN IDENTIFICATION: 

Lubrication tag attached to fill plug 


GAS TANK .. Gallons 


Station wagon, 3-seat,..... 4 e 15 


All other models............ are won ors 16 
TIRES..........Pressure Front Rear 
6.00-15 EE ri 22*A 

6.50-13 — M 22*A 
70013 seopesosene ses resasenoa 22 224 
* With air c: ing and convertibles, 24 


À Station wagons carrying heavy loads for long 
distances, 26 


EJRotate tires, Method A 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS cL 


Type A, Suffix A 


Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


+ Standard differential, MP meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B or special lubricant Part No. 531536; 


Printed in U.S.A, 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation 


Jetfire 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


OLDSMOBILE F-85 


1961-62 All Models 


Am 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 
INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


w- 


at CRANKCASE... "MS" MO 
E Above +32°........... 20,20W* 10W-30 
Above 0 10W 10W-30 

Below 0°... 5WA 5W-20 


* 30 may be used above +90° 
A 5W not recommended for sustained high speed 
above +60° 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Generator (2 oil cups).................. MOREY 
Jetfire, no lubrication 
Oil Filter (under car). ..... 02... ee, Replace EJ 


Add extra quart oil 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling at operating tempera- 
ture, PARK position 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 

All models .. * 3% Approx. 4 
DRAIN and REFILL. "OQ—— 
Remove 1 oil pan drain plug 

PCV System Valve. ... Clean I) 
Remove air cleaner to service 

Remove and clean valve and hose 

Jetfire on left valve cover, rear 

Front Wheel Bearings . ....Repack WB 


Initial torque, 18-20 ft. tb. while turning wheel; 
back off 1% turn; second torque, 8-12 ft. Ib.; back 
off v, to 1⁄4 turn and insert cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 4^ with standard brakes or 

more than 2" with power brakes, engine running, 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: z 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into backing 
plate Tsing slot, expand shoes until a 
heavy drag is felt when revolving brake drum 

2. Back off adjustment 15 notches. Drum should 
turn freely 

3. Repeat operation at each wheel . 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF With powe 

brakes, engine must be stopped and vacuum re- 

serve depleted 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 
[Every 4,000 miles 
. Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 
WEvery 16,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 
(Every crankcase oil change "v 
[H Conditional service 


Check and fill Turbo-Rocket fluid tank as 
required 

Service fuel filter as required 

Coat parking brake cables at time of major 
brake service 

Repack front wheel bearings at time of, 
major brake service 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
* Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 


LM Lithium Grease 
MO Motor Oil 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


SP Speedometer Cable Grease 


TR Turbo-Rocket Fluid 
GM Part No. 585411 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease * 
we” 


OE-6 


Anti-Spin differential, special lubricant Part No. 531536 


a 


OLDSMOBILE F-85 


1963 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No, Amp. Hrs. 


All 22F 44 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
LU——Á — € minimum 100* 


* Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 80% 
of highest cylinder i 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 2-bbl. carb., 46FFX; 4-bbl. carb., 45FF, with 
Auto. Trans. 44FF, Jetfire 45FF 

Gap: 4-bbi. carb. with Manual Trans., Jetfire, 
:025”; others, .030” 

Torque: 12-17 ft. Ib.* 

* Use thread lubricant 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 


Gap: .016” 

Dwell angle; 28*-32* (30° preferred) 
CONDENSER 

Delco 

Capacity: .18-.23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order; 1, 8,4,3,6,5,7,2 
ot. a 

m CEDURE 
1, “Bich engine to operating temperature 
2. Connéct tachometer 

Conn ming light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distrib! cap tower pere pue 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 
Set idle speed to 850 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


yanay 


Timing Seétting.(Before Top Dead Center): 
2-bbi, carb. with Manual Trans. 5° at 850 rpm 
2-bbl. carb. with Auto. Trans. 74 * at 850 rpm 
4-bbi. carb. 7148 at 850 rpm 

Jetfire, 10°-at rpm 


& 
FUEL PUMP 
AC mecha 1 
Pressure: Ib. at 1800 rpm 


Volume: Nol required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbi. 2GC 1% index index 
4-bbl. 4GC 1% index index 
RC (Jetfire) 1 manual index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 550 rpm* 
Auto. Trans. S00 rpm in DRIVE” 
pj Cond. 600. (4-bbl, with Auto, Trans., 550) rpm** 
OFF and idle compensator valve 
held ciosBB, Dealer-installed unit turned ON 
* Jetfire, 600 rpm 
*¢ Auto, Trans, in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


ll SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS Ae 
COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts z t CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 
m With Heater Without Heater E m Above +32°..............20,20W® — 10W.30 
Alt Cond. ex. jets; — 12 E] Above O° noaua 10W 5W-20 
E AE un de 10% Below 0°... eren SWA 5W-20 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds detto Others Jeifire 30 may be used above +90” 
high speed 
[ATurbo-Rocket Fluid Tank... TR Gies, — "AN not commanded tor sustained HaT 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 


Check and fill as required. Jetfire only 


CAPACITY 5 quarts DRAIN and REFILL 


$ee Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Power Steering Reservoir. . 


Fill to FULL mark on gage, fluid at operating 
temperature 


[fuel Filter ..... iius. eG T Service 


Clean glass bow! and clean or replace ceramic 


Billy, sect noises Test and fillrg 


Oil Filter under car). ...... se Replace ia 


Sleman, Ada extra quart oil 
Air Cleaner Element........ Service PCY Syste cI 
ner Element................ E E E ean[H 
Jetfire, side mounted AM ien and clean all parts 
Fry type... sees Replace Jetfire on left valve cover, rear 


ff Washable type.. Wash and oi! 10W-30 MO P 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug)........... 80 MP Check level, engine idling at operating tempera, 
ture, PARK position , . DID cui 
[oil Fill Cap. ....... Wash and oil 108.30 MO Pops o^ ee ii 7 
Jetfire, right side forward DRAIN and REFILL... ss 000 e ee reeeeeee 24 
Remove 1 oil pan drain plug 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level , 
Choke Air Inlet Filter. Wash and oil 10W-30 MO[H 
 EaBrake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB’ 


Fill to '⁄4 inch below top of fill hole . 
Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE 


(GiFront Suspension and : F À f 
Steering Linkage.......... (16 fittings) CL initio agr 18:20 0. 1o whig Sa ro 
off ¥, to 1% turn and insert cotter pin 
V, 
". 
TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP. : 
Ef Maintain levet to fill plug hole . ADJUSTMENT 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 244 pints TP IL 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommende Brakes Ss bet 00 NOT attempt to 
manually a: on ese cars 
Speedometer Cable Coat lower 24 SP Bleeding sause ipe er, LE, with power 
[ui u d 
[Parking Brake Cables.............. Coat LM Weiona Pr ee i 
DIFFERENTIAL .......... 90 MP* : oe 
EJ Maintain ievel to fili plug hole CON 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended _»  WEY TO INTERVALS 
EIN IDENTIFICAT ON plug iggEvery crankcase oil change 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months ' 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or 4 months 
GAS TANK Gallons PCV System: Every 12,000 miles or 12 
Alf models; «rein rv cp ves A8 months 
(Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 
«Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 
TIRES........... [AConditional service — 
6:09.15 65023: pa Mr or or Check and fill turboffocket-fluid tank as re- 
SIM 1 rete quired 


Service fuel filter as required 
Coat parking brake cables et time of major 


Bl. Position for lift adapter 
distances, add 4 pounds © Lubrication fitting brake service f 


Repack front wheel bearings at time of 


HRotate tires, Method A @ cooling system drain major, brake service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy- 
oe ee ee oe 
rease u et Fluid ` 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant MO Métor Oil Part No. 585411 

Water Resistant EP Type MP *Mülti-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
+ Standard Gitaren tal, Mr eai EE. MOM rtrd or: special ubricant Part No, 531536; A y 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 3 y (NE 

i y 


A « 


à 


AI 


rea eeR ee ® @ © 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY NT 

roup No. — Amp, H 
Regular fuel engine , Mrs. 
Premium fuel Shane e Hy 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

hn Cranking speed with throttle Seen) psi 

All sonst evtinaer prageagg ah um 100* 
Lowes ed M hressure shouid pu WIS 80% 

SPARK PLUGS 

4$ ain dedi & 44S; Dynamic 88 se fuel eng. 

Foraies 1961-63, 18-34 ft. 1b.) 1964, 35 ft. Ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 


Gap: .016" 
Dwell angle: 28*-32* (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 7, 3, 6, 5, 4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating, temperature 

b Connect achomere 

3. Connect timing Tight to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold openi ne 

5. Sat tale d speed to 850 rpm, transmission in 

6. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to propor 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1961-62 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961: dr EE rue en engine, 5°; Premium fuel en- 


CR 
: Manual Trans. 214°; Auto. Trans. 5°; at 
850 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical rs 
Pressure: 5-6 Ib. at 1800fpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture, — (notche granes) 
2 (initial - s 
ROCHESTER turns) 
2-bbl. 2GC 1% 
4-bbl. AGC 1% 


* 1962-63, 1 lean 


ENGINE IDLE: SPEED 


Manual Trans.: 1961-63, 550 ri 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in DRIV 
Air Cond. Same rpm? with uhit turned OFF, and 
idle compensator va held/closed (Dealer in- 
stalled unit turned O! P EN 

i 3964; 550 rpm i * 


VALVE aan 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable. 


w- 


Kg Parking Brake Cables. 


OLDSMOBILE V-8 


1961-64 All Models Except F-85 


C ses T. CRETA. CET z 
* gm p gE 


NOOD RELEASE: Frant 


SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM .... . Quarts CRANKCASE . "MS" MO 
Hier Mann Above +32"... . »-20,20W® — 109.30 
1961-63 All with air cond.. 22 Above 0°, i 10W 10w-30* * 
Without air cond.. 204 194 BelowÜ' ., : ia 5WA 5W.20 | 


30 may be used obove +00 ', **1963-64, 5W-20 
SW nol recommended for sustained high speed 
above +60 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ORAIN and REFILL 

Seo Sarvice Instructions, page 4 


1964 Joltstar B8 with air cond 1057 LAT 
Without air cond. ` 17 0 

1964 Others with air cond, 21 201 
Without air cond. , 


Cooling systom pressure, 15 
[x LEAL E .... Tost and fill 

Oil Fill Cap... , Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 
FJ 1961.62; 1964 Jetstar 88 
[E] | 1963; all other 1964 

Ed Power Steering Reservoir...... ou Uu AF, PS 


Fill to lovel mark, fluid at oporating iomperstura 


E Generator (2 oil cups) 1961. 


Fuel Filter (glass bowl type). Service 


Clean glass bow! and clean or replace ceramic 


PCY Sys Jetstar 88, y, uüu service Clean 
" e 


PCV System 196 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. Af 


Disassemble and clean alt paris 


Air Cleaner Eloment......... . Service Check, lovot, engine idling ot operating tompera 
lura, position ' 
Dry po eee s N Replace CAPACITY, quarts Tnité enl Tota! Refill 


[m 196162 (D 196364. Myara Matie Approx. BA 


Jetaway 3 


Washable type... Wash and oil 10W-30 MO " 
1961-62 [72] 1963 DRAIN end REFILL i disconnect fill pipe; Jet. "m 
PCV Breather......... ae whe .. M0 away, remove oil pan 
1961-62. Wash and oil 1961-62, for extended slow-speed city driving, 
gon Steering Cear, am M I EM and trailer hauling, a rae 
rankcase C Sur Ya ROGA r - 
mpc system 196162... Cloan Kad Rar (under ear) space 
Remove and clean valvo and ‘hose. Remove alr 1961-62 [4 | 1963.64 


cleaner to service 
EyBrake Master Cylinder (cap)... ... ,..HB 
Fill to '4 inch below top of reservoir, Bondix 
power brakes, 34 Inch below top of reservoir 
Exlutch Pedal Bell Crank (2 felts)... 10W-30 MO 
Jetstar 88, no service 


E Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961... . . . MO 


Front Wheel Bearings . Re epack WB 

1961, initial torque 17 ft. ib; back un nut and 
retighten to 4 It Ib 

1962-63, initial torque 23-25 ft. Ib.; back off '/ 

turn; second torque 15-17 fl. ib. 1961-63, back off ! 
% 10 % turn and insMall cotter pin, or retainor. 

1964, initia! torque 25-30 It, Ib. back off nut | 

turn, Retighton nut finger-tight and install re- 

tainor, All years, torque adjustment should be 4 


Front Suspension made when wheel is turning at least 3 times 
195]. eee T . (4 fittings) CL speed of nut rotation | 
1962, 1963-64.. ... Inspect seals BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
1962, 196364. ..... .(4 plugs) BJ dopressed more than 4" with standard brakes or 


Inspect for damaged seals or noisy balt joints. 
Reler to dealer for service 


Steering Linkage 1963-64. . 


more than 174" with power brakes, engine run: 

ning, the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes à$ follows:* 

Using a suitable lool inserted into the back- 

ing plate adjusting slot, expand the shoes un 

til a heavy uniform drag is felt when revolv- 

ing the brake drum 

Back off adjustment 16 notches. Orum should. . 

turn freely 

3. Repoat katian at each wheel 

x 1962. power ‘Brakes and all 1963-64 brake: 
self. “adjusting. DO NOT atte n 
adjust the shoe clearance on thi 

Biecding sequénce: LF, RF, LR, RR W 

brakes, ongine’ must be Stopped and 

reserve depleted 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
Every crankcase’, 3 change 


Every 2,000 miles 4^} 
Every 4,000 miles t 
Oil Filter 1961-62: Every 4; m S or 


6 months 

Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles & 
Every 10,000 miles E 
Every 12,000 miles or 4 months 
PCV System: Every 12,000 miles or 
12 months 


(4 fittings) CL 


E3 Clutch Release Bell Crank (2 felts). 10W-30 MO - 


Jetstar 88, 1 felt 


ElSpeedometer Cable. ... ..:Coat lower 25 SP 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 
EQ maintain leve! to till plug hole À 

CAPACITY 3-speed: Jetstar 88, 2 pints; all others 

2% pints. 4-speed: 2% pints 

ORAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Coat LM 
DIFFERENTIAL . .90 MP* 
Py Maintain level to fill pul hole 
CAPACITY Jetstar 88, 234 pints; all others, 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
ANTI-SPIN IDENTIFICATION: 
Lubrication tag attached to carrier opposite fill 
plug except Jetstar 88, attached to rear cover 


D: 


GAS TANK ` ... Gallons [Every 16,000 miles 
I96r ed nenep ice g- pepene mi a [Every 18,000 miles or 18 months 


HiEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months 
fEvery 30,000 miles or 30 months 
[ll Conditional service " 

1962, lubricate front suspensio n seals : 


TIRES... 
7.50-14 
80014 . 


B.50- a heat are damaged or ball Joints noisy 3 
Starfire and 88, with air cond Coat parking brake cables and brake back- 
9.00.14 ....... ing plate shoe contapts- at time of major 


W Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


brake service f 
" Service fuel filter as required 
‘ Repack front wheel bearings at time of 


Rotate tires, Method A ‘ 
major brake service 


D 19152 B 


1963-64 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BLAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
GM Part. No. 1099021 


SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 

HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brako Fluid Super No. 11 


AF’ Automatic Transmission Fld 
« Type A, Suffix A 
Power Steering Reservoir: d 


KEY TO 
models, if more than 1 pt. 


LUBRICANTS fluid is required, use PS 


Á, LM Lithium Grease 

d “BJ Suspension Lubricant Motor Oil 

ias .. Oldsmobile Part No. 585617 M0 Moto ns . 
a erential, MP meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B or special lubricant Part No 531536; 

s Stangáre itterentl Anti-Spin differential, special lubricant Part No. 531536 OE-5 


Copyright 1964, The Chek Chor! Corporation. Printed En U.S.A 


1964 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
all 24 61 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 

Ms UD MEER e EDU ay 100 
est cylinder pressure shoul within 80 

of highest cylinder m 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 44S 
Gap: .030” 
Torque: 35 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 


Gap: 016” 
Dwell angle; 28°-32° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,6, 5, 4,3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE > 
Bring engine to operating temperature 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 

manifold opening 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug 

Set engine speed to idle rpm with transmis- 

sion in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 

tue distributor to obtain recommended set- 
ng 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 

idle speed s, 


9^ S5» pe 


" Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model JU 
Pressure: 4-534 Ib. at idle rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idie Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 
] initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER urns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. iBc 115 index index 
23 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 550 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 550 rpm in DRIVE. " 

Air Cond. 600 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned OFF 
and idle compensator held closed, if so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


wv SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ....... Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater Cher ar 
All models with Y 
air conditioning MA 104 

All other models... 10% 10 

Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 
E3Manvual Steering Gear (plug).......... 80 MP 
EgPower Steering Reservoir............. AF, PS 


Fill to level mark, fluid at operating temperature 


Air Cleaner Element. .... saa wees SBIVICE 
[B] Washable type. .Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 
Crankcase Dipstick . . .... Check level 
E30il Fill Cap... Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). .... 


Fill to \% inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage... .(12 fittings) CL — 


FyClutch Release Bell Crank (felt)... . MO 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. 80 MP 


Eg maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 214 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


EDSpeedometer Cable... ... Coat lower 24 SP 


[Parking Brake Cables... . . Coat LM 


DIFFERENTIAL .... 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

APACITY 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
ANTI-SPIN IDENTIFICATION: 
Lubrication tag attached to rear cover 


GAS TANK... „Gallons 

All models ......-- 20 

TIRES....  ....Pressure Front Rear 

65014 ... ——: 24 — 24 

7.00114 . : è 24 24* p 
A AAEE eseina HA 207 Bl] Position for lift adapter 
* Station. wagons carrying heavy loads, add 4 E . 
pounds e Lubrication fitting 


[BRotate tires. Method A @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


“KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
; Power Sisirin Reservoir Ht mare LM Lithium Grease 
LUBRICANTS use PS E f awed MO Motor Oil 
a CL Chassis Lubricant MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Water Resistant EP Type 


w 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chasi Corporation Printed in U.S.A. à 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 GM Part No. 1 21 


« Standard differential, MP meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B or special lubricant Part No. . 
Anti-Spin differential. special lubricant Part No. 530938 ^ i ni. NO. 321536; 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS V- 


CRANKCASE. ~; ."MS" MO 
Above +32"... 20,20€€ 10w-30 
Above 0? ........ sos. 1OW 5W-20 
[i EREE 5WA 5W-20 


* 30 may be used above +90° 

A 5W not recommended for sustained high speed 
above 460^ 

CAPACITY 4 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


Battéty.: 2n j Test and fillE9 
Oil Filter (under car). ... Replace i 
Add extra quart oil 

PCV System Valve. .. Replace 


Also remove and clean hose 


- — TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, engine idling at operating tempera- 
ture, PARK position...... . 3 B 
CAPACITY, approx. 3 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL...... -— y . 
Remove oil pan i 


Front Wheel Bearings....... . ...Repack WBE 


Initial torque, 25-30 ft. Ib.; back off nut 14 turn 
and tighten nut finger-tight and install retainer. 
Torque adjustments should be made with the 
eet turning at least 3 times the speed of nut 
rotation 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. OO NOT attempt to 
manually adjust the brakes on these cars 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every crankcase oil change 
[Every 6.000 miles or 6 months 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or 4 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 
(Conditional service 


Coat parking brake cables and brake back- 
ing plate shoe contacts at time of major 
brake service f 


Repack front wheel bearings at time of 
major brake service 


P$. Power Steering Fluid 


SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


OE-8 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 


adt 
up No. 1 
"m 2 me M 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


Lowest cylinder pressure should b minimum 100 
of highest cylinder re should be within 80% 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: Low comp. 455; Hi 
Gap: 030^ V igh comp. 44S 
Torque: 35 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .016” 
Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER . 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 

n 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,8,4,3.6,5,7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper arrd turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

e Connect tachometer n Pe 

L Connect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 
distributor cap tower B ee 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 

5. Set idle speed to 850 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

6. 

7. 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
714? at 850 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 7-814 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 
“(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GC 1) llean 1 lean 
4-bbl. 4GC 1 % index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 600 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in DRIVE 

Air Cond, 550 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned OFF 
and idle compensator valve held closed (Dealer 
installed unit turned ON) 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM .. Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 
All models with 
air conditioning 194 1874 
All other models. . 17 161% 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 
EqBattery .Test and fill 
E3Manvual Steering Gear (plug). . 80 MP 
E3Power Steering Reservoir............ AF, PS 


Fil! to level mark, fluid at operating temperature 


Air Cleaner Element. . Service 
Dry type . Replace 


Crankcase Dipstick 


EjgBrake Master Cylinder (cap). . 
Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage (12 fittings) CL 


ExClutch Release Bell Crank (felt) M0 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. 80 MP 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


EDSpeedometer Cable Coat lower 2/ SP 


.Check level———— n 


Sin 


LWS 


& 


Las mic. cm 


S 


F-85 V-8 


1964 All Models 


a OLDSMOBILE 


CRANKCASE agi: TuS 
32° 20,20W' - 

Abo OP. RANN INI 5W-20 

Below0°.........-.. .. SWA 5W-20 


30 may be used above +90 . 
1 sw p3 recommended for sustained high speed 


above +60° 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


....Mash and oil 10W-30 MO ES 


de E .Clean(H 
Disassemble and clean all parts 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic -AF 
Check level, engine idling at operating tempera- 
ture. PARK position... .- [* | 
CAPACITY, approx. 3 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL .R 
Remove oil pan 
Oil Filter (under car) Replace 3 


Add extra quart oit 


3e 


Front Wheel Bearings. Repack w8 


Initial torque, 25-30 ít. Ib; back off nut 14 turn 
and retighten nut finger-tight, reinstall iner. 
Torque adjustments shouid be made ;the 
wheel turning at least 3 times the speed"of nut 
rotation 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Brakes are self-adjusting DO NOT attempt to 
manually adjust the brakes on these cars 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


[Parking Brake Cables Coat LM 


DIFFERENTIAL .90 MP* 


Eg Maintain revet to til! plug note 
CAPACITY 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
ANTI-SPIN IDENTIFICATION: 
Lubrication tag attached to rear cover 


GAS TANK. Gallons 

All models 20 

TIRES. „Pressure Front Rear 

700-14 24 24* 

7.50-14 24 24* 

* Station wagons carrying heavy loads, add 4 
pounds 


[Rotate tires, Method A 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
Power Steerin, 
LUBRICANTS than 1 pt. o 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


GB Position for lift adapter 
e  Lubrication fitting 

e Cooling system drain 
WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Reservoir: If more 
fluid is required, 


Water Resistant EP Type 


a Standard differential, MP meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B or special lubricant Part No. 531536: 
Anti-Spin differential, specia! lubricant Part No. 531536 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation Printed in US A 


HB 


LM 
MO 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every crankcase oil change 
[Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[Every 12,000 miles or 12 months 
(HEvery 18,000 miles or 18 months 
HijEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months 
(Conditional service 
Coat parking brake cables and brake back- 
ing plate shoe contacts at time of major 
brake service " 
Repack front wheel bearings at time of 
major brake service 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
GM Part No. 1099021 


SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
EN oE-9 


Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
GM Brake Fluid Super No. 11 


Lithium Grease 
Motor Oil 


PLYMOUTH 6 cmm | 
pu EM 


1960-61 All Models — — 
Except Valiant 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
1960 24M so 
27H 7i 
1961 24H EH 
27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttie open) min. max. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Autolite. 1960; Chrysler, 1961 

Gap: .0177-.023- 

Dwell angle: 1960, 36 ~42°; 1961, 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 


Autolite, 1960; Chrysler, 1961 
Capacity: 25-285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOO i 
Re C 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6. 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2." Connect tachometer 
3, Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
S Sd ise speed to 275500 tpm, n 
idle s o q transmission 
in NEUTRAL PEN 


6. Ux clams screw, turn distributor until 
oir timing mark and pointer are aligned 


N 


Re! ributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


ost i. 
109 
f L 
i H 


1960 early 1960 late 1961 


p 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manual Trans. 21⁄4 °; Auto. Trans. 5^ 


FUEL PUMP 
Carter model M-2996S 


Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Choke Choke 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 

1960 ——— 14 3 

Lo ——— sie 13 12 


Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 


Eg Power Steering Reservoir 
Fill to level mark on gage. Without gage, to base 
of filler neck when cold, halfway when hot 


EOBIN. icc ccisccrsrstavecicicvernsinies Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


E3Generator (2 oil cups). ........ sese MO 


Alternator, right side, no lubrication 
Crankcase Dipstick...... 
Eq Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 


Air Cleaner Element................ 


EI Dy type .... 
IB Dy type ... 


Ey Manual Steering Gear (plug). . . 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (cover)............ 


Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


E3Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage........... (8 fittings) CL—> 


E3Gearshift Rod Shift Levers............... 
EgTorque Shaft ........-.... 2.2.0.2 eee 
TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Eg Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5 pints; refill approx., 4 pints 
120} DRAIN and REFILL 


M Gearshift Lever.................055 
Remove rubber boot below steering wheel, pivot- 
pin assembly, then lever. Coat sparingly ball end 
of lever, pivot-pin hole vand surrounding area. 
Reassemble 


HDUniversal Joints...............-- Repack UJ 


Use only 2 ounces in front joint 


DIFFERENTIAL .............- 
Above -10°, 90; below -10°, 80; below -30°, 75 
Eq Maintain level 14 inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3% pints 
HI) DRAIN and REFILL 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK 


Suburban ....... 
Optional for fleets. .. . 
All other models. .... seen eseeee 


Pressure Front 


load, 28 


€ Heavy load, 
For Captive-Air tires inner chamber pressure must 
be 4 to 6 pounds higher than outer chamber pres- 
sure shown 


GRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
* Lubrication fitting 


WH SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS T- 


CRANKCASE ...........-- "MS" MO 
Above +32 20W-40,10W-30 
Above +10° 10W-30 
Above —10° 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below — 10°.. 5w 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


CAA sene Wash and oil 30 MOES 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup) ..MOEJ 

Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MOM 
OW FIT EE N Replace EJ 


Add extra quart oil 
Crankcase Breather . 

Outlet Element....... Wash and oil 30 MO 
PCV System Valve.................---- [1410] 


Disassemble and clean 


“TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position... ...--. staat € M i 
To overcome difficult starting below -10°, re- 
place 34 quart fluid with kerosine 

CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .. 7 

DRAIN and REFILL. cesses [10] 
Remove 1 converter plug and transmission plug 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


7— Front Wheel Bearings............. Check WBE) 


Clean and repack if necessary 


-Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib., 


position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 

more than 1" with power brakes, engine running, 

the need for service is indicated 

Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 

ing plate. To tighten, turn both front brake cams 

and rear brake front cam in direction of forward 

wheel rotation. Tighten rear brake rear cam in 

opposite direction 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Turn one adjustment cam until heavy: drag 
is felt when wheel is turned 

2. Slowly back off cam until no drag is felt 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment cam 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for each brake 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF When bleed- 
ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 
Bl Every 4,000 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles .: 
fEvery 15,000 miles d 


(notches) (notches) 
Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL rns) Trans. Trans. 


1-bbl. BBS 1 index index 


Captive-Air tires, Method C H) Every 20,000 miles ae > 


@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Ey 
Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
beam KEY TO 


MoPar Part No. 1879318 


PS Power Steering Fluid 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


Type A, Suffix A 


Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with beadlights " A s 
On Dien beam. NEUTRAL h a a i “LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil. . UJ Universal Joint Grease 
r ] rpm i with unit turn : E " a 
ON and headlights on high beam me Ct Chassis Lubricant MP* Multi Puta Gear Lubricant | WB Wheel Bearing Grease ` 
* "n . 7 i Li + 

HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty let. WG White Waterproof Grease Nee 

VALVE CLEARANCES MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid Rite. 
S n '« For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear. Axle Lubricant Part No, 1879414 

(engine hot and running) Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. : N pug Node 


Intake .010"; exhaust .020” 


` vc 


Lans ati PE te TA es ——— aroa " . 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 


Group Mo, Amp, Hrs, 
1960 with Commando eng. 24H 
Others 2 fo 
7 
1961 24H 5 


27H 5 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
ai at cranking spe: 
Too with Commendo engine nen) mia, nor 


1961 with 383 Commando engine, , 150 100° 
INGE vervevecnrroregens rere 198 wa 
id Maximum variation between cylinders, 25 psi 
** Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 
SPARK PLUGS 

Gapi 03a. Commando engine, JAY, others, J-12Y 


ap: ,035^ 
orque: 30 ft, Ib, 


IGNITION POINTS 

Autolite; All 1960, 1961 with Commando engine; 
Chrysler, other 1961 

Gap; .014”-.019" 

Dwell angle: Single or dual points, 277-32"; dual 
points, total dwell, 38^-40* 


c CONDENSER 961 with Co 

ut 1 th mmando engine; 
Chrysler, other 1961 ci 
Capacity: 25.285 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Commando 
Firing Order; 1, B, 4, 2, 6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
. Bring engine to operating temperature 
dp ke 
, Connect timing ligi o, 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower P nus 
4, Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
5. Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
etighten distributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of tíming mark 
B, Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 
| 


f 


960 j 
Commando 1960 Others 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


318 engine with Manual Tr 59 
1960 with two carburetor: 59 
1961 with 383 engine % bd 
ONO cos ooo eoo rn rhon 6° 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model: 318 engine, M-26088; with Air 
Cond., M-26118; Commando engine, M-27698. 
Pressure: M-27698, 314-5 Ib, at £00 rpm; others, 
5-7 Ib. at idle rom 

,.Yolume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


Mixture (notches) (note! 
(initial Man, 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans, 
2-bbi. BED 1 index 
CARTER : 
4-bbl, AFB-29038 15 1 rich 1 rích 
4-bbl, AFB-2968$, ; 
-313235 1% 2 rich 2 rich 
Other AFB 1 JA index index 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. WW15 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans, 500* rpm, headlights on high beam 
Auto, Trans, 500° rpm in NEUTRAL with head- 


lights on high beam 
yd 550° rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headii; on high beam 

* With (2) 4-bbf, carburetors, 750 rpm 

VALVE CLEARANCES 

engine hot and runnin, " 
mando E Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


engine, ; Intake 010”; exhaust .O18^ 
318 enint, FEEL, Intake 0137, exhaust 021” 


b*-v*^ S bbb FS Hs FSssSeSs sss sees sess see 


5 


PLYMOUTH V-8 


1960-61 All Models 


E SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts 
With = Without 
Mentor. Wonter 


17 1 
sae 84 20 
pounds; with sir com 


Commando engine 
All other models 

ling system pr 
ditloning, 16 pound 


INTERVALS GHO 


WM BY SYMBOLS 


Gant CRAMKCASE ... "MS" MO 
% hove 4-92" |, % 709 40,1020 
A" Hs. 20H MM) 
0 10°... 104 — 1920, 9W20 
Belon 10° . M 4.20) 


CAPACITY 6 quarts 
DRAIN ond REFILL 
fee Arica Instructions, pana A 


bao er ie oie iia —— | 

uL Cut M ACTI | 

orien pr T E RR Cr ii EN 

of filter neck when cold, halfway PP hol n AE EAS onea modate, pregat | 

EON FII Cap... -Wash and off 20 MU ———4 7) Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft... MUEJ 

"or on a MULT i 
I] Dry type ios Replace PigerTiws To mercoma, ditin starting baton 


Manual Steering Gear (plug).....-.....- MP 
n -10*, oor bes -10*, 80; below -30%, 75 


Ea Distributor Shaft (oil cup)... „MO 
Commando engine, right side front 
(0 Wick under rotor, . , . ... . Sparingly M0 


Ea Brake Master Cylinder (cover), . . , ... ,.WB 
Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 
n Steering Linkage. . ...., , (8B fittings) CL——> 
EAGearshitt Rod Shift Levers... £L 
E3rorque Shaft aoa Vir odii hc teta n 


TRANSMISSION, Manual ..... AF 
Ea maintain leve! to fiti plug hol ERIRE e 
2% pints; 19) 
$ pinta, Yeti ap oon 4% ints, With Commando 
ne, 1960 2V, pints; 1961 414 pints, refill 
pron, 3 pints 
DRAIN ond REFILL " 


Gearshift Lever... 

ubber boot bel A 

aret then lever. sparingly ball end 

of lever, praan hale and surrounding area. 
e 


Reassemb| 

Universal Joints ..,.....-..--+-- Repack UJ 
Use only 2 ounces in front joint 
DIFFERENTIAL .............-MP* 


Above -10*, 90; below -10%, 80; below -30^, 75 
Ea Maintain level % Inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION; 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GASTANK.............. ^. Gallons 
Suburban .... " A 21 
Optional for ti 23 
Ail other model 20 
TIRES. ressure Front Rear 
7.5014 . ier: 22° 
800-14 ... 2270 227 


* Station wagon, 24; with heavy load, 28 

€ Station wagon, 24 

For Captíve-Air tíres inner chamber pressure must 
be 4 to 6 pounds higher than outer chamber pres- 


PE as t gm 

Alf other modet " Z 3^ 
DRAIM »nd REFILL iioi ooo oii m 
Remove i artar Ug sng disconnect fill pipe 
Drain more frequently under severe serica 
Crankcase Breather 

Outlet Element „Wash and oil 30 MOJ 
PEY System Vae, we. . COM 


Commando engine, left side front 
Front Wheel Bearings............. Check WERE) 


Clean and repect if 
nut to 90 in. lb, 


Tigh front E adiu a 

, lock O16 Bdjus that one E 
Sef Of siota On lock nut Mn with Arhed hae in 4 
ane spindle, Back oM sdju4ting and lock nuts one i 
slot and install cotter tary i 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brave pedal can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard braves or 
more than 1" with power brakes. engine running. 
the need for service is indicated I 
Two adjustment cams are provides on each bach : 
ing plate, To tighten, turn botn front brake cams 
BNA fear brake front cam in direction of forward e ul 
wheel! rotation, Tighten rear brave ri án 


opposte direction E 
just the brakes 33 follows: i 
1, Turn one adjustment cam until heavy crag is 
2. Siom bi K een di is feit 
, y bac cam until no drag is fe 
3, Repeat slap 1 and 2 for other adjustment carn 
4, Repest steps 1, 2 and 2 for each brave 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, AF, LF When bleeóc- 
ing front brakes, bleed lower cylinder first 


7 KEY TO INTERVALS 
KiEvery 2,000 miles 

Every 4,000 miles 

EEvery 5,000 miles V 
[Every 6,000 miles 

MEvery 10,000 miles 


BE Position for lift adapter [Every 15,000 miles 


e shown " 1 
Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels o Lubrication fitting -~ HiEvery 20,000 miles 
Captive-Air tires, Method C @ Cooling system drain Every 23,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


i issi i nifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 
KEY TO * ni^ ny weal Fluid, " Manio Part No, 1879318 MoPar Part Ne 2084329 
NTS Carburetor Cleaner + MO Motor Oil UJ Universal Joint Grease 
LUBRICA u Chassis Lubricant MP” Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant T WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty ee ne WG White Waterproof Grease 
Marae Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 
Copyright 1964 ie ca Che/t Corperotion, Printed In ThA » For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No, 1679414 PHJ 

rigi i p rporotion, Printed in U.S.A, 


RT iue — — -~- — 


p" 


PLYMOUTH-VALIANT 


1960-61 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


TTE AABM 
BA RY Group Ne. Amp. Hrs. 
24H 50 
1960 2M 20 
t M 
ie 27H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
TTE 130 160° 
* Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion N-12Y 
Gap: .035" 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Autolite, 1960; Chrysler, 1961 
Gap: .0177-.023^ 
Owell angle: 1960, 36°-42°; 1961, 40^ -45* 


CONDENSER 


Autolite, 1960; Chrysler, 1961 
Capacity: .25-.285 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Bring engine to operating temperature 


2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

5. Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 

7. Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 

8. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 

Timing Mark and Setting 


1960 early 1960 late 1961 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 244° 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2996S 
Pressure: 315-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume- 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. BBS 1 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manuel Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
am 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 

on high beam 

Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 

ON and with headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .0107; exhaust .020" 


1961 
WOOD RELEASE: Front 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts "d CRANKCASE ga E e 
All models .... San eer Wine HIM 4 Above --10*. ........ 20W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds Above —10* ..... 104 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below —10°.......... Sw 5w-20 
CAPACITY 4 ine with oil 
EgPower Steering Reservoir eee HER auans cre Packisngins 


DRAIN and REFILL 


Fill to leve! mark on gai u je, to base 
a an hot See Service Instructions, page 4 


je. Without 
of filler neck when cold, halfway when 


n a erronee Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft........ MH 
Not on Hyper Pack engine 


OUFIN Cap... Wash and oil 30 MOE3 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup)... .........--- mog 
Wick under rotor. ..... ....Sparingly MOF 


OL FIE unuara Replace EJ 
Add extra quart oil 


Crankcase Breather 


PCV System Valv 


Disassemble and c! an 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position ; ues - E 
To overcome difficult starting below —10^, replace 

34 quart fluid with kerosine 


Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug)............-- 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (plug) 
Fill to 34 inch below top of fill hole 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .....-..--- 4 7 
DRAIN and REFILL..............------.0---- 


Remove 1 converter plug and transmission plug 
Drain more frequently under severe service 


E3Front Suspension and Fi 
ing Li i ront Wheel Bearings. ..........- Check WB 
Steering Linkage. ......... (9 fittings) CL Front. Wheel PONES iiy D 
Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 70 in. Ib.. 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
E3Torque Shaft ..................... eres cL axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 


TRANSMISSION, Manual ..... AF 
EQ Maintain teve! to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 5 pints, refill approx. 4 pints 
Er] DRAIN and REFILL 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 


depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 
more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 


[Gearshift Lever .............-.-....-- M0 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


Universal Joint......... Repack, 2 oz. only UJ the need for service is indicated 
HUniversal Joint ................. Repack UJ Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Using a suitable tool inserted into rear adjust: 
ment hole in backing plate, expand shoes 
until light drag is felt when rotating wheel 

2. Back off adjustment 10-12 notches or until 
all drag is eliminated 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for each brake 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP 
Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30?, 75 
EJ maintain tevel to fill plug hole 


— 
eo 
eo 
-— 
— 
— 
Å 
-— 
= 

slot and install cotter key — 

= 
we 
=- 
-— 
w 
= 
=- 
- 
= 
= 


CAPACITY 2 pints 
ET) DRAIN and REFILL 
KEY TO INTERVALS 
MEI eM EqEvery 2,000 miles 
TIRES Pressure Front Rear ElEvory 4,000 miles 
ERU Wy ions zs ^U EiEvery 5,000 miles 
For Captive-Air tires inner nier pressure must " " GiEvery 6,000 miles 
be 4 to H | pounds higher than outer chamber pres- Bl Position for lift adapter [Every 10,000 miles 
Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels € Lubrication fitting Every 15,000 miles 
Captive-Air tires, Method C @ Cooling system drain HiEvery 20,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent PS Power Steering Fluid 
Type A, Suffix A MoPar Part No. 1879318 MoPar Part No. 2084329 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


oY 
CL Chassis Lubricant MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant UJ Universal Joint Grease wi 


aa 


E 
4 
f 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY é AABM 
roup No. Amp. Hrs. 
all 24H 48, 59 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) 

A Sis 110-140* 
Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 

SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: 1962, N-12Y; " 

guar Dion 12Y; 1963, N-14Y* 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 

* 1963, gasket not required 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 
Gap: .017”-.023" 
Dwell angle: 40°-45° 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3,6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
E Connect tachometer. : 
e nnect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower EE 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
5. Set idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission 


in NEUTRAL 
6. 
7. ) 
8. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 


idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 275? 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-2996S 
Pressure: 35-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. BBS 1 2rich* 2 rich* 
HOLLEY 
1-bbl. R 1 index** index** 
STROMBERG i: 
1-bbi, WA3 3-1 — 2rich 
* 1963, 4 rich 


** 1963, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
beam 

Auto. Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam R : 

Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
Intake .010”; exhaust .020” 


w 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


With Heator Without Hoater 
All models ......4. 13 


12 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
ditioning, 16 pounds 


E Power Steering Reservolr................ PS 
Fill to base of filler neck when cold, halfway when 
Battery............. seo Test and fill 
Caution: Do not ground posilive terminal 

DFuel Filter... ... Replace 
Crankcase Dipstick..... sees Check level 

E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... MH 
Air Cleaner Element................ Service 

E Dry type .. Clean 

E] Dry type ....... à . Replace 

(Carburetor Choke Piston... .... menu 


Remove air cleaner to service. On carburetor 
body, rear. Apply cleaner while moving choke 
valve back and forth 


E3Manual Steering Gear (plug).......... SG, LM 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ HB 


Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 
EflAutomatic Trans. Filter (under car). . .. . Replace 

Replace at time of transmission drain 

PCV System Vaio sri cires eoira crenza ce 


Remove and clean valve; also hose and carbu- 
retor, if passages are clogged 


1963 py 1962 
Service more frequently under severe service 
E  Crankcase Breather Outlet 
Element 1962....Wash and oil 30 MO 


Front Suspension............... (4 plugs) BJ 

Efinspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
After replacing seal or when lubricating, remove 
plug, use special gun or adapter. Install plug 

Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
Joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 

E3Steering Linkage.......... (4 sealed bearings) 


Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 


EflTorque Shaft ......... 02.00... eee LM 


Disassemble, clean and repack at both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... AF 
Eg maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 5 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


1963 Not recommended 
1962 


E V ‘ 
Universal Joints ....................... u 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade O 

E.. eciam iiec or ebd Inspect 


Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
1963, repack if used under severe service 
1962, repack under all service conditions 
DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 
Above —10°, 90; below —10 elow —30^, 75 
Egmaintain level % inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
1963 E] 1962 
Be deh IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK .................: Gallons 
Suburban ...... 21% 
Optional for fleets . 23 
All other models. 20 
TIRES. Rear 
6.50-14 . 24 
.70-15 ,.. 24* 
7.00-14, 1962 24** 
7.00-14, 1963 2206 
750-14 ........ 226 


Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
EH 1963 Uu 192 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant 


MoPar Part No. 2298947 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 
+ For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


.———Dil Filter ... 


PLYMOUTH 6 


1962-63 All Models Except Valiant 


SYMBOLS md 


CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 
Above +32’,........5 20W-40,10W-30 
Above +10°........,. 10W-30 
Above —10°.......... 10W 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below —10°,......... 5W* 5W-20 


* 1963, 5W-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


1962 ØB 1 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). ... .. (B 
Wick under rotor i .Sparingly MO 


1963 H 
Rentace ld 


Add extra qu: 


.— — TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


BH] Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 


[-] Cooling system drain 


LM Lithium Grease 


MoPar Part No. 1879318 
MO Motor Oil 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position 
To overcome difficult starting below -10", re- 
place 11⁄4 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute 
more than once during amy one season 
CAPACITY, quarts initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ......,..... 4 7 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
parking sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan 
on 1963 without transmission plug 
1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearings 
Inspect ......... 
1963, clean and repack. 


1962, clean and repack. .......... 

Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib.. 
position lock nut over adjustíng nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
Slot and install cotter key 

1963, final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 
.003” end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E31963, Twice yearly 

1962, Every 4,000 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
[IgEvery crankcase oil change 
li]Twice yearly 


Conditional service 

1963, drain and refill differential for below 
— 10? requirements 

1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


PH-9 


PLYMOUTH V-8 


1962-63 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service instructions for Procedure 
(Following data does not include 


rac 
BATIERY ae 
Group N Amp. M. 
An 24M 4859 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion- 


is 383 eng. with 4-bbl. card.. J-9Y; others. 
Gap: .035” 

Torque: 30 ft. ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 

Autolite, Chrysier, Prestolite 

Gap: Autolite, Chrysler, .0147-.019*; Prestolite. 
.015"..018* — 

Owell angie: single points, Autolite, Chrysler, 
28:-33*: Prestolite, 26°-32°: 1962 singe points, 
d ?-32*; dual 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

Bring engine to operating temperature 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 

distributor cap tower 

Set idle speed to 500 rpm, transmission in 

NEUTRAL 

Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 

i js mark and pointer are aligned 
ciamp and recheck align- 


pow p ph pr 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model 318 ,M-2508S; with Air 
Cond., M-2611S; 361, engines, M-2769S 
Pressure: M-2769S, 314-5 Ib.; others, 5-7 Ib.; at 


idle rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idie Cho! Choke 
Mixture (notches) (nsteBes) 


(initial Man. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trams. 
2-bbl. BBD as index index* 
CARTER . $ 
4bbi. AFB 1% 2rich** 2rich** 
STROMBERG 
2-bbL WW3 1% index index 
* 1963, 383 eng. % turn idle mixture; 2 rich 
choke setting 
** 1963, index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 500 rpm, headlights on high beam 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with head- 


lights on high beam i F 
Air Cond. rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 

VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 


318 engine: Intake 013”; exhaust 021” 
361, 383 engines: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


318-cu. in. engine 
361-, 383-cu. in. engines... ... 17 16 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- 
Gitioning. 16 pounds 


EgPower Steering Reservoir................ PS 
ra to base of filler neck when cold, halfway when 


Battery... esses Test and fill E O 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal S E ^ 
e 


oi FM Cap............. Wash and oil 30 MO 
1963 E1962 


Efl Automatic Trans. Filter (under car)... Replace 
Replace at time of transmission drain 


Air Cleaner Element..... Service 
UU ry type . Clean 
Dry type ....... Replace 

ive mss cc 


[Carburetor Choke Piston. .. .. 
Remove air cleaner to service. Apply cleaner 
while moving choke valve back and forth 


EgManual Steering Gear (plug).......... 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). 
Fill to !4 inch below top of reservoir 


E3bistributer Shaft (oil cup). ... ........... M0 
361-, 383-cu. in. engines, right side front 
Wick under rotor.........-.- Sparingly MO 
1963 1962 


Front Suspension............... (4 plugs) BJ 

EGiinspect seal, if damaged, replacement is necessary. 
After replacing seal or when relubricating, remove 
plug, use special gun or proper adapter. Install plug 

EflRetubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 


E3Steering Linkage.......... (4 sealed bearings) 
Inspect seal, replace if damaged or worn 

Bir Sall... onte LM 
Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 
3-speed 


Above +32°, 80MP; below +32°, AF 
90MP may be used if 80 is not available 
CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


1963 Not recommended 


1962 
Universal its... eee een UJ 
Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 
Cee Inspect 


Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 
Ej] 1963, repack if used under severe service 
Ey] 1962, repack under all service conditions 


DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 

Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80; below -30°, 75 
Ed Maintain level to 34 inch below fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 


1963 fA 1962 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


"d CRANKCASE "MS" MO 

E nd Mor +32" 20w 40, 100-30 
Above +10°.......... 20W 10W-30 

Above —10* 10W 10W-30, 5W-20 
Below — 10° 5w* 5W-20 


* 1963. 5W-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


ankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
361-, 383—cvu. in. engines, left side 
COU FREE PAPE Replace [B 
ifold Heat Control Valve Shaft... ....-- MHES 
361-, 383-cu. in, engines, at rear of manifold 
System Valve............-..------ cc 


Remove and clean valve; also hose and car- 
retor, if passages are clogged 
192 ØB 1963 


Service more frequently under severe service 


il Filter (under car)..........----.- Replace EJ 


Add extra quart oil 
361-, 383-cu. in. engines, left side front 


Check level, engine idli 
NEUTRAL position .... 


low a 
114 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quai Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ............ 5 3 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug. transmission pug and 
pari sprag cavity plug; also, remove oil pan 
on 1963 without transmission plug 
1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Severe service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


1962. s oracieceteto teme oriente me | 
ront Wheel Bearings. WB 
Inspett. crc ..I 
1963, clean and repack. . . a 
1962, clean and repack. ........ 32 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. Ib. 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter pin 

1963, final adjustment should be 0, no preload to 
-003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment normally 
required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
| £31963, Twice yearly 
1962, Every 4,000 miles 
Every 5,000 miles 
E Every 8,000 miles 


GAS TANK Gallons | [HEvery 12,000 miles 

Suburban eis 214 Every 16,000 miles 

AII other models ME: fHEvery 32,000 miles 

TIRES....... Rear [M Every crankcase oil change 

6.70-15 ... 24* ülTwice yearly 

7.00-14 ... me - - "m . 

25014 ....... 22** i á Conditional service 

ŽStation wagon Ill. Position for lift adapter EIC SCS drain and refill differential for below 


heavy loa J 
** Station wagon, 26; with heavy load, 28 
Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
H 1963 E 1962 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
BJ Suspension Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS Mopar Part No. 2298947 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


A Prepacked bearing 
[0] Cooling system drain 


— 10* requirements 
1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
ings if wheel is removed for service 


PS Power Steering Fluid 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent Mopar Pareno; 29 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


MO Motor Oil UJ Universal Joint Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


LM Lithium Grease 


Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B 


« For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporotion. Printed in U S.A. 


PH-10 


HEN GL MMSEMAEMEMMASEMANMEEEMI! 


€ € € 


(Ee Eme SON 


1002 


WOOD RELEABE: Front 


ane DATA SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS . 


2 
" 
— 
mid 


BATTERY AAM COOLING SYSTEM Quarts CRANKCASE .."M3" MO | 
Group No, Amp, Hra, With Heater Without Moater Above --32*. .....,.. 30 20W.40,10W-30 
All 20H 3n fiuper 225-0u, In, 3 1 Above 4-10*..,. ss 20W 10W-30 | 
= 3 T : M ndi mH con Belo Zio Ki W vO e | 
unda; wi r CON. - ; ^ ; 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE giton aakay 2° | 
al at cranking speed, Ep Power Steering Reservolr, iis PS A PACITY 8 quarts 
{pal at cranking speed, throttle open) min, mox RAIN and HEPILL 
W oepreone kidivi cc d FIL to base of filler neck when cold, halfway when 
* Maximum variation botween ‘cylinders 0 mae hot - feo Gervice Instructions, page 4 
! Bplatien. oos ee rà 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 
SPARK PLUGS wik argine Raiads ths OI FII Cap. ...... suse Wash and oil. 30. MO 
Champlon, 1962, N-12Y, 1963, N-4Y* et PNT e eneennnnnnne ioc Papa T $ 1962 o 1963 
gan OO t. lb. Crankoaso Dipstick. . . : Distributor Shaft (oil cup),......... ... MO 
* 1963, gasket not required E3Manifold Hoat Control Valve Shaft........ Wick under fotor,.......... Sparingy mo 
Alir Cleaner Elomont p 1962 H 1963 | 
IGNITION POINTS [ ; vee Clean | — ^ 7 INT nll Ftor eee ees Replace ki 
hrysler 32 m SMi SSION Aut tic. AF 
api ,017^.,023* utomatic. 
Dwell anaie, ad’-46° Ei Carburotor Cho n ine Idling” NEUTRAL position 
Remove alr cleaner to service. Apply cloanor a To overcome difficult starting below -10', re- 
COND while moving choke valve back and forth 7 pice. IU pints Mule with kerosine, Do not dilute 
ore than 
ONDENSER EManual Stooring Goar (lug)... cscs l GARE? suit ^9 "pfi hai Tot no 
Capacity: .20-205 mtd E3brake Master Cylinder (cover). . ponen IAT ee iiei 
Fill to 14 Inch below top of reservoir E Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Er Automatic Trans. Filter (under car). . . . Replace parking sorag cavity plui alvo, remove oll pan on 
Roplaco at time of transminsion drain without transmission plug 
Val 1963 Regular drain not recommended 
Pev Systom alvo Sevore service drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
Remove and clo tromoly severe service every 10,000 miles 
D ey — 1902 trensmission filter at time of drain 
quently under sovoro service Front Wheel Bearings.. WB 
Breather Outlot A =A - Inspect ....... ccs eese 
Element. 1962, , Wash and oil 30 M j 1963, clean and repack. ...... d 
t Clean and repack. ...... osse 
Firing Order 1, B, 3, 0, 2,4 Front Suspenslon. ccc ees (4 plugs) BJ Tighten front wheal ealunting nut to 70 in. Ib. 
Inspect seal, if damaged, replacement is nocossary. me |) Ti position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
TIMING PROCEDURE After replacing seal or when lubricating, remove sot of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
plug, use special gun or adaptor, Install plug Oxle spindle, Bock off adjusting and lock nuls one 
|, Bring engine to operating temperature Efl Retubricate using spacia! adaptor. Fill until grease - " slot and install cotter key 
2. Connect tachometer fiqws trom upper bal! joint bleed holes or lower IZ 1202, ding) edjustment should be 0, no preload to 
x Sonn ect timing, Nant to No. 1 spark plug or joint soa! lower ilp. Oo not rupture soals. Roinstall A end play 
4. Disconnect distribut 
S. Set idio apeod to 475309 pm, Wanamiasion m |  ElSteering Linkage... (4 sealed bearings) Va BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
6 aede mp scrow, turn distributor until Usoeeceeblisepiuee (ram gadioriiem i T with thas Drakes gold tha braka, podal Can bé 
d ] more than 2" wi 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned Bi'erque Shaft... sess more than 1” with powor brakes, engine running, 
7. R tighten, dlatributor lamp and recheck Disassomble, clean ond ropack at both ends the neod for service is indicated 
alignment of timing mar! Adjust the brakes as follows: 
8. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper TRANSMISSION, Manual... .AF 1. Using a suitable tool Insarted Into rer adjust. 
' ate, expan shoes 
ER spine Pra ee C uoa i elton rotating wheel 
Timing Mark and Settin DRAIN and REFILL 2. Back off adjustment 10-12 notches or until 
x » z 1963 Not recommended "s 2 ali drag is eliminated 
1962 3. Ropoat stops 1 and 2 for each brake 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
I] 1963 . Inspect 
u ; Weplaós satin i necessary = KEY TO INTERVALS 
FF] 1963, repack if used under severe service : - 
y] — 1962, repack under all service conditions | n jin IM miles 
' ' 
DIFFERENTIAL ............... = 2 EiEvery 5,000 miles 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 214* Above -10^, 90; below -10°, 80; bolow -30", 75 i 
EQ Maintain level to fill plug hoto DEvery 8,000 miles 
FUEL PUMP A DRAN pnd REFILL [Every 12,000 miles 
arter model M-29! » 
Pressures 334-5 Ib. at 500 rpm ü 1963 32 Every 16,000 miles 


Volume: 1 quart per minuto at 500 rpm 


Gallons EH Every 32,000 miles 
=N (Every crankcase oil change 
[Twice yearly 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle ol 


Nia tiar $3515 ++ Pressure front Rear [Conditional service — . 

Pob Ros t "o gfe zien *'Suburbam 3-svat, 2soat fully londod, 20 WB Position for lift adapter 1369, grein and Karin teenie for below 
1-bbl. R i index** — index** Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels e Lubrication fitting 1963, clean and repack front wheel bear- 
STROMBERG "T 2 avian HB 1963 G 1962 @ cooling system drain ings if wheel is removed for service 

* 1963, 4 rich 

** 1963, 2 rich 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED " 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
bear, S50 licne thinemaiight Type A, Suffix A joPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid T Bowe eterne Fld MIL-L-21058 
Auto, Trans, 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights e ; LM Lithium Grease ower Steering Flui 

Air Cond" 980 rpm In NEUTRAL with unit turned LUBRICANTS BJ Sus jensian Lubricant MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent MoPar Part No. 2084329 
ON and with headlights on high beam CC Carburetor Cl : MoPar Part No. 1879318 SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

arouretor Vieaner MO Motor Oil UJ Universal Joint Grease 


VALVE CLEARANCES ERU WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
(engine hot and running) D PH-11 
Intake .010*; exhaust .020" Copyright 1964, The Chok.Chi lorotion, Printed Im U.S.A. le 


PLYMOUTH 6 


1964 All Models Except Valiant 


WOOD RELEASE: Froat 


TUNE-UP DATA WS SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS V- 
= : à nal LO 
BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts Qui Chart CRANKCASE............ . MS" MO 
Ki Group Ne. Amp Wr. With Heater Without Heater 32° 30 10W-30 
AN models |.s n a a Vv Above —10*. 19w per. 
Coolii pressure, poun air com 10°. 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE Giroming 16 pounds EUM End 
Cracking speed, threttüe opem) min, max. BU occorre PS B 
A EEEN TOTEM ng, 140" D eee filter neck when cold, halfway See Service Instructions, page 4 
SPARK PLUGS [« Lo .......... 2... Check and fi~ | 30 MO 
Champion Ni4Y* Caution: Do not ground positive terminal selene ‘frequently Mash aunty conditore n 
Torque: SOR [Fuel Filter With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no Sei 


IGNITION POINTS EgManifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 
Ses, Uae” RA Aìr Cleaner Element 

un died Dry type .. 
CONDENSER Hj «Ory type 


ae Ses td Ide Cin SML er rem 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Ey Manual Steering Gear (plug)... . 5.5 ess SG, LM 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ..........- HB 


Fill to 34 inch below top of reservoir 


Eilerqe Saft... 
Firing Order: 1,$.3,& 2,4 Dissssemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... 


Ed Maintain tevel to fill lug hole 
Severe service, 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
E level every 4,000 miles or 2 


. Sri ine to ing temperature 
Bring engine to operating 


2 T 
1 Connect timing light to No. 1 spark 2 
distributor cap tower rax CAPACITY 3 ints 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line DRAN ama PEEL 
L speed 25-500 rpm, transmission Regular in recommended 
5 A NEUTRAL "b Severe service, drain every 32.000 miles; ex- 
& Loosen ciesunp Screw, di z il tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
7. VERD dir tor Clamp and recheck [aSearshift Lever... sane MO 
ment of ming mark rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
& S i cant to pivot points and yoke selector mechanism 


i for replace seais if necessary 
B Service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 


Repack if used under severe service 
DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 


Above —10*, 90; below —10*, 80: below -30°, 75 
Ed Maintain tevel A inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottom of 
ci 


Il plug hole (frame hoist) | 
heck level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 2: 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Normal service Severe service 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 214 * 


FUEL PUMP 
Carter model MS-3674S 
Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


GAS TANK 


BH Position for lift adapter 


Idie en) an, Drain and aal differential for below — 10^ 
stat i Prepacked bearing requirements 
initial Man. Auto. * Add 4 pounds for ful 4 à Repack front wheel bearin, i 
P s as ri 
Ha. gsnt 7a TES Bis HRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain at brake overhaul g equired'or 
HOLLY 1 2rich — 2rich 
1-bbL R 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
ENGINE IOLE, SPEED us Rion gh AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, LM Lithium Grease PS Power Steering Fluid 
beam ns 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights KEY TO Type A, Suffix A MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent MoPar PartNo. 2084329 
on high beam E BJ) Suspension Lubricant MoPar Part No. 1879318 SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Air Cand. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned LUBRICANTS MoPar Part No. 2298947 MO Motor Oil 
ON and headlights on high beam CC Carburetor Cleaner : . UJ Universal Joint Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant . 

VALVE CLEARANCES MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid `` Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
(engine hot and running) | x For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 
Intake .010*; exhaust Copyright 1954, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. PH-12 


istributor Shaft (oil cup)... ~.. ~ eee MO 
Wick under sd Wess ....Sparingly MO 


Replace valve if clogged; 
buretor, if passages are cl 
Service more frequently under severe service 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
L position * 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models s.s.s 4 8 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug and parking sprag cavity 
plus: also remove oil pan 

regular drain not recommended 
Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


ont Wheel Bearings.................- WB 
USHER ic carne saan emere ness AR 
Severe service, inspect every 10,000 miles 
Repack cien cassa vua Pen sime n 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 In. Ib., 
position lock nut over adjustment nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003” end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EXTwice yearly 
Every 5,000 miles 
IT]Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
Hi]Every 20,000 miles or 2 years 
EHEvery 32,000 miles 
fEvery 2 years or 32,000 miles 
HM Conditiona! service 

Lubricate gearshift lever as required 


: 
=s 
= 
d) 
oa 
- 
== 
~~ 
-— 
E 
ai 
m 
ae 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


r 
Followii i 
(rooming data does not include racing-type 
BATTERY AABM 
318 engine t Amp Hrs 
361, , 426 engines 24H 38 
27H 70 


cy’ 
ion between cylinders, E pa: 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion: 383 eng. wi ^ 
110v; others, 312 with 4-bbl. carb., 426 eng., 


p: -035 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Chrysler, Prestolite 
Gap; 0147-019" 
angle: Single points, 28°-33°; each set 
dual points, 27°-32°; dual Points’ total dwell, 


CONDENSER 
Chrysler, Prestolite 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


2 
Sg 
ORO 


Prestolite dist. Chrysler dist. 
361, 383, 426 engs. 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer e ps 


318 eng. 


`3: Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 


distributor cap tower 

4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

5. Set idle speed to 500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 

6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 

7, Retighten distributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of timing mark P 

B. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 10° 


FUEL PUMP : 

Carter model; 318 engine, MS-3673S; 361, 383, 
426 engines, MS-3672S 

Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke 


(notches) 
MS 

BALL & BALL rans. 
2-bbl. BBD 318 eng. index 
ZPOL Bpo 36leng. % 2 rici 
abr is 1% index 
ST B. 
2-bbl. WW3 1% index 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED beam 


Manual Trans, 500 rpm, headlights on hii 
Auto. Trans. io Hest in NEUTRAL wit 
lights on hij m i 
Me Cond. E rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

vee pet and annie) exhaust .021” 

361, E , 426 engines: Hydraulic lifters, non- 
adjustable 


head- 


GER 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM. ........Quarts 


318-cu. in. engine... 
361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. 
Cooling system press; 
ditionis e. 16 pounds 


EqBattery.................... Check and fi 

Caution: Do not ground positive terminal iit 

E3Power Steering Reservoir................PS: 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot 


EJON FHI Cap. oou Wash and oil 30 MO 
more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed ay: no service 


ExCarburetor Choke Shaft Clean CC: 
Air Cleaner Element. .. 


, 14 pounds; with air con- 


P4 ODrytype ..... .Clean 
2) Dry type . „Replace 
E3Manual Steering Gear (plug)........... SG, LI 
ExDistributor Shaft (oil cup) TURRIS M 
361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, right side front 
Wick under rotor...... .....Sparingy MO 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover). ......... s WB—+(2) 
Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage............ (9 plugs) B. 
EJ inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary. After replacing seal, relubricate 
Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until 
rease flows from upper bail joint bleed holes or 
lower joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. 
Reinstall.plug 


EHTorque Shaft ..............-.--..--- . i 


Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 


All except 3-speed H.! 


3-speed H.D. . 

Above +32°, 80MP; it 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 

Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 

2 months = 

CAPACITY 3-speed: H.D. 214 pints, others 34 

pints; 4-speed 614 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 

tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


[Gearshift Lever ........... ...MO 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, apply lubri- 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mec! anism 


Universal Joints -e-a eoa U 

Front, 2 ounces, grade 2; rear, grade 0 
Inspect for leaks, replace seals if necessary 

Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 mo. 


EH Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL .........-...- MP* 

Above —10*, 90; below —10?, 80; below -30° , 75 
EQ Maintain level 7; 

hoist); bottom of fill plug hole (frame 


oist) 


Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or. 


2 months 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Normal service Severe service 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


GAS TANK............ . Gallons 
Suburban ....... 21 
Optional for fleets. 23 
All other models 19 
TIRES.. .Pressure Front Rear 
670-15 ..... 24  24* 
7.00-14, 7.50-14 .. 22*A 
* Add 4 pounds for 

AStation wagon, 26 


ERotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


BJ Suspension Lubricant 


LUBRICANTS it MoPar Part No. 2298947 


Carburetor Cleaner 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


Printed in U.S.A. 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporatio 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


inch below fill plug hole (axle 


PLYMOUTH V-8 


1964 All Models Except Valiant 


w- 


i NnS na “MS” MO 1 
.. 30 10W-30 

. 10W — 10W30 | 

5W 5W-20 | 


CAPACITY 4 quarts except 426-cu. in. engine, 


5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


| 
—— Check level | 
, left side 


Replace fd 


361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, front ii 
pras fuel pump gines, front of engine i 


PCV System Valve... 


Replace valve if clogged; also clean hose and car- | 
buretor, if passages are clogged | 
Service more frequently under severe service 


Oil Filter (under car)...............- ReplaceEd — | 


Add extra quart oil. 361-, 383-, 426-cu. in. engines, 
left side front 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL LOM ic. opeisiarescpeimmemiaminencienaewni= 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 

To overcome difficult starting below —10°, replace 
1% pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 


than once during any one season 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill, Total Refill 
‘All models ..........- 5 9 


DRAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug and parking sprag cavity 
plug also remove oil pan 

egular drain not recommended : 
Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearings 


Inspect 
Severe service, inspect every 10,000 


Repack....«. ue corem hei Heme n 


Tighten front wheel adjusting nut to 90 in. 1b., 
position lock nut over adjusting nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with drilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
Should be 0 (no preload) to .003" end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Twice yearly 
EiEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
HiEvery 20,000 miles or 2 years 
EB Every 32,000 miles 
f]Every 2 years or 32,000 miles 
[i Conditional service 


Lubricate gearshift lever as required 

Drain and refill differential for below — 10* 
requirements : 

Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
at brake overhaul 


- B o" 


B] Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 
®@ Cooling system drain 


LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant p 
Meeting Specification MIL-L-2105B WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
nt Part No. 1879414 


LM Lithium Grease 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 
MoPar Part No. 1879318 


MO Motor Oil 


x For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubri 
PH-13 ( 


PLYMOUTH-VALIANT 6 


1964 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Seo Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
170 engine 20H 38 
225 engine 24H 48 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


* Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion N-14Y* 
Gap: .035" 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 

* Gasket not required 


IGNITION POINTS 


Chrysler 
dep; ,0177-.023* 


CONDENSER 


Chrysler 
Capacity: .25..285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, $, 3, 6,2, 4 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 
3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
5. Set Idle speed to 475-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 
6. Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified timing mark and pointer are aligned 
7. Retighten distributor clamp and recheck 
alignment of timing mark 
8. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 
Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center); 21 * 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter mode! MS-3674S 
Pressure: 314-5 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


| CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL urns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. BBS 1 2 rich 2 rich 
HOLLEY 
1-bbl. R 1 2 rich 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 550 rpm with headlights on high 
beam 

Auto. Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with headlights 
on high beam è i 

Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and with headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
Intake .010"; exhaust 020” 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


es SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOW 
COOLING SYSTEM...... .. Quarts 7 
With Heater Without Heater 


Super 225-cu, In, 
engino 13 12 
All other 


12 “n 
re, 14 pounds; with air con» 


EaPowor Steering Reservoir,....... cana P 


FNI to base of filler neck when cold, haitway 
Battery.......... ees es Chock and m^ 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 
(Fuel Filter ............... 0.000, Replace 
Crankcase Dipstick..,......,.,..Check lvl 
E3Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft,........MH 
Air Cleaner Element. . » Service 
Ea Drytype ...... "m . Clean 
Dry type oo... cece cee ee ees Replace 
ExCarburetor Choke Shaft,..........Clean CC 


In carburetor air horn. Remove air cleaner to servico 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)......... E 


Fill to 4 Inch below top of reservoir 


ExManual Steering Gear (plug).....,.....SG,LM 


(8 plugs) BJ 
ent is noces- 
i until rN, 


EH Torque Shaft..... 


Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.....AF 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 


Savara service, check level every 4,000 miles or 2 
months 

CAPACITY 3-spoed, 5 pints; 4-speed, 6 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Regular drain not recommended 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


Gearshift Lever ...........-. 0. cee eeee MO 
Remove rubber boot from floo inel, apply lubri - 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mecí ianism 


Universal Joints . . . 


months 
EH Repack if used under severe service 


DIFFERENTIAL ..............MP* 
Above -10^, 90; below —10°, s below —30*, 75 
E Maintain leval % Inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottom of fill plug hole (frame holst) 
Severe service, check level evory 4,000 miles or 
2 months 
CAPACITY P pine 
DRAIN and REFILL ; 
[3 Normal service Severe service 


SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION! 
Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 


m" 


GAS TANK... oos Gallons 

All models .... en mmm 18 

TIRES. Pressure Front Rear Bü] Position for lift adapter 
6,50-13 .. POM S 24  24* 

* Suburban. fully loaded, 20 A Prepacked bearing 


EiRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, DRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant 
MoPar Part No. 2298947 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, 
LM Lithium Grease 


MoPor Part No. 1879318 
MO. Motor Oil 


« For Sure-Grip diffarentlol, usa MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Pert No, 1879414 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed In U.S.A. 


litere Automatic. AF 


oPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 


N BY SYMBOLS sd 
CRANKCASE......... ,,,"MS" MO 
Above -+-32°,..... , 30 10W-30 
D aA, 10W 10W-30 
Below —10^.... 5W 5W-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Bee Service instructions, page 4 
ON Fill Cap.....,......Wash and oll 30 MOPT 
Service more frequently under dusty conditions. 
With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup)..........--., MO 
Wick under rotor... .  Sparingly MO 
DN FIOT oiu eorr rrro htm he ,Replacep1 
Add extra quart oll 
PCV System Valve..................-CheckEY 


clean hose and car- 


clogged; also 


Check level, ongine Idling and thoroughly worm, 
NEUTRAL position .... 0:60 errore 
Severo service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 

To overcome difficult starting below ~10°, replace 
114 pinte fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 
than once during any one season 

CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models «1. es eee eee 4 6 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug end 
parking sprog cavity plug; also remove oll pan 
Regular drain not recommended 

Severo service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremoly severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


Front Wheel Bearing 


Inspect . Pas 

Seve 

Repi " 
Tighten front to 70 in, Ib., 
position lock nut over adjustment nut so that one 
set of slots on lock nut aligns with dfilled hole in 
axle spindle. Back off adjusting and lock nuts one 
slot and install cotter key. Final adjustment 
should be 0 (no preload) to .003* end play 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes ore self-adjusting, No adjustment nor- 
‘equired 
ding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Twice yearly 

Every 5,000 miles 

[Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
Every 20,000 miles or 2 years 
Ef Every 32,000 miles 

H] Every 2 years or 32,000 miles 


(Conditional service 
Lubricate gearshift lever as re 
Drain and refill differential for 

requirements 
Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
at brake overhaul 


juired 
low —10° 


€eettetetutttt 


Heavy-Duty MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
ea | Specification MIL-L-21058 
PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
U) Universal Joint Grease 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


€ € € 


PH-14 


sh 


ere esa egin | io 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 


Al Sreup Ne. Amp Mrs; 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
WIE. asses 12 4- kd Siu eiim -. 125 155 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion N-14Y 
Gap: .035* 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Ch 
CONDENSER 


Chrysler 
Capacity: .25-.285 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4,3, 6,5,7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Loosen clamp screw, turn distributor until 
specified Liming mack and pointer are aligned 
Retighten distributor clamp and recheck align- 
ment of timing mark 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


mox pma UN 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Manual Trans. 5^; Auto. Trans. 10* 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter model MS-3673S 

Pressure: 5-7 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idie Choke Choke 


Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. BBD 1 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED m 

Manual Trans. 500 rpm, headlights on high beam 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with head- 
lights on high beam " 

Air Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON and headlights on high beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 
Intake .013*; exhaust .021^ 


PLYMOUTH-VALIANT V-8 


1964 All Models 


w- 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts e CRANKCASE "MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater Above 4325... 30 10W-30 
All models ........ 177 16 Above —10*...... tow 10W30 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds; with air con- Below —10°... .... : 5W 5W20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
E3Battery..... ee Check and fill DRAIN and REFILL 
Caution: Do not ground positive terminal — | oa See Service Instructions, page 4 
E3Power Steering Reservoir................ PS = Ta, } 
Fill to base of filler neck if cold, halfway when hot Crankcase Dipstick ... . Check level 
E3Carburetor Choke Shaft............ Clean CC Fuel Filter ............ sss Replace fj 
Air Cleaner Element............... Service Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. ..... MHpy 
PF) Oytype..... . . Clean PCV System Valve.. .... 6. - Check 
MI Dy Won oocsceee ye roy rs Replace buretor po repe Clean hose and car- 
(LE: c: sscisiccccarseers Wash and oil 30 MO Osce Imo ren Uenty under seveng Sérvice 
E307 Fill abe frequently under dusty conditions. > Oil Filter (under car)... ... Replacegg 


Add extra quart oil 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 

level, engine idling and th 

NEUTRAL POROA Eea ene DITOU ped abate 
vere service, check level every 4, c 

2 montns » ry 4,000 miles or 
O overcome difficult starting below -10°, l 

1'4 pints fluid with kerosine. Do not dilute more 

than once during any one season 

CAPACITY, quarts Initia 

bin AMA s i al Remit Tetal Refill 

DRAIN and REFILL 

Remove 1 converter plug, transmission plug and 

parking sprag Cavity plug; also remove oil pan 
egular drain not recommended 

Severe service, drain every 32.000 miles; ex- 

tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 
Replace transmission filter at time of drain 


ront Wheel Bearings 


Inspect 
Severe sei 


RUBER us cesso ccc vieigssinn anaes n 


With closed PCV system, sealed cap, no service 
EgManual Steering Gear (plug). ........- S6, LM 
E3bistributor Shaft (oil cup). .............. MO 
Wick under rotor Sparingly MO euo, 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover)............ HB 


Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage............ (9 plugs) BJ——- 


Ed inspect seal; if damaged, replacement is neces- 
sary. After replacing seal, relubricate - 

Relubricate using special adapter. Fill until grease 
flows from upper ball joint bleed holes or lower 
joint seal lower lip. Do not rupture seals. Reinstall 
plug 

EH Torque Shaft ....... eomas seisoo LM 


Disassemble, clean and repack both ends 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .... AF- 
Maintain level to fill plug hole P 

Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 2 
months z A 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 5 pints; 4-speed, 6 pints 
DRAIN and RÉFILL 

Regular drain not recommended > 

Severe service, drain every 32,000 miles; ex- 
tremely severe service, every 10,000 miles 


Gearshift Lever ...............-.. n 
Remove rubber boot from floor panel, app! 
cant to pivot points and yoke selector mec 


Universal Joints... eee cre 
E inspect for leaks replace seals if necessary 

ns, 'or leaks, replace seals 

Severe service, inspect every 4,000 miles or 2 

months 


EH] Repack if used under severe service 
DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 


Above —10^, 90; below -10°, 80; below —30°, 75 
Maintain level 5 inch below fill plug hole (axle 
hoist); bottorn of fill pug hole (frame hoist) 
Severe service, check level every 4,000 miles or 
2 months 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
[3 Normal service 
SURE-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 


slot and install cotter key. Final adjustmi z 
should be 0 (no preload) to 003" end play i. 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3ATwice yearly 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
Every 16,000 miles or yearly 
HjEvery 20,000 miles or 2 years 
Every 32,000 miles 
Hi Every 2 years or 32,000 miles 


EH Severe service 


Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 
GAS TANK "o [I Conditional service 

El. a , Lubricate gearshift lever as requir 
TIRES. Rear Bl Position for lift adapter Drain and refill differential for below —10° 
* Suburban, 24; fully loaded, 28 requirements 


A  Prepacked bearing 


Repack front wheel bearings as required or 
@ Cooling system drain 


Effotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels at brake overhaul 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty — MP*Multi-Pur i 
MoPar Hi-Temp Brake Fluid Meetin pose Gear Lubricant nn 
LM Lithium Grease PS Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 


LUBRICANTS BJ Suspension Lubricant MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent S| i i 
BEETA CLER ees 


CC Carburetor Cleaner MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
+ For Sure-Grip differential, use MoPar Rear Axle Lubricant Part No. 1879414 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed im U.S.A. PH-15 


—— 2 


PONTIAC V-8 


1958-60 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24 60 
27 72 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
Standard engine . quyvistiiseistevien eens eo Looe 
HHOOmB. ENDE Peirosa cae Ra. RAS 170-190* 


* Lowest cylinder pressure shall be within 80 
of highest cylinder iá 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC: 1958-59, 45; 1960, 45S 

Gap: .033"-.038" (.035* preferred) 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 

Gap: .016* 

Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30? preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


DOO 
RDOO® 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Remove tape, reconnect distributor vacuum 
line and reset to proper idle speed 


x pm B wre 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6° 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model: 1958, 4488; 1959, 4480; 1960, 4512 
Pressure: 5'4-6% Ib. at 500-1000 rpm (tested at 


carburetor height) » 
Volume: 1 pint in 45 seconds or less, at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1958-59 4-bbl. P od 1 rich 1 rich 
1960 4-bbl. 14° 1 rich 1 rich 
ROCHESTER . 
2-bbi. 2GC 1% index index 
(3) 2-bbl. 2GC 1% index index 


* Air bleed screw, initial adjustment, 214 turns 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


1958 Manual Trans. 450-470 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE 


1959-60 Manual Trans. 480-500 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE 


Air Cond. 540-560 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned 
OFF 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


EV SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM. ....... Quarts Qd Gat 
With Without 
Heater Heater 
1958 22% 21 
With air conditioning 224 21 
With Hydra-Matic 22 21 
eR : e 329 ae All others 1958 models 
Cooling system pressure, 13-15 pounds 
Ete oues Test and fill 
(Fuel Filter 1960....... NET E Replace 


EgPower Steering Reservoir... 
Fill to level mark. 1959 Air Suspension models, 
use only synthetic fluid GM Part No. 577080. 
Caution: Do not mix fluids 
Air Suspension Compressor Reservoir on models 
without power steering. Maintain level between 
ADD OIL and FULL marks with AF. Do not overfill 


Air Cleaner Element...............- Service 


Polyurethane element ........ 10W-30 MO 
Wash and oil 

EH Dy type ..... 

Wire gauze 


Manual Steering Gear (plug).......-..-.-- SG 
EJ Check level, also for leaks 
Y IAM plug level . 

Power steering models, no lubrication 

Brake Master Cylinder (plug). ...........- HB 


PiCheck for leaks 
t Fil tod inch below top of fil! hole. Power brakes, 


% incl 
EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage......... (17 fittings) CL 
Eatluteh Shaft Felts and Linkage........... M0 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
Echec level, atso for leaks 

CAPACITY 1% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
FAUniversal Joints ................. Repack WB 

Refer to dealer 


KilParking Brake Cables.............. Coat WG 


Before jacking or placing car on lift, pull CAR 
LIFT knob, located on instrument panel near 
steering column, all the way out. After lower- 
ing, push knob all the way in 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 
EJ Check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 514 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

SAFE-T-TRACK IDENTIFICATION: 

A stripe of green on outer end of axle shafts 


GAS TANK . 


1958-59 Safari 


1960 ex. Safari.. . tenes " 

1960) Safari! EEE vUSSKARPASS eae. 

TIRES ........... 

POO I TE AEA 2 2 

8.50-14 20" 20 " 

8.50-14, Safari : 22 — 26 Bl Position for lift adapter 


Rear outer positions indicate non- 
load carrying pad under control 
arm bracket support to stabilizer 


© Lubrication fitting 
Cooling system drain 


8.00-14, 8.50-14, 6 ply... 
* with air conditioning, 22 


ERotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MO Motor Oil 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


-M»- 


CRANKCASE "MS" or "DG" MO 
Above +10°........ ....20W*  10W-30 
Above —10°... ess. 10N* — 10W-20 
Below: 10" isis cues cete DM 5W-20 


*For sustained high performance, high speed 
driving, use one grade heavier 


CAPACITY 5 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Oil Fill Caps... ... n.. Wash and oil MOES 
1958, fill cap on right side, forward 


Generator (2 oil cups).................- [oga 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MH 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position . 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .... [1 


na e 
stop-and-go driving, every 12,000 miles 
Remove 1 coupling plug and disconnect fill pipe, 
except early 1958, remove transmission plug 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup)..............- LIU x | 


Oil Filter (under car) ............ ss. Replace fH] 
Add extra quart oil 

Crankcase Breather Outlet Element........ MOREY 
Wash and oil 

Air Suspension Tank Cock.............- Draing 


Tank located inside right front fender. Some 1958, 
cock reached from under hood 
Drain condensation. Close immediately 


Front Wheel Bearings.......... . Repack WBE 
Initial Torque Final Adjustment 
1958-59 . -200 in. Ib. 45-50 in. Ib. 


...325 in. Ib. 25-35 in. Ib. 
Universal Joint Spline (plug)..........--- wei 


Reached thru hole in bottom of frame 
To lubricate, replace plug with fitting 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 

With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2” with standard brakes or 

more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Make sure parking brake is completely re- 
leased 

2. Use suitable too! inserted into adjustment 
hole in backing plate to expand shoes until 
drum can just be revolved by hand 

3. Back off the adjustment 12 notches 

4, Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 
KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 2,000 miles 
[Every 4,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 
faEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
HEvery 15,000 miles 

Oil Filter: Every 15,000 miles or yearly 
Every 25,000 miles 
Ki Yearly 

Conditional service 

Fill brake master cylinder when brakes are 

adjusted 


Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 

Repack front wheel bearings only when 
wheel and drum are removed for other 
service 


eeeeegTegeee € & E 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant ; à 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PS Power Steering Fluid... WG White Waterproof Grease - 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
& Use Pontiac special lubricant Part No. 531536 in all differentials D" 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporotion. Printed in U.S.A- PC-3 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 22F 42 

24 61 

COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
8.6:1CR_... - 140-160" 
10.25:1CR . . 


170-190* 
* Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 80% 


of highest cylinder 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 45S; trailer towing, 44S 
Gap: .033”-.038” (.035^ preferred) 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Gap: .019* 
Dwell angle: 74*-76? (75* preferred); late 1962 
without adjusting window, 31°-34° 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


0 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle s, with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at harmonic balancer and 
turn distributor toobtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


m pn e m 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 4843 

Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at 1800 rpm (tested at carbu- 
retor height) 

Volume: 1 pint in 45 seconds or less, at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. B 15 manual pese, 
l-bbl. BC 1 index index 
4-bbl. 4GC P 1 rich ] rich 


* Air bleed screw, initial adjustment, 1 turn 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 680-700 rpm 

Auto, Trans. 580-600 rpm in DRIVE 

Air Cond. Manual Trans. 680-700 rpm; Auto. 
tans. 630-650 rpm in DRIVE; with unit turned 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


— PONTIAC TEMPEST 4 


1961-62 All Models 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS Be 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 


us d CRANKCASE.. "MS" or "DG" MO 
thout Above +10°...... 20W 10w-30 
— Heater Heater Above —10°. 10W 10W-30 
models ......-,0-eeeec eee 12% 1% Below —10° 5W 5W-20 
With air conditioning... ..... 13 12 CAPACIT' ` 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds SEY saui 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Power Steering Reservoir 
Maintain level between FULL and ADD marks on 


dipstick. Check for leaks | 

Manual Steering Gear (plug).............. SG , | 
D level, Es for i " Oil Fill Cap. . . Wash and oi! MO] 
EGenerator (1 or 2 oil cups).............. MO Crankcase Dipstick . . . ... Check level 

Fuel Filter Element................, eri Air Cleaner Element............... Service 
[A in fuel line.. Pah Wire gauze...... Wash and oil 10w-30 MOI 
Hi] In carburetor. . . Clean Polyurethane... .Wash and oil 10w-30 M0 [D 
12 Incaruretor ,.... esos Replace PCV System Valve... Replace [E 
Eg Brake Master Cylinder (plug or cap). .. .... HB Mao remove and clean hose 

Check for leaks Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MHA 

Fill to % inch below top of fill hole Lubricate if shaft is not free 

Dil Filter (under car)... ...... .... Replace 
lote 1962, Power steering only Add extra quart oil 


monvol steering, 


no lubricotion ien 8962, 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961...........MOEY 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE 


Tighten to 10-12 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; back 
otf v, turn 


EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ..... (9 to 12 fittings) CL——* 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . FY 
Remove cover plate in luggage compartment floor 
pan to reach dipstick 

1961, make sure dipstick is locked in place 
CAPACITY 3 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


EgClutch Shaft Felt. |... MO 


[ll Speedometer Cable ............... Coat SP 


Parking Brake Cables Remove the oil fill tube H 
CORR? ODORE WG BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
P With the braki old, if the brak dal can be 
1961, also coat cable where it passes over Gapressed rakes cold, de IPE prake poani auts 
torque Tube: OORE CL indicated 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 
1. Make sure parking brake is completely re- 
leased 
2. Use a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
Slot in backing plate to expand shoes to pro- 
duce 5-8 Ib. drag at outside of tire when wheel 
is turned N 
3. Back off adjustment 10 notches on front 
brakes, 12* notches on rear brakes. Drum 
should turn freely without drag 
4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
* Back off 14 notches if hoist supports rear sus- 
pension near ends of control arms and prevents 
rear wheels from hanging down 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 

KEY TO INTERVALS 
EqEvery 4,000 miles 
HgEvery 4,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
IBEvery 16,000 miles or yearly 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
EJ check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 3 pints; 4-speed, 4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


DIFFERENTIAL............. 90 MP 
Check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


ra sca e 
GAS TANK... Gallons = bad [Twice yearly 
All: models: PRETEEN 16 [Conditional service 


Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or 
LIFTING CAUTION i y 
Never lift car by front or rear bumpers needle flickers 


Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
TIRES.......... Pressure Front Rear a a 8 


6.00-15, Sedan .. 22 22 GB Position for lift adapter Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
6.50-15, Sedan TET) 22 eid i shaft is not free 
6.50-15, station Wagon. >. -+++ ++- 22 26 * Lubrication fitting 


Repack front wheel bearings when wheel is 


EsRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels removed for other service 


@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Type A, Suffix A MO Motor Oil SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
i i i PS Power Steering Fluid 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty powers veer ne S api WG White Waterproof Grease 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. PC.A 


PONTIAC TEMPEST V-8 


1961-62 All Models 


— Am 
LENT. 


1962 
ROOD RELEASE: Front 


AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS -AP- 


TUNE-UP DATA ES SERVICE 


See Service instructions for Procedure 


"MS" or "DG" MO 
BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM Quarts CRANKCASE. . MS o Med 
" xe Se Cue joove 10° 2dw 10W30 
P u All models M 12% ny Below —10° `. SW 5w- 
colt air conditioning... 13 12 CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ing system pressure, 15 pounds ORAIN and REFILL 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE A ‘ 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi See Service Instructions. page 4 
BGICM,BBICR. . è 2 ,140-160* 
MEME acd | entem uuu 
1 D i wi a: 
H Eee e r preaun should be within 80% dipstick. Check for leaks marks on 


SPARK PLUGS 


Eg Manual Steering Gear (plug). . . .. . | Battery... . oo... Testand fill 
AC: 1961, 45FF$; 1962, 44FFS Check level, also for leaks 
gap ad rcr A SCR preferred) . 
* Use thread lubricant e Generator (1 or 2 oil cups) d . MOD 

(Fuel Filter Element... uu Replace 
IGNITION POINTS Oil Filter (under car) . . .. . . .. Replace 
Lc gy Eoi FillCap. ius. Wash and oil. MO Add extis; quart cir 
Dweil angle: 28°-32° (30° preterred) Servi 

Air Cleaner Element... . ......... Service 

CONDENSER Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level Polyurethane... Wash and oil 10W-30 MORE} 
Delco 


Capacity; .18-.23 mid 


E38rake Master Cylinder (plug or cap)... ..... HB 
i Check for leaks PAITA PCV System Valve Beemer . Replace [Hl 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Fill to % inch below top of fill hole š i tenisa, _ Alsoremoweandcl 


no lubrication 


Bearings............ Repack WER 
EJ Front Suspension and e Least ne phe ft. Ib-, while rotating Mars back B 
Steering Linkage... ... (9 to 12 fittings) cL— of turn 


; Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position n 
firing Order: 1,8,4,3,6,5,7,2 


Remove cover plate in luggage compartment flcor 


Peet make sure dipStich is locked in place 
TIMING PROCEDURE Speedometer Cable ................ Coat SP. 1961, make sure dipstich is Jog 
CAPACITY 3 quarts 
$ Bring engine to operating temperature DRAIN and REPILL Not recomme: 
2 Connect tachometer 5 
2. Connect timing lipht to No. 1 spark plug or Remove Maoil f itube, 
istributor cap tower 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Los s al A ME With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
S. Set die speed with transmission in NEUTRAL depressed more than 2^, the need for service is 
€ Observe timing at harmonic balancer and turn indicated 
distributor to obtain recommended setting Parking Brake Cables Adjust the brakes as follows: — 
7 Reconnect vacuum line end reset to proper Coat WG L maa sure parking brake is completely re- 
SORARSIN T EO WM OE aeaa mate ei ased 7 . i 
1961, also coat cable where it passes over 2: UTs a LUN unl inaertad into. adjustment 
Timing Mark and Setting torque tube ........... ive -> GL duce 5-8 Ib. drag at outside of tire when wheel 
"^ 3. Back oM adjustment 10 notches on front 
brakes, 12* notches on rear brakes, Drum 
should turn freely without drag 
P 4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
DIFFERENTIAL... . ....90 M * Back off 14 notches if hoist supperts rear sus- 
EJ check level also for teaks pension near ends of control arms and prevents = 
CAPACITY 3 pints Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended — 
KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 4,000 miles 
Every 4,000 miles or 6 months [ 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center); 5° GAS TANK.............. - Gallons "n z^ Ere 8,000 miles | 
All models ........ m Sates TS wet roa) s 
FUEL PUMP (Every 12,000 miles or yearly 
LIFTING CAUTION i — 
AC mogel 4827 Never lift car by front or rear bumpers IBEvery 16,000 miles or yearly 
Erena aoe Ib. at 1800 rpm (tested at carbu- [I Conditional service 
retor hegi n 
Volume; 1 pint in 45 seconds or less at idle rpm TIRES.. is «JA ci Pressure Front fear Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or - 
,00-15, gn ... ee een n "il ^ need. 3 - 
15, Sedan ........ 2/—m HBB Position for lift adapter Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
6.50-15, Sedan è à 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 6.50-15, station wagon 22 28 © Lubrication fitting repair i 
Idie Choke Choke Repack front wheel bearings when wheel is — 
Mixture — (notchap) (notches) Eg Rolate tires, Method B, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain removed for other service 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
2-bbl. 2GC 15 index index J JR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIP 
rtr rs Free: ingex FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR B G WIPER BLADES 
* Ait bleed screw, initial adjustment, 1 turn 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
saui Trenn SEDO Type A, Suffix A MO Motor Oil SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
ue $ : ; , 
kutu Trans. 580-600 rpm in DRIVE í LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
PEI €09 Com un DANY Evens hai unit PS Power Steering Fluid WG White Waterproof Grease 
Pontiac Part No. 9771864 
VALVE CLEARANCES 
Pipreslut. ites, honadjustable Coprrigh! 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporotion. Printed ie U.S.A. 


Hy drm litters, 6on8d;UStibie 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
1961 Std. with economy eng. 24 53, 61 
Others 24 61 
1962 Manual Trans. 24 53 
Auto, Trans. 24 61 
All (optional) 27 72 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
BGACR eere m nnn o. 140-160* 
10.25:1CR, 10.75:1CR ......... ...170-190* 


* Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 80% 
of highest cylinder 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 45S; high speed. 44 
Gap: .033"-.038* (.035” preferred) 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016* 

Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 
CONDENSER 

Delco 

Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower * 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening aan 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at harmonic balancer and 
turn distributor to obtain recommended 
setting 

7. Reconnect distributor vacuum line and reset 
to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


ppm Bog 


..9-69 
ith Toc 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 4512 

Pressure: 514-634 Ib. at 500-1000 rpm (tested at 
carburetor height) E 
Volume: 1 pint in 45 seconds or less, at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 1° 1 rich 1 rich 
ROCHESTER . 
2-bbl. 2GC Ly index index, | 
(3) 2-bbl. 2GC Me index** index 


* Air bleed screw, ial adjustment, 114 turns 
** Idle and choke adjustments on center car- 
buretor only 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 480-500 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE , 7 

Air Cond. 540-560 rpm in DRIVE with unit turned 
OFF and idle compensator valve held closed, if 
so equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


d SERVICE 


A T 


COOLING SYSTEM...... .. Quarts 

With Heater Without Heater 
All models ........ 19% 18% 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 


Eili ierit on 
(Fuel Filter Element ............ 2... 


EgPower Steering Reservoir.............. 
Fill to level mark. Check for leaks 
Air Cleaner Element. ..... ss Service 
Eb Wire gauze. Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 


IB Dytype... 
[5 Polyurethane . .. .Wash and oil 10W-30 MO 


Manual Steering Gear (plug).............. SG 


Check level, also for leaks 


ExBrake Master Cylinder (plug or cap). ... ... HB 
Check for leaks 
Fill to 74 inch below top of fill hole 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage 
E8196] Bee eee 15 fittings) C_— 
sd Á—Ü 15 fittings) BJ 


Clutéh Lever Felts and Linkage ...M0 
[Speedometer Cable ..............- Coat SP 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
EJ Check level, also for leaks 


APACITY 3-speed, 1% pints 

$ S-Speed heavy-duty, 2% pints 
4-speed, 214 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


[Parking Brake Cables. 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Ef Checx level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 51/4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

SAFE-T-TRACK IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug. 


Safari 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 
BOOM. V —— 22* 22 
8.50314 .. . 20* 20 
8.50-14, Safari . 22 24 
8.00-14, 6 ply. . . 28 28 


* With air conditionin 


EgRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


AF Automatic Transmission 
Type A, Suffix A 


BJ Suspension Lubricant 
Pontiac Part No. 1474829 


L Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, 


SZ 
Iaa 


PONTIAC V-8 


1961-62 All Models Except Tempest 


p 
at CRANKCASE.......“MS" or “DG” MO 
g Above +10"... 20W* — 10W.30 
Above —10°. ` 10W* 10W30 
Below — 10°... SW* SW.20 


*For „Sustained high performance, high speed 
driving, use one grade heavier 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


a Generator (1 or 2 oil cups) 1961... MOR 

The LA Oil Fill Caps. ...... . Wash and oil MOI 

®©) [9 ^4 Crankcase Dipstick.......... . . Check level 
Manifold Heat Control Valve. MH 


Lubricate if shaft is not free 


L— TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position 
Make certain dipstick is locked in place 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
Bonneville, Star Chief 6 s 
Catalina, Grand Prix, 

Ventura ....... 4 6 


Heavy-duty operating conditions or excessive 
stop-and-go driving, drain every 12,000 miles 
Disconnect fill pipe. Bonneville and Star Chief, 


Under hood remove 1 coupling plug 


" " LÀ 

or dium 
pov System Valve.. atttem Replace [Hl 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961. .......... MO 
Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB IJ 


1961, initial torque, 325 in. Ib.; second torque, 
25-35 in. Ib. Tighten to insert cotter pin but do not 
exceed 110 in. Ib. 


1962, ugnen to 10-12 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; . 
back off v, turn T 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be ` 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 
mor? than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Make sure the parking brakes are completely 
released 


2. Insert brake adjusting tool into adjustment 
slot in backing plate and expand shoes until 
wheel can just be turned by hand 


3. Back off adjustment 12 notches 
4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 4,000 miles 
GyEvery 4,000 miles or 6 months 
Every 8,000 miles 
IHEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
IBEvery 16,000 miles or yearly 
Every 25,000 miles 
EBEvery 35,000 miles 
(Conditional service 
Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or 
needle flickers 
Coat parking brake cables at time of 
brake repair 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 
Repack front wheel bearings when wheel is 
removed for other service 


ME. 


CA | 


Xa 
ree Rev? 


GB Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
[ ] Cooling system drain 


Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
MO Motor Oil 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
Pontiac Part No. 9771864 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

WG White Waterproof Grease 


« Use Pontiac special lubricant Part No. 531536 in all differentials 


= a —— a 


oe = ae 


z 


PONTIAC TEMPEST 


1963 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY ante ta, Amp. Hrs, 
All 22F 44 

24 61 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC 45S; heavy-duty, 44S 
Gap; .035" 

Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 

Gap: .019" 

Dwell angle: 31°-34° 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,3, 4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
« Bring engine to operating temperature 
«. Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at harmonic balancer and 
turn distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


x pu » une 


Timing Mark and Setting 


ii 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6^ 


-89 
Toc 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model 4843 


Pressure: 4-5% Ib, at 1000 rpm (tested at car- 
buretor height) 


Volume: 1 pint in 45 seconds or less at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
initial Man. Auto. 
ROCHESTER urns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. B 15 manual — 
l-bbl. BC 1 7 index index 
4-bbl. 4GC 15* 1 rich 1 rich 


* Air bleed screw, initial adjustment, 1 turn 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 680-700 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. 580-600 rpm in DRIVE* 

Air Cond. Manual Trans. 680-700 rpm; Auto. 
Dn 580-600 rpm in DRIVE; with unit turned 


* If so equipped, make certain hot idle compen- 
sator valve is closed 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


E SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS w- 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts hat CRANKCASE... “MS” MO 
with Without E Above --32".... , 200 10W-20 
Honter Hoater Above 0^ ,... .. 10W 10W.30 
All model oss OT24 7 015 Below0* |... . "E 5-20 
With air conditioning... 13 12 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ORAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds 


Eipattor. ..... new" Test and naz] 
EgManual Steering Gear (plug). .,..... $6 > 


Check level, also for leaks 


Ea Power Steering Reservolr,.............4, PS 
Maintain level between FULL and ADD marks on Dil Fill Cap SONORO Wash and oil wom 
dipstick, Chack for leaks 
; Crankcase Dipstick,............ Check level 
Fuel Filter Element............. . Service 
Hi] = Inccarburetor..... ... Clean Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
UMS sen our ur swede A Polyurethane type. Wash and oil. 10W-30 MOLA 
B ISAM OD IDE iets valía udi opace Wire gauze...... Wash and oil 10W-30 MORJ 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (plug or cap)........ HB PCY System Valve................- Replace [E] 
Check for leaks Also remove and clean hose 
Fill to !4 Inch below top of fill hole 
Manifold Heat Control Valve... mA 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 
Oil Filter (under car). .. .... Replace Ed 
Add extra quart oil 
(Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage...... (8 or 11 fittings) BJ——* Front Wheel Bearings......... -. Repack WBg3 
Lubricated at factory with special lubricant, Relu- D 10-12 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel; back 
bricate every 12 months or 12,000 miles which- ^ 


ever occurs first, or If noise develops, with Sus- 

pension Lubricant, Pontiac Part No, 1474829. If 

conventional chassis lubricant is used, relubricate 

every 6 months or 6,000 miles whichever occurs 
rst 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position . - 
Remove cover piste in luggage compartment floor 
pan to reach dipstick 

CAPACITY 2 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove the oil fill tube 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes '€ been relined or 

the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 

ment as follows: 

1. Turn adjusting screw to produce a 5-6 Ib. drag 
on outside of tire 

2. With small screw driver hold adjuster lever 
away from adjusting screw and back off ad- 
justment 22 notches on front brakes and 26 
notches on rear brakes. (Back off 30 notches 
on rear brakes if lift supports rear suspension 
near ends of control arms and prevents rear 
wheels from hanging down) Drum should turn 
freely without drag . 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


Eg Clutch Shaft Felt,......... 
[ASpeedometer Cable 


[Parking Brake Cables...... 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP. 
EJ check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 3 pints; 4-speed, 3% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


DIFFERENTIAL............. 90 MP 
Check level, also for loaks 

CAPACITY 31/4 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


NA 


Wagons 
[Every 12,000 miles or yearly 
dino dpi pus n AR Gallons B > 
MAS TANK.. —Á 1 ka - WüTwice yearly 
= - [3 Conditional service 
CAUTION Coat s ometer cable when noisy, or 
Never rit Gar by front or rear bumpers reeds tickers g sy 
TIRES Pressure Front Rear Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
ET repair 

6.0015 . e 2 Bill Position for lift adapter Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
6.50-15, Safari ....... shaft is not free 


© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


*With air conditioning, i 


Repack front wheel bearings when wheel i 
Eg Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels gs eel is 


removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
Type A, Suffix A MO Motor Oil SP Speedometer Cable Gre. 
LUBRICANTS — — gj suspension Lubricant MP. Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant = 


Pontiac Part No, 1474829 PS Power Steering Fluid WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Pontiac Part No. 9771864 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


WG White Waterproof Grease 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24 53 
24 61 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
emesis 140-160" 
--+.170-190* 
be within 80% 


SPARK PLUGS 
CE as 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016" 

Dwell angle: 28°-32° (30° Preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at harmonic balancer and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Moon a WN 


Timing Mark and Setting 


f h--Wh 


LUN 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6° 


FUEL PUMP 
AC model 6542 


Pressure: 514-63/4 Ib. at 1000 rpm (tested at car- 
buretor height) 


Volume; 1 pint in 45 seconds or less at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
turns) Trans. Trans. 
CARTER ; 
4-bbl. AFB ar lrich 1 rich 
ROCHESTER . 
2-bbi. 2GC 1% index index 


* Air bleed screw, initial adjustment, 142 turns 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 580-600 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE* 

Air Cond. Manual Trans. 640-660 rpm; Auto. Trans. 

540-560 rpm in DRIVE; with unit turned OFF 

* If so equipped, make certain hot idle compen- 
sator valve is closed 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


PONTIAC TEMPEST V-8 


1963 All Models 


EB SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


SYMBOLS AW 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts CRANKCASE........ -. .. "MS" MO 
With Without 
Heater Heater 20W 10W-30 
All models ........-0 02000005 21 20 . 10W 10W-30 
With air conditioning........ 22% 21% CAPACITY 4 quarts - 5W 5W-20 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
[x [Z0 D Test and fill 
Fy Manual Steering Gear (plug). ............ SG 
Check level, also for leaks r 
ias Filter Element... . css Service 
n carburetor.... B scans 
Power Steering Reservoir. ............... PS Incarburetor .... 1. J Replace 
Maintain level between FULL and ADD marks on In fuel line p 1 
dipstick. Check for leaks i sasis . . Replace fy) 
*——Crankcase Dipstick. ............. Check level 
Li i PR Wash and oil MO Air Cleaner Element... Service 


Polyurethane type. Wash and oil 10W-30 MOT 


EJ Brake Master Cylinder (plug or cap)........ Wire gauze. ... ..Wash and oil 10W-30 MOE’ 

oo sus top of fill hole — Heat dil T" TR Ede Nn n 

Oil Filter | (under car) hasa .. Replace gJ 

POV System Valve. Wann Replace [Fl 

pars coring Linkage... (Bor 11 fittings) BI— El "oec rper Renac WAE 
Lubricated factory with spectet orca, le LI MN I 


ever occurs first, or if noise develops, with Sus- 
pension Lubricant, Pontiac Part No. 1474829. It 
conventional chassis lubricant is used, relubricate 
every 6 months or 6,000 miles whichever occurs 
first 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . - 
Remove cover plate in luggage compartment floor 
pan to reach dipstick 

CAPACITY 2 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove the oil fill tube 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT g 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined or 

the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 

ment as follows: 

1. Turn adjusting screw to produce a 5-8 Ib. drag 
on outside of tire 

2. With small screw driver hold adjuster lever 
away from adjusting screw and back off ad- 
justment 22 notches on front brakes and 26 
notches on rear brakes. (Back off 30 notches 
on rear brakes if lift supports rear suspension 
near ends of control arms and prevents rear 
wheels from hanging down) Drum should turn 
freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 


EaClutch Shaft Felt. . . . ..M0 


[Speedometer Cable 


[Parking Brake Cables.............. Coat WG 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
EJ check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 3 pints; 4-speed, 374 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Ed Check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3?/ pints 

ORAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Wovens [Every 12,000 miles or yearly 
GAS TANK........... ....Gallons il Twice yearly 
Al modele oisi asian Sein ww SB T [I Conditional service 
- Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or 
LIFTING CAUTION needle flickers . 
Never lift car by front or rear bumpers Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
repair 
TIRES... — Front Rear EE Position for lift adapter Lubricate manifold heat contro! valve if 
$3018, Salari a 1228 — 26 shaft is not free 


e Lubrication fitting 
9 Cooling system drain 


*With air conditioning, increase pressure 2 pounds 


Repack front wheel bearings when wheel is 
E3Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
MO Motor Oil 
MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


PS Power Steering Fluid 
Pontiac Part No. 9771864 


SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

WG White Waterproof Grease 


Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 


Suspension Lubricant 
Pontiac Part No. 1474829 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


KEY TO Nr 
LUBRICANTS — 


PC-8 


PONTIAC V-8 


1963-84 All Models Except Tempest 


Sx) 


WOOD RELEASE: Pool 


TUNE-UP DATA 

E a. v SERVICE AT INTERVALS SNOWN BY SYMBOLS E 
BATTERY AABM 
= cree he ama nn COOLING SYSTEM .... ..Quts CRANKCASE osos MS" MO 
1983 Que 8 Ein AN models sius wie ee Above 43:5... WN 
198a Oe Nt x r Pes à sw 10w-30 

Below 0? ..... RR, Sw 

COMPRESSION PRE URE CAPACITY 4 quarte except 421-cu. in. engine, S 

Crashing speed with maretie epen) psi 
RIC ccs x A 
farce WAI WA ENS Ae NASE instructions, page 4 
~ Komest gender peesscre sPouAS De within S0% 

bd nd 
SPARK PLUGS 


Sy ore t035* Dt ad 


KR PS 
Togor: 1983 TS O 964, ISTS db. 


Eis NS Revel mark or FULL mark on cipatich, Cheek OU FM Caps......... ....Wash and oil MOTB 


1964, fil! cap on right valve cover only 


- q Crankcase Dipstick, ... ~~. -Check level 
OTON FORTS Air Cleaner Element... ......... Service ] Manifold Reat Control Valve... 2... .... MNES 
Sax 026" B yp... .. Clean or replace f Y Lubricate if shaft is not free 
Oei ampie: 285-37 (HD? preferred H PRyurethame ss 10W30 MO ] iP. TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Wash and oit > W Check level, engine idling, PARK position... 
B wegue.... Wash and oil 10W-30 MO jj Sis artnet = Refit! menm 
Eg Mansal Steering Gear (plug oa 1963)... : li \ ORAIN and REFILL......... "ET [23] 


Check tevel atso for leaks 


: iet. 
1964, to HAL remove center side cover bait Disconnect fill pipe, Bonneville and Star Chie! 


remove 1 couphng plug 
1963, make Certain dipstick is locked in place 


Chex ting condit : 
Ed6rabe Master Cylinder (plug or cap) Re r Neavy duty operating ions or exces 
Fat to & inch below top of fill hole 12.000 miles we tee "e 
il Fitter (under ca)... Replace [9D 
Add extra quart oil 
V System Valve... eoo Replace [A 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WEIR 
Xanten 10-12 ft. to. white rotating wheel, Dach off 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are zait adjusting. it brakes have been 
relined or the ddjutimwn disturbed, make initia! 
adjustment as fel : 

1. Remove wheel, insert .015* teeter through stot 
im drum to check clearance at both ends of 
secondary shoe with primary shoe seated 

jainst drum 

Adjust brake with adjusting screw and anchor 

pin to secure initial teeter drag of 5-10 ib. at 

both ends of secondary shoe. Tighten anchor 
pin lock nut to 60-90 ft, ib. To loosen ad ust 
ing screw, hold adjuster tever away from 


" 


Bspeed heavy-duty, 2% pints does not have feeler slot, tighten brake until 
po. reo pne heavy of 14-20 ft. Ib. is felt at outer sur- 
DRAIN and REI recommended face of drum. Hold adjuster lever away from 


adjusting screw with aw! or screwdriver and 


k j t tehes (1963); 24 
[ip Parking Brake Cables.............. Coat WE beck of a ystmen 30 notches (1963) 
3 Repeat procedure at each wheel 
DIFFERENTIAL . 90 MP* Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 
E Check tevet, atso for tears 
CAPACITY $ 
DRAIN aed REFILL Not recommended KEY TO INTERVALS 


Si MEAN hor i piug EyEvery 6,000 miles 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months w 
[REvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
EjEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months 
EEvery 30,000 miles or 12 months — 
[Conditional service 
Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or we 
- 


needle flickers 
B Position for lift adapter Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
we R repair 
*  Lubrication fitting R ` i 
3 epack front wheel bearings when wheel is 
EJ Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels "gens removed for other service "S 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
DOUG ENO Yn in DRIVE 
Ke Sond SASSO pen ia DRIVE with unit turned KEY TO AF oie. ny aa Fluid, MO Motor Oil SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
OEY esi encoun engin: ype E edome! 
rada tee pere drj o BJ Suspension Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant SP Spe ter Cable Grease 
Aun, Trane ISEE orar ae ak LUBRICANTS Pontiac Part te. 1474829 WB Wheel Bearing Grease ù 
turned OFF RB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PS Power Steering Fluid i 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol Pontiac Part No. 9771864 WG White Waterproof Grease 
VALVE CLEARANCES a Safe-T-Track differential, use only Pontiac special lubricant Part No. 531536 b 


Mycracic lifters, nonadjustabie Coewright 1954, The Oot-oot Corporation, Printed ia U.S.A. PC-9 


9) 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 
all 


AABM 


Group No, Amp. 3 
IEF mp He 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(at cranking speed with throttle open) 


psi 
AN ICON T 140* 
Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 80 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 46N 


Gap: .033*-,038" (.035" 
Torque: 1525 ft. ib. Preferred) 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 


Gap: .013”-.019” (.016” 
Dwell angle: Sis quo preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Delco, 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 

Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 

distributor cap tower - 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 

manifold openin, 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
bserve timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 

distributor to obtain recommended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 

idle speed 


* om a -ppr 


Timing Mark and Setting 


pes EN 
I 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center); 
4° (Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 314-414 Ib. at 500-1000 rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke hoke 
ure (notches) (notches) 
( Man. uto. 
ROCHESTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. BV i ° D 
* Bend choke for adjustment 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans, 580-600 rpm 

Auto, Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE 

Air Cond. Manual Trans. 580-600 rpm; Auto. 
Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE; with unit turned 
OFF and hot idle compefisator held shut, if so 
equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


PONTIAC TEMPEST 6 


1964 All Models 


= SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


i n 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


CRANKCASE.. "MS" 
ais Chek Kart ee - "MS" MO 
Heater Above 0° ee " 20w 10W-30 
e LEER EET RTT TITIO 1% gU sess : .. 10W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 15 pounds Below 0° . . e SW 5w-20 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
EPower Steering Reservoir................ PS DRAIN and REFILL 
Maintain level between FULL and ADD marks on See Service Instructions, page 4 
dipstick. Check for leaks io a 8j 
EgManual Steering Gear... SG \ b 
Check level, also for leaks Boit Battery. EEA Check 
To fill, remove center side cover bo! Check at cast cee -Check and fill 
Fuel Filter Element... Clean Oil Filter (under car). ............. 
ed in carburetor ^ Ed vert oll ) -Replace O 
se COE .- -Wash and oil MO[H 
Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MH : 
EI du te Ut oo Crankcase Dipstick. . . . -Check level 
- . PCV System Valve... . Replace [H] 
Air Cleaner Element................ Service Also remove and clean hose 
[H Polyurethane. .. Wash and oil 10W-30 MO TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position... .... B 
CAPACITY 3 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL... 

Remove oil pan — ^ € 
Under heavy-duty operating conditions or exces- 


Sive stop-ai drivin j 
12.000 op and-go ving, replace fluid every 


EdBrake Master Cylinder (cap)........... ..HB 
Check for leaks 
Fill to 14 inch below top of fill hole 


[HFront Suspension and , 
= Steering Linkage........-. (8 fittings) 8J——*| 


Lubricated at factory with specia! lubricant, 
Relubricate every 12 months or 12,000 miles 
whichever occurs first, or if noise develops, with 
Suspension Lubricant, Pontiac Part No. 1474829. 
if conventional chassis lubricant is used relubri- 
cate every 6 months or 6,000 miles whichever 


Va turn 


1 
Front Wheel Bearings. ......... k 
Tighten to 10-12 dr while rotating Repack "n 


occurs first si 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
E3Clutch Lever Pivot....... LL Braves are sltaiustng, "omo MN 
[Speedometer Cable ..........-.... Coat SP the. adjustment disturbed, mà 


ment as follows: 
1. Turn adjustin, 
+ drag on outsi: 
2. With small screw driver hold adjuster lever 
away from adjusting screw and back off ad- 
justment 30 notches. Drum should turn freely 
without drag 
3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


screw to produce & 14-20 ib. “i 
of tire 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .90 MP 
Check level, also for leaks. . 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 2% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


[JParking Brake Cables...... 


DIFFERENTIAL. 


Ea Check level, also for leaks 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
DRAIN PACK IDENTIFICATION: S 
SAFE-T- t 
Metal tag attached to housing cover KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 


GiEvery 6,000 miles or 6 months 


GAS TANK. dicii s rg [HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months à 
HiEvery 24,000 miles or 24 months P 
[3 Conditional service y 
TIRES........... ront Rear Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or 
$.50-14, [001 A 2 needle flickers " 
ET ree ; 24 22 B] Position for lift adapter w brake cables at time of brake 


Caution: Wheel nuts, right. 


ERotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 
ERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Repack front wheel bearings when wheel is 
removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATT 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 
MO Motor Oil 

MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


Type A, Suffix A 


uspension Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS B) pues Part No, 1474829 . WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
à PS Power Steering Fluid 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Pontiac Part No. 9771864 WG White Waterproof Grease 
+ Safe-T-Track differential, use only Pontiac special lubricant Part No. 531536 
Copyright 1964, The Chek:Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


SP Speedometer Cable Grease 


PC-10 


PONTIAC TEMPEST V-8 


1964 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY é AABM 

8.6:1CR redd Na: Amp Hrs 

Others 24 61 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttie open) 

B.6:1CR .. . 

10.5:1CR .. .170-190* 

* Lowest cylinder pressure should be within 80% 
of highest cylinder 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC 45S 

Gap: .033”-.038” (.035” preferred) 
Torque: 15-25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


p: .0137-.019” (.016” preferred) 
Dwell angie: 28°-32° (30° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


DO 
SWOO®@ 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4, 3,6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
line opening 

Set idle s| with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at harmonic balancer and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacüum line and reset to proper 
idle speed a 2 


Timing Mark and Setting” 


M ep 5 wpe 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 6° 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model 6542 

Pressure: 514-674 Ib. at 1000 rpm (tested at car- 
buretor height) 

Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 1 lrich lrich 
ROCHESTER x 
2-bbl. 2GC 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 580-600 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 480-500 rpm in DRIVE 

Air Cond.: Manual Trans. 640-660 rpm; Auto. 
Trans. 540-560 rpm in DRIVE, with unit turned 
OFF and hot idle compensator held shut, if so 


equipped 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... 


All models ......... ve. 2014 
Cooling system pressui CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Battery. p REIR pA d Check and fill See Service Instructions, page 4 


Check at very 30 days 


EgManual Steering Gear.. ........ —S } Fuel Filter Element. ...... . 
Check level, also for leaks —— o eE In carburetor . .. Clean 
To fill, remove center side cover bolt In fuel line . .Replace 
Tri-Power .. „Replace 
EPower Steering Reservolr. .. vas ABD rani PS Air eem [^| T. aa Service 
aintain level between and marks on E .Clean or replacel 
dipstick. Check for leaks Polyurotia il - um 
ire gauze... i 6 
[poil Fill Caps............... Wash and oil MO nies Dipstick 
Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MHES 


Lubricate if shaft is not free 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position. .... 
CAPACITY 3 quarts , 


DRAIN and REFILL..........5.-----+-5 nn 
Under h A duty diti. 

nder heavy- operating, conditions or exces- 
sive stop-and-go dri ing, replace fluid every 
12,000 miles 


Dil Filter (under car)............. <. Replace 
Add extra quart oil x 
PCV System Valve................- Replace fd 


Also remove and clean hose 


s 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap).............. HB p 
Check for leaks 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 


[Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage........... (8 fittings) BJ——* 


Lubricated at factory with special lubricant. 
Relubricate every 12 months or 12,000 miles 
whichever occurs first, or if noise develops, with 
Suspension Lubricant, Pontiac Part No. 1474829. 
If conventional chassis lubricant is used relubri- 
cate every 6 months or 6.000 miles whichever 
occurs first 


Front Wheel Bearings Lipa s E Repack WBE 
Tighten to 10-12 ft. Ib. while rotating wheel, back 
off v, tum 


EaClutch Lever Pivot..................... 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 

mally required. If the brakes have been relined or 

the adjustment disturbed, make initial adjust- 
ment as follows: 

1. Turn adjusting screw to produce a 14-20 Ib. 
drag on outside of tire . 

2. With small screw driver hold adjuster lever 
away from adjusting screw and back off ad- 
justment 30 notches. Drum should turn freely 
without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


[Speedometer Cable ............... Coat SP 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..90 MP 
EJ Check level, also for leaks 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 2% pints 

DRAW and REFILL Not recommended 


[Parking Brake Cables.............. Coat WG 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... 


Ef Check level, also for leaks 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
SAFE-T-TRACK IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag attached to housing cover 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 
Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or 12 months 
Every 24,000 miles or 24 months 
Front Rear [i Conditional service 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


All models ..... een s'wletea ses 214 


3524 22 Coat speedometer cable when noisy, or 
P 3 needle flickers d 
" 24 26 GB Position for lift adapter Coat parking brake cables at time of brake 
Caute wheel bute: rishthand (breed © Lubrication fitting Repack- fror wheel bearings when wheel is 


EJRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain removed for other service 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, MH Graphite mixed with alcohol SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A Maro 
MO Motor Oi SP Speedometer Cable Grease 
BJ Suspension Lubricant i- i e 
LUBRICANTS Suspension Lubricant rain e i WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Pontiog Part No. 9771864 WG White Waterproof Grease 
x Safe-T-Track differential, use only Pontiac special lubricant Part No. 531536 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. PC-11 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24 45 
Air conditioning 24H 60 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


——————Ü minimum 145 


SPARK PLUGS 

Gane 053-2037" (035 

ap: .033"-.037^ (.035" pret 
Torque: 25-30 ft. (b. ^. "relerred) 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .016^ 
Dwell angle: 28°-35° (30^ preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reset to proper idle speed 


p w»P who 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Optional 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Regular fuel, 5*; Premium fuel, B^ 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter mode! MDOF-3025SA 

Pressure: 4-5'4 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 quart in 1 minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
l-bbl. AS yet — index 
2-bbi. WCD [E DA = index 
HOLLEY 
1-bb!, 1908 1 index = 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL 

Ae Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

Iron block engine: Intake .012"; exhaust .016" 
Aluminum block engine: Hydraulic lifters, non- 
adjustable 


RAMBLER 6 


1961 All Models 
Except American 


HOOD RELEASE: Front 


GE SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM. ........ Quarts i. 
r Without Heater y 
All models 9 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 
mo Fill cap... oos Wash and oil MO 
Left side on cast-iron engine 4 z 
Generator (2 oil cups)........° ENE A MO 
EqBattery...... —— Test and fill 
Air Cleaner Element.............--+ Service 
E Doytye... Clean 
Dry type . oos, Replace 
Oil bath Wash and fill MO 


Above +32°, 40 or 50; below +32°, 20 


EaSteering Gear (plug)......--..--..5- .. CL 
EPC System Valve... 


Crankcase Dipstick...........-+- Check level 
Attached to oll fill pipe on cast-iron engine 


EgManual Gearshift Control Le — 
E3Throttle Linkage .. -o E MU 


Oil wick and all pivot points 


EaBrake Master Cylinder (plug). . . . .. EET 
Fill to % Inch below top of fill hole 


[MPower Brake Air Cleaner Element. ..... .. Wash 


On models without 
power steering 


Front Suspension and 
B Steering Linkage. . ....(9 to 11 fittings) CL 


Eatlutch Operating Shaft. . .. . .. 


Use low pressure 


EgManual Transmission Shift Levers. ........ M0 
TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 GL 


20,20W, 10W-30 MO or AF may be used 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 134 pints; with overdrive, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


E Torque Tube (fitting, top or bottom)... ..... CL 


Manual and overdrive transmission models only 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

TWIN-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK oos Gallons 
All models. «ise sioe rennen sas 8 


— Á€ Pressure Front Rear "7 E 
seo fii 24* 24* 
24* 
* Full load or extensive highway operation, 30 a 
ive-Air tii Inner chamber, 28; outer, 24, 
E 44 miles or more with full load, inner 
chamber, 35; outer, 30 
HpRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


Wb Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
Q Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATT 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS 


CC Carburetor Cleaner SAE 70R3 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


ERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


SYMBOLS  -- 


CRANKCASE "MS" MO 
Above 4-32*.... 20,20W 10w-30 
Above 0° . 10W 10W-30 
Below 0°... 5w* 5w-20 
* For lengthy highway operation, 10W 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 
Power Steering Reservoir . FEN 


Fill to 1 inch from top of irar à 
PU o 1 inel p of reservoir or to bottom i 


Dil Filter .... Replace EJ | 


Add extra quart oil. Left front on cast-iron engine 


Distributor Shaft (plug). . 


wom A 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ..... . - 5 10 
DRAIN and REFILL esas m 
Remove 1 converter plug and disconnect fill pipe | 


Fuel Filter Element................. Replace 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB [T] 
With wheel being rotated, initial torque, 20-25 ft. 

Ib. Final adjustment, back off nut '4 turn, install 
cotter key 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake peda! can be 

depressed more than 2° with st@ndard brakes or 

more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need tor service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows; 

Standard brakes 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into the adjust- 
ment opening in the backing plate, expand 
the does until the drum cannot be rotated by 

an 

2. Back off the adjuster 10 notches 

3. Repeat the procedure at each wheel 

Self-adjusting brakes 

Adjustment is not normally required. If the brakes 

have been relined or the adjustment disturbed, 

proceed as follows: 

1. Use a slender tool inserted into the adjust- 
ment opening to hold adjusting lever away 
from the star wheel 

2. Expand shoes until drum is contacted and 
back off adjuster until drag is eliminated 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 

Biceding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 2,000 miles 

[Every 4,000 miles 

HEvery 5,000 miles 

[Every 8,000 miles 

MEvery 10,000 miles 

[HEvery 12,000 miles 

Every 25,000 miles 

Hi Twice yearly or every 10,000 miles 


MO Motor Oil 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


« For Twin-Grip differential, use AMC approved lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek.Chart Corporation Printed in U.S.A. 


RR-7 


RAMBLER 6 


1961-63 American 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY okt RER 
roup No. mp. Hrs, 
Au 2 50 
A ioni 
Baao — Ao 8 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
psi 


(at cranking speed with throttle open) 


L-head engine minimum 130 
OHV engine .minimum 145 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion: L-head, H-10; OHV, H-18Y 
Gap: .033”-.037” 
Torque: 2530 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Autolite, Delco 
Gap: Autolite, ,0187..022"; Delco: o 
Duet angle: Autolite, d gebe 1961-62, 
+ 1963, 317-34 


.18-.23 mtd 


^ Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


thed A 
Firing Order: 1, S; 3, 6,2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect taci eter 


Connect timing lightiit 
distributor cap tower, ~ 


Set idle speed with 


No. 1 spark plug or 


mission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing atic shaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reset to proper idle speed 
Timing Mark and Setting 


2 wu uNe 


Late 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Regular fuel: L-head, 3°; OHV, Manual Trans., 8°; 


Auto. Trans. 10° 
Premium fuel: L-head, 6°; OHV, Manual Trans., 


12'; Auto. Trans., 14* 
FUEL PUMP 


Carter mechanical 


Pressure: 4-5'/, lb.: 1961-62 at 1800 rpm, 1963 
at 500 rpm 


Volume: 1 quart in 1 minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke Choke 
(notches) (notches) 

Man. Auto. 
CARTER Trans. Trans. 
l-bbi. YF liean 1 lean 
l-bbl. RBS index index 
2-bbl. WCD index index 
HOLLEY 
1l-bbl. 1908 1'4 3 lean 3 lean 
1-bbi. 1909 0-24 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL 

Air Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

ne hot and running 
OR engine: Intake .012"; exhaust .016^ 
(engine cold, not running) 2 
L-head engine: Intake .016”, exhaust .018 


" & 


NOOD RELEASE: Front 
SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM ..... . Quarts Chek Chart CRANKCASE ...... MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater Above -|-32°, 10W-30 
OHV engino ...... 10 Y Above 0” 10w-30 
& head engine TM 12 n Below 0* , 5W-20 
ooling system pressuro, 13 pounds * For lengthy high M pum: 
ExGenerator (2 oil cups) 1961............ ..M0 CAPACITY 4 quarts 
ORAIN and REFILL 
EqBattery.......... TA Test and fill Seo Service Instructions, pago 4 
Eq Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961...... 10W MO 
AT] OHV engine (plug) 1961 .10W MO UENO oin ses ones decis: Replace i 
Æ Wick under rotor 1961...... Sparingly MO Add extra quart oil. Left side on OHV engine 


Wick on L-head engine only 
Qi Fil Cap... Wash and oil MO 


Crankcase Dipstick. . . 
Attached to oil fill cap 


E Brake Master Cylinder (1 or 2 caps). ....... HB 


Roplace initially at 1,000 miles 


Power Steering Reservoir, .... . AFEN 
1961, fil! to bottom of filler neck; 1962- 63, nu 
rosorvoir until oil is halfway up filler neck 

PCV System Valve... ....,.. Wash CCIDI 
On left side of OH gino: 1963 OHV engine with 
1-bbi. card., no valve, clean tube only 


1961-62, fill to 14 Inch below top of {ill hole Air Cleaner Element. . Service 
1963, fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir Dry type seis wis vin ee oo, Clean " 
Dry type ....... v js 
c Brake Air Cleaner Element 1961. . . Wash oi bath. P Wash and fill. MOE 
earshift Control Shaft... rankceso grade 
" AIL 1961, 1962-63 On models without Fuel Filter Element................ Replace fd 


without power 
steering 


EQ Throttle Linkage (OHV engine only). . 


Wick and all linkage points 


power sieering TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
1981. ints cvs pepe s $ 10 
1962-63 .. s 

ORAIN and REFILL 
Remove 1 converter plug and disconnect fill pipe 


1961-62 . 
1963, not recommended 


EqFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. .(10, 11 or 12 fittings) "T 


EgPitman Arm Stud... (plug) LM 


1962-63 models with power steering 
Lubricate using specia! adapter, Reinstall plug 


Front Wheel Bearings......... Repack WB 


with wheel being rotated, initiat torque. 20-25 tt 
“ib. Final adjustment, back off nut % turn, Instali 


cotter key 
1961-6218 196369 


EqgSteering Gear (plug) . ..90 EP 


Clutch Operating Lever 
1961 
1962-63 (2 plugs). 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plugs 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


1961: With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can 
be depressed more than 2^ with standard brakes 
or more than 1” with power brakes, ongino run- 
ning, the neod for service is indicated 
Adjust the brakes ds follows: 
Using a suitable tool inserted into tho adjust. 
ment opening in the backing plale, expand 
the shoes until tho drum cannot be rotated 


E3Transmission Shift Levers............... M 


TRANSMISSION, Manual.. 
20,20W, 10W-30 MO or AF may be used 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 14 pints; with overdrive, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


by hand 

2, Back off the adjuster 8 notches (10 notches 
if new linings are installed) 

3, Repeat the procedure at each wheel 

1962-63; Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment 

normally required. If tho brakes havo been relined 

or the adjustment disturbed, proceed as follows: 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into adjusting 
hole in backing plate, turn star wheel unt 
drum is locked, (A second tool may be ro- 
quired to hold adjusting lever away from stor 
whoo!) 

2. Back off star wheel 15-20 notches 

3. Repoat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints Pr 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommendod fer 

TWIN-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag under fill plug 


KEY TO INTERVALS 4 
E3Every 2,000 miles 


GAS TANK .....- es EJ Every 4,000 miles 
All modelga, pisao AP HEvery 5,000 miles 
TIRES.......... Pressure Front Rear ElEvery 8,000 miles 
6.00-15, 6.50-15 ..... donneri a 2 M Every 10,000 miles 
ey loaded car or extensive highway operation, m Position for lift adapter IH Every 12,000 miles 
BillRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Lubrication fitting Every 25,000 miles 


Every 4,000 to 8,000 milos Every 33,000 miles 


@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, CL Chassis Lubricant LM Lithium Grease 
Type A, Suffix A EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear AMC Lithium Base Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS . BJ Suspension Lubricant Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


AMC Lithium Base Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
SAE 70R3 
+ For Twin-Grip differential, use AMC-approved lubricant 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


b *556566556b6à6à 5 5b5255$3252595222797979€9* 


^ 


wees 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 


AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All g 24 50 
Air conditioning 24H 60 
1963-64 Optional 24H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
jV Pedes RARI A DS KOREA minimum 145 
SPARK PLUGS 
Eure t 
ap: .033”-.037” (. d 
Torque: 25-30 ft. fg preterao) 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Buell angle: 1962, 28°-3 
le: , 285-35* (30° 
1963-64, 31°-34° EF 905 pratat) 
CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1962-63 
Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower DeC RUE 

4. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


5. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


6. Resetto proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Regular fuel, 5°; Premium fuel, 8° 


FUEL PUMP 

Carter mechanical 

Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 quart in 1 minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. AS WV — index 
1-bbl. RBS 1314 index index 
2-bbl. WCD v2 index index 
HOLLEY 
l-bbl. 1908 1 index = 
1-bbI. 1909 0-2% 1 lean ees 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Raro T Mr eg min NEUTRAL 

uto. Trans, rpm in i 

Air Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
ON 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) " 
Iron block engine: Intake .012”; exhaust .016' 
Aluminum block engine: Hydraulic lifters, non- 
adjustable 


wv 
COOLING SYSTEM....... <. -Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
10% 95 


SERVICE AT 


All models ,...... . 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds 


EOI Fill Cap...............Wash and oit MO 


Left side on cast-iron engine 
EBattery. enn Test and fill 
FrySteering Gear (plug. .......- s cL 


1964 with power steering, no lubrication 


EIPCV System Valve...... yc .Wash CC 


Fm oytpe. 
Hj Dry type... 


Crankcase Dipstick......... 
Attached to oil fill pipe on cast-iron engine 


EyThrottle Linkage ...... — —H M0 
Oil wick and all pivot points 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (cover or 2 caps). ...HB 
1962, fill to % inch below top of fill hole; 1963-64, 
to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir 


[Clutch Operating Lever (1 or 2 plugs)... .. LM 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


EKiGearshift Control Shaft....... eese . LM 
EyManual Transmission Shift Levers. ........ M 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. -80 GL 


20,20W, 10W-30 MO or AF may be used 
Eamaintain level to fill plu hole || : 
CAPACITY 134 pints; with overdrive, 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


DIFFERENTIAL 


FY Maintain level to fill plug hole 

Dx nM 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
TWIN-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK.............- < - Gallons 
1962 all models......... 

1963-64 3-seat station wago! 
1963-64 all other models. .... 


TIRES...........Pressure Front Rear 

6.50-14 . 24* 24* 

6.50-15 24* = 24* ru rU 
6.70-15 24* — 24* . 

7.00-14 24* 24* 

* Full loa: ighway operation, 30 


Captive-Air tires: Inner chamber, 29; outer, 24. 
Trips of 50 miles or more with full load, inner 
chamber, 35; outer, 30 : 

LifeGuard tires: Normal operation, 24; full load 
or extensive highway operation, 30 


EsRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
Every 4,000 to 8,000 miles if necessary 


B Position for lift adapter 
A  Prepacked bearing 

e Lubrication fitting 

@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 


CC Carburetor Cleaner + 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


SAE 70R3 
LM Lithium Grease 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


. AMC Lithium Base Lubricant 


RAMBLER 6 


1962-64 Classic 


E 
CRANKCASE s "MS" M0 
Above +32° ..20,20W  10W.30 
Above 0°... 10W 10W-30 
Below 0? EE EENE TT. 5w* 5W-20 


* When using SW, avoid sustained speed: e 
65 mph ii peede apo 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Power Steering Reservoir........... soo FA 
Fill reservoir until oil level is halfway up filler 


neck 
.ReplaceE3 


Oil Filter 
Add extra quart oil. Left front on cast-iron engine 


Replace initially at 1,000 miles 
Fated ERE nuuc dio O68 xe Replace A 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position... EJ 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 

All models ....-...----- 5 s 
DRAIN and REFILL 

1962, remove 1 converter plug and transmission 
plug; 1963-64, remove fill pipe 


10621 ea mederi: e i [25] 
1963-64 Not recommended 
EBiPitman Arm Stud. . . .. . wikis deren (plug) LM 
1962-63 with power steering only 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug . 
KKijFront Suspension Trunnions . (4 upper plugs) T I—— Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Lubricate using special esa pamela T 1962 [12] 
i II Joints.(2 lower plugs)LM— | | Adee ]l |) | deas O 000 00 
enne Sas pension Ba nan l Reineta m IS NB iiris neo EEan [25] 


With wheel being rotated, initial torque, 20-25 ft. 
Ib.; final adjustment, back off nut % turn, install 
cotter key 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Self-adjusting brakes 

Adjustment is not normally required. If the brakes 
have been relined or the adjustment disturbed, 
proceed as follows: 


Early 1962 


1. Use a slender tool inserted into the adjust- 
ment opening to hold adjusting lever away 
from the star wheel 


2. Expand shoes until drum is contacted and 
back off adjuster until drag is eliminated 


3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 
Late 1962, 1963-64 


1. Using a suitable tool inserted into adjusting 
hole in backing plate, turn star wheel until 
drum is locked 


2. Back off star wheel 15-20 notches 
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 4,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 25,000 miles 
EBEvery 33,000 miles or 3 years 


MO Motor Oil 

MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SB AMC Sodium Base Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


For Twin-Grip differential, use AMC-approved lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. 


RR-9 


RAMBLER V-8 


1962-64 Ambassador, Classic 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. — Amp. Hrs, 
All Pra 
1963-64 Optional 24H D 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


with throttle open) si 
minimum 145 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion H-10, H-18Y 


Gap: .033°-,037* (035° preferred) 
Torque: 25-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Belco, Prestolite = i 
p: ico .016*; tolite .018*..022* 
Dwell angie: 285.329 aOR ee? 


CONDENSER 


Delco, Prestolite 
Capacity; .18-.23 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3,6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
1, 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 rk plu 
distributor cap tower TROPPI OE 


Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reset to proper idle speed 


a vw» oN 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Ambassador 

Regular fuel: 2-bbl. carb,, Manual Trans. TOC; 
Auto. Trans. 5° 

Premium fuel: 2-bbl. carb., Manual Trans. 3^; 
Auto. Trans., 8*; 4-bbl. carb., 5° 

Classic 

Regular fuel; Manual and Auto. Trans. 5^ 
Premium fuel: Manual and Auto, Trans. 8^ 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter mechanical 
Pressure: 4-54 Ib. at 500 fpes 
Volume; 1 quart in 1 minute or less at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto, 
HOLLEY turns) Trans, Trans, 
2-bbi. 2300 1 index index 
4-bbl. 4150-C 1 1 Jean 1 lean 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans, 550 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 475* rpm in NEUTRAL 

i, Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 
* 1964, 500 rpm ^ 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


WOOD RELEASE: Front Ambassador 


CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 

quan Above -32° * 104.30 

WOO EE E LOW 10W-30 

Below M canes 5w* 5w-20 

E3Power Steering Reservoir, . . , AF * When using SW, svold sustained speeds above 
Fill to 1 inch from top of reservoir — ^ ^ $ Nu deans 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service instructions, page 4 


Steeri 
mnD stoori ing Gear (plug) 


power steering, no lubrication 


PCY System Valve... suo Wash CC 


BRUT, uon neni nir omes Test and fill r3 
rere P. S Mk ciens Check level [B a a 
Li DID: anian Wash and oil 
i . 
nr (ondarea ; Replace Air Cleaner Element,.............-. Service 
Throttle Linkage MO: Dry type .. - , Cleangg 
B wick and all pivot points — ^ Diy RYDE: iecoris Replace J 


P *— — TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or 2 caps)... . HB. (X Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . 
1962, fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of fill hole; 1963-64, 
to 1⁄4 inch below top of reservoir 


CAPACITY, quarts 
All models 
DRAIN and REFILL à 

1962, remove 2 converter plugs and disconnect 
fill pipe: 1963-64, remove fill pipe 


Initial Refill Total Refill 
6 1" 


1963-64 Not recommended 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft......... MHES 


EE)Pitman Arm Stud..........,...... (plug) LM 
1962-63 with power steering only 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


EjFront Suspension Trunnions. (4 upper plugs) T 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


EK)Front Suspension Ball Joints (2 lower plu s) LM 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


With wheel being rotated, initial torque, 20-25 ft. 
Ib.; final adjustment, back off nut V, turn, install 


EB)Clutch Operating Lever (1 or 2 plugs). .. ... LM cotter key 


Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


EbGearshift Control Shaft..............., 


E3Manual Transmission Shift Levers......... M 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 GL 
20,20W, 10W-30 MO or AF may be used 
Eg maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY Ambassador, 4 pints, with or without 
overdrive, Classic, 214 pints, with overdrive, 344 
pints 

ORAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Overdrive, and extension housing on models 
without overdrive, drain and fill thru separate 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


1963-6 Self-adjusting brakes 
Adjustment is not normally uired. If the brakes 
a have been relined or the adjustment disturbed, 
1, 


proceed as follows: 


. Using a suitable tool Inserted into adjustin, 


plug holes hole in backing plate, turn star wheel unt 
drum is locked 
DIFFERENTIAL ........... 90 MP* 2. Back off star wheel 15-20 notches. (A second 


tool may be required to hold adjusting lever 
away from star wheel) 


3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


TWIN-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK........... 


1962 all models .......... 20 
1963-64 3-seat station wagon wed A 
1963-64 al) other models.......,..-...- 19 


TIRES 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
ExEvery 4,000 miles 


IB] Position for lift adapter Every 8,000 miles 
A Prepacked bearing Every 12,000 miles 
Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels © lubrication fitting Every 25,000 miles 
EaRotat 4,000 to 8,000 miles If necessary e Cooling system drain kjEvery 33,000 miles or 3 years 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A SAE 70R3 MP+ n . 
CC Carburetor Cleaner LM Lithium Grease PM Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant AMC Lithium Base Lubricant SB AMC Sodium Base Lubricant 


MH Graphite mixed with kerosine 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


+ For Twin-Grip differential, use AMC-approved lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. RRS 


OE 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group N: 
" e m 
Air conditioning 24H 60 
Optional 24H 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
ie ee ne mE RTE PA nimm £39 
OHV E minimum 145 
SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: H-10, H-18Y 

Gap: .033"..037* 

Torque: 25-30 ft. Ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: .016” 

Dwell angle: 31°-34° 

CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEOURE 

Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reset to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


pona whe 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Regular fuel: L-head, 3°; OHV: Manual Trans. 8°; 


Auto. Trans. 10° 
Premium fuel: L-head, 6^; OHV: Manual Trans. 


12*; Auto. Trans. 14* 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter mechanical 
Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 quart in 1 minute at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
l-bbi| RBS Yh index index 
2-bbl. WCO p index index 
HOLLEY 
1-bbl. 1909 0-234 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 550 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL | " 
Ar Cond. 500 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

engine hot and runni 

papae nat ana oD. exhaust .016^ 
(engine cold, not running) a 
L-head engine: Intake .016"; exhaust .018 


RAMBLER 6 


1964 American 


> 4 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts CRANKCASE MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater E pee 
OHV engine ....... n" 10 Above +32° 2020W — 10W-30 
L-head engine ....... 12 m Above 0* 10W 10-30 
Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds Below 0° Sw’ 5W-20 
ptu. sor —] p i SW, avoid sustained speeds above 
" m, 
EgManual Steering Gear (plug). CAPACITY 4 quarts 
E308 FBO .......... e eeee- DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Add extra quart oil. Right side on L-head engine 
Replace initially at 1,000 miles 


Attached to oil fill cap 
EgBrake Master Cylinder (cover).......-...- HB 
Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


E3Throttle Linkage (OHV engine only). . .. .... MO 
Wick and all linkage points 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position... FJ 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 

All models ..........- 5 s 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Disconnect fill pipe 


F—— Front Wheel Bearings. .......... Repack WBS 
With wheel being rotated, initial torque 20-25 ft 
Ib. Final adjustment, back off nut y, turn, install 
cotter key 


Ed Front Suspension Ball Joints (2 lower plugs) LM 
Lubricate using special adapter. Reinstall plug 


Eg Clutch Operating Lever............ 
Disassemble and repack both sides 


EB Gearshift Control Shaft (under hood). . .... LM 
ggTransmission Shift Levers..........-..-- MO 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 GL Self-adjusting brakes 
Adjustment is not normally required. If the brakes 


sed 

20,20W, 10W-30 MO or AF may be u: have been relined the adjustment disturbed, 
proceed as follows: 

CAPACITY 134 pints; with overdrive, 2% pints 1. ing table tool inserted into adjusti 


Using a sui 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended hole n backing plate, turn star wheel unti « 


Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


Maintain level to fill plug hole | 


drum 
2. Back off star wheel 15-20 notches. (A second 
tool be required to hold adjusting lever 


3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL........-..- 90 MP* 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


TWIN-GRIP IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TANK.........--------- Gallons 

All models ...-.----.--2e-ee rere rere 16 

TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear KEY TO INTERVALS 
6.00-14, 6.50-14, 6.00-15......--.- 24 24 Bl Position for lift adapter E3Every 4,000 miles 


Every 8,000 miles 

fHEvery 12,000 miles 

Every 25,000 miles 

EB Every 33,000 miles or 3 years 


Fully loaded car or extensive highway operation, 


30 A  Prepacked bearing 


E Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels $ Hie 
Every 4,000 to 8,000 miles if necessary e Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
Type A, Suffix A HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner SAE 70R3 MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LM Lithium Grease 


EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear 


lubricant AMC Lithium Base Lubricant WB Whee! Bearing Grease 


& For Twin-Grip differential, use AMC-approved lubricant 


Copyright 1954, The Cheh-Chert Corporation. Printed ia U.S.A. RR-11 


STUDEBAKER 6 


1959-63 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
All Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
24 50 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
UN Sransing speed with throttle open) psi 
9- : - 
196163 | VERON 11D 140-160 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion: 1959-60, J-7; 1961-63, H-14Y 
Gap: L-head, .030^; OHV, .035” 
Torque: L-head, 30 ft. Ib.; OHV, 25-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Autolite, Prestolite 

Gap: 1959-61, .020”; 1962-63, .0177-.022” 
Dwell angle: L-head, 38°-40°; OHV, 37°-41° 


CONDENSER 


Autolite, Prestolite Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature ` 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark pl 
distributor cap ower pee we 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft dam; and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended getting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Boe Spe 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 2° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model: 1959 early to Serial No. 59S 68806, 
5594703, 1959 late, 1960-63, 5594798 


Pressure: 1959-60, 315-5 Ib.; 1961-63, 4-5!4 Ib.; 
at 1800 rpm 


Volume: Minimum 1 pint in 30 seconds at 4000 
rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial jan. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl.AS 1 index index 
1-bbl. RBS 1 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans, 550-600 rpm 

| Auto. Trans., 1959, 550 rpm; 1960-63, 575-590 
rpm; in, NEUTRAL 

| Air Cond. 590 rpm in NEUTRAL, unit turned ON 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, not running) 
L-head: Intake .018"; exhaust .018” 
(engine hot and running) 
OHV: Intake .023^-.025^; exhaust .023”-.025” 


1959-60 Lark 
w 


COOLING SYSTEM....... l . Quarts 


With Heater With 
HAWK: coorcvixs i 124% S ater 
Lark: l.l 12 n 


Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 


EPower Steering Reservoir 1961-63. 


Fill to level indicated on cover 


E3Battery. uuu «Test and fill 

E3Generator (2 oil cups) Not on 1963......, MO 

Qi Filter. ....... Replace, add extra quart oil 
Some 1962, all 1963 at right rear of engine, 
under car 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup)............... MO 

EH 1959-60 1961-63 

E Wick under rotor............ 24 MO 
Steering Gear (plug) 

GE 1961-63 hark 2, CL 

For refill, Studebaker Lub, Part No. 50248 
El 1959-60 Lark, except convertible. ..140 GL 


Fill to level of top cap screw on left side of 


housing 
El 1959-60 Hawk and convertible. .. . . . 90 GL 
Ex3Gearshift Rod Upper Ends............... M0 
E36Gearshift Control Lever................. CL 


Not on 1962 and 1963 with automatic transmission 
Ex3Power Brake Cyl. Air Cleaner Element. . 10W MO 


Wash and oil. 1963, no service 


Hi]Power Brake Vacuum Cyl. 1959-60 (plug) 1 oz. VO 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . .. . 


Ex3Clutch Release Shaft.............-..... 
E3Pedal Shaft 1959-60. . . si 
E3Clutth Pedal Linkage.................. 
HBrake Master Cylinder (plug) (thru floor)... .HB 


1961-63 models, serviced from under hood 
Fill to ?4 inch below top of fill hole 
TRANSMISSION, Manual. .GL, M0 
80GL or 30MO 
Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 21/4 pints; with overdrive, 34% pints 
HM DRAIN and REFILL 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 
Parking Brake Linkage.........--...... 
Universal Joints....... 


EBRear Wheel Bearings...........-. Repack WB 
Necessary to remove rear axle shafts 
DIFFERENTIAL ......... HP*, GL4* 


Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 
80 grade not recommended for year-round use 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 234 pints 
EA DRAIN and REFILL 
To drain 1960-63, remove cover plate 
TWIN-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
TT insignia on rear of car. Some 1959, by red 
sticker on left front door just above lock. Also by 
metal tag stamped with number "45" attached 


to housing 
GAS TANK Gallons 
All models ...... ccc n 6 18 
TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 
5.90-15, 6.00-15, 6.40-15, 6.50-15, 

6.70-15 24 20 
5.90-15, 6.00-15, 6. 

station wagon . + 26 26 
Captive-Air 6.40-15, station wagon.. 24 24 
Captive-Air 6.50-15, 6.70-15, 

other models 24 22 


All, sustained high speeds. . .. 30 
Gi Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


GNOW > > " 
agew 
1959 Hawk 
NOOD RELEASE: Front, Al lark Lark 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


1963 Lark 
GE 


| CRANKCASE........ s.s MS" MO 
qn 1959-early 1962 (Bypass filter) 
Above +32" sse 30 — 10W-30" 
Above +10° 20W — 10W30 
Above —10°. 10W-30 
Below —10°............ 5W-20 


*20W-40 for severe service ` 
Late 1962 and 1963 (Full-flow filter), recommenda- 


tions same as for 1964. See Chart SR-8 
CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


Crankcase Breather Element........... Washi} 
1961, at rear right side of engine 
Not on models with PCV system 


Oil Fill Cap....... 22. Wash and oil MOR 
Fuel Filter Element 1960-63.......... Replace ff} 
Air Cleaner Element . Service 


1959-62 1963 
MISE cosas cix oxi REY Replace 
1959.62 m 1963 HJ 
Oil Hath s screens as ad Wash and fill MOJ 
Above +32°, 40 or 50; below +32°, 20 
PCV System Valve....................- ccm 
Early 1959, with arent MI and clean valve. More frequently if re- 
Meched undor Poworitrg. Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE) 


TRANSMISSION. Automatic... AF 
1961-63 models, dipstick under hood 
Check level, engine idling, DRIVE position, except 
1963 Model 35, P or N ti 
CAPACITY, quarts 


F. 
1959-62 Flightomatic ES RE cu 
1963 Flightomatic ex. Model 35. 20] 
1963 Flightomatic Model 35.........--. n 


Remove converter plug and transmission plug ex- 
cept 1961-63, remove fill tube 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


1959-62 

With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2” with standard brakes or 

more than 1" with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: " 

1. Use a suitable tool inserted into the adjust- 
ment opening to expand the shoes until they 
are locked against the drum 

2. Back off the adjustment 8 or more notches 
until the drum turns freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1963: Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment 

normally required an 

Optional: Disc brakes on front, self-adjusting. 

Replace front linings when worn to '4” thickness. 

Drum brakes on rear, adjust as indicated on 

Chart SR-8 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 

bleed power brake first, then Hill-Holder, then 

wheel cylinders 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
Every 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
H Every 20,000 miles or yearly 
Every 25,000 miles 
H Conditional service 
Drain- and refill differential only for below 
0* requirements 
Drain and refill 1963 Flightomatic Model 
35 transmission only if required by 
operating conditions 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


—- : z 


MO Motor Oil 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 
VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 


GL4* Multipurpose-Type Gear Lubricant 
API Service GL4 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


& For Twin-Traction differential, use Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 
SR-5 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY a AABM 

m "m No. Amp. Hes: 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


Het ahrust n OR EE aie 
e! rust Supercharged (JTS). * 
Others ........-.. Lhe dM bM | 140.160 
SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: Jet Thrust, Supercharged, normal driv- 
ing, J-12Y; high-speed driving, J- ic N 
nt ath ing, J-10Y; others, H-14Y 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Autolite, 1962; Delco, 1959-61; Prestolite, 196. 
Gap: 1959-61, .013"-.018^; 1962, 1963 ex. 3$ ns 
eng., .014^-.019"; 1963 JT, JTS, .019” 
Dwell angle: 1959, 28°-34°; 1960-61, 28°-32°; 
1962-63 ex, 1963 JT, JTS eng., single or each set 
ot dual points. ee St dual points, total dwell, 
er Jj eng., each " *-26? 
total dwell, 32°-36° z Setisarses 


CONDENSER 


Autolite, 1962; Delco, 1959-61; Prestolite, 1963 
Capacity: 1959-61, .18-.23 mfd; 1962-63, .21- 


. 185-195 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1962-63 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 


Set idle speed* with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle sj 

JTS, 1 rpm 


Timing Mark and Setting 


. n gna wpe 


Jet Thrust 
Je} Thrust Supercharged 


Others 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Jet Thrust, 4° at idle rpm H 

Jet Thrust Supercharged, 24^ at 1600 rpm 
(Each line equals 2?) 

Others, 4° at idle rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model: 1959 early to Serial No. V444791, 
M-2573SA; 1959 late, 1960-61, M-2573S; 1962-63, 
Lark, MF-3155S, Hawk, M-2573SA; JT, M-3509S; 
JTS, M-3508S 

Pressure: 1959-60, 314-5 Ib.; 1961-63, 4514 Ib.; at 
1800 rpm; 1963 JT, JTS, 514-7 Ib. at 1000 rpm 
Volume: Minimum 1 pint in 15 seconds (JT, JTS); 
30 seconds (other engines). JT, JTS at idle rpm; 
others at 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
| Man. Auto. 
Trans. Trans. 


CARTER 


4-bbl. WCFB 1 Lrich 1rich 
ae Nene: AFB 1 index index 
2-bbl. WW 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 550-575 rpm* 

Auto. Trans. 550 rpm* in NEUTRAL N 

Air Cond. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL, unit turned O! 

* JT, JTS engines: Manual Trans. 650 rpm; Auto. 
Trans. 650 rpm in NEUTRAL 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

engine hot and runnin; 

LA engines: ike .025"..027"; exhaust 
10257-.027^ — 
Others: Intake .023"..025"; exhaust 023*-025 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
Hawk .....eer n 184 7 
Lark, Cruiser 3.. —18 7 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 


Ex3Battery At rear on Hawk...... . Test and fill 
[Fuel Filter Element 1960-63. . . . . Replace 
EPower Steering Reservoir.............6.5 AF 


Fill to level indicated on reservoir or cover 


E3Power Brake Cyl. Air Cleaner Element. 10W MO 


1961-62, at rear. Wash and oil. 1963, no service 


Power Brake Vacuum Cyl. (plug)... ..loz. VO 
On 1959-60 Lark, 1959-62 Hawk, 1963 Hawk with 
disc brakes 
Steering Gear (plug) . 

El 196163 Lark, 1963 Cruiser.......... cL 

For refill, Studebaker Lub. Part No. 50248 
Some 1959 Hawk with power steering 90 MP 
EE Allother models............-.05- 90 GL 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup). ........ oo M0 
1959; 1960-61 Hawk 


Wick under rotor, some models....... -M0 
Æ Felt under plate, 1959; 1960-61 Hawk. .MO 
E3Gearshift Rod Upper Ends.......... ..M0 
FyGearshift Control Lever... e cL 


ggFront Suspension and 


Steering Linkage. . . . . (17 or 18 fittings) CL——* 


EyClutch Release Shaft................... cL 
EgPedal Shaft Hawk, 1959-60 Lark.......... cL 
Extlutch Pedal Linkage.:-........... ,..MO 


EBrake Master Cylinder (plug) (thru floor)... .HB 
1963 Hawk with disc brakes, 1961-63 Lark, 1963 
Cruiser, under hood 


Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 
TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 


4-speed ...--.-00-095 .80 GL 
CAPACITY 2% pints 

n i AR GL, MO 
80GL or 30MO 


CAPACITY 3% pints; with overdrive, 4 pints 
II] ORAIN and REFILL 
Overdrive, drain and fill thrü separate plug holes 


ggParking Brake Linkage. .... 
HiUniversal Joints ........ 
EgRear ‘Wheel Bearings. . . . 


Necessary to remove axle s! 


DIFFERENTIAL ......... WP* , GL4* 
Above 0*, 90; below 0*, 80 
80 grade not recommended for year-round use 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints, except 1960-63 Hawk, 1963 
Cruiser and ail station wagons, 3 pints 
[ll ORAIN and REFILL 
To drain 1960-63, remove cover plate 
TWIN-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
TT insignia on rear of car. Some 1959, by red 
sticker on left front door just above lock. Also by, 
metal tag stamped with number "45" attached 
to housing 


<.. Repack W 


GAS TANK .....eess Gallons 
All models ...--.ceeee Mt 18 
TIRES Rear 
6.40-15, 6.50-15, 20 
Station wagon 24 
6.70-15, 4 or mori 26 
Captive-Air 6.70-15, station wagon 24 


All, sustained high speeds... .....- 30 30 


Gi Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 
Captive-Air tires, Method C 


FOR YOUR SAFE 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 


LUBRICANTS 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation, Printed In U.S.A, 


E Repack lup, E 


TY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


T 


1963 Lark Cruiser 


CRANKCASE ...... "MS" MO 


1959-early 1962 (Bypdss filter) 
Above 4-32"... 30 — 10w30* 1 
-...20W — 10W-30 

10 — 10W30 i 

5W — 5W20 i 


e 
Late 1962 and 1963 (Full-flow filter), recommenda- 
tions same as for 1964. See Chart SR-9 
CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


" 
Generator (2 oil cups) Not on 1963...... MO 
Supercharger ................ ' E id 
Maintain level between marks o . [4] 
DRAIN and REFILL... oars 
Crankcase Dipstick’, . . Check ievel B 
Air er Element. ——— Service 
MEE NE. M" 
- » 5 k 1 ü 
Eorly 1959, with All with Ory poe RE oer E 2 Replace 
td powers. "UR 1959-62 m. 19603 HJ 
Weed under ex. some NE 
nor heed 1959 Hawk a Me, +32°, 4o or 50; below Ee fi word 
Oil Fill Caps............ -Wash,androil MORJ 
1959-62 cap, at center of engine, foi | 
Oil Filter. ....... Replace, add ei quart oil lg i 
1959-62, on left side of engine, forwa : 
PCV System Valve. .............79 ...Ct 


Remove and clean valve. More frequently i - 
quired " Vut 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB [T] 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
i Lark and 1962-63 models, dipstick under 


Check level, engine idling, DRIVE position 
CAPACITY, quarts 
All els .. 


195962 {B 


Remove converter plug and tran 
except 1961 Lark and 1962-63 mi 
fill tube 


BRAKE ADJUST. 


1959-62 

With the brakes cold, if the brake 

depressed more than 2" with stand. 

more than 1" with power brakes, engi ü | 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Use a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
opening to expand shoes until they are locked 

against drum 

2. Back off the adjustment 8 or more notches 
until drum turns freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1963: Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment 

normally required - 

Optional; Disc brakes on front, self-adjusting. 

Replace front linings when worn to !4^ thickness. 

Drum brakes on rear, adjust as indicated on 

Chart SR-9 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 
bleed power brake first, then Hill-Holder, then 
wheel cylinders 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
Every 1,000 miles 
Hevn 4,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 4,000 miles or 6 months 
EiEvery 5,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
(Every 20,000 miles or yearly 
Every 25,000 miles 
[3i Conditional service 
Drain and refill differential only for below 
0* requirements 


IS 


m Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
[ ] Cooling system drain 


GL4* Multipurpose-Type Gear Lubricant 
API Service GL4 ` 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil ~ 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


+ For Twin-Traction differential, use Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
UJ Universal Joint Grease 


SR-6 


| 
| 


STUDEBAKER V-8 


Avanti 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

1963, 1964 earl x ^3 kai dm 
1964 late ES 8 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


.. 185-195 


R1 Nonsupercharged ........ 
...160-170 


R2 Supercharged 
SPARK PLUGS 
Champion: Ni ! di , J-12Y; T 
driving. E onma riving, J-12Y; high-speed 
Gap: .030” 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 


Prestolite 
Gap: 9 " 

el! angle: | points, , 22°-26°; 
dwell, Ve Dua points, each set, 22°-26°; total 


CONDENSER 


Prestolite 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder, Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
. Connect tachometer 


OP wre 
3 
C] 
= 
> 
za 
g 
z 
9 
" 
u 
$ 
E] 
* 
ai 
E 
a 
o 
S 


ming at crankshaft damper and turn 
© obtain recommended setting 


ct vacuum line and reset to proper 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
R1, 4? at idle rpm; R2, 24? at 1600 rpm 
(Each line equals 2°) 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model: R1, M-3509S; R2, M-3508S 
Pressure: 514-7 Ib. at 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 15 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 1 index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 650 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 650 rpm in NEUTRAL 
Air Cond. 650 rpm in NEUTRAL with unit turned 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .025”-.027”; exhaust .025”-.027” 


HOOD RELEASE: Inside 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts Cart CRANKCASE..............“MS" MO 
With Heater Without Heater E Above +80°........... 30  10W-30,20W-40 
All models... 18 7 Above 4-32*........... 20 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds Above 0° ........  ... 10W — 10W-30,10W-20 
Below 0* ..... we 5w-20 


Line To UA SE lucens 
uias 

EFuel Filter... sese Replace Marta in Between SAM on dipstickzs es 
[Brake Master Cylinder (cover)... ..... HB Oil Fill Caps........ 2.0.0. 6 


Fill to 14 Inch below top of reservoir Mr Cleaker Elomant 
[Steering Gear (plug)...........- 80 or 90 GL ry type ...... ee M 

Distributor Shaft (oil cup).......-.. 2... MO Dry type Replace pij 
B reach, remove AUNT VER of shielding ON Bath ozr suk ERICH d fill MO[9 


E]. Wick under rotor. ien Mo Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 

TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . AF 

Check level, engine idling, DRIVE position. n 

CAPACITY, quarts fa i 

All models ..........- 9 

*immediately after engine is started, add 4 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL... n 

Remove converter plug and fill tube 

Oil Filter (under car) Replace, add extra quart oil 
Before Serial No. R-4993 — 


Serial No. R-4993 and after. . 
PCV System Valve...........-..-..-+-- ccn 


Remove and clean check valve. Under favorable 
conditions, every 12,000 miles 


+—Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack CLI 


Front Suspension and Steering Linkage... .. CL 
Early, before Serial No. R-4993 (17 or 18 
fittings) 

Late, Serial No. R-4993 and after (11 or 13 
fittings; 5 or 6 plugs) 

B Fittings 
Plugs 


Remove plug, insert fitting to lubricate, re- 


Power steering 
only 


X 


Early models, 
fiti 


install plug Under favorable conditions, every 24,000 miles 
EJ Clutch Pedal Linkage... MO Saco intera to T0 o0 mesa ee rn 
E3Clutch Release Shaft,................5- tL Eoi odi BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


M the brake pedal can be depressed more than 
fitting 3%”, with the engine running, the need for 
gecce ls dpdicatad. iediusk R 
ront brakes are disc-type, self-adjusting. Re- 
\ Eorly models and place front linings when Worn to 14” thickness. 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Kl maintain tevel to fill plug hole 


LL E 80 GL " 
CAPACITY 2% pints all power steering Rear brakes are drum-type with two adjusters on 
Others GL, MO s each backing plate 

E DEE tals SI rur CET E ne ae i Adjust the rear brakes as follows: 
B0GL or 30M . Loosen adjusting screw lock nut slightly 


2. Use two wrenches, one on lock nut and one 
on adjusting screw. With wrenches pointing 
upward, rotate wrenches outward, away from 
axle, until a drag is felt as wheel is turned 


o 
CAPACITY 3% pints, with overdrive, 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


[Parking Brake Linkage...............-. MO 3. Back off adjusting screw until wheel turns 
freely without drag 
Universal Joints ............-.-. Repack UJ 4. Hold adjusting screw stationary and tighten 
: lock nu! 
Not recommended under normal service 5. Repeat steps 1, 2, 3 and 4 on other adjusting 
screw 
Ey Severe service only 6. Repeat steps 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on other rear 


wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 
bleed Hill-Holder first, then wheel cylinders 

KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 1,000 miles 

(Before Serial No. R-4993) 

Every 6,000 miles 

(Serial No. R-4993 and after) 
|: M 4,000 miles 

Every 6,000 miles 
Hever 6 months or 6,000 miles 


ElRear Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
Necessary to remove axle shafts 


DIFFERENTIAL......... WP*, GL4* 

Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 

80 Face not recommended for year-round use 
ima ntain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 

To drain, remove cover plate 


TWIN-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag stamped with number ''45" attached to 


housing 


[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 


LIFTING CAUTION—Do not lift this car by Every 30, 000 miles 
Ü 


GAS TANK ..... sss Gallons placing any kind of jack under the front or 
AI modal). se «cwesieteteinisenu e n MET rear bumper Every 2 years or 24,000 miles 
BH Position for lift adapter 0 every Crees oil change 
‘ onditional service 
TIRES... „Pressure Front Rear A  Prepacked bearing Drain and refill differential only for below 


Ss UT cc eat san sn 38 0° requirements — i 
Drain and refill automatic transmission only 


when used under severe service 


e Lubrication fitting 


EJRotate tires, Method B, then-balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


GL4* Multipurpose-Type Gear Lubricant 
API Service GL4 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
€ Carburetor Cleaner 


C 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant 


UJ Universal Joint Grease 


Studebaker Spec. No, MS-939 . 

Serial No. R-4993 and after, if con- SAE 70R3 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

ventional chassis lubricant is used, " 1 udebaker Spec. N E 

reduce interval to 1,000 miles HP% Hypoid Gear Lubricant AGUA ^ o. MS-939 or 
+ For Twin-Traction differential, use Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. SR-7 


>t 


«« 


(€1*1€14*€€49«€€$«€€««€«««« 


STUDEBAKER 6 


1964 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


$ee Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AM | | COOLING SYSTEM........ 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. AK, ata 
all 24 s3 =f —s All models ........ 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE Power Steering Reservoir.........-...- AF Below 0* e i 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) si Fill to level indi oncover / — . wen si Sh. ‘avid de ned ipm Y 
ARRESTO TURCIS E dipkq m 140-160 

glatte. ...... ee Test and fill ERAIN and REFILL 
SPARI MVS Eybistributor Shaft (oil cup)... MO See Service Instructions, page 4 
gr aaar 058, (0357 preferred) gg Wick under rotor. ..... eee M0 

E3Steering Gear (plug)........-...--.. -... CL OM Fill Cap .Wash and oii MOE3 
IGNITION POINTS For refill, use Studebaker Lubricant Part No. 50248 
Cap. P019". 0227 „É Crankease Dipstick .........--- 2 Jj Fuel Filter Element... osos Replace rl 
Dwell angie: 37°-41° ilicis Mec ai TRANSMISSION, Automatic. A 

7 Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir CAPACITY, 4 engine idi rus Reh Tou E 
models ........... a 


CONDENSER 
Prestolite 
Capacity: .21-.25 mtd 


EyGearshift Control Lever.............---- tL 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 
e Front Suspension and Steering. 
OK d Linkage (11 or 13 fittings; 5 or 6 plugs) CL = : | MY System Vire iiri EA 
Fittings \ " tions, every 12,000 miles 
y Plugs Oil Fitter (under car)............-.- Replace i 
- " " Add extra quart oil 
Remove plug. insert fitting to lubricate, rein- 
stall plug ront Wheel Bearings. ..........- Repack CLI 
Under favorable tions, every 24.000 miles. ! 


EgClutch Release Shaft... -++--++ +++- CL 
pryClutch Pedal Linkage.......----2---- 0+ Mo 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. 6L, MO 


80GL or 30MO 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints; with overdrive, 314 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 
slightly 
2. one on lock nut and one 


EgParking Brake Linkage.......----.----- r^ me 
Universal Joints .....-..--..+-- Repack UJ on adjusting, ren een outward. away FOr | 
Not recommended under normal service d axie, until a drag is felt as wheel is turned 
Severe service 


If conventi 
duce interval to 10,000 miles 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2.4 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 
mally required : 

Optional: Disc brakes on front, self-adjusting. 
Replace front linings when worn to 14^ thickness | 
Drum brakes on rear, adjust as follows: | 
1. Loosen adjusting screw lock nut | 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing li 

distributor Car oder 10:0: penc plug (or 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


y ona YNE 


` freely without drag " 7 
. Hold adjusting screw stationary and tighten 


3. 
4 

lock nut EB 
5. Repeat steps 1, 2, 3 and 4 on other adjusting 
6. 


Timing Mark and Setting EDRear Wheel Bearings..........-- Repack 
ecessa emo afts screw 
dd = . Repeat steps 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on other rear 
" woes 
pirts RENTIA L as — Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, Rr. LE 1f equipped, 
not recommended for year-round use bleed ponsi brake then Hill-Holder, then 


Mafatain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 234 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
To drain, remove cover plate mio 
-TRA NTIFICATION: 
Meter tag TON with number “45” attached to 
housing 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 
GiEvery 6 months or 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
par JANN . Every 24,000 miles 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 2^ All models 
ih T TIRES EjEvery 30,000 miles 
FUEL PUMP 6.0015, 6.50- Every 2 years or 24,000 miles 


(Every crankcase oil change 


Fixed-roof station wagon. . z 
24 HB Position for lift adapter [i Conditional service 
22 
30 


Sliding-roef station wagon 
6,50-15 LifeGuard ...... --- 


AC model 5594798 

Pressure: 4-5'% Ib. at 1800 rpm 

Volume: Minimum 1 pint in 30 seconds at 4000 
Drain and refill differential only for below O* 


rpm 
6.70115 LifeGuard ....... : A Prepacked bearing requirements 
All, sustained high speeds....----- e : E 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT Saia EgRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels © Lubrication fitting Ordin and refill automatic trerismission oniy 
Mixture (notches) (notches) LifeGuard tires, Method C @ Cooling system drain 
CARTER (oie) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbl. RBS 1 index index FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
Manual Traria:)550:600;r7pm Type A, Suffix A GL4*Multipurpose-Type Gear Lubricant — uj Universal Joint Gr 
Auto. Trans. 575-590 rpm; in NEUTRAL CC Carburetor Cleaner API Service GL4 MIBGTESSe 
Air Cond. 590 rpm in NEUTRAL, unit turned ON LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty WB Wheel Bearing Gr 
Studebaker Sees No, Ny vec i MM ni Studebaker Spec. Mo. MS-999 
VALVE CLEARANCES Used" reduce interval to 1,000 miles HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant or Autolube-A- 


(engine hot and running) = + For Twin-Traction differential, use Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 
Intake .023”-.025*; exhaust .023"-.025 Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. SRS 


STUDEBAKER V-8 


1964 All Models Except Avanti 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions fer Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Greup No. Amp. Mrs. 
An 2i 33 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
Set Trust Uber wren throtte open) 
Jet Thrust Supercharged (TS). ........ 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion: Jet Thrust. Supercharged, Norma 
oe J-12Y: High-speed driving, J-10Y; Others. 
JT. JTS. > Ps E 3 
E deos. 030°; Others, .0337-038' 
orque- 30 ft Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 


Gap: JT, JTS engi 01 
i, STS engines. .0197; Others, .0147- 0197 
- Ji. JTS engi 
EE kel EET 
CONDENSER 
Prestolite 
Capacity: 21-25 mid 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


oo, 


OCO 


Firing Order: 1,8, 4, 3, 6, S, 7,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature 
Crenect pop E 

onnect timing fight to No. 1 rk 
distributor cap tower an Per 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
Set idie speed* with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 


N opne pnr 


| 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
det USD at idle ‘om ) 
Thrust Supercharged, 24° at 1600 rpm 
{Each line equals 2°) 
Others, 4° at idle rpm 
FUEL PUMP 
Ce model JT. M-35055; JTS, M-3508S; Others, 
Pressure: JT, JTS, 512-7 Ib. at 1000 rpm; Others, 
4-5V; Ib. at 1800 rpm 
Volume: Minimum 1 pint; JT, JTS in 15 seconds 
at idle rpm; Others in 30 seconds at 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Choke Choke 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
(initial Man. Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
4-bbl. AFB 1 index index 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. ww 1% index index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans.: JT, JTS, 650 rpm: Others, 550-575 
rpm 

Auto. Trans. in NEUTRAL: JT, JTS, 650 rpm; 
Others, 550 rpm 

Air Cond. in NEUTRAL with unit turned ON: JT, 
JTS. 650 rpm. Others, 550 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


|! (engine hot and running) 


JT. JTS engines: Intake .0257-.027*; exhaust .025*- 
427°; Others: Intake .023°-.025°; exhaust .023°- 


| O25” 


1 


Fill to level indicated on reservoir or cover 


EPower Brake Vacuum Cylinder (plug) 1 oz.. VO 
On Hawk onty 


Steering Gear 
All excep 


E3bistributor Shaft (oil cup) 
Wick under rotor... .. 22... 2.2. 
[Brake Master Cylinder 
Fill to % inch below top of reservoir 
Hawk without disc brakes, under floor, rear of pedal 


E3Gearshift Control Lever................. CL 


Front Suspension and Steering 
Linkage (11 or 13 fittings; 5 or 6 plugs) CL 
Fittings 
E ME NR insert fitting to lubricate, re- 
install plug 
E3Clutch Release Shaft................... eL 
EgPedal Shaft Hawk only. . ................ eL 
E3Cutch Pedal Linkage................... M0 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 
Eben level to fill plug hole 


80GLor30MO . : P 2 

CAPACITY 3% pints; with overdrive, 4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Overdrive, drain and refill thru separate plug holes 


Universal Joints ................ 
Not recommended under normal service 
Eg Severe service 
fejRear Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
ry to remove axle shafts 
DIFFERENTIAL......... HP*, GL4* 
Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 
80 grade not recommended for year-round use 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole A 
CAPACITY 214 pints, except Hawk and all station 
wagons, 3 pini 


[onam and REFILL 
To drain, remove cover plate 
TWIN-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 


Metal tag stamped with number “45” attached to 
housing 
GAS TANK.................. Gallons 
All! models ..... esee rre III 18 
TIRES........... Rear 
6.50-15, 6.70-15 .. 20 
Station wagon ...... 24 
6.70-15 LifeGuard, station 22 
All, sustained high speeds 30 


All, 4 or more 26 26 
E3hRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 
LifeGuard tires, Method C 


WS SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS ~#¥ 
COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts Chek hart CRANKCASE.............“MS” M0 
With Heater Without Heater ees 10W-30,20W-40 

All models ........ 18 17 Vv 

Cooling system pressure, 14 pounds 10W-30 20 
Battery At rear on Hawk Test and fill ary 
E3Fuel Filter Element... . TE A * When using SW, avoid sustained speeds above 
EPower Wesermit.. E E AF CAPACITY S quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions. page 4 


Maintain level between marks on dipstich s 
DRAIN and REFILL... ewe 


Crankcase Dipstick....... ...... Check level 

‘Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Dry type ..... .. -Clean jg 
Doy YS iuueni ESA Replace Fij 
CC e Washand fill MOG 


Above + 32°, 40 or 50; below +32°, 20 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
Check level, engine idling, DRIVE position... .. * 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ........... 3° 3 

* Immediately after engine is started, add 4 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL. .... EE — 

Remove fill tube 

Dil Fill Caps. ............. Wash and oil MOEI 

Oil Filter (under car) Replace, add extra quart oil [3 
Y System Valve..................... CcCcES 


Remove and clean valve. Under favorable condi- 
tions, every 12,000 miles 


ront Wheel Bearings............ Repack CLA 
Under favorable conditions, every 24,000 miles. 

lf conventional wheel bearing grease is used, 
reduce interval to 10,000 miles 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment normally 
juired 
Optional: Disc brakes on front, self-adjusting. 
Replace front linings when worn to 14” thickness 
Drum brakes on rear, adjust as follows: 


1. Loosen adjusting screw nut slightly 

2. Use two wrenches, one on lock nut and one 
on adjusting screw. With wrenches pointing 
upward, rotate wrenches outward, away from 
axle, until a drag is felt as wheel is turned 

3. Back off adjusting screw until wheel turns 
freely without drag à " 

4. Hold adjusting screw stationary and tighten 

k nut 
5. Repeat steps 1, 2, 3 and 4 on other adjusting 
6. 


screw 
Repeat steps 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on other rear 
wheel 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 


bleed power brake first, then Hill-Holder, then 
wheel cylinders 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3AEvery 6,000 miles 
Every 6 months or 6,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 
E Every 30,000 miles 
BijEvery 2 years or 24,000 miles 
MEvery crankcase oil change 
[3 Conditional service 
Drain and refill differential only for below 0° 
requirements 


Drain and refill automatic transmissi 
when used under severe Service. Son 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
A Prepacked bearing 

© Lubrication fitting 

@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


Type A, Suffix A 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Studebaker Spec. No. MS-939 
If conventional chassis lubricant is 
used, reduce interval to 1,000 miles 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


MO Motor Oil 

UJ Universal Joint Grease 
VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


GL4* Multipurpose-Type Gear Lubricant 
API Service GL¢ 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
SAE 70R3 Studebaker Spec. No. MS-939 
HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant or Autolube-A 
a For Twin-Traction differential, use Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 
SR-9 


foro eem 


[x 


[Mm 


[ M 
La 


zan 


SSS | CCR » Wee 


| m n cn || = 


'!w 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY à Aann 
o. Amp. Hrs. 

4-cylinder 18LF (2 
6-cylinder; 2-seater 18LF 2 (evel 3 

4-seater 29H 57 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) i 
ier sane, lo NIM watt eise rein Sce mie wu ave, 25 

x engine. .... 

100 Six, 6 port head 150-160 
3000 engine 


SPARK PLUGS 

mpion N-5 (UN-12Y : i 

sen! ant ( may be used); high-speed 

Gap: .025" 

Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 

IGNITION POINTS 

Lucas 

Gap: .014”-.016" 

Dwell angle: 4-cyl. 57°-63° (60° preferred) 
6yl. 33°-37° (35° preferred 

CONDENSER 


Lucas 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 
4cyl. 1, 3, 4,2 
6-<cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

2. Ceniralize the distributor vernier scale 

3. On &-cylinder engines align notch in pulley 
with pointer. This represents 0° BTDC. On 
4-cylinder engines it will be necessary to de- 
termine 0° TOC of No. 1 piston by the use of 
a dial indicator or other suitable means 

4. Turn distributor housing until points just 
open, as indicated by test lamp _ 

5. Turn vernier knob to advance timing to rec- 
ommended setting. Each mark on vernier 
equals two degrees on crankshaft 

6. Road test car and make final adjustments to 
ain maximum engine performance without 

ng 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center: 
ip 100 Six, 6°; 3000 Mark I, 5°; 3000 Mark II, 


FUEL PUMP 

S.U. electric: 4-cyl. and 100 Six (4 port head 
BN 4) type HP; 100 Six (6 port head BN 6) and 
3000, LCS 

Volume: 31 ounces per minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 
Mixture 
(initial 
$.U. turns) 
1.; 100 Six (4 port) 
Twin 1-bbl, H-4 1 
100 Six (6 port); 3000 Mark ! 
Twin 1-bbl. HD-6 2% 
3000 Mark II 
Twin or Triple 1-bbl. HS-4 2 
Mark I! convertible 
Twin 1-bbl. HS-62 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
4-cyl. 650-700 rpm; 6-cyl. 450-650 rpm 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot, not running) 
intake .012"; exhaust .012” 


AUSTIN HEALEY 


X, 1952-64 100, 100 Six, 3000 Series Mark |, II 


WOOO RELEASE: tnside 


SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS 


Lo 
Cooling system pressure: 6-cyl., 7 pounds; 4-cyl., 
4 pounds 


E3Steering Gear (plug).............. MP 
Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 
4-cyl., remove wheel to service 


E3 Brake and Clutch Reservoir (cap)........-- HB 
Fill to !4 inch from top of reservoir 
4-cyl. and early 6-cyl., reservoir rear of carburetors, 
Some 6-cyl., reservoir adjacent to rear carburetor. 
4-cyl., do not have hydraulically-operated clutch 


(Water Pump (plug) ......-. Sparingly 140 MP 
Eg Carburetor Dashpots .................. M0 
Unscrew caps. maintain level at ?4 inch below 
top of inner hollow shaft 
3 dashpots on some 3000 Series Mark II 
Air Cleaner Elements..............- Service 
Wire gauze............. Wash and oil MO 


3 filters on some 3000 series Mark II 


Cam bearing (under rotor)... .Sparingly MORS 


Advance mechanism ................ won 
Apply sparingty thru hole around cam 
Dil Filter ....... ——— MA Replace 
&-cyl. Engine Mlostroted 4cyi., forward, at center B 
Cake modd, Add extra 114 pints oil 


no lubrication 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage..... ~ (6 or 12 fittings) CL 


EaBrake and Clutch Pedal Pivots 4-cyl......-. CL 
[Clutch Operating Shaft [15 RE Sparingly CL 


TRANSMISSION ........... 30 MO 
Reach dipstick and fill plug thru floor 

Maintain level to mark on dipstick 
CAPACITY Mark I} convertible, 6% pints; with | 
overdrive, sy pints M | Zfj9Pmgsmacues....................... 
All others, 6 pints; with overdrive, 714 pints ex- I 
cept 1953-54 100 series with aluminum housing, N 
6% pints 

[Bonam and REFILL 
Overdrive, drain thru separate plug hole. Fill thru 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


transmission 


[Speedometer Cable ............... Coat CL Supremes more thon i te need can be 
Tachometer Cable ...... ....ÜCoat CL ced and ad pian 


EJ Steering Column (oil hole). . . . . Sparingly MO 


Adjustable steering column, no lubrication 


E3Universal Joint .............---- 2-00 


Hm 
8 
Li 


‘ Front brakes 

Eg Universal Joint Spline. 1 Tum each adjuster until a sfight drag is teit 
when revolving drum 

jue! Pump Screen 2. Back off each adjuster until drum just turns 

[Shock Absorbers .......... L Rear brakes s Ora 

EJUniversal Joint ........... H 3. Turn adjuster until a slight drag is felt when 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 

Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole " 
CAPACITY 3% pints,except 100 1953-55 spiral 
bevel, 234 pints 

[B DRAIN and REFILL 

PBattey....... lessen Test and fill 
2-seaters, 2 €-volt batteries under lid behind seat 


Gallons 
" 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


TIRES Mud dap d TO eas 
eeu: essure Front Rear A 

530115 Mark i convertible... 20 25 E3Every 1,000 miles 

M SULLA see 5 A B Position for lift adapter ElEvery 3,000 miles 

. Ful load, 28° a pee MeL z © Lubrication fitting H Every 6,000 miles 


EJRotate tires, Method H, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain IHEvery 12,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 
LUBRICANTS HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed ia U.S.A. 


AUSTIN HEALEY 


Y G. Sprite Mark |, 


IDGET 


M6 64 All Models 
TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions fer Procedure 


(Following data does not include modified stage 
turned engines) 


BATTERY 


AAUM 
Group No. 
An Special 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
WIN threttte pen) psi 


Amp, Hra. 
43 


— PLUGS 
{on arn ^ Normal. N-5; high-speed or competi- 


Torque: 3 S M 
IENIELUN POINTS 


Gent "0147. .016* 
Dwell angle: $7°-63° (60° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Luces 
Capacity: ,18..25 mtd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,3,4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Position distributor vernier at center of scalo 

2. Connect 12-volt test lamp. 5 distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to gi 

3, Turn crankshaft pulley r^g notch is aligned 
with recommended degree pointer on timing 
ter cover 

4. Loosen distributor clamp bolt and turn dis- 
tributor housing until breaker points just open, 
as indicated by test lamp 

5. Tighten distributor clamp bolt 

6. Make final precise adjustment with vernier 
knob and test lamp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


Premium fuel, 96 octane minimum, is recom- 
mended. Spark knock must not be tolerated 
Mark |, 5°; Mark I! and Midget (with 948cc eng.) 


4*; (with 1100cc eng.) 5 
FUEL PUMP 


AC type Y 
Pressure: 14-244 1b. at idle rpm 
Volume: Approx. 13 ounces per minute at idlo rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 
[os 
nitia 
$.U. 
Twin 1-bbl. H-1 MM) 
Twin 1:bbl. HS-2 2 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
650-750 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, not running) 
Intake 013%: exhaust .013* 


Mark | 
WOOD RELEASE: Sprite Mark |, front; others, Insido 


E SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts art 
With Heater Without Heater wW 
All models ii oy 8 


Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


[Water Pump (plug). .. Sparingly 140 MP 
OW FIN Cap. cce v aiat ERK en 
Eg Carburetor Dashpots.......... € 20 MO 


Unscrew cops, maintain level at 4 Inch bolow 
top of Inner ollow shaft 


Alr Cleaner Elements.............. Service 


Dy type seen nn Replace 
Wire gauze,.......56 «Wash and oil MO 


Eg Brake and Clutch Reservoir (cap).......... HB 


Fill to % Inch below top of fill hole 


Eg Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage.......... (8 fittings) cL — 
TRANSMISSION ............ 30 MO 


Reach fill and level plug thru opening at left 
side under floor mat 

EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints 

A ORAIN and REFILL 


[Tachometer Cable...........-...+- Coat CL 
(Speedometer Cable... Coat CL 


E3universal Joints... CL 
To reach front Joint fitting, lift floor mat and 
remove rubber plug on left sida of tunnel 


BBRear Shock Absorbers. ....... se 
Eg Hand Brake Cable... soo 
DIFFERENTIAL ... 


Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 
EQ Maintain love! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 1% pints 
[ORAIN and REFILL 


EygHand Brake Balance Lever,...........,.. CL 


GAS TANK............... .. Gallons 
All modelli ius ier tmm sanae mm 
[7 
TIRES . Pressure Front Rear BM. tosta orit 


SACS: e — ( 1 — 20 e Lubrication fitting 
EBRotate tires, Method A or G, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


M. G. Midget 


- 


SYMBOLS He 


CRANKCASE “MS” MO 
Above +32°.......... sas 100 20W-30 
Above +10” .20,20W  20W-30 
Below +10"... ...... . 10W 


CAPACITY (Including oil filter) 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 

Use low pressure, Check rubber boots for leaks 
Do not disturb hex plugs on steering rack tube 
Models with 1100cc engine, no fitting. If leaks are 
observed, loosen right side boot and inject not 
more than '% pint lubricant 


Generator 
Lübricator COD iuuenem mnn we 
Bil hel A ierat emet mora [mA 
Oll Filter (under car) . Replace 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


Distributor 
Cam bearing (under rotor). . . .Sparingly an 
Advance mechanism .........------+ 
Lubricate sparingly thru hole around cam 


Battery: «x oecocoervme iu Test and fillEg 


Front Wheel Bearings..........-..----- wa 


Remove dust cap and fill. Do not remove hub 


Front Shock Absorbers..........-..- Fill SA 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2", the need for service is 
indicated 

Front brakes have two adjusters. Rear brakes 
have a single adjuster which operates both shoes 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 


1. Raise car, remove hub caps, remove plugs 
from adjustment holes In brake drums 

2. Turn wheel unti! hole lines up with slotted 
head adjuster 

3, Turn ad; Jstor until drum is locked 

4, Back of adjuster until drum just turns freely 

5 without drag 

6. 


Repeat En 2, 3 and 4 for second adjuster 
Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Models with 1100cc engine 

Self-adjusting disc brakes are used on front. Rear 
brakes are drum type and are adjusted by follow- 
ing above procedure 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, uF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EqEvery 1,000 miles 
EEvery 3,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light = 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease Pui 

LUBRICANTS on 
= 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation, Printed In U.S, A, 


AHI-2 


FIAT 


1957-61 1100, 1100 DeLuxe, 1200 Sedan; 
1958-63 1200 Spider; 1962-64 11000, 
1100 £xport, 1100 Special; 1964 1500 Spider 


CA 


1200 Spider V 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


w 


SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


BATTERY AABM COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts CRANKCASE............."MS" M0 
1957-61 Model 1100 EIN " — With Heater Quin AMM may be used under favorable conditions 
L Y 
1962-64 24 53 bier: ^ Above in : 10W-30 
Above +10° oe 10W-30 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE , Below " 
2-10*..... e 100-30 
(psi at cranking speed, throttle opon) min, max. 0U Filter «se » Replace, add extra pint oil CAPACITY 1500, 3% quarts; others, 2% quarts 
sessosossssssososesossserssss [5] 1100D, 1500 Others paan. MACH ii — 
SPARK PLUGS 
Champion: es MP L7 Crankcase Dipstick.......... +++» Check level 
Torque: 1500, 18-20 ft. Ib.; Others, 15 ft. Ib. Dil Fill Cap 
IGNITION POINTS BDitty...iiuonis oo iens 
Mareili DEM MN. rousse use EROE $ Mom 
Gap: .016"-.019" (.017" preferred) Distributor Shaft Some models, no lubrication 
CONDENSER All except 1500 (grease cup) Mir Cleaner Ele 


m 11000 Others 


Marelli 
Capacity: 1500, .20-.25 mtd; Others, .15-.20 mfd 1500 (oil cup) pA Y Dry type € 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Located atilettéront Oo Dry type : Replace 
E3Steering Gear (plug) L LTO TITIO 90 EP: Brake Fluid Reservoir (plug).............. BE 
1100 Special, all 1200 and 1500 models, plug on 1200 Spider and 1500, left side 


right side of housing FINI to level mark on reservoir 


E3Steering Gear Shaft (under hood).......... LM 
EJFront Suspension and 


Steering Linkage.......... (11 fittings) CL Front Wheel Bearings. ........... Repack LM 
1100D, 1962-63 1200 Spider, 1500. ...... 12 
1500 Egohuteh Pedal ......................... CL LEES 6 
Firing Order: 1,3, 4,2 TRANSMISSION.......... 90 GL, EP. 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor prl- 
mary termina! and to ground 

2. Turn pulley until notch is aligned with marker. 
Thís represents 0* BTDC* 


F3 11000,1500 Others 
CAPACITY 254 pints 


DRAIN and REFILL 
1100D, 1500 fH Others 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake peda! can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 


3. Turn distributor housing untll points Just open : 
erp ep linen Pe Ss sax ements v x Teo salute nuts are provided at the top portion 
* 1500. set mark on pulley .630* (12*) before 1100 series only of each backing plate 


raised mark on engine cover 


Timing Mark and Setting 


1, Turn each adjuster until drum cannot be 

EgUniversal Jolnt pe MR e e tS LM turned by hanı 

1200 series only Back off each adjuster unti! drum just turns 

freely without drag 

Repeat procedure at each wheel 

960-64; 1100, 1200 series 

Depress pedal and hold "ON" firmly 

- Turn each adjuster until cams contact shoes 

Back off each adjuster 20° 

. Release pedal and check to see that drum 

can rotate freely without drag 

1964: Model 1500 rear drums 

1, Proceed as shown above but back off adjust- 
ers until .0047-.006* drum to shoe clearance 
is obtained 

2. Measure clearance with feeler gage inserted 
into slot in drum 

1964: Model 1500 disc brakes 

Brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment nor- 


Universal Joint Spline................ m 


1200 series only 


E3Universal Joint ........... cece eee 1M 


avnmuw P 


DIFFERENTIAL ............. 90 EP. 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

KJ 1100D, 1500 Others 
CAPACITY 1500, 1.9 pints; others, 11⁄4 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 


fH 11000,1500 IB Others 


Timi Top Oead Center): " 
Jo 2o ON ee [fear Springs .. n.. cae ol ickateg vd: RePIRCSIDNHETUIT weno: 120 
(Select suitabie setting based on fue! used) Apply between leaves Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 
FUEL PUMP 
Weber mechanical GAS TANK ťa Gallons 
Lid remot ee niece TL Lu m onis All modela «eem 10 —— 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT TRES nepar NUS pront uw EqEvery 1,500 miles 
mixture CC T pe AM er 27 ElEvery 3,000 miles 

Wis initial 5,60-14, station wagon. . 19 2 B Position for lift adapter Every 6,000 miles 

lbbl, 321M Té 145-14, model 1800... cns 23 a4 e Lubrication fitting [HEvery 12,000 miles 

fon. ZEN 12 [Rotate tires, Method J, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain [Every 18,000 miles 

. 7 

Note: F. : Y 

Wen he carport Cima contol quis e i FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
E As eer an meri n carbu KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant GG Graphite Grease LM Lithium Grease 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 

800-850 rpm. LUBRICANTS HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine poids m running) 
: Intake "; exhaust ,008” 
Others; Intake 004") exhaust 604" Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U. S.A. Fri 


€ eh corte e ——— ———— i a oai E 


FORD BRITISH-BUILT 


1960-64 Anglia 

1962-63 Consul 315 

1962-64 Consul Capri 

1963-64 Consul Cortina 
TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


TT AABM 

BATTERY Group No. Amp. Mrs. 
Anglia 29NF* 51 
Consuls 29NF* 51 


* Special lug-type terminals 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
1963-64 Consuls eS ` 

Others ...... Tm 
SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite AG3; Champion N-S 
Gap: .0237-.028" 

Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Ento 
Gap: 0147.016" 
Dwell angle: 58° -62° 


CONDENSER 
Ento 
Capacity: -18-.22 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Consuls 


Anglia 


Firing Order: 1,2, 4,3 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
. Connect tachometer 
Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 
Set distributor octane scale to 0° 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 
distributor to obtain gament of notch in 
Pulley with mark on timing gear cover. This 
setting equals specified timing advance 
7. Reset to proper idle speed 
B, Additional performance mo 


ome wn 


1 2 be obtained by 
altering timing setting to obtain maximum ac- 
celeration from 20 


to 40 mph, in 4th gear, 
using full throttle 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Early Late 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Anglia, 10°; Consul Cortina 1500, 8°; all others, 6° 
(Align notch with pointer) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 


Pressure: 14-2 Ib. while accelerating engine 
briefly 


Volume: Approx. 1 pint in 1 minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
initial 
SOLEX urns) 
1-bbl. 1% 
ZENITH 
1-bbl. -1v 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
500-550 rpm 
VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold) 


1963.64 Consul Cortina 1500: Intake .012"; èx- 
haust .022”. All others: Intake .008”; exhaust .018" 


Consul Consul Capri 
WOOO RELEASE: Consul Cortina, outside, all others, Mode 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
JV 6 


Anglio s PERNT 
Consul 315 . . ? 
Consul Capri 7 
Consul Cortina 1200 E 
Consul Cortina 1500 7 


Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


Crankcase Dipstick. . . 
H0 Fill Cap. . 
E Generator (oil hole) 


Air Cleaner Element 


© Dy type... 
E Oil bath. 


EaBrake Fluid Reservoir (cap) 


Fill to level mark on reservoir 


Ex Clutch Fluid Reservoir (cap) 


Fill to level mark on reservoir 


EsSteering Gear (rubber plug) 


oss Replace 
Wash and fill MO 


EgFront Suspension and Steering Linkage 
Except Consul Cortina (9 fittings) LM—— 
Consul Cortina (6 fittings) LM 


TRANSMISSION 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
1960-62 Anglia [15] 
1963-64 Not recommended 


1962 Consuls 


HRear Springs . 
DIFFERENTIAL 


Above -10*, 90; below -10°, 80 
ES Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 234 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
EH 1960.62 Anglia [15] 
1963-64 Not recommended 


Rear Shock Absorbers...............Fill SA 
Eb Anglia IB Consuls, except Cortina 
rvice 


Cortina, no se 


GAS TANK 


Anglia 
Consuls except Cortina . 
Cortina 


1962 Consuls 


Gallons 
8 


» 10% 
~ 9% 


Pressure Front Rear 


5.20-13, Anglia, Consul Cortina 1500 22 
5,60-13, Anglia station wagon 24 
5.20-13, Consul Cortina 1200,...... 
5.60-13, 5.90-13, all other Consuls. . 
Pressures may be increased according to load ° 


EfRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HP 
KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear uM 


Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


Copyright 1964, Tho Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A, 


Cortina, no 
lubricatlon 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOL 


CRANKCASE....... 
Above +32° 
Above —10° ` 
Below —10° ..., 
CAPACITY 2% quarts except Consul Cort 
3% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


...Test and fill 


Replace Kl 
Add extra 3, quart oil 


Distributor g 
Cam bearing (under rotor)... .Sparingly MOET 
[mg 


Advance mechanism 
Lubricate sparingly thru opening around cam 


Fuel Pump Sediment Bow! and Screen... Clean E 


Front Suspension Thrust Bearings. .Repack LME 
1960-62 only. Pry off plastic cap to repack 


Front Wheel Bearings Repack LM 
Anglia, Consul Cortina, initial torque, 30 ft. Ib.; 
final adjustment, loosen nut 2-214 castellations 
Consuls, except Cortina, initial torque, 14-17 ft. 
Ib;; slacken adjusting nut 214-3 castellations 
Wheel must turn freely with only slight end play 
permitted 


Anglia .. 
Consuls G rim 


Front Suspension Units (plugs) 
Check level with car unloaded 
Remove plugs; located forward on left unit 
Fill to bottom of plug hole 
Anglia 
Consuls 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2^, the need for service is 
indicated 

Consuls, except Cortina, use self-adjusting disc 
brakes on front. No adjustments required. Re- 
place pads when worn to Y- '-inch thickness 

All Consul rear brakes have a single square head 
adjuster on each backing plate 

Anglia uses two square head adjusters on each 
front and rear backing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 


Anglia and Cortina front brakes 

l. Turn adjuster until shoe just contacts drum 

2. Back off adjuster until shoe just clears drum 
and no drag is felt when turning drum 

3, Repeat steps 1 and 2 at other adjuster 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 at other front wheel 

Anglia rear brakes 

5. Turn forward adjuster until drum cannot be 
turned by hand 

6. Turn rearward adjuster until light contact is 
made with shoe . 

. Back off forward adjuster, about 2 clicks, until 

drum just turns freely without drag 
8. Repeat steps 5, 6 and 7 at other rear wheel 
M Consul rear brakes 


NP adjuster until drum cannot be turned 

n 

2. Back off adjuster until drum just turns freely, 
without drag 

3. Repeat procedure for other rear brake 

Bleeding sequence: RF, LF, RR, LR 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
Consul Cortina: Every 5,000 miles 


ExEvery 5,000 miles or twice yearl 
Every 15,000 miles Minis 


Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 

Ford Specs. No, M2C28-B, 90; 5 
M2C28-A, BO PO Penetrating Oil 
Lithium Grease 


Consul Cortina; Ford Specification SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 
No, M-1C47. If Ford Specification 
No. M-1C47 is not available lubri- 


cate every 1,000 miles 


FDI-4 


J 
» 
^ 
a] 
-j 
@ 
a 
“a 
^ 
^ 
d 
= 
Ed 
2 
sð 
-> 
d 
2:4 
24 
æ 
Æ 
A) 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
195758 ; Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
-58 early Speci: 

1958 late, 1959-64 PS s 5 

COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 

Minx Series |, II; Husky I, Ie... sues so 50s 

Minx Series III, !II-A, -B, -C, V; ÉD 
Super Minx; Husky Series III... ».170-180 


SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: Super Minx, Minx i -A, -l 

and late Husky Series Il, N-5; iM EB E 

[re oe uper Minx and late 
ies II, 111, .025"; o! , .028*-.032^ 

Torque: 25 ft. Ib. er$::0185-922 


IGNITION POINTS 
Lucas 


Gap: Super Minx, Minx Series Ill-C, V, Husky 
Series 111, .015^; others, .016” 
Dwell angle: 57°-63° 


CONDENSER 


Lucas 
Capacity: .2 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 3, 4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Connect tachometer 

2. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

3. Set distributor vernier at "Full Retard" posi- 
tion, except Mins Series III-C, V, Husky Series 
Iti, Super Minx, one notch before "Full Retard” 

4. Bring engine to operating temperature 

5. Set idle speed to 400-500 rpm, transmission in 
NEUTRAL 


6. Observe timing mark at pulley and turn dis- 
tributor housing to obtain alignment of mark 
with pointer (this represents 0° BTDC| 

7. Turn vernier knob 2-274 turns to advance 
timing to 6°-8° BTDC (pulley marker should 
appear .216”-.295” before pointer). Minx Series 
MI-C, V, Husky Series IIl, turn vernier knob 
1-14 turns to advance timing to 6°-8° BTOC 
(pulley marker should appear ,1977-.275” be- 
fore pointer); Super Minx, 2 turns, B^-11* 
BTOC (.275”-.355”) 

8. Reset to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Early 


Late 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Super Minx, 8°-11°; others, 6°-8° 
FUEL PUMP 

AC type: YD (on Husky); UG (on Minx) 


Pressure: 114-21/ Ib. at cranking speed 
Volume: Approx. 1 pint in 1 minute idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
vin 
initial 
SOLEX turns) 
1-bbl. 12 
ZENITH 
1-bbl. 1-2 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 600-650 rpm 
Auto. Trans, 600-650 rpm in NEUTRAL 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine at 180°F,, not running) 
intake .012"; exhaust .014” 


I-A, -B, -C (1600) Mark I, 11 Husky Series Ill 
HOOD RELEASE: Minx serias Ill, II-A, -B, Super Minx, inside; all others, front 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOW 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 
Husky Series III, Minx 
Series V, Super Minx 74 6.3 
All other models... % 74 
Cooling system pressure: 1957-58, 7 pounds; 
1959-63, 4 pounds; except Super Minx, Mark |, 


7 pounds. 1964, 9 pounds 
H Generator (oil hole). ................ ...M0 


E3Bttery. ........... "ETE .Test and fill 
Super Minx, right side 


Air Cleaner Element..... oe pues ... Service 


AB Oil bath Wash and fill MO 
Dry type ....... . . Clean 
I) Dry type .. . . Replace 


TA Wiregaue.............. Wash and oil 


El Steering Gear (rubber plug or fittings)...... EP 
Above +10°, 140; below +10°, 90 
Early models, 2 fittings: late models, rubber lug 
wun fittings, to lubricate, turn wheels fully to 
rigl 


Some late models, 
no lubricotion 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (plug).........-.-. HB 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of fill hole 


Front Suspension and Steering 
Linkage. ..(0*, 1*, 15, 19 or 21 fittings) CL—" 


* Super Minx Mark I, 1 fitting on idler arm; Mark 
iT) and Minx Series V, no fittings 


TRANSMISSION, Manual . ...M0 


—10^, 30; below -10°, 20,20W 
El Maintain level to fill plug hole or to mark on dip- 


ichs with floor shift reach thru floor at right of 

tunnel 

CAPACITY 334 pints 
iran and REFILL 


E3Universal Joints s 
Super Minx Mark |, front joint only. Minx Series 
V and Super Minx Mark II, no lubrication 


Hand Brake Cable......... KT eei t tL 
m Series V and Super Minx Mark II, no lubri. 
cation 


DIFFERENTIAL ...............- EP 
Hypoid: Above —10?, 90; below -10°, 80 
Spiral Bevel: Above +32°, 140; above -10^, 90; 
below -10°, 80 

EJ Maintain tevel to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints 

(i ORAIN and REFILL 


GAS TANK 


Super Minx Mark l...... 
Minx Series V, Super Minx Mi 


. . Gallons 
MELIA 


Estate car 12 
Super Minx 12 
Other Minx series. , 
Husky series 


TIRES........... 


5,90-13, 6.00-13 .. 
6.50-13, Super Minx 


Full load 25* 30 
5.00-15, 5.60. 2 2 

alsin Esa MP oj 

SS lond eerie à 28 Bl Position for lift adapter 
* High-speed driving. . : 
e Sustained high-speed driving, add 6 pounds e  Lubrication fitting 


EfRotate tires, Method C, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, 


HILLMAN 


1957-62 Minx Series 1, II, III, II-A, -B, -C (1600) 


1957-64 Husky Series I, Il, Ill 


1962-64 Super Minx Mark I, Il; Minx Series V 


N BY SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE . .... "MS" MO 
Above +70°........ 30 20W-40 
Above 4-20* -20,20W — 10W-30 
Above FS arenira .. 10W 10W-30 
Below ES” scere vss 5W-20 


CAPACITY Husky series |. 334 quarts; all others 
(including oil filter), 444 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

Service Instructions, page 4 


Fuel Filter Sediment Bowl and Screen. . . .Clean [3 


ON FMS «rocca comer Replace — 
Not on Husky series | 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
Distributor 
Cam bearing (under rotor)... .Sparingly MOE 
Advance mechanism ................ Li] 3| 


Sparingly thru hole around cam 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. . AF 
Borg-Warner 

Check level, engine idling, PARK position.. 
CAPACITY 6!4 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE 


Initial torque, 15-20 ft. fb; final adjustment, 
loosen to obtain .003*-.007* end play 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. M0 
Easidrive 

Above 0°, 10W-30; below 0°, 5W-20 

Fill to mark on dipstick... -........... vase 
CAPACITY 3% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL. ........-..--------....-- G 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2", the need for service is 

indicated 

Front brakes have two adjusters. Rear brakes are 

Provided with a single adjuster which operates 

both shoes 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

Minx Series, Husky Series, Super Minx Mark I 

1. With car raised and hub caps removed, turn 
wheel until adjustment opening in wheel and 
drum lines up with slotted head adjuster 

2. Turn adjuster until the shoe or shoes contact 
the drum and back off the adiuster one notch 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

4. Apply brakes firmly a few times and recheck 
adjustments 

Super Minx Mark II, Minx Series V: Self-adjusting 

disc brakes are used on front. Rear brakes are 

drum type and are adjusted as shown above 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3XEvery 1,000 miles 


Super Minx, Minx Series V: 
Every 3,000 miles 


E Every 3,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 
[i Conditional service 


Wash and oil wire gauze air cleaner element 
as required 


MO Motor Oil 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Heavy-Duty 


HMI-1 


« 


» 
JAGUAR 


1962-64 "E" Type 


] HOOD RELEASE: Early models, rear of both front fenders; late models, Inside right and lelt 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


_ BATTERY AABM 

| Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
Alt Special 60 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


BUCR .. 
M1CR .... 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion: Early models, N-5; late models, UN- 
12Y; for racing, N-3 


Gap: .025” 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Lucas 

Gap: .014”-,016” 

Dwell angle: 33°-37° (35° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
Lucas 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


(GG 


ly 


NES 


Firing Order: 1, 5,3, 6, 2, 4 
Note: No. 1 cylinder is at rear 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
i. 


Centralize distributo; i 
Centralize: r micrometer advance 

2. Loosen distributor clamp boit and connect a 
12-volt test lamp to distributor primary ter- 
minal and to ground 

3. Turn engine until recommended timing mark 
on pulley is aligned with pointer à 

4. Turn distributor until points just open as in- 
dicated by test lamp. Rotor must be pointing 
toward No. 6 distributor cap tower 

5. Tighten clamp bolt securely 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
8:1CR engine, 9^; 9:1CR engine, 10° 


FUEL PUMP 

Lucas electric: type 2 F.P. 
Pressure: 2-214 Ib. at 13.5 volts 
Volume: 60 ounces per minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie 

Mixture 

initial 

s.u. urns) 
Triple 1-bbl. HD-8 2% 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
500 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, not running) 

Intake .004”; exhaust .006” 

For racing: Intake .006"; exhaust .010” 


m. d SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS w- 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts K CRANKCASE.............. "MS" MO 

With Heater Oe rt Above --90* 40 10W-30 
p fonas, D 19% Above +32° 30 10W-30 
fate models, 9 p pounds. re: Early models, 4 pounds; Below 4-32* 20 10W-30 


CAPACITY (including oll filter) 9 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Carburetor Dashpots (3 caps),........ 20 MO: 


Unscrew caps and add as required 
Egpattey............ eres 
Oil Fill Cap 


EiGenerator (oil hole)............ Ld Si Ch} G Distributor 
EAr e n m : Cam bearing (under rotor)... .Sparingly MOET 
EaClutch Fluid Reservoir (cap)............. HB ©) i Advance mechanism and shaft........- [I x | 
Fil! to level mark on reservoir (O) m Sparingly thru hole around shaft 
EX a denn Mtvite is caps) dx dte is Q Kd Air Cleaner Element............. 005 Service 
Fil level marks on reservoirs 
D M. - nceneraverncry amare Ma E Replace[T] 
Crankcase Dipstick............. Dekimb 7 S. ih 
B ON) EE porsona RA Replace Kil 


Filter must be drain: provided, If 
element is not replaced at crankcase drain. Start- 
stop city driving, low speeds or worn engine every 
2,500 miles 


Fuel Filter Sediment Bowl and Screen... . Clean ll 


Also clean screens in carburetor float bow! unions 


To prevent domoge of front cross member, 
vse a 1” x Ya” x 16” wood block In- 


E3Steering Gear . ... AM sorted between liit pads and cross member 
Use low pressure, do not swell retainer boots. 
Check boot clamps for tightness 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage.......... (6 fittings) LM Front Wheel Bearings.......... Sparingly LMIT] 
Remove wheel to expose fitting 
TRANSMISSION............ 30 MO Observe vent hole while lubricating 


Reach thru opening in left side of transmission Adjust bearings to obtain .003"-.005" end play 


cover. Lift carpet and cover to expose opening 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints 
DD ORAIN and REFILL 


EqDoor Hinges Both sides........ Sparingly LA"? 
Late models, no fittings 
E3Universal Joint and Spline............... LM: 
Reach thru opening in left side of transmission 


cover. Lift carpet and cover to expose opening 
Late models, no lubrication 


E3Universal Joint ............0.-. 20000 LM: 


Late models, no lubrication 


EgRear Axle Shaft Univ. Joints Both sides... .LM 
Late models, no lubrication 

[Rear Wheel Bearings (plug).............. LM 
Remove wheel to expose plug. Fill opening with 
lubricant using low pressure. Do not pack hubs 

HpRear Suspension Pivot Brgs. Both sides. . . .LM 


DIFFERENTIAL, 
Powr-Lok .......... 90 HP® = m 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3% pints 
Moran and REFILL 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 
All models ... +. 16% 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


Disc brakes on all wheels, no adjustment required. 
Replace pads when worn to '4” thickness 


Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 2,500 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 
6.40-15 (normal driving),......+.+.23* — 25* 
Sustained high speeds. . 2,906 359 ; 
4 Not over 130 mph Bl Position for lift adapter 
€ For maximum speeds over 130 mph e Lubrication fitting 
ERotate tires, Method A or G, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty HP^ Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
LUBRICANTS SAE TORS LM Lithium Grease No. 2 
+ Special lubricant suitable for Powr-Lok differential must be used 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. IRI-4 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


(Diesel engine tune-up data not included) 


BATTERY AABM 

MINA Group No. Amp. Hrs 
Special 

230SL Special En 

Others Special 52 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) 


190c 128-142; 220 series (8,7: 
(7.6:1CR) 115-135; 230SL 140-166 PER)» 30350; 


SPARK PLUGS 


Refer to car owner's manual 

IGNITION POINTS 

Bosch 

e. 190c .016*-.020"; 220 series, 230SL .012”- 
Duell. angle: 190c 487-527; 220 series, 230SL 
CONDENSER 

Bosch 

Capacity: .25-.30 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


4-cyl. 6-cyl. 
Firing Order: 4-cyl. 1, 3, 4, 2: 6-cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Disconnect all spare plug wires, connect tim- 
ing light to No. 1 spark plug wire and connect 
tachometer 

2. Crank engine with starter and adjust timing 
to initial setting 

3. Reconnect plug wires and run engine at 4000- 
4500 rpm to check maximum advance setting 

Note: Correct high-speed advance setting is more 

vital than low-speed seiting 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


Values to left of slash (/) are initial Settings. at 
cranking rpm. Values to right of slash are to be 
Observed at 4i m with vacuum con- 


(D At 3000 rpm 


FUEL PUMP 


Solex except 220SEb, 230SL Bosch electric 

pressure: Solex modan: PER ib. at idle rpm; 
osch models, . (electric, 

Volume: Solex, 1-114 pints ex. 220b. -Sb, 230SL, 

214-29, pints in 1 minute at idle rpm; Bosch, 1 

gallon ín 1 minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
SOLEX 


Single or dual 1-bbl. or 2-bbl. 


le Mixture 
(initial turns) 
15-2 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 750-800 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 680-720 rpm in NEUTRAL or DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, not running) 

Gasoline engines: 190c, 220b, -Sb, -SEb, intake 
,003"; exhaust .006*; 230SL, intake .003"; ex- 
haust .007” 


MERCEDES-BENZ 


1960-64 Models 190c, -Dc; 
220b, -Sb, -SEb; 230SL - 


220b, -Sb, -SEb Ñ 
HOOD RELEASE: Inside 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS Rn 
COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts Chek Chart CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 
de y Above 4-90*.... sss 30 pss | 
220 series . i 2 Above +32°...... ...20,20W 10W-20,10W-30 
2308L .... 1% Above —10°.. .... 10W 10W-20,10W-30 
Cooling syste , 14 pounds Below —10*....... iss 5W 5W-20 
Power Steering Reservoir................ AF SURE 7 1906 De M16, quarte Ovens, I6 

ix} DRAIN and REFILL 


Maintain level 4 inch below top of reservoir 
(ER) DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


Power Steering Reservoir Filter...... Replace 
(HE {Distributor Shaft (oil cup)... . ER MO P 
(E) Wick under rotor................... M0 Water Pamp | b rus isis s+. -+ 20 RO 


(EA Fine Fuel Filter,................... Service 
190 Oil Fill Cap 


DO AAN ....Wash and blow dry 


220SEb, 230SL..... Replace paper element 
190Dc, located forward 


Fuel Prefilter (in line). ....... sisse. Service 


19000 $ „Clean wine strainer js un eR 
ün Sb. -Clean cup only [ral 
220b, -Sb.... Replace element Ol Bath 4o to “Crankcase grade MORE] 
Fuel Injection Pump Tobi kerkoni Dia MO Wash and fill 

e aaa ndes and P TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 


Check level, engine idling. PARK position... 
CAPACITY, qua nitial Refill Total Refi 
All except 190Dc....... 3 Lu 

* Approximately 4 quarts will fill unit 

DRAIN and REFILL........ seen 
Remove 1 converter plug and transmission plug 


OW Fülle cira oso Rn Service 


190Dc (fabric and paper elements). . Service 
Wash fabric disc element in gasoline, blow dry 
with low air pressure. Replace paper element 


ORS: ucsocooc os ex ee ez sy es Replace Reinstall plugs using new seals 
Ex3Clutch Fluid Reservoir (cap).............. HB 

Maintain reservoir % full 
E3Brake Fluid Reservoir (cap).............. HB 


Maintain reservoir % full 
230SL, located on brake booster 


M Steering Gear (plug). ......... 90 HP 


Booster Brake Air Cleaner Element... . Replace 
On models with power brakes. 
190, 220 series, located left of radiator 

Front Suspension and 

EURO LUI cio ical (15 fittings) cL 


Front Wheel Bearings.................. 
Fill dust cap and replace. Do not remove wheel hub 


Door Hinges Both sides.. ......,....... 
Special Mercedes lube gun required 


Hand Brake Cables................ 


On early models 


Door Hinges Both sides,................ [0811 4] 


Special Mercedes lube gun required 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... 


Ef Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints | 
[EEJ DRAIN and REFILL BRAKE ADJUSTMENT | 
Two adjustment cams are provided on each plate [ 
Adjust the brakes as follows: | 
Models 190c, -Dc; 220b; midproduction 220Sb, 


E3Propeller Shaft Flange,... ............. 


b 
1, Turn each adjuster cam until a considerable 
resistance is felt when drum is revolved 
2. Back off each adjuster until drag is just elim- 
inated and drum turns freely 
Late 220Sb, -SEb; 230SL 
Disc brakes on front, no adjustment required. 
Rear brakes, adjust as shown above 
Some early 220SEb Coupe, self-adjusting rear 
brakes, late models, adjust as shown above 
First production 220Sb, -SEb use self-adjusting 
drum brakes 
Bleeding sequence: Power brake upper screw, 
lower screw, RR, LR, RF, LF; Power brake upper 
screw, lower screw, masler Cylinder (if equipped 
with bleed screw) 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

FaEvery 1,900 miles 

EüEvery 3,800 miles 

UEvery 7,600 miles 

UKiEvery 11,400 miles 
EijEvery 30,400 miles 

EHEvery 32,000 miles 

[E Every 63,000 miles 


E3Propeller Shaft Bearing.... ............ 
Ex3Universal Joint Spline............ 00.000, 
DIFFERENTIAL............. 90 HP 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 5% pints 
[KEJ DRAIN and REFILL 14 mm hex wrench required 


BE Position for lift adapter 
* Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


Rotate tires, Method B or C, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Automatic Transmission Fluid, assis Lubrican! Motor Oil 
KEY TO AF tic Transmission Fluid CL Chassis Lubricant mo 
Type A WB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty “MS” meeting MIL-L-2104A 
LUBRICANTS BR Ball and Roller Bearing Lubricant HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. . MZI-3 


- 
M.G. 


1956-62 Series MGA 
1963-64 Series MGB 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


(Following data does not include "Twin Cam" 
| model or modified, stage tuned engines) 


| BATTERY 


AABM 
| Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 17HF(2) (6-volt) 58 


(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
1500 engine .... um . .140- 
1600 Mark | engi 
1600 Mark II ei 

| MGB engine .. 


| COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


! SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: Normal driving, N-5*; high-speed or 
competition driving, N-3 

Gap: .025" 

Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 

* MGB, N-SY may be used 


IGNITION POINTS 


Lucas 
Gap: .0147-.016* 
Dwell angle: 57°-63° (60° preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Lucas 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OOOO! 
(See 


Firing Order: 1, 3, 4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Position distributor vernier at center of scale 

2. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

3. Turn crankshaft pulley until notch is aligned 
with recommended degree pointer on timing 
ear cover 

4. Loosen distributor clamp bolt and turn dis- 
tributor housing until breaker points just 
open, as indicated by test lamp 

5. Tighten distributor clamp bolt 

6. Make final precise adjustment with vernier 

knob and test lamp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1500 engine, 7° 

1600 Mark | engine, 6° 

1600 Mark I! engine, before engine No. 4003, 10°; 
after engine No. 4004, 5° 

MGB engine, 10° 


FUEL PUMP 


S.U. electric: type HP 
Volume: 18 ounces per minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 

Mixture 

(initial 

S.U. turns) 
Twin 1-bbl. 1 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
550-600 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot, not running) 


, Intake 015"; exhaust .0157 


w 


1500, 1600 


1 
Series MGA 600 Mark Il 


Series MGA 
HOOD RELEASE: Inside 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT "- 


CRANKCASE.... "MS" MO 


cooing system pressure, 4 pounds; after Serial 


10W . 
No, 71 


CAPACITY Twin Cam, 7% quarts; 1500, 1600, 


Taster i 1600 Mark Il, MGB, 4 quarts 
Above Witte below giosa 7777 MP Twin Com UM Ses Service Instructions. page 4 
Twin Cam models, reach under car. Lubricate spar- v i ad 


ingly. use low pressure, do not swell rubber boots 
MGB, no fitting on rack gear. If leaks are ob- 
served, loosen right side boot and inject not 
more than % pint lubricant 


Generator (oil hole)............ Sparingly MOT 
Water Pump (plug)...... ..Sparingly 140 MP 
Twin Cam (fitting) Oil Filter (under car)..............- Replace [J 
Oil Fil Cap Add extra pint oil 
in Cam mod 
Crankcase Dipstick.............- Check level 
Carburetor Dashpot: i i 
ExCarburet dove ott level at !4 inch below Melni Cam models Heft side rear 
top of inner hollow shaft 
Twin Cam models, right side Distributor 
Air Cleaner Elements ............... Service TwiniCamimodals, left alde forward — _ 
Twin Cam models, right side . Cam bearing (under rotor). ...Sparingly MOTI 
E Wire gauze . .Wash and oil 20 MO Advance mechanism .........-..-.-- Mom 
jd e Map ED ed Sparingly thru hole around cam 
EiClutch and Brake Master Cylinder (plug). . . -HB NU ineo UM Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBII 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole MGB, no lubrication Special hub puller required 
MGB and Tain Carm models; seperate reservelrs Front Shock Absorbers.............-. Fill SAEI 
EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage....... (4 or 6 fittings) CL_— 
Fuel Pump Screen..........-..-.---- Clean 


TRANSMISSION 
Maintain level to mark on dipstick 
Combination fill plug and dipstick reach thru 
tunnel cover 
CAPACITY Series MGA, 5% pints; Series MGB, 
5% pints; with overdrive 6 pints 
E ORAIN ana REFILL . 
Overdrive, drain thru separate plug hole. Fill thru 
transmission. Remove rectangular plate on right 
side to clean filter screen, when draining. Before 
draining, operate switch 10 to 12 times with 
ignition ON and 4th gear engaged 
[HSpeedometer Cable ........ PP Coat CL 


E3Universal Joint Spline........ 
1500, no lubrication 


E3Universal Joints 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2", the need for service is 
indicated 

MGA front or rear drum brakes: 

Front brakes have two adiusters. Rear brakes have 

a single adjuster which operates both shoes 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Raise car, remove hub caps, remove plugs 
from adjustment holes in brake drums (With 
wire wheels, remove wheels) 

2. Turn drum until hole lines up with slotted 
head adjuster 

riea 3. Turn adjuster until drum is locked 


N M MGA 4. Back off adjuster until drum Just turns freely 
E3Batteries ...... — without drag 
E3Hand Brake Cable... . 5. Repeat steps 2, 3 and 4 for second adjuster 


6. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
MGB rear drum brakes: 


A single square head adjuster is provided on the 
inboard side of each rear backing plate 


1. Turn adjuster clockwise until drum is locked 


2. Back off adjuster until drum turns freely 
without drag 


MGA, MGB front or rear disc brakes: 


Disc brakes are self-adjusting. No adjustment 
normally required 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


(Rear Shock Absorbers 
MGB, reach thru rubber plug in floor 


DIFFERENTIAL ..........-- . MP 
Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints 
Grain and REFILL 


GAS TANK . - Gallons 
All models x = 
TIRES , KEY TO INTERVALS 
560-14, $6015 .....- 20 E3MGA: Every 1,000 miles 

Fast drivin, : 24 MGB: Every 3,000 miles 
55014 $901 apes od 2 Bl Position for lift adapter Bevery SD miles 

Sustained Mighipeeds:.;:.::... 24 — 26 © Lubrication fitting BiEvery 6,000 miles 


ERotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain Every 12,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
KEY TO 


SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1944, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. MGI-2 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Sce Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All Special 43 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
AMI rac svermancuians à fe ë .minimum 125 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion N-5 
Gap: .025^ 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Lucas 

Gap: .014*-.016” 

Dwell angle: 577-63? (60^ preferred) 


CONDENSER 


Lucas 
Capacity: .18-.22 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

l. Position distributor vernier at center of scale 

2. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

3. Turn flywheel until recommended mark on 
flywheel aligns with pointer on flywheel 
housing 

4. Loosen distributor clamp bolt and turn dis- 
tributor housing until breaker points just 
open, as indicated by test lamp 

5. Tighten distributor clamp bolt 


6. Make final precise adjustment with vernier 
knob and test lamp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 4° 


FUEL PUMP 


S.U. electric, type SP 
Pressure: 21-3 Ib. 
Volume: 27 ounces per minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
s.u. turns) 
Twin 1-bbl. HS-2 2 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
615 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, not running) 
Intake .012"; exhaust .012" 


eB 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
4 3% 


SERVICE AT 


All models ........ 
Cooling system pressure, 13 pounds 

Pressure cap located on expansion tank. Non- 
pressuro cap located on radiator 


[il Filter (under car). ....... se Replace 
Replace every 6,000 miles or if oil pressure light 
glows when engine is running, disconnect wire at 
filter assembly. If light goes out, replace element 
within 300 miles 


E Generator (oil hole). . .. . Sparingly 20,20W MO 


(Water Pump (plug). ...... Sparingly LM 


ExCarburetor Dashpots (2 caps). ....20,20W MO 
Unscrew cap, maintain level 1⁄4 inch below top of 
inner hollow shaft 

Ex3Clutch Master Cylinder (plug). . . .. . HB 
Fill to !4 inch below bottom of fill hole 

HB 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (plug)...........-. 
Fill to 4 inch below bottom of fill hole 


E3Front Suspension. .......... (4 fittings) LM 


Wheels should be hanging free when lubricating 
ExHand Brake Cable Guides........ ..Coat LM 


[Fuel Pump Screen............ ....- 


GAS TANK... Gallons 
All models ...--- eee eeeeene eas 10% 
TIRES Pressure Front Rear GH Position for lift adapter 


5.5012 ..... 2 uui aE 28 24 e Lubrication fitting 
EBRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty LM Lithium Grease 
SETS MO Motor Oil 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


Im, Fill Cap Crankcase, Transaxle 
Air Cleaner Element... .. 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


M.G. 


1963-64 Sports Sedan 


SYMBOLS se 


CRANKCASE, 

TRANSAXLE.......... "MS" MO 
ADVE p rt aan 30 20W-30 
Above + 10° -20,20W — 20W-30 
Below +10°....0 2.22... 10W 


CAPACITY (including oil filter) 5% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Distributor 
Cam bearing (under rotor)... .Sparingly MORJ 
Advance mechanism ................ [mg 


Battery. ........ .-. -Test and fillgy 
Crankcase Dipstick. . . . . .. -Check level 
maaana Service 
Diy CPG «eese s .- - -Replace A 
Remote Control Shaft.......... Sparingly LM 


Located in center, top of transaxle, Reach under 
hood 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 


Self-adjusting disc brakes are used on front 


Rear brakes are drum type and one square headed 
adjuster is provided on each rear backing plate 


Adjust the rear brakes as follows: 


1, Turn each adjuster until wheel cannot be 
turned by hand 


2, Back off each adjuster until wheel just turns 
freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each rear wheel 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


EqEvery 3,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
IHEvery 12,000 miles 
[la Conditional service 
Lubricate remote control shaft only if shift- 


ing is stiff or at time of major engine 
overhaul 


MGI-4 


MORRIS 


1950-63 Minor Series MM, II, 1000; 
Oxford Series MO, II, III; Cowley 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY A 
1950-63 Minor Series APM rat NO Amp, Hrs. 


ial 43 
1950.60 Oxford,Cowley SSSH? 58 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
at cranking Wa d 
ries 1000 w 
hers 


SPARK PLUGS 
Champion N-5 
Gap: .025” 
Torque: 25 tt. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Lucas 


Gap: Early models with distributor No. 40152 A 

to F, 40251 A to D, 40333 A to H, 40358 A to F; 

Initial setting .014”-.016"; normal service setting 

-010°-.012". All other distributors, used or new 
nts, .014°-.016” 


ell angie: Early models, 45°-53° (49° pre- 
ferred) Others, 572.63" (60° preferred) " 
CONDENSER 

Lucas 

Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


(e? 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

l. Position distributor vernier at center of scale 

2. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

3. For Minor Series 1I and early Oxford Series II, 
place a chalk mark on rim of crankshaft pulley 
clockwise from notch. (Each 35" on rim of 
Minor Series II pulley equals approx. 2°; each 
Yu" on rim of Oxford Series | pulley equals 
approx. 5°) This mark represents correct de- 
gree setting. Other models, use notch on 
crankshaft pulley 

4. Turn crankshaft pulley until mark, or recom- 
mended notch, is aligned with pointer on 
timing gear cover 

5. Loosen distributor clamp bolt and turn dis- 
tributor housing until breaker points just 
open, as indicated by test lamp 

6. Tighten distributor clamp bolt 

7. Make final precise adjustment with vernier 
knob and test lamp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


n 10° 


L-head, early OHV engs. Late OHV eng. 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

Minor: Series || (%:” mark), 2°; Series 1000, 5° 
Oxford Series II (X," mark), III, Cowley, 5° 
Minor Series MM, Oxford Series MO, 0°* 

* Make final adjustment by road test 


FUEL PUMP 

S.U. electric, type L 

Pressure: %-1 Ib. 

Volume: 19% ounces per minute 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
e 


Mixture 

{initial 
S.U. turns) 
1-bbl. DU 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
500-650 rpm 


VALVE Eres ening 

Minore Seres I, I MO; Cowley: intake 015" 
eee cries MMi Intake .017”; exhaust .017” 
Anne ees Pot running) .012"; exhaust .012* 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ... 


With Heater 
m L| 


Minor MM ... 8 
Minor Il ... LPA 6 
Minor 1000 . 6 6 
Oxford MO ... ve 10 10 
Oxford Ii, 111, Cowley LU 


8 
Cooling system pressure, Minor series, 4 pounds 


EJ Water Pump (plug). ....... Sparingly 140 MP 
1950, early 1951 Minor.............. MO 
Models with fitting......... Sparingly WB 


Oil Fill Cap. . .. reer 


Oxford MO, at fi ; Minor MM, right side; all 
others, top of valve cover 


E3 Carburetor Dashpot ................. ..M0 


nscrew cap, maintain level ‘at %, Inch below 
top of inner hollow shaft 


Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . 


ai . . .(6 fittings) CL —— 


[Hi Steering Gear (1 or 2 fittings)............ MP 
On late Oxford modets and Cowley only 
Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 
Oxford II, III, service under hood 


TRANSMISSION 
EJ Reach thru floor, Models without dipstick main- 
tain level to fill plug hole 
Minor MM, Oxford MO............... MP 
Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 
TO T 30 MO 
CAPACITY Minor MM, 124 pints; Minor Il, 2% 
pints; Minor 1000, 3 pints; Oxford MO, 214 pints; 
Oxford II, Ill and Cowley, 5% pints 
DORAIN and REFILL 


E3 Brake Master Cylinder (thru floor) bases ase HB 
Includes hydraulic clutch on Oxford II, III and 
Cowley 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 

E3Universal Joint ........ mH CL 

E3Universal Joint Spline............ TT cL 
Minor MM, Oxford MO only; others, no lubrication 

E3Hand Brake (1 or 2 fittings).............. CL 


On 1956-63 models 
E3Universal Joint ....... 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Above +10°, 90; below --10", 80 
Ed Maintain level to fill plug hole 
Right side at front on Oxford MO and Minor 1000 
Left side forward on Minor MM 
CAPACITY Minor MM, Minor ll, 1% pints; Minor 
1000, 2 pints; Oxford MO, 2% pints; Oxford II, III, 
Cowley, 31⁄4 pints 


FoRAIN ‘and REFILL 
GAS TANK Gallons 
Minor MM, Minor I 5 
Minor 1000 .. € 14^ 
Oxford MO eei ll 305 
Oxford II, Ill and Cowley...,. r ET 14 


* Late models 


Pressure Front Rear 
m 22 22* 

5,50-15 . .. ose 24 24 

* Full load sedans, normal load wagons, 24 


EJRotate tires, Method H, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant 


LUBRICANTS 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Pd m 

CRANKCASE............. MS" MO 
wou Above +32"... 30 ^ 20W-30 
Above 410°... 20,20W  20W-30 

Below +10°................ 10W EE 
Miner t CAPACITY (includes filter) Minor MM, Minor II, 
Minor MM, 4 quarts; Minor 1000, 414 quarts; Oxford MO, 5% 
All others no block drain quarts; Oxford II and Cowley, 41% quarts; Oxford 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


xford ll, SS 
Il, Cowley 


WOOD RELEASE: Inside 


~~“ 


I AY quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Generator 
1953 and later (oil hole). .... 
Others (lubricator cap)........ 


»C3 
me | 

oN 
D 


Oxford MO 
Minor 11, 1000 


Distributor 
At left on Minor MM and Oxford MO 
Cam bearing (under rotor) 


Advance mechanism ..............-+ 
Sparingly thru hole around cam 


e 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE 
Special hub puller required 


ront Shock Absorbers.............. Fill SA 


Oxford II, III and Cowley, no lubrication 


Steering Gear (fitting)..............-.-. MP[H 
On all Minor and early Oxford 

Above +10°, 90; below +10°, 80 

Reach thru floor, Oxford necessary to remove plate 


Rear Shock Absorbers............... Fill SA 
Oxford MO, II, III and Cowley, no lubrication 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake peda! can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 

Front brakes have two adjusters. Rear brakes 

have a single adjuster which operates both shoes 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. With car raised and hub caps removed, turn 
wheel until adjustment opening in wheel and 
drum line up with slotted head adjuster (some 
models may have a rubber plug which is re- 
moved to gain access, others may have no 
hole in wheel. Remove the wheel to expose 
hole in drum) 

2. Turn adjuster until drum is locked 

3. Back off each adjuster until drum just turns 
freely without drag 

4, Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


á 
E ra 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
E Every 3,000 miles 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
€  Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


MO Motor Oil 
MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


MSI-1 


= 


eae as ties | 


za 


— eey 


ii 
il 
if 
E 
1 


im peo Gee 


E oo 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY A 
G e 
all evo me 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
AN: eseveticesssek ense approximately 145 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC 45F 
*-.040" 


Gap: i 
Torque: 29 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Bosch 

Gap: .016^-.020" 
Dwell angle: 47°-53° 


CONDENSER 
Bosch 
Capacity: .24-.32 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


TDL 
KA 


Firing Order: 1, 3,4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Loosen distributor clamp bolt, disconnect 

vacuum line and tape manifold opening 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 

distributor cap tower 

Back off carburetor idle speed screw until 

throttle is closed and engine cannot start 

Switch on ignition and crank engine with 

starter 

Observe timing at flywheel opening and turn 

distributor to obtain alignment of pointer with 

steel ball á 

6. Tighten distributor clamp bolt securely and 
reconnect vacuum line 

7. Setidle speed to 500-550 rpm 


naun 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Steel ball 


^ 


Timii 


Setting (Before Top Dead Cen! 
0* (S 


ter): 
1 ball on flywheel aligned with pointer) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model 816011 
Pressure: 2.13-2.84 Ib. at 1950 rpm 
Volume: Not required 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 

Mixture 

(initial 
OPEL turns) 
1-bbl. Yl 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
500-550 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
engine hot) 
intake ,008"; exhaust .010” 


— 8 8À 
Sa ball 
AS MULUS SS 


OPEL 


1958-63 Olympia Rekord and Caravan 


HO 


1961 
HOOD RELEASE: Inside 
INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


was 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 


With Heater Without Heater 

8% 8 

1.7 liter ei esi 8 TA 

Cooling system pressure, some Rekord models, 
4 pounds; all other models, 7.8 to 9.2 pounds 


SERVICE AT 


1.5 liter engine 


CAPACITY 3 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Generator (oil hole). ............ usui. M0 
Mi RB sanonnan sq Service BOO es oic Er cepere Test and fill fg 
BE Oilbath............... Wash and fill MO 1958-60, located at rear 


E Carburetor Filter Screen and Sump..... . Clean Fuel Pump Sediment Bowl and Screen... . Clean fI 


E3Steering Gear (plug)................. 90 EP Oil Fill Cap... .....-......- Wash and oil MOI 


E3Brake Master Cylinder.................. HB 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of fill hole; 1961-63, be- 
tween "MAX." and "MIN." levels 


Distributor Shaft (grease cup)... ......... WEE 
Turn cup % turn 

After 1.5 Liter engine seríal No. 521847 and all 1.7 
Liter engines, no lubrication 


Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MOT 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
no lubrication 
E3Front Suspension and Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBIT] 


Steering Linkage. .. . . (15 or 19 fittings) CL ——* 1961-63, repacking not recommended 

Initial torque, 25 ft. Ib. with brake drum turning. 
Back off nut until "in" and "out" clearance ís 
felt; then tighten until no longer felt. Lock in this 
position, if possible, but tighten nut no more than 


a maximum of 1/12 turn to do so 


TRANSMISSION 
Ef maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 

1958-60 
1961-63 Not recommended 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


with the brakes cold, at the brake pedal can be 
lepressed more than 2”, the rvice is 
indicated s os 


Some models have two covered adjustment open- 
ings in each front backing plate; other models 
have one opening. All models have a single open- 
ing in each rear backing plate. A screw driver may 
be used to turn the adjustment eccentric 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 

Front brakes 

1, Adjust upper shoe through uprer opening by 
turning eccentric clockwise until a slight drag 
is felt when revolving drum in direction of 
forward rotation 


2. Back off eccentric until drag is just eliminated 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for lower shoe using 
lower opening, if so equipped 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for other front wheel 

Rear brakes 

5. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for each rear wheel 

Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL ............- 90 HP. 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2 pints 
(RAIN and REFILL 


GAS TANK................-. Gallons 

Mirae we KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 

TIRES........... Rear k 

5.60-13, 5.90-13 (partial load) 21 Every 4,000 miles 


Full load as aas anades 24 GiEvery 6,000 miles 
edi (partial Rage svcisge 2 Bl Position for lift adapter [Every 10,000 miles 


[HEvery 12,000 miles 
E Every 30,000 miles 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


EJRotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 
EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
LUBRICANTS Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


PEUGEOT 


1958-64 Model 403 


MOOD RELEASE: Inside 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

A" Group No. Amp. Hrs: 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 


AU... 120-150* 
* Maximum variation between cylinders must not 
exceed 10% of highest cylinder pressure 


SPARK PLUGS 

AC 45F; Autolite AE6; D - 
Gap: ir olite AE6; Champion L-10 
Torque: 18-20 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
S.E.V. or Ducellier 
015* 


Gap: J 
Owell angle: 48°-52° 


CONDENSER 


S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Capacity: 35 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


2 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Insert a rod 8 mm (.3147) in diameter into 
the hole on top of the clutch housing. A suit- 
able rod is in the tool kit 


2. Turn the ine by hand until the rod slips 
into a notch in the flywheel 

3. Connect a 12-volt test lamp across the igni- 
tion points 

4. Loosen the distributor clamp bolt and turn 
the distributor until the lamp indicates that 
the points have just opened, Tighten clamp 
and remove bar 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Clutch housing / 
jary 
pey 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 914° 


FUEL PUMP 

S.E.V. model 46L/SR: AC model YG 

Pressure: 1-3 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 34 pint per minute (minimum) at 2000 
to 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 

Mixture 

(initial 

SOLEX turns) 
1-bbi. 32PBICA 12 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
620 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, must be cooled for at least 6 hours) 
Intake .004"; exhaust .010” 


~ SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS T- 
COOLING SYSTEM........ Quarts agn CRANKCASE. ..."MS" MO 
With Heater 
Above Facies 20W-40 
All models ..... Sess 9% Above 12 b : 4090 20W-40 
Ramten diis i" 410... .30,20W DN 
low 4-107 ....... 10W- 
E3 Water Pump (oiler)... A MD GAPACITY (cic cii ster 4% mer 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
E30il Filter Metallic screen.,........... Wash 
Assembie with new gasket 
Generator (oil cap)... . . moe 
l A .Test and fill 
Air Cleaner Element. ............. -Service 
Eg Distributor ... Mash and fill MOS 
Wick under rotor........... Sparingly MO 


[A 
E3Brake Master Cylinder (cap). ............ HB (O) 
Fill to level (NIVEAU) mark A 


E3Clutch Throwout Bearing (oil cup).Sparingly MO 
Late models only 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage........... (7 fittings) CL_— 
BlFront Springs ...........--..-.-..45- MO 
If springs squeak. brush on MO 
ES RUN Pedal... o e Deoa 
TRANSMISSION.......... 30,40 MO 


90EP or MP may be used above +60° 
EJ maintain level to fill plug hole . 
CAPACITY 1958-60, 3% pints; 1961-64, 3 pints 
EJ ORAIN ana REFILL 
E3Universal Joint ..........--.--..-.-0-- 
E3 Propeller Shaft Bearing................. 


[Rear Shock Absorbers...........-.-.... 
Fill to 1 inch from top 
On all wagons and sedans before Serial No. 
2,370.075; others, no service 

EgRear Springs ......-...---- 2-6 seen eens 


On station wagon only 


DIFFERENTIAL.......... 90 EP,MP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY: Sedan, 3 pints; station wagon, 3% 


pints 
Gi orain and REFILL 


GAS TANK........ : 


All models .. 


.Pressure Front 


TIRES... Rear 
Sedan: 6.5015... 22 " : 
165-380, Michelin X: à 22 Wl Position for lift adapter 
Station wagon: 165-380 .......... 22 23 . G 
185-380, Michelin X. 19 26 € Lubrication fitting 


EJ Rotate tires, Method G or H, then balance wheels @ cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant SAE 70R3 
LUBRICANTS LM Lithium Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporction. Printed in U.S.A. 


OR Check level 


Front Wheel Bearings. ..........-....-- LMET] 


1/4 ounce in dust cap. Do not remove hub 


Front Shock Absorbers...............-- SAI 
Fill to 1 inch from top 


Windshield Wiper Shafts...Sparingly LOW MOES 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2°, the need for service is 

indicated 

Two square head brake adjusters are provided 

on each backing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

Front brakes 

1. Rotate one adjuster in direction of forward 
wheel rotation until drum locks 

2. Back off adjuster just enough for drum to turn 
freely 

3. Repeat procedure at other adjuster 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for other front wheel 

Rear brakes : 

5. Proceed as above for forward adjusters; 
tighten rear adjusters in opposite direction 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 
Every 4,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 


[Conditional service 
Lubricate front springs if squeaks develop 


MO Motor Oil 
MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

adi Group. No. Amp. Mies 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
All 120-150* 


* Màximum variation between cyli 
exceed 10% of highest cylinder Ceasar net 


SPARK PLUGS 


1961-63: AC 44F; Autolite AES; Cham > 
1964; (Cylinder head marked on Tent ront with 


Ges Oa Autolite AG4; Champion N.5 


Torque: 18-20 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Gap: .016* 

Dwell angle: 55 -59 


CONDENSER 


S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Capacity: .35 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,3, 4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Insert a rod 8 mm (3147) in diameter into 
the hole on top of the clutch housing. A suit- 
able rod is in the tool kit 

2. Turn the engine by hand until the rod slips 
into a notch in the flywheel 

3. Connect a 12-volt test lamp across the igni- 
tion points 

4. Loosen the distributor clamp bolt and turn 
the distributor until the lamp indicates that 
the points have just opened. Tighten clamp 
and remove bar 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Insert 
| 8 mm rod 
i 


Com 


Y 


b2 


IEN 
uien Reine 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 11° 


FUEL PUMP 


S.E.V. model 46L. SR; AC model YK 

Pressure: 1-3 Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 34 pint per minute (minimum) at 2000 
1o 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
SOLEX turns) 
1-bbl. 32PBICA 12 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
620 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine cold, must be cooled for at least 6 hours) 
Intake .004", exhaust .010^ 


d- 


; up PEUGEOT 
Loue cds, 1961-64 Model 404 
yo 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY w- 


SERVICE AT 


SYMBOLS 


L TEM. Quarts AD 
COOLING SYS wa Quarts art CRANKCASE MS" MO 
All models ai ' e% Above 4-90 40 200-40 
Serial No. 4079240 and prior nonpressurized Above 4-32 40,30 20W-40 
System Alar Set [B NOHA070249 coo na sytem Above +10 30,204  20W-40,10W-30 
i Below 4-10 10W 10W-30 
EqBattery.. . Test and fill CAPACITY (including oil filter) 4/, quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Ẹ3 0il Filter Metallic screen. . -Wash See Service Instructions, page 4 
Assemble with now gasket 
Generator (oil ca .Sparingly MO 
n ( P) en Water Pump (oiler) Sparingly MOJ 
Air Cleaner Element. ..... -Service 
: Distributor 
EJ Oilbath.. . ...Wash and fill MO Wick under rotor Sparingly MORJ 
Oil Fill Cap. . Crankcase Dipstick . Check level 


"m... lep of block 
E3 Brake Master Cylinder (cap)..... . ..MB 


Fill to level (NIVEAU) mark Clutch Throwout Bearing (oil cup).Sparingly MOJ 


E3 Front Suspension and 


Steering Linkage. . . (8 fittings) CL —~ -—— Front Wheel Bearings. .............. LMET] 


14 ounce in dust cap. Do not remove hu 


E3 Clutch Pedal ... . . n Windshield Wiper Shafts...Sparingly 10W MOES 


TRANSMISSION... .....3040 MO 
90EP or MP may be used above +60° 
EJ maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
EJ ORAIN and REFILL 


E3Universal Joint . .... 
EaPropeller Shaft Bearing. . 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 


Two square head brake adjusters are provided 

on each backing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

Front brakes 

1. Rotate one adjuster in direction of forward 
wheel rotation until drum locks 

2. Back off adjuster just enough for drum to 
turn freely 

3. Repeat procedure at other adjuster 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for other front wheel 

Rear brakes 

5. Proceed as above for forward adjusters; 
tighten rear adjusters in opposite direction 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL ..... 
Ea maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 314 pints 
Dorain ana REFILL 


1 - 


GAS TANK ... -Gallons 
All models . . eos 124 

KEY TO INTERVALS 
TIRES ...... Pressure Front Rear E3Every 2,000 miles 


Sedan: 165-380 or 5.90-15..... 20 23 HB Position for lift adapter 
Sedan: 6.50-15 ...... premis . 20 
Station wagon; 165-3800r Michelin X 20 30 e Lubrication fitting 


EJ Rotate tires, Method G or H, then balance wheels @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


Every 4,000 miles 
E Every 8,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 


MO Motor Oil 
MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
SAE 70R3 


LM Lithium Grease 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


PTI-2 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporotion. Printed In U.S.A. 


PORSCHE 


1951-64 All Models Except Carrera 


TUNE-UP DATA 

See Service Instructions for Procedure 
BATTERY croup No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 6-volt 19 84 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) 
all... 


SPARK PLUGS 

Beech N22 her W22ST7 

Gap: 0207-024”, except Bosch W225T7, .024"-.028" 
Torque: 20 ft. Ib. 


CONDENSER 
Bosch 
Capacity: .27-.32 mtd 


IGNITION POINTS 
Bosch 


Gap: .016” 
Dwell angle: 47°-53° 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


RO 
ka —— Front of car 


© 


Firing Order: 1, 4, 3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
$ 


Place mark on pulley to right of notch as 
follows: 


Models 1600S-90, 1600SC, $35"; others, V, 
Notch on pulley represents 0° BTDC 

2. Turn pulley until mark is aligned with split in 
crankcase (early models) or mark on crank- 
case (late models) 

3. Connect 6-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

4. Loosen distributor clamp screw and turn 
housing until points just open, as indicated 
by test lamp (to eliminate backlash final move- 
tea should be in counterclockwise direc- 
i 

5. Make certain that rotor points to notch in 
gau iputor housing rim. Tighten clamp screw 

rely 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Early models 


Late models 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


1600S-90, 1600SC, 3° " from notch 
Others, 5? (147 from natn) nese) 


FUEL PUMP 


Solex 
Pressure: 2 Ib. at 1000-3000 rpm 
Volume: 10 ounces per minute at 4500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 
vius 
initial 
SOLEX turns) 
Twin 1-bbl. 1 
Twin 2-bbl. 1v 
ZENITH 
Twin 2-bbl. 1% 


No choke valve. Accelerator pump used for cold 
starts 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Normal engine, 700-800 rpm 
Super engine, 700-900 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, not running) 
Use clearance specified on fan cover 


HOOD RELEASE: Inside 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


ESteering Gear (plug). ................ 90 HP. 


To reach, remove cover plate under front hood 
Special tool required 


Battétyi: scia cens Test and fill 


Remove spare tire to service 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage......... (12 fittings) CL Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack LMIE] 
1964, tighten adjusting nut until thrust washer 
can just be moved sideways with à screw driver 
EgBrake Master Cylinder (cap)............. HB: 


Fill to 55-34 inch below top of reservoir 
3951-63, to reach, remove cover plate under front 


1964, reservoir under front hood 


E3Door Hinges Both sides......... Sparingly CL 


E Gearshift Lever (inside car). ............. MO: 
Press shift lever down, stretch rubber grommet 
and push oil can spout thru opening alongside 
lever, Lubricate with a few drops of oll 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 

Two adjusters are provided on each brake, reached 
through hole in brake drum, except disc brakes 
which are self-adjusting 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Raise car, remove hub caps, apply pedal 


firmly a few times, turn wheel until one ad- 
ElParking Brake Cables.......... Sparingly CL Juster i$ visible behind hole in drum 
Not on 1964 . Turn each adjuster until the wheel can just 


2. 
be turned by hand 

3. Back off each adjuster 5-6 teeth until drum 
revolves freely without drag 

4. Depress pedal firmly a few times and recheck 
the adjustments 

5. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence (except disc brakes): RR, LR, 

RF upper, RF lower, LF upper, LF lower. Disc 

brakes: LR outer, LR inner, RR outer, RR inner, 

RF outer, RF inner, LF outer, LF inner 


TRANSAXLE .................5. HP. 
Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 

Maintain level to 4 inch below fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 73 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL 
Models prior to 1957 have 2 drain plugs 


r 


GAS TANK... Gallons [3 
‘i T—— ween 1994 * 
.q334* 


ny’ 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,500 miles 
ElEvery 3,000 miles 


.Pressure Front Rear 
i [Every 6,000 miles 


+. 20-2144" 2144-25" 


ae: 18 23 
vi nu 23% Every 18,000 miles 
idm Michie ures ee 1e (Conditional service 
High-speed driving ...... 
165-15 braced tread. ... ” 20 26 Clean fuel pump strainer when necessary 


High-speed driving .....- 26 28 
* Vary pressure depending on driving conditions 


"MS" MO 


B ipe... Replace 
Eb Wire gawe.. .....,Wash and oil MO 


CAPACITY 3% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


ECarburetor Controls ..... ooo MO ind Seriea Instructions; peste 
ERON Strainer ............ eoe Clean 
To reach, remove plate, bottom of crankcase 
Fuel Pump Strainer. ...... sese Clean 
* Oil Fill Cap 
ION Filter .. oo re Replace 


Add extra quart oil rankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty LM Lithium Grease 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. PELL 


= 


eeeeGgeeee ee & & F¥ 


€ € € 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY o MEM 
ACV, 1955-59 roup No. Amp. Hrs. 
early Dauphine 18 (6-volt) 75 


1959 late -64 Drie ia 
Caravelle, Gordini 24 50 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


. os P8 


tion between cylinders, 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

4CV, Dauphine: AC 45F; Autolite AE6, AE62; 
Champion L-10 ii 
Caravelle, Gordini: AC 44F; Autolite AE4; Cham- 
pion L-7, L-10S 

Gap: .020^ 

Torque: 12 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
S.E.V. or Ducellier 


Maximum varia! 


Gap: .018' 
Dwell angle: 54°-58° (56° preferred) 


CONDENSER 


S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Capacity: .23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Dauphine, 
Caravelle, 
Gordini 


Firing Order: 1, 3, 4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. 


Connect suitable test light to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 
2. Turn crankshaft pulley until notch is ⁄”* 
before Dd 
3, Turn distributor housing until points just 
open, as indicated by test light 
4. Lock distributor and turn pulley several times 
to recheck setting 
* 4CV, Caravelle, Gordini, and early Dauphine 
models are timed as indicated in step 2. Late 
Dauphine models, after fabrication No. 49063- 
735500, are timed with notch aligned with 
pointer. Fabrication No. is found on firewall 
under front hood 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setti Before Top Dead Canter) 
Pulley notch fae before pointer except late Dau- 
phine, notch aligned with pointer 


9 FUEL PUMP 
.E.V. type 46), 46AJ 
D Beessunts 2-22 Irae 


Volume: Approx. 1 pin! 


roximately 1000 rpm 
Cn 1 minute at 1060 rom 


P) CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idie Choke 


Mixture (notches) 
" (initial Man. 

SOLEX turns) Trans. 
4CV 
1-bbl. 22ICBT 2 manual 
Dauphine 
1-bbi. 28IBT manual 
Caravelle, Gordini 
1-bbl. 32PIBT 2 manual 
ZENITH 

b 1-bbi. 2BIFT 2 index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
* 600 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine cold, not running) 
D Intake .006”; exhaust ,008* 


Dauphines, Gordini 
HOOD RELEASE: Handle on rear hood 


SERVICE AT 


Steering Gear................. Sparingly CL 
1955-62 
B 196364 


Use low pressure. To reach fitting, remove spare 
tire on early Dauphine, metal panel on 4CV 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. .......... (6 fittings) CL —— 
E3Pedal Shaft (plug)..............0..0.0.. CL 


en late models, Remove rubber plug from under 
EJ Windshield Wiper Shafts...Sparingy 10W MO 


TRANSAXLE ................ 80 EP. 


If 80 grade is not available In warm weather, 90 
may be used temporarily 


EJ Models with 3 plugs at bottom, remove center 
Jug at bottom of differential case for checkin: 
level. Add lubricant thru fill plug until it runs oui 


at level check plug, allow excess to drain before 
replacing plug 


Models with 2 plugs at bottom, fill to lower edge 
of fill and level plug 


CAPACITY With 3 plugs at bottom, 2, ints; 
2 plugs, 3 pints aika 


[ORAIN and REFILL 
Drain thru both plugs 


Rear Wheel Bearings........,. Sparingly WB 
Use low pressure 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


D que 7 e 5 


n 
TIRES..... „Pressure Front Rear 
135-380 (5.0-15) 3 23 
145-380 (5.5-15) .1 23 


ERotate tires, Meth en ba ance wheels 


Vent plug ond 
edditlona! drain 


Epheater Filter Screen.............-... Clean 

Blow element with air gun 
COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
With Heater 


m Dauphine, Gordini...) B^ 

Cooling system pressure, 4 pounds 

Air Cleaner Element................ Service’ 
EI Oil bath section......... Wash and fill MO 

Crankcase grade. Fill to level mark 

E OOilwetted section....... Wash and oil MO 
EB ODyfypt sees inerevezeczacad Clean 
Dry type ........... .. . Replace 
Eifan Belt Tensioner Pulley. ....... Sparingly WB BH Position for lift adapter 
EiGenerator (plug) .. ............ Sparingly MO © Lubrication fitting 


Models with 12-volt battery, no lubrication @ Cooling system drain 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MO Motor Oil 


RENAULT 


1955-64 4CV (R.1062), Dauphine (R.1090, -1094), 
Gordini (R.1091), Dauphine 40 (R.1095), 


Caravelle (R.1092) 


w- 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WEI 
Tighten adjusting nut until wheel drags slightly, 
just so nut washer can be moved with screw 
driver, insert cotter pin 


BET! Lose eerie Test and fill Pg 
Fill to 4% inch above plates 
Brake Master Cylinder (cap).............. DEI | 


Reach from luggage compartment. 4CV, left side 
Fill to "Maximum" mark 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


All except late Dauphine: 

With the brakes cold, if the brake | can be 

depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 

indicated 

Ie ad ustment cams are provided on each back- 

ing plate 
just the brakes as follows: 

1, While revolving the wheel in direction of for- 
ward rotation turn forward cam counterclock- 
wise until shoe contacts drum 

2 Back ot adjustment until drag is just elim- 
na! 

3. Adjust rearward cam in same manner except 
revolve wheel in direction of reverse rotation 
and turn cam clockwise to expand shoe 

4. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 at each wheel 

Late Dauphine: 

Self-adjusting disc brakes are used on all wheels. 

No adjustment is required. Replace pads when 

total thickness (including metal portion) is .217” 

minimum 


Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31355-62, Every 1,500 miles 
1963-64, Every 3,000 miles 
ElEvery 3,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 


CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 
Above +32°.. 10W-30 
Above +10° 10W-30 
Below +10°.. 5W-20 


Gordini, 24% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


Water Pump (plug or fitting)... . . Sparingly WPIA 


Late models, no lubrication 


Distributor 
Cam bearing (wick under rotor).Sparingly MOEI 
Cam lubricator (wick)......- Sparingly MOR 
On 1955-59 only 

D. E sie sarcoma m Fee Replace 


Add extra pint oil 
On late models 


uel Pump Filter Screen.............. Clean 


Oil Fill Cap 
Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
WP Water Pump Grease 


RTI-1 


RENAULT 


1963-64 Caravelle "S" (R.1131); R-8 (R.1130) 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


B AABM 

ATTERY Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
Caravelle "s" 24 40, 50 
R-8 22NL 40, 50 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(at cranking speed with throttie open) i 
Caravelle srt : , . 105-185" 
...100-145* 


cy nders, 15 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 

Caravelle “S": AC 43F; Bosch W225T1; Champion 
J-6, H-8, H-88; Marchal 34-S i 

R-8: AC 44F; Bosch W175T1; Champion H-8, H-88; 
Marchal 35 

Gap: .025”-.028” 

Torque: 10-15 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Gap: .016"..020" 
Dwell angle: 54°-58° (56° preferred) 


CONDENSER 
S.E.V. or Ducellier 
Capacity: .23 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


IP 


S.E.V. Ducellier 


Front of car 
Front of car 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

2. Bring number 4 piston (nearest rear of car) to 
TOC position, as indicated by notch in pulley 
being aligned with 0° tooth of stationary 
marker 

3. Turn distributor housing until points just 
open, as indicated by test lamp ¥ 

4. Final movement of distributor housing must 
be in counterclockwise direction to eliminate 
backlash 

s. Tighten distributor clamp screw and rotate 
pulley two complete turns to recheck ac- 
curacy of setting 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
All, 0* (TDC) 


FUEL PUMP 


S.E.V. model 46AV 
Pressure: 2-214 Ib. at 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 1 minute at 1000 rpm 


CAKBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 

Mixture 

(initial Choke 

turns) (notches) 
SOLEX 
1-bbl. 32PDIST 2 index 
ZENITH 
1-bbl. 321GT 2 index 
1-bbl. 341GT 2 index 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


600 rpm 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine cold, not running) 
Intake .005”; exhaust .008" 


Caravelle “S” 


ma 
e 
a 


IER. INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT 


E3Steering Gear................ Sparingly CL 
Use low pressure. Inspect rubber boots for dam- 
age. To reach fitting, remove spare tire, or use 
long nozzle from left side 


ke Fluid Reservoir (cap)........------ wr 
Maintain level to "Maximum" mark on reservoir 
Reach from luggage compartment 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage.......... (6 fittings) CL—— 


Pilate Bull iu eror ee rper met CL 
Remove rubber plug to reach 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
Self-adjusting disc brakes are used on all wheels. 
No adjustment is required. It is recommended 
that all brake pads (2 per wheel) be inspected st 
regular intervals. Replace pads when total thick- 
ness (including meta! portion) is .217^ minimum 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF To permit 
bubbles to rise to highest point in caliper pistons, 
wheels must be hanging free of ground. When 
bleeding front wheels, repeatedly turn wheels to 
extreme left and right lock positions 


TRANSAXLE................ 80 EP 


If 80 is not available in warm weather, 90 may be 
used temporarily 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
E ORAIN and REFILL 
To drain. remove 2 bottom plugs 


(Rear Wheel Bearings.......... Sparingly WB 
Use low pressure 


YT RRePERReEVRVY 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


fqEvery 3,000 miles 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 
KI medii; AER rix dà 1% 


CRANKCASE...... de 
TIRES... Pressure Front Rear gee 


135-380; 145-380* (5.5-15)...-.... 4 23-25 Below 4-10* . i j 
* includes Michelin X tire CAPACITY (without filter) 2.65 quarts; (with filter) 
E3Rotate tires, Method G Sauts 


ORAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ 


With Heater 
Caravelle "S" .,. Li] 
R-8 a 6 
Cooling system pressure: Sealed system, Special 
9-Ib. valve located in expansion tank. No regular = ih. —— Wick under rotor.........- 
checking required, Permanent (anti-freeze) cool- i 
ant Installed by manufacturer 


Caravelle "S" only. Blow element with air gun 


Air Cleaner Element..,............. D 
B Dytyp .. T . .. Clean / 


. ...Replace Hector core draia 


B Position for lift adapter 
e  Lubrication fitting 

@ Cooling system drain 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BL 


AO0tES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty WB Wheel Bearing Grease ox 
LUBRICANTS EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil e b 
RTM2 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


ee eee EEEE 


EEE 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All Special 34 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
at cranking speed with i 
e ranking peed with throttle open) . s; PH 
93F, 95, 96... .100-115 
GT-750, GT-850 ...115-125 


SPARK PLUGS 

Low speeds, Bosch M175T1 

Normal driving, Champion UK-10 

GT-850 only, Champion UK-16V 

Gap: .024"-.028"^, ex. GT-850, nonadjustable sur- 
face gap used 

Torque: 28 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Bosch 
Gap: .012"-.016" 
Dwell angle: 77°-83° 


CONDENSER 


Bosch_ 
Capacity: .26 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1, 2, 3 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. Remove spark plugs 
2. Loosen distributor clamp screw 


3. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 


4. Models 93, 93B, 93F; place mark on pulley .4” 
clockwise of notch and align with mark on en- 
ine block. This setting is 8° BTDC position 
or No. 2 piston 
Models 95, 96, GT-850; place mark on pulley 
.5” clockwise of notch and align with mark on 
engine block. This setting is 10° BTDC posi- 
tion for No. 2 piston 
Model GT-750 align pulley notch with mark on 
engine block. This setting is TOC position for 
No. 2 piston 

5. Turn distributor housing counterclockwise 
until test lamp just goes on 


6. Lock distributor clamp screw securely 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

93, 93B, 93F, 8°; 95, 96 (without vacuum ad- 
vance), 10°; 95, 96 (with vacuum advance), 7°; 
GT-750, 0°; GT-850, 10° 


FUEL PUMP 


S.U. electric model L; Bendix electric " 
Pressure: Pump must push fuel to a height of 20' 
Volume: 16 ounces in 1 minute or less 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Mixture 

(initial 
SOLEX turns) 
I-bbi. 40 Al 2 
Triple 1-bbl. 34 BIC 2 
ZENITH 


1-bb!, 34 VNN 


2 
Preheating tube should be connected to air 
cleaner inlet during cold weather 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
700-800 rpm 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


None. Two-stroke cycle engine is used in all 
models 


wv- 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM. ........Quarts 
with Heater 


All models... nnns TD 
Cooling system pressure, 4 pounds 


ENGINE OIL RESERVOIR ..... TO 


GT-850 only 
Check level on sight gage when refueling 
CAPACITY 3 quarts 


TRANSAXLE .........---.----: MP 


Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 
EJ Maintain level to level plug hole " 
CAPACITY 1956-62, 4 pints; 1963-64, 3 pints 
E DRAIN and REFILL 


Eglnner Drive Shaft (oil hole).......... 10W MO 
Sparingly 


EaBrake Fluid Reservoir (cap)............ . HB 


Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 


ExSteering Gear i.n 


EqiFront Suspension, Universal Joints and 


Steering Linkage.......... (8 fittings) CL——* 


EiClutch and Brake Pedals (2 oil holes). .10W MO 
Reach from inside car 


EJSpeedometer Cable....... 


Expand Brake Cables. >.. e 
On 93, 93B only 


EHRear Wheel Bearings.........--.. Repack BR 


ENGINE LUBRICATION, With- 
out Reservoir 
Lubricating oil is mixed with the gasoline when 
refueling, as follows: 
All models, ex. GT-850.....T0 or 30 “MS” MO 
Pour 1 quart oil in tank, then add 7 to 8 gallons of 
gasoline. Premium gasoline is recommended for 
Model GT-750 i 
low +32°, to facilitate complete blending of 
be owe aline, predilute cold oil with gasoline 
in 1-to-1 ratio before pouring into tank, Use mix- 
ture ratios as shown above 


Model GT-850, do not put oil in fuel tank 


FUEL TANK o. Gallons 


93, 93B, 93F, GT-750*. 
95 ..... m 


96 ... 
GT-850* 
* Use premium grade gasoline 

€ See ENGINE LUBRICATION Instruction 


TIRES......... Pressure Front Rear 
a ... 26 20-24% 
26 — 20-24* 


1 23  20-26* 
..22-24* 21-23* 


Vijepending on load and speed” 
KJiRotate tires, Method F, then balance wheels 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


BR Ball and Roller Bearing Lubricant 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


In hoso under 
crankcase. 1964, 
edditional 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


SAAB 


1956-64 93, 93B, 93F, 95, 96, 
GT-750, GT-850 


4p 


Pd iem 
Distributor 
E nu Drive gear (except GT-850)........... -CL 
Drive shaft (oil cup)... . - ........40 M0 
Shaft (under rotor).......Sparingly 40 MO 


Cam assembly (felt pad) See Sparingly BRED 


ae Pump Screen... 


Fan Shaft Bearings.............. Repack BRED 


m Clean KJ 


Dry type ....... ADHERE 
Oil-wetted. ........ ...Wash and oil MOEI 


Inner Drive Shaft (oil hole). . 


Sparingly 


.10W MOE 


Battery) nc eoche orm ur seine Test and fill f3 


Front Wheel Bearings............ 


Heater Fan Motor Bearings. ......... 
Necessary to remove motor to oil bearings 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2", the need for service is 
indicated 

GT-850 has self-adjusting disc brakes on front 

1964 models have self-adjusting brakes front and 

rear 

mm Two slot-head adjustment screws are used on 

each front brake, one slot-head adjustment screw 
on each rear brake 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

e 1. If there is no adjustment hole in drum, re- 
move one lug bolt from each wheel. Late 
models, rear brake adjusts from backing plate 

. Rotate wheel until lug bolt hole or adjustment 
hole aligns with adjustment screw 

. Turn adjusting screw clockwise until drum is 
locked and cannot be turned by hand 


\ 
(d 


2. 
3. 
4. Back off adjustment screw one or more 
notches until drum turns freely without drag 
5. Repeat steps 2, 3 and 4 for second adjustment 

Screw 
6. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
7. Replace lug bolts securely 
B 


leeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


e = KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 2,000 miles 

Every 8,000 miles 

KB Every 16,000 miles 

Every 20,000 miles 

Every 24,000 miles 

EB Every 32,000 miles 


GB Position for lift adapter 
€ Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
SAE 70R3 
MO Motor Oil 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricar 
TO Saab Two-Cycle Motor Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


SB 


SIMCA 


1956-61 All Aronde Models 
1962-63 Simca 5 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BA AABM 
1 dad "en Ang Hs 
1962-53 Simca 6 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
pegenn, speed with 


Fisch i à 
ne 3-2 engin, 


SPARK PLUGS 


Champion, H-B; Marchal; Flesh engs, 36; Rush 


Gage ODE: 22 
Torque: 18-22 ft. tb, 
I POINTS 


Peta 
| Oweti angie; 55° 57* 


CONDENSER 


$.£.V., Duceilier 
Capacity: 28 mia 


Cylinder Mumbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,2,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
rE (Ru: uper engine): 


Zz Rin aopn at idle rpm and turn distributor to 
gent of cor 


Correct pulley notch ah 


pa 
oner | Lal 


Accurate timing is possible [uA when using 
Simca T bead Center Ga 


ool 7212-T 


uge Ti 
l Turn engine until distributor rotor is in posi 
.2 barn piug hole, 
moving cat backward a1 ts "rA 4th ed 


tion to fire No. 2 der 
2, With tool inse in 
piston i$ accurately He: 


until gauge pointer re. pd extreme v 
positi: La his is TOC, note 


until pointer indicates eZ marks betor 
TOC position previous! 


rved 
4, Turn distributor "until pon points just open as 


Hed br fight in tool 
d Flash $; Special engine is timed at TOC 


Timing Mark and Setting 


| 


Simes s 
iming Setting (Before Top Desd Cente: 


ter): 
Flash and Rush Super engines, 4"; Flash Special 


engine, 0* 


UEL PUMP 


EN a Flash engs, 1-2, 1b; Rush Super eng. 
at 1000 


^2! Ib; 


fj 
ume, ^ dria of 1 pint per minute at idle 
pm 


ARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Choke 
"€ 
(initial Man. 
turns) Trans. 
-bbf. 32PBICT 23 ji 
-bbi, 22PBIC 23 index* 
-bbl. 34PBIC 23 manual 


models, manual 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
550 rom 

VALVE CLEARANCES 


ngine cola) Intake 0947; exhaust 006” 
ngine hot) Intake 008°; exhaust 010” 


t timing light to Ho, 1 spark plug or 
cap tower 


this position on on 
2, Bush cor backward about 1 ft^ then lower 


COOLING SYSTEM.. Quarts 
With Heater Wianey Maria 


All modais ...... Wy 
Cooling system pressure, 4 pounds 


(HON füter 1962563. ........ ouis. 
Remove coves to clean; replace “g” fing 


Dior fen ing. 


pese Supply Tank (cap... out và seta ng 


Fill to “4 


Erron Suspension and 


"n. low pressure, except Simca 5 


Ea Clutch Pedal |... — vise saa 


EJ Parking Brake Pull Rod Shaft. . , .. .. . 
1962-63, right side of steering column 


TRANSMISSION "— 
Elsa. Level to fill al plug hose” 


[onain on and Pheri 
Ej Parking Brake Cable Pulley... 


E3Universal Joint Spline......00.. 0.2.2.2. 
MUniversal Joint 00.0... 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... P, T di 
—20*, 80; below -20°, 75 Jii 


i 
| 
4-20", 90; above TUER 
Maintain level fo fil plug hole rain fae” 
CAPACITY 2 i | 
Doran and [n UL jd 
FED pi 
" C ———— d 
EaRear Springs P0 


Wl] Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


Rotate tires, Method E, then balance wheels 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
GL4 Multipurpose Type Gear Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS AFI an PO Penetrating Oil 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


Copyright 1964, The Chak-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


| 
| 
i 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EiEvery 1,000 miles 
KlEvery 3,000 miles 
GiEvery 6,000 miles 
E Every 8,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
IHEvery 12,000 miles 
HjEvery 20,000 miles 
HJEvery 30,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


WP Water Pump Grease 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedali caa be 
depressed more than 2^, the need for service is 


i 
a 
i 


N 
n 
Q 
ty 


WG White Waterproof Grease 


SIMCA 


1962-64 1000 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions tor Procedure 


E a SERVICE AT SYMBOLS ee 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


BATTERY AABM 

Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
An 24 40 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
AU... 


To reach, remove plate in luggage compartment 


EBSteering Gear (plug)........... 80 or 90 M a | front Wheel Bearings... 
SPARK PLUGS \ j 


AC 44XL; Champion N4; Lodge HLN; Marchal 
35HS; Marelli CW240L 

Gap: .0247 

Torque:. 18-21 ft. Ib. 


nut into groove in spindle shaft 


[BFront Suspension...........-. (4 fittings) CL 


IGNITION POINTS 
Ducellier or S.E.V. 
Gap: .0187-.021* 
Dwell angie: 55°-57° 


E3gBrake and Clutch Fluid Reservoir (cap)... . . - 
Maintain level to upper mark on reservoir 
Located in luggage compartment 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the pedal can be de- 


pressed 
indicated. Two adj 
each backing plate. To tighten. turn both front 


i " | brake cams and rear brake front cam in directi 
CONDENSER E3Hand Brake Linkage...............-.-- | of forward » wheel rotation. Tighten Tear brake ¢ cam 
Ducellier or S.E.V. in opposite direction 


Capacity: .20-30 mtd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Turn one adjustment cam until heavy drag is 
feit when wheel is turned 

2. Siowiy back cff cam until no drag is feit 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment cam 

4. Repeat steps 1. 2 and 3 for each brake 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 

Note: in case it is difficult to completely bleed 

hydraulic system, raise front end of car until 

master cylinder is horizontal. observing caution 

thakibrake Dadin resenvow Goes nek’ spit vec 

luggage compartment 


GAS TANK......... 


AN models ....--..-.--6- 8I 
— Front of car 


pe 


t 


«37 
Firing Order: 1,3, 4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Slowly turn crankshaft pulley in direction of 
normal rotation (counterclockwise) until 12* 
notch on pulley rim is aligned with pointer on 
cil pump housing 

2. Connect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary termina! and to ground 

3. Loosen distributor clamp screw and turn dis- 
tributor housing until points just open, as 
indicated by test lamp. To avoid backlash, 
make final movement of distributor in coun- 
terclockwise direction 

4. Check accuracy of setting by turning pulley 


TIRES........... Pressure Front Rear 


v 
" 
A 
aa] 
- 
Ba] 
-— 
=ð 
— 
=% 
a 
^ 
^ 


*With 5 passengers, 25% 
E3Rotate tires, Method | 


TRANSAXLE .............--- 90 MP 


PY Maintain level 147 below plug hole 
Lg teil p KEY TO INTERVALS 


[HoRAIN and REFILL E3Every 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
EjEvery 30,000 miles 
[3 Conditional service 


Replace dry type air cleaner element it 
cleaning does not restore efficiency 


two complete revolutions, noting the position COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
of the notch when the points start to open With Heater g 
. Š Allmodels e BÓ e Air Cleaner Element.............. Service 
Timing Mark and Setting |] [| V... — ccm De e2......... Clean 3 
.. Replace 
Of IUE ERE EA 
Generator (oil cup)... . ....Sparingy MOREQ 
Crankcase Dipstick S Battery... 2.2.0.2... s. Test and fill 
Distributor 
CRANKCASE Wick under rotor. ..........Sparingy MORJ | 
j : n Above + 14° | 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 12 Below 414° jl T —— € Clean fq) 
T , remove pressed i 
FUEL PUMP CAPACITY 2% quart two bolt into two threaded | holes in cover Re 
SE DRAIN and ! E! - place * ring. Service more often ıt operating 
add See Service Instructions, page 4 Conditions are severe 


UH Position for lift adapter 
€  Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


Pressure: 1-2 Ib. at 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint per 1 minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Mixtu 

SOLEX initial turns) FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
1-bbl. 32PBIC 15 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 

600 rpm LUBRICANTS HB unu Brake Fluid; Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 

VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot, not running) 

Intake .014”; exhaust .014” Copyright 1964, The Cheh-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. SAN-2 


SUNBEAM 


1959-64 Alpine Series l, Il, Hl 
1956-62 Rapier, Rapier Series Il, IIl, WIA 
BOSS BILEASE: Alpine, inside, Rapier, outside rey 
TUNE-UP DATA Tr SERVICE 
See Service Instructions for Procedure 
— € amg nn COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts a í CRANKCASE.............“MS” MO 
Bories, Algive Series |! 


Cam bearing (under rotor). .Sparingly 30 MOEI 
Advance mechanism ............. 30 WME 
Ludricate sparingty thru hole around shaft 


EgFront Suspension and 


Steering Linkage. .. .(11 to 21 fittings) 

u m Front Wheel Beariags............ Repack LMR 
TRANSMISSION.......... "MS" Initial torque. 15-20 ft. Ib; then adjust bearings to 
Above —10*. 30; below -10°, 20.20 ` 

Eg Maintain level to upper mark on dipstick, except 
nes mer and Alpine Series Iil, to bottom edge 
Sd php rout operire E 
am 
Goram aad Ser i 
ive, drain thru separate plug near left side, 1 B 
or sen: i z : RAKE ADJUSTMENT 
ins: Alpine, Series U1, UIA, seif-adiusting disc 
with ignition ON and 4th gear brakes on tutaeis, nc acrestment requared 
E Overdrive 0U Pump Fiter Screen 1. Remove wheel cover to expose adjustment 
Remove pizte on left side to reach screen » e in wheel en dd holes are = 
` p um until adjustment hole aligns 
EgUaiversal lots. .............. Port slotted head adj pen wii 
Use low pressure. Alpine Series Ill, no lubrication - 3 MEN: Screw OVET. tum adjustment Cam OCR: 
wise un are locked against 
Ejümd Brake Cable... ......... wt - NE COE up area: 
Alpine Series Ill, ao lubrication f M \ M drum frees after brake applica 
z 1-4 H expand shoes until drum remains locked 
3 
EgBattery Alpine.. .....-.-------- Test and fi { S Back off adjuster one notch, two notches if 
DIFFERENTIAL necessary, SO drum turns freely without drag 
bue ESSE Gees Alpine rear drum brakes have a square head ad- 
Mypoid- Above — below —10*. 1 juster on each backing plate- 
Sepa Abt 329, Ts above -10*, $0: J 1 Tum adjuster clockwise until shoes are locked 


Rete À ste drag be felt from trail: 
may 
shoe but VOX be sufficient to prevent 
wheel from being turned by hand 
4. Spin wheel pedal firmly to center shoes. 
Recheck t 
ing sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 
Note: Rapier wi kes on front, bleed 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles 
Alpine Series Hl: Every 3,000 miles 


Wl Position for lift adapter ElEvery 3,000 miles 
© Lubrication fitting Every 6,000 miles 
@ Cooling system drain Every 12,000 miles 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
10 EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear Kt Rehd Brake Fluid, Heavy- Dily MO Motor Oil 
KEY Lubricant SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Li 
LM Lithium G Fluid, Light 
LUBRICANTS 


Cacrright 1954, The Chek-Chart Cornerotion. Printed im U. S.A. SMI 


N BY SYMBOLS HA 


EEE 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instruetions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 29H 57 


SPARK PLUGS 
champion [s] todge CNY* 
ap: 032"; TR3, -3-A, -B, E 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. B TRA OBS" 
*For high-speed driving: L-S or L-11S; HN or 2-HN 


IGNITION POINTS 
Luca 


s 
Gap: .015” 
Dwell angle: 57°-63° 


CONDENSER 

Lucas 

Capacity: .2 mfd 

Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


D 


© 


Firing Order: 1, 3, 4, 2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Set No. 1 piston at TDC (hole in crankshaft 

ulley aligned with pointer) - 

2. Fully retard micrometer vernier on distributor 

(TR3-B, TR4, center vernier) 

3. nect 12-volt test lamp to distributor pri- 

mary terminal and to ground 

4. Loosen distributor clamp bolt and turn dis- 
tributor until points just open as indicated by 
test lamp. Tighten clamp screw 

5. Tum knurled screw on vernier counterclock- 
wise to advance the timing 2 division marks 
on vernier scale (One division mark for TR4) 
This equals 4? of crankshaft advance 

Note: Premium fuel is recommended to assure 

maximum performance. If lower octane is used, 

reduce timing advance accordingly 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 4° 


FUEL PUMP 

AC-Delco type VE > 

Pressure: 114-214 Ib. at cranking speed 
Volume: Approx. 1 pint in 1 minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 

Mixture 

(initial 
STROMBERG turns) 
Twin 1-bbl. 175 C.D. 1% 
S.U. 
Twin 1-bbl. H-4 u 
Twin 1-bbl. H-6 15 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


850 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, not running) 

TR2, TR3 (with steel rocker shaft pedestals): 

.010"; exhaust 012”* ft 

A IRA (with aluminum rocker sha 

destals): Intake .010"; exhaust .! 

PS ror ae driving, both intake and ex- 
haust 013” E 

*' Normal and high-speed driving 


SERVICE AT 


P 
r Without Heater ww" 
7 
All other models... LVA Hi 
Cooling system pressure, 4 pounds 


(Steering Gear (plug) U m Sparingly CL 
With steering at full left lock, remove plug, insert 
fune Use low pressure, do not swell retainer 


TR4 


Crankcase Dipstick..............Check level 


Steering Gear (pl , TR3, TR3-A, B. ... 
ee door o below gaon go UM 


Bil Fill Cap... 2... Wash 
TR3-B, TR4, at rear of engine 
Distributor 
F3 Cam bearing (under rotor). . . .Sparingly MO 
Gs Advance mechanism ........Sparingly MO 


Lubricate thru opening around cam 


Bii Filter .............. 


Add extra pint oil 


KdFue! Pump Sediment Bowl and Screen. .. . Clean 


Also screens in carburetor float bowl unions 


E3Brake Fluid Reservoir (cap).............. HB 
Includes clutch reservoir 
Fill to 1 inch below top of fill hole 
Service both reservoirs on TR4 


<- s Replace 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . . . .(10 or 13 fittings) CL: 


E Clutch Cross Shaft.............Sparingly CL 
TRANSMISSION ........... HP, GL 


Above +30°, 90; below +30°, 80 
Models before Seria! No. TS50000, the level gage 
is attached to fill plug. Reach thru floor on rig! 


side 
El Maintain level to top mark on gage or to fill plug 
ole 


CAPACITY 1% pints; with overdrive, 314 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended, except for 
temperature requirements only 
Overdrive, drain thru separate plug hole, fill thru 
transmission 

Overdrive Filter ...................- Wash 
After reinstalling filter, run car short distance in 
overdrive and recheck lubricant level in transmis- 
sion 

H Universal Joint ...............---- 140 MP. 


Reach thru opening in tunnel 


Eg Universal Joint Spline. . .. . —— MÁ— CL 


Reach thru opening in tunnel 
[Hand Brake Cable....... 
EqUniversal Joint . . 
Rear Shock Absorbers.............. Fi 
(GiRear Wheel Bearings. .......... Sparingly WB 


Use low pressure 


DIFFERENTIAL ........... HP, GL4 

Above +30°, 90; below +30°, 80 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 1% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended, except for 

temperature requirements only 


[Hear Springs ........... — MÀ 
E Hand Brake Compensator , 


GAS TAN 
TR2 .. 


TR4 .. £e. 
All other models. 


" Michelin X tires, TR2, TR3 


Michelin X tires, TRA... ...... Bl Position for lift adapter 
* High speed, front 28, rear 30 


€ High speed, front 29, rear 33 ° 
[Rotate tires, Method C, then balance wheels 


Lubrication fitting 
© Cooling system drain 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Gl4 Multipurpose Type Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


SAE 70R3 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil 


API Service GL4 


Copyright 1954, The Chek-Char! Cornoration, Printed in U.S.A. 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


TRIUMPH 


1954-64 TR2, TR3, TR3-A, -B, TR4 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE ...... 


Above 4-707... 40 200-40 
Above +40°.. 30 104-30 
Above +10°.. 2020W — 10W-30 
Below --10*......... 10 10-30 


CAPACITY 6 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


See Service Instructions, page 4 


Generator (oil hole)............ Speringy MO 


Air Cleaner Elements............... Service 
Wire:gaue. eee Wash and oi! MOR 


Carburetor Dashpots 20 MOE3 


Unscrew caps, fill only to levei of inner hollow shaft 


Ce eee Test and filEg 


Front Wheel Bearings (fittings)... ........ weg 


Models before 1957 Serial No. TS13046, fittings 
under hub caps 


Remove bearings and repack. ............ wen 
TRG —— Repack WBEI] 


Every 12,000 miles, if car is used in competi- 
tion driving 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2", the need for service is 

indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

TR2 and TR3 with Lockheed drum brakes (up to 

commission No. TS 1300). 

Front brakes have two adjusters each. Rear 

brakes have one adjuster each » 

1. Remove road wheels to expose adjustment 
opening provided in each drum 

2. Turn drum until each slotted head adjuster 
aligns with adjustment opening | z 

3. Using a screw driver, turn each adjuster until 
a slight drag is felt when revolving drum 

4. Back off each adjuster one notch 

TR3, TR3-A, -B, TR4 with Girling disc brakes on 

front and drum brakes on rear (commission No. 

TS 1300 and later). Front disc brakes are self- 

adjusting, replace pads when %~ thick Rear 

drum brakes, adjust as follows: à 

A single cam adjuster is located on each backing 

plate above the axle tube . | 

l. Turn each adjuster clockwise until drum can- 
not be turned by hand 

2. Back off each adjuster one notch. Orum 
should rotate freely without drag 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 3,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SA Shock Absorber Fluid, Light 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


VAUXHALL 


1958-62 Victor 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All Special 43 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking d with throttle open) psi 
All minimum 125* 
* Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC 44-5V 
Gap: .0287-.032" 
Torque: 25 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: .019"-.021" 
Dwell angle: 35°-37° 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


OO@ 2 


$ 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

If equipped with octane selector scale, set 
scale at 0° 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at flywheel housing aperture. 
Turn distributor to obtain alignment of steel 
ball with center of notch 

Reset to proper idle speed 


- 


oy » ww 


m 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
9° (Steel ball aligned with notch) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC model FG 
Pressure: 214-314 Ib. at lowest possible idle speed 
Volume: 1 pint in 60 seconds at 2000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 
Mixture 
(initiat 
ZENITH turns) 
1-bbl. 34VN 1% 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
450-500 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .013”; exhaust .013” 


WOOO RELEASE: 1962, Inside; others, Front 
w SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts Gat CRANKCASE............. “MS” MO 
With Heater 9 Above 4-32? <.. 208 10W-30 
AW medal M — [A Above 0^ .. ... 10W 10W-30 
Cooling system pressure, 4 pounds Below 0° eee ae tieni SW 5W-20 
CAPACITY 314 quarts 
BONEY orones c sie Test and fill DRAIN and REFILL 
1962, right side See Service Instructions, page 4 


EXO Filter (under car)............... Replace 


& : 
enerator (oil hole).................... wa Oil Fill Cap..............- Wash and oil MOES 


Air Cleaner Element................ Service 1967, sealed cap 
Dry type Inspect Distributor Shaft .......... -0 nu 
1 D T Add oil slowly thru hole in distributor plate far- 
oa aps Wash A thest from shaft, approximately 1 teaspoonful 
pinu E AEA an Wick under rotor... .......- Sparingly MOES 
, 50; +32°, 20 s 
Felt under plate...........- Sparingly MOES 
EJ Steering Gear (plug). ...... Seasonal grade MP Lubricate thru hole in plate nearest shaft 
It necessary, remove air cleaner to service Crankcase Dipstick.............- Check level 
E3Clutch Master Reservoir (cap)..........-. HB Fuel Filter Screen..... Clean 
Fill to 3⁄4 inch below top of fill hole Crankcase Breather 1962. ...Wash and oil MOK 
EqBrake Master Reservoir (cap)............ HB 


Fill to 14 inch below top of fill hole 


EI iate 1958.61. NE if fittings) CL $ |.———Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB IE} 
{Front Suspension Ball Joints. . . .(4 fittings) CL 
1962 models 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
TRANSMISSION MP. depressed more than 2” the need for service is 
Above 0°, 90; above -25°, 80; below 25^, 75 Adjust the brakes as follows: 
Front brakes 


or 80 plus 10% kerosine 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2% pints 
[DRAIN and REFILL 


EgUniversal Joints 1958-61............... CL 


Use low pressure 


1. Two square head adjusters are provided on 
each front backing plate. Use a suitable tool to 
turn one adjuster counterclockwise until drum 
cannot be turned 

Back off one notch to free drum 

Repeat steps 1 and 2 for the other adjuster 
Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 for the other front 
brake 

Rear brakes 


5. Asingle external adjuster is provided on each 
rear backing plate. Turn the adjuster clock- 
wise until drum cannot be turn 


6. Back off adjuster 2 notches to free drum 
7. Repeat steps 5 and 6 for the other rear brake 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


pep 


DIFFERENTIAL............. 90 HP. 
Ef maintain teve! to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK............. „Gallons 
1962 ....... yg 1 
All other models. .... isse nnn 9% KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 1,000 miles 


TIRES. .Pressure Front Rear Every 4,000 miles 


5.60313 . E 7 (Every 12,000 miles 
s01 e M HB Position for lift adapter [Conditional service 


€  Lubrication fitting 


ture 
@ Cooling system drain tempera 


[iRotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant WP Hypoid Gear Lubricant " MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Di SAC PORE NEUYA SUMMCQ PS WB Wheel Beari 
LUBRICANTS i WOY WD Motor dcl 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS © 


Drain and refill transmission, depending on 


VLI-2 [i 


d 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY ^ AABM 
rou A 
All 19L (event) 


Amp. Hrs. 
77 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttie Open) 
25-hp engine 
36-hp engine 
40-hp engine 


SPARK PLUGS 


Bosch W175T1; Ch 
L-85 may be used) iàmpion L-87Y preferred (L-7, 


IGNITION POINTS 

Bosch or VW 

Gav: 216" B i 
ell an -55*; - 

tributor, Co" distributor, 51°-55°; VW dis- 


CONDENSER 
Bosch 
Capacity: .25-.30 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


HACA 
Te 


Firing Order: 1, 4, 3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Connect &volt test lamp to distributor pri- 
mary terminal and to ground 

2. Turn pulley until notch is aligned with split 
in crankcase 

3. Turn distributor housing until points just 
break, as indicated by the test lamp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Early models Late models 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
Timing must be set with engine cold 

1953, 5°; 1954-60, TA ni 1961-64, 10° 

Notch aligned with split in crankcase 

When pulley has two notches, use right notch 


FUEL PUMP 

Solex or Pierburg 

Pressure: 1953-60, 1.3-1.85 Ib. at 1000-3000 rpm; 
1961-64, 21% Ib. at 3000 rpm 

Volume: 1953-60, 51, ounces; 1961-63 early, 9 
ounces; 1963 late 64, 1344 ounces, in 1 minute 
at 3000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
(initial Man. 
SOLEX turns) Trans. 
25-, 36-hp engines 
1-bbl. 28PCI 15-14 manual 
40-hp engine 


1-bbl. 28PICT 14-14 Index* 
* During warm season, above +68°, air control 
damper should be locked “open” 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
500-550 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold, approx. +68°, not running) 
40-hp engine: Intake .008"; exhaust .008" 
Others: Intake .004^; exhaust .004” 


ig nd - EE EL 


VOLKSWAGEN 


esas dem : 1953-64 All Models Except Truck and Station Wagon 
Includes Karmann-Ghia 


SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS E 


Gan 
0) Brake Master Cylinder (cap)............. HB] 
Fill reservoir % full 
1953, remove left wheel to reach; all other 
models, remove spare tire to reach 


Repack LME 


Tighten adjusting nut until bearings drag slightly, 
or to 21 ft. Ib. of torque, spin wheel, Loosen nut 
until thrust washer can just be moved sidewise 
with screw driver and brake drum has no axial 


ElSteering Gear (plug),.............. 90 MP. 


se 80 In arctic climate. GL may be used 
Reach under cover plate undor front hood 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. . . . (8 or 12 fittings) LM——* 


CL may be used 


Ea Pedal Shaft (inside car)..............085 LM: pa . Install lock plate and nut lock, tighten nut 
CL may be used Some lock and recheck to be sure of sidewise move- 
no ivb. ment of thrust washer. Bend one tab on lock 


On early models only piste over adjusting nut and other tab over nut 


LIFTING PRECAUTIONS 


Lift car to remove weight from front wheels 
when lubricating front axle assembly 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
Indicated 

Two adjusters are provided in each brake 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Raise car, remove hub caps, apply pedal firmly 


Clutch Cable Ball Joint.........., . Coat LM 
CL may be used 


® 
Neg, Grd, 
Sodne 


em a few times, turn wheel until one adjuster is 
ElBrake Cables 1953-61......... Sparingly LM s Visible behind hole in drum : 
CL may be used , Turn each adjuster until the shoe makes light 


contact with the drum 


. Back off each adjuster 3-4 teeth until drum 
revolves freely without drag 


2. 

3. 

4. Depress pedal firmly a few times and recheck 
the adjustments 

5, 


, Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Biceding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


TRANSAXLE ................ 90 MP. 
Use 80 in arctic climate. GL may be used 
1953-60, plug on right side 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 1961-64, 544 pints; all other models, 
4Y, pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 


EH 1953-60 
E] 196164 


Drain thru both plugs; clean magnetic drain plugs 
Fill slowly, allow 2 to 3 minutes for oil level to 
stabilize before replacing fill plug 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


E3Every 3,000 miles 
Adverse conditions: Every 1,500 miles 

E Every 3,000 miles 

Every 15,000 miles 


kalt sides........... Coat LM Fl]Every 30,000 miles 
[Every fall 
GAS TANK. ers e -Gallons 
DUD—— 1014 -— 
bs CRANKCASE.. “MS” MO 
TIRES........ Pressure Front Rear Above +90°.. . 30 10W-30 
86:60:15: syn aasiites se innesnarioma 16,17" 20, 24* Above 432°. . .20,20W — 10W.30 
* Depending on number of occupants Above —10° . 10W 10W-30 
Below —10°.. SW 5W-20 


CAPACITY 215 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL Clean magnetic drain plug 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


K Heater Linkage ................., Coat GG 
Oil Fill Cap 
Eil Strainer...... seman xd Remove and clean 


To reach, remove plate, bottom of crankcase 
Reinstall with new gasket 


Battery Karmann-Ghia ........... Test and fill Ey 


Sedan and convertible models under rear seat 


Distributor 
[ folc. sae eni One drop oil MO 
B Mick under rok Volkswagen distributer rankcase Dipstick..........-..- Check level 
E Felton plate............ One drop oil MO 


1961-64 with Bosch distributor 


BE Position for lift adapter ir Cleaner Element................ Service 


Carburetor Linkage .............-.-.-- mo e Lubrication fitting Oil bathi res sessios Wash and fill 20 MOIE 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
CL Chassis Lubricant HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil 
KEY TO GG Graphite Grease LM Lithium Grease MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
Copyright 1964, The Chok-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. VNI-L 


VOLVO 


1957-64 PV444, -445; P210, PV544 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 

B18 engine e Ne. Ane Mrs. 
All others 19 84 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed 


with throttle open) psi 


VOD AR UO 
rey m with copper gasket. 25 ft. 
1o: with steel 29 ft. Ib; 10 mm plug, 11 
* Earty 70 bhp engine, 10 mm Y-4-A 
IGNITION POINTS 

and Bosch 


SPARK PLUGS 
8180 


CONDENSER 
Autofite and Bosch 
Capacity: Autolite 20-25 mfd; Bosch 20-25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 
$ 5 
e 


B14, B16 engines B18 engine 
Bosch distributor 


B14 engine 
Autolite 


Firing Order: 1, 3, 4,2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 
b Ce: timing lij to No. 1 
ing f ri or 
istri cap" ight spark plug 
3. Disconnect cistributor vacuum line 
£ rd 


a 


814, B16 engines 


B18 engine 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

BI4A engine, 2° static” 

B16A engine, 4° static” 

B168 engine, 6° static’ 

B18 engine, 5° static” | 

* Engine should be timed at 1500 rpm. See 
Timing Procedure Section 

FUEL PUMP 

AC type UG 

Pressure: B18 engine, 115-214 Ib.; others, 2-334 

ib., all at idle rpm E 

Volume: 16 ounces in 1 minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Mixture 

(initial 
S.U. turns) 
Twin 1-bbl. H-2 1 
Twin 1-bbl. H-4 1 
Twin 1-bbl. HS-6 175 
ZENITH 
1-bbl. 34VN 1-2 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
B16A engine, 450-550 rpm 
Others, 700 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

engine not running) 

6164 engine: Intake .016"; exhaust .018^ 

160 engine: Intake .0167-.018"; exhaust .016^- 
Others: intake .020^; exhaust .020^ 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


SERVICE AT 


* 10W-30 is preferred 
CAPACITY B18 engine, 3% quarts; others, 3 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


[ster Pump Additional drain at 


B18 engine, no lubrication 
El Steering Gear (plug)................ 
ElFuel Pump Sediment Bowl and Screen. . Clean 


B14, B16 engines, clean screens in S.U. carb. float 
bow! unions 


S.U. carburetors oat. Unscrew caps, fil! only to 
top of inner hollow fts 


And, oun quart oil; except B18 engine, add extra 
oi 
Sobnp models, at left front 


E_Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .............. MO 3 
P Air Cleaner Elements..............- Service 
Fl Wick under rotor. .......... Sparingly MO Dy type ....-..... Replace [A 
EliBrake Master Cylinder (cap). ... .......... HB Wire gauze ............ Wash and oil MOEI 
Fill to bottom of filter screen or to 14 inch below 
top of fill hole Batty... onus Test and fill 


E3Steering Linkage and 
Front Suspension... .(12 or 18 fittings) CL 
Steering linkage joints without fittings. .CL 
Fill cavity between ball joint and rubber cover 
using flat nozzle grease gun adapter. Fold up 
rubber cover 

Late models with lock clip around rubber 
Cover, no service. 


Some models, no lubrication 


TRANSMISSION 

Above —5°, 90; below -5^, 80 

30MO may be used 

E Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 1 pint; late models with syn- 
chronized 1st speed, 174 pints; late 4-speed, 134 
pints; early 4-speed, 2 pints 

Goran and REFILL 


Eq Universal Joints 
Some, no lubrication 


Equniversal Joint Spline.......-.....-..-- 
[a Hand Brake Cable Guides. . . .Coat sparingly GG 
EqUniversal Joint 


Some, no lubrication 


Rear Wheel Bearings............ 


Necessary to remove axle shafts 


DIFFERENTIAL 

Above -5°, 90; below -5°, 80 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 2% pints 
Maorain and REFILL 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake jal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 

P210, PV544: Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Use a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
opening in backing plate to expand shoes until 
drum cannot be turned by hand 


Back off adjuster screw 8 notches. Drum 
should turn freely without drag 

Repeat procedure at each wheel 

444, -445 self-adjusting brakes are used. No 
adjustment normally required 

Bleeding sequence: LF, RF, LR, RR 


2. 


3. 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
EEvery 3,000 miles 
Every 6,000 miles 


GAS TANK .. Gallons e 
E TE 9 [HEvery 12,000 miles 
iti i Every 25,000 miles 
TIRES. urnu ror Rear ES Position for Wit adapter iEvy sua 
640-15, PV445, P210. ........—-. n 24 © Lubrication fitting H Conditional service 
With heavy load....---..-.... 21 28 @ cooling system drain Coat hand brake cable guides as required 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant HB mau Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS 66 Graphite Grease LM Lithium Grease WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Containing molybdenum disulfide 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. yari 


ALFA ROMEO 


AUSTIN HEALEY SPRITE 


DKW-750 


CITROEN 


MODEL 


ALFA ROMEO 


CAPACITY 


LUBRICANT 


IMPORTED CARS 


Alfa Romeo thru Datsun 


MODEL CAPACITY LUBRICANT 
AUSTIN HEALEY Continued 
PINTS 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION M 
Hrbp em Ed 
ix, Mark |, 4.6 7 
1958-64 Sprite Mark 1, 1 24 A All temperatures, MO 30 


1963-64 Mark II Convertible.. 6% 8% 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS | MP 
1955-64 All ex. Sprite. . 3AG _ | Above +10° 90 


1958-64 Sprite Mark I, II... 


14 | Below +10° 80 


CRANKCASE QUARTS 
1956-63 eile pos ^! " 
pider, Sprint... Á " 
Sprint Veloce, Super Spider EO Mo For Sey jea M 
1960.63 2000 Roadster .. ae M Below +50° 30 
1963-64 |y 1600 series... ... Ma 
wets A 
MANUAL LOT RANSMISSIÓN PINTS 
1956-63 Giulietta 1300 series 
5 spider, Sprint.. si "ud 
rint Veloce, uper pi er 
1960-63 2000 Roadster... ......- 3% — | All temperatures, GL 90 
1963-64 Giulia 1600 series... . 34 
2600 series...........- 35 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
1956-63 Giulietta 1300 series 
Spider, Sprint, Sprint 4 
eloce, Super Spider 
1960-63 2000 Roadster.......... & | All temperatures, EP 90 
1963-64 Giulia 1600 series $ 3 
2600 series... 4% 
@Includes filter. 


AUSTIN 
CRANKCASE 


includes oil filter, 
(1955 100 series, spiral bevel, 2% pints. 


AUTO UNION-DKW 


ENGINE QUARTS | WITHOUT RESERVOIR MS or DG 
When refueling, pour 4 quart oil in 

1956-57 Big DAW 3=6........... g tank, then add 5 gallons of gasoline 

1957-63 AU-1000, -1000S, -1000Sp. Above +32°, 30; below +32°, 20,20W 


1960-64 DKW-750, DKW Junior 
DeLuxe. . 


WITH RESERVOIR MS-DG or TO 
All temperatures, 10W-30. Capacity, 
4 quarts 


TRANSAXLE 
1956-57 MN. 16008, nies 5 GL 90 
HA i AE 750, DKW liner P. 55 | All ex. DKW-750, DKW Junior DeLuxe 


Deluxe... sss. MA may use 80 


1955 A MO For Service MS 
15 56 i 30 SENA 3% Above +90° 40 20W-30 
19566 A-90. . 6% Above +32° 30 20W-30 
1957-59 A-35. . 4% Above +10° 20,20W 20W-30 
A-95, A-1 n Below +10° 10W aia 
1955-56 A-40, 


A-50 


hos Above +32° 30 20W-30 
AD | Above +10° 20,200 20W-30 


Below +10° 10W 


AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION onil fell 
1962-63 A-80. ..... eene 5% i m | All temperatures, AF 
PI 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION Manual O'drive 
1955 Early A-40......s sees 3M -= 
A-70.....- 3 = 
1955-56 A-30 “Seve! AM = 
1955 Late -56 A-40, A-50. S54 0A 
d " U- hsnwsréss ns 24 - 
1! 2s — — 
A-55 UB 6% All ex. Mini, Mini Cooper, MO 30 
A-95, A-105. ...... 5 64 
1959.62 A-40 series A286. . M -= 
A-55 Mark Il...... SM -= 
1960-64 Mini, Mini Cooper. . .....- Q - 
1962-63 A80... esee 5% 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
1955 Earl PUT MET D, MP 
1955-56 A-30 "Seven"... i | uou 
1955 Late -56 A-40, A-50 2 Aboved” — 90 
1956 A90 34 | Below oe — 30 
Bos AS. 2% — | 4.35, A0, A-95, A-105 
ee a Above +32° 90 
1959-62 ^ AA series ASÈ.. 2 Below +32° 80 


24 All others ex. Mini, Mini Cooper 


Wing Min Coo Above +10° 90 
1960-64 Mini Mini Coope ®© 
1962-63 A-0. ....... Ma Below +10° 80 


Includes oil filter. 
Crankcase, transmission and differential combined. Capacity includes filter. 


AUSTIN HEALEY 
CRANKCASE 
1955-56 100 4-cyl. 
1957-59 100 Six. 
1958-64 Sprite M 
1960-64 3000 Mark I, il, 

II Convertible.......... 


QUARTS 
TA MO For Service MS 
10 Above +32° 30 
Above +10° 20,20W 
1 Below +10° 10W 


KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 
LUBRICANTS EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Tl-1 Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A, 


HD Heavy-Duty Motor Oil 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
MO Motor Oil 


@Two-cycle engine, oil mixed with gasoline. 


BMW 
CRANKCASE QUARTS 

1957-60 503, 507.. .. ...... 7 

1957-64 502... ee 1 MO For Service MS 10W-30 
1958-64 600, 700.......... 20 or HD 30 

1962-64 1500, 1800... ... 4 

MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS 


1957-64 502, 503, 507, 1500, 1800. 2% | All temperatures, MP 90 


TRANSAXLE PINTS i 

1958-64 600, 700 ..... WE [ores 

DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 

Beet 0 RH 

1957-1 6,32... ^ 

1960-64 32 Super... 3 All temperatures, HP 90 

1962-64 1500, 1800 4 2 

CITROEN 

CRANKCASE QUARTS 

ae AY | All temperatures, MO 20 
MO For Service MS or DG 

1956-64 DS19, IDI9....... 4 Above +86° 30 20W-40 

1963-64 AMI-6 2 Above 0° 2000 10W-30.) 
Below 0° 5W-20 


TRANSAXLE 
195 LICV....... s 4 


PINTS |EP 
2CV, all temperatures, 80 
DS19, IDIS, all temperatures, 90 


1955-58 2CV .. sitas 2 11Cv 
1956-64 DS19, ID19. . 4 Above +32° 90 
Below +32° 80 
1963-64 AMI-6......... 2 | All temperatures, EP 80 
@AMI-6, SAE 5W-20 below F0. 
DATSUN 
CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MS or DG 
Above +90° 30 10W-30 
1959-61 1000, 2000 3% Above +32° 20,20W 10W-30 
1961 Bluebird 2% Above +10° 20W 10W-30 
Below +10° 10W 10W-30 
Mo For service MS 
N i ve +90° 4 20W-40 
1963-64 Cedric. m Above um » 10W30 
w d a 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS Lnd ido 
1959-61 1000, 2000. .... . 4% MP 
1961  Bluebird...... 15 | Above +32° 90 
1963-64 Cedric... 5 Below +32° 80 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
TO Auto Union-DKW Two-Cycle 
Engine Lubricant 


*»o65953550535055823855585055959 999 9 99 9m 


f 
s ; : ; | 
| i ; ; 3 i 
z š E ox] 2 1 A 
t wade ED al PP liac Ls ! 1 | r Zz | T 
Ice. P ME wil b fp fab foe T 
JIHHHLE au up HH ii] s: i Hi 
; ] / 5 "qi 4 ab] 22224 eis bens Í m ren i illl 
CEJ $ 4 4b | EA pr 1 
de eta law La | ate i : 
Pe Pe a es Pe LED B RENE E | 
las Te sade agi P sie pl ts Hl $ 
ESI NARI BI | I OL Hi 
uH Zn 
i i za fenni 3 $ oí ue able TEN : S 1 i 
E her n | [| | ones | ME 
how | | ot) am HEE NM hi 
EHE CCELI EMEN 
a hog ft 7 "P. . 
3 | ae 8 c 4.8 1 a E ih g, Ii i | 
w= |,5, ih 1n i hai Hid y y fti ef ! 
AE PEE f 4 f 2 | 8 $ i 
9i ae Mu MP NE. i ii Ht Ua | B8 | 
a| io] geht Ba aia Ga] 5 


= 


s 
] 


METROPOLITAN 


MORRIS MINOR 


PORSCHE 


IMPORTED CARS 


Metropolitan thru Porsche 


MODEL CAPACITY LUBRICANT MODEL CAPACITY LUBRICANT 
MERCEDES-BENZ 1956-1 Continued MORRIS 
AUS 1955.56 Minor I ko 
AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION Refi Resti i OR 
190c, 220b, 220Sb, 220SEb, 2208 3 4 M caida wm adibr di | o — 
oe, 0d SMS OON 5 » All temperatures, AF 1957.59 Oxford series lil. — wD predi 2w za 
PA A BE 1957-63 Minor 1000. . ....... AW | Below 110° 1OW 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS 1950-82 Oxford Mark V... au 
a wceesecaumeui 3 | All temperatures, AF 1960-64 Mini, Mini Cooper FO 
PINTS MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS 
1955-56 Minor HH 
1955-59 Cikri miie u,n, 
NT ME 55 
1957-63 Minor 1000. 3 AJ temperatures, MO XO 
All temperatures, HP 90 1960-62 Oxford Mark V 55 
1960-64 Mini, Mini Cooper 3 
DIFFERENTIAL =" 
% 
. s * |e 
(DAII except 190c, -Dc, 220b, -Sb, -SEb, 10W-30 from +90° to —10*; SAE He Above =10" 30 
2308, 300SE after 31,000 miles, use —— 5W-20 below —10". 2, [Sein m 
ene finde heavier except 300 sees, Gan epe Roma rag 
AE w +32°; , quarts; coupe, normal driving, > 
10W below —10°. 190c, - Dc, 220b, -Sb, 11% quarts; racing, 16 quarts, except Crankcase, transausson aed G@erestai cominet 
-SEb, 230SL, 300SE may also use SAE Roadster, 14% quarts. 
QUARTS 
METROPOLITAN 1958-61 Prinz, men. 5 
CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MM, MS 19264 Rari Sport Prinz. 8 WO For Service MS, DGD 
Above -32° NA 10W-30 $ Es Abe -F D 
1955-62 A, B, 1500 series. . ....... 4 | Above +10° 2020W 10W-30 | MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS | ame > 2 
Normally below +10° 10W — 10W-30 1968-64 ——— Q Bobs 2° 10W 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS | MO DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
1955  Aseries....... Met 3 WT ooa fo) 
1955-62 B, 1500 series... Boon @Crankease, transmission and differen. — (SDG for Sport Prinz, Prinz SO anc IN? 
DIFFERENTIAL rag 
1955 A, B series. - MP 
1956-57 1500 series. . 2 | Above-+10° 90 
1958-62 1500 series. . 2% | Below +10° 80 OPEL 
CRANKCASE QUARTS] MO For Service MP. cr MM 
1958-63 All 3 | Mere 
ess Below O° 10W 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS 
M.G. p D AMEEEEU DU 2 | All temperateres, EP SG 
ie DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
CRANKCASE QUARTS 
1955 TE seneso SHO TSE BS Aeriene 2 | All temperateres, RP SO 
1955-59 Magnette ZA, ZB....... 45 
1956-61 MGA 1500, 1800... 4 irea PEUGEOT 
1958-61 MGA Twin Cam... 7% | Above +32° 30 20w-30 | CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MS 
1959-62 Magnette Mark tll... . 44O | Above -10° 2020W OW a A pepes 
1961-62 MGA 1600 Mark IL... .. „4 | Below +10° 10W ME TT aug | Atoe 32 QR IW- 
1961-64 Midget... ~ -~ ~- ~- -+ 10 1961-64 404 duc | Ave sin xw MEGS 
1963-64 MGB. non we Das iu- M« i 
MG Sports Sean. ® MANUAL TRANSMISSIO PINTS | MO Ror 0 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS ea er ats a p cv cist Sivas be 
193 co Magnette ZA, Z8 D 1961-81 403, M 3 | usd i Mod 
-59 Magnette ZA, ZB......... 
1956-62 MGA 1500, 1600, 1600 TF series, MP DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
Mark II, Twin Cam... . 5% Above +10° 90 1958-64 403 sedan... 3 
1959-62 Magnette Mark I11........ 5% | Below +10° 80 station wagon ...... 348 | Al temperateres, EP or MPS 
ere Mn E All others, MO 30 1961-64 404 Mono: 38 
1963-64 MGB... a.. - 
MG Sports Sedan... © (OIncludes filter. 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS PORSE 
1955  TFseries......... : h RSCHE 
1955-59 Magnette ZA, ZB.. ....... 3 , 
198 MGA 1300, 10 it ME CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO Fer Service MS 
ark Il, Twin Cam. .... A P „| Abee = a. 
1959-62 Magnette Mark II. 2 | Above tie 2 1955-64 All ex. Carrera Bi “| Atoe- SD 
1961-64 Midget. ... 1% em Below — 5* IW 
1963-64 MGB. n -— TRANSAXLE PINTS | HP 
ports Sedan.. — Abowe +37 W 
- - : 1955-64 All ex. Carrera TH Below DET D 
@Includes oil filter, (Combined with crankcase. = — 
@With overdrive, 6 pints. @Maiatain level 4 inch below bottom edge of fill plug hole. 


EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


TI-3 Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. 


MO Motor Oil 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


IMPORTED CARS 


Renault thru Volvo 


MODEL CAPACITY LUBRICANT 

RENAULT 
CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MS 
1955-62 4CV 2 Above +32° 20W 10W-30 
1956-64 Caravelle, Dauphine, Above +10° 10W 10W-30 

Gordini sats 2% Below 4-10* 5W-20 

m Above +10° 10W-30 

1963-64 Caravelle "S", R-8 2% Below +10° 5W-20 
TRANSAXLE PINTS 


1955-64 All with 3 plugs on bottom , 2M 
2 plugs on bottom 3 All tamperatures, EP 800) 
1963-64 Caravelle "S", R-8. 3 


(DIf SAE 80 is not available in warm weather, SAE 90 may be used temporarily. 


SAAB 
ENGINE QUARTS 
Add 1 quart TO or MS 30 to each 7 or 
8 gallons of gasoline. Premium gas- 


oline is recommended for model 
1956-64 93, 93B, 93F, 95, 96, GT-750 © GT-750. Below +32° dilute oil with 


gasoline in ratio 1-to-1 before pour- 


MODEL CAPACITY LUBRICANT 


TOYOTA Continued 

DIFFERENTIAL 

1958-60 Crown, Crown Custom. ... . 

1961-64 Crown, Crown Custom Above 4-50* 140 
Tiara... aufi 2% Below +50° 90 


(1958-60 models, SAE 20, 


TRIUMPH 


CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MS or DG 
Above +70° P. 

1955-64 TR2, TR3, TR3-A, TR3-B, Above +40° 30 

TRA 4 6 Above +10° 20,20W 

Below -+10° in 

1958-61 TR10 sedan, Estate Wagon. Above --80* 

1960-64 Herald, Herald 1200... 4 Above +30° 2020N 

1963-64 Sport Six, Spitfire 4 Below +30° 10W 

PINTS 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION Manual O'drive 
1955-64 Te TRS; TR3-A, TR3-B, 


1958-61 TRIO sedan, Estate Wagon. 1% — Sport Six, Spitfire, GL4 


14. 3% HP or GL4 ex. Herald, Herald 1200, 


ing into tank 196-64 Herald, Herald 1200 1% = | Above 3 
1963-64 GT-850 , 3 | Reservoir, TO 1963-64 Sport Six, Spitfire... 1% gy, | Below +30° 80 
Te od 958, 93F, 95,96, 7-750 aS | Above +32° 90 DIFFERENTIAL, 

, 96, GT- e . 
eet Ai 3 Below +32° 80 1995-64 LU TR3-A, TR3-B, uP orau en Herald, Sport Six, 
@Two-cycle engine, pour oil in tank, then add gasoline. pos i TRO sedan, Etnie Wagon. Above +30° 90 

1963-64 Sport Six, Spitfire Below +30° 80 
SIMCA 
CRANKCASE QUARTS VAUXHALL 
1957-61 Aronde... EM " 5 MO For Service MS A 
1957-59 Ariane iot d m Above E EN "- 240 CRANKCASE QUARTS MO For Senice NS 
-cyl. a e ^ -30, 20W- a 
1957-60 Vedette 4% | Above —10° 10W 10W-3) 5W-20 | 1958-62 Victor... ........ e MM Ww 
1962-63 Simca 5. .. 5 Below —10° 5W 5W-20 
Above 414° 20W-40 MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS | MP 
3 jo 
1962-64 1000 TÁ | Below +14° 10W-20 Above0° — 90 
1958:62 iclop..-. ois 2% Above —25° 80 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION PINTS |MPor Gu Below —25° 750 
1957-63 4-cyl.. ... vis 2% naeve +20° A DIFFERENTIAL 
Bol. 34 Below -420° 79 1958-62 Victor. o... ' | All temperatures, HP 90 
TRANSAXLE PINTS à 
1962-64 1000 . 4 | All temperatures, MP 90 @0r SAE 80 plus 10% kerosine. 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS | MP or GL4 
1957-63 4- n D i 2 Above Ta, a VOLKSWAGEN 
8-cyl. ex. arly. . — ve — 20° ; 
MAI ois aeaio 3 Below —20° 75 CRANKCASE QUARTS wo For Senice] MS 
Above +32° 20,20W 
1955-64 All.. li 
Above —10° 10W 
SUNBEAM , Below —10° 5W 
CRANKCASE QUARTS Hd Servich MS 20W40 | TRANSAXLE 
ve +70° S 3 
e 1955-59 Truck, station wagon. .. 
1956-62 Rapier, All. . . 4A Above +20° 20,20W 10W-30 ' Eih 
1959-64 Alpine series 1, i1, 111 Po Above + D 10W 108-30 ee Seain arma ona : i pines a 90 
BIS UN TW s “© | 1961-64 Sedan, Karmann-Ghia. 

TRANSMISSION Manual O'drive| MO For Service MS z 
api, PT ; 34 e Above —10° 30 @Rear wheel gear cases, Y? pint each. — @Use SAE 80 in arctic climate. 
1959-64 Alpine series L1, "- 3% 4% | Below —10° 20,20W 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS | EP VOLVO 

| Above —10* 90@ CRANKCASE QUARTS | MO For Service MS 
kae ? | Below —10° 80 1957-62 All ex. B18 engine Above +90° 10W-30@ 


T4 


includes oil filter. 


TOYOTA 
CRANKCASE 
1958-60 Crown, Crown Custom 


1961-64 Crown, Crown Custom 


Tiara. 


MANUAL TRANSMISSION 
1958-60 Crown, Crown Custom 


1961-64 Crown, Crown Custom 


Tiara. 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


@Spiral bevel, SAE 140 above +32°. 


QUARTS | MO For Service MS or DG 
bove +90° 40 


e+ 
S | Above +32° 30 
4% Above —10° 20 

a Below —10° 10WG) 


PINTS 
Manual O'diive 
TS % GL 
3% Th Above +50° 140 
24 — | Below +50° 90 


EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Char! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


3 
1962-64 B18 engine. . um 3% 


PI 
MANUAL TRANSMISSION E EN 
1957-62 3-speed 10 — 
1958-64 4-speed. . . -OINO 
DIFFERENTIAL PINTS 
1957-64 All 2% 


Above +32° 10W-30(s) 
Below +32° 10W-30(s) 


GLO 

Above —5* 90 
Below —5° 80 
MO 30 may be used 
MP 

Above —5* 90 
Below —5° 80 


@Early models with 3-speed nonsyn- SAE 10W-30 preferred. 
chronized Ist speed, 1 pint; early 4- P-1800 with overdrive, SAE 30 all tem- 
speed, 2 pints. peratures, 


@P-1800 with overdrive, 


GL4 Multipurpose: -Type Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil 


API Service GL4 
HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
TO ‘Saab Two: -Cycle Motor Oil 


epreeweeeeeeneeeeeeeeeweeeeeeeeeeagaagRg 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
G 
1955-59 Task-Force cn - AS 
27 72 
1958-64 Forward Control AT 2 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
ter r1 speed with throttle open) psi 


V-8 engine 
Maximum vi 
SPARK PLUGS 


AC: 1955, C44; 1956- i 
162.64, È evl ASN 61, C45; 1962, 6-cyl. C44, 


Torque: 20-25 ft, Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
gao: 016" used: .019" new 

ngle: E z -33°; 
28°-35°; toesea sio 3a? Se) OBSESSA I2, 
V-8: 1955-56, 26°-33°; 1957-59, 28°-32° 
CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


__ Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


ween cylinders, 20 psi 


Firing Order: 6-cyl. 1, 5, 3,6, 2,4 
V-8 1, 8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

. Bring engine to operating tempe 

e Connect rachometer i perature 

. Connect timing light to No, 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower. On 1963-02 M E or 
No. 2 spark plug or cap tower and oil pan tim- 
ing mark tab 

4. 6-cyl. 1960-62, Set octane selector to 0° on 


scale 
6-cyl. 1963-64; All V-8: Disconnect distributor 
vacuum line and tape manifold opening 

5. 6-cyl.: Set idie speed to recommended rpm 
V-8: Set idle speed to 1000 rpm (Both engines, 
transmission in NEUTRAL) 

6. Observe timing mark through opening in fly- 
wheel housing, crankshaft pulley or oil pan 

tab and turn distributor to obtain recom- 

mended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line 

. Reset to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


gx 


1955-62 
6-cyl. 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

6-cyl.; 1955-58, 0^ (Steel ball aligned with 
pointer) 1959-61, 5° (First short radial mark 
clockwise from steel ball aligned with pointer); 
1962, 235 eng., 5° (First short radial mark clock- 
wise from stamped O aligned with pointer); 261 
engine, TDC (Stamped O aligned with pointer, 
1963-64: 230 eng. 4° (Each line equals 2°) 

V-8: 4° except 1962 348 eng., 8° (Each line is 2°) 
FUEL PUMP 
AC mechanical 
Pressure: 6-cyl.: 314-414 Ib.; V-8: 1955-57, 4-5 Ib.; 
1958-59, 514-674 Ib.; at idle to 1000 ipm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


le Choke Choke 

Mixture (notches) (notches) 

(Initial Man, Auto. 
CARTER turns) Trans. Trans. 
1-bbi. updraft Y-14 manual manual 
ROCHESTER 
1955-57 1-bbl. BC 2y — index 
1955-64 1-bbl. B 14-214 manual manual 
1955-56 2-bbl. 2GC y — index 
1955-62 2-bbl. 2G 1y mai manual 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 450-500 rpm in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot) 

6-cyl: 1955-56, intake .00 xhaust .016^ 
1957-61, intake .00 exhaust .018" 
1962 235 eng., intake .006"; exhaust .018^ 

261 eng., intake .006"; exhaust .020” 

1963-64, hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 

V-8: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 

* 1958, intake .008” 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
. Without Heater 

6-cyl, series 3100-3800. T. 17* 

Series P20, P30 à 17** 

Led series 3100-3800. " Uyu* 

* Heavy-duty, add % q 
** 1963, 14 quarts; 1964, 13 quarts 
Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


Eg Generator (1 or 2 oil cups)............-. MO 


Alternator, no lubrication 
EdPower Steering Reservoir............. QUAE 
Fill to FULL mark on gage 
[Manifold Heat Control Valve...........-. MH 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 
Air Cleaner Element 
OF bath... «oos 


Summer, 50; winter, lighter grades 


1955-63, as required Gi 1964 


Wire gauze. ... . Wash and oil MO 
ExSteering Gear (plug)................ 90 MP 
Fuel Filter Element.............. Replace 


In carburetor fuel inlet line 
EH 1959-61 8 yl. 
TA 1962 8-cyl.; 1963-64 6-cyl. 230 engine 


Replace only if carburetor flooding occurs 


[Gearshift Control Housing. ...........-. 0b 
3-speed, 3-speed heavy-duty transmissions 
Refill housing if shifting effort Increases 


Bil Filter ........ Replace, add extra quart oil 
1963-64 P20, P30, right side at front. Other P20, 
P30, left side, at front, 8-cyl., under truck 


EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage......... 


EgClutch and Brake Pedals. 
Forward Contro! models: 1 idler lev g at 
this location, 2 pedal fittings located forward. 
Clutch pedal and idler lever not on Hydra-Matic 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (cap) (ter floor)... . . HB 


Fill to % inch below filler nec! 


TRANSMISSION, 
Manual................. 90 MP, GL 


80 grade may be used for extended periods of 
extremely low temperatures 

EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY, pints 3-Speed spend 4-Speed 


All models ...... vias. (QN 2j, [7 
* 3100, 3200 with overdrive, 3 pints 
PDDDRAIN ana REFILL 
More often for off-highway or urban service 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru transmission 
EaUniversal Joints 
Series 3100-3800 


Series P20, P30 à 
Center joint on models with 2-section pro- 
peller shaft 


gg Universal Joint Spline. . . . . . . supe 
Models with 2-section propeller shaft 
Others at front joint. Some models, no lubrication 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Standard Series 3100-3800........... 90 MP 


80 grade may be used for extended periods of 
extremely low temperatures 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 
Standard Series P20, P30..... 
Above +100°, 140; above +1 
+10°, 80 

Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY Series 3100, 3200, 4% pints; all other 
models, 64% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 


FaSpring Shackles . 
GAS TANK 


All models 

* Mounted inside frame, 17, 
3442, P23, P33 and Carryall, 15%; optional P25, 
P26, P35, P36, 30 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A, Suffix A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Bona P20, P30: Under severe service or continu- o 
ous high speeds 
Positraction ....... esee 90 MP* 

Drain and REFILL 
Identification: Circular metal tag under fill plug 


Bl Position for lift adapter 


FÜR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


CHEVROLET TRUCKS 


1955-59 Task-Force Series 3100-3800 
1960-64 Forward Control Series P20, P30 


v 


CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 

Oy ca Above 432°. .....00,20W€ —10W-30 

, Above 0° .. . 10W 10W-30 
Below 0° .. 5W 5W-20 


41960-64, 30 may be used for sustained high 
speed when prevailing daylight temperature is 
above +90° 

CAPACITY 5 quarts, ex. Trademaster V-8 and 6-cyl. 

230 engine, 4 quarts 

DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


OH FIN CID ocasiones Wash and oil MOE 

With PCV system, no service 

PCV System Valve P20, P30...... mme in 

Remove and clean valve and hose ; 

In valve cover on 6-cyl. 230 engine | 
| 


1955-63 W 
Distributor 1955-62 

Shaft, 6-cyl. (grease cup) ....... dh 
Shaft, 8-cyl. (oil cup) ....... 
Cam lubricator wick...........-- Replace fii 

Trademaster V-8 eng. At time of point renewal 

Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 6-cyl. 230 eng. 
Rotate 180? B Replace — HJ 
Crankcase Dipstick..........--.- Check level 
Battery 

TRANSMISSION, Automatic . .AF 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position Ed 


1955-57, early 1958, dipstick under floor pan 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 


/ 
é-cyl. Engine Illvitroted 


F.C. 1 fitting 


3800; 1958-59 3400, 

3500, 3700; 

1960-62 P20, -30.. 7 9v, 
1963-64 P20 ......- 4 4, 


ront of axle 
[d 


on F.C. All other models. . 


us 6 
* Add 1 quart if equipped with trans. oil cooler 
DRAIN and REFILL 
Hydra-Matic ... sse [25] 


Powerglide, not recommended . 
Remove 1 coupling plug and transmission plug 
except 1963-64, remove oil pan 


Front Wheel Bearings..........-. Repack WB. 
1955-59 


Initial torque, 33 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, loosen 
only as necessary to insert cotter pin at next hole 
line-up. Maximum back-off 1/12 turn 


Hydrovac Cylinder ........ is vom 
Fill to plug hole level. 1957-59 series 3100-3800; 
1960-62 series P30, left side, outside frame rail 


~ Mos Hydrovac Air Cleaner. . .. Washi 
Spring Bolts ....... Tnm 
Parking Brake Cables ...Sparingly CLES 
Series 3100, 3200, P20 & 3600 with 3-sp. trans. 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 

With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 

more than 1^ with power brakes, engine runnin£, 

the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1955.62 g 

1. Make certain parking brake cables are slack 

2. Expand shoes until light uniform drag is felt 
when revolving drum 

3. Back off adjustment 7 notches on -ton 
models. On 34- and 1-ton models, back off 
adjustment until drum turns without drag. 
but not more than 7 notches: 1961 1% ton. 
back off 12 notches 

4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1963-64 P30 . . | 

|. Expand shoes until light uniform drag is felt 
when revolving drum 

2. Back off adjustment until drum turns freely 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1964 P20: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment 

not normally required 

Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, LF, RF 

Power brake, power brake rear valve, forward 

| valve (if equipped), then wheels LR, RR, LF, RF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
H Conditional service 
BiEvery 2,000 miles or 2 months 
Other symbols indicate intervals in thou- 
sands of miles 


e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 

MO Motor Oil 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differential: Meeting Spec. MIL-L-2105B 


VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


x For Positraction differential, use Special Lubricant Part No. 3758791 


— m——————————À 2 


- 


. CHEVROLET TRUCKS 


1960-64 Series C10, C20 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 


AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
1960 24 53 
24T 70 
1961-64 24 53,61 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
fatcranking speed with throttle open) 


Maximum variation 
SPARK PLUGS 
AC: 1960-61, C45; 1962, C46; 1963-64 6-cyl, 230, 
46N, 292r C42N; 1950-63 V-8, C45; 1964, 44 


between cylinders, 20 psi 


Gap: . " 

Torque: 20-25 ftit 2 
IGNITION POINTS 3 
Delco P 
Gap: .016” used; .019" new A d 
Dwell angle: 6-cyl. 1960-62, 28 -35';-1863] B" - 
31 -34 ; V-8, 28 -32° gue c 
CONDENSER A ue 
Delco 


Capacity: ,18-.25 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1960-62 


Firing Order: 
6-cyl. 1, 5, 3,6,2,4 
V-8 1,8,4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


l. Bi engine to operating temperature 

2. Cai tachometer . 

3. Co! st timing light to^No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

4. sak 1960-62, set octane selector to 0° on 
scale ) 
6-cyl. 1963-64, V-8: Disconnect distributor 
vacuum line and tape manifold opening EN 

5. 6-cyl.: Set idle speed to recommended rpm 
V-B: Set idle speed to 1000 rpm (Both engines, 


transmission in NEUTRAL) 

6. Observe timing mark through opening in fly- 
wheel housing or at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


6-cyl. 1960-62 — 6-cyl. 1963-64 


iming Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
6-cyl.: 1960-62, 5 (First short radial mark clock. 
wise from steel ball or stamped O aligned" 


with pointer) 
1963-64,4 (Each line equals 2°) 
, V-8, 4° (Each line equals 2 ) 
: FUEL PUMP 
=. AC mechanical 


Pressure: 6-cyl. 315-4; Jb. except 292 eng. 51⁄4- 
614 Ib.; at idle to 1000 rpm 

V-8, 5'4 -6'⁄ Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm. 

Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie 

Mixture 

(initial 
ROCHESTER turns) 
1-bbl. B 1-2 
2-bbl. 2G 1% 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans.: 6-cyl. 475-525 rpm; V-B 450- 
500 rpm 
Auto. Trans.: 6-cyl. 475-525 rpm; V-B 425-475 rpm; 
in DRIVE 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot) LS 
ech. 1960-62: Intake .005"; exhaust 018%. 

1953-64: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 
V-&; Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


rc 


— (URP RE 


w SERVICE AT | 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
Without Heater 1960-61 1962 

] i 17'4* 
Powerglide, bad %4 di 

rglide, a . 

1964 ea 

D. Std. P.G, H.D, 

2 12 135 13 

354 134 14 14 

5% 18^ 18y% 19 

P uuu i 12. 135 13 

. 13% 14 134 14 15 

38314. vus 6 18% 19 
Cooling system pressure: 1960-62, 7 Ib. 1963- 
(Oi Fill Cap. ......... Wash and oil MO 


Some 6-cyl, center of valve cover. 8-cyl., left front 


E36Generator (2 oil cups). . . 
; Alternator, no lubrication 


Fuel Filter Element......... vi dvi gus Replace 
In carburetor fuel inlet line 
EH 196061 8-cyl, 
[d 1962.64 8-cyl.; 1963-64 6-cyl. 
K Manifold Heat Control Valve. ............ MH 
8-cyl., right side, rear 
Not on some 292 6-cyl. engines 
Air Cleaner Element..............., Service 
Qil bathi: sass 1o es Wash and fill MO 
Summer, 50; winter, lighter grades 
[3 196063 19 
Polyurethane. ..... Wash and oil 10W MO 
Ei 1960-63 Eb 1964 
E3Master Cylinder (cover). ........... iussu. HB. 
Fill to 4 inch below top of reservoir 
PCV System Valve..................... ec 


Remove and clean val e 

1963-64, 6-cyl. in valve cover; 8-cyl. at rear of car- 
buretor. Other 6-cyl., right side of block; B-cyl.. 
rear at breather outlet connector 


M 1960-63 n 1964 
E3Steering Gear (plug)... 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. :::.. (16 or 17 fittings) CL 
ExClutch Cross Shaft 1963-64 
Bl oos e tr endirdi Porites oe 
Ce N —« 
TW en 


More often for off-highway or urban service 


1964 Not recommended 
EgUniversal Joint 


(DHydrovac Cylinder 1960-62 .. 
Fill to plug hole level 


E3Universal Joint Spline.................. CL 
At rear of front joint on single section propeller 
shaft models with 3-speed H.D. and 4-speed trans. 

E3Universal Joint . 
Not on single-sec! 


Universal Joint PME 


DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* 
Above 7-100 `, 140; above -- 10, 90; below +10°, 80 
Multi-viscosity B0-90 may be used 
Maintain level to fill plug hole. Some, plug forward 
CAPACITY C10, 4Y/, pints; C20, 614 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
1960-63 
Severe service or continuous high speeds 
1964 Not recommended 
POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 
Circular metal tag under fill plug 


GAS TAN 
1960-62 .. 
1963-64 .... 
* Optional, 2014; outside frame, 20 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS - 


Type A, Suffix A 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


NTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS ws ^ 


CRANKCASE...... "MS" or "DG" MO 
Che art Above +32”. ..0020Ne — 100-30 
Above 0^ , . 10W 10W-30 
Below 0* , , 5W 5W-20 
1963-64 18802 30 may be used for sustained high speed when 

1963.64 230 eng. revailing EX ht temperature is above +90 
292, 283 ena. CAPACITY 6-cyl, 230 engine, 4 quarts; all others, 


5S quarts; 8-cyl., 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 


o 6 
Megan. See Service Instructions, page 4 


Battery. ..00.000.000.. „Test and fillrg 
Oil Filter |... . Replace, add extra quart oil 
T c 196063 E 1964 n 
Distributor 1960-62 
Shaft, 6-cyl. (grease cup)............. CLES 


Shaft, 8-cyl. (oil cup). ........ sisse [ma 
Cam lubricator wick, 8-cyl,....... Replace IJ 
Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 1963-64 
ner n Rotate 180° A Replace A 
Crankcase i 


Dipstick........,..... Check level 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF " 


Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models 6 veces tie cas 4, 4 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

1960-62, remove transmission plug only. 1963-64, 
remove oil pan 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB 
1960-63 J 


1960-62, initial torque, 33 ft. Ib.; final adjustment, 

loosen only as necessary to insert cotter pin 

1963-64 C10, initial torque, 15 ft. Ib. Back off nut 

V, turn; final adjustment, loosen only as necessary 

to insert cotter End play O to .007” 

1963-64 C20, initial torque, 40 ft. Ib. Back off nut 

4 turn; final adjustment, tighten only as necessary 

to insert cotter pin, End play O to .010” „j 

BRAKE ADJUSTMENT. 

With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2^ with standard brakes or 

more than 1" with power brakes, engine running, 

the need for service is indicated 

1960-62: Follow procedure on Chart CTT-1 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1963: Series C10 

l. Disconnect parking brake cables ; 

2. Expand shoes until light uniform drag is felt 
when revolving drum 

3. Back off adjustment 12 notches 

4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1963: Series C20 3 " Peed 

1. Expand shoes until light uniform drag is/felt 
when revolving drum 

2. Back off adjustment until drum turns freely 

3, Repeat procedure at each wheel . 

1964. Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment not 

normally required 

Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, LF, RF 

Power brake. power brake rear valve, forward 

valve (if equipped), then wheels LR, RR, LF, RF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E31960-63, Every 1,000 miles " 
1964, Every 6.000 miles or 6 months 
GjEvery 4,000 miles or 6 months 
HiEvery 5,000 miles 
(Every 6,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 miles 
(Every 12,000 miles . 
[HEvery 15,000 miles; 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 
EüEvery 30,000 miles 
Every 36,000 miles 
[Every crankcase oil change 
[a Conditional service 
Replace fuel filter element only if carbure- 
tor flooding occurs 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 
Service oil bath air cleaner as required 
- Replace distributor cam lubricator wick at 


“+ .time of contact point renewal ct a ; 4 
N y 


1964 Chassis Illustrated 
e Lubrication fitting 


@ Cooling system drain ie 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 

MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


* Positraction, use same lubricant recommended for standard differential 


MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differential: Meeting Spec. MIL-L-2105B 


VQ Vacuum Cylinder Oil 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Seo Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY 


AADM 
iii Group No. Amp, Hra; 
1961-64 E T 
24T Y 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
TAA ed with throttio opon) Di 


SPARK PLUGS 


1960-61. CAD: 1962, G46 19634, 
DE Ni 1900.63 Feb can Yoga cad 209 


Pouar 20- 25 tt. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Gap, angio Beye 190-02, 207257, 100244 
317-347, V-B, 207-32" i 
CONDENSER 


Bici ,18-,25 mid 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


2) 

(ORO) 

3 (5 (b 

i y 

| " 
1960-62 


Piring Order: 
6-cyl. 1,6, 3,0, 2,4 
V-8 1,8, 4,3, 0,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
wh $ Connect timing ight to No. 1 spark 
lo, 
distributor cap tower SPAIN PINE or 
4. Sail 1960-62, Set octane solector to 0^ on 


scale 
&:cyl. 1963-64, V-B: Disconnect distributor 
vacuum line and tape manifold oponi 

5, 6-cylı Set idie speed to EET e rpm 
V-Bi Set Idle speed to 1000 rpm (Both engines, 
transmission in NEUTRAL) 

6. Observe timing mark through openin, 


in tly- 
wheel housing or at crankshaft 


pulley and 
turn distributor to obtain recommended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Ne and Setting 


AD, rer | (| MI “10° 
staet 
S 


6-cyl, 1963-64 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
6-cyl.: 235 eng. 5^ (First Short radial mark clock- 
wise from steel ball or stamped O ailened with 
EUM PE qr Teta O 
pointer), engs, 
, 4° (Each line oquais 2°) E 


POEL PUMP 
Pressure, cy. 317-417 292 eng, 5! 
! G-cy! Ib. except en LH 
6/7 fb. at idie to 1000 rpm. T p 
514-614 Ib, at idle to 1000 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint In 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle Mixture 
ROCHESTER (initial turns) 
-bbl. ' 
2-bbl. 2G "q^ 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans.: 6-cyl, 475-525 rpm; V-B 450-500 


pi 3 
Auto; Trons. 6-cyl. 47 ; V-B 425-475 rpm, 
I Trs, 4 6-cyl. 475-525 rpm; V-8 p 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


gine hot) 
1 »» T Intake 006"; auhausi .018" 
1 eng. Intake ,006"; exhaust .020" 
x 2 2 engs., Hydraulic litters, nonpgjust: 


j "P 
V8: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


C30 02 
C40 oyl s. 


) 1904 
030 ao ow Hp, 
42 onalno’: Iy {4 iM Ha 
01 oni 1 0 100 


HON FM Cap... ss Wash and oll MO 
Somo 0:cyl,, contor of valve ‘covor, D-oyl., loft front 
E36enerator (2 oll cups, ios Mo 
Alternator, no lubrication 


Fuel Filter Element, i.i ees pa 
In corburetor fual Inlet line 


960.61 8-cyl. 
[JU — 1962.64 8cyl.; 1963-64 6-cyl, 


K Manifold Heat Control Valve............, MH 
B-cyl., right sido rear 
Nol on somo 292 G-cyl, engines 


Air Cloaner Element. ,... iso Service 
Oil bath. nrp raa , Wash and fill MO 
Summer, 50) wintor, lighter grados 

1960.63 GB 1964 


Polyurethane. . .., . Wash and oil 10W MO 
1960-63 QJ 1964 


E3Master Cylinder (cover), ese HB 
Fill to 14 Inch below top of reservolr 


PCV System Valve., 
Remove and clean valve and 
1963-64 S In valvo cover B-cyl. at roor of 
carburolor, ther 6-cyl,, right sido of block: B-cyl,, 
m^ 36 aah "n EUH 


BO grade may bo used for extended periods of 
extremely low tomperatures 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY, pints 


C30... 
C40 ,.. 

DRAIN and REFILL 
1960-63 


apace 4-Spood 


^" u 


Moro often for off-highway or urban service 
1964 Not recommende 
M Hydrovac Cylinder 196062 inen dom vo 
FII! to plug hole level. Some, right side 


| 1960-62......., às 
Ion Gi 1806 


EySpeedometer Adapter 
EsUniversal Joint ....... 
EUniversal Joint Spline, . . 
E3Universal Joints ...... T 
E35Spring Bolts... 

DIFFERENTIAL 


Above +100”, 140; above 4-10", 901 below 10*,80 
Multi. viscosity 80-90 may be used 
Ef Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY £X. D Á pints C40, 14 pints 
DRAIN and 
1960-6 ; 
Severo service or continuous high speeds 
1964 Not recommended 
EaSpring Shackles oos CL 


GAS TANK. Gallons 
1963-64 C30 . 1815* 
AIL others 17'A* 


* Optional, 2014; outside framo, 20 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


KEY TO 


cL is Lubricant 
LUBRICANTS Chassis Lubrican 


Copyright 1964, The Chok-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S.A. 


292, 203 eng. 


ei ien "m. Lp stad 90 MP 

Front Suspension and 

o Stoo fy Linkage vere (16 fittings) "di 

Eg Clutch Cross Shaft 196364030.......... CL 
TRANSMISSION ......... 90 MP, GL 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Oy n 


Above --32"7 ius .20,20W€ — 10-30 
Above 0° 10W 10W.30 
130 ane npn $00 muy b Í TN "m o 
4 LLLI 
1953.04. 200 ena, K prevail ToU fer poataas h A above +90" 
Kenciry 30, 4 quarts; all others, 6 quarts; 
— — fa K v quaro " 
[0] A Ie = DRAIN and REFILL 
( — «6 Gee Sarvice Instructions, page 4 


Son PEN 


6«cyt, 230 Engine Mustroind 


WE Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty: 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 


MO Motor Oil 


1 


CHEVROLET TRUCKS 


1960-62 Series C30, C40 
1963-64 Series C30 


TT "MS" or "DO" MO 


om 


,.Test and fly 


OW Filter... 00... Replace, add extra guart oil 
1960.63 964 
a, 120; -62 j e 
~ Shaft, 6cyl, (grease cup). ... e.. " 
Shaft, Bey, u cup) 5 mA 
Cam lybricator wick. o.oo Replace 


Trademastor V.8 
Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 1963-64 C30 
Rotate 180° B Replace BO 
Crankcase Dipstick............-. Check level 
Front Wheel sa , .Repack WB 
1964 
1960.62, initial torque. ^ a Ib. final adjustment, 
loosen only as necessary to insert cotter pin 
1963-64 Tho, initia! torque, 40 ft, Ib, Back off nut 


94 turn; final adjustment, tighten only ðs neces- 
sary to insert cotter pin. End play 0 to 010” 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2” with standard brakes or 
more tnan 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 
Adjust tho brakes as follows: 
1960-62; 30 series, Front and rear; 40 series, Front 
1, Make certain parking brake cables are slack 
2, Expand shoes until light drag is felt when re- 
y volving drum 
3. Back off adjustment until drums turn freely, 
but not more than 7 notches; 1961 ' ton, 
back off 12 notcnes 
1960-62; 40 series, Rear 
Two adjustment openings are provided on 
„each backing piste. Use a suitable tool to 
turn rearmost adjuster until light drag is 
obtained 
2. Back off adjustment 3 notches 
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for forward adjuster 
4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
1963-64) 30 series 
1, Expand shoes until light drag is felt when re- 
volving drum 
2. Back off adjustment until drum turns freely 
3, Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: LR, RR, LF, RF 
Power brake rear valve. Dra 
equipped), then wheels LR, RR, LF, 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E11960-63, Every:1,000 miles 
1964, O08 6, 000 miles or 6 months 
Every 4,00 miles or 6 months 
Every 5,000 miles 
Every 6,000 miles 
Deven 10,000 miles 
Every 12,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 
fl) Every 30,000 miles 
KT] Every 36,000 miles 
M Ever) crankcase oil change 
(Conditional service 
Replace fuel filter element only if carbure- 
tor flooding occurs 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 
Service oil bath air cleaner as required 
Replace distributor cam lubricator ick at 
time of contact poin enes 


g 


valve (if 


I 


i ^ M she 
MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differential: Meeting Spec. MIL-L-21058 


VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


CTT-5 


CHEVROLET CORVAIR 95 


1961-64 All Models Including Greenbrier 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Sce Service Instructions for Procedure 


= SERVICE aT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS > ae 


BATTERY AABM Steering Gear (plug)... oc. ccc ccs cc cu aes Front Wheel Bearings,........... Repack WB 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. ME level p fil Li hole us Che Chant 1961-62 . 1963 P964 [36] 

Heres Hr 35,42 Ea 1961.63 H3 196 Y Initlal torque, 15 ft, Ib.; final damen, back off 

1 full flat, v, turn. If siot and hole do not align, 


back off 1⁄4 flat or loss. Final adjustment should 
be 0 (no preload) to .007" end play 
n BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressod moro than 2" with standard brakes or 


[xl aut Pm CL 
E3Clutch and Brake Pedals..............., 
EgBrake Master Cylinder (plug or cap) 


Service thru floor of driver's compartment 1963-64 more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
SPARK PLUGS Fill to leve! mark or !4 Inch below top of reservoir only the nedd tor service is indicated ne 
AC: Turbo-Air, 46FF; Super Turbo-Air, 44FF > AL e brakes as follows: 
Gap: .033" except 1964 Super Turbo-Air, .030" EaGearshift Control Linkage (1 or 2 fittings), . .CL 1. Loosen parking brake cable adiustiientinut 


1964, no lubrication 


EFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage..... (10 or 11 fittings) CL——* 


Clutch Linkage... Coat WG 
E 196162 1963-64 


Gearshift Control Shaft Connector... . Coat WG 
H 196162 iH 1963-64 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..80 MP 


Multiviscosihy 80-90 may be used 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 4-speed, 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 

1961-62 

1963-64 Not recommended 


Universal Joints Both sides....... Repack WB. 
1961-62 1963 


More often under E, conditions 
1964, no service required 


DIFFERENTIAL............ 80 MP* 
Multi-viscosity 80-90 may be used 

EJ 1961-63, maintain level to fill plug hole 
1964, check lubricant level with axle dipstick 
located in engine compartment, when checking 
crankcase. Manual transmission models, add 
lubricant thru fill hole in transmission to level 


Torque: 1961-63, 20-25 ft. Ib.; 1964, 15-20 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Era 016 d 9 
ap: .016* used; .019" new 
Dwell angle: 31°-34° 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.25 mfd 


2. Using a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
siot In backing plate, expand shoes until a 
heavy uniform drag is felt when revolving 


drum 

3, Back off adjustment 12 notches on the front 
brakes and 15 notches on rear brakes 

4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

5, Readjust parking brake cable 

1963-64: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is 

not normally required 

Bioeding sequence: LR, RR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E11961-62, Every 1,000 miles 

1963-64, Every 6,000 miles or 6 months 
WiEvery 2,000 miles 
EJEvery 4,000 miles or 6 months 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Every 10,000 miles 
[HEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 
Every 25,000 miles 
EjEvery 30,000 miles 
KEvery 36,000 miles 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


7230020, 


AT 


Firing Order: 1, 4, 5, 2, 3, 6 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


a 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature h P 
plug hole in differential. Powerglide models, fill 
2. Connect tachometer thre level plug hole in diiterential (Every crankcase oil change 
3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or CAPACITY 1961-62, 3 pints; 1963-64, 4% pints [i Conditional service , 
NE wd i DRAIN and REFILL Replace fuel filter elements only if car- 
. meaa A vacuum line and tape fio] 1961-62 uretor flooding occurs 
5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 1963-64 Not recommended — PCV System Valve..............--..5-- ccm 
6. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn POSITRACTION IDENTIFICATION: p^ ws Remove and clean valve and hose 
7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper SANE alata TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF 
` idle speed gi prape! GAS TANK Gallons Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position... 
Se AERE jo 8 CAPACITY, refill approx. 3 quarts 
: A All models 61... essere cence tense ee 16% Do not overfill 
Timing Mark and Setting Pressure Front Rear DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


Disconnect fill tube 


E Axle Dipstick 1964,............ Check level 

pd Air Cleaner Elements............... Service 
Polyurethan ii ^u and load rg 
Rotate tires, Method B, then balance wheels i ’ à x 
Eb 190162 — 1963-64 E E e aE 
Fuel Filter Element Both sides........ Replace Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 1961 ...... 10w MOE 


Located in carburetor fuel line 


Distributor Cam Lubricator Wick 1963-64 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

1961-63: Man. Trans. 4°; Auto. Trans. 13° 

1964: Turbo-Air, Man. Trans. 6°; Auto. Trans. 14° 
Super Turbo-Air, Man. Trans. 14°; Auto. 


EH 1961, if flooding occurs replace more often 
[3 196264 


c Che 
Attached to oil fill cap 


Hense: Generator (2 oil cups) M0 ON Fil Cap 
FUEL PUNE Do not overfill cup Near pulley NE CRANKCASE TEAT. » .."MS" MO 
3 8 ove +32°...... FA 10W-30 
AC mechanical 1961 82 iH 1963-64 Above —10^.. ... 10W 10W-30 
Pressure; 4-5 Ib. at idle to 1000 rpm Engine Oil Cooler...............20005 Clean Below —10°.........-..22.5 5W 5W-20 


Volume: 1 pint in 30-45 seconds at idle rpm 


Remove cover, clean with brush or compressed 


CAPACITY 4 quarts 


DU p  — A 


r 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 1961-62 [H 1963-64 De Service Instructions, page 4 


Dil Filter. .......... Replace, add extra pint oil Bl. Position for lift adapter 
Idie Choke Choke 
tar Anereriee) (noieta B 1961-62 1963-64 © Lubrication fitting 

ROCHESTER turns) Trans, Trans. 
(2) 1-bbI. H 1% manual*  manual* FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
* 1962. index; 1963-64, 2 turns up from free entry " ; ; 
ilr choke lever AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED KEY TO Typa Ar Sutta A MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Manual Trans. 475-525 rpm* LUBRICANTS GC Carburetor Cleaner MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WG White Waterproof G 
Auto, Trans, 475-525 rpm in DRIVE CL Water Resistant EP Chassis Lubricant Meeting Specification MIL-L-21058 Proof Grease 


* 1962-64 Super Turbo-Air, 575-625 rpm x Positraction, use same lubricant as standard axle 
VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed In U.S.A. CTT-6 


EB a. — 


r & -—À 


DODGE TRUCKS 


1961-64 R and S Series D100, P100, 
D200, P200, D300, P300 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


BATTERY AABM 
3961.63 Group No. King: Ht; COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts CRANKCASE......... "MS" MO 
1964 2H 30 ee with Heater Without Heater Above +32°..... 30 "php E 
Gels Geers Á Above 4-10^..... 204 —— 20W40e.10W- 
POMTRESSION PRESSURE Cooling system pressure, 7 bounds 29 poet = 10W Lomo 206 9.0 
» throttle open) min. max. EaPower Steering Reservoir Some 8-cyl...... PS alow — 10^... ee | 
1901 et to: Manual Trans. 130 160 B to bottom ki filler neck or level mark CAPACITY S quarts, nc eme 
: de de E3Battery ..Test and fill DRAIN and REFILL 
1961 sa ú 120 160 P models, under floor at rig! e rail See Service Instructions, page 4 
Ms 170 le Grankease Dipstick Damen aid Check level 

5 iati linders, 15 psi cyl., right side, front 2) ees oil 30 MO 

Me RE ERE IS DAE. [pg Beene mtn Service sees aad j 
: UN ry type ....... . Clean ue r 
ar ARK PLUGS H] Dry type .. Replace Ceramic element ......-...------+ CleanE3 
Guang: 6er, Nr Vat, J-t0Y Oil bath ice oor oot i mms Check Pales clement 1961. 1964 Replace [I 
Torque: 30 ft. Ib. [E Oil bath.............. “Wash and fill MO Paper element 1961, 984. . -Repl 
cai tor 
IGNITION POINTS Above +32°, 30; below +32°, 10W Distributor Shaft (oil cup)... ....--.---- MO 
Prestolite 1961 V 8; Chrysler, syi j 1962 TT Eg Nanifold Heat Contrat Valve Shaft. visa ser MH B—yl., rear center 
Deval angle: cyl., 40°-45°; B-cyl., 1961-62, 27°- E3 Steering Gear (plug) Wick under rotor 
à Forward of axle on P100, P200, P300; under truck 1961 

CONDENSER D100, D200, D300 5:5 is es saa sii enn SG OW FI ioo enm 
Prestolite, 1961 V-8; Chrysler, 6-cyl., 1962-64 V-8 ill to cover worm gear Add extra quart oil. 8 cyl., reach under truck 
Capacity: .25-. P100, P200, A [1 ngi 

pacity: .25- 285 mfd P100, N a300. MP a PCV System Valve..............--.---- Cn 


Some 1962, all 1963, 1964 California vehicles. 
disassemble and clean. Other 1964, replace valve 
if clogged or at least once a year; do not clean | 
Crankcase Breather Outlet Element... WashEd — 
Some 1961-62. Wash entire draft tube assembly | 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence ElGearshift Control Levers................ cL 


Models with 3-speed transmission except D300 


E3Clutch Master Cylinder (cover or plug)... .. HB 
Fill to 14 inch below top of reservoir 
P100, P200, P300, service thru floor 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (cover or plug)... ... HB 
Fill to !4 inch below top of reservoir 
00, P200, P300, service thru floor 


[Automatic Trans. Filter (under truck). . .Replace 
1962-63 only 


EaFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. .... (10 or 11 fittings) C_—| 
EyClutch and Brake Pedal Shaft............ 


P100, P200, P300 only 
Automatic transmission, 1 fitting, brake pedal 


EgParking Brake Control Lever (oil hole). . . . . . 


D100, -200, -300 
only 


Power steering, | 


Firing Order: 
6-cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6,2, 4 
8-cyl. 1, 8,4, 3, 6,5,7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating te 
2. Connect fachometer paemperture 


Springs ... 


3. Connect timing: tent to No. 1 spark plug or Front Wheel 
ri er i 
4. Disconnect distributor vacuum line TRANSMISSION, Manual eus o ie bro [10| 1984 D — 
5. eet idie speed to 300 rpm. 6-cyl.; 475-500 rpm, Ef Maintain level to fill plug hole. Some right side Universal Joint Repack UJED 
6. Laosen “clamp screw, tum distributor until Perd 3-spd. A745 after No. iu M scole A FN uA 
specified timing mark and point lij jd [1 E culices rc eA p te tase ped og 
7. Retighten distributor "clamp. pu em * 0, Center spline on models with 2 propeller shafts 


Above +90°, 50 or 140; above +32°, 50 or 90; 

below +32°,300r80  . 

CAPACITY 3-spd.: 314 pints ex. D-300, P-300, 6 

pints. 4-spd.: 5% pints ex. early 1964, 7 pints 
E] DRAIN and REFILL 


EPower Brake Air Cleaner............ Replace———— d f 


alignment of timing mark — ^ Universal Joints .........-- EDOR Repack UJET] 
8. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 
* 1963-64 P Models 6-cyl.: Remove rubber plug at 
top center of clutch housing 


” 
- 
- 
e 
d 
a 
— 
P 
= 
A 
^ 
2:4 
-9 
"- 
=) 
-- 
- 
2:4 


i i insi more than 1" with er brakes, engine running, 
Timing Mark and Setting Located inside driver's compartment à the end tor eee Wdicated 
0? 2° 4° E3Spring Bolts . . Adjust the brakes as fol inserted into adjustment 
a i . Using a sui le tool inserted into adjus y 
$-— | D100, P100, D200, , no lubrication opening in backing plate, expand shoes until 
UM we 2, Eeer anuai es TS Rer Or until whee! 
109-4- - Ui M E DIFFERENTIAL .............. inl . Back off adjustment 7-9 notches or until w 
0*- D DIFFERENTIAL turns freely without drag 
09 Above +90°, 140; above —10*, 90; below -10°, 80 3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
109 Maintain level to fill plug hole Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


1963-64 P Models I 

6-cyl. Other 6-cyl. v-8 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
6-cyl., 215 *; 8-cyl., 10° 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model: 6-cyl., M-29965; 8-cyl., M-2611S 
Pressure: 6-cyl., 312-5 Ib. at idle rpm; 8-cyl., 5-7 
Ib. at idle rpm 

Volume: 1 quart per minute at idle rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Jdie Choke 
Mixture (notches) 
(initial Auto. 
BALL & BALL turns) Trans. 
1-bbl. BBS 1 index* ** 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. WW3 114-138 index* 


* Choke should not be field calibrated. Replace 
unit if defective 
** 1963-64, 2 rich 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans.: 6-cyl., 550 rpm; 8-cyl., 500 rpm; 
with headlights on high beam " 
Auto. Trans.: 6-cyl., 550 rpm; 8-cyl., 500 rpm; with 
headlights on hígh beam 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine hot and running) 


6-cyl.: Intake .012"; exhaust .024” 
8-cyl.: Intake .012”; exhaust .022” 


D200, D300, P200, P300, plug on rear cover 
CAPACITY D100. P100. 4 pints; D200, P200, 5% 
pints; D300, P300, 6 pints 

HI] DRAIN and REFILL 
FULL-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 


Metal tag attached to housing near fill plug 
Rear Wheel Bearings............. Check WB 
Clean and repack if necessary. Remove axle shafts 
E] 1961-63 n 
EXSwings ........- 
E3Spring Shackles 
D100, P100, D200, P200, no lubri 
ee Ce er Gallons " " 
y TANE 18* BH] Position for lift adapter 
Pioo, Pac ses 18% e  Lubrication fitting 
* Town Panel, Town Wagon, Cowl, 17 " : 
@Cowl, 15% @ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOU 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO Type A, Suffix A 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


R BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Hi 
SAE 70R3 


MH Manifold Heat Control Valve Solvent 


MoPar Part No. 1879318 
MO Motor Oil 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
ryEvery 2,000 miles 
Fj Every 4,000 miles 


[Every 10,000 miles 
[B Every 12,000 miles 
HjEvery 20,000 miles 


Conditional service 

Wash and fill oil bath air cleaner when dirt 
reaches lower offset 

Replace automatic transmission filter at 
time of transmission drain 

Check rear wheel bearings when axle shaft 
is removed. Clean and repack if necessary 

Check front wheel bearings when wheel is 
removed for service. Clean and repack if 
necessary 


WIPER BLADES 


Penetrating Oil 

Power Steering Fluid 
MoPar Part No. 2084329 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


UJ Universal Joint Grease Grade 0 


eavy-Duty PO 
PS 


MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
Meeting MIL-L-2105 or MIL-L-2105B 


+ Full-Traction, use same lubricant recommended for standard differential 


í——— cece CT a i ce 


DET-3 


| FORD TRUCKS 


' 1961-64 F-100, P-100 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


AABM 
BATTERY Breu Ne: Amp. Hrs. 
1961 29NF 55 
27F 70 
1962-63 22NF 40 
29NF 55 
1964 29NF 55 
27F 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) 
144 engine saca Eroan asd 
Others .. “as +», » 130-170 
Maximum variation between cylinders, 20 psi 
SPARK PLUGS 

Autolite: 144 eng. BF82; 223 eng. BTF6; 262 eng. 
BTF3 light duty, BTF31 heavy duty; 292 eng. 
BTF6 light duty, BTF31 heavy duty 

Gap: BF82 .032"-.036"; others .028^-.032" 

Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Gapi 6-Cyl;; .024"-,026^; V-8, .014"-.016" 
Dwell angle: bey ase hee V8: ae? da V 
CONDENSER 
FoMoCo Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 

ae 

cns Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 

6-cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 

TIMING PROCEDURE m 
Bring engine to operating temperature 

CONSE RISE leht to No. 1 spark 

imi , 

distributor Cap tower On T SPRUE PINES tr 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 

distributor to obtain recommended setting 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


V-8 1, 5, 4, 8, 6, 3, 7,2 


M eB WN 


TER. SEI 

VA I] TN 

6-cyl. ve 144 eng. Others 
1961-63 1964 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961-62: 6-cyl. 6° (Allowable range, 2*0 =) 
V-8, 8* (Allowable range, 2°-13°) 
1963: 6-cyl. 4° (Allowable range, 2°-9°) 
V-8, 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 
1964: ego 1n 223 engs. 4**; 262 eng. 2°* 


* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to 
exceed 5* over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial timing advance beyond 2* BTOC 

FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 314-514 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


Mixture 
(initial 
FORD turns) 
1-bbl. 1-1% 
bbl. 1-1 
HOLLEY 
l-bbl. 1-114 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 
6-cyl.: 1961-62, 500-550 rpm; 1963, 500-525 
rpm; 1964, 144 engine, 575-600 rpm, 
223, 262 engines, 525-550 rpm 
V-8, 500-550 rpm 
Auto, Trans. in DRIVE 
6-cyl.: 1961-62, 475-525 rpm; 1963, 223 engine, 
500.525 rpm, 262 engine, 475-525 rpm; 
1964, 223 engine, 525-550 rpm 
V-8, 475-525 rpm 
Air Cond.: Same rpm as listed, with unit turned 
ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and sunning) 

6-cyl.: 144 engine: Intake .018"; exhaust .016” 
223, 262 engines: Intake .019"; exhaust 


,01 
V-A: Intake .018"; exhaust .018^ 


a 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts í 
Without Heater 1961-63 1964 
6-cyl. F-100 "IM 18 134 
262-cu. In. engine. . 
P-100 ........eeee 


Mua wa 20 
2T84 18% 
9 9 


144-cu, in. enging. "ix 
[ 5 Rr REA [ S as 0 16% 
Cooling system pressure, pounds 
Fuel Filter Element................. Replace 


9 1961-62 1963 
EA1964 144-, 262-cu. in. engs. 1964 Others 


If equipped, clean glass bowl and magnetic filter 
Right side on 6-cyl. except 144-cu. in, engine 


EIPCV System Valve. ... 


Disassemble and clean all part also exhaust line 


DIY DOE sc Clean 
[24 Dy types 2e e T Replace 
EU Oibath............... Wash and fill MO 
Above +32°, 30; below --32*, 20 
[il Filter (under truck).............. Replate——— 


Add extra quart oil. 6-cyl., right side forward 
Steering Gear (plug) F-100. . 
P-100, forward 
Above -25^, 90; below —25*, 80 
1961-62, 1964 E 1963 
EaClutch Release Equalizer F-100........... CL 
Eg Gearshift Control Lever P-100............ CL 


Brake Master Cylinder (cap or plug). ....... HB 
n Fill to 4 inch Chow r offi ug 


Eo Clutch Master Cylinder (cap or plug). ...... 
n Fill to 1⁄4 inch mow top 6 fill hole. Blio only 


EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage .......... 


„SG 


OE occum a er us ta Coa! 
E 196162 n 
Speedometer Cable .......... 


TRANS., Manua 
Above o 50 or 90; below +10°, 30 or 80 
EJ Mainta n level to fill Plug hole, . 
, CAPACITY 3-speed light-duty, 274 pints, with 
extension housing, 314 pints, with overdrive, 314 
pints; 3-speed medium-duty, 344 pints; 4-speed, 


8 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
1961 1962-64 


Overdrive, "ow and drain thru separate 
plug hole. Fill stowly thru transmission 


; EgUniversal Joint ............... ER cL 
Models with 2-section propeller shaft, additional 
joint, rear of center bearing 


E3Universal Joint Spline..........,....... [^t 
On models with 3-speed medium-duty and 4- 
speed transmíssions. Others, no lubrícation 
At center Joint with 2-section propeller shaft 


E3Spring Bolts P-100 only.............-.4. i 
E3Universal Joint 
DIFFERENTIAL 


Above -25^, 90; below -25* 80 " 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY rion 

DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended, excep! 
WU] | 1961-62 Limited-Sii 

LIMITED-SLIP IDENTIFICATION: 

By A1, A2 appearing under axle listing on plate 

inside glove box door 

Springs P-100 only..........,... Coat PO 
EP 196162 pi 1963-64 " 
E3Spring Shackles P-100 only CL 


GAS TANK 


Frame mounted 
Cab mounted ......... esee 18 


Y, 
Cl. Chassis’Lubricant 
KEY TO 


LUBRICANTS 


Ford Specification No, M2C33-D 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
* Limited-Slip, use Ford Specifications No. M2C34-A, 90; M2C42-A, 80 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
. . Gallons e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, 


WP* Hypoid Gear | Lubricant x PO Penetrating Oil 
pecs. No. -B, 90; -A, i à 
MH Manifold Heat Control Valve se eea Mag Qrar Lub lI ——— 
Solvent SP Speedometer Cable Lubricant 
FoMoCo Part No. COAA-19A501-A Ford Specification No. M1C18 
MO Motor Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


E. 
CRANKCASE...........“MS" M0 
ABOVE: 4:90* seem urs HO 20W-40 
Above +32°....... nee 090 10W-30 
Above +10° i ....2020€  10W.30 
Above —10°... .........-.. 10W 10W-30 
Below —10° à 5W 5W-20 


314 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow. 
6-cyl., top of valve cover add 


Manifold Heat Control Valve. ...... .MH 
Lubricate if shaft is not free. 6-cyl., left 
1 1963-64 


61-62 
TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position..... 
CAPACITY, quarts Inítia! Refill Total Refill 

1961-63 . 5 10 


1964 V-8 5 10 


6-cyl . 5 s 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Remove 2 converter plugs, disconnect fill pipe 
If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
F-100 6-cyl., left side 


BMBIV. Losses ott Test and fill Erg 
P-100, located inside right frame member 


Distributor Shaft (oil cup)........... 10W MO 
6-cyl., forward 
Wick under rotor 8-cyl.. . Sparingly 10W MO 
Shaftand Wick 1961-62 EJ 1963-64 [EH 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WB EH 


To adjust, tighten nut until wheel drag is felt 
Back off v, to 1⁄4 turn, then lock in nearest slot 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2” with standard brakes or 
more than halfway with power brakes, engine 
rg d the need for service is indicated 


Adjust the brakes as follows: » 

1, Expand the shoes until a slight drag is felt 
when turning the brake drum 

2. Back off the adjustment 10-12 notches. Drum 
should turn freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

1964: Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is 

not normally required 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 

bleed power brake cylinder first 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 1,000 miles 

Bl Every 4,000 miles 

Every 8,000 miles 

MEvery 10,000 miles 

Every 12,000 miles 

HiEvery 24,000 miles 

EH Every 32,000 miles 

[Conditional service | 

Coat front and rear springs as required 


FDT-9 


Az. 


' 


P 9 9 P 2 PP F 


BATTERY. 


(at cranking 
all á 
oll uos between cana on 130-170 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo  ,.. 


$50 85859 O89 09M, 


TUNE-UP DATA 


.See Service Instructi for Procedure 


Autolite: 223 eng. BTF6: 262 eng. BTF3 light dut. 
BTF31 heavy düty; 292 eng. E y. 
.BTF31 h Sy duy Eee mee ieh 


Toi at M 2S 


t duty, 


“-.016” 
x 262-2874 ° 
_ Capagity: 21-25 mfd 
cylinder bering Sequence 


Firing Order: 
6-cyl. 1,5, 3, 6, 2, 4; V-8 1,5, 4, 8, 6,3, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

. Bring engine to operating tempera’ 

opp ket nat ans 
onnect timing light to No. 1 spark 

distributor cap tower park piger 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 

distributor to obtain recommended setting 

» Reconnect vacuum line and reset idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


M OOP wN 


1961-63 1964 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1961-62: 6-cyl. 6* (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 
V-8, 8? (Allowable range, 2°-13°) 
1963: 6-cyl. 4° (Allowable range, 2°-9°) 
V-8. 6° (Allowable range, 2°-11°) 
1964: 223 eng. 4°*; 262 eng. 2°* 
V-B, 6°* 


* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may advanced to a point just short of au- 
dible detonation under road test load but not to 
exceed 5^ over normal setting. Do not retard 
initial advance beyond 2° BTD 

FUEL PUMP 

AC mechanical 

Pressure: 3-517 Ib. at 500 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 

CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 

Idle 


Mixture 
initia 
FORD turns) 
1-bbl. 1-13 
2-bbl. ly 
HOLLEY 

1-bbl, 114 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 
&-cyl: 1961-62, 500-550 rpm; 1963, 500-525 
> rpm; 1964, 525-550 rpm 
V-8, 500-550 rpm 
Auto. Trans. in DRIVE 
6-cyl: 1961-62, 475-525 rpm; 1963, 223 eng. 
1985, 223 ong. assig pm S PM 
] eng. 525- rpm 
_V-8, 475-525 rpm T B 
Air Cond: Same rpm as listed, with unit turned 
ON and in operation for 20 minutes 


VALVE ‘CLEARANCES 
engine hot and running) 

yl.: Intake .019"; exhaust .019" 
V-8: Intake .018"; exhaust .018^ 


mmn aii NN a a A l— p z 


1961: F-250, F-350 ......... 
1962-64: F-250, F-350 


] 
P3350 . 
* F-350 
P-350 with 
262-cu. in. engine, 20 


ling system pressure, 7 pounds i 


‘soFuel Filter Elemen oe 


EH 196162 n 
E 1964 262-cu. in. eng. 


If equipped, clean gl 
oy right side ^ d. 


EIPCV System Valve. 


Disassemble and clea 
1961-63 6-cyl., left sid: 


EiSteering? 
`>- Above —2! 25°, 
P-350, reac! eft fende: 


Not on 4-speed models 


COOLING SYSTEM .. 


Was m = 7 TRANSMISSION, Automatic. FA 


series ... SX es 
Clutch Release Equalizer F-250, -350 ' dins 
Gearshift Control Lever 350 series. MAL? Dipstick............. 


FORD TRUCKS 


1961-64 F-250, F-350, P-350 


CRANKCASE .. MS" M0 

j n" Above +90"... 40 200-40 

EI] 21* Above 327. ... vue 30 10W-30 
-—- A Above + 10° .20,20€ — 10W.30 
2. Above —107....... 10W — 10-30 

Below —10°....... 5W 5-20 


CAPACITY 5 n rs 
ORAIN and REFILL 


Ra OL pu See Service-instructions, page 4 
fA 19640thers 


magnetic filter 


BEEN | ae Oe coe: Washgy 
With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow 


6cyl., top of valve cover 4 
£*— — — —Manifold Heat Control Valve.. ........ " "€ 
Lubricate if shaft ís not free. L, left side 


&-cy! 
Ej —196364 


Check level, engine idling, PARK position....... 


š CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
cisa AME P, k f 1961-63 . sas. 5 10 
DC. Es. iJ 1964 V-8 .. 5 10 
Ms Dea R 6cyl. 5 s 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 

Remove 2 converter plugs, disconnect fill pipe 

If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added 


r 


Brake Master Cylinder (cap or plug). 1 fitting, P-350 i 

n Fill to 4 inch pubs fl of fill hole £ F-250, no lub. BEUBIV, ara dmt adeioeno 
P-350, reach thru floor adi i t 

Wilutch Master Cylinder (cap or plug). ... -.. E 1 malt (oll cup]... ..-- 


Fill to !4 inch below top of fil! hol p . 
Reach thru access hole or under truck. P-350 only Wick under rotor 8-cyl.. .Sparingly 10-MO 


EgFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. ..... 


EliPedal Shaft-P.350. .. 
Springs Front and rea 
1961-62 ^ D 
Speedometer Cable, ..... 


Above +10°, 50 or 90; below 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 


TRANS., Manual... 


Shaft andWick 1961-62 Eg 196354 E 
P ect Wheel Bearings. .......... Repack WBE) |. 


To adjust, tighten nut until wheel drag is felt 
Back off ¥, to 1⁄4 turn, then lock in nearest siot 


(8 or 14 fittings) CL——* 


"MS" MO, GL 
+10°, 30 or 80 


ACITY 3-sp. light-duty or medium-duty, 3 
pints; 3-sp. ieavy duly, EA pints; 4-sp., 8 pints 5 BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


DRAIN and REFILL 
1961 1962: 
Hydrovac Cylinder ....... 


[5] 
Kd Hydrovac Air Cleaner Elem 
Wash and oil 


E3Universal Joint Spline... . . 


Fill to plug level in end plate. Some 350 series 
61-62 


1963 [12] 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2^ with standard brakes or 

more than halfway with power brakes, engine 

running, the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Expand the shoes unti! a slight drag is felt 
when turning the brake drum 

2. Back off the adjustment 10-12 notches. Drum 
should turn freely without drag 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


-64 


ent... METAR 10W M0 


At front joint on P-350 l04-incl "sp. Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF. LF If equipped, 


medium-duty. 3-sp. heavy-d 


Not on 3-speed light-duty transmission models 


E3Universal Joints ....... 


FySpring Bolts ex. 1964 F-25 
FI]Rear Wheel Bearings. . .. 


Necessary to remove axle shafts 


DIFFERENTIAL . 


Above -25^, 90; below -25^, 80 ' 


Center joint not on single section propeller shaft 


uty or 4-sp. trans. y į bleed power brake cylinder first 


0,980. es uses CL 


htt KEY TO INTERVALS 


EJ Maintain leve! to fill plug hole EgEvery 1,000 miles 


CAPACITY 1961-62, 6 pints except F-350; P-350 
963-64, 6 pints except 
1964 F-350; P-350 optional axle, 5 pints 


optional axle, 11 pints, 1 
DRAIN and REFILL ^ 
61 


[Every 4,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 


B). 1962-64 a [Every 10,000 miles 


LIMITED-SLIP NTIFICATION: 
By B4, B6 appearing under axle listing on plate IB Every 12,000 miles 
Ox do: 


inside glove 


E3Spring Shackles ex. 1964 F-250, -350.. ....CL 


Every 24,000 miles 


—! Gallons Bü Position for lift adapter EHEvery 32,000 miles 


HAS TA NK 2) 18 n» ; [Conditional service 
Without cab ........ zv 1 e Lubrication fitting Coat front and rear springs as required 
ic epos ; 30 Q Cooling system drain Fill hydrovac cylinder as required 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


— id Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant — ^" 
cL Chassis. Lubricant 7 HP* Bod Gem pale eee pe TA s ESW NADIE Ki, 
FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid — MH Manifold Heat Control Valve SP. Speedometer Cable Lubricant 

Ford Specification No. M2C33-D Solvent Part No. COAA-19A501-A Ford Specification No. MIGI8 ` 
GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MO Motor Oil VQ. Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PO Penetrating Oil WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


« Limited-Slip, use Ford Specifications No. M2C34-A, 90; M2CA2-A, 80 
FDT-10 


——— ———————————M—nÀ  3à———ÉBLLEE PI 


dnm is 


FORD ECONOLINE 


1961-63 All Models 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


'—— AABM 
BATTERY Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
An 22NF 40 
24F 55 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 
5 "m . _ 190 


SPARK PLUGS 
Autolite Bra2 


IGNITION POINTS 
FoMoCo 

Gap: .024^-.026" 

Dwell angle: 35°-38° 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


$ 
eS | 
CODD 


Firing Order: 1,5, 3,6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


yN nap vnyyp 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timi tting (Before Top Dead Center): 
4* VA oeeble range, 2°-9°) ) 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 31⁄4 -514 Ib. at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
| FORD turns) 
1-bbl. 1-114 
HOLLEY 
1-bbl. 11 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
| $25.575 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .018”; exhaust .0187 


s 


E SERVICE AT 


ee ee ee ÁÉÁPUHU E E M 


z - EN p c - e e » 


COOLING SYSTEM 


With Heater Without Heater 
e. 10% 8% 


1962-63 .. ... 105 
Cooling system pressure, 13-15 pounds 


Oil Filter (under truck) 
Add extra quart oil 


1961-62 n 
Distributor Shaft ft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W MO. 
Reached under 
H 1962-63 


Bree Pump Sediment Bowl and Screen. . 
1, reached from under truck 


EIFuel Filter 
1961, right side, forward of carburetor 


EqBrake Pedal 
Reached through grille 


EqGearshift Control Levers 
Reached through grille 


p 


(7 fittings) CL 


Eg Shift Control Rod Bushings 
Coat rods at front and pp bushings 


E3Clutch Equalizer Shaft 


E RANSM S ON ic 

intain vg 

CAPACITY 1961-52, 214 pints; 1963, 3 pints 
Borain and REFILL 


E3Universal Joint 

EqUniversal Joint Spline 1963 only 

EqUniversal Joint 
DIFFERENTIAL. 

DISC Tevel frat plug hele 


CAPACITY 2 
DRAIN and RÉFILL Not recommended 


Rear 
30 


Bl Position for lift adapter 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


EB Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 
More often under severe operation 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear 


Lubricant 
Ford Specification No, M-568-D 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


M2C28-A. 80 
MO Motor Oil 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


TRE 2 — 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant 
Ford Specs. No. M2C28-B, 90; 


SYMBOLS 


CAPACITY 3% quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service 


With PCV system, fill siowty to prevent overflow 
PCV System Valve Clean 


Disassemble and clean ali parts; also, exhaust line 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pecai can be 
depressed more than halfway, the need for serv- 


- Expand shoes until a moderate drag is felt 
seriis ian 
Back cff adjustment 10 notches to permit 
wheel to rotate freely 

. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Reconnect parking brake and adjust 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, LF, RF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 


ElEvery 4,000 miles 
PCV system: Every 4.000 miles or 3 months 


B Every 6,000 miles 
Every 8,000 miles 
fEvery 12,000 miles 
Every 24,000 miles 


S6 Steering Gear Lubricant 
Ford Soecification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
WG White Waterproof Grease 


FOT-11 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
A" 22NF 40 
24F 55 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(psi at cranking speed, throttle open) min. max. 


lion between cyi 
SPARK PLUGS 

Autolito BF82 

Gap: .032"-.036” 


Torque: 15-20 ft. Ib. 
Do not use gasket with tapered seat plugs 


IGNITION POINTS 


FoMoCo 
Gap: . 
Owell 


-0267 
je: 3$°-38* 


CONDENSER 
FoMoCo 
Capacity: .21-.25 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


(0/99/98. 


Firing Order: 1,5,3,6,2,4 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


Disconnect distributor vacuum line 
Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


mo $m» PN 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 

Manual Trans. 4^ *; Auto. Trans. 8°* -— 

* For optimum performance and economy, timing 
may be advanced to a point just short of audible 
detonation under road test load but not to 
exceed 5? over normal setting. Oo not retard 
initial advance beyond 2° BTO! 


FUEL PUMP 


AC mechanical 
Pressure: 314-514 Ib, at 500 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds at 500 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


4A 


SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 
All models vo... 05s 10% o 


Cooling system pressure, 13-15 pounds 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


FOI Filter (under truc)... Replace 
Add extra quart oll 

[Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .Sparingly 10W NN 
Reached under truck 3 


Crankcase Dipstick...........-.- Check level 
Egpattey..... oon Test and fill 
Egruel Filter |... Replace 
E3PCV System Valve 


Disassemble and c 


E A 16 ax Olean 
M parts; also exhaust line 


EaBrake Pedal |. es LM 
Reached through grille 
E3Gearshift Control Levers............-... LM 
Reached through grillo 
E3orag Link 2... cee ees LM 
ing Gear (plug. ...... eee ees SG 
E3Steering Gea qudd. opening In toeboard 


Egelutch Pedal ........ 2.2... eee LM: 
[Speedometer Cable........ Coat sparingly WG 
EgFront Suspension and 


Steering Linkage.......... (7 fittings) in 


E3Shift Control Rod Bushings.............. LM 


Coat rods at front and rear of bushings 


TRANSMISSION, Manual. .80 EP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3-speed, 3 pints; 4-speed, 414 pints 
E) DRAIN and REFILL 


E3Universal Joint ............. cv cae LM 
EqUniversal Joint Spline...........-.-..-+ LM 
E3Universal Joint ........ TTE .. LM 


DIFFERENTIAL ............:.. WP 
Above ~25°, 90; below -25^, 80 

Ea Maintain level to fill plug hole 
Heavy-duty axle, fill plug at rear 
CAPACITY 2% pints 
DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 


GAS TANK... Gallons 
‘All i models cervos eveereeenmenss 4 
TIRES ...Pressure Front Rear 
pen a i 
7.00-14 11.20** — 28** 


M4 . 
* B-ply truck type, front 35, rear 45 
LI &-ply pass. car type, 30; é-ply truck type, 35 


[Rotate tires, Method A, then balance wheels 


More often under severe operation 


B] Position for lift adapter 
€ Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FORD ECONOLINE 


1964 All Models 


SYMBOLS =e 


CRANKCASE.. "MS" MO 
Above +90°... .. ... 40 20W-40 
Above +32°..... 30 10W-30 
Above +10°.. s .20,20W 10w-30 
Above l0 aasien 108 10w-30 
Below — 10°. : 5we 5W-20 


€ Sustained speeds above 65 h shoul 
Stel mph should be 


CAPACITY 31 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Oil Fill Cap. .......... GM i ... Wash 
With PCV system, fill slowly to prevent overflow 
Air Cleaner Element........... ... Service 
Dry type "— .... Cleangy 
DIYtyDS. mas scr diced xem Replace F9 
Every 12,000 to 18,000 miles, extreme dust 
or sand 
OI Bleier arene -Wash and fill MOS 


Above 4-32*, 30; below +32°, 20 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .FA 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position 


CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models ...-......-. 4 7 


DRAIN and REFILL Not recommended 
Remove 2 converter plugs and oil pan 


If M2C33-D is unavailable, not more than 1 quart 
of Type A, Suffix A may be added ian 


Brake Master Cylinder (plug)............. uBES 


Fill to ¥ inch below top of reservoir 
Reached through plug hole in floorboard 


T Font Wheel Bearings..........., Repack WBEI] 


Initial torque, 12-15 ft. Ib.; then with nut-lock om 
spindle nut and castellation aligned with hole in 
spindle, back off both nut and nut-lock together, 
two castellations and install cotter pin 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT. 


Brakes are self-adjusting. Adjustment is not nor- 
mally required 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 6,000 miles 
Every 4,000 miles 
(H Every 12,000 miles 
HiEvery 24,000 miles 
EiEvery 36,000 miles 


Idle 

Mixture 
FORD (niar FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
1-bbl. 1-14 

EP Mild Extreme Pressure Gear HP Hypoid Gear Lubricant SG Steering Gear Lubricant 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED KEY TO Lubricant Ped Specs, No. M2C28-B, 90; Ford Specification No. ESW-M-1C87-A 
Manual Trans 575-500 mm DRIVE Ford Specification No. M-568-D M2C28-A, 80 
Air Cond.: As listed above but with unit turned ON LUBRICANTS FA Ford Automatic Transmission Fluid LM Lithium Grease, with Moly WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
a n Ford Specification No, M2C33-D Ford Specification No. M-1C47 
VALVE CLEARANCES HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty MO Motor Oil WG White Waterproof Grease 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake 018”; exhaust .018” Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, FDT-12 


Ce eer c mÉE-———Á—————— M HÓ 


GMC TRUCKS 


1955-59 Blue Chip Series 100, 150 
1960-62 Forward Control Series P1500 
1963-64 Forward Control Series P-, PB1500 


TUNE-UP DATA Fu SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS S- 
See Service Instructions for Procedure 
BATTERY ENS COOLING SYSTEM......... Quarts £ CRANKCASE “0G” MO 
All 1955-59 Blue Chip Series 28 53 Without Heater E Severe start-and-stop cold-weather operation, “DM 
1960-64 Forward Control Series — 24 53,61 1955-57 eee eys MO may be used 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE Alother modro ee, 738 Above 432° scs. 
et cranking speed with throttle open) psi Cooling system pressure: 1960-62 P1500, 4 pounds; Abi 10° s 
cyl. 230, 292 engines..... . n ...130 others, 7 pounds spa e 1 
v.s 2245, 270 engines. IRTE EJ Generator 2 oil cups)....... ere | Above — 10° 5W 
316 engine |.. ie 0-130 Seyi laft side eran uarts, 1963-64 230-cu. in. 
336, 347 engines... es. 7125 EPower Steering Reservoir. AF Co Acre quer 1$ qui 
SPARK PLUG Fill to level mark on reservoir oi DRAIN and REFILL 
AC: 6-cyl. 248, 270 C44; 230 46N; 292 C42N Air Cleaner Element................ Service See Service Instructions, page 4 
Mu 1333; CAA: 1956, C46: 1957-59, CH ai Oil bath. ..... . Wash and fill MO 
VIP OSE ae SOOO aaO 2941039 Wire gauze Wash and oil MO Crankcase Dipstick.......... > Check level 
Torque: 23-97 ft ib Governor Air Filter Element............ Wash ON Fil Caps S-cyl.. 5. a; Mash and oil vom 
T r isdi Birna Fuel Filter Element. MMCFIZWIE ADEM Replace Gtankcase Breather Inlet Element. Inspect 0A 
Dwell ongle: G-cyl, 1959 38°45"; 1956-62 28°- EE. 1955.62 models Reach under oll fill cap. Replace loses with 
Vis 1356 BE 201.33*, 1957-59 26°-32° [3 1963-64 models, in carburetor fuel inlet PCV. Not on 1963-64 models i 
CONDENSER re eee nome: E: Rael eat onto Ve... s M 
Capacity: .18-.23 mtd Wpev Sy A eine io edes Wash CC S ) TX Lubricate if shaft is not free. &-cyl. left side 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence Eg Distributor Shaft (oil cup) &cyl.. ........- M0 NL C T Un) «pg^ MO, AE 
z omatic...........- i 


..WB Q D 


8-cyl, Engine Ilustrated 


6-cyl. (grease cup) (right side). . . 


1963-64, no lubrication 1963-64, AF only 


J i 0°, AF on 
ORO) 1955-56 8-cyl.: Wick under rotor... MO Da, crankcase ard eR GRAL position.. EG 
39 o Felt under plate (oil hole). MO CAPACITY. quart Initial Refill Total Refill 
5 6 3 paringly sawas 
Del) (4 C) Cam lubricator wick inu eins 8-cyl H 
eot 2 1963-64 P-. PB1500 only 
J] 5) 248, ED] Rotate 180° H] Replace f/f | t — J^ — NN 165582... 
in 270 K Gearshift Control Housing (plug)....... Fill CG Remove 1 coupling plug and transmission plug 
CO ss 6,2,4 rem 3-speed transmissions ony P 1963-64 Regular drain not recommended 
vile ERT — sering Link or Oil Filter (under truck) Replace 
TIMING PROCEDURE teering Linkage......... 14 fittings) CL——- er (under truck). ... .........- 
1. Bring BA operating temperature All drag link, king pin and tie A fittings, below ae in quart oil. 6-cyl., forward: reach under 
2: Connect timing lent to: No eee DUAE [| wactsich and brake Pedais e , pm 195563 m 1984 
2 spark plug or cap tower : j PM150; P-, PB1500 series: 1 Idler Lever fitting at ] Crankcase Breather Outlet 
230, 292 engs.: Disconnect distributor vacuum this location, 2 pedal fittings keste P Ba Element.. L... Wash and oil 20 MOM 
$ lina and tapa manifold opaning ai which the Clutch Pedal and Idler, not on auto. trans. More often in extreme dust 
à E E nn cranuahett Be tat, fon, (fitting or grease cup) r^ Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack Mo 
" imi rk at.flyw nkshaft* Pu Brake Master nder (plug) (thru floor). . . . Initial torque, 45-60 ft. Ib. final adjustmen 
mended setting. LEDAS te etam Peter Fill to Ye ineh below: Sept fui note l 1553.04 b. PB1S00, initial torque, 33 ft. Ib.: final 
230, 292 .: Reconnect line 3 T P ith hole i 
5. Reset to preber idie speed ^ S TRANSMISSION, Manual..... MP adjustment, loosen nut to align siot with hole in 
230, 292 engs. in P, PB models: Use oil pan ve 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 Road Damper Spring (5 fittings) Both sides. CLES 


timing tab under vehicle 


Maintain level to fill plug hole 
Timing Mark and Setting CAPACI 


ITY 3-speed, 2 pints; 3-speed heavy-duty, 
2% pints; 4-speed, 6 ints oe ween 
IU DRAIN and REFIL 


On Suburban, optional on other 100 series 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 


se FaUniversal Joint ..... 140 GL depressed more AD 2" died brakeror 
ii more than 1" with power brakes, engine run ^ 
TOC Exquniversal Joint Splines ET the need for service is indicated 
Eyniversal Joint .........- 140 GL Adjust te beskes ds rollos cs cables: from dier 
rere ee oot oco H sconnec! ekini rake ca 
eel Models 102, 152 with 3-speed heavy-duty or 4- lever PRAE 
ball E3Parking Brake Cables... 150: OL 2. Tum Star Wheel Sdiustée until a light drag is 
$-cyl.248,270 1963-64 V-8, other E WE ass Seen ace ees 3. Back off adjuster 7 notches 
: engs. 230-292 engs. — 230 engs. e on 195738 PM150 series with automatic teni aa F, 2 eain radius ORCS ridi f 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): pag spring OE y Y 5. Reconnect parking brake cables and adjust 
6-cyl.: 248, 270 engs. 5° (steel ball on flywheel FijUniversal Joint ........ .....140 GL 1964, self-adjusting brakes; adjustment not nor- 
aligned with pointer); 230, 292 engs. 4° mally required 
V-8 1955-56, 5° (upper line) DIFFERENTIAL .............. MP* Bleeding sequence: LR, LF, RR, RF 
1957, 3° (midway between lines) Above +100°, 140; above 0^, 90; below 0°, 80 KEY TO INTERVALS 
1958-59, 6° (slightly above upper line) Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole E3Every 1,000 miles 
FUEL PUMP CAPACITY 100 series: Spicer 44, 3 pints; Spicer 45, , 
AC model: 6-cyl. AF, except 1964, 292, EK 3% pints; all other models, 4% pints; 150, 1500 Fj Every 2,000 miles 
V-8 1955, FB; 1956-59, E! series: Spicer 60, HOSS, 53⁄4 pints; all other Ej Every 4,000 miles 
Pressure: 6-cyl.: 248, 270, 4-514 Ib. at 3600 rpm; models, 614 pints i 
230, 292 314-44, Ib. at 500-1000 rpm II) DRAIN ‘and REFILL EiEvery 5,000 miles 
V-8, 4-51⁄ Ib. at 3600 rpm ~ POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: M Every 10,000 miles 
Volume: 6-cyl. 1 pint in 45-60 seconds? at idle rpm Meta! tag attached to housing near fill plug E 15,000 iles 
: V-8, 1 pint in 30 seconds at idle rpm Rear Wheel Bearings. . ..........- ‘Repack CG Every 15,000 mi 
1964: 292, 30-45 seconds 1960-64 P1500 series Every 20,000 mites 
CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT Necessary to remove axle shafts . Every crankcase oil change 
mitture (notches) (notches) E3Road Damper Spring (8 fittings) Both sides. .CL H Conditional service 
(initial, Man. ‘Aute. On Suburban, optional on other 100 series Replace fuel filter element only if carbu- 
HOLLEY turns) Trans, Trans. E3Spring Shackles CL P tor flooding. occurs 
ROCHESTER i m GAS TANK B Position for lift adapter Fill gearshift control housing when hard 
1-bbi. B 114-214 manual manual PMs, P-, PB1501 -15% Lubrication fitti to shift y 
STROMBERG 1 ` s RM152, -153; P^, PB 438 e Lubrication fitting Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
Toor 228BV 1% ^ "m All other models @ Cooling system drain shaft is not free 
Tipp esawiic 1⁄4 6 rich  16rich 
* 1955, index; 1956, 1 rich FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
** Carburetor Numbers O-11854, -11855, -11964, 
-11965, -11966, -11967, -11968, 332058, 212023 . "e i 2 š " 
ENGINE IDLE SPEED G1h€F6,:19 ROTEnES ic KEY TO AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil 
Manual Trans.: 6-cyl, 248, 270, 400-450 rpm; 230, Type A GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MP» Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
H 4 m; V~ m n s ^ H 
300 Tern os 450" rpm in NEUTRAL LUBRICANTS CC Carburetor Cleaner HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty — SG Steering Gear Lubricant 


VALVE CLEARANCES nac CG Cup Grease MH Graphite mixed with alcohol WB Wheel Bearing Grease © 
ine hot and running) 
a aas 270, Intake .012^; exhaust .020* 
230, 292, Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 
V-B: Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


« For Powr-Lok differential, use Special Lubricant Part No. 3758791 


p 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed in U.S.A. GTT-1 & 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
ni 24 53. 61 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
Medie Speed with throttle open) 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC: V6, 1960-61 C44, 1962 C44S, 1963 CA4S (4^ 
reach) or C44NS (3,* reach) depending on head 
design, 1964 CA4NS - 
ee 46N 

Gap: , -033°-038"; Inii aa” 

Torque: 23-27 ft. Ib. mes, 


IGNITION POINTS 


Deico 
Gap: 016” used; .019" new 
Dwell angie: V-6, 31°-35°; in-tine 6, 31°-34° 


CONDENSER 
Deico 
Capecity: .18-23 mfd 


= or 
e: ec 
NR >. 
(3) (4 3j 
GN CO Ko 
2 Vs) 
EM E 
KSA 
Firing Order: 
v-5 1,6, 5,4, 3.2 


Intine 6 1,5,3,6,2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Disconnect distributor vacuum fine and tape 
manifold opening 

3. Connect timing light to No. 1 
por yy spark plug or 

A: Sat idia, Spoed. en IOMMEENTEI atl wc th 
engine will run smoothly 

5. Observe timing at crankshaft damper or pul- 
fey and turn distributor to obtain recom- 
mended setting 

6. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper idie 


(Before Top Dead Center): 


Ve Meo elt 
a 1. 5°; 1962-64, 7% ° 
Inline 6: 4° Fen Tus 


FUEL PUMP 


AC: V-5, 1960-61, 1964, model HK; 1962-63, 
model HE 


Pressure: a haar OTI i 
ne 14-44 Ib. at 500-1000 rpm 
Volume: Not required” i 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Mixture 
HOLLEY oy 
1-bbl. 1904 1 
ROCHE 
1-bbl. B 142% 
STROMBERG 
2-bbI. WW2 1 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. V-6, 400-500 rpm; Inline 6, 
500 rpm 

Auto. Trans. 450 rpm in NEUTRAL 

VALVE CLEARANCES 

(enging bot ans running) 


V5. Intake .012": exhaust .018* 
In-line 6: Hycraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


GMC TRUCKS 


1960-62 Series 1000, 1500 
1963-64 Series 1000, 1500, 2500 
1964 Series 1-1000, -1500, -2500 


SERVICE AT SYMBOLS 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


COOLING SYSTEM.......-. Quarts CRANKCASE.... "DG" MO 
Without Heater Severe start-and-stop cold-weather operator. "0M 
a2 may be used 
Mon 432° N 20 
Above —10* ... : 20N 
Above —10* — 10 
Below — 10° .. à 05 
ubr CAPACITY S quarts except inline engine. 4 quarts 
h DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 
Fill to teve) mark on reservoir 
goi FI Cags............... Wash and oil MO 
1963-64 Ve. sealed cap, right side | ene ....-- Test and fi! Pg 
Air Cleaner Element. .............. Caution: Do not ground positive terminal 
Ol beth... Wash and fill MO £— — — Crankease Dipstickh.............. Check level 
^ Fuel Filler Bemest........-. Replace 
B kai porti e eeii MaS or 196063, on frame side ral 
Eon VGody.Rapisceasrequüued ^ ^ — 1964, in carburetor fuel inlet. G 
PCY System Valve............---- Wash CC 
atti V4, remove valve covers to service, TRANSMISSION, “DG” MO, AF 
located rear of cylinder heads. in-line engine, “~ / ZA \ Pe N |i\\ ieor OOOO 2 
located in valve cover, rear be cenkeaee grade; except below 0° AF only 
OÑ Filter (under truck). ..........-.. Replace Cock levet. engine iding. NEUTRAL poston EY 


Add extra quart oil. In-line engine, right side front 
m 1960-63 964 


Ed Master Cylinder (plug) 
Fill to 4 inch beicw top of opening 


E3Steering Gear (plug... osse sc = 


ja Brake Vacuum Cylinder Air Cleaner 


i Refi) Total Resi 

1000 series 196062. 14 3 

1500 series 196062. 6 10 
BE3A4.: ees 41 ay 


Remove 1 coupling plug and transmission phog 
1963-64 Regular dram not r 
Remove 


Rotate 180* D Replace I) 
Indine engine, right side forward 


and s paes -—P^. M ame istributor Shaft (oil cup). ........ xog 
3 Storing dag... (18i 18 tap) CL Kd i a Cam lubricator wick (1964 only) 


Fj Transmission Control Bell Crank. .........Cl 


p, ———— 
E 
1960 and 1964 3-speed transmission only | 


se 


TRANSMISSION, Manual 
EJ Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 

1963-64 3-spd. HD Mew Process 7456. ..... 

CAPACITY 3% pints 


CAPACITY 1000 
ts; 2500 series. 6 
[F] ORAIN and REFILL ATION: u 
er sed to ing near fill plug 1963-64 Chess li'estroted 
E35pring R oi RaR ERA qi CL 
2500 series only 
GAS TANK.........--------- Gallons 
© Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 
AF ic Transmission Fluid, 
KEY TO rl 
CC Carburetor Cleaner 
LUBRICANTS CG Cup Grease 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 


front Wheel Bearings........... Repack WBEI] 
1960-62, initial torque, 45-60 ft b; final goes 
ment, loosen % to '4 turn 
1963-64. 1000 series, initial torque. 15 ft. Ib. final 
adjustment, loosen nut one te ign 1200. 2500 
nut not more than % fiat to align. 1500. 2500 
series, initial torque, 33 ft. (b loosen nut to align 
siot with hole in spindle, maximum, i4 turn 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold. if the brake pedal can be 

depressed more than 2° with standard brakes or 

more than 1" with power brakes. engine running. 

the rieed for service is incicated 

Adjust brakes as follows: " 

L Disconnect parking brake cable from idler 

2 Using a suitable tool inserted into acjustment 
opening in backing plate, turn star wheel 
adjuster until a light drag is felt when crum 
is revolved 

Pi Back off adjuster 7 notches 


Bleeding sequence: LR, LF, RR, RF 
KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 1,000 miles 
Every 2,000 miles 
[j Every 4,000 miles 
GiEvery 5.000 miles 

Every 6,000 miles 

Every 10,000 miles 
Every 15,000 miles 
Every 20,000 miles 
(jEvery crankcase oil change 
[i Conditional service 

Replace fuel filter element if carburetor 


ing occurs 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 


MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MO Motor Oil 

"DG" meeting MIL-L-2104A 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


& For Powr-Lok differential, use Special Lubricant Part No. 3758791 


GTT-9 


GMC TRUCKS 


1960-62 Series 2500, 3000 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24 53 
24T 70 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
ho NR 1 MTMAAHSLII I 125 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC: 1960-61, C44; 1962, C44S 


Gap: .0337-.038' 
Torque: 23-27 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 

' Gap: .016* 

Dwell angle: 315-359 

CONDENSER 

Delco 

Capacity; .18-.23 mfd 


Mn Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


1 | DO 


i 6 OG 
i 
Firing Order: 1,6,5,4,3,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
. Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 
manifold opening 


. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 


1 

2. 

3. 

4. Set idle speed to lowest rpm at which the 
engine will run smoothly 

5. 

6. 


. Observe timing at crankshaft pulley and turn 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 


. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper idle 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
1960-81, 5^; 1962, 714^ 


FUEL PUMP 


AC: 1960-61, model HK; 1962, model HE 
Pressure: 5-6 Ib. at 3600 rpm 
Volume: 124 quarts per minute at 1000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 
Mixture 
(initial 
HOLLEY turns) 
1-bbl. 1904 1 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. WW2 1 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 


Manual Trans. 400-450 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 450 rpm in NEUTRAL 


VALVE CLEARANCES 
(engine hot and running) 
Intake .012"; exhaust .0187 


wv SERVICE AT 


E3Generator (2 oil cups).................. MO 
[]30il Fill Caps... Wash and oil MO 


Air Cleaner Element................ Service 
Oil batire nesas are Wash and fill MO 


E Governor Air Filter Element,........ 10W MO 
Wash and oil 


EDPCV System Valve................ Wash CC 


Dil Filter Trüeky. iu senec cessas 
ton extra (unde trig ) Rapláca 


Ea Master Cylinder (plug)... .... 0...00... HB 
n Fill to 14 Tach eo i). of opening 


[fp Crankcase Breather Element.......... Inspect: 
Replace if clogged 
On models with PCV only 
E3Steering Gear (plug).........0.000....., S6 
EXFront Suspension and 
Steering Linkage......... (16 fittings) C_— 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... MP. 
Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY rane 

KT] DRAIN and REFILL 


E3Brake Vacuum Cyl. Air Cleaner Element.10W MO 


In cab, behind seat, left rear corner 


E3Speedometer Adapter .................. CL 


E3Universal Joint ...... 
E3Universal Joint Spline 


Above +100°, 140; above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 2500 series, 64 pints; 3000 series, 14 


nts. 
ET] brain and REFILL 


GAS TANK.................. Gallons 


(AML TROdEIS: aariaa anni enni 17 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


Type A 


CL Chassis Lubricant 


Copyrighl 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


E3Universal Joints se... 140 GL 
EJSpring Bolts... ee, tL——— — 
DIFFERENTIAL ............... MP ve 


EaSpring Shackles ..........0..00....... po 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


Neg. Grd. 


“A 


Bl] Position for lift adapter 
e Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MH Graphite mixed with alcohol 


MO Motor Oil 


"DG" meeting MIL-L-2104A 


CRANKCASE.............. "DG" MO 
Severe start-and-stop cold-weather operation, “DM” 
mu od " 
ove ME E EEE S T 
Above +32° 30*, 20 


Above + 10° ne 
Above —10° .. 


Below —10*. ccicccessmaasawaaaesivinsians t Sw 
* 2500 series, 20 above +32° 
CAPACITY 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 
BRIT, ocior eroe metet Test and fill 
Crankcase Dipstick . ... -Check level 
TRANSMISSION, oe 

Automatic............ "DG" MO, AF 
DG, crankcase grade; except below 0°, AF only 
Check level, engine idling, NEUTRAL position. . . 
CAPACITY, quarts Thitia Refill “Total Refill 
2500 series ......... 5 10 
DRAIN and REFILL... 21.2... 2.2. e nnn 
Remove 1 coupling plug and transmission plug 
Manifold Heat Control Valve............. MHA 
Lubricate if shaft is not free 
Distributor Shaft (oil cup). .............- LIU x | 
Front Wheel Bearings. . . . ....Repack WBE 

al adjustment, 


Initial torque, 45-60 ft. | 
loosen V, to % turn 


Fuel Filter Element..............-.. Replace IT] 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2" with standard brakes or 
more than 1” with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 

2500 Front and Rear; 3000 Front (Duo-Servo) 

1. Using a suitable tool inserted into adjustment 
opening in backing plate, turn star wheel 
adjuster until a light drag is felt when drum 
is revolved 

2. Back off adjuster 7 notches 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

3000 Rear (Twin Action) 

l. Two adjustment openings are provided in 
each backing plate. Using a suitable tool turn 
rearmost adjuster until light drag is obtained 

2. Back off this adjustment 3 notches . 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for the forward adjuster 

4. Repeat procedure at the opposite rear wheel 

Bleeding sequence: Power brake forward valve, 

rearward valve, LR, LF, RR, RF then repeat power 

brake valves again 


KEY TO INTERVALS 

E3Every 1,000 miles 

[Every 2,000 miles 

HEvery 5,000 miles 

MEvery 10,000 miles 

Every 15,000 miles 

Every 20,000 miles 

[fgEvery crankcase oil change 


[I Conditional service 
Lubricate manifold heat control valve if 
shaft is not free 


TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MP Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant ve 
SG Steering Gear Lubricant 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


GTT-10 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. 
AW 24H 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) 


Lowest cylinder pressure must i E 
of highest cylinder Se WUNA 39% 


SPARK PLUGS 


Metro models: AC, C46; Autolite, A9; Chi lon, 
J-11; Others: AC, C45; Autolite, A7; Champion, 78 
Gap: 6-cyl., .028*..033"; 8-Cyl., .025*-.030" 
Torque: 28-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 

Delco 

Gap: 6-cyl., used points .016"; new points .019” 
8-cyl., used points .014"; new points .016” 

Dwell angle: 6-cyl., 28°-35°; 8-cyl., 26°-29° 


CONDENSER 
Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mtd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Amp, Hrs. 
50 


g 


TOTON 


Firing Order: 

&-cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 
B-cyl. 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5,7, 2 
TIMING PROCEDURE 


1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3. 6-cylinder: Connect timing light to No. 1 spark 
plus or distributor cap tower 

cylinder: Connect timing light to No. 8 spark 

plug or distributor cap tower 

4. With transmission in NEUTRAL: 
6-cyl.: Set to idle speed 
B-cyl.: Set to 350 rpm 

5. Observe timing mark: , 
6-cylinder: Thru opening in flywheel housing 
B-cylinder: At crankshaft damper 

6. Turn distributor to obtain alignment of timing 
mark and pointer 

7. Reset to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
6-cyl.: 220, 240, 241 engines, 4°; 264, 265 en- 
ges 2° 

-cyl. 266 engine, 4° 


FUEL PUMP 
AC or Carter 
Pressure: 6-cyl., 3-444 lb; 8-cyl, 4-51 Ib. at 


500-2000 rpm 
Volume: 6-cyl., 3344 ounces per minute at speeds 


up to 3500 rpm; B-cyl., 5714 ounces per minute 
at speeds up to 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle 


Mixture 
(initial 
HOLLEY turns) 
Sey 
1-bbl. 1904* 34-14 
l-bbl.1904** 14-1» 
lbbl.2110** 1⁄4% 
B-cyl. 
2-bbl. 2300 1 
* 220 engine 


** 240, 241, 264, 265 engines 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

Manual Trans. 350-400* rpm 

Auto. Trans. 350-400* rpm in DRIVE 
* 8-cyl., 450-500 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

6-cyl.: Intake .0247-.026^; exhaust .024"-.026" 
B-c''l.; Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


eB SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM 
100, 110, 120, 130 6-cyl. 
B-cyl. 


EPower Steering Reservoir 


top of filler neck 


EgBrake Master Cylinder (plug 
Fill to 4 inch below top of fill hole 
Metro, reach under floor or fender 


E3tront Suspension and 


Speedometer Cable 


ExHydrovac Air Cleaner Element... . 
wash and oil 


KE Hydrovac DRE. er oscpee nene rmn 


Fill to plug level 
Eg Clutch Remote Control Shaft. . . 


Some Metros with manual transmiss 


ExClutch Equalizer Shaft Yoke......... 


Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80. 

consistently above +90°, 140; below 0°, 75 

EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
"Sp! 


* With o EY 
€ Nonsynchronized 4-speed, 5 
QT DRAIN and REFILL 


Fill overdrive first 


DIFFERENTIAL 
Above +40°, 140; below +40°, 90 

EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 100, 3 pints; 110, 120, Metro AM-12! 
4 pints; 130, Metro AM-130, 5% pints 

E] DRAIN and REFILL 
POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: 
Axle Nos. 14003, -006, -011 on plate inside cab 


GAS TANK 


Series 100, 110, 120, 130. .... . 17 
Panel, Travelette, Travelall. e. 15 
Metro AM-120, -130,.. seen 15 


— MH Quarts 


Power Steering Oil Filter Element. . . . Clean 


Located in reservoir. Early models, replace ele- 
ment when oil is discolored 
Eistevring Gear plug... 30 MP Fan Belt Idler Pivot Shaft (oiler) 8-cyl.. ..30 MOE 
il FIN Cap... sese Wash and oil 30 MO: i 
mon AN side; Metro, at rear Generator (2 oil cups). ........ : MOE’ i 
ED! Filter. ........ Replace, add extra quart oil Air Cleaner Element. ........ sse Service i 
B-cyl., late 6-cyl., reach under truck Dry type Moa ... Clean 
Crankcase Dipstick. ...... sss Check level Dry type ... min "iM 
8-cyl., right side, front; Metro, rear ON bath. 5. gessa os Wash and fill M0 E 
ra Distributor Shaft (oil cup) 8-cyl....... 20W MO : t 
Ij] Shaft (plug) 6-cyl.. >... 20W MO Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 6-cyl.. ...POE } 
Fill reservoir to plug hole i I 
E Wick under rotor, 6-cyl.......... 10W MO Starter (oil cup)... .. RE 30 MORY 
MHPCV System Valve... sons Clean Some, inaioll cup, Lubricate at.overnau? i 
Disassemble valve body and line, 8-cyl., in valve BOO Lao eo ee cute vex Test and fillf4 
EJ Gearshift Control Levers TRANSMISSION, Automatic. .AF | 
Not on 4-speed transmission. Metro, un! Check level, engine idling, PARK position. ...... $ k 
Eg Gearshift Bell Crank Some Metro.......... CAPACITY, qu mitia Refill Total Refill i 


Clutch Equalizer Shaft 1957, some 1958. . . „CL 


Not on Metro or automatic transmission models 


Steering Linkage... ... (8 or 12 fittings) CL——* 


"TITLTICI Coat GG: 
.30 MO: 


.V0 


Not on Metro or automatic transmission models 


[EClutch Release Bearing......... Sparingly WB: With plug (100, 110 series)...... 1 oz. WBE 

Remove cover below flywheel. Rotate bearini to Use low pressure 

four 90" positions when lubricating sleeve, Coat Without: plüg ec os cus Repack WBIT] 
Stop-and-go driving, 10,000 miles $ Necessary to remove axle shafts 
TRANSMISSION, Manual..... GL pring Shackles 130 series... ....... cuES 


For temperatures 


CAPACITY, pints eed 3-Speed 4-Speed depressed more than 27-3” the need for service 
Synchro- HD. Synchro- is indicated 
shift shift Adjust the brakes as follows: 
100 .. . 24° x T 1. Using suitable tool inserted into adjusting 
110, 12! 212* 6 7e opening in backing plate, expand shoes unti 
Metro 2 6 7 drum can just be turned by hand 
130 7e 2. Back off adjustment screw 12-14 notches 


Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 


— Gallons 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, 


INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS - 


1957-61 A and B Series 4x2 100, 110, 120, 130 
1957-64 Metro AM-120, AM-130 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS =e 


K CRANKCASE........ “MS or S1" MO 
rt Above +32° .. 30 " 

Above 4-10* .. 20W 10W-30 

Above — 109. aeneus ost 10W 10W-30 

Below — 10° 5w-20 


CAPACITY 5 quarts except early 1957, 6 quarts; 
1958-64 Metro, 7 quarts 
DRAIN and REFIL 


a Metro series See Service Instructions, page 4 


6-cy!. Engine 
Illustrated 


Gearshift Control Cross Shaft............ am 
Some Metro with 3-speed transmission 

Clutch and Brake Pedals................ CLES 
Metro, manual transmission only. Automatic 
transmission, 1 fitting 


~~ lutch Release Shaft........ — M g 


Front Wheel Bearings........ .Repack WB IJ 
Universal Joint (plug or fitting) ....140 GL 
Propeller Shaft Bearing..............--- WB 


Some long-wheelbase models 

Universal Joint Spline (plug or fitting)... . . .CLEg 
At front joint on single shaft models 

Universal Joints (2 plugs or fittings). .. -140 GLE 
Center joint on models with 2 propeller shafts 

Spring Bolts 130 series...........-..--. CL 
Hand Brake Cables 100 series............CL 
Rear Wheel Bearings 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 


3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 to 2,000 miles 
E Every 3,000 to 5,000 miles 
HEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 to 20,000 miles 


Every 15,000 to 20,000 miles 
Automatic Transmission: Every 15,000 miles 


Every 20,000 miles 
[Twice yearly or every 10,000 miles 


0, 


BE Position for lift adapter 
e 


Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 


KEY TO Type A HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Dut Suitable for hypoid axles 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant . SKE 70R3 i ERY PO Penetrating Oil 
EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant Mg Motor Oil VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 


"MS" meeting MIL-L-2104A 


GG Graphite Grease "S1" Supplement 1 


WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


« This lubricant also recommended for Powr-Lok differential 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed im U.S.A. 


ILT-5 


m————————————————————————————— ÓÁ——ÀÁ mee RTT a 


INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS 


1961-64 C Series 100, 1000 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
AI 24H 5o 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 

(at cranking speed with throttle open) 

Lowest cylinder pressure must be within 90% 
of hignest cylinder 


SPARK PLUGS 


AC C45: Autotite A7. Champion 18 
Gao: &cyl.. 0287-0337; &cyl.. .0257-.030* 
Torque: 22-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Gap: €cyi. Deed porta pe new points 0197 


CONDENSER 
Deico 
Capacity: .18-23 mid 


Firing Order: 
&cyL 1,5,3,6,2,4 
Syl 1,8, 4, 3, 6,5, 7,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
1l Bri ome to operating temperature 
Ei con Connect ti 2d to No. 1 irk plug 
i iming spa: 
ze nec PER fight to No. 8 ri pi 
|= Connec 
oF distributor cap bts = 


6. Ti puerorum aii t of 
L Turn n alignment timi 
mark and pointer "€ 


cy. V-8 early V-8 late 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center}: 


&-cy1- 220, 240, 241 
By: 266 engine. 4^; e caging, 0" 


FUEL PUMP 

AC or Carter $4 

Pressure: 6-cyi., % m. eci, 45 b; at 
500-2000 rpm ‘ me Be 
Volume 6 cyl. 33% ounces per minute at speeds 
up to 3500 rpm; E<yl, 5744 ounces per minute 
at speecs up to 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


idie 
Mixture 
initial 
HOLLEY tums) 
1-56. 1904* 1-14 
1-bbt. 190£** 154-15 

, Boy! 
2-55. 2300 1 
* 222 


engine 
** 220. 241 engines 


ENGINE IOLE SPEED 

Menua! Trans. 350-400° rom 

Auto. Trans. 250-400" rpm in DRIVE 
* ech.. 450-50C rom 


VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine hot and running) 

Eyl: Intake 0247-0267; extaust 0247-02567 
E-cyi: Rycrauie Lfzers. nomadpustabie 


— 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts 


Without Heater 
16 


SSi VBE EnD -oiiae Ja 
Cooling system pressur E 

E3Battery. 

E3Steering Gear (plug). - E 

[Fuel Filter Element Replace if clogged 


Inspect bow! and element. clean as 
B-cyi., right side, forward fequieo 


ElTachometer Drive Gears V-304 eng 
In distributor housing. Lubricate T i lubricant 
appears at vent hole in distributor housing 


[Distributor Shaft 6cyl. yi; (plug) 


Fil! reservoir to plug 
H &-cyl. (oil cup) Tight side, front. . 
Wick under rotor, 6-cyl. 


IPCV System Valve 


Disassemble valve and Jine. 1., rear at 
body Bey 


and 
Late models, no lubrication 


ea SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


ee or S1" MO 


10W-30 
10W-30 
5W-20 


CRANKCASE... 
Above +32°....... 


CAPACITY 6-cyl., 6 quarts; &cyl., 5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


....10W "MS" MOS 
on dipstick or "OIL LEVEL' mark 
on filler neck 


Fan Belt Idler Pivot Shaft (oiler) 8-cyl...30 MOET 


Not on late models 
Generator (2 oil cups). ......... ....... M0EÀd 


..Wash and oil 30 MOET 
B-cyl., right side 


Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 6-cyl.. ...POES 


Wash and fill MOE 


Above +32°, 40 or 50; below +32°, 20W 


Crankcase Dipstick Check level 
&cyl., right side, front 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic..AF 
Check level, engine idling, PARK position. .... EB 
Initial Refill Total Resi 


E3Brake and Clutch Reservoirs (plug or cover). .HB i en, Engi 
Fill to 34 inch below top of s (plug 5 Westrated” 
Without power brakes, single dual purpose 


reservoir 
en Brake Cylinder Air Cleaner Felt... . 


Ces quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL....... oo e eee eens 
Remove 2 converter plugs and transmission fil! pipe 


= Wheel Bearings. . ..Repack WBE) 


Universal Joint (plug or fitting). 


Propeller Shaft Bearing.......... 
Models with 2 propeller shafts 


ine (plug or fitting). .... CLE 


At front joint on single shaft models 


Stop-and-go ps 10.000 miles Universal Joints (2 plugs or fittings). - .140 GLE 
Center joint on models with 2 propeller shafts 
TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Above 0°, 90: below 0°. 80. For tempergtures com 
140; below 0 


ofp BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


x Pees level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed synchro-shift, 2% pints; with With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
overdrive, 3% pints; 4-speed, 7 pints depressed more than 27-3” the need for service 
Horan ana REFILL | is indicated 
draina and fill thru separate plug holes Adjust the brakes as follows: 
Fill overdrive first 1. Using suitable too! inserted into adjusting 
opening in backing plate, expand shoes until 
drum can just be turned by hand 
2. Back off adjustment screw 12-14 notches 
3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


DIFFERENTIAL. ......... EP, MP* 
Above +40°, 140; below —40^, 90 

E maintain ievel to fill plug hole" 
CAPACITY 3 pints 

HORAN and REFILL 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


FOWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: i EqEvery 1,000 to 2,000 miles 
PI UN ee ANETA, CoNeUTBO peo NE | : ElEvery 3,000 to 5,000 miles 
| Oil Filter: Every 3,000 to 4,000 miles 


GiEvery 5,000 miles 
MEvery 10,000 to 20,000 miles 


Every 15,000 to 20,000 miles 
Automatic Transmission: Every 15,000 miles 


BEvery 25,000 miles 
[Twice yearly or every 10,000 miles 
(Conditional service 


GAS TANK ©  Lubrication fitting 
Stangard on ali modets. 
& Cooling system drain 


Auxiliary optional on Panel. Traveiall. 
FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO i GA acit HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Suitable for hypoid axles 
assis Lubrican! SAE 70R3 n 
LUBRICANTS EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant 9 Motor Oil PO Penetrating Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Sulfur chloride Iead (yaa "MS" meeting MIL-L-2104A 
e This lubricant also recommended for Powr-Lok differential 


GG Graphite Grease "S1" Supplement 1 


ILT-6 


Ceoyrignt 1954, The Chak-Chert Corsororion. Primed ie U.S.A. 


e pee unos 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24H 50 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at crane speed with throttle open) 
Lowest cylinder pressure ithi 
of highest cylinder UBL OPE Bey VERAIA: SORS 
SPARK PLUGS 
-cyl.: AC C45; Autolite AT4; Ch: 
mer AC CA3: Autorile A7; Champion m 
p: yl. *-.033"; 4-cyl., 8-cyl. .025*-.030^ 
Torque: 28-30 ft. Ib. VK BE MGages Ranae 
IGNITION POINTS 
Delco 
Gap: 6-cyl. used points .016^; new points .019* 
don 8-cyl.: Used points .014*; new points 


,016' 
Owell angle: 4-cyl. 74-76"; 6-cyl. 287-35"; l. 
26 29" y «yl. 2i 8-cy! 


CONDENSER 
Del 


ico 
Capacity: .18-.23 mfd 
Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


e Oo 
UE mU PG 


Firing Order: 

4-cyl. 1,3, 4,2 

&-cyl. 1, 6,2,4 

&cyl. 1, 8, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7,2 

TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

2. Connect tachometer 

3, 4-cyl., 6-cyl: Connect timing light to No. 1 
spark plug or distributor cap tower 
&-cyl.: Connect timing light to No. 8 spark plug 
or distributor cap tower 

4. 4-yl.: Disconnect distributor vacuum line and 
tape manifold opening 

5. With transmission in NEUTRAL: 
4-cyl., 6-cyl.: Set to idle speed 
&cyl.; Set to 350 rpm 

6. Observe timing mark: 
6-cyl.: Thru opening in flywheel housing 
4-cyl., B-cyl.: At crankshaft damper 

7. Turn distributor to obtain alignment of timing 
mark and pointer 


B. 4-cyl.: Reconnect vacuum line 
9. Reset to proper idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Hi gif 


710 RIS 20* 
2 
(OH ll 
6-yil. 4-cyl., V-8 early v-8 late 


Timing Setti Bef: 5 
toll E: ng (Before Top Dead Center): 


6-Cyl.: 220, 240, 241 engines, 4 


B-cyl.: 266 engine, 4°; engine, 0* (TOC) 


FUEL PUMP 
AC or Carter 

ressure: 6-cyl., 3-44, Ib.; 4-cyl.. Y. 4-5 E 
315002000 rori V; Ib.; 4«yl.. 8-cyl. 4-5; Ib. 
'olume: 6-cyl., 3314 ounces per minute at speeds 
up to 3500 rpm; 4-cyl., 8-cyl. 5744 ounces per 
minute at speeds up to 4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
die 


Mixture 


HOLLEY urns} 
{bor 1904 

“bbi. He 
ert MAYA 
“bbl. 1904* PEU 
1-bbi. 1904** M -1y 
8-cyl. 14-1% 
2-bbl. 2300 1 


* 220 engine 

** 240. 241 engines 

ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
yenan Tani 

cyl. F ; i i 
PE ELE rpm; 6-cyl. 350-400 rpm: B-yl. 
Auto, Trans. 
€-cyl. 350-400 rpm; &-cyl. 450-500 rpm; in DRIVE 
VALVE CLEARANCES 
tene hot snd running) 

-cyl.: Intake .024"-.026°; exhaust .0247-.026" 
4-cyl., B-cyl.: Hydraulic lifters, Pane Gh 


INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS 


-64 C Series 4x2 110, 120, 130, 
m 900, 1100, 1200, 1300 


w 


COOLING SYSTEM ........ Quarts & 
Without Heater rt 
4-cyl. PT PP TR E I CE ed 12 
6cyl. ..... EE 16 
B-cyl.: V-266 engine 19 
20 


. V-304 engine .. 
Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


Distributor Shaft 4-cyl., 8-cyl. (oil cup). 20W MO 
6-cyl. (plug) left side, center... ... 20W MO 
Fill reservoir to plug hole 


E Wick under rotor, 6-cyl.. . 


Ed Steering Gear (plug). ...... -> - +; .90 MP 


Fill thru upper plug to level of lower plug hole 


EgPower Steering Reservoir. ... . 10W "MS" MO 
Fill to “F” mark on dipstick or "OIL LEVEL" mark 
on filler neck 


Eg Hydrovac Cylinder ......... ioo Vi 
Fill to plug level. Series 120, 130, 1200, 1300 

EgHydrovac Air Cleaner Element. ........ 30 M0 
Wash and oil. Series 120, 130, 1200, 1300 

Bpi! Filter......... Replace, add extra quart oil 
Reach under truck 

EaGearshift Control Levers........-......-- CL 


3-speed remote shift and automatic transmissions 
Late models, no lubrication 

Eg Brake and Clutch Reservoirs (plug or cover). .HB 
Fill to % inch below top of fill hole 
Single dual purpose reservoir on 110, 900, 1100 
series without power brakes and all other series 

EPower Brake Cylinder Air Cleaner Felt. . . . Was! 
110, 1100 series only 

Eg Gearshift Relay Shafts (1 or 2 fittings)... - .. CL’ 


3-speed remote transmission only. Not om late 


models 
E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage. .. ... (8 or 10 fittings) CL—> 
ExClutch Release Shaft........,...---+--- CL 
[Clutch Release Sleeve Sparingly WB 


Remove cover below flywheel 
Coat release fork tips and contact pads 
Stop-and-go driving, 10,000 miles 


[Speedometer Cable 
TRANSMISSION, Manual 


Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80. For temperatures 
consistently above +90°, 140; below 0°, 75 
Ea Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed synchro-shift, 2% pints, ex- 
cept 900 series, 234 pints; with overdrive, 3% 
pints; 3-speed H.D., 6 pints; 4-speed synchro- 
shift, 7 pints 
[i DRAIN and REFILL 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes 
Fill overdrive first 


Rear Wheel Bearings 
E] With plug (110, 900, 1100 series). . 1 oz. 


Use low pressure 


KH] Without plug (other series). kines Repack WB 
Necessary to remove axle s! afts 
DIFFERENTIAL........... EP, MP* 
Above +40°, 140; below +40°, 90 
Ea maintain level to fill plug hole 


CAPACITY 900 series, 3 pints; 110, 120, 1100, 

1200 series, 4 pints except 120, 1200 with RA-15 

axle. 514 pints; 130. 1300 series, SY, pints 
li] oRAIN and REFILL 


POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: 
Metal tag under differential cover bolt 


plug 


below fill 


Others: 
Standard on all models 
Optional on all models.-...- 
Auxiliary optional on Panel, Tra 


19 . 


Lubrication fitting 


o Cooling system drain 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, 


CRANKCASE — “MS or S1" MO 
e x . 

Above Fio - . 20W — 10W30 
Above —10°. 10W  10W30 
Below —10°... 5W-20 


CAPACITY 4-cyl., 4 quarts; 6-cyl.. 6 quarts; 8-cyl., 
5 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


Crankcase Dipstick......... Check level 


6-cyl., left side, rear of center 


Fan Belt Idler Pivot Shaft (oiler) 8-cyl...30 MOE 
Not on late models 


Generator (2 oil cups)... moga 
OW Fill Cap. ...........- Wash and oil 30 MOES 
Fuel Filter Element........ Replace if clogged i 
Inspect bow! and element, clean as required 

6-cyl., left side, forward 

Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft 6-cyl. .. . POET 


Tachometer Drive Gears V-304 engine... ...CLI] 
Lubricate until lubricant appears at vent hole in 
distributor housing 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic..AF 


Check level, engine idling. PARK position. . EM 
CAPACITY, quarts Initial Refill Total Refill 
All models .......---- 5 10 


s 
DRAIN and REFILL........ e e entr 
Remove 2 converter plugs and transmission fill pipe 
Air Cleaner Element. ....... Service 

Oil bath... Wash and fill MOI 
Above --32*, 40 or 50; below +32°, 20W 


PCV System Valve.................. -Clean [E 
Disassemble valve body and line. 4-cyl, 6-cyl., 
left side, center 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBE 
Universal Joint (plug or fitting)... ....- 140 GL] 


Propeller Shaft Bearing........... ... WEY 
Models with 2 propeller shafts 
Universal Joint Spline (plug or fitting). CUR 


At front joint on single shaft models 


Universal Joints (2 plugs or fittings). ...140 GLEE 


Center joint on models with 2 propeller shafts 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 27-3" the need for service 
is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Using suitable tool inserted into adjusting 
opening in Hacking plate, expand shoes until 
drum can just be turned by hand 

2. Back off adjustment screw 12-14 notches 

3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 to 2,000 miles 


El Every 3,000 to 5,000 miles 
Oil Filter: Every 3,000 to 4,000 miles 


GiEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 to 20,000 miles 


[Every 15,000 to 20,000 miles 
Automatic Transmission: Every 15,000 miles 


Every 25,000 miles 
[Twice yearly or every 10,000 miles 
[3 Conditional service 


MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO Type A HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Suitable for hypoid axles 
LUBRICANTS CL Chassis Lubricant SAE 70R3 PO Penetrating Oil 
EP Extreme Pressure Gear Lubricant ; ; 
Sulfur nario eed She meen MO Motor palama EET VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
GG Graphite Grease "EI" supplement I WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


+ This lubricant also recommended for Powr-Lok differential 
ILT-7 


—————————— 
DESE 


M am — 


INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS 


1961-64 Scout 80 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY AABM 
Group No. Amp. Hrs. 
All 24H 50 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


p cranking speed with throttle open) 
owest cylinder pressure must within 90% 
of highest cylinder 


SPARK PLUGS 
AC C45; Autolite AT4; Champion J-6 


Gap: .025*-.0. 
Torque: 28-30 ft. Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 


Delco 
Gap: Used points .014”; new points .016” 
Dwell angle: 74°-76° 


CONDENSER 


Delco 
Capacity: .18-.23 mid 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 1,3,4,2 


TIMING PROCEDURE 


. Bring engine to operating temperature 
Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing mark at crankshaft damper 
Turn distributor to obtain alignment of timing 
mark and pointer 

Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


9 youa wpe 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 


AC or Carter 

Pressure: 4-514 Ib. at 1000 rpm 

Volume: 52 ounces per minute at speeds up to 
4000 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idie 

Mixture 

(initial 

HOLLEY turns) 
1-bbl. 1904 9e 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
450-500 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


Hydraulic lifters, nonadjustable 


ws 
COOLING SYSTEM... Quarts = Gi@w, CRANKCASE... 


With Heater Without Heater 
e VWI 12 


SERVICE AT INTERVALS SHOWN BY 


SYMBOLS 


All models , 


KlOil Filter........ Replace, add extra quarto Below HOP LL 
CAPACITY 4 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 

See Service Instructions, page 4 


E3Steering Gear (plug)..............., 90 MP. 
Remove vent assembly to fill 
Keep filled to bottom of threaded hole 


E3Distributor Shaft (oil cup).......... 


Lubricate until cup remains full 


EPEY System Valve... see 


Disassemble valve body and line B. | | UBI U8j............. 


E3Brake and Clutch Master Cylinders (caps). . . HB Am | Nr Cleaner Element................ 


Fill to % inch from top of reservoir 


bier Se De Ne aint cra Sie Test and fill 
FRONT DIFFERENTIAL.80EP,MP* 
Maintain level to fill plug hole.............. .E5 
E3Winch Gear Case... EP, MP. CAPACITY 21/ pints 


DRAIN end EOE aces o NER ESIEES 
Front Axle Drive Joint (plug)........... . CLEA 


Remove plug to service. Fill to plug level 
Use low pressure 


Front Wheel Bearings............ Repack WBIT] 
Speedometer Cable ............... Coat 665 
Universal Joints (2 plugs or fittings). ...140 GLEJ 
Use low pressure 
Universal Joint Spline (plug or fitting). .... . CLES 
Use low pressure 
Front Axle & Transfer Case Controls....... Clea 
Universal Joint Spline (plug or fitting)..... -CLEF 
Use low pressure 


Universal Joints (2 plugs or fittings). ...140 GLE 


Use low pressure 


Rear Wheel Bearings (plug) ...loz WEED 
Some 4x4 models only 
Use low pressure 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2", the need for service is 


Above +40°, 140; below +40°, 90 
Keep filled to plug level 


Es3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage,.......... (8 fittings) CL——* 


EaWinch Propeller Shaft Center Bearing. ..... CL 
ElUniversal Joints .........-........00-5 CL 


Use low pressure 
E3Power Take-Off Shift Control............. CL 


TRANSMISSION and 
TRANSFER CASE........... GL 
Above 0°, 90; below 0°, 80. For temperatures con- 
sistently above +90°, 140; below 0°. 75 
Eg Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY Transmission, 2% pints; Transfer Case, 


31⁄4 pints indicated 
GJ ORAIN and REFILL " . Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 
Transmission and Transfer Case, drain and refill ing plate 


thru separate plug holes 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL... EP, MP* 
Above Eton, 140; below +40°, 90 
EJmainta in level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY RA-9, -23, 3 pints: others, 2'⁄4 pints 
ljjoRANN and REFILL 
POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION (Front and Rear): 
Metal tag under differential! cover bolt below fill 


plus z E KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 to 2,000 miles 


KljEvery 3,000 to 4,000 miles or 90 to 
120 hours 
Universal Joints: Every 3,000 to 5,000 miles 


ExEvery 5,000 miles 
[Every 10,000 to 20,000 miles or 300 


Adjust the brakes as follows: 
1, Turn adjustment cam until drum cannot be 
turned by hand 
2. Back off adjustment cam until drum just turns 
freely without drag 
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
m 


cai 
4, Repeat procedure at each wheel 
Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


to 600 hours 
A . [Every 15,000 to 20,000 miles or 450 
GAS TANK Gilmer tg BO hau | 
* Dual tanks, 11 each tank @ Cooling system drain [Twice yearly or every 10,000 miles 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


i ricant GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
KEY TO a HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty Suitable for Nypoid axles 
LUBRICANTS d cc D E WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
E “MS" meeting MIL-L-2104A 
GG Graphite Grease "S1" Supplement 1 
« This lubricant also recommended for Powr-Lok differentials 
Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. ILT-9 


9,9 b 9 » b» 5 5 5p b 9 b b p» » P» v 


AA NN NN NN CN E 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


BATTERY NT 

roup No. 
1951-57 1 (evel bii ^e 
1958 early 1 (6-volt) 105 
1958 late, 1959-64 24H 50 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


(at cranking speed with throtti i 

&cyi.: L-head ............. 5 M m) 110-120% 
F-head .... r 120-130* 

6-cyl.; L-head 226 engine. +» 125-140* 
OHC 230 engine............. 145-155** 


* Variations should not exceed 
** Variations should not exceed rd 


S ARI On. HE L-12Y; 0 
ampion: L-12Y; Others: A i t 
Sion 15 utolite A7; Cham- 
Gap: .030" 
Torque: 4-cyl. 25-33 ft. Ib.; 6-cyl. 20-30 ft. Ib. 
IGNITION POINTS 
Autolite, Delco 
Gap; Autolite, 020"; Delco; 022" 
Dwell angle: Autolite: yl. 42°; 6-cyl. 
Delco: a yl. 252-34*: 6Cyl. 226 31737 ^ NC 38° 
CONDENSER 
Autoliit Autolite .21-.25 mfd; De 

ac utolite .21-.25 mfd; Delco, .25-. 
mid. others, -2 mid «o, OHC .25-.28 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 
4-cyl.1,3,4,2 
6-cyl. 1, 5,3, 6, 2,4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 

1. Bring engine to operating temperature 

. Connect tachometer 

Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 

distributor cap tower " 

Disconnect distributor vacuum line and tape 

manifold openin, 

. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 

Observe timing at flywheel or crankshaft 

damper and turn distributor to obtain rec- 

ommended setting 

7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


on B wy 


Early 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 
A-cyl. IGN mark or 5°; 6-cyl. 5° 

FUEL PUMP 

AC and Carter mechanical, various models 
Pressure: 4-cyl., 214-334 Ib. at 1800 rpm; 6-cyl., 
3'4-5%4 Ib. at 1800 rpm 

Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds or less at idie speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle Choke 


Mixture (notches) 
initial Man. 
CARTER urns) Trans. 
l-bbl. WO 1-2 manual 
l-bbl. YF 124 manual 
2-bbl. WCD manual* 
2-bbl. WGO 114 manual* 
Y manual 
ZENITH ^4 
l-bbi. 28BV10 A manual 


* 1955, early 1956, index 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 

4-cyl. 600 rpm 

6-cyl.: L-head, 550 rpm; OHC, 590-600 rpm 

VALVE CLEARANCES 

(engine cold) 

4-cyl.: L-head: Intake .016”; exhaust .016" 
F-head: Intake .018"; exhaust .016” 

6-cyl.: L-head: Intake 014^; exhaust .014” 
OHC, Before eng. Serial Nos. TW60C16750, 
SW60C10484: Intake .010"; exhaust .012” 
NOS listed and after: Intake .008^; exhaust 


=e SERVICE AT 1 

COOLING SYSTEM .... ... Quarts 
With Heater Without Heater 

6:238; xc ie 13 12 
4-cyl., 6-230 ...... 132. T" 
cooling system pressure: 4-cyl., 7 pounds; 6-226, 
6-230, 13 pounds 

üFuel Filter. ............. .. -Clean screen 
4-yl., left 
Governor 4-cyl. ........Crankcase grade MO 


Level plug, maintain to level of plug hole 
Without plug, fill with 2 ounces 
EJ DRAIN and REFILL 


EJ Generator (2 oil cups).......... Sparingly MO: 
Crankcase grade, 4 yl. rightside.Alternator,nolub. 
gii Fill Cap... 
6-230, some 4-c! n 
other 4-cyl., right side forward 
[E OilFillCapScreen 6230........... "Wash 


[3  Crankcase Breather 6-230. Wash and oil. MO 


Left side, center of engine. Also, remove and 
wash screen in breather tube 


Dii Filter. ........ Replace, add extra quart oil 


4-cyl., right front corner of engine 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. 
4-cyl., right side forward 


E3Steering Gear (plug)................ 
E3Starter (oil cup) 1954, 6-226 only. .. 


Brake Master Cylinder (plug). .......- . 
B Fill to !4 inch os lar (p ue) hole 


E3Front Suspension and 
Steering Linkage... .. . 
[Speedometer Cable ...... 
E3Clutch Release Shaft 
Early 6-226. some early 6-230 engines 
E3Clutch and Brake Pedals...............- 
Ex Transter Case Shift Lever Shaft 


TRANSMISSION and 


TRANSFER CASE......... .MP 
Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 
Maintain level to fil! plug hole 
CAPACITY Transmission: 3 pints, 1961-62 with 
6-226, 6-230 engines, 214 pints. Transfer Case, 


314 pints 
(HIbRAIN and REFILL 
granater Case, drain and refill thru separate plug 
oles 


[Power Take-Off Universal Joints... Repack UJ 


EgSpring Bolts... s £L————* 


Some, no lubrication 


[Hand Brake Cables................ Coat GG 
Ex3Universal Joint 


Use low pressure 


EgRear Wheel Bearings................... WB 
Apply sparingly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole above housing 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL... .80 MP* 


EJ Maintain leve! to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3 pints 

[HI DRAIN and REFILL 
POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION (Front and een: 
Metal E attached to housing stamped with letter 
"T" or “Use Limited-Slip Diff. Lube only" 


E3Spring Shackles |... eese CL 
Some, no lubrication 


[3Power Take-Off Universal Joints... „Repack UJ 


Power Take-Off and 


Belt Pulley Housings............. 80 MP. 
Ld Fill cach unit to plug level 
KT] DRAIN and REFILL thru separate plug holes 


GAS TANK 


. -Gallons 
All models ..... z A5 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BA 


KEY TO 


LUBRICANTS ‘ 
GG Graphite Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation, Printed im U.S.A. 


CC Carburetor Cleaner 
CL Chassis Lubricant 


‘Jeep’ TRUCKS = 


1951-64 4WD . 


NTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


al CRANKCASE..... ..."MM" MO i 
G- Severe driving, "MS" t 
Above +32°.......... 10W-30 i 
Above 4-10*.. 20,20W — 10W-30.10W-20 
Above —10°.......... 10W 10W-30,10W-20 
Below — 10°. .. SW 5w-20 
CAPACITY 1., 4 quarts; 6-cyl., 5 quarts 


DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Service 
OR €— Wash and fill MOG 


Crankcase gr.. 6-230 engine, left side forward 


Wire gauze.............Wash and oil MOS 
Crankcase grade 
PCV System Valve vadit dif ....Cc 
4-cyl., 6-230 engine left side [ 
Remove, clean valve and hose 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. . POKI 
On 4-cyl. L-head & late 6-226 eng. 4-cyl., left side 
Distributor 
Right side; 4-cyl. center; 6-230 forward [ 
Shaft (Dlug) «oo eset repa MORD) 


.Sparingly MORJ 


Felt under plate. 
Sparingly MO 
MO 


Wick under rotor 
Shaft (oil cup)... .... mad Wed 
Wick under rotor........ Sparingly MOEI 


FRONT DIFFERENTIAL. .80 MP 
Maintain level to fill plug hole T 
CAPACITY 214 pints 


DRAIN and REFILL... ceo eee eee eee 12] 
Front Wheel Bearings........... Repack WBE 
Front Axle Universal Joints (plug) W 
Maintain level to fill plug hole 

(15^. MM .. US 
Universal Joint... ... . Use low pressure WEJ 
Universal Joint Spline............ o WE 
Universal Joints......... Use low pressure WEY 
Universal Joint Spline .. UWE 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 


With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 

Two adjustment cams are provided on each back- 
ing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: — 

1. Turn adjustment cam until drum cannot be 
and 


turned b; é 
adjustment cam until drum just 


2. Back o! 
turns freely without drag 

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 

4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
E3Every 1,000 miles 
Field work: Daily 
Bi Every 2,000 miles 
Field or industrial work: Every 50 hours 


[Every 6,000 miles 
Field or industrial work: Every 300 hours, 
except replace oil filter every 150 hours 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
Field or industrial work: Every 300 hours 


HijEvery 20,000 miles 
[Twice yearly 
Every 300 hours 


GB Position for lift adapter [3 Conditional service 7 

Repack power take-off universal joints once 
a year, if belt pulley is used frequently 
for continuous operation 


© Lubrication fitting 
e Cooling system drain 


TTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


PO Penetrating Oil 


Geant UJ Universal Joint Grease 
MP* Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant i 
DiHaren iis, MIL-L-21058 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


» For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, ‘Jeep’ Part No. 94557 


HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
MO Motor Oil 


IPT-1 


| 


‘Jeep’ TRUCKS 


1957-64 Forward Control FC-150, FC-170 


TUNE-UP DATA 


Seo Sorvice Instructions for Procedure 
BATTERY AABM 


Group No. Amp, His, 
1957 1 (G-volt) 00 
1958 early 1 (6-volt) 105 
1958 lote, 1959.64 24H 50 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE 
(at cranking speed with throttle open) psi 
deyl sis us a 120-130 
6:cyl «2.125.140 


Vorlations should not oxceed iÒ psi 


SPARK PLUGS 


Autolite A7; Champion J-8 

Gap: .030" 

Torque: 4-cyl. 25-33 ft, Ib. 
G-cyl. 28:30 ft, Ib. 


IGNITION POINTS 
Autolite, Delco 
Be S aan Dele. ge 
W ngle: Autolite: 4-cyl. 42°; 6-cyl. 39° 
Deico: 4-cyl, 25 734" eyi, ed a 


CONDENSER 
Autolite, Delco 
Capacity: Autolite .21-.25 mtd; Delco .2 mfd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


re) 


Firing Order: 
4-cyl.1,3,4,2 
G-cyl. 1, 5, 3, 6, 2, 4 


TIMING PROCEDURE 
l. Bring engine to operating temperature 
2. Connect tachometer 


3. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark lui 
distributor cap tower PD os 


4. Disconnect distributor vacuum lino and tape 
manifold opening 


5. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 


6. Observe timing at flywheel or crankshaft 
damper and turn distributor to obtain recom- 
mended setting 


7. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed Bae 


Timing Mark and Setting 


4-cyl. early 


4-cyl. late 6-cyl. 
Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5° 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model: 4-cyl., 4032, 6-cyl., 4318; Carter model 
M-957S 

Pressure: AC, 214-3, Ib. at 1800 rpm; Carter, 


31-51% Ib. at 1800 rpm 
Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds or less at idle speed 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


E SERVICE AT 


COOLING SYSTEM ......... Quarts 
With Heat With 

FC-150 .. ' 11 B Sete 

FC-170 .. erro 12 " 

Cooling sy! n pressure, 9 pounds 


1960.64 


Ex Generator (2 oil cups). . . .Crankcase grade MO 
Lubricate sparingly. FC-150, right side, FC-170, 
remove access plato in floor lo service 


BI Fill Cap... ... ... «Wash and oll MO 
FC-150, right side, ice required 5 
Crankcase Dipstick............, . Check "is 


FC-150, right sido, combined with fill cap 


Gil Filter ........ „Replace, add extra quart oi 

Speedometer Cable ...............Coat GG 
Remove cable from conduit 

E3Clutch Relay Shaft. ....... uuu CL 
Some, inner end of shaft 


E3Steering Gear (plug)..............., 80 MP 
Hand Brake Cable................. Coat GG 
EGFront Suspension and zo 

Steering Linkage... .. . (7 to 13 fittings) CL SH 
Ex Transmission Gearshift Operating Rod. . .. . .CL 


4-speed transmission 


EaClutch Release Shaft FC-170. .. . .Sparingly CL: 


Late models, no lubrication 


E3Shift Lever Selector Mechanism.......... M0 
TRANSMISSION and 
TRANSFER CASE........... MP 


Above +32°, 90; below +32°, 80 

Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY Transmissions: 3-speed, 3 pints; 4- 
speed, 634 pints, plug right side; Transfer Case, 
314 pints 

[F DRAIN and REFILL 
Trenean Case, drain and refill thru separate plug 

oles 


KA Power Take-Off Universal Joints... . Repack UJ 
E3Spring Bolts a aa 


Some, no lubrication 


All pthere 


—9. 1960.64 


(Hand Brake Cables. ... . Coat GG 
Rear Wheel Bearings 
With fittings: = ransana satt WB 
Apply sparin; ly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole above Ting 
E Without fittings.............. Repack WB 


FC-170 dual wheels only, Remove axle shafts 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL. ...80 MP* 


EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole g 
CAPACITY 3 pints, except FC-170 with dual rear 
wheels, 5 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL 
POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION (Front and naani 
Metal tag attached to housing stamped with letter 
"T" or "Use Limited-Slip Diff. Lube only" 


EqSpring Shackles ....... Jia goats angel 


Some, no lubrication 
K Power Take-Off Universal Joints... Repack UJ 
Power Take-Off & Belt Pulley Housings. .80 MP: 


Fill each unit to plug level 
KJI) DRAIN and REFILL Thru separate plug holes 


BH] Position for lift adapter 
Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


PC.150 


rc.170 ,Front Wheel Bearings 


only 


a 
CRANKCASE........ ...."MM" MO 
Severe driving, "MS" 
Above +32”........,. 30 10W-30 
Above +10°..,... 10W-30,10W-20 
Above —10^.... , 10W-30,10W-20 
Below — 10^... 5W 5W-20 


CAPACITY FC-150, 4 quarts; FC-170, 8 quarts 
DRAIN and REFILL 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


.. Clean screen iid 
Manifold Heat Control Valve Shaft. . . . . . ..POE3 
PCV System alve... 


.Sparingy MORJ 

.Sparingly MOES 

Air Cleaner Element eeaeee ee SBIVICE 
OBAT a asis asa ieia eas Wash and fill MOG 


Crankcase grade. FC-150, reach under truck 


Battery. iin anv arsezns n> mann Test and fillgg 


Brake Master Cylinder (plug)........ .... BES 


Fill to 1⁄4 Inch below top of filler hole , 
Remove insert on instrument panel to service fill 
tube plug on flexible hose 


FRONT DIFFERENTIAL. .80 MP* 


Maintain level to fill plug hole. 
CAPACITY 3 pints 
DRAIN and REFILL sisas arenae paani ee 


„Repack WB 
me 
BM x 
UJ EE 
se low pressure UE 
Use low pressure UJEX 


Front Axle Universal Joints (plug). 


Maintain level to fill plug hole. . 

Repack nce 22 x2 a 
Universal Joints 
Universal Joint Spline 


Universal Joint ......... Use low pressure WEY 
Universal Joint Spline. . .Use low pressure WEY 
Universal Joint ......... Use low pressure WEY 


BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake pedal can be 
depressed more than 2”, the need for service is 
indicated 
Adjust the brakes as follows: 
All models except FC-170 dual wheel rear axles 
1. Loosen eccentric lock nut (if equipped) and 
hold lock nut with a suitable wrench 
Turn eccentric until shoe contacts drum 
Back off eccentric until shoe is just free of 
drum : 
Hold eccentric in this position and tighten 
lock nut. 
. Repeat procedure at each shoe 
Model FC-170 dual wheel rear axles 
1. Turn star wheel until shoes are locked against 


v oR oN 


rum 
2. Back off adjustment unti! drum just turns 
freely without drag 
3. Repeat procedure at each wheel 


Bleeding sequence: RR, RF, LR, LF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 
EXEvery 1,000 miles 
Field work: Daily 
Bi Every 2,000 miles 
Field or industrial work: Every 50 hours 
[Every 6,000 miles 
Field or industrial! work: Every 300 hours, 
except replace oil filter every 150 hours 
[HEvery 12,000 miles or yearly 
Field or industrial work: Every 300 hours 
lilTwice yearly 
Ki]Every 300 hours 
[J Conditional service 
Repack power take-off universal joints once 
a year if belt pulley is used frequently 
for continuous operation 


SSA, 


€€e€e€tve€ 


| 
] 
| 
! 
| 
j 


Idle 
‘ature FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 
CARTER urns) ^ 3 HUS 
2b YF ad CC Carburetor Cleaner HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty PO Penetrating Oil 
KEY TO CL Chassis Lubricant MO Motor Oil , UJ Universal Joint Grease 
ENGINE, IDEE ‘SPEED LUBRICANTS MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant . 
Seed) BORMBID SCY NEN GG Graphite Grease Differentials: MIL-L-21058 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 
lone ileal + For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, ‘Jeep’ Part No, 94557 í 
ec intake 014^ Ahane ie Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chart Corporation. Printed In U.S, A. JPT-2 oe 


cs aly —ot a m - 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service Instructions for Procedure 


5 
« 
a 
— 
= 


w SERVICE AT ! 


‘Jeep’ TRUCKS 


1963-64 Gladiator 6 Series J-200, J-300 - 


NTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 
"MM" MO 


BATTERY AA 
E Group No. Amp. Mrs COOLING SYSTEM... Quarts CRANKCASE.. | 
24H $0, 60, 70 With Heater Without Heater Severe operation, "MS" 1 
Oona system pressure 8 pounds i cr m » 10 VAT" 20 i 
COMPRESSION PRESSURE i i Above +107... 2020W IONS IOWO | 
{at cranking speed with throttle open) psi RO! Filter... Replace, add extra quart oil ee ee p Ind | 
Variations should not exceed i$ psi 7 Aus Power Steering Reservoir. . . AF CAPACITY 5 quarts 
Pr o vane erret BRAIN RIS PETS ns sue 
FIPCV System Valve...........-. CC . 
rire es a "n and clean valve and hose 
Foe ee De-so tt ib Crankcase Dipstick............+ Battery. ; Test and filfy 
Nir Cleaner Element Distributor Reservoir (plug). . Repack LM E] 
IGNITION POINTS Oil balli. i cers ce me Wick under rotor. . .Sparingly MOR 
Autolite Crankcase grade 
EL Nm EX Dry type... Wash in water and detergent Fuel Filter. Clean screen — | 
| E Dry type... eee Replace oil Fil Cap Screen. washgg | 
Inside valve cover, below fill cap 
eering Gear (plug). .... ...B0 MP 
e e Eisen mar q vo! Crankcase Breather. . Wash and oil MOE3 
c EgBrake and Clutch Fluid Clean screen inside breather pipe 


Capacity: .25..28 mtd 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Order: 
,6,2,4 


Fir 
15, 


MING PROCEDURE 
Bring engine to operating temperature 
. Connect tachometer 


TI 
1. 
2. 
3 
distributor cap tower 
4. 
buretor and tape manifold opening 
5. 
6. 
distributor to obtain recommended setting 
* 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 5 


FUEL PUMP 


Carter model M-3561S 
Pressure: 315-514 Ib. at 1800 rpm 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 


Idle 

yd 

HOLLEY uma) 
2300 % 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
590-600 rpm 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine cold, not running) 
Intake .008"; exhaust .008" 


. Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line at car- 


. Set idle speed with transmission in NEUTRAL 
. Observe timing at crankshaft damper and turn 


. Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 


Volume: 1 pint in 30 seconds or less at idle speed 


Reservoirs (plug or cap... 
Fill to !4 inch below top of fill hole 

Remote Control Gearshift 
4-speed transmission, no lubrication 


E3Spring Shackles 
Models with metal plugs, do not lubricate 


Steering Bell Crank. ...... (fitting) CL 
E] Independent Suspension Center Univ. Joint. .UJ 


Loosen inner end of boot and pull back to reach 
fitting. Reassemble boot 


Ef]Front Suspension Ball Joints. . . .(2 fittings) BJ 
Independent front suspension models only 
E3Ning Pins (4 fittings) CL 
2WD solid front axle only 
Steering Linkage.........(6 or 7 fittings) LL 
Spring Bolt: 
Et 


is with metal plug, do not lubricate 


[FaSpeedometer Cable 


Remove cable from conduit 


TRANSMISSION and 
TRANSFER CASE. .. 

Above +32°, 90; below --32^, 80 

EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 
CAPACITY 3-speed, 2% pints; 3-speed heavy- 
duty, 2% pints; 4-speed, 634 pints. Transfer Case, 
3% pints 

El) DRAIN and REFILL 
Dansisr case, drain and fill thru separate plug 

oles 


. MP 


E3Spring Bolts 


Models with meta! plug, do not lubricate ` 


flyRear Wheel Bearings... os WB 
Apply sparingly until lubricant appears at vent 
hole above fitting 
Dual rear wheel models Repack WB 
Necessary to remove axle shafts 


REAR DIFFERENTIAL. 
EJ Maintain level to fill plug hole 

CAPACITY 3 pints; dual wheel models, 644 pints 
EI) ORAIN and REFILL 

POWR-LOK IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag attached to rear cover stamped with 

"Use Limited-Slip Diff, Lube only" 


130) 


.80 MP* 


E3Spring Shackles ................... ..UL 
Models with metal plugs, do not lubricate 
GAS TANK... Gallons 
AU models oo... cece eee eee ene es 20 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BA 


AF Automatic Tr 
KEY TO 


LUBRICANTS 


B) Suspension L 
CC Carburetor C| 


GG Graphite Grease 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chort Corporation. Printed in U.S.A, 


— trea 


Type A, Suffix A 


‘Jeep’ Part No. 934570 


TRANSMISSION, Automatic. AF 
Check level, engine idling and thoroughly warm, 
NEUTRAL position . ñ 


CAPACITY, quarts 
All models 


initial Refill Total Refill 
AN s [I9 


FRONT DIFFERENTIAL. .80 MP- 
On 4WO only. Maintain level to fill plug hole. 
CAPACITY 2% pints 

DRAIN and REFILL.....-...-- 


Front Wheel Bearings. 
Front Axle Universal Joints (plug). 


130] 
[0] 


Pe 
y al 


. Repack CL 


Maintain level to fill plug hole. . 
Repack ....... aaan 
Universal Joints ..... . Use low pressure UJET] 
Universal Joint Splines. . Use low pressure CLEN 
Universal Joints ..... .Use low pressure UJET] 
BRAKE ADJUSTMENT 
With the brakes cold, if the brake lal can be 
depressed more than 27. the need service is 
indicated 
Two adjustment cams are provided on each bach- 


ing plate 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

1. Turn adjustment cam until drum cannot be 
turned by hand 

Back off adjustment cam until drum just tums 
freely without drag 

Repeat steps 1 and 2 for other adjustment 
cam 

4. Repeat procedure at each wheel 

Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, tF 


KEY TO INTERVALS 


For off-highway operation, reduce all lubri- 
cation and service intervals in accordance 
with severity of operation and amount of 
mud, water and dust encountered. Under 
extremely dusty conditions, service air 
cleaners daily 


Every 6,000 miles 

Every 12,000 miles 

Every 30,000 miles 

Twice yearly 

Conditional service 

Lubricate remote control gearshift when 


hard to shift . 
Lubricate distributor wick under rotor when 
breaker points are replaced ` 


2. 


7 


W Position for lift adapter 
Lubrication fitting 

[ Cooling system drain 
TTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGNTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


LM Lithium Grease 

MO Motor Oil 

MP*Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant 
Differentials: MIL-L-21058 

UJ Universal Joint Grease 


CL Chassis Lubricant 
Front Axle Universal Joints and 
Wheel Bearings: MIL-G-10924 
Universal Joint Splines: ‘Jeep’ 
Part No, 934190 

Ha d Brake Fluid, Heavy Duty 
teering Linkage Lubricant Jeep: Part No. 934188 
‘Jeep’ Part No. 934571 WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


a For Powr-Lok differential, use Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant, ‘Jeep’ Part No. 94557 


ansmission Fluid, 


ubricant 


leaner 


JPT-3 


pe TN liia t acc E 


— en een 


ey 


TUNE-UP DATA 


See Service instructions for Procedure 
BATTERY 


AAB 
Group No Amp. Hrs. 
1960-63 24 
1964 24 53 
24T 70 


COMPRESSION PRESSURE 


SPARK PLUGS 

Champion: 1960-61. 6-cyl. L-head J-7, OHV H-14Y, 
V-8 H-10; 1962-64, H-14Y 

Gap: 6-yl., 1960-61, .030^, 1962-64, .035” 

vð, 035” 

Torque: 30 ft. Ib. 


Mater 9e 62, ey 
i 1. 170; 1962, V-8; Delco 
1960-01, V-8; Prestolite 1963-64, 6-cyl., V-8 
VA 195-61, 016 1962.64.01 9 
. , 016%; . 0147-019" 
Dwell angle: 1960-61, &-cyl. 170 37°-41°, 245 
317-37. V-8 2B°-34°; 1962-64, 6-cyl. 38°-40° 
V8 27*-31* 


CONDENSER 
Autolite, Delco, Prestolite 


Capacity: Autolite, Prestolite, 21- H ] 
Capo A te, .21-.25 mfd; Delco, 


Cylinder Numbering Sequence 


Firing Order: 
$9 5, 1,5,3,6.2,4 

V-B 1, 6, 4, 3,6, 5, 7,2 
TIRING PROCEDURE 


Bring engine to operating temperature 
. Connect chome r d 


Connect timing light to No. 1 spark plug or 
distributor cap tower ome 
Disconnect distributor vacuum line 

. Set idle with transmission in NEUTRAL 
Observe timing at crankshaft damper and 
turn distributor to obtain pr: setting 
Reconnect vacuum line and reset to proper 
idle speed 


Timing Mark and Setting 


M OPE UN 


^. Timing Setting (Before Top Dead Center): 


&-cyl., 2°; V- 


FUEL PUMP 

AC model; 6-cyl., 1960 245, 1539415; 1960-62 
170, 5594810; 1963-64, 5594811 

Carter model: V-8, 1960, M-25735A; 1961-64, MF- 


Pressure: 4-51 Ib. at 1800 rpm 
Volume; Minimum 1 pint in 30 seconds at 4000 
rom 


CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT 
Idle ke 


Cho! Cho! 
Mixture (notches) (notches) 
initial Man. uto. 
CARTER rns) Trans. Trans. 
-bbl. AS index index 
1-bbl. BBR- 1 manual manual 
l-bbf, RBS index index 
4-bbl. WCFB 2 1 rich 1rich 
STROMBERG 
2-bbl. WW 1% index* index* 


* Some models, use manual choke 


ENGINE IDLE SPEED 
Manual Trans. 550-600 rpm 
Auto. Trans. 550 rpm in NEUTRAL 


VALVE CLEARANCES 


(engine cold, not running) 


M _6cyl.: 170 L-head, intake .018^; exhaust .018" 


245, intake .016”; exhaust .016^ 
(engine hot and running) 
6-cyl. OHV, V-8: Intake .023"-.025*; exhaust .023”- 
.025” 
tà 0. esl I- 


GEB. union 


— M — MÀ X ——— iP UR S ESTO EET. ce MTS EEST 0 7 


STUDEBAKER TRUCKS 


1960-64 5E, 6E, 7E, 8E Series 1/2, 34 Ton 


xa aliai a 


E SERVICE AT 


INTERVALS SHOWN BY SYMBOLS 


CRANKCASE............. "MS" MO 


* Heavy-duty radiator, 13% 
Cooling system pressure, 7 pounds 


Power Steering Reservoir 
EllPower Steering Res Esas die adde AF for 1964 senger cars. See Chart Sh : 
EUIR Ree ineo DRAIN and REFILL” 6 quarts; all others, 5 quarts 
See Service Instructions, page 4 


Ez Generator (2 oil cups) 


B-cyt., right side. Alternator, no lubrication " 


Element 
&-cyl. Not on models with PCV system. 1961 at 


ESteering Gear (plug). . .............. 140 GL le sideior engine 
M emer 2 plugs. Fill to level of forward plug oii f si 
Distributor 
B-cyl., top rear center 

EB Stt cup... eese MO 

SHE DUE]. a 


E Wick under rotor, 6-cyl. & 7E, 8E 8-cyl.. .MO 
E Felt under plate, 245-cu. in. 6-cyl....... MO 


Crankcase Dipstick.............. Check level 
8-cyl., right side center 


E3Gearshift Control Lever................. tL 
Not on 4-speed transmission or automatic 


red 
eplace, 
en sei opinar vr pass yoe Sidr ie side 
BE 5E, 6E, 7E 


2 OL OE OOO EEE 


CAPACITY, quarts 
E3Front Suspension and 5E7, 5E12, 6E5, 6E7, 6E12  3* 
Steering Linkage. ..... (8 or 10 fittings) CL— TER, 15 177 BES, BET, BELO, 2%, 
* Immediate! rted, 4 
EjdClutch Release Shaft................... cL Y fig transmission ^ 
Ş 6-cyl. 5E, GE, 7E, 1 fitting, left side 
EgClutch Pedal Linkage.................. MO 
[sois ii cu Wei eee 
— KE ADJU 
[Speedometer Head (oil hole). . ........... M0 With, the brakes cold, i Une brake Dr brates oF 


E3Brake Master Cylinder (plug) (thru floor). .. .HB 
Fill to 1⁄4 inch below top of fill hole 
BE series, located on firewall 


TRANSMISSION, Manual..... GL 
3-speed and Overdrive: 90 GL; 40 MO may be used 


more than 1" with power brakes, engine running, 
the need for service is indicated 

Adjust the brakes as follows: 

SE, 6E, 7E 4-ton models = 

Two eccentric adjustment cams are provided at 
fh backing plate 


Turn forward eccentric until slight shoe dra. 


epaod: Above +32°, 140; below +32° B: " v-4 
EJ Maintain levet ET plug hole boli is felt while revolving drum in direction 
CAPACITY 3-speed: 6-cyl., 26 pints, @cyl., 3 forward wheel rotation . " 
pints; 4-speed synchromesh, 8 pints; with over- | 2. Beck oft. she eccentric until drag is just 
Drain REN ae fo toi pine 3. Adjust rearward shoe in same manner except 
Overdrive, drain and fill thru separate plug holes revere: drum in direction of reverse wheel 
A Hydrovac Cylinhber 1... oorr HS don. sep 2 iua at each wheel 
Fill to bottom of plug hole , ali %- mi H " " 
l. Use a suitable tool inserted into backing 
E3Hydrovac Air Cleaner Element......... 20 M0 plate adjustment opening to expand shoes 
Wash and oil until drum is locked x 
E3Propeller Shaft Bearing k 2. Back ona edlustment 2 notches or until drum 
epar diutius ra shed s wi 
Not on 4 ton 112-inch wheelbase models | 3. Repeat procedure at cach 1 " 
i Bleeding sequence: RR, LR, RF, LF If equipped, 
E3Universal Joint Spline.............-..... led pawar brake and Hiil-Holder first 
At front joint on 1% ton 112-inch w.b. models LS 
Rear Wheel Bearings KEY TO INTERVA 


E) With plug, % ton............ 


Keep vent open. Use low pressure 


Every 4,000 miles 


HE 1,000 miles 
4 
BiEvery 5.000 miles 


m Without on ov [Every 10,000 miles 
DIFFERENTI Every 15,000 miles 


lug hole 
12, 6E10, 6E12, 7£10, 7E12, 
ints; all other models, 3 pints 


Maintain level to fill 
CAPACITY 5E11, 5 
8E10, 8E12, 57, 

Ej DRAIN and R 
TWIN-TRACTION IDENTIFICATION: 

Metal tag stamped with letters "T" or "TO", or 
number "45", attached to housing 


GAS TANK............------ Gallons 


All models 20.2 e eee e eee e cere enn e enone 18 


Every 25.000 miles 
Conditional service 
Wash crankcase breather outlet element as 


115] 
eos 20,000 miles or yearly 
[c] 


E Position for lift adapter 
€ Lubrication fitting 
@ Cooling system drain 


required —— . i 
Wash and fill oil bath air cleaner as required 
Wash and oil wire gauze air cleaner element 

as required 


FOR YOUR SAFETY, WE CHECK YOUR BATTERY, BRAKE FLUID, FAN BELT, LIGHTS, MUFFLER, TIRES AND WIPER BLADES 


MO. Motor Oil 
VO Vacuum Cylinder Oil 
WB Wheel Bearing Grease 


GL Straight Mineral Gear Lubricant 
HB Hydraulic Brake Fluid, Heavy-Duty 
'HP* Hypoid Gear Lubricant 


AF Automatic Transmission Fluid, 
Type A, Suffix A 

CC Carburetor Cleaner 

CL Chassis Lubricant 


KEY TO 
LUBRICANTS 


« Twin-Traction, use only Studebaker Twin-Traction Lubricant 


Copyright 1964, The Chek-Chor! Corporation. Printed in U.S.A. 


PICO S ash ue LN DUE E e oe = T koi ale s - - " 


SPARK PLUG 
HEAT RANGE 


Thread ie |. M. 1 | 


Hot 
1/4” | 
Cold 
Hot 
3/8" 
Cold 
Hot , 
A82 
A52 
448, C448 A42, AT42 
435 
Cold 
Hot 
Cold 
Hot 
Cold 


Hot 
46FF, 46FFX 
AE6@ 
45F, 45FF AES) 
44F, 44°F AE3(D 
Cold 


46NQ, 46XL 
ASNO, 45XL R45N@,R45XL 


44ND 


43NG) 


R45XLS 
R44XLS 


85T BF7 
84T, C84T BIF6 
C83T . | BTF3, BTF31 


Tapered B6TS 
Seat 85TS, CBSTS 
Long 

Tip 


Comparison of heat rang: is only approximate 
Ò 12-mm thread reach (2) 34" thread length 


