OCTOBER TERM, 1970 


no. 158 6 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY » @ Corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN BROTHERS, 
Petitioners 

v. 
GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and HON. 
LUTHER BOHANON, United States District J udge, 
Respondents | 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO 
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT 


J. O. TERRELL CoucH 
539 South Main Street 
Findlay, Ohio 45840 


Attorney for Petitioner 
Marathon Oil Company 


MarK H. ApAmMs 

FLoyp E. JENSEN 

of ADAMS, JONES, ROBINSON 
AND 
201 North Main, P. O. Box 1034 
Wichita, Kansas 67201 


CLAYTON L. OrN* 
1122 Southwest Tower 
Houston, Texas 77002 


Attorneys for all Petitioners 


* Attorney upon whom service should be made 
Alpha Law Brief Co, M & M Bldg., Houston, Texas 77002 


SUBJECT INDEX 


Page 
ME PI 7, es pk eet ae 2 
Pe es Cla eee ee 2 
UU ae 2 


MIR ec Pees sci Se ogee hae 


3 

3 

Reasons for Granting the Writ ............. 8 
A. Conflict with decisions of this Court ... . 8 
B. Conflict with decision of another Court of 


PNG 5 es Cao ee ee 17 

C. Exercise of the power of supervision __. . 19 
Appendix A—Opinions Below ............. A-t 
_Appendix B—Judgment ................... B-1 
Appendix C—Order Denying Rehearing ...... C-1 


Appendix D—Order Denying Rehearing En Banc D-1 


TABLE OF CASES CITED 


Page 
Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. v. Redman, 295 
WU MN oe oar ck ee ee 9 
Beacon Theatres, Inc. v. Westover, 359 U.S. 
MR coer ee eee ene 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17 
Black v. Boyd, 248 F.2d 156 (C.A. 6, 1957) 9 


Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469... 

ee ee pe Oe ee 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 
Gefen v. United States, 400 F.2d 476 (C.A. 5, 

1968), cert. dea., 393 U.S.1119 .......... 9 
Harkobusic v. General American Transportation 

Corp., 209 F.Supp. 128 (W.D. Pa., 1962). .13, 14, 16 


Page 
Jensen v. United States, 326 F.2d 891 (C.A. 9, 

Ss sl ee ee ee es 17 
Kirschner v. West Company, 300 F.2d 133 (C.A. 

MEE ote ae eee ere ow a 14 
Local No. 92, International Association of Bridge, 

S. & O. I. Wkrs. v. Norris, 383 F.2d 735 (C.A. 

a ee ee ety Cee waa ae 17 
Mann v. Tatge Chemical Co., 201 Kan. 326, 440 

WM i ae re a aes i's 13, 14 
Monroe Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U.S. 47.... 13 
Moore v. Crawford, 130 U.S. 122 ........... 13 
Prosser v. Finn, 208 U.S. 67 ............... 13 
Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. 531 ....... 7, 8, 10, 12, 13 
Servo Corporation of America v. General Electric 

Company, 337 F.2d 716 (C.A. 4, 1964).... 14 
Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253 ............ 9 
Simler v. Conner, 372 U.S. 221 ........... 7, 8,10, 12 
Smith v. Dravo Corp., 203 F.2d 369 (C.A. 7, 

DEE Se i ee a eee ie Fk ba 13, 14 
Stark v. Starr, 73 U.S. (6 Wall.) 402 ........ 13 
Swofford v. B & W, Inc., 336 F.2d 406 (C.A. 5, 

ee A eee ie ea nasa 0% 17 
Thermo-Stitch, Inc. v. Chemi-Cord Processing 

Corp., 294 F.2d 486 (C.A. 5, 1961) ...... 17 
United States v. Louisiana, 339 U.S. 699 ..... 9 
United States v. White County Bridge Commis- 

sion, 275 F.2d 529 (C.A. 7, 1960), cert. den., 

er eee ee 9 


TABLE OF CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS, STATUTES 
AND RULES CITED 


Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the 


RPI 8a ie a ee oe as 3, 8,9, 10 
Be Re ENP RE SE 1 
Rule 21, Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 7 
Rule 38(a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 3 


Rule 52(a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 17 


REFERENCE BOOKS CITED 


III Blackstone, Commentaries, pip. 431, 439 _.. 
5 Moore’s Federal Practice (2md Ed.), 938.38 
OO UO. RC Gee ae eee 
1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.), 
Bee ey MP os ee, 
1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.), 
ee Se ee 
3 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.), 
§920b, p. 618 .............. COCA: Nase a Lege 
3 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.), 
§§976-986a, pp. 890-914... sss—sisisiiwsit 
4 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.), 
SRR ie ee in 
1 Am. Jur. 2d, Actions, §7, p. 548 .-«—sdsisi(‘ “as 
27 Am. Jur. 2d, Equity, §§20, 63, pp. 542-544, 
BR Se eS eae ee a ee 
54 Am. Jur., Trusts, §§3, 565, pp. 20-21, 440- 
RSS eR ier tr ee Sn ee ene 


Page 


12 
10 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1970 


NO. 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY, a corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN BROTHERS, 
Petitioners 


v. 
GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and HON. 


LUTHER BOHANON, United States District Judge, 
Respondents 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO 
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT 


Petitioners pray for a writ of certiorari ‘to review a 
judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Tenth Circuit issuing a writ of mandamus under the 
All Writs Act, 28 U.S.C. 1651(a), directing the district 
judge to grant a jury trial on Count I of a two-count 
amended complaint.’ 


1. Count II of the amended complaint (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 15-19) 
is an alternative claim against all of the petitioners, upon which 
relief is sought only “in the event the Court does not grant the 

uitable relief prayed for upon Count I” (R-3, Ex. “B”, p. 18). 

e district judge ruled that in the event Count II is tried, the trial 
will be to a jury (R-3, Ex. “J”, p. 2) and that ruling is not an issue 
in this proceeding. 


2 


CPINIONS BELOW 


The majority and speciaily concurring opinions are not 
yet reported but are appended to this petition. (App. A). 


JURISDICTION 


The judgment of the Court of Appeals was entered on 
December 29, 1970 (App. B).’ Petition for rehearing and 
rehearing en banc was denied on February 17, 1971 
(App. C, D). The jurisdiction of this Court is invoked 
under 28 U.S.C. 1254(1). 


QUES™ION PRESENTED 


Whether there is a constitutional right under the 
Seventh Amendment to a jury trial of an action to im- 
press on the grounds of an alleged misappropriation of 
confidential business information a constructive trust upon 
a long-term liquified natural gas sales contract between 
two American and two Japanese corporations and for 
an equitable accounting. Although the Tenth Circuit 
did not even mention that the principal relief sought by 
plaintiffs was impressing a constructive trust on the 
Japanese contract, nevertheless such is a fact because 
the relief plaintiffs sought was a “decree determining their 
equitable right” to participate with defendant Marathon 
in the Japanese contract and also determining the “precise 
nature and extent’ of that equitable right. The account- 
ing relief discussed by the Court was only secondary to 
the principal relief. 


2. The documents comprising the Transcript of Record certified 
by the Clerk of the Court of Appeals are listed in the Index thereto 
and will be referred to as “R-1”, “R-2”, etc., followed by a citation 
of the specific page number of the document or attached exhibit. 


3 


CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISION AND 
FEDERAL RULE INVOLVED 


The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States provides as follows: 


“In suits at common law, where the value in con- 
troversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of 
trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried 
by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any 
Court of the United States, than according to the 
rules of the common law.” 


Rule 38(a), F.R. Civ. P., 28 U.S.C., provides as 
follows: 


“(a) Right Preserved. The right of trial by jury 
‘ as declared by the Seventh Amendment to the Con- 
stitution or as given by a statute of the United 
States shall be preserved to the parties inviolate.” 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


This mandamus action against the district judge and 
petitioners arises out of a proceeding brought in the 
United States District Court for the District of Kansas 
by the respondents George H. Bruce and Robert Martin 
as plaintiffs against petitioners Marathon Oil Company 
and 37 individuals alleged to be co-partners doing business 
under the name of Lehman Brothers as defendants. The 
basis for federal jurisdiction of the original proceeding 
is 28 U.S.C. 1332. 


Count I of the amended complaint ( R-3, Ex. “B”, 
pp. 1-15) is an action against Marathon alone to impress 
a constructive trust upon its interest in a long-term 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) sales contract and for an 


° i 


4 


equitable accounting. The contract dated March 6, 1967, 
is between Marathon and Phillips Petroleum Company, 
American corporauons, as sellers, and two Japanese 
utility corporations, as buyers. It is for a term of 15 years 
and provides for the sale and purchase of LNG, none 
of which is, or has ever been, owned by the plaintiffs in 
the original action. The gas is produced from leasehold 
estates owned by Marathon and Phillips in Alaska where 
it is liquefied and then transported by specially constructed 
ships to Japan. 


Plaintiffs contend in Count I of their original action 
that they have equitable rights in the Japanese LNG 
project, and an equitable interest in the LING contract, 
by virtue of an asserted breach by Marathon of fiduciary 
duties owed to them. The breach, so they claim, occurred 
in 1960 when they allege that Marathon wrongfully 
appropriated their confidential business information dis- 
closed to it by them under an oral agreement of trust 
and confidence, and also wrongfully excluded them from 
participating with it in the sale of Marathon’s LNG in 
Japan (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 13-14). 


They allege in Count I that in 1959 they and Lehman 
Brothers, whom they also name as defendants, formed a 
joint venture for the purpose of making detailed research, 
analysis and development of substantial markets for LNG 
in Japan; that pursuant to their joint venture agreement 
Martin and Lyon Terry, an experienced gas engineer in 
the employ of defendant Lehman Brothers, went to 
Japan where they made a comprehensive market survey 
and cost analysis involving the compilation and study of 
extensive data and information concerning the Japanese 
energy market, cost estimates of manufactured gas and 


5 


the price at which LNG would have to sell in order to 
be economically feasible in the Japanese market. They 
charge that while in Japan, Martin and Terry entered 
into negotiations with officials of two Japanese gas com- 
panies which ultimately resulted in a verbal agreement 
whereby, in consideration of plaintiffs undertaking further 
Studies and attempting to develop a feasible source of 
LNG supply, the Japanese gas companies granted plain- 
tiffs a right of first refusal to supply LNG to the Japanese 
market (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 3-4). 


It is also alleged that in the course of plaintiffs’ efforts 
to locate a feasible source of LNG supply, they ascer- 
tained that Marathon had developed and had access to 
extensive natural gas reserves in the Kenai Peninsula 
of Alaska; that plaintiff Martin then contacted representa- 
tives of Marathon and informed them that he wanted to 
present a business proposal to Marathon upon a con- 
fidential basis; and that upon being assured by Marathon’s 
representatives that all disclosures would be held in 
strictest confidence, Martin revealed the general nature 
and history of plaintiffs’ and Lehman’s proposed LNG 
project and disclosed the information which plaintiffs 
claim was subsequently wrongfully appropriated by 
Marathon (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 4-5). 


No claim, however, is made that Marathon ever actually 
agreed to join plaintiffs and Lehman Brothers in the 
proposed joint venture (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 6-7). 


It is, nevertheless, alleged by plaintiffs that the rela- 
tionship between them and Marathon gave rise to, and 
imposed upon Marathon, the fiduciary duties which they 
allege it breached by appropriating to its own benefit 
their confidential information and data and by wrongfully 


gq 

A 
ha 
f 
be 
£ 
& 


6 


excluding them from the Japanese LNG project (R-3, 
Ex. “B”, pp. 10, 14). 


Plaintiffs also allege that by reason of the consumma- 
tion of the Marathon-Phillips contract with the two 
Japanese utility companies, Marathon succeeded in ap- 
propriating the Japanese LNG market for itself and its 
associates, te their complete exclusion, and that their 
interests in, and equitable rights with respect to, the 
LNG project matured and vested (R-3, Ex. “B”, p. 13). 
However, it appears that they are unable to allege with 
certainty the value or extent of their asserted equitable 
interest in Marathon’s rights under the contract (R-3, 
Ex. “B”, p. 14). 


As stated earlier by way of relief on these allegations, 
plaintiffs’ prayer in Count I is: 


“* * * [Flor a decree determining their equitable 
right to participate with defendant Marathon in the 
aforesaid Japanese LNG project; that this Court 
adjudicate and determine the precise nature and 
extent of plaintiffs’ said rights; that defendant Mara- 
thon be compelled to render a complete disclosure 
and accounting covering all details pertaining to 
said project; and that plaintiffs be granted any and 
all such further relief as the Court deems just and 
equitable * * *” (R-3, Ex. “B”, p. 15). 


The district judge in denying plaintiffs a jury trial of 
Count I found and held that it was “pitched purely in 
equity, claiming an interest in a joint adventure” (R-3, 
Ex. “K”, p. 31), and that the extremely complicated and 
technical problems involved in balancing the equities of 
plaintiffs’ right to an interest in the project, and in the 
accounting which plaintiffs seek of money had and re- 


7 


ceived and to be had and received, not only for the past 
and present but also in years to come, were such that 
no jury on earth could understand them or be expected 
to give any kind of a fair answer (R-3, Ex. “K”, pp. 
31-41). 


Thereafter, plaintiffs commenced this original proceed- 
ing in the Court of Appeals under Rule 21, F.R.A.P., 
28 U.S.C., seeking a writ of mandamus to compel the 
district judge to grant them a jury trial on Count I. (R-3) 
On December 29, 1970, the Court entered judgment 
issuing the writ of mandamus (App. B). The majority opin- 
ion recognized that equitable relief in the form of an 
accounting was sought in Count I, but reasoned that 
under Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, the Court 
must look beyond the equitable relief sought and deter- 
mine the true nature of the underlying claim (App., A-7). 
The majority then concluded that the underlying claim 
sounded in tort, upon which plaintiffs were entitled to 
a jury trial as a matter of right, and said their disposition 
of the matter was consistent with the rationale of such 
cases as Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. 531; Simler v. 
Conner, 372 U.S. 221; Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 
469; and Beacon Theatres, Inc. v. Westover, 359 U.S. 
500 (App., A-7-A-8). They completely overlooked that 
the accounting sought was only secondary to the primary 
equitable relief sought which is the creation in plaintiffs’ 
favor of a constructive trust on Marathon’s rights under 
the LNG sales contract. 


Judge Holloway, in his concurring opinion, points out 
the primary error in the majority opinion by saying that 
it appears to treat as irrelevant the relief or remedy 
sought and then correctly holds that the Court must “look 


8 


at the nature of the remedies requested, among other 
things”, citing Ross v. Bernhard, supra. But, he errone- 
ously concludes that Count I is an action at law because 
the accounting claim “is viewed in substance as a money 
claim triable to a jury” (App., A-10). 


REASONS FOR GRANTING THE WRIT 
A. Conflict with decisions of this Court. 


This case is of the utmost importance to the administra- 
tion of justice in the federal courts for if the decision of 
the Court of Appeals is allowed to stand, it will cast 
aside completely the historic division between law and 
equity and enlarge the right to a jury trial in civil actions 
brought in the courts of the United States beyond the in- 
tendment of either the Seventh Amendment or the Fed- 
eral Rules. In short, it will require a jury trial, when de- 
manded, in suits in equity as well as actions at law. And, 
it will do so on a misconception of the doctrine an- 
nounced in the Beacon Theatres case and later applied 
in the Dairy Queen, Simler and Ross cases, supra. 


Whatever may have been the differences between the 
majority and minority in those cases, surely the majority 
opinions were not intended to nullify history, logic and 
over 100 years of firm precedent or to hold that a plain- 
tiff has a constitutional right to a jury trial in a purely 
equitable suit to impress a constructive trust and for an 
accounting after such a trust has been impressed. 


The majority opinion of the Court below, in determin- 
ing whether Count I is equitable, simply ignores the basic 
equitable relief sought in Count I. It says at p. 11 (App., 
A-7) that “The fact that as concerns Count I equitable 
relief in the form of an accounting is sought does not 


9 


in and of itself preclude a right to a jury trial * * ”"s 
citing Dairy Queen. It thus would appear from the opin- 
ion that an accounting is the only equitable relief sought, 
which of course is not correct. Why the Majority and 
concurring opinions fail to mention the basic equitable re- 
lief prayed for, and upon which an equitable accounting 
must depend, is not understandable. The relief plaintiffs 
seek is a “decree determining their equitable right to par- 
ticipate” in a contract to which they are not parties, and 
also determining the “precise nature and extent” of their 
equitable rights, together with an accounting. To grant 
the relief prayed for would necessitate a court of equity 
impiessing a constructive trust of the “precise nature and 
extent” it might find equitable under the facts, upon 
Marathon’s rights in the LNG sales contract subject to its 
liabilities under the contract. | 


The Seventh Amendment, by its express terms, does not 
extend, but merely preserves, the right to a jury trial “in 
all suits at common law.” The right so preserved is limited 
to those actions which were triable to a jury under the 
common law of England as it existed in 1791 when thk= 
Amendment was adopted. Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. 
v. Redman, 295 U.S. 654. It does not extend or apply to 
suits in equity which were historically tried to the court. 
United States v. Louisiana, 339 U.S. 699; Shields v. 
Thomas, 18 How. 253.° 


The Beacon Theatres doctrine is inapposite. There the 
Court merely held that the plaintiff did not have the right 


3. The various Courts of Appeals have consistently held that there 
is no constitutional right to a trial by jury in an equitable action. 
See, e.g. United States v. White County Bridge Commission, 275 F.2d 
529 (C.A. 7, 1960), cert. den., 364 U.S. 818; Black v. Boyd, 248 
F.2d 156 (C.A. 6, 1957); Gefen v. United States, 400 F.2d 476 
(C.A. 5, 1968), cert. den., 393 U.S. 1119. 


10 


to try its action in equity before the defendant tried its 
counterclaim and cross-action, which were actions at law. 
The actions involved the same issues, viz., whether the 
plaintiff had violated the Sherman and Clayton Antitrust 
Acts. Plaintiff had sought a declaratory judgment of no 
violation and injunctive relief restraining defendant from 
charging plaintiff with antitrust violations while defend- 
ant had by counterclaim and cross-action sought to re- 
cover treble damages for antitrust violations. 


Although Beacon Theatres, Dairy Queen, Simler, and 
Ross hold that the Seventh Amendment question depends 
on the nature of the issue to be tried rather than the char- 
acter of the overall action,* they do not hold that the relief 
sought is to be disregarded as the majority has done. Un- 
like in those cases, there is no joinder of “legal and equi- 
able claims” in Count I of the amended complaint. We 
shail presently point out th»:, under the test established by 
this Court for determining such matters, Count I is a 
purely equitable claim.° 


Furthermore, the Beacon Theatres, Dairy Queen, Simler 
and Ross cases are distinguishable from this case on the 


4. This is not to say, however, that the claim asserted is to be 
artificially broken down into abstract factual issues for the purpose 
of determining whether they are legal or equitable since as “a general 
proposition issues, in the abstract, are neither legal nor equitable, 
but their character must be determined from the proper nature of 
the claim or defense in which the issues are projected.” 5 Moore’s 
Federal Practice (2nd Ed.), 38.38[4], p. 307. “In the last analysis, 
the difference between an action at law and one in equity lies largely 
in the character of the relief sought or obtainable.” 1 Am. Jur. 2d, 
Actions, §7, p. 548. 


5. The test for determining whether a claim is legal or equitable 
is by “considering, first, the pre-merger custom with reference to 
such questions; second, the remedy sought; and, third, the practical 
abilities and limitations of juries.” Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. at 
538, footnote 10. 


11 


facts. In Beacon Theatres, the complaint stated a claim 
traditionally cognizable in equity, while the counterclaim 
Stated a claim for money damages which was triable by 
a court of law. In contrast, no counterclaim is here in- 
volved. Moreover, in Beacon Theatres the Court recog- 
nized that an action to declare no violation of the anti- 
trust laws and for an injunction to restrain charges of 
antitrust violations was an equitable action, even though 
a treble damage action based on violations would be 
triable to a jury. 


In Dairy Queen the action was for breach of a trade- 
mark licensing agreement and for trademark infringement, 
for which a money judgment was sought in the form of 
an accounting. The Court simply held that an action 
at law, which had for its purpose the recovery of 
damages or a debt, could not be converted into a suit in 
equ’ y merely by the device of seeking an accounting, un- 
less the accounts between the parties were so compli- 
cated that only a court of equity could satisfactorily un- 
ravel them. In this case, the primary and basic claim of 
the plaintiffs is not to recover a debt or damages. Rather, 
they seek a decree impressing a constructive trust on 
Marathon’s interest in a contract between it and other 
parties over whom the trial court, the Court of Appeals 
and this Court have no jurisdiction. In addition, unlike 
Dairy Queen, the accounting sought is not for money dam- 
ages, and could only be rendered following a decree de- 
termining the precise nature and extent of plaintiffs’ as- 
serted equitable rights. Moreover, it could only cover 
accrued sums and not future amounts, if any.° 


6. The distinction between an accounting in a legal sense and an 
equitable accounting is discussed further in the next section of this 
petition. 


12 


The Simler case held that the right to a jury trial is 
determined by federal rather than state law in diversity 
cases and, unlike this case, it was an action at law to re- 
cover a debt or damages. The same is true of Ross. 


Turning now to the standard for determining whether 
a claim is legal or equitable, this Court has said that 
the first of the three factors to be considered which re- 
quires “extensive and possibly abstruse historical inquiry, 
is obviously the most difficult to apply.”” However, it 
clearly was the rule under the common law of England that 
courts of equity had exclusive jurisdiction over trust rela- 
tionships. III Blackstone, Commentaries, pp. 431, 439.° 


Pomeroy says that there are two great classes of trusts, 
namely, those created by the intentional act of the party 
having dominion over the property and those created by 
operation of law. 1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence 
(Sth Ed.), § 152, pp. 206-207. He then says that the class 
of trusts “which in this country especially affords the widest 
field for the jurisdiction of equity in granting its special 
remedies so superior to mere recoveries of damages, em- 
braces those which arise by operation of law” and they 
are of two species, “resulting” and “constructive.” Id., 
§ 155, p. 209. A constructive trust “is raised by equity for 
the purpose of working out right and justice where there 
was no intention of the party to create such a relation” 
and if “one party obtains the legal title to property, not 
only by fraud or by violation of confidence or of fiduciary 
relations, but in any other unconscientious manner, so that 


7. Ross v. Bernhard, 396 US. at 538. 


8. The historical development and origin of uses and trusts and 
the assumption by the chancery courts of jurisdiction over them is 
set forth in an excellent discussion in 3 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurispru- 
dence (5th Ed.), §§ 976-986a, pp. 890-914. 


13 


he cannot equitably retain the property which really be- 
longs to another, equity carries out its theory of double 
ownership, equitable and legal, by impressing a construc- 
tive trust upon the property in favor of the one who is in 
good conscience entitled to it, and who is considered in 
equity as the beneficial owner.” Id., § 155, p. 210.° 


It is therefore apparent that historically an action to 
impress a constructive trust or for the breach of a fiduciary 
duty was exclusively within the jurisdiction of equity. See, 
also, 27 Am. Jur. 2d, Equity, §§ 20, 63, pp. 542-544, 585; 
34 Am. Jur., Trusts, §§ 3, 565, pp. 20-21, 440-441. 


Moreover, this Court has also consistently held that 
where one party acquires the legal title to property, to which 
another has a better right, a court of equity will convert 
him into a trustee of the true owner. Stark v. Starr, 73 U.S. 
(6 Wall.) 402, 419; Moore v. Crawford, 130 U.S. 122; 
Monroe Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U.S. 47; Prosser v. Finn, 
208 U.S. 67. This Court also recognized in Ross v. Bern- 
hard, supra, 396 U.S. at 542, that allegations of “a 
breach of fiduciary duty” raise equitable issues. 


The Court of Appeals, however, chose to ignore the 
foregoing principles apparently on the basis that the alle- 
gation of misappropriation of business and trade informa- 
tion disclosed under conditions of trust and confidence 
required it to conclude (1) that the action sounds in tort 
and (2) that it is therefore one at law, necessitating a 
jury trial, even though as clearly appears plaintiffs seek 
only equitable relief. The cases of Smith v. Dravo Corp., 
203 F.2d 369 (C.A. 7, 1953); Harkobusic v. General 
American Transportation Corp., 209 F.Supp. 128 (W.D. 
Pa., 1962); and Mann v. Tatge Chemical Co., 201 Kan. 


9. See, also, 3 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.) § 920b, 
p. 618. 


14 


326, 440 P.2d 640, cited by the majority are all actions 
for money damages which is not the situation in the case 
at bar. Furthermore, the Smith and Mann cases were tried 
to the court, rather than a jury, and Harkobusic holds 
that suits for breaches of confidential relationships involv- 
ing trade secrets, and for breaches of express promises 
not to disclose secrets, “may be brought in equity, and 
usually” are.’® 


The majority opinion, although ignoring the nature of 
the primary relief sought in Count I, does recognize that 
the secondary claim for an accounting in Count I is for 
“equitable relief.” Not so in the concurring opinion. Judge 
Holloway holds that the accounting claim must be viewed 
in substance as a money claim triable to a jury. This hold- 
ing clearly is not supported by the allegations of Count I. 
It is also contray to Kirschner v. West Company, 300 
F.2d 133, 135-136 (C.A. 3, 1962) where the Court sets 
forth the test for determining whether an accounting is 
one in equity or at law by quoting the following from 
4 Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence, § 1421: 


“The instances in which the legal remedies are held 
to be inadequate, and therefore a suit in equity for 
an accounting proper, are: 1. Where there are mu- 
tual accounts between the plaintiff and the defend- 
ant... 


10. The “Courts long have recognized that where the holder of 
a trade secret imparts it to another in confidence and that other 
person then appropriates it for his own use, equitable remedies may 
be invoked to right the wrong.” Servo Corporation of America v. 
General Electric Company, 337 F.2d 716, 723 (C.A. 4, 1964). “It 
appears that one of the grounds upon which jurisdiction has been 
exercised by courts of equity to award relief where a trade secret 
has been used in violation of a confidence is the jurisdiction of equity 
over relationships involving trust or confidence.” Kirschner v. West 
Company, 300 F.2d 133, 136 (C.A. 3, 1962). 


A ABIL NA RTE 


15 


“2. Where the accounts are all on one side, but 
there are circumstances of great complication, or diffi- 
culties in the way of adequate relief at law. . . 


“3. Where a fiduciary relation exists between the 
parties, and a duty rests upon the defendant to ren- 
der an account.” 


It should be abundantly clear from the foregoing dis- 
cussion that the issues raised in Count I are equitable both 
in terms of the premerger custom with respect to the 
issues and the remedy sought. 


The third factor to be considered is, of course, the prac- 
tical abilities and limitations of juries. In this connection, 
the district judge ably and clearly announced ‘from the 
bench the extremely complicated and technical problems 
that would be involved in attempting to try Count I to a 
jury (R-3, Ex. “K”, pp. 31-41)"' and said “No jury on 


11. The problems discussed by the district judge may be sum- 
marized in the form of the questions to be resolved as follows: What 
is the value of the gas reserves owned by Marathon in Alaska which 
must be determined in considering the contributions made by each 
of the parties (plaintiffs and Marathon) to the proposed joint ven- 
ture and having made that determination what rate of interest would 
Marathon be entitled to receive for holding the reserves for seven 
years for the benefit of the project; how soon are the reserves going 
to be depleted and what happens if they should suddenly be ex- 
hausted; what are the costs of the capital outlay for constructing the 
pipeline from the gas wells to a seaport and for the liquefaction 
equipment and facilities and what percentage did, or should, plain- 
tiffs pay on the capital outlay, if any, and if none, what percentage 
rate of interest should plaintiffs pay to Marathon, or vice versa, for 
furnishing the money; what should be done about obsoles .n-e and 
replacement of the equipment; what part, if any. should ,jiaintiffs 
pay of the cost of constructing the specially designed ships to trans- 
port the LNG and if none, then what rate of interest should they 
pay to Marathon, assuming it has put up the money and must repay 
the same; what about obsolescence of the ships; what should be done 
with respect to management costs on the project and the expenses 
of production and drilling; how should the rights of the parties be 


eae i Oe ee ne 


Nes 


rosy 


LT RIMMER IP HT Ar 


16 


earth, I think could understand” them or “do equity 
between the parties” (R-3, Ex. “K”, pp. 32, 38).’? Peti- 
tioners, in their petition for rehearing, mentioned other ad- 
ditional problems involved in attempting to try Count I 
to a jury. (R-14, pp. 12-14) 


The majority opinion fails to discuss the reasons given 
by the district judge for trying Count I as an equitable 
action and the concurring opinion passes them off by 
saying that the accounting claim is not shown to be 
excessively complicated. The question of whether Count I 
presents such “imperative circumstances”’* or is so ex- 
tremely complicated and technical that it cannot be tried 
to a jury should not be decided from the pleadings. 
Harkobusic v. General American Transportation Corp., 
209 F. Supp. 128 (W.D. Pa., 1962). The district judge 
had the benefit of many depositions and affidavits,"* 
which plaintiffs did not include in the record in the Court 
of Appeals, and his findings must be accepted because 


adjusted in the light of the risks imposed on Marathon in the project 
including the risks 2f failure of the gas supply and dealing with 
people in a foreign country who might say “We cancel the contract. 
We won’t use any more of your gas”; what is the value of the 
discovery of the Japanese market as claimed by the plaintiffs and 
of the claimed confidential information and verbal agreement with 
the Japanese; and finally there is the element of the accounting 
plaintiffs seek from Marathon of moneys had and received and to 
be had and received, not only for the past and present but, also, 
in years to come. 


12. It might also be said that no court on earth could properly 
and understandably instruct a jury on the complex issues such as 
those summarized in the preceding footnote. 


13. See Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469; Beacon Theatres, 
Inc. v.. Westover, 359 U.S. 500. 


14. The depositions and affidavits were before the district judge 
in connection with the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. 
(R-3, Ex. “D”) 


“47 


they do not appear to be clearly erroneous. Rule 52(a) 
F.R.Civ.P. Moreover, the findings of the district judge 
cannot be attacked because respondents in their original 
mandamus action did not include the record on which 
the district judge made his findings. See Jensen v. United 
States, 326 F.2d 891, 893 (C.A. 9, 1964). 


The inescapable conclusion is that a consideration of 
the three factors clearly establishes that Count I is an 
equitable claim. 


B. Conflict with decision of another Court of Appeals. 


The majority and the concurring opinions are in con- 
flict with the decision of the Court of Appeals for the 
Fifth Circuit in Local No. 92, International Assn, S. & 
O. I. Wks. v. Norris, 383 F.2d 735 (1967), where it 
was unequivocally held that issues such as those here 
involved in both the primary and secondary claims for 
relief are in name and in substance traditionally equitable. 
The Fifth Circuit therefore held that there was no manda- 
tory right to a jury trial. In so holding, it gave full con- 
sideration to the Beacon Theatres and Dairy Queen cases 
and to one of its own prior decisions'’® and concluded 
that those cases had not “converted typical non-jury 
claims, or remedies, into jury ones” and were not “a 
catalyst which suddenly converts any money request into 
a money claim triable by jury.”’* (383 F.2d at 741) 


The Fifth Circuit went on to discuss the distinction 
between an accounting in a‘ legal sense and an accounting 


15. Thermo-Stitch, Inc. v. Chemi-Cord Processing Corp., 294 F.2d 
486 (1961). 


16. This was the express holding by the Fifth Circuit in its 
earlier case of Swofford v. B & W Inc., 336 F.2d 406 (1964). 


18 


in equity and distinguished Dairy Queen saying that “we 
construe the present complaint not as seeking “damages 
in the legal sense’ but rather ‘requesting an equitable 
accounting wherein damages may be determined... .’” 
and that framing “the prayer for relief of the complaint 
in terms of an ‘accounting’ was neither an empty verbal 
formalism nor a sham employed merely to defeat 
Thacker’s right to a jury determination of the extent if 
any, of his breach of trust.” It then analogized _ the 
fiduciary responsibilities involved in the case with those 
of a trustee and recognized that traditionally “the remedies 
of the beneficiary of a trust against the trustee were 
exclusively within the jurisdiction of equity.” (383 F.2d 
at 741) ¥ 


The case at bar is,*indistinguishable from the Fifth 
Circuit decision. The basis for relief and the issues in- 
volved are identical. Count I of the amended complaint 
requests “an equitable accounting” rather than “damages 
in the legal sense” and the prayer is “neither an empty 
verbal formalism nor a sham employed merely to defeat” 
the right to a jury trial. The only difference between the 
two cases is that in the case at bar the district judge, 
as previously discussed, has made express findings on 
“the exceedingly complex nature” of the issues raised, 
and accounting sought, in Count I." 


The two decisions are in irreconcilable conflict which 
should be resolved by this Court on review by writ of 
certiorari. 


17. This Court recognized in Dairy Queen that even the right to 
a jury trial on legal issues could be lost under “imperative circum- 
stances”. (369 U.S. at 472-473; and see the concurring opinion of 
Mr. Justice Harlan, 369 U.S. at 480). 


19 


C. Exercise of the power of supervision. 


This is also one of those rare cases in which certiorari 
Should be granted because the Court of Appeals has so 
far departed from the accepted and usual course of 
judicial proceedings as to plainly call for the corrective 
exercise of this Court’s power of supervision. As we have 
pointed out, Count I is a purely equitable claim and the 
accepted and usual course of judicial proceedings from 
time immemorial has been to try such claims to the court. 
The Court of Appeals has nevertheless by means of the 
extraordinary writ of mandamus, ordered the district 
judge to grant plaintiffs a jury trial on their equitable 
claim. There is no basis in history, logic, the Constitution 
or the decisions of this Court for that action and it should 
be corrected by the exercise of this Court's power of 
supervision. 


Bevond the purely legal basis, however, there are also 
policy considerations which make the Court’s virtually 
unliniited enlargement of the Seventh Amendment right 
to trial by jury improvident as well as unwarranted. It is 
common knowledge that the American system of juris- 
prudence is today facing its greatest crisis. One of the 
most alarming and troublesome areas contributing to, 
if not creating, the crisis is the unprecedented backlog 
of cases and the congested calendars of almost every 
federal court in the United States. 


It has been suggested that one of the solutions to the 
problems in our system is to restrict the right to a jury 
trial"* for there can be no doubt that jury trials are more 
expensive and time consuming than court trials. However, 


18. See Warren ©. Burger, Agenda for Change, 54 Am. Jud. Soc., 
pp. 232-236. 


20 


under the decision of the Court of Appeals, the right 
is not restricted. Rather, it is enlarged to such an extent 
that litigants will not only be entitled to a jury trial in 
actions at law but also in equity suits. Such a result 
can only further aggravate an already serious situation. 
It should be corrected by directions from this Court to 
return, once again, to the time-honored principle of 
trying equitable claims to the court, rather than a jury. 


Respectfully submitted, 


J. O. TERRELL COUCH 
539 South Main Street 
Findlay, Ohio 45840 


Attorney for Petitioner 
Marathon Oil Company 


MarK H. ADAMS 

FLoypD E. JENSEN 

of ADAMS, JONES, ROBINSON 
AND MANKA 
201 North Main, P. O. Box 1034 
Wichita, Kansas 67201 


CLAYTON L. ORN 
1122 Southwest Tower 
Houston, Texas 77002 


Attorneys for all Petitioners 


ae 


A-1 


APPENDIX 


United States Court of Appeals 


TENTH CIRCUIT 


NOVEMBER TERM—1970 


NO. 435-70 


GEORGE H. BRUCE and ROBERT MARTIN, 
Petitioners, 
v. 


HON. LUTHER BOHANON, UNITED STATES 
DISTRICT JUDGE, MARATHON OIL COMPANY : 
a Corporation; and ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a 

LEHMAN BROTHERS, 
Respondents. 


Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the District of Kansas 


(D.C. No. W-3901) 
(Filed December 29, 1970) 


Robert C. Foulston and Robert L. Howard (Foulston, 
Siefkin, Powers and Eberhardt on brief ) for Petitioners. 


No appearance for the Honorable Luther Bohanon. 


Clayton L. Orn (Mark H. Adams, Floyd E. Jensen, 
Adams, Jones, Robinson and Manka on brief ) for 
Respondents. 


A-2 


Before SETH, HOLLOWAY and McWILLIAMS, 
Circuit Judges 


McWILLIAMS, Circuit Judge. 


Bruce and Martin, petitioners in this court and plain- 
tiffs in the trial court, filed with us a “Petition for Writ 
of Mandamus and/or Prohibition,” naming as respond- 
ents therein the Honorable Luther Bohanon, a United 
States District Judge, the Marathon Oil Company, an 
Ohio corporation, and the individual members of a New 
York investment banking copartnership doing business 
as Lehman Brothers. 


From the record before us it is learned that Bruce and 
Martin, as plaintiffs, filed in the trial court a complaint 
against Marathon, and that by amended complaint added 
Lehman Brothers as an additional party defendant. 


The central issue in the instant proceeding concerns 
the propriety of the trial judge’s determination that Count 
I of the amended complaint presents only so-called equi- 
table issues which would be tried by the court, and not 
a jury. A review of this determination necessarily involves 
a rather in depth consideration of plaintiffs’ lengthy 
amended complaint in an effort to ascertain the true 
nature of the proceeding. Hence, reference with at least 
a degree of detail must be made to the various allegations’ 
contained in the amended complaint. 


Respondents (not including Judge Bohanon, who makes 
no appearance) in their brief characterize Count I as 
being “an action against Marathon alone for the alleged 


A-3 


wrongful appropriation in January 1960 of so-called con- 
fidential information which plaintiffs claim was disclosed 
to Marathon under an oral agreement of trust and con- 
fidence.” Elaborating a bit, plaintiffs in Count I allege, 
among many other things, that they formed a joint ven- 
ture with Lehman Brothers for “the purpose of detailed 
research, analysis, and development of the substantial 
Japanese market for LNG [liquefied natural gas]”; that 
Martin and an experienced gas engineer associated with 
Lehman Brothers then went to J apan and “conducted a 
comprehensive market survey and cost analysis concern- 
ing the Japanese energy market, cost estimates of manu- 
factured gas and the price under which LNG would have 
to sell in order to be economically feasible in the J apanese 
market”; and that while in Japan their negotiations with 
Officials of certain Japanese utility companies culminated 
in a verbal agreement that in consideration for further 
studies to be made by the plaintiffs they would be, and 
were, granted a first right of refusal as regards supplying 
LNG to the Japanese market. 


It is further alleged in Count I that following Martin’s 
return from Japan the plaintiffs undertook a study to 
determine possibie sources of LNG adequate to supply 
the Japanese market requirements and that in the course 
of the study plaintiffs learned that Marathon had recently 
developed and had access to extensive natural gas reserves 
in the Kenai Peninsula of Alaska, for which there was 
seemingly no Alaskan market. 


It was in this general factual setting, according to the 
allegations in Count I, that Martin then contacted Mara- 
thon and informed their representative that he “wanted to 
present a business proposal to defendant Marathon upon 


A-4 


a confidential basis.” It is further alleged that after being 
assured that all disclosures made by Martin would be 
treated by Marathon in strictest confidence, Martin there- 
after revealed the general nature and history ~f plaintiffs’ 
proposed LNG project, and disclosed to Marathon plain- 
tiffs’ data, information, computations, market surveys, cost 
analyses, and their business contacts with appropriate 
Japanese officials. 


Plaintiffs then go on to allege, and all in Count I, that 
Marathon and Lehman Brothers thereafter conspired and 
agreed that Marathon alone, and to the complete ex- 
clusion of the plaintiffs, would proceed to develop the Jap- 
anese methane market. Specifically, it is alleged that 
Marathon violated its fiduciary duty to the plaintiffs and 
appropriated to its own use plaintiffs’ confidential informa- 
tion and wrongfully excluded plaintiffs from the Japanese 
LNG project, all of which came to fruition when Marathon 
and its associates, but not the plaintiffs, entered into con- 
tracts with the Tokyo Gas Company and Tokyo Electric 
Power Company. 


It is on these -everal allegations that plaintiffs prayed 
for judgment on Count I, seeking by way of relief a deter- 
mination of an equitable right to participate with Marathon 
in their Japanese LNG project and for an accounting in 
connection therewith. 


As above indicated, Count II, unlike Count I, is di- 
rected at both Marathon and Lehman, but each and 
every allegation contained in Count I is incorporated in 
Count II by appropriate reference thereto. Additionally, 
and quite like certain of the allegations in Count I, it was 
alleged in Count IT that Marathon and Lehman Brothers 
“conspired and joined together to exclude the plaintiffs 


A-5 


from further participation in the Japanese methane mar- 
ket, to facilitate and permit the defendant Marathon to 
usurp and wrongfully use the confidential information pre- 
viously imparted to it by plaintiff Martin * * *,” By way 
of relief, but in the alternative and in the event the court 
did not grant the relief prayed for in Count I, plaintiffs 
sought joint and several judgment against Marathon and 
Lehman in-the sum of $10,000,000. 


By answer Marathon and Lehman denied any con- 
spiracy on their part or wrongful appropriation of any 
confidential business information imparted to either by 
plaintiffs. 


By pretrial order, the Honorable Luther Bohanon pro- 
posed, among many other things, to try the issues posed 
by Count I and Marathon’s answer thereto before any 
possible trial of Count II. Additionally, and this is the 
heart of the present controversy, he determined that the 
trial of Count I would be to the court and not a jury, even 
though plaintiffs had filed a demand for trial by jury be- 
fore any answer was filed. The trial judge gave as his 
reason therefor the fact that in his considered view Count I 
presented “equitable” issues, and not “legal” issues, at the 
same time indicating, however, that if, as, and when there 
was a trial of Count II, such would be to a jury. It was 
in this setting and at this juncture that plaintiffs, as peti- 
tioners in this court, filed a petition seeking, among other 
things, that the respondent judge be directed to grant 
plaintiffs a trial by jury on Count I of their amended 
complaint. 


Initially, it is contended by counsel for Marathon and 
Lehman Brothers that mandamus is not the proper ve- 
hicle for obtaining review of the trial judge’s ruling that 


A-6 


Count I would be tried to the court, and that petitioners 
should have sought such review by interlocutory appeal 
under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) or by appeal after final judg- 
ment. Counsel apparently concede that under certain cir- 
cumstances a writ of mandamus may be a proper method 
for obtaining review of an interlocutory order of the trial 
court, but argue that such relief is not available in the 
“ordinary situation,” and that the present proceeding is 
just an “ordinary situation.” We do not agree. 


In Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, in commenting 
upon Beacon Theatres, Inc. v. Westover, 359 U.S. 500, 
the United States Supreme Court declared that the Beacon 
case emphasizes the responsibility of Federal Courts of 
Appeal to grant mandamus where necessary to protect the 
constitutional right to trial by jury. In line with this pro- 
nouncement see General Tire & Rubber Co. v. Watkins, 
331 F.2d 192 (4th Cir.); Filmon Process Corp. v. Sirica, 
379 F.2d 449 (D.C. Cir.). In the latter case appears the 
following pertinent comment: 


“* #* * [I]t is a fair inference that even on an 
application for an extraordinary writ for pre-trial 
relief the Supreme Court expects the courts of appeals 
to make a determination whether or not there is a 
right of trial by jury, regardless of whether the 
question is a close or complicated one, and that the 
Court would not welcome a doctrine whereby a 
party’s constitutional right to jury trial was trammeied 
in fact because a court of appeals determined that 
the issue was doubtful and that it need not and 
would not decide whether or not the party had the 
right of trial by jury * * *.” 


As indicated, the real issue in the instant proceeding 
is whether under the Seventh Amendment to the Con- 


A-7 


stitution of the United States and Fed. R. Civ. P. 38(a) 
and 39(a), the petitioners, having made a timely demand 
for trial by jury, have a right to a trial by jury of Count I 
of their amended complaint. We conclude that the peti- 
tioners do have such a right and that the respondent 
judge erred in holding that the trial as it relates to Count I 
should be to the court. 


Count I of the amended complaint, a lengthy pleading 
which has been above summarized, in essence alleges that 
the plaintiffs developed certain business and trade infor- 
mation which they disclosed under conditions of confi- 
dence to Marathon, and that Marathon thereafter wrong- 
fully appropriated this confidential information to its own 
benefit and to the detriment of the plaintiffs. 


The fact that as concerns Count I equitable relief in 
the form of an accounting is sought does not in and of 
itself preclude a right to a jury trial, as it has been declared 
that the right to trial by jury does not depend upon the 
choice of words used in pleadings. Dairy Queen y. Wood, 
369 U.S. 469. See also King v. United Benefit Fire Insur- 
ance Co., 377 F.2d 728 (10th Cir.), cert. denied 389 
U.S. 857. Rather, we must look beyond the relief sought 
and determine the true nature of the underlying claim 
upon which the prayer for relief is itself predicated. 
Viewed in this light, petitioners assert that Count I sounds 
in law—not in equity—and that the core issue as to 
whether there has in fact been a wrongful appropriation 
presents a legal issue which, under the circumstances, 
requires that. Count I be tried to a jury. We agree. 


In sum, Count I alleges that Marathon tortiously mis- 
appropriated business and trade information developed 
by the plaintiffs and given Marathon on a confidential 


PO RLY OTe 


ONE REP elk nection an 


Se 


A-8 


basis to the plaintiffs’ detriment. We hold that such a 
claim sounds in tort. Restatement of Torts, § 757. See 
also Smith v. Dravo Corp., 203 F.2d 369 (7th Cir.); 
Harkobusic v. General American Transportation Corp., 
209 F. Supp. 128 (W.D. Pa.); and Mann v. Tatge Chemi- 
cal Co., 201 Kan. 326, 440 P.2d 640. 


_ Robine v. Ryan, 310 F.2d 797 (2d Cir.) presents 
a somewhat analogous situation. There it was held that 
the allegation that one has been injured by another’s 
wrongful appropriation to his own use of an invention 
divulged on the basis of a confidential relationship stated 
a legal cause of action which upon timely request should 
be tried by a jury. 


Certainly the present trend in judicial thinking is to 
zealously guard the right to trial by jury, and we believe 
our disposition of the matter to be in harmony with the 
rationale of such cases as Ross v. Bernhard, 396 USS. 
531; Simler v. Conner, 372 U.S. 221; Dairy Queen v. 
Wood, 369 U.S. 469; and Beacon Theatres, Inc. v. 
Westover, 359 U.S. 500. 


Finally, it is argued that even if the petitioners at one 
time had a right to trial by jury of Count I, they by 
their actions have now waived any right thereto. As above 
stated, petitioners filed a demand for trial by jury before 
Marathon and Lehman Brothers ever filed their answer. 
Hence their demand was timely filed. Fed. R. Civ. P. 
38(b). However, it is said that prior to the filing of their 
demand petitioners waived their right to trial by jury. 
This argument is based on the fact that at an earlier hear- 
ing counsel for the petitioners indicated uncertainty as 
to whether Count I was legal or equitable in nature and 


A-9 


for the further reason that counsel did not object when 
the trial judge at one time indicated that he would try 
the issue of liability first and separate from the issue of 
damages. Suffice it to say in this regard that the matter 
relied upon 23 constituting a waiver simply does not add 
up to an intentional and voluntary relinquishment of a 
known right and falls far short of waiving the very basic 
right of trial by jury. The cases urged upon us in this 
regard are ones where the right to trial by jury was 
deemed waived by permitting the trial to be to the court, 
without any objection thereto, or where prior to actual 
trial there was expressed assent by counsel that the trial 
be to the court and not a jury. Such factual situations 
are far different from the instant one. 


The petition insofar as it relates to petitioners’ right 
to trial by jury of Count I is therefore granted. The 
balance of the relief prayed for by petitioners, however, 
is denied and we perceive of no good purpose in detailing 
our reasons therefor, inasmuch as the central issue is 
petitioners’ right to trial by jury of Count I. The Stay 
heretofore ordered by this court is vacated, with further 
proceedings to be consonant with the views herein ex- 
pressed. 


GPP KO? 


WB ischeintirrreicta sss cndvtsinsiaimnetic 


A-10 
NO. 435-70 


HOLLOWAY, Circuit Judge, concurring specially: 


I agree with the majority opinion in its treatment of 
the issues before us, but on the central question of jury 
trial I add these brief comments to make clear my under- 
standing as to why count one is triable to a jury. 


The majority opinion appears to treat as irrelevant the 
prayer in count one which seeks relief in the form of an 
accounting, reasoning that we must look beyond the relief 
sought and its label to the underlying tort alleged, which 
is triable to a jury. While the characterizations in the 
pleadings are not controlling, we are called on to look 
at the nature of the remedies requested, among other 
things. See Ross v. Bernard, 396 U.S. 531, 538. In the 
light of Seventh Amendment principles the accounting 
claim—which is not shown to be excessively complicated 
—is viewed in substance as a money claim triable to a 
jury. Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, 477-478; 
AMF Tuboscope, Inc. v. Cunningham, 352 F.2d 150, 
153 (10th Cir.). And since the issues on one of the 
remedies requested in the count are triable to a jury, the 
plaintiffs may not be denied a jury trial in the circum- 
stances presented here. Beacon Theatres v. Westover, 
359 U.S. 500. 


B-1 
APPENDIX B 
NOVEMBER TERM - DECEMBER 29, 1970 


Before Honorable Oliver Seth, Honorable William a 
Holloway, Jr., and Honorable Robert H. McWilliams, 
Circuit Judges. 


No. 435-70 


George H. Bruce and Robert Martin, 
Petitioners 


Vv. 


Hon. Luther Bohanon, United States District J udge, 
Marathon Oil Company, a Corporation; and 
Robert Lehman, et al., d/b/a Lehman Brothers, 

Respondents. 


This cause came on to be heard on petition for writ 
of mandasus and/or prohibition and responses thereto, 
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, 
it is ordered that the stay heretofore ordered by this 
Court on September 3, 1970, is vacated, and the Court 
below is required in further proceedings to allow peti- 
tioners their right to trial by jury of Count I, with further 
proceedings to be consonant with the views expressed in 
the opinion. Holloway, Circuit Judge, concurring specially. 


/s/ HOWARD K. PHILLIPS, 
Clerk. 


PR ei RL a: yeh d 


ATR WAT WA Tied hie SOF a RR AR EOP AIF ) yo aly APA dy Ne eae 


C-1 
APPENDIX C 
JANUARY TERM - FEBRUARY 17, 1971 


Before Honorable Oliver Seth, Honorable William J. 
Holloway, Jr., and Honorable Robert H. McWilliams, 
Circuit Judges. 


No. 435-70 


George H. Bruce and Robert Martin, 
Petitioners 


V. 


Hon. Luther Bohanon, United States District Judge, 
Marathon Oil Company, a Corporation; and 
Robert Lehman, et al., etc., 
Respondents. 


Upon consideration of petition of respondents for 
rehearing, it is ordered that said petition be and is hereby 


denied. 


D-1 
APPENDIX D 
JANUARY TERM - FEBRUARY 17, 1971 


Before Honorable David T. Lewis, Chief Judge; and 
Honorable Oliver Seth, Honorable William J. Holloway, 
Jr., and Honorable Robert H. McWilliams, Circuit Judges. 


No. 435-70 


ye 


George H. Bruce and Robert Martin, 
Petitioners 


V. 


Hon. Luther Bohanon, United States District J udge, 
Marathon Oil Company, a Corporation; and 
Robert Lehman, et al., etc., 
Respondents. 


Upon consideration of the petition of respondents for 
rehearing en banc, it is ordered that said petition be and 
is hereby denied; Judge Hill, Circuit J udge, not participat- 
ing. 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY, a corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN BROTHERS 
Petitioners 
Vv. 

GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and 


“Letters” tnc., 702 South Emporia, Wichita, Kansas 67211 (316) 265-1691. 


Pesce 


SUBJECT INDEX 


Page 

Opinions Below, Jurisdiction, Constitutional Provision, 
and Federal Rule Involved....................--.-ccsecceseseee- l 
INNS: FINN aad atenckcanesnsancehenhesionssdonenCoenssbenatepis 2 
I A FN iii resstxcaccecctideantsanntiaidoeudmines 2 
UII UE I oe eld er ort coals 2 

Course of Proceedings and Disposition in the 

SII Slats eta coca ats eens voneusnbiachackice 5 
eR ET 9 
Reasons Why Certiorari Should Not Be Granted ............ 10 


I. The Question Presented by this Case, when 

correctly analyzed, has already been decided by 
this Court and the Court of Appeals correctly 
DERONOE GURC IN MONO ria cds ce cecanee 10 
A. Analysis of the Amended Complaint discloses 

that the cause of action sounds in tort, with 

different relief sought in separate counts, 

and that the common issues to be tried are 

legal in nature and traditionally triable to 

Ae __: Semen bane BRAN ODE IGN ynditonr ETON Py mee 10 
B. Joinder of legal and equitable claims for 

relief cannot impair the right to jury trial 

and this Court has required that the jury 

ried Die ORIN TOI cco ines cence 18 


Il. The Decision of the Tenth Circuit does not 
conflict with decisions of other Courts of Appeals 
concerned with similar claims .......................... 26 


III. The Court of Appeals has not so far departed 
from the accepted and usual course of judicial 
proceedings as to necessitate or justify exercise 
of this Court’s supervisory power ...................... 33 


RRR Ne cas 9 gt Aes ly ee OMEN ety rr OT AED NE 37 


Ce Se) ee eee) eee eee 


=, 


TABLE OF CASES CITED 


Page 

A.M.F. Tuboscope, Inc. v. Cunningham, 352 F.2d 

ee en eee 27, 28 
Atlantic Wool Combing Co. v. Norfolk Mills, Inc., 357 

Oe EES eS a LS. a ae i: 
Ballard v. Claude Drilling Co., 149 Kan. 506, 88 

ON RE) nC Re a lee 14 
Beacon Theatres v. Westover, 359 U.S. 500,510, 79 — 

S. Ct. 948, L.Ed. 2d 

NE ND seca 17, 20-24, 26, 28-31, 34 


Colgate-Palmolive Co. v. Carter Products, Inc., 230 
F.2d 855 (4th Cir. 1956), cert. den. 352 U.S. 843, 
Ry Sh SBF 2, See ate Pe CUS . 


Copley v. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co., 295 F. 
BE OD Le 2 Spe ae 16 


Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, 479, 82 S. Cr. 
894, 8 L.Ed. 2d 44 
‘S's Sa 17, 20, 21, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34 


DePinto v. Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 323 F.2d 826, 
835 (1963), cert. den. Garsuch v. DePinto, 


SN le ea eg sis cnc ences gk bkawa sates 28, 29 
DePinto v. Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 376 U.S. 950 
Re Oe eo ccc catavonanucaceueisvabonnan 29 


Duhame v. Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 376 U.S. 950....29 
Franke v. Wiltschek, 209 F.2d 493 (2nd Cir. 1953) ....16 
Granik v. Perry, 418 F. 2d 832 (Sth Cir. 1969) .......... 16 


Harkobusic v. General American Transportation Corp., 
209 F. Supp. 128 (W. D. Penn. 1962) ................. =AF 


Heyman v. A. R. Winarick, Inc., 325 F.2d 584 (2nd 
OO ORS) ce es ee 15, 16 


Hoeltke v. C. M. Kemp Mfg., Co., 80 F.2d 912 
4th Cir. 1936), cert. den. 298 U.S. 673, 80 L.Ed. 
i 52 IRMA Cinna eer rn Ace RoeNt y reial ridcensr UR AP kn i Pater Me 16 


Imperial Chem. Indus. Ltd. v. National Distillers & 
Chem. Corp. 342 F.2d 737 (2nd Cir. 1965) .......... 16 


International Industries v. Warren Petroleum Co., 248 
F.2d 696 (3rd Cir. 1957), cert. dismissed by stipu- 
ROR Oar Om occ ee Le 16 


Kennedy v. Lakso Co., 414 F.2d 1249, 1252 (1969)....29 
King v. United Benefit Fire Ins. Co., 377 F.2d 728 


C1967 >, Guth a Se a ee se 28 
Local No. 92 International Ass’n. $.&O.1.W. V.S. v. 

Norris, 383 F.2d 735 (5th Cir. 1967) ............ a4, 52 
Mann v. Tatge Chem. Co. Inc., 201 Kan. 326, 446 

Pore Ce Ca se a a 14 
Meeker v. Ambassador Oil Co., 308 F.2d 875 (10th 

Cir, 1962) Rev. 003575 US.-160 3,. 26, 27 
Nedd v. Thomas, 316 F. Supp. 74, M.D. Penn. 

i 1) 2 Seneennerre ony e er Maren oer TUMORAL NG Ener pnr 34,52 


Robine v. Ryan, 310 F.2d 797 (2nd Cir. 1962) ........ 30 


Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. 531, 537, 538 
EEN AES RO PO ae Ie AMPS TINTS ee 12, 19, 23, 24, 31, 32 


Seismograph Service Corp. v. Offshore Raydist, Inc., 
135 F. Supp. 342 (E.D.La. 1955), aff'd. with order 
to award attorney fees on remand, 263 F.2d 5 (5th 
SBE RET Ganon kin oancdaciciatns Prctatacsncsusd ndeces ti acianes 16, 17 


ee a ae ee > 2 ene 14, 23, 24 


Re ee ee ee oh 


Simmons v. Avisco, Local 713, Textile Workers Union, 


DP ee POEs SOLS CIGD vcercdcecconnesn. 29, 32 
Smith v. Dravo, 203 F.2d 369 (7th Cir. 1953) ............ 16 
Speedry Chemical Products, Inc. v. Carter’s Ink 

Company, 306 F. 2d 328 [2nd Cir. 1962] .............. 15 
Swofford v. B & W Inc., 336 F.2d 406 (5th Cir. 

1964) cnet, Gem. 378 US Ge 30 
Thermo-Stitch, Inc. v. Chemi-Cord Processing Corp., i 

294 F.2d GO, BOT CAG) i cccchilce tees 29 
Water Services, Inc. v. Tesco Chemicals, Inc., 410 

ae Are Se Gs TE es ro cneitcee ages 16 
W. R. Grace & Co. v. Hargadine, 392 F.2d 9 (6th Cir. 

gh RUM at Rite feebriee operas cy ran onsen a yee rey det 16 


TEXTS AND AUTHORITIES CITED 


Page 
9 Cavitch, Business Organizations § 232.02 [1][c] 
LL: = all Rain Rehan EF Ue ARADO PMNS i OR Saienare ra. Sey is eee 13 
2 Callmann, Unfair Competition, Trademarks, and 
Monopolies, § 51, P. 346. (3rd Ed. 1968) .............. 17 
SOCTE RES 9 TE Fe oii he 17 
James, Right To A Jury Trial In Civil Action, 72 Yale 
TE AE ss AB ve ES.) SMR RC eS 12 
Moore, Federal Practice, {| 38.13 (2nd Edition) .......... 17 


Restatement of Torts, § 757 (1939) ....12, 13, 14, 15, 17 
Restatement of Trusts, Second, § 197, (1959) ......... 33 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 
OCTOBER TERM, 1970 


NO. 1586 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY, a corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN BROTHERS 
Petitioners 
Vv. 


GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and 
HONORABLE LUTHER BOHANON, 
United States District Judge, 
Respondents 


BRIEF OF RESPONDENTS BRUCE AND MARTIN 
IN OPPOSITION TO PETITION FOR WRIT 
OF CERTIORARI 


OPINIONS BELOW, JURISDICTION, 
CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISION, AND 
FEDERAL RULE INVOLVED 


The above captioned requisites are adequately set out 
under the respective headings of the Petition For Certiorari, 
with the exception that the majority and specially concurring 
opinions of the United States Court of Appeals, Tenth 
Circuit, were reported on March 22, 1971, and may be 
found at 436 F.2d 733. 


Neen Sea dealt 


CE ay, FTL a re 


2 


QUESTION PRESENTED 


The question presented by this case is whether the Court 
of Appeais correctly decided the principal issue presented to 
it, namely; 


Does the Refusal of the Respondent Judge to 

A. Grant [Respondents ] a jury Trial on All Issues, or 

B. Allow the Trial of Count II to a Jury, Before the 
Trial o: Count I to the Court, or 

C. Allow [Respondents] to Withdraw Any Claim for 
Equitable Relief, or Otherwise Amend Their Ccoim- 
plaint. 


Violate [Respondents] Constitutional Right to Trial by 
Jury as Embodied in the Seventh Amendment of the 
Constitution of the United States and Preserved by the 
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure? (R-3, p. 8) 
It was precisely the foregoing issue which the Court of 
Appeals decided when it held: 

“As indicated, the real issue in the instant proceeding is 
whether under the Seventh Amendment to the Constitu- 
tion of the United States and Fed.R.Civ.P. 38 (a) and 
39(a), the petitioners, having made a timely demand for 
trial by jury, have a right to a trial by jury of Count I 
of their amended complaint. We conclude that the peti- 
tioners do have such a right and that the Respondent 
Judge erred in holding that the trial as it relates to Count I 
should be to the court. (436 F.2d at 735. Emphasis 
added.) 


STATEMENT OF CASE 
Nature of Action 
The original diversity action out of which this Mandamus 


proceeding arose was first commenced in the United States 
District Court for the District of Kansas in October, 1967, 


3 


against Petitioner (defendant) Marathon Oil Company 
only, alleging tortious misappropriation of business or trade 
secret material developed by Respondents ( plaintiffs) Bruce 
and Martin and disclosed to Marathon on a confidential 
basis during a confidential relationship. The general subject 


matter of the lawsuit concerns the market in Japan for 


Liquefied Natural [Methane] Gas [LNG], the conceptual- 
ization and development of a project by Bruce and Martin 
to capture such market by liquefaction and shipment by 
ccean of LNG, and the litigants’ participation therein. 


As a result of information disclosed by discovery pro- 
cedures, Plaintiffs-Respondents Bruce and Martin filed an 
Amended Complaint in September, 1968, joining as addi- 
tional defendants the New York based investment partner- 
ship known as Lehman Brothers (Petitioners Here). Both 
the Original and Amended Complaints were drawn on the 
single underlying theory of a business tort, based on breach 
of the duty owed by Petitioner(s)-Defendant(s) to Re- 
spondents-( Plaintiffs) arising out of confidential relation- 
ships and a proposal to form a joint venture. The Amended 
Complaint is drawn in two counts reflecting different types 
of relief sought, but arising from one underlying set of facts. 
Count I seeks relief against Marathon only by adjudication 
ef the equitable right of Bruce and Martin to participate 
with Marathon in the Japanese LNG project; by an adjudi- 
cation of the extent of those rights; and for a complete 
disclosure and accounting by Marathon concerning the 
project. Count II of the Amended Complaint incorporates 
all allegations of Count I and further alleges that both 
Marathon and Lehman Brothers breached their respective 


4 


duties owed to plaintiifs arising out of confidential and/or 
joint venture relationships, and that Marathon and Lehman 
Brothers conspired and joined together to exclude Bruce and 
Martin from participation in the Japanese methane project, 
for the profit of Marathon and Lehman Brothers and to the 
damage of Bruce and Martin. Count II seeks relief by judg- 
ment for damages of $10 million dollars against both 
Marathon and Lehman Brothers, and alternative relief 
against Lehman Brothers alone for damages of $10 million 
dollars or for the value of any claim against Marathon lost 
or diminished by the wrongful acts of Lehman.! 


The Court of Appeals Summarized the nature of the 
action in essentially the foregoing manner when it held: 


“Count I of the amended complaint, a lengthy pleading 
which has been above summarized, in essence alleges that 
the plaintiffs developed certain business and trade infor- 
mation which they disclosed under conditions of confi- 
dence to Marathon, and that Marathon thereafter wrong- 
fully appropriated this confidential information to its 
own benefit and to the detriment of the plaintiffs. 


+ * + 


In sum, Count I alleges that Marathon tortiously mis- 
appropriated business and trade information developed 
by the plaintiffs and given Marathon on a confidential 
basis to the plaintiffs’ detriment. We hold that such a 
claim sounds in tort.” (436 F.2d at 736. Emphasis 
Added. ) 


1 [The Amended Complaint is attached as Exhibit B to the Petition for Writ 
of Mandamus in the Court of Appeals (R-3, Ex. “B”) and the Original 
Complaint is attached as Exhibit “1” to the Answer of Respondents Mara- 
thon and Lehman Brothers in the Court of Appeals. (R-7, Ex. “1”)] 


5 


Course of Proceedings and 
Disposition in the Courts Below 


A detailed statement of the procedural steps below may 
be found at pages 2 through 8 of the Petition for Writ of 
Mandamus (R-3), but a brief procedural summary at this 
point may be helpful to the Court in determining that 
granting Certiorari is not warranted. 


The Amended Complaint (R-3, Ex. “B’), was filed 
on September 12, 1968, and Motions to Dismiss were filed 
by both defendants, (R-3, Ex. ‘“D’). Because Plaintiff- 
Respondent Robert Martin is a prominent practicing lawyer 
appearing regularly in the Federal Courts of Kansas, the 
regular District Judges for Kansas asked the Tenth Circuit 
Court of Appeals to assign the case to an out of state judge, 
(R-3, p. 2). After additional discovery proceedings, filing 
of affidavits and stipulations, and following assignment 
of the case to two other judges, the case was eventually 
assigned to Respondent Judge Luther Bohanon and the 
Motions to Dismiss were heard by him on June 22 and 23, 
1970, (R-3, p. 2). Judge Bohanon entered Orders over- 
ruling the Motions to Dismiss and requiring defendants 
Marathon and Lehman Brothers to file their Answers on 
or before July 8, 1970, (R-3, Ex. “E”). 


Demand for Jury Trial was filed by Petitioners on June 
29, 1970, (R-3, Ex. “F’), which was prior to the filing of 
any responsive pleading or answer by any of the defendants 
below to either the Original Complaint or the Amended 
Complaint and therefore well within the time provided by 
Rule 38, Fed. R. Civ. P. Answers by defendants were there- 


bs bs Ave dba cubs ioet Beane d 


6 


after filed on July 8, 1970, (R-3, Ex. “C’). 


On August 10, 1970, plaintiffs Bruce and Martin, in 
person and by counsel of record, and defendants Marathon 
and Lehman Brothers, by counsel, appeared before Respon- 
dent Judge in Wichita, Kansas, for a pre-trial conference. 
Judge Bohanon ruled that Plaintiffs would not be granted 
a jury trial on Count I, based on the Court’s conclusion 
that Count I was purely equitable in nature, despite claims 
of counsel to the contrary (R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 3, 17). The 
Judge also delivered to counsel a suggested pretrial order 
covering Count I only prepared by the Respondent Judge 
with instructions that if the parties “. . . will not agree 
to the Court’s suggested and determined procedure of the 
trial of the problem here, then the Court will hear you or 
make such rulings with reference to other matters in the 
case so that if either party elects to take an appeal, then 
all matters that the court rules on tomorrow should be 
presented to the appellate court . . .” (R-3, Ex. “K,” 
pp. 19-20) 


On August 11, 1970, the parties appeared before Re- 
spondent Judge as on the previous day, at which time he 
confirmed his ruling denying Plaintiffs a jury trial on 
Count I, refused to allow Plaintiffs to waive any claim 
for equitable relief under Count I and try only Count II 
(R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 48-49), and refused to allow Plaintiffs 
to amend Count I or even allow statement by counsel of 
the amendment he desired to make (R-3, Ex. ““K,” p. 50), 
contrary to Rules 15 and 16, Fed. R. Civ. P. At that time 
the Court also made numerous other rulings, collateral 


7 


to the central issue of denial of jury trial, but which would 
drastically affect the course of the proceedings if tried to 
the Court.? 


On August 28, 1970, plaintiffs below filed their Petition 
for Writ of Mandamus and/or Prohibition and Motion to 
Stay Proceedings with the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Circuit, (R-3,4). The Court of Appeals 
stayed proceedings below, and set time for Answer and 
filing simultaneous briefs, by order entered September 3, 


2 The Court made these “elated rulings and comments: 


(1) Rescinded his prior order that the issue of liability would be tried 
first and ordered that all elements of Count I should be tried to the Court 
without a jury (R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 24-28), and stated as a reason the fact 
that plaintiffs had requested a jury trial, and therefore, the Court must 
change his position. (R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 50-59) 


(2) Refused to allow plaintiffs’ counsel to be fully heard with regard 
to objections to the Court’s proposed pretrial order (R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 27, 
29, 69, 71), and reprimanded counsel without justification when counsel 
attempted to state his objections. (R-3, Ex. “K,” p. 27) 


(3) Stated that the pretrial order would be drawn from the pleadings 
and not from the information developed or disclosed on discovery. (R-3, 
Ex. “K,” pp. 25-26) 


(4) Disclosed that he had already pre-judged one of the key issues in 
the case by deciding what plaintiff Martin understood by a certain letter 
(R-3, Ex. “K,” p. 30), although he obviously had not yet read or heard 
Martin’s testimony. 


(5) Ruled that Count I and Count II were “two separate, distinct law- 
suits.” (R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 31, 40) 


(6) Stated that the discovery problems imposed on plaintiffs by the 
Court’s new rulings was of “little moment or problem,” and refused to 
allow adequate time for discovery of the financial records of defendants, 
which were now needed if plaintiffs were to try Count I on both liability 
and damages as a separate and distinct lawsuit; and set the case for trial on 
September 14, 1970, without further consideration of plaintiffs’ discovery 
problem. (R-3, Ex. “‘K,” pp. 42-43) 


TERN fy PRL 


i a a a Oe a. 


3 


1970, (R-G). The Petition for Writ of Mandamus in the 
Court of Appeals, sought relief from the Respondent trial 
Judge’s rulings and orders by requesting: 


“That Respondent Judge or his successor be directed to: 


1) Grant petitioners a jury trial on all issues, or in the 
alternative direct that Count II be tried to a jury, 
prior to hearing on Count I, or in the alternative to 
allow Petitioners to withdraw any claim for equitable 
relief and try the issues set forth in Count II to a jury. 


2) Set aside and vacate the pre-trial order entered on 
August 11, 1970, and grant a formal pre-trial hearing 
as contemplated by the Federal Rules of Civil Pro- 
cedure. 


That the Respondent Judge be prohibited from pro- 
ceeding further in this case and that the Court assign a 
different Judge for further proceedings in the District 
Court.” (R-3, p. 9) 


It was in the context of such proceedings and record that 
the Court of Appeals held: 


“The petition insofar as it relates to petitioner’s right to 
trial by jury of Count I is therefore granted. The balance 
of the relief prayed for by petitioners, however, is denied 
and we perceive of no good purpose in detailing our rea- 
sons therefor, inasmuch as the central issue is petitioners’ 

_right to trial by jury of Count I. The stay heretofore or- 
dered by this court is vacated, with further proceedings 
to be consonant with the views herein expressed.” (436 
F.2d at 737. But see correct printing of opinion at Appen- 
dix A-9 to Petition for Writ of Certiorari). 


9 


SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT 


I. Contrary to the assertions of Petitioners, the underly- 
ing cause of action against defendants below is ot purely 
equitable. Rather the action sounds in tort — a trespass 
upon property effectuated by misappropriation and use 
of a business or trade secret. The duty owned by defendants 
below arose out of their confidential and/or joint venture 
relationship to plaintiffs. While some equitable relief is re- 
quested in Count I, Count II prays for $10 million dollars 
damages against Petitioners and both counts are to the type 
traditionally triable to a jury. Under the prior decisions of 
this Court, where both legal and equitable claims are joined, 
plaintiffs are entitled to a jury trial on the underlying issues 
as‘a matter of right and such right cannot be impaired by 
requiring trial of equitable elements first. 


II. All of the decisions of the various Courts of Appeals 
considering the question here presented are in complete 
harmony with one possible exception from the Fifth Circuit. 
However, that case was decided before this Court’s latest 
decision on the same issue and therefore preseiits no actual 
conflict with the decision below. 


III. Since the Circuit Court clearly followed the four 
recent case precedents of this Court, it cannot be said to have 
so departed from the accepted course of judicial proceedings 
as to justify exercise of this Court’s supervisory powers. The 
policy consideration of congested court dockets urged by 
Petitioners is wholly inapplicable because of the uniqueness 
of the subject matter of this action. If supervisory control is 
to be exercised at all, it must be directed tc the Respondent 


10 


District Judge because of his arbitrary and unwarranted 
denial of the constitutional right of jury trial. 


REASONS WHY CERTIORARI 
SHOULD NOT BE GRANTED 
I, THE QUESTION PRESENTED BY THIS CASE, 
WHEN CORRECTLY ANALYZED, HAS AL- 
READY BEEN DECIDED BY THIS COURT 
AND THE COURT OF APPEALS CORRECT- 
LY FOLLOWED SUCH DECISIONS. 


_ A. Analysis of the Amended Complaint discloses 
that the cause of action sounds in tort, with 
different relief sought in separate counts, and 
that the common issues to be tried are legal 
in nature and traditionally triable to a jury. 


The Petition for Certiorari repeatedly characterizes the 
overall action as one sounding purely in equity and seeking 
to impress a constructive trust on the Japanese LNG sales 
contract. Obviously Petitioners prefer to so label the Amend- 
ed Complaint in order to try to make it fit within the 
rationale of the authorities upon which they rely. However, 
the inapplicability of Petitioners’ constructive trust label is 
demonstrated by the very authorities they cite and their own 
analysis of the Amended Complaint. 


There is no claim made in the Amended Complaint that 
Marathon did not obtain legal title to the property involved 
in the Japanese LNG Contract and there is no claim made 
that Marathon holds its title or interest merely as a trustee. 
These are elements which the Petition for Certiorari at pp. 


11 


12-13 claims are need for a constructive trust. The Petition 
for Ce:tiorari also stresses at p. 11 that the other parties 
to the Japanese LNG Contract were not made parties to 
the lawsuit and therefore the trial court, the Court of 
Appeals, and this Court could not have jurisdiction over 
them. In this regard it should be noted that Marathon 
originally alleged that Lehman Brothers were indispensable 
parties to this action (See Paragraph 5, Motion to Dismiss 
Original Complaint. R-3, Ex. “A” ), but has not at any time 
claimed that any other parties should be joined, and that 
the Answers (R-3, Ex. “C’”) filed by Petitioners on July 
8, 1970, do not raise any defense of improper parties. We 
can only conclude that Petitioners themselves, at least at 
that time, well understocd that the Amended Complaint 
was based on the theory of business tort and did not seek 
to impress a constructive trust on a contract involving 
parties not joined in the lawsuit. 


Finally, it should be noted that the Amended Complaint 
does not at any place aver a constructive trust, that the 
record discloses that counsel for Plaintiffs-Respondents 
have always contended in the Courts below that the basic 
action sounds in tort, that even the Respondent District 
Judge concluded that at least Count II was a common law 
money damage claim in the nature of a tort, and that the 
Court of Appeals conciuded that the underlying action 
was in the nature of a business tort. Petitioners stand alone 
in their interpretation of the Amended Complaint. 


Admittedly the Amended Complaint seeks some equit- 
able relief in the nature of a declaratory judgment as to 
Marathon. But it is equally clear that relief traditionally 


AOE a NS ote ae TR RES PERRET 


12 


legal in nature by way of money damages is also sought 
against both Marathon and Lehman Brothers in Count II. 
The dual nature of the relief sought renders Petitioners’ 
conclusionary allegations concerning the claims made in 
Count I irrelevant. “. . . Where equitabie and iegal claims 
are joined in the same action, there is a right to jury trial 
on the legal claims which must not be infringed either by 
trying the legal issues as incidental to the equitable ones or 
by a court trial of a common issue existing between the 
claims. The Seventh Amendment question depends on the 
nature of the issue to be tried rather than the character of 
the overall action.” Ross v. Bérnhard, 396 U.S. 531, 537, 
538. 


The “‘pre-merger custom with reference to” the nature 
of issues to be tried in an action of this type is correctly 
analyzed by Professor James. He notes that cases such as 
this are a part of that group of cases where there is a 
common issue, or set of issues, which is determinative of 
both forms of relief and which either law or equity would 
try under some circumstances. He suggests that the obvious 
solution is to let plaintiff express his choice of jury trial 
by simply claiming it in the way provided by the rules. 
James, Right To A Jury Trial In Civil Actions, 72 Yale 
L.J. 655, 675 (1963). (Cited in Ross v. Bernhard, 396 
U.S. at 736, footnote 10.) 


The common issues determinative of both forms of relief 
here are those factual elements creating the business tort 
of misappropriation of a trade secret. The Restatement of 
Torts, § 757 (1939) defines the elements: 


13 


“One who discloses or uses another’s trade secret, without 
a privilege to do so, is liable to the other, if 
a) he discovered the secret by improper means, or 
b) his disclosure or use constitutes a breach of confi- 
dence reposed in him by the other in disclosing the 
secret to him...” 


The Restatement defines a trade secret to include: 
“any ... compilation of information which is used in one’s 
business, and which gives him an opportunity to obtain 
an advantage over competitors who do not know or use 
it.” (Restatement of Torts § 757, comment b (1939).) 
Comment 4 to the Restatement further states the rule to 
be that even if information is not a trade secret, one who 
receives it in a confidential relationship can be under a 
duty not to use it and such abuse of confidence may be 
equally a basis for liability as to such information. The 
Restatement drafters state as an example of the breach of 
confidence covered by § 757 a fact pattern by which A 
discloses a trade secret to B for the purpose of enabling B 
to appraise its value with a view to a purchase or a joint 
venture. B is under a duty not to use the trade secret infor- 
mation adversely to A. Restatement of Torts § 757, Com- 
ment 7 (1939). 


In short, any information which a person acquires in 
the area of a new business opportunity, which has been 
developed by the expenditure of time, effort and money, 
is in effect a trade secret which will be protected against 
abuse by proposed joint venturers. E.g. 9 Cavitch, Business 
Organizations § 232.02 [1][c] (1965). Obviously, the 
concept of a Japanese LNG project, with preliminary 
market analysis, economic surveys, privileged negotiating 
position and the like compiled by plaintiffs by expenditure 


14 


of time, effort and money, may be found by a jury to con- 
stitute a trade secret within the meaning of this rule. 


The Restatement also expressly recognizes the pre-merger 
custom which allowed both legal and equitable relief for 


the tort of misappropriation-of business secrets: 

“Remedies. One who has a right under the rule stated in 
this Section is entitled to a remedy or remedies appropri- 
ate under the circumstances. He may recover damages 
for past harm, or be granted an injunction against future 
harm by disclosure or adverse use, or be granted an ac- 
counting of the wrongdoer’s profits, or have the physical 
things embodying the secret, such as designs, patterns and 
so forth, surrendered by the wrongdoer for destruction. 
Moreover, he may have two or more of these remedies in 
the same action if the court is competent to administer 
them. Defenses generally available in tort actions and 
actions for injunctive relief are also available here, insofar 
as they are applicable.” (Restatement of Torts, § 757, 
comment e. (1939).) 

Since the jurisdiction for this case is based on diversity 
of citizenship and arises out of transactions originating in 
Kansas, the substantive dimension of the claim asserted 
finds its source in state law, even though the characterization 
of that state-created claim as legal or equitable for purposes 
of whether a right to jury trial is indicated must be made 
by recourse to federal law. Stmler v. Conner, 372 U.S. 221, 
222. Kansas has long recognized the rights and duties 
arising out of a confidential or joint venture business rela- 
tionship. Ballard v. Claude Drilling Co., 149 Kan. 506, 88 
P.2d 1021 (1939), and has expressly adopted and follows 
the Restatement Rule in regard to this business tort. Mann 
v. Tatge Chem. Co., Inc., 201 Kan. 326, 440 P.2d 640 


(1968). 


15 


Under the substantive law of Kansas, which finds its 
roots in the common law of torts and represents the pre- 
merger custom applicable here, the elements sufficient to 


create the underlying cause of action are well defined: 


“In an action such as this, essentially Plaintiff must estab- 
lish (1) a confidential relationship between the parties; 


(2) disclosures by plaintiff to defendant of what amounts 


to a trade secret, and (3) a use of those disclosures by 
defendant. (Vol. 4 Restatement of the Law of Torts, 
§ 757; Speedry Chemical Products, Inc. v. Carter’s Ink 
Company, 306 F.2d 328 [2nd Cir. 1962]; Heyman v. 
AR. Winarick, Inc., 325 F.2d 584 [2nd Cir. 1963], 
9 A.L.R. 3d pp. 652, 666.)” (Id at 332.) . 


Applying the three elements of the cause of action as 
defined by the Kansas court, it is obvious that the Amended 
Complaint contains ample allegations to fairly state a claim 
for relief which sounds in tort and is of the type tradition- 
ally triable to a jury: 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


"A Confidential Relationship Between the Parties;” 
See Amended Complaint Paragraphs Fifth, Sixth, 
Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh and Thirteenth of Count I, 
Paragraph Second of Count II, and Exhibits A and C 
thereto. (R-3, Ex. “B”) 

“Disclosure by Plaintiff to Defendant of What 
Amounts to a Trade Secret;” 

See Amended Complaint Paragraphs Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Thirteenth and Exhibits A and C thereto. 
(R-3, Ex. “B”) 

A Use of Those Disclosures by Defendant;” 

See Amended Complaint Paragraphs Seventh, Ninth, 
Tenth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, and Paragraph Second 
of Count II. (R-3, Ex. “B”) 


The Kansas cases are hardly unique, but rather are simply 
reflective of the substantive law prevailing in most juris- 
dictions which also follow the common law rule in cases 


16 


of this type. For example, see Granik v. Perry, 418 F.2d 
832 (5th Cir. 1969); Water Services, Inc. v. Tesco 
Chemicals, Inc., 410 F.2d 163 (5th Cir. 1969); W. R. 
Grace & Co. v. Hargadine, 392 F.2d 9 (6th Cir. 1968); 
Copley v. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co., 295 F. Supp. 
93 (S.D.W. Va. 1968); Atlantic Wool Combing Co. v. 
Norfolk Mills, Inc., 357 F.2d 866 (1st Cir. 1966); Im- 
perial Chem. Indus. Ltd. v. National Distillers & Chem. 
Corp. 342 F. 2d 737 (2nd Cir. 1965); Heyman v. A. R. 
Winarick, Inc., 325 F.2d 584 (2nd Cir. 1963); Interna- 
tional Industries, v. Warren Petroleum Co., 248 F.2d 696 
(3rd Cir. 1957), cert. dismissed by stipulation, 355 US. 
943; Colgate-Palmolive Co. v. Carter Products, Inc., 230 
F. 2d 855 (4th Cir. 1956), cert. den. 352 U.S. 843, reh. 
den. 352 U.S. 913; Seismograph Service Corp. v. Offshore 
Raydist, Inc., 135 F. Supp. 342 (E.D.La. 1955), aff'd. with 
order to award attorney fees on remand, 263 F.2d 5 (5th 
Cir. 1958); Franke v. Wiltschek, 209 F.2d 493 (2nd 
Cir. 1953); Smith v. Dravo, 203 F.2d 369 (7th Cir. 
1953); and Hoeltke v. C. M. Kemp Mfg., Co., 80 F.2d 
912 (4th Cir. 1936), cert. den. 298 U.S. 673, 80 L.Ed. 
1395. 


Judge Wright succinctly stated the tort law rationale 
supporting claims for relief such as that involved at bar, 
when he stated: 


“The robber baron morality of another day is no longer 
acceptable. Courts are insisting on increasingly higher 
standards of commercial integrity. [citing cases] ... The 
fact that the business information is otherwise available 
is no defense. The improper acquisition itself creates the 
liability in damages.... Even where it cannot be said 


a 


17 


that the parties stand in confidential relations, improper 
acquisition of another’s business information or trade 
secrets subjects the perpetrator to liability in damages. 
Restatement of the Law of Torts, § § 757, 759.” (Seismo- 
graph Serv. Corp. v. Offshore Raydist, Inc., 135 F. Supp. 
342, 354 (E.D. La. 1955), aff’d with an order to award 
attorney fees on remand, 263 F.2d 5 (Sth Cir. 1959. 
Emphasis added.) 


A correct analysis of the dual nature of a cause of action, 
identical to the one at bar, was made in Harkobusic v. Gen- 
eral American Transportation Corp., 209 F. Supp. 128 
(W. D. Penn. 1962). The Court there concluded that 
even though equitable relief was also sought, the action was 
triable to a jury: 


’“The complaint alleges that defendant breached a confi- 
dential relationship between it and plaintiff and pirated 
his invention. These allegations disclose a tort action, over 
which there is concurrent jurisdiction at law and in 
equity. In addition, the complaint alleges that defendant 
expressly promised to hold plaintiff’s secret in strictest 
confidence, which promise it broke. These allegations 
disclose a contractual issue in connection with the alleged 
breach of a confidential relationship. Compensatory and 
exemplary damages as well as injunctive relief are sought. 


“In my opinion a suit for breach of a confidential relation- 
ship involving a trade secret or invention, and for breach 
of an express promise not to disclose, while it may be 
brought in equity and usually is, may also be pursued at 
law and tried to a jury because it sounds in tort as well as 
assum psit. Tort Actions and contract actions are generally 
triable by a jury as a matter of right. Dairy Queen v. 
Wood, 369 U.S. 469, 479, 82 S.Ct. 894, 8 L.Ed.2d 44 
(1962) ; Beacon Theatres v. Westover, 359 U.S. 500, 510, 
79 S.Ct. 948, 3 L.Ed. 2d 988 (1959); 50 C.J.S. Juries 
§ § 16b, 19.” (209 F. Supp. at 129. Emphasis added.) 


tia EGE BOEHNER & 


Sa Be AAS Ata ANG eA By) Rs CN MOA ete 


18 


“Whatever the rationale, the tort in question is the same 
— trespass upon property effectuated by misappropriation, 
disclosure or use.” (2 Callmann, Unfair Competition, 
Trademarks, and Monopolies, § 51, p. 346 (3rd Ed. 
1968).) 


B. Joinder Of Legal And Equitable Claims For 
Relief Cannot Impair The Right To Jury Trial 
And This Court Has Required That The Jury 
Trial Be Granted First. 


The principle that the right to a jury trial is not waived, 
nor in any manner impaired, by joinder of claims for relief 
which may be denominated as “equitable,” has long been 
established. Moore, Federal Practice, §| 38.13 (2nd Edi- 
tion). 


The Petition for Certiorari incorrectly asserts that this 
action sounds pwrely in equity and ignores the obvious dual 
nature of Count I. Assuming Argwendo that Petitioners 
are correct as to Count I, it clearly cannot be so claimed as to 
Count II. Respondents here advised both Courts below that 
they were willing to withdraw or abandon Count I en- 
tirely and proceed to trial on Count II if such be necessary 
in order to secure their right to jury trial. The Respondent 
District Judge refused to consider or allow such request of 
waiver or amendment, (R-3, pp. 6-7; Ex. “K,” pp. 48-50). 


No valid reason has ever been advanced by Petitioners 
why Respondents should not at least be allowed to proceed 
to jury trial on Count II only. Apparently Petitioners as 
well as Respondent District Judge have always recognized 


19 


that Count II is clearly a law claim triable to a jury. (See 
R-3, Ex. “K’’). In order to have one full and fair trial on 
all underlying issues it is obvious that either Count II must 
be tried first or both counts must be tried together. Since 
Count II incorporates by reference all allegations of Count 
I there was no sound reason in law or fact for Respondent 
Judge to deny Respondents request to waive or withdraw 
Count I and proceed to jury trial on Count II only. 


The very recent opinion of this Court in Ross v. Bernhard, 
396 U.S. 531, conclusively demonstrates the, policy enun- 
ciated in recent years that where “legal” and ‘‘equitable”’ 
claims are joined, the parties still have a constitutional right 
to a jury trial. There a derivative suit was brought against 
the directors of the Lehman Corporation, and Lehman 
Brothers (the same partnership that is Petitioner-Defendant 
in this action). It was alleged that Lehman Brothers con- 
trolled the corporation through an illegally large represen- 
tation on the board of directors and the directors were 
charged with converting corporate assets, gross abuse of 
trust, misconduct, misfeasance, bad faith, and gross negli- 
gence. Both the individual defendants and Lehman Brothers 
were accused of breaches of fiduciary duty. For relief, peti- 
tioners requested an accounting by defendants to the corpo- 
ration, and demanded a jury trial. (Id. at 732.) 


In an interlocutory appeal from the trial court ruling on 
a motion to strike the demand for jury trial, the Court of 
Appeals reversed and held that a stockholders’ derivative 
action was entirely equitable in nature and that no part of 
the action was triable to a jury. This Court reversed, holding 


VRE ORR SES STS RL ERIN PUY RET, ees 


PRE 


TS Ret FT ON 


20 


that the right to jury trial attaches to those issues in deriva- 
tive actions as to which the corporation, had it brought the 
suit, would have been entitled to a jury. (Jd. at 733.) The 
express holding of the Court should fully resolve the ques- 
tions raised in this case: 

“In the instant case we have no doubt that the corpora- 
tion’s claim is, at least in part, a legal one. The relief 
sought is money damages. There are allegations in the 
complaint of a breach of fiduciary duty, but there are 
also allegations of ordinary breach of contract and gross 
negligence. The corporation, had it sued on its own 
behalf, would have been entitled to a jury’s determina- 
tion, at a minimum, of its damages against its broker 
under the brokerage contract and of its rights against its 
own directors because of their negligence. Under these 
circumstances it is unnecessary to decide whether the 
corporation’s other claims are also properly triable to a 
jury. Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, 8 L.Ed. 2d 44, 
82 S. Ct. 894 (1962). The decision of the Court of Ap- 
peals is reversed.” (Id. at 738.) 


The decision of the Tenth Circuit in this case is also in 
harmony with the rationale of this Court in Beacon Theatres 
v. Westover, 359 U.S. 500. There plaintiff had instituted 
a declaratory judgment action to determine that certain ex- 
clusive clearances were reasonable and not in violation of 
the anti-trust laws; plaintiff also asked for a temporary in- 
junction to prevent the defendant from bringing an anti- 
trust suit. The defendant counterclaimed for damages 
against plaintiff, cross-claimed against a distributor who 
had intervened, and demanded a jury trial. The District 
Court rejected defendant’s demand for jury trial, deeming 
the issues to be “essentially equitable,” and directed that 
those issues be tried to the Court before the validity of the 


21 


charges of anti-trust violations was submitted to the jury. 
The Court of Appeals denied defendant's petition for a 
writ of mandamus directing the District Judge to vacate 
this order. (Id. at 503). 


In both Beacon Theatres and the present case, the same 
set of alleged facts gave rise to both legal and equitable 
claims. In both, a timely demand for trial by jury was filed, 
and the patty seeking its rigiat to trial by jury filed a peticion 
for mandamus to correct the trial court’s denial of that right. 
The distinction that in Beacon Theatres plaintiff sought a 
declaratory judgment and injunction, and that the defendant 
was seeking jury trial on his counterclaim and cross-claim, 
whereas in the present case Petitioners sought a declaration 
of interest and an accounting under Count I and damages 
under Count II and are seeking jury trial on their complaint 
should make no difference in the applicability of its rule 
here in view of this Court’s holding that the form of the 
action did not affect defendant’s right to jury trial (Id. at 
504). This view is borne out by the many later Circuit 
Court decisions, infra, applying Beacon Theatres to cases in 
which plaintiffs joined legal and equitable claims in their 
complaints. This Court expressly rejected denial of a party's 
right to jury trial by the procedural device of trying the 
equitable issues first, thus rendering the facts underlying 
the legal claim res judicata (Id. at 507). 


This Court reiterated and expanded its Beacon Theatres 
holding in Dairy Queen, Inc. v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, and 
again established principles equally applicable here. There, 
the complaint alleged breach of a written trademark licens- 
ing agreement; plaintiff's cancellation of the contract for 


aa 


breach thereof; and trademark infringement caused by de- 
fendant’s continuing business after cancellation of the agree- 
ment. The prayer was for temporary and permanent injunc- 
tions and an accounting. The answer alleged laches and 
estoppel, antitrust violations by the plaintiff in regard to 
the trademark, and denied breach of the agreement. The 
defendant demanded trial by jury which the District Court 
denied on the grounds that the action was either “purely 
equitable” or, if not purely equitable, that any legal issues 
were merely “incidental” to the equitable issues. (Id. at 
470). 


Addressing specifically the question here presented, this 


Court said: 


“Nonetheless, after the adoption of the Federal Rules, at- 
tempts were made indirectly to undercut that right [to 
jury trial] by having federal courts in which cases involv- 
ing both legal and equitable claims were filed decide the 
equitable claim first. The result of this procedure in those 
cases in which it was followed was that any issue common 
to both the legal and equitable claims was finally deter- 
mined by the court and the party seeking trial by jury 
on the legal claim was deprived of that right as to these 
common issues. This procedure finally came before us in 
[Beacon Theatres]... 


“Our decision reversing that case not only emphasizes the 
responsibility of the Federal Courts of Appeals to grant 
mandamus where necessary to protect the constitutional 
right to trial by jury but also limits the issues open for 
determination here by defining the protection to which 
that right is entitled in cases involving both legal and 
equitable claims. The holding in Beacon Theatres was that 
where both legal and equitable issues are presented in a 
single case, ‘only under the most imperative circum- 
stances, circumstances which in view of the flexible 
procedures of the Federal Rules we cannot now antici- 


23 


pate, can the right to a jury trial of legal issues be lost 
through prior determination of equitable claims.’ [Foot- 
note omitted.] That holding, of course, applies whether 
the trial judge chooses to characterize the legal issues 
presented as ‘incidental’ to equitable issues or not. [Foot- 
note omitted.]” (Id. at 472, 473) 

Petitioners also suggest on the one hand that the deci- 
sion of the Court of Appeals conflicts with Simler v. Conner, 
372 U.S. 221, but on the other hand assert that it, like Ross, 
Dairy Queen, and Beacon Theatres, is distinguishable on 
its facts. Granted the difference in the facts of all these cases, 
we fail to see any reason why the constitutional principles 


enumerated are not fully applicable here. 


In Simler, this Court expressed the unanimous view that 
the right to a jury trial in diversity cases is to be determined 
by federal law. In determining the basic question of whether 
the cause of action was legal in nature, the Court said: 


“The case was in its basic character a suit to determine and 
adjudicate the amount of fees owing to a lawyer by a 
client under a contingent fee retainer contract, a tradi- 
tionally ‘legal’ action. (Cites omitted) The fact that the 
action is in form a declaratory judgment case should not 
obscure the essentially legal nature of the action. The 
questions involved are traditional common law issues 
which can te and should have been submitted to a jury 
under appropriate instructions as petitioner requested.” 
(372 USS. at 223) 


We submit that if the lawsuit here must be given a label 
at all, it obviously is in the form of a declaratory judgment 
seeking adjudication of plaintiffs’ interest in the LNG 
project by reason of the tortious misappropriation of busi- 
ness secrets. seeking an accounting of the profits derived 
therefrom by Marathon, and seeking damages as a result 


24 


thereof from both Marathon and Lehman Brothers. How- 
ever, in the words of Simler, the form of the claim should 
not obscure the essential legai nature of the action and the 
questions of fact involved are traditional common law issues 
which can and should be submitted to a jury. Certainly such 
is indisputably the nature of Count II. 


Respondents-Plaintiffs efforts to withdraw any claims 
for equitable relief in Count I and to proceed to trial by jury 
only on the legal claims clearly stated in Count II were 
arbitrarily and unjustifiably refused by the Respondent 
Judge. Petitioners here have not shown that they will suffer 
any harm if the legal issues are tried first to a jury, 
and the Respondent Judge cited no “imperative circum- 
stance” in support of his ruling. Consequently, we submit 
that, on the basis of this Court’s recent decisions in Beacon 
Theatres, Dairy Queen, Simler, and Ross, a writ of manda- 
mus was not only proper, but was required, in order to pro- 
tect Respondents’ timely demand for trial by jury. Once the 
underlying factual issues are determined by the jury, all 
appropriate relief, whether legal or equitable, can then be 
granted by the Court or jury or both. 


Finally, Petitioners assert that the practical abilities and 
limitations of juries are such that no court on earth, could 
instruct them on the complexities of this case recited by the 
District Judge; and that the comments of the District Judge 
in this regard amount to conclusive findings. In tke first 
place, contrary to the assertion of Petitioners at p. 16, the 
depositions taken in the case below were not properly be- 
fore the District Judge. To the contrary, one of the points 


Bee ST 


25 


raised in the Court of Appeals was the fact that the trial 
court improperly considered matters zot in evidence and not 
contained in the pleadings. (See R-3 at p.5, para. b, and 
pp. 6-7, para.e (2) and (5).) Furthermore, the supposed 
complexities stated need not unduly burden the jury. The 
principal issues to be decided at trial are the elements of the 
tort involved and turn on the credibility of witnesses, which 
a jury is uniquely qualified to resolve: 
(1) Was there a confidential relationship between the 
parties? 
(2) Was there a disclosure by plaintiffs :o Marathon 
of what amounts to a trade secret? 
(3) Was there a use by Marathon of those disclosures? 
-(4) Did Lehman Brothers conspire with and assist 
Marathon in such misappropriation of business 
secrets in violation of its duty to plaintiffs? 
(5) What damages or interest should be awarded to 
plaintiffs if the jury finds in their favor on the 
foregoing issues? | 


If the Couii orders an accounting on the basis of the 
jury’s findings in favor of plaintiffs on issues (1) through 
(4), then Marathon may take into consideration any 
factors it deems proper (including those listed in footnote 
11 of the Petition for Certiorari) in rendering its accounting 
and disclosure of all profits obtained. Plaintiffs would have 
the right to take exception to the elements used in the ac- 
counting, and they could produce evidence to show why 
such elements are not proper. The jury may then take into 
consideration any such conflicts over the accounting in 
awarding damages to plaintiffs. 


26 


Even if the jury must consider all of the financial factors 
listed, it still would not be any more difficult or complex 
a case for a jury to decide than hundreds of others involving 
oil and gas interests aud legal accounting in various business 
tort suits. A jury under proper instructions from the Court, 
could readily calculate the damages flowing from this al- 
leged misappropriation of business secrets, just as courts of 
law often do in copyright, patent, and trademark infringe- 
ment cases. Dairy Queen v. W 00d, 369 U.S. 469, 480, 481. 
Petitioners argument in this regard really just displays a 
lack of confidence in the jury system — a view that was not 
shared by the framers of the Constitution and a view that is 
out of harmony with this Court’s decisions in the cases just 


discussed. 


II. THE DECISION OF THE TENTH CIRCUIT 
DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH DECISiONS 
OF OTHER COURTS OF APPEALS CON- 
CERNED WITH SIMILAR CLAIMS. 


On several prior occasions, the Tenth Circuit Court of 
Appeals has been confronted with the same question raised 
at bar. The first case of Meeker v. Ambassador Oil Co., 
308 F.2d 875 (10th Cir. 1962), reversed per curiam at 
375 U.S. 160, under authority of Beacon Theatres and 
Dairy Queen, presented the identical problem of legal and 
equitable claims joined in the same pleading. In Meeker 
the plaintiffs’ second amended complaint set up two claims, 
the first was for an adjudication that plaintiffs were the 
owners of certain mineral interests and that the defendant 


27 


oil company should account for money received from pro- 
duction, and the second sought damages for slander of 
title. Meekers demanded a jury trial on both claims. The 
Tenth Circuit concluded that Meekers’ first claim was a suit 
in equity and that plaintiffs were therefore not entitled 
to a jury trial on such claim ( Id. at 878, 882, 883); and 
that the second claim would have been triable to a jury, 
but that since the trial court, in the exercise of its equitable 
jurisdiction, had determined that the lease had expired, the 
Meekers no longer had any title to be slandered and there 
was nothing left to be tried on the second claim. (Id. at 
884). However, this Court’s per curiam reversal obviously 
meant that the first claim, even if equitable in nature, could 
not be tried first and thereby preclude the right to jury 
trial raised by the second claim. What Respondent Judge 
Bohanon proposed to do in this case would create precisely 
the same problem raised in Meeker, namely, if Count I 
is tried to the Court first and the Judge determines plaintiffs 
have no interest in the Japanese LNG project there will 
be nothing left to try on Count II. 


In A.M.F. Tuboscope, Inc. v. Cunningham, 352 F.2d 
150 (1965), the Tenth Circuit was presented with a patent 
infringement suit in which the plaintiff prayed for an 
injunction against further infringement, an accounting, and 
treble damages, thus joining requests for relief traditionally 
viewed as both equitable and legal in nature. Defendant 
denied the validity of the patent and its infringement, and 
counterclaimed for a declaratory judgment of invalidity 
and non-infringement and for damages resulting from 
plaintiff's allegation. Reversing the trial court’s denial of 


28 


a jury trial on all issues, the Tenth Circuit this time followed 
Beacon Theatres and Dairy Queen. 


More recently, the Tenth Circuit had the question of 
right to jury trial before it on appeal from a decision by 
Respondent Judge Bohanon. In King v. United Benefit 
Fire Ins. Co., 377 F.2d 728 (1967), cert. den. 389 US. 
857, Judge Bohanon denied a jury trial on the same 
grounds he applied in the case at bar, that the action was 
for an accounting and therefore equitable in nature. The 
Tenth Circuit expressly found that the denial of jury trial 
was erroneous, in view of the opinions in Beacon Theatres, 
Dairy Queen, and A.M.F. Tuboscope, supra. However, since 
only questions of law remained on uncontroverted facts, the 
Court deemed Judge Bohanon’s error harmless in that 
particular case. 


Decisions from a number of other Circuits also clearly 
establish that plaintiffs, in postures similar to Respond- 
ents here, are entitled to trial by jury on all issues, even 
though legal and equitable relief is joined in the complaint. 
Such cases demonstrate that the various Circuits interpret 
Beacon Theatres and Dairy Queen precisely as has the Tenth 
Circuit. For example, in a stockholders’ derivative action, 
the Ninth Circuit found that: 


ec 


. . « [E]xcept under most imperative circumstances, a 
right to a jury trial on legal issues may not now be denied 
to a federal litigant on the ground that the case reached 
court only through equity, or because equitable rights 
are involved, or because the legal issues are ‘incidental’ 
to the equitable issues, or because substantive equitable 
remedies are sought, or by the device of trying the equit- 
able issues first.” [All footnotes omitted.] (DePinto v. 
Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 323 F.2d 826, 835 (1963), 


29 


cert. den. Garsuch v. DePinto, 376 U.S. 950, and 
Duhame v. Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 376 U.S. 950, 
and DePinto v. Provident Sec. Life Ins. Co., 376 U.S. 
950, rehearing denied, 383 U.S. 973.) 


In the Fourth Circuit, a plaintiff union member sought 
the equitable relief of restoration to union membership, 
after having been suspended, and also sought damages for 
that suspension. The district judge granted a jury trial on 
the damage issue and was affirmed by the Fourth Circuit, 
holding: 

“Where issues underlying equitable and legal causes of 
action have been exactly the same, the Supreme Court 
has been careful to preserve a litigant’s right to jury 
trial on the factual issues, even where a stronger basis 

- was presented for equitable than for legal relief.” [Citing 
Dairy Queen and Thermostitch.] (Simmons v. Avisco, 


Local 713, Textile Workers Union, 350 F.2d 1012, 1018 
(1965).) 


In the Third Circuit, both monetary and injunctive 
relief were sought by plaintiff in a patent infringement 
action. The trial court refused plaintiff's jury demand and 
the Circuit Court reversed, under authority of Beacon 
Theatres and Dairy Queen, holding: 

“As a result of the decisions, the doctrine that an action 

which seeks both damages and equitable relief is predomi- 

nately equitable and therefore may not be tried by a 


jury has been reversed.” (Kennedy v. Lakso Co., 414 
F.2d 1249, 1252 (1969) Emphasis added.) 


In Thermo-Stitch, Inc. v. Chemi-Cord Processing Corp., 
294 F.2d 486, 491 (1961), the Fifth Circuit held: 


“It is therefore immaterial that the case at bar contains 
a stronger basis for equitable relief than was present in 


30 


Beacon Theatres. It would make no difference if the 
equitable cause clearly outweighed the legal cause so 
that the basic issue of the case taken as a whole is equit- 
able. As long as any legal cause is involved the jury rights 
it creates control. This is the teaching of Beacon Theatres, 
as we construe it.” (294 F.2d at 491. Emphasis added.) 


See also Swofford v. B & W Inc., 336 F.2d 406 (Sth 
Cir. 1964), cert. den., 379 U.S. 962. 


Almost squarely in point with the case at bar is Robine 
v. Ryan, 310 F.2d 797 (2nd Cir. 1962). That case was 
before the Second Circuit on a petition for mandamus to 
set aside the district judge’s order striking plaintiff's 
demand for a jury trial. The plaintiffs alleged that: they 
had invented a machine which they were induced to dis- 
close to defendants during the course of business negotia- 
tions, it being understood that the information disclosed 
would not be used by the defendants or revealed to others 
without plaintiff's consent; and that the defendants wrong- 
fully appropriated that invention to their own use in breach 
of the confidential relationship established by the negotia- 
tions. The plaintiffs sought damages for $100,000 and 
an injunction against future infringements, damages for 
their loss, and an accounting cf profits arising from de- 
fendants’ infringements. The Court of Appeals held that 
the trial judge was in error in denying the plaintiffs’ right 
to jury trial on Count I: 

“We agree with the district judge that the most significant 
portion of the relief sought is probably contained in the 
action on the patent. It is also true that the plaintiffs 
could have sought complete compensation for their 


injury within the framework of patent infringement. 
But we think it is clear that they did not do so... 


31 


Some of the facts alleged, while essential to the former 
claim, are irrelevant to a claim for patent infringement; 
taking the claims as stated, it is conceivable that the 
plaintiffs would recover on one of them and not the 
other... 


“While the pleading of the first cause of action includes 
phrases ordinarily accompanying a request for injunctive 
relief, the plaintiffs do not actually request it. They do 
make a claim for damages, and we are satisfied that 
this is the relief which they seek on this cause of action. 
Therefore, they are entitled to a jury trial on that portion 
of their complaint. Such trial must precede a trial of any 
equitable issues which remain.” [Citing Dairy Queen and 
Beacon Theatres.| (Id. at 798. Emphasis added.) 


Despite the harmony of all the Circuit Court decisions 
just discussed, including those from the Fifth Circuit, 
Petitioners seize upon the one case of Local No. 92 Inter- 
national Ass'n. S.& C.1.W.V.S. v. Norris, 383 F.2d 735 
(5th Cir. 1967), and claim that because of it there is a 
conflict among the Circuits. 


It should be noted that the Norris case was decided three 
years before this Court’s decision in Ross v. Bernhard, 396 
U.S. 531, and in view of the Ross decision we believe the 
viability of the Norris decision is extremely doubtful. 
However, Norris is distinguishable on the particular facts 
there involved. The Norris case was a derivative suit 
brought by four individual union members charging certain 
local union officials with breach of fiduciary duties. The 
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama found 
for the plaintiffs. The Court of Appeals affirmed, finding 
that the evidence sustained a finding that a local union 
official had flagrantly abused his power in breach of trust 


- 


eae Met a sk eka 


— 
rT ree 


eas | 


& 
a 


TRACE WON RD a eS ade 


Paice 4 tend ew O 


Sei ee Menthe Bate Ws Ror 


eh 


isd PLANS Cou ahy 


Diack Kesalen teehee es 


32 


and that the union was liable therefor. The complaint con- 
tained a general prayer for relief and sought an accounting, 
the appointment of a special administrator, an injunction 
prohibiting defendants from further wrongful acts, and an 
award of attorney’s fees out of any recovery. The union 
official appealed, partially on the grounds that he was 
erroneously denied trial by jury. The court distinguished 
the case of Simmons v. Avisco, Local 713, Textile Workers 
Union of America, 350 F.2d 1012 (4th Cir. 1965) on 
the basis that the nature of the relief sought in Simmons 
was clearly within the realm of common law tort, whereas 
in the Norris case: 


ee 


... [T]he relief sought is, not only in name but in 
substance, traditionally equitable. The members of the 
Local seek to compel an accounting, the end result of 
which would be to restore to the Local’s treasury any 
funds found to have been misappropriated by the offi- 
cials of the Local in violation of the fiduciary responsibili- 
ties imposed upon them by the Act, and perhaps more 
important, to rid the Local of such pernicious infections 
for the future. These issues are traditionally for the 
decision of the Chancellor, and no mandatory right to 
a jury exists.” (Id. at 740. Emphasis added.) 


If the Norris case has any validity at all after Ross v. 
Bernhard, supra, it is on the narrow basis of the emphasized 
portion of the above holdings. The relief sought was for 
payment of money into a fund and not for payments im- 
mediately and unconditionally to the beneficiaries of the 
trust. In effect, it was to redress a breach of trust by refund- 
ing to the trust estate. Such a proceeding might properly be 
called purely equitable and was not even actionable under 
the common law forms of action. See Nedd v. Thomas, 316 


33 


F. Supp. 74, (M.D. Penn. 1970); Restatement of Trusts, 
Second, § 197, Comment b. (1959). 


Ill. THE COURT OF APPEALS HAS NOT SO 
FAR DEPARTED FROM THE ACCEPTED 
AND USUAL COURSE OF JUDICIAL PRO- 
CEEDINGS AS TO NECESSITATE OR 
JUSTIFY EXERCISE OF THIS COURT’S 
SUPERVISORY POWER. 


Petitioners argument that the Court of Appeals has radi- 
cally departed from the accepted and usual course of judicial 
proceedings is totally without merit. The Court below clear- 
ly followed four major decisions of this Court dealing with 
the same issue, and applied the same interpretation to those 
cases that has been adopted in at least seven other decisions 
from five different Circuits. In issuing the extraordinary 
writ of mandamus it used the same procedural mechanism 
utilized by this very Court in similar cases, and acted in com- 
pliance with this Court’s directive to the Circuits that they 
had “the responsibility . . . to grant mandamus where neces- 
sary to protect the constitutional right to trial by jury. . .” 
(Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 U.S. 469, 472.) 


With regard to the so-called policy consideration of con- 
gested calendars and unprecedented backlog of cases we can 
only agree that such conditions are deplorable and that 
urgent reforms are needed. However, we know of no pro- 
liferation of lawsuits similar to this one which could possibly 
be contributing to the problem. The cause of action here 
stated and the remedies sought are completely unique and 


ee ve it ode 


34 


any decision in this case will have little or no impact on 
anyone other than the Courts below and the parties in- 
volved. Petitioners’ argument might have had greater merit 
if made in Beacon Theatres (anti-trust claim), or Dairy 
Queen (trademark infringement), or Ross (Cerivative 
stockholders suit), for all involved fairly common types of 
civil actions. Yet this Court wisely recognized that valued 
constitutional rights must not depend upon potential in- 
crease in jury case backlog—whatever its cause. If we were 
ever to accept such a fallacious premise then the constitu- 
tional rights of those charged with crime would be among 
the first to be eroded, for surely it is well documented that 
criminal cases greatly contribute to current court congestion. 


Finally, we should remember that Petitioners’ whole 
argument is based on the premise that this lawsuit involves 
only Count I and that Count I is purely equitable—we have 
shown that neither assumption is valid. We do not ask that 
the right of jury trial be enlarged. We only ask that it be 
upheld in accordance with the prior recent decisions of this 
Court. If the right exists at all under the Constitution, 
there can be no policy consideration important enough to 
restrict it. 


Petitioners’ argument requesting exercise of this Court's 
supervisory powers is also misplaced because it is the Dis- 
trict Court, not the Court of Appeals, that ‘‘has so far de- 
parted from the accepted and usual course of judicial pro- 
ceedings as to plainly call for the corrective exercise of [ the 
appellate court’s] power of supervision.” It was because of 
the need for corrective supervision of the District Court tet 


35 


the Petition for Writ of Mandamus was filed.4 Respon- 
dents-Plaintiffs specifically asked the Court of Appeals to 
either grant a jury trial on all issues, or direct that Count II 
be tried first, or allow plaintiffs to “withdraw any claim for 
equitable relief and try the issues set forth in Count II to 


a jury.” (R-?. p. 9, para. C.) 


3The record contains the following colloquy between Respondent Judge 
and counsel for Plaintiffs at the pre-trial conference on August 11, 1970. 
(R-3, Ex. “K,” pp. 48-50): 


“[MR. HOWARD] At this time, and purely because of your Honor’s 
ruling with regard to a jury trial on Count I, we are hereby prepared to 
waive right to proceed to trial on Count I at this time, and ask the Court 
to allow us to proceed to trial on Count II as to both sets of defendants 
on all issues in the case, and we ask to try that to a jury and then we will 
waive — 

“THE COURT: (Interposing) Again, the Court says no. The Court 
is not going to let you say how the Court is going to try this case. I am 
going to try this case exactly like I told you in the pretrial order. 


“MR. HOWARD: Your Honor — 

“THE COURT: If that isn’t plain to you, I don’t know why. If you 
don’t like what the Court does, why then I can’t help you. You are not 
telling this Court we are going to try Count II first. We are hot. 

“MR. HOWARD: What we are saying is, we are willing, in view of 
your Honor’s ruling, to waive our equitable claim for an accounting and 
proceed to trial as to both sets of defendants, on all issues. 


“THE COURT: You may be willing, but it’s not the way the Court 
is going to try the case. That’s all there is to it. If that’s all you have to 
ask, why then I am through. Get ready for trial. 

“MR. HOWARD: Your Honor, I point out to you that because of 
the nature of the conspiracy charges against the two sets of defendants, 
the trying of the case in two separate stages leads to some serious problems 
of proof with regard to the admissibility of evidence, that would be 
admissible with both parties 

“THE COURT: We will take care of that when the time comes. We 
will proceed to try Count I. Why, then, whatever those problems are, the 
Court meets them at that time. 

“MR. HOWARD: Is it you Honor’s — 

“THE COURT: This case is set for trial. You are directed to get 


ready. It’s your lawsuit. It has been a-burning for more than ten years. 
Why could this Court justify any other procedure? It’s been on this docket 


36 


The arbitrary manner in which the Respondent District 
Judge denied plaintiffs attempt waiver and/or dismissal of 
Count I, or amendment to exclude any equitable claim, 
clearly demonstrates why the writ of mandamus had to be 
issued in this case. There simply was and is no other way to 
protect plaintiffs’ constitutional rights and to insure a fair 
and impartial trial to a jury. 


for three years. It’s your lawsuit. Get ready if you want to try it. If you 
don’t why then the Court will take such action as is proper. 


“MR. HOWARD: Your Honor, I didn’t say that I wouldn’t be ready 
to go to trial on September 14. 


“THE COURT: That’s all we are talxing about. 


“MR. HOWARD: Frankly, and I am not trying to be obtuse, but I 
frankly do not understand, and that is, if we are willing to waive our right 
to proceed to trial on Count I, why it is that we cannot try Count fi on 
September 14. 


“THE COURT: Because that’s not the way the Court is going to 
handle this problem. 


“MR. HOWARD: But I don’t understand. I’m not trying to be stupid 
or to embarrass your Honor — 


“THE COURT: You are not embarrassing me in the least, not in 
the least. 
“MR. HOWARD: I guess I am impatient with myself for showing 


my ignorance, but I don’t understand why we can’t go to trial as to both 
defendants September 14th. 


“THE COURT: I am not going to try it that way. Now I have told 
you that four or five times. Do I have to tell you any more? 


“We are going to try the first count first. Just as you said in the 
complaint and in your prayer, if you lose on the first count, then you want 
to be heard on the second. 


“MR. HOWARD: That’s what we plan amending the — 
“THE COURT: (Interposing) You are not amending anything. 
“MR. HOWARD: Waive that right. 


“THE COURT: You are not amending anything in this court. This 
case is so old we are going to proceed just the way you patterned it when 
you started it.” 


37 


CONCLUSION 


The four prior decisions of this Court dealing with the 
question here presented establish ample guidelines for the 
lower federal courts. The decision below and decisions from 
other circuits are all in harmony with that precedent. While 
this case involves substantial rights and monetary claims 
arising out of tortious misappropriation of a business secret, 
it is unique on its facts and any decision rendered by this 
court prior to any final judgment would not add to the 
precedents already established. The spirit of Supreme Court 
Rule 20 should be applied since Petitioners have made no 
showing that the case is of such imperative public im- 
portance as to justify deviation from normal appellate proc- 
esses. Any review by this Court should await a judgment on 
the merits after trial of the underlying issues to a jury, and 
certiorari therefore should be denied. 


Respectfully submitted, 


JOHN F. EBERHARDT 
MALCOLM MILLER 
ROBERT C. FOULSTON 
ROBERT L. HOWARD 
OF FOULSTON, SIEFKIN, POWERS 
& EBERHARDT 
600 Fourth National Bank Building 
Wichita, Kansas 67202 
Attorneys for Respondents Bruce & Martin 


LIBRARY _ FILED 
SUPREME COURT, U. 5. JUN 3 191. 


E ROBERT SEAVER, 1 


Supreme Gout of the Hnited States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1970 


NO. 1586 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY, a corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN 
BROTHERS, Petitioners 
Vv. 

GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and HON. 
LUTHER BOHANON, United States District Judge, 


Respondents 


On Petition For Writ Of Certiorari To The United 
States Court Of Appeals For The Tenth Circuit 


REPLY MEMORANDUM OF PETITIONERS 


J. O. Terretxt Couch 
Findlay Ohio 45840 
45840 
/ Attorney for Petitioner 


201 North Main, P.O. Box 1034 

Wichita, Kansas 67201 
Crayton L. Orn* 

1122 Southwest Tower 

Houston, Texas 77002 

Attorneys for all Petitioners 


% 
~ 
a 


he ee 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1970 


NO. 1586 


MARATHON OIL COMPANY, a corporation; and 
ROBERT LEHMAN, et al, d/b/a LEHMAN 
BROTHERS, Petitioners 


V. 


GEORGE H. BRUCE; ROBERT MARTIN; and HON. 
LUTHER BOHANON, United States District Judge, 
Respondents 


On Petition For Writ Of Certiorari To The United 
States Court Of Appeals For The Tenth Circuit 


REPLY MEMORANDUM OF PETITIONERS 


This short reply will be confined to the new question 
posed in respondents’ opposiiion brief at p. 2, and to 
answering the argument that respondents should have been 
allowed to try Count II to a jury before trying Count I 
to the Court, or should at least have been granted leave 


OF CET Ye ETE RRR ITY aro apa AO 


ad ie, 


2 


to file an amended complaint withdrawing Count I and 
repleading Count II. Both of these contentions were de- 
cided against respondents by the District Court and the 
Court of Appeals. They presuppose a decision of this 
Court that Count I is equitable and triable by the Court 
without a jury. To that extent they are a confession that 
the Court of Appeals erred in holding that Count I states 
a claim at law and not in equity. 


I. 


The single question raised in our petition for certiorari 
is whether the Court of Appeals correctly held that Count 
I should also be tried to a jury where the only relief 
sought in Count I is a decree determining ‘vhether re- 
spondents have “equitable rights” to participate in a 
Japanese contract between other parties, and if so, the 
“precise nuture and extent” of their equitable rights, 
followed by an accounting. No question is here raised 
nor was a question presented in the Court of Appeals 
as to the correctness of the holding of the District Court 
that Count II is triable to a jury. Therefore, the issue 
is not whether plaintiffs below were deprived of their 
constitutional right to a jury trial, but whether that right 
also includes the right to try an equitable claim to a jury. 


The writ of mandamus was granted by the Court of 
Appeals only “insofar a. it relates to petitioners’ [Bruce 
and Martin] right to trial by jury of Count I.” As to all 
other issues raised in the mandamus petition, including 
the new question posed in the opposing brief of respond- 
ents herein, the Court of Appeals said: “The balance of 
the relief prayed for by petitioners, however, is denied 
and we perceive of no good purpose in detailing our 
reasons therefor, inasmuch as the central issue is peti- 


3 


tioners’ right to trial by jury of Count I.” (Opinion, 
Appdx. A-9.) Consequently if, as the District Court held, 
and as we contend, Count I is not triable to a jury, then 
the Court of Appeals has necessarily held that the District 
Court did not err in ordering Count I tried first, nor did 
it err in denying plaintiffs (respondents herein) leave 
to amend a second time even though they proposed to 
withdraw Count I and replead their claim asserted in 
Count II. 


II. 


Respondents’ argument neither supports the decree and 
opinion of the Court of Appeals nor the orders of the 
District Court. Consequently, it does not come within the 
rule announced in Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U.S. 471, 
475, that the prevailing party may, without taking a 
cross-appeal, urge in support of a decree any matter 
appearing in the record, although his argument may in- 
volve an attack upon the reasoning of the lower court 
Or an insistence upon matters overlooked or ignored by it. 
Obviously the argument which was rejected by the Court 
of Appeals does not support its opinion and decree that 
Count I is triable to a jury. On the contrary, the con- 
tention is made on the theory that should Count I be 
an equitable claim, then the Court of Appeals should 
have granted respondents some of the additional relief 
prayed for in their mandamus petition. That contention 
though cannot be made here because no cross-petition has 
been filed. Mills v. Electric Auto-Lite Co., 396 U.S. 375. 


IIT. 


However, even if the contention could be considered 
by this Court, it is not grounds for denying the petition 


Pa kh ls Bi 


OPS ES exeRsREAmetenens 


4 


for certiorari. The District Court, in announcing that 
Count I would be tried first, was simply following the 
order in which the plaintiffs had pleaded their claims. 
They prayed in Count II (R-3, Ex. “B”, pp. 18-19) as 
follows: “Wherefore, in the alternative, in the event the 
Court does not grant the equitable relief prayed for upon 
Count I herein, plaintiffs pray for judgment * * *.” 
Having sought a trial first of their equitable claim, they 
cannot complain of the ruling of the District Court that 
their equitable claim will be tried first. 


Nor can they complain of the refusal of the District 
Court to grant them leave to again amend their amended 
complaint, even though they did propose to withdraw 
Count I, and replead their action at law. The District 
Court has wide discretion under Rule 15, F.R.Civ.P., in 
granting or denying leave to amend a complaint which 
has already been amended once. Grombach vy. Oerlikon 
Tool and Arms Corp. of America, 276 F.2d 155, 165 
(C.A. 4, 1960); McHenry v. Ford Motor Co., 269 F.2d 
18, 24 (C.A. 6, 1959); 3 Moore’s Federal Practice (2nd 
Ed.), § 15.08[4], p. 895. Whether the Court has abused 
its discretion cannot be reviewed in a mandamus proceed- 


_ ing filed under the All Writs Act, 28 U.S.C. 1651(a). 


Platt v. Minnesota Mining and Mfg. Co., 376 U.S. 240, 
245; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters (32 U.S.) 634, 647. 


IV. 


Respondents concede in their brief, p. 9, 4 I, pp. 11-12, 
that they seek equitable relief in Count I, but they char- 
acterize it as “some equitable relief,” leaving the infer- 
ence that other relief is sought, but this is not correct. 
All of the relief which they seek in Count I is historically 


5 


and traditionally equitable in nature, and their claim 
does not cease to sound in equity simply because it 
arises out of an alleged breach of a fiduciary relation. 
A breach of fiduciary relation might be giounds for a 
tort action, but Count I is not that kind of an action. 
The nature of Count I must be judged from the remedy 
sought and not from allegations upon which the remedy 
is based. Were this not true, then there would be no 
equitable actions because the wrong could be remedied 
by an action at law for damages. 


Equitable claims generally involve issues of fact, but 
this does not create a legal claim entitling a party to a 
jury trial. Shubin v. United States District Court, 313 
F.2d 250, 251 (C.A. 9, 1963), cert. den. 373 U.S. 936. 


The prerequisite to an action in equity is the absence 
of an adequate remedy at law. Beacon Theatres v. West- 
over, 359 U.S. 500, 510; Dairy Queen v. Wood, 369 
U.S. 469, 478. Respondents pleaded Count I on the basis 
of no adequate remedy at law, and asked that that count 
be first tried. They pleaded Count II only in the event 
they could not prevail on Count I, and impleaded addi- 
tional defendants against whom no relief is sought in 
Count I. Under these conditions the District Judge, in 
the exercise of his discretion, correctly proceeded with 
the trial of Count I, following the order in which the 
two counts were pleaded, until his action was improperly 
stayed. That he had this discretion was settled in Beacon 
Theatres, supra, at p. 510, and whether he correctly 
exercised his discretion is not a matter properly brought 
to this Court. 


aoe pe a 


DAW PAV abet Birkin 


SGN sp RES ABA NOS UNM Se TS aE i bas lak 


6 


V. 


The Brief in Opposition shows no reason why the 
petition for certiorari should not be granted. Therefore, 
we respectfully submit that the Court should grant this 
petition for certiorari and summarily reverse, without 
the necessity for additional briefs or for oral argument, 
the judgment of the Court of Appeals, and order it to 
dismiss the petition for a writ of mandamus. 


Respectfully submitted, 


J. O. TERRELL CoucH 
539 South Main Street 
Findlay, Ohio 45840 
Attorney for Petitioner 
Marathon Oil Company 


Mark H. ApAmMs 

FLoyp E. JENSEN 

oF ADAMS, JONES, ROBINSON AND MANKA 
201 North Main, P.O. Box 1034 
Wichita, Kansas 67201 


CLAyTon L. OrN 
1122 Southwest Tower 
Houston, Texas 77002 
Attorneys for all Petitioners 


