9 l y ; Gy 


, 694. 


ee 


| Office Supreme Court: 


—————— | DEC 21 1963-°” 


IN THE i = JOHN + Avie. CLERK 


Supreme Court of the Curited States 
Ow TOBE R- TERM,’ 1962 


“HU NT OIL COMPANY 


and fe oe 


ee AW COMP: NY, 
(Formerly. Nebo Oil Company, Inct: | 
VEPSUS * oe 
MARATHON OIL COMPANY; 
(Formerly The Ohio Oi} Company?,-ET AL. 


a a 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARY TO THE. 
"UNITED STAT @S COURT. OF APPEALS ° | 
ite FOR NIE FIFTH CIRCUIT .- 


. JOSEPH C_LeSAGE, JR. | 
304 Johnson Building, a saa acer tc ag 
Shreveport, Louisiana : 


J. RALPH GOFF, —. . 
Masonic Building, 
“Arcadia, Louisiana. 
JAME@ LF HELDT. ) 
1300 Mercantile Dallas Buil ldighy : 
Dallas, Texas. 

. MARTIN singel cohen Jk., 
1101 Beck pica Fa : 
Shreveport, Lon: Pars 


Attorneys for Petitioners. Hunt Oil Company 
-* and Bo a aw Con pun} . 


LECOMTE. SHREVEPORT. LOUISIANA 


Petitioners © 


Respondents . 


L 


—_— 


SUBJECT INDEX 


+ 


OPINIONS’ BELOW = se ax PRG 
JURISDICTION © : 


QUESTIONS FRESE ee ee 


“STATUTES AND DECREES INVOLVED 
STATEMENT OF,THE CASE 
REASONS FOR GRANTING WRIT. 
CONCLUSION" . Sis 


. . 
4 


INDEX: TO. APPENDICES. - 


OPINION OF mein RT BELOW 


OPINION OF THE’ COURT QF APPEALS FOR - 
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 


JUDGMENT OF THE COURP_ OF-APPEALS- 


~-= FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 


~ ORDER OF THE COURT. OF APPEALS FOR 


THE FIFTH CIRCUIT DE NYING HEAR- 
ING eaicie 
OPINION: OF THE COURT OF APPEALS OF - 
~ LOUISIANA FOR — THIRD CIRCUIT 
IN TEXACO, INC. ve VERMILION PARIS 
© SCHOOL BOARD. u5- So 2rd 383 


— 
a 


OPINION OF THE.SUPREME OURT. OF LOU- 
wISIANA IN TEXACO, INC. +. VERMILION 
‘PARISH SCHOOL BOARD 132 So 2nd 541, 

' 244 La. 410% 


COTTON VALLEY UNITIZATION AND PRES: 
SURE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT | 


66 


* 84 


Ai 


CITATIONS AS eee 
: x Pag? 
Texucy, dna. e. Vermilion Parish School Board : = 
‘Court of Appeal of -Louisrana for othe, i 
Third Circuit: 145 So. 2nd 383 Sesnsaceness, By My AZ 
Texaco, Inc. &. Vermilion Parish School Board i 7 
sume Court of Louisiana: 152 So. | ey 
_- Ond 541, 244 La 408 eB, 4p 12 


; Huddleston + 2, Divy ‘yer i : 
64S. Ct. 1015, 322 US. 282, x4 L. Ed. 124613 


Vandenbark v. Owens ' 
Tilinois Glass Co..61 S. “Cr..347- 311 US 


008, O81. Oo .. ea iors 13°” 
‘ ‘ 2 x 
STATUTES ss 
| cat Page 
Louisiana Civil Code | : 
. Article 1002 2.50.52: 4,911 
Louisiana Civil Code | = ae : 
Article 1945 © pL pass Ea ace oo 
Liaieias Civil Code ‘ : 7 : 
Article 1956 —° .. : nny 
-- 
# - 
; 


~~ 


INTHE =.) ; 
ieee Court of the United tates 
Oc TOBER. sound 1963 


a : f 
, ° zs 3 = : <, = vs 
is : ea s /, ‘ 
, F ° ° 
, ee 


HUNT OIL COMPANY 


a geetiee io ee oe, f 
og BODCAW COMPANY, | -- vA 
\F@rmeriy Nebo Oil Company, Inc. + $ 

: Pétitioners 
P persus s : - 


MARATHON OIL: COMPANY,” 
- oxmerly The Ohio ‘Oil Com any) ¢ "ET AL. 
: ane esos 


- 
\ 


bee 


2 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE 
UNITED STATES COl yxy OF APPEALS; 


S FOR THE PIE cl CIRCUIT ie 
“7 . . 


— 


The “petitioners, Hunt Ci] Company and° Bodcaw 
Company, respectfully. pray that a. Writ of Certiorari_ 
_ igsue ‘to, review the/judgr ent of the United States Court 

of Appeals for he Fifth Circuit dated August 13, 1963, 
. and entered ow Septembe> 23. 1963, upon denial of rehear- 
ing on thay date. 


oS 
Ww 


ae 


AQPINIONS BELOW 


The opinion and final- -judgment of tite district court | 
is s reported ain 205 F. Supp, 385, and is printed in — 


_ dix, page 19, infra. The opinion of the Court of Appeals - / 
for the Fifth Circuit is reported in 321 f. 2d 702, and is 


printed in“Appendis, ite 34, infra. Rie | 
\ . ‘ 
ri a - - i : . ee 
"JURISDICTION a ee 


- 
« o: 


“The decision of, ‘the Court of Appeals for the, Eifth 
Circuit was dated August 13, 1963. Timely “petition for 
rehearing was denied qn September 23, 1963, ' Appendix, 
page 41; infra.; and judgment was entered on September ; 
23, 1963. The jurisdiction of this court is invoked under 
28 U.S. C. See. 1254 (1). 


qbesriony PRESENTED : 


This case arises under a contract which “unitized 
and. ‘pooled oil, gas apd ¢ther hydrocarbons, as then dis- 
covered and known, and as thereafter ‘discovered, in the 
Cotton Vailey-Field, ‘Webster Purish, Louisiana: The issue 
is whether or not a reservoir of gas and hydrocarbons later 
‘discovered in the area and ata depth covered by the uniti- 
zation and pooling, is to be included under the. contract. 
-The Contract clearly .and explicitly provides for such in- 
clusion of ‘the additional reservoir under the contract. -The 
District Court found, however, that to include the addi- 
tional reservoir under the contract would be unreasonable. . 
and “would accomplish: an unreasonable and inequitable 
| result”, ad interpreted aria applied the contract aceord- 


- ing’to its consideration of the “circumstances (n the light _ 
of whieh the parties negotiated and executed Yhe Aagree- 


ment”, and its findings in respect to interpretation by the 


parties. The Fifth Circuit, Court of Appeals aff. rined' the 


decision of the District Court. | :+ alm Y / 
Subsequent to the decision of the District Court but / 
prior to thetlecision of the Fifth Circ uit. Court of- Appeals, 


thesCyurt of Appeals of Louisiana for the Third Cireuilt,)! i / " 
in Fevaco, Ine cr. Vermilion Par: ishe Sclivol Board, 145° Sa} \f | 
2nd 383, 3 Appe wah. page 43, infra.) and the ‘Supreme > 
Court of Louisian a, ON certiorari in the same case, ‘Texaco, — 
Tic. ce. Vermilion Parish School Board ¥52 So 2nd 541, 244 
La. 40s” (Appendix, page 66, infra,’ have interpreted and— 
‘applied a contract unitizing and pooling oil, gas and other 
hydrocarbons then diseovered and known, and as there- 
after discovered, in the Erath Field, Vermilion Parish,  °. 
Louisiana, on the question and issue of whether or not the- 
contract applied to a later dis covered reservoir. This Erath 
Contract, dnd the question of its application to a_later dis- 
eovered reservoir, ure substantially the same as in the 
present case. Both: Louisiana Courts, applying: Louisiana 


statutory law and jurisrupdence as cited, ascertained . the 
intent of the parties to the contract and-held the. additional ~“ s 
reservoir to be included under the i ‘ontract. In its decision, 

- the Suprenie. Court of Louisiana declared that ‘the. -parties | 

to the Erath Field U nitize tion Contract “.*. . did not, and’ 
could not Ireve cont mplated independe nt ras within a 
unitized area such as the Erath Field. To interpret the 
agree ment as prov iding thet production should be attribut- 

ed to a thing other than the whole would lead to absurd 


sand ines witabl consequedices vever ite ded.” 


e~ The decision of Une, Fifth Circuit € ourt of, “Appeals 
has departed from the clear and explicit. words of the con- 


° > = é / 
“eo * e f ? 
/ 
e coe ™ . Y Ss 


_4 om \ Bee re ee 
ne in ‘ . 


/ 
| es 


rd 


tract becauge it finds’ that tu apply them and include the 
: later discovered reservoir in the fiel# unitization contract - 
“would accomplish an unreasonable and: inequitable re-* 


sult.” It is the law of Louisiana, as pronouncéd. by: its | 


‘highest court, that..vof tq include suchau later discovered 
reservoir in a field Ainitization contract “would lead lo. 
absurd and inequitable consequences hever intended.’ | 


. : si , 


The pewrerwert ot both Rouisiana ‘Courts in Texati ty, 


| Ine. v. Vermilion Parish School Board (supra! were urged z 
on the F ‘ifth Circuit Conrt.of Appeals. The. judgment of 


the Fifth Circuit Court, of Appeals does ‘not. consider, or |: 


‘ ‘make any mention,. ‘of these Louisiana decisions and the 
law of Louisiana, evidenced thereby. 


¢ 2 ‘ 
4 


The —— —— for review are: 


1) Is the fis 5 \ ouibiaiia, ‘as pronounced in = 
Texaco, lac. v. Vermilion Parish School Board 
, (supra! spulicalite to the present ¢ase” 


(2) If the law _ Louisiana as pronounced in 
‘Te waco, Lné. ve. Vermilion Panisle School Board 
(supra! is ibis to the present case, is =. 
decision of the Fifth Circuit Court of ane 
herein in ‘conflict therewith? * 


; STATUTES INVOLVED 


/ 
- / 


ti. 


/ 
“Aitidle 1901 of no aliede Civil Code Volume 


. page 6, af West's Louisiana CiviCode J 


/ . — 


“hipoaannatis lewatiy entered into aifive the effect of 
. laws on those who have formed them. 


“They can hat be “revoked, unless: my futual consent 
of the parties, or for causes acknaw ledged by law. 


They must: be performed. with youd faith.” - 
| Article Y4o of the Louisiang Civil Code, Volugae 
4, page 3m, of Wést™= Louisiana Civil Code: - 
“Legal agy ements, having the, effects of law upon 
the parties, none.but the parties .can abrogate or. 
.-modify them. Upon this pr inciple are established 


the follow! ing rules : , » 


cd 


be ;: ifst—That nme general or speci ial legisiative act can 
be so construed as to avoid or modify a- legal: con 
tract prev iously made : 


“Second—That courts are bown: d to give legal ‘effect 
to all such contracts ac cording: to thé true intent of: 
all the parties ; ae 9 ee 


a? 
* “Third—That the intent ix te be determined by the oo 
- words of the contract, when these, are ciear and 
7 explicit und lead Ao no absurd consequences. 


“— ourth—That it is the common intent of the vartiey 
—that is..the intentign of all—that is to be sought 
for; if there was uv difference in this intent, there _ 
“was no common ‘consent and, consequently, no . 
contract”. F . z . 


- AY icle 1956 of the Lofisiana Civil Code, Volume 7, 
page - 408, of West's Louis siana Civil Code: : 


z an 

“Wher the intent of the partie=’is doubtful, the con- 
“struction put upon’ it, by the manner in which it has" 
been executed by Ti th, or by one With the express or 
implied assent of the oti, rurnishes a rule for its 
interpretation.” eae peg a dee eh we ; 


« - 


i? 


4 


es 


'. mM e zi 6 . a e J 
.—" STAT EMEN' OF THE CASE. 
Litigants dre parties lu a cONLTACt ettective June 


24, “yao, Which unitized, povied and communized Wilhin 


ah i dand Participating: sk, and «@ “Bodcaw sand 


Participating Are s atl) vii, gas “wud ‘other fivdrocarbons 
separately a> to each such participaping area ¢ and pro- 
vided for the creation, within the Cotton heat Piet, 
“under: “the circumstane tis. therein: described, of of “Oer Par- 
“Uelpating Areas”: irovidhed for thre i paibenn rss 
sap! cue tional part ot hey t Olai production ot ot, Yas una of 


hydroe arbons trom each participating aren which was 


. ve tivated: to each part to the agreemers : made pro 


visione for the ears vement, under the circumstances and. 


limitations therein deseri bed, in the Cotton Valley Field, 


of th® Bodeaw Sand Participat ting Ared and’ the "D" Sai 


p. 4 7 3 F 
Participating Area: made provisions for the installation 


and operation of a recycling pressure maintenance anc 
‘igquid bv droc sty extraction. and processing plant: mide 


provision for ther return, to the reservoir or reveling o 


revar allof the gas ‘ty eg from the y Various poy: 
pine a Fs, : ae 
Netpating areas, and for daring among operators of the 


Os DENSE of oil and gas production operations in the pur- 


rilvexdy heen » diese One such reservoir was ir 


Celnating areas. Thi Is contrac he printed In the upnen: 


heveot commencing at page 84. 
@° 


At thetime the CONTPECT Vas nevotintedend exeuute 


al. TWo principal reservoirs of gas and hydrocarbons heed 


‘ < 


;, Fivution known as the “D" Sand and the surface res over 


wad A 


Iving this reservoir was designated us the oD" Sand. 


for- . 


‘arucipating Areas The-other réservoir was in another 
formation known as the bodcaw Sand and the-surface are 
overlying this: réservoir Was designated as the “Bhdéaic ‘A 


Sand articipating Area’. These two participating area: 


colncided except that the “bodéaw Sand Participating 


Area”, in somevinstances, extended slightly beyond the. 


limits of the * oe Sand Partieipatirig Area.” 


The Bodeaw baal and the “D" Sand are. geological, 
formations, or Strata, With ascert tainable geological posi-- 
tions, and characteristics. Both extend over a wide ge0- 
erdphical-urea but‘bear oil, gas or hydrocarbons only w here 


-. some’ feature or quality of the. formation has caused an’ 


4 


accumulation, or reservoir, of oil. var or hydrocarbons. 


After the contract Was executed, the Bodcaw sand 
reservoir Was found to extend, as a CONTINUOUS, reservoir, | 
for a considerable distunee to’ the north of the boundar, 


“re the ° ‘Bodeaw “Sand Participating Area” as originally 


establis hed vider the contract and, unde yr the enlarge ment 


‘provisions of the contract. the “Bodeaw. Sand Participat- - 


ing Area.” and the Cotton ‘Valley Field, were enlarged: to 


inciude this extension of the Bodcaw Sand productivity 
eee 2 ° s . 


The * p° Sandi rese rvoir. however, did mot enjoy the 


extension “thus found ‘for the Bodicaw S: aod} reservoir, and. 
iceuiciaa ete ally as outlined at Ng time the contract 


Was executed. In 1955. however, the drilling of additional’ 
wells in the area to which the “Ba lee iW Sand Participating °, 
Area” had been extended ¢ discovered. an additional reser- 
vor of gas and bydrocarbons in the same “D" Sand fortna- 


Lion Dut tot inteeconnected with the Orig 


-& 


h -s4 . vay 
nal “D" Sand 


. 


VS 


the following words: . . 


* . 
FeservolF. This -additueiial “D° Sand reservoir is in the 


‘yeagrapbical urea included in the contractual uhitization 


and spudling anc is in the geological aud depth: specifica- ' 


tions tor unitization and pooling under tne sunfract. . It 
produces pas ani hydrocarbons alia BR us-vll ratio in edcess 


of ten thousand cubic feet of wus to each barrel of liquid 


hydrocarbons and: requires repressuring by recycling © 
gus, with extraction of liquids, for econornic and efficient 


recovery. of the tiquid . hydrocarbons contained in the 
reservoir. | fe 3 : ; 

Article 1V of the contract het ween the parties ‘Ape 
pendix, page S4) provides for wells drilled or to be drilled 
in the Cotton Valley Field to the Bodeaw Sand or the “D” 
Sand but outside the ° ‘Bodeaw Sand’ Participating Area” 


and the ““D' Sand Participating Area’, respectively, je. 


“W henever such well or wells produce with the gas a 
mixture of liquid hydrocarbons at a gas-oi] ratio in 


‘ J excess of ten thousand cubic feet-of gas to each bar- 


rel of said liquid hydrocarbons, or if other wells are 

completed -in the Bodeww Sand or the Ds Sand in. 
the Cotton’ Valley Field, but outs =ide of the Bodeaw 
Sand Participating Ares and the ‘D’ Sand Partici- 
pating Area, respectively, and produce with thé gas 
“a mixture of liquid hydrocarbons at’a gas-oil ratio 

~ in excess of ten thousand cubic feet.of gas td each, 
barrel of said liquid. hy vio ea then each such 
well, as to the.particular sand from which it is pro- 
ducing and the production acrenge allgcated to’ such 
sand, shall without further formality come under 
‘the term~ of this cccreement und the production 
therefrom hall be unitized, and said Production. 


% 


. 


- = Q 
“Unit, with an appropriate acreage factor herein- 
after determined, shall be povied and coummunized - 
with’ the prouuction and “acreage in such participat- 


Ing area as of the first day of the calendar “month ', 


sntianeativee e the happening of such, event, “and there- 
after the prodbiction from such w ell and Production 
U tit Shaul be handled in Wie same manner as all 
ie participating , oe within: the particular 
parUcipating area, 
Appendix, page 921° i : 


> 


% 


The issue ul Unis case is Whether or not the produc- 
tion fromm the wells: drilled to this, additional “D" sand 
reservoir, and producing at a gus-oi] ratio in excess of ten 
thousand cubic jeet of gas to each burrel of liquid hydre- 

garbons, Is to be‘includeil in the pooling and unitization 


. . . ® , . 
jrovided in the contract. This issue turns on whether or 


not the ui} plication ‘of the words of the contract requiring — 


the unitization of the later discove ‘red additional reser- 
“\poirs leads to absurd consequences The decision of the 
Fifth Circuit “Court of Appead holds, tha? it does. * The 
questions presented by this petition for review i= whether 
yy not this holding is in conflict with the applicable Jaw 


: at sek 
of the State of Louisiana. . . 
° ° x ~ - 


The amount claimed in this suit ds largely in exces- 


of $10,000, The basis*for federal. : jurisdiction in the court 
of first instance is 28 U.S.C..-Sec. 1582. Balt 
. 


REASONS RELIED ¢ ba ALLOWANCE OF WRIT 
idee Articles 10] and M45 of the Louisiana 
Civil Cotes “agreements legally entered Into have the effect 


love @} . , is 644 - 2vY } }H .? 4 * 
Hays Off THOSe Whe nave formed them With, the eourts 


% 
° 
PO 
SAT, 
. 
?¢ 


vt 


3 


wow 


10 


being “bound to give legal effect to’all such contracts ac y 
cording to the true intent of the parties’ which intent “1 
to be determined by the words of the contract, when these 
are clear and explicit and lead to’ no absurd consequepices. ss 
in this case the contr act contempiates that other wells may 
be drilled'to the “D" Sand. outside thé * LP Sand: Partici- 
pating area” and clearly and explicity provides. thaf if any 
~ueh wells produce with the gas’a mixture of liguid hydro- 
carbons at a vas-«il rauio in excess of ten thousand ‘cubic 
feet of gas to each harrel of liquid hydrocarbons, then 
each:such well, as to the particular sand from’ W hich it is 


producing, and the production acreage allotted to such 
sand, shall without further formality come under the terms. 
mi the agreement | ‘and the production therefrom shall. be 


unitized. The production involved in this suit is from well- 

completed in the “BP Sand in the Catton Valley Field, bat 
outside the “*D’-Sand Participating Area” and producing 
with the gas a mixture of liquid hydrocarb@s at a gas-o!] 
ratio in excess of ten thousand cubic feet of gas to each 
barrel of liquid hydrocarbons-—~Fhe contract clearly and 
explicitly provides and directs that each such well, as to- 


the particular sand from which it is producing, . and thé 


production acreage allotted such sand, is, without further 
formality, to. come under the contract and be unitized ac- 
cording ti the contract. ; 

a The words of thi- contract are patently clear and 
explicit and have not in any respect been ‘found déubtful 


ar ambiguous. The courts are hound ‘to vive legal effect 


te these lear and explicit words of the contract unless such. 


effect leads to ahsurd consequences Article 1945. of 


11 fy 
ape 


- Lowigiana Civil Code’, The decision of the Fifth Circuit 


( 


Court of Appeals, in adopting and affirmng the District 
Court. has found that to include the late? ‘discovered reser- 
voir, and the production Lheretrom, under the ‘contract 
would accomplish an unreaso! nable and inequitable result. 


Upon this finding the decision departs from the Gear and 


explicit words ot the contract and interprets and construes 
it according to the Court's consideration of the circum- 
‘stances in light.ot wh ich the parues negotiated and execut- 


‘ ed the ‘agreement, “and matters dehors the cuntract itseif 


which the Court considered a= evidencing interpretation 
by the parties, “all resulting in the Court constructing 4 
contract which 1s entirely different from the clear and ex- 


plicit words the parties themselves used in making their 
contract. - he 


Under Louisiana C ivil Code Article 1945 the ie 


ground that can justify this decision’s departure from the 
clear and explicit words ‘of the contract is that these clear. 
and explicit words, lead to ‘absurd consequence. Tf they 


do not lead to absurd consequences, then the clear and ex- 


plicit words must prevail over-any circ umstance of négotia- 


tion and eyecution and matters considered as ‘inter} reta- 


tions by the parties. . Aruvie BOOT, 1845 und 1956, Louis) - 
ana Civil Code). o 
° The issue of the case. therefore, turns on whether 
or not the inclusion of a later discovered ade litional reser- 
voir ina field unitization contract is an absurd or unrea- 
sonable cs nsequence followi ing from-the. clear. and ‘explicit 
word ot the. ontract. The decision of t Fifth Circuit 


Court of Aypeals holds that it is.. Petitioner: respectfully 
ry Py .- . 


eee 


, 


“12 ea ee si 
rs st = / 


submit that this decision is contrary to the law ot the Site 


3 of Louisiana a& pronounced and established in decisiGis on 


exactly the same question raised under at ‘field. unitization 
contragt of ‘the Same nature and purpose as the contract 


involved here. 


° < 
These Louisiana‘ decisions are Tewaco, Inc., v. Ver- 
nilion Parrsh School Board, l45°So. 2nd 383 | Appendix, 
page 43 infra’: decided: by the.Court of Appeal of Leuisi- 


ana for the Third € ircuit, and* Tewace, lic. vr. Vermilion 
Prerish School Board, 152 30, 2nd°541, 244 La. 4us, (Ap- 


pendix page 66; intra’) the’ same tase decided on certiorari, 


ta, 


by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. This Louisiana vase - 


involv «fl a contract unitizing and pooling vil, gas and other 
minerals in the krath Field, Ver milion Parish, Louisiana, 


as discovered atthe tine the contract Was executed anid 


as snight be théreafter discovered. A number of years after 
the contract Was executed, an additional reservoir was di-- 
covered in a sand or for matiu n that had provided ad sep 

‘ate original r reservoir. The issue of the Louisiana case 
\ wat precisely the issue presented in ‘his case. Both I, Ouis!- 
hac courts held that the additional reseryoingy as include 
in the field unitization contract. fe es 


In its dec#siort, after citing’ Louisiana Ciyil- Code 
Article 1945 > and the juris sprudence thereunder, the Louisi- 
Ana Supreme Court declared : 

“ .. To interpret the agreements as providing that 
production should be attritbuted,to anything other 
than the whole would lead to absurd and inequitable 
consequences never Intended.” 


. 


ce 


Thus the decision of the (Fifth Cire wit Court of Ap- 


peuls herein holds that to include a a later. itiscoveréd addi-- 


: a es 


. tional reservoir in a field unitization contract “would aec- 


compiish un unreasonable and inequitable result,” ‘while 


the Supreme Court of Louisiana had held that not to in- 
clude such-a later discovel ‘ed reservoir in a field unitiza- 


tion contract * ‘would lead to absurd and ‘inequitable con- 


* Sequences never intended.” The decision of the Fifth Cir- 


‘cuit Court of Appeals i> ~quately and completely in con- 


flict with the law of Louisiana a- declared by the Leuisi-, 


ana Supreme Court on the only. issue in this ease _— h 


could justify: the départ ure in ¢he decis sion of,.the ¥ 


Ne 


Circuit Court of Appeals from the clear aiid explicit snes 


of the contract. | oe P 


The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals should apply 
the decis ston of the | comisiana Sapreme ‘Court even Phough 
that decision was rendered wile this case Was On appeal 
from the Dis trict Court. té the spe Circuit Court of Ap- 
peals. - Huddleston ve, Degen 64 S.Ct. 1015, 322 U. S. 232, 


sn L. Ed. SS ovanieast an eee Glass Co.,61 


B47, 311 U. S. 538, 8d L. Ed. 327. The decisions of the 


a siana ¢ ‘oure- were urged. upon the Fifth € ireuit € aurt 


of Ap peas but the decis sion makes no mention of them. 


rield ynitization of oN, gas and other | bro a 


permits repressuring and exthiction af liquids nat other- 
wise reeoverable. Such contracts aid the opergtiogs there- 
under are of great importance to. the conservation gofigala: 
able natural, resaqurees sind heeconom. of the hetroleum 
industry and require huge inve-tmency for plants and 
facilities. “The State of Louissanu is a major petroleum 
producing area of the nation cate the application und en 


forceability of such contraets im respect to ae Iditional res- 


—t" 


2 


we, 
4 
ervoirs later discovered in a‘unitized area are important 
questions upon which theres should be nu conflict between 


the state law-and a holding of a Court of the United States. 


CON rCLUS ON 


For the reasons set out, itis cee submitted 
that the decision of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals is 
_in conflict with the applicable law of the State of Loyisi- 
ana, and a Writ of Certiorari should be granted. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Joseph C. LeSage, Jr., 
304 Jonnson Building, 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 
J..Ralph Goff, 
Masonic Building, 
Arcadia, Louisiana.” 


' James D. Heldt, cos } 
* * 1800. Mercantile Dallas B sesast 
Da'las, Texas. 


--Marlin Risinger, -Jr.. 
1101 Beck Building, 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 


, a _Attor neys for Petitioners: Hunt 
Oil Co. and Bodéeaw Company 
‘formerly Nebo Oil Co. Inc. | 


15 


PROOF OF SERVICE 

"|. MARLIN RISINGER, JR., one of the attorneys 
of record for Hunt Vil Company and Bodcaw Company, 
petitioners herein, depose’ and say that ‘on the AZ day of | 
December, 1963, | served copies of the foregoing Petition’ 
to the. Supréme Court of the United States Tor a Writ of 
: Certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the » 
Fifth Circuit, with Ayipendices thereto, on the several 


parties as follows; 


e 
SJ 


1. On Marathon Oil Cempany and The Pardee Com- 

pany, by mailing a copy of said document in duly addressed 
envelopes with air mail postage prepaid, to each of their - 
‘following attorneys of record residing more than 500 miles 
from Shreveport,‘ Louisiana, namely: 


— - @ayton L. Orn | 
539 South Main Street 
Findlay,-Ohio° . | 44 


Calvin A.. Brown . 
539 South Main Street - 
; Findlay, Ohio 


Joseph F. Driver 

539 South Main Street . ape a 
Findlay; Ohio’. | Coot i 
and by mailing a copy of said ‘document in.duly addressed ° 
envelopes, with first class postage prepaid, to each of their 
remaining attorneys of record and who reside less than 


500 miles from Shreveport, Louisiana, namely: 


16 
erat \ 
Arthur O’Quin~ : : 
Fifth Floor c 
First National Bank Building | 8 


Shreveport, Louisiana 


C. Ford Currier 

Fifth Floor. 

First National ‘Baiik Buliting 

— Louisiana ; 

On A. J. Hodges Industries, Inc., General Ameri- | 
can it Company of Texas, Mrs. Tom: J. Moifett, Mrs. - 
. Betty M. Harvin, Individually, and as Natural Tutrix; by - 
mailing a copy of said document in duly addressed en- 


velopes with first class postage prepaid to each of their 
attorneys of record, namely : + foe. 


* David E. Smitherman — 
* 717 Commercial National Bank’ Building 
Shreveport, Louisiana _ | 


Stuart D. Lunn 
“2-717 Commercial National Bank Building 
Shreveport, Louisiana °- -- 


| 3. On M. H. Marr, R. A. Briston, and Marion Jean 
Bristot ‘Wakefield, by mailing a copy of said document in 
a duly addressed envelope w ith first class postage prepaid, 
to their attorney of record, namely’ : 


_ Sumter Cousin 
P. O. Box 1467 
Shreveport, Louisiana 


, 
o 


4. On Magnolia Petroleum Company by mailing a 
copy of sai document in a duly addressed envelope with 


first class postage prepaid, to their attorney of record, 
namely : et 
A. Dixon Carroll na : 
“P.O. Box 1726 ~ ee 
Giddens-Lane Building : 
"Shreveport, Louisiana - 


‘ 6 
* 5, On William H. Cook, Fred Simon, Mrs. Louis 
Weiss Bronner, Mrs. Barbara Ann Weiss Simon, and Mrs. 
Natalie H. Weiss, by mailing a copy of said document.in 
duly addressed envelopes with first class postage prepaid 
_t6 their attorneys of record, namely: 

William H. Cook — 2 
P. O. Box 646 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 


Robert McL. Jeter - 
}. O, Box 646 
Shreveport, Louisiana o 


6 On F. Brown and P. G. Le Gendre by mailing a 
copy of “aid document in a duly addressed envelope’ with 
first class postage prepaid,” to their attorneys of ‘record, 

namely : 
J.C. Smith 


| / 
Commercial Natiohal Bank Building 
Shreveport, Louisiana 


> On Mrs. Marie Amiss Smith and. Marilyn E; 
Watkins, by nieing a copy of said-document in a duly 


¢ 


addressed siciialiate with: first class post; os prepaid, to 

+’ their attorney of record, namely : 
es 

James tc. Cowles / ‘ 

P. O. Box 1135 hs 


Ge : ; sa, spiciay Leuis 


.7. This affidavit and pr vin of service is. jane pursuant 


to United States Sup rt Rule 33. - 


J : 


- Marlin Risinger 


é 
. 


2 


ubscribed iz’ sworn to before me ‘at Shreveport, 
-LouiSiana, on this @ day of December, 1963: 


Pedi. Me 2 LG EMS 
oe Nota ry Public, Ca oO Parish. 
. Lotisiana | 


eo? 


i 2 


HUNT Ol COMPANY, Plaintiff, 
. fae 
The OHIO Gil. COMPANY, Defendant 
and Third-Party Plaintiff 


.¥. We 
A. J. HODGES INDUSTRIES, INC., et al, 
Third-Party Defendants: | 
The Pardee Company, intervener. 
v 


Civ. A. Ne. 6506 ° 


eal United States District Court . 
; W. D. Le asiana, 
Shreveport Division 


e 


June 6, 1962. 


BEN C, DAWKINS, JR.. CHIEF JUDGE. 

This cause duly came on for trial on the pleadings 
and the Order for Separate Tal of Claims under Rule 
42(b) of the’Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 ULS.CLA. | 


entered by the Court herein on April 24, 1959. and the 
Court; having heard the evidetce and considered the stinu- 
lation of the parties, and having Considered carefully the 


extensive briefs and ora! arguments, finds the facts and 
states its conclusion. of Jaw as follows: - 
» Findings of Fact 
~, 1. ‘Plaintiff Hunt Oi! Company is-a corporation 
gi the State of Delaware with its principal offive at Dallas, 
Texas. Defendant The Ohio Oi} Company is a corporation 
of the State of Ohio with its principal office at Findlay, 
Ohio; Nebo Oi! Company, Inc® ‘now by change of name 
Bodecaw Company. Third-Party Detendant and Counter-’ 
Claimant, is-a corpuravion of the State of Delaware with 


- 
- 


a 


»4 ~ 
its principal office 1 Dillas, Texas; A. J. Hodges Indys- 


tries, Inc., Third-Party Defendant. is a corporation of the 
State of Louisiana with its principal office in the City - 
of Shreveport, Loudslan, within the pri are 
of Louisiana, and in 160 conveyed its properies in tha | 
Cotton Valley Field - hereinafter referred to! te Gerieral 
American Qi] Company of Texas, a Delaware corporation 
with its principal office in Dallas, Texas, which yy ord 

uf April 13, 1960, was’ made party to this action as.a 
Third-Party Defendant: Secon) Mobil Oil Company, Inc., 
Third-Party Defendant ‘cuccessok to Magnolia Petroleum 
Company, « Jexic corporation with its -principa] office 
in Dallas, Texas). is a corporation of the State of New 
York with its principal office in the City of New York; 
Midstates Oil Corporation, Thitd-Party Defendant, is 4. 
corporation of Wire State-of Delaware with its principal 
office in Tujsa, Oklahoma: Third-Party Defendants M. 


H. Marr, R. A. Bristol, Marion Jean Bristol Wakefield, 


‘Mrs. Marie Amiss Smith and Marilyn E. Watkins are 


_ citizens and residents of the State of Texas; and Third- 


Party Defendttns fF. H. Brown, . Mrs, Betty M. Harvin, 
the minors Elizabetn L. Gustine, Margaret M. Gustine, 
Marilyn. M. Gustime and David 1D. Gustine, for all ef whom 
Mrs. Betty M. Harvin i tutrix.. P. G. LeGendre, Mrs. Tom 
Jones Moffitt, Mrs. Heten M. Aseher, Mose= Ascher, Sam 
Sklar, William H- Cook, Fred Simon, Mrs. Louise Weiss 
Bronner, Mrs. Barbara Ann Weiss Simon, Mrs. Natalie 
H. Weiss and RL M..Wilson are citizens and residents of 
the State of Louisiana. residing within the Western Dis- 
trict of Louisiana: Intervener The Pardee Company is a 
corporation of the Suite of New York with its. principal 
office in Philadeipmia, Penns) Ivanin, The amount claimed. . 
by Plaintiff of Defendant’ in this actioh is largely in 
excess of 310,000, - t an 


td « 1 . 
This ‘action present> a CONLYOVEYSY between» Piain 
Hff and Couffter-Ciaimant, both of which ‘are citizens of 


+ D> 


— 


. 


Delaware and Texas, on the one hand, and Defendant, a 
citizen of Okio, and Interyenor, a citizen of New York and 
Pennsylvania, on the other: and ancillary thereto, a de-. 
mand by Defendant against Third-Party Detendants for 
indemnity in the event it-is cast in this action. 


: ee <n fg me 

2. Plaintiff. Defendaht, all Third-Party Defend. : 

ants and Intervener have executed or ratified, and are 
parties to, the “Cotton Valley Unitization and. Pressure 
Maintenance - Agreement” (herein referred to as the 
““ Agreement”), made part by reterence of Plaintiff's com- 
plaint herein, which became effective June 29, 1940, A 
Copy of the “Agreement” is attached hereto as an “Ap- 
pendix A.’©* Plaintiff. Defendant and al! Third-Party 
Defendants are ‘parties to the. Agreement as “Operator” 


. - and Intervener is « party to the Agreement as “Royalty 


Owner” > see definitions. “Agreement’:, p. 2. (Ex. | to 


Stipulation of. Fact. ‘attached hereto as * Appendix B”y. 

. 3. (a! -By the Agreement the parties thereto. in- 
cluding the parties to this action, unitized, pooled and 
communized (Article I+, Within a “D" sand Participating 
Area” definitions, pP. 2), and a-“Bodeaw Sand Participat- 
ing Afea” (Definitions, p. 2)..all oil, gas and other hy- 
drocarbons separately as to each such Participating Area: 
.and provided for the creation, within the Cotton Valley 
Field, under the circumstances therein described of “Other 


. . % - on . : - o* oe. 2 * 
Participating Areas: ‘Article IT and Definitions, p. 2). 
. : a 


tb) provided for tite determination of the. frac- 
tonal part of the total] production of gil. gas and other 
-hydrocarbons trom each Participating Arex Which was. 
to be allocated tO each party to the Agreemént ‘Article II 


'c' made provision for the enlargement under the 
circumstance- and limitation~ therein described, in the 


22->- cone 
Cotton Valley Field, of the Bodcaw Sand ety hs 
Area anc the “D" Sand P articipating, Area | Article IVs 


id) made provision tor ‘the installation and. per- 
ation of a recycling, pressure mainten2znce and liquid) hy- 
drocarbon extraction and processing plant for the return 
to the reseryoir or recyeling of some or all of the gag to 
‘be produced from the various Participating ‘Areas, pe 
‘for the sharing’ among Operators of the expense’ oft oi] 


and gas production gperation= in the Participating Areas, 


all of which operations were provided to-be directed and: 


supervised by an Operators’ Committee upon which each 
- Operator was represented: and 


'e) made-various stipulations in ail of and in- 


cidenta! to the provisions above summarized. : 


4. Plaintiff, Hunt-Oil ¢ ompany, and Third- Party 
Defendant and Cros=- Complainant Bodcaw Company 
‘(formerly Nebo ‘Oi] Company’ are owners, a> Operator 
under the Agreement, of certain participating percentage- 
in‘the “D" Sand Participating Area and the Bodeaw Sand 
Participating Area, by virtue of which they are entitled 
to certain percentages of the value of all oi], gas and other 
hvdrecarbon= produced trom the “D” Sand Participating 
Arey.: By gight of. stich ownership, they claim: in_ this 
action from Defendant, The Okie Oi] Company. fractiona! 
_part- of the value of oi] and gas produced since February 
1, 1957. by Defendant from two wells known as CVOC- 
Ohio- Hodges No. 2 Well in NW! of NW',, Section 36, 
Township 22 North; Range 10 West, and, the Ohio-W. T. 
Gleason Well No. i-D in NW of SE ';, Setfion 31, 
Township 8) North, Range © Wes. Webster Parish Lou- 


(1) dt is argued by Defendan: that the enlargement provis- 
tons of the Agreement have been superseded by the 
Louisiana QCpmmissioger of Conservation’s Order No. 


10-€. © (ExbrAr: 7 ¢0 Stipulation ot Fact): but the Court. 
deems it unnecessary to pass on this argument * 


=| 


isiana. The Court find» that thessaid Gleason and Hodges 
Wells are completed in, atid that the Hodges Wel. 'the—— 
Gleason. Well having teen converted into an injection well. 
shortiy after its compuetion has produced oil and gas” 
from, 4 separate «poor or reservoir Known us the North 
“D" Sand Pool which i- lovee Vile the peographicar 7 


oe aren * 


oe, 


confines of the Bodcaw Sand Participating Area and to» 
the North of the “D'-Siaarl Participating Area, such pre. 
duction being from a sdrai or formution-kKnown as the “[>" 
Sand, which is found in the®same stratigraphic interval 
as the “D" Sand of the “D" Sand Pa ‘ucipating Ares, but 
the pool or reservoir known as the North “D” Sand Poo! 
being completely. separated from, the “D" Sand reservoir 
included in the “D" ‘sand Participating. Arex by an im- 
permeable barrier or shale and siltstone over a mile wide. 
cand that Defendant tias, since February 171957. pro 
oi] and gas from the-North “D" Sand Pool. The iC 
further finds that the Defendant and certain of the Third- 
Party Defendants have: admitted that’ the’ North gs i ae 
Sand Pool has been considered by them to be within. the 
definition of “Cattor Valles “Field” as se: fori in the . 
Agreement ‘Definitions, p. 1), oe ong 


Ge 
41} &.. The partig. tothe Agreement did not by the 
provisions thereof, and partie lariy by Article IV thereof. 
provide for enlargemes&t of the “D" Sand Py ‘ticipating 
Area suas ty incliglg the whole or any part of an ofl. gas 
or hydrocarbon? poo! or reservoir, in. the stratigraphic in- 
terval of the Cotton Valiev Field known as -the “D" Sand, 
separate from and ngt connected with the pao! or reservolp 
included in the ‘1D’ Sand, Pearti Ipating Area n- originally 
“éstazblished be the Agreement. No part of the North Ty 
Suan Pool, fromy which Defendant. OV Means of the Hodge: 


Well referred to in Bindi: ged EA produced oi] and ‘ary. 
* since.February 1. 1957) i< a part of the “D" Sand Partic. 
pating Area under the Agreement. 


° 


* 


a ~—getérmina tion thats 


Go 


vw. 
e 


fain Ls : | : 
; ‘al. When the cir ‘umiances in the dight of which 
the payer negotiated una executed the. Agreement -are 


‘ 


ween - gonsidered, . the ‘meatal we Finding 5- of : Article IV of the 
Agreement becomes Stat be Hien TAU, at the time’ 


the Agreenie? it Was dr AyD up and entered “Into, th he parties 
by whom ‘it Was Graite! and executed considered and, be- 


jieved that they. pinssessed . virtually complete scientific 


‘information concerning the tature, 


. 


thickness, areal extent 
total gas and wil reserves, reservoir ‘characteristics and 
reservoir behavior of twe hydrocarbon reservoirs then 


producing in the Cyetton Valier: Pieid, these reservoirs 


being the Bodcaw Sand reser’ ir and the “D" sand reser- 


voir, in e ich of which both (a- and vil well> ba ad been 
completéd and were the! srodicing: Viz. scientific’ infor- 


mation possessed my ihe maurtig= Was based Gh ‘ cg from 


approximately one hundred wells which had heeriril led 


to suid two reservoirs. or tolone or the other of. them 


said- wells having been -driliéd) at -urface jocutions widely 
spread over the entirety of wh J owuse'then considered the 
productive ‘ares af euch rese@corr, ang Was further de- 
rived from numerous analyse: oo ‘cores taken from said 
weils, production tesie "un in said) Weis electric’ logs of 
said Wells, other Characteristice “CF ON id wells. cand Zlse 


* 4 2 . . Se 
4 ' . aes ne WM hac? thi¢ NeHT le 


from the ration: OF a pee pid! 
prior to @htering inte the Arveement. had, copstructe 


“waTtoperated for the ures 


the feasibility, from the stan rk { both empyineering 
and eCONOMICS: of cycling said “PO Sand reservair an 
main tainit wo pressure there! f o-line said Bodcav 
sand reservoir and maint recsure there Thu- 
at the time the contract ¥ esotiated and execuled, the 
parties Chought. thes ire he Arh iow limitation 
the urea! extent of The [I weservorr And the Bod 
cuw sand: reservol and the: miew that ay Hevuele 

i Se 


t “Findings y nhOVeE, im Pees Up the’ Court’> | 
é é ; 


% 


— 


‘26 aes 


additional acreage along the edge of each Participating 
Area as established by the’ Agreement which was not 
included in the Participating Areas’ but on which were 
producing oil weils: and they thought that there might» 
_be, additionally, minor extensions of the productive part 
of each of those reservoirs which might later be discovered 
by drilling. They knew that the owners. of the oil wells 
around the edges of the two principal Parti¢ipating Areas 
‘had a much more profitable operation than the owners 


of the gas wellsson acréage included Within |those Partici-~ 


hazed as pro- 
me gus Wells 


pating Areas, and they knew that sooner or 
duction progiressed, thé oil wells would bec« 
(that is, would produce gas at a ratio of | 10,000 cubic. 
feet of gas or more per barrel of oil). They| knew it was. 
necessary to \provide for control of the’ gas| produced by 
‘these rim oil Wells and by other wells subseqhently drilled 


to the same yeservoirs and for their intégration into the 


Bodcaw Sand| Participating Area and the “D" Sand Par- 
ticipating Area, respe vely, when they should ‘become 
gas wells. The known facts suyported their belief that, 
With minor exceptions they considered immaterial, their 
contract Was fo operate upon one hydrocarbon‘ reservoir 
in the “D" Sahd and one reservoir in the Bodcaw Sand. 
‘both of which |were considered to be known and substan- 
tially delimited, and upon deeper and then unknown or 
_ untested-reservoirs + Restatement. “Contracts,” $$ 230, 235, 
236; Williston, “Contracts.” Re«. Ed., Vol. 3, ££ 618, 619, 


620; In ré Tidewater Coal Exchange, 292 F, 22: Adeline 


Sugar Factory Co. vs, Evangeline Oil Co. (1908). 121 La. 
961, 46 So. 935: Andrews Coal Co. vs. School Bourd +1922). 
151 La. 695, 92 So. 303: Mixon vs. St. Pah Fire & Marine 
Ins. Co. (1920), 147 La. 302. 84 Se. 7908. ead 


(b+ ‘The principal purposes of the parties in en- 
tering inte the Agreement, ne the Court finds from the 
provisions of the Agreement und from the circumstances 
in the view of the partiés at the time it was negotiated and 


e . 


a7 


_ oon 


“Zi 


executed, were, to the degree practically attainable, to 
provide for unitization separately. of - the Bodeaw *Sahd 


Participating Area and of the “D” Sand Participating 


. Area and to accomplish maintenance of pressures in the 


.Bodcay Sand and “D" Sand reservoirs, included in the 
two Participating Areas respectively. Unitization would 
be of economic benefit fo the Operators by minimizing 
the drilling. of unnecessary wells in such Participating 
Areas and pressure maintenance would be of economic 
benefit both to Operators and Royalty Owners by increas- 
ing-the total. hydrocarbons which would be produced dur- 
ing the life of the field from the Bodcaw Sand Participat- 
ing Area’ and the “D" Sand Participating Area.’ The 
parties had knowledge, at the time the Agreement Was 
negotiated and executed, that in a conventional produc- 
tion operation ‘that is, without pressure maintenance | 
pressures in each reservoir would decline as production 


_ proceeded and that when this decline in pressure reached, 


in each’ reservoir, a certain critical point some or all of 
the gaseous Hydrocarbons in. that reiedar reservoir 
would condense and adhere to the sand grains, thus losing 
mobility, so that they would never be produced. The pres- 
sure maintenance contemplated by the Agreement was to 
consist. 6f bringing the gas from each reservoir to the 
surface, stripping it‘ of readily condensible hydrocarbons 
by means of extraction plant and pumping the stripped 
gas back into the reservoir “ithat is, “evcling” ow as it is 
sometimes called “recycling! : by. this operation pressure 
decline in the reservoir would he postponed and, addition- 
ally, the mixture of hydracarbons in the reservoir, at the 
places occupied by the stripped gi. would’ contain les- 
readily condensible material=. In a gas-bearing reservoir, , 
pressure maintenance by mean» of cycling, from the-physi- 
cal nature @f the operation: cunmnot he accomplished ex 
cept’ separately with regard to one particalar hydrocarbon 
‘pool or refervoir ‘see Restatement, Contracts, £ 236'b), 


p. 327)... 


(2{ tc:- Provision is made by Article IV of the Agree- 
ment for enlargement of the “D" Sand Participating Area 
“in the manner and under the circumstances therein de- 
scribed. After referring to wells peoducing’ outside the 
» “D" Sand Participating Area to which the provisions of 
Article IV are otherwise ap plicable, that Arti cle provides 

- “that: « . 


“** * Bach such well, us to the particular sand from. 

Which it is producing and the production a acreage 
. allocated to.such sand, shall without further form- , 
ality come under the terms of this Agreement ands 
the production therefrom shall be unitized, and said 
Production Unit, with an appropriate acreage fac- 
tor hereinafter determined, shal! be pooled and 
communized with the production and acreage in 
such participating area as of the first day of the 
calendar month. succeeding the happening of the 
event, 9% 


lt thus appears that additional properties in the. Cotton 
“Valley ‘Field to be added to a particular Participating 
Area must have a production Unit with the’ Azreement 
defines as ~ : Pe ets 


e . “that acreage, not to exceed eighty acres, within the 

. Cotton Valléy Field, but outside one of the Partici- 

pating Areas as defined herein, allocated by the 

Operator or included in his .alloeation to the Unit 

- accepted by the Dey): irtment. of Conservation as the 

Unit for. production éf a well’ completed thereon 

outside such Parti¢ipating Area but in the same 
producing. formation.” 


The Agreement thu- provides tht the Participating “Areg 
can be enlarged only in “the -ame producing formation.” 
The Court finds that ‘the terms"“formation™ as used by the 
Agreement in the definition of Production Unit mean- 


29 . “te 3 C 


pool or reservoir !Carter Mil Co. vs. McCasland (Ct. of” 


App. 10, 1951), 190 F. 2d 887. 


' c 


id) The Court finds from an examination of the 
Agreement as a whole that the parties did not contemplate . 


the possibility of either the Bodcaw Sand Participating 


‘Area or the-"D" Sand Participating Area under the Agree- 
ment including more than_ one hydrocarben poo! or reser- 


voir, with the exception thateone or more “C” Sand Reser- 
voirs, which the parties knew could not be recycled and 


‘which were. considered to, be of marginal importance, 


were lumped in with the “D” Sand Participating Area. 
The Couft’s determination in this respect takes into con- 
sideration (1: the provisions of Article IV for limited 


integration of certain acreage ‘on which there were pro- - 
ducing oi] wells ‘in contrast to the gas wells in the Par-" 


ticipating Areas’! immediately surrounding the “D" Sand 
Participating AYea and the Bodcaw Sand Participating’ 


‘Area, not included in the respective Participating Areas, 


ss °° } 
and the provision for the delivery of the gas from’ such 


oil wells to the cycling plant for*return "to the sand from . 


which produced,” obviously. a provision for yg pres- 
sure upon the non-integraies vil wells In the same reser- 
voir; (2) the provisions of Article XI, p. 14, “for the re- 
turn to the reservoir or recycling of some or all of the 
gas Which may he produced from the Participating Areas 


“above mentioned,” language which identifies “Partici- 


pating Area” with “tit reservoir”: and (3) the provisions 
of Article. XI, p. 15, prescribing the maximum reservoir 
depth at which a well could be used for injection of ga’ 
(without the consent of a preponderant majority of the 
Operators!, demonstrating the concern of the owners of” 


_the oi] wells surrounding the Bodcaw. and “D” Sand Par-: 


ticipating Areas that gas ghould rot be injected too -close 
to their oil wells und establishing « regulation which weuld 


_prevent, without addition] agreement, the injection of ga- 


into the North “D” Sand Pool, all of which is-at a greater 


«4 


.@ 


® 


7 i: eo’ es ‘ : Ss . ; ; . - : ; *, . 
_ sub-sea depth than the established limitation, (Brien v.° 


Miller, 168 U. S. 287, 42 Lied 469.) °° 


* (e) {n. proceedings - before tiie ‘Commissioner of 


Conservation of the State of Louisiana, initiated by parties.. 


to the Agreement for the purpose ot implementing: the 
Agreement and making effective as.to owners of rights 
in the Cotton Valley Field not pakty to the Agreement 


{ts provisions for unitization and paoling of the several 
Participating Areas established by the Agreement in the - 


Cotton Valley Field, at’ a time s subs tantially ¢ontempor- 
aneous’ with execution -of the Agreement, as well as in 
proceedings subsequent: thereto, the parties and the Com- 
missioner of Conservation, by- hi= orders, construed the 
Agreement as providing: for enlargement of the “D" Sand 


Participating Area and the Bodcaw Sand Participating 


Area-to include only-additional parts of tue same reservoirs 
respectively. 
CJ 


(3) «f) In 1943 the parties. to the Agreement dis- 


covered that the opinion which they had held at the time ~ 


of the execution of the Agreement in if40 as-to the areal 


extent of the Bodeaw Sand reservoir included ‘in the 


Bodcaw 5S Sand Participating Area under the agreement 


was in error and that the, Bodcaw Sand reservoir or pool, 


of the Cotton Valley Fie ki, extended for a considerable 
distance to the north by réason of the fact that th e under- 
ground structure containing the Bodeaw. Sand ‘reservoir 
declined and rose again or the north without interruption 


of the reservoir continuity by a decline below the level 


of the water contained in the reservoir. In negotiations 
ang transactions consequent upon this discovery, the “ree: 
meént, and particularly’ Article IVY thereof, was construed 
by the parties, including Plaintiff and other parties to 
this action, ‘see, for in-tancé, Exhibit 15 to Stipulation of 
Fact): to. provide’ for the enlargement of w particular 
Participating Area ‘in that instance the Bodeaw Sand 


\ 
Pa ? ; \ 
> ° / ‘ 
4 . 
o * ) rs 
4S: im ae | ' 


Participating Area, the provision of. the -Agreement -for 

*- the enlargement of which is the same as that for enlarge- 
ment of the “Dp” Sand Participating Area! to include 
only .Jands containing, pressure connected parts of the 
same hydrocarbon pool or reservoir as Was included in 
the Participating Area. under enlargement.- This cory 
struction is binding upon the parties. {Louisiana Civili 
Code; Article 1956, Restatement, “Contracts”, 3 235te!, 
also Comment “h”: Smyth ys. Board of Commissisuers of 
Atchafalaya Levee District (FE. D. La. 1949), 87 F. Supp. 
138: Clement vs.-Difni. (1929', 168 La. 304, 122 So. 122: 
Davis Construction Co, vs. Board of Commissioners (19440), 

207 La. 590, 21 So, 2d 753.) I 


ig) On February 15, 1957, the “D" Sand Par- 


ticipating Area under the Agreement’ had been. depleted 


to an extent: in excess of 95‘, of the wot gas and recover 
able hydrocarbon liquids, and the, Bod¢taw Sand Particl- 
_pating Area had been similarly depleted to the extent otf 
“almost 90/7. Thus the interpretatio of she Agreement 
proposed in this action ‘by Plaintiff abd Cross-C omplain- 
ant is unreasonable and would accomplish an unreasoRn” 
able and inequitable result _( Restatement, “Contracts”, 
_$ 236¢a)). eaten 
Fy . 

4. 14] ch) Plaintiff and 
burden of proof in this actio 


’ 


which they have not dis- 


charged . Jones, Commentaries on the Law of Evidence , 


- (Second Ed.: Vol. 2, p. 859. , 


7. The parties to the Agreement dids not by the 


provisigns’ thereot provide for the creatian of an Other 


ysx+ Complainant have the. 


* 


Participating Area In the =tratigraphie irfterval knewn as, 


the “D” Sand. The North “D" Sand Poo! from which De- 


fendant dyy’ means of the Hodge- Well referred te in Find 
ing 4 has produced oi! and gis is not ‘an Other Partici- 
pating Area under the Agreemem. * : 


- 


8. Finding 7 above is based upon the Court's de- 
termination\ that: 


s s 
ta) Plaintiff Hunt Oi! Company by its pleadings 
and in its,argument has never claimed that the North “D” 
v S255 * ; . . . — ‘ 
Sand pool is an Otgmy Participating Area: and ( rouss- 


Complainant Bodcaw Company introduced -the ‘issue In. 


a supplemental pleading and, upon the argument, dis- 
cussed the matter first in « reply brief. ‘Phe circum- 


stances under which the issue has -been presentéd to thé - 


‘Court indicate ‘that it -is an afterthought, which having: 
been proposed, was they supon dbandoned. State ex ye. 
Chehardy vs. N. O. Parkway Commission. (1949), 215 
La. 779, -41 So. 2d 678: Stilwell: vs. Hertz Drivuself. 
Stations, Inc. (US.C.A. 3, 1948). 1v4 F.2d 714.) ; 
(b+ The tainguage of Article II] of the Agi eement.. 
Which ‘provides: for the creation of Other Participating 
Areas coincidental in areal extent to the Bodgaw Sand 


Participating Area, in formations “other than the Bodeaw . 


Sand and the ‘D’ Sand”, treats-the Bodeaw Sand and the 


‘D” Sand identically as éxcdMtiors. jt being obvious that 


the term “Bodcaw Sand” Was used in. Article IT] of the 
Agreement in the: sense of a stratigraphic: interval, It. 


reasonably appears that the term « ‘D’ Sand” was ‘used in 
the same sense in. that Article, 


‘ *.5 w % ‘i , P ms $ 
tet Under the provisions of Article Vib) of the 
Agreement wells completed in. the “Dp” Sand within the 


geographical confines of the Bodcaw Sand Participating’ 
Area but: not Within the: “Jj? Sand Participating, Area 


‘as were the Gleason and Hodges “Wells. referred to in: 


these findings’ are free of all the terms of the Agreement, 
including the ‘provisions of Article II] thereof. .’ 
le 


‘d' The Agreement nas been . interpret d by the “ 
parties to the Agreement and to this action. through the 


Legal Committee of the Cotton. Valley Operators Com- 
mittee and to the knowledge ‘of the parties, ‘as not pro- 


‘ 


eae ae? 


rete ase Sila 


viding for thie creation of an "Other Participating Area 
to include the North “BD” Sand Pool; Defendant has acted 
upon this interpretation by drilling)gompleting and oper- 
barr the Hodges Well and Gleason Well herein referred 
i») (Restatement, “Contracts,” § 2351e:, Comment “h"; 
~ Ullman & Company vs. Levy 1930), 172 La’ 79, 133 So. . 
369), °° + ER AN: 


. 


Conclusions of 


‘l. This Court has jurisfetion of this action and 
‘of the parties hereto. 28 USs.C. $1382. *. | 


Il, The Court has considered carefully the objec- 

Pag maidé by Hunt Oil Campany an@ Bodcaw Company 

hese Findings and Conclusions; and, on the whole. re- 

et we conclude that such objections are not meritorious 
and must be rejected. 


[5] TI. Plaintiff Hunt Oil Company and_ Cross-Com- 
plainant Bodcaw Company: formerly Nebo’ Oil Company, | 
Inc.) have by reason of their ownership of interests in 
the Bodeaw Sand Participating Area and the “D” Sand 
Participating Area, or otherwise fnder the Agreement, 
no right or interest in oil-and gas produced by Defendant. 
The Ohio Oil Company from the North “D" Sand Pool by 
means of the CVOC-Ohio-Hodges No.2 Weil in NW }, 

| £NW |,, Section 36, Township 22 North, tange 10 West: 
| sid are entitled to take nothing of the Defend: ant by this 
(action A proper decree should be presented. 


| 


34 


OPINION OF 
THE COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 


N THE 
UN ITED ST ATES COURT OF APPEALS 
f ’ FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 


No. 20030 
HUNT OIL COMPANY and BODCAW COMPANY 
. formerly Neba Oi] Company, Inc.| 
Appellants, 
. versus : 
MARATHON OLL COMPANY. ‘formerly the Ohio Oil 


Company', ET AL., 
Appellees. 


- Appeal from the United Stutes District Court: for the 
Western District of Louisiana. . 


‘August 13, 1963.) 


Before HUTCHESON, Circuit Judge, LUMBARD,” Chief 
Judge. and BROW N, C ircuit Judge. 


HUTCHESON. Circuit Judge: Ba Lea have 
appealed from a district ¢ pee judgment of dismissal and 


rejection, with prejudice, of ir demands in this action. 


initiated by Hunt Qi © -ompan v against he Ohio (i 
Company ‘now Marathon Vi} Company’ to enforce rights 
‘claimed by ap pellants in caaraclion from two wells com- 
pleted in the anil “North “D' Sand”. We. affirm the 
judgment of the district court. ‘ 


Such rights as appell = assert exist by virtue ot. 
an agreement styled! “Cotton Mv: alley: Unitization and Pres-, 


sure Maintenance Agreement” ‘herein refer red to as the 

“Agreement”, All farties tu this tigation have executed 
Poe ET te Sn a ad : Peer, 
Chief Judge second Circuit, tung by designation. 


te 


< 


36° A) 
or ratified—-adiid are bound »yv—-it-- Plaintiffs, defendant 
and third part). defendants are parties as “Operator”, and 
intervener ji- a pamis a> “Royalty Owner”. lt became 
effective on June 2). JY4AG. A deeisiol-oi Une issues involved 


requires an interpretation of the Agreement. 


; The action present. a controvers, between plaintiff 
and counter-siaimant and ancillary thereto a demand by 
defendant against 1 irl party defendant- for indemnity 
in event it is-cast mn this action. 

By the agreement the parties thereto, including 
the parties to this action, unituuzed, pouled end communized — 
Withjn a “"D" Sand Participatin i Area” and a “bBodcas 
Sand Barticipating Area’, ail oil, gas and oPher , hydre- 
carbons separatei. a+ to each such participating. area; ° 
and provided for the. creatyon, within the Cotton .Vailey 
Field, under the circumstance- ‘therein described. Gf 
“Other Participating Areas”: provided for the determiha- 
tion ®f the fractional ‘part of the total production ‘of oil, 
gas and other .qvdrocarbon= Irom each participating areii 
“which: Was to be ailocated to each party. to the sezreemest ; 
mide Provision for.tne enlargement, under the cireum- 
stunce- he ifmitation= therein described, in the Cotton 
Valley Fiely of the Bodeaw sand Participating Area and 
the ‘TY Baad. Participating Area: made provision for the 
Installation and operation of @ recycling pressure mainte- 
nance and liquid h¥drecarbor extration and processing 
pleat: made provision for the return th the reservoir or 
recycling of some of 41) of the gas te be produced trom 
the Various participating areas, and for sharing among 
operator= “of the expense of oil and gas production épera- 
tions in the participating areas. All of these operation 
“Were provided to be directed and supervised by an Oner:- 
tors’ Committee apon avhich ech operator Was represented. 
“Variou SUpulations were made in ald ofan doin identa’ te 
the provision - abave sum prarizer ; 

: If it were not foe the painstaking and excellent 
work of the district judge, in his opinion, jn sorting out 


the claims and eounter-claims and xeparat ting those which 
were from those ¢wluch were mot foun d to exist, it would. 
be very ditfreull lor this court, DS thumbing through the 
pulky, and numerou: velumne~ vs tne recurd to determine 
what the issues are and how they should ve decided. Be- 
cause of the fact, however, that the disurict judge, in-hi- 
thorough afd- painstaking Wa) Rde separated the wheat 
trom the enaff ene with the aid of counsel on ‘both side-, 
nas made firm findings ee the specific que-tion> raised 
‘by proposed findings and t objecUions thereto, our labors In 
correctly determining Where, the truth.and right of the 
case lies have been greatiy aided and lightened. These 
findings and conclusion- appear i | his opinion in Mant 


Oi Co. cv. Ohio OF Cin, 205 F. Supp. Sso,aind they are 


approved and adopted by reference. 


The primary question presented here: theretore. 
iz whether thé ‘district court = findaing> oe fact are clears 
erroneous Within the -mesning of Rule 52 federal Rule: 
of Civil Procedure, due regard dging-given tl the opinion 

of the trial court te Judge the ere: lib: ne ‘of the witnesses, 
and wheter the district court = « CLUSION: ef iaw are 
correct. 


The appellees insist that the district ‘court applied 
settled: and correc, standard of interpretation in ascer- 
taining the meanifg and intefbor ari. [V of the “Agree-, 


-ement” which underlies thir care, while the appellant> in- 


. 


sist that thi= Is not sv. : 


We are of the clen* opinion: that the distric ) judge’ 
Sysy 


decision and judgment are > onan by hi- finding= of 


fact: that these are not clesr, ert NEO : that hi~ con- 
clusions ‘are correct statement of the iis and that the 
judgment wp peated from. woere the copsicerat toy 
the reason- given bs the -di-trict jjudze. should b¢ 
it is nerewitie AFFIRMED | . , 
Ss . ° ; : 

° ~ 


Ga 


JUDGMENT OF 


, THE COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 


- 


» + 
1 <> 54) 


pos UNITED STATES COURT QF APPEALS -. 
FOR THE FIETH CIRCUIT 


Qectoper Term, Pou 
. Ce i 
No. Bese 
c) F « 6 
o - 
: * a Bo) Dock® Now 65006 Civil 


- HUNT OL, COMPANY and BODCAW COMPANY 
: 4 formers Nebo OF) Company. Ine.' 4 
f . . Appellant: 
Versus, 


MARATHON Oli: COMPANY (formerly the Ofne 07 
Company:. ET-AL... . | 
, ed at , Appeilee: 


‘ 
. 


Appea! from the United States District four’ for tne 


. - Western District of Louisiana 
Before Hutchéson. (ircut fudge. Lumbar 
and Brows. Circuit JudBe-’ 
. 1h oe BERT. : 
This capse cume On to be heard on the transerip 
of the record from, the United states District Court fot 
Pi the Wester: Distr pbimacd the ie Wa areued. 7 
counsel: ” . : ae 
f . 
“ON CONSIDERATION WHEREO®. [t-i- now 


‘ Ti | ; ’ f ') finat tne - j 
ta% 653 d* ds 


here ordered and adjudgec tt 
mentof the said District Court i: this cause be. ane 


same I- hereby. affirmed 
aes ft is further onmieres cc. ijudivecd tha ay 
Hin Or Compans i Poicaw Company, éfor 


i, * 
pellants: tr 


merly Nebo O}..( ompans In e gondemn 


40 


. 
/ 
/ 


ad 


this cafase in this Court for which execu- 
tion ‘Mav he issued out /t the said District Court. 


"LO jay the Cost~ of 


August I3, 1963 


Issued as Mandate Get. 15, 14963 ; . 
J ° 


cy 


° 
J . 
- 
" . 
i, z 
~ 
e . 
- ” 
‘ 
’ 
. 
_” - . 
; ; 
id 
: P 
* 
P - 
e- x a ; 
7 
. 
. 
. { ‘ 
. 
“ . . ‘ 
z . - 
. 
. 
’ . . 
. - 
s 
p - 
° 
- 
° 
. 
. 
. 
. 5 
#4 
, ss) 
. 
“ . 
. 
“2 
3 , 
. 
. 
. 
. 
- 
e - 
- 
. 
- 
. 
e . 
° - a 
. ad . 
> 
6 yf bh et f 
f * he ey i ’ * T@terey eax i ree 
, ried, “SELLS - Ss’ Geslg nation 
* 
- ¢ ° 
* 
: 
: 
: . 
. 


41 


. ORDER OF 
THE COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT 
" DENYING REHEARING 


42 


U. s. COURT OF APPEALS. 


‘FILED 
“1 ORD) ae Sep 23 1963 
"EDWARD “W. WADSWORTH 
CLERK a 


IN THE UNITE D STATES COURT OF APP ALS. 
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT ‘ 


NU. 20030 


HUNT OIL COMPANY ang BODCAW COMPANY 
(Formerly Nebo Oi] C ompany, Inc.) 
Appellants’ 
MARATHON OIL COMPANY ‘formerly the 
Ohio Oi} Company:, ET AL 
se Appellee- 


Appeal from the Enited States Distriet Court 
for the Western District of Louisiana. 


‘Septethber 23, 1963) 


On Petition for Rehearing 


* Befare HUTCHESON, Cireuit Fudge, LUMBAR. Chied 
. - Judge. end BROWN, Circuit Judge. 
PER ¢ ‘UR 1AM: aes cons . 


“Iris @ RDE RED) that the petition for rehearing in 
the above entitied and numbered cause be, and it is here®y 


DENIED. 


"Chief Judge Second Circuit. <ittimny bys designation 


: é 
} . OPINION OF 
THE COURT OF APP EAL OF LOUISIAN 4 
FOR THE THIRD C IRCUIT © 
“IN 
"TEX ACO, INC. 
a e 
- VERMILION PARISH SCHOOL. BOARP 


14d So 2nd 38% 


e 


44 


TEXACO, INC., et al., Plaintiffs-Appellants, 
versus) 
_ VERMILION PARISH SC HOWL. BOARD, 
et al., Deéefendants-Appellees. 
Ce No. 544 ° a 
Court of Appeal of Louisiana. , 
Third Circuit... 
; ‘Jul y 6, 1962. 


Rehearing Denied Oct. 19, 1962 


FRUGE, Judge. 


‘Phis is a Declaratory Judgment proceeding filed,’ 
by plaintiff-appellant, Texaco Inc., as Operator ‘of the 


Erath Unit in Vermilion Parish, Louisiana, seeking judi- 
cial determination of certain rights under two uni ‘tization 


‘agreements, known as the Erath Agreements, consisting 


of a “R: vyalty Ownefs Agreement” and a “Unit Operating 
Agreement”. Plaintiff has perfected an appeal to this 
court from a judgment dismissing their suit. r 


ret its Redsons for Judo ty t, the trial court stated: 


Texaco, Inc., filed this suit under R.S. 13:4231_ 
et eq., for a declaratory judgment interpreting two uniti- 
zation agreements affecting: the [rath recycling plant 
units in ‘Vermilion Parish. These agreements will be re- 
ferred 40 herein as the ‘Erdth Agreements,’ bei ng an 


agreement entitled Rovalty Owners Unitization Agpee- 


ment, rath Field, Vermilion Parish, Louisiana. and one 


entitled Unit Operatigg: Agreement, Erath Field, Ver-. 


milion Parish, Lowisiana; Exhibits J and 2 2 in this record, 


" together with certainamendmunts thereto, copies of which 


are also in- eviderice as Exhibits P-3, P-4, P-5, and P-6. 


. 


of: ") 
The petitroner asks that it be deer that thesé 
Erath Agreements cover and include, (1) all sands-with- 
in the unit area below S000 feet as‘described in the agree- 
ments, and (2) particularly the Schoo! Board Sand, within 
said unit, as defined in’ Conservation ‘Order. No. 34-F, 
dated December 19, 1956, identified as Exhabit P:15, 


A “Defendants, numbering approximately six hun- 
dred persons, are all parties having an interest in the 
royalties, leases, minerals, and Jands included in the Erath 
Unit, which comprises some x3 tracts of land. The surface 
area involved totals over four thousand acres. 

, \“Plaintiff introduced the testimony of witnesses 
wno took part in the formation of the Erath Unit. All are. 
and have been for many years, recognized as authorities 


‘in their respective fields. The purport of this testimony 
4s that the Erath field was known to. contain tremendous 


quantities of oi] 4nd ga- bearing sands, that the origina! 
discoverers, holding leases in- the “unit. area, “concluded. 
that the best method of developing these’ resources would 
be through the medium of a recycling plant. a method by 
which gas is brought to the “Surface, the condensate and - 
other liquid hydrocarbons extracted therefrom, and: then 
returned to the origina! reservoir beneath the surface of 
the earth. In order to carry out isis project, the Frath 
Agreements were formulated by. a committee of geulogists. 
petroleum engineers, and other experts in the oil industry, 
and attorneys representing the operator-, royalty uweners, 


—~and jandowners. .All available’ geophysical information 


resulting ‘from the drilling of the first ten or eleven, Well 
was used, and. the equities of all panties calculated, using 
what is termed the acre-foot method, whereby the net 
sand content under each tract of Jandowas determined, and 
an estimate made of all hydrocarbon: in place to deter- 
mine the value of ‘the ultimate production to he obtained 


, a ‘ ? , 
from each tract. of jand. 


46 


ae i . 


The operating ‘committee determined that some 
eighteen additional wells should-be ‘drilted under the unit 


‘agreements, to provide more complete information on sub- — 
‘surface formations, and thereafter a final calculation of 


equities using-such information would be made, This was 
done according to the terms of the Erath Agreements, the 
final calculation of ‘equity made, and ihe project Was su¢- 


vesstully operated ‘to the Mab isfaction of all parties until | 
_ 1956. ce mite 


“eA a result of the extensive drilling Gondueted jn 
the field, the one fault’ found, Which yes. in the northern 


_poftion of the unit, Was pin-pointed with unusual accuracy, 
the various sands underiving the unit area were measured: 


and the general overad! intent of the agreements, to secure 
ty each landowner. his fair an equitable share of the 


products, recovered, Was thougit vo be insured, without 


regard to the actual Jocation “or spacing of the wells in 
the field. : - . 


“The agreements provide in paragraph T 'b:, un- 
der.defipitions, as fotlows: 


“‘ibi, Unitized Substances—-Unitized substances - 


shall mean and include as, gasoline, condensate, distillate. 
methatie, ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, hexanes, 


heptanes, and heavier hydrocarbons, residue gas, and un- 


* 


processed gas * contained in those sands or reservoirs 
underiving the Unit Area known and desjgnated as the 
= ou’ sand [2 = ane thie viriamed sand fownd: in Phillips 


Pe trol um Com pais well Fitzsi WIT OIS No. :, at . i 1,934'- 
11,945'0 } Emphasi- supplied.’ ae 


Following this paragraph, -they provide generally what 
- the term unitized substances ‘includes,’ this betng all gas 
and the hydrocarbor/ content thereof found at a depth 
"greateg, than. S000 feet below the surface-of the earth and 


within the unit area, with is in’a gaseous phase under 


virgin reservoir pressure, in the reservoir. The, only gas 


. 


ae ence en eereneremae ane ee 


a wr) 
o . . ad 
or hydrocarbon content of gas éxcluced from the terms of 
the Agreement= was that having a gravity of less than 
50 degrees A. P. Lat actemperature of 60 degrees Fahren- 
heit ‘and contained in sands or reservoirs found and located . 


igo S000 feet and within the Unit: Area ‘other than 
titee known sands and reservoirs hereinabove specifically 


designated), and provided: further that such hydrocarbons 
ware vot in a gaseous phise under virgin reservoir pressure | 
and in place.” z : 
ay A unnamed sand fond in the Fitzsimmons No. 1° 
“well, mentioned above, Was Soitth of the fault line running 
across the northern portion of the unit area.. What is be- 
lieved to be the same cand, or its -tY tigraphic equivalent 
North of the fault was reached in to wells drilling in the 
early ‘stages of the explorations, the ‘40-1 well Where the 
-sand_contained salt water and has never produced, and 
the Phillips-Caldweil No. 1 well, Wherein the sand reathed 
but’ considered dry. These two wells’ North of the fault 
were vutside of what was finally decided upon as the 
Unit Area. | gee? : 


% 
. 


e i 

“In consequence of the foregoing information at 
the time of formation of the units, the unnamed: sand in 
the Fitzsimmons No. 1 well, a it existed North of the 
fault; was considered to- be unproductive commercially, 
and no credit was assigned to the unit lands North of the 
fault for this sand. The only credit allowed for this sand 
in the computation of equities specified in the Erath Agree- 
ments, was to the Fitzsimmons tract South of the fault. 

“Since this is fhe disyaited sand in this case, we 
-will hereinafter refer’ to, it a> ‘he school Board Sand, and 
the Court will now state. that it considers the -evidence, 
at the trial to preponderate te the effect that this -and 
as found North of the fault is the equivalent of the sand 
found in the Fitzsimmons well South of the fault. 


9 
, 


ha 


“In 1954 Phillips Petroleum Company, carrying 
on exploration om leases owned -by it Nerth of the Erath 
Unit Area ‘also north of the tault line which runs yen- 
erally from east toeWeet), obtained production from the 
school, Board Sand in‘certauin of ite wells. Thereafter, in 


156, the Unit Operators deepened the 3-2 ant well within” 


the anit area gut North of the tert fue, and obtained 
production from the Sehoel Board sand. This weil is lo- 
_cated on tract 3 of tne Unit. belonging to the Vermilion 
Varisn School Board. ; s - 
“Further devetopment resulted im the Conserva- 
Liok; Department's Orders embraced in the 34-F series, 
@staublishing unit: fort tne Sehool Bourd Sand, one of which 
qs located entirely within the Erath Unit Area as described 


above. Plaintiffs Exhibit B shows the location of the 


School Board Sand units, in relation to the original Erath’ 


Unit, as well as the owne r-hip and numbers of those tracts 
-of land affect ted theref. whigh lie within the original unit 
ies, ‘ : 


“When it hecame apparent that rovalties from this 
production would be paid on the same fais as provided, 
for in the Frath Agreeqnent-. the Vermilion Parish Sele 
Board protested te-the Unit Operator, demanding it full 


rovalty share in thi- presvet lon from the School “Board 


: 
yi 


Sand underlying its tracts 3 and.4 Neocth of the fault area, 


the matte. Was pre-ented to the Commissioner of Conserv- 
ation, whe on November 6, J957, issued 4 ‘Clarification 
“of Order No. 34-F° setting forth expressly that that Order 
Was merely to regulate the <paciag-of wells and the ¢rea- 
tion of anling ‘nied edu tibe units within the School 
joard Sand reservoir ana not” to ane whether the 
production fromm the School Bourd Sand Was affected by 
thie private contract between the parties known as the 
Mrath U nit Agreement. ‘. 


“Primarily, this inquiry must decide wheier or 


net the School Board Sand a--it exists under those land- 


40 


embraced within the Ferath unit area, is subject to the 
Erath Agreements. ° - owe 


“The Vermilion Parvely School Board and certain. 
other landowners and mineral owners whose interests in” 
the unit lie Nerth of the fault, maintain that this sand 
ix not covered by the Agreements, principally because 
‘Li there is no ‘con-ideration therefor, ¢2+ it is ultra 
vires, Violating ‘Act 46 (643) of 1936 and it» amending 
“Statute, Act’154 of 1842. 63) there was an error or 
mistake of fact, vitiating the School Board's consent, and 
(4) if applicable, the agreement> eonstitute a gift or 
donation of the Bourd’s intere-t in tue sand, which is null 
and yoid. These drgument= have been adopted and ad- 
‘wanced by the other parties opposing the suit of the peti- 
‘tioner, Texaco, Inc. ; 


a, i : 

“The record is volumimous, con-fting of two draw- 
ers of a filing cabinet containing the exhilts, introduced 
at the trial. testimony of witnesses, and, otuer documents 
in the case. Able counsel representing the various litigants, 
with unusual diligence and an. abund&ince of energy have 
compiled some 225 prapre> of written briefs covering all 
points of law and foct that can be conceived, and all argu- 
ments that could be advancetl under this wealth of -ma- 
terial. 


“This Court ny! not have the time nor the in- 
clination to discus=.the record in detail. The salient facts 
are as outlined above. 

“The. Erath Agreement. must be interpreted In 

se ae . : P . eens " 4 a 
the Ifynt ot pertinent art icie at our Civil ( cle, herein 
‘we find the following. 

. 

**Art, 1945.. Legal agreement- having the effect 
of law upon the parties; mene bat the parties can abrogate 
or modify them. Upen this jatnciple are established the 


following rules. ; 


*°Fiyst—That ne general or special legislative act 
ch, 


can be so construed a~ to avoid or modity a legal contract 
previously made: 


"Second —That courts ure bound to give legal 
effect to call such contracts according to the true intent 


vf all the parties: He 


“'Thiri—That the intent is to be determined by 
the words of the contract, where these are clear and ex- 
plicit and lead to no absurd consequences: 


**Fourth—That iv is the Qommon ingént, of the 
parties—that ix, the Intention of. all—that i= to be ~ouut 
for: if there was‘a difference in this intent. there was no 
‘common consent and, consequentiv., no cantract. +As 
‘amended by Acts i871. No. a7: 


os Ligh 194%. ° When there is anything doubtful i 
one contrac caadt Mis bee eX} ained yy refer ‘ing to cite 
contracts or agreement- made on the tame subject between 


he same jarcen. before or after the ugreement in question. 


“Art. 1950. When there ix anything dow! tful in 
eo 
uvreement-, we must endeavor ta ace rtain what was the 
common intention of the parties, rather than to adhere to 
the literal -en-e of the terms. 
ey . p ae 
Also of interest in the « ~yuls-ion to follow are Articles 


, 


15's 146: and 146] 


] ? aintiff -introduced ori te-timony of Wit- 
Nes-e= Who Were present during the formation of the 


wvreement-. and aiso transcripts “of hearings conducted - 


by the Conservation Commissioner cohtaining the testi- 
mony of various witnesse- called on those ovcusions. The 
Court advised ise! once or twee during, the trial that 

~ evidence would net be considered admissible, under 
the veneral rule that conver-ations and negotiations lead- 


t eye +4 . “i¢ Pres. “ p ; owe } 
ing Uys wo a Writtentavréement ure not to be considered 
re . 2 


ny] 


after execuulol of the contract unless there is ambiguity 
in: the written docupient. Art. 1945:°3) Revised. ‘Civil 
Code. No Weight has heen attached to this evidence by the 
Court, although it Was permitted to “go into the “recov 
subject to the. objection-= ‘ot the deferidants, for purposes 
of appeal. ‘ pees 


i2 “Examining the contracts In this cause, and 
confining the ihyury te the four corners of the instrii- 
ments, we find that thes were executed for. the purpose at 
obtaining Maximam recovery through the recycling plant 
operation, from) the many valuaine sands underlying the 
Erath Unit. The operating companies Were willing tu as- 
sume the expensy of til- undertaking. previde the plant 
‘facilities, and operate the project, 

“Both the Royalty Owner- agreement and the. 4p- 
erator= Agreement, ure. correlative an d complementary to 
each other. eference- made in each contract tu the pro- 
visions of the other. and in order to ascertain the intent 
of the parties, thes «amaat de read and-cons tried together. 


“In-Article TV of % - Royalty Agreement. dupili- 
cated in Article V of the operating azre amc t. the parties 
set olit the formula by which the pies tv of part icipation in 
each tract embraced within the un it was calculated as of 
June 1, 1932. and they sys en proceed to stipulate in Article 
XVI of the Rovalty Avrecment that aq iditional wells would 
be drilled, and then not later than ‘June 1, M44. there 
equities would be rex: lculated by the unit operator ac- 
cording: tu this same formula u- provided in Article NXV 


: PS  eaes Ree RP PE 
of the-operuting agreement. This war done, and a revised 


Exhibit D.- showing the percentage- of equity was, Cil-- 


culated and filed after {he on ye-ervulrs at tle time 
had been fully explored. The-e eiities are the moving 


cause for the Agreement: 


‘The entire purper he aueYveements Was and i> 


‘ “ ’ oe 4 . “* . - 7 
‘ Matt . ‘ oj . + © big. +1 ye - 
ti In-ure for each. andow per the Yaiue OF Lik Minera 
e . = . 
e 
; 3 . : 
* . af * ; ° 
* 


é ss 
-. 
We 
° i 
. 
° 
; ? ° a } 7; 2 ive 44°) ’ ead s nel 6? } 
1! peactee UTMer it wilh, Ule@el, Balt Ww! (ce @eNAXst and to ve 
} ‘ 
discovered thereafter oeiow SOOU feet 
‘The mcunin Hoargd Sal Tits 1 ifgdinition of unlt- 


‘ ‘ ae et ; ‘ ‘ at “ar - 
‘ttf sUltslahices “. ee tae it Leip acat . Pdi den’ hd Cs a | 


Lhe Aare sand reserveirs 1 1942. tound in the Fitzsim- 
mons Weil, Sout of the fault. But the syheol Board Sand 
,* ent hi ot ene Lalit J SP? Ge seefoat « ty ese rear Or sana 
» [Mylo a= that term.is used. in these 4greements. If in- 
uded in the agreement atiall it is under the s@vond para- - 
graph of Articie | Riel reads us fohows: 
¢ * 

“"Unitized -ut tances ‘shall also mean and include 

* . 
vas ‘including al) Ayorecaroon content t' und any - 
mixture of Uiquid) hs irocupbon--in the proportions con. ” 


bund located at a 


> “4 . .’ *P ans ? .? ‘ a? ° Per 9a? + ey ‘ *.¢ 
ersed OY absoried Tron or -e] i suit GT, ihe was wane 
ng nt ihed ' eat) E ptict Verne nr ‘ = feud e ssi ft . 
. 


epth .wredater than St) feet oeliow the surface of the 
ate . ° m ] } " . » . x 

earth and withrn the Unit Area, provided such liquid hy: 

drocarbons uneer Virgin reservoir ore--ure are in a guse . 


queertemes 


2 


and reservoirs kero to Contain “anitized substances. on 
June 1. 1944..we must examine the contra¢t- further to 
seek out the parties’ intention regarding unknown rescr- 
vows, or the second paragraph of Articie lib: of the agree- 
ments cali huve no effect, al sei the School Vourd Sand: as 
= found today North of the faul® urea is not covered 

ag ‘dee agreements, but,by tnd 34-F series of orders of 


the Conservation Commissioger. i 


“In addition to the rule- laid down in Articles 
1944 and 1950 of the Revised Civil Code quoted abeve. 
Article 1051 of the Code is particularly illuminating here 


’ 
» 


It, provides : 


‘Article 195] When a clause i- susceptible of 
two interpretation-, it must be understeod in that inf which 
it may have some efte?t. rather than in a sénse which 


. 


woald render it nugator} 


and, further, Article 1955 says. | 3 
« 

‘article 1955. Ali clauses of ayvreements are 

aa | fis cen thie ROMS 


interpreted the one by the other. 7 
that vesults trom the ae fire cnet. 


? 


“Rearing the-e fand.mentur concept: ih nrind, .3t 


ill be decks that beth agreements provide for the opera- 


tion of the Unit Area by an ‘Operating Committee, nav- 
ing certal well defined powers and authority Mutiined 
in Article "Ni the dherating greement. This article 


provide- in ; ur us follow 


2 - o is 
os ‘The Giperatil y commitiee nai: have, amony other 

powers “lhe speciti Wier- i vs “ehumeys ed below 
vente To approve on di-approve the. irilling of addi- 

tioma! Weis either fop. the ’ yvction of Jatt edd =UD- 


stances or for injection wel 


7 11] Y af f ‘ fie * veh j? Ul thee 
{ f free is jee by ‘ 4 4 ‘ i yee f 
ee * 
. 
‘ e / 
. vgs Z 
* 
a. 
4 z a 


. 


“12. To appoint and -grant authority tw such 
subcommittees as it may deem proper and vequisite, a- 
for example. Lega! Committee. Enginevring Committee, 
Gevlogical Committee, Auditing Committee, and Tax Coni- 
§nittee. : 
“+15. The Operating Conunittee shall have ail 
such powers and duties as are provid ted by any other pro- 


. 


vision of thi<” Agreement. either expressly or by implica 


tien. and such other perce rs apa futies AR Wad be yoUseOne- 
ala nec ssary pu sitpervisin gy aug rontrolliig osmvratiuons of 
thy Une Area = building and ‘uperating the extractor 
and cycling plant.” «Emphasis supplied. 


- . {31 * "Council fer Texace, Inc. Humble Oi: Com- 


pany, and others in opposition tu the ‘position, t taken by the 
defendants having i interest in the Ure mt Area Nort! 1 of the 
fault line. maintain t 

reference only to the final calculation of equities in. th 


hat sub-paragraph 1] Above has 


manner set out in Exhibit “E Foot the Royalty Aureement. 


effected on June 1, 194% However, we note that this 
paragraph is carefully ‘Asad in amen deus to Article 
i of the Unit One rating Agreement, occurring as Jute 

= 1949, as shown ty E hil vit P-3. There canbe no dou 
that it applied to this determination of equities in 1914. 
but it is equally clear that the power to *adjust equities 
Bote 5 orovided in this Agreement” ha= genera! applica- 
tien us well, and particular ‘reference -to the form: wa for 


calculating equities in keeping with the ‘primary intention 
of the parties. to insure to each f the parties “his fair 
and equituble share. of the nreducts recovered.” Artic! le 


1962 of the Revised Civil Code of thi- State provides : 


“Art. 1962. When a contract contains gerfera! 


obligations. and the paggie-.-in order to avoid a doubt - 


“ heth era particular cose comes within the scope of the 


avreement. have Made -<Mec uf PYrovision for <Uch care, the 


general terms of the oontract shall not on this account be: 


seet i ¢ : 1 . _ an o% 4 . 
restrictei to the single Case That.is provided or. ° 
5 : 


- - 


“Surely these experienced and learned professional 
men who undertook the formulation and aduption of these 
agreements and this piuneer project of the ‘industry they 
serve recognized in 1942 and in 1944 that there cogkd be 
vast Unknow. reservoir- of uhitized substances undédriving 
the-Unit Area which would or could be reached and tapped 


in the future hv Smproved drilling techirfiques to oPfeater 
a H i Aig -f 


e -s . 4 ? aA 
-depths, and most profitably produced .by extragtion§ and} 


eveling 0. these gaseou- substance- in the recycling lant. 
So elementary is such a concept that the Court does no - 


doubt ‘that every landowner and rovalty owner, most of 
whom are laymen, understood? that this possibility existed. 


For this reason, ‘the original and’ revised calculation off 
equities detailed ‘n Exhibit ‘D’ of thé agreements was and 


is restricted to-sands and reservoirs kvown to coptain’ 
unitized substances (16 1942 ud 194 ;.and the caleulatian 
of equities in such reserVoir- digliscovered at thatetime but 
jreluded in the above quoted secon pera rapa of the def- 


intion of (Wnitized Sibstawces” was -Jeft to future deter-.. 


? 


mination by the Operating Committee zubject to the ap- 


Pin ge . el > 7 . ‘ 4 e 
proval of the Conservation 4 ommissloner, ail “as provided 
in this Agreement.’ a A 


“Not only is this conclusion apparent from the 
agreements, but the duty -of -the Committee to so Qplfill 
its obligations is to be implied from the very nature of the 


. > i . ‘ . Sh EP am : 
contracts-n que: Von. [There is nageviddence whatsveve! of 


an intention on the part.ot these landowners and opera- 
turs to irrevicably fix or ‘freeze’ their participation in 
production from the unit_area for aii time.sand as to all 
possible unknown re-ervoir- of unitized substances. In- 
deed. the contrary is expressly shown by the clear restric- 
tion of Exhibit ‘D’ inverprete:d in the light of Exhibit “FE 
of’ the Royalty ‘Agreement. and other pertinent orovisidn= 


of the agreement. to -uch reservoirs as were bea and’ 


eractly determined ot that time, 
-- oe . ° 


’ 


/ 


- 


db ° 


“Nor can it be said that -uch an interpretation: 


giving effect.to all of the clauses of the agreements, hus 
the effect of changing or varying tantbit ‘D’, for. the same 
reason, repeated for empnha- is, that such calewlations as 
dre detaiied mm the fevised exh Must “LY remain in efitet . 
and pertain only to tue reservoirs contemplated therein, 
“known to eXist at that time. =~ 


*._ 

“Having adopted this interpretation “of, thé Erath 
Agreements, the-authority of the Commissioner of Con- 
servation in respect tu the Schoo! “Board > coy is iimited a= 


'S 


‘stated by him in the Clavification of Orfler 34-F, dated _ 


» November 7, 1957. Monsantu Chemical Co. vs. Soythern— 


Natural Ges ‘Company, 234 La. 955, 102 So0.2d 223, and 
’ Arkalisas-Louisiana Gas C ompanr vs. Southwest Natural 
P roduction Companys, 221 La. 60S, 60 So.2d Y. 


“Judgment i- hereby rendered and formal decree 
wili be signed after’ preparations and presentation for 
signature, jointly by the attorneys for-Texaco, Inc. und, 
the attorneys for Vermiiiort Parish school Board, declarin ig 
and fixing the rights of the. parties to the Erath Agree- 
ments as follows: . 


‘> ; : i 


“1. The Schoo), Board Sand gs defined nerein- 


above is cevered by the Erath Agreements, as amendek, 
us ure al] sands below sty feet Jucated beneath the Unit 


Area as delineated by suid agreements and containing 


* 


. 


. 


‘uhitized substances’ define? in Article [+b of said Erath— 


Agreements, whether or not said sands and feservoirs 
were known or unknown at the time of the 0tecon of 
such agreements. ; 

“2. The percentage of equities atlocated to each 
numbered tract of the Unis, Area. expresscd in Exhibit -D’ 
of said agreefnent= as firvflyv amenced, ‘re woulated. and 
revined has application @.* those sand- and Yeservoir: 

ocated in the Unit Area known t contsiy, ate ized sul 


cr 


stances capable of being produced commercially on arid as 
of June 1, 1944. weet 


“3. Said percentage of equities a> expressed June | 
1. 1944, does not apply to the School Board Sand Reservoir 
containing unitized -ub-tances, discovered in 1956 North ° 
of the fault line Iving- in. the North portion of the Unit 
- Area, as delineated on Exhibit . P-B, nor does it apply to 
+ any other like sands and reservoirs in said Unit Area 
+ below S000 feet which were not known and discovered as 
Seommere ally productiOn horizons as of June 1, 1944. 


Pes, The Unit Operating ¢ ‘ommittee, subject to ap- . 
provai to approv: ‘of .the ¢ ‘ontmissioner of Conservation 
of the State of Louisiana, !s exprassly chi irged with the 
power and duty to calculate the percentage of equity of 
- each tract lying in the Unit Area north of the fault line as 
‘sfiown on Plaintiff's i xhibit p- B. with respect to the School 
Bosrd Sand underiying said tracts, “us ing the method and 
‘formula set out in Artic! e lV of the Roy alty Owners Agree- . 
ment and in Article vob of the Unit Oper: iting Agree- 
ment spolicable tu Known reservoir- ID - june, 1942, and 
1944. and the participation of ull parties having interests, 
in and to } production from the tracts North of the fault 
line is to be governed accordingly. 


“5° All sands and reservoirs containing unitized 
substances as defined in =aid aereements capable of being 


, 


producesl cum eid Sally and located below S000 feet from 


, the s ir 0 the earth, net knowh and determined in. 
June, 1 42. v yee 1h. oe h may be hereinafter placed 
in prodfiction. ale ti be <1m sary caitu lated and treated. 
eres | ; 


‘$. -The provision: if Article NI 13°. ae 112:. 
™~ . and (13: of the Unit Onegatl Y Agreement : ire he Ad 7 be. 


a2 ty) ' : } - 

ip vicable ta sucn.! ey - d- ane re-ervany: 4 ling 

} ac \ ucn. ‘ + . a ’ 4 ntaining 
‘ : , , ‘ ‘ : 

; upit ized ~ubstance-. he reufiZr daced on production im thes 


unit area. including the sctool Board Sand -north of the 
. fault jine shown oy plaintiff Exifibit P-B, and the grant 


& 


f 


of -expibess and: implied powers of said Unit Operating. 


"Committee therein set out is held to include the giving ofg 
“-noticeagto all interested parties, of such calculations and 


. 


_adjustihents.as may be or her eulter become necessary here- 


cunder for the purpose of corrying ott the objects of said 
Erath Agreements for the benefit, of all parties. in interest, 
in keeping, With the views seis ons i a 


, OR BE is further held. that atch notices ‘of caleula- 


‘tions and idjustmént of equities in said sands and res#r-. 


voirs containing ‘unitized substances capable of being com- 


; mercially, produceff, ure impliedly require? to be done with 


reasonable dis “patch, and to-follow as to orm the ériginal - 


notices, allocations and delineations set out in Exhibits 


“A’, ‘BY, °C’, And ‘D' of the Erath Agreements, as may: be 


reasogably neon ‘a 
2 
“The fees: of he expert witness attenaing and testi- 


fying at the ‘trial are fixed in the sum of $75 per ‘day for. 


éach day’s attendance. The fees of the attorneys appointed 
herein to hepresen! absent defendants are fixed as follows: 


I. P..S Saal, Jr. $850 
Roger C. Edwards 550 
Lavelle BrOdssard 150 
Carol L. Spell _ 250 


All of the above. mentigned fees are to be taxed as 
Cay, 2 and costs are to.be paid by petitioner, “Texaco, Ine., 


“Unit Operators of the Erath Unit.” ; te 


7. 


Although we believe that the trial court has cov- 


eréd ‘ail necessary: points. nevertheless, we would like to 


re-emphasize certain things. 
ti = 
Early in the development of oil and vas production 
from the area now Known as the @yath Field”, the in- 
terested parties in the area recognized that joint efforts. 


woyld ve reqtired to further the cause of conservation and —~ 


e L) 
a“ 7 : 
a ae Po as : 
7. oa - Pe ae) > Sin 
ay 
‘a , ; Saeed o 
obtain maximun? recoverability of the hydrocarbons located at 
beneath the area. After ‘vtensive geological study and Ti, 


negotiation two vnitization agreements were executed. The 

' -firste “Royalty Owners Pylization” Agreement, Erathy 
Field, Vermilion Parish, Louisiana” Was executed by those 
persons*having royalty interest in the area. , The second 

_ agreement, complementary in nature, was entitled “Unit . 5 
Operating Agreement, Erath Field, Vermilion Payish” and 
executed by the various leasehold owners. These agree- 
ments ‘are in the record as Exhibits 1 and 2, respectively, 
and will be referred to herein as “Erath Agreements”. A 
;general plan of production, essentially a recycling opera- 
tioll, ‘was established by the Erath Agreements and an 
Operating Committee was appointed to implement the plan. 


‘The Erath Agreements established that the division 
and relative ownership of the production from the Erath - 
Unit would be determined by a calculation of equities. Most 9 

simply stated, the profluction was payable to the various 
individuals in the proportion which the recoverable hydro- 
carbons in place attributable to each individual’s tract / 
ownership bore to the’ total ‘recoverable hydrocarbons, in. 
place within the Unit area. ‘The original Erath Agree- 
mepts set forth a tentative Unit area and equ ity allocation. 
The agreements furthe provided “that additional wells 
- would be drilled and that subsequent study would be 
made to determine the agtizal unit area and the precise 
equity allgcation. This was accomplished in 1944 and is 
embodied in revised Exhibit “Db to the agreements. Pro- 
duction in paying quantities ha- been maintained continu- 
- yusly since the execution of tite-Erath Agreemente, and: 
royalties were paid from 1914 to 1956 in aecordance with 
the equities as set forth.in revised Exhibit “D". In 1956 
- the “School Board Sand” was discovered to be productive 
North of the major East-West fuult running through the 
-Erath Unit. The Coteervation Department established > 
‘various units for production ‘trom the Schoo! Board Sand 
‘ . } \ : ; - E 


: 


A. Jaa & 

60 a | oe 

by its 34-F series of Urders. One of the units so established 
is located.eetirely within the Erath Unit area. The Ver- 
milion Parish School Board and others, made demand on 
Texaco, Ine. tas Operator ofthe Frath Unity to be paid 
on the basis that the Lrath Agreements did not affect the 
Schoo! Board Sand) Texsco, Inc. bruoght this’ declaratory 
judgment of the Trial Court decreed that the School Board 
is covered by the Erath Agreements, and. (2) the proper 
method of payment of royalties accruing for production 
from ‘the School Board Sand Within the Erath Unit. The 
judgment-of hte‘Trial Court decreed that the School Board 
Sand was covered by thé Erath Aseeements it held that 

ouly the parties having interests in tracts overlying the 
School Board Sand reservoir North of tae fault would be 
entitled to participate in production from that reservoir. 


..The Cgifrt further ordered the Unit Operating Committee 


of the Erath Unit to rec rile ulate the equities and to make 
saad payme accordance with the revised equitie 8. 


_ - Plaintiffs ‘re 


Chemical Co. v. Southern Natural’Gas- Co., 234 La. 939, 


192 So. 2d 223 and 


Arkansas Louisiana Gas Company v. 


a Southwest Natural Production Company 221 La. 608, 60 


_——_ 


So. 2d 9, ‘which Was cited ‘in thé Monsanto case, supra! 


state that the Monsanto agreenmtent and the Erath Agree-. 


ments are identical. We have noted these cases and, we 
believe that they are inapposite and clearly ‘distinguish- 
able from the instant case. In. the Monsanto case. supra, 
an agreement was entered into between \ Various fease own- 
ers of oil and gaz leas&® covering Section 31, T. 17_N., 


rring te’and relying on Monsanto’ 


R.S.W. integrating their interest in section 31 “for the- 


discovery and prod ir ‘tow of gas from any and all horizons, 
formation: or zones.” This agreement further provided 
that “to’remain in full force and effect so long as said 


Section 31° * * constitutes aanit for the development and’ 


production of vas from any horizon, formation: or: zone, 
Whether under ‘the terms of pooling and unitization agree- 


oe 61 


. f.. f* < 
ments, o* orders of the Department of Conservation of the 
State of Louisiana covering said unit, or any extension or 
renewal thereof, by production or “otherwiss.” “In accord- 
ance with this agreement a well Mp drilled. and completed. 


Factual), the Monsanto case, supra, differs from’ 
the instant case in that commercial production had atready: . 


been obtained in the Erath Field prior to the confection 
of the Erath Agreéme: nts; and bona: fide and diligent at- 
_gempts were being made to determine as nedrly as possible 
the exact amount of productive sands under each tract and 
‘to adjust the squities accordingly. The Erath Agreements 
may be analugized to.a-compact whére each party is to re- 
ceive an_equitable share ot the production in accordance 
With-the productive sands w hich underlie his respective 
property. On the other hand in-the Monsanto case; supra, 
the parties did not know (1 adrance Whether Section 31 
would be entirely productive, nor could they even make 
any atte mpt to allocate equity on the “acre-foot’” basis as 


‘was done in the Erath Agreements. In the Monsinto case, . 


supra, the agreement may be analogized to an act of ex- 
change Whareby parties—not knowing in advance what 
hydro-carbons lie under their respective properties—enter 
into an act of exchange to. share any and all production 
from a given area or “unit” ‘ex: imple Section 31) and the 
percentage of royalty is fixed (« cdranee according to the 


surfare acreage contributed to the “unit” rather than the 


amount of ‘tacre-foot™ of. sapeoeonel oil gas sand or sands 
located wader the property o f the various owfiers. Certain- 
ly the legality ‘and buuliie effect of such “acts of ex- 
change” of speculative mineral royalty interest ‘as in the 
Monsanto case? in « relatively undeveloped area or “unit?” 
‘can be questioned, and these acts of exchange and these 
priv ate contractual rights are “only superceded when they 


are in conflict with the valid orders df the Commissioner 


of Conservation, i. e.. veh. the order is a conservation 
measure, pure and sample * ~ *” (See Monsanto Chemical 


Vv 


a 


ws. 


’ ee a 


Co. a ee ‘ny Natural Gas Company, Supra. The pur- 
pose-of the Erath Agreements, ds contrasted trom the Mon- 
santo case, Was tc determine ih advance the evact amount 
of “acre-teet’ ‘under PACH Atragl and fix the roy alty partici- 
“pation according !y the most outstanding feature of this 


a 


agreement Was the god/or tte myptog to achiet e equitable 


distribution of royulty. 


(4! We believe thet. under, the facts and circum- 
stances of this particu lar cause, thé soluuioh set forth by 
Judge Putnam and detailed. in his judgment and the rea- 
sons therefor, 1s eminently correct, and we, -herefore, 
adopt his reasons a> our own and a ftitm his judgment. | 


For ‘the reu-0ons assigned, the judgment of the trial 
court is affirmed. s 


- Affirmed. eB a . 


tf 


SAVOY, Judge ‘concurs in the results". 


After examining the Unit Operat®ig Agreement 
and the Royalty Owners Unitization Agreement in the 
instant case, J am of the opiviion that the results reached 
by the-auther of the majority opinion are correct-although 
] disagree with a portion of iis reasons for judgment. . 


From a reading-of the deeisions of our -Supreme 
Court dealifig with voluntary units, it appears that? they 
fall in three categories, with certain presumptions attach- 
ing tortwo of them. These are: 


‘ly Unit: eS the lessee alone under the 
pooling clauses of the gre iedRes. In this type’ of 
‘ vase, the iessors did 1 not in tend to “freeze” their interests, 
and if the units are theteafter changed by the Conserva- 
tien Commissioner. the declared wits must give way to 


“the Commissioner's units ¢i/ess the pooling clauses of the ° 


lease are specific to the contrary. In other words, there is 


a presumption. heré that the change ix contemplated. This 
js in-essence what we held in-Humble OU & Refining Co. 
Jones, (Ct. App., 3.€ i, 1960), 25 Si. 2d 640. 


(2) Voluntary * nits. formed through a complete 
agreement signed by all jessurs and lessees, should not be 
subject. to change by. the Conservation Commissioner's 
order unless the parties ave expr essly stipulated for this 


change in the agreement. Here it is presumed®that the 


parties intended to treezé their rights because will of the 
_ parties participated in the contec tion of the vclunvary unit 
agreement, and where they ‘agreed on certain fixed in- 
terests and did not contract to have them changed, their . 
contract-should- be the law of the contract. 


(3) The third type of agr eemient is the one under 
‘onsideration in the instant case. It does not involve a: 
head-on clash between the voluntary unit and the Com- 
missioner’s unit as do the other. two types of units dis- 
_ cussed herein. (This is emphasized | by Conservation Com- 
~ missioner Hussey'"= clarification of. his own order. Rather, 

- it involved detézmination of exactly what is covered by the - 
_“Erath” agreement, and if the Se hool Board sand is found 
to be so ineluded, there is no con flict at all, since the parties 
would then be in a position’ to have the’ new “equities”. 
__.__ submitted, to the Conservation C ‘ommissioner for approval. 


_-‘ The instant case is one where. the parties failed to 
spel] out the making of further adjustment= of equities 
after 1944. aa did nat. specifically “freeze” the equl- 
ties as of that date ior the remaining life of the contract. 


It is my under standing that all of the more modern 
agreenients = i cover thle cOMLNBENCY, one way or the. .é 
“other. 


a 

I am of the opinion that tne results reached by the 
majority and the trial court are eorre® for the following * 
reasons : i 


- 64... 7 

(1) Since the —_ have established that the 
Schgol Beard) sand und t#e “unnamed sand found in’ 
Phillip Figzsimmén’s, No. 1 Well” are the same, I believe 
that the Schog! Board) sand is specifically covered in the \ 
definition of Unitized Sethises ‘} disagree with Judge 
Putnam’ that it-ba- to be covered under the second para- 
graph of Pars lib. | believe it is*the same sand, divided 
by. a fault. This wa: defined in‘the fir-t paragraph of 
Par. libs. The definiti n is not restricced to reserviors, 
but refers to sand or reservoirs: (a sand, unlike a reser- 
voir, extends dcross u-fault.) It appgars that this sand 
* was specifically. covered, but that its total productive drea 
was not covered in.1944. — iF = 


(2) If] should be in‘error as to the conclusions — - 

-reached in No: 1, the School Board sand clearly fails within. 
the definition contai ined in the second paragraph of lib), 

as stated by Judge P ‘utnam. , : 
“¢. TT (3+ The arenes reason awhy it appears to me 
that the “sand must be included is the drastic effect that a 
coritrary conclusion would have on the contract as a whole. 
Certainly there is no difference between this sand and a‘ 
-new 15,000" gas sand that might be discovered tomorrow _ 


____+—_——-within the unit’ area. in-fact, for the reasons outlined -in 


No. 1, it may be even clearer that the_ a is covered. 
Bui, -going back to our assumed new 15,000", sand, 

it clearly would be ,covered. by the second paragraph of 

Par. 1,.(b); just as clearly under Article 1X, page 5, of: 

the Royalty Owners ‘Unitization Agreement ;: drilling to 
a andcompletion under each of the unitized leases so as to | 
mdintain them in, effect: equally as Clear is the fact that 
the completion. in. this “sand would not be a non-unitized 
operation under Paragraph XV il.- “page 7 i, of the Royalty 


Owners’ Unitization Agreement. | 
. es - * 


Ga. « \* 


* ‘ : : 
However, if we hold that the equities were “frozen” 
as of 1944, there simply would be no method whatever of” 


: bringing. this sand in the unit: ir pes 


‘ 


‘ In effect, this would require a holding that ee . 
June 1, 1944. ail provisions of ‘the contract relating to 
san(\below S000" must be wiped out except for the specific 

_ sands included in equty determinations made on that date. 
I cannot find an intention to de this in the agreement. 

: ~~ ; 

Oo. ] also find that the Opetatite -Agreement was 
amended in 1949, and that the parties preserved sub-para- 
graph 11 of Article XJ of the Operating Agreement pro- 
viding for the adjustment bis equities and ia nett in’. 
. the unit area. | "I 

The record . reveals that | the S s Sthool card did not 
receive any equity in tie Erath Unit for the School Board 
st sand which, was found in 1955 cr 1956, north of thé fault. 


It. anpear\ me that the more reasonable constrtc- 
tion of the agreement is the one which tends to give it 
effect rather than dp partially destroy it... s 


ee a 


” For ‘the ‘ghowe reasons, 1 concur with the results 
reached by his: majority in the instant case. 


lary 


On atlas for Dehiactng” 
“s | En Banc. Rehearing denied. * 


HOOD, J., is of the ik pion that-a-rehearing should 


___be granted.—-————— 


Se ¥ 


66° tw 


_ OPINION OF. 

THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA 
IN - 

 TEXACQ.INC. 


. v. 
e 


VERMILION PARISH SCHOOL BOARD © 
152 So 2nd 541, 244 La. 4s 


| 67 
_&  —. | -9EXACO INC. et al. ~ . 
VERMILION. P ARISH S¢ HOI. BOARD 
: : ji et al. 
. . 
: Supreme Court of Louisiana. 
| Aig we © Of A ee 
«°° HAMLIN, Justice, > 9. 0 #7 F 


Ln the exercise of our Eee ana (Art. 
VIO, See.rd1,-La. Const. of 1921; we: dirceted limited: 


_— ~~ certiorari to the Court-of Appeal, Third Circuit, in order * 
that we might review its judgmen Y affirming a judgment 

~¢ of the trial court which fixed a! adtudged the rights of ~  ° 
_ plaintiffs apd defendants undér certain agreements des- - 
ignated as the,“Erath Sab cereal ae 


Texaco Inc., Opexstor of the Erath Unit of the 
Erath Field; Vermilion»? irish, instituted the present de- 
claratory judgment proceedings (LSA-R.S . 13:4231-4246; 
now incorporated _ ih Arts. 7871-1883, LSA-C.C.P.); it. 
prayeu: for a judicial interpretation of the Erath Agree- 
ments. infra, gwd asked that such interpretation -decree 
. that evertaay Sand known. as the “School Board Sane 
/ intra, was/ghvered by the agreements. 


fe Defendants, approxi imately - hundred persons, 
were all parties: having an interest in ae rovalties, leases, 
minerals, and lands included ir’ the Erath Unit. it com- 
prised some eighty-three trac Ls of landpith ai surface urea 


oe over, four. thousand acfes.. | \ 
sgh The matter involved concerned the rath Field: 
* contained tremendous quantities of o} and gas ae 
1. La. App., 145 So. 2d 383— fie ee £3 
Me, | . \ : 


sands. The original <discoverer- nulding leases in-the unit . 
area concluded that the¢ best method of developing these ° 


resource> would De tl iwuugn a yee veling plant, and. t 
Erath Agreement: - were formuiated- Wy -a committee pe 
geologists, petro: jeum engingers. experts in thé oil industry. 
and attorneys, repres¢! iting the operators, royalty owners, 
and land owpers “in (oYder- to carr} out tiie project. The 
. Eray Unit was established 1 in iy42 by two agreement="" 

which: constituted: tne Erath Agreements; "one Was. Known 
ee the “Royaity Owners Unitizauon Agreement’ a and .was 

“executed by the owners ot royalty ab other interests, and 
the other was termed the “Chit. Opera ting Agreement” 
and was executed by the owner % of operating interests ane? 

Vvorking interests. Boty agreements were executed and . 
- became effective at tne salne time, ther purposes were 
the game, and they were interrelated and complementary 
to each other. A Paar 


As provided in the agreements. the recycling unit 


‘Was establishes by January i, iv44, at air alleged cost. of « 
between , 33,000. OQULO0 and 34,000,000.00.~" The Erath 

Agreement *unitized eighteen } producing sands encountered 
g twenty-nine wells. even being pre-unit wells and eigh- 
teen being dr iiled betore 1944 be iow 8.000 feet. — agree- 


-« 


Tite Fecoril ‘dis scluses- that. Ds the evoeveling process gas is 
preduced trom the unitized sands, -the desirable hydre-. | 


Caroovol frac tiors are extracted therefrom, and the residue 
vas.is then ret turned tu such of the um tized formations as 
the- uve: ator may sevect Tor the pu rpose. This enables the 


operator t o store gas, awaltine a tavograble market, and. it . 


also ‘maintains reservoir pressures near their origina), 
values. thereby, preventiny icss from condensation. and 
from water ‘intrusion, in the sands which would result 
from diminishing ‘pres isyres.- It is alleced that at the time 


the unt Was, ere ated. Me expert opinion, Was that the ree 
cine operath ym Wwou id result in the recovery of’ 135 Yail-. 
ied barrels ot plant product, 40%, of which would other- 


wise be lost. and in the savinyof 1, 5 trilfion cupic feet of 


vas for the day when a favorable market wi vail | be aVvai- 


able.- 


ae »* o- 


os ments.adopted tb 


ticipation of gach\tract in unit, produguen and costs and in 


‘unit operation and management. By this method the hydro-- 


earbons in place under the unit as a Whole.are calculated 


aswell as tne hydrocarbons in place under each tract. and | 


each tract jx- allocated’ an equity which. its underlying 
hydrocarbon: content bears: to the total hydrocarbon= in 
plaeé under the entire unit. A final caleulatiemor equiues 


‘had to be made. at a date not later than June 1, 1944." . 


a ee j > eae Roa: CSP Fae ge 
_The- equities were calculated 4Revised Exhibit D. 


and the Eratn Unit operated Within the eighteen produc- | 


ing sands tor, approximately, twelyg years. 7 
+, In. 1956 one of the existing unit wells onthe Ver- 
milion Parish =choo! Board Tract part of the Erath Field 
ina sand known as the “Schoo! Board Sand” at an interva: 
of 11,784 to 11.822 feet. schiumberger measurements. This 
- sand is sometime- referred to a= the “Nineteenth “Sand.” 


‘ 


: 


and -production of, ga= and gondensate Trom he schoe! 
“Board Sand of the Erath Field ‘Order 34-F:. The Ver- 
milion Parish Sehoo! Board and ather parties owning in- 
terests in the tracts overlying the Schoo. Board Sand would 


not recognize the sand as ineluded in the Erath Agree- 
yment on account of 


ments. and they declined to accept pa} 
production rrom that sand on-a yunitized: basis. - ae 
»_e P : j a 5 : . 

Texaco Inc.. a> stated supra, instituted the present 
suit: after hearinz and submission of the matter on briefs. 
the trial court interpreted. the Eratn Agreement: or the 


issues presented anil held in pars 


» - at: ye ae MB ai he ° Wee, peo zs 
2 From # statement of the case 0: Relator, Texace ltc. Ses 
. giso, Art. IV;:“Royalty Owners Unitization Agreement 

o 


facre=toot formula asa basis for the par- aS 


and north ef the Fault Line» was deepened and compieted c 


Tne Department of Conservation, State of Louisiana. is- 
sued clarification orders with respect to the exploration for 


" 


‘north portion of the Unit Area *, 


“Th ) es os 
J 
“The Schvol Board Sand as defined n Cnsert a- 


. tion: Department Order No..34-F, dated December: 
19, 1956 *-* * is covered by the Erath. Agfeements, 


as amended, agare all sands below 3000 feet located 
beneath the Unit area as,delineated by said agree- 


‘ments and containing-‘unitized substances’ defined 
in Article, I‘ b) of said Erath Agreements, whether ° 


or pot s ‘said sands,and reservoirs were known or un- 
cnown. at the time of the confection of such agree- 
ments.. | 
ip) ee. = a oe { 2 
“The: percentage’ of equities’ “Allocated | to each _* 
numbered .tract of,the Unit Area, expressed in Ex- 
hibit .‘D’ of said agreements‘as finally amended, 
* * * has application only to those sands jand res- - 
ervoirs located in the Unit Area known t contain 
unitized substances capable of. being yroduced ' com- ’ 
mercially on and as of | Jane 1,.1944. 


“130: 


_ Said percentage of equities as expressed June. 
1, 1944, does not apply to the School Board Sand 


Reservoir containing unitized substances discov- 


ered in 1956 north of.the fault.iine lying inthe 

* * * nor does ‘it 
apply to any other hike sands and reservoirs in said 
Unit Area below §,000. feet which were.nét. known 
and ‘discovered as commercially’ productive horizons’ 
as of June ly 1944. 


*(4n 


“The U nit Operating Committee, subject to: ap- 
prova! of the Commissioner of Conservation of the 
State of Louisiana, is expressly. charged with the 


~~ 


ae 


*. 


having interests in tracts w@ 


power and duty to calculate the percentage of 
eguity of each tract lwing-in the-Unit Area ‘north of 
the. fault line © * “using the method and formula 


set out in“Article FV of the Royalty Owners Agree- 


ment, and in Artie¢le Vil: of phe “Unit Operating 


_ Agreement appticable to known reservoirs in June, | 


(1942 and 1944. 4nd the participation in production 
from said reservuir by parties having interests in 
the tracts north®of.the fauit line,is to be governed 
accordingly; it being held thaYonly those parties 
hin the, Unit Area’ 
overlying the Schou] Board Sand Reservoir nort}of 
‘the fault jine shall participate in productig from 
said reservoir. . ee 


* 


‘ boat I 0 


“All sands and ‘reservoirs contajging unitized 


-substances as defined ‘i said agreements capable 


of being produced commercially and Jocatedsbelow'- - 


S006. feet’ from the surface -of the earth, not- known 
and determined in-Juné, 1942, or June, 1044, which 


may be hereafter placed in production, are te be’ 


° 


° 
> 


similarly calculuted and treated...” 


‘- 


2 ea foe ae “161 cay -s 


2 


The. provisions ~ hem Xi! Br, el) 142s, 


and (13) of the Unit Operating Agreement are ° 
‘held té. be applicab! € to such new sands and feser-O 


-voirs containing unitized. *substan CES», hereafter 
placed on production in the unit ‘aréa, inc luding the 
Schoo] Board Sand north of the fault Tine shown 


on Plaintiff's E xhibit P-B, res the grant of express. 
and iniplied- powers of ai 1 Unit Operating Com- 


mittee therein set gut is- hel std iv i nelude the giving 


‘uf notices to all interested parties of fuch calc: ula- 


‘tions and adjustments.as may be or ‘hereafter be- 
aaa es aie ie tapes 


a 


@° 


come necessary ‘hereunder for the purpose of carry- 
ing out the objects of said Erath Agreements for 

_ the benefit of all ‘parties in interest, in keeping 
with the views herein expressed.” 


- After the Court of Appeal affirmed the foregoing 


"judgment, Texaco Inc., Tidewater Gil Company, Grace’ 
Goldston Barber, et ai, Humble Oil & Refining Company, - 


and Phillips:‘Petroleam Company sgparately applied to this 
Court for Certiorari. Writs were granted, limited to a re- 
view of these ‘two questions : 


Cc 3 Whether royalties from jhe School Board 
Sand. should .be paid 


“a. On the basis 6f a recalculation of the 
equity of each.tract in the whole Erath Unit, ‘or’ 

“b. On the basis of a calculation of the per-' 
centage of equity of each tract shown on Plaintiff's . 
Exhibit P-B to be lying in the Unit Area North of 


the fault line. ; a a 


— 


t2,. x * Whether the percentage ‘of equity’ in ail 


sahds and reservoirs containing unitized substances 
nok Known and Getermined to be productive in June, 
194, which may hereafter ‘be placed on produc- 
tién, are to be calculated according to judgment to 
be pons herein.” 4 


The following specification of errors. was assigned. 
in this Court by Texaco Inc. and those parties all anes 
with it: 


6 


“1. Since it has been finally determined herein - 
that the Schoo] Board Sand and such general ands 
as may. hereafter be encountered below 3400 feet 
are Unitized sands and covered by the E th Agree- + 
ments, it was entirely inconsistent to hold and the 


. 


a 


.. Court of Appeal erred in holding, that production 
from such sands belong entirely to the tracts over- 
lying the same to the eXclusion of all other tracts 

_in the Unit Area. | . 


“2 The Court of Appeal erred in so segregat- 


- ing and allocating the preduction® from‘ the School , | 
Board Sand and the other sands in question, as the, 
express -provisions ‘of the brath Agreements are to 


‘the contrary. ; 

“3. The judgment of: the Court of Appeal is 
erroneous, as.it creates foreign bodies within the 
Unit Area which are so incompatible with.the gen- 
eral unit plan of joint operation and common own- 


ership as to render it impossible to develop and. 


‘operate the segregated sands as part of the larger 
unit either separately, or ‘with relation to other 
unitized sands. . Be aut 
“4. The Court-of Appeal erred in ruling. that 
production from certain’ sands unitized by the 
Erath Agreements must be awarded on a non- 
unitized basis when ine parties themselves ;did not 


so plead or contend in this case, did not offer an° 


iota of evidence in suyiport thereof, and never _en- 
visioned stich a concept as a legal possibility in this 
uit. | a. | eee 

_ “5. The Court of Appeal erred in failing to 
hold that the recalculated equities as set forth on 
Revised Exhibit D-ef the Frath Agreements govern 
all unit productioi: for, the entire life of the Re- 
cycling Unit wether obtained from the .named 
‘sands or from any other. unitized sand thereafter 


encounteréd. 9 eo ° 


“i Alternative: . 
“6. In the event it is held that the recalculated 


equities of Revised Exhibit D do not fix participa- 
“nse oe 


. 


tion in unit production for the life of the unit, the 
‘Court of Appeal erred in failing to hold that the 
equities for the entire Recycling Unit are to be de- 
termined by :dding the value of the Schogl Board 
Sand ‘to the equities shown on Revised Exhibit D, 
and making. such adjustment Jn the tract equities 
for the field as wi]! result from allocating: the in- 
creased equity represented by’ the School Board 
Sand to the tracts overlying the same. 4 
, “7, And said court erred in failing to adopt 
’ the-same formula with respect to any other unitized 
sand hereafter encountered.” 


Vermilion Parish School Board, et al. urge in this 
Court that the mannér of distributing the School Board 
Sand production ordered by the Court of Appeal is fair 
and equitable and conforms with the intent of the parties 
to the unit agreements, and that it should be confirmed.'. 
; Because of our limited review, the only matters for | 
‘determination before this Court are the basis* of payment . 
of royalties and the effect of such determination on the’ 
payment of royalties on reservoirs discovered in the future 
from sands now unknown. * 


Bearing the above matters in mind; we. cannot help 
but observe the following insoluble problems that counsel 
for. Texaco Inc. have set forth:in brief¢ and which they . 
state wuuld not have gone unanséred ‘if the contracting 
parties had intended to segregate. certain sands of the 
agreements as decreed by the Court of Appeal - 


4. On March 27, 1963, counsel for Versiition Parish School 
’ Board filed a motion asking that this Court :issue an order 
limiting the argunient to be presented by plaintiffs-appel- 
lants in this matter to Specification of Errors Nos. 6 and 
. 7, and to the limited questions specified by this Court to 
' be presented on this writ.of review. They further request- 
1 that Specification of Errors Nos. 1, 2. 3, 4 and 5 be 
‘stricken from Texaco Inc.'s brief. 


or 


Are the costs of drilling and developing the 
aca Board Sand and of processing and recycling 
production therefrom to be borne entirely by the 
tracts overlying that.sand, or by the entire unit? 


“2. If such costs are ‘to be borne entirely’ by 
the tracts overlying the School Board Sand, how », 
.¢an joint unit costs which are applicable to all 
tracts in the unit be divided and separately allo- 
eated according -to sands? 


“3. If costs relating to the School’ Board Sand 
are to be borne: by the entire unit, does the School. 
Board Sand bear its proportion of costs of: opera- 
tion and productidn elsewhere in the Unit Area? 


“4. If costs relating to the School Board Sand 
_ are to be apportioned on a unit-wide basis, how can 
the percentages of those costs for the tracts over- 
lying the School Board Sand be determined, con- 
sidering that, under the Court's ruling, the Schoo} 
Board Sand is a segregated sand and has to per- 
centage value in the unit us a Whole? 


"a. * How can the same cost determihation Le 
made for the remaining tracts in the unit with 


spect S ? 
respect to the School Board Sand wits 


“6. Assuming such yrcentage factors could-be 
determined and such cests allocated.on a unit wide 
basis, how will the Court preserve the balance be- 
tween costs and production as provided in the 
agreements considering that «all production from 
the Schoo] Board Sand is allocated to the tracts 
overlyi Yet that sand? ty 


» 


“7. Sincé unit operctions and management 
ure governed by voting interest, will the Schooi 
Board Sand have a voting interest in operations 

é 


bead - 
ap - 
: ° ea 
’ . 
. ry . e 
- - 
‘ - . - = - 
- erg o- o> *re an a -_ < 
. ai whaes big whee « 6b6SSG44s450e—, 16 OL & c : 
on & - o 
> mre ied - a ae 
-- =o) « ses ont - & -o.-O. Doe aes -> 
e . 
“ cr 3 + ero > Cc 
~ ~~. 
° 64) ~ my ASHE an se 
. > * 
.* i * or - nt ome * . Sa 
. = - - . _ 
“s os - ao vs Ole = ~ & Woe << 
wT) 
; - . x -t -. “- - - a Sh - - - 
Cai. 4s Hs i bath Pr’ i= « H : 4 
, 2 e 
‘- ~ - ye > -* ° ee - = Ouw,-- + re 
ye - — s = 
10@= fi@. | TES SSS: & —$ B% ~ : +°4 Seer, 7 & eee wos 
-:- “* <> e 
a” < : * 2 
. 


- waedeee 


ore woatre se: eno : —- 2 
Ges i maintain Sf) = wh os-% ¢: 
. -. . e a - ‘ 7 
—, tne ome? of — 
i wit entire l esos Area = 


- - ». : : - 
‘o™ - sais & 2 > eee ad oe 8 oe 
ie - * . ~-- ‘ ° 4 aes * 
“oS - - -- - oD ws - e - 
~~“ * . -~ lm o+- + © . . - <r 
*:." . : 
e . - - - 
- << -- as = z -é, 
ose oe - -- od —— 
_- : - - ‘+ - ~ -, - = oe 
- o Ota. 2h - ‘ she 3S oe . = - hs & 
” 
. 
~ { - - 
: < =" a P< > o_o a = 
~ see - este > s ‘ 

‘ - - - - 
te 2c" fe? 8 ae 6 ee ae " . ~- ~. 
cee Snes! wow we . - ~ er -- 

. 

- - . , - - *- 
+ ¢ - - 
os! ae + . 
: (4 = ~e 
e Pie *.: ft - = 7 - al — 

GB .acSe s-as0 - “~ ; « <e i 
7 . - - - °-r- . - 

- - + ” - a * - 

® a* aD > <=. - - = oa 

a - 

" po. o ee _- 
ad -. Se eT % e - Og = - 
- 
- a. 

- - 7. - - --* S i pe 
a ae = ae oe - eo > 
os + - +--+ =- : 

: " ; i ‘ _ - - 
— ‘a “ee - : ; “I ad . 
ae? = ‘ wr 7 t- 
- wa. ~ - —<-- - ** 
is . 
- + 
. = ‘ ® a - = 
- a = se . 
— 

a Koo 4 

ro a _ -* - na - -F : é 

* . - - 
-- ‘ - _- . - - 4 

- * . - - — -_- 
ele ae =. - - 
> . % - ™ i oa 
fs ° - 
-- wigee ef US Peres A 
— - o a a 
= . 
-~ . : - - - - e 
a - be mB @ 2 = ”. 
-- - J 
=. ~ ey = -_°re 7 : g B - . 
o- G- -- -< - e ott 
- ad oe - == - - =-—t 
* . ms . ‘ _ * 
ec ee . . i 
- s - z 
- . 
° . 
, - A see « 
-- <= “+ ¢-— - f 
. 
pF Oy - - . - - 
A rere ; ent sg 

* . 

- ¥ = > . e s . si 
- = "Ls #G <a , « 

a , - > 
we os . 
ae ¢ : - - 3 % f , 
. : —— 
= . 
7 ? 
a 
. . 
. 
. - : 
> 


~ 
Siew @ 
~-* 
a. 
. 
- 
- - 
-- ~ 
i ‘ 
-°~ 
<. &@ 
. « 
-= » 
on i - 
- ~- 
. A 
‘ intend 
. 
Pe ot = 
>- - 
~ 
- = 
. 
Seles Seer 
- - 
-—- 
. ont 
- . : . 
=” Pa 
- er; 
-,= - 
=F - 
- -- - 
es 
_ -"or 
- - 
- a 
a as 
—- . 
- - 
- 
- 
- - 
- * aa 


Syliabus, Ascension Red Cypress Co.,Ltd. v. New 
{iver isi Dist. 449 La. 764, M0 So. 165. 


ongeeat yeneral rue of law iz that the intent 
must be-guthered! from the language of the instru- 
ment itself, and the contract should, be enforced 
unless stich enforcemei’ would lead to absurd con- 
sequences, H.C.C. art. 145, par. 3.% Lama. v. 


c 


Manale, 218 La. 511, 50 Su. 2d ay A.L.R. 2d <P 
i Sai rire | o- & 


“It is elementary that in the interpretation of a 
contract the court must give leva! effect to the in- 
strument accoMling to the true ingent of all the 
parties, and suc ‘h intent is to be determined by the | 
‘ words used therein, without the aid of ext rinsic. | 
“evidence, when these are clear and explicit and lead 
to no absurd consequence. . Revised * pay Code, 
Article 1945." 7°." Gulf Refining Co. v. Garrett,’ 
208 La. 674, 25 Sh 7d 329. 


“Where a. contract i capable of construction In 
Sacec sdance With justice and fair dealing, the court 
will adopt such construction, instead of one entail- 
ing loss to a party to the contraet.- Civil Code. art. 
ol. * * *" Terrell \. Alexandria: Auto Co.. Inc.. 
12 La. App. 625, 125 So. 757. 


“We know thatca contract is the lay between 
thé parties nd that ther are Rogen by their ugree- 
nents regardless of harmful - ‘consequences, provid 
ed, the, agreement is. not contra bones mores or in 
Violation of some prohibitory: law. ‘However. Where 
the issue is a> in the instant case—what are the 
term: of the verb) agreement—the fact that in- 
formed and experienced -persorns ‘do not usually. and: 
custuInarily -bind themselves ta unjust and unrea- 
sonable obligations -ix « serious factor that must 

gay 


) 


: 
wee 


eae | te | aay le 


be ‘taken into consideration’ in determining that 
question.” Oi} Field Supply & Serap Material Co. 
v. Gifford Hill & Co., 204, La. 929, 16 So. 2d 488). 
44. > ; oes. 


oF 


The intentfon*of the parties is ef paru- 
mount importance and must be determined in ace 
cordance With plain, ordiners and popular sense of 
the languaye used in the agreement sand by giving 
consideration wp a practicul, rei tsonable and: fair 
4 basis to the instrument in its entirety. * * *" Me-: 
Kinney ©. American security Lite dnsuranee Co., 


La. App., 1630, 2d 640. * ‘ Re) pee cx eee 


paneer 


“Article 44. ry ol “the ¢ Sil. . (oe prov “ides tha’ 
agreements nave’ \he effect of law upon the parties, 


; \ ; ; > : ; = 
whe alone cat abgosute or modity theme and that + 


the courts are bound to give effect to all contracts 
according to-Mie true cintent of the parties when 
. the language’ i- clear and teads “te ne absuiml con- 
sequences. Contormabie with ils principle, whieh 
ds alse Atated in Article [M1 of the Gode, this 
Court, bas many times observed thate it-is not 
with in!) its province-tosalter or make. new. con- 
tracts for the parties, <t~ duty beime confined ts 
the interpretation of tile agreements the. partie: 


a3 have made jor themteelves, und. iy .tue absence’ of 
“amy ground “for derving enforcement. /to render 
themretfective. Aloriart, +... Weis-, 196 La. 34: 
19% Su. Téxa- Co. \. stgte Mineral Board 


216 Ja. So. 2d S417 Stack vo De’ Sate 


Properties, 227 La. 3s ; 


a su 2d 42% 


a < A f 
Guides OY ihe “apove- iu udence sand coda. 


aueaciations. a Wel: ix ; aids oof the rath Agree. 
mient= «the pertine re urticle a owhieh are set out in the 
opinion of the Court of Appeal bi se -2d 383.0 it be- 


so 


it 
> 
comes obvious thal the trial court and the we ourt of Appeal. ay 
were correct in finding that: 


“The entire purport of the agreements Was 
‘and is to ipsure fer each Jandowner the valu# of 
the minerals in place under hi- ‘jand, then Know++ 
to exist aud te be discovered theredtter below SOUE 
feet’ (145 So. 2d'p. 738" (mphasis ours. 

se , 

Krom. the roregoiny finding, Jt follows that. the 
jiarties ‘to the brath Agreemeni- intended: Anat produc: 
tion from any sand, whether it ve thei: existent or “dis- 

covered in the future, Was tv be attributes! to the-awhole:, 
of the Unit Area’ otherwise, the interpretation of the 
_ agreement- Would be unreasonable and: the intentions of 


the parties would, pe negated.. 


It is manifes! t from a staid of the record “that the 
parties tu the Frat: Agreement= were experienced and 
informed persons + ivy contemplated justice and fair deui- 
ing With one -anotner. they dig’ not, and-could not have 
* contemplated independent uit Within a unitized are . 
such as the Erath Field: To interpret the agreements as" 
providing that production .sitould be attributedg to any- 
thing ether thaf the whole would Jead to absurd. and in- 
opeteme consequences never intended. 


- Preduction and costs are interrelated and must be 
determined by expeft= i ‘those fields; costs are allocated 
to and associated swith production. Where as in the present 
case a wnitized field exists and production iz general and ¢ 
cumulative, costs are te de proportomate according to -- 
formula- adopted by experts and agreed . upon by the 
parties. - ; ‘et Bh ? . 


As to'the division ‘of reyvaitles, un eXamination ‘of- 
the agreements (-et Torti: in tite Court of Appeal Decision 
discloses that the parue- thereto in tended that ‘each would. 


" receive his. f fair and equitab je share “of the products re- 


ae 
o 


covered. 


Inc. 


states in bri iet: 2 


\ 
\, 


“We respectfully saa that the judgment ot 
the Court of Appeal to the extent that it awards 
production from the Schoo! Board Sand, and any 


‘other unitized san ‘ater encountered,-to the over- 


Iving tract is clearly viglative of the Erath Agree- 
ments. and should be reversed and set aside, and, in’ 


- turn, judgment =hould be renderes ft herein: 


Sq, decreeing . that the recalculated equitie- 
» for the entiré field as reflected by Revised 
. Exhibit D govern production of U nitized 
Substances from the. rath Unit for all 
time. inciuding production from. the 


any other unitized sand as may be later 
‘encountered within the Unit Area. 


“Alternatively: 


Recycling Unit are to be determined by 


. adding the School] Board Sand to the 0 


ties shown: on Revised. 4: xhibit D, and 


ties for the field as will result from allo- 
cating to the tracts overlying the Schoo! 
Boara sand. the increased equity 1 th 
voit represented canis and 


“43 decreeing | that the same {method of &e 
calculation Will apply te any other unit: 
ized sand as may hereattes be encountered 
Within the Unit Area.” 


named sands; the School Board Sand and | 


“i2) decreeiny jor a the entire 


" making such adjustment in the tract equi- 


It ix pertinent here vo observe that Relator oceania 


eae s 
: g 
It is also pertinent to note that Vermilion 
Schoo]. Board states in briet:” e 


Parish 


“ALTERNATIVE, SUGGESTION .AS TO -DISTRIBU- 
TION OF SCHOOL BOARD LAND: PRODUCTION 


; “Appellee suggest-. a an alternative method 
for distribuiing the Schoo! Board sand. proditction, 
‘that ali equitigg be ‘recalculated -by using the per- 
centages shown on revised Exhibit ‘D’ and in mak- 


ing such unit-wide adjustments as will result from 
adding thie Value ofthe total mineral content of the 
School Board sand to the total’ mineral content’ 
cand value of the unit and crediting the tracts over- 
lying the School ‘Board sand with the increased 


equity represented thereby. * os od ae oe 
| otis 


(10) “The adoption of the alternate: plan seems to 
be the equitable and reasonable solution to this controversy 
without working a hardship upon the parties. We there- .. 
‘fore find that a reasonable distribution for the equities — 
derived from the Schoo! Board Sand would be # recalcula- 
tion o fall equities by using the percentages shown on Ke- 
vised Exhibit D, and making’ such unit-wide adjustmenis 
ae would result fro.madding the value of the School Board 
' Sand_to the total Unit value and crediting the overiying 
tracts with the increased equity represented by’ that sand. . 


For the reasons dssigned, the judgment of the Court 
of Appeal, Third Circuit, ix reversed and. set aside, insofar 
as it affirms the judgment of the trial court With respect 


?. Phillips Petroleum Company (Applicant in. No. 46.444), 


Humble Oil & Refining Company (Applicant 


in No. 


46.446), Grace Goldston Barber, et al. (Applicants in Ne 


46.447), and Tidewater Oil Company (Applicant 


in.- No 


46,450) have joined with Texaco Ing.; John L. Abercrom 
bie. et al.. have joined with Vermilion Parish Schoo! Board, 
et al. In view of tite foregoing. one decree will suffice. - 


eS: 
85 


to the royalties herein concer ned: insofar as it pertains - 


to’ matters not treated herein because of our limited. re-- 
view, thie judgment ot the C ourt of Appeal is not disturbed. 


It is now ordered anil decreed that the equities. for’ 
the entire Recycling Unit are ‘to be determined in accord- 


ance with the alternate plan, supra, by adding the School * 


‘Board Sand’ to the equities shown on Revised Exhibit D, 
and making such adjustment in the, tract equities for: the 
field as will result from allocating: to the tracts overlying 
the Schoo! Board: Sand - the increased equity in the unit 
represented thereby. It is further ‘orderegl that this same 
method of recalculation a} sply to any other unitized sand 
as may hereafter be encountered within the Unit Area. - 


All costs. to be paid by petitioner, Texaco Inc’ " ‘Unit 
Operator of the si it Unit. , 


SUMMERS, J. recused. 


A | @ 


we 


- 


¢ 
hae 
Py = 
oo / 
° / ) 
Bo gt: Vee Op COTTON ALLEY. UNITIZATION 
EM alae & AND © 
PRESSURE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT 
t e 
id : : 
% 
gq 
ES ) 
i 

< A 


© 85 


STATE QF LOUISIANA. 
PARISH; OF WEBSTER . 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That 
_. THIS AGREEMENT is héreby made and entered 
into*by” and between the owners of certain oil, gas and 23 
mineral] leases covering jandsgin the Cotton Valiey F iel@} 
Webster Parish, Louisiana, and stch other owners of © 
lands, minerals, royalties, overriding’ roypities, in lieu .. 
royalties, = payments, gas payments, or off rights of any © ~~ 
. nature inet to the oil, gas or other hydrocasbons within 
said field, as may hecome parties hereto. 


| ie 
<7 “ WITNESSETH: | 
, 

_ WHEREAS, for the purposes of more Rae 5 con- 
serving the resources of said common oil, gas and other ~ 
hydrocarbon field, poo! or reservoir, and for the prevention — 
of underground-and surface waste, it is in the public 
interest that there should be a unit plan of development 
and opération to promote econgmical and efficient manage- 
ment, the maximum. conservation and recovery ‘of Mil, gas” 

- and other hydrocarbons that anay be produced’ from said - 


Cotton Valley ‘Field without waste, and a fair apportion: . 


-ment. of the benefits involved among the parties- entitled 
thereto. . ree 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the pre- 
-mises and the covenatits and agreements hereinafter con- 
tained, the parties hereto and the parties hereto fonsent- 
ing agree severaliy and among themselves ‘us follows: - 
ve i . ; 
- .DEFINYTIONS 
ugreement, the terms herein 
° . COTTON VALLEY /FMELD is hereby limited and 
defined as that portion of the dofia! geological structure 
‘ . ey . ° 


e oe 


*, . ° , . » . 
- 


&6 


centering near the so theast corner of Sec. 22,.Twp.°21 
N., Rng. 10 W.,. Webkter Parish,eLouisiana, which has 
been, is now or may bedvme productive of oil; gas or other 


-hydrocarbons. 


TRAVIS PEAK RORMATION is hereby defined 
as the strata penetxated bY The Ohio Oil Company-Hatlo- 
way well No. 6, located i ‘the center .of the NE!, of 
SW!,, 23-21-10, between the depths of 5,500 feet and 
6,718 feet; and wie BASE OF THE TRAVIS PEAK Is 
‘Py formational boundary line Approximately five. hundred - 
feet above the top of the ee Sand. 


PARDEE SAND is hereby ‘defined as the strata 
penetrated by the Stanolind Oi] & Gas Company-Pardee 
well No. 1 located in the center of the SW!, of NE',, 
}6-21-10, between the depths of 8,671 feet end &,630 feet. 


sp” SAND PARTICIPATING AREA is hereby 
defined and fixed as that portion ‘of all sands between the 
‘base of the Travis Peak Formation and the base of the 
“p” Sand within, the Cotton Valley Field, circumscribed 
“by the, dashed line ‘on’ the map annexed \hereto and made 
a part hereof as “Exhibit A”, and dll of governmental 
forties. lying within” said “D" Sand Participating: Area 
shall be considered as containing exactly forty acres, said 
Jands and the leasehold ownerships thereof heing particu- 
— jarly deseribed in “Exhibit B” attached hereto and made 
a part hereof. j \. 
— BADCAW SAND PARTICIPATING, AREA is | 
hereby defined and fixed as that. portion of ‘the Bodcaw 
Sand within the Cotton Valley Field cirtwmscribed by the 


dotted line shown on said “Exhibit A’, age JH govern- 


-mental forties lving within said Boderrsind Participat- 


ing Area shall bectnsidered ‘as containing exactly forty 


acres said lands and the -leasehold ownerships thereof 
being the same as-the lands and leasehold ownerships\set 
out in said “Exhibit B” and in additiomthereto the lands 


\ 


< : LS ba 


. 


and leashold ownerships as.particularly described in “Ex- 
hibit ‘C” attached hereto and made a part hereof. 


OTHER PARTICIPATING AREA is hereby de- 
fined and fixed as each separate formation’ below. the 
base of the Travis Peak formation, other, than the Bodeaw 
and “D” Sands, yithin the Cotton Valley Field, which may 
now be or hereafter become productive.of oil, gas or other 


hydrocarbons, and the extent of each such Other Partici- 


pating Area shall be coincidental in area with the Bodcaw 


Sand Participating, Area as same exists at the time of 


commencement of production from such other formation. 


~ his allocation to the Unit acce} 


PRODUCTION WNIT: is hereby defined “as that 


acreage, not to exceed eighty acres, within the Cotton 


Valley Field, but outside one of the participating areas as 


defined herein, allocated by the Operator or included in 
ited by the Department of. 


Conservation as the unit for production of a well completed 


thereon outside Such participating area but in the same 


producing formation. 


The term,UNITIZED SUBSTANCES shall mean 
ait liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons within the Bodcaw 


‘Sand. Participating Area, the “D” Sand Participating 
Area and any Other Participating Area, as the same may 


now be fixed or subsequently fixed or enlarged. 


OPERATOR “is hereby defined as any owner of 
the right in whele or in part, to-search for and produce 


oil, gas or other hydrocarbon- within the Cotton Valley 


_ Field, whether such right be deitived by the Ownership of 
the entire title free of lease, or by oi], gas and mineral - 


leases, cr by any other species of agreement Wonferring 


ROYALTY OWNER i-. for cgnvenience, defined 


“as_any 6wner who, subject to ai Operator's right to search 


for and produce oil, gas or other hydrocartion=, “owns land; 


- ° . 
. 


ae 


° 


r 
io 2 


, 


mineral rights, royalties, overriding. royalties, oil pay- 


ments, gas payments or otber rights in and to oil,. gas 
or other hydrocarbons, in the: Cotton Valley Field. 


OPERATING RIGHT is hereby defined as the — 
right of an Operator derived in any manner set forth 
above to search for and produce vil, gas or other hydro- 
carbons inthe Cotton Valley Fielg,’ a 


ARTICLE | 7 ae 


All oil, gas and other hydrecarbons within ‘each 
separate participating area, as the same ‘may now be fixed 
or subsequently fixed or-enlarged, are, as to each such 
separate participating area, hereby unitized, and the lands 
containing same ‘are hereby pooled’ and communized. 


a ARTICLE I 


. All Unitized Substances produced from each par- 
‘ticipating area, whether irom_the Bodecaw Sand Partici- 
pating Area, or, the “D™ Sand Participating Area, or each 
Separate Other Participating Area, ‘except, such of said 
Unitized Substances as may be used in any participating 
area for, production or development purposes or for re- 
pressuring or re-cycling, shall, as to each such separate 
participating area, be apportioned among and allocated on 
an acreage basis to the several tracts of land comprising 
- such participating area, J1.e., each such tract shall have 
‘allocate?’ to it/ such percentage of such production as its. 
acreage bears to the total acreage in such participating 
area; provided, ‘however, that-the Bodcaw Sand Partici- 
pating Area and the “D" Sand: Participating Area shall: 
be operated as if one participating area, and all produc- 
tion and /expenses, whether as to one participating area 
or the other of said participating areas, or both, shall be 
allocatéd seventy-five per cent thereof to the Bodéaw Sand 
Participating Area und twenty-five per cent te the “D” 
Sand Participating Area; and provided further that not- 


/ - . o 
= ° 


ae. 


89 


: * 1 = + 
withstanding such allocation as to gas, nu Operator or- . 


Royalty Owner shall have the right to sell, handle, use or 
dispose of the gas produced from uRy participating area, 
but the Operators Commitiee is hereby authorized and 
empowered as the agents of afl Operators und Royaity 

Owners, individually and collectevely, lo contract for and 
enter into gas sale- Besant Ay mutual benefit of 
the Operators and Royalty/ Owners ih accordance with 
‘their respective acreage interests, — } 

After said production ‘has_beefn so allocated, each 
Operator sha!l be separately liuble for and shall pay all 
royalties which such Operator may be obligated to pay on 
account of his tract, in accordance: and compliance with 

the respective lease vr .othen contracts covering such 
respective tracts, based, however, on an assumed preduc- 
.tion in the amount of the Unitized Substances allocated 
under this agreement to such tract. Permission is hereby 
«’ granted to the Operators Committee by all parties hereto 
to use any Unitized Sufstzace- produced from any par- 
ticipating area for production and development purposes 


and for repressuring and re-cycling, or an) of said spur-— 
poses; provided, however, that as far as efficient operations. 
will permit: no. participating area shall have returned to- 


its sand more than the amount-of Unitized Substances 
produced therefrom, less that amount of suid substances 


used in d¢ for such participating area for development, 


and operating purposes, No royalties shall be due or pay- 
able on any Unitized Substances produced from any par- 
ticipating area and used for uns of the purposes last 
enumerated, nor. shall any oil payments, gas payments, 
overriding royalties or -imilar interests be computed or 
due on such production. : 


Each party heréto, whether Operator or Rovalty. 


Owner, shall be lidble ifor all -everence, production or 
other similar taxes Jevied by .the State, or ony law £13) 
taxing authority, on accdunt of ov nership. severance, pPro- 


a 


— 


90 


duction, or sale of the Unitized Substances allocated to 
his or its tract or tracts: provided, however, Such taxes 
shall be paid by the Operators € ‘ummittee fur the account 
of the party jiablé and the amount of such taxes on 
production allucated Ww each tract shall be charged to and 
collected from the Operator thereof :it being further under- 
stood that each Operator shall charge.to and collect from 
its respective meyanty Owners the full amount of such 
taxes Which hiavd been paid for the account of fre Royalty 
Owners liable therefor by deducting the amount of: sald 
taxes from the royalty due to said Royalty Owners. 


“ARTICLE III 


Should there be formations below the base of the 


Travis Peak-formation other than tie Bodeaw Sand. and 
@ * r 


the “D" Sand which are hereafter proved productive of 
oil, gas or other hydrocarbons within the geographical 
confines of the Bodcaw Sand Participating Area as the 
samé may exist at the t]jZme of commencement of produc- 


‘tion ftom such other formation, then in, such event there 


shall be a new participating area for edch such other pro- 
“ducing formation which shall be coincidental in area with 
the Bodcaw Sand Participating Area as same exists at 
the time of commencement of production from such other 
fermation. Each such participating area has hereinbefore 


been defined as."Other Participating Area.” It is agreed - 
that the Deri Sand constitutes an Other Participating . 


Area, but that for the purposes of this agreement there 
shall be no participating area for prodtietion from the 
Lower Bodeaw Sand, sometimes known as the Pardee 
Sand, said producti being particularly covered by stipu- 
lation in Axticle’V: provided: however, that there shall 
be as. many Other Participating Areas as there may be 
productive non-connected formations below the base of the 
Travis Peak format iol and net included.-within the Bod- 
caw or “D" Sands. 


91 


ty pe oat — ARTICLEIV 
There are certain wells located within the Cotton 
Valley Field, but outside of the Bodcaw Sand Participat- 
ing Area and the “D" Sand Participating Area, respec- 
tively, and sujd‘weiis are now producing with -the gas -a 
mixture of Uquid hydrocarbons at g gas-oil ratio of not 
more than ten thousand cubic feet of gas to each barrel 
of said liquid hydrocarbons from the Bodcaw Sand or 
from the “D” Sand, said welfs und the operators thereof. 
being fully set out in “Exhibit D’ attached hereto and— 
made a part hereof, and in addition to said listed wells’ 
other wells may be €ompleted in the Bedcaw. Sand or the 
““D” Sand in the Cotton Valley ‘Field, but outside of the 
Bodcaw Sand Participating Area and the “D” Sand Par- 
ticipating Area, respectively, and produce with the gas a 
mixture of liquid hydrocarbons at a gas-oil ratio of ‘not 
more than ten thousand cubic: feet of gas to each barrel 
of said liquid hydrocarbons from the Bodcaw Sand or 
from the “D” Sand. 


As an essential part of this agreement the ‘Oper- 
ators in the Bodcaw Sand Participating Area and the 
“D” Sand Participating Area, through the Operators Com- 
mittee, shal! construct*or cause to be constructed or cause 
to be made available for use a gas gathering line to the 
seperator at or near each such well, and the operatyrs of 
said wells agree and obligate themselves as to each such 
Well that the gas, but not the oi! or said liquid hydrocar- 
bons, produced therefrom, except such amount thereof as is 
used as fuel for such operator’: drifing, producing and 
lease operations in the Cotton Valley Field, shall be. de- 
livered at five hundred pounds per square inch gauge 
pressure or such higher pre-suresas may be commensurate | 
with efficient operating practices of su-) wells into said 
line, and such gas shal] be received by the Operators Com- - 
- mittee: provided, however, that the Operators Committee 
shall not receive in any one day from any well referred . 


£1 % 


92 


. 
i- 


to in a par gn raph of this Article IVa volume of 
gas, expressed in — feet, in excess of thirty million 
divided by the total ndinber-of ail such webs; and proy ided, 
further, that each operator oi any such well agrees that 
all gas produced therelrom in exces. oi the sum of ‘1)-the 
-amount received-by the Operators Committee, determined 
as above provided, plus ‘2: the ‘amowni of such gas as is 
used as fuel for such oper.tor 's drilling, producing and, 


a 


_ Jpase rs, jnethe -CottornViites: Pield hal be suche. 


‘ operator, be delivered to the Operdilars Committee for re-— 


turn to the sand from which seune i suid operator to 
pay a cympression charge of actual cost on tat volume 
of gas. © All proceeds° derived from the sale. of such gas, 
‘ineluding reyalty.on the gusvline concent thereof, and all 
proceeds derived from the -ale of all liquid hydrocarbons 
obtained from said gas, and ‘all proceeds derived by: the 
‘sale of gas, including royalty on the gasoline content of 
such gas, from the Rodeaw Sanl Participating Area and 
the “D” Sand Participating Av-e 
ty-five per cent thereof to the total acreage comprising 
the Bodcaw Sand Participat(ag Aveu and. the acreage of 
the Production Unit= on which the \-ells herein mentione: 
are producing from the Bodeaw Sana, and distributed on. 
an acreage basis, and hath be allocated twenty-five per 


cent to.the tota! acreage comprising the “D” Sand Par- . 


ticipating: Area and the areage of the Production Units 
on which the well<.herein mentioned are producing from 
the “D" Sand, and distributed on an acreage basis. 


Whenever such wel! or wells produce with the gas a 


shall be allocated seven- 


mixture of liquid hivdrocarboii- at a gas-oil ratio in excess : 


of ten thousand cubic feet of yas to each barrel of pid 
' Field, but outside of the Bodeaw Sand Participating Area 


liquid hydrocarbons, or if ather wells are completed in. 
the Bodcaw Sand or the “DY Sand in the Cotton Valley” 


and the “D” Sand Participating Area, re<pectively, amd 
produce with the gas a mixtutre of liquid hydrocarbons at 


. ae 


Co 


a . 93 


* a gas-oil ratio in excess of ten thousand cubic Teet of gas — 
-to each barrel of <:ad Liquid hydrucarbons, then each such 
well, as to the particular sand trom whic h it is: producing 

and the production aceruge allocated to such sand, ‘shall - 
without further form ity. come under the terms of ‘this 
Cugreement and the production Uiérefrom shail be unitized, 
and said Production Unit, with an, appropriate acreage 
.+ factor hereinafter: determined, shal! be pooled and com- 
he munized with the production aud acreage in such partici- 
“patting” area": aretha tinet i iy of the calendar month’ suc: 
ceeding the happening of such event, and thereafter the 
production from such. weil and Production Unit shall’ be 
handled in the same manner, a> all other participating 
-acreage Within the particulir participating area, and the 
payments stipulate! in this article for gas production 
“therefrom shal] thereafter Cease, provided the operator 

‘ of such well, upon the happening o¢ -uch exept, may cease 
produting such weil a. then completed and ~hall, there- 

‘after, have a regsecable time, not to exceed sixty days - 
within which to commence sperations, to recomplete such 
well in the same’ formatiopgor abandon such well as a 
producer in said sand of formation after making 2 test 

to determine the Hereave factor of the Froduction Unit- 
for its inclusion, in that partictior participating area, and 
the sperator of such swell may likewise thereafter recom- 
plete same in any other formation below t the- Travis Peak 
formation and net in¢luded within anv-participating area 
‘in an effort to produce diquid (drocarbons at a gas-oil 
ratio of not more thin ten thousand cubic feet of gas 
to each barrel of Higul! bydrocarboh<, or te improve or 


increase the volume of production of such well. Should 


such effort to-recomplete eo ult ts production of liquid 
° . < : : 

hydrocarbens of a wus all WiRGT fonet more than ten 

thousand cubic feet of ou. t4 e tre! of liquid hydro- 


carbons. then and im such eve t such weil and the, Pro- / 
duction Unit on Which same i> Jaouted shall net become a 

. ; 3 } . : . . m4 - e > ‘ . . ‘>. 4 | ye ~- | o* : 
part of that participating area until the gas-cil ratio 


X i 
e 


. 


“ ° . . 4 é 


shall exceed ten‘ thousand cubic 
of liquid hydrucardon-: vroduced, and al. of these provis-- 


_— Py 


feet of- gas -t6 one Oarre. 


~ ions shali be comstrues i: avcordarce With tee laduwing. 
om | 
a Each. such wee. towetner With vasilg. 


ora sf » ; t ae os We " 
tubing. and top of well connections, sha Rave an 


- : + a} , . . 34h ‘ + o9tt 4 “ mliet “ 

originai agreed pe. ut . DAtye, ye m4 " ot competed 
‘oh , ayer nd S75 OOO 

with casing of -ever incnes uf more, and 315. ; 


. : FOL --) ae : y ; cays ' net Faas 
for eacn Wii 1g thie Tifa string Us Jasing 32° ,.E35 can 
ae ‘ é 


seven Inches, oulside a 
> r . i wm nt =? bu Megedn ; eairr aia) a 
. ) si GBihls sede wes Pz > 34 4 66 pA. Gm: a; Pa) 


“°° + 


es as Wh « - 
above slid... De Gecreaseu a. -ne Pave Va “ood per cent 


for each month alter the efievlive Gate OF this con- 
. a ; a « : : . rm ee pp fee PSB Bee 
tract ¢overing the period during which AVG We. Ma) 


i os ee Se ere me TT A 

. have.producea With the gas a mixture of igual nyaro- 
. * js - — r4 ‘ = 

carbons at a gas-o!! ratio of not more than ten thou- 

sand cudkk feet '} a> to @ barre: of said Aqui 1 nyaro- 


carbons. . ° 


* ‘ct Said wel, shal. De tested in the Manter 


prescribed by: the Us. Baireau of Mines, in: Mono- 


5 fe - “ Se hat . "Soe 1am 
ra . . : earn 1? - 19 2° Mae. 
graph No. 7.,and if same is capabie of producing: ten 
: ts : cy é 
2192 necubhs fee ’ » dar with two thousand 
mi 2 tee wh E47) Se? 4 4; me eT. theks Walk Lv cast usmaigsls 
> P 4 . . 
ep i ea Tad we 2. at aie ig Need a’ Sah wrain 
MOUNT DacK PYes-ure a e Wel, REA ON 4 TWElve 202 
‘ >. * - > . ~ 
. test. $a1G. We... sid ¢ -itereG as a standard aver- 
° ¢ . - " Pad 
- y - ee. y - “7 - *~«¢ e 
age Well: otnerwise. after determination. of -tne bai- 


: - r fone antl «all he nmaracran ‘ ‘ 7.) fo be 
ance ive ~ iY atts WOLi boa 2rax? at > a anGg vo: 
ote, Lott $1 : 4 aol (ita a ee aa 
irere sfhidaii iner * sioicted -even and one-nigil per 


¢ ' +}; pe ae t. } Peeps oe ; 7 
I Yas jess la! t r UO] eet that sala Wei. 
. * * 
Is adle to priociuce : 3 
3 oe aS iwe dots ee oe oe 
d:' From the int-determined-by the a- 
. "ys on ,. 
weve lations, each well shal? de Iurthner “iscopnt- 
ead one per vent for: 7 nme per cent. expecting tne 
wipe <2 . . %. ‘+ — ” Pe eee ee er 
.. sii? ‘ ”~ e 4 - ° Ww ait! uw U4 . - . trie 
é I F hte : 
4 - - <4 , wa ‘ me ; ’ ” Ste. ; o 
<a er serce! ait Sk od ee IY A — if Fo es 3110 T Y 2 
~ ett car n ig “© 
eLion 
/ ° 
F > P 
- F 
¢ 
- -_ 
* 
; & . 


i | 


abe 
she Fanner fir: iy. 2 e X11. . ; 


+The operator f such We,i sMais Nave ive Va.ue as 


determine! redited to said operator and paid in 


vided im Article X11 


vi 


nev 


The entire Pr: ma Uet ion Unit, not to exceed el ighty 
We as .ucadted snails becume @ part 


on Which saiu is. 3 
3 . op 
; . o - . oy e . ” ‘ . oe ° 
Ye particu.a! parte. paung area appiicatie . thereto 
re factor, which Snai nol apply to any of 
: : 


an acreage TAacvor. 
che Uther eParticipating Areas. but if the ‘We on said 
able of prov incing | ; million cuBic 


ATCT es PTT 
Production i mit is yap 
jay with a twij thousand pound back pres- 


feet of gas per sg Witla a Ws) 

syre at the well head on a swelve hour test and not &Xx- 

ceeding tw per cent salt water. pre duction, same shall be 

considered as one hundred per cent effective acreage. 

- - 

otherwise, the acreage allocated to such We, for all pur- 

noses gf participating im <uch” part ‘ular participating 
le ‘ted’ secen and one-half per cent for 


- 7°? . . ‘ ¢ 
er ee Tif snes - © ? ’ rsutor {nm rmitt r 
auction & mile iast Pa o the Yvera.ors mmuttee. 16% 
: : . 
J > = : * 
. = r *-. 
Crawls -25 bust ar obs , 
. a) . ? 
» i, 3:0 Pract - o 
asi vs = o's bp i Miu wa Jas 
e _ A 5 
. ; > far th rengve 1nCiY na 
ai. & - BP a . Pag ss) Lem atlas 
. : * - 
re - + ‘ a? tid 
eae Liiatslagp oR EA Ges - 4 
r “ o - > *= - a - or . ° .= 7" =a 
©r a tI svi OV an 6h ois be db wbbs os a > 94 
r * 
, - . rr © y Pk _* - - e7 ™~ “-* . - 
rarvcipaccs Area. i:e=- one pe! a t sa°G @€mMmou. ne? 
- ad *. 
* 
4 re tier ™ nF ror 4 ae Ft > t -- a rien rene pte 
alit Es sb3'lahis 5 3s bs ‘ oe i 
ware - - ear? «- rue aa} v.* "= 
gies ii wise e bSae0- * sa ec. ea * 4 ©: a: 
os ‘ - 
- , « 
° e er > +r - --* 4 we -? i 
ar T-the inves.i..¢c it} s EGULINITLS ae | 
> > > e * . ‘ ll ‘ 
3 a ad ~ r ? , $y ee r 
S -¢ isl GALli >ae o . ay @ 4 sa s os "oc. . 
. 
+ S¢° wore 
GB ¥ dasS se ~- ad 
- 
> . 
2 nr - - 
‘ ’ 
APTIC.LE 
obiv aa scar 
s - 
> r 
 -o7o . ore o o 5 or. Ys > as°r 
*- - - a? ’ - . 
. 
- * : 7 é 
> howe aT ‘re ee ° a a } — - 7 pe’ 
a ss ve oe saite 4 ise ea. “be-% pa iG £ ai wits“ 
° : f 
‘ 
' 
4 . 


| a 4 ee 
. ey 
7 


= . 


pating Area, the preduction from said wells béing from the » 


Pardee or Lower Bodcuw Sand, said wells and the oper: 
tors thereof being as fellows: — 


; es, 
/QPERATOR FARM WELL No. — LOCATION 
Stanolind : Pardee DoW. ot NE!y, 36-21-10 
Stanolind —" Pardee ss ASE, of SE's, 25-21-10" 
Stanolind & Deianey Parder-t of fee iNED, of SW's, 36-21-10 
Stanolind & Hunt Pardee- offée 1 Nivi, of NEs, 36-21-10 
Woodley Couch ° . i NW, of SWes, 56-21-16 
Midstates | Giddens — 12W. of SWiy, 3021-9 


It is-particularly understood and agreed by —ali 4 


parties hereto or who consent nereto: hat the Operators 
of said wells agree and obligate themselves as. to each of 
said wells that the gas, but not the oii, praduced there- 


from shall, at the option of the Operators Committee, and . 


from time to time upon demand of the ,Operators Com- 
mittee. be delivered into the gas gathering line referred 
te in Article IV above. The Operators and Royalty Own- 
ers of such wells acknowledge that said- deliveries are 


made in consideration of their acreage Inclusion within 


the Bodcew Sand Participating. Areafand said Royalty 
Owners de nereby waive uny additional royalty for such 
“deliveries, it being -tipulated that said-weli or wells shall 


not be considered as povied or*communized with ony par: - 


ticipating area, except as to thie gas above set forth, al- 
though the overlying BodCéaw Sand is at all times unitized. 
‘ with the Bodeaw Sand Participating Area. There shall be 
excepted from said deliveries suffitierit gas for Opera- 
tor’s drilling, producing and fease operations and repres- 
- suring ‘the Pardee Sand in the Cotton Valley Fieid, and 
tender of al! other gas*o the Operator< Committee at the 
-wells shall constitute deliverie- “for al] purposes hereof, 
but such deliverie. sha!! be made free of ull costs, liens, 
encumbrances or claim- of title, and the gus shall-be at 


. 


the highest pressure commensurate with efficient Operat- 


ing practices. Further, the Operator of said well or wells - 


> 


may at his caption wid discretion ‘J: abandon said well 
or wells or (2) recomplete same in the “D" Sand as a well 
producing with the gas a mixture 07 liquid hydrocarbons 
at-a gas-oi] ratio of not more than ten ‘thousand cubic 
feet of gas to each barrel of said liquid hydrocarbons or 
(3) negotiate with the Operators Committee for the’ sale 
of said well; provided, however.\that if such well is re- 
completed, in the “D" Sand under option (2). above, then 


the same shal] be subject to all of the provisions of Article 
IV heréof, with the exception that, the Operator may, in 
the event such wel! becomes the subject of. sale undér said, 


Article IV and the Operator is unwilling to, accept the 


credit to his account stipulated in)said Article IV, aban-, 


don and salvage said well or negotiete with the Operators 
Committee for the sale of the same at a different credit 
to his account thah that determined under the provisions 
of Article IV hereof.. 


~ ARTICLE Vi 


The sole right to drill in search « f oil, gus or other 
Ip - 


eminérals within the gesgraphical confines of the Bodcaw 
Sand. Participating Area, the “D" Sand Participating 
Area and the Other Participating Areas shal! be vested 
in the Operators Committee, ubley. however, to the fol- 
lowing exceptions: . | 8 - 0 


* 


fai: That nothing TT contained shall af-, 
feet any Operator’ right-*to drill for and produce 


oil, gas or other minerals 2hove the base of the Travis . 


Peak formation. 


eb) The Operator ‘owning 2 tract included , 


within the geographic! contipe: af the Bodcaw Sand 
articipating Area, but not within the “PD” Sand 


‘Participating Anea, ma; dyiliszaid tract, to the base - 


of the “D" Sand, on the Pardee Sand. and any well 
drilled and completed’ jn the “D" Sand, oF the Pardee 
Sand. undér this exception may be operated and.pro- 


2 


Ys o 

~ Ww . : A a 
duced tree of all of the terms of this agreement, sub- 
_ject only ‘to the provisions ot Article IV, er Article 
af respectively « 


& 
ic) The Operator of « tract not within the geo- 
graphical contines of any participating “trea may drill 


the same To any depth, and any well so drilled may- 


be operated and produced tree of all of the terms 
of this agreemeit, sabject enly to the provisions of 
* Article IV, or Articie V, whichever is applicable. 


: AR TIC LE VII - 


In order that afy partic ipating areu.may be ex- 
tended or enlarged, other, than as provided in Article IV, 


the parties héreto, both Operators and Royalty Owners,, 


do by these: presents tuliy: authoriz, and empower, the 


_ Operators Committee and the Royalty Owners Committee, — 


by their. joint action, to negotiate, enter into, execute and 
perform by and with the owners of Operating Rights and 


the Royalty Owners of acreage outside such participating? 
“area known or reasonably estimated to be productive of 


the Unitized Substances ii commercial and paying squan- 
tities from the same sand or formation, contracts and 
agreements, whereby under such terms and conditions as 
to the said committees -vem advisable, the various partici- 
pating areas established by tuis agreement or as ‘they then 
exist may be Yespectively extended and enlarged and such 
outsidé acreage thereby become « part or parts of such 
particular participating area, or establish such contractual 
relationships with respect to Queh Outside acreage as to 
- said committees may seem proper, whether -such outside 
acreage actually becothes a part of any particular partici- 
pating area, or not. ° ie 


In the event of enlargement or extension of any 
participating area-in- accordange with the provisions of 
this article. a new schedule of production allocation con- 
formable to the enlarged participating area’ shall be fixed 


a 


. 


by said “comune st provided, however, that rps 


/ ARTICLE VIL 


There i _ hereby created i Royalty Owners Com- 


tive one of a aise persone “ « y, 


x 4 


NAME © | 7 Ee ae 


DD. W. Stewart, Jr. - : Minden. Louisiana , 


Frank b./Treat “Minden, or 
H. G. Gray Minden, Louis; 
T. Crichton, Jr. . gt - Minden, Upapiins 

- Paul L./Miller “Cottchwoe, Louisiana 
Warrey Cox = ‘- Cotton Valley, Louisiana 
R. M. Coyle . Cotton Valley, Louisiana 
A. J. Hodges 7+. Shreveport, Louisiana 
WO. €:/ Hathaway . _  # — Shreveport, Louisiana 
A. H. Southern — _° o«* Haynesville, Louisiana 


_ Burford | Bodcaw Lbr. Co.' Texarkana, arkansas 


mittee and shal) continue in office’ <0 long: a= thes 
ain RovaltyfQwner- unles~ removed [in accordance with 
‘the terms” and? Rrovisions hereof The Royalty Owners 
ommittee shall det upon and determint: the matters pro- 
erly coming before it under the terms heteot by a mijor- 
/ity vote aitd such vote shal ne bindire upon all of the 
Royalty Owners. Each member 62 said. committe shall 
have a vote in the proportion which the aggregate acreage 
interest of the Royalty Owner. whom ‘he represents bears 
as 


of whom shall. compose the initia! membership of said, 


‘ 


ty the aggregate acteage an ail participating areas. Said 
Royalty Owners Commfttee. shall select a chairman trom 
it- own membershiyy and shal) adopt such rules and regu- 
Nations for the conduct and performace. ofits duties as 
are not inconsisteni with. the terms of this agreement. 
The Royalty Owners C emmittee shall keep and preserve, 
a record ‘gs its” proceedings and determinations, which said 
recore- a at aH umes be open for Inspec tion by any of 
the Royalty Owners and by ait of the Operators. 


. All! notices réguired’ to be given to the Royalty 
Owners Committee hereuhder shall’ be deemed to hav 
been given’ if -properly mailed to said commitee at P. 0. 


Box 625, Minden, Louisiana; which address may from’. 


time to time: be changed by saids Royalty Owners Commit- 
tee so advising the Operatoys Committee. 


..There shall be a vacancy apon the -leath, disquali- 
fication, resignation, failure or refusal to.agt,-of any* 
member of said Royalty Owners Committee. and likewise 
When any member of said committee does jot represent 
at least three Royalty Owners other than himselfTShould 
there be a vacangy in the membershhip of said committee. 
then al! Royalty Dw ners who had previously appointed such 
member as their agent. shall thereanon designate some 
other person as their representative, oY appoint one of 
ithe other members as their agent ¢ previded,. however, that 
for ihe -interim during which said Royalty. Owner has not 
designated an seat peer Royalty Owner: Committee. 


he shall be represented by ‘3 member, of said committer . 


. oan : tn ° : 1 
who shall be designated Dy tae committée and who. shff! 
} if 


a F - - ie 
represent said Royalty Owner te the osame extent. as 
designated by hig: aml provided, further. that there shall 


hever be more than eleven member- of the Rovalty Own-, 


ers Committee. 


‘ e * : 
Memter~ oi ‘tues Royalty Owner: Committee. shall 
at all times -erve without - OBpensation whatever, out in- 


/ 


e Né ee al 


e 


-exceed 


. 


es a lo : 


as an operating expense. 
fae 


: 


ARTICLE IX 


Nothing in this agreement contained shall he con- 


“. 


‘strued as imposing upon any “Royalty Owner any obliga- 
tion to pay for any developme:t and operation expense. 
unless ‘by the term- of pre-ex!sting agreements sucti obli- 


ation is Imposed upon suci ! Hoy alty Owner. 


ARTICLE X 


All devciopune it and operations for the Unitized 


Substances shall be conducted and managed by and at 
the expenss¢ of the Operators. through. the Operators Com- 


mittee, in accordance with the terms and condition~ of thi- 


" agreement, and shal] be planned, co-ordinated amd execut- 
-ed by the said committee which shall consist of-w repre- 


sentative of each of the then Operators. Any .member 
appointed to serve en the Operator. Committee may -be 


, changed from time to time by hi- priicipal’s appointing 
a new member and by notit ving the other members of th: 


Uperator- Committe: and the other principals in writing 


of such action. 


The - Operator: Committee <hall ‘be charged with 
the duty of planning’: co-ordinating: and executing “the 
development. and-operations within all participating areas 


Nicaea provee: jinges, a other cnarges, not to: 
$25.00 per: mouth, shgil Ae paid by the Operators, » 
te . 


for the Unitized Substance®, ani-is hereby authorized, sab-. 


* ject -to.the terms hereof, to de any and all things necessar 


and convenient for carrying out ‘the rovision- and spirit 
of this agreement. Said Operator- Committer “hall 
upen and shal! dete rmine al) matter- coming betere it 95 


‘& maority vote of acreaye. wliy! mustgbe concufred 


by the representative or repre-cutaitives of notcless thar 


\e 


seven separate Qperators, andawnich vote sual) be binding 


. 
. - 


« 
. 


~ 


| 
A 


? ry? +3 rd 9 


. ~ ™ +3 
Care - wee 
. 
- 
vy - i 
a 


id Operators 


oe * 
r mer - 
ave ase Tages s 


sor. tn 


re «st 
7 ¥ * a ohn 
on oar Yay oy in 
‘S4, ~an f B E52 Ja 0 0tessal, OG PPh oe FE 
4° 3 » . Yer 
aile rese! a recor 
’ - - ° > e . 
A. a : . 7" ° ?¢5 st" a °« ° oad ° 
pee * 4 ae - F $4 8 | lever mina*<i bbe WEbisk dc Vas TEC 
- ses > POS Aig eit ee ae O39 e - - UO; 7 
seesiwee UE... SUT Tes POU LI is - J the. erasuls. 
: : 
: ae an oe ae as MDE ase oS fs 
bse ® eb STS It Ash & msrvOsi < had > Pe 
x 2 4 
. ” wr re oe, - > 137475 
per a.ors Committee =: i Deer Vaslti.y 
e * 
ot dana ear ee ; ro at Poe If 
PR) 2 FEE Se A <= ee aie a we 2 >» t fice 
g 2 
3 174 — tr si seare mat ke 
EMI S Laew’e oe oe bAJeis A@litis ers see OT 
: 
* ° ? ° e . 
ax niwes teu ° ox ete hea wove aa a ein ities . = 
sfom cvime seme changed OF said Opera ommittee 
‘ ~ 
© - Or Serre - a ee i rt, ‘ . . 
P woe » ols ry F! 98 6 bests & se t Sl ae as 44. ¢ Ive 
. . » - ! 
G 
ae Amr: 
Wweners _OMmmMitiee. ree 
. *. 
bad s 
2TIC E XI ; 
ART 4. 
TS - - w > - 
sss PSS) Gi ~ 3 f 
hal . 
aad ys eee poy 
ars > WAS. 2230 £542 eOSbsG ad 
= te * 
- * . . “—* te 
- Me 
that's ek al g hk ae i ob ge 
. ~_™- ee. 7 _—- - . “e+ 4 
é : 
Fe de oe en “i * 
= e ” ~ 
esse WS 53994 - 5 eeie Wh Lon H 
ons Sis ato Or 
s een a a - -- . ee 
= ae 4 rel 
Sa &o : ‘Fee = % s sb 
. bad . 
a Baa ae Sa Ee ™ Le eg be . 
COLSIGSracign OF such a> G20 TO W re OWaAPrds the come- 
Stee hee 
al ed <2 - . . P . - * . 
pert ee 98): 4 pesmic,. alc, Sie a> raCvicads 
. rp ee: on — a °_¢ . 
- _ “ r -- Were Ti 
- - “+ . “*- «+ -- - “* -* S 
en 45 ; ° ; : = » a © 4 es : t . 
S PPT Po. és b saleree | é yr tkirec ar ; Pi essifiz 
. | . - - > 7 
« os Po ’ - . ad - - ” 
Ee Lee ese ; - -« y S dbsediee We. nsOU Si) aS Loreom- 
. ° 4 2 . 
+ . . *. -. - - : 
. > . - es ~ ~- ino 9?" 9 - °- ‘ ,\* oe 
ee Wa i ps -eetiny fest sees, GOA LEC 
s “a Ee : * Ze a =? : a 
es = oe 'P~ wshdbevet va & ih ew 5 i = 333 era’ 
- + ec - : - ’ * - aes ee 4 
ri . os ~ . = Sects . — -** 4 - : ee et an a 
e . - - - - 4 =@* “*.* - - *- bd 
z : ; a 
fe Ns pe 
sy Aes 7 5 ae 4 
ee vt a < = : Eat owe rr. 171 
e ° . - - - - se. - , - ° 


- 
° “ ‘ Sa 
} 
* - > 
a * 
* 
. 103 
. . 
- % 
‘ = 2 te By : 
- ai ~ . } i. i 
Fe ; on °: ’ ° 
i ihe elit MaPrnetagwle products 
~% - . : . 
- ; -sP ie 7 , - Mii re 
- }- weg tT aes C aroun: rom Lhe a> 
. * — - F > > 
rari fi yeani, the 


ee eee eee, Seine esa ' , a Be, 
COs. Of Which VEAL? > agreerent agree 
2 = : . . 
in ITU! na 
ye a oor >} , 2#5% 
~ee - “+ es “a 


e:9 


wee 


~w the Ope 
w-sessmen* 


eee eee 


i. Nowever, 


owe 
Tors rs 
ang. said 


rar or 
4+ 7 529) @.. 
- 
. r frr.wy 
~8"Jis be S805 


C freee ist pe 


oboe sese « 


“ . ae. ‘ P Se - 
3h 0° con a - Frc ex r “ 
oe ca “ a a he Seed b 
~ oe . . . . - 
: = ‘ rey be é- Pa . eo 
- ° ° 
—)e a Te. oo yw . ‘ ( ee = os 
i ~- é oe . ; . 26 = 
lt fr eS a hy. & - ; “ 
ari 4 ‘ . 3 - 
, - é ° . 5 
- Pen ° a ad 4 - 
. . e ie 
. ad oe 
’ ° a . : ° i es - - . 
i oe a. - ‘ vr = x -F v ae 
£ - & ie, ° ‘ bd a= 


104 . 
; ee 
pletion, in such, pena #s to promote the efficient 
agement, conservation ‘aod recovery of oil, gas wt id other 
hydrocarbons with due regard to both interest ts"of Opera- 
| _tors and Royalty Ow ners. 


The committee shall not inject gas in the Bodcaw 
Sand or.the “D"-Sand thropgh any well in which the top 
‘of the Bodeaw Sand occurs at u sub sea depth greater 
than eight thousand feet. without a vote of at least eights 
per cent of the Unit Operators. 


This contract shail be binding from the effective 


date ‘hereof, notwithstanding said re-cycling, pressure. 
maintenance and liquid hydrocarbon extraction and pro-- 


cessing plant will not be eran nor completed at such 
date. t — 


ARTICLE Nl 


As. shown on “Exhibit E”, attached hereto. and: 
made a part hereof, certain Operators ‘are owners ‘of the - 
wells producing Unitized Substances from the’ Bodcaw 
Sand Berticipating Area or “D" Sand Participating Area, 


and it is agreéd .by and between the Operators that for 


the purposes of this agreemént each of said wells, *to- 
gether with casing, tubing and top of well connections, 
exclusive, however, of separators. derricks, tanks and 
other surface equipment. shall be deemed to have a value 


‘of $100,009.00, In view of the fact that all of said ayells” 


“will be dedicated to production or other use in connection 
with the production, re-cycling and repressuring of the 
Unitized Substances, ali of the Operators hereby agree 
that each respective Operater owning one or more of said 
wells ‘or an interest therein is entitled to receive out of 
the Unitized Substances the stated value of each well so 
owned, and therefore it is f irther agreed that eighty per 
vent of seven-eighths of the’Unitized Substances allocable 
to each tract in the Bodcaw Sand Participating Area and 
“D" Sand Particjpating Area. as such Unitized Substances 


> 


° 


105 


are produced fromeaiil after the effective date hereof, shall 
be delivered to Operators thus owning. ‘said wells in the 


proportion that their respecuve oWhefship in the aggre- 


gate of such Wells bear to the aggregate number of such 


wells, such percentage of -aid production.to be delivered 


until the total” agreed value of =nid wells shall have been 
iquidated through the delivery of such production to such 
Operators. The Operator so receiving such production 


agrees to receive the same a> having a-stipulated value at 


the time of allocation equal to the posted price then pre- 
Vailing in the Cotton Valley Field for production of the 
=ame kind and quality. 


‘ ARTICLE NIL 


‘ Each Operator agree- to pay and’ discharge its 
proportionate part on a participating acreage basis, sub- 
ject to .the percentage ae nt between the Bodcaw 
Sand Participating Area and the “D" Sand Participating 
Area, all eXpenses of operation and. development of each 


respective participating area: On or before the 15th day 
‘of each calendar month, the Operators Committee shall - 


“render tc each Operator a statement reflecting the expend- 


Unitized Subst&itee- ailogate? + , such Operator, and, if 
necessary, dispose of the sume. Ip the event of such dis- 
position, the proceed; thereof shall be used te liquidate. 


itures for the preceding calendar month. Each Operator 
shall, within fifteen day= after recelpt of said statement, 
pay to the Operators Committee his part of said expenses 
as reflected by said statement) Upon the failure of any 
Operator t to Make such pus ont -within the time limited, 


the: Operators Committee may retain possession -of the 


such amount and the balance. of ansaid to said Operator. 


-Each Operator agrees to advance to the Operators 


Committee: his proportionate port. Gelermined on a par- 
ticipating acreage basis. of $5 Oo upon the effective 
date of this agreement..-uch amount te be placed in the 


Committee. 


TU6" 

treasury of the Operators Committee and credited’ to the 
account of the part y =0- advancing same. The purpose of. 
such advance is to creule a Working fund for the Operaturs 


ARTICLE MV 


~The Operators Committee is hereby directed, for 


“~and-on behalf 6f and in the name of the Operators, a~ 


their interests may appear, to carry adequate Work- 
men’s Compensation, Public Liability, Property Damage. 


Explosion, Fire and other hecessary insurance. * 


s 


ARTICLE AV 


! 


insofar and only insofar as this agreement relates 
to the correlative rights of the Operators, each to the 
other, the same may be amended without the concurrence 
of the Royalty Owners; provided that no. such dmend- 
ment shall be in any manier abridge, modify or affect any 
rights of Said Royalty Owners. 


ARTICLE XVI 

_ Each Operator represents that he or.it isonow and 
as of the effective’date hereof will be’ the owner of the 
Operating Rights in connectien with the tract or tracts 
described as owned by him on-sdid “Exhibit Bu and on 
suid “Exhibit C’, and ‘hereby agrees to indemnify and 
hold harmless every cther Gperator now or-hereafter a 
party hereto in the event -uch Operator so signing is not 


the owner of the right= to the extent shown on said “Ex- 
hibit CC’, and subject to the representation= herein made, 
the effective acreage interest of such Operator in the 
Unitized Substances shal! be permanently vested in’ such 
Operator irrespective of - whether or not the Operators 
Committee shall perpetuate the. title to such Operating © 
mignts With respect to‘such tract or tracts. oe 


° 


a SERS ARTICLE NVI x 
When. any of the | physical properties jorntly owned 
by the Operaturs in any -parucipating area are no longer 
used or useful for the Purpose of carrying cut the pro- 
isions of this agreeffent.the Qperators Commi ttee shall 
salvage and dispose of the same and account to the Oper- 
ators, on their then participating, basis. for the net pro- 
ceeds therefrom: ae 


» . ARTICLE XVII. 


Each Royalty Owner hereby grants to his re=pect- 
ive Operator or rept the right to sell the Royalts 
Owner's interestin the Unitized Substances at the price 
and on the samé terms and conditions as such Overater 
. sells his interest in -aid Wnitized Substances, except. gas 
which is covered by the terms and pre Wisions of the respect- 
ive leases, and the nile thereof shall be handled as set out 
in Article If: All royalty interest~ of every nature what- 
soever shall be accounted for and hare es the basis of 
prices prevailing in the Cotton Valley Field fer <ubstances 
of like quality and character om the date of sale or purr- 
chase. in accordance with, the royalty provisions of the 
respective legse contrat for oil, Mahar, ited distillate, gas, 
gasdline and processed oremanufactured product- 


a. Se ek 
The habili ty Of the parties Operators hereto shall 
alWay- be s¢veral and net joiut: and it is their’ intention. 
to create the relationshij of principal and agent between 
each of the Operators ard the Operators Committee 


‘ARTICLE XX 


The partie- hereto or consenting. hereto ugree that 
this agreement -haill net pe r supersede the exi-ting 
permits. Jeases. drilling and cpefating “contracts, overrid-e 
ing rovalty agreement, or other in-trument- affecting the 


. 108 


lands covered by this agreement owned or held by the 
parties subscribing vr consenting hereto, and that the 
same shall continye in full force and effect to the extent 
that they or one or more thereot, are not in conflict 
with the provisions of ur are modified by this agreement, 

but in vase of such contlict the provisions of this ayree- 
" ment during its efféctivene=s shall govern and control, and 
such other ayreements shall be and the same are hereby 

modified and amended «+ cordingly. 


ARTICLE XXII 


It is further stipulated ‘that any lease or contract 
subject hereto covering that property which is included 
within any participating area hereunder, shali not termi- 
nate or expire during the life of’ this agreement and that - 
the amounts payalle to the Royalty Owners under the 
provisions hereof shall en ‘rely supersede and take the 
place of any lieu royalties or rentals payaable for delays 
in drilling or production or payable to keep any such lease 
in force without ‘drilling or production. All Royalty Own- 
ers who are parties hereto or who later consent hereto, 
hereby agreé, severally, each to the extent of his particular 
ownership or-interest, to the inclusion of thejr lands her re. 
under, do hereby approve and adopt the terms of this agree- 
ment as applicable to said lands and interests, and agree 
as to only the lands which are included within any 
participating area hereunder that the drilling and develop- 
ment requirements 6f all such teases shall be déemed.fully 
executed ‘by the performance of the provisivns of this 
agreement, and further agree that payment for or delivery 
of, whichever may be required under prior agreements, 
the Unitized Substances made upon the basis of product- 
ion allocated under this: ‘agreement to the particular lands 
to-which such rights or interests upoly, regardless of 
| actual production therefvom, shall constitute full perform- 
unce.of all such obligations to <:ch Rovalty Owners exist- 
ing under such leases or other contracts, and product ion + 


from any part.ot any participating area shall be considered 
ds production from each and every tract included therein. 


ARTICLE XXIL ~ 
This agfeement hal] be subject to all valid rules 
and regujations of any regulatory body having proper ° 
jurisdiction. , wt 
ARTICLE XXIH_ 


Anything herein contained to the contrary not- 
withstanding, this agreement shal] not be construed to 
‘affect or in any manner relate to interests in production 
from or rights relative te.uny formations above the base , 
of the Trfivis Peak formation and -hall in no’‘manner-mod- 
ify.or alter the rights of the parties hereto in reference 
to any_agreements relating to production above the base 
of the Travis Peak formation. 


ee ARTICLE XXIV . 

This agreement is executed with the specific pur- 
pose and intent on the part of each of the parties affected 
hereby and for a good, valuable and sufficient considera- 
tion inuring te each of them hergunder to acknowledge. 
the mineral ownership of each and all of. the parties to 
this contract, but only the mineral ownership of the parties 
to this contract, or who muy become parties hereto, and 
only as to the lands covered by this contract so as to in-' 
terrupt the running of the ten year liberatite prescrip- 
tion of nonusage applicable under the law of Léuisiana to. 
‘mineral Servitudes, and each monthly payment of the 
royalties and henefits provided for by this contract shall 
be considered and 2 ccepted by all parties as a new acknow- 
ledgment made with the purpose and intent of interrupt-. 
ing said prescription as to all servitudes. 


ie. 


ARTICLE XXV . 

Subject to the provisions of this Article XXV, this 
agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit 
of the parties hereto or who later execute this agreement, 
or a ratification hereof, their respective heirs, admini- 
strators, executors, successors and assigns, irrespective - 
of the faihire of any Operators or Rovalty Owners. to 
execute or ratify the same. This agreement shall “become 
effective upon the happening of the following two events: 


‘ar The execution or ratification hereof by - 
the Owners of eighty per cent or more of the royalty 
interest, expressed in acres, in the Bodcaw Sand Par- 
ticipating Area: and 


‘hb Upon execution or ratification hereof 
by the Owners of eighty per cent or more of the Op- 
erating Rights. expressed in acres, in ther Bodcaw 
Sand Participating Area. is 


If both of said events have not occurred by July 1, 1940.. 
then on that date this agreement shgtr befome null,- void 
and of no effect. The Operators Conwniéee, in the event 
this agreement becomes effective as above set forth, shall, 
before July 1,.1940, file a declaration in the Conveyance 
Records of Wenster Parish, Louisiana, setting forth the 
_ date on which this agreement became éffective, and which 
declaration shall be prima facie evidence of-the facts there-_ 
in stated. After the effective date hereof, this agreement 
hall remzin in force and effect so long as any. of the 
‘Unitized Substance- can be-produced in paying quantities 
from any part of the lands included within: the then par- 
-ticipating areas: provided, however, that after this agree- 
ment’ becomes effective, it shall become binding as to all 
parties subsequently executing the same. or a counterpart, 
or a-ratification hereot. as of the first day of the month. 
following such execution or ratification. . 


1. 


ARTICLE XXVI_ : 

The provisions of this agreement in regard to al- 
jocauion of expenses, allocation of revenues, allocation of | 
production, contributten of capital and repayment for the 
wells listed in “Exhibit k” are all based upon the assump- 
tion that the owners of ali of the Operating Rights within 
the Bodeaw Sand Participating Area will either execute 
or ratify this agreement. If, when this agreement. becomes 
effective; all of the Operating Rights within any particular 
participating area are not subject to this agreement, then 
the acreage not so -ubject to this agreement shall be deduct- 
ed from the aggregate acreage in such participating area 
for the purposes of arriving at the above mentioned 
distributions and allocations. Any acreage within a par- 
ticipating area which is not subject to this agreement én 
the effective date hereof may nevertheless be made sub- 
ject to. this agreement if the owner of th Operating Rights 
on such acreage execute- or rativies this agreement -within 
three’ months after the effective date hereof, provided 
that such acreage shal] not have allocated to it any pro- 
duction or revenues until the calendar month following 
the date it is made subject to this agreement, and provided — 
further that the owner of the Operating Rights shall pay 
‘to the Operators Committee his proportionate. acreage part 
of the amounts to be advanced, under Article XI and XIII ° 
hereof, and provided further that such operator shal] be 
subject to the provisions of Article XII in reference to re- 
payments for wells. If.such operator ‘owns any well de- 
scribed in “Exhibit E” hereof, -uch wel] shall be deemed 
to have the value set forth in said Article and appropriate ° 
adjustment shal] be made with <uch operator in the manner 
set forth in Article NIL. ce ‘ 


ARTIC LE XX¥ as 


This agreement may be execyt ted in any number 
of counterparts, and each -uch counterpart so executed 


112 ' 


shall have the same force and effect a> an original Ae, 
ment and as if all of the parties to the aggregate count- 
erparts had signed the same document. 


IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF; the Raa ba 
have caused this agreement to be,executed in the presence 
of the undersignec competent attesting w itnesses on the 
date set opposite their signatures. Pitas 


(Signatures and witnesses omitted: 
; 4 eae 


Office Supreme Cuurt, U.S. 


Lisi eee tee yt 
No: 694 | JAN 15 1954 
— ‘IN THE ' TOHN F. DAVIS, CLERK 


Supreme Court of the United States 
OCTOBER ae, 1963 


Sen 


HUNT OIL COMPANY and BODCAW COMPANY, 


Petitioners, 
vs. 
MARATHON OIL COMPANY, ET AL., 
e ; Respondents. 


On Petition for a Writ of Certiorari to the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ~ 


4 


BRIEF FOR MARATHON OIL COMPANY, 
RESPONDENT, !N OPPOSITION _ 


ts 
‘« 


ARTHUR O’QUIN 

ROBERT ROBERTS, JR. 

C. FORD CURRIER  — 

First National Bank Building 
Shreveport, Louisiana - . 


Attorneys for Marathon Oil 
Company, Respondent 


CLAYTON L. ORN 
CALVIN A. BROWN - 

* JOSEPH F. DIVER vale oe 
539 South Main Street, ~ a 

Findlay, Ohio. — 
Of Counsel. te 
Shreveport, Louisiana, January 13, 1964. 


+, = LECOMTE. SHREVEPORT. LOUISIANA 


‘IN THE 


orn Court of the Cinited States 
‘ OCTOBER TERM, 1963 


ooo 


No. 694 


HUNT OIL COMPANY and BOUDCAW COMPANY, 


Petitioners, 
vs. 
snes salah ata OIL’ COMPANY, ET AL., 
Respondents. 


On Petition for a Writ of Certiorari.to the - 
United States Court of Appcals for the Fifth Circuit 


= 


BRIEF FOR MARATHON OIL COMPANY, 
RESPONDENT, IN OPPOSITION 


MAY IT PLEASE THE COURT: 

The petitioners, Hunt Oil Company and Bodcaw- 
Company, here seek review of a judgment of -the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit on writ 
of certiorari. Their petition is based on the premise that 
the Court of Appeals “has decided an important state. .. 
question in 4 Way in conflict with applicable state... 
law." In point of fact, however, the question decided 


* 


(1) Rule 19 1 (b). Revised Rules of the Supreme Court of 
the United States. 


2. 


Was not, in the sense of the Rules. of this Court, important 
neither was the question decided in conflict ical any law 
of the State of Louisiana. 


QU a PRESE? NTED 


s 


This case presents purely a question of interpre- 
tation of ‘the Cotton Valley Unitization and Pressure 
Maintenance Agreement (the “Agreement”, the question 
being whether. or ‘not the Agreement by its provisions 
automatically extended the unitized “D® Sand Participat- 
ing Area to include the separate North “D" Sand Pool. 


STATEMENT 


The Agreement defined an area termed the “ ‘D’ 
_ Sand Participating Area” by reference to a map annexed 
thereto and a particular description of the Area’in gov- 
ernmental subdiv’sions, also annexed thereto.‘2' - The 
Agreement then un:tized for cycling and production pur- 
poses the “D” Sand Participating Area, which was com- 
prised of the lands underlain by the “D” Sand reservoir. ‘3’ 
This -reservoir had been discovered prior to 19404) and 
gas and liquid hydrocarbons have been produced from it 
ever since. 


(2) Definitions, Cotton Valley Agreement, Petitioners’ Ap- 
- pendix, p. 86. ° 


(3) Finding of Fact No. 3(a), Pet, p., 22: 205 F. Supp. 
885 at p. 887. 


(4) Finding of Fact No. 6(#), Pet. App.. p. 25: 205 F. Supp. 
885 at PP. S88, 889 ° 


3 


Petitioners Hunt Oi] Company and per ree Com- 


pany contended the Agreement meant, @nd that the’ 
parties to the Agreement intended, that the “D” Sand 
Participating Area should be extended to include the 
lands overlying another reservoir-*the North “D” Sand 
Pool) discovered in 1953 and completely separated from 
the old reservoir by an iene barrier of shale and 
siltstone over a mile wide.‘*' © The District’ Court found 
from an examination of the Agreement ‘®’ “that the parties 
did not contemplate the pessibility of . . . the ‘D’ Sand 
Participating Area under the jetsam including more 


than one hydrocarbon pool or ‘reservoir . . 


.”, and also 


found,‘”’ among other things, that the Agreement had 
been construed by the parties to provide for the enlarge- 
ment of any Participating Area “to include only lands 
- containing pressure connected parts of the same hydro- 
carbon. pool or reservoir as was included in the Participat- . 
ing Area under enlargement”, further stating: “This 
construction is binding upor the parties”.:* 


These findings were entered by the District Court 


after careful consideration of the evidence of fourteen 
witnesses, adduced during a trial occupying three days, 
relative to the factual background of the Agreement and 


(5) 


.Finding of Fact No. 4, Pet. App..’p. 24; 205 F. Supp. 


885 at p. B88. 

Finding of Fact No. 6(d), Pet. App.. p..29; 205 F. Supp. 
885 at p. 890. 

Finding of Fact No. 6(f). Pet. jes pp. 30, 31: 205 P. 
Supp. 885 at p. &91. . 
Article 1956, Civil Code of Louisiana, cited in Pet. App.. 
p: 5. : . ; 


4 

ee 
the manner in which it had been applied during -the 
twenty’ years during Which extensive and important bus- 
iness arrangements had been carried out under its pro- 


visions. Road ° 


The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifta, 
Circuit approved and adopted by reference the findings 
and. conclusions ef the District Comt. ‘> 


ARGUMENT 


From the toregoing it appears that petitioners are 


_ actuaily asking this Court to review the lower court’s 


decision on a question of fact. In an attempt to. render 
‘this less obv ious, however, and to bring their petition for 
- review on certiorari Within the categories outlined in 
. Rule 19 of the Rules of this Court, petitianers urge that 
the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in Texaco, 
die. v. Vermillion. Parish School Board\'® sets up a rule 
of state law govern ag alf contracts concerning unitization 
of vil, gas and other hydrocarbons ‘whatever the’ pro- 
visions of such contracts): that is; that all field unitization 
contracts, in oxder to avoid absurd and inequitable con- 
sequences, shoutd include’ all later discovered reservoirs, 
ard that the Court of Appeai- has failed to apply this rule 
to the present case. | 


(9 Opinion of Court of-Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Pet. 
App., p. 37; 321 F..2d 702. 


(10) 152 So. 2d 541, 244 La. 408. 


- ; ee a . 
, | e 


y 


The Geintion Decided In The Present Case Was 
Not Decided In The Texaco ‘Case. ~*~ 


"The Louisiana eis Court Did Not 
- Pass on the Question of the Unitization 
of the Subsequently iosovened Sand. 


The Texaco case, as submitted to the state District 
Court, involved two principal questions, (1) whether the 
disputed School Board Sand was unitized as a part of - 
the Unit Area created by. the Erath Agreements and (2) 


“if so, the basis of participation of al] parties to the. Erath 


Agreements in production from that Sand. It is ‘only 
the first of these questions which is analagous to the 
question argued in the present case, namely, whether the 
“D” Sand . articipating Area establishedgby the Cotton 
Valley Agreement was enlargéd under the terms of the 
Agreement to inciude the subsequently discovered North 
“D” Sand Pool. - . . 


The opinion and findings of the staie trial court, 
in the Texacu case, are quoted in full in the opinion of 
‘the Court of Appea!; and on the question of the inclusion 
of the Schoo} Board Sand in the Erath Unit Area, the trial 
court held: 


“*). The School Bocrd Sand as defined hereinabove 
is covered by the Erath Agreements, as amended, 
as are all sands helow 8000 feet located beneath’ 


_—-wo-thenit Area ax delineated by said agréements and 


containing “* unitized substances” defined in Article 
‘Ttb) of said Erath Agreements, whether or-not said 
sands and reservoirs were known’ or unknown at 
the time of the confection of such agreements."'') 


(11) Pet. App.. p56: 145 So. 2d 383 at p.. 391. ’ 


6 


This finding of the state District Court was: ap- 


proved and affirmed, sub silentio, by the state Court of 
Appeal; for its’ entire opinion is devoted to the question 
of the proper, division of the production from the School 
Board Sand among the parties to the’Erath Agreements. 


And the question of whether the Schoo! Board Sand 
was unitized by the Erath Agreements - was. not before 
the Louisiana Supreme Court at all. For in its order 
‘granting review of the.decision and judgment of the Court 
of Appeal it is provided: =» | = 


_ 


“* * * Writs were granted, limited to a review of *>, 
. ¥ 


these two questions: 

“1. Whether royalties from the School Board ° 
Sand should be paid 
“‘a. On the basis of a recalculation of the equity 

of each tract in the whole Erath Unit, or 


““b. On the basis of a calculation of the percent-. 
age of equity of each tfact shown on Plaintiff's 
Exhibit P-B to be lying in the Unit Area North of 
the fault line. i > 


“"2. Whether the percentage of equity in all 
sands and resérvoirs containing unitized substance: 
not known and determined to be productive in June, - 
1944, which my hereafter be- placed on produc- | 
tion, are to be calculated according to judgment to 
be rendered herein.’ * a — oe 

It inevitably follows, therefore, that the Louisiana 
Supreme Cour t's decision in the Tewace case did not inter- 
pret the Erath Agreements as to.whether or not. thev 
unitized the school Board Sand. And, as we shall now 
demonstrate, the arlagou- question arising under the 


(12) Pet. App., p. 72: 152 So. 2d 541 at p. 544@244 La 408 
at p. 448. . 


. 


“™. 


¥. 
Cotton Valley Agreement was the only question passed 
on here. ' or : - 


The Only Question Passed on in this Case was 
Whether or Not tie Subsequently Discovered 
Reservoir was t nitized by the Cotton Valley 
Agreement. : 


It is, of course, obvious that the Federal courts in 
this case were interpreting and applying the Cotten Valley 
Agreement and the Louisiana courts, in the Texaco case, 
‘the Erath Agreements. The very considerable difference 
between the two, in respect of the question of extension 
to a newly discovered’ reservoir, may be judged from the 
relevant, portions of the two contracts. (13) 


The petitioners’ suit depends entirely upon their 
assertion that the North “D" Sand Pool, under, provisions 
of the Agreement, fe re a part of the “D’’ Sand Par- 
ticipatiny Area established -by the Agreemen., in Which 


--© ‘ 


they had. interests, 


Petitioners urged in the Uistri-t "Court, and they 
flatiy ussert here. thad the words of the Agreement were 
‘clear and explicit and led to their interpretation: But the? 
District Court (Finding 5, Pet? App. p. 24 found to the 
gontrary aid (Finding 6, Pet. App. pp. 2o-61* carefully 
documented its decision. It gave eight reasons for its- 
interpretation of the Agreement and only one of. these 


(ity Cf. discussion of provisions of Erath Avreements and 
quotations therefrom by state Distriet Court (Pet. App.. 
pp. 46.47) and Articies Land IV of Cotton Valley Agre o- 
ment’ (Pet. App.. p. 88 and pp. 91-95). A-reference to 
the United States District Court’: Findings 5 and 6, 
Pet. App.. pp. 24, 25, 205 F Supp. 885, pp. R&&-R92, wil! 
indicate the fare and attention it vave to the interpre- 
tation ef Article IV of the Agreement. - : 


¢ 


at he See gee Ke : 
\ iF inding Gigig Pet: App. p. 31) was that the petitioners’ 
interpretation would.led@ to an inequitabie -result. 

a It thus appears: (1) The “pesult of this suit de- 
jiended entirely. _upon the interpretation of the eae 
by the United States Courts; (2) the’ Louisiana trial court, 
with the silent sipprov al of the Louisiana’ Court of Appeal, 
qilecided in the Texaco case that the different Erath Agree-_ : 
“ments meéant sometiting else in the. analagous situation, 
and (3) this decision Was not rev iewed by the Louisiana 


; ss ee ‘Court. , " - 
% eae As 
| CONCLUSION’, “> 
;.. For the foregoing reasons, the petition for ‘writ 


of certiorari should be denied. | 
Respectfully submitted, 
ARTHUR O’QUIN ~~ 


eee ROBERT ROBERTS, JR, “ 

: a2 Feral Fad AO ila 8 

ee : °C. FORD CURRIER oe 
. * First National Bank Building 
a Shreveport, Louisiana 

@..___— Attorneys for’ Marathon Oil 
ar | __ Company, Respondent. 
~. CLAYTON L. ORN 
CALVIN A. BROWN ' ' ’ 


JOSEPH F. DIVER 
589 South Main Street, 
Fendlay, Ohio. 

_ Of Counsel. 


_ Shreveport, Louisiana, Janufary 13, 1964..~ 


© 


“% PROOF. OF SERVICE * , 


IC. FORD CURRIER, ane oy the attorneys for 
Marathon Oi] Company,.a respondent herein, and a mem-" 
‘ “ber of the. Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States, 


hereby, certify: that on the <s22 day of. Januury, 1964, 


! served copies of the foregoing Brief in Opposition to 
Petition for a Writ of Certiorari,.on the several parties 


to this. action by mailing copies.of said document, each in: 


a duly addressed en velope, with first class postage. prepaid, 
to the respective attorneys of record for said parties, all 
of whom reside within ov) miles from. Shreveport, Louisi- 


ana, as fol lows: 6: 


aT 


jf . . 
See OU ompany and Bodcaw Company through 
one attorneys ef record, namely: 
Joseph C> LeSage, Jr., 
304 Johnson Building, 


Shreveport, Louisiana. zo ss 
. : ' ans od 
J. Ralph Goff, °° 5a 
Masonic Building, 

° Areddia, Louisiana: 
James D. Heldt, sir, 


1300 Mergantile Dallas Building, 
Dallas, Tevas. 


Marlin Risinger, Jr., 
110] Beck Building, 
. Shyeveport, Louisiana ° 


2. A. J “Hedges Industries, Jnc., General American: * 
Oil Company of Texas, Mrs. Tom J. Moffett and 


. * . 
° * 


aan ; 


Mrs. Betty M. Harvin, ‘Individually and -as 
Watural Tutrix, through their attorneys of re 
cord, ene: 


Dav id E. Smitherman, 
717 Commercial National Bank Building, 
oi taba Lowisiana. 


‘Stuart D. Lunn, . ~~ 
717 Commercial National Bank Building, © 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 


_M. H. Marr, R. ‘&. Bristol and Manion Jean 
Bristol Wakefield throwdy their attorney of 


Sumter C vusin, 
-P. O. Box 1467, - 
Shreveport, Louisiana. — 


recard,snamely : | \ Mey 


. Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc., through their 
_ attorney of record, namely: 


A. Dixodn Carroll, 

-P. O. Box 1726, 

Gidéens-Lane Building, _ a 
Shreveport, Louisiana. i. 


. William H. Cook, Fred Simon,.Mrs. Louise Weiss 
‘Bronner, Mrs. Barbara Ann Weiss Simon,, and 
Mrs. Natalie H. Weiss -through their attorneys 
of record, namely: 


William H. Cook, 
P. O. Box 646, 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 


‘ 


s’ Robert McL. Jeter, 


‘i 7 | P.O. Box 646; ; } 


> Louisiana. 


6. F. H. Brown and P. Ge LaGenise through t their 
attorney of record, namely 


-J.C. Smith, oS ; 
Commercial National Bank Building, - 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 

7. Mrs. Marie Amiss Smith and Mrs. Marilyn E; 
Watkins Baucum through their attorney of re- 
cord, namely: 


» James G: Cowles, °° 
P. Q, Box 1135, : 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 


\ 
\ 
s 


: This cerfificate and proof. of service is made pur- 
suant to Rule 33 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of 


. the United States. 


“C FORD CURRIER» 


