-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Sh9sIqtESkYRwIacH1Pw2aA1CIHwDK5DqBfXaJoMx/bJOlXanXPb3nTy5/G3xAzM
 dTtIU9oP0fW9TF7L8OI5cQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950130-99-000948.txt : 19990224
<SEC-HEADER>0000950130-99-000948.hdr.sgml : 19990224
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950130-99-000948
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981130
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FINANCE SERVICES [6199]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		99547440

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127614000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		STREET 2:		38TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1998
                        Commission File Number 1-11758
                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
               Delaware                              36-3145972
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
             1585 Broadway                               10036
            New York, N.Y.                           (Zip Code)
    (Address of principal executive
               offices)
 
      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                               on which registered
        -------------------                             -----------------------
   <S>                                                  <C>
   Common Stock, $.01 par value                         New York Stock Exchange
                                                        Pacific Exchange
   Rights to Purchase Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock                                     New York Stock Exchange
                                                        Pacific Exchange
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/4 of a share
    of 7 3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, $200 stated
    value                                               New York Stock Exchange
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/4 of a share
    of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, $200 stated value                  New York Stock Exchange
   7.82% Capital Units; 7.80% Capital Units; 9.00%
    Capital Units; 8.40% Capital Units; 8.20% Capital
    Units; 8.03% Capital Units/1/                       New York Stock Exchange
   6% PERQSSM Due February 16, 1999; 10% PERQS Due
    April 15, 1999; 6% Reset PERQS Due May 15, 2000/2/  American Stock Exchange
   Exchangeable Notes Due September 30, 2000;
    Exchangeable Notes Due July 31, 2003; Exchangeable
    Notes Due December 30, 2005; Exchangeable Notes
    Due August 15, 2006/3/                              New York Stock Exchange
   Exchangeable Notes Due July 29, 2005 (two
    issuances); Exchangeable Notes Due April 15,
    2005/3/                                             American Stock Exchange
   PEEQSSM Due May 1, 2001/4/                           American Stock Exchange
   3% CPSSM Due August 8, 2000; 3% CPS Due May 17,
    2000/5/                                             American Stock Exchange
   Nikkei 225 Protection Step-Up Exchangeable Notes
    Due July 31, 2003                                   New York Stock Exchange
   Dow Jones Industrial Average BRIDGESSM Due April
    30, 2004; Standard & Poor's 500 BRIDGES Due
    December 31, 2003; Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 BRIDGES
    Due July 30, 2004/6/                                New York Stock Exchange
   5 5/8% Notes Due January 20, 2004                    New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>
- -------
/1/ Each Capital Unit consists of (a) a Subordinated Debenture (of the same
    rate) of Morgan Stanley Finance plc guaranteed by the Registrant and (b) a
    related purchase contract of the Registrant requiring the holder to
    purchase one Depositary Share representing shares (or fractional shares) of
    the Registrant's Cumulative Preferred Stock (of the same rate), $200 stated
    value. The Capital Units and the Depositary Shares are registered on the
    New York Stock Exchange.
/2/ "Performance Equity-linked Redemption Quarterly-pay Securities." The issue
    price and amount payable at maturity with respect to the PERQS are based on
    the share price of certain non-affiliated companies.
/3/ Notes which are exchangeable for equity securities of certain non-
    affiliated companies.
/4/ "Protected Exchangeable Equity-linked Securities." Principal protected
    notes that are exchangeable for cash based on the value of the S&P 500
    Index.
/5/ "Currency Protected Securities." Currency protected notes that pay at
    maturity equity securities of certain non-affiliated companies or the
    equivalent value in cash.
/6/ "BRoad InDex Guarded Equity-linked Securities." Principal protected notes
    that pay at maturity a cash amount based on the value of certain broad
    equity indices.
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X] NO [_]
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
  Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at January 19, 1999 was approximately $41,925,493,769. For purposes
of this information, the outstanding shares of common stock owned by (1)
directors and executive officers of the Registrant and (2) certain senior
officers of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Registrant who are
subject to certain restrictions on voting and disposition, were deemed to be
shares of common stock held by affiliates.
  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:
  As of January 19, 1999, there were 571,113,010 shares of Common Stock, $.01
par value, outstanding.
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
(1) Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders--
    Incorporated in part in Form 10-K, Parts I, II and IV.
(2) Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders--Incorporated in part in Form 10-K, Parts I and
    III.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
Item 1. BUSINESS
 
A. GENERAL
 
Background and Overview
 
  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Company"*) is a preeminent global
financial services firm that maintains leading market positions in each of its
three primary businesses--securities, asset management and credit and
transaction services.** The Company combines global strength in investment
banking (including the origination of underwritten public offerings and
mergers and acquisitions advice) and institutional sales and trading with
strength in providing investment and global asset management products and
services and, primarily through its Discover(R) Card brand, quality consumer
credit products.
 
  As of November 30, 1998, the Company had the second largest financial
advisor sales organization in the U.S., with 11,238 professional financial
advisors and 438 securities branch offices. The Company also had one of the
largest global asset management operations of any full-service securities
firm, with total assets under management and supervision of $376 billion. In
addition, based on its approximately 38 million general purpose credit card
accounts as of November 30, 1998, the Company was the nation's third largest
credit card issuer as measured by number of accounts, with the largest
proprietary merchant and cash access network in the U.S.
 
  The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides a wide range of financial
and securities services on a global basis and provides credit and transaction
services nationally. Its securities businesses ("Securities") include
securities underwriting, distribution and trading; merger, acquisition,
restructuring, real estate, project finance and other corporate finance
advisory activities; full-service brokerage services; research services; the
trading of foreign exchange and commodities, as well as derivatives on a broad
range of asset categories, rates and indices; and securities lending. The
Company's asset management businesses ("Asset Management") include providing
global asset management advice and services to individual and institutional
investors through a variety of product lines and brand names, including Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter Advisors (formerly known as Dean Witter InterCapital)
("MSDW Advisors"), Van Kampen Investments ("Van Kampen"), Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter Investment Management ("MSDW Investment Management") and Miller
Anderson & Sherrerd ("MAS"); and principal investment activities. The
Company's credit and transaction services businesses ("Credit Services")
include the issuance of the Discover Card and other proprietary general
purpose credit cards, the operation of the Discover/NOVUS(R) Network, a
proprietary network of merchant and cash access locations, and direct-marketed
activities such as the on-line securities services offered by Discover
Brokerage Direct Inc. ("Discover Brokerage"). The Company's products and
services are provided to a large and diversified group of clients and
customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and
individuals.
 
  The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in New York City,
its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S., and its principal
offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other financial centers throughout the
world. At November 30, 1998, the Company had 45,712 employees. None of the
Company's employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The
Company is a combination of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter
Discover") and Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") and was formed
- --------
*  Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" means Morgan
   Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
** Certain statements contained herein, including (without limitation) certain
   statements made under "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Report;
   "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
   Operations" incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7 of this Report
   ("MD&A"); and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk"
   incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7A of this Report, are forward-
   looking statements. The matters referred to in such statements could be
   affected by the risks and uncertainties involved in the Company's
   businesses, including (without limitation) the effect of economic and
   market conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates and currency
   values and equity and commodity prices, the actions undertaken by both
   current and potential new competitors, the impact of current, pending or
   future legislation and regulation both in the U.S. and throughout the
   world, the potential effects of technological changes such as the Year 2000
   computer code issue and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the MD&A
   and in "Competition and Regulation" under "Securities," "Asset Management"
   and "Credit and Transaction Services" herein.
<PAGE>
 
pursuant to a merger of equals that was effected on May 31, 1997 (the
"Merger"). The Company was originally incorporated under the laws of the State
of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924.
 
  The Company conducts its worldwide businesses through several highly
integrated subsidiaries and affiliates, which frequently participate together
in the facilitation and consummation of a single transaction. Because of the
increasing integration of the international financial markets, the Company
manages its principal operating subsidiaries on a coordinated global basis
with a view to the profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Financial
information concerning the Company for each of the three fiscal years ended
November 30, 1998, November 30, 1997 and November 30, 1996, including the
amount of total revenue contributed by classes of similar products or services
that accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenue in any
one of those periods and information with respect to the Company's operations
by geographic area, is set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements and
the Notes thereto in the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
  A discussion of the Company's preparations to address the potential effects
on its operations resulting from the Year 2000 computer code issue appears on
pages 43 through 45 of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
B. SECURITIES
 
Overview
 
  The Company is a leading global financial services firm which provides
financial services and advice to, and raises capital worldwide for, a diverse
group of domestic and international corporate and institutional clients
through Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (U.S.) ("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley &
Co. International Limited (U.K.), Morgan Stanley Japan Limited (Japan), Morgan
Stanley Asia Limited (non-Japan Asia) and other direct and indirect
subsidiaries. The Company also conducts sales and trading activities both as
principal and as agent on behalf of a wide range of domestic and international
institutional investors. The Company offers individual investors a broad range
of securities and savings products and services, primarily through Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. ("DWR"). The Company offers services on a global basis under the
brand name "Morgan Stanley Dean Witter."
 
Investment Banking
 
 Underwriting
 
  The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private
placements of debt, equity and other securities denominated in U.S. dollars
and other currencies in the U.S. and international capital markets. The
Company is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other
equity-related securities, including American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"),
Preferred Equity Redemption Cumulative Stock ("PERCS(R)"), Performance Equity-
linked Redemption Quarterly-pay Securities ("PERQS(SM)") and capital securities.
The Company also underwrites taxable fixed income securities and tax-exempt
securities, mortgage-related securities, including private pass-throughs and
collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), and other asset-backed
securities. The Company is active as an underwriter and distributor of
commercial paper and other short-term and medium-term securities. The Company
is also involved in tender offers, repurchase programs, consent solicitations,
rights offerings and exchange offers on behalf of clients.
 
 Financial Advisory Services
 
  The Company provides domestic and international corporate and institutional
clients with a wide range of advisory services on key strategic matters such
as mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, privatizations, defenses,
divestitures, spin-offs, restructurings, proxy mechanisms and leveraged
buyouts, as well as long-range financial
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
planning. Other services provided to clients include advice with respect to
recapitalizations, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposures and
financial risk management strategies. The Company also furnishes advice and
other services in connection with project financings, including
infrastructure, electric power and natural resource projects. In addition, the
Company provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale and
financing of real estate and lease transactions.
 
 Financing
 
  In connection with its investment banking activities, the Company from time
to time also provides financing or financing commitments to certain companies.
For example, the Company may provide extensions of credit to leveraged
companies in the form of senior or subordinated debt, as well as bridge
financing on a select basis. The Company also conducts senior lending
activities, including the origination and syndication of senior secured loans
of non-investment grade companies.
 
  A subsidiary of the Company also acts as general partner of Princes Gate
Investors II, L.P. ("Princes Gate"), a limited partnership with $1 billion in
aggregate investment capacity that was formed to invest in special situation
opportunities. Princes Gate generally makes minority equity and equity-related
investments which are short to medium-term in duration and which arise out of
the Company's worldwide investment banking activities.
 
Sales, Trading and Market-Making Activities
 
 Equity
 
  The Company's equity sales, trading and market-making activities cover
domestic and foreign equity and equity-related securities (both exchange
traded and over-the-counter ("OTC")), including ADRs, World Equity Benchmark
Shares ("WEBS(SM)") and restricted/control stock; convertible debt and preferred
securities, including PERCS(R), PERQS(SM) and warrants; equity index products,
equity swaps, options and other structured products; and international index
arbitrage, equity repurchases, and program and block trade execution. The
Company also engages in a variety of proprietary trading activities including
arbitrage transactions for its own account.
 
  The Company provides various equity financing services, including prime
brokerage, which offers consolidated clearance and settlement of securities
trades, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services. The Company acts
as principal and agent in stock borrowing and stock loan transactions in
support of its domestic and international trading and brokerage, asset
management and clearing activities, and as an intermediary between broker-
dealers.
 
 Fixed Income
 
  The Company distributes and trades domestic and international debt
securities, including preferred stock and corporate debt instruments (bonds,
medium-term notes and commercial paper), offers investment strategies to
institutional accounts, develops swap and other risk management strategies for
customers, and assists corporations in their repurchase of debt. In addition,
the Company trades a full range of money market and other short-term
instruments, including certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances,
floating-rate certificates of deposit and floating-rate notes. The Company is
an active dealer and market-maker in a broad range of long-term and short-term
tax exempt securities. The Company is also involved in structuring debt
securities with multiple risk/return factors designed to suit investor
objectives and repackaged asset vehicles ("RAVs") through which investors can
restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or recharacterize risk
profiles.
 
  MS&Co. is one of 30 primary dealers of U.S. government securities currently
recognized by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. As such, it is among the
firms with which the Federal Reserve conducts its open market operations and
is required to submit bids in Treasury auctions, make secondary markets in
U.S.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
government securities, provide the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with
market information and maintain certain capital standards. The Company is also
a member of a number of selling groups responsible for the distribution of
various issues of U.S. agency and other debt securities. As such, it is
required to make secondary markets in these securities and to provide market
information to the U.S. agency issuers. The Company is also a member of the
primary syndicate that issues German government bonds, a member of the
Japanese government bond syndicate and a primary dealer in Belgian, Canadian,
French, Italian and U.K. government bonds. The Company also makes secondary
markets in various foreign government bonds and corporate bonds issued in the
Eurobond market and in the U.S.
 
  The Company's daily trading inventory positions in government and agency
securities are financed substantially through the use of repurchase
agreements. The Company also borrows and lends fixed income securities. In
addition, the Company acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of
short-term funds utilizing repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. At
any given point in time, the Company may hold large positions in certain types
of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer,
sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular
country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing
countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry. In addition, a large
portion of the collateral held by the Company for reverse repurchase
agreements and bonds borrowed consists of securities issued by the U.S.
government, federal agencies or non-U.S. governments.
 
  The Company trades and distributes mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
securities. The Company makes markets and trades in Government National
Mortgage Association ("GNMA") securities, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
("FHLMC") participation certificates and Federal National Mortgage Association
("FNMA") obligations. The Company enters into commitments, such as forward
contracts, standby arrangements and OTC options contracts, for GNMA, FHLMC and
FNMA securities. The Company also acts as an underwriter of and market-maker
in mortgage-backed securities, CMOs and related instruments and a market-maker
in commercial, residential and real estate loan products. In this capacity,
the Company takes positions in market segments for which liquidity can vary
greatly from time to time.
 
  The Company also underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in high-
yield debt securities and emerging market loans and securitized instruments.
"High-yield" refers to companies or sovereigns whose debt is rated as non-
investment grade. Securities owned by the Company in connection with its high-
yield trading activities typically rank subordinate to bank debt of the issuer
and may rank subordinate to other debt of the issuer. The market for these
securities has been, and may in the future be, characterized by periods of
illiquidity. In addition, the Company, through its market-making and trading
activities, may be the sole or principal source of liquidity in certain issues
and, as a result, may substantially affect the prices at which such issues
trade. The Company also engages in trading senior loans of non-investment
grade companies. Such loans are generally made on a secured basis and are
senior to the non-investment grade securities of these issuers that trade in
the capital markets. To mitigate the potential impact on the Company's
operating results of the greater risks inherent in high-yield debt securities
and emerging market loans and securitized instruments, the Company monitors
and controls its total inventory positions in these securities and instruments
in a manner consistent with its overall risk management policies and
procedures. The Company also maintains credit policies designed to manage
exposures to individual high-yield issuers and emerging market counterparties.
 
 Foreign Exchange and Commodities
 
  The Company actively trades numerous foreign currencies on a spot and
forward basis with its customers, for its own account and to hedge its
securities positions or liabilities. In connection with its market-making
activities, the Company takes open positions in the foreign exchange market
for its own account. On a more limited basis, the Company also enters into
forward currency transactions both as agent and as principal. The Company is a
leading participant in currency futures trading at the International Monetary
Market division of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and is a leading dealer in
OTC and exchange-traded currency options on a worldwide basis.
 
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
  The Company also trades as principal in the spot, forward and futures
markets in a variety of commodities, including precious metals, base metals,
crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power and related energy
products. The Company is an active market-maker in swaps and OTC options on
commodities such as metals, crude oil, oil products, natural gas and
electricity, and offers a range of hedging programs relating to production,
consumption and reserve/inventory management. The Company is an electricity
power marketer in the U.S. and owns a majority equity interest in an exempt
wholesale generator from which the Company is the exclusive purchaser of
electric power.
 
 Derivatives
 
  The Company actively offers to clients and trades for its own account a
variety of financial instruments described as "derivative products" or
"derivatives." These products, some of which are complex in structure,
generally take the form of exchange-traded futures and options and OTC
forwards, options, swaps, caps, collars, floors, swap options and similar
instruments which derive their value from underlying interest rates, foreign
exchange rates or commodity or equity instruments and indices. All of the
Company's trading-related business units use derivative products as an
integral part of their respective trading strategies, and such products are
used extensively to manage the market exposure that results from proprietary
trading activities. In addition, as a dealer in certain derivative products
(most notably interest rate and currency swaps), the Company enters into
derivative contracts to meet a variety of risk management objectives and other
financial needs of its clients. Through a triple-A rated subsidiary of the
Company (Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.), the Company also enters
into swap and related derivative transactions with certain clients seeking a
triple-A rated counterparty.*
 
  Derivatives facilitate risk transfer and enhance liquidity in the
marketplace, and the origination and trading of derivatives are often utilized
to adjust risk profiles, such as exposure to interest rate or currency risk,
or to take proprietary trading positions. Widespread acceptance of derivatives
has contributed to the development of more complex OTC products structured for
particular clients to address specific financing and risk management needs.
Derivative transactions may have both on- and off-balance sheet implications,
depending on the nature of the contract. The Company's use of derivative
products may subject the Company to various risks, although in many cases
derivatives serve to reduce, rather than increase, the Company's exposure to
losses from market, credit and other risks. In times of market stress,
liquidity in certain derivatives positions, as well as in underlying cash
instruments, may be reduced. The Company manages the risks associated with
derivative products in a manner consistent with its overall risk management
policies. Exposure to changes in interest rates, foreign currencies and other
factors are managed on an individual product basis, generally through
offsetting or other positions in a variety of financial instruments and
derivative products. In addition, with respect to certain derivatives, the
Company has agreements with customers and counterparties that permit the
Company to close out positions or require additional (and, in many cases,
excess) collateral if certain events occur. In certain instances, the Company
may also limit the types of derivative products that may be traded in a
particular account. See also "Risk Management" incorporated by reference in
Part II, Item 7A of this Report.
 
 MSCI
 
  Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc. ("MSCI"), a majority-owned
subsidiary of the Company, markets and distributes over 3,500 country,
industry and regional equity and fixed income benchmark indices (including The
World, EAFE(R) and Emerging Market Free Indices) covering 51 countries, and
has a 29-year historical database that includes fundamental and valuation data
on over 5,500 companies in developed and emerging market countries. Investment
professionals around the world use MSCI data for purposes such as performance
measurement, security valuation and asset allocation.
 
- --------
*  For a detailed discussion of the Company's use of derivatives, see "MD&A --
   Derivative Financial Instruments" incorporated by reference in Part II,
   Item 7 of this Report and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note
   9" incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. In
   addition, the Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate and
   currency swaps) to assist in asset and liability management and to reduce
   borrowing costs. See also "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note
   6" incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 9 of this Report.
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
Securities Services to Individual Investors
 
 Financial Advisory Activities
 
  Principally through DWR, a full-service retail broker-dealer, the Company
offers clients a broad range of securities and investment products and
services that are supported by the Company's investment banking, research,
asset management, execution and operational resources. At November 30, 1998,
the Company had the second largest financial advisor sales organization in the
domestic securities industry, with 11,238 financial advisors located in 438
securities branch offices, providing investment services to more than 3.9
million client accounts having assets of $438 billion.
 
  The Company focuses on providing its clients with comprehensive financial
planning services, tailored to meet individual investment goals and risk
profiles. The Company believes that employing knowledgeable investment
professionals is a key factor in serving the individual investor and has
undertaken an aggressive campaign to grow and train its financial advisor
sales organization. Through retention of existing financial advisors and
extensive recruiting, the Company has increased its financial advisor sales
organization by over 40% over the past five years. Client assets have
increased by over 100% over the same five-year period.
 
  The Company provides execution, trading and research services to its
individual clients for listed equity securities, OTC equity securities,
options and ADRs. The Company also provides execution, trading and research
services to individual clients for a broad range of fixed income securities,
including U.S. government obligations, mortgage and other asset-backed
securities, corporate bonds, preferred stocks, municipal securities and
certificates of deposit. The Company's fixed income trading activity on behalf
of individual investors focuses primarily on establishing and maintaining
inventory based upon actual and anticipated orders from its clients, rather
than risk-oriented proprietary trading. In December 1998, the Company
implemented a strategy to pair its financial advisor sales force with its
institutional fixed income platform in order to provide mid-sized institutions
with greater access to the Company's comprehensive products and research
capabilities.
 
  The Company also provides its clients with an extensive array of investment
and credit products and services, including mutual funds, unit investment
trusts, insurance products, financial planning, retirement planning, personal
trust and estate planning, tax planning, credit management and account
services. One of the Company's products designed to help clients manage their
assets is the Active Assets Account(R) ("AAA Account"). Through the AAA
Account, clients can consolidate their financial assets into a single account,
invest funds in a wide variety of investment products and ensure that funds
are automatically invested daily, either in a money market account insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") or in one of four different
money market funds. In addition, the AAA Account offers dividend reinvestment,
check writing, direct deposit and electronic funds transfer and bill payment
services. The Company also offers its Internet technology service,
ClientServ(SM), to its AAA Account customers, which allows them to track their
accounts on-line, obtain research reports and real-time securities quotes,
create customized personal portfolio monitors and chart the performance of
various securities over time. Total client assets in AAA Accounts were $144.7
billion as of November 30, 1998.
 
  Clients planning for their retirement have access through the Company's IRA-
2000(R) Individual Retirement Account ("IRA-2000 Account") to a broad array of
investment choices. Total client assets in IRA-2000 Accounts were $80.3
billion as of November 30, 1998. The Company also provides individual
annuities and complete defined contribution plan services for businesses,
including 401(k) plans.
 
 Other Activities
 
  The Company provides investment consulting services that assist clients in
analyzing their investment objectives and in selecting investment advisory
services offered by unaffiliated investment advisors. Through its wholly-owned
insurance agency subsidiaries, the Company also acts as a national general
agency for leading insurance carriers to meet the insurance and annuity needs
of individual investors. The Company originates and
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
services a broad range of consumer loans secured by mortgages on residential
properties. The Company also offers trust and fiduciary services to both
individual and corporate clients, primarily trustee services for personal
trusts and tax-qualified retirement plans.
 
 Private Wealth Management
 
  The Company's Private Wealth Management group (formerly known as Private
Client Services) ("PWM") is a financial advisory group that provides solutions
to individuals, families and foundations who control significant pools of
wealth. PWM has offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia and provides access to
the Company's trading capabilities, fundamental research and analytical
products, as well as to its securities underwritings. PWM financial advisors
manage specific financial asset classes and provide tailored global asset
allocation strategies for its clients. PWM also offers private investors the
opportunity to co-invest with the Company in its principal investing
activities and specialized funds. Private banking services and other PWM
financial advisory services are provided to select international clients
through the Company's Swiss bank subsidiary, Bank Morgan Stanley AG.
 
 International Private Client Group
 
  Because of the strategic opportunities that the Company believes are
presented by the further development of an international individual securities
and asset management business, the International Private Client Group was
formed as a new business unit in December 1998. The International Private
Client Group will encompass all of the Company's international activities
relating to individual securities and asset management (including
international PWM activities) and electronic commerce businesses, as well as
future international expansion in such businesses. See also "ASSET
MANAGEMENT."
 
Research
 
  The Company's global research department ("Research"), comprised of
economists, industry analysts and strategists, is actively engaged in a wide
range of research activities. Research produces reports and studies on the
economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses and
industry developments. It analyzes worldwide trends covering a broad range of
industries and more than 2,000 individual companies, half of which are located
outside of the U.S. Research also provides analyses and forecasts relating to
economic and monetary developments affecting matters such as interest rates,
foreign currencies and securities and economic trends. Support for the sales
and trading of fixed income securities is also provided in the form of
quantitative and credit analyses and the development of research products that
are distributed to the Company's individual and institutional clients. Timely
data contained in Research's numerous publications, such as the Investment
Strategy Chartbook and The Competitive Edge, are disseminated to both
individual and institutional investors through a proprietary database
accessible via the Internet and through the Company's financial advisors. In
addition, Research provides analytical support and publishes reports on
mortgage-related securities and the markets in which they are traded and does
original research on valuation techniques.
 
Operations and Information Processing
 
  In its Securities business, the Company executes and clears all of its
transactions (delivery of securities sold, receipt of securities purchased and
transfer of related funds) through its own facilities and through memberships
in various clearing corporations. In order to minimize the risks of systems
failures, the Company maintains redundant processing systems.
 
Competition and Regulation
 
 Competition
 
  The Company encounters intense competition in all aspects of its Securities
business and competes worldwide directly with other firms, a number of which
may have greater capital and other resources. The
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
Company and its competitors employ advertising and direct solicitation of
potential customers as methods of increasing business, and many of the
Company's competitors engage in more extensive advertising programs than does
the Company. Among the principal competitive factors affecting the Company's
Securities business are the Company's general reputation, the overall quality
of its professionals and other personnel, its ability to maintain existing
client relationships and develop new ones, the relative prices of services and
products offered and its capability in originating and marketing innovative
products and services. Moreover, the Company's ability to access capital at
competitive rates (which is generally dependent on the Company's credit
ratings) and to commit capital efficiently are important competitive factors,
particularly for its capital-intensive investment banking and sales, trading
and market-making activities.
 
  In addition to competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial
services business, there has been increasing competition in recent years from
other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, on-line service
providers, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies offering financial
services both in the U.S. and globally. As a result of recent and pending
legislative and regulatory initiatives in the U.S. to remove or relax certain
restrictions on commercial banks, competition in some markets which have
traditionally been dominated by investment banks and retail securities firms
has increased and is likely to increase in the future. In addition, recent
convergence and consolidation in the financial services industry has led to
increased competition from larger diversified financial services
organizations. Increased competition affects, among other things, the
Company's ability to attract and retain highly skilled individuals. The
complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and
globalization also present technological, risk management and other
infrastructure challenges that will require effective resource allocation in
order for the Company to remain competitive.
 
 Regulation
 
  The Company's Securities business is, and the securities, commodities and
financial services industries generally are, subject to extensive regulation
in the U.S., at both the federal and state levels, as well as internationally.
The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the various regulatory
bodies that are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and
other financial markets and with protecting the interests of customers
participating in those markets.
 
  MS&Co., DWR and certain other subsidiaries of the Company are broker-
dealers. MS&Co. and DWR are registered as broker-dealers with the Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico, and are members of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Broker-
dealers are subject to regulation by securities administrators in those states
in which they conduct business. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations
that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading
practices, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital
structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and
employees. The SEC, other governmental regulatory authorities, including state
securities commissions, and self-regulatory organizations may institute
administrative proceedings against broker-dealers or members, which could
result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the
suspension or expulsion of such broker-dealer or member or its officers or
employees, or other similar consequences. Occasionally, the Company's
subsidiaries have been subject to investigations, other proceedings and fines
relating to infractions of various regulations relating to their activities as
broker-dealers, none of which, to date, has had a material adverse effect on
the Company or its business.
 
  New legislation or regulations, including any relating to the activities of
affiliates of broker-dealers, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC or other
governmental regulatory or self-regulatory authorities (such as changes to the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code and related regulations or rules promulgated by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board) or changes in the interpretation or
enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may directly affect the manner
of operation and profitability of the Company.
 
  The Company's U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, including MS&Co. and DWR, are
members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides, in
the event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer,
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
protection for customer accounts held by the firm of up to $500,000 for each
customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000 for claims for cash balances.
Margin lending by certain subsidiaries is subject to the margin rules of the
Federal Reserve Board that restrict the amount they may lend in connection
with certain purchases of securities by customers, and such subsidiaries are
also required by NYSE rules to impose maintenance requirements on the amount
of securities contained in margin accounts. These rules augment the Company's
margin policies, which in many cases are more stringent.
 
  As broker-dealers, MS&Co. and DWR are subject to the SEC's temporary risk
assessment rules which require, among other things, that a broker-dealer
maintain and preserve certain information, describe risk management policies
and procedures and report on the financial condition of certain affiliates
whose financial activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on
the financial and operational condition of the broker-dealer.
 
  As futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and DWR are registered with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), and their activities in the
futures and options-on-futures markets are subject to regulation by the CFTC
and various domestic boards of trade and other commodity exchanges. Certain
subsidiaries of the Company are registered as commodity trading advisers
and/or commodity pool operators with the CFTC. The Company's futures and
options-on-futures business is also regulated by the National Futures
Association, a not-for-profit membership corporation that has been designated
a registered futures association by the CFTC and of which MS&Co. and DWR are
members.
 
  With respect to OTC derivatives, the Company is a member of the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association ("ISDA"), the Group of 30 and
the Derivatives Policy Group, a group of securities firms formed at the
request of the SEC and CFTC to address concerns regarding the OTC derivatives
activities of U.S. broker-dealer affiliates not subject to direct regulatory
oversight. The Derivatives Policy Group has agreed to adhere to a voluntary
oversight framework relating to reporting, capital, management controls and
counterparty relationships.
 
  Certain of the Company's government securities activities are conducted
through Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc., which is a member of the NASD and
is registered as a government securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in
certain states. The Department of the Treasury has promulgated regulations
concerning, among other things, capital adequacy, custody and use of
government securities and transfers and control of government securities
subject to repurchase transactions. The rules of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by the NASD, govern the municipal
securities activities of the Company.
 
  The Company's Securities business is also subject to extensive regulation by
various non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, central banks and
regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company
maintains an office. For example, the Company's Securities business in the
U.K. is regulated by the Securities and Futures Authority and a number of
exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange; The Deutsche Bundesbank, the
Bundesaufsichtsamt fur das Kreditwesen (the Federal Banking Supervisory
Authority), the Bundesaufsichtsamt fur den Wertpapierhandel (the Federal
Supervisory Authority for Securities Trading), Eurex Deutschland and the
Deutsche Borse AG regulate the Company's activities in the Federal Republic of
Germany; the Company's Securities business in Japan is subject to Japanese law
applicable to foreign securities firms and related regulations of the Japanese
Ministry of Finance and to the rules of the Bank of Japan, the Japanese
Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures
exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange
and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange; the Monetary Authority
of Singapore and the Singapore International Monetary Exchange Ltd. regulate
the Company's business in Singapore; and the Company's Securities operations
in Hong Kong are regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission, The Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. and the Hong Kong Futures Exchange Ltd.
 
  As registered broker-dealers and member firms of the NYSE, certain
subsidiaries of the Company, including MS&Co. and DWR, are subject to the
SEC's net capital rule, and as futures commission merchants, MS&Co.
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
and DWR are subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and various
commodity exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory
authorities also either have imposed or are imposing rules relating to capital
requirements that apply to subsidiaries of the Company (such as rules that
have been promulgated in connection with the European Union Capital Adequacy
Directive), including certain European subsidiaries that are considered
banking organizations under local law. These rules, which specify minimum
capital requirements, are designed to measure general financial integrity and
liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of assets be kept in
relatively liquid form. Compliance with the capital requirements may limit
those operations of the Company that require the intensive use of capital,
such as underwriting, principal investing and trading activities, and the
financing of customer account balances. Such requirements also restrict the
Company's ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries, which in turn may
limit the Company's ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase
shares of its outstanding capital stock. A change in such rules or the
imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount
of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually
large charge against capital, could adversely affect the ability of the
Company to pay dividends or to expand or even maintain its present levels of
business.
 
C. ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
  The Company manages a wide range of asset management products for individual
investors, primarily through MSDW Advisors and Van Kampen, and provides global
portfolio management to a wide range of institutional investors through MSDW
Investment Management. The Company also sponsors, acts as general partner for
and invests in several limited partnerships that conduct a variety of
activities broadly described as principal investing.
 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors
 
  MSDW Advisors develops, markets and manages a broad spectrum of proprietary
open- and closed-end mutual funds and provides professional money management
services on a customized basis to affluent individuals, institutional
investors and retirement plan sponsors. MSDW Advisors assets include equities,
taxable and tax-exempt fixed income securities and money market instruments.
At November 30, 1998, there were 138 funds and portfolios with assets of
approximately $121 billion for which MSDW Advisors, through Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter Services Company Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
served in various investment management and administrative capacities.
 
  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributors Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Company and a registered broker-dealer ("MSDW Distributors"), distributes
shares of MSDW Advisors products that are open-end investment companies. MSDW
Distributors has entered into agreements with DWR and other selected dealers
for the marketing and distribution of such products. DWR, its affiliates and
other selected dealers are compensated for their distribution-related expenses
through contingent deferred sales charges, front-end sales charges and fees
authorized pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment
Company Act of 1940.
 
Van Kampen Investments
 
  Van Kampen operates a family of open- and closed-end mutual funds for
individual and institutional shareholders, and markets and provides ongoing
evaluation and credit surveillance for fixed income and equity unit investment
trusts ("UITs"). Sponsored fund assets cover a broad range of taxable and tax-
exempt domestic and international products. Sponsored UITs include portfolios
of nationally diversified and single-state insured and uninsured municipal
securities and, depending on market demand, also include portfolios of
government securities, insured and uninsured corporate debt securities, global
fixed income securities and equity securities. At November 30, 1998, Van
Kampen had more than 50 open-end funds and 39 closed-end funds and 2,500
series of UITs, and Van Kampen and its affiliates managed, administered or
supervised approximately $72 billion in assets.
 
 
                                      10
<PAGE>
 
  Van Kampen distributes its investment products through a large and
diversified network of unaffiliated national and regional broker-dealers,
commercial banks and thrifts, insurance companies and their affiliated broker-
dealers and financial planners ("retail distribution firms"), as well as the
Company's financial advisors. A relatively small number of retail distribution
firms account for a substantial portion of sales of Van Kampen's products, and
Van Kampen has proprietary and preferred distribution relationships with
several of its unaffiliated retail distribution firms.
 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management
 
  MSDW Investment Management, through its various advisory entities, including
MAS, primarily manages financial assets for institutions around the world,
including pension funds, corporations, non-profit organizations and
governmental agencies. MSDW Investment Management offers product lines
covering a full range of equity, fixed income and alternative investments in
developed and emerging markets, and a variety of investment styles including
value, growth and blended; active and passive management; and diversified and
concentrated portfolios. Products are available through separate account
management, pooled vehicles, U.S. and non-U.S. mutual funds and variable
annuities. A broad range of fiduciary and named fiduciary services for pension
funds and trusts is also available through MSDW Investment Management.
 
  At November 30, 1998, MSDW Investment Management had assets under management
or supervision of approximately $157 billion, including approximately $45
billion related to international products. Approximately $54 billion of these
assets related to mutual funds and approximately $103 billion related to
separate accounts, pooled vehicles and other arrangements.
 
  The Company distributes certain domestic and international investment
products advised or sub-advised by MSDW Investment Management through the
distribution networks of MSDW Advisors and Van Kampen.
 
Principal Investing
 
  The Company's principal investing activities include, among other things,
making commitments to purchase, and making negotiated investments in, equity
and debt securities in merger, acquisition, restructuring, private investment
and leveraged capital transactions. Such activities also include venture
capital investments and investments in real estate assets, portfolios and
operating companies. Such activities are generally conducted through private
investment funds in which the Company acts as general partner and clients of
the Company are limited partners. The Company typically contributes a minority
of the capital of the private investment funds, and clients of the Company
contribute the remaining capital. The Company also typically receives
management fees for operating the private investment funds, as well as a share
of the profits of the funds when investment performance criteria have been
met.
 
  Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, L.P. ("MSCP III") was formed in 1994
with $1.9 billion in capital commitments to invest in private equity or
equity-related securities of operating and financial services companies. As of
November 30, 1998, MSCP III, and its predecessor funds (which are only making
follow-on investments), had $1.2 billion of cost basis in their portfolios
related to 38 companies in a wide range of industries.
 
  Morgan Stanley Venture Partners III, L.P. ("MSVP III") was formed in 1996
with $275 million in capital commitments to invest in private equity and
equity-related securities of emerging growth companies, in the healthcare and
information technology sectors based primarily in the U.S. As of November 30,
1998, MSVP III, and its predecessor funds (which are no longer making new
investments), had $208 million of cost basis in their portfolios related to 34
companies.
 
  Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets Private Investment Fund, L.P.
("MSGEM") was formed in 1997 with approximately $330 million in capital
commitments to invest in private equity or equity-related securities of
emerging markets companies. As of November 30, 1998, MSGEM had $32 million of
cost basis in its portfolio related to two emerging markets companies.
 
 
                                      11
<PAGE>
 
  The Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund III, L.P. ("MSREF III") was formed in
1997 and currently has approximately $2.1 billion in capital commitments to
invest in real estate assets. As of November 30, 1998, MSREF III and its
predecessor funds (which are no longer making new investments), had $2.1
billion of cost basis in real estate assets in their portfolios relating to 52
investments.
 
  Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations Investment Program ("Special
Situations") was created in 1997 as a series of separate accounts managed by
MSDW Investment Management with $375 million in capital commitments to invest
in private equity or equity-related securities of real estate companies
(primarily real estate investment trusts). As of November 30, 1998, Special
Situations had $298 million of cost basis in its portfolios related to 14 real
estate companies.
 
  From time to time, the Company expects to sponsor additional private
investment funds and commit to invest in such funds.
 
  Equity securities purchased in principal investment transactions generally
are held for appreciation, are not readily marketable and do not provide
dividend income. It is not possible to determine whether, when or if the
Company will realize the value of the investments, including any appreciation,
dividends or other distributions thereon, since, among other things, such
investments are generally subject to restrictions on such realization relating
to the circumstances of particular transactions. Moreover, estimates of the
eventual realizable value of the investments fluctuate significantly over time
in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or
in relation to specific transactions or other factors, including the financial
leverage involved in the underlying transactions.
 
  The Company may also underwrite, trade, invest and make markets in, and
publish research with respect to, the securities and senior loans of issuers
in which the Company or the private investment funds have an investment. Such
securities may include equity and high-yield debt securities of such issuers.
In addition, the Company may provide financial advisory services to and have
securities and commodity trading relationships with these issuers. From time
to time, the Company may provide loans, financing commitments or other
extensions of credit, including on a subordinated and interim basis, to
companies (which may otherwise be leveraged) associated with its principal
investment activities.
 
Competition and Regulation
 
 Competition
 
  The Company's Asset Management business competes in the highly competitive
investment management industry, in which approximately 7,336 open-end
investment management companies held over $5.4 trillion in assets as of
November 30, 1998. Competition in the sale of mutual funds is affected by a
number of factors, including investment objectives and performance,
advertising and sales promotion efforts, level of fees, distribution channels
and types and quality of services offered. In addition to fund products
offered by other broker-dealers, the funds offered by the Company are in
competition with funds sold directly by investment management firms and
insurance companies, as well as with other investment alternatives sold by
such companies and by banks and other financial institutions. The Company's
private investment funds compete for investors and for investment
opportunities with other private investment funds, some of which are sponsored
by financial institutions. The Company's private investment funds also compete
for investment opportunities in specific industries with companies that
operate in such industries.
 
 Regulation
 
  The Company and certain subsidiaries, including MS&Co., DWR, and those
related to MSDW Advisors, Van Kampen and MSDW Investment Management, are
registered as investment advisers with the SEC and in certain states.
Virtually all aspects of the Company's investment advisory business are
subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations are primarily intended to benefit the investment
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
product holder and generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company
from carrying on its investment advisory business in the event that it fails
to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions which may be
imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees,
limitations on the Company's engaging in the investment advisory business for
specified periods of time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and
fines.
 
  The Company's Asset Management business is also subject to regulation
outside the U.S. For example, the Investment Management Regulatory
Organization Limited regulates the Company's business in the U.K.; the
Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Japan Securities Investment Advisors
Association regulates the Company's business in Japan; the Securities and
Exchange Board of India regulates the Company's business in India; and the
Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company's business in Singapore.
 
  By virtue of the Company's affiliation with the private investment funds
that own equity interests in companies that operate in certain regulated
industries (e.g., insurance or broadcasting), or that are subject to
regulation in non-U.S. jurisdictions, the Company could be subject to
additional regulation applicable to such industries or in such jurisdictions.
 
  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Trust FSB ("MSDWT"), a subsidiary of the Company
that provides trust, fiduciary and transfer agent services, is a federally
chartered savings bank and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") and by the
FDIC. MSDWT is also a registered transfer agent, subject to regulation and
examination in such capacity by the SEC. As a result of its ownership of
MSDWT, the Company is registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan
holding company ("SLHC") and subject to regulation and examination by the OTS
as a SLHC.
 
D. CREDIT AND TRANSACTION SERVICES
 
  As of November 30, 1998, the Company, through its Credit Services business,
was the third largest single issuer of general purpose credit cards in the
U.S. as measured by number of accounts. Credit Services' proprietary general
purpose credit card business is operated by the Company's Discover Financial
Services business unit, which also operates the Discover/NOVUS Network, the
Company's proprietary merchant and cash access network. The credit cards
offered by Discover Financial Services include the Discover Card, the Discover
Platinum Card ("Discover Platinum"), which was launched in December 1998, the
Private Issue(R) Card by Discover ("Private Issue"), and co-branded and
affinity cards.
 
Discover Financial Services
 
 Overview
 
  Discover Financial Services offers general purpose credit cards designed to
appeal to different market segments of consumers for use on the Discover/NOVUS
Network. The Discover/NOVUS Network is the largest independent credit card
network in the U.S., consisting of more than three million merchant and cash
access locations accepting credit cards carrying the Discover/NOVUS logo.
Discover Financial Services offers several brands of proprietary cards,
including the Discover Card, Discover Platinum, Private Issue, the Smithsonian
Card (an affinity program that allows cardmembers to support the Smithsonian
Institution) and the Universal Studios Card (a co-branded credit card that
allows cardmembers to earn entertainment rewards from Universal Studios).
 
  Discover Financial Services promotes its proprietary cards through the use
of different and distinctive features that are designed to appeal to different
consumer bases. The Discover Card offers the Cashback Bonus(R) award and no
annual fee. Discover Platinum is a premium credit card offering opportunities
to double Cashback Bonus awards, no annual fee, low balance transfer and
annual percentage rates, higher credit lines and advanced fraud protection for
on-line banking.
 
  Cardmembers use the Discover Card as well as other general purpose credit
cards issued by subsidiaries of the Company bearing the Discover/NOVUS logo to
purchase goods and services at participating merchant
 
                                      13
<PAGE>
 
locations and to obtain cash advances at merchant and bank locations and
automated teller machines or by writing checks drawn against their lines of
credit. Discover Financial Services also offers cardmembers various financial
services, including a revolving line of credit, credit insurance, and card
registration to protect against losses in connection with card theft or loss.
Discover, Discover Platinum and Private Issue cardmembers are also offered
money market deposit accounts and time deposits.
 
  Cardmembers receive account statements monthly and may elect to pay all or
part of the outstanding balance each month. The unpaid portion of the
outstanding balance is carried over to the next month, and finance charges are
assessed on the revolving balance. A late fee is charged if less than a
required minimum portion of the outstanding balance is paid each month.
Cardmembers are assessed other fees if their credit card use violates other
terms of the cardmember agreement. Discover Financial Services accrues
revenues through finance charges on cardmembers' revolving balances, the fees
paid by merchants to the Company for transactions effected through the
Discover/NOVUS Network, transaction fees paid by cardmembers for cash
advances, late payment fees, over-limit fees, fees for checks returned due to
insufficient funds, fees from providing product enhancements to cardmembers
(e.g., credit life insurance and card registration), merchant fees for
processing transactions on other networks, and proceeds from the sale of
point-of-sale terminals and related equipment to merchants.
 
  Pursuant to the Cashback Bonus award, the Company annually pays cardmembers
up to one percent (up to two percent for participating Private Issue
cardmembers, subject to a maximum of $500) of their purchase amounts based
upon their level of annual purchases. The Cashback Bonus award is remitted to
cardmembers in the form of a check or as a credit to their accounts in the
anniversary month of the account opening.
 
  Cardmembers enter into agreements governing the terms and conditions of
their accounts. Cardmember agreements for each type of card are generally
uniform from state to state. Most of the Company's proprietary general purpose
credit cards are issued by Greenwood Trust Company ("Greenwood Trust"), an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that is a state chartered bank
under the laws of the State of Delaware. Because of certain banking law
restrictions, most of the Company's proprietary general purpose credit cards
may be used only for personal and household (as opposed to commercial)
transactions.
 
 Merchants
 
  The Discover Card, Discover Platinum and Private Issue, as well as the
Company's other proprietary general purpose credit cards, are accepted only by
merchants who are members of the Discover/NOVUS Network. Since its
introduction in 1986, the Discover/NOVUS Network has expanded rapidly and
currently includes more than three million merchants across the U.S.
 
  Discover Financial Services operates both the issuing and acquiring
businesses and accordingly retains the entire merchant fee paid to the
Discover/NOVUS Network in a given transaction. Because of its independence
from the bankcard associations, Discover Financial Services has greater
flexibility than MasterCard or Visa participants in dealing with merchants.
The Company believes that this enables it to better maintain and expand its
merchant base by allowing it to provide customized programs in such areas as
processing arrangements and to otherwise tailor program terms to meet specific
merchant needs.
 
  Discover Financial Services employs its own national sales and support force
to increase and maintain its merchant base. In contrast, MasterCard's and
Visa's marketing efforts to merchants are generally indirect and rely largely
on the unaffiliated sales forces of participating acquiring banks and their
agents. In addition, the Company conducts telemarketing operations for the
purpose of acquiring merchant business.
 
 Marketing
 
  Discover Financial Services is distinguished from MasterCard and Visa card
issuers in that it directly controls the brand image, features, service level
and pricing of its cards to both cardmembers and merchants.
 
                                      14
<PAGE>
 
MasterCard and Visa issuers compete directly with other issuers using the same
brands and sharing common processes. The ability to control its products
provides Discover Financial Services with competitive advantages that are not
available to any single MasterCard or Visa issuer, including efficiencies in
operations, product positioning and marketing execution. Discover Financial
Services has the ability to direct and deliver a consistent, nationwide
message for the Discover Card and the Company's other general purpose
proprietary credit cards. Because the Company manages all aspects of both the
cardmember and merchant relationship, it can determine and promote its
advertising campaign and control the campaign's content, timing and
promotional features.
 
 Credit
 
  Credit reviews are conducted for all cardmembers in order to establish that
standards of ability and willingness to pay are met. Cardmember applications
are evaluated using a credit scoring system which utilizes the information
customers provide on their applications and credit bureau information to
establish creditworthiness. Applications not approved under the credit scoring
system may be selectively reviewed and approved by the Company's credit
analysts.
 
  Applicants receiving pre-selected solicitations must satisfy criteria
specified by Discover Financial Services. All recipients of pre-selected
solicitations have been pre-screened through credit bureaus utilizing industry
and customized models. Pre-screening is a process by which an independent
credit reporting agency identifies individuals satisfying creditworthiness
criteria supplied by the Company (in the form of a point scoring model or
other screening factors) that are intended to provide a general indication,
based on available information, of such person's ability and willingness to
pay their financial obligations. Recipients who respond to the Company's pre-
selected solicitations are post-screened prior to enrollment in order to
confirm continued satisfaction of the Company's creditworthiness criteria.
 
  Each cardmember's credit line is reviewed at least annually, and may be
reviewed more frequently if requested by the cardmember or if the Company
deems more frequent review appropriate. Such reviews include scoring the
cardmember's payment behavior on the applicable account as well as reviewing
the cardmember's credit bureau record. Actions that may result from an account
review include raising or lowering the cardmember's credit line or closing the
account.
 
 Operations
 
  The Company performs the functions required to service and operate its
proprietary cards' accounts either by itself or through processing agreements
that the Company has with third parties. These functions include new account
solicitation, application processing, new account fulfillment, transaction
authorization and processing, cardmember billing, payment processing, fraud
prevention and investigation, cardmember service and collection of delinquent
accounts. Discover Financial Services maintains several operations centers
throughout the country. Additionally, Discover Financial Services operations
are supported by systems at computer centers operated by an unaffiliated
communication services provider.
 
Direct-Marketed Businesses
 
  The Company believes that direct-marketed businesses will become
increasingly important in the financial services industry as new technologies
develop and client demands change over time. As a result, the Company formed
the Direct Business Group in 1998 in order to develop and implement a global
strategy for its direct-marketed activities.
 
  Discover Brokerage, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that was
acquired in 1997, provides financial services and investment information
nationwide via the Internet, offering customers three ways to invest-
through its Internet site, via an automated telephone system or with a
registered representative. The financial services provided by Discover
Brokerage, principally to individual investors, include detailed account
 
                                      15
<PAGE>
 
information, real-time securities price quotes, graphs and portfolio
performance information, trade execution at competitive rates and access to
research reports and news stories.
 
  Through Discover Brokerage, the Company focuses on the growing number of
consumers utilizing alternatives to the traditional brokerage channel to
obtain financial and other investment services. Discover Brokerage provides
its customers with direct access to financial data and other information,
including through a fee-based subscription service for proprietary equity
research reports and analysts' ratings, as well as a broad range of investment
options such as equities, options, bonds, U.S. Treasury securities and mutual
funds. The Company plans to grow Discover Brokerage by further expanding its
product line. In June 1998, Discover Brokerage began offering customers the
ability to trade U.S. Treasury securities on-line every weekday, 24 hours per
day. In February 1999, Discover Brokerage also began offering customers the
ability to trade certain municipal securities on-line. The Company believes
that Discover Brokerage will enhance its ability to market financial services
and products through its on-line distribution arrangements with Yahoo!, and
with leading providers of Internet financial sites such as CNNfn and Quicken.
 
Competition and Regulation
 
 Competition
 
  The Company's Credit Services business competes in highly competitive
industries, including the credit card industry. The credit card market
includes other bank-issued credit cards (the vast majority of which bear the
MasterCard or Visa servicemark) and charge cards and credit cards issued by
travel and entertainment companies. Competition centers on merchant acceptance
of credit cards, credit card account acquisition and customer utilization of
credit cards. Merchant acceptance is based on both competitive transaction
pricing and the volume and usage of credit cards in circulation. Credit card
account acquisition and customer utilization are driven by the offering of
credit cards with competitive and appealing features, such as no annual fees,
low introductory interest rates and other customized features targeting
specific consumer groups.
 
  As new credit card issuers seek to enter the market and established issuers
seek to expand, sometimes through acquisitions of other credit card issuers or
portfolios, the credit card industry has seen increased use of advertising,
targeted marketing and pricing competition in interest rates, annual fees and
reward programs. More recently, issuers have increased their efforts to
attract balances from competing sources of credit via low-priced balance
transfer programs. In addition, issuers have aggressively marketed co-branded
credit cards, which offer various benefits relating to the business of the
issuer's co-branding partner. The Company believes its proprietary merchant
base enables it to promote its proprietary card brand names on a national
basis, thereby building customer acceptance and use.
 
  Discover Brokerage competes with other providers of on-line brokerage
services, as well as other firms offering financial and other investment
services. Discover Brokerage competes primarily on the basis of price,
convenience, direct access to information and the breadth of its product line.
In addition, Discover Brokerage is subject to the same competitive factors
that are applicable to the highly-competitive financial services industry
generally (see "SECURITIES--Competition and Regulation").
 
 Regulation
 
  The Company conducts portions of its Credit Services business through
various wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries that are banking institutions.
Greenwood Trust and Bank of New Castle are state banks chartered under the
laws of the State of Delaware, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Bank, Inc.
(formerly MountainWest Financial Corporation, "MSDW Bank") is an industrial
loan company chartered under the laws of the State of Utah (each a "Bank" and,
collectively, the "Banks"). Each Bank has its deposits insured by the FDIC,
pays FDIC assessments and is subject to comprehensive regulations and periodic
examinations by the state banking commissioner of the state in which it is
chartered and by the FDIC.
 
  Generally, a company which controls a "bank," as defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (the "BHCA"), is required to register as a bank holding
company under that act and becomes subject to regulation
 
                                      16
<PAGE>
 
and examination as a bank holding company by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System. Greenwood Trust is a "bank" as defined in the BHCA.
However, because Greenwood Trust did not come within the BHCA's definition of
the term "bank" prior to the amendment of the BHCA by the Competitive Equality
Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA"), under certain grandfathering provisions of CEBA,
the Company is not treated as a bank holding company as long as the Company
and Greenwood Trust comply with certain restrictions set forth in CEBA. Bank
of New Castle and MSDW Bank are not "banks" under the BHCA as long as each
complies with certain other restrictions set forth in CEBA. Under the BHCA, a
bank holding company is generally prohibited from engaging in any activities
other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or providing
services for its subsidiaries. Should Greenwood Trust fail to continue to
qualify for grandfather rights under CEBA, or should the other Banks fail to
be operated so as to maintain their exempt status as non-banks under the BHCA,
the Company, in order to continue to engage in those of its present businesses
that would not be permissible for a bank holding company under the BHCA, could
be required to divest control of the Banks or, in the case of Greenwood Trust,
to change the activities of the Bank significantly.
 
  Federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations extensively
regulate the relationships among cardholders and credit card issuers. Under
federal law, each of the Banks may charge interest at the rate allowed by the
law of the state in which it is located and export such interest rate to all
other states. The states where the Banks are domiciled do not limit the amount
of interest that may be charged on loans of the types offered by the Banks. As
a result, each of the Banks is permitted to export interest rates pursuant to
federal law. The application of federal and state bankruptcy and debtor relief
laws affect the Company to the extent such laws result in any loans being
charged off as uncollectible.
 
  Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), the federal bank regulatory agencies are required to take "prompt
corrective action" in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital
requirements, and certain restrictions are imposed upon banks that meet
certain capital requirements but are not "well capitalized" for purposes of
FDICIA. A bank that is not well capitalized, as defined for purposes of
FDICIA, is, among other consequences, generally prohibited from accepting
brokered deposits and offering interest rates on any deposits significantly
higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally
(depending upon where the deposits are solicited). Greenwood Trust and MSDW
Bank currently use brokered deposits as a funding source. If either Bank were
not able to do so, its funding costs would likely increase.
 
  Certain acquisitions of the Company's common stock may be subject to
regulatory approval and notice under Federal and state banking law. In
addition, Greenwood Trust would no longer qualify for grandfather rights under
CEBA if direct or indirect control of Greenwood Trust were transferred to an
unaffiliated third party. In that event, the third party would either have to
operate in a manner permissible for a bank holding company under the BHCA or
significantly modify the activities of Greenwood Trust.
 
  Discover Brokerage is a registered broker-dealer and a member of the NASD.
See "SECURITIES--Competition and Regulation" for a discussion of the
regulations covering the Company's broker-dealers.
 
Item 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's executive offices are located at 1585 Broadway, New York, New
York, where the Company occupies approximately 958,000 square feet as its New
York headquarters. The Company also occupies approximately 368,000 square feet
at 750 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York. The Company owns both the 1585
Broadway and 750 Seventh Avenue buildings. The Company also owns a 600,000
square foot building in Riverwoods, Illinois that houses Credit Services'
executive offices and an adjacent undeveloped 43 acre parcel.
 
  On November 20, 1998, the Company announced its agreement with The
Rockefeller Group ("RGI") for the joint development of a 1,000,000 square foot
office tower at 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York. The building will be
owned by the Company and managed by a subsidiary of RGI, and is intended to be
occupied by the Company. The Company leases the land under the building from
RGI pursuant to a 99-year ground lease. Construction is expected to begin in
1999, with project completion and occupancy anticipated in 2001.
 
                                      17
<PAGE>
 
  The Company leases 864,000 square feet at Two World Trade Center, New York,
New York, under a lease expiring on May 31, 2006 and also occupies space
aggregating approximately 1,037,000 square feet at various other locations in
New York City under leases expiring between 2000 and 2013. In addition, the
Company leases space aggregating approximately 417,000 square feet in
Brooklyn, New York under a lease expiring in 2013.*
 
  The Company's London headquarters are located at 25 Cabot Square, Canary
Wharf, and occupy approximately 641,000 square feet (inclusive of common
areas) of a building constructed by the Company. The Company owns the ground
lease obligation and the freehold interest in the land and the building. The
Company also leases approximately 350,000 square feet at 20 Cabot Square,
Canary Wharf, under a lease arrangement expiring in 2020.
 
  The Company's Tokyo headquarters are located in Sapporo's Yebisu Garden
Place, Ebisu, Shibuya-ku, where the Company occupies approximately 173,000
square feet of office space under a lease arrangement expiring in 2000, but
renewable at the Company's option in two-year increments.
 
  The Company's subsidiaries have offices, operations and processing centers
and warehouse facilities located throughout the U.S. and certain subsidiaries
maintain offices in international locations. The Company's properties that are
not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of
commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located.
Facilities owned or occupied by the Company and its subsidiaries are believed
to be adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well
maintained.
 
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  (a) The Company is involved in the following litigation matters:
 
  I. Term Trust Class Actions. A putative class action, Thomas D. Keeley, et
al. v. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. et al. (the "Keeley Action") was commenced in
the California Superior Court, Orange County, on October 27, 1994 and later
consolidated with three similar class actions. Defendants are the Company,
DWR, Dean Witter Distributors, Dean Witter InterCapital, Dean Witter Services
Company Inc., TCW Management Co., Trust Company of the West, TCW Asset
Management Co., Inc., TCW Funds Management, Inc. and eight individuals,
including two DWR employees. Plaintiffs allege breach of fiduciary duty,
unjust enrichment, fraud, deceit and violation of the California Corporation
Code in the marketing and selling of the TCW/DW Term Trusts 2000, 2002 and
2003. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.
Defendants filed an answer to the first amended class complaint denying all
wrongdoing on December 6, 1995, and motions for judgment on the pleadings on
March 13, 1997. In the Keeley Action, defendants' motions for judgment on the
pleadings were denied on June 23, 1997. On June 1, 1998, the plaintiff's
motion to certify the class was granted as to a California statewide class and
denied as to a nationwide class. On October 13, 1998, three separate state
court actions were filed in Florida, New York and New Jersey. The Florida
action was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Florida on November 10, 1998.
 
  II. TCW/DW North American Government Income Trust Litigation. Several
purported class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated for pretrial
purposes, were instituted in January 11, 1995 in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York against the TCW/DW North American Government
Income Trust (the "Trust"), DWR, some of the Trust's trustees and officers,
its underwriter and distributor, the Trust's unaffiliated adviser, the Trust's
manager and other defendants, by certain shareholders of the Trust. The
consolidated amended complaint asserts claims under the Securities Act of 1933
and generally alleges that the defendants made inadequate and misleading
disclosures in the prospectuses for the Trust, in particular as such
disclosures related to the nature and risks of the Trust's investments in
mortgage-backed securities and Mexican securities. Plaintiffs also challenge
certain fees paid by the Trust as excessive. Damages are sought in an
unspecified amount. Defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended
complaint. Although on May 8,
- --------
*  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased by the Company does not
   include space occupied by the Company's securities branch offices in New
   York and throughout the U.S.
 
                                      18
<PAGE>
 
1996 the motions to dismiss were denied, upon reconsideration on August 28,
1996 the court dismissed several of plaintiffs' claims and clarified its
earlier opinion denying defendants' motion to dismiss. In addition, on August
28, 1996, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification. On
December 4, 1996, in light of a new decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, defendants filed a new motion for reconsideration of the
court's decision denying the motion to dismiss, which was denied on November
20, 1997.
 
  III. Global Opportunity Fund Litigation. On December 19, 1995, 20 investors
in a Cayman Islands investment fund named The Global Opportunity Fund (the
"Fund") brought an action against Morgan Stanley Bank Luxembourg, S.A.
("MSBL") in Luxembourg Commercial Court seeking damages in the amount of $44
million and costs. The apparent core of plaintiffs' complaint is that MSBL was
responsible for providing certain net asset valuations to the Fund and
performed that function in a negligent manner. On August 14, 1997, MSBL
applied to the Luxembourg Commercial Court to join Barclays de Zoete Weld
Incorporated ("BZW") into the proceedings in order to assert a claim for
indemnity against BZW in the event that MSBL is held liable. On November 15,
1998, the hearing for both matters was adjourned to November 24-25, 1999.
 
  On March 11, 1998, The Growth Fund, which was a sub fund of the Fund, and 14
investors in The Growth Fund (12 of whom are also plaintiffs in the Luxembourg
litigation against MSBL) brought an action against Morgan Stanley & Co.
International Limited ("MSIL") in New York Supreme Court, New York County. The
complaint asserts purported claims for fraud, aiding and abetting fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and violation of a duty of good faith and fair
dealing and seeks compensatory damages of approximately $7.25 million,
punitive damages, interest, costs, expenses and attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs
assert that MSIL induced them to enter into margin loans for the purpose of
investing in another sub fund of the Fund at a time when MSIL knew that MSBL
was not complying with its purported duty to monitor the Fund and the Fund's
manager was fraudulently inflating the value of certain of its assets, which
resulted in the investors' reliance on false net asset values in making and
continuing their investments in the Fund. The action was removed to the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York but thereafter remanded
to state court. On July 2, 1998, MSIL filed a motion to dismiss the action.
 
  IV. In re Merrill Lynch, et al. Securities Litigation. On January 19, 1995,
a putative class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District
of New Jersey on behalf of all persons who placed market orders to purchase or
sell securities listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") with DWR between November 4, 1992 and
November 4, 1994. The complaint, consolidated with another action against
other brokerage firms, seeks unspecified damages and alleges that DWR failed
to provide best execution of customer market orders for NASDAQ securities. The
complaint asserts claims for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder
and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. On
December 15, 1995, the court granted summary judgment in favor of DWR and, on
June 19, 1997, a three judge panel of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. On January 30, 1998, the full Court of Appeals, sitting en banc,
reversed and remanded the action to district court for further proceedings. On
April 30, 1998, a petition for certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court was filed
by the defendants. On June 12, 1998, the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave
to file an amended complaint to extend the end date for the class period from
November 4, 1994 to August 28, 1996 and to name new class representatives. On
July 21, 1998, the Magistrate granted the plaintiffs' motion to file an
amended complaint. Defendants have appealed that ruling to the district court
judge. On October 5, 1998, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the petition for
certiorari.
 
  V. Penalty Bid Litigation. On or about August 21, 1998, a purported class
action complaint, Friedman, et al. v. Salomon Smith Barney, et al., was filed
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the
Company and nine other underwriters of securities. An amended complaint dated
February 15, 1999, was filed against the Company and 16 other underwriters of
securities. The amended plaintiff class purports to consist of all retail
brokerage customers who purchased securities in public offerings from
defendants and their alleged co-conspirators at artificially inflated prices.
The amended complaint alleges that defendants and their co-conspirators
engaged in anti-competitive activity with respect to the distribution of
securities in public offerings by agreeing (i) to discourage retail customers
from "flipping" or selling shares purchased in public
 
                                      19
<PAGE>
 
offerings prior to the expiration of a purported "Retail Restricted Period" (a
period alleged to have been arbitrarily set by the syndicate manager during
which restraints on retail accounts are imposed), and/or (ii) to penalize
retail customers who "flipped", and/or (iii) otherwise to prevent retail
customers from "flipping". The amended complaint also alleges that similar
restraints were not imposed on institutional purchasers of shares in public
offerings. The amended complaint alleges violations of Section 1 of the Sherman
Act and breach of fiduciary duty, and seeks compensatory, treble and punitive
damages in unspecified amounts, injunctive relief, costs and expenses,
including attorneys', accountants' and experts' fees.
 
  Another purported class action, captioned Myers v. Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
et al., was filed on or about August 17, 1998 in California Superior Court, San
Francisco County, against Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., Paine Webber Group
Incorporated, the Company, Travelers Group Inc., Legg Mason Inc., H.J. Meyers &
Co., Inc. and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. The complaint alleges that
defendants sold the stock of public companies to investors in public offerings
without disclosing the existence of restrictions on "flipping" and serious
conflicts of interest with investors resulting from financial and other
penalties imposed on brokers and clients for "flipping." The complaint also
alleges that similar restrictions were not imposed on larger institutional
purchasers of stock in those offerings. The complaint asserts claims for unfair
competition and false advertising under various sections of the California
Business and Professions Code, negligent misrepresentations under the Civil
Code and unfair, fraudulent and unlawful business practices under the Business
Code. The complaint seeks injunctive relief and an award of costs and expenses,
including attorneys' and experts' fees. On September 15, 1998, the action was
removed to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. On
October 30, 1998, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
 
  VI. IPO Fee Litigation. On or about November 3, 1998, a purported class
action complaint, Gillet v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., et al., was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company and 26
other underwriters of initial public offering ("IPO") securities. The complaint
alleges that defendants conspired to fix the "fee" paid by purported class
members to buy and sell IPO securities of U.S. companies by invariably setting
the underwriters' spread at 7% in issuances of $20 to $80 million in violation
of the federal antitrust laws, particularly Sections 4 and 16 of the Clayton
Act and Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The complaint seeks treble damages and
injunctive relief, as well as reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. On November
23, 1998 and December 2, 1998, two other substantially similar class action
complaints, captioned Prager v. Goldman, Sachs & Co. et al. and Holzman v.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. et al. were filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York against the same underwriter defendants.
 
  VII. Nenni, et al. v. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. In December 1998, a putative
class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts against DWR, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributors Inc. and the
Company. The complaint, filed on behalf of all purchasers of certain of the
Company's mutual funds subject to a contingent deferred sales charge (the
"Mutual Funds"), alleges violations of Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities
Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 20 of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
promulgated thereunder, in that the Mutual Funds' prospectuses and registration
statements allegedly omitted certain disclosures concerning the transferability
of the Mutual Funds to brokerage accounts outside of DWR. The complaint seeks
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, declaratory and injunctive
relief, attorneys' fees, interest and costs.
 
  VIII. Other. In addition to the matters described above, the Company,
including MS&Co. and DWR, has been named from time to time as a defendant in
various legal actions, including arbitrations, arising in connection with its
activities as a global diversified financial services institution, certain of
which include large claims for punitive damages. The Company, including MS&Co.
and DWR, is also involved, from time to time, in investigations and proceedings
by governmental and self-regulatory agencies.
 
  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters,
particularly in cases such as some of those described above in which
substantial damages are sought, the Company cannot state what the eventual
outcome of pending matters will be. The Company is contesting the allegations
made in each pending matter and believes, based on current knowledge and after
consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such
 
                                       20
<PAGE>
 
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition of the Company, but may be material to the Company's operating
results for any particular period, depending on the level of the Company's
income for such period.
 
  (b) The following matter was terminated subsequent to November 30, 1998:
 
  In re: Certain Market-Making Activities on the NASDAQ. On January 11, 1999,
the SEC brought an action against 28 NASDAQ market makers, including DWR and
MS&Co., and 51 individuals, including one current and one former trader
employed by MS&Co., for certain conduct during 1994. The core of the charges
against DWR and MS&Co. concerns improper or undisclosed coordination of price
quotes with other broker-dealers and related reporting, record-keeping and
supervisory deficiencies in violation of Sections 15(b)(4)(E), 15(c)(1) and
(2) and 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15c1-2, 15c2-7 and 17a-3
promulgated thereunder. Without admitting or denying the charges, DWR
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order and to the payment of a
civil penalty of $185,000 and disgorgement of $2,311, and MS&Co. consented to
the entry of a cease and desist order and to the payment of a civil penalty of
$350,000, disgorgement of $4,170 and to submit certain of its procedures to an
independent consultant for review. In addition, one current and one former
trader employed by MS&Co. accepted suspensions of less than two months each
and were fined $25,000 and $30,000, respectively.
 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The following table sets forth certain information concerning executive
officers of the Company as of February 23, 1999.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        Name and Age               Present Title and Principal Occupation
        ------------               --------------------------------------
 <C>                        <S>
 Philip J. Purcell, 55..... Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
                            Executive Officer of the Company since the Merger.
                            Mr. Purcell was the Chairman of the Board of
                            Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Dean
                            Witter Discover from 1986 until the Merger. He is a
                            trustee or director of approximately 90 registered
                            investment companies for which MSDW Advisors serves
                            as investment manager or investment adviser.
 John J. Mack, 54.......... President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of
                            the Company since the Merger. Mr. Mack was the
                            President of Morgan Stanley from June 1993 until
                            the Merger. From March 1992 until the Merger, he
                            was also Chairman of Morgan Stanley's Operating
                            Committee. Mr. Mack was a Director and a Managing
                            Director of Morgan Stanley from December 1987 until
                            the Merger.
 Christine A. Edwards, 46.. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and
                            Secretary of the Company since the Merger. Mrs.
                            Edwards was Executive Vice President, General
                            Counsel and Secretary of Dean Witter Discover from
                            January 1991 until the Merger. She served as a
                            Director of Dean Witter Discover until February
                            1993.
 John H. Schaefer, 47...... Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic and
                            Administrative Officer of the Company since June
                            1998. Mr. Schaefer was head of Corporate and
                            Strategic Planning for the Company from the Merger
                            until May 1998. Mr. Schaefer was Executive Vice
                            President and Director of Corporate Finance for
                            Dean Witter Discover from 1991 until the Merger.
 Robert G. Scott, 53....... Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
                            Officer of the Company since the Merger. Mr. Scott
                            has been a Managing Director of MS&Co. since 1979.
                            He was the head of Investment Banking for MS&Co.
                            from 1994 to 1996. Mr. Scott was the head of
                            Worldwide Corporate Finance for MS&Co. from 1992 to
                            1994 and was the head of Worldwide Capital Market
                            Services for MS&Co. from 1985 until 1992.
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      21
<PAGE>
 
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1998.
 
                                    PART II
 
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
 
  Information relating to the principal market in which the Registrant's
Common Stock is traded, the high and low sales prices per share for each full
quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal periods, the approximate
number of holders of record of Common Stock and the frequency and amount of
any cash dividends declared for the two most recent fiscal periods is set
forth under the caption "Quarterly Results" on page 88 of the Registrant's
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and such information is incorporated by
reference herein.
 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
 
  Selected Financial Data for the Registrant and its subsidiaries for each of
the last five fiscal years is set forth under the same caption on page 6 of
the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is incorporated by
reference herein and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained on pages 54 to 88 of such
Annual Report.
 
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations
 
  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations is set forth under the same caption on pages 23 to 47 of the 1998
Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is incorporated by reference
herein and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the Notes thereto contained on pages 54 to 88 of such Annual
Report.
 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
  The information required by this item is contained on pages 47 through 52 of
the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Risk Management" and
is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries, together with the Notes thereto and Independent Auditors' Report
thereon, are contained in the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 53
to 88, and such information is incorporated by reference herein, including the
information appearing under the caption "Quarterly Results" on page 88 of such
Annual Report.
 
  The Combined Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 1998 and
1997 of the Morgan Stanley U.K. Group Profit Sharing Scheme and Plan, together
with the Notes thereon and the Report of Independent Chartered Accountants,
appear as Exhibit 99.1.
 
  The report of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, on the consolidated
statement of financial condition of Morgan Stanley as of November 30, 1996 and
the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in
shareholders' equity for the fiscal years ended November 30, 1996 and 1995,
appears as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure
 
  None.
 
 
                                      22
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART III
 
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
  Information relating to Directors and Nominees of the Registrant is set
forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 4 to 6 of the Proxy
Statement of the Registrant for its 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is
incorporated by reference herein. Also incorporated by reference herein is the
information under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" that appears on page 21 of the Proxy Statement.
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
  Information relating to executive compensation is set forth under the
captions "Director Compensation" on page 7 and "Compensation of Executive
Officers" (excluding the information under the subheadings "Report of the
Compensation Committees on Executive Compensation" and "Stock Performance
Graph") on pages 10 to 22 of the Proxy Statement of the Registrant for its
1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated by
reference herein.
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
 
  Information relating to security ownership of management and certain
beneficial owners is set forth under the captions "Stock Ownership of
Management" and "Principal Stockholders" on pages 8 and 9, respectively, of
the Proxy Statement of the Registrant for its 1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 
  Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is set
forth under the caption "Interest of Management in Certain Transactions" on
pages 21 and 22 of the Proxy Statement of the Registrant for its 1999 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated by reference
herein.
 
                                    PART IV
 
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules And Reports On Form 8-K
 
(a) Documents filed as part of this Report:
 
1.Financial Statements
 
The financial statements required to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1
hereof.
 
2.Financial Statement Schedules
 
The financial statement schedules required to be filed hereunder are listed on
page S-1 hereof.
 
3.Exhibits
 
An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report on page E-1 hereto and
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 1, 1998, was filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the impact of market
    conditions on the Company's consolidated net income for the third fiscal
    quarter.
 
   A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 24, 1998, was filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the announcement of
   the Company's third fiscal quarter financial results.
 
                                      23
<PAGE>
 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 23,
1999.
 
                                          Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
                                           (Registrant)
 
                                              By /s/ Philip J. Purcell
                                          _____________________________________
                                                    Philip J. Purcell
                                             Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                                    Executive Officer
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
  We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co., hereby severally constitute Christine A. Edwards, Robert G.
Scott and Ronald T. Carman, and each of them singly, our true and lawful
attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our
names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said
attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23rd day of February, 1999.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                 Signature                                     Title
                 ---------                                     -----
 
<S>                                         <C>
         /s/ Philip J. Purcell              Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
___________________________________________ Officer
            (Philip J. Purcell)
 
            /s/ John J. Mack                President, Chief Operating Officer and
___________________________________________ Director
              (John J. Mack)
 
        /s/ Thomas C. Schneider             Executive Vice President and Director
___________________________________________
           (Thomas C. Schneider)
 
         /s/ Richard B. Fisher              Chairman of the Executive Committee of
___________________________________________ Board of Directors and Director
            (Richard B. Fisher)
 
          /s/ Robert G. Scott               Executive Vice President and Chief
___________________________________________ Financial Officer (Principal Financial
             (Robert G. Scott)              Officer)
 
          /s/ Eileen K. Murray              Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
___________________________________________
            (Eileen K. Murray)
</TABLE>
 
                                      24
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                 Signature                                     Title
                 ---------                                     -----
 
<S>                                         <C>
          /s/ Robert P. Bauman                               Director
___________________________________________
            (Robert P. Bauman)
 
         /s/ Edward A. Brennan                               Director
___________________________________________
            (Edward A. Brennan)
 
           /s/ Diana D. Brooks                               Director
___________________________________________
             (Diana D. Brooks)
 
          /s/ Daniel B. Burke                                Director
___________________________________________
             (Daniel B. Burke)
 
          /s/ C. Robert Kidder                               Director
___________________________________________
             (C. Robert Kidder)
 
          /s/ Charles F. Knight                              Director
___________________________________________
             (Charles F. Knight)
 
           /s/ Miles L. Marsh                                Director
___________________________________________
             (Miles L. Marsh)
 
          /s/ Michael A. Miles                               Director
___________________________________________
            (Michael A. Miles)
 
          /s/ Allen E. Murray                                Director
___________________________________________
             (Allen E. Murray)
 
      /s/ Clarence B. Rogers, Jr.                            Director
___________________________________________
         (Clarence B. Rogers, Jr.)
 
        /s/ Laura D'Andrea Tyson                             Director
___________________________________________
          (Laura D'Andrea Tyson)
</TABLE>
 
                                       25
<PAGE>
 
                        Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
 
                         Index to Financial Statements
                       and Financial Statement Schedules
                        Items (14)(a)(1) and (14)(a)(2)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Page
                                                         -----------------------
                                                         Form 10-K Annual Report
                                                         --------- -------------
<S>                                                      <C>       <C>
Financial Statements
- --------------------
Independent Auditors' Report...........................                  53
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at
 November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997...............                  54
Consolidated Statements of Income for Fiscal 1998, 1997
 and 1996..............................................                  56
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal 1998,
 1997 and 1996.........................................                  57
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders'
 Equity for Fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996.................                  58
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.............                  60
Financial Statement Schedules
- -----------------------------
Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Morgan
 Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (Parent Company Only)--at
 November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997 and for each
 of the Three Fiscal Years in the Period Ended November
 30, 1998..............................................  S-2--S-5
</TABLE>
 
                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
 
                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)
 
                  Condensed Statements of Financial Condition
                    (dollars in millions, except share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      November 30, November 30,
                                                          1998         1997
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..........................   $ 5,652      $   145
  Financial instruments owned........................       451          632
  Advances to subsidiaries...........................    43,686       44,047
  Investment in subsidiaries, at equity..............    14,484       12,650
  Other assets.......................................     2,202        1,383
                                                        -------      -------
    Total assets.....................................   $66,475      $58,857
                                                        =======      =======
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:
  Short-term borrowings..............................   $21,359      $16,745
  Payables to subsidiaries...........................     6,341        4,433
  Other liabilities and accrued expenses.............       579          853
  Long-term borrowings...............................    24,077       22,870
                                                        -------      -------
                                                         52,356       44,901
                                                        -------      -------
Commitments and contingencies
Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock....................................       674          876
  Common stock ($0.01 par value; 1,750,000,000 shares
   authorized, 605,842,952 and 602,829,994 shares
   issued, 565,670,808 and 594,708,971 shares
   outstanding at November 30, 1998 and November 30,
   1997).............................................         6            6
  Paid-in capital....................................     3,746        3,727
  Retained earnings..................................    12,080        9,330
  Employee stock trust...............................     1,913        1,681
  Cumulative translation adjustments.................       (12)         (9)
                                                        -------      -------
    Subtotal.........................................    18,407       15,611
  Note receivable related to sale of preferred stock
   to ESOP...........................................       (60)         (68)
  Common stock held in treasury, at cost ($0.01 par
   value, 40,172,144 and 8,121,023 shares at November
   30, 1998 and November 30, 1997)...................    (2,702)        (250)
  Common stock issued to employee trust..............    (1,526)      (1,337)
                                                        -------      -------
    Total shareholders' equity.......................    14,119       13,956
                                                        -------      -------
  Total liabilities and shareholders' equity.........   $66,475      $58,857
                                                        =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
 
                                      S-2
<PAGE>
 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
 
                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)
 
                         Condensed Statements of Income
                             (dollars in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Fiscal 1998 Fiscal 1997 Fiscal 1996
                                            ----------- ----------- -----------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues:
  Interest and dividends...................   $3,098      $4,531      $3,751
  Principal transactions...................       60           6         (64)
  Fiduciary fees...........................       16          23          21
  Other....................................       (1)          1           5
                                              ------      ------      ------
    Total revenues.........................    3,173       4,561       3,713
                                              ------      ------      ------
Expenses:
  Interest expense.........................    2,976       4,403       3,624
  Non-interest expenses....................        9          70           5
                                              ------      ------      ------
    Total expenses.........................    2,985       4,473       3,629
                                              ------      ------      ------
  Income before provision for income taxes
   and equity in earnings of subsidiaries..      188          88          84
  Provision for income taxes...............       70          44          24
                                              ------      ------      ------
  Income before equity in earnings of sub-
   sidiaries...............................      118          44          60
  Equity in earnings of subsidiaries, net
   of tax..................................    3,158       2,542       1,920
                                              ------      ------      ------
  Net income...............................   $3,276      $2,586      $1,980
                                              ======      ======      ======
  Preferred stock dividend requirements....   $   55      $   66      $   66
                                              ======      ======      ======
  Earnings applicable to common shares.....   $3,221      $2,520      $1,914
                                              ======      ======      ======
</TABLE>
 
 
                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
 
                                      S-3
<PAGE>
 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)
 
                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (dollars in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Fiscal 1998 Fiscal 1997 Fiscal 1996
                                            ----------- ----------- -----------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income...............................   $ 3,276     $ 2,586    $  1,980
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to
   net cash
   provided by operating activities:
    Non-cash charges (credits) included in
     net income:
      Compensation payable in common or
       preferred stock.....................       334         374         513
      Equity in subsidiaries' earnings, net
       of dividends........................    (1,300)     (1,504)       (864)
    Change in assets and liabilities:
      Financial instruments owned..........       (37)         69        (157)
      Other assets.........................      (589)       (724)       (335)
      Other liabilities and accrued
       expenses............................      (161)        336         113
                                              -------     -------    --------
  Net cash provided by operating
   activities..............................     1,523       1,137       1,250
                                              -------     -------    --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Investments in and advances to
   subsidiaries, at equity.................     1,605       1,402     (11,526)
  Purchase of Miller Anderson & Sherrerd,
   LLP, net of cash acquired...............       --          --         (200)
  Purchase of Van Kampen American Capital,
   Inc., net of cash acquired..............       --          --         (986)
                                              -------     -------    --------
Net cash provided by (used for) investing
 activities................................     1,605       1,402     (12,712)
                                              -------     -------    --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Net proceeds from (payments for) short-
   term borrowings.........................     4,614      (3,779)      6,369
  Net proceeds from:
    Issuance of common stock...............       186         194         156
    Issuance of cumulative preferred
     stock.................................       --          --          540
    Issuance of long-term borrowings.......     8,167       6,115       8,561
  Payments for:
    Repurchases of common stock............    (2,925)       (124)     (1,133)
    Repayments of long-term borrowings.....    (6,944)     (3,912)     (2,629)
    Redemption of cumulative preferred
     stock.................................      (200)       (345)       (138)
    Cash dividends.........................      (519)       (416)       (313)
                                              -------     -------    --------
  Net cash provided by (used for) financing
   activities..............................     2,379      (2,267)     11,413
                                              -------     -------    --------
  Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s (Parent
   Company Only) net cash activity for the
   month of December 1996..................       --         (139)        --
                                              -------     -------    --------
  Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash
   equivalents.............................     5,507         133         (49)
  Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning
   of period...............................       145          12          61
                                              -------     -------    --------
  Cash and cash equivalents, at end of
   period..................................   $ 5,652     $   145    $     12
                                              =======     =======    ========
</TABLE>
 
                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
 
                                      S-4
<PAGE>
 
                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)
 
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation
 
 The Merger
 
  On May 31, 1997, Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") was merged
with and into Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter Discover") (the
"Merger"). At that time, Dean Witter Discover changed its corporate name to
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("MSDWD"). In conjunction with the
Merger, MSDWD issued 260,861,078 shares of its common stock, as each share of
Morgan Stanley common stock then outstanding was converted into 1.65 shares of
MSDWD's common stock. In addition, each share of Morgan Stanley preferred
stock was converted into one share of a corresponding series of preferred
stock of MSDWD. The Merger was treated as a tax-free exchange.
 
  On March 24, 1998, MSDWD changed its corporate name to Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. (the "Company").
 
 Basis of Financial Information
 
  The accompanying condensed financial statements (the "Parent Company
Financial Statements") give retroactive effect to the Merger, which was
accounted for as a pooling of interests. The pooling of interests method of
accounting requires the restatement of all periods presented as if Dean Witter
Discover and Morgan Stanley had always been combined.
 
  The Parent Company Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, should
be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and the notes thereto found on pages 54 to 88 of the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.
 
  Prior to the consummation of the Merger, Dean Witter Discover's year ended
on December 31 and Morgan Stanley's fiscal year ended on November 30.
Subsequent to the Merger, the Company adopted a fiscal year-end of November
30. In recording the pooling of interests combination, Dean Witter Discover's
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1996 were combined with
Morgan Stanley's financial statements for the fiscal year ended November 30,
1996 (on a combined basis, "fiscal 1996"). The Company's results for the
twelve months ended November 30, 1998 ("fiscal 1998") and November 30, 1997
("fiscal 1997") reflect the change in fiscal year-end. Fiscal 1997 includes
the results of Dean Witter Discover that were restated to conform with the new
fiscal year-end date. The Company's results of operations for fiscal 1997 and
fiscal 1996 include the month of December 1996 for Dean Witter Discover.
 
2. Transactions with Subsidiaries
 
  The Company has transactions with its subsidiaries determined on an agreed-
upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and
contractual obligations of certain of its subsidiaries.
 
  The Company received cash dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries
totaling $1,858 million, $1,088 million and $1,056 million in fiscal 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
                                      S-5
<PAGE>
 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.:
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. and subsidiaries as of fiscal years ended November 30, 1998 and
1997, and for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended November 30,
1998, and have issued our report thereon dated January 22, 1999; such
consolidated financial statements and report are included in your 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits
also included Schedule I listed in the Index to Financial Statements and
Financial Statement Schedules. These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits. The consolidated financial statements give
retroactive effect to the merger of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and Dean Witter,
Discover & Co., which has been accounted for as a pooling of interests as
described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We did not audit
the condensed financial statement schedules of Morgan Stanley Group Inc.
(Parent Company Only) for the fiscal year ended November 30, 1996, which
statements reflect total revenues of $2,997 million for the fiscal year then
ended. Those financial statement schedules were audited by other auditors
whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates
to the amounts included for Morgan Stanley Group Inc. (Parent Company Only)
for such period, is based solely on the report of such other auditors. In our
opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, the
condensed financial statement schedules for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
(Parent Company Only), when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth herein.
 
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
New York, New York
January 22, 1999
 
                                      S-6
<PAGE>
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                                    EXHIBITS
 
                                       TO
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                  For the fiscal year ended November 30, 1998
                          Commission File No. 1-11758
 
                        Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
  Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were
previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by the
Registrant or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or to reports or registration statements filed by the Registrant or
its predecessor companies under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act"), respectively, and are hereby incorporated by
reference to such statements or reports. The Exchange Act file number of the
Company is 1-11758. Prior to the Merger, the Exchange Act file number of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") was 1-9085.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                             Numbered
   No.                         Description                            Pages
 -------                       -----------                         ------------
 <C>     <S>                                                       <C>
  3.1*   Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
         the Company, as amended to date.
 
  3.2*   By-Laws of the Company, as amended to date.
 
  4.1    Rights Agreement dated as of April 25, 1995 between the
         Company and Chemical Bank, as rights agent, which
         includes as Exhibit B thereto the Form of Rights
         Certificate (Exhibit 1 to the Company's Registration
         Statement on Form 8-A dated April 25, 1995).
 
  4.2    Amendment dated as of February 4, 1997 to the Rights
         Agreement between the Company and The Chase Manhattan
         Bank (as successor to Chemical Bank), as rights agent
         (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-
         K dated February 4, 1997).
 
  4.3    Stockholders' Agreement dated February 14, 1986, as
         amended (Exhibit 4.2 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
         1993).
 
  4.4    Form of Consent and Amendment dated as of January 31,
         1996 between the Company and certain signatories to the
         Stockholders' Agreement referred to in Exhibit 4.3
         (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form
         10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 1995).
 
  4.5    Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between the
         Company and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
         trustee (Exhibit 4 to the Company's Registration
         Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-57202)).
 
  4.6    Senior Indenture dated as of April 15, 1989 between the
         Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank (as successor to
         Chemical Bank), as trustee (Exhibit 4.12 to Morgan
         Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended January 31, 1993).
 
  4.7    First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of May 15,
         1991 between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank
         (as successor to Chemical Bank), as trustee (Exhibit
         4.13 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
  4.8    Second Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of April
         15, 1996 between the Company and The Chase Manhattan
         Bank (as successor to Chemical Bank), as trustee
         (Exhibit 4-b to Morgan Stanley's Current Report on Form
         8-K dated May 6, 1996).
 
  4.9    Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of June 1,
         1997 between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
         as trustee (Exhibit 4-h to the Company's Registration
         Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-27919)).
 
  4.10   Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of March
         1, 1998 between the Company and The Chase Manhattan
         Bank (as successor to Chemical Bank), as trustee
         (Exhibit 4-i to the Company's Registration Statement on
         Form S-3 (No. 333-46935)).
 
  4.11   Subordinated Indenture dated as of April 15, 1989
         between the Company and The First National Bank of
         Chicago, as trustee (Exhibit 4.10 to Morgan Stanley's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
         January 31, 1993).
 
  4.12   First Supplemental Subordinated Indenture dated as of
         May 15, 1991 between the Company and The First National
         Bank of Chicago, as trustee (Exhibit 4.11 to Morgan
         Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended January 31, 1993).
</TABLE>
 
                                      E-1
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                             Numbered
   No.                         Description                            Pages
 -------                       -----------                         ------------
 <C>     <S>                                                       <C>
   4.13  Second Supplemental Subordinated Indenture dated as of
         April 15, 1996 between the Company and The First
         National Bank of Chicago, as trustee (Exhibit 4-c to
         Morgan Stanley's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May
         6, 1996).
 
   4.14  Third Supplemental Subordinated Indenture dated as of
         June 1, 1997 between the Company and The First National
         Bank of Chicago, as trustee (Exhibit 4-l to the
         Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-
         27919)).
 
   4.15  Fourth Supplemental Subordinated Indenture dated as of
         March 1, 1998 between the Company and The First
         National Bank of Chicago, as trustee (Exhibit 4-n to
         the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No.
         333-46935)).
 
   4.16  Subordinated Indenture dated as of November 15, 1993
         among Morgan Stanley Finance plc, the Company, as
         guarantor, and The Chase Manhattan Bank (as successor
         to Chemical Bank), as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan
         Stanley's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 19,
         1993).
 
   4.17  First Supplemental Subordinated Indenture dated as of
         June 1, 1997 among Morgan Stanley Finance plc, the
         Company, as guarantor, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
         trustee (Exhibit 4-f to the Company's Registration
         Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-27881)).
 
   4.18  Voting Agreement dated March 5, 1991 among the Company,
         State Street Bank and Trust Company and Other Persons
         Signing Similar Voting Agreements (Exhibit 4.14 to
         Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
   4.19  Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders,
         Including Indentures--Except as set forth in Exhibits
         4.1 through 4.18 above, the instruments defining the
         rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the
         Company and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to
         Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of regulation S-K. The
         Company hereby agrees to furnish copies of these
         instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission
         upon request.
 
  10.1   Amended Agreement for Systems Operations Services dated
         as of January 1, 1996 by and between the Company and
         Advantis, a New York general partnership (Exhibit 10.4
         to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1996; confidential treatment
         has been granted for portions of this exhibit).
 
  10.2   Form of Pooling and Servicing Agreement used in
         connection with the Discover Card Trust 1993B (Exhibit
         4.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
         (No. 33-57302)).
 
  10.3   Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of October 1,
         1993 between Greenwood Trust Company as master
         servicer, servicer and seller and U.S. Bank National
         Association (formerly First Bank National Association,
         successor trustee to Bank of America Illinois,
         formerly, Continental Bank, National Association), as
         trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to the Discover Card Master Trust
         I Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-71502)).
 
  10.4   First Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement
         dated as of August 15, 1994 between Greenwood Trust
         Company, as master servicer, servicer and seller and
         U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Bank
         National Association, successor trustee to Bank of
         America Illinois, formerly, Continental Bank, National
         Association), as trustee (Exhibit 4.4 to the Discover
         Card Master Trust I Current Report on Form 8-K dated
         August 1, 1995).
 
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      E-2
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                             Numbered
   No.                         Description                            Pages
 -------                       -----------                         ------------
 <C>     <S>                                                       <C>
 10.5    Second Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement
         dated as of February 29, 1996 between Greenwood Trust
         Company, as master servicer, servicer and seller and
         U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Bank
         National Association, successor trustee to Bank of
         America Illinois, formerly, Continental Bank, National
         Association), as trustee (Exhibit 4.4 to the Discover
         Card Master Trust I Current Report on Form 8-K dated
         April 30, 1996).
 
 10.6    Third Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement
         dated as of March 30, 1998 between Greenwood Trust
         Company, as master servicer, servicer and seller and
         U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Bank
         National Association, successor trustee to Bank of
         America Illinois, formerly, Continental Bank, National
         Association), as trustee (Exhibit 4.1(d) to the
         Discover Card Master Trust I Registration Statement on
         Form 8-A dated April 9, 1998).
 
 10.7    Fourth Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement
         dated as of November 30, 1998 between Greenwood Trust
         Company, as master servicer, servicer and seller and
         U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Bank
         National Association, successor trustee to Bank of
         America Illinois, formerly, Continental Bank, National
         Association), as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to the Discover
         Card Master Trust I Current Report on Form 8-K dated
         November 30, 1998).
 10.8    Trust Agreement dated March 5, 1991 between the Company
         and State Street Bank and Trust Company (Exhibit 10.15
         to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
 10.9    First Amendment to Trust Agreement dated April 3, 1996
         between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust
         Company (Exhibit 10.14 to Morgan Stanley's Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November
         30, 1996).
 
 10.10   Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of MSDWD Capital
         Trust I dated as of March 12, 1998 among the Company,
         as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property
         trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware) as Delaware
         trustee, and the administrators named thereon (Exhibit
         4.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
         the quarter ended February 28, 1998).
 
 10.11+  Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan
         (formerly known as the Dean Witter Reynolds Financial
         Services Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan for Executives)
         (amended and restated as of December 14, 1993) (Exhibit
         10.32 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the year ended December 31, 1993).
 
 10.12+  Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (Exhibit 4.1 to the
         Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-
         63024)).
 
 10.13+  Employees Replacement Stock Plan (Exhibit 4.2 to the
         Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-
         63024)).
 
 10.14+  Amendment to the Employees Replacement Stock Plan
         (adopted June 18, 1993) (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
         Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 1993).
 
 10.15+  Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today Affords Retirement
         Tomorrow) (amended and restated) (Exhibit 10.9 to the
         Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1996).
 
 10.16+  Amendment to Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today
         Affords Retirement Tomorrow) (Exhibit 10.11 to the
         Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
         November 30, 1997).
</TABLE>
 
                                      E-3
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                             Numbered
   No.                         Description                            Pages
 -------                       -----------                         ------------
 
 <C>     <S>                                                       <C>
 10.17+  Amendment to Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today
         Affords Retirement Tomorrow) (Exhibit 10.2 to the
         Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
         ended May 31, 1998).
 
 10.18+  Amendment to Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today
         Affords Retirement Tomorrow) (Exhibit 10.3 to the
         Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
         ended May 31, 1998).
 
 10.19*+ Amendment to Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today
         Affords Retirement Tomorrow) (adopted November 3,
         1998).
 
 10.20+  1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Exhibit 4.3
         to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
         (No. 33-63024)).
 
 10.21+  Amendment to the 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
         Directors (Exhibit 10.37 to the Company's Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).
 
 10.22+  Transferred Executives Pension Supplement (amended and
         restated) (Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report
         on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995).
 
 10.23+  1994 Omnibus Equity Plan (Exhibit 10.52 to the
         Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1993).
 
 10.24+  Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan (amended and
         restated as of June 26, 1998) (Exhibit 10.1 to the
         Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
         ended May 31, 1998).
 
 10.25+  Key Executive Employment Plan, as amended April 19,
         1996 (Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).
 
 10.26+  Directors' Equity Capital Accumulation Plan (Exhibit
         10.19 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the year ended November 30, 1997).
 
 10.27+  Employees Equity Accumulation Plan (Exhibit 10.34 to
         the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
         ended December 31, 1996).
 10.28*+ Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended to date.
 
 10.29+  Form of Agreement under the Morgan Stanley & Co.
         Incorporated Owners' and Select Earners' Plan (Exhibit
         10.1 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
 10.30+  Form of Agreement under the Officers' and Select
         Earners' Plan (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley's Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
         31, 1993).
 
 10.31*+ Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Excess Benefit Plan,
         as amended.
 
 10.32*+ Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended.
 
 10.33+  Performance Unit Plan (amended and restated) (Exhibit
         10.8 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
 10.34+  1988 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended
         (Exhibit 10.12 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on
         Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
 10.35+  1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (Annex A to
         Morgan Stanley's Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual
         Meeting of Stockholders).
 
 10.36+  1988 Capital Accumulation Plan, as amended (Exhibit
         10.13 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
</TABLE>
 
                                      E-4
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                             Numbered
   No.                         Description                            Pages
 -------                       -----------                         ------------
 
 <C>     <S>                                                       <C>
 10.37+  Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement under the Pre-
         Tax Incentive Program (Exhibit 10.12 to Morgan
         Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended January 31, 1994).
 
 10.38+  Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement under the Pre-
         Tax Incentive Program 2 (Exhibit 10.12 to Morgan
         Stanley's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
         November 30, 1996).
 
 10.39+  Trust Deed and Rules of the Morgan Stanley
         International Profit Sharing Scheme dated November 12,
         1987 of the Company, Morgan Stanley International and
         Noble Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited (Exhibit
         10.11 to Morgan Stanley's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).
 
 10.40*+ Trust Deed and Rules of the Morgan Stanley UK Group
         Profit Sharing Plan dated November 3, 1997 of the
         Company, Morgan Stanley UK Group, Morgan Stanley
         International Incorporated and Noble Lowndes Settlement
         Trustees Limited.
 
 10.41*+ Amendment to Trust Deed and Rules of Morgan Stanley UK
         Group Profit Sharing Plan (adopted September 25, 1998).
 
 10.42*+ Amendments to the Rules of the Morgan Stanley UK Group
         Profit Sharing Plan (adopted October 30, 1998).
 
 10.43   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
         as of April 10, 1997 (Annex I to the Joint Proxy
         Statement/Prospectus included as part of the Company's
         Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-25003)).
 
 11*     Statement Re: Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.
 
 12*     Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
         Charges and Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges
         and Preferred Stock Dividends.
 
 13*     The following portions of the Company's 1998 Annual
         Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by
         reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are filed
         as an Exhibit:
 
         13.1 "Quarterly Results" (page 88).
 
         13.2 "Selected Financial Data" (page 6).
 
         13.3 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
            Condition and Results of Operations" (pages 23 to
            47).
 
         13.4 "Risk Management" (pages 47 to 52).
 
         13.5 Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company
            and its subsidiaries, together with the Notes
            thereto and the Independent Auditor's Report thereon
            (pages 53 to 88).
 
 21*     Subsidiaries of the Company.
 
 23.1*   Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
 
 23.2*   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
 
 23.3*   Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP with respect to the
         Combined Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended
         December 31, 1998 for the Morgan Stanley U.K. Group
         Profit Sharing Scheme and Plan.
 
 24      Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).
 
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      E-5
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Sequentially
 Exhibit                                                            Numbered
   No.                         Description                           Pages
 -------                       -----------                        ------------
 <C>     <S>                                                      <C>
  27*    Financial Data Schedule.
 
  99.1*  Combined Financial Statements for the years ended
         December 31, 1998 and 1997 for the Morgan Stanley U.K.
         Group Profit Sharing Scheme and Plan.
 
  99.2*  Report of Ernst & Young LLP.
</TABLE>
- --------
* Filed herewith.
 
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
 as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).
 
                                      E-6
<PAGE>
 
 
 
 
 
                       [LOGO] Printed on Recycled Paper
 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.1


               AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                  MORGAN STANLEY, DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                                 MAY 31, 1997


                                   ARTICLE I

                                      NAME
                                      ----

  The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the
"Corporation") is:

                  Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.


                                   ARTICLE II

                                    ADDRESS
                                    -------

  The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is
The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington,
County of New Castle.  The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such
address is The Corporation Trust Company.


                                  ARTICLE III

                                    PURPOSE
                                    -------

  The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any  lawful act or
activity for which corporations may be organized and incorporated under the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.


                                   ARTICLE IV

                                 CAPITALIZATION
                                 --------------

  The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority
to issue is one billion seven hundred eighty million (1,780,000,000), consisting
of thirty million (30,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per
share (hereinafter referred to as "Preferred Stock"), and one billion seven
hundred fifty million (1,750,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01
per share (hereinafter referred to as "Common Stock").

  The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series.
The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of
shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the
applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a "Preferred
Stock Designation"), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be
included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, 
<PAGE>
 
preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof. The authority of the Board of Directors
with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination
of the following:

     (1) The designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number,
  letter or title.

     (2) The number of shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors
  may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock
  Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof
  then outstanding).

     (3) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the
  series in respect of dividends, and whether such dividends, if any, shall be
  cumulative or noncumulative.

     (4) Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.

     (5) The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the
  series.

     (6) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or
  redemption of shares of the series.

     (7) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the
  series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
  or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.

     (8) Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible into or
  exchangeable for shares of any other class or series, or any other security,
  of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of
  such other class or series of such other security, the conversion or exchange
  price or prices or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates
  at which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms
  and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made.

     (9) Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any
  other class or series.

     (10) The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series.

  The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock
and any series thereof.  Except as may be provided in this Certificate of
Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation or by applicable law, the
holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each such
share upon all questions presented to the stockholders, the Common Stock shall
have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other
purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice
of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote. The
holders of the shares of Common Stock shall at all times, except as otherwise
provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or as required by law, vote as one
class, together with the holders of any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation accorded such general voting rights.

  The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share
of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes and shall not
be bound to recognize any 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other
person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as
expressly provided by applicable law.


                                   ARTICLE V

                                    BY-LAWS
                                    -------

  In furtherance of, and not in limitation of, the powers conferred by law, the
Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered:

     (1) to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation; provided,
  however, that the Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors under the powers
  hereby conferred may be amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by
  the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto, provided further
  that, in the case of amendments by stockholders, the affirmative vote of the
  holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding
  Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order
  for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal any provision of the Bylaws or
  to adopt any additional Bylaw; and

     (2) from time to time to determine whether and to what extent, and at what
  times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and
  books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of
  stockholders; and, except as so determined or as expressly provided in this
  Certificate of Incorporation or in any Preferred Stock Designation, no
  stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account, book or document of
  the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by applicable law.

  The Corporation may in its Bylaws confer powers upon the Board of Directors in
addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and authorities
expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by applicable law.


                                   ARTICLE VI

                             ACTION OF STOCKHOLDERS
                             ----------------------

  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any
other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders
of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting
of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in
writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders.


                                  ARTICLE VII

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                               ------------------

  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any
other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the
number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed in 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
such manner as prescribed by the Bylaws of the Corporation and may be increased
or decreased from time to time in such manner as prescribed by the Bylaws.

  Unless and except to the extent that the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so
require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written
ballot.

  The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any
series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in
this Certificate of Incorporation, shall be divided into three classes,
initially consisting of 6, 4 and 4 directors.  One class of directors initially
consisting of 4 directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1998, another class initially
consisting of 4 directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1999, and another class initially
consisting of 6 directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2000. Members of each class shall
hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.  At each annual
meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 1998 annual
meeting,  directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire
shall be elected by a plurality vote of all votes cast at such meeting to hold
office for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of
stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his
or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.

  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any
other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances,
vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification,
removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting
from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by
the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than
a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office
for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of
office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until such
director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in
the number of authorized directors constituting the Board of Directors shall
shorten the term of any incumbent director.

  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any
other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any
director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and by the
affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of
the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.



                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                INDEMNIFICATION
                                ---------------

  Each person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation shall be
indemnified by the Corporation to the fullest extent  permitted from time to
time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists
or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of
any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the
Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted
the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws
as presently or hereafter in effect.  The Corporation may, by action of the

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents (other than
a director or officer) of the Corporation, to directors, officers, employees or
agents of a subsidiary, and to each person serving as a director, officer,
partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, at the request of
the Corporation, with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification
of directors and officers of the Corporation.  The Corporation shall be required
to indemnify any person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding
(or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part
thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce
such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this
Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise by the Corporation.  Without limiting
the generality or the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into
one or more agreements with any person which provide for indemnification greater
or different than that provided in this Article VIII.  Any amendment or repeal
of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing
hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or
repeal.


                                   ARTICLE IX

                              DIRECTORS' LIABILITY
                              --------------------

  A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the
Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary
duty as a director, except for liability (1) for any breach of the director's
duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (2) for acts or
omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing
violation of law, (3) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware, or (4) for any transaction from which the director derived an
improper personal benefit.  Any amendment or repeal of this Article IX shall not
adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation
existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such
amendment or repeal.

  If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware shall be amended, to
authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the liability of
directors, then a director of the Corporation, in addition to the circumstances
in which he is not liable immediately prior to such amendment, shall be free of
liability to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware, as so amended.


                                   ARTICLE X

                                   AMENDMENTS
                                   ----------

  Except as may be expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation, the
Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend,
alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Designation, and any other provisions
authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be
added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by
applicable law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature
conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and
pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as
hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article X;
provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VIII or Article IX of
this Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
protection existing thereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior
to such amendment or repeal, and provided further that no Preferred Stock
Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of
Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such
Preferred Stock Designation and the requirements of applicable law.

  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the
contrary, and in addition to approval by the Board of Directors, the affirmative
vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then
outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required
to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with paragraph (1) of
Article V, Article VI, Article VII or this second paragraph of this Article X.
For the purposes of this Certificate of Incorporation, "Voting Stock" shall mean
the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        ESOP CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
                                       OF
                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                         ------------------------------


                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the
                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware


                         ------------------------------


          The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

          A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of
Directors (the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 3,902,438 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the
Corporation has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes
the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

     1.   Designation and Issuance.
          -------------------------

          (A)  The shares of such series shall be designated ESOP CONVERTIBLE
PREFERRED STOCK (hereinafter referred to as the "ESOP Preferred Stock") and such
series shall consist of

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
3,902,438 shares.  Such number of shares may be increased or decreased from time
to time by resolution of the Committee (as hereinafter defined), but no such
increase shall result in such series consisting of more than 4,000,000 shares,
and no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to a
number less than that of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding plus
the number of shares issuable upon exercise of any rights, options or warrants
or upon conversion of outstanding securities issued by the Corporation relating
to such shares.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Board may increase
the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to a number greater than 4,000,000
shares, or may decrease the number of such shares, subject only to any
limitations imposed by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation.  Any
shares of ESOP Preferred Stock redeemed or purchased by the Corporation shall
remain issued and outstanding for all purposes (except that as long as such
shares are held by the Corporation or its nominee, no dividends shall be paid on
such shares and they shall neither be entitled to vote nor counted for quorum
purposes) and may thereafter be transferred by the Corporation from time to time
to a trustee or trustees referred to in paragraph (B) of this Section 1
(whereupon the voting and dividend rights of such shares shall be restored);
provided that the Corporation may provide at the time of or at any time after
such redemption or purchase that any such shares then held by the Corporation or
its nominee shall be retired, and such shares shall then be restored to the
status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation.
For the purposes of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean
any committee of the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform
the functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

          (B)  Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee
or trustees acting on behalf of an employee stock ownership trust or plan or
other employee benefit plan (a "Plan") of the Corporation.  In the event of any
sale, transfer or other disposition (hereinafter a "transfer") of shares of ESOP
Preferred Stock to any person (including, without limitation, any participant in
the Plan) other than (x) any trustee or trustees of the Plan, (y) any pledgee of
such shares acquiring such shares as security for any loan or loans made to the
Plan or to any trustee or trustees acting on behalf of the Plan or (z) the
Corporation, the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such
transfer and without any further

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
action by the Corporation or the holder, shall be automatically converted into
shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price (as hereinafter defined) and on
the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof and no such
transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of ESOP Preferred
Stock hereunder, but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the
Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so
converted; provided, however, that in the event of a foreclosure or other
realization upon shares of ESOP Preferred Stock pledged as security for any loan
or loans made to the Plan or to the trustee or the trustees acting on behalf of
the Plan, the pledged shares so foreclosed or otherwise realized upon shall be
converted automatically into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price and
on the terms otherwise provided for conversions of shares of ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof.  In the event of
such a conversion, such transferee shall be treated for all purposes as the
record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which the ESOP Preferred Stock
shall have been converted as of the date of such conversion. Certificates
representing shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be legended to reflect such
restrictions on transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing Provisions of this
Section 1, shares of ESOP Preferred Stock (i) may be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided by Section 5 hereof and the shares of Common Stock
issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as
permitted by law and (ii) be redeemable by the Corporation upon the terms and
conditions provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof.

     2.   Dividends and Distributions.
          ----------------------------

          (A)  (1)  Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set
forth, the holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock (other than the Corporation
or its nominee) shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board
out of funds legally available therefor, cash dividends ("Preferred Dividends")
payable in accordance with either of the following elections, as the Board shall
elect from time to time in its absolute discretion:

          (i) in an amount per share initially equal to $2.78 per share per
     annum, and no more (such amount, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to
     the terms hereof, including during any period in which a

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
     Semiannual Payment Election (as defined below) shall be in effect, the
     "Annual Dividend Rate"), payable annually in arrears on December 31 (or
     such later date not more than four business days thereafter as the Board
     may from time to time elect in its absolute discretion; such date, the
     "Annual Payment Date") of each year (such election, the "Annual Payment
     Election") beginning on the Annual Payment Date occurring immediately after
     the effective date of such Annual Payment Election; or

          (ii) in an amount per share initially equal to $2.78 per share per
     annum, and no more (such amount, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to
     the terms hereof, including during any period in which an Annual Payment
     Election is in effect, the "Semiannual Dividend Rate"; and the Semiannual
     Dividend Rate and the Annual Dividend Rate, as in effect at any time, are
     each hereinafter referred to as the "Preferred Dividend Rate"),
     semiannually in arrears, one-half on each June 30 and December 31 (or, in
     either case, such later date not more than four business days after either
     of such dates as the Board may from time to time elect in its absolute
     discretion; such dates, the "Semiannual Payment Dates") of each year (such
     election, the "Semiannual Payment Election"), beginning on the Semiannual
     Payment Date occurring immediately after the effective date of such
     Semiannual Payment Election;

provided that any Semiannual Payment Election shall be made effective only
during the period beginning on January 5 and ending on June 29 in each year.
The Board shall give prompt notice to the holders of the ESOP Preferred Stock of
any Semiannual Payment Election or Annual Payment Election and any election to
alter any Dividend Payment Date pursuant to this Section 2(A)(1).  Each Annual
Payment Date or Semiannual Payment Date, as applicable, is hereinafter referred
to as a "Dividend Payment Date", and each payment of a Preferred Dividend shall
be made to holders of record at the opening of business on such Dividend Payment
Date.

          (2)  Preferred Dividends shall begin to accrue on outstanding shares
of ESOP Preferred Stock from the date of issuance of such shares, except that
with respect to any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock redeemed or purchased by the
Corporation and then reissued, Preferred Dividends shall accrue on such shares
from their date of reissuance. Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily
basis, whether or not the Corporation shall then have earnings or surplus

                                      10
<PAGE>
 
(computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months in case of any
period less than one year) based on the Preferred Dividend Rate in effect on
such date; provided however, that if a Semiannual Payment Election or an Annual
Payment Election becomes effective on or after such date and before the
immediately succeeding Dividend Payment Date, payments in respect of dividends
on the ESOP Preferred Stock made on or after the effective date of such
Semiannual Payment Election or Annual Payment Election and on or before such
Dividend Payment Date shall be computed using the Preferred Dividend Rate in
effect on the date of such payment; provided further, the dividends payable on
the first Dividend Payment Date following the issuance of the ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be in an amount equal to the Annual Dividend Rate for a full annum
or the Semiannual Dividend Rate for a full semiannum, as applicable.  Accrued
but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall cumulate as of the Dividend Payment Date on
which they first become payable, but no interest shall accrue on accumulated but
unpaid Preferred Dividends.

          (B)  So long as any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on
any other series of stock ranking on a parity with the ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends, unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set
apart for payment on the ESOP Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the ESOP Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend
payment date of such parity stock, ratably in proportion to the respective
amounts of dividends (1) accumulated and unpaid or payable on such parity stock,
on the one hand, and (2) accumulated and unpaid through the dividend payment
period or periods of the ESOP Preferred Stock next preceding such dividend
payment date, on the other hand.  If full cumulative dividends on the ESOP
Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set apart for payment when
due, the Corporation shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any
dividends or make any other distributions on, or make any payment on account of
the purchase, redemption or other retirement of, any other class of stock or
series thereof of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends or upon dissolution,
junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock until full cumulative dividends on the ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set apart; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to (i) any dividend or distribution
payable solely in any shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for
or purchase shares of, any stock ranking, as to dividends and upon dissolution,

                                      11
<PAGE>
 
junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of any
stock ranking, as to dividends and upon dissolution, junior to the ESOP
Preferred Stock in exchange solely for or by conversion solely into shares of
any other stock ranking junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends and
upon dissolution.

          (C)  Any dividend payment made on shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall
first be credited against the earliest accumulated but unpaid dividend due with
respect to such shares.

     3.   Liquidation Preference.
          -----------------------

          (A)  In the event of any dissolution or liquidation of the
Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or
distribution of the assets of the Corporation (whether capital or surplus) shall
be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to ESOP Preferred Stock upon dissolution
or liquidation, the holders of ESOP Preferred Stock (other than the Corporation
or its nominee) shall be entitled to receive the Liquidation Price (as
hereinafter defined) per share in effect at the time of dissolution or
liquidation plus an amount equal to all dividends accrued (whether or not
accumulated) and unpaid on the ESOP Preferred Stock to the date of final
distribution to such holders; but such holders shall not be entitled to and
shall not otherwise receive any further payments.  The Liquidation Price per
share that holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall receive upon dissolution or
liquidation shall be $35.875, subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided.
If, upon any dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation, the assets of the
Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount
aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares ranking, as to
dissolution or liquidation, on a parity with ESOP Preferred Stock, then such
assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of ESOP
Preferred Stock and any such other shares ratably in accordance with the
respective amounts that would be payable on such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
and any such other shares if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For
the purposes of this Section 3, neither a consolidation or merger of the
Corporation with or into one or more corporations, nor the sale, transfer, lease
or exchange (for cash, shares of equity stock, securities or other
consideration) of all or substantially all of the

                                      12
<PAGE>
 
assets of the Corporation, nor the distribution to the stockholders of the
Corporation of all or substantially all of the consideration for such sale,
unless such consideration (apart from assumption of liabilities) or the net
proceeds thereof consists substantially entirely of cash, shall be deemed to be
a dissolution or liquidation, voluntary or involuntary.

          (B)  Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or
class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or senior to ESOP Preferred
Stock upon dissolution or liquidation, upon any dissolution or liquidation of
the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of
ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 3, but not prior thereto, any
other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to ESOP Preferred Stock
upon dissolution or liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and
provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets
of the Corporation remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of ESOP
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.

          4.  Ranking and Voting of Shares.
              -----------------------------

          (A)  Each of (i) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/4%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii)
the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iv) if issued, the Corporation's 7.82%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v)
if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vi) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii)
if issued, the Corporation's 8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (viii) if issued, the Corporation's
8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share
and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's 8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, shall rank on a parity with ESOP
Preferred Stock as to dividends and as to distribution of assets upon
dissolution or liquidation.

          Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the
Corporation, as the same may be

                                      13
<PAGE>
 
amended, or in a Certificate of Designation of Rights and Preferences relating
to any subsequent series of Preferred Stock, the ESOP Preferred Stock shall rank
on a parity with all series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock, other than the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock to which the ESOP
Preferred Stock shall rank senior, as to dividends and as to the distribution of
assets upon dissolution or liquidation.

          (B)  The holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock (other than the
Corporation or its nominee) shall have the following voting rights:

          (1)  The holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on
all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation, voting
together with the holders of Common Stock as one class.  The holder of each
share of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a number of votes equal to
1.35 times the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of ESOP
Preferred Stock could be converted on the record date for determining the stock
holders entitled to vote; it being understood that whenever the "Conversion
Price" (as defined in Section 5 hereof) is adjusted as provided in Section 9
hereof, the number of votes of the ESOP Preferred Stock shall also be corres
pondingly adjusted.  Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if the
governing body of the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities listing
service or exchange (each, an "Exchange") or any relevant governmental or
regulatory entity (each such entity, and each governing body of an Exchange, a
"Regulating Entity") shall have disapproved of such voting power or taken or
threatened any action against the Corporation or in respect of any of its
securities in accordance with Rule 19c-4 promulgated under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or any other rule or listing standard
of any Regulating Entity regarding the voting power of securities, or if the
Board of Directors determines in its sole judgment that any Regulating Entity
may so disapprove or take or threaten any such action, the holder of each share
of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a maximum number of votes
permissible (consistent with continued listing of the Corporation's securities
on any such Exchange) in accordance with the interpretations of any such rule or
listing standard by such Regulating Entity, as determined by the Board.

          (2)  Except as otherwise required by law or set forth herein, holders
of ESOP Preferred Stock shall have no

                                      14
<PAGE>
 
special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the
extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth
herein) for the taking of any corporate action, including the issuance of any
Preferred Stock now or hereafter authorized; provided, however, that the vote of
at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, voting
separately as a series, shall be necessary to approve any alteration, amendment
or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or any
alteration, amendment or repeal of any provision of the resolutions relating to
the designation, preferences and rights of ESOP Preferred Stock (including any
such alteration, amendment or  repeal effected by any merger or consolidation in
which the Corporation is the surviving or resulting corporation, but not
including any alteration or amendment of rights expressly provided for in
Section (B)(1) above or in Section 2(A)(1)), if such amendment, alteration or
repeal would alter or change the powers, preferences, or special rights of the
ESOP Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely.

     5.  Conversion into Common Stock.
         -----------------------------

          (A)  A holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled, at
any time prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such
shares pursuant to Section 6, 7 or 8 hereof, to cause any or all of such shares
to be converted into shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common
Stock into which each share of the ESOP Preferred Stock may be converted shall
be determined by dividing the Liquidation Price in effect at the time of
conversion by the Conversion Price (as hereinafter defined) in effect at the
time of conversion. The initial Conversion Price per share at which shares of
Common Stock shall be issuable upon conversion of any shares of ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be $10.871, subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided; that is,
a conversion rate initially equivalent to three and three-tenths (3-3/10) shares
of Common Stock for each share of ESOP Preferred Stock, which is subject to
adjustment as hereinafter provided.

          (B)  Any holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock desiring to convert
such shares into shares of Common Stock shall surrender, if certificated, the
certificate or certificates representing the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or
accompanied by duly executed stock

                                      15
<PAGE>
 
powers relating thereto), or if uncertificated, a duly executed stock power
relating thereto, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or the
offices of the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or
offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from
time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the ESOP Preferred Stock
by the Corporation or the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock,
accompanied by written notice of conversion.  Such notice of conversion shall
specify (i) the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and the
name or names in which such holder wishes the Common Stock and any shares of
ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, and (ii) the address
to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of a confirmation of such
conversion, if uncertificated, or any new certificates which may be issued upon
such conversion, if certificated.

          (C)  Upon surrender, if certificated, of a certificate representing a
share or shares of ESOP Preferred Stock for conversion, or if uncertificated, of
a duly executed stock power relating thereto, the Corporation shall issue and
send by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the holder thereof or to such holder's designee, at the
address designated by such holder, if certificated, a certificate or
certificates for, or if uncertificated, confirmation of, the number of shares of
Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there
shall have been surrendered shares of ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which
are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder or
such holder's designee, if certificated, a new certificate or certificates
representing the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock that shall not have
been converted, or if uncertificated, confirmation of the number of shares of
ESOP Preferred Stock that shall not have been converted.

          (D)  The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a
conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made at
the option of the holder thereof shall be effective as of the earlier of (i) the
delivery to such holder or such holder's designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, if
certificated, or confirmation, if uncertificated, and (ii) the commencement of
business on the second business day after the surrender of the certificate or
certificates, if certificated, or a duly executed stock power, if
uncertificated, for the shares of

                                      16
<PAGE>
 
ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted.  On and after the effective date of
conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive Common Stock issuable upon
such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or
holders of such shares of Common Stock, and no allowance or adjust ment shall be
made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record on any
date prior to such effective date.  The Corporation shall not be obligated to
pay any dividend that may have accrued or have been declared but that is not
payable to holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock if the Dividend Payment
Date for such dividend is on or subsequent to the effective date of conversion
of such shares.

          (E)  The Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of
ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable
upon any conversion of such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof
may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.

          (F)  The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out
of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or treasury Common Stock, solely for
issuance upon the conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be
issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.

     6.  Redemption at the Option of the Corporation.
         --------------------------------------------

          (A)  The ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Corporation at any time after September 19, 2000, out
of funds legally available therefor, at a redemption price per share equal to
100% of the Liquidation Price plus an amount equal to all accrued (whether or
not accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption.
Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Corporation in cash or
shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (E)
of this Section 6.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on
shares of ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and
all rights of the holder in respect of such shares shall cease, except the right
to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such
shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Corporation, to be held
as treasurer shares or to be retired, in either case as provided in Sec-
tion 1(A).  If less than all of the

                                      17
<PAGE>
 
outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the Corporation
shall either redeem a portion of the shares of each holder determined pro rata
based on the number of shares held by each holder or shall select the shares to
be redeemed by lot, as may be determined by the Board.

          (B)  Notice of redemption will be sent to the holders of ESOP
Preferred Stock at the address on the books of the Corporation or any transfer
agent for ESOP Preferred Stock by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not
less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date or in any other manner provided by law. Each notice shall state:  (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such

holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates,
if certificated, for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to
accrue on such redemption date; (vi) whether such redemption price should be
paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock; and (vii) the conversion rights of
the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be
exercised and the Conversion Price and number of shares of Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of a share of ESOP Preferred Stock at the time.  Upon surrender
of the certificates, if certificated, for any shares so called for redemption,
or upon the date fixed for redemption, if uncertificated, such shares, if not
previously converted, shall be redeemed by the Corporation as of the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth
in this Section 6.

          (C)  The Corporation may, in its sole discretion and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in paragraph (A) of this Section 6, at any time within
one year after either of the following events:

          (i) there shall be a change in the federal tax law or regulations of
    the United States of America or of an interpretation or application of such
    law or regulations or of a determination by a court of competent
    jurisdiction that in any case has the effect of precluding the Corporation
    from claiming (other than for purposes of calculating any alternative
    minimum tax) any of the tax deductions for dividends paid on

                                      18
<PAGE>
 
    the ESOP Preferred Stock when such dividends are used as provided under
    Section 404(k)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
    "Code"), as in effect on December 31, 1995.

          (ii) the Corporation shall certify to the holders of the ESOP
    Preferred Stock that the Corporation has determined in good faith that the
    Plan either is not qualified as a "stock bonus plan" within the meaning of
    Section 401(a) of the Code or is not an "employee stock ownership plan"
    within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(7) of the Code,

elect either to (a) redeem, out of funds legally available therefor, any or all
of such ESOP Preferred Stock for cash or, if the Corporation so elects, in
shares of Common Stock, or a combination of such shares of Common Stock and
cash, as permitted by paragraph (E) of this Section 6, at a redemption price
equal to (x) if the relevant event is as provided in clause (i) above, the
Liquidation Price per share on the date fixed for redemption, plus an amount
equal to accrued (whether or not accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon to
the date fixed for redemption or (y) if the relevant event is as provided in
clause (ii) above, an amount calculated on the basis of the redemption prices
provided in paragraph (D) of this Section 6 on the date fixed for redemption or
(b) exchange any or all of such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock for securities of
at least equal value (as determined by an independent appraiser) that constitute
"qualifying employer securities" with respect to a holder of ESOP Preferred
Stock within the meaning of Section 409(l) of the Code and Section 407(d)(5) of
the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or
any successor provisions of law.  If the Corporation elects to redeem any or all
of the ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to clause (a) of the preceding sentence,
notice of such redemption shall be given as required in paragraph (B) of this
Section 6, and if the Corporation elects to exchange any or all of the ESOP
Preferred Stock for securities of at least equal value pursuant to clause (b) of
the preceding sentence, it will cause notice of such election to be sent to the
holders of ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the
Corporation or any transfer agent for ESOP Preferred Stock by first class mail,
postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60)
days prior to the date of exchange or in any other manner required by law. Each
notice shall state:  (i) the exchange date; (ii) the total number of shares of
ESOP Preferred Stock to be

                                      19
<PAGE>
 
exchanged and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
exchanged, the number of shares held by such holder to be exchanged; (iii) the
exchange rate; (iv) the place or places where certificates, if certificated, for
such shares are to be surrendered for exchange; and (v) that dividends on the
shares to be exchanged will cease to accrue an such exchange date.

          (D)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph (A) of this
Section 6, in the event that the Plan is, or contributions thereto are,
terminated, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, call for redemption any
or all of the then outstanding ESOP Preferred Stock, upon notice as required in
paragraph (B) of this Section 6, out of funds legally available therefor, at a
redemption price per share equal to the following percentages of the Liquidation
Price in effect on the date fixed for redemption:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
                During the Twelve-                        
                   Month Period           Percentage of   
              Beginning September 19,   Liquidation Price 
             -------------------------  ----------------- 
             <S>                        <C>               
                       1996                    103.10
                       1997                    102.33
                       1998                    101.55
                       1999                    100.78
                       2000                    100.00 
</TABLE>

and thereafter at 100%, plus, in each case, an amount equal to all accrued
(whether or not accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Corporation in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by
paragraph (E) of this Section 6.  From and after the date fixed for redemption,
dividends on shares of ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to
accrue and all rights of the holder in respect of such shares shall cease,
except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Corporation, to be held as treasury shares or to be retired, in either case as
provided in Section 1(A).

          (E)  The Corporation, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock in
cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such shares and cash,
any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purpose at their Fair
Market Value (as defined in paragraph 9(H)(2)); provided, however, that in
calculating

                                      20
<PAGE>
 
their Fair Market Value the Adjustment Period (as defined in paragraph 9(H)(2))
shall be deemed to be the five (5) consecutive trading days preceding the date
of redemption.

          7.  Redemption at the Option of the Holder.
              ---------------------------------------

          (A)  Unless otherwise provided by law, shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the option of the holder, at any time
and from time to time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than five
business days prior to the date fixed by the holder in such notice, when and to
the extent necessary for such holder to provide for distributions required to be
made under, or to satisfy an investment election provided to participants in
accordance with, the Plan or any successor plan or when the holder elects to
redeem shares of ESOP Preferred Stock in connection with any Preferred Dividend
(a "Dividend Redemption"), in shares of Common Stock legally available therefor,
at a redemption price equal to the higher of (x) the Liquidation Price per share
on the date fixed for redemption and (y) the Fair Market Value (as defined in
paragraph 9(H)(2)) of the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share
of ESOP Preferred Stock is convertible at the time the notice of such redemption
is given, plus in either case an amount equal to accrued (whether or not
accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption (such
higher price on any date, together with such accrued and unpaid dividends, the
"Special Redemption Price").  At the election of the Corporation, such redemp-
tion may instead be made out of funds legally available therefor in cash or a
combination of Common Stock and cash. Any shares of Common Stock shall be valued
for the purposes of redemption pursuant to this paragraph (A) as provided by
paragraph (E) of Section 6.  In the case of any Dividend Redemption, such holder
shall give the notice specified above on the fifth business day after the
related Dividend Payment Date and such redemption shall be effective as to such
number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock as shall equal (x) the aggregate amount
of such Preferred Dividends paid with respect to shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
allocated or credited to the accounts of participants in the Plan or any
successor plan that are used to repay any loan associated with such allocated or
credited shares divided by (y) the Special Redemption Price specified above in
this paragraph (A).

               (B) Unless otherwise provided by law, shares of ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the option of the holder, at any
time and from time to

                                      21
<PAGE>
 
time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than five business days prior
to the date fixed by the holder in such notice, upon certification by such
holder to the Corporation of the following events:  (i) when and to the extent
necessary for such holder to make any payments of principal, interest or premium
due and payable (whether voluntary, scheduled, upon acceleration or otherwise)
upon any obligations of the trust established under the Plan in connection with
the acquisition of ESOP Preferred Stock or any indebtedness, expenses or costs
incurred by the holder for the benefit of the Plan; or (ii) when and if it shall
be established to the satisfaction of the holder that the Plan has not initially
been determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be qualified as a "stock
bonus plan" and an "employee stock ownership plan" within the meaning of Section
401(a) or 4975(e)(7) of the Code, respectively, in shares of Common Stock
legally available therefor, at a redemption price equal to the Liquidation Price
plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed
for redemption.  At the election of the Corporation, such redemption may instead
be made out of funds legally available therefor in cash or a combination of
Common Stock and cash.  Any shares of Common Stock shall be valued for the
purposes of redemption pursuant to this paragraph (B) as provided by paragraph
(E) of Section 6.

          8.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.
              ---------------------------

          (A)  If the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation or merger
or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to which the outstanding shares
of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed,
reclassified or converted solely into securities of any successor or resulting
company (including the Corpora tion) that constitute "qualifying employer
securities" with respect to a holder of ESOP Preferred Stock within the meanings
of Section 409(l) of the Code and Section 407(d)(5) of ERISA, or any successor
provision of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional
shares, if any, then, in such event, the terms of such consolidation or merger
or similar transaction shall provide that the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock of
such holder shall be converted into or exchanged for and shall become preferred
securities of such successor or resulting company, having in respect of such
company insofar as possible (taking into account, without limitation, any
requirements relating to the listing of such preferred securities on any
national securities exchange or the qualification of such preferred securities
for trading in any over-the-counter market) the

                                      22
<PAGE>
 
same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof),
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction; provided, however,
that after such transaction each security into which the ESOP Preferred Stock is
so converted or for which it is exchanged shall be convertible, pursuant to the
terms and conditions provided by Section 5 hereof, into the number and kind of
qualifying employer securities receivable by a holder equivalent to the number
of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock could
have been converted pursuant to Section 5 hereof immediately prior to such
transaction and provided further that if by virtue of the structure of such
transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with
respect to the nature and kind of considera tion to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
ESOP Preferred Stock, then such election shall be deemed to be solely for
"qualifying employer securities" (together, if applicable, with a cash payment
in lieu of fractional shares) with the effect provided above on the basis of the
number and kind of qualifying employer securities receivable by a holder of the
number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
could have been converted pursuant to Section 5 hereof immediately prior to such
transaction (it being understood that if the kind or amount of qualifying
employer securities receivable in respect of each share of Common Stock upon
such transaction is not the same for each such share, then the kind and amount
of qualifying employer securities deemed to be receivable in respect of each
share of Common Stock for purposes of this proviso shall be the kind and amount
so receivable per share of Common Stock by a plurality of such shares).  The
rights of the ESOP Preferred Stock as preferred equity of such successor or
resulting company shall successively be subject to adjustments pursuant to
Section 9 hereof after any such transaction as nearly equivalent as practicable
to the adjustments provided for by such Section prior to such transaction.  The
Corporation shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all the terms of this paragraph (A) are complied with.

          (B)  If the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation or merger
or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to which the outstanding shares
of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,

                                      23
<PAGE>
 
reclassified or converted into other shares or securities or cash or any other
property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is
constituted solely of qualifying employer securities that are common stock or
common equity (as referred to in paragraph (A) of this Section 8) and cash
payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares or other interests,
outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part
of the Corporation or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (C) of this
Section 8), be automatically converted immediately prior to the consummation of
such merger, consolidation or similar transaction into shares of Common Stock at
the Conversion Price then in effect.

          (C)  If the Corporation shall enter into any agreement providing for
any consolidation or merger or similar transaction described in paragraph (B) of
this Section 8, then the Corporation shall as soon as practicable thereafter
(and in any event at least ten (10) business days before consummation of such
transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to
each holder of ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to
elect, by written notice to the Corporation, to receive, upon consummation of
such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), out of funds
legally available therefor, from the Corporation or the successor of the
Corporation, in redemption of such ESOP Preferred Stock, in lieu of any cash or
other securities which such holder would otherwise be entitled to receive under
paragraph (B) of this Section 8, a cash payment equal to the Liquidation Price
per share on the date fixed for such transaction, plus an amount equal to
accrued (whether or not accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon to the date
fixed for such transaction.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective
unless given to the Corporation prior to the close of business of the fifth
business day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Corporation
or the successor of the Corporation shall waive such prior notice, but any
notice or redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of
withdrawal given to the Corporation prior to the close of business on the fifth
business day prior to consummation of such transaction.

          9.  Anti-dilution Adjustments.
              --------------------------

          (A)(1)  In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time
to time while any of the shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, (i)
pay a dividend or make a distribution in respect of the Common Stock in shares

                                      24
<PAGE>
 
of Common Stock or (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a
greater number of shares, in each case whether by reclassification of shares,
recapitalization of the Corporation (excluding a recapitalization or reclass-
ification effected by a merger or consolidation to which Section 8 applies) or
otherwise, then, in such event, the Conversion Price shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraphs (E) and (F) of this Section 9, automatically be
adjusted by dividing such Conversion Price by a fraction (the "Section 9(A)
Fraction"), the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such event.
Such adjustment to the Conversion Price shall be effective, upon payment of such
dividend or distribution in respect of the Common Stock, as of the record date
for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or
distribution (on a retroactive basis), and in the case of a subdivision shall
become effective immediately as of the effective date thereof.  An adjustment to
the Conversion Price pursuant to this Section 9(A)(1) shall have no effect on
the Liquidation Price or the Preferred Dividend Rate of the ESOP Preferred
Stock.

          (2)  In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to
    time while any of the shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding,
    combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a lesser number of
    shares, whether by reclassification of shares, recapitalization of the
    Corporation (excluding a recapitalization or reclassification effected by a
    merger, consolidation or other transaction to which Section 8 applies) or
    otherwise, then, in such event, the Conversion Price shall, subject to the
    provisions of paragraph (F) of this Section 9, automatically be adjusted by
    dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately before such event by the
    Section 9(A) Fraction. An adjustment to the Conversion Price made pursuant
    to this paragraph 9(A)(2) shall be given effect immediately as of the
    effective date of such combination and shall have no effect on the
    Liquidation Price or the Preferred Dividend Rate of the ESOP Preferred
    Stock.

          (B)  In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to
    time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue
    to holders of shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribu tion,
    including by way of a reclassification of shares

                                      25
<PAGE>
 
    or a recapitalization of the Corporation, any right or warrant to purchase
    shares of Common Stock (but not including as a right or warrant for this
    purpose any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common
    Stock) for a consideration having a Fair Market Value (as hereinafter
    defined) per share less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
    Stock on the date of issuance of such right or warrant (other than pursuant
    to any employee or director incentive, compensation or benefit plan or
    arrangement of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation
    heretofore or hereafter adopted), then, in such event, the Conversion Price
    shall, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (E) and (F) of this Sec-
    tion 9, automatically be adjusted by dividing such Conversion Price by a
    fraction (the "Section 9(B) Fraction"), the numerator of which is the number
    of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of
    rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that
    could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights and warrants and
    the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
    outstanding immediately before such issuance of warrants or rights plus the
    number of shares of Common Stock that could be purchased at the Fair Market
    Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance for the
    maximum aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such
    rights and warrants. Such adjustment to the Conversion Price shall be
    effective upon such issuance of rights or warrants. An adjustment to the
    Conversion Price pursuant to this Section 9(B) shall have no effect on the
    Liquidation Price or the Preferred Dividend Rate of the ESOP Preferred
    Stock.

          (C)(1)  In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time
    to time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding,
    issue, sell or exchange shares of Common Stock (other than pursuant to (x)
    any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock
    (including as such a right or warrant for this purpose any security
    convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) or (y) any
    employee or director incentive, compensation or benefit plan or arrangement
    of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or
    hereafter adopted) at a purchase price per share less than the Fair Market
    Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of such issuance, sale or
    exchange, then, in such

                                      26
<PAGE>
 
    event, the Conversion Price shall, subject to the provisions of paragraphs
    (E) and (F) of this Section 9, automatically be adjusted by dividing such
    Conversion Price by a fraction (the "Section 9(C)(1) Fraction"), the
    numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
    immediately before such issuance, sale or exchange plus the number of shares
    of Common Stock so issued, sold or exchanged and the denominator of which is
    the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such
    issuance, sale or exchange plus the number of shares of Common Stock that
    could be purchased at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at
    the time of such issuance, sale or exchange for the maximum aggregate
    consideration paid therefor.

          (2)  In the event that the Corporation shall, at any time or from time
    to time while any ESOP Preferred Stock is outstanding, issue, sell or
    exchange any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock
    (including as such a right or warrant for this purpose any security
    convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock other than
    pursuant to any employee or director incentive, compensation or benefit plan
    or arrangement of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation
    heretofore or hereafter adopted) for a consideration having a Fair Market
    Value, on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange, less than the Non-
    Dilutive Amount (as hereinafter defined), then, in such event, the
    Conversion Price shall, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (E) and (F)
    of this Section 9, automatically be adjusted by dividing such Conversion
    Price by a fraction (the "Section 9(C)(2) Fraction"), the numerator of which
    is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such
    issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common
    Stock that could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights and
    warrants and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common
    Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants
    plus the number of shares of Common Stock that could be purchased at the
    Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance
    for the total of (x) the maximum aggregate consideration payable at the time
    of the issuance, sale or exchange of such right or warrant and (y) the
    maximum aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such
    rights or warrants.

                                      27
<PAGE>
 
          (3)  An adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Section
    9(C) shall be effective upon the effective date of any issuance, sale or
    exchange described in paragraph (1) or (2) above. Any such adjustment shall
    have no effect on the Liquidation Price or the Preferred Dividend Rate of
    the ESOP Preferred Stock.

          (D)  In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to
    time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, make
    an Extraordinary Distribution (as hereinafter defined) in respect of the
    Common Stock, whether by dividend, distribution, reclassification of shares
    or recapitalization of the Corporation (including capitalization or
    reclassification effected by a merger or consolidation to which Section 8
    does not apply) or effect a Pro Rata Repurchase (as hereinafter defined) of
    Common Stock, then, in such event, the Conversion Price shall, subject to
    the provisions of paragraphs (E) and (F) of this Section 9, automatically be
    adjusted by dividing such Conversion Price by a fraction (the "Section 9(D)
    Fraction"), the numerator of which is the product of (a) the number of
    shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary
    Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase minus, in the case of a Pro Rata
    Repurchase, the number of shares of Common Stock repurchased by the
    Corporation multiplied by (b) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
    Stock on the day before the ex-dividend date with respect to an Extra-
    ordinary Distribution that is paid in cash and on the distribution date with
    respect to an Extraordinary Distribution that is paid other than in cash, or
    on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any
    tender offer that is a Pro Rata Repurchase or on the date of purchase with
    respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer, as the case
    may be, and the denominator of which is (i) the product of (x) the number of
    shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary
    Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase multiplied by (y) the Fair Market Value
    of a share of Common Stock on the day before the ex-dividend date with
    respect to an Extraordinary Distribution that is paid in cash and on the
    distribution date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution that is paid
    other than in cash, or on the applicable expiration date (including all
    extensions thereof) of any tender offer that is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or on
    the date of purchase with respect to

                                      28
<PAGE>
 
    any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer, as the case may be,
    minus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the Extraordinary Distribution or the
    aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, as the case may be. The
    Corporation shall send each holder of ESOP Preferred Stock (i) notice of its
    intent to make any Extraordinary Distribution and (ii) notice of any offer
    by the Corporation to make a Pro Rata Repurchase, in each case at the same
    time as, or as soon as practicable after, such offer is first communicated
    to holders of Common Stock or, in the case of an Extraordinary
    Distribution, the announcement of a record date in accordance with the rules
    of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to
    trading. Such notice shall indicate the intended record date and the amount
    and nature of such dividend or distribution, or the number of shares subject
    to such offer for a Pro Rata Repurchase and the purchase price payable by
    the Corporation pursuant to such offer, as well as the Conversion Price and
    the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of ESOP Preferred
    Stock may be converted at such time. An adjustment to the Conversion Price
    pursuant to this Section 9(D) shall be effective (i) in the case of an
    Extraordinary Dividend as of the record date for the determination of
    holders entitled to receive such Extraordinary Dividend (on a retroactive
    basis) and (ii) in the case of a Pro Rata Repurchase upon the expiration
    date thereof (if such Pro Rata Repurchase is a tender offer) or the
    effective date thereof (if such Pro Rata Repurchase is not a tender offer).
    Any such adjustment shall have no effect on the Liquidation Price or the
    Preferred Dividend Rate of the ESOP Preferred Stock.

          (E)  The Board shall have the authority to determine that any
    adjustment to the Conversion Price provided for in paragraph (A)(1), (B),
    (C) or (D) of this Section 9 shall not be made (or if already made, to
    determine that such adjustment shall be cancelled prospectively), and in
    lieu thereof to declare a dividend in respect of the ESOP Preferred Stock in
    shares of ESOP Preferred Stock (a "Special Dividend") in such a manner that
    a holder of ESOP Preferred Stock will become a holder of that number of
    shares of ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the product of the number of such
    shares held prior to such event times the Section 9(A), Section 9(B),
    Section 9(C)(1), Section 9(C)(2) or Section 9(D) Fraction, as appli-

                                      29
<PAGE>
 
    cable. The declaration of such a Special Dividend shall be authorized, if at
    all, by the Board no later than 30 calendar days following the authorization
    by the Board (or by a committee duly authorized by the Board) of the
    transaction or other event described in any of the foregoing paragraphs
    (A)(1), (B), (C) or (D) that would otherwise result in an adjustment to the
    Conversion Price being made pursuant to any such paragraphs, and if the
    Board does not authorize the declaration of a Special Dividend by the end of
    such 30-day period, then no such Special Dividend shall be declared and the
    adjustment to the Conversion Price provided for in paragraph (A)(1), (B),
    (C) or (D) of this Section 9 shall become final and binding on the
    Corporation and all stockholders of the Corporation. Concurrently with the
    declaration of any Special Dividend pursuant to this paragraph (E), the
    Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Preferred Dividend Rate of
    all shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by dividing the
    Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Preferred Dividend Rate,
    respectively, in effect immediately before such event by the Section 9(A),
    Section 9(B), Section 9(C)(1), Section 9(C)(2) or Section 9(D) Fraction, as
    appli cable.

          (F)  Unless the Board determines otherwise, and notwithstanding any
    other provision of this Section 9, any adjustment to the Conversion Price
    provided for in any of paragraphs (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this Section 9
    shall not be made unless such adjustment would require an increase or
    decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the Conversion Price and,
    similarly, the Board shall not declare any Special Dividend pursuant to
    paragraph (E) of this Section 9 unless such Special Dividend or adjustment
    would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the
    number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock outstanding. Any lesser adjustment
    to the Conversion Price or Special Dividend shall be carried forward and
    shall be made no later than the time of, and together with, the next
    subsequent adjustment to the Conversion Price or Special Dividend which,
    together with any adjustment or adjustments or Special Dividend or Dividends
    so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least one
    percent (1%) of the Conversion Price or an increase or decrease of at least
    one percent (1%) in the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
    outstanding, whichever the case be.

                                      30
<PAGE>
 
          (G)  If the Corporation shall make any dividend or distribution on the
    Common Stock or issue any Common Stock, other capital stock or other
    security of the Corporation or any rights or warrants to purchase or acquire
    any such security, which transaction does not result in an adjustment to the
    Conversion Price or to the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock out-
    standing pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, the Board
    may, in its sole discretion, consider whether such action is of such a
    nature that some type of equitable adjustment should be made in respect of
    such transaction. If in such case the Board determines that some type of
    adjustment should be made, an adjustment shall be made effective as of such
    date as determined by the Board. The determination of the Board as to
    whether some type of adjustment should be made pursuant to the foregoing
    provisions of this Section 9(G), and, if so, as to what adjustment should be
    made and when, shall be final and binding on the Corporation and all
    stockholders of the Corporation. The Corporation shall be entitled, but not
    required, to make such additional adjustments, in addition to those required
    by the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, as shall be necessary in
    order that any dividend or distribution in shares of capital stock of the
    Corporation, subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of the
    Corporation or any reclassification of the Corporation shall not be taxable
    to holders of the Common Stock.

          (H)  For purposes hereof, the following definitions shall apply:

          (1)  "Extraordinary Distribution" shall mean any dividend or other
distribution to holders of Common Stock (effected while any of the shares of
ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding) of (i) cash or (ii) any shares of capital
stock of the Corporation (other than shares of Common Stock), other securities
of the Corporation (other than securities of the type referred to in paragraph
(B) of this Section 9), evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any
other person or any other property (including shares of any subsidiary of the
Corporation), or any combination of the foregoing, where the aggregate amount of
such cash dividend or other distribution together with the amount of all cash
dividends and other distributions made during the preceding period of twelve
months, when combined with the aggregate amount of all Pro Rata Repurchases (for
this purpose, including only that portion of the aggregate

                                      31
<PAGE>
 
purchase price of such Pro Rata Repurchase that is in excess of the Fair Market
Value of the Common Stock repurchased as determined on the applicable expiration
date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer
that is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or the date of purchase with respect to any other
Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer or exchange offer) made during
such period, exceeds twelve and one-half percent (12-1/2%) of the aggregate Fair
Market Value of all shares of Common Stock outstanding on the day before the ex-
dividend date with respect to such Extraordinary Distribution that is paid in
cash and on the distribution date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution
that is paid other than in cash.  The Fair Market Value of an Extraordinary
Distribution for purposes of paragraph (D) of this Section 9 shall be the sum of
the Fair Market Value of such Extraordinary Distribution plus the aggregate
amount of any cash dividends or other distributions that are not Extraordinary
Distributions made during such twelve-month period and not previously included
in the calculation of an adjustment pursuant to paragraph (D) of this Sec-
tion 9, but shall exclude the aggregate amount of regular quarterly dividends
declared by the Board and paid by the Corporation in such twelve-month period.

          (2)  "Fair Market Value" shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or
any other class of capital stock or securities of the Corporation or any other
issuer that are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices (as
hereinafter defined) of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment
Period (as hereinafter defined). "Current Market Price" of publicly traded
shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of
the Corporation or any other issuer for a day shall mean the last reported sales
price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of
the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if such security is
not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the
principal national securities exchange on which such security is listed or
admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national
securities exchange, on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotation System ("NASDAQ") National Market System or, if such security is not
quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked
prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if
bid and asked prices for such security on such day shall not have been reported
through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and

                                      32
<PAGE>
 
asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member
firm regularly making a market in such security selected for such purpose by the
Board. "Adjustment Period" shall mean the period of five consecutive trading
days, selected by the Board during the twenty (20) trading days preceding, and
including, the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be
determined.  The "Fair Market Value" of any security that is not publicly traded
or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof as determined by an
independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of
such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board, or, if no such
investment banking or appraisal firm is in the good faith judgment of the Board
available to make such determination, as determined in good faith by the Board.

          (3)  "Non-Dilutive Amount" in respect of an issuance, sale or exchange
by the Corporation of any right or warrant to purchase, or acquire shares of
Common Stock (including any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares
of Common Stock) shall mean the difference between (i) the product of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day preceding the first public
announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by the maximum number
of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired on such date upon the exercise
in full of such rights or warrants (including upon the conversion or exchange of
all such convertible or exchangeable securities), whether or not exercisable (or
convertible or exchangeable) at such date, and (ii) the aggregate amount payable
pursuant to such right or warrant to purchase or acquire such maximum number of
shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that in no event shall the Non-
Dilutive Amount be less than zero.  For purposes of the foregoing sentence, in
the case of a security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common
Stock, the amount payable pursuant to a right or warrant to purchase or acquire
shares of Common Stock shall be the Fair Market Value of such security on the
date of the issuance, sale or exchange of such security by the Corporation.

          (4)  "Pro Rata Repurchase" shall mean any purchase of shares or Common
Stock by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof, whether for cash, shares of
capital stock of the Corporation, other securities of the Corporation,
evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person or any other
property (including shares of a subsidiary of the Corporation), or any
combination thereof,

                                      33
<PAGE>
 
effected while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding,
pursuant to any tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) of the
Exchange Act, or any successor provision of law, or pursuant to any other offer
available to substantially all holders of Common Stock; provided, however, that
no purchase of shares by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof made in open
market transactions shall be deemed a Pro Rata Repurchase.  For purposes of this
Section 9(H), shares shall be deemed to have been purchased by the Corporation
or any subsidiary thereof "in open market transactions" if they have been
purchased substantially in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 as in
effect under the Exchange Act on the date shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are
initially issued by the Corporation or on such other terms and conditions as the
Board shall have determined are reasonably designed to prevent such purchases
from having a material effect on the trading market for the Common Stock.

          (I)  Whenever an adjustment to the Conversion Price of the ESOP
Preferred Stock is required pursuant to this Section 9, the Corporation shall
forthwith place on file with the transfer agent for the Common Stock and the
ESOP Preferred Stock, if there be one, and with the Treasurer of the
Corporation, a statement signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of
the Corporation stating the adjusted Conversion Price determined as provided
herein.  In addition, whenever a Special Dividend is declared pursuant to
paragraph (E) of this Section 9, (i) the maximum number of shares of ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying 3,902,438 (or such other number
as shall be the maximum number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock in effect prior
to the authorization of such Special Dividend) by the Section 9(A), Section
9(B), Section 9(C)(1), Section 9(C)(2) or Section 9(D) Fraction, as the case may
be, (ii) the Board shall take action as is necessary so that a sufficient number
of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are designated with respect to any increase in
the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to be outstanding as a result of
such Special Dividend and (iii) the Corporation shall forthwith place on file
with the transfer agent for the Common Stock and the ESOP Preferred Stock, if
there be one, and with the Treasurer of the Corporation, a statement signed by
the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation stating the adjusted
maximum number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, Conversion Price, Liquidation
Price and Preferred Dividend Rate determined as provided herein.  The statement
required by either of the two preceding sentences shall set forth in

                                      34
<PAGE>
 
reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show the reason and the
manner of computing such adjustments, including any determination of Fair Market
Value involved in such computation.  Promptly after each adjustment to the
maximum number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, Conversion Price, the
Liquidation Price, the Preferred Dividend Rate, or the number of shares of ESOP
Preferred Stock outstanding, the Corporation shall mail a notice thereof and of
the then prevailing maximum number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, Conversion
Price, Liquidation Price, Preferred Dividend Rate and number of shares of ESOP
Preferred Stock outstanding to each holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock.

          10.  Miscellaneous.
               --------------

          (A)  All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and all
notices hereunder shall be deemed to have given upon the earlier of receipt
thereof of three (3) business days after the mailing thereof if sent by
registered mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for
such notice under the terms hereof) with postage prepaid, addressed:  (i) if to
the Corporation, to its office at Two World Trade Center, New York, New York
10048 (Attention:  Secretary) or to the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred
Stock, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted hereof or (ii)
if to any holder of the ESOP Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may
be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock record
books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent
for Common Stock) or (iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such
holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.

          (B)  The term "Common Stock" as used herein means the Corporation's
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, as the same exists at the date of
filing of this Certificate of Designation pursuant to Section 151 of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or any other class of stock resulting
from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock consisting
solely of changes in par value, or par value to without par value, or from
without par value to par value.  In the event that, at any time as a result of
an adjustment made pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the holder of any shares of the
ESOP Preferred Stock upon thereafter surrendering such shares for conversion
shall become entitled to receive any shares or other securities of the
Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, the anti-dilution provisions
contained in Section 9

                                      35
<PAGE>
 
hereof shall apply in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable
to the provisions with respect to Common Stock, and the provisions of Sections 1
through 8 and 10 hereof respect to the Common Stock shall apply on like or
similar terms to any such other shares or securities.

          (C)  The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and
documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or
delivery of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other
securities issued on account of ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant thereto or
certificates representing such shares or securities.  The Corporation shall not,
however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any
transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the
shares of ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other
securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment
to any person with respect to any shares or securities other than a payment to
the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such
issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to
such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any
such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such
tax has been paid or is not payable.

          (D)  In the event that a holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock
to be issued upon conversion or exchange of such shares should be registered or
to whom payment upon redemption of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock should be made
or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such
shares, or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to
register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the holder of such
ESOP Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the
certificate or certificates or other documentation repre senting such shares, or
such payment, to the address of such other holder shown on the records of the
Corporation.

          (E)  The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time discharge and
change, a transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock.  Upon any such
appointment or discharge of a transfer agent, the Corporation, shall send notice
thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each holder of record of ESOP
Preferred Stock.

                                      36
<PAGE>
 
          B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                  DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                  By:     /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                       ---------------------------
                       Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                       Title: Executive Vice President,
                              General Counsel & Secretary

                                      37
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                       7-3/8% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK
                             ($200.00 Stated Value)
                                       OF
                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                         ______________________________

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the
                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                         ______________________________

     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 1,000,000 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the
Corporation has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes
the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

        1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
            ------------------------------------------                         
     series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the 
     7-3/8%

                                      38
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated value of
$200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock").  The stated value per
share of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered to
be a determination by the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the
Corporation.  The number of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be
1,000,000.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 7-3/8% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, calculated as a percentage of the
stated value, will be payable quarterly on February 28, May 30, August 30 and
November 30 (each a "dividend payment date"). Dividends on shares of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance
of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in
arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the
Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days
preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or the
Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or
any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis
of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends may be declared or paid
or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock (as defined in paragraph
9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends unless there shall also be
or have been declared and paid or set apart for payment on the Cumulative
Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend payment periods of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend payment date of such
Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to the respective amounts of
dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on such Parity Preferred Stock,
on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid through the dividend payment
period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock next preceding such dividend
payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes of this Certificate of
Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of the Board to whom the
Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, delegates authority to

                                      39
<PAGE>
 
perform the functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         -----------------------                                                
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock)

                                      40
<PAGE>
 
plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared)
accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
to the date of final distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the
liquidation preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor
sufficient to provide for payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of
the Liquidation Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in
any distribution of assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or
proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred
Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid,
then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such
holders ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable
on such shares if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the
purposes hereof, neither a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or
into any other corporation, nor a merger of any other corporation with or into
the Corporation, nor a sale or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's
assets for cash or securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                        
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

        (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
     Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
     payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
     equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
     holders of the outstanding shares

                                      41
<PAGE>
 
of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of
any one or more other class or series of stock upon which like voting rights
have been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a class), to elect
two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the Corporation's next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or set apart for payment, at
which time such right shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly
provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default
of the character above mentioned.  Upon any termination of the right of the
holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to vote for directors
as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected
by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall terminate
immediately.

Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may be
removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby created
may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the

                                      42
<PAGE>
 
time and all other classes or series of stock upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a class) given in person
or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall
be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:

     (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any class or
  series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(a)
  hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

     (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation
  or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation
  (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that would materially and
  adversely affect any power, preference, or special right of the shares of
  Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that
  any increase in the amount of authorized Common Stock or authorized Preferred
  Stock or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of
  Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Common Stock
  or Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the
  shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
  and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
  shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such powers,
  preferences or special rights.

     (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds shall have been
deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days'

                                      43
<PAGE>
 
prior notice mailed to the holders of the shares to be redeemed at their
addresses as shown on the stock books of the Corporation; provided, however,
that shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to
August 30, 1998. Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an
amount equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside

                                      44
<PAGE>
 
by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption
date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after which reversion
the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look only to the
general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts payable upon
such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall be paid to
the Corporation from time to time.

     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

         (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
     dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the
     holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
     thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
     liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference
     or priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

                                      45
<PAGE>
 
                (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
        either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
        or both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
        redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from
        those of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such
        class or classes shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt
        of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or
        winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
        dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority of
        one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the holders
        of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred
        Stock" being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of
        Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
        dissolution or winding up, or both, as the context may require); and

                (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either
        as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
        if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative
        Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
        amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
        the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of
        such class or classes.

       The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
  Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
  with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a
  liquidation value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/4%
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
  (iii) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, with a
  liquidation value of $200.00 per share,(iv) if issued, the Corporation's 7.82%
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of

                                      46
<PAGE>
 
      $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative
      Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vi) if
      issued, the Corporation's 9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
      liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's
      8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
      share, (viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred
      Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued,
      the Corporation's 8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
      value of $200.00 per share.

                                      47
<PAGE>
 
     B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until, and
shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                        By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           ----------------------------
                                           Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel & Secretary

                                      48
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        7.82% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                         ------------------------------

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                         ------------------------------


     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 611,238 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation
has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

        1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
            ------------------------------------------                         
   series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the
   7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated
   value of $200.00 per share (the

                                      49
<PAGE>
 
"Cumulative Preferred Stock").  The stated value per share of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered to be a determination by
the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the Corporation.  The
maximum number of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be 611,238.  The
Cumulative Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 7.82% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on
February 28, May 30, August 30 and November 30 (each a "dividend payment date").
Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from
the date of initial issuance of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the
functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

                                      50
<PAGE>
 
     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided, that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         -----------------------                                                
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary of
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date

                                      51
<PAGE>
 
of final distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not
be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation
preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor sufficient to provide for
payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation
Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of
assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be
insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets,
or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such holders ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if
all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither
a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor a merger of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale
or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or
securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.   The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                         
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

                (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the
        shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock
        with respect to payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an
        aggregate number of days equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether
        or not consecutive, the holders of the outstanding shares of Cumulative
        Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one
        or more other class or series of stock upon which like

                                      52
<PAGE>
 
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a
class), to elect two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the
Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or set apart for
payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except as herein or by law
expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  Upon any termination of
the right of the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to
vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then
in office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
terminate immediately.

     Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may
be removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby
created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class) given

                                      53
<PAGE>
 
in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
following:

                (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any
        class or series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in
        paragraph 9(a) hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;
        or

                (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
        consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate
        of Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof)
        that would materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or
        special right of the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the
        holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of
        authorized Common Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or any increase or
        decrease in the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or the
        creation and issuance of other series of Common Stock or Preferred
        Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of
        Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and
        the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
        shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such powers,
        preferences or special rights.

     (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
 time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
 shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
 have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds shall have
 been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the

                                      54
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to November 30, 1998.
Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount
equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the
redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after
which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look
only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

                                      55
<PAGE>
 
     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

                (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as
        to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if
        the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the
        terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
        upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in
        preference or priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative
        Preferred Stock;

                (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
        either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
        or both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
        redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from
        those of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such
        class or classes shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt
        of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or
        winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
        dividend rates or

                                      56
<PAGE>
 
        liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other
        as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of
        Cumulative Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used
        to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Cumulative
        Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
        or winding up, or both, as the context may require); and

                (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either
        as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
        if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative
        Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
        amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
        the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of
        such class or classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      57
<PAGE>
 
     B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until, and
shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                        By:/s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           ----------------------------
                                        Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                        Title: Executive Vice President,
                                               General Counsel & Secretary

                                      58
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        7.80% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                          ---------------------------

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                          ---------------------------


     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
(the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series of Preferred
Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which shall consist of
1,150,000 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation has authority
to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers, designations,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such
series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the Certificate of
Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as follows:

     1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
         ------------------------------------------                         
  series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the 7.80%
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated value of
  $200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock"). The stated value per

                                      59
<PAGE>
 
share of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered to
be a determination by the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the
Corporation.  The maximum number of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
be 1,150,000.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 7.80% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on
February 28, May 30, August 30 and November 30 (each a "dividend payment date").
Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from
the date of initial issuance of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the
functions of the Board forth in this Certificate of Designation.

                                      60
<PAGE>
 
     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.   The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         -----------------------                                           
shall rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
prior to the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the
Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event
of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether
voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings,
before any distribution is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any
other such junior stock, an amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation
Preference" of a share of Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to
all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and
unpaid on the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date

                                      61
<PAGE>
 
of final distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not
be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation
preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor sufficient to provide for
payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation
Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of
assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be
insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets,
or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such holders ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if
all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither
a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor a merger of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale
or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or
securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                        
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

        (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
   Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
   payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
   equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
   holders of the outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have
   the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or series of
   stock upon which like

                                      62
<PAGE>
 
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a
class), to elect two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the
Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or set apart for
payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except as herein or by law
expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  Upon any termination of
the right of the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to
vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then
in office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
terminate immediately.

Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may be
removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby created
may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class)

                                      63
<PAGE>
 
given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
following:

        (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any class or
   series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(a)
   hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

        (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
   consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate of
   Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that would
   materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or special right of
   the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided,
   however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Common Stock or
   authorized Preferred Stock or any increase or decrease in the number of
   shares of any series of Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other
   series of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity
   with or junior to the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to
   the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
   dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely
   affect such powers, preferences or special rights.

     (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
 time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
 shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
 have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds shall have
 been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stocks
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the

                                      64
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to February 28, 1999.
Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount
equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declined) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the
redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after
which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look
only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

                                      65
<PAGE>
 
     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase or decrease or change
in the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

                (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as
     to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if
     the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the
     terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
     liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference
     or priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

                (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
     either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or
     both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
     redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those
     of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or
     classes shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends
     or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
     the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or

                                      66
<PAGE>
 
        liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other
        as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of
        Cumulative Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used
        to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Cumulative
        Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
        or winding up, or both, as the context may require); and

            (c)  junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as
        to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if
        such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative
        Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
        amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
        the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock in
        such class or classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      67
<PAGE>
 
     B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until, and
shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                        By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           ----------------------------
                                           Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel & Secretary

                                      68
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        9.00% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                          __________________________

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                          __________________________

     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 720,900 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation
has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

         1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
             ------------------------------------------                         
   series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the
   9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated
   value of $200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock"). The stated
   value per share of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any

                                      69
<PAGE>
 
purpose be considered to be a determination by the Board with respect to the
capital and surplus of the Corporation.  The maximum number of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be 720,900.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is
issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 9.00% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on
February 28, May 30, August 30 and November 30 (each a "dividend payment date").
Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from
the date of initial issuance of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the
functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

                                      70
<PAGE>
 
     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The Shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         -----------------------                                                
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date

                                      71
<PAGE>
 
of final distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not
be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation
preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor sufficient to provide for
payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation
Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of
assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be
insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets,
or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such holders ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if
all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither
a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor a merger of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale
or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or
securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                        
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

     (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days equal
to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have the right, with
holders of shares of any one or more other class or series of stock upon which
like

                                      72
<PAGE>
 
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a
class), to elect two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the
Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or set apart for
payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except as herein or by law
expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  Upon any termination of
the right of the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to
vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then
in office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
terminate immediately.

     Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may
be removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby
created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class) given

                                      73
<PAGE>
 
in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
following:

     (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any class or
  series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(a)
  hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

     (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation
  or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation
  (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that would materially and
  adversely affect any power, preference, or special right of the shares of
  Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that
  any increase in the amount of authorized Common Stock or authorized Preferred
  Stock or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of
  Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Common Stock
  or Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the
  shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
  and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
  shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such powers,
  preferences or special rights.

     (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
 time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
 shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
 have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds shall have
 been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time, in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the

                                      74
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to February 28, 2000.
Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount
equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the
redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after
which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look
only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

                                      75
<PAGE>
 
     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitation provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

     (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
  dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the
  holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
  thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or
  priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

     (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
  dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, whether or
  not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation
  prices per share thereof be different from those of the Cumulative Preferred
  Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by
  the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to
  their respective dividend rates or

                                      76
<PAGE>
 
  liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as
  between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of Cumulative
  Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used to refer to any
  stock on a parity with the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
  dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the
  context may require); and

     (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
  dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such
  class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative Preferred
  Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
  distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be,
  in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/ Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      77
<PAGE>
 
     B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until, and
shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                        By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           ----------------------------
                                           Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel & Secretary

                                      78
<PAGE>
 
             CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                    OF THE
                       8.40% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                            ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                      OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                           ________________________

                        Pursuant to Section 151 of the

               General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                           ________________________

          The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

          A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of
Directors (the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 996,776 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation
has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

     1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
         ------------------------------------------                         
   series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the
   8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated
   value of $200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock"). The stated
   value per share of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be
   considered to be a determination by the

                                      79
<PAGE>
 
Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the Corporation.  The total
number of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be 996,776.  The Cumulative
Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 8.40% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on
February 28, May 30, August 30 and November 30 (each a "dividend payment date").
Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from
the date of initial issuance of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the
functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or

                                      80
<PAGE>
 
declared and set aside for payment or other distribution made upon the Common
Stock or on any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity
with the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise
acquired for any consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a
sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however,
that any moneys theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any
Preferred Stock of the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such
sinking fund may thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such
Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of
whether at the time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date
shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation;
provided that any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be
converted into or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         -----------------------                                                
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date of final distribution.  The holders of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to receive the Liquidation
Preference until the liquidation preference of any other class of stock of the
Corporation ranking senior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights

                                      81
<PAGE>
 
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall have been paid (or a sum set
aside therefor sufficient to provide for payment) in full.  After payment of the
full amount of the Liquidation Preference and such dividends, the holders of
shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further
participation in any distribution of assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the
Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of shares of
Parity Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential
amount aforesaid, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be
distributable among such holders ratably in accordance with the respective
amounts which would be payable on such shares if all amounts payable thereon
were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither a consolidation or merger
of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor a merger of any other
corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale or transfer of all or any
part of the Corporation's assets for cash or securities shall be considered a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                        
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

          (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares
   of Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect
   to payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
   equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
   holders of the outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have
   the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or series of
   stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable
   (voting together as a class), to elect two of the authorized number of
   members of the Board at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders
   and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until such arrearages
   have been

                                      82
<PAGE>
 
paid or set apart for payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except
as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of
each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  Upon any
termination of the right of the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
as a class to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall terminate immediately.

Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may be
removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby created
may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class) given in person or by proxy, either in
writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:

                (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any
           class or series of

                                      83
<PAGE>
 
     shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(a) hereof) to
     the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

                (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
      consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate of
      Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that
      would materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or special
      right of the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders
      thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized
      Common Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or any increase or decrease in
      the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or the creation and
      issuance of other series of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, in each case
      ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of Cumulative Preferred
      Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
      assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
      materially and adversely affect such powers, preferences or special
      rights.

        (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to
   the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be
   required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred
   Stock shall have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds
   shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to August 30, 2000.  Subject to
the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount equal to all
dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid
to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

                                      84
<PAGE>
 
     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock. If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the
redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after
which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look
only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or

                                      85
<PAGE>
 
decrease in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or
change in the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

            (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
     dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the
     holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
     thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
     liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference
     or priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

            (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or
    both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
    redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those
    of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or
    classes shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends
    or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
    the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or
    liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as
    between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of Cumulative
    Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used to refer to
    any stock on a parity with the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock, either
    as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as
    the context may require); and

                                      86
<PAGE>
 
          (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
    dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such
    class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative Preferred
    Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
    distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may
    be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or
    classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/ Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      87
<PAGE>
 
          B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                         DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                         By:/s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                            ----------------------------
                                         Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                         Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                General Counsel & Secretary

                                      88
<PAGE>
 
              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        8.20% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                         ______________________________

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                         ______________________________

     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 847,500 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation
has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

         1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
             ------------------------------------------
             series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall
             be the 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share,

                                      89
<PAGE>
 
with a stated value of $200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock").
The stated value per share of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any
purpose be considered to be a determination by the Board with respect to the
capital and surplus of the Corporation.  The total number of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be 847,500.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is
issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will be
         ----------                                                         
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee (as
hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 8.20% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on
February 28, May 30, August 30 and November 30 (each a "dividend payment
date"). Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative
from the date of initial issuance of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the
functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

                                      90
<PAGE>
 
     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         -----------------------                                                
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date

                                      91
<PAGE>
 
of final distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not
be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation
preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the
Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor sufficient to provide for
payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation
Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of
assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be
insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets,
or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such holders ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if
all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither
a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor a merger of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale
or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or
securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         -----------                                                        
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         --------------                                                     
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

         (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
    Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
    payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
    equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
    holders of the outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have
    the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or series
    of stock upon which like

                                      92
<PAGE>
 
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a
class), to elect two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the
Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or set apart for
payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except as herein or by law
expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  Upon any termination of
the right of the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to
vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then
in office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
terminate immediately.

     Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may
be removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby
created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class) given

                                      93
<PAGE>
 
in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
following:

          (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any class or
    series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(a)
    hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

          (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
    consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate of
    Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that would
    materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or special right of
    the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof;
    provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Common
    Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or any increase or decrease in the
    number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or the creation and
    issuance of other series of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, in each case
    ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of Cumulative Preferred
    Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
    assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
    materially and adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights.

     (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
have been redeemed or called for redemption and sufficient funds shall have been
deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         -----------                                                     
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the

                                      94
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to November 30, 2000.
Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount
equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for cancelation,
on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the shares to be
redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the holders of
such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such shares and shall
have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue thereof and
shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the
right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement, if required
by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby
shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys
so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years from the
redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation, after
which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall look
only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

                                      95
<PAGE>
 
     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         -----------------------------------------------                   
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common  Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

       (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
    dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the
    holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
    thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
    liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or
    priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

       (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as
    to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both whether
    or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or
    liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the
    Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or classes
    shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of
    amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case
    may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or

                                      96
<PAGE>
 
    liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as
    between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of Cumulative
    Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used to refer to
    any stock on a parity with the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock, either
    as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as
    the context may require); and

        (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred stock, either as to
    dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such
    class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative Preferred
    Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
    distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may
    be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or
    classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      97
<PAGE>
 
     B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until, and
shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                                
                                
                                        By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           ----------------------------
                                           Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel & Secretary

                                      98
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                       7-3/4% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                          ---------------------------

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                          ---------------------------


     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 1,000,000 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the
Corporation has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes
the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations,
preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights, and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

     1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such
         -----------------------------------------                          
  series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the 
  7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated
  value of $200.00 per share (the

                                      99
<PAGE>
 
"Cumulative Preferred Stock").  The stated value per share of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered to be a determination by
the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the Corporation.  The
number of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be 1,000,000.  The
Cumulative Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  (a)  Holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock will
         ---------                                                            
be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the Committee
(as hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally available for
payment, cash dividends payable quarterly at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum.
Dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, calculated as a percentage of the
stated value, will be payable quarterly on February 28, May 30, August 30 and
November 30 (each a "dividend payment date"). Dividends on shares of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance
of such shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in
arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the
Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days
preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or the
Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or
any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis
of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends may be declared or paid
or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock (as such term is defined
in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends unless there
shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for payment on the
Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend payment periods of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend payment date of
such Parity Preferred Stock, ratably in proportion to the respective amounts of
dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on such Parity Preferred Stock,
on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid through the dividend payment
period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock next preceding such dividend
payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes of this Certificate of
Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of the Board to whom the
Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, delegates authority to perform the

                                      100
<PAGE>
 
functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     (b)  If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), are enacted that reduce the percentage of the dividends
received deduction as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any
successor provision (the "Dividends Received Percentage") to below 70%, the
amount of each dividend payable per share of the Cumulative Preferred Stock for
dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change will be
adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as
described above (before adjustment) by a factor, which will be the number
determined in accordance with the following formula (the "DRD Formula"), and
rounding the result to the nearest cent:

                              1 - (.35(1 - .70))
                              ------------------
                              1 - (.35(1 - DRP))

                                      101
<PAGE>
 
For the purposes of the DRD Formula, "DRP" means the Dividends Received
Percentage applicable to the dividend in question.  No amendment to the Code,
other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set
forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give
rise to an adjustment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event
that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation will receive either an
unqualified opinion of nationally recognized independent tax counsel selected by
the Corporation or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from
the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not
apply to dividends payable on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, then any such
amendment will not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD
Formula. The opinion referenced in the previous sentence will be based upon a
specific exception in the legislation amending the DRP or upon a published
pronouncement of the Internal Revenue Service addressing such legislation.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references to dividends in this
Certificate of Designation will mean dividends as adjusted by the DRD Formula.
The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable, as so adjusted and as
certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the
independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the
Corporation, will be final and not subject to review absent manifest error.

     If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received
Percentage to below 70% is enacted after a dividend payable on a dividend
payment date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such dividend
payment date will not be increased.  Instead, an amount, equal to the excess of
(x) the product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such dividend
payment date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be
equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage) over (y) the dividends paid
by the Corporation on such dividend payment date, will be payable to holders of
record on the next succeeding dividend payment date in addition to any other
amounts payable on such date.

     In the event that the amount of dividends payable per share of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock will be adjusted pursuant to the DRD Formula, the
Corporation will cause notice of each such adjustment to be sent to

                                      102
<PAGE>
 
the holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation on
such record dates, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days preceding the
payment dates thereof as shall be fixed by the Board or the Committee.

     In the event that the Dividends Received Percentage is reduced to 40% or
less, the Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
in whole but not in part, as described in paragraph 6 hereof.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
         ----------------------                                                 
rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, prior to
the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the Corporation
ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution
is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an
amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of
Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date of final distribution.  The holders of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to receive the Liquidation
Preference until the liquidation preference of any other class of stock of the
Corporation ranking senior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside
therefor sufficient to provide for payment) in full.  After payment of the full
amount of the Liquidation Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further participation
in any distribution of assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or
proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred
Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid,
then such assets, or the proceeds thereof,

                                      103
<PAGE>
 
shall be distributable among such holders ratably in accordance with the
respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if all amounts payable
thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither a consolidation or
merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor a merger of
any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale or transfer of
all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or securities shall be
considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         ----------                                                         
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of Shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock
         -------------                                                      
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

        (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
    Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
    payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
    equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
    holders of the outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have
    the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or series
    of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
    exercisable (voting together as a class), to elect two of the authorized
    number of members of the Board at the Corporation's next annual meeting of
    stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until
    such arrearages have been paid or set apart for payment, at which time such
    right shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided,
    subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of
    the character above mentioned. Upon any termination of the right of the
    holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to vote for
    directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in
    office elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
    terminate immediately.

                                      104
<PAGE>
 
     Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may
be removed at any time, either with or without cause.  Any vacancy thereby
created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together with the
holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable).  If the office of any director
elected by the holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock voting as a class
becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining director elected pursuant to this paragraph may choose a successor who
shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy
occurred.  At elections for such directors, each holder of shares of Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting
rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all other classes or
series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable (voting together as a class) given in person or by proxy, either in
writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:

                (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any
     class or series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in
     paragraph 9(a) hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock; or

                (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
     consolidation or otherwise of any of the provisions of the Certificate of
     Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof) that
     would materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or special
     right of the shares of

                                      105
<PAGE>
 
                Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided,
                however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Common
                Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or any increase or decrease
                in the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or the
                creation and issuance of other series of Common Stock or
                Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior
                to the shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to the
                payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon
                liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
                materially and adversely affect such powers, preferences or
                special rights.

                (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or
       prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
       otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of
       Cumulative Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or called for
       redemption and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to
       effect such redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         ----------                                                      
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to August 30, 2001, except as
stated below. Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock are redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an
amount equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and
accumulated and unpaid to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have not
been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and the
Corporation may not purchase or acquire any shares of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same
terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than all the
outstanding shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the
Corporation

                                      106
<PAGE>
 
will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, notwithstanding
that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered for
cancellation, on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the
shares to be redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the
holders of such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such
shares and shall have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue
thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares,
except the right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement,
if required by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced
thereby shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any
moneys so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years
from the redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation,
after which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall
look only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Dividends Received
Percentage is equal to or less than 40% and, as a result, the amount of
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock payable on any dividend payment date
will be or is adjusted upwards as described in paragraph 2(b) hereof, the
Corporation, at its option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the
outstanding shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock (and the Depositary Shares)
(a "Dividends Received Deduction Redemption"); provided that within sixty days
of the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the
Dividends Received Percentage to 40% or less, the Corporation sends notice to
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock relating to any Dividends Received
Deduction Redemption of such redemption.  A redemption of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock will take place on the date specified in the

                                      107
<PAGE>
 
notice, which shall be not less than thirty nor more than sixty days from the
date such notice is sent to holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  A
Dividends Received Deduction Redemption shall be at the applicable redemption
price set forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid
dividends (whether or not declared) thereon to but excluding the date fixed for
redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the
Dividends Received Percentage, if any:
 
                                              Redemption Price
                                              ----------------
                                                        Per
                                                    Depositary
Redemption Period                       Per Share     Share
- ------------------                      ---------   ---------
May 31, 1997 to August 29, 1997.....    $210.00      $52.50
August 30, 1997 to August 29, 1998..     208.00       52.00
August 30, 1998 to August 29, 1999..     206.00       51.50
August 30, 1999 to August 29, 2000..     204.00       51.00
August 30, 2000 to August 29, 2001..     202.00       50.50
On or after August 30, 2001.........     200.00       50.00


     7.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
         ----------------------------------------------                    
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
         -----------------------                                                
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative Preferred Stock
(but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) and in other
respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided by law, this
resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
         ----                                                                 
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

        (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
     dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,

                                      108
<PAGE>
 
if the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or
priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

     (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, whether or
not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation
prices per share thereof be different from those of the Cumulative Preferred
Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the
terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to
their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or
priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the
holders of shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred
Stock" being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of
Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, or both, as the context may require); and

     (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class
shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or
priority to the holders of stock of such class or classes.

     The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per

                                      109
<PAGE>
 
    share, (iii) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
    Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iv) if issued, the
    Corporation's 7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of
    $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vi) if
    issued, the Corporation's 9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
    liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's
    8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
    share, (viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the
    Corporation's 8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of
    $200.00 per share.

                                      110
<PAGE>
 
          B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                        DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                        By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                           --------------------------------
                                           Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel & Secretary

                                      111
<PAGE>
 

              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                 SERIES A FIXED/ADJUSTABLE RATE PREFERRED STOCK


                             ($200.00 Stated Value)

                                       OF

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                          ---------------------------

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

                          ---------------------------

          The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

          A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of
Directors (the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 1,725,000 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the
Corporation has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes
the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations,
preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights, and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

     1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares.  The designation for such
         ------------------------------------------                          
series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution

                                      112
<PAGE>
 
shall be the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, par
value $0.01 per share, with a stated value of $200.00 per share (the "Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock").  The stated value per share of Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered to
be a determination by the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of the
Corporation.  The number of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock shall be 1,725,000.  The Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock is
issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends. (a)  Holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
         ----------                                                         
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive cash dividends, when, as and if
declared by the Board or the Committee (as hereinafter defined) out of assets of
the Corporation legally available for payment. Dividends on the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, calculated as a percentage of the stated
value, will be payable quarterly on February 28, May 30, August 30 and November
30 (each a "dividend payment date").  From the date of issuance of the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock and continuing through November 30, 2001,
the rate of such dividend will be 5.91% per annum.  For the purposes of this
Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of the
Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to perform the functions of
the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

After November 30, 2001, dividends on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on each dividend payment date at the
Applicable Rate (as defined in paragraph 3) from time to time in effect.  The
Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after November
30, 2001 will be equal to .37% plus the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the
Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty-Year

                                      113
<PAGE>
 
Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined in paragraph 3), as determined in
advance of such dividend period.  The Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend
period beginning on or after November 30, 2001, will not be less then 6.41% nor
greater then 12.41% (without taking into account any adjustments set forth in
paragraph 2(b)).

     Dividends on shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears,
to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation on
such record dates, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days preceding the
payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or the Committee.  The
amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period
shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-
day year of twelve 30-day months.  No dividends may be declared or paid or set
apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock (as defined in paragraph 10(b))
with regard to the payment of dividends unless there shall also be or have been
declared and paid or set apart for payment on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend payment periods of the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend payment
date of such Parity Preferred Stock ratably in proportion to the respective
amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on such Parity
Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid through the
dividend payment period or periods of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.

     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock have been paid,
no dividends (other than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or
declared

                                      114
<PAGE>
 
and set aside for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the
Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any
Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a
parity with the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock as to dividends
be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any
payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any
shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys theretofore deposited
in any sinking fund with respect to any preferred stock of the Corporation in
compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may thereafter be applied to
the purchase or redemption of such preferred stock in accordance with the terms
of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the time of such application full
cumulative dividends upon shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been paid or
declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that any such
junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into or
exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     (b)  If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), are enacted that reduce the percentage of the dividends
received deduction as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any
successor provision (the "Dividends Received Percentage") to below 70%, the
amount of each dividend payable per share of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of
such change will be adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable
determined as described above (before adjustment) by a factor, which will be the
number determined in accordance with the following

                                      115
<PAGE>
 
formula (the "DRD Formula"), and rounding the result to the nearest cent:

        1 - (.35 (1 - .70))
        -------------------
        1 - (.35 (1 - DRP)) 

For the purposes of the DRD Formula, "DRP" means the Dividends Received
Percentage applicable to the dividend in question.  No amendment to the Code,
other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set
forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give
rise to an adjustment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event
that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation will receive either an
unqualified opinion of nationally recognized independent tax counsel selected by
the Corporation or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from
the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not
apply to dividends payable on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock, then any such amendment will not result in the adjustment provided for
pursuant to the DRD Formula.  The opinion referenced in the previous sentence
will be based upon a specific exception in the legislation amending the DRP or
upon a published pronouncement of the Internal Revenue Service addressing such
legislation.  Unless the context otherwise requires, references to dividends in
this Certificate of Designation will mean dividends as adjusted by the DRD
Formula. The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable, as so adjusted
and as certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the
independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the
Corporation, will be final and not subject to review absent manifest error.

     If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received
Percentage to below 70% is enacted after a dividend payable on a dividend
payment date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such dividend
payment date

                                      116
<PAGE>
 
will not be increased.  Instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the
product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such dividend payment date
and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the
reduced Dividends Received Percentage) over (y) the dividends paid by the
Corporation on such dividend payment date, will be payable on the next
succeeding dividend payment date to holders of record in addition to any other
amounts payable on such date.

     In addition, if prior to May 31, 1997, an amendment to the Code is enacted
that reduces the Dividends Received Percentage to below 70% and such reduction
retroactively applies to a dividend payment date of the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, no par value, with a stated
value of $200.00 per share ("Morgan Stanley Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock") of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") as to which
Morgan Stanley previously paid dividends on the Morgan Stanley Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock (each an "Affected Dividend Payment
Date"), holders of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive when, as and if declared by the Board out of assets of the
corporation legally available for payment, additional dividends (the "Additional
Dividends") on the next succeeding dividend payment date (or if such amendment
is enacted after the dividend payable on such dividend payment date has been
declared and on or before such dividend is paid, on the second succeeding
dividend payment date following the date of enactment) payable on such
succeeding dividend payment date to holders of record in an amount equal to the
excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid by Morgan Stanley on each
Affected Dividend Payment Date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the
DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage applied
to each Affected Dividend Payment Date) over (y) the dividends paid by Morgan
Stanley on each Affected Dividend Payment Date.

                                      117
<PAGE>
 
          Additional Dividends will not be paid in respect of the enactment of
any amendment to the Code on or after May 31, 1997 which retroactively reduces
the Dividends Received Percentage to below 70%, or if prior to May 31, 1997,
such amendment would not result in an adjustment due to the Corporation having
received either an opinion of counsel or tax ruling referred to in the third
preceding paragraph.  The Corporation will only make one payment of Additional
Dividends.

     In the event that the amount of dividends payable per share of the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock will be adjusted pursuant to the DRD
Formula and/or Additional Dividends are to be paid, the Corporation will cause
notice of each such adjustment and, if applicable, any Additional Dividends, to
be sent to the holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the
Corporation on such record date, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days
preceding the payment date thereof as shall be fixed by the Board or the
Committee.

     In the event that the Dividends Received Percentage is reduced to 50% or
less, the Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series A Fixed/Adjustable
Rate Preferred Stock, in whole but not in part, as described in paragraph 7
hereof.

     3.  Applicable Rate.  Except as provided above in paragraph 2, the
         ----------------                                              
"Applicable Rate" per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after
November 30, 2001 will be equal to .37% plus the Effective Rate (as defined
herein), but not less than 6.41% nor greater than 12.41% (without taking into
account any adjustments as described in paragraph 2(b)).  The "Effective Rate"
for any dividend period beginning on or after November 30, 2001 will be equal to
the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate and
the Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined herein) for such
dividend period.  If the Corporation determines in good faith that for any
reason: (i) any one of the Treasury Bill Rate, the

                                      118
<PAGE>
 
Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate cannot
be determined for any dividend period beginning on or after November 30, 2001,
then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be equal to the higher of
whichever two of such rates can be so determined; (ii) only one of the Treasury
Bill Rate, the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty-Year Constant
Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period beginning on or after
November 30, 2001, then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be
equal to whichever such rate can be so determined; or (iii) none of the Treasury
Bill Rate, the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty-Year Constant
Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period beginning on or after
November 30, 2001, then the Effective Rate for the preceding dividend period
will be continued for such dividend period.

     The "Treasury Bill Rate" for each dividend period will be the arithmetic
average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the
one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published
during the relevant Calendar Period (as defined herein) for three-month U.S.
Treasury bills, as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board (as defined
herein) during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the tenth calendar day
preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock is being determined.

     The "Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate" for each dividend period will be the
arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Ten-Year Average
Yields (as defined herein) (or the one weekly per annum Ten-Year Average Yield,
if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as
published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period
immediately preceding the tenth calendar day preceding the dividend period for
which the dividend rate on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock is
being determined.

                                      119
<PAGE>
 
     The "Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate" for each dividend period will be
the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Thirty-Year
Average Yields (as defined herein) the one weekly per annum Thirty-Year Average
Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period),
as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period
immediately preceding the tenth calendar day preceding the dividend period for
which the dividend rate on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock is
being determined.

     If the Federal Reserve Board does not publish a weekly per annum market
discount rate, Ten-Year Average Yield or Thirty-Year Average Yield during any
applicable Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate, Ten-Year Constant
Maturity Rate or Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate, as the case may be, for
such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent
weekly per annum market discount rates for three-month U.S. Treasury bills, Ten-
Year Average Yields or Thirty-Year Average Yields, as the case may be (or the
one weekly per annum rate, if only one such rate is published during the
relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly during such Calendar Period by
any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected
by the Corporation.  If any such rate is not published by the Federal Reserve
Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or
agency during such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate, Ten-Year
Constant Maturity Rate or Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend
period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum
(i) in the case of the Treasury Bill Rate, market discount rates (or the one
weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during
the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the U.S. Treasury bills then having
remaining maturities of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days, and (ii) in the
case of the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate, average yields to maturity (or the
one weekly per annum average yield to

                                      120
<PAGE>
 
maturity, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar
Period) for all of the actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest
rate securities (other then Special Securities (as defined herein)) then having
remaining maturities of not less than eight nor more than twelve years, and
(iii) in the case of the Thirty-Year Constant Maturity Rate, average yields to
maturity (or the one weekly per annum average yield to maturity, if only one
such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the
actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other
than Special Securities) then having remaining maturities of not less than
twenty-eight nor more than thirty years, in each case as published during such
Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board
does not publish such rates, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S.
Government department or agency selected by the Corporation.  If the Corporation
determines in good faith that for any reason (i) no such U.S. Treasury bill
rates are published as provided above during such Calendar Period or (ii) the
Corporation cannot determine the Treasury Bill Rate for any dividend period;
then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic
average of the per annum market discount rates based upon the closing bids
during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of marketable non-interest-
bearing U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of not less than 80
nor more than 100 days from the date of each such quotation, as chosen and
quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily
quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three
recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation.
If the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation
cannot determine the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate or Thirty-Year Constant
Maturity Rate for any dividend period as provided above, then the applicable
rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum
average yields to maturity based upon the closing

                                      121
<PAGE>
 
bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of actively traded
marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other then Special
Securities) with a final maturity date (i) in the case of the Ten-Year Constant
Maturity Rate, not less than eight nor more then twelve years from the date of
each such quotation, and (ii) in the case of the Thirty-Year Constant Maturity
Rate, no less than twenty-eight nor more than thirty years from the date of each
such quotation, in each case as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in
New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally
available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in the United
States.

     The Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten-Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty-
Year Constant Maturity Rate will each be rounded to the nearest five hundredths
of a percent, with .025% being rounded upward.

     The Applicable Rate with respect to each dividend period beginning on or
after November 30, 2001 will be calculated as promptly as practicable by the
Corporation according to the appropriate method described above.  The
Corporation will cause notice of each Applicable Rate to be given to the holders
of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock when payment is made of the
dividend for the immediately preceding dividend period.

     As used in this paragraph 3, the term "Calendar Period" means a period of
fourteen calendar days; the term "Federal Reserve Board" means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the term "Special Securities" means
securities which can, at the option of the holder, be surrendered at face value
in payment of any Federal estate tax or which provide tax benefits to the holder
and are priced to reflect such tax benefits or which were originally issued at a
deep or substantial discount; the term "Ten-Year Average Yield" means the
average yield to maturity for actively traded marketable U.S.

                                      122
<PAGE>
 
Treasury fixed interest rate securities (adjusted to constant maturities of ten
years); and the term "Thirty-Year Average Yield" means the average yield to
maturity for actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate
securities (adjusted to constant maturities of thirty years).

     4.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
         -----------------------                                              
Preferred Stock shall rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, prior to the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, so that in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Series
A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive out of the
assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders,
whether from capital, surplus or earnings, before any distribution is made to
holders of shares of Common Stock or any other such junior stock, an amount
equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation Preference" of a share of Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal to all dividends
(whether or not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid on the
shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock to the date of final
distribution. The holders of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
will not be entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation
preference of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the
Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up shall have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor
sufficient to provide for payment) in full.  After payment of the full amount of
the Liquidation Preference and such dividends, the holders of shares of Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further
participation in any distribution of

                                      123
<PAGE>
 
assets by the Corporation.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be
insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets,
or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributable among such holders ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares if
all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes hereof, neither
a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor a merger of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale
or transfer of all or any part of the Corporation's assets for cash or
securities shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

     5.  Conversion.  The Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock is not
         -----------                                                           
convertible into shares of any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation.

     6.  Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
         --------------                                                        
Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting
rights to which they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware,
and except as follows:

                (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the
        shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock or on any
        Parity Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends, shall be in
        arrears for an aggregate number of days equal to six calendar quarters
        or more, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the outstanding
        shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall have the
        right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or series
        of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
        exercisable (voting together as a class), to

                                      124
<PAGE>
 
        elect two of the authorized number of members of the Board at the
        Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent
        annual meeting of stockholders until such arrearages have been paid or
        set apart for payment, at which time such right shall terminate, except
        as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the
        event of each and every subsequent default of the character above
        mentioned. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of
        Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock as a class to vote for
        directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then
        in office elected by the holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable
        Rate Preferred Stock shall terminate immediately.

                Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this
        paragraph may be removed at any time, either with or without cause. Any
        vacancy thereby created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of
        the holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
        voting separately as a class (together with the holders of shares of any
        other class or series of stock upon which like voting rights have been
        conferred and are exercisable). If the office of any director elected by
        the holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
        voting as a class becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from
        office as aforesaid, the remaining director elected pursuant to this
        paragraph may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired
        term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. At elections for such
        directors, each holder of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
        Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the
        holders of shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock having
        like voting rights being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for
        each share

                                      125
<PAGE>
 
        of such stock held as may be granted to them).

     (b)  So long as any shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of
the shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock outstanding at the
time and all other classes or series of stock upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a class) given in person
or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall
be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:

                (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any
        class or series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined in
        paragraph 10(a) hereof) to the shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable
        Rate Preferred Stock; or

               (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger,
        consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate
        of Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof)
        that would materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or
        special right of the shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
        Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in
        the amount of authorized Common Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or
        any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of
        Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Common
        Stock or Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
        junior to the shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
        with respect to the

                                      126
<PAGE>
 
        payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
        dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and
        adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights.

        (c)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to
     the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be
     required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Series A
     Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or called
     for redemption and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to
     effect such redemption.

     7.  Redemption.  The shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
         -----------                                                            
Stock may be redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time
to time in part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to
the holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the
stock books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the Series A
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to November
30, 2001, except as stated below. Subject to the foregoing, on or after such
date, shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock are
redeemable at $200.00 per share together with an amount equal to all dividends
(whether or not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and unpaid to, but
excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

     If full cumulative dividends on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock have not been paid, the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
Stock may not be redeemed in part and the Corporation may not purchase or
acquire any shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock
otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms
to all holders of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock.  If fewer
than all the

                                      127
<PAGE>
 
outstanding shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock are to be
redeemed, the Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a
substantially equivalent method.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 7 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock so called for redemption,
then, notwithstanding that any certificates for such shares have not been
surrendered for cancellation, on the redemption date dividends shall cease to
accrue on the shares to be redeemed, and at the close of business on the
redemption date the holders of such shares shall cease to be stockholders with
respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claims against the
Corporation by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon
surrender (and endorsement, if required by the Corporation) of their
certificates, and the shares evidenced thereby shall no longer be outstanding.
Subject to applicable escheat laws, any moneys so set aside by the Corporation
and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall revert to
the general funds of the Corporation, after which reversion the holders of such
shares so called for redemption shall look only to the general funds of the
Corporation for the payment of the amounts payable upon such redemption.  Any
interest accrued on funds so deposited shall be paid to the Corporation from
time to time.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Dividends Received
Percentage is equal to or less than 50% and, as a result, the amount of
dividends on the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock payable on any
dividend payment date will be or is adjusted upwards as described in paragraph
2(b) hereof, the Corporation, at its

                                      128
<PAGE>
 
option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the outstanding shares of the
Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock (the Depositary Shares) (a
"Dividends Received Deduction Redemption") provided that within sixty days of
the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the
Dividends Received Percentage to 50% or less, the Corporation sends notice to
holders of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock of such
redemption.  A Dividends Received Deduction Redemption, in accordance with this
paragraph, will take place on the date specified in the notice, which shall be
not less than thirty nor more then sixty days from the date such notice is sent
to holders of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock.  A Dividends
Received Deduction Redemption shall be at the applicable redemption price set
forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends
(whether or not declared) thereon to but excluding the date fixed for
redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the
Dividends Received Percentage and Additional Dividends, if any:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             Redeemable Price
                                          ----------------------
                                                         Per
                                                     Depositary
Redemption Period                         Per Share     Share
- -----------------                         ---------  -----------
<S>                                       <C>        <C>
May 31, 1997 to November 29, 1997.......    $210.00       $52.50

November 30, 1997 to November 29, 1998..     208.00        52.00

November 30, 1998 to November 29, 1999..     206.00        51.50

November 30, 1999 to November 29, 2000..     204.00        51.00

November 30, 2000 to November 29, 2001..     202.00        50.50

On or after November 30, 2001...........     200.00        50.00
</TABLE>

  8.  Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the holders
      -----------------------------------------------                           
of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall be required for (a)
the creation of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, 

                                      129
<PAGE>
 
(b) the creation, or increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series
of stock of the Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up to the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease in the amount of authorized
Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in the par value thereof or in
any other terms thereof.

  9.  Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves the
      ------------------------                                               
right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to increase
or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Series A Fixed/Adjustable
Rate Preferred Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then
outstanding) and in other respects to amend this resolution within the
limitations provided by law, this resolution and the Certificate of
Incorporation.

  10.  Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
       -----                                                                
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

       (a) prior to shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
  Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
  or both, if the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by
  the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or
  priority to the holders of shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
  Preferred Stock;

       (b) on a parity with shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate
  Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
  winding up, or both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment
  dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be

                                      130
<PAGE>
 
  different from those of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, if
  the holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
  thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to
  their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or
  priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the
  holders of shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock (the term
  "Parity Preferred Stock" being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the
  shares of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
  upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the context may
  require); and

       (c) junior to shares of the Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred
  Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
  or both, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Series A
  Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of
  dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
  up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of
  such class or classes.

  The Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to
dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock
and the Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a
parity with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative
Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the
Corporation's 7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of
$200.00 per share, (iv) if issued, the Corporation's 7.82% Cumulative 

                                      131
<PAGE>
 
        Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if
        issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
        liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vi) if issued, the
        Corporation's 9.00% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value
        of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40%
        Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
        share, (viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.20% Cumulative Preferred
        Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued,
        the Corporation's 8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
        value of $200.00 per share.

                                      132
<PAGE>
 
          B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                 DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                 By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                    ----------------------------
                                    Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                    Title: Executive Vice President,
                                           General Counsel & Secretary

                                      133
<PAGE>
 


              CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS
                                     OF THE
                        8.03% CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK


                             ($200.00 Stated Value)


                                       OF


                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                      ___________________________________

                         Pursuant to Section 151 of the

                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
                      ___________________________________


     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

     A.  The following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter called the "Corporation"), by unanimous vote thereof at a meeting
on May 28, 1997:

     RESOLVED that, pursuant to authority expressly granted to and vested in the
Board by provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the issuance of a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), which
shall consist of 670,000 of the shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation
has authority to issue, is authorized, and the Board hereby fixes the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
shares of such series (in addition to the powers, designations, preferences and
relative participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in the
Certificate of Incorporation which may be applicable to the Preferred Stock) as
follows:

     1.  Designation and Amount; Fractional Shares. The designation for such 
         -----------------------------------------   
series of the Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the 8.03%

                                      134
<PAGE>
 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated value of
$200.00 per share (the "Cumulative Preferred Stock").  The stated value per
share of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall not for any purpose be considered
to be a determination by the Board with respect to the capital and surplus of
the Corporation.  The number of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
be 670,000.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is issuable in whole shares only.

     2.  Dividends.  (a)  Holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
         ---------                                                           
will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or the
Committee (as hereinafter defined) out of assets of the Corporation legally
available for payment cash dividends at the rate of 8.03% per annum.  Dividends
on the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on February 28, May
30, August 30 and November 30 of each year (each a "dividend payment date").
Dividends on shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will be cumulative from
the date of initial issuance of such shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on
the stock books of the Corporation on such record dates, not more than 60 days
nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by
the Board or the Committee.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. No dividends
may be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any Parity Preferred Stock
(as defined in paragraph 9(b) below) with regard to the payment of dividends
unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for
payment on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend
payment periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock ending on or before the
dividend payment date of such Parity Preferred Stock ratably in proportion to
the respective amounts of dividends (x) accumulated and unpaid or payable on
such Parity Preferred Stock, on the one hand, and (y) accumulated and unpaid
through the dividend payment period or periods of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
next preceding such dividend payment date, on the other hand.  For the purposes
of this Certificate of Designation, the "Committee" shall mean any committee of
the Board to whom the Board, pursuant to Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, delegates authority to

                                      135
<PAGE>
 
perform the functions of the Board set forth in this Certificate of Designation.

     Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have been paid, no dividends (other
than in Common Stock of the Corporation) may be paid or declared and set aside
for payment or other distribution made upon the Common Stock or on any other
stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends, nor may any Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Cumulative Preferred
Stock as to dividends be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any payment be made to or available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any shares of such stock; provided, however, that any moneys
theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any Preferred Stock of
the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may
thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of such sinking fund, regardless of whether at the
time of such application full cumulative dividends upon shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock outstanding to the last dividend payment date shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment) by the Corporation; provided that
any such junior or parity Preferred Stock or Common Stock may be converted into
or exchanged for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to dividends.

     (b) If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), are enacted that reduce the percentage of the dividends
received deduction as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any
successor provision (the "Dividends Received Percentage") to below 70%, the
amount of each dividend payable per share of the Cumulative Preferred Stock for
dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change, and so
long as the Dividends Received Percentage remains below 70%, will be adjusted by
multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as described above
(before adjustment) by a factor, which will be the number determined in
accordance with the following formula

                                      136
<PAGE>
 
(the "DRD Formula"), and rounding the result to the nearest cent:

                              1 - (.35 (1 - .70))
                              -------------------
                               1- (.35 (1 - DRP))

For the purposes of the DRD Formula, "DRP" means the Dividends Received
Percentage applicable to the dividend in question.  No amendment to the Code,
other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set
forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give
rise to an adjustment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event
that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation will receive either an
unqualified opinion of nationally recognized independent tax counsel selected by
the Corporation or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from
the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not
apply to dividends payable on the Cumulative Preferred Stock, then any such
amendment will not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD
Formula. The opinion referenced in the previous sentence will be based upon a
specific exception in the legislation amending the DRP or upon a published
pronouncement of the Internal Revenue Service addressing such legislation.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references to dividends in this
Certificate of Designation will mean dividends as adjusted by the DRD Formula.
The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable, as so adjusted and as
certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the
independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the
Corporation, will be final and not subject to review absent manifest error.

     If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received
Percentage to below 70% is enacted after a dividend payable on a dividend
payment date has been declared and on or before such dividend is paid, the
amount of dividend payable on such dividend payment date will not be increased.
Instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid
by the Corporation on such dividend payment date and the DRD Formula (where the
DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received
Percentage) over (y) the dividends paid by the Corporation on such dividend
payment date, will be payable on the next succeeding dividend payment date to

                                      137
<PAGE>
 
holders of record on the record date for such next succeeding dividend payment
in addition to any other amounts payable on such date.

     In the event that the amount of dividends payable per share of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock will be adjusted pursuant to the DRD Formula, the
Corporation will cause notice of each such adjustment to be sent to the holders
of record as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation on such record
date, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days preceding the payment date
thereof as shall be fixed by the Board or the Committee.

     In the event that the Dividends Received Percentage is reduced to 50% or
less, the Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Cumulative Preferred Stock,
in whole but not in part, as described in paragraph 6 hereof.

     3.  Liquidation Preference.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
         ----------------------                                               
shall rank, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
prior to the shares of Common Stock and any other class of stock of the
Corporation ranking junior to the Cumulative Preferred Stock as to rights upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, so that in the event
of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether
voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings,
before any distribution is made to holders of shares of Common Stock or any
other such junior stock, an amount equal to $200.00 per share (the "Liquidation
Preference" of a share of the Cumulative Preferred Stock) plus an amount equal
to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and accumulated and
unpaid on the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock to the date of final
distribution.  The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be
entitled to receive the Liquidation Preference until the liquidation preference
of any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Cumulative
Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall
have been paid (or a sum set aside therefor sufficient to provide for payment)
in full.  After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation Preference and
such dividends, the

                                      138
<PAGE>
 
holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any
further participation in any distribution of assets by the Corporation.  If,
upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets
of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of
shares of Parity Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the
preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall
be distributable among such holders ratably in accordance with the respective
amounts which would be payable on such shares if all amounts payable thereon
were paid in full.   For the purposes hereof, neither a consolidation or merger
of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor a merger of any other
corporation with or into the Corporation, nor a sale or transfer of all or any
part of the Corporation's assets for cash or securities shall be considered a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

     4.  Conversion.  The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into
         ----------                                                         
shares of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation.

     5.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
         -------------                                                          
shall have no voting rights whatsoever, except for any voting rights to which
they may be entitled under the laws of the State of Delaware, and except as
follows:

         (a) Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of
     Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any Parity Preferred Stock with respect to
     payment of dividends, shall be in arrears for an aggregate number of days
     equal to six calendar quarters or more, whether or not consecutive, the
     holders of the outstanding shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall
     have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other class or
     series of stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
     exercisable (voting together a class), to elect two of the authorized
     number of members of the Board at the Corporation's next annual meeting of
     stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until
     such arrearages have been paid or set apart for payment, at which time such
     right shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided,
     subject to revesting in the

                                      139
<PAGE>
 
     event of each and every subsequent default of the character above
     mentioned. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of
     the Cumulative Preferred Stock as a class to vote for directors as herein
     provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by the
     holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall terminate
     immediately.

     Any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to this paragraph may
     be removed at any time, either with or without cause. Any vacancy thereby
     created may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares
     of the Cumulative Preferred Stock voting separately as a class (together
     with the holders of shares of any other class or series of stock upon which
     like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable). If the office
     of any director elected by the holders of shares of the Cumulative
     Preferred Stock voting as a class becomes vacant for any reason other than
     removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining director elected pursuant
     to this paragraph may choose a successor who shall hold office for the
     unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. At elections for
     such directors, each holder of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock
     shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of
     any other class or series of preferred stock having like voting rights
     being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
     stock held as may be granted to them).

         (b) So long as any shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock remain
     outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the
     shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding at the time and all
     other classes or series of stock upon which like voting rights have been
     conferred and are exercisable (voting together as a class) given in person
     or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose,
     shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
     following:

                (i) the issuance or increase of the authorized amount of any 
         class or series of shares ranking prior (as that term is defined

                                      140
<PAGE>
 
         in paragraph 9(a) hereof) to the shares of the Cumulative Preferred 
         Stock; or

                (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, 
         consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Certificate
         of Incorporation (including this resolution or any provision hereof)
         that would materially and adversely affect any power, preference, or
         special right of the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock or of the
         holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of
         authorized Common Stock or authorized Preferred Stock or any increase
         or decrease in the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or
         the creation and issuance of other series of Common Stock or Preferred
         Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of
         the Cumulative Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
         and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
         up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such powers,
         preferences or special rights.
         
         (c) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to
     the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be
     required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of the Cumulative
     Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or called for redemption and
     sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
     redemption.

     6.  Redemption.  The shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock may be
         ----------                                                      
redeemed at the option of the Corporation, as a whole, or from time to time in
part, at any time, upon not less than 30 days' prior notice mailed to the
holders of the shares to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the stock
books of the Corporation; provided, however, that shares of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to February 28, 2007, except as
stated below. Subject to the foregoing, on or after such date, shares of the
Cumulative Preferred Stock are redeemable at the option of the Corporation, in
whole or in part, upon not less than 30 days' notice at the redemption prices
set forth below, plus accrued and accumulated but unpaid dividends to but
excluding the date fixed for

                                      141
<PAGE>
 
redemption, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on February 28
of the years indicated below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
Year                  Redemption Price Per Share
- ----                  --------------------------          
<S>                 <C>
2007...................         $205.354

2008...................          204.282

2009...................          203.212

2010...................          202.142

2011...................          201.070

On or after 2012.......          200.000

</TABLE>

          If full cumulative dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock have
not been paid, the Cumulative Preferred Stock may not be redeemed in part and
the Corporation may not purchase or acquire any share of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock otherwise than pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on
the same terms to all holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock.  If fewer than
all the outstanding shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock are to be redeemed,
the Corporation will select those to be redeemed by lot or a substantially
equivalent method.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Dividends Received
Percentage is equal to or less than 50% and, as a result, the amount of
dividends on the Cumulative Preferred Stock payable on any dividend payment date
will be or is adjusted upwards as described in paragraph 2(b) hereof, the
Corporation, at its option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the
outstanding shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock (a "Dividends Received
Deduction Redemption"); provided that within sixty days of the date of the date
on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the Dividends
Received Percentage to 50% or less and the date on which notice of issuance of
the Cumulative Preferred Stock is given, the Corporation sends notice to holders
of the Cumulative Preferred Stock of such redemption.  A Dividends Received
Deduction Redemption, in accordance with this paragraph, will take place on the
date specified in the notice, which shall be not less than thirty nor more than
sixty days from the date such notice is sent to holders of the Cumulative
Preferred Stock.  A Dividends Received Deduction Redemption shall be at the
applicable redemption price set forth in the following table, in each case plus
accrued and accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon to but excluding the date
fixed for redemption, including any changes in 

                                      142
<PAGE>
 
dividends payable due to changes in the Dividends Received Percentage and
Additional Dividends, if any:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
 
Redemption period                            Redemption price per share
- -----------------                            --------------------------
                                                       
<S>                                       <C>
February 28, 1998 to February 27, 1999                $210.000

February 28, 1999 to February 27, 2000                 208.889

February 28, 2000 to February 27, 2001                 207.778

February 28, 2001 to February 27, 2002                 206.667

February 28, 2002 to February 27, 2003                 205.556

February 28, 2003 to February 27, 2004                 204.444

February 28, 2004 to February 27, 2005                 203.333

February 28, 2005 to February 27, 2006                 202.222

February 28, 2006 to February 27, 2007                 201.111

</TABLE>

If a Dividends Received Deduction Redemption occurs on or after February 28,
2007, the redemption prices shall be as set forth in the first paragraph of this
paragraph 6.

     If a notice of redemption has been given pursuant to this paragraph 6 and
if, on or before the date fixed for redemption, the funds necessary for such
redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from
its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares
of the Cumulative Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then,
notwithstanding that any certificates for such shares have not been surrendered
for cancellation, on the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on the
shares to be redeemed, and at the close of business on the redemption date the
holders of such shares shall cease to be stockholders with respect to such
shares and shall have no interest in or claims against the Corporation by virtue
thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares,
except the right to receive the moneys payable upon surrender (and endorsement,
if required by the Corporation) of their certificates, and the shares evidenced
thereby shall no longer be outstanding.  Subject to applicable escheat laws, any
moneys so set aside by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of two years
from the redemption date shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation,
after which reversion the holders of such shares so called for redemption shall
look only to the general funds of the Corporation for the payment of the amounts
payable upon such redemption.  Any interest accrued on funds so deposited shall 
be paid to the Corporation from time to time.

                                      143
<PAGE>
 
     7.   Authorization and Issuance of Other Securities.  No consent of the
          ----------------------------------------------                    
holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock shall be required for (a) the creation
of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (b) the creation, or
increase or decrease in the amount, of any class or series of stock of the
Corporation not ranking prior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up to the Cumulative Preferred Stock or (c) any increase or decrease
in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change in
the par value thereof or in any other terms thereof.

     8.   Amendment of Resolution.  The Board and the Committee each reserves
          -----------------------                                            
the right by subsequent amendment of this resolution from time to time to
increase or decrease the number of shares that constitute the Cumulative
Preferred Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding)
and in other respects to amend this resolution within the limitations provided
by law, this resolution and the Certificate of Incorporation.

     9.   Rank.  For the purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or
          ----                                                                 
classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:

         (a) prior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
     dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the
     holders of stock of such class or classes shall be entitled by the terms
     thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
     liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference
     or priority to the holders of shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock;

         (b) on a parity with shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either 
     as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
     whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or
     liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the
     Cumulative Preferred Stock, if the holders of stock of such class or
     classes shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends
     or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as
     the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or

                                      144
<PAGE>
 
     liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as
     between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of the
     Cumulative Preferred Stock (the term "Parity Preferred Stock" being used to
     refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of the Cumulative Preferred
     Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
     up, or both, as the context may require); and
     
         (c) junior to shares of the Cumulative Preferred Stock, either as to
     dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such
     class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of the Cumulative Preferred
     Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
     distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may
     be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or
     classes.

          The Cumulative Preferred Stock shall rank prior, as to dividends and
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Common Stock and the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and on a parity
with (i) the Corporation's ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, with a liquidation
value of $35.88 per share, (ii) the Corporation's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred
Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (iii) the Corporation's 
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per
share, (iv) the Corporation's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (v) if issued, the Corporation's
7.82% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(vi) if issued, the Corporation's 7.80% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share, (vii) if issued, the Corporation's 9.00%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share,
(viii) if issued, the Corporation's 8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a
liquidation value of $200.00 per share and (ix) if issued, the Corporation's
8.20% Cumulative Preferred Stock, with a liquidation value of $200.00 per share.

                                      145
<PAGE>
 
          B.  This Certificate of Designation shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Christine A. Edwards, its Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, this 30th day of May, 1997.


                                         DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                         By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                            ----------------------------
                                            Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                            Title: Executive Vice President,
                                                   General Counsel & Secretary

                                      146
<PAGE>
 

                    CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION, PREFERENCES
                         AND RIGHTS OF SERIES A JUNIOR
                         PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK

                                       of

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


             Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law
                            of the State of Delaware



     The undersigned officer of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., a corporation
organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY
CERTIFY:

     That pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors by the
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the said Corporation, the
said Board of Directors on April 21, 1995 adopted the following resolution
creating a series of 220,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock:

     RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors
of this Corporation in accordance with the provisions of its Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, a series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation be and it hereby is created, and that the designation and amount
thereof and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional
and other special rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:

     Section 1.  Designation and Amount.  The shares of such series shall be
                 ----------------------
designated as "SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK" and the number of
shares constituting such series shall be 220,000.

     Section 2.  Dividends and Distributions.
                 --------------------------- 
                
(A)  The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
     shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of

                                      147
<PAGE>
 
     Directors out of funds legally available for the purposes, quarterly
     dividends payable in cash on the last day of March, June, September and
     December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a
     "QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE"), commencing on the first Quarterly
     Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a
     share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per
     share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1.00 or
     (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000
     times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times
     the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends
     or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common
     Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
     reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, par value
     $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "COMMON STOCK") since the
     immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to
     the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any
     share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
     Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after April 21, 1995
     (the "RIGHTS DECLARATION DATE") (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock
     payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii subdivide the outstanding Common
     Stock, or (ii combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of
     shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of
     Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately
     prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be
     adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is
     the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such
     event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
     that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

(B)  The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A
     Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Paragraph (A) above
     immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common
     Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided
     that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on
     the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment
     Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of
     $0.01 per share on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall
     nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

(C)  Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of
     Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend
     Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A
     Junior Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such
     shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment
     Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue form the
     date of issue of such 

                                      148
<PAGE>
 
     shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or
     is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares
     of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a
     quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in
     either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be
     cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid
     dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A
     Junior Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total
     amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares
     shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares
     at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for
     the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating
     Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution
     declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to
     the date fixed for the payment thereof.

     Section 3.  Voting Rights.  The holders of shares of Series A Junior
                 -------------
Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:

     (A)  Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder
thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of
the Corporation.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the
Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in
shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii)
combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in
each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to
such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

     (B)  Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares
of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of
Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote
of stockholders of the Corporation.

     (C)  (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly
dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning
of a period (herein called a "DEFAULT PERIOD") which shall extend until such
time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend
periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A
Junior Participating 

                                      149
<PAGE>
 
Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart
for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock
(including holders of the Series A Junior participating Preferred Stock) with
dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon,
voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two (2)
directors.

     (ii)  During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series
A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special
meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(C) or at any
annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of
stockholders, provided that such voting right shall not be exercised unless the
holders of ten percent (10%) in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding
shall be present in person or by proxy.  The absence of a quorum of the holders
of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preferred Stock
of such voting right.  At any meeting at which the holders of Preferred Stock
shall exercise such voting right initially during an existing default period,
they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect directors to fill such
vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two (2)
directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two (2)
directors.  If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does
not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have
the right to make such increase in the number of directors as shall be necessary
to permit the election by them of the required number.  After the holders of the
Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect directors in any
default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of
directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of
Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity
securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Junior
                                ---- -----                         
Participating Preferred Stock.

     (iii)  Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing
default period, have previously exercised their right to elect directors, the
Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of
Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of
special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon
be called by the President, a Vice-President or the Secretary of the
Corporation.  Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders
of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this Paragraph (C)(iii)
shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of
such notice to him or her at his or her last address as the same appears on the
books of the Corporation.  Such 

                                      150
<PAGE>
 
meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than
60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting
within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on
similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not
less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock
outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Paragraph (C)(iii), no such
special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately
preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.

     (iv)  In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes
of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to
elect the whole number of directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall
have exercised their right to elect two (2) directors voting as a class, after
the exercise of which right (x) the directors so elected by the holders of
Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been
elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y)
any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in Paragraph
(C)(ii) of this Section 3) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining
directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected
the director whose office shall have become vacant.  References in this
Paragraph (C) to directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock
shall include directors elected by such directors to fill vacancies as provided
in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.

     (v)  Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of
the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect directors shall cease, (y)
the term of any directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class
shall terminate, and (z) the number of directors shall be such number as may be
provided for in the certificate of incorporation or by-laws irrespective of any
increase made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3
(such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided
by law or in the certificate of incorporation or by-laws).  Any vacancies in the
Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the
preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors.

     (D)  Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not
be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of
Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.

                                      151
<PAGE>
 
     Section 4.  Certain Restrictions.

     (A)  Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions
payable on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in
Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends
and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the
Corporation shall not

     (i)  declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or
redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;

     (ii)  declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any
shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in
arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such
shares are then entitled;

     (iii)  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of
any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or
otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any
stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series a Junior Participating
Preferred Stock; or

     (iv)  purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series
A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a
parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except in
accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as
determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such
terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual
dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective
series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and
equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.

     (B)  The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to
purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the

                                      152
<PAGE>
 
Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

     Section 5.  Reacquired Shares.  Any shares of Series A Junior Participating
                 -----------------
Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner
whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition
thereof.  All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but
unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series
of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of
Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth
herein.

     Section 6.  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding up.  (A)   Upon any
                 --------------------------------------
liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior
thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
shall have received an amount equal to 1,000 times the Exercise Price, plus an
amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether
or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation
Preference").  Following the payment of the full amount of he Series A
Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders
of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior
thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per
share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i)
the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 1,000 (as appropriately adjusted as
set forth in subparagraph (C) below to reflect such events as stock splits,
stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such
number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number").  following the payment of the
full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in
respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their
ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the
ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and
Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.

     (B)  In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available
to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the
liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which
rank on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, then
such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity
shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences.  In the event,
however, that there are not 

                                      153
<PAGE>
 
sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment,
then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common
Stock.

     (C)  In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the rights
Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the
outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case
the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be
adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of
which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such
event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that
were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

     Section 7.  Consolidation, Merger, Etc.  In case the Corporation shall
                 --------------------------
enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which
the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be
similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision
for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount
of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the
case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or
exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights
Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the
outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares then in each such case
the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or
change of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and
the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

     Section 8.  No Redemption.  The shares of Series A Junior Participating
                 -------------
Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.

     Section 9.  Amendment.  The Amended and Restated Certificate of
                 ---------
Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be further amended in any manner
which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights
of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them
adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of
the outstanding 

                                      154
<PAGE>
 
shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a
class.

     Section 10.  Fractional Shares.  Series A Junior Participating Preferred
                  -----------------
Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in
proportion to such holders fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive
dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other
rights of holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have executed and subscribed this Certificate and do
affirm the foregoing as true under the penalties of perjury this 25th day of
April, 1995.

                         DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.



                         /s/ Ronald T. Carman
                         ------------------------------------------------
                         Name:   Ronald T. Carman
                         Title:  Senior vice President and
                                 Associate General Counsel

                                      155
<PAGE>
 

 
                            CERTIFICATE OF INCREASE
                                      OF
                 SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK
                                      OF
                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                        Pursuant to Section 151 of the
               General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware


          Dean Witter, Discover & Co. (the "Corporation"), a corporation
organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, in accordance with Section 103 thereof, does hereby certify:

          1.  Pursuant to a Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights
of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock filed in the office of the
Secretary of State of Delaware on April 26, 1995, the Board of Directors of the
Corporation created a series of 220,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, and as of the date hereof no shares of such series have been
issued.

          2.  The Board of Directors, on April 18, 1997, adopted the following
resolution authorizing an increase in the authorized number of shares of Series
A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from 220,000 to 450,000:

          RESOLVED, that the number of shares constituting the series of the
Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock be increased to
450,000.

                                      156

<PAGE>
 
 
          3.  This Certificate of Increase and the increase in the authorized
number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock provided for
herein shall not become effective until, and shall become effective at,
12:01 a.m. on May 31, 1997.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed and subscribed this
Certificate of Increase this 30th day of May, 1997.


                              DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                              By:   /s/ Christine A. Edwards
                                 ---------------------------------
                                 Name:  Christine A. Edwards
                                 Title: Executive Vice President,
                                        General Counsel & Secretary

                                      157

<PAGE>
 

                                                           STATE OF DELAWARE
                                                           SECRETARY OF STATE
                                                       DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS
                                                       FILED 03:00 PM 03/24/1998
                                                           981113145 - 0923632

                           CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                      TO
               AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                  MORGAN STANLEY, DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                        Pursuant to Section 242 of the 
                          General Corporation Law of
                             the State of Delaware

        Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. (the "Corporation"), a 
corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General 
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify that:

        FIRST:     The Board of Directors of the Corporation, by unanimous 
written consent pursuant to Section 141 of the General Corporation Law of the 
State of Delaware, duly adopted resolutions setting forth a proposed amendment 
to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, 
declaring said amendment to be advisable and authorizing the officers of the 
Corporation to submit such amendment to the stockholders of the Corporation for 
approval at the Corporation's 1998 annual meeting of stockholders. The 
resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:

        RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors declares it advisable that 
Article I of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
be amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                     NAME
                                     ----

        The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the 
"Corporation") is:

                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

        SECOND:  Thereafter, pursuant to resolution of its Board of Directors, 
the 1998 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation was duly called and 
held, upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware, at which meeting the necessary number of shares as 
required by the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation 
were voted in favor of the amendment.

        THIRD:  Said amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of 
Delaware.

<PAGE>
 
        FOURTH:  This Certificate of Amendment shall not become effective until,
and shall become effective at, 5:00 p.m. on March 24, 1998.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate to be 
signed by Ronald T. Carman, its Assistant Secretary, this 24th day of March, 
1998.


                                     MORGAN STANLEY, DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.


                                     BY: /s/ Ronald T. Carman
                                        ---------------------------------------
                                        Ronald T. Carman, Assistant Secretary
<PAGE>
 

                          CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION
                              OF PREFERRED STOCK
                      OF MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                  (Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the General
                   Corporation Law of the State of Delaware)


          Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., a corporation duly organized and
existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the
"Corporation"), certifies as follows:

          FIRST:       The Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of a series of
Preferred Stock designated 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01
per share, with a stated value of $200.00 per share (the "7-3/8% Preferred
Stock").

          SECOND:      The Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock Financing Committee")
redeemed and retired all issued and outstanding shares of the 7-3/8% Preferred
Stock, which constituted all authorized shares of the 7-3/8% Preferred Stock.

          THIRD:       Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "GCL"), the Preferred
Stock Financing Committee adopted the following resolutions:

     RESOLVED FURTHER, that upon redemption of the 7-3/8% Preferred Stock and
     corresponding Depositary Shares, all of the shares of 7-3/8% Preferred
     Stock so redeemed shall be retired; and

     RESOLVED FURTHER, that upon redemption and retirement of the 7-3/8%
     Preferred Stock in accordance with the foregoing resolutions, none of the
     authorized shares of such series of Preferred Stock will be outstanding and
     no shares of such series thereafter will be issued; and

     RESOLVED FURTHER, that any officer of the Corporation is authorized and
     directed to execute a Certificate of Elimination as provided by Section
     151(g) of the GCL in accordance with Section 103 of the GCL, substantially
     in the form attached as Exhibit A, with such changes therein as the officer
     executing the same may approve and as are permitted by the GCL to be made
     by such officer, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by such
     officer's execution of such Certificate of Elimination, and to file the
     same forthwith in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of
     Delaware, and when such Certificate of Elimination becomes 

<PAGE>
 
 
     effective, all references to the 7-3/8% Preferred Stock in the Amended and
     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall be
     eliminated and the shares of 7-3/8% Preferred Stock so redeemed and retired
     shall resume the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred
     Stock of the Corporation, without designation as to series.

          FOURTH:  Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the GCL, all
references to 7-3/8% Preferred Stock in the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation hereby are eliminated, and the shares that were
designated to such series hereby are returned to the status of authorized but
unissued shares of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation, without designation
as to series.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be
signed by Martin M. Cohen, its Assistant Secretary, this 21 day of October,
1998.


                                MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.



                                By: /s/ Martin M. Cohen
                                   ----------------------------
                                   Title: Assistant Secretary


                                       2

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>BY-LAWS OF THE COMPANY, AS AMENDED
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2

                                                    As amended December 18, 1998

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                                     BYLAWS
                                       OF
                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                     (hereinafter called the "Corporation")


                                   ARTICLE 1
                              OFFICES AND RECORDS
                                        
     SECTION 1.01.  Delaware Office.  The principal office of the Corporation in
the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New
Castle.

     SECTION 1.02.  Other Offices.  The Corporation may have such other offices,
either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may
designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.


                                   ARTICLE 2
                                  STOCKHOLDERS
                                        
     SECTION 2.01.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the stockholders of
the Corporation shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by
resolution of the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 2.02.  Special Meeting.  Subject to the rights of the holders of
any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") or any
other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called
at any time only by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors
pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 2.03.  Place of Meeting.  The Board of Directors may designate the
place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders.  If no designation is made
by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of
the Corporation, which will be 1585 Broadway, New York, New York.

     SECTION 2.04.  Notice of Meeting.  Written or printed notice, stating the
place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the
purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared
and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days
before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, to each
stockholder of record entitled to vote at 
<PAGE>
 
such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only
such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall
have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of
meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed,
and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise
provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution
of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously
scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.

     SECTION 2.05.  Quorum and Adjournment.  Except as otherwise provided by law
or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a
majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"),
represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of
stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class
or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of
the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of such business.  The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the
voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the
meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the
case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of
the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such
class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such
specified business).  No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need
be given except as required by law.  The stockholders present at a duly
organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment,
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a
quorum.

     SECTION 2.06.  Proxies.  At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may
vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; provided, that no proxy shall be voted
after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the
Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the
meeting.

     SECTION 2.07.  Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.

     (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.

     (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the
Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders
may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the
Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these
Amended and Restated Bylaws, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote
at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses
(ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record at
the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
     (ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an
annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a) (i) of
this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to
the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of business other than
nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for
stockholder action.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to
the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less
than ninety days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first
anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided however, that with
respect to the annual meeting to be held in 1998, the anniversary date shall be
deemed to be April 2, 1998; provided further, that in the event that the date of
the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than
ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely
must be so delivered not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth day prior to
such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the
ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on
which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  In no
event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an
annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's
notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder's notice shall set
forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for
election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person
that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of
directors in an election contest, or is other-wise required, in each case
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder, including such person's written
consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a
director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes
to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be
brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the
meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the
beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to
the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose
behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such
stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial
owner and (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned
beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.

     (iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of
this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors
to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and
there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or
specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation
at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's
annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be
considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions
created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the
principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of
business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is
first made by the Corporation.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
     (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders.

     Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders
as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's
notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws.
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a
special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to
the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote
at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw
and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the
Secretary of the Corporation.  In the event the Corporation calls a special
meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the
Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate such number of persons for
election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's Notice of
Meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by clause (ii) of Section
2.07(a) of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary
at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the one
hundred and twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the
close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special
meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first
made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the
Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  In no event shall the public
announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a
new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.

     (c) General

     (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of
stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of
stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this Bylaw.  Except as otherwise provided by law,
the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and
Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to
determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the
meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and,
if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to
declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.

     (ii) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean
disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated
Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the
Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13,
14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
     (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder
shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the
rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this
Bylaw.  Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of
stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy
statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.

     SECTION 2.08.  Procedure For Election of Directors; Voting.  The election
of directors submitted to stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a
plurality of the votes cast thereon, except as otherwise set forth in the
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of
the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of
stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances.  Except as
otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of
directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in
person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and
where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of
the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the
meeting and entitled to vote thereon.

     The vote on any matter, including the election of directors, shall be by
written ballot.  Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by
such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.

     SECTION 2.09.  Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.

     (a)  The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more
inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors, officers or
employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report
thereof.  One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to
replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate has been
appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are
unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall
appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before
discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute
the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of
his or her ability.  The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

     (b)  The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the
date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon
which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
                                   ARTICLE 3
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                        
     SECTION 3.01.  General Powers.  The business and affairs of the Corporation
shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors.  In
addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated Bylaws
expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such
powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by
law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these
Amended and Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the
stockholders.

     SECTION 3.02.  Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to Section 3.12
of these Amended and Restated Bylaws and to the rights of the holders of any
series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in
the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under
specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to
time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but
shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors.  However,
no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall
shorten the term of any incumbent director.  The directors, other than those who
may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other
series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, shall be divided into such classes and hold office for such terms
as set forth in, and may be removed only in accordance with, the Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

     Each director shall be required to become a stockholder of the Corporation
within 60 days after the date such director is first elected to the Board of
Directors.

     SECTION 3.03.  Regular Meetings.  A regular meeting of the Board of
Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after,
and at the same place as, each annual meeting of stockholders.  The Board of
Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of
additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.  Unless
otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation
shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board of Directors and in
the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman
of the meeting.

     SECTION 3.04.  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board of
Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board and the
President, acting together, or a majority of the Board of Directors.  The person
or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix
the place and time of the meetings.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of
Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all
special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the Secretary's absence a
temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 3.05.  Notice.  Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to
each director at his business or residence not later than three days before the
day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such
places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or be
communicated to each director personally or by telephone, not later than the day
before such day of meeting.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the
purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be
specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended
and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof.  A meeting may
be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present (except as
otherwise provided by law) or if those present waive notice of the meeting in
accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting.

     SECTION 3.06.  Action Without Meeting.  Any action required or permitted to
be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may
be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all members
of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent
is filed with the records of the proceedings of the Board or such committee.

     SECTION 3.07.  Conference Telephone Meetings.  Members of the Board of
Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board
of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar
communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the
meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall
constitute presence in person at such meeting.

     SECTION 3.08.  Quorum.  At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a
majority of the entire Board of Directors (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  At all meetings of the
committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50% or more of the total
number of members (assuming no vacancies) shall constitute a quorum.  The act of
the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a
quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case
may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law,
the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and
Restated Bylaws.  If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board
of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the
case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without
further notice other than announcement at the meeting.  If permitted by
applicable law, the directors or members, as the case may be, present at a duly
authorized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment,
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.

     SECTION 3.09.  Committees.  (a)  The Corporation shall have four standing
committees:  the executive committee, the nominating and directors committee,
the audit committee and the compensation committee.  The executive committee
shall have those 

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
powers and authority as are delegated to it from time to time pursuant to a
resolution passed by a three-quarters vote of the total number of directors
specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and
Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the
"entire Board of Directors").

     (b)  The nominating and directors committee shall have the following powers
and authority:  (i) evaluating and recommending director candidates to the Board
of Directors, (ii) assessing Board of Directors performance not less frequently
than every three years, (iii) recommending director compensation and benefits
philosophy for the Corporation, (iv) reviewing individual director performance
as issues arise, (v) periodically reviewing the Corporation's corporate
governance profile, and (vi) such additional powers and authority as the Board
of Directors may from time to time determine.  None of the members of the
nominating and directors committee shall be a member of the executive committee
or an officer or full-time employee of the Corporation or of any subsidiary or
affiliate of the Corporation.

     (c)  The audit committee shall have the following powers and authority:
(i) to recommend to the Board of Directors the appointment of independent public
accountants to audit the financial statements of the Corporation and to perform
such other duties from time to time as the audit committee may prescribe, (ii)
to receive the reports and comments of the Corporation's internal auditors and
of the independent public accountants, including reports on the adequacy of
internal controls, and to take such action with respect thereto as may seem
appropriate, (iii) to review the accounting principles employed in financial
reporting and (iv) to exercise such additional powers and authority as the Board
of Directors may from time to time determine.  None of the members of the audit
committee shall be a member of the executive committee or an officer or full-
time employee of the Corporation or of any subsidiary or affiliate of the
Corporation.

     (d)  The compensation committee shall have the following powers and
authority:  (i) determining and fixing the compensation for all senior officers
of the Corporation and those of its Subsidiaries (as defined in Section 6.07(f))
that the compensation committee shall from time to time consider appropriate, as
well as all employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries compensated at a
rate in excess of such amount per annum as may be fixed or determined from time
to time by the Board of Directors, (ii) performing the duties of the committees
of the Board of Directors provided for in any present or future stock option,
incentive compensation or employee benefit plan of the Corporation or, if the
compensation committee shall so determine, any such plan of any Subsidiary,
(iii) reviewing the operations of and policies pertaining to any present or
future stock option, incentive compensation or employee benefit plan of the
Corporation or any Subsidiary that the compensation committee shall from time to
time consider appropriate, (iv) authorizing the issuance or grant of stock,
stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock units or any
other award consisting of or relating to stock of the Corporation under or
pursuant to any present or future stock option, incentive compensation, employee
benefit or other plan of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary, and (v) such
additional powers and authority as the Board of Directors may from time to 

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
time determine. None of the members of the compensation committee shall be a
member of the executive committee or an officer or full-time employee of the
Corporation or of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation.

     (e)  In addition, the Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a
three-quarters vote of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more
additional committees, with each such committee consisting of one or more
directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as the Board
of Directors shall designate by such resolutions.

     (f)  Any modification to the powers and authority of any committee shall
require the adoption of a resolution by a three-quarters vote of the entire
Board of Directors.

     (g)  All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and
authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions
adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms hereof shall be
deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or conferred under authority
of the Board of Directors.  The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is
empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is
binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from
time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the
Corporation.

     (h)  Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be
determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the committee in question
and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such
resolution.  A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of
the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the
request of the chairman or a majority of the members of any committee.  Notice
of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same
manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and Restated
Bylaws.

     SECTION 3.10.  Committee Members.  (a)  Each member of any committee of the
Board of Directors shall hold office until such member's successor is elected
and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed.  The
number of directors which shall constitute any committee shall be determined by
resolution adopted by a three-quarters vote of the entire Board of Directors.

     (b)  The Board of Directors may remove a director from a committee or
change the chairmanship of a committee only by resolution adopted by a three-
quarters vote of the entire Board of Directors.

     (c)  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as
alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to
fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or
chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or
otherwise; provided, that any 

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
such designation may only be amended by a three-quarters vote of the entire
Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.11.  Committee Secretary.  The Board of Directors may elect a
secretary of any such committee.  If the Board of Directors does not elect such
a secretary, the committee shall do so.  The secretary of any committee need not
be a member of the committee, but shall be selected from a member of the staff
of the office of the Secretary of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided by
the Board of Directors or the committee, as applicable.

     SECTION 3.12.  Certain Modifications.  Except as otherwise provided in the
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action by the Board of
Directors to change the number of directors comprising the Board or comprising
any class of directors to other than an even number of directors shall require a
three-quarters vote of the entire Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.13.  Compensation.  The directors may be paid their expenses, if
any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid
compensation as director  or chairman of any committee and for attendance at
each meeting of the Board of Directors.  Members of special or standing
committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for
attending committee meetings.


                                   ARTICLE 4
                                   OFFICERS
                                        
     SECTION 4.01.  General.  The officers of the Corporation shall be elected
by the Board of Directors and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer; a President and Chief Operating Officer; a Chief
Financial Officer; a Chief Strategic and Administrative Officer; a Chief Legal
Officer; one or more Senior Executive Vice Presidents; one or more Executive
Vice Presidents; one or more Senior Vice Presidents; one or more First Vice
Presidents; one or more Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant
Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more Assistant Treasurers; a Controller; and
such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be
necessary or desirable.  All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall
have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices,
subject to the specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also
have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of
Directors or any committee thereof.  Any number of offices may be held by the
same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The officers
of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation.

     SECTION 4.02.  Election and Term of Office.  Subject to Section 4.08 of
these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the elected officers of the Corporation shall
be elected 

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of
Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of
officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon
thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.08 of these Amended and Restated
Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly
elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or
be removed.

     SECTION 4.03.  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  The
Chairman of the Board shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be
an officer of the Corporation.  The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall supervise, coordinate and manage
the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage
its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to
exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as
may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated
Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to
the oversight of the Board of Directors.  The Chairman of the Board, if present,
shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 4.04.  President and Chief Operating Officer.  The President and
Chief Operating Officer shall be a member of the Board of Directors and an
officer of the Corporation.  The President and Chief Operating Officer shall
supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and
supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation,
shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such
other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of
Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic
policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of
Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  In the absence or
disability of  the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the duties
of the Chairman of the Board shall be performed and the Chairman of the Board's
authority may be exercised by the President and Chief Operating Officer, and in
the event the President and Chief Operating Officer is absent or disabled, such
duties shall be performed and such authority may be exercised by a director
designated for this purpose by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 4.05.  Chief Financial Officer.  The Chief Financial Officer shall
have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall
exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the
Treasurer and the Controller.  The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such
other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of
Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic
policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the President and Chief
Operating Officer.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 4.06.  Chief Strategic and Administrative Officer.  The Chief
Strategic and Administrative Officer shall have the responsibility for the
business strategy and strategic planning for the Corporation and shall have the
responsibility for making recommendations regarding the capital allocation of
the Corporation.  The Chief Strategic and Administrative Officer shall perform
such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board
of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic
policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the President and Chief
Operating Officer.

     SECTION 4.07.  Chief Legal Officer.  The Chief Legal Officer shall have
responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation and for the performance
of the duties of the Secretary.  The Chief Legal Officer shall perform such
other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of
Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic
policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the President and Chief
Operating Officer.

     SECTION 4.08.  Certain Actions.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the removal of the current
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the current President and Chief
Operating Officer as of May 31, 1997, or any modification to either of their
respective roles, duties or authority shall require a three-quarters vote of the
entire Board of Directors.

     SECTION 4.09.  Vacancies.  A newly created office and a vacancy in any
office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of
Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the Board of
Directors.


                                   ARTICLE 5
                        STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS
                                        
     SECTION 5.01.  Stock Certificates and Transfers.  (a)  The interest of each
stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of
stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time
to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by
resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock
of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares.
Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors,
every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder
of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or
in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the
President or any other authorized officer and by the Treasurer or an Assistant
Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation
representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.  Except as
otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders
of uncertificated stock and the rights and 

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class
and series shall be identical.

     (b)  The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and
registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe,
which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to
be in facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has
signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has
ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate
is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he
were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.

     (c)  The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates
shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in
person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancelation of certificates for
the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed
thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity
of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require.  Upon
receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of
uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance
of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to
the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books
of the Corporation.  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of
uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof
a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated
on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless
otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the
Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the
powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other
special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.

     SECTION 5.02.  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  No certificate for
shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in
place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except
on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on
delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such
terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may
in its or his discretion require.


                                   ARTICLE 6
                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
                                        
     SECTION 6.01.  Fiscal Year.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as
specified by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 6.02.  Dividends.  The Board of Directors may from time to time
declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the
manner 

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation.

     SECTION 6.03.  Seal.  The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the
Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by
the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 6.04.  Waiver of Notice.  Whenever any notice is required to be
given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in
writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before
or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of
such notice.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any
annual or special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of
Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such
meeting.

     SECTION 6.05.  Audits.  The accounts, books and records of the Corporation
shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent
certified public accountant selected by the audit committee, and it shall be the
duty of the audit committee to cause such audit to be made annually.

     SECTION 6.06.  Resignations.  Any director or any officer, whether elected
or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the
Corporation.

     SECTION 6.07.  Indemnification and Insurance.

     (a)  Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a
party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed
action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or
investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she
or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director
or officer of the Corporation or a director or elected officer of a Subsidiary,
shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent
permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by
applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such
amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than
said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any
other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such
indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or
officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and
administrators; provided however, that the Corporation shall indemnify any such
person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof)
initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was
authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's
claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Bylaw.  The
Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such
proceeding in advance of its 

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
final disposition upon receipt (unless the Corporation upon authorization of the
Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable
law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it
shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be
indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise.

     (b)  The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in
defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted
pursuant to this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any
person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended
and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and
Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or
otherwise.  No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any
provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any
right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with
respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal,
amendment, adoption or modification.

     (c)  The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect
itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member,
employee or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise
against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss
under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

     (d)  The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the
Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by
the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of
its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other
than a director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person
who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a
director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other
enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained
or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the
provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of
expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.

     (e)  If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity,
the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw
(including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or clause of this
Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable)
shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest
extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation,
each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision
held to be invalid, 

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent
manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

     (f)  For purposes of these Amended and Restated Bylaws:

     (1)  "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is
not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which
indemnification is sought by the claimant.

     (2)  "Subsidiary" means a corporation, a majority of the capital stock of
which is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation, other than directors'
qualifying shares.

     (g)  Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to
be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either
delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or
courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective
only upon receipt by the Secretary.


                                   ARTICLE 7
                            CONTRACTS, PROXIES, ETC.
                                        
     SECTION 7.01.  Contracts.  Except as otherwise required by law, the Amended
and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws,
any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and
on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation
as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct.  Such authority may be
general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine.  Subject
to the control and direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the
Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Strategic and
Administrative Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Treasurer may enter
into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements,
deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and
other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation.
Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such officers of
the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her
jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power
shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of
such delegated power.

     SECTION 7.02.  Proxies.  Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by
the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may from time
to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation,
in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the
Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities
in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may
be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other
securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation
or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner
of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be
executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate
seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem
necessary or proper in the premises.


                                   ARTICLE 8
                                   AMENDMENTS
                                        
     SECTION 8.01.  Amendments.  These Amended and Restated Bylaws may be
altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated
Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any
meeting thereof; provided however, that notice of such alteration, amendment,
repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice
of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of
Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-
four hours prior to the meeting.  Unless a higher percentage is required by the
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as to any matter which is the
subject of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all such amendments must be
approved by either the holders of eighty percent (80%) of the Voting Stock or by
a majority of the Board of Directors; provided further, notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Board of Directors may alter, amend or repeal, or adopt new
Amended and Restated Bylaws in conflict with, (i) any provision of these Amended
and Restated Bylaws which requires a three-quarters vote of the entire Board of
Directors for action to be taken thereunder, (ii) subsection (c) of Section 3.10
of these Amended and Restated Bylaws and (iii) this proviso to this Section 8.01
of these Amended and Restated Bylaws only by a resolution adopted by a three-
quarters vote of the entire board of Directors until December 31, 2000; provided
further, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors may alter,
amend or repeal, or adopt new Amended and Restated Bylaws in conflict with, (i)
Section 4.08 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws and (ii) this further proviso
to this Section 8.01 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws only by a resolution
adopted by a three-quarters vote of the entire Board of Directors.

                                       17
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO THE DEAN WITTER START PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19

                                AMENDMENT TO THE
                             DEAN WITTER START PLAN
                             ----------------------
                                        
     WHEREAS, Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ("DWR"), a Delaware corporation,
maintains the Dean Witter START Plan (the "START Plan");

     WHEREAS, DWR desires that the START Plan be amended as set forth herein;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the START Plan is hereby amended as follows:

     1. Effective January 1, 1998, Section 12(c) of the START Plan shall be
       amended to read as follows:

       "(c)  Suspension of Contributions.  If a Participant makes a withdrawal
       (other than a hardship withdrawal described in Section 12(g)) from the
       Participant's Basic Pre-Tax Account or Supplemental Pre-Tax Account, the
       Participant shall not be permitted to make any Employee Contributions for
       the three months beginning on the first day of the first payroll period
       following the date the withdrawal request is processed by the Plan
       Administrator.  In addition, the Plan Administrator may from time to time
       prescribe written rules of uniform application by which Participants who
       make a hardship withdrawal as provided in Section 12(g) may not make
       elective or employee contributions to this or any other plan of an
       Employer for a period to be determined by the Plan Administrator."

     2.  Effective January 1, 1998, Section 20(a) of the START Plan is amended
       by adding the following to the end thereof:

       "Effective January 1, 1998, the Plan may pay benefits pursuant to a QDRO
       that provides for the payment of benefits to an "alternate payee" (as
       such term is defined in Code section 414(p) ) prior to the date a
       Participant has attained "earliest retirement age" (as such term is
       defined in Code section 414(p)).  Unless otherwise specified in the QDRO,
       payment shall be made pro rata from each of the Participant's accounts
       and pro rata from the Investment Funds in which any account is invested."

     3.  Effective as of January 1, 1998, Section 4(a) of the START Plan is
       hereby amended by replacing the last sentence thereof with the following:

       "All Company Contributions shall be made in cash or, effective January 1,
       1998, in cash or in shares of MWD Stock or in a combination of cash and
<PAGE>
 
       shares of MWD Stock, all as the Company may in its discretion determine;
       provided, that shares of MWD Stock may be contributed to the Plan only if
       at the time of contribution they constitute "qualifying employer
       securities" within the meaning of section 407(d)(5) of ERISA.  If and to
       the extent that Company Contributions are made in shares of MWD Stock,
       they shall be taken into account at their Fair Market Value on the date
       of contribution.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the "Fair
       Market Value" of a share of MWD Stock on a date shall be the closing
       price, regular way, of a share of MWD Stock as reported on the New York
       Stock Exchange on such date if shares of MWD Stock are then trading upon
       such exchange, or if not, then the closing price, regular way, of a share
       of MWD Stock as reported on such other exchange on which shares of MWD
       Stock are principally trading on such date."

     4. Effective January 1, 1998, Section 1 of the START Plan is amended by
       adding a new paragraph to the end thereof reading as follows:

            "The Plan is an eligible individual account plan (within the meaning
       of section 407(d)(3) of ERISA) and shall be interpreted accordingly.  The
       Plan provides for the acquisition and holding of "qualifying employer
       securities" as defined in section 407(d)(5) of ERISA.  Up to 100% of the
       Plan's assets may be invested in qualifying employing securities."

     5. Effective January 1, 1998, the definition in Section 21 of the START
       Plan of the term "Eligible Employee" shall be amended to add a new
       paragraph to the end thereof as follows:

             "Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Eligible Employee" and
       "Immediately Eligible Employee" shall include only any person who
       receives regular and stated compensation from, and is treated as a common
       law employee for wage withholding purposes by, a member of the Affiliated
       Group, other than a pension, retainer or remuneration in the nature of a
       consulting fee, and shall not include any person who is (i) classified by
       a Participating Company as a Leased Employee of any Participating Company
       (including, without limitation a leased employee as defined in Code
       section 414(n)), an independent contractor or a consultant; or (ii) a
       provider of services to a Participating Company pursuant to a contractual
       arrangement, either with that person or with a third party, other than
       one specifically providing for an employment relationship with a
       Participating Company.  If any person excluded as an Eligible Employee or
       Immediately Eligible Employee pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be
       determined by a court or a federal, state or local regulatory or
       administrative authority to have served as a common law employee of a
       Participating Company, such determination shall not alter this exclusion
       as an Eligible Employee or Immediately Eligible Employee for purposes of
       this Plan."
<PAGE>
 
     6. Effective January 1, 1998, Section 7(b) of the START Plan shall be
       amended by adding the phrase, "Except as otherwise provided in Section
       6(d)," immediately before the phrase "All Company Contributions shall be
       invested."

     7. Effective as of July 1, 1999, or such earlier date as the Plan
       Administrator shall designate in writing, Section 6(d) shall be
       redesignated as Section 6(e) and all cross references to Section 6(d)
       shall be redesignated as references to Section 6(e) and a new Section
       6(d) shall be added to read as follows:

          "(d)  Diversification of Company Contribution Account.  In accordance
          with this Section 6(d), each 55/10 Participant and each 60/10
          Participant (each as defined below) may make an election to direct the
          investment of a portion of his or her Company Contribution Account in
          Investment Funds other than the MWD Stock Fund.  As of any date, such
          election to direct such investment shall be permitted with respect to
          up to 25% of the total number of shares of MWD Stock that have ever
          been allocated to a 55/10 Participant's Qualified Company Contribution
          Account and with respect to 50% of the total number of shares of MWD
          Stock that have ever been allocated to a 60/10 Participant's Qualified
          Company Contribution Account, in each case adjusted appropriately to
          reflect subdivision or combinations of such shares or similar
          transactions, less the number of shares directed to be alternatively
          invested pursuant to any prior election under this Section 6(d).
          There shall be no limit to the number of elections that a 55/10
          Participant or a 60/10 Participant may make under this Section 6(d),
          provided that not more than one election can be made in any calendar
          month.  Any shares that shall be invested in alternative Investment
          Funds in accordance with this Section 6(d) shall be invested as
          directed by the Participant among any Investment Funds then available
          for the investment of Employee Contributions; thereafter, the
          provisions of Section 6(c) shall apply to such investments.  For
          purposes of this Section 6(d), a "55/10 Participant" is any
          Participant who has attained age 55 and has completed 10 years of
          participation in the Plan, and a "60/10 Participant" is any
          Participant who has attained age 60 and has completed 10 years of
          participation in the Plan.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section
          to the contrary, the Plan Administrator may from time to time
          prescribe rules of uniform application to those Participants subject
          to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to
          ensure compliance with Section 16(b)(3) of such Act."

     8.  Effective January 1, 1999, Section 4(b)(3) of the START Plan shall be
       amended to change the words "Basic Pre-Tax Contributions" to "Basic and
       Supplemental Pre-Tax Contributions (up to 6% of Earnings)."
<PAGE>
 
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned had hereunder set his hand as of the
5th day of January, 1999.


                                        DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC.

                                        By:___________________________
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.28
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.28
                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                          EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                                        
              Amended December 18, 1998, Effective January 1, 1999
                                        
SECTION 1 - PURPOSE
- -------------------

The purpose of the Plan is to secure for the Company and its stockholders the
benefits of the incentive inherent in the ownership of Common Stock by current
and future Eligible Employees.  The Plan is intended to comply with the
provisions of Code Section 423 and shall be administered, interpreted and
construed in accordance with such provisions.

SECTION 2 - DEFINITIONS
- -----------------------

When used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

2.1  "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any
      ------------------                                                     
     committee of such Board of Directors, as the Board of Directors may
     determine from time to time.

2.2  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
      ----                                                                  
     time, or any successor statute thereto.

2.3  "Committee" means the committee appointed by the Board of Directors to
      ---------                                                            
     administer the Plan pursuant to Section 12.

2.4  "Common Stock" means common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
      ------------                                                       
     Company.

2.5  "Common Stock Account" means the account established with, and maintained
      --------------------                                                    
     by, the Custodian for the purpose of holding Common Stock purchased
     pursuant to this Plan.

2.6  "Company" means Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., a Delaware corporation,
      -------                                                                 
     and its successors and assigns.

2.7  "Custodian" means the agent selected by the Company to hold Common Stock
      ---------                                                              
     purchased under the Plan.

2.8  "Disability" means disability as defined under any qualified, defined
      ----------                                                          
     benefit plan sponsored by the Company or any Subsidiary in which an
     Eligible Employee is a participant on the date such Eligible Employee
     terminates employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.

2.9  "Eligible Compensation" means the sum of the types and amounts of
      ---------------------                                           
     compensation determined from time to time by the Committee in its sole
     discretion to be eligible to be taken into account under the Plan, provided
     that no such determination shall include or exclude any type or amount of
     compensation contrary to the requirements of Section 423 of the Code and
     any regulations promulgated thereunder.

2.10  "Eligible Employee" means all employees of the Company and its
       -----------------                                            
     Subsidiaries that have been designated as eligible to participate in the
     Plan pursuant to and in accordance with rules prescribed by the Committee
     from time to time, which rules, however, shall neither permit nor deny
     participation in the Plan contrary to the requirements of the Code
     (including, but not limited to, Section 423(b)(3), (4), (5), and (8)
     thereof) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
2.11  "Fair Market Value" means the average of the high and low sales prices of
       -----------------                                                       
     a share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
     Composite Tape on the date in question or, if the Common Stock shall not
     have been traded on such date, the average of the high and low sales prices
     on the first day prior thereto on which the Common Stock was so traded or,
     if the Common Stock was not so traded, such other amount as may be
     determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

2.12  "Investment Date" means for each Eligible Employee, each date on which he
       ---------------                                                         
     receives his Eligible Compensation in each Plan Year, or such other dates
     as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

2.13  "Participant" means an Eligible Employee who has met the requirements of
       -----------                                                            
     Section 3 and has elected to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section
     4.1.

2.14  "Payroll Deduction Account" means the bookkeeping entry established by the
       -------------------------                                                
     Company for each Participant pursuant to Section 4.3.

2.15  "Plan" means the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. Employee Stock Purchase
       ----                                                                    
     Plan as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.

2.16  "Plan Year" means a calendar year.
       ---------                        

2.17  "Retirement" means retirement as defined by any qualified or non-qualified
       ----------                                                               
     defined benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary in which an
     Eligible Employee is a participant on the date such Eligible Employee
     terminates employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.

2.18  "Subsidiary" means any corporation designated by the Committee which
       ----------                                                         
     constitutes a "subsidiary" of the Company, within the meaning of Code
     Section 424(f).

SECTION 3 - ELIGIBILITY
- -----------------------

3.1  General Rule.  Subject to Section 3.3, each Eligible Employee shall be
     ------------                                                          
     eligible to participate in the Plan beginning on the later of (i) the
     Eligible Employee's date of hire by the Company or any Subsidiary and (ii)
     the date such employee becomes an Eligible Employee.

3.2  Leave of Absence.  Unless the Committee otherwise determines, a Participant
     ----------------                                                           
     on a paid leave of absence shall continue to be a Participant in the Plan
     so long as such Participant is on such paid leave of absence.  Unless
     otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant on an unpaid leave of
     absence shall not be entitled to participate in any offering commencing
     after such unpaid leave has begun but shall not be deemed to have
     terminated employment for purposes of the Plan.  A Participant who, upon
     failing to return to work following a leave of absence, is deemed not to be
     an employee, shall not be entitled to participate in any offering
     commencing after such termination of employment, and such Participant's
     Payroll Deduction Account shall be paid out in accordance with Section 6.1.

3.3  Common Stock Account.  As a condition to participation in this Plan, each
     --------------------                                                     
     Eligible Employee shall be required to hold shares purchased hereunder in a
     Common Stock Account and such employee's decision to participate in the
     Plan shall constitute the appointment of the Custodian as custodial agent
     for the purpose of holding such shares.  Such Common Stock Account will be
     governed by, and subject to, the terms and conditions of a written
     agreement between the Company and the Custodian.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
SECTION 4 - PARTICIPATION AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
- ------------------------------------------------

4.1  Enrollment.  Each Eligible Employee may elect to participate in the Plan
     ----------                                                              
    for a Plan Year by completing a Company-specified enrollment process.  Upon
    completing the enrollment process, an Eligible Employee shall commence
    participation in the Plan on the next practicable Investment Date.  Each
    Eligible Employee shall be advised of the purchase price (expressed as a
    percentage of Fair Market Value) determined under Section 5.2(b) before
    enrolling in the Plan.

4.2  Amount of Deduction.  When enrolling, the Eligible Employee shall specify a
     -------------------                                                        
    payroll deduction amount of a percentage (in whole numbers) of Eligible
    Compensation which shall be withheld from such Eligible Employee's regular
    paychecks, including bonus paychecks, for the Plan Year, provided, however,
                                                             ----------------- 
    that the Committee may determine and specify, from time to time, (i) the
    range of permissible percentages of Eligible Compensation an Eligible
    Employee may specify to be withheld and (ii) the maximum amount, if any, of
    Eligible Compensation that may be deducted for an Eligible Employee in any
    Plan Year, and provided further, that no such determination shall be
    contrary to the requirements of Code Section 423 and the regulations
    promulgated thereunder..  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may
    authorize payment in respect of any option exercised hereunder by personal
    check.

4.3  Payroll Deduction Accounts.  Each Participant's payroll deduction shall be
     --------------------------                                                
    credited, as soon as practicable following the relevant pay date, to a
    Payroll Deduction Account, pending the purchase of Common Stock in
    accordance with the provisions of the Plan.  All such amounts shall be
    assets of the Company and may be used by the Company for any corporate
    purpose.  No interest shall accrue or be paid on amounts credited to a
    Payroll Deduction Account.

4.4  Subsequent Plan Years.  Unless otherwise specified prior to the beginning
     ---------------------                                                    
    of any Plan Year by completing a Company-specified process, a Participant
    shall be deemed to have elected to participate in each subsequent Plan Year
    for which the Participant is eligible to the same extent and in the same
    manner as at the end of the prior Plan Year.

4.5  Changes in Participation.
     ------------------------ 

     (a)  At any time during a Plan Year, a Participant may cease participation
     in the Plan by completing a Company-specified process. Such cessation will
     become effective as soon as practicable following completion of such
     process, whereupon no further payroll deductions will be made and the
     Company shall pay to such Participant an amount equal to the balance in the
     Participant's Payroll Deduction Account as soon as practicable thereafter.
     To the extent then an Eligible Employee, any Participant who ceased to
     participate may elect to participate again as of any subsequent Investment
     Date in any calendar quarter after the quarter in which such Participant
     ceased to participate.

     (b)  At any time during a Plan Year (but not more than once in any calendar
     quarter), a Participant may increase or decrease the percentage of Eligible
     Compensation subject to payroll deduction within the limits approved by the
     Committee pursuant to Section 4.2 by completing a Company-specified
     process.  Such increase or decrease shall become effective with the first
     pay period following the completion of such process to which it may be
     practically applied.  Notwithstanding any increase in the percentage of
     Eligible Compensation subject to pay deduction pursuant to this Section
     4.5(b), in no event may the amount of Eligible Compensation deducted for an
     Eligible Employee for any Plan Year exceed the maximum amount authorized to
     be deducted pursuant to Section 4.2.

     (c)  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event the
     Committee determines under Section 5.2(b) to change the purchase price of a
     share of Common Stock, each Participant shall be advised in advance of the
     effective date of such change and afforded 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
     the opportunity to make a change in participation under Section 4.5(a) or
     4.5(b) before such change in the purchase price takes effect.

    SECTION 5 - OFFERINGS
    ---------------------

5.1  Maximum Number of Shares.  The Plan will be implemented by making offerings
     ------------------------                                                   
     of Common Stock on each Investment Date until the maximum number of shares
     of Common Stock available under the Plan have been issued pursuant to the
     exercise of options.

5.2  Grant and Exercise of Options
     -----------------------------

     (a)  Subject to Section 5.3, on each Investment Date, each Participant
     shall be deemed, subject to Section 5.4, to have been granted an option to
     purchase, and shall be deemed, without any further action, to have
     exercised such option and purchased the number of shares of Common Stock
     determined by dividing the amount credited to the Participant's Payroll
     Deduction Account on such date by the purchase price (as determined in
     paragraph (b) below). All such shares shall be credited to the
     Participant's Common Stock Account.

     (b)  The purchase price for each share of Common Stock shall be expressed
     as a percentage of Fair Market Value on the Investment Date and shall be
     determined from time to time by the Committee, but in no event shall such
     purchase price be less than 85 percent of the Fair Market Value of such
     share on the Investment Date.

5.3  Oversubscription of Shares.  If the total number of shares for which
     --------------------------                                          
     options are exercised on any Investment Date exceeds the maximum number of
     shares available for the applicable offering, the Company shall make an
     allocation of the shares available for delivery and distribution among the
     Participants in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be practicable, and the
     balance of all amounts credited to the Payroll Deduction Accounts shall be
     applied to the next offering.

5.4  Limitations on Grant and Exercise of Options
     --------------------------------------------

     (a)  No option granted under this Plan shall permit a Participant to
     purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans (as defined by Code
     Section 423(b)) of the Company and any Subsidiary in an amount which, in
     the aggregate, would exceed $25,000 based on the Fair Market Value of such
     stock (determined at the time the option is granted) for each calendar year
     in which the option is outstanding at any time.

     (b)  No employee who would own, immediately after the option is granted,
     stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting
     power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary (a
     "5% Owner") shall be granted an option. For purposes of determining whether
     an employee is a 5% Owner, the rules of Code Section 424(d) shall apply in
     determining the stock ownership of an individual and stock which the
     employee may purchase under outstanding options shall be treated as stock
     owned by the employee.

SECTION 6 - DISTRIBUTIONS OF COMMON STOCK ACCOUNT
- -------------------------------------------------

6.1  Termination of Employment.  If a Participant's employment with the Company
     -------------------------                                                 
     and its Subsidiaries terminates for any reason during a Plan Year, all
     shares credited to the Participant's Common Stock Account shall be
     distributed to the Participant, and any amount credited to the
     Participant's Payroll Deduction Account shall be refunded to the
     Participant or, in the event of the Participant's death, to the
     Participant's estate, as soon as practicable.

6.2  During Employment.  Prior to the Participant's termination of employment
     -----------------                                                       
     with the Company and its Subsidiaries, a Participant may withdraw some or
     all of the whole shares credited to the 

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
     Participant's Common Stock Account, subject to the provisions of Section
     10.3, provided, however, that a Participant may not withdraw shares from 
           ------------------ 
     the Participant's Common Stock Account (other than shares acquired upon the
     automatic reinvestment of dividends pursuant to Section 7) for a period of
     12 months immediately following the Investment Date on which they were
     purchased.

SECTION 7 - DIVIDENDS ON SHARES
- -------------------------------

All cash dividends paid with respect to shares of Common Stock held in a
participant's Common Stock Account shall be invested automatically in shares of
Common Stock purchased at 100 percent of Fair Market Value on the date such
dividend is paid.  All non-cash distributions paid on Common Stock held in a
Participant's Common Stock Account shall be paid to the Participant as soon as
practicable.

SECTION 8 - RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER
- -----------------------------------

When a Participant purchases Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or when Common
Stock is credited to a Participant's Common Stock Account, subject to the
restrictions set forth in Sections 6.2 and 10.3, the Participant shall have all
of the rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the
shares so purchased or credited, whether or not certificates representing shares
shall have been issued.

SECTION 9 - OPTIONS NOT TRANSFERABLE
- ------------------------------------

Neither a Participant's Payroll Deduction Account nor any options granted under
the Plan to a Participant may be transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of
in any way (other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution) by a
Participant and such options are exercisable during the Participant's lifetime
only by the Participant.  Any attempt at such assignment, transfer, pledge or
other disposition shall be without effect.

SECTION 10 - COMMON STOCK
- -------------------------

10.1  Reserved Shares.  There shall be reserved for issuance and purchase under
      ---------------                                                          
     the Plan an aggregate of 1,048,416 shares of Common Stock (as of November
     30, 1998), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11.  Shares subject
     to the Plan may be shares now or hereafter authorized but unissued,
     treasury shares, or both.

10.2  Restrictions on Exercise.  In its sole discretion, the Board of Directors
      ------------------------                                                 
     may require as conditions to the exercise of any option that shares of
     Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of an option shall
     have been duly listed on any recognized national securities exchange, and
     that either a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as
     amended, with respect to said shares shall be effective, or the Participant
     shall have represented at the time of purchase, in form and substance
     satisfactory to the Company, that it is the Participant's intention to
     purchase the shares for investment only and not for resale or distribution.

10.3  Restriction on Sale.  Shares of Common Stock purchased hereunder (other
      -------------------                                                    
     than shares of Common Stock acquired upon the automatic investment of
     dividends pursuant to Section 7) shall not be transferable by a Participant
     for a period of 12 months immediately following the Investment Date on
     which such shares were purchased.  In addition, upon the expiration of such
     12-month period, shares of Common Stock purchased hereunder (other than
     shares of Common Stock acquired upon the automatic investment of dividends
     pursuant to Section 7) shall not be transferable by a Participant for an
     additional succeeding 12-month period, without prior notice to the Company
     in the manner approved by the Company.

SECTION 11 - ADJUSTMENT UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION
- ------------------------------------------------------

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
In the event of a subdivision or consolidation of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock, or the payment of a stock dividend thereon, the number of shares
reserved or authorized to be reserved under this Plan shall be increased or
decreased, as the case may be, proportionately, and such other adjustments shall
be made as may be deemed necessary or equitable by the Board of Directors.  In
the event of any other change affecting the Common Stock, such adjustments shall
be made as may be deemed equitable by the Board of Directors, in its sole
discretion, to give proper effect to such event, subject to the limitations of
Code Section 424.

SECTION 12 - ADMINISTRATION
- ---------------------------

12.1  Appointment.  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The
      -----------                                                        
     Committee shall consist of two or more members who shall serve at the
     pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may from time
     to time appoint members of the Committee in substitution for, or in
     addition to, members previously appointed and may fill vacancies, however
     caused, in the Committee.

12.2  Authority.  Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee
      ---------                                                               
     shall have authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind
     rules and regulations relating to it, and to make all other determinations
     necessary or advisable in administering the Plan, all of which
     determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons.  If and to the
     extent required by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 16b-3 or any
     successor exemption under which the Committee believes it is appropriate
     for the Plan to qualify, the Committee may restrict a Participant's ability
     to participate in the Plan or sell any Common Stock received under the Plan
     for such period as the Committee deems appropriate or may impose such other
     conditions in connection with participation or distributions under the Plan
     as the Committee deems appropriate.

12.3  Duties of Committee.  The Committee shall provide for the establishment
      -------------------                                                    
     and maintenance of records of the Plan and of each Payroll Deduction
     Account and Common Stock Account established for any Participant hereunder.

12.4  Plan Expenses.  The Company shall pay the fees and expenses of accounts
      -------------                                                          
     and counsel to the Company or the Committee, agents and other personnel and
     all other costs of administration of the Plan.

12.5  Indemnification.  To the maximum extent permitted by law, no member of the
      ---------------                                                           
     Committee shall be personally liable by reason of any contract or other
     instrument executed by such member or on such member's behalf in such
     member's capacity as a member of the Committee or for any mistake of
     judgment made in good faith, and the Company shall indemnify and hold
     harmless, directly from its own assets (including the proceeds of any
     insurance policy the premiums of which are paid from the Company's own
     assets), each member of the Committee and each other officer, employee or
     director of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the
     administration or interpretation of the Plan or to the management or
     control of the assets of the Plan may be delegated or allocated, against
     any cost or expense (including fees, disbursements and other charges of
     legal counsel) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a
     claim with the approval of the Company) arising out of any act or omission
     to act in connection with the Plan unless arising out of such person's own
     fraud, willful misconduct or bad faith.  The foregoing shall not be deemed
     to limit the Company's obligation to indemnify any member of the Committee
     under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, or any other
     agreement between the Company and such member.

SECTION 13 - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
- --------------------------------------

13.1  Amendment.  Subject to the provisions of Code Section 423, the Board of
      ---------                                                              
     Directors may amend the Plan in any respect; provided, however, that the
                                                  -----------------          
     Plan may not be amended in any manner that will retroactively impair or
     otherwise adversely affect the rights of any person to benefits under the
     Plan which have accrued prior to the date of such action.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
13.2  Termination.  The Plan will terminate on the Investment Date that
      -----------                                                      
     Participants become entitled to purchase a number of shares greater than
     the number of shares remaining available for purchase.  In addition, the
     Plan may be terminated at any prior time, at the sole discretion of the
     Board of Directors.

SECTION 14 - GOVERNMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------

The Plan and the grant and exercise of options to purchase shares hereunder, and
the Company's obligation to sell and deliver shares upon the exercise of options
to purchase shares, shall be subject to all applicable Federal, state and
foreign laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or
governmental agency as, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, may be
required.

SECTION 15 - NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
- ---------------------------------

The Plan does not create, directly or indirectly, any right for the benefit of
any employee or class of employees to purchase any shares from the Company
(other than as expressly provided in, and subject to the terms and conditions
of, the Plan), or create in any employee or class of employees any right with
respect to continuation of employment by the Company or any Subsidiary, and it
shall not be deemed to interfere in any way with the Company's or any
Subsidiary's right to terminate, or otherwise modify, an employee's employment
at any time.

SECTION 16 - WITHHOLDING
- ------------------------

As a condition to receiving shares hereunder, the Company may require the
Participant to make a cash payment to the Company of, or the Company may
withhold from any shares distributable under the Plan, an amount necessary to
satisfy all Federal, state, city or other taxes required to be withheld in
respect of such payments pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or
ruling.

SECTION 17 - OFFSETS
- --------------------

To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall have the absolute right to
withhold any amounts payable to any Participant under the terms of the Plan to
the extent of any amount owed for any reason by such Participant to the Company
or any Subsidiary and to set off and apply the amounts so withheld to payment of
any such amount owed to the Company or any Subsidiary, whether or not such
amount shall then be immediately due and payable and in such order or priority
as among such amounts owed as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
determine.

SECTION 18 - NOTICES, ETC.
- --------------------------

All elections, designations, requests, notices, instructions and other
communications from a Participant to the Committee or the Company required or
permitted under the Plan shall be in Company-specified form, and if required to
be in writing shall be mailed by first-class mail or delivered to such Company-
specified location and shall be deemed to have been given and delivered only
upon actual receipt thereof at such location.

SECTION 19 - CAPTIONS, ETC.
- ---------------------------

The captions of the sections and paragraphs of this Plan have been inserted
solely as a matter of convenience and in no way define or limit the scope or
intent of any provision of the Plan.  References to sections herein are to the
specified sections of this Plan unless another reference is specifically stated.
Wherever used herein, a singular number shall be deemed to include the plural
unless a different meaning is required by the context.

SECTION 20 - EFFECT OF PLAN
- ---------------------------

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of,
all successors of the Company and each Participant, including, without
limitation, such Participant's estate and the executors, administrators or
trustees thereof, heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or
representative of creditors of such Participant.

SECTION 21 - GOVERNING LAW
- --------------------------

The internal laws of the State of New York shall govern all matters relating to
this Plan except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States.

                                       8
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.31
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORP. EXCESS BENEFIT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.31

                         AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF

                       MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED

                              EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN
                              -------------------

              (With Amendments adopted through December 3, 1998)


I.    Purpose of Plan
      ---------------

      The Excess Benefit Plan (the "Plan") is an unfunded "excess benefit
plan" within the meaning of Sections 3(36) and 4(b)(5) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, but is not a plan intended
to be qualified under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code").  As
such, its purpose is to provide additional retirement benefits to those
employees participating in the Pension Plan of Morgan Stanley &  Co.
Incorporated, as amended from time to time (the "Pension Plan"), such that the
benefits payable to or on behalf of such employees under the Plan, together with
such employees' funded benefits under the Pension Plan (including, but not
limited to, any benefits payable by Aetna Life Insurance Company under Group
Annuity Contract GA-325 or any similar annuity contract) are equal to the
benefits which such employees or their beneficiaries would have received under
the Pension Plan without regard to Sections 1.39 and 15.2 of the Pension Plan or
Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code (or any comparable limitation on
benefits set forth in the Pension Plan or the Code).
<PAGE>
 
                                       2

II.    Definitions and Assumptions
       ---------------------------
       Capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Pension Plan
and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the
Pension Plan.

III.    Participation in the Plan
        -------------------------

        All employees of the Corporation (or of its affiliates that are
Employers) who are Members participating in the Pension Plan shall be eligible
to participate in the Plan whenever (a) their benefits under the Pension Plan,
computed without taking into consideration the limitations on benefits contained
in Section 15.2 of the Pension Plan or Section 415 of the Code or any successor
or comparable provisions, exceed the maximum annual benefits to which they are
entitled under the Pension Plan, taking into account such limitations or (b)
their salary from their Employer exceeds the limit on salaries contained in
Section 1.39 of the Pension Plan or Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.  Such
employees shall be referred to hereinafter as "Participants".  

        Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, any
person who is (i) classified by an Employer as a "leased employee" who provides
services to any Employer (including, without limitation, a leased employee as
defined in Code section 414(n)), an independent contractor or a consultant or
(ii) a provider of services to an Employer pursuant to a contractual agreement,
such as a "PAL", either with that person or with a third party, other than one
specifically providing for an employment relationship with the Employer, shall
not be eligible to become a Member until the later of the date, if any, on which
he becomes an Employee who is not classified as a leased employee, independent
contractor, consultant or a provider of services to any Employer and is employed
in a job classification that is eligible for 
<PAGE>
 
                                       3

membership under the Plan as determined by such Employer. If any person excluded
as an Employee pursuant to the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) shall be
determined by a court or a federal, state or local regulatory or administrative
authority to have served as a common law employee of the Employer, such
determination shall not alter this exclusion as an Employee for purposes of this
Plan.

IV.    Excess Plan Benefits
       --------------------

       The amount payable under this Plan to a Participant or the beneficiary
of a Participant (hereinafter referred to as the "Excess Benefit") equals the
excess of (i) the amount payable under the Pension Plan to such Participant
(determined without regard to the limitations on salary and benefits described
in Sections 1.39 and 15.2 of the Pension Plan or Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of
the Code or any successor or comparable provisions), over (ii) the maximum
annual benefits to which such Participant is entitled under the Pension Plan,
taking into account such limitations.  Such Excess Benefit shall be payable in
the manner and at the times at which such Participant's benefits are payable
under the Pension Plan; provided, however, that a Participant who is receiving
benefits in the form of a joint and survivor annuity under the Pension Plan may
elect under this Plan at any time prior to his death that the benefit otherwise
payable under the Plan to the Participant's spouse should the spouse survive the
Participant will be payable to the Participant's estate for a period measured by
the life of the spouse.
<PAGE>
 
                                       4

V.    Administration of the Plan
      --------------------------

      The Pension Plan Committee (the "Committee") designated in Section
11.1 (or any successor provision) of the Pension Plan shall administer the Plan.
The Committee shall review all questions arising in connection with the Plan,
including its interpretation, and may adopt procedural rules and employ and rely
on such legal counsel, actuaries, accountants and agents as it may deem
advisable to assist in the administration of the Plan.  Interpretations of the
Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.

VI.    Funding of Benefits
       -------------------

       No Participant shall have or accrue any property interest whatsoever
in any specific assets of the Corporation or any Employer by virtue of the Plan
or any Excess Benefit payable hereunder.  Neither the Plan nor any Excess
Benefit payable hereunder shall create or be construed to create a trust or
separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Corporation
(or any Employer) and a Participant or any other person.

VII.    Miscellaneous
        -------------

        It is expected that the Plan will be continued indefinitely, but the
Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
in the event and as of the date the Pension Plan is terminated.  This Plan also
may be amended at any time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation with
respect to any present or future Participants.

VIII.    Effective Date
         --------------
         The effective date of this Plan is January 1, 1986.  The effective
date of this Amendment and Restatement of the Plan is January 1, 1989.
<PAGE>
 
                                       5

IX.    Governing Law
       -------------
       This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws
of the State of New York. 

X.     Inalienability of Rights and Interests
       --------------------------------------

       No benefit payable under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to
anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance,
charge or security interest and any such attempted action shall be void.  No
such benefit or interest shall in any manner be liable for or subject to debts,
contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Employee, former Employee or
beneficiary.  If any Employee, former Employee or beneficiary shall become
bankrupt or shall attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign,
pledge, encumber or charge, or create a security interest in, any benefit
payable under the Plan or interest in any assets in relation to the Plan, then,
to the extent permitted by law, the Committee in its discretion may hold or
apply such benefit or interest or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such
Employee, former Employee or beneficiary, his spouse, children, blood relatives
or other dependents or any of them in such manner and in such proportion as the
Committee may consider proper.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.32
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.32

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

                           EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1986

               AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1989

               WITH AMENDMENTS ADOPTED THROUGH DECEMBER 3, 1998


I.   Purpose of Plan
     ---------------

          The Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan") is an unfunded
plan maintained by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Corporation") for the
purpose of providing deferred compensation for Managing Directors and Principals
of the Corporation, its subsidiaries and affiliates. (The Corporation, its
subsidiaries and affiliates shall collectively be referred to as the "Firm";
provided, that effective May 31, 1997, the term "Firm" shall not include
subsidiaries and affiliates of Dean Witter, Discover &Co., as in existence prior
to its merger with the Corporation, and their subsidiaries and affiliates. The
determination of whether an entity is considered a part of the "Firm" for
purposes of the Plan shall be made by the Committee.) As such, its purpose is
to provide a means of supplementing the retirement benefits of employees who are
Managing Directors or Principals of the Firm or previously held the title of
Managing Director or Principal.

<PAGE>
 
II.  Definitions and Assumptions
     ---------------------------

          The following words and phrases as used herein shall have the
following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the
context:

     A.  "Accrued Benefit" under this Plan as of any specified date shall mean
the amount computed in paragraph IV(A) and offset by benefits described in
Paragraph IV(B) and limited, if applicable, as described in Paragraph IV(C),
payable as of the Participant's attainment of age 65 and based on his Credited
Service and Final Average Salary as of such specified date.

     B.  "Actuarial Equivalent" shall mean the following:

          (i) for determinations made prior to July 1, 1996, (X) subject to
     clause (Y) of this Paragraph II B(i), a benefit of equivalent value which
     shall be determined based on (a) the Participant's (and, where applicable,
     the beneficiary's) age as of the Participant's Benefit Commencement Date;
     (b) a mortality table equal to the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table; and
     (c) an investment rate of six percent (6%) compounded annually; and (Y) in
     the case of a lump sum, an amount equivalent to the present value, as of
     the Participant's Benefit Commencement Date, of the Participant's benefit
     payable as of the Participant's Benefit Commencement Date in the form of a
     single life annuity based on (a) the age of the Participant as of his
     Benefit Commencement Date; (b) the mortality tables described in clause
     (X)(b) of this Paragraph II B(i), and (c) an investment rate equal to the
     Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation single employer plan termination
     immediate annuity interest rate in effect
<PAGE>
 
as of the second calendar month prior to the Participant's Benefit Commencement
Date; and

          (ii) For determinations made after June 30, 1996, using those
     assumptions as to rate of interest and the mortality tables which are in
     effect from time to time for purposes of determining actuarial equivalents
     under the Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Pension Plan in substantially
     similar situations and for substantially similar purposes; provided,
     however, that in no event shall the Actuarial Equivalent for a given form
     of payment for any Participant's Accrued Benefit be less than the Actuarial
     Equivalent of such form of payment on June 30, 1996 for Participants
     terminated prior to July 1, 1996, based upon Actuarial Equivalent
     determined in accordance with Paragraph II B(i) above.

     C.  "Authorized Absence" shall mean absence authorized by the Firm without
loss of employment status, including absence on account of illness, business of
the Firm, vacation and leave of absence, including leave of absence for military
or governmental service, whether or not salary shall be paid during such
absence.  Any person who ceases to be an employee receiving compensation from
the Firm but remains in the employment of the Firm shall be deemed for all
purposes of the Plan to be on Authorized Absence without salary until such
employment terminates or he again receives compensation from the Firm.

     D.  "Benefit Commencement Date" means the date as of which a Participant's
(or in the event of the Participant's death before receiving any benefits under
the Plan, a beneficiary's) benefit under the Plan commences to be paid.
<PAGE>
 
     E.  (i)  "Credited Service" shall mean the sum of all periods of employment
by the Firm commencing from the first day of the month following the
Participant's date of hire or rehire.  "Credited Service" shall also include (a)
any period during which the Participant was a partner in Morgan Stanley & Co.,
(b) any period during which the Participant is eligible for and receives
disability benefits under a long term disability plan sponsored by the Firm or a
governmental plan (including the waiting period required under any governmental
plan), provided that the disability was incurred while he was employed by the
Firm, and (c) any period of Authorized Absence.

          (ii) In computing Credited Service, a Participant's Credited Service
shall be deemed to terminate on the earliest of:

          (a) the date on which the Participant quits, retires, is discharged or
     dies,

          (b) the first anniversary of the first date of a period in which the
     Participant remains absent from service (with or without pay) for any
     reason other than quit, retirement, discharge, disability, Authorized
     Absence or death, such as vacation, holiday, sickness, leave of absence, or
     layoff, or

          (c) the first anniversary of the first date of a period of disability
     with respect to which he is either ineligible for or does not receive
     disability benefits under the Social Security Act (excluding the required
     waiting period).

     F.  "Final Average Salary" shall mean a Participant's average annual Salary
during his 60 highest paid consecutive months (excluding months for which he
received no Salary) during the final 120 months (or such lesser period as is
equal to his Credited Service) of his Credited Service preceding such
retirement, death or termination of Credited Service.
<PAGE>
 
     G.  "Salary" shall mean a Participant's regular fixed base compensation
earned for any period, whether or not paid during such period.

III.  Participation in the Plan
      -------------------------

          Each employee who holds or has previously held the title of Managing
Director or Principal of the Firm shall become a participant in the Plan (a
"Participant") upon the satisfaction of all of the following requirements while
actively employed by the Firm:  (1) completion of five years of Credited
Service, which service need not have been rendered while a Managing Director or
Principal of the Firm, (2) attainment of age 55, and (3) the sum of Credited
Service and age expressed in years and fractions thereof (determined using the
number of full months of age or Credited Service) at least equals 65 years.

          Notwithstanding, an employee will be excluded if upon meeting the
eligibility requirements, he is included in a contractual agreement between
himself and his employer which provides substantially the same benefits under
the local plan.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the
contrary, any person who is (i) classified by the Firm as a "leased employee"
who provides services to any Firm (including, without limitation, a leased
employee as defined in Code section 414(n)), an independent contractor or a
consultant or (ii) a provider of services to the Firm pursuant to a contractual
arrangement, such as a "PAL", either with that person or with a third party,
other than one specifically providing for an employment relationship with the
Firm, shall not be eligible to become a Participant until the later of the date,
if any, on which he becomes an employee who is not classified as a leased
employee, independent contractor, consultant or a provider of services to the
Firm and is employed in a job classification that is eligible for membership
under the Plan as determined
<PAGE>
 
by the Firm. If any person excluded as an employee pursuant to the preceding
clauses (i) and (ii) shall be determined by a court or a federal, state or local
regulatory or administrative authority to have served as a common law employee
of the Firm, such determination shall not alter this exclusion as an employee
for purposes of this Plan.

IV.  Benefits under the Plan
     -----------------------

     A.  Plan Formula
         ------------

          A Participant whose rights to benefits had vested under the
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan in effect prior to January 1, 1986 (the
"Prior Plan") is entitled to a single life annuity in an annual amount equal to
the greater of the amounts described in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) below. A
Participant whose rights to benefits had not vested under the Prior Plan or who
was not entitled to participate in the Prior Plan shall be entitled to a single
life annuity as computed under subparagraph (ii) below:

          (i) the amount which would have been payable under the Prior Plan if
     the Participant had retired on December 31, 1985, based on the
     Participant's Credited Service and Final Average Salary as of December 31,
     1985, which amount shall be the sum of:

          .  40% of his or her Final Average Salary, plus

          .  2/12% of his or her Final Average Salary for each month of Credited
             Service in excess of 60 months (up to a cumulative total of 50% of
             Final Average Salary at 10 years of Credited Service), plus

<PAGE>
 
          .  1/12% of his or her Final Average Salary for each month of Credited
             Service in excess of 300 months (up to a cumulative total of 60%
             of Final Average Salary at 35 years of Credited Service);

          (ii) an amount, based on the Participant's Final Average Salary and
     Credited Service as of such Participant's actual date of retirement, death
     or termination of employment with the Firm, determined as follows:

          .  20% of his or her Final Average Salary, plus

          .  2/12% of Final Average Salary for each completed month of Credited
             Service in excess of 60 months (up to a cumulative total of 50%
             of Final Average Salary at 20 years of Credited Service), plus

          .  1/12% of Final Average Salary for each completed month of Credited
             Service in excess of 300 months (up to a cumulative total of 60%
             of Final Average Salary at 35 years of Credited Service).
<PAGE>
 
     B.  Reduction of Benefits
         ---------------------

          The payments to which a Participant is entitled under Paragraph IV A
shall be reduced by pension benefits which the Participant is entitled to
receive under the terms of any other defined benefit pension plan or money
purchase pension plan maintained by the Firm, and any other defined benefit or
money purchase pension plan established by a former employer (or affiliate of a
former employer) of the Participant, whether or not such employer or affiliate
is affiliated with the Firm (any such plan being referred to herein as an
"Offset Plan").

          In the event that the commencement date and form of payment to a
Participant under any Offset Plan are or will be the same as the commencement
date and form of payment of the benefit to which a Participant is entitled under
Paragraph IV A hereof, each such payment under this Plan will be reduced by the
full amount of the corresponding payments under the Offset Plans.  In the event
that i) a Participant's benefit under the applicable Offset Plan has been, is
being or will be received in a form of payment different from the form of
payment elected under this Plan, or ii) payment of a Participant's benefit under
the applicable Offset Plan commenced or will commence as of a different date
than payment of the benefit to which a Participant is entitled under Paragraph
IV A hereof, then the payment of such benefits under this Plan will be reduced
by the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefit payable under the Offset Plan
(determined as if such Actuarial Equivalent were to be paid under the Offset
Plan commencing on the date and in the form of payment of benefits under this
Plan).  Benefits under this Plan shall not be reduced by benefits payable under
any defined contribution plan (other than a money purchase plan), including any
benefits to which the Participant is entitled
<PAGE>
 
under the Corporation's Deferred Profit Sharing Plan, the Shumagco Profit
Sharing Plan or the Morgan Stanley International Profit Sharing Scheme. Benefits
under this Plan also shall not be reduced by benefits under an Offset Plan to
the extent attributable to the Participant's own contributions or discretionary
supplemental contributions made by the Firm on the Participant's behalf.

     C.  Maximum Benefits
         ----------------

          (i) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Paragraph IV to the
     contrary, the benefit to which a Participant whose date of retirement is
     later than December 31, 1985 is entitled under Paragraph IV A (ii) shall in
     no event exceed US$140,000 (or in the case of a Participant whose date of
     retirement is in 1988, US$137,813; in the case of a Participant whose date
     of retirement is in 1987, US$131,250; and in the case of a Participant
     whose date of retirement is in 1986, US$125,000).

          (ii) If the Participant's Benefit Commencement Date occurs after
     December 31, 1988 and before the Participant attains age 60, the dollar
     amounts described in Paragraph IV C (i) shall be reduced by 4/12% for each
     month that the Benefit Commencement Date precedes the Participant's
     attainment of age 60.

          (iii)  The maximum benefit to which a Participant is entitled under
     Paragraph IV A (ii) as limited by Paragraph IV C (i) is determined as of
     such Participant's date of retirement and remains in effect thereafter,
     except as may be determined by subsequent Plan amendment.  Such maximum
     benefit as adjusted for early distribution under Paragraph IV C (ii)  is
     determined as of the Participant's Benefit Commencement Date
<PAGE>
 
     and remains in effect thereafter, except as may be determined by subsequent
     Plan amendment.

          (iv) If the benefits computed under Paragraph IV A are determined in a
     currency other than United States dollars, the maximum benefit described
     under Paragraph IV C (iii) shall be converted annually as of January 1 to
     the currency of benefit determination using the Rolling Average Exchange
     Rate for the previous calendar year.  For the purpose of this Plan, Rolling
     Average Exchange Rate shall be the average of the spot rates as of the
     first business day of the month for the previous twelve months.

          (v) The benefit payable under Paragraph IV A (i) shall not be limited
     by the provisions of this Paragraph IV C.

     D.  Form of Payment
         ---------------

          The normal form of payment under this Plan shall be a single life
annuity.  However, a Participant may, with the consent of the Committee, elect
to receive the Actuarial Equivalent of the Accrued Benefit otherwise payable
under this Plan, payable in the manner and at the times at which such
Participant's benefits are payable under any Offset Plan sponsored by the Firm
in which the Participant participates; provided, however, that a Participant who
is receiving benefits in the form of a joint and survivor annuity under such
Offset Plan may elect under this Plan at any time prior to his death that the
benefit otherwise payable to the Participant's spouse should the spouse survive
the Participant will be payable to the Participant's estate for a period
measured by the life of the spouse.
<PAGE>
 
     E.  Commencement of Benefits
         ------------------------

          The payment of the Accrued Benefit to a Participant shall commence no
earlier that the date on which benefit payments to such Participant commence
under an Offset Plan sponsored by the Firm.  If payment of an Accrued Benefit
commences as a result of a Participant's retirement at or after age 60, such
Accrued Benefit will not be reduced for early retirement.  If payment of an
Accrued Benefit commences as a result of a Participant's retirement at any time
after the Participant's 55th birthday but before age 60, such Accrued Benefit
will be reduced by 4/12% for each month that the Participant's Benefit
Commencement Date precedes the date on which the Participant attains age 60.
The Committee in its discretion may delay the Participant's Benefit Commencement
Date to a later date, but no later than the date on which the Participant
attains age 65.  A Participant's Benefit Commencement Date may also be delayed
(at the discretion of the Committee) in a case in which a Participant terminates
his employment under circumstances, such as leaving for governmental service or
for service in the Armed Forces of the United States, indicating that i) there
is a substantial possibility that the Participant may return to employment with
the Firm or ii) that it would be inappropriate for the Participant to receive
payments of the Accrued Benefit.  Furthermore, at the Committee's discretion, a
Participant's Benefit Commencement Date may be delayed or payment of the Accrued
Benefit may be suspended in the event that a Participant enters into competition
with the Firm.

          In the event a Participant who is eligible for a pension under this
Plan dies while employed by the Firm, the surviving spouse of the Participant
shall be eligible for a benefit under this Plan equal to the Accrued Benefit
which would have been paid to such spouse if the
<PAGE>
 
Participant had elected to receive the Accrued Benefit in the form of a joint
and 50% survivor annuity (with the spouse as beneficiary) and the Participant's
Benefit Commencement Date was the day before his death with payments under such
joint and 50% survivor annuity to begin immediately.

V.  Administration of the Plan
    --------------------------

          The Pension Plan Administration Committee (the "Committee") designated
in Section 11.1 (or any successor provision) of the Pension Plan of Morgan
Stanley & Co. Incorporated shall administer the Plan.  The Committee shall
review all questions arising in connection with the Plan, including its
interpretation, and may adopt procedural rules and employ and rely on such legal
counsel, actuaries, accountants and agents as it may deem advisable to assist in
the administration of the Plan.  Interpretations of the Committee shall be
conclusive and binding on all persons.

VI.  Funding of Benefits
     -------------------

          No Participant shall have or accrue any property interest whatsoever
in any specific assets of the Firm by virtue of the Plan or any Accrued Benefit
payable hereunder.  Neither the Plan nor any Accrued Benefit payable hereunder
shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a
fiduciary relationship between the Firm (or any entity included in the Firm) and
a Participant or any other person.

VII.  Miscellaneous
      -------------

          It is expected that the Plan will be continued indefinitely, but the
Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter & Co. including in the event the Pension Plan of Morgan Stanley &
Co. Incorporated is terminated. This Plan
<PAGE>
 
also may be amended at any time by the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley
Group Inc. with respect to any present or future Participants.

VIII.  Effective Date
       --------------

          The effective date of this amendment and restatement is January 1,
1989.

IX.  Governing Law
     -------------

          This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the
laws of the State of New York and, when applicable, the laws of the United
States of America.

X.  Inalienability of Rights and Interests.
    -------------------------------------- 

          No benefit payable under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to
anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance,
charge or security interest and any such attempted action shall be void.  No
such benefit or interest shall in any manner be liable for or subject to debts,
contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Participant, former
Participant or beneficiary.  If any Participant, former Participant or
beneficiary shall become bankrupt or shall attempt to anticipate, alienate,
sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge, or create a security
interest in, any benefit payable under the Plan or interest in any assets in
relation to the Plan, then, to the extent permitted by law, the Committee in its
discretion may hold or apply such benefit or interest or any part thereof to or
for the benefit of such Participant, former Participant or beneficiary, his
spouse, children, blood relatives or other dependents or any of them in such
manner and such proportion as the Committee may consider proper.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.40
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>TRUST DEED AND RULES - UK
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.40

     DATED 3rd November 1997


                                        

                  Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.

                                      and

                            Morgan Stanley UK Group

                                      and


                       Morgan Stanley International, Inc


                                      and


                   Noble Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited


                                   TRUST DEED


                                      and


                      RULES OF THE MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP

                              PROFIT SHARING PLAN



     (approved under the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended)



                              September 1997 (iv)
<PAGE>
 
THIS TRUST DEED is made the 3rd day of November 1997


BETWEEN:




(1)  Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. whose registered office is at
     1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, DE 19801 ("the Company"); and


(2)  The Companies whose respective names and registered offices are specified
     in Schedule 1 hereto (together with the Company "the Participating
     Companies"); and


(3)  Noble Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited whose registered office is at PO
     Box 144, Norfolk House, Wellesley Road, Croydon CR9 3EB ("the Trustees")



WHEREAS:



(A)  The Company wishes to establish a scheme approved in accordance with the
     provisions of Schedules 9 and 10 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act
     1988 (as amended) for the provision by the Participating Companies of funds
     for the acquisition by the Trustees of Shares in the Company to be known as
     the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan or "the Plan".


(B)  The Company has accordingly by resolution of the Directors resolved to
     establish the Plan aforesaid.


(C)  The Trustees have agreed to be the first trustees of the Plan.



NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:

1    Construction


     (a)  Words or phrases defined in Schedule 2 shall apply throughout this
          deed.


     (b)  Reference to any statutory provision shall be to that provision as
          modified or re-enacted.

     (c)  The Interpretation Act 1978 shall apply to this deed mutatis mutandis
          as if it 

2
<PAGE>
 
          were an Act of Parliament.

     (d)  Headings in this deed (and the Rules) are intended for convenience
          only and shall in no way affect its construction.


2    Rules


     (a)  Schedule 2 to this deed constitutes the Rules of the Plan and contains
          definitions of words and phrases for the purposes of the Plan;

     (b)  Schedule 3 of this deed constitutes the documents for the creation of
          a contract between the Directors of the Company, the Trustees and the
          Participant;

     (c)  Schedule 4 to this deed sets out the form of the supplemental trust
          deed referred to in clause 10 of this deed.


3    The Trusts of the Plan - General


     The Trustees hereby declare that all Plan Shares and Employee Shares held
     by them will be held UPON TRUST for the beneficiary respectively entitled
     thereto under the Plan subject to the provisions hereinafter set out and to
     the power of the Trustees to transfer or cause to be transferred to the
     person beneficially entitled thereto any Employee Shares.


4    The Trusts of the Plan


     Subject as hereinafter provided the Trustees hereby covenant to apply the
     monies received by them from the Participating Companies in the acquisition
     of Shares for the purpose of appropriation under the Plan or for the
     purposes of Clause 5(a) of this deed and to hold such Shares once
     appropriated and all other trust property deriving therefrom on trust for
     the Participants to whom such Shares have been appropriated and to apply
     and deal with the same in accordance with the Plan.


     Provided always that:

     (a)  The Trustees shall not dispose of any of a Participant's Plan Shares
          during the Retention Period (whether by transfers to the Participant
          or otherwise) except as provided in the Rules of the Plan;

     (b)  The Trustees shall not (subject to Rules 6 and 7 of the Plan) dispose
          of any of a Participant's Plan Shares after the end of the Retention
          Period applicable thereto except pursuant to a direction validly given
          by or on behalf of the Participant or any person in whom the
          beneficial interest in those Shares is for the time being vested and
          by a transaction which would not involve a breach of the Participant's
          obligations as expressed in the rules of the Plan;

     (c)  The Trustees shall deal with any right conferred in respect of any of
          such Shares to be allotted other shares securities or rights of any
          description only pursuant to a written direction given by or on behalf
          of the Participant or any person in whom the beneficial interest in
          that Participant's Plan Shares is for the time being vested or his
          legal personal representatives.


5    Unused Funds

3
<PAGE>
 
     (a)  Where pursuant to the Plan the Trustees hold any monies shares
          securities or other assets of whatever nature which represent or
          represent income derived from:


          (i)   any monies or assets received by them from Participating
                Companies for the purposes of the Plan but which have not been
                applied in the acquisition and appropriation of Shares to a
                Participant; or

          (ii)  any Capital Receipt of less than (Pounds)3 which would be
                distributable to a Participant save for the provisions
                concerning sums of that order contained in the Rules of the
                Plan; or

          (iii) any assets relating to the Plan (including any amounts
                specifically paid to the Trustees as a contribution to any costs
                charges and expenses incurred in connection with the
                establishment and operation thereof) which are not held for the
                benefit of (but subject to the Rules of the Plan) a Participant
                in consequence of an appropriation to him;


          then the Trustees shall apply such assets or the sale proceeds thereof
          in or towards any reasonable costs charges and expenses of the Plan
          and may during the Trust Period and subject to the law relating to
          accumulations accumulate any income thereon and hold the same for the
          general purposes of the Plan. The Trustees shall notify the Company on
          request of all amounts and assets held for such purposes.


     (b)  If at any time the Plan is terminated the Trustees shall thereupon
          account to the Company and the Participating Companies for any monies
          then held by them on the trusts of Clause 5(a) of this deed and
          remaining so unused. Notwithstanding such termination the Trustees
          shall continue to administer the Plan in accordance with this deed and
          the Rules of the Plan. At the earlier of the expiry of the Trust
          Period and the third anniversary of such termination the Trustees
          shall convert into money any trust property held subject to the trusts
          of the Plan and not appropriated to Participants and shall pay such
          money to the Participating Companies as nearly as practicable in
          proportion to their respective payments of monies or if such payment
          shall prove impracticable to such person or persons for such
          charitable objects as the Trustees may determine.


6    Right to deal with reconstructions, etc


     (a)  The Trustees may at any time or times on behalf of any Participant who
          has given such a direction to the Trustee as is permitted by Rule 7 of
          the Plan (but not otherwise) enter into any compromise or arrangement
          with respect to or may release or forbear to exercise all or any of
          its rights as shareholder whether in connection with a plan of
          reconstruction or amalgamation or otherwise and may accept in or
          towards satisfaction of all or any of such rights such consideration
          as such Participant shall direct whether in the form of cash or stock
          shares debentures debenture stock or obligations or securities without
          the Trustees being in any way liable or responsible for any loss
          resulting from complying with any such direction or any liability or
          increased liability of such Participant to tax or in respect of any
          inadequacy or alleged inadequacy 

4
<PAGE>
 
          in the nature or amount of such consideration.

     (b)  The Trustees shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or any
          liability or increased liability of a Participant to tax arising out
          of the failure of such Participant to give a direction to the Trustees
          or the failure of such Participant to give a direction to the Trustees
          within a particular time or if the Participant has directed the
          Trustees to use their discretion in any way arising out of the bona
          fide exercise by the Trustees of that discretion.


7    Accountability for PAYE and other deductions


     The Participating Companies or the Trustees shall account to the Inland
     Revenue or other authority concerned for any amounts deducted from payments
     made pursuant to the Plan in respect of income tax or any other deductions
     required by statute in accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 10 to the
     Act.


8    Maintenance of trust records


     (a)  The Trustees shall make proper arrangements for the preparation and
          preservation of all necessary accounts (including the accounts of
          individual employees) records and other documents necessary to carry
          out their obligations in connection with the proper administration of
          the Plan and the Participating Companies hereby undertake to make
          available to the Trustees all facilities and information necessary to
          ensure that full compliance is made with the provisions of the Plan.

     (b)  The Trustees shall submit to the Company such reports or other
          information as it may reasonably require for the purpose of ensuring
          that the Plan is properly administered and without prejudice to the
          generality of the foregoing the Trustees shall submit to the Company
          copies of all documents including the annual returns which have been
          supplied to the Inland Revenue within twenty-one days of their being
          so supplied.


9    Securities may be placed in custody


     (a)  The Trustees may place the documents of title to any securities for
          the time being in their possession in connection with the trusts
          hereof in any bank or safe deposit and shall not be responsible for
          any losses incurred by so doing.

     (b)  At any time when there is more than one Trustee, the Trustees shall be
          entitled to procure that any one or more of them may be registered as
          proprietor of any property held by them upon the trusts of this deed.

5
<PAGE>
 
10   Extension of the Plan to other Subsidiaries


     (a)  The Plan may with the consent of the Company be extended to any
          Subsidiary by the adherence of such Subsidiary to this deed by
          supplemental deed in the form set out in Schedule 4.

     (b)  The Plan shall forthwith cease to extend to any Participating Company
          other than the Company when:


                        (i)       that company ceases to be a Subsidiary; or

                        (ii)      a notice is served by the Company upon the
                Trustees and the Participating Company that the Plan shall
                thereafter cease to apply to that Participating Company; or

                        (iii)     a Participating Company withdraws from the
                Plan on such conditions as may be agreed by the Company;


                          but such cessation shall not affect the subsisting
                rights of beneficiaries under the Plan which may have arisen
                hereunder prior to such cessation and shall in no circumstances
                cause the Company to breach the provisions of paragraph 2(3)(b)
                of Schedule 9 to the Act.

                (c)  The Company shall notify the Board of Inland Revenue of any
                changes in Participating Companies pursuant to Clause 10(a) or
                10(b) as soon as is practicable thereafter.


11   Duties of Participating Companies

     (a)    If and so long as any company is a Participating Company it shall:


               (i)       contribute and pay to the Trustees in accordance with
               Rule 4 such sums as are required by the Trustees to acquire
               Shares to be appropriated as Plan Shares for Eligible Employees
               of that Participating Company together with that proportion of
               the sums required to meet the reasonable expenses of the Trustees
               in operating and administering the Plan in respect of the
               Eligible Employees of that Participating Company; and

               (ii)      provide the Trustees with all information reasonably
               required from it for the purposes of the administration and
               operation of the Plan in such form as the Trustees may reasonably
               require.


     (b)  Any company which ceases to be a Participating Company shall remain
          liable to meet its fair proportion of the expenses of the Trustees.


12   Indemnities


     (a)  The Trustees shall not be liable to satisfy any monetary obligations
          under the Plan (including but without prejudice to the generality of
          the foregoing any monetary obligations to Participants) beyond the
          sums of money (including income) from time to time in their hands or
          under their control as Trustees of 

6
<PAGE>
 
          the Plan and properly applicable for that purpose.

     (b)  The Trustees shall comply with any directions given by the Company
          pursuant to the Rules of the Plan and shall not be under any liability
          in respect thereof to the Company or to any Participant.

     (c)  The Trustees their officers and employees shall have the benefit of
          all indemnities conferred upon trustees generally by law and the
          Company shall indemnify and keep the Trustees their officers and
          employees indemnified against all claims losses demands actions
          charges expenses costs taxes duties and other liabilities arising out
          of or in connection with anything lawfully done or caused to be done
          by the Trustees their officers and employees in the exercise of the
          powers and discretions vested in the Trustees by this trust deed or
          otherwise arising howsoever out of or in connection with the proper
          administration and operation of the Plan other than when due to the
          Trustees' own negligence fraud or misfeasance or that of their
          servants or agents.


13   Additional powers given to Trustees


          (a)  The Trustees shall have the following powers and discretions in
          addition to those conferred by the general law:


                        (i)       power and discretion to agree with the Company
               all matters relating to the operation and administration of the
               trusts of this deed and so that no person claiming an interest
               under this trust shall be entitled to question the legality or
               correctness of any arrangement or agreement made between the
               Company and the Trustees in relation to such operation and
               administration;

                        (ii)      the Trustees may from time to time in writing
               authorise such other person or persons whether or not a Trustee
               as the Trustees shall think fit to draw and endorse cheques and
               to give receipts and discharges for any monies or other property
               payable transferable or deliverable to the Trustees and every
               such receipt or discharge shall be as valid and effectual as if
               such receipt or discharge were given by the Trustees;

                        (iii)     the production of a written authority of the
               Trustees given pursuant to sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of this Clause
               shall be a sufficient protection to any person taking any such
               receipt or discharge as is mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of
               this Clause and (unless that person shall have received express
               notice in writing of the revocation of the authority) he shall be
               entitled to assume and act upon the assumption that the authority
               remains unrevoked.


          (b)  Monies not held for the benefit of any particular Participant may
          be invested or laid out in the purchase of or at interest upon the
          security of such stocks shares securities or other short-term
          investments as the Trustees shall in their absolute discretion think
          fit to the extent that (subject to the overriding obligation of the
          Trustees to fulfil their obligations under the Rules of the Plan) the
          Trustees shall have the same full and unrestricted powers of 

7
<PAGE>
 
          investing and transposing investments and laying out monies in all
          respects as if they were absolutely entitled thereto beneficially and
          without regard to any requirement as to diversification and in the
          professed execution of this power the Trustees shall not be liable for
          any loss arising from any investment or purchase made in good faith.


14   Administration

     (a)  So long as there is no sole corporate Trustee:


                        (i)       the Trustees may meet together for the
               despatch of business adjourn and otherwise regulate their
               meetings as they think fit. The quorum for any meeting of the
               Trustees shall be two and questions arising shall be decided by a
               majority of votes and in case of equality of votes the chairman
               or if there is no permanent chairman the chairman of the meeting
               (who shall be elected by the meeting) shall have a second or
               casting vote;

                        (ii)      a resolution in writing signed by all the
               Trustees for the time being shall be as valid and effectual as a
               resolution passed at a meeting of the Trustees. Such resolution
               may be contained in one document or in several documents in like
               form each signed by one or more of the Trustees for the time
               being;

                        (iii)     a meeting of the Trustees at which a quorum is
               present shall be competent to exercise all the powers and
               discretions exercisable by the Trustees generally;

                        (iv)      the Trustees may from time to time delegate
               any business to any one or more of their number.


          (b)  A Trustee being a company may in its capacity as a Trustee hereof
          act by its officers and may by such officers have and exercise all
          powers trusts and discretions vested in it hereunder.

          (c)  The Trustees shall cause proper minutes to be kept and entered in
          a book provided for the purpose of all their resolutions and
          proceedings and any such minutes of any meeting of the Trustees if
          purported to be signed by the chairman of such meeting or by the
          chairman of a subsequent meeting shall be admissible as prima facie
          evidence of the matters stated in such minutes.

          (d)  The Trustees may employ and act on the advice or opinion of any
          solicitor broker actuary accountant or other professional or business
          person whether such advice was obtained by the Trustees or by the
          Company and shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by their
          so acting. The Company shall meet the expenses of such advice or
          opinions to the extent that it, in its sole discretion, considers such
          expenses to be reasonable.

          (e)  The Trustees may employ and fix the proper remuneration of any
          agent or agents to transact all or any business of whatsoever nature
          required to be done in the administration of the trusts powers and
          provisions hereof.

8
<PAGE>
 
       (f)  The Trustees may execute or authorise the execution or delivery by
       any agent of theirs of any deeds documents or other instruments by the
       impression of the Trustees' signatures in writing printing lithograph
       photocopying and other modes of representing or reproducing words in a
       visible form.

15     Remuneration of Trustees

       (a)  Any individual Trustee shall be entitled to receive and retain as
       remuneration for his services hereunder such sum or sums as the Company
       may from time to time resolve to pay to him.

       (b)  Any Trustee being a solicitor broker actuary accountant or other
       person engaged in any profession or business shall be entitled to be paid
       all usual professional or proper charges for business transacted time
       expended and acts done by him or by any employee or partner of his firm
       in connection with the Plan including acts which a Trustee not being in
       any profession or business could have done personally.

       (c)  Any Trustee being a company may charge and be paid such reasonable
       remuneration or charges as shall from time to time be agreed in writing
       between the Company and such company and any such company (being a bank)
       shall be entitled subject to the written consent of the Company, to act
       as banker and perform any services in relation to the Plan on the same
       terms as would be made with a customer in the ordinary course of its
       business as a banker, without accounting for any resultant profit
       including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing clause
       retention of its customary share of brokerage commission.


16   Permitted dealings of Trustees


     A Trustee and any director or other officer of a company acting as a
     Trustee hereof shall not be precluded thereby from acquiring holding or
     dealing with any debentures debenture stock shares or securities whatsoever
     of the Company or any Participating Company or any other company in which
     the Trustees may be interested or from entering into any contract or other
     transaction with the Company or any Participating Company or any such
     transaction and shall not be in any way liable to account to any
     Participant or to the Trustees or the Company or any Participating Company
     for any profits made or benefits obtained in connection therewith.


17   Appointment Resignation and Removal of Trustees

     (a)  The Company may at any time by supplemental deed:


                        (i)       remove without notice any Trustee being an
                individual from the office of trustee without assigning any
                reason therefor;

                        (ii)      remove without assigning any reason therefor
                any Trustee being a company from the office of trustee upon
                giving to such Trustee not less than three months' written
                notice or such shorter notice as such Trustee may accept.

9
<PAGE>
 
          (b)  The minimum number of Trustees shall be three (unless a company
          shall be a trustee hereof in which case the minimum number shall be
          one) except in the case of the death incapacity or resignation of a
          Trustee in which case the minimum number shall be two until such time
          as a new Trustee be appointed.

          (c)  The Company shall ensure that one Trustee or any sole corporate
          Trustee shall at all times be resident for tax purposes in the United
          Kingdom.

          (d)  A Trustee may resign from the trusts hereby constituted at any
          time by giving to the Company written notice and the Company shall
          accept such written notice within the following three months and the
          retiring Trustee shall thereupon resign and shall not be responsible
          for any costs occasioned by such resignation or be under any liability
          whatsoever in relation to the trusts hereof or the Plan or any monies
          or other property subject thereto or any matter arising hereunder in
          relation to the trusts hereof or the Plan or any monies in relation
          hereto except in the case of fraud wilful wrongdoing or gross
          negligence on the part of the resigning Trustee.

          (e)  The Trustees shall be entitled to rely without further enquiry on
          all information supplied to the Trustees by the Company or where
          relevant a Participating Company for the purposes of the Plan.

18        Delegation of administration by the Company and other matters

          (a)  The Company may at any time with the consent of the Trustees
          delegate in writing to any other Participating Company or that
          Participating Company's duly authorised officers any of its powers and
          duties hereunder or any business including the exercise of any
          discretion or the formation of any opinion to any person or company
          provided always that the Company shall not delegate the duties imposed
          on it:


          (i)     under Clause l0(a) of this deed;

          (ii)    under Clause 12(c) of this deed;

          (iii)   under Clause 17(a) of this deed;

          (iv)    under Clause l9(a) of this deed;

          (v)     under Clause 20(a) of this deed;

          (vi)    under Rule 15.


          (b)  Except as otherwise provided in this deed or in the Rules of the
          Plan the powers and discretions exercisable by any Participating
          Company in relation to the Plan shall be exercisable in the case of
          the Company by the Committee and otherwise by resolution of the
          directors of such Participating Company and a copy of any resolution
          signed or purporting to be signed by the secretary or any director of
          such company shall be sufficient authority to the Trustees to act
          thereunder.

10
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  The Trustees shall be entitled to rely without further enquiry on
          all information supplied to the Trustees by the Company or where
          relevant a Participating Company for the purposes of the Plan.

19        Duration and Winding up of the Plan

          (a)  The Plan shall terminate on the expiry of the Trust Period or on
          the expiry of thirty days' notice in writing to the Trustees following
          a resolution to that effect by the Company and references throughout
          this deed to a termination of the Plan shall be taken to be a
          termination as here provided.

          (b)  On or after the termination of the Plan no further sums shall be
          paid to the Trustees by the Participating Companies save that all
          Participating Companies shall remain liable to pay their just
          proportion of the costs charges and expenses of the Plan.

          (c)  Following any termination of the Plan the Trustees shall remain
          responsible for the completion of their obligations thereunder.

          (d)  The perpetuity period applicable to this deed shall be the period
          of eighty years from the date hereof.

20        Modification of the Deed and Rules of the Plan

          (a)  The Company with the consent of the Trustees may at any time and
          from time to time in the case of this deed by deed supplemental hereto
          and in the case of the Rules of the Plan by resolution of the
          Directors modify or extend the Plan in any respect (such modification
          or extension being referred to in this Clause as a "modification")
          provided that:


                        (i)       no modification shall alter to the
               disadvantage of any Participant his rights in respect of any Plan
               Shares appropriated before the date of such modification as the
               case may be;

                        (ii)      no modification shall impose onerous
               obligations on the Trustees or vary modify or alter to the
               disadvantage of the Trustees the provisions for their protection
               and indemnity contained herein or in the Rules without the
               written agreement of the Trustees;

                        (iii)     no modification shall be made which would or
               might infringe any rule against perpetuities;

                        (iv)      no modification to the Plan shall take effect
               unless the approval of the Board of Inland Revenue to the Plan as
               amended thereby shall have first been obtained.


          (b)  The Company may subject to provisos (ii) and (iii) of sub-Clause
          (a) of this Clause but notwithstanding the remaining provisions of
          that sub-Clause and without otherwise obtaining the prior approval
          thereto of any other person amend the Plan in any way which may be
          necessary in order to secure the initial approval of the Plan by the
          Board of Inland Revenue under Part I of Schedule 9 to the Act.

11
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  Any amendment made in accordance with the provisions of this
          Clause shall be binding upon all persons from time to time interested
          in the Plan including the Company and any Participating Company.


21   Supremacy of Trust Deed over Rules


     The Trustees' rights duties and powers are regulated by this deed and by
     the Rules and in the case of inconsistency or conflict between the
     provisions of the deed and of the Rules the provisions of this deed shall
     prevail.

22   Governing Law

     This deed is to be construed in accordance with the laws of England.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF these presents have been entered into the day and year first
above written.


THE COMMON SEAL of
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
was hereunto affixed in the
presence of:

Director


Secretary


THE COMMON SEAL of
Morgan Stanley UK Group
was hereunto affixed in the
presence of:

Director


Secretary


THE COMMON SEAL of
Morgan Stanley International, Inc.
was hereunto affixed in the
presence of:

Director

12
<PAGE>
 
Secretary


THE COMMON SEAL of
NOBLE LOWNDES SETTLEMENT
TRUSTEES LIMITED
was hereunto affixed in the
presence of:

Director


Authorised Signatory

13
<PAGE>
 
                                   SCHEDULE 1



                       (List of Participating Companies)



Name                                    Registered Office


Morgan Stanley UK Group                 25 Cabot Square
                                        Canary Wharf
                                        London E14 4QA

Morgan Stanley International, Inc       1013 Center Road
                                        Wilmington
                                        Delaware  DE 19805


 



 

 

 

14
<PAGE>
 
                                   SCHEDULE 2

                            MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP

                              PROFIT SHARING PLAN



RULES

1    Definitions


     In this Plan except where the context otherwise requires, the following
     expressions shall have the following meanings:


                              "the Act"                      the Income and
                              Corporation Taxes Act 1988;

                              "to appropriate"             to vest a beneficial
                              interest in Shares (subject to the provisions of
                              the deed and the Rules of this Plan) in an
                              Eligible Employee and the expression
                              "Appropriation" shall be construed accordingly;

                              "Appropriate Percentage"     the percentage of the
                              Locked-in Value charged to income tax under
                              Schedule E computed in accordance with the
                              provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 10 to the
                              Act;

                              "Appropriation Date"         such date on which
                              Plan Shares are appropriated to a Participant
                              pursuant to Rule 4(a)(iv);

                              "the Auditors"                the auditors of the
                              Company for the time being or in the event of
                              there being joint auditors such one of them as the
                              directors shall select;

                              "Base Salary"      such part of an individual's
                              annual remuneration as is expressed by his
                              original offer letter (as amended or varied by the
                              Company from time to time orally or in writing) to
                              be his annual base pay excluding overtime night
                              premium bonuses commissions quarterly compensation
                              profit pools expense allowance and any other form
                              of special compensation provided always that where
                              an individual becomes an Eligible Employee during
                              a Qualifying Period his Base Salary for the
                              purposes of this Plan for         that

15
<PAGE>
 
                              Qualifying Period shall be that part of his annual
                              base pay earned by him from the date he became an
                              Eligible Employee to the end of that Qualifying
                              Period;

                              "the Brokers"       the firm or company which is
                              appointed for the time being by the Trustees to
                              act as stockbrokers for the purposes of this Plan;

                              "Capital Receipt"                          a
                              receipt by the Trustees of money or money's worth
                              in respect of Plan Shares as defined in section
                              186(3) of the Act;


     "the Company"            Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ;


                              "the Committee"                            the
                              United Kingdom Profit Sharing Committee comprising
                              such persons as the Board of Directors of the
                              Company may determine from time to time;

                              "Continuous Service"         continuous service
                              within the meaning of the Employment Rights Act
                              1996;

                              "Control"                      the meaning given
                              by section 840 of the Act;

                              "Eligible Employee"          an individual (not
                              being a person who is ineligible to participate in
                              this Plan by virtue of paragraphs 8 or 35(1) or
                              35(2) of Schedule 9 to the Act) who:


                              (a)   is a director or employee of a Participating
                                    Company who (if a director) normally devotes
                                    to his duties 25 hours or more per week
                                    (excluding meal breaks); and

                              (b)   not less than one month before the
                                    Qualification Date had Qualifying Service;
                                    and

                              (c)   is chargeable to tax under Case I of
                                    Schedule E; or

                              (d)   is such other person as the Committee
                                    may in its absolute discretion determine
                                    substantially to have qualified within this
                                    definition but who strictly would not
                                    otherwise qualify because of a temporary

16
<PAGE>
 
                                    change of employer or for another reason)
                                    provided that no individual shall be
                                    determined to have qualified unless he is an
                                    employee or director of a Participating
                                    Company;


                              "Employee Shares"              all Shares which
                              are not Plan Shares by reason only of the passing
                              of the Release Date;

                              "Initial Market Value"         the Relevant Value
                              as defined herein;

                              "Letter of Acceptance"         a letter in the
                              form (or substantially in the form) of Schedule 3
                              Part B;

                              "Letter of Offer"        a letter in the form (or
                              substantially in the form) of Schedule 3 Part A;

                              "Locked-in Value"              the locked-in value
                              as defined in section 186(5) of the Act but so
                              that references in that section to "initial market
                              value" shall be taken as references to Initial
                              Market Value as defined herein;

                              "Participant"            an Eligible Employee to
                              whom shares have been appropriated pursuant to
                              this Plan;

                              "Participating Company"        (a)       the
                               Company;

                              (b)   the company or companies listed in Schedule
                                    1 hereof; and

                              (c)   any other Subsidiary of the Company to which
                                    this Plan is extended by deed supplemental
                                    hereto in accordance with Clause l0(a) of
                                    the deed;


                              "Participation Level"        in respect of
                              Eligible Employees such percentage of their Base
                              Salary as the Committee shall determine provided
                              that the percentage so determined shall be the
                              same for all Eligible Employees;

                              "PAYE deduction"             a deduction made
                              pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 10 to the Act;

17
<PAGE>
 
                              "this Plan"                    Morgan Stanley UK
                              Group Profit Sharing Plan;

                              "Plan Shares"                  Shares appropriated
                              to Eligible Employees in accordance with the
                              provisions of this Plan provided always that such
                              Shares shall cease to be Plan Shares at the later
                              of the expiry of the Retention Period and the
                              passing of the Release Date;

                              "Qualification Date"         31 December in any
                              year;

                              "Qualifying Service"         one year's Continuous
                              Service as an employee or director of any one or
                              more companies under the Control of the Company
                              which for the purpose of this Plan shall be taken
                              to have been so served on the first day of the
                              month following the completion of twelve complete
                              months' service aforesaid;

                              "Qualifying Period"          the period commencing
                              1 January in any year and ending on 31 December in
                              the same year or such other accounting reference
                              period of the Company or such part thereof as may
                              be determined by the Committee;

                              "Release Date"               the date prescribed
                              by section 187(2) of the Act;


     "Relevant Value"         the value arrived at by dividing the aggregate
                              consideration paid in Pounds Sterling (excluding
                              the amount attributable to the expenses of
                              acquisition) by the Trustees to acquire Shares by
                              purchase through the New York Stock Exchange
                              within the thirty days immediately prior to the
                              Appropriation Date by the total number of Shares
                              so acquired or such other value as may, from time
                              to time, be agreed between the Board of Inland
                              Revenue and the Trustees pursuant to paragraph
                              30(4)(b) of Schedule 9 to the Act;


                              "Retention Period"           in relation to any
                              Share appropriated as a Plan Share the period
                              commencing on the date such Plan Share is
                              appropriated and ending on the occurrence of the
                              earliest of the following events:


                              (i)   the second anniversary of the date such

18
<PAGE>
 
                                    Plan Shares were appropriated;

                              (ii)  the date the Participant ceases to be an
                                    employee of a Participating Company by
                                    virtue of the occurrence of any of the
                                    following:


                                    (a)  death;
                                    
                                    (b)  injury or disability;
                                    
                                    
                                    (c)  redundancy (within the meaning of the
                                    Employment Rights Act 1996);


                              (iii) the date the Participant reaches age 60;


 

                              "Shares"                       Shares of Common
                              Stock in the capital of the Company satisfying the
                              provisions of paragraphs 10 to 12 and 14 of
                              Schedule 9 to the Act;

                              "Subsidiary"                   a company under the
                              Control of the Company;

                              "the Trustees"                 the trustees or
                              such other persons who are the trustees from time
                              to time;

                              "Trust Period"               the period of 79
                              years from the date hereof;

                              "Working Day"                any day other than
                              Saturdays Sundays public holidays and any date on
                              which the Company is closed for business;

                              "Year of Assessment"         a year starting on 6
                              April and ending on the following 5 April.


2    Annual implementation


     As soon as practicable and in any event no later than the end of each
     Qualifying Period the Committee shall:


     (a)  determine whether the Plan is to operate in respect of that relevant
     Qualifying Period; and


     (b)  determine the Participation Level for Eligible Employees.

3    Admission to the Plan


     Within the period of three months before the end of a Qualifying Period for
     which the 

19
<PAGE>
 
     Plan is to operate Eligible Employees shall be issued by the Committee
     with:


     (a)  a Letter of Offer; and


     (b)  a Letter of Acceptance to be completed signed and returned to the
     Company or if the Company shall so determine to the Committee on behalf of
     the Company within such period as shall be specified by the Committee or
     such person as may be designated by the Committee for such purpose being
     not less than 10 days from such issue. An Eligible Employee must complete a
     new Letter of Acceptance on each occasion on which he wishes to receive an
     appropriation of Shares under the Plan.


4    Appropriations


     (a)  So soon as is practicable prior to each Appropriation Date:


                (i)   the Trustees shall be notified by the Committee of the
          names of those Eligible Employees who have properly executed and
          delivered a Letter of Acceptance and shall also notify their Base
          Salaries the Participation Level and such further information as the
          Trustees may reasonably require to comply with their duties under Rule
          5;

                (ii)  the Committee shall notify the Trustees of the total
          contributions to be made to the Trustees pursuant to this Rule by
          aggregating the amounts obtained by multiplying each Eligible
          Employee's Base Salary by the Participation Level and shall also
          notify each Participating Company of its share thereof in respect of
          each such Participating Company's Eligible Employees;

                (iii)  the Committee shall procure that each Participating
          Company contributes its relative proportion of the amount required by
          the Trustees to purchase the number of Shares which are to be
          appropriated as Plan Shares to its Eligible Employees and each
          Participating Company shall pay its respective contribution to the
          first named Participating Company which shall pay all such
          contributions as agent of the other Participating Companies together
          with its own contribution to the Trustees;

                (iv)  the Trustees shall acquire as promptly as practicable
          following the making of such contributions to them such whole number
          of Shares as may be acquired out of the contributions made to them in
          accordance with the following procedures:


                                (aa)  where the Trustees have howsoever been
                    offered Shares they may or they may instruct the Brokers to
                    purchase such Shares provided that such purchase shall be at
                    arm's length at a fair market value which shall be deemed to
                    be the average of the high and low prices of a Share on the
                    New York Stock Exchange on the next preceding day on which
                    transactions are made on that exchange;

20
<PAGE>
 
                                (bb)  where no such offer as is mentioned in
                    Rule 4(a)(iv)(aa) has been received by the Trustees or they
                    have not acquired through any purchase pursuant to Rule
                    4(a)(iv)(aa) sufficient Shares they shall instruct the
                    Brokers to acquire as promptly as practicable at the best
                    available price such whole number of Shares as may be
                    acquired out of the contributions or any balance of the
                    contributions remaining as the case may be;


                    (v)  immediately following the relevant Qualification Date
               the Committee shall if necessary notify the Trustees of any
               Eligible Employee who was not a director or employee of a
               Participating Company on that Qualification Date and no Shares
               shall be appropriated in respect of a Qualifying Period to any
               such Eligible Employee.


     (b)  As an alternative to the procedures described in Rule 4(a), as soon as
     reasonably practicable prior to each Appropriation Date, the Committee
     shall advise the Trustees of the names and addresses of such Eligible
     Employees and the extent of their respective participation on the relevant
     Appropriation Date. As soon as reasonably practicable after the Committee
     has advised the Trustees of the Entitlements, the Trustees shall acquire
     the number of Shares necessary for appropriation to such Eligible Employees
     less the number of unappropriated Shares held. Within three working days of
     the acquisition of such Shares, the aggregate of the amounts due shall be
     paid to the Trustees by each Participating Company (or by the first named
     Participating Company acting as its agent) in respect of such Eligible
     Employees employed by it. The Shares shall be appropriated to each such
     Eligible Employee on the basis described in Rule 4(e).

     (c)  Shares not appropriated within 18 months after the date of acquisition
     by the Trustees shall be sold for the best consideration in money that can
     reasonably be obtained and the net proceeds shall be applied in the
     discharge of the administrative expenses of this Plan. For this purpose
     Shares acquired at an earlier time shall be taken to be appropriated before
     Shares of the same class acquired at a later time.

     (d)  Where the Trustees acquire Shares to be held as Plan Shares and some
     of those Shares carry rights not carried by every other Share such Shares
     shall so far as practicable be appropriated pro-rata to each Eligible
     Employee entitled to an Appropriation of Plan Shares on the relevant
     Appropriation Date. Plan Shares shall rank pari passu with all other shares
     of the same class.

     (e)  On the Appropriation Date the Trustees shall appropriate to each
     Eligible Employee such number of Shares as is obtained by dividing


                (i)   the product of that Eligible Employee's Base Salary and
          the Participation Level by

                (ii)  the Relevant Value and

21
<PAGE>
 
                        (iii) rounding the resultant number of Shares down to
                the next nearest whole number of Shares.


           (f)     Shares appropriated to Eligible Employees pursuant to Rule
           4(e) shall be appropriated at the Relevant Value.

           (g)     The Trustees shall as soon as practicable notify each
           Eligible Employee to whom Plan Shares have been appropriated of:


           (i)     the number and description of the Plan Shares;

           (ii)    their Relevant Value; and

           (iii)   their Appropriation Date.

5    Limits on Appropriations of Plan Shares


     No Eligible Employee shall be entitled to have Shares appropriated to the
     extent that the aggregate of their Initial Market Value and the Initial
     Market Value of all other Shares appropriated to him under this Plan during
     that Year of Assessment would exceed the limit imposed for the time being
     in paragraph 30(3) of Schedule 9 to the Act. For this purpose a
     Participant's salary shall be where expressed in a currency other than
     sterling converted by taking the United Kingdom sterling equivalent of such
     currency (ascertained by taking the highest buying rate of the spread for
     that day shown in the Financial Times) on the Working Day immediately
     preceding the Appropriation Date. If the Financial Times shall not be
     published for that day then the United Kingdom sterling equivalent shall be
     ascertained at the rate of exchange ruling in London at or about 11.00 am
     on the Working Day immediately preceding the Appropriation Date.


6    Restrictions on Dealings in Shares

     (a)  Except as provided in Rule 7 below the Trustees:


                        (i)   shall not dispose of any Plan Shares (whether by
                transfer to a Participant or otherwise) before the expiry of the
                Retention Period;

                        (ii)  subject to (i) above shall not dispose of any Plan
                Shares before the Release Date except:


                                (aa)  pursuant to a direction given by or on
                    behalf of the Participant or any person in whom the
                    beneficial interest in his Plan Shares is for the time being
                    vested; and

                                (bb)  by any transaction which would not involve
                    a breach of the Participant's obligations under Rules
                    6(b)(iii) and (iv) below;


                    (iii)     shall at all times deal with any right conferred
               in respect of a Participant's Plan Shares to be allotted other
               shares securities or rights of any description only pursuant to a
               direction given by or on behalf of the Participant or any person
               in whom the beneficial interest 

22
<PAGE>
 
               in his Plan Shares is for the time being vested;

                    (iv)      shall continue to hold the Plan Shares on behalf
               of each Participant after the Release Date until such Participant
               shall otherwise direct and upon receipt of such direction the
               Trustees shall sell the Participant's Plan Shares or transfer
               them into his name or the name of his nominee and the posting of
               a cheque or the relevant share certificate as the case may be to
               the Participant's last known address shall be a sufficient
               discharge for the Trustees.


     (b)  Except as provided in Rule 7 below a Participant:


                    (i)       shall permit his Plan Shares to remain in the
               hands of the Trustees until the expiry of the Retention Period;

                    (ii)      shall not assign charge or otherwise dispose of
               his beneficial interest in his Plan Shares until the expiry of
               the Retention Period;

                    (iii)     shall not direct the Trustees to transfer the
               ownership of his Plan Shares to him at any time before the
               Release Date unless he shall pay to the Trustees before the
               transfer takes place a sum equal to income tax at the basic rate
               on the Appropriate Percentage of the Locked-in Value of the Plan
               Shares at the time of the direction; and

                    (iv)      shall not direct the Trustees to dispose of his
               Plan Shares at any time before the Release Date in any other way
               except by sale for the best consideration in money that can
               reasonably be obtained at the time of the sale.


       (c)  The obligation placed on a Participant pursuant to Rule 6(b)(iii)
       above shall not bind his personal representatives.

7      Permitted Dealings in Plan Shares

       (a)  Where it appears to the Trustees that directions to them will be
       made under Rules 7(a) (i) to (iii) they may give to Participants such
       notices and information as they in their absolute discretion deem
       appropriate and a Participant notwithstanding Rules 6(a) and (b) above:


                (i)   may direct the Trustees to accept an offer for any of his
        Plan Shares in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a), (b),
        (c) and (cc) of Schedule 10 to the Act; and

                (ii)  may direct the Trustees to agree to a transaction
        affecting his Plan Shares if the transaction would be entered into
        pursuant to a compromise, arrangement or plan applicable to or
        affecting:


                        (aa)  all the ordinary share capital of the Company or,
                    as the case may be, all the shares of the class in question;
                    or

23
<PAGE>
 
                        (bb)  all the Shares or the shares of the class in
                    question which are held by a class of shareholders
                    identified otherwise than by reference to their employment
                    or their participation in any other plan which is approved
                    under Schedule 9 to the Act or this Plan; and


                    (iii)   may direct the Trustees to accept an offer of cash,
               with or without other assets, for his Plan Shares if the offer
               forms part of a general offer which is made to all holders of
               shares of the same class as himself or of other shares in the
               Company and which is made in the first instance on a condition
               such that if it is satisfied the person making the offer will
               have Control of the Company; and

                    (iv)  may direct the Trustees (but only if the Trustees are
               able to do so and signify their consent accordingly) after the
               expiry of the Retention Period to sell the beneficial interest in
               his Plan Shares to the Trustees for the same consideration as in
               accordance with Rule 6(b)(iv) above would be required to be
               obtained for the Plan Shares themselves.


          (b)  Where an offer is made or a compromise, arrangement or plan is
          proposed, whether or not falling within Rule 7(a) conferring any
          rights upon Participants to receive additional securities, the
          Trustees shall:


                    (i)   allocate such rights among the Participants concerned
               on a proportionate basis and if such allocation shall give rise
               to a right in respect of a security shall round such allocation
               down to the next whole security;

                    (ii)  use their best endeavours to sell any rights which are
               not allocated and distribute the net proceeds of sale (after
               deducting therefrom any expenses of sale and any taxation which
               may be payable by the Trustees in respect thereof)
               proportionately among Participants whose allocation was rounded
               down.


8    Receipts by Trustees


     Subject to their obligations under Rule 10 and Rule 13 below and to any
     such direction as is referred to in paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 10 to the
     Act the Trustees shall pay or transfer to the Participant any money or
     money's worth other than money or money's worth of (Pounds)3 or less
     received by them in respect of or by reference to, any of his Shares other
     than money's worth consisting of "new shares" as defined in paragraph 5(3)
     of Schedule 10 to the Act.


9    Company reconstruction


        (a)  Where the Company allots any new securities by way of
        capitalisation to the Trustees in respect of any Participant's Plan
        Shares the Trustees shall:


                (i)  allocate such securities amongst the Participants concerned
              on a proportionate basis and if such allocation shall give rise to
              a fraction of a security shall round down to the next whole
              security; and

24
<PAGE>
 
                (ii)  use their best endeavours to sell any securities which are
               not allocated and distribute the net proceeds of sale (after
               deducting therefrom any expenses of sale and any taxation which
               may be payable by the Trustees in respect thereof)
               proportionately amongst the Participants whose allocation was
               rounded down.


          (b)  Where the Company makes an offer or invitation conferring any
          rights upon its members to acquire against payment additional
          securities in the Company the Trustees shall:


                (i)   allocate such rights amongst the Participants concerned on
               a proportionate basis and, if such allocation shall give rise to
               a right in respect of a fraction of a security shall round such
               allocation down to the next whole security;

                (ii)  use their best endeavours to sell any rights which are not
               allocated and distribute the net proceeds of sale (after
               deducting therefrom any expenses of sale and any taxation which
               may be payable by the Trustees in respect thereof)
               proportionately amongst the Participants whose allocation was
               rounded down;

                (iii) comply with any direction from the Participant concerning
               the exercise or sale of any rights attributable to that
               Participant's Plan Shares provided that the Trustees shall not be
               required to exercise any such rights except to the extent that
               they have been provided with the full amount payable on such
               exercise either by the Participant concerned or with his
               authority out of the net proceeds of the sale nil paid of another
               part of the rights attributable to his Plan Shares and provided
               also that the Trustees may ignore and take no action in respect
               of any direction from a Participant which is received by them
               less than seven days before the last date for acceptance and
               payment of the rights.


          (c)  Where the Trustees receive any securities which consist of "new
          shares" as defined in paragraph 5(3) of Schedule 10 to the Act in
          relation to any of a Participant's Plan Shares, then the Trustees
          shall allocate the securities to the Participant by reference to the
          relative times of the Appropriation of his Plan Shares and, if any
          such allocation should give rise to a fraction of a security, the
          Trustees shall subject to the Act round such allocation up or down to
          the next whole  security as they in their absolute discretion think
          fit and any such new shares allocated as aforesaid shall be deemed to
          have been appropriated to the Participant on the day when the original
          holding was appropriated to him and shall be held by the Trustees on
          the same terms provided that this Rule shall apply subject to the
          restrictions contained in paragraph 5(2) of Schedule 10 to the Act.


10   Payments of Dividends


     Any dividends paid by the Company to the Trustees in respect of Plan Shares
     shall be forwarded as soon as practicable to the Participants on whose
     behalf the Trustees hold such Plan Shares together with particulars of the
     related credit.

25
<PAGE>
 
11   Voting Rights

     In the event of a general meeting of the stockholders of the Company or any
     class meeting the Trustees shall notify each Participant of any resolution
     on which holders of any Shares held on his behalf are entitled to vote and
     shall invite the Participant to direct the Trustees as to how they should
     vote on his behalf subject to any restrictions which may be imposed by the
     Act. The Trustees shall not be obliged to attend and may only attend and
     vote on a show of hands if all specific directions received from
     Participants in respect of a particular resolution are identical and on a
     poll shall vote or lodge proxy cards only in accordance with any directions
     of the Participants in respect of any Shares which directions must have
     been returned to the Trustees in accordance with the instructions
     accompanying the notification. In the absence of any such direction the
     Trustees shall abstain from voting.



12   Rights of Employees


     Participation in this Plan is a matter entirely separate from any pension
     right or entitlement which the Eligible Employee may have and from his
     terms or conditions of employment and participation in the Plan shall in no
     respects whatever affect in any way his pension rights or entitlement or
     terms or conditions of employment and in particular (but without limiting
     the generality of the foregoing words) any Eligible Employee who leaves the
     employment of the Company or a Participating Company shall not be entitled
     to any compensation for any loss of any right or benefit or prospective
     right or benefit under this Plan which he might otherwise have enjoyed
     whether such compensation is claimed by way of damages for wrongful or
     unfair dismissal or other breach of contract or by way of compensation for
     loss of office or otherwise howsoever.


13   Duty to Account for PAYE etc


        (a)  Where the Trustees receive a sum of money which constitutes (or
        forms part of):


                (i)  the proceeds of a disposal of Plan Shares falling before
        the Release Date; or


                (ii) a Capital Receipt falling within Rule 8 above then

                     in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 7 of
        Schedule 10 to the Act they shall pay out of that sum of money to:


                (i)  the Participating Company of which the Participant is a
        director or employee at the time of the receipt or if more than one such
        one of them as the Board of Inland Revenue may direct pursuant to
        paragraph 7(3) of Schedule 10 to the Act; or 
 
                (ii) such other company as may be directed by the Board of
        Inland Revenue pursuant to paragraph 7(5) of Schedule 10 to the Act

26
<PAGE>
 
          with the consent of the Trustees and the relevant companies

          an amount equal to that on which income tax is payable and the
          company to which the amount is paid shall then pay over that amount to
          the Participant but in so doing shall make a PAYE deduction provided
          that if the Participant shall not be employed by that company he shall
          be treated as a former employee.   If the Participant is not an
          employee or director of any Participating Company or the Board of
          Inland Revenue makes a direction under paragraph 7(4) of Schedule 10
          to the Act the Trustees shall pay over the amount to the Participant
          but in so doing shall deduct United Kingdom income tax at the basic
          rate for the time being in force on an amount equal to that on which
          income tax is payable.

          (b)  Where the Trustees receive from a Participant who has directed
          them to transfer the ownership of his Plan Shares to him at any time
          before the Release Date the sum calculated in accordance with Rule
          6(b)(iii) above that sum shall be treated as a PAYE deduction by the
          Trustees.

          (c)  Where a Participant disposes of his beneficial interest in any of
          his Plan Shares to the Trustees and the Trustees are deemed by section
          186(9) of the Act to have disposed of the Shares in question this Rule
          13 shall apply as if the consideration payable by the Trustees to the
          Participant on disposal had been received by the Trustees as the
          proceeds of disposal of shares falling within section 186(4) of the
          Act.

          (d)  The Trustees shall maintain records of all payments to the
          Company and sums deducted by the Trustees falling within Rule 13(a)
          and of all sums received from Participants falling within Rule 13(b).

          (e)  The Trustees shall inform each Participant in writing of any
          facts known to them which are relevant to determining his liability
          (if any) to income tax under Schedule E by reason of an occurrence of
          an event relating to any Plan Shares appropriated to him.


14   Notices


     Any notice which the Trustees are required to give to any Participant in
     pursuance of this Plan shall be sufficiently given if delivered to him by
     hand or forwarded to him with his earnings if he is an Eligible Employee or
     in any case if sent through the post in a prepaid cover addressed to the
     Participant at his address last known to the Trustees including any address
     supplied by the Company or a Subsidiary as being his address. Any notice
     required to be given to the Company a Subsidiary or the Trustees shall be
     properly given if sent to or delivered to the secretary of the Company the
     secretary of the Subsidiary concerned or the first named Trustee at their
     respective registered or principal offices or in the case of an individual
     Trustee his last known address.

15   Disputes

     If any matter arises on or in connection with this Plan or its operation
     for which specific provision is not made in the Rules or in the deed to
     which they are scheduled or in any deed supplemental to it such matter
     shall be resolved dealt with or provided 

27
<PAGE>
 
     for in such manner as the Committee shall in its absolute discretion
     consider appropriate after taking into account the respective interests of
     the Company and of the Participants.

16   Alterations

     No modification alteration or amendment to these Rules shall be made except
     in accordance with Clause 20 of the deed.

28
<PAGE>
 
                                   SCHEDULE 3



                                    (PART A)


                            MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP

                              PROFIT SHARING PLAN


                                LETTER OF OFFER

                  (to be printed on Morgan Stanley letterhead)



DATE:

TO:


You are invited to participate in Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan
("the Plan") with effect from [                  ].

The Plan is approved by the Board of Inland Revenue under the provisions of the
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ("the Act").

It is a condition of participation in the Plan that you enter into a contract
with the Company in the terms of paragraph 3 of the enclosed Letter of
Acceptance, which complies with the provisions of paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 9
to the Act. The Letter of Acceptance should be returned to [         ] no later
than [         ]

A number of other matters are referred to in this letter which are fully covered
in the explanatory documentation.



SIGNED:

(for and on behalf of

[                      ])

29
<PAGE>
 
SCHEDULE 3



                                    (PART B)


                            MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP

                              PROFIT SHARING PLAN


                              LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE



To:            The Directors of  Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.

For:           The Trustees of the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan
          ("the Trustees")


From:     Name   (surname)   :
                 (forename)  :

          Personnel No        :

          Location       :

          Extension No   :


1    I have received the Company's letter dated               19        and
     the explanatory booklet explaining the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit
     Sharing Plan ("the Plan").

2    I accept the invitation to participate in the Plan and agree to be bound by
     the Rules (including any amendments or additions which may subsequently be
     made thereto).


3    As required by the conditions of the trust deed constituting the Plan and
     in consideration of the right to participate in the Plan and receive Plan
     Shares I bind myself in contract with the Company and I agree to comply
     with the provisions of paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 9 to the Income and
     Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (as amended from time to time) ("the Act") in
     respect of all Plan Shares held by the Trustees for me so that in
     particular:


     (a)  Subject to the Rules of the Plan I agree my Plan Shares shall remain
          in the hands of the Trustees until the expiry of the Retention Period
          as defined in those Rules and I agree not to assign charge or
          otherwise dispose of my beneficial interest in any Plan Shares until
          the expiry of such period;


     (b)  If it is permitted under the Rules of the Plan for me to direct the
          Trustees to transfer the ownership of any Plan Shares to me before the
          applicable Release Date I will pay to the Trustees before any such
          transfer takes place a sum equal to income tax at the basic rate on
          the Appropriate 

30
<PAGE>
 
          Percentage of the Locked-in Value of such Plan Shares (as defined in
          the Act and explained in the explanatory booklet) at the time of such
          direction as notified to me by the Trustees;

          (c)  If it is permitted under the Rules of the Plan for me to direct
          the Trustees to dispose of any Shares appropriated to me at any time
          before the applicable Release Date I will not so direct the Trustees
          to sell other than for the best cash price then reasonably obtainable.


4    I accept that any dividend tax credit voucher (made out in the Trustees'
     name but representing the tax credit to which I am  beneficially entitled)
     received by me in respect of any of my  Shares will be in full satisfaction
     of any rights I have to the voucher under the Act.

5    I authorise and require the Trustees subject to any subsequent direction
     which I may give and subject to my leaving the Company other than by
     retirement to continue to hold my Plan Shares after the Release Date as
     unrestricted shares.


6    I undertake to notify the Trustees of any change in my home/external
     address.

7    I confirm that I am to the best of my knowledge and belief resident/not
     resident* for tax purposes in the United Kingdom and undertake to notify
     you immediately of any event which may result in a change in my residential
     status for tax purposes.



Signed:


Dated:


Note:   This letter should be returned to [              ]


* delete whichever is not applicable.

31
<PAGE>
 
                                   SCHEDULE 4



THIS DEED is made the                day of       One thousand nine hundred and


BETWEEN



(1)  Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. whose registered office is at
     1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, DE 19801 (the "Company");


(2)  Noble Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited whose registered office is at PO
     Box 144 Norfolk House Wellesley Road Croydon CR9 3EB ("the Trustees"); and



(3)                             whose registered office is at
("the Subsidiary").


WHEREAS



(A)  This Deed is supplemental to a Deed dated
     and made between the Company and the Trustees (hereinafter called the
     "Principal Deed") whereby the Company established Morgan Stanley UK Group
     Profit Sharing Plan (hereinafter called "the Plan").


(B)  The Subsidiary is controlled by the Company within the meaning of section
     840 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.


(C)  In pursuance of the power contained in Clause 10 of the Principal Deed the
     Company has agreed that subject to its entering into this Supplemental Deed
     the Subsidiary may become a Participating Company for the purposes of the
     Plan.

32
<PAGE>
 
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:



1.   The Company hereby agrees that the Subsidiary shall be a Participating
     Company for the purposes of the Plan provided that it shall be deemed not
     to be such a Participating Company for the purposes of the operation of
     Rules 3 and 4 of the Plan as from the date it ceases to be a Subsidiary
     within the meaning of the Plan or as from such other date as the Company
     may by deed declare.

2.   The Subsidiary hereby covenants with the Company and with the Trustees that
     subject to the proviso to Clause 1 above it will observe and perform all
     covenants conditions and provisions contained in the Principal Deed and all
     the provisions of the Plan applicable to Participating Companies.


IN WITNESS whereof the parties have caused this Deed to be executed the day and
year first before written

33
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.41
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO THE TRUST DEED AND RULES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.41

              Amendments to the Trust Deed dated November 3, 1997
               among the Corporation, Morgan Stanley UK Group and
                   Morgan Stanley International Incorporated
                                        
1. The introductory clause of Clause 17(a) of the Trust Deed is amended in its
   entirety to read as follows:

     "The Company or any Participating Company may at any time by supplemental
     deed:"

2. Clause 18(a) of the Trust Deed is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

     "The Company may at any time with the consent of the Trustees delegate in
     writing to any other Participating Company or that Participating Company's
     duly authorised officers any of its powers and duties hereunder (except
     that the Company's obligations under Section 12(c) to indemnify the
     Trustees may not be so delegated) or any business including the exercise of
     any discretion or the formation of any opinion to any person or company."
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.42
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF THE MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Exhibit 10.42


                         Amendments to the Rules of the
                  Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan

1.  The definition of "the Committee" set forth in Rule 1 of the Rules of the
    Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan (the "Rules") (which Rules are
    included as Schedule 2 to the Trust Deed dated as of November 3, 1997 among
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., Morgan Stanley UK Group and Morgan Stanley
    International Incorporated) is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

        "the United Kingdom Profit Sharing Committee comprising the officers
        and other professional employees of Office of Development, London or
        such other persons as the Board of Directors of the Company (or the
        Compensation Committee of such Board) or the board of directors of any
        Participating Company may designate from time to time."

2.  The definition of "Eligible Employee" set forth in Rule 1 is amended by
    adding to the end of clause (d) thereof the following:

        "or was an employee or director of a Participating Company at any time
        within the 18 months preceding the relevant Appropriation Date." 


3.  Clause (v) of Rule 4(a) is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

        "unless the Committee determines otherwise, no Shares shall be
        appropriated in respect of a Qualifying Period to any individual
        (including any individual who was an Eligible Employee at the time such
        individual returned a completed Letter of Acceptance pursuant to Rule
        3(b)) who was not a director or employee of a Participating Company on
        the relevant Qualification Date, and promptly following the relevant
        Qualification Date the Committee shall if necessary notify the Trustees
        of the identity of any such individuals to whom Shares shall not be
        appropriated."
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 11

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                       COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

                       (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED

                                                           -------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                NOVEMBER 30              NOVEMBER 30               NOVEMBER 30
                                                                   1998                      1997                     1996
                                                           ----------------------    ---------------------    ----------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>                      <C>                       <C>        

BASIC:

Weighted-average shares outstanding                                  575,822,725              574,818,233               573,356,930
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================

Earnings:

     Net income                                                           $3,276                   $2,586                    $1,980
     Less:    Preferred stock dividend
              requirements                                                    55                       66                        66
                                                           ----------------------    ---------------------    ----------------------

     Earnings applicable to common shares                                 $3,221                   $2,520                    $1,914
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================

Basic earnings per share                                                   $5.60                    $4.38                     $3.34
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================


DILUTED:

Weighted-average shares outstanding                                  575,822,725              574,818,233               573,356,930
Average common shares issuable
     under employee benefit plans                                     18,539,765               19,364,651                21,121,605
Average common shares issuable upon
     conversion of ESOP preferred stock                               11,931,575               12,123,591                12,312,219
                                                           ----------------------    ---------------------    ----------------------


              Total weighted-average diluted shares                  606,294,065              606,306,475               606,790,754
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================

Earnings:

     Net income                                                           $3,276                   $2,586                    $1,980
     Less:    Preferred stock dividend
              requirements                                                    47                       61                        62
                                                           ----------------------    ---------------------    ----------------------

     Earnings applicable to common shares                                 $3,229                   $2,525                    $1,918
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================

Diluted earnings per share                                                 $5.33                    $4.16                     $3.16
                                                           ======================    =====================    ======================
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      Exhibit 12

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                      Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
     and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends
                             (Dollars in millions)

                                                            Fiscal Year

                                                  1998        1997        1996
                                                --------    --------    --------

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

Earnings:
   Income before income taxes(l)                 $5,385      $4,274      $3,117
   Add:    Fixed charges, net                    13,614      10,898       9,026
                                                --------    --------    --------
     Income before income taxes and
       fixed charges, net                       $18,999     $15,172     $12,143
                                                ========    ========    ========
Fixed charges:
   Total interest expense                       $13,514     $10,806      $8,934
   Interest factor in rents                         100          92          92
                                                --------    --------    --------
         Total fixed charges                    $13,614     $10,898      $9,026
                                                ========    ========    ========

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges                  1.4         1.4         1.3

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
  Preferred Stock Dividends

Earnings:
   Income before income taxes(l)                 $5,385      $4,274      $3,117
   Add:    Fixed charges, net                    13,614      10,898       9,026
                                                --------    --------    --------
     Income before income taxes and
       fixed charges, net                       $18,999     $15,172     $12,143
                                                ========    ========    ========

Fixed charges:
   Total interest expense                       $13,514     $10,806      $8,934
   Interest factor in rents                         100          92          92
   Preferred stock dividends                         87         110         101
                                                --------    --------    --------
         Total fixed charges and preferred
           stock dividends                      $13,701     $11,008      $9,127
                                                ========    ========    ========
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and
        preferred stock dividends                   1.4         1.4         1.3

/(1)/ 1998 Income before income taxes does not include a cumulative effect of
      accounting change.
      
"Earnings" consist of income before income taxes and fixed charges. "Fixed
charges" consist of interest costs, including interest on deposits, and that
portion of rent expense estimated to be representative of the interest factor.
The preferred stock dividend amounts represent pre-tax earnings required to
cover dividends on preferred stock.
                                                                               
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>QUARTERLY RESULTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual report


18 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(dollars in millions,               1998 FISCAL QUARTER                                      1997 FISCAL QUARTER
 except share and                FIRST        SECOND         THIRD
 per share data)          (RESTATED)(1) (RESTATED)(1) (RESTATED)(1)      FOURTH        FIRST       SECOND        THIRD       FOURTH
===================================================================================================================================
<S>                       <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>         
Revenues:
  Investment banking           $   800       $   988       $   819      $   733      $   522      $   581      $   818      $   773
  Principal transactions:                                                                                                   
    Trading                        903         1,091           499          798          869          722          778          822
    Investments                     72           101          (174)          90           56          136          206           65
  Commissions                      547           611           608          587          490          484          559          553
  Fees:                                                                                                                     
    Asset management,                                                                                                       
      distribution and                                                                                                          
      administration               676           741           718          714          587          610          656          652
    Merchant and cardmember        428           404           438          377          436          424          433          411
    Servicing                      171           232           255          270          202          184          196          180
  Interest and dividends         3,933         4,213         4,283        4,007        3,369        3,197        3,570        3,447
  Other                             55            47            52           44           29           38           41           36
  Total revenues                 7,585         8,428         7,498        7,620        6,560        6,376        7,257        6,939
Interest expense                 3,145         3,554         3,377        3,438        2,709        2,478        2,765        2,854
Provision for consumer                                                                                                      
  loan losses                      405           275           280          213          379          376          385          353
  Net revenues                   4,035         4,599         3,841        3,969        3,472        3,522        4,107        3,732
Non-interest expenses:                                                                                                      
  Compensation and benefits      1,788         2,017         1,609        1,222        1,490        1,505        1,849        1,175
  Occupancy and equipment          140           143           148          152          128          127          134          137
  Brokerage, clearing and                                                                                                   
    exchange fees                  121           135           160          136           95          113          130          122
  Information processing and                                                                                                
    communications                 267           275           291          307          270          267          249          294
  Marketing and business                                                                                                    
    development                    294           286           354          477          288          274          293          324
  Professional services            128           156           176          217           93           99          127          132
  Other                            165           190           193          197          180          180          219          191
  Merger-related expenses           --            --            --           --           --           74           --           --
  Total non-interest expenses    2,903         3,202         2,931        2,708        2,544        2,639        3,001        2,375
Gain on sale of businesses          --            --            --          685           --           --           --           --
Income before income taxes                                                                                                  
  and cumulative effect of                                                                                                  
  accounting change              1,132         1,397           910        1,946          928          883        1,106        1,357
Provision for income taxes         441           545           284          722          357          356          428          547
Income before                                                                                                               
  cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
  accounting change                691           852           626        1,224          571          527          678          810
Cumulative effect of                                                                                                        
  accounting change               (117)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
Net income                     $   574       $   852       $   626      $ 1,224      $   571      $   527      $   678      $   810
Earnings applicable to                                                                                                      
  common shares(2)             $   559       $   838       $   612      $ 1,212      $   552      $   509      $   663      $   796
Basic earnings per share(3):                                                                                                
  Income before                                                                                                               
    cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
    accounting change          $  1.15       $  1.44       $  1.07      $  2.16      $  0.96      $  0.88      $  1.15      $  1.37
  Cumulative effect of                                                                                                        
    accounting change            (0.20)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
  Net income                   $  0.95       $  1.44       $  1.07      $  2.16      $  0.96      $  0.88      $  1.15      $  1.37
Diluted earnings per                                                                                                        
  share(3):                                                                                                                 
  Income before                                                                                                             
    cumulative effect of                                                                                                    
    accounting change          $  1.10       $  1.37       $  1.01      $  2.07      $  0.91      $  0.84      $  1.09      $  1.30
  Cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
  accounting change              (0.19)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
  Net income                   $  0.91       $  1.37       $  1.01      $  2.07      $  0.91      $  0.84      $  1.09      $  1.30
  Dividends to common                                                                                                       
    shareholders               $  0.20       $  0.20       $  0.20      $  0.20      $  0.14      $  0.14      $  0.14      $  0.14
  Book value                   $ 22.48       $ 21.95       $ 22.13      $ 23.88      $ 18.70      $ 19.37      $ 20.25      $ 22.11
Average common and                                                                                                          
  equivalent shares:                                                                                                      
  Basic                    586,751,340   581,326,618   573,170,507  560,108,890  573,410,658  577,985,371  578,082,806  580,985,871
  Diluted                  616,377,562   612,625,354   604,779,594  585,533,337  605,691,066  610,430,898  610,019,122  612,092,405
Stock price range(4)      $52.25-70.50  $69.75-84.44  $58.06-96.88 $38.44-74.75 $32.19-43.75 $34.50-41.50 $41.00-53.88 $47.31-58.75
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
(1) The quarterly results for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal
    1998 have been restated to reflect the effects of the accounting change
    adopted in the fourth quarter, effective December 1, 1997. As a result of
    this restatement, net income has been decreased by $117 million, $2 million
    and $21 million for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 1998,
    respectively. For further information regarding the change in accounting,
    see Note 2.
(2) Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per share.
(3) Summation of the quarters' earnings per common share may not equal the
    annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share
    equivalents throughout the year.
(4) Prices represent the range of sales per share on the New York Stock Exchange
    for the periods indicated. The number of stockholders of record at November
    30, 1998 approximated 186,000. The number of beneficial owners of common
    stock is believed to exceed this number.


                                      88
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.2
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter*1998 Annual Report

                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

fiscal year (1) (dollars in millions, except share data)        1998            1997           1996           1995           1994
==================================================================================================================================
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>             <C>            <C>            <C> 
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
Revenues:
        Investment banking                              $      3,340    $      2,694   $      2,190   $      1,556   $      1,102 
        Principal transactions:                                                                                                   
                Trading                                        3,291           3,191          2,659          1,685          1,614 
                Investments                                       89             463             86            121            154 
        Commissions                                            2,353           2,086          1,776          1,533          1,323 
        Fees:                                                                                                                     
                Asset management, distribution                                                                                    
                  and administration                           2,849           2,505          1,732          1,377          1,317 
                Merchant and cardmember                        1,647           1,704          1,505          1,135            940
                Servicing                                        928             762            809            680            565 
        Interest and dividends                                16,436          13,583         11,288         10,530          8,715 
        Other                                                    198             144            126            115            127 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Total revenues                                31,131          27,132         22,171         18,732         15,857 
        Interest expense                                      13,514          10,806          8,934          8,190          6,697 
        Provision for consumer loan losses                     1,173           1,493          1,214            722            530 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Net revenues                                  16,444          14,833         12,023          9,820          8,630 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Non-interest expenses:                                                                                                            
        Compensation and benefits                              6,636           6,019          5,071          4,005          3,535 
        Other                                                  5,108           4,466          3,835          3,464          3,133 
        Merger-related expenses                                   --              74             --             --             --
        Relocation charge                                         --              --             --             59             -- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Total non-interest expenses                   11,744          10,559          8,906          7,528          6,668 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Gain on sale of businesses                                       685              --             --             --             -- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before income taxes and                                                                                                    
        cumulative effect of accounting change                 5,385           4,274          3,117          2,292          1,962 
Provision for income taxes                                     1,992           1,688          1,137            827            705 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before cumulative effect                                                                                                   
        of accounting change                                   3,393           2,586          1,980          1,465          1,257 
Cumulative effect of accounting change                          (117)             --             --             --             -- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net income                                              $      3,276    $      2,586   $      1,980   $      1,465   $      1,257 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Earnings applicable to common shares(2)                 $      3,221    $      2,520   $      1,914   $      1,400   $      1,192
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

PER SHARE DATA:                                                                                                                   

Earnings per common share(3):                                                                                                     
        Basic before cumulative effect of                                                                                         
                accounting change                       $       5.80    $       4.38   $       3.34   $       2.37   $       2.01 
        Cumulative effect of accounting change                 (0.20)             --             --             --             -- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Basic                                                   5.60            4.38           3.34           2.37           2.01 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Diluted before cumulative effect of                                                                                       
                accounting change                               5.52            4.16           3.16           2.26           1.93 
        Cumulative effect of accounting change                 (0.19)             --             --             --             -- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Diluted                                                 5.33            4.16           3.16           2.26           1.93 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Book value per common share                                    23.88           22.11          18.43          15.63          13.38 
Dividends per common share                                      0.80            0.56           0.44           0.32           0.25 

BALANCE SHEET AND                                                                                                                 
OTHER OPERATING DATA:                                                                                                             

Total assets                                            $    317,590    $    302,287   $    238,860   $    181,961   $    159,477 
Consumer loans, net                                           15,209          20,033         21,262         19,733         14,731 
Total capital(4)                                              37,922          33,577         31,152         24,644         20,933 
Long-term borrowings(4)                                       23,803          19,621         19,450         14,636         12,352 
Shareholders' equity                                          14,119          13,956         11,702         10,008          8,581 
Return on average common shareholders' equity                   24.5%           22.0%          20.0%          16.4%          15.8%
Average common and equivalent shares(2) (3)              575,822,725     574,818,233    573,356,930    590,144,217    594,212,948 
==================================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 
                                                           

(1)  Fiscal 1994 through fiscal 1996 represents the combination of Morgan
     Stanley Group Inc.'s financial statements for the fiscal years ended
     November 30 with Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s financial statements for the
     years ended December 31.
(2)  Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per common share.
(3)  Earnings per share data for fiscal 1994 through fiscal 1997 have been
     restated to reflect the Company's adoption of SFAS No. 128.
(4)  These amounts exclude the current portion of long-term borrowings and
     include Capital Units and Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries.

                                       6

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.3
<SEQUENCE>15
<DESCRIPTION>MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.3


                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


               MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


INTRODUCTION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE COMPANY

     On May 31, 1997, Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") was merged
with and into Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter Discover") (the
"Merger"). At that time, Dean Witter Discover changed its corporate name to
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("MSDWD"). In conjunction with the
Merger, each share of Morgan Stanley common stock then outstanding was converted
into 1.65 shares of MSDWD's common stock (the "Exchange Ratio"). In addition,
each share of Morgan Stanley preferred stock was converted into one share of a
corresponding series of preferred stock of MSDWD. The Merger was treated as a
tax-free exchange.

     On March 24, 1998, MSDWD changed its corporate name to Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. (the "Company").

     The Company is a pre-eminent global financial services firm that maintains
leading market positions in each of its businesses -- Securities and Asset
Management, and Credit and Transaction Services. The Company combines global
strengths in investment banking (including underwriting public offerings of
securities and mergers and acquisitions advice) and institutional sales and
trading, with strengths in providing investment and global asset management
services to its customers and in providing quality consumer credit products
primarily through its Discover<RM> Card brand.


BASIS OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR-END

     The Company's consolidated financial statements give retroactive effect to
the Merger, which was accounted for as a pooling of interests. The pooling of
interests method of accounting requires the restatement of all periods presented
as if Dean Witter Discover and Morgan Stanley always had been combined. The
consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity reflects the accounts
of the Company as if the additional preferred and common stock had been issued
during all of the periods presented.

     Prior to the Merger, Dean Witter Discover's year ended on December 31 and
Morgan Stanley's fiscal year ended on November 30. Subsequent to the Merger, the
Company adopted a fiscal year-end of November 30. In recording the pooling of
interests combination, Dean Witter Discover's financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 1996 were combined with Morgan Stanley's financial statements
for the fiscal year ended November 30, 1996 (on a combined basis, "fiscal
1996"). The Company's results for the 12 months ended November 30, 1998 ("fiscal
1998") and November 30, 1997 ("fiscal 1997") reflect the change in fiscal
year-end. Fiscal 1997 includes the results of Dean Witter Discover that were
restated to conform to the new fiscal year-end date. The Company's results of
operations for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 include the month of December 1996
for Dean Witter Discover.

     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform
to the current presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS OF OPERATIONS*

The Company's results of operations may be materially affected by market
fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the
past have been and in the future may continue to be materially affected by many
factors of a global nature, including economic and market conditions; the
availability of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices and interest
rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and
events (such as the increased use of the Internet and the Year 2000 issue); the
availability of credit; inflation; and legislative and regulatory developments.
Such factors also may have an impact on the Company's ability to achieve its
strategic objectives on a global basis, including (without limitation) continued
increased market share in its securities activities, growth in assets under
management and the expansion of its Discover Card brand.

     The Company's Securities and Asset Management business, particularly its
involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial
products, including derivatives, is subject to substantial positive and negative
fluctuations due to a variety of factors that cannot be predicted with great
certainty, including variations in the fair value of securities and other
financial

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
 Operations contains forward-looking statements as well as a discussion of some
 of the risks and uncertainties involved in the Company's businesses that could
 affect the matters referred to in such statements.

                                      23
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report





products and the volatility and liquidity of global trading markets.
Fluctuations also occur due to the level of market activity, which, among other
things, affects the flow of investment dollars into mutual funds and the size,
number and timing of transactions or client assignments (including the
realization of returns from the Company's private equity investments).

     In the Company's Credit and Transaction Services business, changes in
economic variables may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit
quality. Such variables include the number and size of personal bankruptcy
filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer debt as a percentage
of income.

     The Company's results of operations also may be materially affected by
competitive factors. In addition to competition from firms traditionally engaged
in the securities and asset management business, there has been increased
competition from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies,
mutual fund groups, online service providers and other companies offering
financial services both in the U.S. and globally. As a result of recent and
pending legislative and regulatory initiatives in the U.S. to remove or relieve
certain restrictions on commercial banks, competition in some markets that have
historically been dominated by investment banks and retail securities firms has
increased and may continue to increase in the near future. In addition, recent
and continuing global convergence and consolidation in the financial services
industry will lead to increased competition from larger diversified financial
services organizations.

     Such competition, among other things, affects the Company's ability to
attract and retain highly skilled individuals. Competitive factors also affect
the Company's success in attracting and retaining clients and assets through its
ability to meet investors' saving and investment needs by consistency of
investment performance and accessibility to a broad array of financial products
and advice. In the credit services industry, competition centers on merchant
acceptance of credit cards, credit card account acquisition and customer
utilization of credit cards. Merchant acceptance is based on both competitive
transaction pricing and the number of credit cards in circulation. Credit card
account acquisition and customer utilization are driven by offering credit cards
with competitive and appealing features such as no annual fees, low introductory
interest rates and other customized features targeting specific consumer groups
and by having broad merchant acceptance.

     As a result of the above economic and competitive factors, net income and
revenues in any particular period may not be representative of full-year results
and may vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter. The
Company intends to manage its business for the long term and help mitigate the
potential effects of market downturns by strengthening its competitive position
in the global financial services industry through diversification of its revenue
sources and enhancement of its global franchise. The Company's ability and
success in maintaining high levels of profitable business activities,
emphasizing fee-based assets that are designed to generate a continuing stream
of revenues, managing risks in both the Securities and Asset Management and
Credit and Transaction Services businesses, evaluating credit product pricing
and monitoring costs will continue to affect its overall financial results. In
addition, the complementary trends in the financial services industry of
consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk
management and other infrastructure challenges that will require effective
resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive.


GLOBAL MARKET AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN FISCAL 1998

Conditions in the global financial markets were extremely turbulent during
fiscal 1998. While the favorable market and economic conditions which
characterized fiscal 1997 continued through much of the first and second
quarters of fiscal 1998, periods of extreme volatility in the latter half of the
year created difficult conditions in many global financial markets.
Nevertheless, the Company's Securities and Asset Management business generated
record levels of net income and net revenues and ended the fiscal year with
record levels of financial advisors, customer accounts and assets, and assets
under management and administration. The Company's Credit and Transaction
Services business also achieved record operating results in fiscal 1998,
reflecting an improvement in the credit quality of customer receivables.

     In the U.S., market conditions continued to benefit from the overall
strength of the domestic economy. Throughout fis-


                                      24
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



cal 1998, the U.S. economy was characterized by moderate levels of growth, a
stable level of inflation, low unemployment, and high levels of consumer
confidence and spending. However, U.S. financial markets also experienced
periods of volatility. In the first half of the year, investors were concerned
with the potential impact of the ongoing economic downturn in the Far East and
with domestic wage inflation. Later in the year, U.S. markets were adversely
affected by investor reaction to the severe economic turmoil in the Far East,
Russia and other emerging market nations. Investor preferences shifted toward
less-risky investments, resulting in unprecedented widening of credit spreads,
reduced liquidity in the marketplace and dramatic declines in U.S. Treasury
yields. In addition, equity prices declined significantly as a result of these
developments. During the fourth quarter, these conditions prompted the Federal
Reserve Board to lower the overnight lending rate by 0.25% on three separate
occasions in an effort to increase liquidity, to minimize the risk of recession
in the U.S. due to the weaknesses in foreign economies and to avert a continued
global economic slowdown. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board, coupled with
the continued resilience of the U.S. economy, contributed to improved conditions
in the financial markets in late 1998, and both equity and bond prices
rebounded.

     Conditions in European financial markets were generally favorable in fiscal
1998. Many European stock exchanges reached record levels during the year as the
result of strong corporate earnings, merger and consolidation activity, and
stable economic conditions in the first half of fiscal 1998. European financial
markets also benefited from positive investor sentiment relating to the European
Economic and Monetary Union ("EMU"). EMU commenced on January 1, 1999 when the
European Central Bank assumed control of monetary policy for the 11 European
Union countries participating in the EMU. Those national currencies of the
participating countries have become fixed denominations of the euro and
ultimately will cease to exist as separate currencies and will be replaced by
the euro. European markets also experienced periods of extreme volatility during
the year, particularly during the third quarter as investors reacted to the
severe economic and financial difficulties which developed in Russia. The
Russian economy was adversely affected by the difficult conditions in the Far
East, declining oil prices and an unstable political infrastructure. The Russian
government's decision to reschedule its domestic debt obligations and some of
its external Soviet debt obligations and to devalue the ruble severely reduced
investor confidence and resulted in significant levels of volatility in Russian
and other financial markets. Toward the end of fiscal 1998, conditions in Europe
recovered due to, among other things, lower interest rates and increased
stability in the global financial markets.

     Market conditions in the Far East continued to be sluggish due to the
ongoing financial and economic difficulties that have existed in that region
since the latter half of fiscal 1997. The Japanese economy continued to be
adversely affected by shrinking consumer demand, declining corporate profits,
deflation and rising unemployment. These conditions contributed to the
resignation of Japan's Prime Minister during the year, as well as the
announcement of more aggressive fiscal, monetary and financial sector policies
designed to improve the nation's rate of economic growth. However, due to the
weakness of the Japanese banking system and the difficult economic conditions
existing throughout the Far East, many investors were concerned that the length
of time necessary for economic recovery would be longer than expected. Financial
markets elsewhere in the Far East also were weak during fiscal 1998. The poor
economic performance of Japan, outbreaks of political and social unrest, and
crises in other emerging markets adversely affected the financial markets of
many nations within the region.

     The worldwide market for mergers and acquisitions continued to be robust
during fiscal 1998, contributing to record levels of revenues by the Company's
investment banking business. The merger and acquisition market reflected ongoing
consolidation and globalization across many industry sectors, as well as an
increased level of deregulation and privatization. As a result, fiscal 1998
included some of the largest merger and acquisition transactions ever completed.
The markets for the underwriting of securities were positively impacted by the
generally favorable market and economic conditions which existed during the
first half of fiscal 1998. Activity in the primary markets virtually came to a
standstill in the latter part of the third quarter and the beginning of the
fourth quarter. However, toward the end of fiscal 1998, activity in the primary
markets, par-


                                      25
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report





ticularly for fixed income securities, began to strengthen as conditions in the
global financial markets stabilized.

     In fiscal 1998, U.S. consumer demand and retail sales continued to increase
at a moderate pace, despite an earlier consensus that a slowdown may have been
imminent. The favorable interest rate environment that existed in the U.S.
during fiscal 1998 enabled consumers to manage finances advantageously while
still allowing for steady growth in consumer credit. During fiscal 1998, loan
losses and personal bankruptcies appeared to level off from the record growth of
industry-wide loan losses set in 1997. The Company continued to invest in the
growth of its credit card business through the expansion of its
Discover/NOVUS<RM> Network and by increasing its marketing and solicitation
activities with respect to the Discover Card brand.


FISCAL 1998 AND 1997 RESULTS FOR THE COMPANY

The Company achieved net income of $3,276 million in fiscal 1998, a 27% increase
from fiscal 1997. Fiscal 1998's net income included a net gain of $345 million
from the sale of the Company's Global Custody business, its interest in the
operations of SPS Transaction Services, Inc. ("SPS"), and certain BRAVO<RM> Card
receivables ("BRAVO") (see "Results of Operations -- Business Dispositions"
herein). Fiscal 1998 net income also included a charge of $117 million resulting
from the cumulative effect of an accounting change. This charge represents the
effect of an accounting change adopted in the fourth quarter (effective December
1, 1997) with respect to the accounting for offering costs paid by investment
advisors of closed-end mutual funds, where such costs are not specifically
reimbursed through separate advisory contracts (see Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements).

     Excluding the net gain from the sale of the businesses noted above and the
charge resulting from the cumulative effect of an accounting change, fiscal 1998
income was $3,048 million, an increase of 18% from fiscal 1997. In fiscal 1997,
net income was $2,586 million, an increase of 31% from fiscal 1996. Basic
earnings per common share increased 28% to $5.60 in fiscal 1998 and 31% to $4.38
in fiscal 1997. Excluding the net gain from the sale of the businesses noted
above and the impact of the cumulative effect of an accounting change, basic
earnings per common share was $5.20 in fiscal 1998, an increase of 19% from
fiscal 1997. Diluted earnings per common share increased 28% to $5.33 in fiscal
1998 and 32% to $4.16 in fiscal 1997. Excluding the net gain from the sale of
the businesses noted above and the impact of the cumulative effect of an
accounting change, diluted earnings per common share was $4.95 in fiscal 1998,
an increase of 19% from fiscal 1997. The Company's return on average
shareholders' equity was 25%, 22% and 20% in fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal
1996, respectively. Excluding the net gain from the sale of the businesses noted
above and the impact of the cumulative effect of an accounting change, fiscal
1998's return on average shareholders' equity was 23%.


BUSINESS DISPOSITIONS

     In fiscal 1998, the Company entered into several transactions reflecting
its strategic decision to focus on growing its core Securities and Asset
Management and Credit and Transaction Services businesses.

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company completed the sale of its
Global Custody business. The Company also sold its interest in the operations of
SPS, a 73%-owned, publicly held subsidiary of the Company. In addition, the
Company sold certain credit card receivables relating to its discontinued BRAVO
Card. The Company's aggregate net pre-tax gain resulting from these transactions
was $685 million.

     In addition, during fiscal 1998 the Company sold its Prime Option(SM)
MasterCard(R) portfolio ("Prime Option"), a business it had operated with
NationsBank of Delaware, N.A., and its Correspondent Clearing business. The
gains resulting from the sale of these businesses were not material to the
Company's results of operations or financial condition.

     The remainder of Results of Operations is presented on a business segment
basis. With the exception of fiscal 1997's merger-related expenses,
substantially all of the operating revenues and operating expenses of the
Company can be directly attributed to its two business segments: Securities and
Asset Management and Credit and Transaction Services. This discussion excludes
the cumulative effect of the accounting change in references to fiscal 1998 net



                                      26
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

income. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts to
conform to the current year's presentation.

SECURITIES AND ASSET MANAGEMENT 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                           FISCAL               FISCAL             FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                                       1998                 1997               1996
===========================================================================================================
<S>                                                       <C>                  <C>                 <C> 
Revenues:
   Investment banking                                     $ 3,340              $ 2,694             $ 2,190
   Principal transactions:                             
     Trading                                                3,291                3,191               2,659
     Investments                                               89                  463                  86
   Commissions                                              2,317                2,059               1,776
   Asset management, distribution                      
     and administration fees                                2,848                2,505               1,732
   Interest and dividends                                  13,696               10,455               8,571
   Other                                                      182                  132                 122
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
     Total revenues                                        25,763               21,499              17,136
Interest expense                                           12,519                9,633               7,902
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
     Net revenues                                          13,244               11,866               9,234
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Compensation and benefits                                   6,071                5,475               4,585
Occupancy and equipment                                       510                  462                 432
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees                         538                  448                 317
Information processing and communications                     666                  602                 514
Marketing and business development                            487                  393                 296
Professional services                                         579                  378                 282
Other                                                         529                  511                 382
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
     Total non-interest expenses                            9,380                8,269               6,808
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Gain on sale of businesses                                    323                   --                  --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before income taxes and cumulative effect
     of accounting change                                   4,187                3,597               2,426
Provision for income taxes                                  1,482                1,416                 880
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change        2,705                2,181               1,546
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Cumulative effect of accounting change                       (117)                  --                  --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net income                                                $ 2,588              $ 2,181             $ 1,546
=============================================================================================================
</TABLE> 


SECURITIES AND ASSET MANAGEMENT

Securities and Asset Management provides a wide range of financial products,
services and investment advice to individual and institutional investors.
Securities and Asset Management business activities are conducted in the U.S.
and throughout the world and include investment banking, research, institutional
sales and trading, and investment and asset management products and services for
institutional and individual clients. At November 30, 1998, the Company's
financial advisors provided investment services to more than 3.9 million client
accounts with assets of $438 billion. The Company had the second largest
financial advisor sales organization in the U.S. with 11,238 professional
financial advisors and 438 branches at November 30, 1998. With several brands,
including those associated with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors (formerly
known as Dean Witter InterCapital), Van Kampen Investments ("VK"), Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management and Miller Anderson & Sherrerd, the
Company has one of the largest global asset management operations of any
full-service securities firm, with total assets under management or supervision
of $376 billion at November 30, 1998.

     Securities and Asset Management achieved record net revenues and income of
$13,244 million and $2,705 million in fiscal 1998, increases of 12% and 24%,
respectively, from fiscal 1997. Fiscal 1998's net income includes a net gain of
$182 million resulting from the sale of the Company's Global Custody business.
Excluding the net gain from the sale of this business, income increased 16% to
$2,523 million. Fiscal 1998's net income also reflects a decline in the
effective income tax rate, primarily resulting from lower tax rates applicable
to non-U.S. earnings. In fiscal 1997, Securities and Asset Management net
revenues and net income increased 29% and 41%, respectively, from fiscal 1996.
The Company's fiscal 1998 and 1997 levels of net revenues and net income in its
Securities and Asset Management business reflected a strong global market for
mergers and acquisitions, higher principal trading and commission revenues
primarily driven by generally favorable economic conditions, increased customer
trading volume, and the positive accumulation and management of client assets.
In fiscal 1998, record levels of net revenues were partially offset by losses
from an institutional leveraged emerging markets debt portfolio that occurred
during the third quarter. The results of both years were partially offset by
increased costs for incentive-based compensation, as well as increased
non-compensation expenses associated with the Company's higher level of global
business activities.



                                      27
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report





The operating results of both years were favorably impacted by the Company's
focus on accumulating client assets and building fee-based assets under
management and administration.


Investment Banking

Investment banking revenues are derived from the underwriting of securities
offerings and fees from advisory services. Investment banking revenues were as
follows:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                  FISCAL            FISCAL           FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                              1998              1997             1996
===========================================================================================
<S>                                              <C>             <C>              <C> 
Advisory fees from merger, acquisition                                       
   and restructuring transactions                 $1,322            $ 920            $ 848
Equity underwriting revenues                         815              888              722
Fixed income underwriting revenues                 1,203              886              620
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total investment banking revenues              $3,340           $2,694           $2,190
===========================================================================================

</TABLE> 

     Investment banking revenues increased 24% and attained record levels in
fiscal 1998, surpassing the Company's previous record in fiscal 1997. Revenues
in fiscal 1998 benefited from increased advisory fees from merger, acquisition
and restructuring transactions, as well as increased revenues from underwriting
fixed income securities. Fiscal 1997's revenues reflect higher advisory fees
from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions, as well as increased
revenues from underwriting both equity and fixed income securities.

     The worldwide merger and acquisition markets remained robust for the fourth
consecutive year with more than $2.5 trillion of transactions (per Securities
Data Company) announced during calendar year 1998, including record volume in
the U.S. During calendar year 1998, the Company's dollar volume of announced
merger and acquisition transactions increased by more than 80% over the
comparable period of 1997. The high level of transaction activity reflected the
continuing trend of consolidation and globalization across many industry
sectors, as companies attempted to expand into new markets and businesses
through strategic combinations. The sustained growth of the merger and
acquisition markets, coupled with the Company's global presence and strong
market share, had a positive impact on advisory fees, which increased 44% in
fiscal 1998. Advisory fees from real estate transactions also were higher as 
compared with the prior year, driven by strong levels of market consolidation
activities in the U.S. and by recovering real estate markets in Europe. The 8%
increase in advisory fees in fiscal 1997 was primarily due to high transaction
volumes resulting from the strong global market for merger, acquisition and
restructuring activities, as well as increased revenues from real estate
advisory transactions.

     Equity underwriting revenues decreased 8% in fiscal 1998 although
continuing to reflect a high volume of equity offerings and the Company's strong
market share. During the first half of fiscal 1998, the primary market for
equity issuances benefited from a high volume of cash inflows into equity mutual
funds, as well as from a generally favorable economic environment. Equity
underwriting revenues were adversely affected by the reduced activity in the
primary market in the second half of the fiscal year due to the significant
uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets. Equity underwriting
revenues increased 23% in fiscal 1997, primarily due to a higher volume of
equity offerings and an increased market share, particularly in Europe, as
compared with the prior year. In fiscal 1997, the primary market for equity
issuances also benefited from a high volume of cash inflows into equity mutual
funds and from a favorable economic environment.

     Revenues from fixed income underwriting increased 36% in fiscal 1998,
primarily driven by higher revenues from issuances of global high-yield and
investment grade fixed income securities. The primary market for these
securities benefited from relatively low nominal interest rates which existed
throughout the year and attracted many issuers to the market, as well as from
periods of strong investor demand. During the latter part of fiscal 1998, the
primary market was less active as increased volatility in global financial
markets caused an unprecedented widening of credit spreads and a shift of
investor preferences toward financial instruments with higher credit ratings.
Revenues from fixed income underwriting increased 43% in fiscal 1997. The
increase was primarily attributable to higher revenues from high-yield debt
issuances, as the favorable market conditions which existed for much of fiscal
1997 enabled certain high-yield issuers to obtain attractive rates of financing.
Fiscal 1997's fixed income underwriting revenues also were impacted by higher
revenues from securitized debt issuances, resulting from the Company's continued
focus on this business sector and an increase in the number of asset-backed
transactions.



                                      28
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report





Principal Transactions

Principal transactions include revenues from customers' purchases and sales of
securities in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on
securities held for resale.

Principal transaction trading revenues were as follows:
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                  FISCAL            FISCAL           FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                              1998              1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>              <C>              <C> 
Equities                                          $2,056            $1,310           $1,181
Fixed income                                         455             1,187            1,172
Foreign exchange                                     587               500              169
Commodities                                          193               194              137
                                                  ------            ------           ------ 
   Total principal transaction
     trading revenues                             $3,291            $3,191           $2,659
                                                  ======            ======           ======
</TABLE> 

     Principal transaction trading revenues increased 3% in fiscal 1998,
primarily due to higher equities and foreign exchange trading revenues,
partially offset by a decline in fixed income trading revenues. In fiscal 1997,
principal trading revenues increased 20%, primarily reflecting higher equities
and foreign exchange trading revenues.

     Equity trading revenues increased 57% to a record level in fiscal 1998,
primarily reflecting higher revenues from equity cash and derivative products.
The increase in revenues from equity cash products was primarily attributable to
higher trading volumes in European markets, which benefited from the Company's
increased sales and research coverage of the region that began in mid-1997.
European equity trading revenues also benefited from generally favorable market
conditions and positive investor sentiment regarding EMU. Revenues from trading
equity derivative products also increased, primarily due to increased
transaction volume and the high levels of market volatility that existed
throughout the year, particularly in technology-related issues. Equity trading
revenues increased 11% in fiscal 1997, reflecting favorable market conditions
that contributed to strong customer demand and high trading volumes. The
increased revenues were primarily from trading in equity cash products, as the
strong rates of return generated by many global equity markets contributed to
higher customer trading volumes and the continuance of high levels of cash
inflows into mutual funds. Revenues also benefited from the strong performance
of many foreign equity markets, particularly in Europe, which led to higher
trading volumes as U.S. investors sought to increase their positions in these
markets.

     Fixed income trading revenues decreased 62% in fiscal 1998, reflecting
significantly lower revenues from investment grade, high-yield and securitized
fixed income securities. Revenues from investment grade fixed income securities
were adversely affected by the severe economic and financial turmoil in the Far
East, Russia and emerging markets that occurred during the year. These difficult
conditions caused investor preferences to shift toward higher quality financial
instruments, principally to U.S. treasury securities. This negatively affected
the trading of credit-sensitive fixed income securities by widening credit
spreads, reducing market liquidity and de-coupling the historical price
relationships between credit-sensitive securities and government securities.
Revenues from high-yield fixed income securities also were impacted by the
turbulent conditions in the global financial markets due to investors' concerns
about the impact of a prolonged economic downturn on high-yield issuers.
Revenues from securitized fixed income securities also declined, as the
relatively low interest rate environment in the U.S. increased prepayment
concerns and resulted in increased spreads. Fixed income trading revenues
increased 1% in fiscal 1997. Revenues from trading in fixed income products were
positively affected by high levels of customer trading volumes, a large amount
of new debt issuances and increased demand for credit-sensitive fixed income
products. Revenues from trading in high-yield debt securities and fixed income
derivative products were particularly favorably impacted by these developments.
Securitized debt trading revenues also increased, as the Company continued to
focus on this market segment by expanding its level of activity in several key
areas. Trading revenues benefited from higher revenues from trading in
commercial whole loans and mortgage swaps, coupled with increased securitization
volumes and innovative structures. These increases were offset by lower revenues
from trading in government and investment grade corporate securities.

     Revenues from foreign exchange trading increased 17% to record levels in
fiscal 1998. The increase was primarily attributable to high levels of customer
trading volume and volatility in the foreign exchange markets. During fiscal
1998, the U.S. dollar fluctuated against major currencies due to concerns about
the U.S. economy's exposure to the financial crises in the Far East and emerging
markets, as well as from the Federal Reserve Board's decision to lower the
overnight lending rate on three occasions during the fourth


                                      29
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


quarter. Certain European currencies also experienced periods of volatility,
resulting from expectations of interest rate fluctuations in anticipation of EMU
and the collapse of the Russian ruble. Difficult political and economic
conditions in certain Asian nations, coupled with the continued recession in
Japan, also contributed to periods of high volatility in the currency markets.
Foreign exchange trading revenues increased 196% in fiscal 1997, primarily
resulting from the Company's increased client market share and from high levels
of volatility in the foreign exchange markets. During fiscal 1997, the U.S.
dollar appreciated against many currencies throughout the year due to the strong
growth of the U.S. economy and continued low levels of inflation. In addition,
many European currencies experienced periods of increased volatility due to
uncertainty regarding the timing of EMU and the strength of the euro, while the
performance of the yen was affected by sluggish economic growth in Japan. Other
Asian currencies were particularly volatile during the latter half of fiscal
1997, primarily due to the depreciation of certain currencies, including
Thailand's baht. Higher trading volumes and an increasing customer base also
contributed to the increase in revenues.

     Commodities trading revenues were comparable to prior-year levels, as
higher revenues from crude oil, refined energy products and electricity were
partially offset by lower revenues from natural gas trading. Revenues from
trading crude oil and refined energy products were impacted by energy prices
that fell during much of fiscal 1998. Diminished demand for these products,
partially due to the ongoing economic crisis in the Far East, coupled with high
inventory levels, contributed to the decline in prices. Electricity trading
revenues benefited from higher electricity prices, primarily during the summer
months when the demand for electric power increased. The Company's continued
presence in the electricity market and the ongoing deregulation of the industry
also had a favorable impact on electricity trading revenues. Revenues from
natural gas trading decreased as unseasonably warm weather in certain regions of
the U.S. during the winter months reduced the demand for home heating oil,
leading to a decline in prices. Commodities trading revenues increased 42% and
reached record levels in fiscal 1997, benefiting from higher revenues from
trading in energy products, including the Company's increased presence in the
electricity markets, precious metals and natural gas. Volatility in these
products was high during most of the year due to fluctuating levels of customer
demand and inventory. In both fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, commodities trading
revenues benefited from the expansion of the customer base for commodity-related
products, including derivatives, and the use of such products for risk
management purposes.

     Principal transaction investment revenues aggregating $89 million were
recognized in fiscal 1998 as compared with $463 million in fiscal 1997. Fiscal
1998 revenues reflected the second highest level of revenues from the Company's
private equity business, which primarily resulted from gains on certain
positions that were sold during the year and increases in the carrying value of
certain of the Company's private equity investments. Such increases included
gains from the initial public offering of Equant and gains from the sale of
positions in Fort James Corporation and Jefferson Smurfit Corporation. These
gains were substantially offset by losses from an institutional leveraged
emerging markets debt portfolio that occurred during the third quarter. Fiscal
1997 revenues primarily reflect increases in the carrying value of certain of
the Company's private equity investments, including an increase related to the
Company's holdings of Fort James Corporation, as well as realized gains on
certain positions that were sold during the year. Higher revenues from certain
real estate and venture capital investment gains also contributed to fiscal
1997's revenues.

Commissions

Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and
over-the-counter equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance
products and options. Commission revenues increased 13% in fiscal 1998,
reflecting higher revenues from equity cash products, primarily from markets in
the U.S. and Europe, as well as higher revenues from derivative products.
Revenues from U.S. markets benefited from high levels of market volatility,
which contributed to increased customer trading volumes. Revenues from European
markets also benefited from strong customer trading volumes, which were
positively impacted by the generally favorable performances of certain European
equity markets and from the Company's increased sales and research activities in
the region. Commissions on derivative products increased as the high levels of
market volatility contributed to increased customer hedging activities and
trading volumes. Higher commissions from the sale of mutual funds and the
Company's addition of more than 1,000 financial advisors during fiscal 1998 also
contributed to the increase. Commission revenues increased 16% in fiscal 1997,
primarily reflecting high customer trading volumes, particularly in the third
and fourth fiscal quarters when the New York Stock Exchange expe-



                                      30
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


rienced some of the highest trading volume in its history. The strong returns
posted by many global equity markets encouraged an increased investor demand for
equity securities and resulted in high levels of cash inflows into mutual funds.
Commission revenues also benefited from an increase in the Company's market
share and from the continued strength in the market for equity issuances.

Net Interest

Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level
and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned,
reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies associated with
the Company's institutional securities activities, customer margin loans and the
prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Interest and
dividend revenues and interest expense should be viewed in the broader context
of principal trading results. Decisions relating to principal transactions in
securities are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs
associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes
an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a trade; the
interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company's
positions; and potential underwriting, commission or other revenues associated
with related primary or secondary market sales. Net interest revenues increased
43% in fiscal 1998, primarily attributable to higher levels of revenues from net
interest earning assets, including financial instruments owned and customer
margin receivable balances. Higher levels of securities lending transactions
also had a positive impact on net interest revenues. Net interest revenues
increased 23% in fiscal 1997, reflecting higher levels of trading activities and
retail customer financing activity, including margin interest. In fiscal 1997,
net interest revenues also reflected increased financing costs associated with
higher average levels of balance sheet usage, particularly in equity-related
businesses.


Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees

Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from
asset management services, including fund management fees which are received for
investment management and for promoting and distributing mutual funds ("12b-1
fees"), other administrative fees and non-interest revenues earned from
correspondent clearing and custody services. Fund management fees arise from
investment management services the Company provides to registered investment
companies (the "Funds") pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The
Company receives management fees based upon each Fund's average daily net
assets. The Company receives 12b-1 fees for services it provides in promoting
and distributing certain open-ended Funds. These fees are based on either the
average daily Fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net Fund sales
and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under
management and administration. The Company also receives fees from investment
management services provided to segregated customer accounts pursuant to various
contractual arrangements.

     Asset management, distribution and administration fees were as follows:

                                        FISCAL        FISCAL         FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                     1998          1997           1996
================================================================================
Asset management, distribution
    and administration fees             $2,848        $2,505         $1,732
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's customer assets under management or supervision were as
follows:

                                        FISCAL       FISCAL         FISCAL
(dollars in billions)                     1998         1997           1996
================================================================================
Customer assets under
    management or supervision
         (at fiscal year-end)             $376         $338           $278
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In fiscal 1998, asset management, distribution and administration fees increased
14%, reflecting the Company's continuing strategic emphasis on the asset
management business. The increase in revenues primarily reflects higher fund
management and 12b-1 fees as well as other revenues resulting from a higher
level of assets under management or supervision, including revenues from
developed country global equity and fixed income products. Such increases were
partially offset by the impact of market depreciation in certain of the
Company's products resulting from the downturn in certain global financial
markets which occurred during the latter half of the year. Fiscal 1998's
revenues also were negatively impacted by the Company's sale of its
Correspondent Clearing and Global Custody businesses which occurred during
fiscal 1998. In fiscal 1997, asset management, distribution and administration
fees increased 45%. This increase reflects revenues from VK, which was acquired
by the Company on October 31, 1996. Fiscal 1997 revenues also benefited from
higher levels of fund management fees and increased



                                      31
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


revenues from international equity, emerging market, and U.S. domestic equity
and fixed income products and continued growth in customer assets under
management or supervision. Revenues also were positively impacted by the
Company's acquisition of the institutional global custody business of Barclays
Bank PLC ("Barclays") on April 3, 1997.

     As of November 30, 1998, assets under management or supervision increased
$38 billion from fiscal year-end 1997. The increase in assets under management
or supervision in both fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997 reflected continued inflows
of customer assets as well as appreciation in the value of customer portfolios.
In both fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, approximately 50% of the increase in assets
under management or supervision was attributable to the acquisition of net new
assets, while the remaining 50% reflected market appreciation.

Non-Interest Expenses

                                           FISCAL      FISCAL      FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                        1998        1997        1996
================================================================================
Compensation and benefits                  $6,071      $5,475      $4,585
Occupancy and equipment                       510         462         432
Brokerage, clearing and
     exchange fees                            538         448         317
Information processing and
     communications                           666         602         514
Marketing and business
    development                               487         393         296
Professional services                         579         378         282
Other                                         529         511         382
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total non-interest expenses            $9,380      $8,269      $6,808
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fiscal 1998's total non-interest expenses increased 13% to $9,380 million.
Within the non-interest expense category, employee compensation and benefits
expense increased 11%, reflecting increased levels of incentive compensation
based on record fiscal 1998 revenues and earnings, as well as an increase in the
number of employees. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest
expenses increased $515 million. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 10%,
principally reflecting additional office space and higher occupancy costs in New
York and Hong Kong, as well as incremental rent attributable to the opening of
27 securities branch locations. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased
20%, primarily reflecting increased expenses related to higher levels of trading
volume in the global securities markets. Commissions paid in connection with the
Company's launch of The Van Kampen Senior Income Trust mutual fund also
contributed to the increase. Information processing and communications costs
increased 11% due to higher data services and communications costs related to an
increased number of employees and continued enhancements and maintenance
associated with the Company's information technology infrastructure. Marketing
and business development expense increased 24%, reflecting higher travel and
entertainment costs relating to increased levels of business activity associated
with active financial markets. Higher advertising and promotional costs also
contributed to the increase. Professional services expense increased 53%,
primarily reflecting higher consulting costs as a result of certain information
technology initiatives, including the Company's preparations for EMU and Year
2000 (see also "Year 2000 and EMU" herein). Higher levels of temporary staff and
employment fees due to the increased level of overall business activity also
contributed to the increase. Other expenses increased 4%, which reflects the
impact of a higher level of business activity on various operating expenses.

     Fiscal 1997's total non-interest expenses increased 21% to $8,269 million.
Within the non-interest expense category, employee compensation and benefits
expense increased 19%, reflecting increased levels of incentive compensation
based on then-record fiscal 1997 revenues and earnings. Excluding compensation
and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased $571 million, including
$266 million of operating costs related to VK and the global institutional
custody business of Barclays. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 7%,
principally reflecting the occupancy costs of VK and increased office space in
London and Hong Kong. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 41%,
primarily reflecting the acquisitions of VK and the institutional global custody
business of Barclays, as well as higher levels of trading volume in the global
securities markets. Information processing and communications costs increased
17% due to higher data services costs related to an increased number of
employees, incremental costs related to VK and continued enhancements to the
Company's information technology infrastructure. Marketing and business
development expense increased 33%, reflecting higher travel and entertainment
costs relating to increased levels of business activity associated with active
financial markets. Additional advertising costs associated with VK's retail
mutual funds also contributed to the increase. Professional services expense
increased 34%, reflecting higher consulting costs as a result of information
technology ini-


                                      32
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


tiatives and the increased level of overall business activity. Other expenses
increased 34%, which includes goodwill amortization of $43 million associated
with the acquisitions of VK and Barclays, as well as the impact of a higher
level of business activity on various operating expenses.


CREDIT AND TRANSACTION SERVICES
STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                          FISCAL        FISCAL        FISCAL
(dollars in millions)                       1998          1997          1996
================================================================================
Fees:
    Merchant and cardmember               $1,647        $1,704        $1,505
    Servicing                                928           762           809
Commissions                                   36            27            --
Asset management, distribution
    and administration fees                    1            --            --
Other                                         16            12             4
 ................................................................................
    Total non-interest revenues            2,628         2,505         2,318
 ................................................................................
Interest revenue                           2,740         3,128         2,717
Interest expense                             995         1,173         1,032
 ................................................................................
    Net interest income                    1,745         1,955         1,685
Provision for consumer
    loan losses                            1,173         1,493         1,214
 ................................................................................
    Net credit income                        572           462           471
 ................................................................................
    Net revenues                           3,200         2,967         2,789
 ................................................................................
Compensation and benefits                    565           544           486
Occupancy and equipment                       73            64            61
Brokerage, clearing and
    exchange fees                             14            12            --
Information processing and
    communications                           474           478           482
Marketing and business
    development                              924           786           731
Professional services                         98            73            52
Other                                        216           259           286
 ................................................................................
    Total non-interest expenses            2,364         2,216         2,098
 ................................................................................
Gain on sale of businesses                   362            --            --
 ................................................................................
Income before income taxes                 1,198           751           691
Provision for income taxes                   510           283           257
 ................................................................................
Net income                                $  688        $  468        $  434
 ................................................................................

CREDIT AND TRANSACTION SERVICES

In fiscal 1998, Credit and Transaction Services net income increased 47% to $688
million, including a net after-tax gain of $163 million related to the sale of
the Company's interest in the operations of SPS and certain BRAVO receivables.
Excluding this gain, net income increased 12%. The increase in net income in
fiscal 1998 was primarily attributable to the gain on the above-mentioned sales
and a lower provision for loan losses primarily resulting from the sale of Prime
Option and the operations of SPS. This increase was partially offset by
increases in marketing and business development expense and incremental taxes
associated with the sale of the operations of SPS. In fiscal 1997, net income
increased 8% to $468 million. Fiscal 1997 net income was positively impacted by
higher average levels of consumer loans, credit card fees and interest revenue
enhancements introduced in fiscal 1996 and higher general purpose credit card
transaction volume, partially offset by increased consumer credit losses and
higher non-interest expenses.

     The sale of Prime Option, the operations of SPS and certain BRAVO
receivables reflect the Company's strategic decision to focus on the growth of
its existing Discover Card brand and Discover/NOVUS Network. Reflecting this
renewed focus, the Company introduced the Discover(R) Platinum Card in December
1998 and plans to launch the Discover Card in a major foreign market during
fiscal 1999.

     As a result of enhancements made to certain of the Company's operating
systems in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company began recording
charged-off cardmember fees and interest revenue directly against the income
statement line items to which they were originally recorded. Prior to the
enhancements, charged-off cardmember fees and interest revenue both were
recorded as a reduction of interest revenue. While this change had no impact on
net revenues, the Company believes the revised presentation better reflects the
manner in which charge-offs affect the Credit and Transaction Services
statements of income. However, since prior periods have not been restated to
reflect this change, the comparability of merchant and cardmember fees and
interest revenue between fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997 has been affected.
Accordingly, the following sections also will discuss the changes in these
income statement categories excluding the impact of this reclassification.

Credit and Transaction Services statistical data were as follows:


                                         FISCAL       FISCAL       FISCAL
(dollars in billions)                      1998         1997         1996
================================================================================

Consumer loans at fiscal year-end:
    Owned                                 $16.0        $20.9        $22.1
    Managed                               $32.5        $36.0        $35.3
General Purpose Credit Card
    transaction volume                    $58.0        $55.8        $53.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                      33
<PAGE>
 
The lower level of consumer loans at November 30, 1998 reflects the Company's
sale of Prime Option, the operations of SPS and certain BRAVO receivables during
fiscal 1998.


Merchant and Cardmember Fees

Merchant and cardmember fees include revenues from fees charged to merchants on
credit card sales, late payment fees, overlimit fees, insurance fees, cash
advance fees, and fees for the administration of credit card programs and
transaction processing services.

     Merchant and cardmember fees decreased 3% in fiscal 1998 and increased 13%
in fiscal 1997. Excluding the effect of the reclassification of charged-off
cardmember fees discussed above, merchant and cardmember fees would have
increased 2% in fiscal 1998. This increase in fiscal 1998 was attributable to
higher merchant discount revenue primarily associated with increased growth of
general purpose credit card transaction volume related to the Discover Card
offset by lower revenues due to the sale of the operations of SPS in October
1998. In addition, merchant and cardmember fees benefited from higher overlimit
and late fees attributable to a fee increase introduced during fiscal 1998 and
an increase in occurrences of delinquent and overlimit accounts. Partially
offsetting these increases was a decrease in cash advance fees as a result of
lower cash advance transaction volume primarily attributable to limits on cash
advances imposed by the Company in an effort to improve credit quality. The
increase in fiscal 1997 was due to an increase in merchant discount revenue
associated with increased growth of general purpose credit card transaction
volume and increased late payment fees and overlimit fees. The increase in
overlimit fees was due to a higher incidence of overlimit occurrences. The
increase in late payment fee revenues was due to an increase in the incidence of
late payments and higher levels of delinquent accounts.


Servicing Fees

Servicing fees are revenues derived from consumer loans which have been sold to
investors through asset securitizations. Cash flows from the interest yield and
cardmember fees generated by securitized loans are used to pay investors in
these loans a predetermined fixed or floating rate of return on their
investment, to reimburse the investors for losses of principal resulting from
charged-off loans and to pay the Company a fee for servicing the loans. Any
excess cash flows remaining are paid to the Company. The servicing fees and
excess net cash flows paid to the Company are reported as servicing fees in the
consolidated statements of income. The sale of consumer loans through asset
securitizations therefore has the effect of converting portions of net credit
income and fee income to servicing fees. The Company completed asset
securitizations of $4.5 billion in fiscal 1998 and $2.8 billion in fiscal 1997.
The asset securitizations in fiscal 1998 and 1997 have expected maturities
ranging from three to 10 years from the date of issuance.

The table below presents the components of servicing fees:

                                    FISCAL          fiscal           fiscal
(dollars in millions)                 1998            1997             1996
============================================================================
Merchant and cardmember fees       $   505         $   436          $   307
Interest revenue                     2,598           2,116            2,025
Interest expense                    (1,010)           (829)            (792)
Provision for consumer
         loan losses                (1,165)           (961)            (731)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Servicing fees                     $   928         $   762          $   809
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Servicing fees are affected by the level of securitized loans, the spread
between the interest yield on the securitized loans and the yield paid to the
investors, the rate of credit losses on securitized loans and the level of
cardmember fees earned from securitized loans. Servicing fees also include the
effects of interest rate contracts entered into by the Company as part of its
interest rate risk management program. Servicing fees increased 22% in fiscal
1998 and decreased 6% in fiscal 1997. The increase in fiscal 1998 was due to
higher levels of net interest cash flows and increased fee revenue, partially
offset by increased credit losses from securitized consumer loans which were
primarily a result of higher levels of average securitized loans. The decline in
fiscal 1997 servicing fees was attributable to higher credit losses, partially
offset by higher cardmember fees and net interest revenues.


Commission Revenues

Commission revenues arise from customer securities transactions associated with
Discover Brokerage Direct, Inc. ("DBD"), the Company's provider of electronic
brokerage services acquired in January 1997. Commission revenues increased 33%
in fiscal 1998 resulting from an increase in the level of customer trading
activity, partially offset by lower revenue per trade due to an increase in
Internet trades as a percentage of total trades. In addition, fiscal 1998
contained a full year of commissions for DBD, while fiscal 1997 reflected only
10 months.


                                      34
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
 
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees

Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from
asset management services, including fund management fees which are received by
DBD for promoting and distributing mutual funds.


Net Interest Income

Net interest income is equal to the difference between interest revenue derived
from Credit and Transaction Services consumer loans and short-term investment
assets and interest expense incurred to finance those assets. Credit and
Transaction Services assets, consisting primarily of consumer loans, earn
interest revenue at both fixed rates and market-indexed variable rates. The
Company incurs interest expense at fixed and floating rates. Interest expense
also includes the effects of interest rate contracts entered into by the Company
as part of its interest rate risk management program. This program is designed
to reduce the volatility of earnings resulting from changes in interest rates
and is accomplished primarily through matched financing, which entails matching
the repricing schedules of consumer loans and the related financing.

     The following tables present analyses of Credit and Transaction Services
average balance sheets and interest rates in fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal
1996 and changes in net interest income during those fiscal years:


AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                            FISCAL 1998               FISCAL 1997(3)           FISCAL 1996(3)
                                                   AVERAGE                    Average                     Average
(dollars in millions)                              BALANCE   RATE   INTEREST  Balance    Rate   Interest  Balance   Rate   Interest
====================================================================================================================================
<S>                                               <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C> 
ASSETS

Interest earning assets:
General purpose credit card loans                  $17,184   13.87%  $2,383    $19,512   14.03%  $2,738   $17,083   13.99%  $2,391
Other consumer loans                                 1,374   16.70      229      1,773   15.73      279     1,766   14.25      252
Investment securities                                  496    6.25       31        176    5.45       10       234    5.38       13
Other                                                1,465    6.61       97      1,680    6.06      101     1,078    5.60       61
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Total interest earning assets                 20,519   13.35    2,740     23,141   13.52    3,128    20,161   13.47    2,717
Allowance for loan losses                             (847)                       (828)                      (669)
Non interest earning assets                          1,517                       1,529                      1,334
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total assets                                 $21,189                     $23,842                    $20,826
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Interest bearing liabilities:
Interest bearing deposits
    Savings                                        $ 1,073    4.79%    $ 51   $    963    4.27%    $ 41   $ 1,021    4.58%  $   47
    Brokered                                         5,656    6.62      375      4,589    6.66      306     3,418    6.93      237
    Other time                                       2,189    6.16      135      2,212    6.12      135     1,921    6.05      116
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total interest bearing deposits                8,918    6.29      561      7,764    6.21      482     6,360    6.29      400
Other borrowings                                     7,162    6.06      434     11,371    6.07      691    10,307    6.11      632
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total interest bearing liabilities            16,080    6.19      995     19,135    6.13    1,173    16,667    6.18    1,032
Shareholders' equity/other liabilities               5,109                       4,707                      4,159
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and shareholders' equity   $21,189                     $23,842                    $20,826
Net interest income                                                  $1,745                      $1,955                     $1,685
Net interest margin(1)                                                 8.51%                       8.45%                      8.36%
Interest rate spread(2)                                       7.16%                       7.39%                      7.29%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

(1)  Net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of total
     interest earning assets.
(2)  Interest rate spread represents the difference between the rate on total
     interest earning assets and the rate on total interest bearing liabilities.
(3)  Certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the
     current year's presentation.

                                      35
<PAGE>

                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
 
RATE/VOLUME ANALYSIS

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

Increase/(Decrease) due to Changes in:                 1998 vs. 1997              1997 vs. 1996
(dollars in millions)                             Volume    Rate    Total   Volume     Rate    Total
=====================================================================================================
<S>                                               <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C> 
INTEREST REVENUE                     
                                     
General purpose credit card loans                 $(327)   $ (28)   $(355)   $ 339    $   8    $ 347
Other consumer loans                                (63)      13      (50)       1       26       27
Investment securities                                17        4       21       (3)      --       (3)
Other                                               (12)       8       (4)      33        7       40
                                                                    ------                     ------
Total interest revenue                             (353)     (35)    (388)     400       11      411
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTEREST EXPENSE                     
                                     
Interest bearing deposits:           
    Savings                                           5        5       10       (3)      (3)      (6)
    Brokered                                         71       (2)      69       81      (12)      69
    Other time                                       (1)       1       --       18        1       19
                                                                    ------                     ------
    Total interest bearing deposits                  72        7       79       88       (6)      82
Other borrowings                                   (256)      (1)    (257)      64       (5)      59
                                                                    ------                     ------
    Total interest expense                         (188)      10     (178)     151      (10)     141
                                                                    ------                     ------
Net interest income                               $(165)   $ (45)   $(210)   $ 249    $  21    $ 270
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

Net interest income decreased 11% in fiscal 1998 and increased 16% in fiscal
1997. Excluding the effect of the reclassification of charged-off cardmember
fees discussed previously, net interest income would have decreased 15% in
fiscal 1998. The decrease in fiscal 1998 was due to lower average levels of
owned consumer loans and a lower yield on general purpose credit card loans. The
decrease in owned consumer loans was primarily due to an increase in securitized
loans and the sale of the Prime Option and SPS portfolios. The lower yield on
general purpose credit card loans in fiscal 1998 was due to a larger number of
cardmembers taking advantage of promotional rates. In both years, the effects of
changes in interest rates on the Company's variable rate loan portfolio were
substantially offset by comparable changes in the Company's cost of funds for
the related financing. The Company believes that the effect of changes in market
interest rates on net interest income was mitigated as a result of its liquidity
and interest rate risk management policies. The increase in net interest income
in fiscal 1997 was due to higher average levels of consumer loans outstanding,
partially offset by the effects of higher charge-offs on interest revenue. The
impact of higher charge-offs in fiscal 1997 was mitigated by pricing actions
implemented in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.

     The Company anticipates the repricing of a substantial portion of its
existing credit card receivables to a fixed interest rate during fiscal 1999.
The Company does not believe this repricing will have a material impact on its
interest rate sensitivity due to the Company's matched financing objectives.


                                      36
<PAGE>

                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
 
The supplemental table below provides average managed loan balance and rate
information which takes into account both owned and securitized loans:


SUPPLEMENTAL AVERAGE MANAGED LOAN INFORMATION

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                         FISCAL 1998               FISCAL 1997               FISCAL 1996
                                     Average                   Average                  Average
(dollars in millions)                Balance       Rate        Balance       Rate       Balance       Rate
===========================================================================================================
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C> 
Consumer loans                       $34,619      14.86%       $34,619      14.83%      $31,459      14.83%
General purpose credit card loans     32,684      14.72         32,176      14.72        29,021      14.81
Total interest earning assets         36,580      14.41         36,475      14.38        32,770      14.46
Total interest bearing liabilities    32,141       6.16         32,469       6.17        29,277       6.22
Consumer loan interest rate spread                 8.70                      8.66                     8.61
Interest rate spread                               8.25                      8.21                     8.24
Net interest margin                                9.00                      8.89                     8.90
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

Provision for Consumer Loan Losses

The provision for consumer loan losses is the amount necessary to establish the
allowance for loan losses at a level that the Company believes is adequate to
absorb estimated losses in its consumer loan portfolio at the balance sheet
date. The Company's allowance for loan losses is regularly evaluated by
management for adequacy on a portfolio-by-portfolio basis and was $787 million
at November 30, 1998 and $884 million at November 30, 1997.

     The provision for consumer loan losses, which is affected by net
charge-offs, loan volume and changes in the amount of consumer loans estimated
to be uncollectable, decreased 21% in fiscal 1998 and increased 23% in fiscal
1997. The decrease in fiscal 1998 was due to a decrease in net charge-offs
resulting from lower average levels of owned consumer loans, primarily
attributable to an increased level of securitized loans and reduced levels of
charge-offs associated with the sale of Prime Option and SPS receivables,
partially offset by a small increase in the net charge-off rate of the Discover
Card portfolio. The provision for loan losses also was positively impacted by a
decline in the loan loss allowance in connection with securitization
transactions entered into prior to the third quarter of 1996. The Company
expects this loan loss allowance will be fully amortized over fiscal 1999. In
fiscal 1997, the increase in consumer loan losses was primarily due to higher
net charge-offs, which resulted from an increase in the percentage of consumer
loans charged off and a higher level of average consumer loans outstanding. The
Company's expectations about future charge-off rates and credit quality are
subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from what has been discussed above. Factors that influence the provision for
consumer loan losses include the level and direction of consumer loan
delinquencies and charge-offs, changes in consumer spending and payment
behaviors, bankruptcy trends, the seasoning of the Company's loan portfolio,
interest rate movements and their impact on consumer behavior, and the rate and
magnitude of changes in the Company's consumer loan portfolio, including the
overall mix of accounts, products and loan balances within the portfolio.

     Consumer loans are considered delinquent when interest or principal
payments become 30 days past due. Consumer loans are charged-off when they
become 180 days past due, except in the case of bankruptcies and fraudulent
transactions, where loans are charged-off earlier. Loan delinquencies and 
charge-offs are primarily affected by changes in economic conditions and may
vary throughout the year due to seasonal consumer spending and payment
behaviors. Delinquency rates decreased in fiscal 1998 as a reflection of the
Company's increased focus on credit quality and account collections, as well as
the sale of Prime Option, SPS and BRAVO.

     From time to time, the Company has offered and may continue to offer
cardmembers with accounts in good standing the



                                      37
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


opportunity to skip the minimum monthly payment, while continuing to accrue
periodic finance charges, without being considered to be past due
("skip-a-payment"). The comparison of delinquency rates at any particular point
in time may be affected depending on the timing of the skip-a-payment program.
The delinquency rate for consumer loans 30-89 days past due at November 30, 1997
as compared with November 30, 1996 was favorably impacted by a September 1997
skip-a-payment offer allowing certain cardmembers to skip their next monthly
payment. The following table presents delinquency and net charge-off rates with
supplemental managed loan information:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

ASSET QUALITY

                                                                   FISCAL 1998           FISCAL 1997           FISCAL 1996
(dollars in millions)                                           Owned     Managed     Owned     Managed     Owned     Managed
==============================================================================================================================
<S>                                                            <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>         <C> 
Consumer loans at period-end                                   $15,996    $32,502    $20,917    $35,950    $20,085    $33,316
Consumer loans contractually past due as a percentage of
    period-end consumer loans:
      30 to 89 days                                               3.54%      3.69%      3.96%      3.91%      4.45%      4.49%
      90 to 179 days                                              2.67%      2.84%      3.11%      3.07%      2.78%      2.78%
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average consumer loans         6.75%      6.90%      6.78%      6.95%      5.29%      5.43%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

Non-Interest Expenses

Total non-interest expenses increased 7% to $2,364 million in fiscal 1998 and 6%
to $2,216 million in fiscal 1997.

     Employee compensation and benefits expense increased 4% in fiscal 1998 and
12% in fiscal 1997. The increase in fiscal 1998 was due to an increased number
of employees and higher executive compensation costs associated with Discover
Card operations and DBD, offset by lower compensation costs associated with the
sale of Prime Option and the operations of SPS. The increase in fiscal 1997 was
due to an increased number of employees and employment costs associated with
processing increased credit card transaction volume and servicing additional
Discover/NOVUS Network merchants and active credit card accounts, including
collection activities.

     Occupancy and equipment expense increased 14% in fiscal 1998 and 5% in
fiscal 1997. The increases in both years were due to higher rent and other
occupancy costs at certain of the Company's facilities, including payment
processing centers.

     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 17% from fiscal 1997. The
increase is attributable to higher levels of DBD customer trading volume,
partially offset by lower costs per trade resulting from DBD's implementation of
self-clearing operations in October 1998.

     Information processing and communications expense decreased 1% in fiscal
1998 and 1997. In fiscal 1998, lower transaction processing costs resulting from
the sale of the operations of SPS were partially offset by higher external data
processing costs related to the Year 2000 project and increased cardmember data
analysis associated with credit risk management activity. In fiscal 1997,
information processing and communications expense increased due to higher levels
of transaction volume, additional Discover/NOVUS Network servicing costs and the
development of the systems supporting the Company's multi-card strategy. In
fiscal 1997, the increases were offset by an adjustment resulting from the sale
of the Company's indirect interest in one of the Company's transaction
processing vendors.

     Marketing and business development expense increased 18% in fiscal 1998 and
8% in fiscal 1997. The increase in fiscal 1998 was attributed to higher
advertising and promotional expenses associated with increased direct mail and
other promotional activities related to the Discover Card, Private Issue(R)
Card, partnership programs and DBD, as well as higher cardmember rewards
expense. The Company increased marketing and promotional spending significantly
in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 1998 in an effort to renew and
increase growth in the Discover Card brand. In the past several years, the
Company focused its attention on improving and maintaining credit quality. In
fiscal 1999, the Company expects to continue to invest in the growth of its
credit card business, including the introduction of a Discover Platinum Card and
the launch of the Discover Card into a major foreign market.


                                      38
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

The increase in fiscal 1997 was primarily attributable to higher cardmember
rewards expense and marketing and promotional costs. Higher marketing and
promotional costs were associated with the growth of new and existing credit
card brands. Cardmember rewards expense includes the Cashback Bonus(R) award,
pursuant to which the Company annually pays Discover Cardmembers and Private
Issue Cardmembers electing this feature a percentage of their purchase amounts
ranging up to 1% (up to 2% for the Private Issue Card) based upon a cardmember's
level of annual purchases. Higher cardmember rewards expense in both years was
associated with growth in credit card transaction volume and increased credit
cardmember qualification for higher award levels. Commencing March 1, 1998, the
terms of the Private Issue Cashback Bonus program were amended by limiting the
maximum annual bonus amount to $500 and by increasing the amount of purchases
required to receive this bonus amount. Cardmember rewards expense was not
materially impacted by these changes.

     Professional services expense increased 34% in fiscal 1998 and 40% in
fiscal 1997. The increase in fiscal 1998 was due to services related to
increased partnership program activity, higher expenditures for consumer credit
counseling and collections services and consulting fees. The increase in fiscal
1997 was primarily due to higher expenditures for consumer credit counseling and
collections services.

     Other non-interest expenses decreased 17% in fiscal 1998 and 9% in fiscal
1997. Other expenses primarily include fraud losses, credit inquiry fees and
other administrative costs. The decrease in both years was due to a continuing
decline in the level of fraud losses. Fiscal 1998 also reflects a lower level of
expenses resulting from the sale of Prime Option and the operations of SPS.


Seasonal Factors

The credit card lending activities of Credit and Transaction Services are
affected by seasonal patterns of retail purchasing. Historically, a substantial
percentage of credit card loan growth occurs in the fourth calendar quarter,
followed by a flattening or decline of consumer loans in the following calendar
quarter. Merchant fees, therefore, have historically tended to increase in the
first fiscal quarter, reflecting higher sales activity in the month of December.
Additionally, higher cardmember rewards expense is accrued in the first fiscal
quarter, reflecting seasonal growth in retail sales volume.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Balance Sheet

The Company's total assets increased to $317.6 billion at November 30, 1998 from
$302.3 billion at November 30, 1997, primarily reflecting growth in cash and
cash equivalents, cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or
segregated under federal and other regulations, and securities borrowed. A
substantial portion of the Company's total assets consists of highly liquid
marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from
securities transactions. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the
Company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. 


Funding and Capital Policies

The Company's senior management establishes the overall funding and capital
policies of the Company, reviews the Company's performance relative to these
policies, monitors the availability of sources of financing, reviews the foreign
exchange risk of the Company, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate
sensitivity of the Company's asset and liability position. The primary goal of
the Company's funding and liquidity activities is to ensure adequate financing
over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments.

     Many of the Company's businesses are capital-intensive. Capital is required
to finance, among other things, the Company's securities inventories,
underwriting, principal investments, private equity activities, consumer loans
and investments in fixed assets. As a policy, the Company attempts to maintain
sufficient capital and funding sources in order to have the capacity to finance
itself on a fully collateralized basis at all times, including periods of
financial stress. Currently, the Company believes it has sufficient capital to
meet its needs. In addition, the Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a
consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of all of its subsidiaries'
equity. Subsidiary equity capital requirements are determined by regulatory
requirements (if applicable), asset mix, leverage considerations and earnings
volatility.

     The Company views return on equity to be an important measure of its
performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which
the Company is operating and its peer group's results. In this regard, the
Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among
other 


                                      39
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return
together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating
agency guidelines and therefore, in the future, may expand or contract its
capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company also
has returned to shareholders internally generated equity capital which was in
excess of the needs of its businesses through common stock repurchases and
dividends.

     The Company's liquidity policies emphasize diversification of funding
sources. The Company also follows a funding strategy which is designed to ensure
that the tenor of the Company's liabilities equals or exceeds the expected
holding period of the assets being financed. Short-term funding generally is
obtained at rates related to U.S., Euro or Asian money market rates for the
currency borrowed. Repurchase transactions are effected at negotiated rates.
Other borrowing costs are negotiated depending upon prevailing market conditions
(see Notes 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Maturities of both
short-term and long-term financings are designed to minimize exposure to
refinancing risk in any one period.

     The volume of the Company's borrowings generally fluctuates in response to
changes in the amount of repurchase transactions outstanding, the level of the
Company's securities inventories and consumer loans receivable, and overall
market conditions. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary
depending upon market conditions, the volume of certain trading activities, the
Company's credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. The Company,
therefore, maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times
to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. In addition, the
Company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal
to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company
has in place a contingency funding strategy, which provides a comprehensive
one-year action plan in the event of a severe funding disruption.

     The Company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core
inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets and, therefore, maintains a
long-term debt-to-capitalization ratio at a level appropriate for the current
composition of its balance sheet. In general, fixed assets are financed with
fixed rate long-term debt, and securities inventories and all current assets are
financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt
or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating basis. Both fixed rate and
floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly
by the Company's Credit and Transaction Services business) are used to finance
the Company's consumer loan portfolio. Consumer loan financing is targeted to
match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. The
Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity
swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and
hedge interest rate risk (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements).

     The Company's reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion
of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing
important. The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are
dependent on the Company's short-term and long-term debt ratings. In addition,
the Company's debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading
revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty
performance is critical, such as over-the-counter derivative transactions.

     As of January 31, 1999, the Company's credit ratings were as follows:


                                             Commercial        Senior
                                                Paper            Debt
========================================================================

Dominion Bond Rating Service                      R-1             n/a
Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co.                  D-1+              AA
Fitch IBCA, Inc.                                  F1+             AA-
Japan Rating & Investment Information, Inc.      A-1+             AA-
Moody's Investors Service                         P-1             Aa3
Standard & Poor's                                 A-1              A+
Thomson BankWatch, Inc.                         TBW-1              AA
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

During fiscal 1998, Moody's Investors Service upgraded the Company's senior debt
rating from A1 to Aa3. In January 1999, Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. upgraded
the Company's senior debt rating from AA- to AA.

     As the Company continues its global expansion and derives revenues
increasingly from various currencies, foreign currency management is a key
element of the Company's financial policies. The Company benefits from operating
in several different currencies because weakness in any particular currency
often is offset by strength in another currency. The Company closely monitors
its exposure to fluctuations in currencies and, where cost-justified, adopts
strategies to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company's financial
performance. These strategies include engag-


                                      40
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


ing in various hedging activities to manage income and cash flows denominated in
foreign currencies and using foreign currency borrowings, when appropriate, to
finance investments outside the U.S. 


Principal Sources of Funding

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis. The Company's funding for
its Securities and Asset Management business is raised through diverse sources.
These sources include the Company's capital, including equity and long-term
debt; repurchase agreements; U.S., Canadian, Euro and Japanese commercial paper;
letters of credit; unsecured bond borrows; securities lending; buy/sell
agreements; municipal reinvestments; master notes; and committed and uncommitted
lines of credit. Repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a
portion of the Company's bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and
therefore provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured
borrowings.

     The funding sources utilized for the Company's Credit and Transaction
Services business include the Company's capital, including equity and long-term
debt, asset securitizations, commercial paper, deposits, asset-backed commercial
paper, Federal Funds and short-term bank notes. The Company sells consumer loans
through asset securitizations using several transaction structures. Riverwoods
Funding Corporation ("RFC"), an entity included in the consolidated financial
statements of the Company, issues asset-backed commercial paper.

     The Company's bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase
Federal Funds and issue short-term bank notes. Interest bearing deposits are
classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. Savings
deposits consist primarily of money market deposits and certificate of deposit
accounts sold directly to cardmembers and savings deposits from individual
clients. Brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued
by the Company's bank subsidiaries. Other time deposits include institutional
certificates of deposit. The Company, through Greenwood Trust Company, an
indirect subsidiary of the Company, sells notes under a short-term bank note
program.

     The Company maintains borrowing relationships with a broad range of banks,
financial institutions, counterparties and others from which it draws funds in a
variety of currencies.

     The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of
banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial
paper (the "MSDW Facility"). Under the terms of the MSDW Facility, the banks are
committed to provide up to $6.0 billion. The MSDW Facility contains restrictive
covenants which require, among other things, that the Company maintain
shareholders' equity of at least $9.1 billion at all times. The Company believes
that the covenant restrictions will not impair the Company's ability to pay its
current level of dividends. At November 30, 1998, no borrowings were outstanding
under the MSDW Facility.

     The Company maintains a master collateral facility that enables Morgan
Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("MS&Co."), one of the Company's U.S. broker-dealer
subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters
of credit and other financial accommodations (the "MS&Co. Facility"). As part of
the MS&Co. Facility, MS&Co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement
with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under
which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.875 billion. The credit
agreement contains restrictive covenants which require, among other things, that
MS&Co. maintain specified levels of consolidated shareholders' equity and Net
Capital, as defined. In January 1999, the MS&Co. Facility was renewed. At
November 30, 1998, no borrowings were outstanding under the MS&Co. Facility.

     The Company also maintains a revolving committed financing facility that
enables Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"), the Company's
London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to secure committed funding from a
syndicate of banks by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase
agreements (the "MSIL Facility"). Such banks are committed to provide up to an
aggregate of $1.85 billion available in 12 major currencies and, effective
January 1, 1999, the euro. The facility agreements contain restrictive covenants
which require, among other things, that MSIL maintain specified levels of
Shareholders' Equity and Financial Resources, each as defined. At November 30,
1998, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSIL Facility.

     RFC maintains a senior bank credit facility to support the issuance of
asset-backed commercial paper in the amount of $2.6 billion. Under the terms of
the asset-backed commercial paper program, certain assets of RFC were subject to
a lien in the amount of 



                                      41
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


$2.6 billion at November 30, 1998. RFC has never borrowed from its senior bank
credit facility.

     The Company anticipates that it will utilize the MSDW Facility, the MS&Co.
Facility or the MSIL Facility for short-term funding from time to time (see Note
5 to the consolidated financial statements). 


Fiscal 1998 and Subsequent Activity

During fiscal 1998, the Company took several steps to extend the maturity of its
liabilities, reduce its reliance on unsecured short-term funding and increase
its capital. These steps contributed to a net increase in capital of $4,345
million to $37,922 million at November 30, 1998.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company issued senior notes aggregating $9,800
million, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating $1,640 million,
primarily pursuant to its public debt shelf registration statements. These notes
have maturities from 1999 to 2028 and a weighted average coupon interest rate of
5.6% at November 30, 1998; the Company has entered into certain transactions to
obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term LIBOR trading
levels. At November 30, 1998, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the
Company's Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Company's public debt shelf
registration statements) was approximately $45.3 billion. Between November 30,
1998 and January 31, 1999, the Company issued additional debt obligations
aggregating approximately $2,298 million. These notes have maturities from 2000
to 2013.

     Effective January 1999, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the
Company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, up
to $1 billion of the Company's common stock. The Board of Directors also
approved a separate ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards
granted under the Company's equity-based compensation plans. During fiscal 1998,
the Company purchased $2,925 million of its common stock. Subsequent to November
30, 1998 and through January 31, 1999, the Company purchased an additional $110
million of its common stock.

     On March 5, 1998, MSDW Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business trust
(the "Capital Trust"), all of the common securities of which are owned by the
Company, issued $400 million of 7.10% Capital Securities (the "Capital
Securities") that are guaranteed by the Company. The Capital Trust issued the
Capital Securities and invested the proceeds in 7.10% Junior Subordinated
Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company, which are due February 28,
2038.

     On March 12, 1998, the Company's shelf registration statement for an
additional $8 billion of debt securities, warrants, preferred stock or purchase
contracts, or any combination thereof in the form of units, became effective.

     On August 31, 1998, the Company redeemed all 1,000,000 outstanding shares
of its 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $200 per
share. The Company also simultaneously redeemed all corresponding Depositary
Shares at a redemption price of $25 per Depositary Share. Each Depositary Share
represented 1/8 of a share of the Company's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock.

     On January 28, 1999, the Company and Morgan Stanley Finance, plc, a U.K.
subsidiary, called for redemption all of the outstanding 7.82% Capital Units and
7.80% Capital Units on February 28, 1999. The aggregate principal amount of the
Capital Units to be redeemed is $352 million.

     At November 30, 1998, certain assets of the Company, such as real property,
equipment and leasehold improvements of $1.8 billion, and goodwill and other
intangible assets of $1.2 billion, were illiquid. In addition, certain equity
investments made in connection with the Company's private equity and other
principal investment activities, high-yield debt securities, emerging market
debt, and certain collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan
products are not highly liquid.

     In connection with its private equity and other principal investment
activities, the Company has equity investments (directly or indirectly through
funds managed by the Company) in privately and publicly held companies. As of
November 30, 1998, the aggregate carrying value of the Company's equity
investments in privately held companies (including direct investments and
partnership interests) was $185 million, and its aggregate investment in
publicly held companies was $320 million.

     The Company acts as an underwriter of and as a market-maker in
mortgage-backed pass-through securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and
related instruments and as a market-maker in commercial, residential and real
estate loan products. In this capacity, the Company takes positions in market
segments in which liquidity can vary greatly from time to time. The carrying
value 


                                      42
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


of the portion of the Company's mortgage-related portfolio at November 30, 1998
traded in markets that the Company believed were experiencing lower levels of
liquidity than traditional mortgage-backed pass-through securities approximated
$1,369 million.

     In addition, at November 30, 1998, the aggregate value of high-yield debt
securities and emerging market loans and securitized instruments held in
inventory was $2,395 million (a substantial portion of which was subordinated
debt). These securities, loans and instruments were not attributable to more
than 6% to any one issuer, 22% to any one industry or 18% to any one geographic
region. Non-investment grade securities generally involve greater risk than
investment grade securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers,
which typically have relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are
more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. In addition, the market for
non-investment grade securities and emerging market loans and securitized
instruments has been, and may in the future be, characterized by periods of
volatility and illiquidity. The Company has in place credit and other risk
policies and procedures to control total inventory positions and risk
concentrations for non-investment grade securities and emerging market loans and
securitized instruments that are administered in a manner consistent with the
Company's overall risk management policies and procedures (see "Risk Management"
following "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations").

     The Company also has commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other
less liquid investments, including at November 30, 1998 approximately $181
million in connection with its private equity and other principal investment
activities. Additionally, the Company has provided and will continue to provide
financing, including margin lending and other extensions of credit to clients.

     In November 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into an
agreement that will result in the development of an office tower in New York
City. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company has entered into a 99-year lease
for the land at the proposed development site.

     The Company may, from time to time, also provide financing or financing
commitments to companies in connection with its investment banking and private
equity activities. The Company may provide extensions of credit to leveraged
companies in the form of senior or subordinated debt, as well as bridge
financing on a selective basis. At November 30, 1998, the Company had two
commitments to provide an aggregate of $82 million and had one loan in the
amount of $8 million outstanding in connection with its high-yield underwriting
activities. Between November 30, 1998 and January 31, 1999, the Company's
aggregate commitments increased to $89 million and had two loans in the amount
of $112 million outstanding.

     In September 1998, the Company made an investment of $300 million in the
Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P. ("LTCP"). The Company is a member of a
consortium of 14 financial institutions participating in an equity
recapitalization of LTCP. The objectives of this investment, the term of which
is three years, are to continue active management of its positions and, over
time, reduce excessive risk exposures and leverage, return capital to the
participants and ultimately realize the potential value of the LTCP portfolio.
At November 30, 1998, the carrying value of the Company's investment in LTCP
approximated fair value.

     The Company also engages in senior lending activities, including
origination, syndication and trading of senior secured loans of non-investment
grade companies. Such companies are more sensitive to adverse economic
conditions than investment grade issuers, but the loans generally are made on a
secured basis and are senior to the non-investment grade securities of these
issuers that trade in the capital markets. At November 30, 1998, the aggregate
value of senior secured loans and positions held by the Company was $1,259
million, and aggregate senior secured loan commitments were $447 million.

     The gross notional and fair value amounts of derivatives used by the
Company for asset and liability management and as part of its trading activities
are summarized in Notes 6 and 9, respectively, to the consolidated financial
statements (see also "Derivative Financial Instruments" herein).


YEAR 2000 AND EMU

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

Many of the world's computer systems (including those in non-information
technology equipment and systems) currently record years in a two-digit format.
If not addressed, such computer systems may be unable to properly interpret
dates beyond the year 1999, which could lead to business disruptions in the U.S.
and internationally (the "Year 2000" issue). The potential costs and
uncertainties associated with the Year 2000 issue will depend on a number of
factors, 

                                      43
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


including software, hardware and the nature of the industry in which a company
operates. Additionally, companies must coordinate with other entities with which
they electronically interact.

     The Company has established a firm-wide initiative to address issues
associated with the Year 2000. Each of the Company's business areas has taken
responsibility for the identification and remediation of Year 2000 issues within
its own areas of operations and for addressing all interdependencies. A
corporate team of internal and external professionals supports the business
teams by providing direction and company-wide coordination as needed. The Year
2000 and EMU (discussed below) projects have been designated as the highest
priority activities of the Company's Information Technology Department. To
ensure that the Company's computer systems are Year 2000 compliant, a team of
Information Technology professionals began preparing for the Year 2000 issue in
1995. Since then, the Company has been reviewing its systems and programs to
identify those that contain two-digit year codes and is in the process of
upgrading its global infrastructure and corporate facilities to achieve Year
2000 compliance. In addition, the Company is actively working with its major
external counterparties and suppliers to assess their compliance and remediation
efforts and the Company's exposure to them.

     In addressing the Year 2000 issue, the Company has identified the following
phases. In the Awareness phase, the Company defined the Year 2000 issue and
obtained executive level support and funding. In the Inventory phase, the
Company collected a comprehensive list of items that may be affected by Year
2000 compliance issues. Such items include facilities and related
non-information technology systems (embedded technology), computer systems,
hardware, and services and products provided by third parties. In the Assessment
phase, the Company evaluated the items identified in the Inventory phase to
determine which will function properly with the change to the new century and
ranked items which will need to be remediated based on their potential impact to
the Company. The Remediation phase includes an analysis of the items that are
affected by Year 2000, the identification of problem areas and the repair of
non-compliant items. The Testing phase includes a thorough testing of all
proposed repairs, including present and forward date testing which simulates
dates in the Year 2000. The Implementation phase consists of placing all items
that have been remediated and successfully tested into production. Finally, the
Integration and External Testing phase includes exercising business-critical
production systems in a future time environment and testing with external
entities.

     The Company has completed the Awareness, Inventory and Assessment phases.
As of November 30, 1998, the Remediation, Testing and Implementation phases were
substantially complete. Due to resource allocations between the Year 2000 and
EMU projects, as well as late vendor delivery of third-party products, the
Company expects that the remaining portions of the Remediation, Testing and
Implementation phases of substantially all mission-critical systems will be
complete by March 31, 1999 as compared with the original expected completion
date of December 31, 1998. The Integration and External Testing phase commenced
in the second quarter of 1998 and will continue through 1999. In addition, the
major business relationships of the Company have been identified, and the most
critical of them have been or are scheduled to be tested.

     In addition, the Company is closely monitoring the Year 2000 compliance
status of its most critical business relationships. The Company continues to
survey and communicate with counterparties, intermediaries and vendors with whom
it has important financial and operational relationships to determine the extent
to which they are vulnerable to Year 2000 issues. As of November 30, 1998, the
Company had not yet received sufficient information from all parties about their
remediation plans to predict the outcomes of their efforts. In particular, in
some international markets in which the Company conducts business, the level of
awareness and remediation efforts relating to the Year 2000 issue is thought to
be less advanced than in the United States.

     During the third quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company participated in the
Securities Industry Association's Beta test and a test sponsored by the Bank of
England's Central Gilts Office. These tests were run in "future time," using a
portion of the Company's production system, and employed test scripts to check
functionality. The Company has achieved successful results in each of the
industry-wide tests in which it participated. The Company will continue to
participate in industry-wide and vendor-specific tests throughout 1999.

     There are many risks associated with the Year 2000 issue, including the
possibility of a failure of the Company's computer and non-information
technology systems. Such failures could have a material adverse effect on the
Company and may cause systems malfunctions; incorrect or incomplete transaction
processing resulting in failed trade settlements; the inability to reconcile
accounting books and records; the inability to reconcile credit card
transactions and


                                      44
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


balances; the inability to reconcile trading positions and balances with
counterparties; and inaccurate information to manage the Company's exposure to
trading risks and disruptions of funding requirements. In addition, even if the
Company successfully remediates its Year 2000 issues, it can be materially and
adversely affected by failures of third parties to remediate their own Year 2000
issues. The Company recognizes the uncertainty of such external dependencies
since it cannot directly control the remediation efforts of third parties. The
failure of third parties with which the Company has financial or operational
relationships, such as securities exchanges, clearing organizations,
depositories, regulatory agencies, banks, clients, counterparties, vendors
(including data center, data network and voice service providers) and utilities,
to remediate their computer and non-information technology systems issues in a
timely manner could result in a material financial risk to the Company.

     If the above-mentioned risks are not remedied, the Company may experience
business interruption or shutdown, financial loss, regulatory actions, damage to
the Company's global franchise and legal liability.

     The Company has business continuity plans in place for its critical
business functions on a worldwide basis. The Company also has in place a
contingency funding strategy (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The
Company has begun Year 2000 contingency planning. The Company is currently
reviewing responses from its major external counterparties and suppliers with
respect to Year 2000 preparation, assessing the results of various internal and
external systems tests and analyzing possible Year 2000 scenarios to determine a
range of likely outcomes. The Company intends to document and test Year 2000
specific contingency plans during fiscal 1999 as part of its Year 2000
mitigation efforts.

     Based upon current information, the Company estimates that the total cost
of implementing its Year 2000 initiative will be between $200 million and $225
million. The decrease in these estimates from amounts previously reported is
associated with the Company's sale of its interest in the operations of SPS and
with revised internal estimates. The Year 2000 costs include all activities
undertaken on Year 2000 related matters across the Company, including, but not
limited to, remediation, testing (internal and external), third- party review,
risk mitigation and contingency planning. Through November 30, 1998, the Company
expended approximately $110 million on the Year 2000 project. The Company
expects the majority of the remaining costs to be directed primarily toward
testing activities. These costs have been and will continue to be funded through
operating cash flow and are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.

     The Company's expectations about future costs, the timely completion and
the potential risks of its Year 2000 modifications are subject to uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from what has been
discussed above. Factors that could influence the amount of future costs and the
effective timing of remediation efforts include the success of the Company in
identifying computer programs and non-information technology systems that
contain two-digit year codes; the nature and amount of programming and testing
required to upgrade or replace each of the affected programs and systems; the
nature and amount of testing, verification and reporting required by the
Company's regulators around the world, including securities exchanges, central
banks and various governmental regulatory bodies; the rate and magnitude of
related labor and consulting costs; and the success of the Company's external
counterparties and suppliers, as well as worldwide exchanges, clearing
organizations and depositories, in addressing the Year 2000 issue. 


EMU

EMU replaces the national currencies of 11 participating European Union
countries with a single European currency -- the euro. The euro was launched on
January 1, 1999, when the European Central Bank assumed control of monetary
policy for the participating nations. During the transition period until the
national currencies are withdrawn from circulation (July 2002 at the latest),
such currencies will continue to exist but only as fixed denominations of the
euro. EMU will primarily impact the Company's Securities and Asset Management
business.

     The introduction of the euro presents major business opportunities for
financial market participants such as the Company. The Company expects that the
introduction of the euro will lead to greater cross-border price transparency
and will have a significant impact on the markets in which the Company operates.

     The Company prepared actively for the introduction of the euro and
implemented significant modifications to its information technology systems and
programs in order to prepare for transition to the euro. The Company engaged in
extensive testing of the

                                      45
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


systems and processes affected by EMU and also communicated extensively with its
clients and counterparties regarding the implications of EMU. The Company
considers that the initial redenomination exercise that took place between
January 1 and January 3, 1999 was successful from the perspective of its
internal systems and books and records. Despite certain initial issues with the
settlement of euro payments, as of January 31, 1999 it appears that the
changeover to the euro has been successful across Europe.

     Based upon current information, the Company estimates that the costs
associated with reviewing, amending and testing its information technology
systems to prepare for EMU for fiscal 1998 and through the project's completion
will be approximately $76 million. Substantially all of such costs were incurred
by the end of fiscal 1998. These costs have been and will continue to be funded
through operating cash flow and are expensed in the period in which they are
incurred.


REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ("DWR") and MS&Co. are registered broker-
dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are
subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC"), the New York Stock Exchange and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. MSIL, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is regulated
by the Securities and Futures Authority ("SFA") in the United Kingdom and,
accordingly, is subject to the Financial Resources Requirements of the SFA.
Morgan Stanley Japan Limited ("MSJL"), a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is regulated
by the Japanese Ministry of Finance with respect to regulatory capital
requirements. DWR, MS&Co., MSIL and MSJL have consistently operated in excess of
their respective regulatory requirements (see Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements).

     Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") insured financial institutions. Such subsidiaries are
therefore subject to the regulatory capital requirements adopted by the FDIC.
These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of these and other
regulatory requirements.

     Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various
securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the
countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated
in excess of their applicable local capital adequacy requirements. In addition,
Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc., a triple-A rated subsidiary through
which the Company conducts some of its derivative activities, has established
certain operating restrictions which have been reviewed by various rating
agencies.


EFFECTS OF INFLATION AND CHANGES
IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES

Because the Company's assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are
not significantly affected by inflation. However, inflation may result in
increases in the Company's expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the
price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest
rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, on the value of
financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may
adversely affect the Company's financial position and profitability.

     A portion of the Company's business is conducted in currencies other than
the U.S. dollar. Non-U.S. dollar assets typically are financed by direct
borrowing or swap-based funding in the same currency. Changes in foreign
exchange rates affect non-U.S. dollar revenues as well as non-U.S. dollar
expenses. Those foreign exchange exposures that arise and are not hedged by an
offsetting foreign currency exposure are actively managed by the Company to
minimize risk of loss due to currency fluctuations.


DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company actively offers to clients and trades for its own account a variety
of financial instruments described as "derivative products" or "derivatives."
These products generally take the form of futures, forwards, options, swaps,
caps, collars, floors, swap options and similar instruments which derive their
value from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or commodity or
equity instruments and indices. All of the Company's trading-related divisions
use derivative products as an integral part of their respective trading
strategies, and such products are used extensively to manage the market exposure
that results from a variety of proprietary trading activities (see Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements). In addition, as a dealer in certain
derivative products, most notably interest rate and currency swaps, the Company
enters into derivative contracts to meet a variety of risk management and other
financial needs of its clients. Given the highly integrated nature of derivative
products and related cash instruments in the determination of overall trading
division profitability and the context in which the Company

                                      46
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


manages its trading areas, it is not meaningful to allocate trading revenues
between the derivative and underlying cash instrument components. Moreover, the
risks associated with the Company's derivative activities, including market and
credit risks, are managed on an integrated basis with associated cash
instruments in a manner consistent with the Company's overall risk management
policies and procedures (see "Risk Management" following "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). It
should be noted that while particular risks may be associated with the use of
derivatives, in many cases derivatives serve to reduce, rather than increase,
the Company's exposure to market, credit and other risks.

     The total notional value of derivative trading contracts outstanding at
November 30, 1998 was $2,860 billion (as compared with $2,529 billion at
November 30, 1997). While these amounts are an indication of the degree of the
Company's use of derivatives for trading purposes, they do not represent the
Company's market or credit exposure and may be more indicative of customer
utilization of derivatives. The Company's exposure to market risk relates to
changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or the fair value of
the underlying financial instruments or commodities. The Company's exposure to
credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of such
contracts reported as assets. Such total fair value outstanding as of November
30, 1998 was $21.4 billion. Approximately $16.2 billion of that credit risk
exposure was with counterparties rated single-A or better (see Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements).

     The Company also uses derivative products (primarily interest rate,
currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce
borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements).

     The Company believes that derivatives are valuable tools that can provide
cost-effective solutions to complex financial problems and remains committed to
providing its clients with innovative financial products. The Company
established Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. to offer derivative products
to clients who will enter into derivative transactions only with triple-A rated
counterparties. In addition, the Company, through its continuing involvement
with regulatory, self-regulatory and industry activities such as the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. ("ISDA"), the Securities
Industry Association, the Group of 30 and the U.S. securities firms' Derivatives
Policy Group, provides leadership in the development of policies and practices
in order to maintain confidence in the markets for derivative products, which is
critical to the Company's ability to assist clients in meeting their overall
financial needs.

                                      47
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.4
<SEQUENCE>16
<DESCRIPTION>RISK MANAGEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.4

RISK MANAGEMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY AND CONTROL STRUCTURE

Risk is an inherent part of the Company's business and activities. The extent to
which the Company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and
manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical
to its soundness and profitability. The Company's broad-based portfolio of
business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular
area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. The Company seeks
to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and
procedures, the following principal risks involved in the Company's business
activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and funding
risk. Funding risk is discussed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section
of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations beginning on page 23.

     Risk management at the Company is a multi-faceted process with independent
oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of
specialized products and markets. The Company's senior management takes an
active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and
procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist
in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition
of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services
business, the Company's risk management policies and procedures are evolutionary
in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification.

     The Management Committee, composed of the Company's most senior officers,
establishes the overall risk management policies for the Company and reviews the
Company's performance relative to these policies. The Management Committee has
created several Risk Committees to assist it in monitoring and reviewing the
Company's risk management practices. These Risk Committees, as well as other
committees established to manage and monitor specific risks, review the risk
monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the Company's
market


                                      47
<PAGE>
 
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve
adequacy, legal enforceability and operational and systems risks. The
Controllers, Treasury, Law, Compliance and Governmental Affairs and Firm Risk
Management Departments, which are all independent of the Company's business
units, assist senior management and the Risk Committees in monitoring and
controlling the Company's risk profile. In addition, the Internal Audit
Department, which also reports to senior management, periodically examines and
evaluates the Company's operations and control environment. The Company
continues to be committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate
expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement
effectively the Company's risk management and monitoring systems and processes.

     The following is a discussion of the Company's risk management policies and
procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). The discussion
focuses on the Company's securities trading (primarily its institutional trading
activities) and consumer lending and related activities. The Company believes
that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks.
This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company's market risk exposure
generated by the Company's statistical analyses are forward-looking statements.
However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future
events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to
actual events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other
factors described below.


MARKET RISK

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market
prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such
as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. For a
discussion of the Company's currency exposure relating to its net monetary
investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries, see Note 11 to
the consolidated financial statements.


TRADING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management

During fiscal 1998, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates,
equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices -- and associated
volatilities and spreads -- related to a broad spectrum of global markets in
which it conducts its trading activities. The Company is exposed to interest
rate risk as a result of maintaining market making and proprietary positions and
trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising
from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates, the timing of
mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads for
corporate bonds and emerging market debt). The Company is exposed to equity
price risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and equity
derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. The Company is exposed to
foreign exchange rate risk in connection with making markets in foreign
currencies, foreign currency options and maintaining foreign exchange positions.
The Company's currency trading covers many foreign currencies, including the
yen, deutsche mark, pound sterling, French franc and, on a going-forward basis,
the euro. The Company is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of trading
in commodity-related derivatives and physical commodities.

     The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of
strategies, which include diversification of risk exposures and the purchase or
sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a
variety of derivative products (e.g., swaps, options, futures and forwards). The
Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a
Company-wide basis, on a trading division level worldwide and on an individual
product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in
such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is
well-diversified with respect to market risk factors. Market risk limits have
been approved for the Company and each major trading division of the Company
worldwide (equity, fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities). Discrete
market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products
and regions, that are compatible with the trading division limits. Trading
division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Firm Risk Management
Department all monitor market risk measures against limits and report major
market and position events to senior management.

     The Firm Risk Management Department independently reviews the Company's
trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing
Value-at-Risk and other quantitative and qualitative risk measurements and
analyses. The Company may use



                                      48
<PAGE>
 
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


measures, such as rate sensitivity, convexity, volatility and time decay
measurements, to estimate market risk and to assess the sensitivity of positions
to changes in market conditions. Stress testing, which measures the impact on
the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, for
certain products is performed periodically and reviewed by trading division risk
managers, desk risk managers and the Firm Risk Management Department.


Value-at-Risk

The statistical technique known as Value-at-Risk ("VaR") is one of the tools
used by management to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of
the Company's trading portfolios. The Company's independent Firm Risk Management
Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various
levels of management. 


VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations

The Company estimates VaR using a model based on historical simulation with a
confidence level of 99%. Historical simulation involves constructing a
distribution of hypothetical daily changes in trading portfolio value. The
hypothetical changes in portfolio value are based on daily observed percentage
changes in key market indices or other market factors ("market risk factors") to
which the portfolio is sensitive. In the case of the Company's VaR, the
historical observation period is approximately four years. The Company's one-day
99% VaR corresponds to the negative change in portfolio value that, based on
observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency
of 1%, or once in 100 trading days.

     The VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures
to price and interest rate risk and linear exposure to implied volatility risks.
Market risks that are incorporated in the VaR model include equity and commodity
prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated volatilities, as
well as correlation that exists among these variables. As a supplement to the
use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the Company's VaR
model uses Monte Carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in global
equities and in U.S. corporate and high-yield bonds. As of November 30, 1998, a
total of approximately 500 market risk factor benchmark data series were
incorporated in the Company's VaR model covering interest rates, equity prices,
foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and associated volatilities. In
addition, the model includes market risk factors for approximately 7,500 equity
names and 60 classes of corporate and high-yield bonds.

     VaR models such as the Company's are continually evolving as the
composition of trading portfolios change and as modeling techniques and systems
capabilities improve. During fiscal 1998, as part of the Company's ongoing
program of VaR model enhancement, position and risk coverage were broadened and
risk measurement methodologies were refined. Included in such enhancements were
improved capture of implied volatility risks in certain derivative products and
interest rate related risks in mortgage-backed and emerging-market financial
instruments, which had the primary effect of increasing the VaR for interest
rate risk.

     Among their benefits, VaR models permit estimation of a portfolio's
aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks;
reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification; and can cover a wide
range of portfolio assets yet are relatively easy to interpret. However, VaR
risk measures should be interpreted in light of the methodology's limitations,
which include the following: past changes in market risk factors will not always
yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future
market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements may
differ from the responses implicit in a VaR model; published VaR results reflect
past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions; VaR using
a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that
cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; and the historical market risk
factor data used for VaR estimation may provide only limited insight into losses
that could be incurred under certain unusual market movements. The Company is
aware of these and other limitations and therefore uses VaR as only one
component in its risk management review process. This process also incorporates
stress testing and extensive risk monitoring and control at the trading desk,
division and Company levels. 


VaR for Fiscal 1998

The table below presents the results of the Company's VaR for each of the
Company's primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at November
30, 1998 and November 30, 1997, incor-


                                      49
<PAGE>
 
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

porating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk
(including funding liabilities related to hedging trading positions, retail
trading activities and certain private equity positions that are not reported
separately because the aggregate impact on the Company's VaR was not material).
However, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk were not
covered, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions involved
approximations which could be significant under certain circumstances. Market
risks that the Company has found particularly difficult to incorporate in its
VaR model include certain risks associated with mortgage-backed securities, some
commodity price risks (such as electricity price risk) and liquidity risks in
certain financial products.

     Since VaR is based on historical data and changes in market risk factor
returns, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company's future
financial performance or its ability to manage and monitor risk, and there can
be no assurance that the Company's actual losses on a particular day will not
exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more
than once in 100 trading days.

                                                                       
                                                      99%/One-Day VaR  
Primary Market Risk Category                          at November 30,  
(dollars in millions, pre-tax)                  1998                  1997(1)
================================================================================
Interest rate                                    $36                   $42
Equity price                                      17                    17
Foreign exchange rate                              5                     7
Commodity price                                    6                     6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                          64                    72
Less diversification benefit(2)                   26                    26
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aggregate Value-at-Risk                          $38                   $46
================================================================================

(1)  The Interest rate and Aggregate Value-at-Risk for fiscal 1997 have been
     restated to reflect the estimated impact of enhancements to the Company's
     VaR model made during fiscal 1998 described above.
(2)  Equals the difference between Aggregate VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the
     four risk categories. This benefit arises because the simulated 99%/one-day
     losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on
     different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into
     account within each such category.

The change in Aggregate Value-at-Risk from November 30, 1997 to November 30,
1998 primarily reflected a reduction in certain interest rate risk positions.

     In order to facilitate comparison with other global financial services
firms, the Company notes that its aggregate VaR at November 30, 1998 for other
confidence levels and time horizons was as follows: $26 million for 95%/one-day
VaR and $121 million for 99%/two-week VaR.

     The table below presents the average, high and low 99%/one-day VaR over the
course of fiscal 1998 for substantially all of the Company's institutional
trading activities. This measure of VaR incorporates most of the Company's
trading-related market risks. Certain market risks included in the year-end VaR
discussed above are excluded from this measure (i.e., those associated with the
Company's retail trading activities, equity price risk in certain private equity
positions and funding liabilities related to hedging trading positions).

                          
Primary Market Risk Category         Daily 99%/One-Day VaR for Fiscal 1998
(dollars in millions, pre-tax)         High           Low        Average
============================================================================
Interest rate                           $50           $35            $41
Equity price                             19            12             15
Foreign exchange rate                    10             3              5
Commodity price                           8             5              6
Aggregate Value-at-Risk                 $50           $35            $43
============================================================================

The Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR model by comparing the
potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual
trading results. Despite volatile market conditions during fiscal 1998, there
were no days during which the Company incurred daily trading losses in its
institutional trading business in excess of the 99%/one-day VaR which
incorporates the enhancements to the Company's VaR model made during fiscal
1998.

The chart below presents the Company's daily 99%/one-day VaR for its
institutional trading activities over the course of fiscal 1998:

                           [LINE GRAPH APPEARS HERE]

Description of the Line Graph: Shown on page 50 is a line graph displaying
99%/one-day Value-at-Risk, as defined in the annual report text, for trading
days in fiscal year 1998. The horizontal axis of the chart is marked to indicate
the start of each fiscal quarter. The vertical axis of the chart is marked to
indicate VaR in millions of dollars. The values displayed in the graph start the
fiscal year in the $45-50 million range and end the fiscal year in the $35-40
million range. The maximum VaR, of approximately $50 million, is reached in the
first quarter and the minimum VaR, of approximately $35 million, is reached in
the fourth quarter.


                                      50
<PAGE>
 
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


CONSUMER LENDING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

Interest Rate Risk and Management

In its consumer lending activities, the Company is exposed to market risk
primarily from changes in interest rates. Such changes in interest rates impact
interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and
net servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset
securitizations, as well as the interest-sensitive liabilities which finance
these assets, including asset securitizations, commercial paper, medium-term
notes, long-term borrowings, deposits, asset-backed commercial paper, Federal
Funds and short-term bank notes.

     The Company's interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce
the potential volatility of earnings which may arise from changes in interest
rates. This is accomplished primarily by matching the repricing of credit card
and consumer loans and the related financing. To the extent that asset and
related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not
matched effectively, the Company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts,
such as swap and cap agreements, to achieve its matched financing objectives.
Interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or
financing from fixed to variable repricing, from variable to fixed repricing or,
in more limited circumstances, from variable to variable repricing. Interest
rate cap agreements effectively establish a maximum interest rate on certain
variable rate financings. 


Sensitivity Analysis Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations

For its consumer lending activities, the Company uses a variety of techniques to
assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate
sensitivity simulation. For purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect
of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period
from its fiscal year-end, the Company assumes that all interest rate sensitive
assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis
point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period.

     Interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated
interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. Thus,
assets which have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset
before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at
fiscal year-end, but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a
market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are
rate-sensitive. The latter category includes certain credit card loans which may
be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance
transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will
contractually reprice in accordance with the Company's normal market-based
pricing structure. For purposes of measuring rate-sensitivity for such loans,
only the effect of the hypothetical 100 basis point change in the underlying
market-based index, such as the prime rate, has been considered rather than the
full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. For
assets which have a fixed rate at fiscal year-end, but which contractually will,
or are assumed to, reset to a market-based index during the next 12 months,
earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. In addition,
for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net
of expected loan losses.

     Interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the
stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period.
Thus, liabilities which have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial
paper, or LIBOR rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period,
or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end, but which will mature
and be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the
12-month period, are rate-sensitive. For liabilities which have a fixed rate at
fiscal year-end, but which are assumed to reset to a market-based index during
the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing
date.

     Assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in the interest
rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of
November 30, 1998, pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities
over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $65
million. The comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period
following November 30, 1997 was estimated to be approximately $66 million.

     The hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive
assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next
12-month period. It does not assume any growth, strategic change in business
focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding
mix. Thus, this model represents a static analysis which cannot adequately
portray how the Company would respond to significant changes in market
conditions. Furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the Company's
expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in

                                      51

<PAGE>
 
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100 basis point change
in market interest rates nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such
rate changes were to occur.

     The Company anticipates the repricing of a substantial portion of its
existing credit card receivables to a fixed interest rate during fiscal 1999.
The Company does not believe this repricing will have a material impact on its
interest rate sensitivity due to the Company's matched financing objectives.


CREDIT RISK

The Company's exposure to credit risk arises from the possibility that a
customer or counterparty to a transaction might fail to perform under its
contractual commitment, which could result in the Company incurring losses. With
respect to its trading activities, the Company has credit guidelines which limit
the Company's credit exposure to any one counterparty. Specific credit risk
limits based on the credit guidelines also are in place for each type of
counterparty (by rating category) as well as for secondary positions in
high-yield and emerging market debt. In addition to monitoring credit limits,
the Company manages the credit exposure relating to the Company's trading
activities by reviewing counterparty financial soundness periodically, by
entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with
counterparties in appropriate circumstances and by limiting the duration of
exposure. With respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card
holders undergo credit reviews by the Credit Department to establish that they
meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. Credit card applications are
evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on
information obtained from credit bureaus. The Company's credit scoring systems
include both industry and customized models using the Company's criteria and
historical data. Each cardmember's credit line is reviewed at least annually,
and actions resulting from such review may include lowering a cardmember's
credit line or closing the account. In addition, the Company reviews the
creditworthiness of prospective Discover/NOVUS Network merchants and conducts
annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with
substantial sales volume.


OPERATIONAL RISK

Operational risk refers to the risk of loss resulting from improper processing
of transactions or deficiencies in the Company's operating systems or control
processes. With respect to its trading activities, the Company has developed and
continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to
provide, among other things, that all transactions are accurately recorded and
properly reflected in the Company's books and records and confirmed on a timely
basis; position valuations are subject to periodic independent review
procedures; and adequate documentation (e.g., master agreements) is obtained
from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. With respect to its consumer
lending activities, operating systems are designed to provide for the efficient
servicing of consumer loan accounts. The Company manages operational risk
through its system of internal controls which provides checks and balances to
ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account
solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection
of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and
reconciled. Disaster recovery plans are in place on a Company-wide basis for
critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed
appropriate.


LEGAL RISK

Legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and
regulatory requirements and the risk that a counterparty's performance
obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive
regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business. The
Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on
a worldwide basis that are designed to ensure compliance with all applicable
statutory and regulatory requirements. The Company, principally through the Law,
Compliance and Governmental Affairs Department, also has established procedures
that are designed to ensure that senior management's policies relating to
conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. In connection with
its business, the Company has various procedures addressing issues, such as
regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, use
and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection
activities, money-laundering and recordkeeping. The Company also has established
procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty's performance obligations
will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority
and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a
transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency
laws limit or alter contractual remedies.


                                      52
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.5
<SEQUENCE>17
<DESCRIPTION>CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.5
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

                 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.


We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition
of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and subsidiaries as of fiscal years ended
November 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for each of the three fiscal
years in the period ended November 30, 1998. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits. The consolidated financial statements give
retroactive effect to the merger of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and Dean Witter,
Discover & Co., which has been accounted for as a pooling of interests as
described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We did not audit
the consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareholders'
equity of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended
November 30, 1996, which statements reflect total revenues of $13,144 million
for the fiscal year then ended. Those statements were audited by other auditors
whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to
the amounts included for Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and subsidiaries for such
period, is based solely on the report of such other auditors.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits and the report of the other auditors provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors,
the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. and subsidiaries at fiscal years ended November 30, 1998 and 1997,
and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three fiscal years in the period ended November 30, 1998, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in fiscal
1998, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. changed its method of accounting for
certain offering costs of closed-end funds.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York
January 22, 1999

                                      53
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

       (dollars in millions, except share data)                                  NOVEMBER 30, 1998       NOVEMBER 30, 1997
========================================================================================================================== 
<S>                                                                              <C>                     <C>  
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                             $  16,878               $   8,255
Cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under                                          
        federal and other regulations (including securities at fair value of                                           
        $7,518 at November 30, 1998 and $4,655 at November 30, 1997)                     10,531                   6,890
                                                                                                                       
Financial instruments owned:                                                                                           
        U.S. government and agency securities                                            12,350                  12,901
        Other sovereign government obligations                                           15,050                  22,900
        Corporate and other debt                                                         22,388                  24,499
        Corporate equities                                                               14,289                  10,329
        Derivative contracts                                                             21,442                  17,146
        Physical commodities                                                                416                     242
Securities purchased under agreements to resell                                          79,570                  84,516             
Receivable for securities provided as collateral(1)                                       4,388                      --
Securities borrowed                                                                      69,338                  55,266
Receivables:                                                                                                           
        Consumer loans (net of allowances of $787 at November 30, 1998 and $884                                        
          at November 30, 1997)                                                          15,209                  20,033
        Customers, net                                                                   18,785                  12,259
        Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations                                       4,432                  13,263
        Fees, interest and other                                                          3,359                   4,705
Office facilities, at cost (less accumulated depreciation and amortization of $1,837                                   
        at November 30, 1998 and $1,279 at November 30, 1997)                             1,834                   1,705
Other assets                                                                              7,331                   7,378
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                                                          $ 317,590               $ 302,287
==========================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 

                                      54
<PAGE>
 
               Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 


               (dollars in millions, except share data)                        NOVEMBER 30, 1998       NOVEMBER 30, 1997
==========================================================================================================================
<S>                                                                             <C>                      <C>              
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                                                                                     
Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings                                    $  28,137                  $ 22,614   
Deposits                                                                                8,197                     8,993   
Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:                                                                            
        U.S. government and agency securities                                          11,305                    11,563   
        Other sovereign government obligations                                         13,899                    12,095   
        Corporate and other debt                                                        3,093                     1,699   
        Corporate equities                                                             11,501                    13,305   
        Derivative contracts                                                           21,198                    15,599   
        Physical commodities                                                              348                        68   
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase                                         92,327                   111,680   
Obligation to return securities received as collateral(1)                               6,636                        -- 
Securities loaned                                                                      23,152                    14,141   
Payables:                                                                                                                 
        Customers                                                                      40,606                    25,086   
        Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations                                     5,244                    16,097   
        Interest and dividends                                                            371                       970   
Other liabilities and accrued expenses                                                  8,623                     8,630   
Long-term borrowings                                                                   27,435                    24,792   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      302,072                   287,332   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Capital Units                                                                             999                       999   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries                                               400                        --   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies 
Shareholders' equity:                                                                      
        Preferred stock                                                                   674                       876   
        Common stock ($0.01 par value, 1,750,000,000 shares authorized, 605,842,952                                      
                and 602,829,994 shares issued, 565,670,808 and 594,708,971 shares                                        
                outstanding at November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997)                     6                         6   
        Paid-in capital                                                                 3,746                     3,727   
        Retained earnings                                                              12,080                     9,330   
        Employee stock trust                                                            1,913                     1,681   
        Cumulative translation adjustments                                                (12)                       (9)   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Subtotal                                                               18,407                    15,611   
        Note receivable related to sale of preferred stock to ESOP                        (60)                      (68)   
        Common stock held in treasury, at cost ($0.01 par value, 40,172,144 and                                          
                8,121,023 shares at November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997)           (2,702)                     (250)   
        Common stock issued to employee trust                                          (1,526)                   (1,337)   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Total shareholders' equity                                     14,119                    13,956   
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                                           $317,590                  $302,287   
=========================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 
(1)  These amounts relate to the Company's adoption of SFAS No. 127.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      55
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
               
fiscal year    (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)            1998             1997            1996
==============================================================================================================================
<S>                                                                         <C>              <C>             <C>     
Revenues:
        Investment banking                                                    $ 3,340          $ 2,694         $ 2,190
        Principal transactions:
                Trading                                                         3,291            3,191           2,659
                Investments                                                        89              463              86
        Commissions                                                             2,353            2,086           1,776
        Fees:
                Asset management, distribution and administration               2,849            2,505           1,732
                Merchant and cardmember                                         1,647            1,704           1,505
                Servicing                                                         928              762             809
        Interest and dividends                                                 16,436           13,583          11,288
        Other                                                                     198              144             126
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Total revenues                                                 31,131           27,132          22,171
        Interest expense                                                       13,514           10,806           8,934
        Provision for consumer loan losses                                      1,173            1,493           1,214
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Net revenues                                                   16,444           14,833          12,023
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Non-interest expenses:
        Compensation and benefits                                               6,636            6,019           5,071
        Occupancy and equipment                                                   583              526             493
        Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees                                     552              460             317
        Information processing and communications                               1,140            1,080             996
        Marketing and business development                                      1,411            1,179           1,027
        Professional services                                                     677              451             334
        Other                                                                     745              770             668
        Merger-related expenses                                                    --               74              --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                Total non-interest expenses                                    11,744           10,559           8,906
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Gain on sale of businesses                                                        685               --              --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change           5,385            4,274           3,117
Provision for income taxes                                                      1,992            1,688           1,137
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change                            3,393            2,586           1,980
Cumulative effect of accounting change                                           (117)              --              --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net income                                                                     $3,276           $2,586          $1,980
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Preferred stock dividend requirements                                          $   55           $   66          $   66
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Earnings applicable to common shares(1)                                        $3,221           $2,520          $1,914
Earnings per common share(2):
        Basic before cumulative effect of accounting change                    $ 5.80           $ 4.38          $ 3.34
        Cumulative effect of accounting change                                 $(0.20)          $   --          $   --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Basic                                                                  $ 5.60           $ 4.38          $ 3.34
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Diluted before cumulative effect of accounting change                  $ 5.52           $ 4.16          $ 3.16
        Cumulative effect of accounting change                                 $(0.19)          $   --          $   --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
        Diluted                                                                $ 5.33           $ 4.16          $ 3.16
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Average common shares outstanding(2):
        Basic                                                             575,822,725      574,818,233     573,356,930
        Diluted                                                           606,294,065      606,306,475     606,790,754
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
</TABLE> 

(1)  Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per common share.
(2)  Per share and share data for fiscal 1997 and 1996 have been restated to
     reflect the Company's adoption of SFAS No. 128. 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      56
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
             
fiscal year              (dollars in millions)                                     1998           1997           1996
=========================================================================================================================
                         
<S>                                                                           <C>            <C>            <C>  
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Net income                                                                     $  3,276       $  2,586       $  1,980
        Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
          provided by (used for) operating activities:
                 Non-cash charges included in net income:
                         Cumulative effect of accounting change                     117             --             --
                         Gain on sale of businesses                                (685)            --             --
                         Deferred income taxes                                      (55)           (77)          (426)
                         Compensation payable in common or preferred stock          334            374            513
                         Depreciation and amortization                              575            338            251
                         Provision for consumer loan losses                       1,173          1,493          1,214
                 Changes in assets and liabilities:
                         Cash and securities deposited with clearing 
                           organizations or segregated under federal and 
                           other regulations                                     (3,641)        (1,691)        (1,943)
                         Financial instruments owned, net of financial 
                           instruments sold, not yet purchased                   11,127          1,730         (2,536)
                         Securities borrowed, net of securities loaned           (5,061)       (10,561)       (13,087)
                         Receivables and other assets                             2,114        (13,808)        (8,227)
                         Payables and other liabilities                           6,095         19,058          6,910
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities                             15,369           (558)       (15,351)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

        Net (payments for) proceeds from:
                Office facilities                                                  (358)          (301)          (152)
                Sale of businesses, net of disposal costs                         1,399             --             --
                Purchase of Miller Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP, net of      
                  cash acquired                                                      --             --           (200)
                Purchase of Van Kampen American Capital, Inc., 
                  net of cash acquired                                               --             --           (986)
                Net principal disbursed on consumer loans                        (2,314)        (4,994)        (7,532)
                Purchases of consumer loans                                          --            (11)           (51)
                Sales of consumer loans                                           4,466          2,783          4,824
                Other investing activities                                           --             (5)           (40)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities                              3,193         (2,528)        (4,137)  
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

        Net proceeds from (payments for) short-term borrowings                    5,620         (1,336)         8,106
        Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net of 
          securities purchased under agreements to resell                       (14,407)         3,080          7,748
        Net proceeds from (payments for):
                Deposits                                                           (796)         2,113          1,022
                Issuance of cumulative preferred stock                               --             --            540
                Issuance of common stock                                            186            194            156
                Issuance of long-term borrowings                                  9,771          6,619          8,745
                Issuance of Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries             400             --             --
                Issuance of Capital Units                                            --            134             --
        Payments for:
                Repayments of long-term borrowings                               (7,069)        (3,964)        (2,637)
                Redemption of cumulative preferred stock                           (200)          (345)          (138)
                Repurchases of common stock                                      (2,925)          (124)        (1,133)
                Cash dividends                                                     (519)          (416)          (313)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities                             (9,939)         5,955         22,096
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s net cash activity for the month of                
  December 1996                                                                      --         (1,158)            --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                                         8,623          1,711          2,608
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of period                                 8,255          6,544          3,936
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period                                    $ 16,878       $  8,255       $  6,544
=========================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                      57
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                                                                                                        Note
                                                                                                                  Receivable
                                                                                                                  Related to
                                                                                                                     Sale of       
                                                                                        Employee    Cumulative     Preferred       
                                           Preferred     Common    Paid-in   Retained      Stock    Translation     Stock to       
 (dollars in millions)                         Stock      Stock    Capital   Earnings      Trust    Adjustments         ESOP       
============================================================================================================================  
<S>                                        <C>           <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>         <C>            <C>        
BALANCE AT 
FISCAL YEAR-END 1995                         $   818        $ 6    $ 3,456    $ 5,981     $1,050          $(9)         $(89)  
Net income                                        --         --         --      1,980         --           --            --   
Dividends                                         --         --         --       (323)        --           --            --   
Issuance of common stock in connection                                                                             
        with MAS acquisition                      --         --          9         --         --           --            --   
Redemption of 9.36%                                                                                                
        Cumulative Preferred Stock              (138)        --         --         --         --           --            --   
Issuance of 7-3/4%                                                                                                 
        Cumulative Preferred Stock               200         --         (3)        --         --           --            --   
Issuance of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate                                                                         
        Cumulative Preferred Stock               345         --         (2)        --         --           --            --   
Conversion of ESOP preferred stock                (2)        --          2         --         --           --            --   
Issuance of common stock                          --         --         97         --         --           --            --   
Repurchases of common stock                       --         --         --         --         --           --            --   
Retirement of treasury stock                      --         --         (4)      (161)        --           --            --   
Compensation payable in common stock              --         --         34         --        445           --            --   
ESOP shares allocated, at cost                    --         --         --         --         --           --            11   
Translation adjustments                           --         --         --         --         --           (2)           --   
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
BALANCE AT
FISCAL YEAR-END 1996                         $ 1,223        $ 6    $ 3,589    $ 7,477     $1,495         $(11)         $(78)  
Net income                                        --         --         --      2,586         --           --            --   
Dividends                                         --         --         --       (387)        --           --            --   
Redemption of 8.88%                                                                                             
        Cumulative Preferred Stock              (195)        --         --         --         --           --            --   
Redemption of 8-3/4%                                                                                            
        Cumulative Preferred Stock              (150)        --         --         --         --           --            --   
Conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock                (2)        --         (1)        --         --           --            --   
Issuance of common stock                          --         --        (22)        --         --           --            --   
Repurchases of common stock                       --         --         --         --         --           --            --   
Compensation payable in common stock              --         --        243         --        186           --            --   
ESOP shares allocated, at cost                    --         --         --         --         --           --            10   
Retirement of treasury stock                      --         --         (6)      (265)        --           --            --
Translation adjustments                           --         --         --         --         --            2            --   
Issuance of common stock in connection                                                                          
        with Lombard acquisition                  --         --         14         --         --           --            --   
Adjustment for change In                                                                                        
        Dean Witter Discover's year-end           --         --        (90)       (81)        --           --            --   
===========================================================================================================================  
</TABLE> 

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                                Common            Common                   
                                            Stock Held      Stock Issued     
                                           in Treasury       to Employee     
(dollars in millions)                          at Cost             Trust         Total  
======================================================================================      
<S>                                        <C>                 <C>            <C>                                           
BALANCE AT                                           
FISCAL YEAR-END 1995                             $(361)          $ (844)      $ 10,008 
Net income                                          --               --          1,980 
Dividends                                           --               --           (323)
Issuance of common stock in connection                                                 
        with MAS acquisition                        74               --             83 
Redemption of 9.36%                                                                    
        Cumulative Preferred Stock                  --               --           (138)
Issuance of 7-3/4%                                                                     
        Cumulative Preferred Stock                  --               --            197 
Issuance of Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate                                             
        Cumulative Preferred Stock                  --               --            343 
Conversion of ESOP preferred stock                  --               --             -- 
Issuance of common stock                           133               --            230 
Repurchases of common stock                     (1,133)              --         (1,133)
Retirement of treasury stock                       165               --             -- 
Compensation payable in common stock               117             (150)           446 
ESOP shares allocated, at cost                      --               --             11 
Translation adjustments                             --               --             (2)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE AT                                                                             
FISCAL YEAR-END 1996                           $(1,005)          $ (994)      $ 11,702 
Net income                                          --               --          2,586 
Dividends                                           --               --           (387)
Redemption of 8.88%                                                                    
        Cumulative Preferred Stock                  --               --           (195)
Redemption of 8-3/4%                                                                   
        Cumulative Preferred Stock                  --               --           (150)
Conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock                   3               --             -- 
Issuance of common stock                           246               --            224 
Repurchases of common stock                       (124)              --           (124)
Compensation payable in common stock               278             (343)           364 
ESOP shares allocated, at cost                      --               --             10 
Retirement of treasury stock                       271               --             --                
Translation adjustments                             --               --              2 
Issuance of common stock in connection                                                 
        with Lombard acquisition                    49               --             63 
Adjustment for change In                                                               
        Dean Witter Discover's year-end             32               --           (139)
======================================================================================      
</TABLE> 

                                      58
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                Note
                                                                                                          Receivable
                                                                                                          Related to
                                                                                                             Sale of   
                                                                                   Employee    Cumulative  Preferred   
                                    Preferred      Common   Paid-in     Retained      Stock   Translation   Stock to   
  (dollars in millions)                 Stock       Stock   Capital     Earnings      Trust   Adjustments       ESOP   
===================================================================================================================== 
<S>                                 <C>            <C>      <C>          <C>       <C>         <C>         <C> 
BALANCE AT NOVEMBER 30, 1997             $876          $6     $3,727     $ 9,330    $ 1,681        $  (9)       $(68)    
Net income                                 --          --         --       3,276         --           --          --     
Dividends                                  --          --         --        (526)        --           --          --     
Redemption of 7-3/8%
        Cumulative Preferred Stock       (200)         --         --          --         --           --          --     
Conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock         (2)         --        (12)         --         --           --          --     
Issuance of common stock                   --          --       (210)         --         --           --          --     
Repurchases of common stock                --          --         --          --         --           --          --     
Compensation payable in
        common stock                       --          --        241          --        232           --          --     
ESOP shares allocated, at cost             --          --         --          --         --           --           8     
Translation adjustments                    --          --         --          --         --           (3)         --     
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
BALANCE AT NOVEMBER 30, 1998             $674          $6     $3,746     $12,080    $ 1,913        $ (12)       $(60)    
===================================================================================================================== 
</TABLE> 

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                            Common            Common                    
                                        Stock Held      Stock Issued   
                                       in Treasury       to Employee    
(dollars in millions)                      at Cost             Trust       Total             
================================================================================= 
<S>                                     <C>             <C>              <C> 
BALANCE AT NOVEMBER 30, 1997                 $(250)          $(1,337)    $13,956  
Net income                                      --                --       3,276  
Dividends                                       --                --        (526) 
Redemption of 7-3/8%                                                        
        Cumulative Preferred Stock              --                --        (200) 
Conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock              14                --          --  
Issuance of common stock                       417                --         207  
Repurchases of common stock                 (2,925)               --      (2,925) 
Compensation payable in                                                     
        common stock                            42              (189)        326  
ESOP shares allocated, at cost                  --                --           8  
Translation adjustments                         --                --          (3) 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE AT NOVEMBER 30, 1998               $(2,702)          $(1,526)    $14,119  
================================================================================= 
</TABLE> 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      59
<PAGE>
 
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. INTRODUCTION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE MERGER

On May 31, 1997, Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") was merged with
and into Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter Discover") (the "Merger"). At
that time, Dean Witter Discover changed its corporate name to Morgan Stanley,
Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("MSDWD"). In conjunction with the Merger, MSDWD
issued 260,861,078 shares of its common stock, as each share of Morgan Stanley
common stock then outstanding was converted into 1.65 shares of MSDWD's common
stock (the "Exchange Ratio"). In addition, each share of Morgan Stanley
preferred stock was converted into one share of a corresponding series of
preferred stock of MSDWD. The Merger was treated as a tax-free exchange.

     On March 24, 1998, MSDWD changed its corporate name to Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. (the "Company").   

THE COMPANY

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its U.S. and international subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated ("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"),
Morgan Stanley Japan Limited ("MSJL"), Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ("DWR"), Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter Advisors Inc. (formerly known as Dean Witter InterCapital
Inc.) and NOVUS Credit Services Inc.

     The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides a wide range of financial
and securities services on a global basis and provides credit and transaction
services nationally. Its Securities and Asset Management businesses include
securities underwriting, distribution and trading; merger, acquisition,
restructuring, real estate, project finance and other corporate finance advisory
activities; asset management; private equity and other principal investment
activities; brokerage and research services; the trading of foreign exchange and
commodities as well as derivatives on a broad range of asset categories, rates
and indices; and securities lending. The Company's Credit and Transaction
Services businesses include the issuance of the Discover(R) Card and other
proprietary general purpose credit cards, the operation of the Discover/NOVUS(R)
Network, a proprietary network of merchant and cash access locations, and
direct-marketed activities such as the online securities services offered by
Discover Brokerage Direct, Inc. The Company's services are provided to a large
and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations,
governments, financial institutions and individuals.


BASIS OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The consolidated financial statements give retroactive effect to the Merger,
which was accounted for as a pooling of interests. The pooling of interests
method of accounting requires the restatement of all periods presented as if
Dean Witter Discover and Morgan Stanley had always been combined. The
consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity reflects the accounts
of the Company as if the preferred and additional common stock had been issued
during all of the periods presented.

     Prior to the consummation of the Merger, Dean Witter Discover's year ended
on December 31 and Morgan Stanley's fiscal year ended on November 30. Subsequent
to the Merger, the Company adopted a fiscal year-end of November 30. In
recording the pooling of interests combination, Dean Witter Discover's financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 1996 were combined with Morgan
Stanley's financial statements for the fiscal year ended November 30, 1996 (on a
combined basis, "fiscal 1996"). The Company's results for the 12 months ended
November 30, 1998 ("fiscal 1998") and November 30, 1997 ("fiscal 1997") reflect
the change in fiscal year-end. Fiscal 1997 includes the results of Dean Witter
Discover that were restated to conform with the new fiscal year-end date. The
Company's results of operations for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 include the
month of December 1996 for Dean Witter Discover.

     The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make
estimates and assumptions regarding certain trading inventory valuations,
consumer loan loss levels, the potential outcome of litigation and other matters
that affect the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Management believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the con-

                                      60
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



solidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could
differ materially from these estimates.

     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform
to the current presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated. 


2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For purposes of these statements, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and
highly liquid investments not held for resale with maturities, when purchased,
of three months or less.

     In connection with the fiscal 1997 purchase of Discover Brokerage Direct,
Inc. (formerly Lombard Brokerage, Inc.), the Company issued 1.9 million shares
of common stock having a fair value on the date of acquisition of approximately
$63 million. In connection with the purchase of Miller Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP
("MAS") in fiscal 1996, the Company issued approximately $66 million of notes
payable, as well as 3.3 million shares of common stock having a fair value on
the date of acquisition of approximately $83 million. In addition, in connection
with the purchase in fiscal 1996 of VK/AC Holding, Inc., the parent of Van
Kampen American Capital, Inc., the Company assumed approximately $162 million of
long-term debt.


CONSUMER LOANS

Consumer loans, which consist primarily of credit card and other consumer
installment loans, are reported at their principal amounts outstanding, less
applicable allowances. Interest on consumer loans is credited to income as
earned.

     Interest is accrued on credit card loans until the date of charge-off,
which generally occurs at the end of the month during which an account becomes
180 days past due, except in the case of bankruptcies and fraudulent
transactions, which are charged off earlier. The interest portion of charged-off
credit card loans is written off against interest revenue. Origination costs
related to the issuance of credit cards are charged to earnings over periods not
exceeding 12 months.


ALLOWANCE FOR CONSUMER LOAN LOSSES

The allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that is
regularly evaluated by management for adequacy on a portfolio-by-portfolio basis
and is established through a charge to the provision for loan losses. The
evaluations take into consideration factors such as changes in the nature and
volume of the loan portfolio, overall portfolio quality, review of specific
problem loans and current economic conditions that may affect the borrower's
ability to pay.

     The Company uses the results of these evaluations to provide an allowance
for loan losses. The exposure for credit losses for owned loans is influenced by
the performance of the portfolio and other factors discussed above, with the
Company absorbing all related losses. The exposure for credit losses for
securitized loans is represented by the Company retaining a contingent risk
based on the amount of credit enhancement provided.


SECURITIZATION OF CONSUMER LOANS

The Company periodically sells consumer loans through asset securitizations and
continues to service these loans. In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" ("SFAS No. 125"), the
present value of the future net servicing revenues which the Company estimates
that it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in
income as the loans are securitized. A corresponding asset also is recorded and
then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans,
with actual net servicing revenues continuing to be recognized in income as they
are earned. The impact of recognizing the present value of estimated future net
servicing revenues as loans are securitized has not been material to the
consolidated statements of income.

                                      61
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report




FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS USED FOR TRADING AND INVESTMENT

Financial instruments, including derivatives, used in the Company's trading
activities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses are
reflected in trading revenues. Interest and dividend revenue and interest
expense arising from financial instruments used in trading activities are
reflected in the consolidated statements of income as interest and dividend
revenue or interest expense. The fair values of the trading positions generally
are based on listed market prices. If listed market prices are not available or
if liquidating the Company's positions would reasonably be expected to impact
market prices, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors,
including dealer price quotations and price quotations for similar instruments
traded in different markets, including markets located in different geographic
areas. Fair values for certain derivative contracts are derived from pricing
models which consider current market and contractual prices for the underlying
financial instruments or commodities, as well as time value and yield curve or
volatility factors underlying the positions. Purchases and sales of financial
instruments are recorded in the accounts on trade date. Unrealized gains and
losses arising from the Company's dealings in over-the-counter ("OTC") financial
instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and
commodities, are presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of
financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate.

     Equity securities purchased in connection with private equity and other
principal investment activities initially are carried in the consolidated
financial statements at their original costs. The carrying value of such equity
securities is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily
ascertainable, generally as evidenced by listed market prices or transactions
which directly affect the value of such equity securities. Downward adjustments
relating to such equity securities are made in the event that the Company
determines that the eventual realizable value is less than the carrying value.
The carrying value of investments made in connection with principal real estate
activities which do not involve equity securities are adjusted periodically
based on independent appraisals, estimates prepared by the Company of discounted
future cash flows of the underlying real estate assets or other indicators of
fair value.

     Loans made in connection with private equity and investment banking
activities are carried at cost plus accrued interest less reserves, if deemed
necessary, for estimated losses.


FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS USED FOR ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

The Company has entered into various contracts as hedges against specific
assets, liabilities or anticipated transactions. These contracts include
interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign currency swaps. The
Company uses interest rate and currency swaps to manage the interest rate and
currency exposure arising from certain borrowings and to match the repricing
characteristics of consumer loans with those of the borrowings that fund these
loans. For contracts that are designated as hedges of the Company's assets and
liabilities, gains and losses are deferred and recognized as adjustments to
interest revenue or expense over the remaining life of the underlying assets or
liabilities. For contracts that are hedges of asset securitizations, gains and
losses are recognized as adjustments to servicing fees. Gains and losses
resulting from the termination of hedge contracts prior to their stated maturity
are recognized ratably over the remaining life of the instrument being hedged.
The Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage the currency
exposure relating to its net monetary investment in non-U.S. dollar functional
currency operations. The gain or loss from revaluing these contracts is deferred
and reported within cumulative translation adjustments in shareholders' equity,
net of tax effects, with the related unrealized amounts due from or to
counterparties included in receivables from or payables to brokers, dealers and
clearing organizations.


SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS

Clients' securities transactions are recorded on a settlement date basis with
related commission revenues and expenses recorded on trade date. Securities
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements) and
securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements),
principally government and

                                      62
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



agency securities, are treated as financing transactions and are carried at the
amounts at which the securities subsequently will be resold or reacquired as
specified in the respective agreements; such amounts include accrued interest.
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements are presented on a
net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. It is the Company's policy to take
possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell. The Company
monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the
related receivable or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary,
requests additional collateral. Where deemed appropriate, the Company's
agreements with third parties specify its rights to request additional
collateral.

     Securities borrowed and securities loaned are carried at the amounts of
cash collateral advanced and received in connection with the transactions. The
Company measures the fair value of the securities borrowed and loaned against
the collateral on a daily basis. Additional collateral is obtained as necessary
to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized.


INVESTMENT BANKING

Underwriting revenues and fees for mergers and acquisitions and advisory
assignments are recorded when services for the transaction are substantially
completed. Transaction-related expenses are deferred and later expensed to match
revenue recognition.


OFFICE FACILITIES

Office facilities are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation and amortization of buildings and leasehold
improvements are provided principally by the straight-line method, while
depreciation and amortization of furniture, fixtures and equipment are provided
by both straight-line and accelerated methods. Property and equipment are
depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, while
leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the economic useful life
of the asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of the lease.


INCOME TAXES

Income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability method, under
which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based upon the
temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of
assets and liabilities, using currently enacted tax rates.


EARNINGS PER SHARE

The calculations of earnings per common share are based on the weighted average
number of common shares and share equivalents outstanding and give effect to
preferred stock dividend requirements. All per share and share amounts reflect
stock splits effected by Dean Witter Discover and Morgan Stanley prior to the
Merger, as well as the additional shares issued to Morgan Stanley shareholders
pursuant to the Exchange Ratio.

     As of December 1, 1997, the Company adopted SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per
Share" ("SFAS No. 128"). SFAS No. 128 replaces the previous earnings per share
("EPS") categories of primary and fully diluted with "basic EPS," which reflects
no dilution from common stock equivalents, and "diluted EPS," which reflects
dilution from common stock equivalents and other dilutive securities based on
the average price per share of the Company's common stock during the period. The
EPS amounts of prior periods have been restated in accordance with SFAS No. 128.
The adoption of SFAS No. 128 has not had a material effect on the Company's EPS
calculations.

CARDMEMBER REWARDS

Cardmember rewards, primarily the Cashback Bonus(R) award, pursuant to which the
Company annually pays Discover Cardmembers and Private Issue(R) Cardmembers a
percentage of their purchase amounts ranging up to 1% (up to 2% for the Private
Issue Card), are based upon a cardmember's level of annual purchases. The
liability for cardmember rewards expense, included in other liabilities and
accrued expenses, is accrued at the time that qualified cardmember transactions
occur and is calculated on an individual cardmember basis.


                                      63
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" encourages, but does not
require, companies to record compensation cost for stock-based employee
compensation plans at fair value. The Company has elected to continue to account
for its stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method
prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"). Under the provisions of APB No. 25,
compensation cost for stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's common stock at the date of grant over the
amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.


TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES

Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional
currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and the income
statements are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the year. In
accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation," gains or losses
resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge
gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in cumulative translation
adjustments, a separate component of shareholders' equity. Gains or losses
resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in net income.


GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods from five to 40 years, generally not exceeding 25 years, and are
periodically evaluated for impairment. At November 30, 1998, goodwill of
approximately $1.2 billion was included in the Company's consolidated statements
of financial condition as a component of Other Assets.

ACCOUNTING CHANGE

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company adopted American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position 98-5, "Reporting on
the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-5"), with respect to the accounting
for offering costs paid by investment advisors of closed-end funds where such
costs are not specifically reimbursed through separate advisory contracts. In
accordance with SOP 98-5 and per an announcement by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ("FASB") staff in September 1998, such costs are to be
considered start-up costs and expensed as incurred. Prior to the adoption of SOP
98-5, the Company deferred such costs and amortized them over the life of the
fund. The Company recorded a charge to earnings for the cumulative effect of the
accounting change as of December 1, 1997, of $117 million, net of taxes of $79
million. The first three quarters of fiscal 1998 have been retroactively
restated to reflect this change (see Note 18). The effect of adopting these
provisions on the Company's income before the cumulative effect of the
accounting change for fiscal year 1998 was a decrease of $24 million, net of
taxes. The effect on diluted and basic earnings per share was $0.04. The pro
forma effect on net income for fiscal years 1997 and 1996 would not have been
material.


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

As of January 1, 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 127, "Deferral of the
Effective Date of Certain Provisions of FASB Statement No. 125," which was
effective for transfers and pledges of certain financial assets and collateral
made after December 31, 1997. The adoption of SFAS No. 127 required the
recognition of assets and liabilities on the Company's consolidated statement of
financial condition related to certain securities provided and received as
collateral. At November 30, 1998, the Company recorded an obligation to return
securities received as collateral of $6,636 million. The related collateral
assets were recorded among various captions included in the Company's
consolidated statement of financial condition. After giving effect to
reclassifications, the net increase in total assets and total liabilities was
$2,089 million.

     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" and SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information." These statements, which are effective for fiscal years
beginning after

                                      64
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

December 15, 1997, establish standards for the reporting and presentation of
comprehensive income and the disclosure requirements related to segments.

     In February 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures
about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits," which revises and
standardizes pension and other postretirement benefit plan disclosures that are
to be included in the employers' financial statements. SFAS No. 132 does not
change the measurement or recognition rules for pensions and other
postretirement benefit plans and is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. The statement is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. The Company is in the
process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 133.

     In July 1998, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus
on EITF Issue 97-14, "Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where
Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested" ("EITF 97-14"). Under
EITF 97-14, assets of the rabbi trust are to be consolidated with those of the
employer, and the value of the employer's stock held in the rabbi trust should
be classified in shareholders' equity and generally accounted for in a manner
similar to treasury stock. The Company therefore has included its obligations
under certain deferred compensation plans in employee stock trust. Shares that
the Company has issued to the rabbi trusts are recorded in common stock issued
to employee trust. Both employee stock trust and common stock issued to employee
trust are components of shareholders' equity. The adoption of EITF 97-14 did not
result in any change to the Company's consolidated statement of income, total
assets, total liabilities or total shareholders' equity.


3. CONSUMER LOANS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Consumer loans were as follows:

                                          Nov. 30,          Nov. 30,
(dollars in millions)                         1998              1997
===================================================================== 
                                                     
Credit card                                $15,993           $20,914
Other consumer installment                       3                 3
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                            15,996            20,917
Less:                                                    
  Allowance for loan losses                    787               884
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  Consumer loans, net                      $15,209           $20,033
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Activity in the allowance for consumer loan losses was as follows:

                                     fiscal       fiscal       fiscal
(dollars in millions)                  1998        1997         1996
===================================================================== 
Balance beginning of period         $   884       $  781(2)  $   709
Additions:                                               
Provision for loan losses             1,173        1,493       1,214
Purchase of loan portfolios               1           --           4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Total additions                       1,174        1,493       1,218
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Deductions:
Charge-offs                           1,423        1,639       1,182
Recoveries                             (170)        (196)       (155)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net charge-offs                       1,253        1,443       1,027
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Other(1)                                (18)          53         (98)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Balance end of period               $   787       $  884     $   802
===================================================================== 

(1)  These amounts primarily reflect net transfers related to asset
     securitizations and the sale of consumer loans associated with 
     SPS, Prime Option and BRAVO (see Note 17).

(2)  Beginning balance differs from the fiscal 1996 end-of-period balance 
     due to the Company's change in fiscal year-end. 

Interest accrued on loans subsequently charged off, recorded as a reduction
of interest revenue, was $199 million, $301 million and $181 million in fiscal
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The amounts charged off in fiscal 1998
include only interest, whereas amounts in fiscal 1997 and 1996 also include
cardmember fees.

     At November 30, 1998 and 1997, $3,999 million and $5,385 million of the
Company's consumer loans had minimum contractual maturities of less than one
year. Because of the uncertainty 

                                      65
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

regarding consumer loan repayment patterns, which historically have been higher
than contractually required minimum payments, this amount may not necessarily be
indicative of the Company's actual consumer loan repayments.

     At November 30, 1998, the Company had commitments to extend credit in the
amount of $170.5 billion. Commitments to extend credit arise from agreements to
extend to customers unused lines of credit on certain credit cards provided
there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. These
commitments, substantially all of which the Company can terminate at any time
and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are
periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness.

     The Company received proceeds from asset securitizations of $4,466 million,
$2,783 million and $4,528 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
The uncollected balances of consumer loans sold through asset securitizations
were $16,506 million and $15,033 million at November 30, 1998 and 1997.

     The Company uses interest rate exchange agreements to hedge the risk from
changes in interest rates on servicing fee revenues (which are derived from
loans sold through asset securitizations). Gains and losses from these
agreements are recognized as adjustments to servicing fees.

     The estimated fair value of the Company's consumer loans approximated
carrying value at November 30, 1998 and 1997. The Company's consumer loan
portfolio, including securitized loans, is geographically diverse, with a
distribution approximating that of the population of the United States.

4. Deposits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deposits were as follows:

                                       Nov. 30,      Nov. 30,
(dollars in millions)                      1998          1997
==============================================================
Demand, passbook and
    money market accounts                $1,355        $1,210
Consumer certificate accounts             1,635         1,498
$100,000 minimum
    certificate accounts                  5,207         6,285
- -------------------------------------------------------------
         Total                           $8,197        $8,993
- -------------------------------------------------------------

The weighted average interest rates of interest bearing deposits outstanding
during fiscal 1998 and 1997 were 6.2%.

     At November 30, 1998 and 1997, the notional amounts of interest rate
exchange agreements that hedged deposits outstanding were $650 million and $535
million and had fair values of $15 million and $7 million. Under these interest
rate exchange agreements, the Company primarily pays floating rates and receives
fixed rates. At November 30, 1998, the weighted average interest rate of the
Company's deposits, including the effect of interest rate exchange agreements,
was 6.1%.

     At November 30, 1998, certificate accounts maturing over the next five
years were as follows:


(dollars in millions)
==================================================
1999                                       $2,448
2000                                        1,502
2001                                        1,261
2002                                          592
2003                                          620
- --------------------------------------------------

     The estimated fair value of the Company's deposits, using current rates for
deposits with similar maturities, approximated carrying value at November 30,
1998 and 1997.
     
5. Short-Term Borrowings
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     At November 30, 1998 and 1997, commercial paper in the amount of $19,643
million and $15,447 million, with weighted average interest rates of 5.3% and
5.5%, was outstanding.

     At November 30, 1998 and 1997, the notional amounts of interest rate
contracts that hedged commercial paper outstanding were $208 million and $732
million and had fair values of $(6) million and $(5) million. These interest
rate contracts effectively converted the commercial paper to fixed rates. These
contracts had no material effect on the weighted average interest rates of
commercial paper.

     At November 30, 1998 and 1997, other short-term borrowings of $8,494
million and $7,167 million were outstanding. These borrowings included bank
loans, Federal Funds and bank notes.

     The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of
banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial
paper (the "MSDW Facility").

                                      66
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

Under the terms of the MSDW Facility, the banks are committed to provide up to
$6.0 billion. The MSDW Facility contains restrictive covenants which require,
among other things, that the Company maintain shareholders' equity of at least
$9.1 billion at all times. The Company believes that the covenant restrictions
will not impair the Company's ability to pay its current level of dividends. At
November 30, 1998, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSDW Facility.

     Riverwoods Funding Corporation ("RFC"), an entity included in the
consolidated financial statements of the Company, maintains a senior bank credit
facility to support the issuance of asset-backed commercial paper in the amount
of $2.6 billion. Under the terms of the asset-backed commercial paper program,
certain assets of RFC were subject to a lien in the amount of $2.6 billion at
November 30, 1998. RFC has never borrowed from its senior bank credit facility.

     The Company maintains a master collateral facility that enables MS&Co. to
pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and
other financial accommodations (the "MS&Co. Facility"). As part of the MS&Co.
Facility, MS&Co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a
group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which
such banks are committed to provide up to $1.875 billion. The credit agreement
contains restrictive covenants which require, among other things, that MS&Co.
maintain specified levels of consolidated shareholders' equity and Net Capital,
as defined. In January 1999, the MS&Co. Facility was renewed. At November 30,
1998, no borrowings were outstanding under the MS&Co. Facility.

     The Company also maintains a revolving committed financing facility that
enables MSIL to secure committed funding from a syndicate of banks by providing
a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements (the "MSIL Facility").
Such banks are committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.85 billion
available in 12 major currencies and, effective January 1, 1999, the euro. The
facility agreements contain restrictive covenants which require, among other
things, that MSIL maintain specified levels of Shareholders' Equity and
Financial Resources, each as defined. At November 30, 1998, no borrowings were
outstanding under the MSIL Facility.

     The Company anticipates that it will utilize the MSDW Facility, the MS&Co.
Facility or the MSIL Facility for short-term funding from time to time.


6 LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MATURITIES AND TERMS

Long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end consist of the following:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                                          U.S. Dollar            Non-U.S. Dollar(1)   At November 30
                                                -------------------------------  -----------------  ------------------ 
                                                                       Index/
                                                   Fixed   Floating   Floating    Fixed   Floating    1998       1997
(dollars in millions)                               Rate     Rate(2)    Linked     Rate    Rate(2)   Total      Total
======================================================================================================================
<S>                                               <C>      <C>        <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>  
Due in fiscal 1998                                $   --     $   --    $    --   $   --    $   --    $   --    $ 6,170
Due in fiscal 1999                                   842      2,627        587      208       767     5,031      4,693
Due in fiscal 2000                                 1,568      4,396        347       62       490     6,863      2,418
Due in fiscal 2001                                 1,496      1,596         88      115       604     3,899      2,282
Due in fiscal 2002                                 1,077      1,033         42       17       332     2,501      2,623
Due in fiscal 2003                                 1,093      1,034        105      428       235     2,895      1,621
Thereafter                                         4,460        899        217      642        28     6,246      4,985
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            $10,536    $11,585     $1,386   $1,472    $2,456   $27,435    $24,792
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average                                                                                           
  coupon at fiscal                                                                                           
  year-end                                           7.4%       5.7%     n/a        5.4%      4.9%      6.1%       6.1%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 
(1)  Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar interest
     rates.
(2)  U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a
     variety of money market indices, including London Interbank Offered Rates
     ("LIBOR") and Federal Funds rates. Non-U.S. dollar contractual floating
     rate borrowings bear interest based on Euro floating rates.

                                      67
<PAGE>

                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report
 
MEDIUM-TERM NOTES

Included in the table above are medium-term notes of $17,011 million and $14,049
million at November 30, 1998 and 1997. The effective weighted average interest
rate on all medium-term notes was 5.7% in fiscal 1998 and 5.9% in fiscal 1997.
Maturities of these notes range from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2028.

STRUCTURED BORROWINGS

U.S. dollar index/equity linked borrowings include various structured
instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance
of a specific index (i.e., Standard & Poor's 500), a basket of stocks or a
specific equity security. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in
the underlying equity position or index, the Company has entered into various
equity swap contracts and purchased options which effectively convert the
borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are
included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the
performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks or specific equity
securities at November 30, 1998 and 1997.

OTHER BORROWINGS

Included in the Company's long-term borrowings are subordinated notes of $1,309
million and $1,302 million at November 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
effective weighted average interest rate on these subordinated notes was 7.1% in
fiscal 1998 and 7.2% in fiscal 1997. Maturities of the subordinated notes range
from fiscal 1999 to fiscal 2016.

     Certain of the Company's long-term borrowings are redeemable prior to
maturity at the option of the holder. These notes contain certain provisions
which effectively enable noteholders to put the notes back to the Company and
therefore are scheduled in the foregoing table to mature in fiscal 1999 through
fiscal 2001. The stated maturities of these notes, which aggregate $1,933
million, are from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2011.

     MS&Co., a registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary of the Company, has
outstanding $357 million of 8.22% fixed rate subordinated Series A notes, $243
million of 8.51% fixed rate subordinated Series B Notes, $313 million of 6.81%
fixed rate subordinated Series C notes, $96 million of 7.03% fixed rate
subordinated Series D notes, $82 million of 7.28% fixed rate subordinated Series
E notes and $25 million of 7.82% fixed rate subordinated Series F notes. These
notes have maturities from 2001 to 2016. The terms of such notes contain
restrictive covenants which require, among other things, that MS&Co. maintain
specified levels of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as
defined.

ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

A portion of the Company's fixed rate long-term borrowings is used to fund
highly liquid marketable securities, short-term receivables arising from
securities transactions and consumer loans. The Company uses interest rate swaps
to more closely match the duration of these borrowings to the duration of the
assets being funded and to minimize interest rate risk. These swaps effectively
convert certain of the Company's fixed rate borrowings into floating rate
obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not
used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered into currency
swaps which effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The
Company's use of swaps for asset and liability management reduced its interest
expense and effective average borrowing rate as follows:


                                                   fiscal   fiscal   fiscal
(dollars in millions)                               1998     1997     1996
=========================================================   ======   ======  
Net reduction in interest expense from       
  swaps for the fiscal year                          $48     $21      $29
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Weighted average coupon of                   
  long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end(1)         6.1%    6.1%     6.2%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Effective average borrowing rate for long-term 
  borrowings after swaps at fiscal year-end(1)       5.9%    6.0%     6.1%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

(1) Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are
    non-U.S. dollar interest rates. 

The effective weighted average interest rate on the Company's index/equity
linked notes, which is not included in the table above, was 5.2% and 5.7% in
fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, respectively, after giving effect to the related
hedges.

                                      68
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

         The table below summarizes the notional or contract amounts of these
swaps by maturity and weighted average interest rates to be received and paid at
fiscal year-end 1998. Swaps utilized to hedge the Company's structured
borrowings are presented at their redemption values:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                                         U.S. Dollar              Non-U.S. Dollar(1)
                                           ------------------------------------  ------------------- 
                                            Receive   Receive  Receive           Receive  Receive
                                            Fixed     Floating Floating  Index/  Fixed    Floating    Nov. 30,   Nov. 30,
                                             Pay      Pay      Pay       Equity  Pay      Pay          1998       1997
(dollars in millions)                       Floating  Fixed    Floating  Linked  Floating Floating(2)  Total      Total
==========================================================================================================================
<S>                                         <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>      <C>        <C>        <C>  
Maturing in fiscal 1998                     $     --  $    --  $    --   $   --  $    --  $    --    $     --   $  2,744
Maturing in fiscal 1999                          552      100      375      587      195      372       2,181      1,972
Maturing in fiscal 2000                        1,169      400       20      347       62      243       2,241        638
Maturing in fiscal 2001                        1,384       80        5       88      110      514       2,181      1,082
Maturing in fiscal 2002                          720      200       --       42       17       --         979        831
Maturing in fiscal 2003                          500       --       --      105      428      219       1,252      1,029
Thereafter                                     3,020      400       --      217      620       10       4,267      3,411
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         $7,345   $1,180     $400   $1,386   $1,432   $1,358     $13,101    $11,707
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average at fiscal year-end(3) 
  Receive rate                                  6.53%    5.25%    4.88%     n/a     5.24%    4.77%
  Pay rate                                      5.59%    6.22%    5.65%     n/a     4.94%    5.44%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

(1)  The differences between the receive rate and the pay rate may reflect
     differences in the rate of interest associated with the underlying
     currency.

(2)  These amounts include currency swaps used to effectively convert borrowings
     denominated in one currency into obligations denominated in another
     currency.

(3)  The table was prepared under the assumption that interest rates remain
     constant at year-end levels. The variable interest rates to be received or
     paid will change to the extent that rates fluctuate. Such changes may be
     substantial. Variable rates presented generally are based on LIBOR or
     Treasury bill rates.


As noted above, the Company uses interest rate and currency swaps to modify the
terms of its existing borrowings. Activity during the periods in the notional
value of the swap contracts used by the Company for asset and liability
management (and the unrecognized gain at fiscal year-end) is summarized in the
table below:


                                                       fiscal      fiscal
(dollars in millions)                                   1998        1997
========================================================================== 
Notional value at beginning of period                  $11,707    $10,189
Additions                                                4,520      3,567
Matured                                                 (2,305)    (1,657)
Terminated                                                (868)      (216)
Effect of foreign currency translation on
         non-U.S. dollar notional values and
         changes in redemption values on
         structured borrowings                              47       (176)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Notional value at fiscal year-end                      $13,101   $ 11,707
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------  
Unrecognized gain at fiscal year-end                   $   279   $    104
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company also uses interest rate swaps to modify certain of its repurchase
financing agreements. The Company had interest rate swaps with notional values
of approximately $1.3 billion and $1.8 billion at November 30, 1998 and 1997,
and unrecognized gains of approximately $28 million and $13 million at November
30, 1998 and 1997, for such purpose. The unrecognized gains on these swaps were
offset by unrecognized losses on certain of the Company's repurchase financing
agreements.

         The estimated fair value of the Company's long-term borrowings
approximated carrying value based on rates available to the Company at year-end
for borrowings with similar terms and maturities.

         Cash paid for interest for the Company's borrowings and deposits
approximated interest expense in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996.

                                      69
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


7  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering office space and
equipment. At November 30, 1998, future minimum rental commitments under such
leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows:

                             (dollars in millions)
================================================================================

            1999                                                  $363
            2000                                                   324
            2001                                                   286
            2002                                                   238
            2003                                                   193
            Thereafter                                             959
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for
rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for
real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental
income, was $274 million, $262 million and $264 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

     The Company has an agreement with IBM, under which the Company receives
information processing, data networking and related services. Under the terms of
the agreement, the Company has an aggregate minimum annual commitment of $166
million subject to annual cost-of-living adjustments.

     In November 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into an
agreement that will result in the development of an office tower in New York
City. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company has entered into a 99-year lease
for the land at the proposed development site.

     In the normal course of business, the Company has been named as a defendant
in various lawsuits and has been involved in certain investigations and
proceedings. Some of these matters involve claims for substantial amounts.
Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be ascertained at this
time, it is the opinion of management, after consultation with outside counsel,
that the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the consolidated financial condition of the Company, but may be material to the
Company's operating results for any particular period, depending upon the level
of the Company's income for such period.

     The Company had approximately $5.7 billion of letters of credit outstanding
at November 30, 1998 to satisfy various collateral requirements.

     Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased represent obligations of the
Company to deliver specified financial instruments at contracted prices, thereby
creating commitments to purchase the financial instruments in the market at
prevailing prices. Consequently, the Company's ultimate obligation to satisfy
the sale of financial instruments sold, not yet purchased may exceed the amounts
recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

     The Company also has commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other
less liquid investments, including at November 30, 1998 approximately $181
million in connection with its private equity and other principal investment
activities. Additionally, the Company has provided and will continue to provide
financing, including margin lending and other extensions of credit to clients
(including subordinated loans on an interim basis to leveraged companies
associated with its investment banking and its private equity and other
principal investment activities), that may subject the Company to increased
credit and liquidity risks.

                                      70
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earnings per share was calculated as follows (in millions, except for per share
data):


                                             fiscal        fiscal        fiscal 
Basic EPS:                                     1998          1997          1996
================================================================================
Income before cumulative effect
  of accounting change                      $ 3,393       $ 2,586       $ 1,980
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change                                       (117)           --            --
Preferred stock dividend
  requirements                                  (55)          (66)          (66)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to common
  shareholders                              $ 3,221       $ 2,520       $ 1,914
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding                                   576           575           573
Basic EPS before cumulative
  effect of accounting change               $  5.80       $  4.38       $  3.34
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change                                    $ (0.20)           --            --
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic EPS                                   $  5.60       $  4.38       $  3.34
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                             fiscal        fiscal        fiscal
Diluted EPS:                                   1998          1997          1996
================================================================================
Income before cumulative effect
  of accounting change                      $ 3,393       $ 2,586       $ 1,980
Cumulative effect of accounting                                    
  change                                       (117)           --            --
Preferred stock dividend                                           
  requirements                                  (47)          (61)          (62)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to common                                     
  shareholders                              $ 3,229       $ 2,525       $ 1,918
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average common shares                                     
  outstanding                                   576           575           573
Effect of dilutive securities:                                     
  Stock options                                  18            19            21
ESOP convertible preferred stock                 12            12            13
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average common shares                                     
  outstanding and common stock                                     
  equivalents                                   606           606           607
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted EPS before cumulative                                      
  effect of accounting change               $  5.52       $  4.16       $  3.16
Cumulative effect of accounting                                    
  change                                    $ (0.19)           --            --
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   
Diluted EPS                                 $  5.33       $  4.16       $  3.16
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



9. TRADING ACTIVITIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TRADING REVENUES

The Company's trading activities include providing securities brokerage,
derivatives dealing and underwriting services to clients. While trading
activities are generated by client order flow, the Company also takes
proprietary positions based on expectations of future market movements and
conditions. The Company's trading strategies rely on the integrated management
of its client-driven and proprietary transactions, along with the hedging and
financing of these positions.

     The Company manages its trading businesses by product groupings and
therefore has established distinct, worldwide trading divisions having
responsibility for equity, fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities
products. Because of the integrated nature of the markets for such products,
each product area trades cash instruments as well as related derivative products
(i.e., options, swaps, futures, forwards and other contracts with respect to
such underlying instruments or commodities). Revenues related to principal
trading are summarized below by trading division:


                                 fiscal   fiscal     fiscal
(dollars in millions)              1998     1997       1996
============================================================
Equities                         $2,056   $1,310     $1,181
Fixed Income                        455    1,187      1,172
Foreign Exchange                    587      500        169
Commodities                         193      194        137
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total principal trading revenues $3,291   $3,191     $2,659
============================================================


Interest revenue and expense are integral components of trading activities. In
assessing the profitability of trading activities, the Company views net
interest and principal trading revenues in the aggregate.

     The Company's trading portfolios are managed with a view toward the risk
and profitability of the portfolios to the Company. The nature of the equities,
fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities activities conducted by the
Company, including the use of derivative products in these businesses, and the
market, credit and concentration risk management policies and procedures
covering these activities are discussed below.

                                      71
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


EQUITIES

The Company makes markets and trades in the global secondary markets for
equities and convertible debt and is a dealer in equity warrants, exchange
traded and OTC equity options, index futures, equity swaps and other
sophisticated equity derivatives. The Company's activities as a dealer primarily
are client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a
spread between the premiums paid or received on its contracts with clients and
the cost of hedging such transactions in the cash or forward market or with
other derivative transactions. The Company limits its market risk related to
these contracts, which stems primarily from underlying equity/index price and
volatility movements, by employing a variety of hedging strategies, such as
delta hedging (delta is a measure of a derivative contract's price movement
based on the movement of the price of the security or index underlying the
contract). The Company also takes proprietary positions in the global equity
markets by using derivatives, most commonly futures and options, in addition to
cash positions, intending to profit from market price and volatility movements
in the underlying equities or indices positioned.

     Equity option contracts give the purchaser of the contract the right to buy
(call) or sell (put) the equity security or index underlying the contract at an
agreed-upon price (strike price) during or at the conclusion of a specified
period of time. The seller (writer) of the contract is subject to market risk,
and the purchaser is subject to market risk (to the extent of the premium paid)
and credit risk. Equity swap contracts are contractual agreements whereby one
counterparty receives the appreciation (or pays the depreciation) on an equity
investment in return for paying another rate, often based upon equity index
movements or interest rates. The counterparties to the Company's equity
transactions include commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers,
investment funds and industrial companies.

FIXED INCOME

The Company is a market-maker for U.S. and non-U.S. government securities,
corporate bonds, money market instruments, medium-term notes and Eurobonds,
high-yield securities, emerging market securities, mortgage and other
asset-backed securities, preferred stock and tax-exempt securities. In addition,
the Company is a dealer in interest rate and currency swaps and other related
derivative products, OTC options on U.S. and non-U.S. government bonds and
mortgage-backed forward agreements ("TBA"), options and swaps. In this capacity,
the Company facilitates asset and liability management for its customers in
interest rate and currency swaps and related products and OTC government bond
options.

     Swaps used in fixed income trading are, for the most part, contractual
agreements to exchange interest payment streams (i.e., an interest rate swap may
involve exchanging fixed for floating interest payments) or currencies (i.e., a
currency swap may involve exchanging yen for U.S. dollars in one year at an
agreed-upon exchange rate). The Company profits by earning a spread between the
premium paid or received for these contracts and the cost of hedging such
contracts. The Company seeks to manage the market risk of its swap portfolio,
which stems from interest rate and currency movements and volatility, by using
modeling that quantifies the sensitivity of its portfolio to movements in
interest rates and currencies and by adding positions to or selling positions
from its portfolio as needed to minimize such sensitivity. Typically, the
Company adjusts its positions by entering into additional swaps or interest rate
and foreign currency futures or foreign currency forwards and by purchasing or
selling additional underlying government bonds. The Company manages the risk
related to its option portfolio by using a variety of hedging strategies such as
delta hedging, which includes the use of futures and forward contracts to hedge
market risk. The Company also is involved in using debt securities to structure
products with multiple risk/return factors designed to suit investor objectives.

     The Company is an underwriter of and a market-maker in mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMO") as well as
commercial, residential and real estate loan products. The Company also
structures mortgage-backed swaps for its clients, enabling them to derive the
cash flows from an underlying mortgage-backed security without purchasing the
cash position. The Company earns the spread between the premium inherent in the
swap and the cost of hedging the swap contract through the use of cash positions
or TBA contracts. The Company also uses TBAs in its 

                                      72
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


role as a dealer in mortgage-backed securities and facilitates customer trades
by taking positions in the TBA market. Typically, these positions are hedged by
offsetting TBA contracts or underlying cash positions. The Company profits by
earning the bid-offer spread on such transactions. Further, the Company uses
TBAs to ensure delivery of underlying mortgage-backed securities in its CMO
issuance business. As is the case with all mortgage-backed products, market risk
associated with these instruments results from interest rate fluctuations and
changes in mortgage prepayment speeds. The counterparties to the Company's fixed
income transactions include investment advisors, commercial banks, insurance
companies, investment funds and industrial companies.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE

The Company is a market-maker in a number of foreign currencies. In this
business, it actively trades currencies in the spot and forward markets earning
a dealer spread. The Company seeks to manage its market risk by entering into
offsetting positions. The Company conducts an arbitrage business in which it
seeks to profit from inefficiencies between the futures, spot and forward
markets. The Company also makes a market in foreign currency options. This
business largely is client-driven and involves the purchasing and writing of
European and American style options and certain sophisticated products to meet
specific client needs. The Company profits in this business by earning spreads
between the options' premiums and the cost of the hedging of such positions. The
Company limits its market risk by using a variety of hedging strategies,
including the buying and selling of the currencies underlying the options based
upon the options' delta equivalent. Foreign exchange option contracts give the
purchaser of the contract the right to buy (call) or sell (put) the currency
underlying the contract at an agreed-upon strike price at or over a specified
period of time. Forward contracts and futures represent commitments to purchase
or sell the underlying currencies at a specified future date at a specified
price. The Company also takes proprietary positions in currencies to profit from
market price and volatility movements in the currencies positioned.

     The majority of the Company's foreign exchange business relates to major
foreign currencies such as deutsche marks, yen, pound sterling, French francs,
Swiss francs, Italian lire, Canadian dollars and, effective January 1, 1999, the
euro. The balance of the business covers a broad range of other currencies. The
counterparties to the Company's foreign exchange transactions include commercial
banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, investment funds and industrial
companies.

COMMODITIES

The Company, as a major participant in the world commodities markets, trades in
physical precious, base and platinum group metals, electricity, energy products
(principally oil, refined oil products and natural gas) as well as a variety of
derivatives related to these commodities such as futures, forwards and exchange
traded and OTC options and swaps. Through these activities, the Company provides
clients with a ready market to satisfy end users' current raw material needs and
facilitates their ability to hedge price fluctuations related to future
inventory needs. The former activity at times requires the positioning of
physical commodities. Derivatives on those commodities, such as futures,
forwards and options, often are used to hedge price movements in the underlying
physical inventory. The Company profits as a market-maker in physical
commodities by capturing the bid-offer spread inherent in the physical markets.

     To facilitate hedging for its clients, the Company often is required to
take positions in the commodity markets in the form of forward, option and swap
contracts involving oil, natural gas, precious and base metals, and electricity.
The Company generally hedges these positions by using a variety of hedging
techniques such as delta hedging, whereby the Company takes positions in the
physical markets and/or positions in other commodity derivatives such as futures
and forwards to offset the market risk in the underlying derivative. The Company
profits from this business by earning a spread between the premiums paid or
received for these derivatives and the cost of hedging such derivatives.

                                      73
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


     The Company also maintains proprietary trading positions in commodity
derivatives, including futures, forwards and options in addition to physical
commodities, to profit from price and volatility movements in the underlying
commodities markets.

     Forward, option and swap contracts on commodities are structured similarly
to like-kind derivative contracts for cash financial instruments. The
counterparties to OTC commodity contracts include precious metals producers,
refiners and consumers as well as shippers, central banks, and oil, gas and
electricity producers.

     The following discussions of risk management, market risk, credit risk,
concentration risk and customer activities relate to the Company's trading
activities.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk management at the Company is a multi-faceted process with independent
oversight which requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of
specialized products and markets. The Company's senior management takes an
active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and
procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist
in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition
of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services
business, the Company's risk management policies and procedures are evolutionary
in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. Many of the
Company's risk management and control practices are subject to periodic review
by the Company's internal auditors as well as to interactions with various
regulatory authorities.

     The Management Committee, composed of the Company's most senior officers,
establishes the overall risk management policies for the Company and reviews the
Company's performance relative to these policies. The Management Committee has
created several Risk Committees to assist it in monitoring and reviewing the
Company's risk management practices. These Risk Committees, among other matters,
review the general framework, levels and monitoring procedures relating to the
Company's market and credit risk profile, sales practices, legal enforceability
and operational and systems risks. The Controllers, Treasury, Law, Compliance
and Governmental Affairs and Firm Risk Management Departments, which are all
independent of the Company's business units, assist senior management and the
Risk Committees in monitoring and controlling the Company's risk profile. In
addition, the Internal Audit Department, which also reports to senior
management, periodically examines and evaluates the Company's operations and
control environment. The Company continues to be committed to employing
qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various
administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company's risk
management and monitoring systems and processes.

MARKET RISK

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market
prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such
as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio.

     The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities
on a Company-wide basis, on a trading division level worldwide and on an
individual product basis. Market risk limits have been approved for the Company
and each trading division of the Company worldwide. Discrete market risk limits
are assigned to trading divisions and trading desks and, as appropriate,
products and regions, that are compatible with the trading division limits.
Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Firm Risk Management
Department all monitor market risk measures against limits and report major
market and position events to senior management.

     The Firm Risk Management Department independently reviews the Company's
trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing
Value-at-Risk and other quantitative and qualitative risk measurements and
analyses. The Company may use measures, such as rate sensitivity, convexity,
volatility and time decay measurements, to estimate market risk and to assess
the sensitivity of positions to changes in market conditions. Stress testing,
which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios 

                                      74
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


of specified changes in market factors, for certain products is performed
periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk
managers and the Firm Risk Management Department.


CREDIT RISK

The Company's exposure to credit risk arises from the possibility that a
counterparty to a transaction might fail to perform under its contractual
commitment, which could result in the Company incurring losses. The Company has
credit guidelines which limit the Company's credit exposure to any one
counterparty. Specific credit risk limits based on the credit guidelines also
are in place for each type of counterparty (by rating category) as well as for
secondary positions of high-yield and emerging market debt.

     The Credit Department administers and monitors the credit limits among
trading divisions on a worldwide basis. In addition to monitoring credit limits,
the Company manages the credit exposure relating to the Company's trading
activities by reviewing counterparty financial soundness periodically, by
entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with
counterparties in appropriate circumstances and by limiting the duration of
exposure. In certain cases, the Company also may close out transactions or
assign them to other counterparties to mitigate credit risk.


CONCENTRATION RISK

     The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in
certain types of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single
issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a
particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving
developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry. Financial
instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities
and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally Japan, Germany
and Italy), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 9% of the
Company's total assets at November 30, 1998. In addition, substantially all of
the collateral held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed,
which together represented approximately 33% of the Company's total assets at
November 30, 1998, consists of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal
agencies or other sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and
commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and
financing commitments made in connection with its private equity and principal
investment activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant
exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade
issuers. The Company seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of the
systems and procedures described in the preceding discussions of market and
credit risk.


CUSTOMER ACTIVITIES

The Company's customer activities involve the execution, settlement and
financing of various securities and commodities transactions on behalf of
customers. Customer securities activities are transacted on either a cash or
margin basis. Customer commodities activities, which include the execution of 
customer transactions in commodity futures transactions (including options on 
futures), are transacted on margin basis.
     
     The Company's customer activities may expose it to off-balance sheet credit
risk. The Company may have to purchase or sell financial instruments at
prevailing market prices in the event of the failure of a customer to settle a
trade on its original terms or in the event cash and securities in customer
margin accounts are not sufficient to fully cover customer loses. The Company
seeks to control the risks associated with customer activities by requiring
customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulations
and Company policies.


NATIONAL/CONTRACT AMOUNTS AND FAIR MARKET VALUES OF DERIVATIVES

The gross notinal or contract amounts of derivative instruments and fair value
(carrying amount) of the related assets and liabilities at November 30, 1998 and
1997, as well as the average fair value of those assets and liabilities for
fiscal 1998 and 1997, are presented in the table which follows. Fair value
represents the cost of replacing these instruments and is further described in
Note 2. Future

                                      75
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report

changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates of the fair values of
the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these contracts 
may ultimately result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts 
recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Assets 
represent unrealized gains on purchased exchange traded and OTC options and 
other contracts (including interest rate, foreign exchange and other forward 
contracts and swaps) net of any unrealized losses owed to the counterparties on 
offsetting positions in situations where netting is appropriate. Similarly, 
liabilities represent net amounts owed to counterparties. These amounts will 
vary based on changes in the fair values of underlying financial instruments 
and/or the volatility of such underlying instruments:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

Fiscal Year-End
Gross Notional/Contract Amount(1)(2)                                   Fiscal Year-End Fair Values(3)    Average Fair Values(3)(4)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(dollars in billions at fiscal year-end)                                   Assets       Liabilities        Assets        Liabilities

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    1998     1997                                                      1998    1997    1998    1997    1998     1997   1998    1997
====================================================================================================================================

<C>       <C>       <S>                                               <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>    <C>     <C> 
                    Interest rate and currency swaps and options 
                    (including caps, floors and swap options) and 
                    other fixed
  $1,719   $1,262   income securities contracts                       $10.1   $ 7.1   $10.4   $ 6.4   $ 9.5    $ 4.8   $ 8.6   $ 5.9

                    Foreign exchange forward and futures
     903    1,035   contracts and options                               3.7     4.6     4.1     4.2     4.6      3.4     4.4     3.2

                    Equity securities contracts (including
                    equity swaps, futures contracts, and
     107      112   warrants and options)                               5.2     3.8     4.8     3.8     4.8      2.6     4.6     2.6

                    Commodity forwards, futures, options
      91       78   and swaps                                           2.2     1.3     1.9     1.2     2.0      1.1     1.7     0.9

                    Mortgage-backed securities forward
      40       42   contracts, swaps and options                        0.2     0.3      --      --     0.2      0.3      --      --

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  $2,860   $2,529   Total                                             $21.4   $17.1   $21.2   $15.6   $21.1    $12.2   $19.3   $12.6

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE> 

(1)  The notional amounts of derivatives have been adjusted to reflect the
     effects of leverage, where applicable.

(2)  Notional amounts include purchased and written options of $485 billion and
     $442 billion, respectively, at November 30, 1998, and $572 billion and $549
     billion, respectively, at November 30, 1997.

(3)  These amounts represent carrying value (exclusive of collateral) at
     November 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively, and do not include receivables or
     payables related to exchange traded futures contracts.

(4)  Amounts are calculated using a monthly average.


The gross notional or contract amounts of these instruments are indicative of
the Company's degree of use of derivatives for trading purposes but do not
represent the Company's exposure to market or credit risk. Credit risk arises
from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the
contract. The Company's exposure to credit risk at any point in time is
represented by the fair value of the contracts reported as assets. These amounts
are presented on a net-by-counterparty basis when appropriate, but are not
reported net of collateral, which the Company obtains with respect to certain of
these transactions to reduce its exposure to credit losses. The Company monitors
the creditworthiness of counterparties to these transactions on an ongoing basis
and requests additional collateral when deemed necessary. The Company believes
the ultimate settlement of the transactions outstanding at November 30, 1998
will not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition.

                                      76
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


The remaining maturities of the Company's swaps and other derivative products at
November 30, 1998 and 1997 are summarized in the following table, showing
notional values by year of expected maturity:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                     Less than  1 to 3 3 to 5  More than
(dollars in billions)                                                                   1 Year   Years  Years    5 Years Total
===================================================================================================================================
<S>                                                                                     <C>      <C>    <C>      <C>     <C> 
  AT NOVEMBER 30, 1998

Interest rate and currency swaps and options (including caps, floors and swap options)
  and other fixed income securities contracts                                            $  457   $479   $371     $412   $1,719
Foreign exchange forward and futures contracts and options                                  892     11     --       --      903
Equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, futures contracts,               
  and warrants and options)                                                                  82     17      7        1      107
Commodity forwards, futures, options and swaps                                               53     22      8        8       91
Mortgage-backed securities forward contracts, swaps and options                              25      1      2       12       40
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Total                                                                                  $1,509   $530   $388     $433   $2,860
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Percent of total                                                                           53%    19%    13%      15%     100%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 AT NOVEMBER 30, 1997                                                                
                                                                                      
Interest rate and currency swaps and options (including caps, floors and swap options)
  and other fixed income securities contracts                                            $  319   $398   $235     $310   $1,262
Foreign exchange forward and futures contracts and options                                1,026      7      2       --    1,035
Equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, futures contracts,               
  and warrants and options)                                                                  87     17      7        1      112
Commodity forwards, futures, options and swaps                                               58     14      4        2       78
Mortgage-backed securities forward contracts, swaps and options                              20      1      4       17       42
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Total                                                                                  $1,510   $437   $252     $330   $2,529
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Percent of total                                                                           60%    17%    10%      13%     100%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE> 

                                      77
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


The credit quality of the Company's trading-related derivatives at November 30,
1998 and 1997 is summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the
related assets by counterparty credit rating. The actual credit ratings are
determined by external rating agencies or by equivalent ratings used by the
Company's Credit Department:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                            Collateralized      Other
                                                                                                      Non-       Non-
                                                                                                Investment Investment
(dollars in millions)                                         AAA       AA        A      BBB         Grade      Grade      Total
===================================================================================================================================
<S>                                                        <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>         <C>          <C>  
AT NOVEMBER 30, 1998                                                                               
                                                                                                   
Interest rate and currency swaps and options                                                       
  (including caps, floors and swap options)                                                        
  and other fixed income securities contracts              $  894   $3,727   $3,694   $1,181          $ 98      $ 510    $10,104
Foreign exchange forward contracts and options                306    1,413    1,435      337            --        263      3,754
Equity securities contracts (including equity swaps,                                                         
  warrants and options)                                     1,995    1,105      478       61         1,364        165      5,168
Commodity forwards, options and swaps                          71      448      401      708            46        534      2,208
Mortgage-backed securities forward contracts,                                                                
  swaps and options                                           130       51       21        3            --          3        208
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                    $3,396   $6,744   $6,029   $2,290        $1,508     $1,475    $21,442
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Percent of total                                             16%      31%      28%      11%            7%         7%       100%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  AT NOVEMBER 30, 1997                                                                                       
                                                                                                             
Interest rate and currency swaps and options                                                       
  (including caps, floors and swap options)                                                        
  and other fixed income securities contracts              $  754   $2,761   $2,544   $  436        $   33     $  568    $ 7,096
Foreign exchange forward contracts and options                788    2,504    1,068       72            --        176      4,608
Equity securities contracts (including equity swaps,                                                         
  warrants and options)                                     1,141      917      567      233           780        152      3,790
Commodity forwards, options and swaps                          70      425      380      312            12        145      1,344
Mortgage-backed securities forward contracts,                                                                
  swaps and options                                           156       90       50        2            --         10        308
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                    $2,909   $6,697   $4,609   $1,055          $825     $1,051    $17,146
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Percent of total                                             17%      39%      27%       6%            5%        6%        100%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

The Company also has obtained assets posted as collateral by investment grade
counterparties amounting to $2.5 billion and $1.2 billion at November 30, 1998
and November 30, 1997, respectively.

                                      78
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual report


10 PREFERRED STOCK, CAPITAL UNITS AND
   PREFERRED SECURITIES ISSUED BY SUBSIDIARIES
- ----------------------------------------------

Preferred stock of the Company is composed of the following issues:
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                Shares Outstanding at      Balance at
                                                                                      November 30          November 30
(dollars in millions)                                                                1998        1997     1998      1997
==========================================================================================================================
<S>                                                                             <C>         <C>          <C>       <C> 
ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $35.88                 3,581,964   3,646,664     $129      $131
Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, stated value $200    1,725,000   1,725,000      345       345
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock, stated value $200                            1,000,000   1,000,000      200       200
7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock, stated value $200                                   --   1,000,000       --       200
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                                                                   $674      $876
==========================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 

Each issue of outstanding preferred stock ranks in parity with all other
outstanding preferred stock of the Company.

     During fiscal 1998, MSDW Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business
trust (the "Capital Trust"), all of the common securities of which are owned by
the Company, issued $400 million of 7.10% Capital Securities (the "Capital
Securities") that are guaranteed by the Company. The Capital Trust issued the
Capital Securities and invested the proceeds in 7.10% Junior Subordinated
Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company, which are due February 28,
2038.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company redeemed all 1,000,000 outstanding shares
of its 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $200 per
share. The Company also simultaneously redeemed all corresponding Depositary
Shares at a redemption price of $25 per Depositary Share. Each Depositary Share
represented 1/8 of a share of the Company's 7-3/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock.

     The Company has Capital Units outstanding which were issued by the Company
and Morgan Stanley Finance plc ("MS plc"), a U.K. subsidiary. A Capital Unit
consists of (a) a Subordinated Debenture of MS plc guaranteed by the Company and
having maturities from 2013 to 2017 and (b) a related Purchase Contract issued
by the Company, which may be accelerated by the Company beginning approximately
one year after the issuance of each Capital Unit, requiring the holder to
purchase one Depositary Share representing shares (or fractional shares) of the
Company's Cumulative Preferred Stock. The aggregate amount of Capital Units
outstanding was $999 million at November 30, 1998 and 1997.

     In January 1999, the Company and MS plc called for redemption all of the
outstanding 7.82% Capital Units and 7.80% Capital Units on February 28, 1999.
The aggregate principal amount of the Capital Units to be redeemed is $352
million.

     The estimated fair value of the Capital Units approximated carrying value
at November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997.

11 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MS&Co. and DWR are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission
merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS&Co. and DWR have consistently operated
in excess of these requirements. MS&Co.'s net capital totaled $3,205 million at
November 30, 1998, which exceeded the amount required by $2,699 million. DWR's
net capital totaled $752 million at November 30, 1998, which exceeded the amount
required by $668 million. MSIL, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority, and
MSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of the
Japanese Ministry of Finance. MSIL and MSJL have consistently operated in excess
of their respective regulatory capital requirements.

     Under regulatory net capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and other regulatory capital guidelines,
FDIC-insured financial institutions must

                                      79
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report



maintain (a) 3% to 5% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to total assets ("leverage
ratio") and (b) 8% combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as defined, to
risk-weighted assets ("risk-weighted capital ratio"). At November 30, 1998, the
leverage ratio and risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company's
FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these and all other regulatory
minimums.

     Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various
securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the
countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated
in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. Morgan Stanley
Derivative Products Inc., the Company's triple-A rated derivative products
subsidiary, also has established certain operating restrictions which have been
reviewed by various rating agencies.

     The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain
covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company,
may restrict the Company's ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At
November 30, 1998, approximately $4.9 billion of net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances
to the Company.

     Cumulative translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from
translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective
functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related
tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts and designates certain
non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating
to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency
subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of the Company's net foreign
investments generally are tax-deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge
gains and losses are taxable currently. Therefore, the gross notional amounts of
the contracts and debt designated as hedges exceed the Company's net foreign
investments to result in effective hedging on an after-tax basis. The Company
attempts to protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in
currency exchange rates on its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar
subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward
market. However, under some circumstances, the Company may elect not to hedge
its net monetary investments in certain foreign operations due to market
conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at
acceptable costs. Information relating to the hedging of the Company's net
monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries and
their effects on cumulative translation adjustments is summarized below:

                                                        At November 30
(dollars in millions)                                     1998       1997
===========================================================================
Net monetary investments in non-U.S.
  dollar functional currency subsidiaries             $  1,364   $  1,128
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross notional amounts of foreign exchange
  contracts and non-U.S. dollar debt
  designated as hedges(1)                             $  2,239   $  1,881
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cumulative translation adjustments
  resulting from net investments in
  subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar
  functional currency                                 $     29   $      6
Cumulative translation adjustments
  resulting from realized or unrealized
  gains or losses on hedges, net of tax               $    (41)  $    (15)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total cumulative translation adjustments              $    (12)  $     (9)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Notional amounts represent the contractual currency amount translated at
     respective fiscal year-end spot rates.


12 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company has adopted a variety of compensation plans for certain of its
employees as well as the Company's non-employee directors. These plans are
designed to facilitate a pay-for-performance policy, provide compensation
commensurate with other leading financial services companies and provide for
internal ownership in order to align the interests of employees with the
long-term interests of the Company's shareholders. These plans are summarized
below.


EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company is authorized to issue up to approximately 270 million shares of its
common stock in connection with awards under its equity-


                                      80
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


based compensation plans. At November 30, 1998, approximately 150 million shares
were available for future grant under these plans.


STOCK OPTION AWARDS

Stock option awards have been granted pursuant to several equity-based
compensation plans. Historically, these plans have generally provided for the
granting of stock options having an exercise price not less than the fair value
of the Company's common stock (as defined in the plan) on the date of grant.
Such options generally become exercisable over a one-to-five year period and
expire seven to 10 years from the date of grant.

The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company's stock option
awards (share data in millions):
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                               FISCAL 1998              FISCAL 1997             FISCAL 1996
                                                       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                      WEIGHTED                 Weighted                 Weighted
                                                          NUMBER       AVERAGE      Number      Average     Number       Average
                                                              OF      EXERCISE          of     Exercise         of      Exercise
                                                          SHARES         PRICE      Shares        Price     Shares         Price
====================================================================================================================================
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>         <C> 
Options outstanding at beginning of period                  64.1        $27.85        60.3       $17.04       63.1        $14.46
Granted                                                     15.6         68.77        20.2        48.16        7.5         30.15
Exercised                                                  (15.3)        18.23       (14.9)       11.68       (9.0)         9.45
Forfeited                                                   (1.1)        39.40        (1.5)       26.66       (1.3)        21.14
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding at end of period                        63.3        $40.08        64.1       $27.85       60.3        $17.04
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options exercisable at end of period                        40.6        $39.37        44.3       $26.67       36.4        $13.82
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 

The following table presents information relating to the Company's stock options
outstanding at November 30, 1998 (share data in millions):


                           OPTIONS OUTSTANDING           OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                   -------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Weighted    Average                   Weighted
                                  Average  Remaining                    Average
Range of                Number   Exercise       Life         Number    Exercise
Exercise Prices    Outstanding      Price     (Years)   Exercisable       Price
================================================================================
$ 8.00 - $19.99           22.7     $17.29        5.9           17.9      $17.09
$20.00 - $29.99            2.0      24.02        3.3            1.0       23.35
$30.00 - $39.99            7.9      32.13        5.5            1.3       32.42
$40.00 - $49.99            4.4      43.47        8.6            3.8       43.47
$50.00 - $59.99           15.0      54.90        8.1            9.2       55.64
$60.00 - $69.99            0.5      63.08        7.1            0.5       62.88
$70.00 - $79.99            9.5      71.56        9.8            5.7       71.73
$80.00 - $96.00            1.3      89.90        7.1            1.2       90.00
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                   63.3                   7.1           40.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Deferred Compensation Awards

The Company has made deferred compensation awards pursuant to several equity-
based compensation plans. These plans provide for the deferral of a portion of
certain key employees' compensation with payments made in the form of the
Company's common stock or in the right to receive unrestricted shares
(collectively, "Restricted Stock"). Compensation expense for all such awards
(including those subject to forfeiture) amounted to $415 million, $347 million
and $534 million in fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively.
Compensation expense for Restricted Stock awards was determined based on the
fair value of the Company's common stock (as defined in the plans). The number
of Restricted Stock shares outstanding were 59 million at fiscal year-end 1998,
62 million at fiscal year-end 1997, and 65 million at fiscal year-end 1996.

     Restricted Stock awarded under these plans are subject to restrictions on
sale, transfer or assignment until the end of a specified restriction period,
generally 5 to 10 years from the date of grant. Holders of Restricted Stock
generally may forfeit ownership of a portion of their award if employment is
terminated before the end of the relevant restriction period. Holders of vested
Restricted Stock generally will forfeit ownership only in certain limited
situations, including termination for cause during the restriction period.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees may purchase shares
of the Company's common stock at not less than


                                      81
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


85% of the fair value on the date of purchase. Employees of the Company
purchased 0.6 million shares of common stock in fiscal 1998, 0.5 million shares
in fiscal 1997 and 0.7 million shares in fiscal 1996.

     The discount to fair value was $6 million for fiscal 1998 and $3 million
for both fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996. The plan is "non-compensatory" under APB
No. 25, and, accordingly, no charge to earnings has been recorded for the amount
of the discount to fair value.

Non-Employee Director Awards

The Company sponsors an equity-based plan for non-employee directors under which
shares of the Company's common stock have been authorized for issuance in the
form of option grants, stock awards or deferred compensation. The effect of
these grants on results of operations was not material.

OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS

Capital Accumulation Plan

Under the Capital Accumulation Plan ("CAP"), vested units consisting of
unsecured rights to receive payments based on notional interests in existing and
future risk-capital investments made directly or indirectly by the Company ("CAP
Units") are granted to key employees. The value of the CAP Units awarded for
services rendered in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 was approximately $15 million,
$14 million and $7 million, respectively, all of which relate to vested units.

Carried Interest Plans

Under various Carried Interest Plans, certain key employees effectively
participate in a portion of the Company's realized gains from certain of its
equity investments in private equity transactions. Compensation expense for
fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 related to these plans aggregated $33 million, $38
million and $0.2 million, respectively.

Real Estate Fund Plans

Under various plans, select employees and consultants to certain partnerships
may participate in certain gains realized by the Company's real estate funds.
Compensation expense relating to these plans aggregated $3 million, $8 million
and $13 million for fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively.

Profit Sharing Plans

The Company sponsors qualified profit sharing plans covering substantially all
U.S. employees and also provides cash payment of profit sharing to employees of
its international subsidiaries. Contributions are made to eligible employees at
the discretion of management based upon the financial performance of the
Company. Total profit sharing expense for fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal
1996 was $115 million, $113 million and $72 million, respectively.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan

The Company has a $140 million leveraged employee stock ownership plan, funded
through an independently managed trust. The Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP") was established to broaden internal ownership of the Company and to
provide benefits to its employees in a cost-effective manner. Each of the
3,581,964 preferred shares outstanding at November 30, 1998 is held by the ESOP
trust, is convertible into 3.3 shares of the Company's common stock and is
entitled to annual dividends of $2.78 per preferred share. The ESOP trust funded
its stock purchase through a loan of $140 million from the Company. The ESOP
trust note, due September 19, 2005 (extendible at the option of the ESOP trust
to September 19, 2010), bears a 10-3/8% interest rate per annum with principal
payable without penalty on or before the due date. The ESOP trust expects to
make principal and interest payments on the note from funds provided by
dividends on the shares of convertible preferred stock and contributions from
the Company. The note receivable

                                      82
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


from the ESOP trust is reflected as a reduction in the Company's shareholders'
equity. Shares allocated to employees generally may not be withdrawn until the
employee's death, disability, retirement or termination. Upon withdrawal, each
share of ESOP preferred stock generally will be converted into 3.3 shares of the
Company's common stock. If the fair value of such 3.3 common shares at
conversion is less than the $35.88 liquidation value of an ESOP preferred share,
the Company will pay the withdrawing employee the difference in additional
common shares or cash.

     Contributions to the ESOP by the Company and allocation of ESOP shares to
employees are made annually at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The
cost of shares allocated to participants' accounts amounted to $8 million in
both fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, and $9 million in fiscal 1996. The ESOP debt
service costs for fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 were paid from
dividends received on preferred stock held by the plan and from Company
contributions.

PRO FORMA EFFECT OF SFAS NO. 123

Had the Company elected to recognize compensation cost pursuant to SFAS No. 123
for its stock option plans and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, net income
would have been reduced by $214 million, $196 million and $41 million for fiscal
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Basic and diluted earnings per common share
would have been reduced by $0.38, $0.34 and $0.07 for fiscal 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

     The weighted average fair value at date of grant for stock options granted
during fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $22.37, $16.76 and $9.08 per option,
respectively. The fair value of stock options at date of grant was estimated
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model utilizing the following weighted
average assumptions:

                                              FISCAL     fiscal      fiscal
                                                1998       1997        1996
============================================================================
Risk-free interest rate                         4.9%        6.0%        5.5%
Expected option life in years                   4.8         6.0         5.3
Expected stock price volatility                33.2%       28.0%       27.5%
Expected dividend yield                         1.3%        1.3%        1.6%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

13 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its worldwide
employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily
health care and life insurance, to eligible employees. The Company also provides
certain benefits to former or inactive employees prior to retirement. The
following summarizes these plans:

PENSION PLANS

Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company and its U.S. affiliates
are covered by non-contributory pension plans that are qualified under Section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Qualified Plans"). Unfunded
supplementary plans (the "Supplemental Plans") cover certain executives. In
addition to the Qualified Plans and the Supplemental Plans (collectively, the
"U.S. Plans"), nine of the Company's international subsidiaries also have
pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans
generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee's years of
credited service and on compensation levels specified in the plans. For the
Qualified Plans and the other international plans, the Company's policy is to
fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under
applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. Liabilities for benefits
payable under the Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded
when paid to the beneficiaries.

                                      83
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


     The following tables present information for the Company's pension plans on
an aggregate basis.

Pension expense includes the following components:

                                            FISCAL       fiscal        fiscal
(dollars in millions)                         1998         1997          1996
=============================================================================
U.S. Plans:
Service cost, benefits earned
   during the period                         $  72        $  54        $  48
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                           78           67           58
Return on plan assets                           (7)        (170)        (111)
Difference between actual and
   expected return on assets                   (80)         104           53
Net amortization                                 1            1            2
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total U.S. plans                                64           56           50
International plans                             12            9           12
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total pension expense                        $  76        $  65        $  62
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following table provides the assumptions used in determining the projected
benefit obligation for the U.S. Plans:

                                                           FISCAL     fiscal
                                                             1998       1997
=============================================================================
Weighted average discount rate                               6.75%      7.25%
Rate of increase in future compensation levels               5.00%      5.00%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets             9.00%      9.00%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following table sets forth the funded status of the U.S. Plans:

                            NOVEMBER 30, 1998           November 30, 1997
                                      ACCUMULATED                Accumulated
                        ASSETS EXCEED    BENEFITS  Assets Exceed    Benefits
                          ACCUMULATED      EXCEED    Accumulated      Exceed
(dollars in millions)        BENEFITS      ASSETS       Benefits      Assets
============================================================================
Actuarial present
  value of vested
  benefit obligation         $  (269)    $  (616)       $  (735)    $   (34)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated                                           
  benefit obligation         $  (314)    $  (693)       $  (807)    $   (71)
Effect of future                                      
  salary increases              (114)        (93)          (181)        (30)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit                                     
  obligation                    (428)       (786)          (988)       (101)
Plan assets at fair                                   
  value (primarily listed                             
  stocks and bonds)              384         597          1,006          --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit                                     
  obligation (in                                      
  excess of) or less                                  
  than plan assets               (44)       (189)            18        (101)
Unrecognized net                                      
  loss or (gain)                  53          83             (4)         27
Unrecognized prior                                    
  service cost                     1          28             31          (4)
Unrecognized net                                      
  transition obligation           --           8              3           5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid (accrued)                                     
  pension cost at                                     
  fiscal year-end            $    10     $   (70)       $    48     $   (73)
Additional liability                                  
  for unfunded                                        
  accumulated                                         
  benefit obligation              --         (30)            --          --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pension asset                                         
  (liability)                $    10     $  (100)       $    48     $   (73)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company also maintains a separate defined contribution pension plan
which covers substantially all employees of the Company's U.K. subsidiaries (the
"U.K. Plan"). Under the U.K. Plan, benefits are determined by the purchasing
power of the accumulated value of contributions paid. In fiscal 1998 and 1997,
the Company's expense related to the U.K. Plan was $17 million and $15 million,
respectively.

                                      84
<PAGE>
 
                Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company has unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and
life insurance for eligible retirees, employees and dependents. At November 30,
1998 and 1997, the Company's accrued postretirement benefit costs were $95
million and $91 million, respectively.

POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation,
supplemental unemployment benefits, severance benefits, disability-related
benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided
to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These
benefits were not material to the consolidated financial statements in fiscal
1998, 1997 and 1996.

14 INCOME TAXES
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The provision for income taxes consists of:

                                        FISCAL        fiscal        fiscal
(dollars in millions)                     1998          1997          1996
===========================================================================
Current
  U.S. federal                         $ 1,199       $ 1,079       $ 1,096
  U.S. state and local                     372           348           290
  Non-U.S                                  476           338           177
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         2,047         1,765         1,563
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred
  U.S. federal                             (26)          (45)         (326)
  U.S. state and local                       1           (17)          (74)
  Non-U.S                                  (30)          (15)          (26)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           (55)          (77)         (426)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes             $ 1,992       $ 1,688       $ 1,137
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following table reconciles the provision to the U.S. federal statutory
income tax rate:

                                             FISCAL      fiscal      fiscal
                                               1998        1997        1996
============================================================================
U.S. federal statutory income
  tax rate                                     35.0%       35.0%       35.0%
U.S. state and local income taxes,
  net of U.S. federal income tax
  benefits                                      4.6         5.1         4.6
Lower tax rates applicable to
  non-U.S. earnings                            (2.4)       (1.1)       (1.7)
Reduced tax rate applied to
  dividends                                    (0.1)       (0.1)       (0.1)
Other                                          (0.1)        0.6        (1.3)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate                      37.0%       39.5%       36.5%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of November 30, 1998, the Company had approximately $2.6 billion of earnings
attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no provisions have been recorded
for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such
earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested
abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income taxes payable in
the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company's
deferred tax assets and liabilities at November 30, 1998 and 1997 are as
follows:

                                                    NOV. 30,     NOV. 30,
(dollars in millions)                                   1998         1997
=========================================================================
Deferred tax assets
  Employee compensation and benefit plans             $1,289       $1,168
  Loan loss allowance                                    371          459
  Other valuation and liability allowances               604          545
  Other                                                  167          180
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets                              2,431        2,352
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities
  Prepaid commissions                                    239          233
  Valuation of inventory, investments
    and receivables                                      127          298
  Other                                                  237          265
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities                           603          796
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax assets                               $1,828       $1,556
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cash paid for income taxes was $1,591 million, $1,251 million and $1,190 million
in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                                      85
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


15 GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total revenues, net revenues, income before taxes and identifiable assets of the
Company's operations by geographic area are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   TOTAL REVENUES                                    NET REVENUES
                                  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     FISCAL           fiscal           fiscal           FISCAL           fiscal           fiscal
(dollars in millions)                  1998             1997             1996             1998             1997             1996
================================================================================================================================
<S>                               <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>      
International:
  Europe                          $   7,541        $   6,468        $   5,616        $   2,786        $   1,757        $   1,429
  Asia                                1,176              952              768            1,023              866              700
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                             8,717            7,420            6,384            3,809            2,623            2,129
North America                        28,001           28,711           24,235           12,933           12,519           10,193
  Eliminations                       (5,587)          (8,999)          (8,448)            (298)            (309)            (299)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                         $  31,131        $  27,132        $  22,171        $  16,444        $  14,833        $  12,023
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<CAPTION>

                                                 INCOME BEFORE TAXES                              IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
                                  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     FISCAL           fiscal           fiscal           FISCAL           fiscal           fiscal
(dollars in millions)                  1998             1997             1996             1998             1997             1996
================================================================================================================================
<S>                               <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>      
International:
  Europe                          $   1,088        $     399        $     328        $ 139,923        $ 126,138        $ 113,734
  Asia                                  287              240              161           25,712           30,656           21,561
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                             1,375              639              489          165,635          156,794          135,295
North America                         4,010            3,635            2,628          337,588          307,728          242,510
  Eliminations                           --               --               --         (185,633)        (162,235)        (138,945)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                         $   5,385        $   4,274        $   3,117        $ 317,590        $ 302,287        $ 238,860
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Because of the international nature of the financial markets and the resulting
geographic integration of the Company's business, the Company manages its
business with a view to the profitability of the enterprise as a whole, and, as
such, profitability by geographic area is not necessarily meaningful.

                                      86
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual Report


16 SEGMENT INFORMATION
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company is in the business of providing financial services, and operates in
two business segments -- Securities and Asset Management and Credit and
Transaction Services. Securities and Asset Management engages in delivering a
broad range of financial products and services, including asset management, to
individual and institutional investors. Credit and Transaction Services is
engaged in the issuance and servicing of general purpose credit cards, consumer
lending and electronic transaction processing services.

     The following table presents certain information regarding these business
segments:

                                         FISCAL        fiscal        fiscal
(dollars in millions)                      1998          1997          1996
============================================================================
Total revenues:
  Securities and Asset
    Management                         $ 25,763      $ 21,499      $ 17,136
  Credit and Transaction
    Services                              5,368         5,633         5,035
Income before income
  taxes(1):
  Securities and Asset
    Management                            4,187         3,597         2,426
  Credit and Transaction
    Services                              1,198           751           691
Identifiable assets at end
  of period(2):
  Securities and Asset
    Management                          297,054       277,878       213,967
  Credit and Transaction
    Services                             20,536        24,409        24,893
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Excludes merger-related expenses of $74 million in fiscal 1997.
(2) Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company's business
    segments.

17 BUSINESS DISPOSITIONS
- --..............................................................................

In fiscal 1998, the Company entered into several transactions reflecting its
strategic decision to focus on growing its core Securities and Asset Management
and Credit and Transaction Services businesses.

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company completed the sale of its
Global Custody business. The Company also sold its interest in the operations of
SPS Transaction Services, Inc., a 73%-owned, publicly held subsidiary of the
Company. In addition, the Company sold certain credit card receivables relating
to its discontinued BRAVO Card. The Company's aggregate net pre-tax gain
resulting from these transactions was $685 million.

     In addition, during fiscal 1998 the Company sold its Prime Option/SM/
MasterCard(R) portfolio, a business it had operated with NationsBank of
Delaware, N.A., and its Correspondent Clearing business. The gains resulting
from the sale of these businesses were not material to the Company's results of
operations or financial condition.

                                      87
<PAGE>
 
                 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter * 1998 Annual report


18 QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(dollars in millions,               1998 FISCAL QUARTER                                      1997 FISCAL QUARTER
 except share and                FIRST        SECOND         THIRD
 per share data)          (RESTATED)(1) (RESTATED)(1) (RESTATED)(1)      FOURTH        FIRST       SECOND        THIRD       FOURTH
===================================================================================================================================
<S>                       <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>         
Revenues:
  Investment banking           $   800       $   988       $   819      $   733      $   522      $   581      $   818      $   773
  Principal transactions:                                                                                                   
    Trading                        903         1,091           499          798          869          722          778          822
    Investments                     72           101          (174)          90           56          136          206           65
  Commissions                      547           611           608          587          490          484          559          553
  Fees:                                                                                                                     
    Asset management,                                                                                                       
      distribution and                                                                                                          
      administration               676           741           718          714          587          610          656          652
    Merchant and cardmember        428           404           438          377          436          424          433          411
    Servicing                      171           232           255          270          202          184          196          180
  Interest and dividends         3,933         4,213         4,283        4,007        3,369        3,197        3,570        3,447
  Other                             55            47            52           44           29           38           41           36
  Total revenues                 7,585         8,428         7,498        7,620        6,560        6,376        7,257        6,939
Interest expense                 3,145         3,554         3,377        3,438        2,709        2,478        2,765        2,854
Provision for consumer                                                                                                      
  loan losses                      405           275           280          213          379          376          385          353
  Net revenues                   4,035         4,599         3,841        3,969        3,472        3,522        4,107        3,732
Non-interest expenses:                                                                                                      
  Compensation and benefits      1,788         2,017         1,609        1,222        1,490        1,505        1,849        1,175
  Occupancy and equipment          140           143           148          152          128          127          134          137
  Brokerage, clearing and                                                                                                   
    exchange fees                  121           135           160          136           95          113          130          122
  Information processing and                                                                                                
    communications                 267           275           291          307          270          267          249          294
  Marketing and business                                                                                                    
    development                    294           286           354          477          288          274          293          324
  Professional services            128           156           176          217           93           99          127          132
  Other                            165           190           193          197          180          180          219          191
  Merger-related expenses           --            --            --           --           --           74           --           --
  Total non-interest expenses    2,903         3,202         2,931        2,708        2,544        2,639        3,001        2,375
Gain on sale of businesses          --            --            --          685           --           --           --           --
Income before income taxes                                                                                                  
  and cumulative effect of                                                                                                  
  accounting change              1,132         1,397           910        1,946          928          883        1,106        1,357
Provision for income taxes         441           545           284          722          357          356          428          547
Income before                                                                                                               
  cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
  accounting change                691           852           626        1,224          571          527          678          810
Cumulative effect of                                                                                                        
  accounting change               (117)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
Net income                     $   574       $   852       $   626      $ 1,224      $   571      $   527      $   678      $   810
Earnings applicable to                                                                                                      
  common shares(2)             $   559       $   838       $   612      $ 1,212      $   552      $   509      $   663      $   796
Basic earnings per share(3):                                                                                                
  Income before                                                                                                               
    cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
    accounting change          $  1.15       $  1.44       $  1.07      $  2.16      $  0.96      $  0.88      $  1.15      $  1.37
  Cumulative effect of                                                                                                        
    accounting change            (0.20)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
  Net income                   $  0.95       $  1.44       $  1.07      $  2.16      $  0.96      $  0.88      $  1.15      $  1.37
Diluted earnings per                                                                                                        
  share(3):                                                                                                                 
  Income before                                                                                                             
    cumulative effect of                                                                                                    
    accounting change          $  1.10       $  1.37       $  1.01      $  2.07      $  0.91      $  0.84      $  1.09      $  1.30
  Cumulative effect of                                                                                                      
  accounting change              (0.19)           --            --           --           --           --           --           --
  Net income                   $  0.91       $  1.37       $  1.01      $  2.07      $  0.91      $  0.84      $  1.09      $  1.30
  Dividends to common                                                                                                       
    shareholders               $  0.20       $  0.20       $  0.20      $  0.20      $  0.14      $  0.14      $  0.14      $  0.14
  Book value                   $ 22.48       $ 21.95       $ 22.13      $ 23.88      $ 18.70      $ 19.37      $ 20.25      $ 22.11
Average common and                                                                                                          
  equivalent shares:                                                                                                      
  Basic                    586,751,340   581,326,618   573,170,507  560,108,890  573,410,658  577,985,371  578,082,806  580,985,871
  Diluted                  616,377,562   612,625,354   604,779,594  585,533,337  605,691,066  610,430,898  610,019,122  612,092,405
Stock price range(4)      $52.25-70.50  $69.75-84.44  $58.06-96.88 $38.44-74.75 $32.19-43.75 $34.50-41.50 $41.00-53.88 $47.31-58.75
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
(1) The quarterly results for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal
    1998 have been restated to reflect the effects of the accounting change
    adopted in the fourth quarter, effective December 1, 1997. As a result of
    this restatement, net income has been decreased by $117 million, $2 million
    and $21 million for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 1998,
    respectively. For further information regarding the change in accounting,
    see Note 2.
(2) Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per share.
(3) Summation of the quarters' earnings per common share may not equal the
    annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share
    equivalents throughout the year.
(4) Prices represent the range of sales per share on the New York Stock Exchange
    for the periods indicated. The number of stockholders of record at November
    30, 1998 approximated 186,000. The number of beneficial owners of common
    stock is believed to exceed this number.

                                      88
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>18
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                       --------------------------------
                            As of January 26, 1999
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
Dean Witter Alliance Capital Corporation                                              Delaware                       1993
Dean Witter Asset Corporation                                                         Delaware                       1992
Dean Witter Capital Corporation                                                       Delaware                       1987
     Dean Witter Advisers Inc.                                                        Delaware                       1989
     Dean Witter Capital Advisers Inc.                                                Delaware                       1989
     DW Administrators Inc.                                                           Delaware                       1989
     DW Window Coverings Holding, Inc.                                                Delaware                       1988
Dean Witter Futures and Currency Management Inc.                                      Delaware                       1987
Dean Witter Realty Inc.                                                               Delaware                       1982
     Cool Springs Inc.                                                                Massachusetts                  1991
     Dean Witter Global Realty Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1995
     Dean Witter Holding Corporation                                                  Delaware                       1983
         Civic Center Leasing Corporation                                             Delaware                       1983
         Lee Leasing Corporation                                                      Delaware                       1982
         Lewiston Leasing Corporation                                                 Delaware                       1983
         Sartell Leasing Corporation                                                  Delaware                       1982
     Dean Witter Leasing Corporation                                                  Delaware                       1982
     Dean Witter Realty Credit Corporation                                            Delaware                       1982
     Dean Witter Realty Fourth Income Properties Inc.                                 Delaware                       1986
     Dean Witter Realty Growth Properties Inc.                                        Delaware                       1985
     Dean Witter Realty Income Associates I Inc.                                      Delaware                       1983
     Dean Witter Realty Income Associates II Inc.                                     Delaware                       1984
     Dean Witter Realty Income Properties I Inc.                                      Delaware                       1983
     Dean Witter Realty Income Properties II Inc.                                     Delaware                       1984
     Dean Witter Realty Income Properties III Inc.                                    Delaware                       1985
     Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus Assignor Inc.                                      Delaware                       1987
     Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus Inc.                                               Delaware                       1987
     Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus II Inc.                                            Delaware                       1988
     DW Arboretum Plaza Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1992
     DW Bennington Property Inc.                                                      Delaware                       1993
     DW Chesterbrook Investors Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1992
     DW Duportail Investors Inc.                                                      Delaware                       1992
     DW Greycoat Inc.                                                                 Delaware                       1993
     Green Orchard Inc.                                                               Massachusetts                  1991
     LLJV Funding Corporation                                                         Massachusetts                  1984
     Realty Management Services Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1982
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.                                                             Delaware                       1968
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Massachusetts) Inc.                       Massachusetts                  1975
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Ohio) Inc.                                Ohio                           1977
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Oklahoma) Inc.                            Oklahoma                       1976
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Texas) Inc.                               Texas                          1978
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Alabama) Inc.                           Alabama                        1991
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Arizona) Inc.                           Arizona                        1974
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Arkansas) Inc.                          Arkansas                       1977
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Illinois) Inc.                          Illinois                       1975
(Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. - cont'd)
</TABLE> 
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services Inc.                                     Delaware                       1972
         Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Indiana) Inc.                         Indiana                        1975
         FD Insurance Services, Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1997
         FD Insurance Services of Nevada, Inc.                                        Nevada                         1997
         FD Insurance Services of New Mexico, Inc.                                    New Mexico                     1997
         FD Insurance Services of Texas, Inc.                                         Texas                          1997
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services, Inc. (Puerto Rico)                      Puerto Rico                    1987
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Maine) Inc.                             Maine                          1995
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Montana) Inc.                           Montana                        1977
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (New  Hampshire) Inc.                    New Hampshire                  1977
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (South Dakota) Inc.                      South Dakota                   1977
     Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Wyoming) Inc.                           Wyoming                        1977
     DWR Special Partners Inc.                                                        Delaware                       1982
Dean Witter Reynolds International Incorporated                                       Delaware                       1978
     Dean Witter Reynolds GmbH                                                        Germany                        1974
     Dean Witter Reynolds (Hong Kong) Limited                                         Hong Kong                      1979
     Dean Witter Reynolds International, Inc.                                         Panama                         1959
         Dean Witter Reynolds (Geneva) S.A.                                           Switzerland                    1991
     Dean Witter International Ltd.                                                   U.K.                           1988
         Dean Witter Capital Markets International Ltd. (U.K.)                        U.K.                           1987
         Dean Witter Futures Limited                                                  U.K.                           1977
         Dean Witter Reynolds Limited                                                 U.K.                           1968
     Dean Witter Reynolds International, S.A.                                         France                         1979
     Dean Witter Reynolds (Lausanne) S.A.                                             Switzerland                    1973
     Dean Witter Reynolds (Lugano) S.A.                                               Switzerland                    1989
     Dean Witter Reynolds S.p.A.                                                      Italy                          1978
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Trust Company (Cayman) Ltd.                           Cayman Islands                 1998
Dean Witter Reynolds Partners Inc.                                                    Delaware                       1982
Dean Witter Reynolds Venture Equities Inc.                                            Delaware                       1981
     Dean Witter Venture Management Inc.                                              Delaware                       1986
Dean Witter Venture Inc.                                                              Delaware                       1993
Demeter Management Corporation                                                        Delaware                       1977
DWD Electronic Financial Services Inc.                                                Delaware                       1997
     Discover Brokerage Direct Inc.                                                   California                     1992
         Bay One Technologies Group, Inc.                                             California                     1996
DWR Partnership Administrators Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1989
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors Inc.                                              Delaware                       1992
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Services Company Inc.                                 Delaware                       1994
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributors Inc.                                          Delaware                       1992
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Trust FSB                                                  Federal Charter                1996
NOVUS Credit Services Inc.                                                            Delaware                       1960
     Bank of New Castle                                                               Delaware                       1988
     Discover Card Bank Limited                                                       Gibraltar                      1992
     Discover Services Corporation                                                    Delaware                       1990
     Greenwood Trust Company                                                          Delaware                       1911
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Bank, Inc.                                            Utah                           1990
     Mountain Receivables Corp.                                                       Delaware                       1996
     NCL Investments, Inc.                                                            Delaware                       1997
     NOVUS Consumer Discount Company                                                  Pennsylvania                   1967
(NOVUS Credit Services Inc. - cont'd)
     NOVUS Financial Corporation                                                      Delaware                       1969
</TABLE> 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
     NOVUS Financial Corporation of Iowa                                              Iowa                           1977
     NOVUS Financial Corporation of Minnesota                                         Minnesota                      1994
     NOVUS Financial Corporation of Tennessee                                         Tennessee                      1975
     NOVUS Financial Corporation of Washington                                        Washington                     1991
     NOVUS Services (Canada), Inc.                                                    Canada                         1985
     NOVUS Services, Inc.                                                             Delaware                       1985
     SCFC Receivables Corp.                                                           Delaware                       1989
         Discover Receivables Financing Corporation                                   Delaware                       1989
         Discover Receivables Financing Group, Inc.                                   Delaware                       1990
     SCFC Receivables Financing Corporation                                           Delaware                       1988
     SPS Transaction Services, Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1991
     Utah Receivables Financing Corporation                                           Delaware                       1997
One Water Corporation                                                                 Massachusetts                  1985
Open Road Airways, Inc.                                                               Delaware                       1998
Reynolds Securities Inc.                                                              Delaware                       1978
Tempo-GP, Inc.                                                                        Delaware                       1986
Tempo-LP, Inc.                                                                        Delaware                       1986
</TABLE> 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
Fourth Street Development Co. Incorporated                                            Delaware                       1990
Fourth Street Ltd.                                                                    Delaware                       1990
Jolter Investments Inc.                                                               Delaware                       1989
Morgan Rundle Inc.                                                                    Delaware                       1978
     MR Ventures Inc.                                                                 Delaware                       1982
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated                                                     Delaware                       1969
     Morgan Stanley Flexible Agreements Inc.                                          Delaware                       1992
     MS Securities Services Inc.                                                      Delaware                       1981
     Prime Dealer Services Corp.                                                      Delaware                       1994
Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.                                                     Delaware                       1997
Morgan Stanley ABS Capital II Inc.                                                    Delaware                       1997
Morgan Stanley Advisory Partnership Inc.                                              Delaware                       1985
Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc.                                                     Delaware                       1997
Morgan Stanley Asset Management (CPO) Inc.                                            Delaware                       1996
Morgan Stanley Baseball, Inc.                                                         Delaware                       1989
Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.                                                     Delaware                       1984
     South Eastern Electric Development Corporation                                   Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Capital I Inc.                                                         Delaware                       1985
Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc.                                             Delaware                       1998
     Morgan Stanley Capital International S.A.                                        Switzerland                    1998
Morgan Stanley Capital (Jersey) Limited                                               Jersey, Channel Is.            1987
Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, Inc.                                             Delaware                       1993
Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc.                                                  Delware                        1985
Morgan Stanley Commercial Mortgage Capital, Inc.                                      Delaware                       1994
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Commodities Management Inc.                                Delaware                       1992
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Funding, Inc.                                       Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Group Inc.                                      Delaware                       1999
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management Inc.                                 Delaware                       1980
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management Holdings Inc.                   Delaware                       1995
         Miller Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP                                              Pennsylvania                   1971
              MAS Fixed Income Partnership I, L.P.                                    Delaware                       1995
                  MAS Fixed Income I, LLC                                             Delaware                       1995
              MAS Fixed Income Partnership II, LP                                     Delaware                       1995
                  MAS Fixed Income II, LLC                                            Delaware                       1995
              MAS Fund Distribution, Inc.                                             Pennsylvania                   1992
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Global Franchise Inc.                                 Delaware                       1997
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Municipal Funding, Inc.                                    Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Principal Funding, Inc.                                    Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Wealth Management, Inc.                                    Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.                                               Delaware                       1994
Morgan Stanley Developing Country Debt II, Inc.                                       Delaware                       1991
Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1990
Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Debt Opportunity Fund, LLC                            Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Equity (C.I.) Limited                                                  Jersey, Channel Is.            1995
Morgan Stanley Equity Finance Limited                                                 England                        1997
Morgan Stanley Equity Investors Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1988
Morgan Stanley Finance (Jersey) Limited                                               Jersey, Channel Is.            1990
Morgan Stanley Funding, Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1997
Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets, Inc.                                          Delaware                       1996
Morgan Stanley Insurance Agency Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1985
Morgan Stanley International Incorporated                                             Delaware                       1963
</TABLE> 

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
     Bank Morgan Stanley AG                                                           Switzerland                    1973
     Cabot Aircraft Services Limited                                                  Ireland                        1997
     Morgan Stanley AOZT                                                              Russia                         1994
     Morgan Stanley Asia (China) Limited                                              Hong Kong                      1991
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings I Inc.                                              Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings II Inc.                                             Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings III Inc.                                            Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings IV Inc.                                             Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings V Inc.                                              Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings VI Inc.                                             Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific (Holdings) Limited                                   Cayman Islands                 1995
         Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) II LLC                               Cayman Islands                 1995
         Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) III LLC                              Cayman Islands                 1995
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asia (Singapore) Pte                         Rep. of Singapore              1992
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management Company                Rep. of Singapore              1990
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Capital Group (Singapore) Pte                Rep. of Singapore              1990
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Futures (Singapore) Pte                      Rep. of Singapore              1992
         Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) IV LLC                               Cayman Islands                 1995
         Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (Hong Kong) Holdings                              Hong Kong                      1998
              MSDW Asia Securities Products LLC                                       Cayman Islands                 1995
                  Morgan Stanley Asia Limited                                         Hong Kong                      1984
                  Morgan Stanley Futures (Hong Kong) Limited                          Hong Kong                      1988
                  Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Securities Limited                         Hong Kong                      1988
                  Morgan Stanley Pacific Limited                                      Hong Kong                      1987
         MSDW-JL Holdings I Limited                                                   Cayman Islands                 1998
              Morgan Stanley Japan (Holdings) Ltd.                                    Cayman Islands                 1984
                  Fosbury Investments Cooperatie U.A.                                 The Netherlands                1998
                  Morgan Stanley Japan Limited                                        Hong Kong                      1993
     Morgan Stanley Asia (Taiwan) Ltd.                                                Rep. of China                  1990
     Morgan Stanley Asset & Investment Trust Management Co., Limited                  Japan                          1987
     Morgan Stanley Asset Management S.A.                                             Luxembourg                     1988
     Morgan Stanley Australia Limited                                                 Australia                      1989
     Morgan Stanley Australia Securities Limited                                      Australia                      1997
     Morgan Stanley Canada Limited                                                    Canada                         1982
     Morgan Stanley Capital SA                                                        France                         1989
     Morgan Stanley Capital (Luxembourg) S.A.                                         Luxembourg                     1993
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (Espana) SA                                           Spain                          1998
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (Europe) Limited                                      England                        1998
         Morgan Stanley Group (Europe)                                                England                        1988
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management Limited                England                        1986
              Morgan Stanley Capital Group Limited                                    England                        1993
              Morgan Stanley (Europe) Limited                                         England                        1993
              Morgan Stanley Finance plc                                              England                        1993
              Morgan Stanley Properties Limited                                       England                        1986
              Morgan Stanley Property Management (UK) Limited                         England                        1987
              Morgan Stanley Services (UK) Limited                                    England                        1993
              Morgan Stanley (Structured Products) Jersey Limited                     Jersey, Channel Is.            1994
</TABLE> 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
         (Morgan Stanley Group (Europe) - cont'd)
              Morgan Stanley UK Group                                                 England                        1976
                  Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited                          England                        1986
                       Morgan Stanley Funding Limited                                 Jersey, Channel Is.            1997
                       Morgan Stanley International Nominees Limited                  England                        1994
              Morgan Stanley & Co. Limited                                            England                        1986
                  Morgan Stanley Securities Limited                                   England                        1986
                       Morstan Nominees Limited                                       England                        1986
                       MSDW Equity (UK) Plc                                           England                        1998
         MS Leasing UK Limited                                                        England                        1991
     Morgan Stanley Holding (Deutschland) GmbH                                        Germany                        1990
         Morgan Stanley Bank AG                                                       Germany                        1986
     Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Nominees Limited                                        Hong Kong                      1988
     Morgan Stanley International Insurance Ltd.                                      Bermuda                        1995
     Morgan Stanley Latin America Incorporated                                        Delaware                       1994
         Morgan Stanley Administadora de Carteiras Ltda.                              Brazil                         1996
         Morgan Stanley do Brasil Ltda.                                               Brazil                         1995
              Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributidora de
                  Titulos e Valores Mobilarios SA                                     Brazil                         1998
         Morgan Stanley Financial Products Ltd.                                       Cayman Islands                 1997
         MSLA Advisors Incorporated                                                   Delaware                       1995
     Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited                                         Mauritius                      1993
         Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management Private Limited             India                          1993
         Morgan Stanley India Securities Limited                                      India                          1995
              Morgan Stanley India Private Limited                                    India                          1995
     Morgan Stanley Middle East Inc.                                                  Delaware                       1997
     Morgan Stanley Offshore Investment Company Ltd.                                  Cayman Islands                 1987
     Morgan Stanley Principal Finance Ltd.                                            England                        1997
     Morgan Stanley S.A.                                                              France                         1992
         Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (France) SA                                       France                         1998
     Morgan Stanley Services (Jersey) Limited                                         Jersey, Channel Is.            1997
     Morgan Stanley South Africa (Pty) Limited                                        South Africa                   1994
     Morgan Stanley SPV I (Cayman Islands) LLC                                        Cayman Islands                 1996
         Farlington Corporation                                                       Ireland                        1996
              ITALSEC S.r.l.                                                          Italy                          1996
     Morgan Stanley SPV II (Cayman Islands) LLC                                       Cayman Islands                 1996
     Morgan Stanley (Thailand) Limited                                                Thailand                       1997
     Morgan Stanley Trading Beteiligungs-GmbH                                         Germany                        1993
         Morgan Stanley Trading GmbH & Co. KG                                         Germany                        1994
     Morgan Stanley Wertpapiere GmbH                                                  Germany                        1989
     MS Balmoral Inc.                                                                 Cayman Islands                 1997
     MS Italy (Holdings) Inc.                                                         Delaware                       1990
         Banca Morgan Stanley SpA                                                     Italy                          1990
     MS LDC, Ltd.                                                                     Delaware                       1991
     MSAM/Kokusai (Cayman Islands), Inc.                                              Cayman Islands                 1996
     MSL Incorporated                                                                 Delaware                       1976
Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Limited                                                       Jersey, Channel Is.            1986
Morgan Stanley LEF I, Inc.                                                            Delaware                       1989
Morgan Stanley Leveraged Capital Fund Inc.                                            Delaware                       1985
</TABLE> 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Fund II, Inc.                                         Delaware                       1987
     Morgan Stanley Capital Partners Asia Limited                                     Hong Kong                      1992
Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Holdings Inc.                                         Delaware                       1987
Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1987
Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.                                                  New York                       1984
Morgan Stanley Overseas Finance Ltd.                                                  Cayman Islands                 1997
Morgan Stanley Overseas Services (Jersey) Limited                                     Jersey, Channel Is.            1986
Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management Inc.                                 Delaware                       1990
     Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, Inc.                                            Delaware                       1989
         MSREF I, L.L.C.                                                              Delaware                       1995
     MSREF I-CO, L.L.C.                                                               Delaware                       1995
Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management II, Inc.                             Delaware                       1994
     MSREF II-CO, L.L.C.                                                              Delaware                       1995
Morgan Stanley Realty Incorporated                                                    Delaware                       1969
     BH-MS Realty Inc.                                                                Delaware                       1983
         BH-MS Leasing Inc.                                                           Delaware                       1983
              BH-Sartell Inc.                                                         Delaware                       1983
     Brooks Harvey & Co., Inc.                                                        Delaware                       1971
     Brooks Harvey of Florida, Inc.                                                   Florida                        1978
     DP Properties, Inc.                                                              Japan                          1991
     Japan Realty Finance Company                                                     Cayman Islands                 1998
     Japan Realty Holding Company                                                     Cayman Islands                 1998
     Kearny Global, Inc.                                                              Delaware                       1998
         Kearny Global Investors, K.K.                                                Japan                          1998
         Kearny Real Estate Company                                                   Delaware                       1998
     KG-Sub Y.K.                                                                      Japan                          1998
     Morgan Stanley Realty of California Inc.                                         California                     1970
     Morgan Stanley Realty of Illinois Inc.                                           Delaware                       1989
     Morgan Stanley Realty Japan Ltd.                                                 Japan                          1998
The Morgan Stanley Scholarship Fund Inc. (Not-For-Profit)                             Delaware                       1985
Morgan Stanley Securitization Funding Inc.                                            Delaware                       1998
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1996
Morgan Stanley Services Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1988
Morgan Stanley Structured Products (Cayman) I Limited                                 Cayman Islands                 1997
Morgan Stanley Structured Products (Cayman) II Limited                                Cayman Islands                 1997
Morgan Stanley Technical Services Inc.                                                Delaware                       1989
Morgan Stanley Technical Services MB/VC Inc.                                          Delaware                       1993
Morgan Stanley Venture Capital Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1984
Morgan Stanley Venture Capital II, Inc.                                               Delaware                       1992
Morgan Stanley Venture Capital III, Inc.                                              Delaware                       1996
Morgan Stanley Ventures Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1984
Morstan Development Company, Inc.                                                     Delaware                       1971
     Moranta, Inc.                                                                    Georgia                        1979
     Porstan Development Company, Inc.                                                Oregon                         1982
MS 10020, Inc.                                                                        Delaware                       1994
MS 10036, Inc.                                                                        Delaware                       1996
MS Capital Cayman Ltd.                                                                Cayman Islands                 1997
MS Capital Holdings Inc.                                                              Delaware                       1997
     Morgan Stanley Capital (Delaware) L.L.C.                                         Delaware                       1997
MS Financing Inc.                                                                     Delaware                       1986
     Corso Marconi Immobiliare Limited Liability Company                              Delaware                       1998
</TABLE> 

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
     Morgan Stanley 750 Building Corp.                                                Delaware                       1994
         G.H.Y. Capital B.V.                                                          The Netherlands                1998
     Morgan Stanley Aircraft Finance                                                  Delaware                       1997
         Aircraft SPC-5, Inc.                                                         California                     1997
         Greenfly (Ireland) Limited                                                   Ireland                        1997
         MS Aircraft I                                                                Delaware                       1997
         Redfly (UK) Limited                                                          England                        1997
     MS Tokyo Properties Ltd.                                                         Japan                          1989
     MSDW LTCP, L.L.C.                                                                Delaware                       1998
     MSDW 745, LLC                                                                    Delaware                       1998
MS Holdings Incorporated                                                              Delaware                       1995
MS Real Estate Special Situations Inc.                                                Delaware                       1997
MS Real Estate Special Situations GP Inc.                                             Delaware                       1997
MS Synfuels, Inc.                                                                     Delaware                       1998
MS Technology Holdings, Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1997
MS Venture Capital (Japan) Inc.                                                       Delaware                       1989
MSAM Holdings II, Inc.                                                                Delaware                       1996
     Van Kampen Investments Inc.                                                      Delaware                       1992
         American Capital Contractual Services, Inc.                                  New York                       1957
         Riverview International Inc.                                                 Delaware                       1998
         Van Kampen Advisors Inc.                                                     Delaware                       1974
         Van Kampen Asset  Management Inc.                                            Delaware                       1936
         Van Kampen Funds Inc.                                                        Delaware                       1974
         Van Kampen Exchange Corp.                                                    California                     1975
         Van Kampen Insurance Agency of Illinois Inc.                                 Illinois                       1996
         Van Kampen Insurance Agency of Texas Inc.                                    Texas                          1996
         Van Kampen Investment Advisory Corp.                                         Delaware                       1982
         Van Kampen Investor Services Inc.                                            Delaware                       1987
         Van Kampen Management Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1990
         Van Kampen Recordkeeping Services Inc.                                       Delaware                       1997
         Van Kampen System Inc.                                                       Delaware                       1996
         Van Kampen Trust Co.                                                         Texas                          1986
         VKAC Cayman Limited                                                          Cayman Islands                 1995
MSBF Inc.                                                                             Delaware                       1995
MSCP III Holdings, Inc.                                                               Delaware                       1994
MSDW Capital Partners IV, Inc.                                                        Delaware                       1998
MSDW Capital Trust I                                                                  Delaware                       1998
MSDW Corporate Coverage Limited                                                       Cayman Islands                 1998
MSDW CPIV Holdings, Inc.                                                              Delaware                       1998
MSDW International Employee Services LLC                                              Delaware                       1998
MSDW Offshore Equity Services Inc.                                                    Delaware                       1998
     MSDW Equity Finance Services I (Cayman) Ltd.                                     Cayman Islands                 1998
MSDW Structured Asset Corp.                                                           Delaware                       1998
MSDW Synfuels II, Inc.                                                                Delaware                       1998
MSDW Synfuels III, Inc.                                                               Delaware                       1998
MSIT Holdings, Inc.                                                                   Delaware                       1996
MSPL Co. Inc.                                                                         Delaware                       1990
</TABLE> 

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                    Year of
                                                                                   Jurisdiction of               Incorporation/
                                                                                   Incorporation                   Formation
                                                                                   -------------                   ---------
<S>                                                                                <C>                           <C> 
MSREF II, Inc.                                                                        Delaware                       1994
     MSREF II, L.L.C.                                                                 Delaware                       1995
MSREF III, Inc.                                                                       Delaware                       1997
MSREF Funding, Inc.                                                                   Delaware                       1997
MSUH Holdings I, Inc.                                                                 Delaware                       1996
     MSUH Holdings II, Inc.                                                           Delaware                       1996
         MS SP Urban Horizons, Inc.                                                   Delaware                       1996
         MS Urban Horizons, Inc.                                                      Delaware                       1994
PG Holdings, Inc.                                                                     Delaware                       1991
PG Investors, Inc.                                                                    Delaware                       1991
PG Investors II, Inc.                                                                 Delaware                       1996
Pierpont Power, Inc.                                                                  New York                       1987
Romley Computer Leasing Inc.                                                          Delaware                       1985
Strategic Investments I, Inc.                                                         Delaware                       1996
</TABLE> 



                                       9
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>19
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1
                                                                                
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration
Statements of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. of our reports dated January 22,
1999, included in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. for the fiscal year ended November 30,
1998:

Filed on Form S-3:
     Registration Statement No. 33-57202
     Registration Statement No. 33-60734
     Registration Statement No. 33-89748
     Registration Statement No. 33-92172
     Registration Statement No. 333-07947
     Registration Statement No. 333-22409
     Registration Statement No. 333-27881
     Registration Statement No. 333-27893
     Registration Statement No. 333-27919
     Registration Statement No. 333-46403
     Registration Statement No. 333-46935

Filed on Form S-4:
     Registration Statement No. 333-25003

Filed on Form S-8:
     Registration Statement No. 33-62374
     Registration Statement No. 33-63024
     Registration Statement No. 33-63026
     Registration Statement No. 33-78038
     Registration Statement No. 33-79516
     Registration Statement No. 33-82240
     Registration Statement No. 33-82242
     Registration Statement No. 33-82244
     Registration Statement No. 333-04212
     Registration Statement No. 333-28141
     Registration Statement No. 333-25003
     Registration Statement No. 333-28263
     Registration Statement No. 333-62869


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
- -------------------------

New York, New York
February 22, 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.2
<SEQUENCE>20
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.2


                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

                                        
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
                                                                           
(Form S-4 No. 333-25003, Form S-3 No.33-92172, Form S-3 No. 33-57202, Form S-3
No. 33-60734, Form S-3 No. 33-89748, Form S-3 No. 333-7947, Form S-3 No. 333-
22409, Form S-3 No. 333-27919, Form S-3 No. 333-27881, Form S-3 No. 333-27893,
Form S-8 No. 333-28141, Form S-8 No. 33-62374, Form S-8 No. 33-63024, Form S-8
No. 33-63026, Form S-8 No. 33-78038, Form S-8 No. 33-79516, Form S-8 No. 33-
82240, Form S-8 No. 33-82242, Form S-8 No. 33-82244, Form S-8 No. 333-4212, Form
S-8 No. 333-28263, Amendment to Form S-4 No. 333-25003 On Form S-8, Form S-3
No. 333-46403, Form S-3 No. 333-46935 and Form S-8 No. 333-62869) of Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter & Co. of our report Dated May 27, 1997 with
respect to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedule of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. (not presented separately herein) included
in the Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. filed on February 22, 1999.


/s/  ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
FEBRUARY 22, 1999


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.3
<SEQUENCE>21
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.3

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS



TO THE DIRECTORS OF MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement No.
333-28263 of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Discover & Co. on Form S-8 of our
report dated 17 February 1999 relating to the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit
Sharing Schemes, appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter & Co. for the fiscal year ended 30 November 1998.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE
Chartered Accountants
1 Stonecutter Street
London England
22 February 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>22
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>

<ARTICLE> BD
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary financial information extracted from the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at November 30, 1998 and the
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Twelve Months Ended November 30, 1998
and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such consolidated financial
statements.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          NOV-30-1998
<PERIOD-START>                             DEC-01-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               NOV-30-1998
<CASH>                                          27,409
<RECEIVABLES>                                   46,173
<SECURITIES-RESALE>                             79,570
<SECURITIES-BORROWED>                           69,338
<INSTRUMENTS-OWNED>                             85,935
<PP&E>                                           1,834
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 317,590
<SHORT-TERM>                                    36,334
<PAYABLES>                                      52,857
<REPOS-SOLD>                                    92,327
<SECURITIES-LOANED>                             23,152
<INSTRUMENTS-SOLD>                              61,344
<LONG-TERM>                                     27,435
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                        674
<COMMON>                                             6
<OTHER-SE>                                      13,439
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   317,590
<TRADING-REVENUE>                                3,291
<INTEREST-DIVIDENDS>                            16,436
<COMMISSIONS>                                    2,353
<INVESTMENT-BANKING-REVENUES>                    3,340
<FEE-REVENUE>                                    5,424
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              13,514
<COMPENSATION>                                   6,636
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  5,385
<INCOME-PRE-EXTRAORDINARY>                       5,385
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                        (117)
<NET-INCOME>                                     3,276
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     5.60
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     5.33
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>23
<DESCRIPTION>MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1



MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT 
SHARING SCHEME AND MORGAN 
STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING 
PLAN
 



Combined Financial Statements for the years
ended 31 December 1998 and 1997





Deloitte & Touche
Stonecutter Court
1 Stonecutter Street
London EC4A 4TR
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN



REPORT AND COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1998 AND 1997                PAGE

CONTENTS


Report of the Independent Chartered Accountants                         1

Combined Statements of financial condition                              2

Combined Statements of income and change in Combined Schemes' equity    3

Notes to the combined financial statements                              4
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN


REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE TRUSTEES OF THE MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING 
SCHEMES (incorporating the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Scheme and the
Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan)


We have audited the accompanying combined statements of financial condition of
the Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Scheme ("the Scheme") and the Morgan
Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan ("the Plan"), (collectively "the Schemes"),
as of 31 December 1998 and 1997 and the related statements of income and changes
in schemes' equity for the years then ended.  These combined financial
statements are the responsibility of the Scheme's and the Plan's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the combined financial condition of the Schemes as of 31
December 1998 and 1997 and the combined results of operations and the changes in
Schemes' equity for the years then ended  in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.


Deloitte & Touche
Chartered Accountants


Stonecutter Court
1 Stonecutter Street
London, EC4A 4TR
England


17 February 1999

                                                                               1
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
31 December 1998 and 1997


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Notes                   1998                    1997 
<S>                                         <C>                     <C>                     <C>      
ASSETS                                                                             
                                                                                   
Investments at market value                                                        
 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.                                                  
 Common Stock                                     2,3                $ 42,678,171            $ 32,361,300
                                                                                   
Amounts due from Trustee                                                   59,109                  33,834
                                                                                   
Employee contributions receivable                                       9,397,520               6,900,757
                                                                     ------------            ------------ 
TOTAL ASSETS                                                         $ 52,134,800            $ 39,295,891
                                                                     ============            ============
                                                                                   
LIABILITIES AND COMBINED                                                           
SCHEMES' EQUITY                                                                    
                                                                                   
Dividend income, net of withholding                                                
 taxes, payable to participants                                      $     20,724            $     18,188
                                                                                   
Taxes withheld in respect of                                               38,382                  15,645
 dividend income                                                                   
                                                                                   
Combined Schemes' equity                                               52,075,694              39,262,058
                                                                     ------------            ------------      
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMBINED                                                     
 SCHEMES' EQUITY                                                                   
                                                                     $ 52,134,800            $ 39,295,891
                                                                     ============            ============
</TABLE> 
                                                           
See Notes accompanying Combined Financial Statements
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND CHANGES IN SCHEMES' EQUITY
Years ended 31 December 1998 and 1997

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>                                                                                           
                                                Notes                   1998                    1997 
<S>                                         <C>                     <C>                     <C>        
CASH DIVIDENDS

Distribution from Morgan Stanley
 Dean Witter & Co.                                                   $    472,521            $    291,301
                                                                                            
Less: United States tax withheld                                           70,876                  38,021
                                                                     ------------            ------------      
                                                                          401,645                 253,280
GAINS ON INVESTMENTS                                                                        
Gain on sale of Morgan Stanley Dean                                                         
 Witter & Co. Common Stock                       2                      2,849,581                 980,382
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
Change in unrealised appreciation of                                                        
 investments                                     3                      5,283,698              12,503,846
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS                                                                      
                                                                                            
Current year                                                            9,397,520               6,915,329
                                                                     ------------            ------------
INCOME FOR THE YEAR                                                                         
                                                                       17,932,444              20,652,837
                                                                                            
Less:                                                                                       
Dividend income payable to                                                                  
 participants                                                             378,019                 233,049
                                                                                            
Income tax payable                                                         23,624                  20,232
Withdrawals disbursed to employees                                                          
                                                                        3,822,395               1,754,676
Value of shares transferred to                                                              
 employees                                                                894,770                 137,342
                                                                     ------------            ------------      
                                                                                            
INCREASE IN COMBINED SCHEMES' EQUITY                                   12,813,636              18,507,538
                                                                                            
COMBINED SCHEMES' EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY                                  39,262,058              20,754,520
                                                                     ------------            ------------      
COMBINED SCHEMES' EQUITY AT 31                                                              
 DECEMBER                                                            $ 52,075,694            $ 39,262,058
                                                                     ============            ============      
</TABLE>

See Notes accompanying Combined Financial Statements         

                                                                               3
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN

NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years ended 31 December 1998 and 1997

    Scheme description
    The financial statements show the combined results of the Morgan Stanley UK
    Group Profit Sharing Scheme and Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan.

    On 12 November 1987 the Morgan Stanley International Profit Sharing Scheme
    was established in the United Kingdom by a trust deed made between Morgan
    Stanley Group Inc., its subsidiary Morgan Stanley International and Noble
    Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited. After the merger between Morgan Stanley
    Group Inc. and Dean Witter, Discover & Co. on 31 May 1997 a new scheme, the
    Morgan Stanley UK Group Profit Sharing Plan, was established in the United
    Kingdom on 3 November 1997 by a trust deed made between Morgan Stanley, Dean
    Witter,  Discover & Co., its subsidiary Morgan Stanley UK Group and Noble
    Lowndes Settlement Trustees Limited.

    On 2 November 1998, a change was made to the Plan trust deed amending the
    parent company name to Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

    The Schemes allow employees of Morgan Stanley UK Group to accumulate pre-tax
    profit share contributions in the form of shares of Morgan Stanley Dean
    Witter & Co. Common Stock, with all contributions after 1997 being paid into
    the Plan.

    Eligibility

    Full time employees of Morgan Stanley UK Group with at least one year of
    service, commencing from the first of the month after the date of joining,
    are eligible to participate in the scheme.  Employees may elect to
    participate in the Schemes, for the full amount of their profit share, up to
    a maximum of the lesser of 10% of UK base salary or (Pounds)8,000.

    Funding Policy

    Amounts invested by employees are invested by Noble Lowndes Settlement
    Trustees Limited, as Trustee, in Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. shares
    which are held by the Trustee in their name on the employee's behalf.
    Shares in respect of the previous qualifying period are appropriated to
    employees within two weeks of 31 December (the qualifying date).  The
    Trustee's fees and brokerage commissions are borne by Morgan Stanley UK
    Group, the employer.

    During the first two years after appropriation (the Retention Period)
    certain statutory restrictions apply limiting members' ability to deal in or
    withdraw their shares. After the Retention Period, members may withdraw
    their shares or instruct the Trustee to sell their shares and withdraw the
    cash proceeds. The cost of withdrawals from the scheme is determined on a
    first in first out basis within the relevant employee allocation.

    Taxation

    The United Kingdom Board of Inland Revenue have approved both the Scheme and
    the Plan under Schedule 9, Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and the
    Scheme and the Plan are thus exempt from taxation. Employee contributions to
    the Schemes are not liable to income tax if shares are held by the Trustees
    for at least five years after appropriation.  If employees' shares are sold
    prior to the end of the three year period, some or all of the income tax
    benefits are lost.

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    Presentation of the Accounts

    The Trustee, being the same for both the Scheme and the Plan, has resolved
    that the results of the Scheme and the Plan should the combined as this
    appropriately represents the similar nature of the schemes and the intent of
    the employer, Morgan Stanley UK Group to continue benefits under the Scheme
    after the merger.

                                                                               4
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN

NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Years ended 31 December 1998 and 1997

    Foreign Currencies

    Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
    translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date except
    for employee contributions receivable, which are translated at the rate
    ruling at the time of share purchase, which occurs shortly after balance
    sheet date.  Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the
    approximate rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.

    Valuation of Investments
    The investments are recorded at market value based on the closing market
    price on the New York Stock Exchange.

    Dividend Income

    Dividend income is recorded when the applicable dividends are declared.
    Dividends are received net of US withholding tax and are allocated to
    participants according to their shareholdings.

                                                                               5
<PAGE>
 
                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN



NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years ended 31 December 1998 and 1997

2.       CHANGES IN COMBINED HOLDINGS OF MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & Co. 
         COMMON STOCK

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                           Number         Total
                                                                               of          Cost
                                                                           shares
       <S>                                                             <C>         <C>  
       At 1 January 1997                                                  339,148  $ 10,221,235
       Add:   Purchase January 1997                                        24,291     1,395,261
       Add:   Rights Issue June 1997                                      223,402             -
                                                                     ------------  ------------
                                                                          586,841    11,616,496
                                                               
       Less:  Sales of shares during the year                             (32,920)     (774,294)
       Less:  Transfers of shares during the year                          (6,584)     (137,342)
                                                                     ------------  ------------
       At 31 December 1997                                                547,337    10,704,860
                                                               
       Add:  Purchases  January 1998                                      124,482     6,907,738
                                                               
       Less:  Sales of shares during the year                             (55,757)     (979,795)
       Less:  Transfers of shares during the year                         (14,961)     (894,770) 
                                                                     ------------  ------------
       At 31 December 1998                                                601,101  $ 15,738,033
                                                                     ============  ============
                                                               
       124,351 shares were purchased in January 1998 in one transaction representing more than 5% 
       of the current value of the Scheme at the beginning of the year.

                                                                           1998            1997
       Aggregate proceeds of sales                                    $ 3,829,376   $ 1,754,676
       Aggregate cost of sales                                           (979,795)     (774,294)
                                                                     ------------  ------------
       Net gain on sales                                                2,849,581       980,382
                                                                     ------------  ------------
       Aggregate proceeds of transfers                                    894,770       137,342
       Aggregate cost of transfers                                       (894,770)     (137,342)
                                                                     ------------  ------------
       Net gain on transfers                                                    -             -
                                                                     ------------  ------------
                                                                      $ 2,849,581     $ 980,382
                                                                     ============  ============
</TABLE> 
<PAGE>

                               MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING SCHEME AND
                                     MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROFIT SHARING PLAN


NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years ended 31, December 1998 and 1997

 
3.     CHANGE IN UNREALISED APPRECIATION OF INVESTMENTS
  
       At 31 December 1998 the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for
       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. common stock was $71 per share.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                   Number         Total
                                                                of shares
       <S>                                                    <C>          <C>                                            
       Market value at                   
         31 December 1998                                         601,101  $ 42,678,171
       Average cost at                   
         31 December 1998                                         601,101    15,738,033
                                                              -----------  ------------
       Unrealised appreciation           
         at 31 December 1998                                                 26,940,138
                                         
       Unrealised appreciation           
         at 1 January 1998                                                   21,656,440
                                                                           ------------
       Increase in unrealised            
         appreciation                                                         5,283,698
                                                                           ============
                                         
       Market value at                   
         31 December 1997                                         547,337    32,361,300
                                                            
       Average cost at                   
         31 December 1997                                         547,337    10,704,860
                                                              -----------  ------------
       Unrealised appreciation           
         at 31 December 1997                                                 21,656,440
                                         
       Unrealised appreciation           
         at 1 January 1997                                                    9,152,594
                                              ~                            ------------
       Increase in unrealised            
         appreciation                                                        12,503,846
                                                                           ============
</TABLE>                                 
                                         
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>24
<DESCRIPTION>REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.2

Report of Independent Auditors

The Stockholders and
Board of Directors of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc.

We have audited the Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Changes in
Stockholders' Equity of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. for the year ended November
30, 1996 (not presented separately herein). Our audit also included the schedule
of parent company stand alone results of operations and cash flows of Morgan
Stanley Group Inc. for the year ended November 30, 1996. These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. for the year ended November 30, 1996, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

                                        /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

New York, New York
May 27, 1997
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
