DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 829 CE 800 133 


TITLE Insuring Your Property. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 29. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Jun 81 

NOTE 5p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-132. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDRS PRICE MFOl Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS Consumer Education; Guidelines; *Homeowners; 
*Housing; Inflation (Economics); *Insurance; 
Insurance Companies; Pamphlets; *Purchasing 

IDENTIFIERS Condominiums; PF Project; *Property Insurance; Rental 
Property 


ABSTRACT 

This report presents guidelines to help homeowners, 
renters, and condominium owners purchase and maintain adequate 
insurance coverage for their residences and personal property. Types 
of property coverage discussed include the following: (1) standard 
policies and exclusions; (2) special programs (earthquake insurance, 
federal programs for flood-prone and high-crime areas, and the 
California FAIR Plan for fire insurance and other perils in high-risk 
areas); and (3) loss recovery (structural loss, personal property 
loss, and policy limits on recovery). A chart which lists perils 
covered by six types of standa:d policies is provided. Guidelines for 
choosing and maintaining adequate insurance discuss initial amounts 
of homeowners coverage, inflation guards, condominium coverage, 
personal property coverage, contents replacement provisions, 
scheduled articles endorsements. and personal liability coverage. 
Recommendations on developing a personal insurance program include 
selecting a plan (choosing a company and an agent), determining costs 
of coverage and keeping costs down, keeping coverage current for home 
and personal property, and maintaining and storing property records. 
Information in this report is current at the time of printing, June 
1981, but is subject to change. (DC) 


REAATKEAKTKERTEKKKEEKEEKEETEKKEEKEEKKEEETEEREKKERREKEREKKRREERKEKKRKEEREKERRERR 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made sd 


sl from the original document. ° 
REAEATEAAKAKKTREKKEEKAKEKKEEEKEKEKEKEKEKEEEREERERERKEKEALEKRKERERKEREKRRERKEKREES 


E0241829 © 


F00 133 


Cé 


The CIRcular” 


Consumer Information Report 29 


Insuring Your Property 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


Albert J. Dytch ef. 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” ongr: 


ved from the person or 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


CENTER (ERIC) 


ss document has been reproduced as 


orgamizatior 


ting it 


Minor changes have been made to improve 


reproduction quality 


@ Points of 


ment do not necessarily ¢ 


view Of OpIMiONns stated in this doc 


epresent ofticie 


position or policy 


Your home and personal belongings represent a sizeable asset—that 
should be insured. In this report: policies for renters and homeowners; 
how losses are compensated: choosing adequate coverage, and 
making sure it Keeps pace with inflation. 


Your home, its furnishings, and your other 
personal belongings are probably your 
largest assets. If these items were ce- 
stroyed, you'd have to spend a consider- 
able amount of money to replace them. So, 
it makes sense to insure your posses- 
sions—in order to receive compensation 
in case of loss 


Types of 
Property Coverage 


An individual's property is usually insured 
with a homeowners policy. This is a “‘pack- 
age policy,’ meaning it combines what 
could be separate policies—for personal 
property, a house or condominium, and 
personal liability—into a single, lower-cost 
policy 

¢ If you rent, a homeowners policy cuvers 
your personal property, including house- 
hold furnishings and items used away from 
home—such as clothing, or your luggage 
while you're on vacation 

¢ If you own a house, the policy insures tne 
physical structure and improvements such 
as fences and patios, in addition to personal 
items 

* If you own a condominium, you're covered 
for damage to its interior surfaces as well as 
damage to personal belongings 


Finally, such a policy provides personal lia- 
bility protection—in case you, a member of 
your family, or your pet is held responsible 
for property damage or personal injury to 
someone outside your family 


STANDARD POLICIES Homeowners in- 
surance comes in six standard policy forms. 
Four are designed for those who own 
houses; they're called basic, broad, spe- 
cial, and comprehensive forms—according 
to the degree of protection provided. Of the 
other two forms, one applies to condomin- 
ium owners and one to renters 


Many provisions, conditions, and limi- 
tations of these policy forms are the same 
The primary differerce is the number of 
periis—such as five or windstorm—for 
which your properiy is insured. The chart 
on page 2 gives you an idea of the perils 
covered by different policy forms 


Note, however, that this report describes 
coverage in general terms—details of 
provisions can vary between policies and 
insurance companies. Read your policy 
carefully and check with your agent to find 
out what's covered and what isn't. 


Exclusions There are some situations 
where your property may be damaged and 
you cannot collect from your insurance 
company. Hazards not covered by your 
homeowners insurance are called exclu- 
sions and are specifically listed in your pol- 
icy. Most policies, for example, exclude 
windstorm damage to trees and other 
plants. And you won't receive any payment 
for property damage caused by sewer 
backup, power interruption, war, nuclear 
hazard, or your neglect—not even under 
the comprehensive form. 


SPECIAL PROGRAMS Some of the 
perils normally excluded by homeowners 
policies can be insured through separate 
policies or programs. 


Earthquake Insurance This type of in- 
surarce is sold as an endorser-ent, or pol- 
icy advition, to the homeowners package. 
Cost oj coverage depends on your home's 
construction, whether it’s built on fill land, 


and its location. In California, Imperial 
County has the highest rates, while the 
lowest are in the central and north central 
areas of the state 


Earthquake insurance usually calls for a 
5% deductible, which applies separately to 
your home and its contents. This is costly, 
compared with the normal $100-$250 de- 
ductible for a homeowners policy. However, 
you should consider earthquake coverage 
if you live near a fault, especially if your 
home is made of adobe, concrete, o7 other 
rigid material. 


Federal Programs The Federal Insur- 
ance Administration, U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urhan Development (HUD), 
oversees federal insurance programs 
dealing with flood and crime. 


You can buy flood insurance ‘f you live in a 
floodprone area and your community 
agrees to institute land use control mea- 
sures to reduce potential flooding. For 
details, contact your insurance agent, or 
call HUD’s information service at (800) 
638-6620. 


If you live in a high-crime area and have 
trouble obtaining theft coverage, you may 
be eligible for federai crime insurance. It 
covers losses from burglary and robbery 
and can be bought in amounts of up to 
$10,000. For information, call HUD at (800) 
638-8780. 


The FAIR Pian’ If you have difficulty ob- 
taining fire insurance, you might get help 
through the California FAIR Plan. This pro- 
gram provides a basic fire policy to ehgible 
property owners in urban areas and desig- 
nated hazardous brush areas. Compensa- 
tion is made on the basis of actua/ cash 
value at the time of loss—meaning re- 
placement cost minus depreciation (ad- 
justment for wear and tear). You can also 
buy endorsements for other perils, such as 
windstorm, vandalism, and earthquake. 


The FAIR Plan application can be submit- 
ted through an insurance agent. When ap- 
plying, ask your agent about supplemental 
coverage for theft and personal liability— 
areas not covered by the FAIR policy. 


LOSS RECOVERY in spite of your pre- 
cautions, your possessions may be dam- 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NTASA 1981 


2 


Basic Form Broad Form 


(HO-1) 


___ PERILS COVERED BY STANDARD POLICIES 


Tenants Form 
(HO-4) 


Special Form 
{HO-3) 


Comprehensive Form 


Condominium 
Owners Form 


al 2 


House, other 
structures, and 
personal property 
covered for perils 1-9 


siructures, and 
personal property 
covered for perils 
1-15 


House and other 
structures covered 
for all perils (1-15 and 
others not listed) 
except those 
specifically excluded. 
Personal property 
covered for perils 1-8 
and 10-15. 


Personal property 
covered for perils 
1-15. Owner's 
additions and 
alterations to rental 
unit covered for perils 
1-15, up to 10% of 
personal property 
coverage 


House, other 
structures, and 
personal property 
covered for all perils 
(1-15 and others not 
listed) except those 
specifically excluded. 


Personal property covered 
for perils 1-15. Owner's 

| additions and alterations 
covered for perils 1-15, up 
to a certain amount 


Key to Perils Covered 
. Fire or lightning 
. Windstorm or hail 
. Explosion 
. Riot or civil commotion 
. Smoke damage 


. Damage by aircraft or vehicles not owned 
by the insured 


. Vandalism 

. Theft 

. Breakage of glass that's part cf the building 
. Falling objects 

. Weight of ice, sleet, or snow 

. Collapse of a building or part cf a building 


. Bursting, bulging, burning or cracking of a 
steam or hot water heating system or water 
heating appliance 


14. Freezing of a plumbing, heating, or air 


15. Damage to electrical wiring, fixtures, or 


conditioning system or household appliance 


appliances (excluding electronic 
components such as tubes and transistors) 
from short circuits or other accidentally 
generated currents 


aged, so it’s important to know your policy’s 
loss recovery formu‘a—how your payment 
is calculated if you have a loss. 


Homeowners insurance policies pay claims 
in two ways. One method applies to build- 
ings, such as your house or garage; 
another method applies to your personal 
property. 


Structural Loss or Damage _ if your house 
is damaged or destroyed, the payment you 
receive from the insurance company is 
based on your home's replacement cost, 
meaning what it would cost to repair 
the damage or replace the house. Re- 
placement cost is determined by the cost of 
construction materials and wage rates in 
your area. Not included in the replacement 
cost estimate is the value of components 
unlikely to be destroyed, such as land and 
foundation. 


Some policies cover your home for 100% of 
its replacement cost if you buy the amount 
of coverage the company specifies. Gener- 
ally, however, homeowners policies include 
a potential limit on recovery. They state that 
you'll be fully compensated for any partial 
damage to your home only if it’s insured for 
a certain percentage of its replacement 
cost at the time of loss. This minimum is 
usually 80%, but some companies require 
90% or 100% (ask your agent to be sure). 


For example: Your house, which would cost 
$90,000 to replace, suffers $10,000 of 
windstorm damage. For a company requir- 
ing 80% coverage, you'd have to be insured 
for at least $72,000 (80% of $90,000) when 
the damage cccurred to collect the full 
$10,000 for repairs. 


If your home is insured for /ess than the 
required percentage, you'd be paid either a 
proportion of the replacement cost or the 
actual cash value of the part damaged, 
whichever is greater. 


Under the first method, your payment would 
be based on a ratio of the amount of insur- 


2 


ance you had at the time of loss, to the 
amount you should have had. Suppose, for 
example, that only the roof of your house is 
damaged, in the amount of $1,500; and 
you're carrying $48,000 of insurance, in- 
stead of $72,000. Your payment would be 
two-thirds of the loss—or $1,000— 
because your coverage at the time of Icss 
was two-thirds of what it should have been. 


Or, the insurance company could pay you 
the roof’s actual cash value, if that's the 
greater amount. Suppose, in the situation 
above, your roof had a useful life of 15 years 
and was damaged in the third year. You'd 
receive $1,200—not $1,500—because 
one-fifth of your roof's useful life was over. 


It should be emphasized that your home's 
replacement cost is not computed by its 
market value. Replacement cost refers to 
how much it would cost to reconstruct your 
house or repair any damage to it. Market 
value, on the other hand, is what a buyer 
would be willing to pay for your home; it’s 
based on the condition of your house, the 
size and location of the lot, and other 
variables. 


Market value does, however, play a part in 
determining your settlement if the settle- 
ment is made on the basis of actual cash 
value. So, if your home's replacement cost 
is greater than its market value, this could 
tend to reduce your settlement. 


Personal Property Loss or Damage __in- 
surance companies usually pay for damage 
to personal property on the basis of actual 
cash value. Remember, this means there's 
a deduction for wear and tear, so you prob- 
ably wouldn't receive enough to replace de- 
stroyed items with new ones. 


Or, you can buy a homeowners policy that 
pays on the basis of replacement cost (also 
called contents replacement coverage). 
With this method, items that are destroyed 
or damaged are either repaired or replaced 
with new items of similar quality. (See “Con- 
tents Replacement Coverage,” page 3.) 


3 


Policy Limits on Recovery in addition to 
insuring your home and its contents, a 
homeowners poiicy also cove:s trees and 
shrubs, detached buildings, and personal 
liability claims. Each category of coverage 
has a limit on how much you can collect for 
loss or damage. The chart on page 3 shows 
typical coverage limits. 


You should also be concerned about your 
policy's sublii sits, which apply to posses- 
sior.s more easily lost or damaged than 
others. For example, homeowners policies 
usually limit coverage to $100 on currency 
and to $500 on stamp collections, boats 
and outboard motors, and theft of jewelry, 
watches, and gems. There may also be a 
$1,000 limit on theft of silverware and guns. 


Are You 
Adequately Covered? 


Don't assume that the coverage provided 
by a standard homeowners policy ade- 
quately protects your property. Use if as 
a .‘ase and make adjustments according 
to what it would cost to replace your 
belongings. 


YOUR HOME As discussed, most 
homeowners policies state that a house 
must be insured for a minimum percentage 
of its replacement cost (not including land 
and foundation) if the owner is to fully col- 
lect for partial losses. If your policy contains 
this clause, you might consider going be- 
yond the minimum—insuring your home for 
100%, rather than 80% or 90% oi its re- 
placement cost. The reason is that there's a 
good chance the replacement cost esti- 
mate on which you base your coverage 
would 1,0t be the same as the replacement 
cost estimate on which your insurance 
company would base its settlement if a loss 
occurred. 


One reason for this is inflation: costs of 


construction materials and labor are rising 
by as much as 10% a year. Another reason 
is that there's no standard method or source 
for estimating replacement cost. Even ap- 
praisals can vary by 10%-20%. By insuring 
your home for 100% of its replacement cost, 
you're allowing for differences between 


STANDARD AMOUNTS OF INSURANCE 


Compre- 

hensive Tenants 
Form Form 
(HO-5) (HO-4) 


4 she + .e 


10% of 


Condominium 
Owners 
Form 
(HO-6) 


$1,000 on 


Broad 
Form 
(HO-2) 


Basic 
Form 
(HO-1) 


Special 
Form 
Property Covered (HO-3) 


Based on replacement cost of buildings 


— 4 


House and attached 


your estimate and that of the insurance 
company. 


In calculating the amount of coverage to 
buy, don't rely solely on your insurance 
agent's estimate. Remember: The burden 
of proper insurance is on you. To be on the 
safe side, get a second opinion. (For 
methods of figuring your home's replace- 
ment cost, see “Keeping Coverage 
Current,” page 4.) 


Inflation Coverage Because of rapid in- 
creases in construction costs, you should 
consider including inflation guard coverage 
in your homeowners insurance. With this 
provision, the face value of your policy is 
automatically increased to reflect rises in 
replacement costs. 


There are several ways this increase can 
occur. Some provisions raise coverage by a 
set percentage— 1%-3%—per quarter. Or, 
it may rise by a set percentage a year—say, 
8%—which is prorated by month. Some 
companies offer increases on a continual 
basis, according to increases in construc- 
tion costs. This last method is best, be- 
cause it gives you some assurance that 
home replacement costs aren't rising faster 
than your coverage. 


Condominium Coverage if you buy a 
homeowners policy for your condominium, 
consider whether the amount provided for 
“owner's additions and alterations’ is 
enough to cover improvements you've 
made. The standard amount of coverage is 
$1,000. 


The condominium association's policy 
should be examined as well. You may find, 
for example, that fire coverage is limited to 
exterior surfaces only, leaving unit owners 
to cope with more extensive damage. 
There's also a question of whether the as- 
sociation policy provides enough coverage 
to take care of major repairs; if it doesn't, 
you and other owners would have to pay for 
any repairs that exceeded the policy limit. 
To protect yourself, you can buy a /oss as- 
sessment endorsement. This is an addition 
to your homeowners policy that covers you 
if the association policy falls short and 
you're assessed damages. 


When you buy condominium insurance, the 
agent you deai with may look at the associa- 
tion policy. However, a homeowners agent 
is not necessarily knowledgeable in this in- 
surance area. If you have questions about 
what the association policy does and 
doesn't cover, consult a qualified attorney. 


PERSONAL PROPERTY if your policy 
covers a house, your personal property is 
normally insured for 50% of the coverage 
on your house (some companies are reduc- 
ing this to 40%). If you have an inflation 


structures 


Detached buildings 
Personal property 


Trees, plants, shrubs 


10% of coverage on house 


50% of coverage on nouse 


5% of coverage on house 
(up to $500 per item) 


owners 
additions 
alterations 


personal 

property 

coverage 
on owner's 
additions 
alterations 


No coverage 
Based on value 
of prooerty 
10% of personal 
property coverage 
(up to $500 per item) 


guard provision, the coverage on your pos- 
sessions will increase as the coverage 
on your house increases, to maintain the 
percentage. 


To find out whether your coverage is ade- 
quate, take an inventory of your posses- 
sions. An inventory points out the value of 
items you might undervalue or overlook en- 
tirely: kitchen goods, clothing, and lawn 
furniture, for example. It’s also an efficient 
way of locating high-value articles-——those 
that should be insured individually. If you're 
a renter or a condominium owner, such a 
listing is even more important, because the 
value of your personal possessions deter- 
mines the amount of insurance you buy. 
(For details on how to compile an inventory, 
see “Your Personal Property,” page 4.) 


If you find that your belongings are underin- 
sured, you can increase the overall amount 
of personal property coverage. This can be 
done without affecting limits of other cate- 
gories. You car also buy contents replace- 
ment coverage or insure specific items with 
a scheduled articles endorsement. 


Contents Replacement Coverage With a 
contents replacement provision, you're 
paid for the cos: of replacing lost or de- 
stroyed items with new items of similar qual- 
ity. If an item is damaged, the insurance 
pays for the cost of repair, without a de- 
duction for Gepreciation. However, if you 
choose not to replace an item, you're 
usually paid only its actual cash value. 


Before buying this insurance, read the pol- 
icy carefully. There are usually limits on the 
amount you can be paid to replace an 
item—no more than 400% of its actual cash 
value, for e’.ample—and the insurance 
company ray choose to have a damaged 
article repaired rather than reolaced if that 
costs less. 


Scheduled Articles Endorsement This 
is purchased as an addition to the home- 
owners policy. It lists certain property items 
and a value for each. If an item is lost or 
destroyed, the amuunt listed is paid. 


This endorsement is used to cover articles 
subject to policy limits (like stamp collec- 


tions). It's also for items of such high value 
that coverage on your personal p’op- 
erty—usually 50% of coverage on your 
house—wouldn't cover loss of several such 
items (antiques, for example) 


A scheduled articles endorsement is ail/ 
risk, meaning it covers all perils except 
those specifically named. No deductible 
applies, but the insurance company might 
not renew your coverage if you file a number 
of small claims. Before being issued this 
endorsement, you may be asked for appili- 
cable receipts, bills of sale, or appraisals. 


Note that articles stored in a safe deposit 
box at your financial institution usually are 
not insured—by your homeowners policy or 
by the financial institution. You can insure 
these items by listing them on a scheduled 
articles endorsement. 


PERSONAL LIABILITY The $25,000 
personal liability coverage provided by 
many homeowners policies is inadequate. 
Because legal action is being used more 
often to resolve disputes and because the 
size of court settlements is increasing, 
some companies are automatically writing 
$100,000 of liability coverage. And, it's not 
uncommon for homeowners to request 
amounts of $200,000 or $300,000. 


Your 


Insurance Program 


SELECTING A PLAN Once you've esti- 
mated the value of your property and have a 
general knowledge of the kinds of insur- 
ance available to protect it, you're ready to 
start shopping for insurance. 


When comparing policies, make sure you 
understand the provisions of each and how 
they apply to your possessions. Consider 
cost, but rernember: Low cost is not the only 
reason for choosing a plan; you must also 
weigh the amount of protection you get for 
your money. 


Which Company? Best's insurance 
Reports —Property /Liability is a publica- 


3 


tion that rates ir surance companies accord- 
ing to financiai stability, But this may be 
helpful only if you're dealing with a small 
company, because the large ones generally 
have ‘excellent’ ratings 


Another approach is to check consumer 
publications, which sometimes publish 
evaluations based on service and or rates 
Also, ask your friends about their experi- 
ences with buying homeowners policies 
and filing claims 


Finally, however, it's the insurance agent 
who's your main contact with a company 
and the key to the quality of coverage and 
service you receive 


Which Agent? Finding a good insurance 
agent may not be easy. Ask your friends, 
your attorney, and your banker if they can 
refer you to competent agents. If you're 
satisfied with your automobile insurance, 
ask whether the agent also handles 
homeowners policies 


Look for a person who's receptive to your 
needs—who's willing and able to explain 
coverages, conditions, and exclusions 
Your homeowners agent should make sure 
you understand your policy and should 
keep you informed of new coverages and 
services. 


COST OF COVERAGE Your homeown- 
ers policy will, of course, cost more if you 
buy $100,000 of coverage instead of 
$69,000. And, ihe more protection a policy 
fp’ uvides, the higher its cost; for example. a 
comprehensive policy costs more than a 
basic policy. Including an inflation guard 
provision or a scheduled articies endorse- 
ment will also increase your premium, 
and you'll pay 10%-15% higher rates for 
contents replacement coverage. 


Insurance costs vary from one company to 
another. One reason is that a company's 
rates for a given geographical area are de- 
termin» ‘largely by its “loss experience” in 
that area—the amount of money spent over 
a given period to settle claims. Differ- 
ent companies—or the same company 
at different times—.iave different loss 
experiences 


Another cost factor is your property's risk 
rating. This takes into consideration prox- 
imity and efficiency of your fire department, 
your nearness to an adequate water supply, 
and construction of your home (brick, for 
example, is more fire resistant than wood). 


Keeping Costs Down One way you can 
keep insurance costs from getting out of 
hand is to choose, with your agent's help, 
the policy for:n that most clearly fits your 
needs. The comprehensive form, for 
example, covers many more perils than the 
broad form, but it also costs considerably 
more. 


When buying insurance, check the plans of 
at least three companies, comparing rates 


and coverages. Find out if your employer 
or organizations you belong to offer group 
policies, which usually cost less than 
individual policies 


You can also reduce your premium by tak- 
ing a higher deductible. By raising the 
deductible from $100 to $250, you can gen- 
erally save up to 10%. By setting your de- 
ductible at $500, you could save as much 
as 30%. Keep in mind that you can deduct 
an uninsured property loss over $100 if you 
itemize on your federal income tax return 
But, at the same time, your deductible 
should be one you can handle comfortably 
if you do suffer a loss 


Ask your agent about oossible discounts. 
Your rate might be reduced if you install a 
fire or burglar alarm, for example. If you 
rent, your insurance company may offer a 
nonsmoker's discount. Also, be aware that 
filing small claims, just over the deductible 
limit, adds to the company’s expense. As a 
result, your premium may be increased or 
your policy may not be renewed 


KEEPING COVERAGE CURRENT if your 
homeowners policy is not with a company 
that automatically covers your home for 
100°% of its replacement cost, review your 
coverage every year to make sure you still 
have enough. Periodically, adjust the value 
of scheduled articles. You might also want 
to check your premiums against those of 
comparable plans if there have been policy 
or rate changes 


To be certain your property coverage is still 
adequate, you must know the value of your 
possessions. With your home, this evalua- 
tion is normally a once-a-year event; with 
your personal property, it's an ongoing 
process 


Your Home Figure your home's replace- 
ment cost annually and updave your cover- 
age as needed. There are a number of 
methods you can use to arrive at a re- 
placement cost figure. Using more than one 
method will give you a sounder basis for 
buying adequate coverage. 


One of the easiest ways to determine re- 
placement cost is to ask your insurance 
agent; most companies provide their 
agents with regularly updated cost tables. 
You can also make a calculation yourself, 
using charts available from insurance 
companies (these, however, are usually 
geared more toward homes with standard 
construction features). 


Another method is to ask a building contrac- 
tor to do an evaluation; the fee for this ser- 
vice usually starts at about $50. Or, you can 
hire a professional appraiser, whose fee is 
usually in the $150—$300 range. If you hire 
an appraiser, make it clear that you want the 
appraisal for insurance, not to price your 
home for sale. 


To further protect yourself, take color 
photos of vour house, garage, and outdoor 


improvements, as well as trees and shrub- 
bery. Such photos can serve as backup to 
claims you file, because they provide a 
record of the condition of your property 
before damage occurred 


Your Personal Property An inventory of 
your possessions is essential, not only to 
determine how much insurance you should 
Carry but also to prove any property loss or 
damage. As an example of how useful an 
inventory can be, try to list every item in 
your living room—without looking. You 
probably can't, and your memory wouldn't 
be any sharper if, for example, you were 
trying to catalog your losses after being 
robbed 


Most insurance companies, as well as 
many bookstores and stationery stores, 
have inventory forms or booklets you can 
use. These listings are divided by rc ™, 
with space to enter date of purchase, oni. ;i- 
nal cost, and current cost for each itum 
Enter model and serial numbers of items 
that have them. 


Supplement your written inventory with 
color photographs. For each room, stand in 
the center and photograph each wall, taking 
several pictures if necessary. Make sure all 
articles are clearly visible. Take close-ups 
of high-value items such as artwork and 
antiques. Arrange jewelry and collections 
of small items in groups (if size is important, 
include a ruler); take crystal and china out 
of cabinets so they can be clearly seen. 
Don't forget articles stored in closets and in 
the attic, garage, and basement. When 
you've had your pictures processed, note 
on the back of each the item(s) shown. 


As you acquire and dispose of possessions, 
adjust your inventory and photo file, and 
make appropriate changes in your 
scheduled articles endorsement. 


As a backup to your invento.y and sched- 
uled articles endorsement, save sales 
receipts for large-ticket items (furniture, 
appliances, and valuables such as antiques 
and jewelry). Valuables should be ap- 
praised at regular intervals, for appraisals 
help establish value in case of loss or dam- 
age and are especially important if some- 
thing is no longer sold in regular retail 
outlets. 


STORING RECORDS Cataloging and 
photographing your possessions does litte 
good if you keep these records in your 
home, where they can be destroyed by the 
same peril that damages your property. 


Use a safe deposit box to store your inven- 
tory, photos of your home and its contents, 
sales receipts, appraisals, and the name 
and number of your insurance policy. If a 
safe deposit box is not used, keep these 
items in a fireproof container off the prem- 
ises. Make a duplicate set of the papers 
and photographs, to be kept, for example, 
at your office, or with your attorney, 
accountant, or insurance agent. 


Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, June 1981, but is subject to change 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA + MEMBER FDIC ~ 


AD-280 (6/81) 


