DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 826 CE 800 130 


TITLE What's in Your Credit Report? The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 22. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Jan 83 

NOTE 4p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

AVAILABLE FROM Bank of America, Dept. 3401, Box 37128, San 
Francisco, CA 94137 (first set free, $0.10 pe’ copy 
thereafter, 10 copies $1.00, 100 copies $7.00). 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDKS PRICE MFO1l Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS Civil Rights; Confidentiality; *Consumer Education; 
*Credit (Finance); Guidelines; *Informition Services; 
Pamphlets 

IDENTIFIERS *Credit Bureaus; *Credit Reports; PF Project 


ABSTRACT : 

This report tells what information is likely to be in 
a credit report; how it is collected, filed, and communicated; and 
how individual rights regarding credit are protected by law. Topics 
covered include: (1) information generally contained in a credit 
profile (identification, family status, public record information, 
credit accounts, and inquiries); (2) information not included due to 
law or due to the process of reporting credit; (3) a description of 
the credit reporting process including problems that can be caused by 
incomplete applications or incomplete information exchange systems; 
(4) types of reports supplied by credit bureaus (in-file reports and 
updated reports); (5) the rights of individuals under the Fair Credit 
Reporting Act of 1971 to see their credit reports and procedures to 
follow in order to see a report; and (6) actions to take if 
information in the report is disputed. Addresses and telephone 
numbers of California offices of federal and state agencies which 
handle problems with creditors and credit bureaus are inciuded. The 
information in this report is current at the time of printing, 
January 1983, but is subject to change. (DC) 


RAEKKAKERERREKEKEEKEEEEEREREKERERERERREEEEEKKEEEERERERERKEKKEKKREKEKKKREEEEEE 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made . 


* from the original document. sd 
RARER REKEKEKREEKREEEEEEEREKREEREKREEREKEEEEREKEEEEEEEEREKEEKERERKEKEERKEEEE 


CIR=. 


Consumer information Report 22 


What’s in Your Credit Report? 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESUURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC; 

This document has been reproducea as 
received from the person or organization 


PF ecg it 
Minor changes have been made to improve 
reproduction quality 


@ Points of view or opinions stated in this docu 
ment do not necessarily represent cfficial NIE 
position or policy 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


Albert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


CIR 


C~nsumer Information Report 22 


What’s in Your Credit Report? 


Your credit history is usually an important factor in your application for 
credit. This report tells what information is likely to be in your credit 
report; how it’s collected, filed, and communicated; and how your rights 


are protected by law. 


When you apply for credit, whether it's a 
bar« loan or a department store charge 
account, the creditor usually will want to see 
your credit history repcrt before deciding on 
your application. The report tells in a gen- 
eral way how you've managed credit in the 
past, which gives your prospective creditor 
a good idea of how you'll manage the credit 
you're seeking. 


YOUR CREDIT PROFILE In general, 
your credit report can contain the following 
kinds of information 


Identification The report will give your 
name, your date of birth, your Social Secu- 
rity number, your current (and, in some 
cases, your previous) address, and the 
date your file was opened at the credit 
bureau that’s issuing the report. 


Family Status if you're married, the re- 
port may include your spouse's name. Also, 
if you have dependents, it may list them. 


Public Record Information The repon 
will note, within certain limits, court judg- 
ments, lawsuits, and tax liens against you, 
and any bankruptcies. It may also note your 
divorce or the death of your spcuse. 


Credit Accounts Information in this cat- 
egory can include: the credit accounts 
(loans, charge accounts, etc.) you now 
have or recently had; whether they're joint 
or individual accounts ; how long you've had 
each account; the credit limit or the amount 
of credit granted; how much you still owe; 
whether you made payments on time: 
recent past-due payments; and accounts 
sent to a collection agency. 


Inquiries Your credit report will also in- 
clude a record of any inquiries the credit 
bureau has received—usually within the 
past year—for credit information about you. 


WHAT'S NOT INCLUDED The aim of a 
credit report is to describe your credit his- 
tory as completely as possible. But the 
credit reporting process operates under 
restrictions—some imposed by law, some 
by the process itself—that exclude certain 
kinds of information from your report. 


For instance, federal law regulates how 


long negative information, such as an ac- 
count sent to a collection agency, may be 
included in your credit report. Usually, it's no 
more than seven years, or ten years for 
bankruptcies. The time limits don't apply, 
howev 2r, if vour credit report is for the pur- 
pose )f evaluating your application for 
credit of $50,000 or more, life insurance 
coverage of $50,000 or more, or employ- 
ment paying $20,000 or more a year. 


Your credit report will not recommend 
whether or not you should receive credit. 
The report provides objective, verifiable in- 
formation; it doesn't evaluate your cred- 
itworthiness. Creditors do that independ- 
ently, according to their own standards for 
granting credit. 


Nor will your credit report contain informa- 
tion about your reputation, character, or 
lifestyle. A report that does is called an 
investigative report and usually is made 
for insurance purposes or for prospective 
employers 


Besides excluding certain kinds of informa- 
tion, your credit report may omit portions of 
your credit history. Often, such omissions 
occur because of the way the credit report- 
ing process works. 


THE CREDIT REPORTING PROCESS 
The credit reporting process begins with 
you: The first time you apply for credit, the 
information that you supply on your applica- 
tion is likely to be used to initiate a file on you 
at one or more credit bureaus. Most cred- 
itors use the services of at least one 
bureau, obtaining information on credit ap- 
plicants and providing information on credit 
customers. 


Creditors who subscribe to a credit 
bureau's services include banks and other 
financial institutions, retailers, mortgage 
lenders, and oil companies. Additional sub- 
scribers may include other credit bureaus, 
insurance companies, cc "ection agencies, 
employers, and professional organizations 
such as medical and dental groups. 


While much of the information in a credit 
bureau's files comes from reports submit- 
ted by subscribers, a bureau does have 
other channels available for increasing its 
information base. For example, members 
of the Associated Credit Bureaus, Inc., may 
subscribe to a service that provides infor- 
mation on individuals’ credit accounts with 
large national and regional “reditors. And 
when the need arises, a bureeu can request 
a complete report on a individual from 
another credit bureau. That happens 
primarily when a person who's new in the 
community applies for credit; the local 
bureau has no file on the person, and so 
has to send for a report from the bureau in 
the area where the person used to live. 


The exchange system doesn't make a 
credit bureau all-knowing, however, and a 
creditor to whom you've applied may riot be 
able to get enough information on you from 
a bureau to satisfy evaluation needs. There 
are two possible reasons for that. 


Incomplete Application To locate your 
file, a credit bureau needs the kind of iden- 
tifying information d‘scussed earlier—your 
full name, address, date of birth, Social Se- 
curity number, and so on. If you omit im- 
portant information on your credit applica- 
tion (such as your previous address oui of 
state or another name under which you've 
had credit), the credit bureau may not be 
able to locate your files at other bureaus. 


COPYRIGHT 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&S A 1979. 1980. 1981. 1983 


That could be a disadvantage because a 
creditor might reject your application on the 
basis of an insufficient credit history. So be 
sure to Supply a'' information a creditor asks 
for on the application 


If you are or were a married woman, part of 
your credit history prior to June 1, 1977 may 
be on file in your husband's name only— 
particularly those accounts you shared with 
your husband or were authorized to use 
under his name. If you want those accounts 
included in your own credit history, request 
the creditors to do so when they report 
those accounts to credit bureaus. (Joint ac- 
counts opened on or after June 1, 1977 are 
automatically reported in both names.) 


Incomplete System Some small bu- 
reaus serve only creditors and other sub- 
scribers in a single community or county 
Other bureaus serve larger areas. So, if 
you ve dealt with a creditor who subscribes 
to one of these local or regional bureaus, it's 
possible that your cred't history for that ac- 
count won't automatically be available to a 
creditor outside that area. Also, an area is 
cften served by more than one bureau. So, 
your creditors may report to different 
bureaus, none of which has a complete 
record of your accounts 


You can help to prevent any gaps in the 
information flow by telling your prospective 
creditor about your previous credit ac- 
counts: the names of past creditors, ap- 
proximate opening and closing dates on the 
accounts, and your name and address dur- 
ing those times 


TYPES OF REPORTS Depending on a 
creditor's request, a credit bureau supplies 
either an in-file report or an updated report 


An in-file report contains information on file 
at the bureau at the time of the creditor's 
request. How current and complete the re- 
port's information is depends on how regu- 
larly your other creditors report to the 
bureau. Generally, they submit reports on a 
monthly or quarterly basis. Once the 
bureau receives the reports, it usually takes 
three to four weeks for the information to be 
processed and included in the files. There- 
fore, data in your in-file report may be two or 
more months old at the time the repcrt is 
issued 


When you apply for a large or long-term 
extension of credit, such as a real estate 
loan, or if you have a limited crecit history, a 
creditor may request an updated report. To 
prepare it, the credit bureau usually con- 
tacts your creditors to check the present 


status of your accounts and contacts your 
employer to verify your employment ana 
income 


It your application for credit lists any credit 
accounts not included in your in-file report 
your prospective creditor or the credit 
bureau may want to verify them. If aay in- 
formation such as an account number or 
address needs to be verified, the credit 
bureau might also contact you directly 


SEE FOR YOURSELF The Fair Credit 
Reporting Act of 1971 protects your right of 
access to the information about you in credit 
bureaus files. If you want to Know what's in 
your files, the first step is to determine which 
bureaus have files on you 


You can probably do that by contacting your 
various creditors—a loan officer at the 
branch where yuu have a loan, the credit 
department of the merchant who's given 
you a charge account, your doctors book- 
keeper or billing service—and asking the 
name of the credit bureau each one reports 
to. Or, you could look in the Yellow Pages of 
the telephone directory under ‘Credit Re- 
porting Agencies’ for a list of the bureaus in 
your area 


Ask each bureau what procedures you 
should follow to obtain the information you 
want. California law requires the credit 
bureau to show you your file and, at your 
request, provide a written version of the file 
You can ask to have the credit information 
sent to your home, explained to you over the 
telephone by one of the bureau's consumer 
counselors, or explained to you in a per- 
sonal interview with a counselor at the 
bureau's offices 


A credit bureau can charge you a small fee 
to see your file, generally $5 to $8, unless 
you have been denied credit or insurance or 
have had your insurance rates raised he- 
cause of information in your credit report. In 
most cases, you also can't be charged if 
you've been refused a job because of a 
credit check. Under any of these circum- 
stances, you can review the report if you 
write or visit the credit bureau within 30 
days of being rotified by the creditor, insur- 
ance company, or em,” dyer. 


If you write to the bureau for your report, you 
should include your complete name, all ad- 
dresses for the past five years (including 
ZIP codes), your Social Security number, 
and your signature. Bureaus store informa- 
tion in coded form; when you receive your 
report, it may be in code too. If so, the 
bureau will include an explanation 


Inform ation contained in this report is current at 
the time of printing, January 1983, but is subject 
to change 


To get a personal interview at the bureau 
you may have to make an appointment 
When you visit, you'll be asked for proper 
identification such as your driver's license, 
and you'll have to fill out a form with your 
name, your addresses for the past five 
years, and your Social Security number 
The bureau's consumer counselor will ex- 
plain your file report and the coding system 


IF YOU DISAGREE if you dispute any in- 
formation in your credit report, tell the 
bureau. The bureau usually will investigate 
the matter, a process that can take up to two 
weeks. If the information is inaccurate, the 
bureau will correct it. If it can't be verified 
the bureau must remove it from your file 
However, if the bureau says the item is cor- 
rect and you still disagree, you can file a 
statement of 100 words or less telling your 
side of the story. You might, for instance 
want to explain that you were late in making 
a payment because of emergency medical 
expenses 


When information in your file is found to be 
inaccurate, yOu Can ask the bureau to send 
a corrected report to anyone who received 
the report within the past six months—or, if 
the report was used for employment pur- 
poses, within the past two years 


WHEN YOU HAVE A PROBLEM if you 
have a problem concerning a credit bureau, 
you can contact the Federal Trade Com- 
mission, which is responsible for enforcing 
the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The commis- 
sion's offices in California are 


Los Angeles 11000 Wilshire Boulevard, 
#13209, Los Angeles, CA 90024. Tele- 
phone (213) 209-7575 


San Francisco 450 Golden Gate Avenue, 
#12470, San Francisco, CA 94102. Tele- 
phone (415) 556-1270 


For help in dealing with a creditor on a credit 
reporting matter, contact the Consumer 
Services Division of the California Depart- 
ment of Consumer Affairs. The division can 
refer you to the proper legal agency. The 
division's offices are 


Los Anjeles 107 South Broadway, #8020, 
Los Angeles, CA 90012. Telephone (213) 
620-4360 


San Francisco 455 Golden Gate Avenue, 
#2191, San Francisco, CA 94102. Tele- 
phone (415) 557-0966. 


Sacramento PO. Box 310, Sacramento, 
CA 95802. Telephone (916) 445-0660 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 


BANK OF AW =RICA NT&SA ¢ MEMBER FDIC 4 


AD-272 (REV 1 85) 


