ED 241 824 
TITLE 
INSTITUTION 
PUB DATE 

NOTE 

AVAILABLE FROM 
PUB TYPE 

EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 
IDENTIFIERS 


ABSTRACT 


credit management. Topics covered include: 
personal credit limits; 
suggestions for planning credit use: 


DOCUMENT RESUME 
CE 800 128 


Managing Your Credit. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 18. 

Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

Oct 80 

3p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 
Bank of America, Dept. 3401, Box 37128, San 
Francisco, CA 94137 (first set free, $0.10 per copy 
thereafter, 10 copies $1.00, 100 copies $7.00). 
Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


MFO1 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 
*Consumer Education; *Credit (Finance); Expenditures; 
Guidelines; Loan Repayment; *Money Manrgement; 


Pamphlets; Planning 
Credit Cards; PF Project 


This report describes principles and techniques for 
(1) methods of determining 
(2) ways to keep track of credit use; (3) 

(4) explanations of 


single-payment charge accounts, revolving credit, installment credit, 
and consolidation loans; and (5) techniques for building and 


maintaining self-discipline in using credit. 


Information in this 


report is current at the time of printing, October 1980, but is 


subject to change. 


(DC) 


FRERESESSESESLSL SES SESE SS SESE SESE SESE SES SESE SESE SRS S ESSERE SERS SSS SSS SES SSS SS 
* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made 


ae 


from the original document. 


* 
* 


REARKKAKEEKEKKEREKEEEKEEKEREREAEEKEKEEREEEREEKEREEKREKEKKEEKEKEEKRKKKEEKREKR 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC 


Ania r™ 
WUC 


Consumer Intormation Report 18 


Aibert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


Managing Your Credit 


Credit can be one of your rnost valuable assets or your biggest 
downfall—it all depends on how you manage it. This report de- 
scribes some credit management principles and techniques that 
can help you deal effectively with our “buy now, pay later’ society. 


ED241824 © 


YOUR CREDIT PICTURE When your 
wallet is nearly empty or your checkbook 
balance is low, you know that you're nearing 
your spending limit. But if you use credit, 
you can overspend without realizing it— 
until the bills come in. That's why wise credit 
use requires planning and monitoring 


Take a look at your current credit situation. 
Do you know how much you pay out each 
month on credit obligations and whether or 
not your debt is in line with your income? If 
your credit picture isn't clear, perhaps you 
need to organize your records and take a 
closer look. 


Experts’ Yardsticks How do you know 
when it's time to stop buying on credit? 
There's no single answer to this question 
because it depends on your individual cir- 
cumstances, such as the size and stability 
of your income and your present and antici- 
pated expenses. 


One guideline is whether the percentage of 
your income that goes to repay loans is 
higher than the limits used by creditors to 
evaluate loan requests. Although this var- 
ies, lenders generally agree that a “safe” 
percentage would be to spend no more 
than 30% to 40% of your gross income on 
housing expenses (mortgage or rent, prop- 
erty taxes, and insurance) and instalment 
debts. To figure what you're spending, di- 
vide the total of your monthly housing and 
instalment payments by your monthly gross 
income. 


Another rule of thumb often used by finan- 
cial counselors is that you should stop 
charging whenever your credit payments 
(not including a mortgage) approach 15% to 
20% of your take-home pay (what's left afte: 
income taxes, Social Security, and any 
other deductions). Test yourself against this 
guideline by dividing the total of your 
monthly loan payments by your monthly 
take-home pay. 

Again, remember to take your individual 
circumstances into account. For example, a 
family of four whose monthly take-home 
pay is $900 probably will have more diffi- 
culty handling a 15% debt load (which 
leaves $765 a month for all other living ex- 
penses) than a family of four whose take- 
home pay is $1,500 (leaving $1,275 a 
month for other expenses). 


Another way to size up your credit picture is 
to take an honest look at your money man- 
agement habits. 


Danger Signals The following are ciear 
danger signals that mean you're getting 
overextended. Any one of these signals can 
indicate trouble is brewing; but several to- 
gether are cause for real concern. 


* Juggling payments —stalling one creditor 
to pay another. 

e Receiving past-due notices in credit bill- 
ing statements. 

e Failing to save even a little money each 
raonth. 


e Charging more each month than you 
make in payments on your accourts. 

@ Taking longer and longer to pay off credit 
account balances. 


e Running out of money before payday. 


e Using credit card cash advances to cover 
everyday living expenses or to make pay- 
ments on other credit card accounts. 


A sharply focused credit picture will show 
the trouble spots that need your attention. 
Or, if the picture looks good, you'll want to 
be sure it stays that way. In either case, the 
following techniques can help you become 
a more skillful credit manager. 


YOUR PERSONAL CREDIT LIMIT 
There's a limit to the amount of credit you 
can get on any one of your credit accounts; 
but, if you have many accounts, the total 
limit available to you may be more than you 
can handle. So, it's really up to you to estab- 
lish your own “personal credit limit’; that is, 
the most you'll allow yourself to carry on all 
of your accounts—including instalment 
loans as well as credit cards and charge 
accounts —at any given time. 


Perhaps the most workable way to find your 
personal credit limit is to figure out how 
much you can afford to pay each month for 
credit purchases. This may mean setting up 
a budget if you don't already have one. (For 
help, see Report #14 in this series, Per- 
sonal Money Planner.) Or, at least, you'll 
need to evaluate your monthly cash 
flow—money you receive and pay out. 
Though your focus is on the total of your 
monthly credit payments, don't overlook 
the amount of your tota/ debt outstanding. 
The higher it goes, the more you have to 
pay each month to meet your obligations. 


Once you establish your personal credit 
limit, you must plan your credit spending so 
that the total of all your monthly credit pay- 
ments does not exceed this amount. 


For example, suppose you set your per- 
sonal credit limit et $180. If your car pay- 
ment is $100 a month, you pay $20 a month 
on your bank card, and you normally charge 
$40 a month on your oil colmpany card 
(whic.1 you probably pay in full each month), 
then you have a leeway of $20. You can 
apply that money to an existing debt— your 
bank card, for instance —so you can pay it 
off sooner and save on finance charges. Or, 
you can put the extra money in savings, 
spend it, or take on additional debt. 


Reevaluate your credit limit from time to 
time. Lon't be too quick to increase it unless 
you honestly believe you can handle the 
additional debt—perhaps because of a 
raise in pay or other change in your financial 
Status. 


KEEPING TRACK Tomake sure you stay 
within your personal credit limit, you'll need 
to keep track of your charge account and 
credit card purchases. This is fairly simple if 
you have only one or two accounts; but if 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA 1978. 1980 


a 


uy maintain a number of accounts, you 
may lose sight of your overall credit picture. 


Credit Register You can set up a credit 
register, like the one shown on this page, to 
use as a tool in your personal credit man- 
agement. It works much like your reqular 
checkbook register, except that you add 
credit purchases and finance charges to the 
balance and subtract monthly payments 
from it. (In the illustration, monthly pay- 
ments are circled to distinguish them from 
purchases and to indicate that they are sub- 
tracted from the balance.) The balance rep- 
resents money you owe rather than money 
available to spend. 


It's important to enter purchases and pay- 
ments as you make them so that your credit 
register always reflects your current credit 
standing. Also, keep your credit register 
and your other financial records—such as 
your budget and instalment loan records — 
in one place for quick reference when you 
want to review your overall credit picture. 


Alternatives _|f you prefer to keep less de- 
tailed records, you can modify the credit 
register. Rather than noting individual pur- 
chases as you make them, tally your charge 
slips each week and enter the totals for 
each account. 


You may be able to keep track of your credit 
spending by simply reviewing your monthly 
statements or by regularly reviewing your 
charge slips. Sut bear in mind that the more 
closly you track your credit spending, the 
clearer your credit picture will be. 


PLANNING CREDIT USE Knowledge- 
able business managers plan for credit 
use. They look anead to see when credit 
may be needed to finance business ac- 
tivities. Then they consider which kinds of 
credit will be available and select the kind 
that best suits the situation. You can use the 
same technique in managing your personal 
use of credit. 


First, consider what major expenses you're 
likely to have in the next six months to a 
year. Then, determine whether you'll be 
able to meet the expenses from your regu- 
lar income and anticipated savings during 
that period If you think you may have to 
borrow, consider the various types of credit 
available to you. Planning this way provides 
the opportunity to shop carefully, both for 
the credit arrangement and the purchases 
you war to finance. 


Since many types of credit are available, it 
can be a challenge to select the type most 
suitable for a particular purpose. Here are 
some guidelines that may help you. 


CHARGE ACCOUNTS '!t's important to 
know which of your credit cards and charge 
accounts are single-payment credit ac- 
counts and which are revolving credit 


Ba nkAmericard 
VISA 


(hse mit); 


a Cn 


Armount | Bal. Fed | 


\date /tem 


: 4 a i? 100.00 
; % | Shoes cE 3740 | 137.10 | 


Ti. Bicycle | 69.00 | 296.70 | 
|%o| Finance Chg 2.51 | |298 er { 


accounts. The type affects the cost and the 
repayment requirements. 


Single-Payment With this type of credit, 
you must pay your bill in full each month. 
Most travel and entertainment cards, for 
examMe, are designed this way. You usu- 
ally are not assessed a finance charge, so 
long as you pay on time. However, if you 
don't keep a close watch on your use of this 
type of credit, you may end up with bills that 
will throw off your entire budget. (Your credit 
register will help you keep track.) 


Revolving Credit Bank cards and retail 
credit cards commonly work on a revolving 
credit basis. Within a specified iimit you may 
charge purchases and, with some bank 
cards, you can also get cash advances. 


The minimum payment you must make 
each month is based on your outstanding 
balance; of course, you can pay more than 
the minimum amount. Depending on the 
policy of the creditor, you may not be 
charged interest if you pay the account in 
full within a specified .ime—generally 25 to 
30 days from the date of your statement. 


Interest rates for revolving credit are higher 
than orsome other forms of credit; also, the 
longer you take to repay, the more dollars 
you'll spend on interest. 


INSTALMENT CREDIT nstalment credit 
—credit you pay back in regular intervals 
over a fixed period of time—is available 
directly from lending institutions and is usu- 
ally granted for a single, specific purpose, 
such as buying a car or taking a vacation. 
You may also be able to get instalment 
credit through the seller of a product you're 
buying—-from an auto dealer to finance a 
car, for instance. You must apply for instal- 
ment credit each time you want to use it 
and, depending on what you're financing, 
you may have to make a down payment. 
Interest rates for instalment credit are often 
lower than on revo'ving credit, especially if 
you pledge property such as a Car or a 
savings account as collateral for repayment 
of the debt. However, it's to your advantage 


to shop for instalment credit because an- 
nual percentage rates, other credit costs, 
and repayment terms vary widely 


CONSOLIDATION LOANS A consolida- 
tion ‘oan is an instalment loan designed to 
pay off a number of debts and is usually 
obtained because these debts are threaten- 
ing to become unmanageable. The monthly 
payment on a consolidation loan generally 
will be less than the amount you paid on the 
bills you consolidated. This is because 
you'll be extending your payments over a 
longer period. 

A consolidation loan can have the advan- 
tage of protecting your credit history by pay- 
ing the bills before they become delinquent. 
However, it can also have disadvantages. 
The main drawback is the cost. Because 
the loan usually has a higher interest rate 
and longer repayment term than the debts 
that are consolidated, you'll probably pay 
considerably more in finance charges. And, 
you may be required to provide collateral 
that has a value equal to or greater than the 
amount you're borrowing. 


Another drawback is that the reduction in 
monthly payments might lead you to think 
you have extra money, tempting you to take 
on more credit obligations. This can cause 
even more serious financial problems. 


CREDIT DISCIPLINE To help you build 
and maintain the self-discipline vou need to 
keep your credit picture in good order, con- 
sider some of the following tactics. 

¢ Cut down on the number of retail charge 
accounts and credit cards you have. This 
will limit your potential credit “liability.” 

e Make it a practice to postpone a credit 
purchase until you've thought it over for a 
few days—unless it's for an emergency. 


e Borrow only the amount you need and 
make as large a down payment as you can. 
If you're using a credit card or charge ac- 
count, you may want to pay for a portion of 
the purchase in cash 


e Protect your credit record. Make pay- 
ments on time and for the full amount you 
agreed to. If you can’t pay because of finan- 
cial difficulties, take the initiative and con- 
tact your creditors to explain the problem. 


¢ Seek financial counseling if you need it 
because of excessive debt. You can get 
help from Consumer Credit Counselors, a 
nonprofit community organization with of- 
fices located in major California com- 
munities. Counselors offer free advice and 
will, for a fee based on your ability to pay, 
administer a rep. yment plan which they 
design in cooperation with your creditors. 


¢ Combine your credit use with a savings 
plan. After yuu pay off a revolving or instal- 
ment debt, put the amount of that monthly 
payment into a savings account. 


Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, October 1980, but is subject to change. 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA ¢ MEMBER FDIC 3 


AD-268 (REV. 10/80) 


