DOCUMENT RESUME 


ED 241 820 CE 800 124 

TITLE Ways to Finance an Education. The CIRculer: Consumer 
'nformation Report 8. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA, 

PUB DATE Jun 83 

NOTE 5p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 

EDRS PRICE MFO1 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS *Federal Aid; Federal Programs; Grants; Guidelines; 


Pamphlets; Postsecondary Education; *Private 
Financial Support; Special Programs; *State Aid; 
State Programs; *Student Financial Aic; Student Loan 
Programs; Work Study Programs 

IDENTIFIERS *California; PF Project 


ABSTRACT 

This report describes federal, California state, and 
private student financial aid programs; ways to improve chances of 
receiving aid; and programs for special populations. Information is 
provided on the following sources of aid: (1) federal (Pell Grants, 
National Direct Student Loans (NDSL), Supplemental Educational 
Opportunity Grants (SEOG), College Work-Study (CWS), and aid to 
veterans and dependents); California (Cal Grant A, Cal Grant B, state 
graduate fellowships, and aid to dependents of veterans); (3) private 
organizations (National Merit Scholarship Corporation, businesses, 
professional associations, labor unions, and community 
organizations); and (4) private lenders (California Guaranteed 
Student Loans (CGSL), California Loans to Assist Students (CLAS), and 
personal loans). General information is provided on school financial 
aid offices, application procedures, eligibility, and filling out 
forms. Cost-cutting ideas include ways to shorten the time spent in 
school, suggestions for inexpensive schools to attend, and options 
for earning money while attending school. Special programs are 
discussed for minorities and women, disabled students, adults, and 
graduate students. Suggestions are offered to parents for planning 
ahead and for savings plans. Deadlines for several programs are 
included. Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, June 1983, but is subject to change. (DC) 


REKKEREAREEREEEEEEREERKEKRERERKEEEREKERKEEEREEERRREKERERKEKEKEEEKEEKKKEEREKEER 


® Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made * 


* from the original document. . 
REKKEKREKEKEEEEKKEKEEEEEKEEEREREEREEEEEEEEREREKEEEEKEKEEEKEREKEREEREREKERER 


ED241820 


x sty oO 
4 x v ee a ed 


Consumer Intormation Report 8 


Ways to Finance an Education 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 


MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 
Albert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC) 


ris document has been reproduced as 


received from the person of organization 
enginating it 


C7 Minor changes have been made to improve 


reproduction quality 


SL 


@ Points of view or opimons stated in this docu 


position OF 


ment do not necessarily represer 


it official NIE 


policy 


Scholarships, grants, and loans for higher education come from a variety 
of sources, including many you may never have thought to explore. This 
report looks at federal, state, and private aid for students; special 
opportunities for women and minorities; ways to improve your chances of 
receiving aid; and more. 


BEYOND HIGH SCHOOL \Vhetner you 
plan to attend a vocational school, graduate 
school, two-year college, or four-year uni- 
versity, figuring out how to pay for your 
postsecondary education is not just a 
challenge—it's a necessity. Nearly all formal 
education beyond high school requires that 
you meet a sizable portion of the expenses 
yourself 


Tuition and various student fees are basic 
charges at almosi all schools, and you'll 
have to pay for room and board at a resi- 
dential college. Also, don't forget the cost of 
books, supplies, and basic living needs 


Ways of meeting these educational ex- 
penses fall into two major categories: self- 
help and financial aid. Self-help includes 
your savings and your summer and school- 
year earnings. Financial aid from the federal 
or state government or from private sources 
can be obtained in the form of scholarships, 
grants, and loans 


SCHOLARSHIPS You're awarded a schol- 
arship on the basis of superior ability in 
academic work, athletics, or other school- 
related activities. The amount may be de- 
termined by need. Because a scholarship is 
a gift, it doesn't have to be repaid 


GRANTS You're awarded a grant pri- 
marily on the basis of financial need. As with 
a scholarship, repayment isnt necessary 


LOANS Educational loans generally are 
made to the student, and repayment is the 
student's responsibility. However, parents 
may apply for an insured loan available 
through private lenders to help meet the cost 
of their children’s education 


Loans vary in their requirements. Before you 
sign on the dotted line, make certain that 

1. You understand all the terms of the loan, 
such as the annual percentage rate (APR) 
and any penalties for early repayment 

2. You know how much your monthly loan 
payments will be and when the payments 
will begin. Remember that you'll have to 
meet these paymients as well as housing, 
food, clothing, and other living expenses. 


Where the Dollars Are 


FEDERAL GOVERNMENT The federal 
government is one of the largest sources of 
student financial aid in ihe United States 
today. It allocates funds each fiscal year to 
postsecondary schools whose applications 
for funds have been approved. The schools, 
in turn, distribute the funds to eligible stu- 
dents. In generai, to be considered eligible, 
you must be enrolled in a qualified program 
at a participating school and show financial 
need. Because the number of dollars ear- 
marked by the government for financial aid 
can fluctuate from year to year, the number 
of participating schools and the amount of 
aid they can offer might also vary. 


You can apply for federal student aid pro- 
grams through the financial aid office at your 
postsecondary school. The government 
currently offers the following programs. 


Pell Grants These grants may be made 
for as many years as you need to earn your 
first bachelor’s degree, but you must reapply 
annually. During the 1982-83 academic 
year, Pell Grants of up to $1,800 were 
available to eligible undergraduate students. 


Awards for 1983-84 will range from $200 to 
$1,800. 


Get an application form from a high school or 
the postsecondary school you plan to at- 
tend, or write to Pell Grants, PO. Box 84, 
Washington, DC 20044. 


National Direct Student Loans (NDSL) 
These low-interest loans are made to 
undergraduate and graduate students. The 
total amount you can borrow depends partly 
on your financial need. 


Repayment begins six months after you 
graduate, leave school, or drop below half- 
time status. You may be allowed up to ten 
years to pay. The interest rate is 5% APR 
and is calculated from the date your re- 
payment period begins. Under certain con- 
ditions, you can defer repayment or qualify 
for a full or partial cancellation of your debt. 


Supplemental Educational Opportunity 
Grants (SEOG) Undergraduate students 
may apply for these grants, which may 
range up to $2,000. The amount you receive 
depends partly on your finar.cia! need. 


College Work-Study (CWS) This pro- 
gram is open to undergraduate and gradu- 
ate students. Wages may vary according to 
the work you do, but work-study jobs must 
pay at least the federal minimum wage. 


Your postsecondary school arranges the job 
and assigns you a work schedule, taking into 
account your need, your academic progress, 
and the school's policy. The job must be with 
a nonprofit organization. If your school is 
nonprofit, it can be your employer. 


For More Information To learn more 
about Pell Grants and the NDSL, SEOG, 
and CWS programs, send for a free copy of 
The Student Guide: Five Federal Financial 
Aid Programs. It's available by writing to 
Student Guide, Department DEA-84, Public 
Documents Distribution Center, Pueblo, CO 
81009. If you have a question about your 
grant or other financial aid, or if you need 
additional information, wrie to Student Fi- 
nancial Assistance, PO. Box 84, Wash- 
ington, DC 20044. 


Aid to Veterans and Dependents You 
might qualify if you're a veteran or the 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NTASA 1976, 1979, 1980. 1982, 1963 ya 


spouse or child of a veteran who died, is 
per...anently and totally disabled as a result 
of military service, or is currently listed as 
missing in action. 


Eligible high school or postsecondary 
school students can receive benefits for up 
to 45 academic months. The amount of your 
benefits depends on whether you attend 
school part- or full-time and, if you're a 
veteran, on the number of dependents you 
have. Apply at the nearest Veterans Admin- 
istration Office. 


STATE GOVERNMENT Programs admin- 
istered by the California Student Aid Com- 
mission are another major source of student 
aid. You can obtain application forms from 
your postsecondary schcal’s financial aid 
officer or your high school counselor, or by 
writing to the California Student Aid Com- 
mission, 1410 Fifth Street, Sacramento, CA 
95814. 


CalGrantA These goto students enrolled 
in undergraduate degree programs at ac- 
credited California postsecondary schools. 
Grants range in amount from $300 to $3,400 
and are renewable annually. The money 
must be spent on tuition. To be eligible, you 
must show financial need and academic 
proficiency. If you're awarded a Cal Grant A 
while attending a two-year (community) col- 
lege, the grant will be held in reserve until 
you enroll in a four- or five-year program. 


Ca. Grant B_ This program aids high po- 
tential students from very low-income fami- 
lies. You may qualify if you need financial aid 
to attend postsecondary school and have 
completed no more than one postsecondary 
semester. If you're awarded a Cal Grant B, 
you may be able to renew it annual’y. Grants 


range from $500 to $1,100 a year for living 
expenses in the first year of enrollment after 
high school. They may be increased to 
include tuition, up to an additional $3,200 in 
the second, third, and fourth years. If you 
enroll in a five-year program in your fresh- 
man year, you can have your grant renewed 
in the fifth year, too. 


State Graduate Fellowships You're eli- 
gible for a fellowship if you're working toward 
a degree at an accredited graduate or pro- 
fessional school and need financial aid. 
Fellowships range from $700 to $5,500 for 
tuition and fees and are renewable annually. 
Recipients are selected on the basis of 
undergraduate grades, financial need, and 
admission test scores. 


Aid to Dependents of Veterans To re- 
quest an application forin, write to the Cali- 
fornia State Department of Veterans A. fairs, 
Division of Veterans Services, Attn: Educa- 
tional Representative, PO. Box 1559, Sac- 
ramento, CA 95807. Or, call (916) 445-2334. 


SCHOOLS Many postsecondary schools 
offer their own scholarships, fellowships, 
grants, and loans. Amounts can range from 
$50 to full tuition. In addition, schools have 
developed various ways for parents and 
students to meet college expenses. Look 
through school catalogs or contact financial 
aid officers to find out about the programs 
available at schools that interest you. Forms 
of aid will probably include some of the 
following. 


Deferred Payment Some schools allow 
you to delay payment of tuition. Depending 
on the school, you may pay in monthly 
installments, pay part at the beginning of a 
term and the rest when the term ends, or 


defer part or all of your payment until after 
you graduate. Rates of interest, if it is 
charged, also vary. 


Service-Related Awards Some schools 
award grants to students of exceptional 
athletic ability or to those who take part in 
certain activities, such as the orchestra, 
chorus, or debating team. 


Short-Term Loans Schools offer these so 
that you'll be able to cope with unforeseen 
financial difficulties. In general, you have to 
repay as quickly as possible and no later 
than the beginning of the next school year. 
These loans, which usually range up to 
$100, carry nominal or no interest charges if 
you pay them by the time they're due. 


Other Aid Some schools offer a tuition 
discount or rebate when more than one 
family member attends, or a reduced tuition 
for students who maintain high grades. 
Other schools allow you to pay four years’ 
tuition in advance as protection against fu- 
ture tuition increases. For a discussion of 
other options schools offer, get a copy of 
Don't Miss Out (see the section titled “Ad- 
ditional Sources’’ on page 3 for more 
information). 


PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS Although 
federal and state governments are the main 
sources of aid, there are many scholarships, 
grants, and loans available from private 
organizations, including the following. 


Merit Scholarships The major private 
source of scholarships is the National Merit 
Scholarship Corporation. Over 5,000 schol- 
arships totaling more than $18 million were 
awarded to high school students for the 
1982-83 academic year. 


You and Your 
Financial Aid Office 


A postsecondary school's financial aid office 
is the place to apply for most scholarships, 
grants, loans, and jobs from federal, state, 
and private sources. About a year or two in 
advance is the best time to make your first 
contact. Consult all available sources of 
information beforehand, then compile a list 
of questions and make an appointment to 
see one of the counselors in the aid office. 


APPLICATION Application procedures 
vary from school to school, but in California 
all public schools and most private schools 
use the Student Aid Application for Califor- 
nia (SAAC). This means that, in most in- 
stances, you can apply for aid from the 
college, the state government, and the fed- 
eral government by filing just one appli- 
cation. Depending on the school, however, 
filing procedures and deadline dates may 
vary. Specific instructions are included on 
the SAAC, but it may also be a good idea to 
request application instructions from the 
financial aid office of any school to which you 


apply. 
The SAAC is available from your high school 


counselor, from most college financial aid 
offices, or by writing to the California Student 
Aid Cominission (see address under “State 
Government” on this page). If you are ap- 
plying to schools outside California, write to 
each school for information on financial aid 
forms and procedures. 


ELIGIBILITY The primary yardstick for 
virtually all financial aid is need. “Need” is 
the difference between what it costs to 
attend a particular school and what you and 
your family together are expected to con- 
tribute. Your need at one school may be 
$100, while your need at another could be 
$4,000. You can estimate your own financial 
need using the charts in the California Stu- 
dent Financial Aid Workbook, available from 
the California Student Aid Commission, or 
by using the guidelines in Meeting College 
Costs, available from your high school 
counselor. 


The official determination of your family’s 
expected contribution probably will be made 
by a need-analysis agency. The most widely 
used agencies are the College Scholarship 
Service (CSS) and the American College 
Testing Program (ACT). The agency uses 
information provided on your financial aid 
forms to calculate the amount your family 


should be able to afford ror college ex- 
penses. The recommencation is forwarded 
to the financial aid office of colleges you 
specify and may be revised by the financial 
aid staff. 


FILLING OUT FORMS Remember that 
financial aid forms are your only means of 
setting forth a complete picture of your 
financial situation. 

1. Be as accurate as possible when filling out 
your forms. Many colleges will request a 
copy of your family’s federal tax return to 
verify the information you provide. Don't 
record any income you're not sure of, such 
as pay from a possible part-time job. 

2. Ask your financial aid officer for help if any 
part of a form confuses you. Filling out a form 
incorrectly may cause a delay or even pre- 
vent you from receiving aid. 

3. Apply for as many types of aid as possible. 
Almost all schools offer aid in “packages” of 
two or more types; for instance, a grant, a 
work-study job, and a loan. Applying for only 
one type will not get you more money from 
that source; it may just prevent you from 
getting other types of aid. 

4. Observe deadlines. If you apply late, a 
school's financial aid funds may be assigned 
before your application arrives. 


2 


J 


If you're a U.S. citizen attending high school 
full-time and planning to attend a regionally 
accredited college in the United States, you 
may participate in this competition by taking 
the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test 

National Merit Schoiarship Qualifying Test 
(PSAT /NMSQT). Usually, you take the test in 
the fall of your junior year. If you win, you 
receive either a renewable scholarship— 
with an award ranging from $250 to $2,000 
or more each year for four years—or a 
one-time award of $1,000. 


Even if you're not among the Merit Scholar- 
ship winners, you may benefit by taking the 
PSAT 'NMSOT test. if you score among the 
top 50,000 students on the exam, you'll 
receive special recognition, which may give 
you an advantage in applying for other 
sources of aid. See your guidance counselor 
for details and for a PSAT/NMSQT Student 
Bulletin, which contains information about 
the Merit Program 


Business Corporations Awards and eli- 
gibility requirements vary. Many corpora- 
tions offer scholarships, fellowships, and 
loans to employees’ children. Others offer 
aid to students in academic areas related to 
the corporation's activities or interests 
Check with each corporation about its par- 
ticular awards and requirements. 


To find out which corporations offer aid, 
consult your public library's books on finan- 
cial aid. Check with the financial aid officer at 
your postsecondary school or with your high 
school guidance counselor. A local chamber 
of commerce official may have additional 
information about corporations in your area 
that offer aid 


If aid recipients must be employees’ chil- 
dren, check with the company’s personnel 
administration department or public rela- 
tions department for forms and information. 


Professional Associations Many offer 
aid to students who plan to enter the pro- 
fessional fields they represent. Check with 
your postsecondary school’s financial aid 
officer and with teachers who specialize in 
your field of interest. Look at the directories 
of associations at your public library. Contact 
the associations for information and avail- 
able publications. 


Labor Unions Some offer scholarships, 
grants, or loans of various amounts to mem- 
bers and their children. Selection is usually 
made on the basis of your high school 
record. Contact an officer in the union local 
for information. 


Community Organizations Various civic 
and fraternal organizations, religious and 
ethnic groups, local businesses, and social 
and professional clubs may offer aid based 
on such criteria as leadership, grades, 
community service, musical or artistic talent, 
or even nationality. 


PRIVATE LENDERS Some private lend- 
ers offer federally guaranteed loans under 
California's student loan programs. Details 
of these programs can change. For current 
information, contact the California Student 


Aid Commission (see the “State Govern- 
ment’ section on page 2 for the address). 


California Guaranteed Student Loans 
(CGSL) You may apply for this type of loan 
if you're enrolled at least half-time in an 
eligible postsecondary school. You're eligi- 
ble for a loan if your family’s annual income is 
less than $30,000. You also mav be eligible if 
your family’s income is higher, but the loan 
amount will be based on financial need. Ask 
your school for details on how financial need 
is determined. 


If you qualify and youre an undergraduate 
student, you may borrow up to $2,500 per 
year, to a maximum of $12,500. Graduate 
students may borrow $5,000 a year, to a 
maximum of $25,000 including under- 
graduate loans. 


The interest you pay on your loan cannot 
exceed 9% APR if you're a new borrower. If 
you already have a CGSL at 7% APR, you'll 
keep paying 7% on that loan and on any 
additional loans you obtain before you pay 
off your current ones 


New loans carry an origination fee—a 
specified nercentage that is deducted from 
the amount you borrow but included in the 
amount you must repay. In addition, you may 
be required to pay an insurance premium of 
up to 1% of the loan amount. 


If your interest rate is 9%, you must begin 
repaying your loan six months after you 
graduate, leave school, or drop below half- 
time status. With an interest rate of 7%, you'll 
have between nine and twelve months to 
begin repayment. Payments may be de- 
ferred from one to three years under certain 
conditions. (Ask your lender for details.) 
Depending on the lender, you'll have five to 
ten years to repay the loan completely. 


California Loans To Assist Students 
(CLAS) As with a CGSL, you may apply 
for one of these loans if you're enrolled at 
least half-time in an eligible postsecondary 
school, but you do not have to show financial 
need. The interest rate is 12% APR. Al- 
though there's no origination fee, there may 
be an insurance premium of up to 1%. 


Graduate students and parents of de- 
pendent undergraduate students may bor- 
row up to $3,000 per year. Indep dent 
undergraduate students rnay borrow up to 
$2,500 per year, but this loan, combined with 
any loans under the CGSL program, cannot 
exceed the CGSL limits on undergraduate 
loans. (To find out whether you qualify as 
“dependent” or “independent,” check with 
your school.) 


All borrowers must begin repaying principal 
and interest within 60 days of receiving the 
funds. However, under certain conditions, 
students may be able to defer repayment of 
the principal. (Ask your iender for deta Is.) 


Lenders’ Policies Specific policies on 
student loans may vary among lenders, so 
be sure you understand your leider's policy. 
For application forms and more information, 
check with your postsecondary school's fi- 


q 


nancial aid office, with lenders, or with the 
California Student Aid Commission. 


Personal Loans __|f you have a good credit 
record, you may qualify for a personal ioan 
for educationa! purposes at banks, savings 
and loan asscciations, credit unions, and 
other private lenders. Interest rates and 
terms vary among lenders, and repayment 
usually begins one month after you receive 
the money. Generally, terms are less at- 
tractive than those for loans granted under 
state and federal programs. 


ADMITIONAL SOURCES investigate as 
many resources as possible in your search 
for financial aid. One book that may help you 
is Don't Miss Out: The Ambitious Student's 
Guide to Scholarships and Loans. \t explains 
strategies for developing a financial aid plan 
for yourself. It also lists detailed information 
about numerous aid programs, ideas for 
cutting college costs, and ways to organize 
your search for financial aid dollars. For a 
copy of the book, send $3 to Octameron 
Associates, PO. Box 3437, Alexandria, VA 
22302 


Cost-Cutting Ideas 


TIME SAVERS Here are some ways to 
shorten the length of time you attend school. 


Credit for What You Know Your school 
might give you academic credit for any 
learning you gained through your 
experiences—your job, travel, or volunteer 
work. For information, ask your school's 
admissions department. You can also write 
to the Council for the Advancement of Ex- 
periential Learning, 300 Lakefront North, 
Columbia, MD 21044, or call (301) 
997-3535. 


It's also possible to earn up to two years of 
postsecondary credit by taking tests con- 
ducted by the College Level Examination 
Program (CLEP). Write to CLEP Educa- 
tional Testing Service, 1947 Center St., 
Berkeley, CA 94704; or to CLEP PO. Box 
1822, Princeton, NJ 08541. 


Suminer Sessions /|f you attend summer 
school or earn credit from a study-related 
job, you may be able to graduate earlier. 


Advanced Placement Program (APP) 
This program gives you a chance to take 
college-level courses while you are in high 
school. Ask your high school guidance 
counselor about APP or request a free copy 
of A Guide to the Advanced Placement 
Program trom College Board Pubiications, 
PO. Box 886, New York, NY 10101. 


Three-Year Degree Programs A few col- 
leges have begun to offer these. To find out 
whether your school does, check with the 
director of adrnissions. 


MONEY SAVERS You may save a signifi- 
cant amount by attending a relatively inex- 
nensive school, such as one of the following. 
California Public Schools California 
offers a wide range of inexpensive educa- 
tional opportunities. Community colieges 


3 


offer low-cost two-year programs for a voca- 
tional education or for your first two years of 
study toward a bachelor's degree 


Full-time undergraduate California residents 
enrolled at a campus of the California State 
University paid $341 per semester in fall, 
1983. At the University of California, fall 
semester tuition was $680. Fees are con- 
siderably higher for nonresidents 


Military Academies The four service 
academies grant each student full tuition, 
room and board, a living allowance of more 
than $5,000 a year, and other benefits. All 
offer high-quality education but require 
summer attendance and five years of ser- 
vice after graduation 


LEARN WHILE YOU EARN , Here are 
some ways of harmonizing work with school. 


Company-Paid Tuition Many com- 
panes, especially larger ones, offer aid to 
employees who attend an accredited post- 
secondary school in a course of study that 
relates at least indirectly to their present or 
future work. The company usually pays for 
part, if not all, of the tuition and might also 
pay for textbooks and supplies 


Cooperative Education if you'd like to 
work part-time while in school or to alternate 
periods of full-time work with periods of 
full-time study, you might take part in a 
cooperative education program 


In many cases, you must be at leasi 4 
sophomore and in good academic standing, 
and often you must have a certain major. 
Your job will usually be in a field related to 
your major. Ear’ngs average about $6 per 
hour; the bonus _ the experience you gain. 


For a directory of California schools offering 
co-op programs, write to California Coopera- 
tive Education Association (CCEA), Admin- 
istration Office, c/o Fred Abitia, California 
Polytechnic State University, San Luis 
Obispo, CA 93407. For a national list, write 
to the National Commission for Cooperative 
Education, 360 Huntington Avenue, Boston, 
MA 02115. 


External Degree Programs Some col- 
leges and universities award degrees on the 
basis of credit for independent study or 
experience acquired off-campus with little or 
no class attendance. Ask the admissions 
offices at local postsecondary schools 
whether they have external degree pro- 
grams, or check your local library for the 
Guide to Undergraduate External Degree 
Programs in the United States. You can 
order this publication for $15 (including ship- 
ping) from Macmillan Publishing Co., Front 
& Brown Streets, Riverside, NJ 08370. 


Weekend Colleges At some post- 
secondary schools, you may arrange to take 
courses only on weekends. To find out 


whether a school offers this option, check 
with the director of admissions 


Night and Correspondence School You 
can earn a degree at night or by mail from 
some schools. Contact public schools and 
local colleges and universities to find out 
whether they offer deqree pregrams at night 
Schools offering courses by mail are listed in 
The Independent Study Catalog, published 
by the National University and Continuing 
Education Asscciation. It's available for 
$5.95, plus $1.25 postage and handling, 
from Peterson's Guides, PO. Box 2123, 
Princeton, NJ 08540 


Aid to Certain Groups 


MINORITIES AND WOMEN Many schol- 
arships, fellowships, grants, and loans are 
offered exclusively or with preference to 
minorities and women. Various cities and 
many postsecondary schools have centers 
that provide information on financial aid 
programs for women and minority students. 
For more information, send for Higher Edu- 
cation Opportunities for Minorities and 
Women— Annotated Selections (#065-000- 
00175-6), available for $5 from the Super- 
intendent of Documents, U.S. Government 
Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. 


DISABLED STUDENTS You may be eli- 
gible for help from the California Department 
of Rehabilitation if your disability is severe 
enough to interfere with your ability to get a 
job but not so severe that you cannot work at 
all. Many postsecondary schools have 
centers and special counselors for disabled 
students. You may be able to use equip- 
ment, such as a Braille transcriber, free of 
charge. Funds may be provided for a driver, 
tutor, or other assistance. 


For more information and assistance, con- 
tact any community or national organization 
connected with your particular disability, or 
check the telephone book for the State of 
California Department of Rehabilitation. You 
can also apply for aid from the other sources 
listed in this report. 


ADULTS if you are at least 25 years old 
and you're returning to college or en*ering 
for the first time, you may be eligible for 
special programs in addition to the re- 
sources available to all students. For exam- 
ple, college fees may be reduced or waived 
for those 60-65 or older. Your local college 
or university career counseling office, as 
well as the financial aid o;fice, may be able to 
help you find sources of aid. Or, send for 
Paying for Your Education: A Guide for 
Adult Learners, available for $7.95 from 
College Board Publications, PO. Box 886, 
New York, NY 10101. 


GRADUATE STUDENTS Schools offer 
various types of aid, including fellowships, 


which can range from $200 to more than 
$2,000 a year, and teaching, research, and 
administrative assistantships, which provide 
full or partial tuition and sometimes an allow- 
ance for expenses. For more information, 
get in touch with the school’s financial aid 
officer and the dean of your department 


A Word to Parents 


PLAN AHEAD Many experts say that you 
should have a program for accumulating 
money for your child’s postsecondary edu- 
cation no later than his or her seventh 
birthday. When your child is in high school, 
or before, the College Board's Early Finan- 
cial Aid Planning Service (EFAP) will ana- 
lyze your family’s financial information and 
estimate your eligibility for a Pell Grant and 
other aid. The service costs $5. For free 
application forms, write EFAP PO. Box 
2843, Princeton, NJ 08541. 


SAVINGS ideally, you should start saving 
within a few years of your child's birth. Some 
financial institutions have an educational 
savings plan. If you know how much you'll 
need and when, most institutions will make 
up a long-range plan for you. You may want 
to set up an account for your child’s con- 
tributions as well. 


Deadlines 


It's never too early to begin arranging for 
financial aid. It's a good idea to start at least 
a year in advance because most sources of 
aid process applications and make awards 
only once a year. Here's a basic calendar to 
help you meet requirements on time. 


SEPTEMBER (TWO YEARS AHEAD) 
See your high school guidance counselor for 
information on the National Merit Scholar- 
ship Program and the PSAT /NMSOQT test. 


SEPTEMBER (ONE YEAR AHEAD) 
Write the admissions office and the office of 
financial aid at the school you will be attend- 
ing for information, application forms, and 
deadlines when forms are due. 


Arrange to take the Scholastic Aptitude 
Test (SAT) or the American College Test 
(ACT) if you are applying for a scholarship 
that requires an SAT sce. 


NOVEMBER The Student Aid Appli- 
cation for California becomes available at 
nigh school counseling centers and at co!- 
lege financial aid offices. Begin assembling 
the financial records you'll need to fill it in 


JANUARY Complete and return the Stu- 
dent Aid Application for California. If you are 
applying to postsecondary schools outside 
California, you should return your Financial 
Aid Form or Family Financial Statement as 
soon after January 1 as possible. 


Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, June 1983, but is subject to change 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 Ui 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA ¢ MEMBER FDIC 


‘ware 


| 


AD-258 (6/83) 


