. b J 
. t 
a * 
. . 


DOCUMENT RESUME 


ED 241 827 CE 800 131 

TITLE Money Management for Children and Parents. The 
CiRcular: Consumer Information Report 25. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE May 83 

NOTE 3p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 

EDRS PRICE MFOl Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS *Banking; *Budgeting; Consumer Education; Credit 


(Finance); Guidelines; Investment; *Money Management; 

Pamphlets; *Parent Child Relationship; Parent 

Education; Parent Materials; *Teaching Methods 
IDENTIFIERS Gifts; PF Project; Savings Accounts 


ABSTRACT 

This report provides parents with information on 
teaching their children about budgeting, saving, and careful spending 
as well as information on giving their children money, bonds, and 
stocks. Topics covered include: (1) participation of young children 
in family shopping; (2) money management skills developed through 
giving children an allowance; (3) savings accounts; (4) involvement 
of children in the family's financial planning; (5) part-time jobs; 
(6) checking accounts; (7) longer-term savings accounts; (8) 
investments; (9) consumer credit (use of parents' credit accounts, 
establishment of credit, and responsibilities and costs of credit); 
and (10) gifts of money, stocks, and bonds (gift taxes, informal 
trust and custodial accounts, United States Savings Bonds, and stocks 
and bonds). Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, May 1983, but is subject to change. (DC) 


RARAAEARAKEREAKEEKEKEEREREEKEAEERKEKEKEEEKKEREERERKEEKEEAEKERAAKKRERKREKKEKEEER 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made bl 


* from the original document. bl 
RAKRRAAEAAKEKERAEEEREREEKEEREEEREERKEREKEEKEEREEKEEEREEREEKEKERKEEEKEKKERRKEEE 


. 
- 


fr 


The CiReular™ 


Consumer information F eport 25 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 

Albert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUT®S OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL REL O! 4CES INFORMATION 

CENTF . =RIC) 
This document ..as bt-en reproduced as 
received from the person or organization 


onginating it 


Minor changes have been made to improve 


reproduction quality 


@ Points of view or opinions stated in this docu 


ment do not necessarily represent ofricial NIE 


Money Management for 
~ Children and Parents 


™ 


a | 

eo How do children ‘earn about budgeting, saving, and carefui spending? 
are In this report, you'll find answers to this question as well as information 
ew On giving your children money, bonds, or stock. 

& 


position or policy 


i2J Money is a resource and a tool. How wisely 


800 13] 


— 
-_ 


cé 


( 


you use it depends on the attitudes and 
habits you have developed. You cari help 
your children learn good “money sense” by 
teaching them about budgeting, saving, and 
thoughtful spending. 


THE EARLY YEARS Children first learn 
about the use of money through your exam- 
ple. Remember, however, that they may 
need an explanation of basic principles that 
you take for granted. For instance, they may 
not understand how to count coins and bills, 
how to make a purchase, or what ownership 
means. Participating in such activities as 
shopping gives children an opportunity to 
learn these skilis, and it helps them deve op 
their decision-making ability. 


THE IMPORTANCE OF EXPERIENCE 
Making careful decisions about money may 
seem difficult to young children, but it's a skill 
that can improve with experience. One way 
to give school-age children practice in hand- 
ling money is to give them a regular al'ow- 
ance based on personal expenses such as 
lunch money or bus fare. Children can then 
learn to budget and to plan their spending. A 
smal! additional amount, to use as they wish, 
may help them learn to make decisions 
about whether to spend or save. 


To help your children plan their spending, 
you might show them how to establish a 
simple budget. Children, like adults, have 
fixed expenses, such as lunch costs, and 
flexible expenses, such as the cost of gifts. 
By comparing their expenses with their in- 
come, children can develop an under- 
standing of soending priorities. 


SAVING Very young children may save 
their money just for the satisfaction of col- 
lecting coins. But when they're older, saving 
will be easier if they have a savings goal. In 
tact, the best time to discuss saving might be 
when they wish to make a special purchase. 
You can show them how their money adds 
up—a little at a time—through saving, until 
they have the amount they need. 


Opening a Savings Account Older chil- 
dren can gain security for their savings and 
earn interest by placing their money in a 
regular savings account (sometimes called 
a passbook account). Policies about open- 
ing accounts vary among financial insti- 


\ 


tutions. Your children may be allowed to 
have accounts in their own names; or, you 
may be requ‘red to be a joint owner. Often, a 
minimum amount must be deposited to open 
the account. 


A Social Security number is required to open 
a savings account. If you open an informal 
trust account with your child, your Social 
Security number will be used, and you will be 
taxed on the interest the account earns. If 
you open a joint account with your child, you 
may use your Social Security number or 
your child's. In the case of a joint account, 
each of you will be liable for taxes on the 
share of the interest income that you are 
entitied to under state law. 


If your child doesn’t have a Social Security 
number, you can get application forms from 
many financial institutions or from any Social 
Security office. For more information on 
federal and state income tax regulations, 
you can call the local offices of the Internal 
Revenue Service (IRS) or the California 
Franchise Tax Board. 


Opening an account also requires identifi- 
cation, such as a driver's license or a school 


identification card. In some cases, however, 
the identification requirement may be 
waived if you're a customer of the same 
financial institution. 


You might explain to your children that their 
signatures on the savings account signature 
cards will serve as models for other forms 
they sign when using their accounts. Be- 
cause children’s handwriting changes as 
they grow older, it might be wise to have 
them make out new cards periodically. 


You or the new accounts representative at 
the financial institution should explain the 
forms and procedures for savings deposits 
and withdrawals. If your children's accounts 
include a savings statement, you also might 
explain the information the statement pro- 
vides. Report #2 in this series, Ways to 
Save Your Money, provides mere detailed 
information on interest earnings. 


INCREASED RESPONSIBILITY As your 
children mature, it may be a good idea to 
examine the kinds of financial decisions 
they're allowed to make. You may also wish 
to involve them in your family’s financial 
planning. Whether or not you let them know 
the specifics of your family’s income, intro- 
ducing young people to the costs of running 
a household allows them to see how their 
personal expenses fit into the overall family 
budget. It also introduces them to financial 
responsibilities they may face in the future. 


EARNING MONEY OF THEIR OWN 
Although many parents consider household 
chores an unpaid responsibility, others be- 
lieve that paying their children for such tasks 
helps them understand the efforts and re- 
wards of work. Also, being paid for smail, 
extra jobs at home or around the neighbor- 
hood can be a child's first experience of 
financial ir Jependence. 


Part-time Jobs if your children wish to 
work part time, there are certain legal factors 
to consider. For example, California law 
regulates the number of hours per day and 
per week a minor may work, as well as the 
specific hours of the day. State law also 
requires minors to have work permits in 
order to be employed. Minors who have 
graduated from high school or have been 
awarded a certificate of proficiency are 
exempt from these rules. Also, minors do not 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA 1979, 1961, 1983 


‘ 


need work permits to do agricultural work on 
farms owned or operated by their parents or 
to perform odd jobs such as babysitting and 
gardening. And, in most cases, a work per- 
mit is not required for newspaper delivery. 
Work permits are issued by school author- 
ities; for more information, check with your 
child's school. 


There are also personal factors to consider. 
For instance, you might wish to discuss with 
your children how jobs will fit into their ac- 
tivity and family schedules. 


Children may be required to file federal and 
state income tax returns. Generally, this 
depends on the amount of their income. If 
your children do tile tax returns, you may 
still claim them as dependents if you pro- 
vide more than half of their support and 
they're either under 19 or, for at least five 
months of the year, fuil-time students as 
defined by the IRS. Even if you claim them 
as dependents, they’re still entitled to their 
own personal exemptions. 


Your children might not earn enough to be 
required to file income tax returns. Still, 
money might be withheld for taxes from 
their earned income (such as wages). If so, 
they should file and claim the money with- 
held. They can get refunds even if you claim 
them as dependents on your federal and 
State income tax returns. 


CHECKING ACCOUNTS Achecking ac- 
count can be useful when your children 
begin to manage sizable amounts of money 
or keep financial records. 


A Social Security number and personal 
identification are requirements for opening 
a checking account. Some banks may re- 
quire a minimum opening deposit or ask 
that checking customers be at least 18 
years old. Other requirements and charges 
vary, depending on the type of checking 
account, so it’s advisable for your children 
to shop around before deciding on a par- 
ticular type. Because young people gener- 
ally use fewer checks than adults, they may 
prefer an account that charges only for 
each check processed by the bank. 


Your children may need some help in learn- 
ing the basic procedures of writing checks, 
filling out deposit slips, maintaining check 
registers, and balancing their checkbooks. 
Reports #1 and #10 in this series, How to 
Balance Your Checkbook and A Guide to 
Checks and Checking, provide detailed 
information on checking procedures. 


LONGER-TERM SAVINGS If your chil- 
dren are able to leave their savings on 
deposit more than a few months and can 
meet minimum deposit requirements, they 
might consider opening a time deposit ac- 
count or a money market deposit account. 
A time deposit account pays higher interest 
rates than a regular savings account but 
has certain restrictions, such as an interest 
penalty for withdrawing money before the 
maturity date. A money market deposit 


account pays generally high interest rates 
that fluctuate with market conditions. With 
this account, your child may make with- 
drawals or deposits at any time. The ac- 
count has some restrictions, however, such 
as limitations on transfers to other persons 
or accounts. Also, the account requires a 
minimum opening deposit of $2,500; and, a 
minimum average daily balance of $2,500 
must be maintained for the account to earn 
the money market rates. 


INVESTMENTS Entering the stocks and 
bonds market doesn't require large 
amounts of money. Your children can invest 
in such securities for $1,000 or even less. 
Investments can be risky and often require 
specialized knowledge. Usually, it's advis- 
able to discuss your cildren's investments 
with a professional, such as a banker, 
broker, or accountant. You may also wish to 
consult an attorney. If your children are 
under 18, you'll probably serve as cus- 
todian of their investments, which means 
that you'll handle transactions such as buy- 
ing, selling, and receiving interest or divi- 
dend payments. However, for tax pur- 
poses, your children are considered the 
iegal owners and will be taxed on the 
income from their investments. 


CONSUMER CREDIT As the use of con- 
sumer credit grows, it becomes increasingly 
important for your children to understand the 
rights and responsibilities of using credit. 


Using Your Accounts Children under 18 
generally can't obtain charge accounts or 
credit cards of their own, unless they are 
emancipated (legally considered adults, as 
is the case, for instance, if they're married). 
They may, however, be authorized users of 
your accounts. The usual authorization pro- 
cedure is to write a letter to your creditor, 
explaining that your children are to be in- 
cluded as valid users of the account. You 
should enclose a copy of your children’s 
signatures. Remember that once you've 
made this authorization, you're responsible 
for any charges your children make. 


Establishing Credit Some creditors may 
provide special credit plans with different 
requirements for first-time credit users. Gen- 
erally, however, your children will have to 
satisfy the same requirements that you do to 
be eligible for credit. Report #3 in this series, 
How to Establish Credit, discusses in 
greater detail the criteria for extending credit. 


In some cases, first-time credit users may be 
required to have a creditworthy co-signer. If 
you co-sign, it may be easier for your chil- 
dren to establish credit and develop a credit 
record. But remember, as co-signer you 
share legal responsibility for payment. 


Responsibilities of Credit Your children 
should be aware, first of all, of the costs of 
using credit. Specifically, they should under- 
stand the annual percentage rate (APR) 
they're paying and the finance charge. They 
should also know that, in general, the longer 


they take to pay what they owe, the more 
their total payment will be 


Your children should also understand the 
importance of making credit payments on 
schedule. Late payments may be recorded 
in their credit histories. Be sure they know 
ti:at iney must report lost or stolen credit 
carvts to the card issuers. If they fail to do so, 
they can legally be required to pay up to $50 
in unauthorized charges made on each 
missing credit card. 


GIFTS OF MONEY, STOCKS, AND 
BONDS in accordance with the annual 
gift tax exclusion permitted under federal 
law, you and your spouse may each make 
gifts worth up to a certain amount to each of 
your children without incurring a gift tax. 
The maximum amount is $10,000 a year or 
$20,000 for a couple filing jointly. If you or 
your spouse wishes to make larger gifts, 
ask your attorney or accountant about the 
unified estate and gift tax credit. 


A gift made under the Uniform Gifts to 
Minors Act is irrevocable, meaning that you 
give up all rights to the money, stocks, or 
bonds. If, however, you serve as custodian 
of the account, you have the legal authority 
to hold, manage, and invest the property for 
your children. They'll be taxed on the in- 
come from your gift, but there may be no tax 
at all if a child's unearned income is less 
tnan $1,000. (if you use the income from 
your gifts to support yo." children, you are 
taxed i:1stead of them.) 


Informal Trust and Custodial Ac- 
counts These accounts allow you to put 
money into a savings program for your 
children. With an informal trust account, 
you are considered the legal owner of the 
funds in the account, while the money in a 
custodial account legally belongs to your 
children. A custodial account generaily is 
opened on the advice of an attorney. 


U.S. Savings Bonds All U.S. Savings 
Bonds are registered and printed with the 
Social Security numbers of their owners. If 
your children 40 not have Social Security 
numbers, you nay purchase bonds printed 
with the word “gift” and registered to your 
Social Security number. However, if you 
plan to buy bonds for your children on a 
regular basis, you should consider ob- 
taining Social Security numbers for them 
and buying bonds in their names. The 
income from bonds purchased in this way 
can be taxed as your children’s income. For 
more information, see report #2 in this 
series, Ways to Save Your Money. 


Stocks and Bonds If you give gifts of 
stocks or bonds to children under 18 years 
of age, you must register the securities in 
your name or in the name of another adult 
as custodian for your children. If you use 
your children's Souial Security numbers for 
the registration, the stocks and bonds— 
and their earnings—legally belong to your 
children and are taxable as their income. 


Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, May 1983, but is subject to change. 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 (3) 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA + MEMBER FDIC 


3 AD-275 (5/83) 


