ED 241 817 
TITLE 
INSTITUTION 
PUB DATE 

NOTE 

AVAILABLE FROM 
PUB TYPE 


EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 


IDENTIFIERS 


ABSTRACT 


DOCUMENT RESUME 


CE 800 121 


Personal Money Planner. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 14. 

Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, 
Mar 80 

6p.; For related documents, see CE 800 122-133. 
Bank of America, Dept. 3401, Box 37128, San 
Francisco, CA 94137 (first set free, $0.10 per copy 
thereafter, 10 copies $1.00, 100 copies $7.00). 
Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


CA. 


MFO1l Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 
Banking; *Budgeting; *Consumer Education; 
*Expenditures; Guidelines; Long Range Planning; 
*Money Management; Objectives; Pamphlets; 
Worksheets 

*Goal Setting; PF Project 


This report gives suggestions for starting a personal 
money plan, provides a worksheet for developing the plan, and offers 
ideas for putting the plan into action. Guidelines are presented for 
the following steps in developing a money plan: setting short- and 
long-term spending and saving goals; making a timetable for reaching 
those goals; determining annual net income; listing expenses; and 
using the money plan worksheet. The worksheet provides space for 


recording actual and desired annual and monthly expenses in 40 
categories divided into four sections: housing, personal maintenance, 
obligations, and savings and investment. Pros and cons of the 
following methods of putting the money plan into action are 
discussed: using a combination of savings and checking accounts; 
setting up a cash box containing envelopes in which the monev 
budgeted for each category is periodically placed; and keeping a 
ledger for each budget category so that the amount spent can be 
compared with the amount budgeted. Recommendations are offered for 
periodic adjustments of the money plan and for actions to take if 


budget deficits are a regular occurrence. 


Information in this report 


is current at the time of printing, March 1980, but is subject to 


change. (DC) 


KRAAEAAAKAAEEREKEAEKEREERKKEEKRERKEREAEKEKEEKKEEKEKRKEKKEKKEKRKKEEKEKRKRKRKKKRKEEE 


% Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made bl 


* from the original document. * 
RAAEARKKAEREKREEKEKEKEKEKREKEEREEEERREREREREKEERRERKAEEREEKRERKEEKEEERREREREEE 


ED241817 


The CiRcular 
Consumer intormation Report 14 


e; 1 ew 


Personal Money Planner 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
TIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC 
has beer 


the persor 


vac 


; M hange 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


" ; P reproduced s 
CU 
ed fron r 7 rganizavon 
Nit ’ J 
to improve re 
t 


IN MICROFICHE ONLY 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


A money plan can help you get more satisfaction from your hard- 
earned dollars by directing them where they're needed most. This 
report suggests how to start a money plan, provides work sheets, 
and offers ideas for putting your plan into action. 


SET YOUR GOALS Your money pian will 
make it easier for you to accomplish two 
major tasks: Meet day-to-day expenses 
without straining and move steadily toward 
your financial goals. In fact, a good way to 
begin a money plan is to define your goals 
and set up timetables for achieving them 
Your list of both short- and long-term goals 
might include 


e@ Pay all bills on time 


e Keep credit card and charge account 
spending within predetermined limits 


e Establish an emergency savings account 
of a certain size, such as 10° of your total 
annual pay or from two to six months’ take- 
home pay 

e Save for specific purchases, such as the 
down payment on a car or home 


e Set up an investment program for addi- 
tional current income or to provide retire- 
ment income 


Dont forget to take a look at your list to see 
whether all your goals can actually be met 
through a budgeting system. For exampie, 
you may decide that many of your present 
money problems stem from using your 
charge accounts too much. !n that case, 
perhaps youll need to supplement your 
budget controls with other self-discipline 
aids such as leaving your charge cards at 
home unless you plan to use them for bud- 
geted expenses 


Make a Timetable Your decisions about 
how quickly you want to reach your goals 
obviously will affect the figures you put in 
your budget. If you want to buy a home in 
two years, for instance, you'll have to save 
for the down payment at a faster rate than if 
you had four or five years. That, in turn, 
means you'll probably have to cut back on 
expenses in other categories. Try to be as 
realistic as you can when setting your time- 
tables so you'll be able to live comfortably 
with your choices and be less tempted to 
Stray from your plan 


FINDING THE FIGURES Your annual 
net income—what's left after income taxes, 
Social Security, and other mandatory 
deductions—is the figure to start with. Don't 
subtract from this figure any voluntary de- 
ductions from your paycheck, such as char- 


ity donations or health insurance premiums. 
Even though they aren't part of your take- 
home pay, you still control that spending 
and will enter it in your money plan. 


Perhaps you work irregular, part-time hours 
or you're paid on a commission basis. If so, 
you can estimate your income or use an av- 
erage figure based on the past few years’ 
income as reported on your tax returns. It's 
to your advantage to be conservative in 
projecting your income so that you don't 
have to make big adjustments in your plans 
if your earninas are less than you antici- 
pated. You can place “contingency 
income —possible raises, bonuses, or 
overtime pay—outside your mainstream 
figuring and note whether it will go into sav- 
iNgs, for instance, or be spent for some spe- 
cial purpose 


LIST YOUR EXPENSES You'll need to 
know how much you're currently spending 
for various things so you can see what 
changes are necessary or desirable. Some 
payments you already know—your rent or 
monthly car loan payment, for example— 
but to complete the picture you'll probably 
have to turn to your records. 


Records will include your check register or 
cancelled checks, purchase receipts such 
as grocery siore cash register tapes, and 
credit card and charge account statemenis. 
Gather all the spending records you can 
find, preferably for the past 12 monihs so 
vour figures will be broadly representative. 


Finding the Leaks Chances are that 
even with records to guide you, you'll still 
find some gaps in your spending pattern— 
“leaks, as the budgeting experts call them. 
lf you're in the habit of frequently writing 
checks to “cash,” for instance, or taking 
back a lot of cash when you deposit your 
paycheck, you may want to take some extra 
steps to track your spending of that money. 


One way to go about it is to carry a small 
notebook or a piece of paper in your wallet 
or purse. Just as you would if paying by 
check, each time you pay for something in 
cash (magazines, lunch, etc.), note what 
you bought and the amount paid. Do this for 
several weeks, or as long as you feel is 
necessary, to track your spending. 


THE MONEY PLANNER Consider the 
expense categories and items listed in the 
money planner as a Starting point, a 
suggestion to help you organize your think- 
ing, and modify them as needed to suit your 
own situation. For instance, if you're a stu- 
dent living at home, you'll probably elimi- 
nate many if not all housing costs but break 
down education expenses in some detail. 
Or, if you have many pets, you may want to 
include separate listings for pet food and 
veterinary care. 


The Annual Plan The annual expense 
figures you develop will be useful in two 
ways. First, they will show you the overall 
effect of your spending—for example, the 
clothes and home furnishings bought here 
and there, adding up to hundreds of dollars 
over the year. Also, the annual overview can 
point out some expenses, such as insur- 
ance premiums or property taxes, that tend 
to slip out of sight until shortly before they're 
due to be paid 


Whether you spend irregular amounts at ir- 
regular times (as for clothes and home fur- 
nishings) or fixed amounts at long intervals 
(as for insurance and taxes), one of the 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NT & SA 1977. 1980 


ra 


MONEY PLANNER WORK SHEET 


NET INCOME 


Sources , Cie oy Sn 


Total Total 
Annual $ Monthly $ _ 


EXPENSES Annual Monthly 


Now Goal Now Goal 


HOUSING 


Rent, Home Loan Payment 


Property Taxes, Assessments” 


Property Insurance (homeowner, tenant)* 


Maintenance, Repairs” 


Utilities 
Gas, Electricity 


Other Fuel 


Telephone 


Water, Sewer 


"Cable TV 


Garbage Collection 


Home Furnishings* 


Other (such as homeowners’ association dues, 
household help other than child care) 


PERSONAL MAINTENANCE 


Food 


Clothing 
Purchases* 


Laundry, Drycleaning, 
Repairs 


Self-Improvement 
Education 


Books, Magazines, Newspapers 


Entertainment & Recreation 
Vacations’ 


Other (including movies, sports, restaurants, 
hobbies) 


EXPENSES Annual 


Monthly 


Now 


Goal 


Transportation 
Gas, Oil 


Repairs, Maintenance” 


Parking, Tolls 
Auto Insurance” 


License, Registration* 


Public Transportation 


Gifts & Holiday Expenses 
(other than Christmas Club accounts)* 


Child/Dependent Care 
(including babysitters, nursery school fees, 


convalescent care) 


Health Care 
Health Insurance 


Doctors’ Visits 
Frescriptions, Medicine 


Personal Care (including 
barber, hairdresser, cosmetics)’ 


OBLIGATIONS 


Regular Payments to Others 


(including alimony, chiid 
support, other court-ordered payments) 


Contributions & Dues 
(voluntary, including those 
deducted from your paycheck) 


Debt Payments 
Installment Loan Payments 
(tor vehicles, furniture, etc) 


Credit Card, Charge Accounts 


SAVINGS & INVESTMENT 


Short-Term Savings (including 
Christmas Club, emergency fund) 


Long-Term Savings (including 
company of private pension) 


Life Insurance 


Investments (including 


stocks, bonds, real estate) 


*Set-aside account 


easiest ways to prepare for such spending 
is to set aside regular amounts at regular 
intervals. For your planning convenience, 
expense items that lend themselves to this 
set-aside method have been noted with as- 
terisks on the money planner work sheets 
provided at left. 


The Monthly Plan Budgeting on a 
monthly basis is common because mary 
expenses are due monthly and pay periods 
usually fall easily into monthly intervals. If 
planning by the month doesn't suit your 
needs, however, use any period that 
does—a week, perhaps, or your pay period. 


To get one month's expenditure for an item, 
in some cases you'll be able to simply divide 
the annual amount by 12. However, such an 
approach may not work so neatly for other 
items, such as utility bills, which vary from 
month to month. If you want to plan more 
precisely for each month, you'll have to de- 
velop those fluctuating expense figures 
separately, perhaps basing your projections 
on last year's spending for the same period. 


Actual vs. Goal Spending Both the an- 
nual and monthly expense columns contain 
space for entering what you're spending 
now for each item and what you'd like to set 
as a spending goal for the year or month 
ahead. Your goal could be either to limit 
spending or increase it in specific catego- 
ries; for instance, to cut your gasoline bill by 
$10 a month or give yourself $10 more a 
month for clothes. Another option is to use 
the “goal” spaces for noting expenses 
you're quite sure will change in the coming 
period—a raise in your rent or insurance 
premium or a drop in your food bills when 
your children return to college. 


YOUR PLAN IN ACTION Once your 
money plan is made, how will you put it into 
effect? What arrangements will let you keep 
the best track of your spending? Two of the 
most important characteristics of your sys- 
tem will be convenience and efficiency. 


Convenience The system you choose to 
implement your money plan should be as 
simple as possible so you can use it easily. 
Attempting to record al/ spending generally 
isn't practical; on the other hand, you will 
have to keep some records if you're to know 
how your plan is working. Various methods 
are discussed later. 


Efficiency You'll need a system that can 
track your spending as closely as you want. 
That means, among other things, organiz- 
ing your records and reviewing them regu- 
larly. Keep your money planner together 
with your files of purchase and payment 
receipts and, if possible, set regular dates 
to go over your records, check them against 
your plan, and make any adjustments 

With convenience and efficiency in mind, 
consider the budgeting systems described 
on the following page. 


BANK ACCOUNTS A combination of 
checking and savings accounts could work 
this way: a checking account for all regular 


— 


9) 


operating expenses (those paid at least 
once a month); a regular savings account 
for funds set aside to meet periodic ex- 
penses such as taxes and insurance as well 
as short-term savings. Or, use a second 
checking account to accumulate periodic 
payments. 


The big advantages to this system are its 
safety, the records it generates (in the form 
of cancelled checks), and the interest that a 
savings account may earn. The main dis- 
advantages are the attention required to 
record account activity and balance your 
statement and checkbook; also, you may be 
charged service fees for your checking ac- 
counts or for making frequent withdrawals 
from your savings account. Before decid- 
ing, find out about the costs and procedures 
involved in the accounts you're considering. 


THE CASH BOX /Youcoduidsetupacash 
box with a number of envelopes, each 
marked according to the purpose for which 
the money will be spent. At the beginning of 
the planning period, you put the money 
you've budgeted into the appropriate en- 
velopes; when payments are due, you with- 
draw the amounts you need. (You could also 
keep receipts in the same envelopes.) 


The advantages to such a system are its 
simpiicity and the control it gives you. 
There's little chance of mistakenly using 
gas money to pay the newspaper carrier, for 
instance, because you can see which fund 
is which. And you may be less likely to over- 
spend because you can see when you're 
out of funds. 


The cash box has serious disadvantages, 
however. The main one is the danger in 
keeping cash at home, especially if you're 
working with larger amcunts. The money 
could be lost to fire or thheves—or, because 
it's so accessible, you may be more tempted 
to spend it. Also, this system would mean 
tha. you'd either have to make all your pay- 
ments in casti or convert the cash to some 
other form of payment, which might entail a 
service charge. 


Possibly the most useful and least danger- 
ous kind of cash box system would be one 
for only small expenses—bus fare, week- 
day lunches, babysitters—that you nor- 
mally pay in cash. Use checking and sav- 
ings accounts for more sizable expcnses or 
those that could be paid by check. 


THE GOALTENDER A simplified type of 
ledger system like the one shown on this 
page could be useful in tracking some of 
your set-aside accounts, household operat- 


on TH Xt 
oe ‘ail 


Date Them 


Balance 


Gout | 


+ 


: 
T 
4 
T 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


a 


| 
SEO STOR Le eee 


| 
| 
| 


ing expenses, or whatever items you 
choose. This system can be used to sup- 
plement the other bookkeeping procedures 
you use, such as your check register. It 
provides a see-at-a-glance comparison be- 
tween what you've spent to date and the 
goals of your money plan. 


The simplest way to set up a goaltender is to 
select the expense items you want to watch, 
note the annual ‘‘goal’’ amounts from your 
plan, list expenses as you buy, and balance 
the accounts after each transaction. Suo- 
pose, for example, that you've set an annual 
goal ot $600 for clothes. (That doesn't mean 
you actually have $600 available at that 
moment to spend; it’s just a figure to keep in 
mind.) If in two months’ time your goal- 
tender shows that y: u've spent $350 on 
clothes, you'll know thai you had better slow 
down if the remaining $250 is going to iast 
the rest of the year. 


The goaltender could also work on a 
monthly basis, if you prefer, in the same way 
desczibed above. 


ADJUSTING YOUR PLAN Whatever 
system you choose to implement your plan, 
‘here will be times when you need to adjust 
it. or example, inflation will affect your 
projecticns—and more severely in some 
case:; than others. To allow for its effects, 
your options include (1) padding your an- 
nual expense projections by an across- 
the-board increase equal to the rate of 
inflation or (2) putting extra money into your 
emergency savings account to cover pos- 
sible budget shurtages in expense allow- 
ances. 


Other Evaluations Don't overlook the 
value of examining your goals and tine- 
tables occasionally to determine wheter 
they are still realistic. It may be that ‘our 
budget is squeezed because you've been 
trying to get too far too fast. Also look at your 
“fixed” expenses: Could you pay off some 


| 


a 


credit accounts more quickly and save on 
finance charges? Are your income tax with- 
holdings larger than necessary? 


IF ENDS WON'T MEET A minor budget 
deficit “nce in a while probably won't cause 
great concern, but if you regularly fall short 
by a wide margin it may well be time to take 
decisive action. 


One of the first things to do is organize your 
ills so that you know exactly how much you 
owe to whom, and the status of each 
account—current, past due, or delinquent. 
Next, wr.e to your creditors to explain the 
situation and io ask whether they would 
work with you to resolve it, perhaps by ex- 
tending your repayment schedule. 


Consumer Credit Counselors For help 
with budgeting and debt management, 
Consumer Credit Counselors operates as a 
community nonprofit organization in many 
California cities. Counseling and budgeting 
services are available free of charge. The 
debt management program involves CCC's 
administering a repayment program de- 
signed in cooperation with your creditors. A 
nominal fee, based on the amount paid 
each month to your creditors, is charged for 
tnat service. 


To find the Consumer Credit Counselors 
office nearest you, consult the white pages 
of your telephone directory, or write to Con- 
sumer Credit Counselors of California, 
1429 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 
94103. 


IT'S UP TO YOU Designing and imple- 
menting a good money plan is no snap. It 
takes time and effort to do the job well. To 
bolster your motivation, consider this fact: 
In the course of your lifetime you'll control 
many thousands of dollars in earnings. Cer- 
tainly you'd like to get as much value frem 
your money as you can, v hich is the main 
purpose of your plan. Follow it, and your 
time—and money—will be well spent. 


ry ys \ 
ote 5 
Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, Sen Francisco, California 94137 LOL 


BANK OF AMERICA NT & SA * MEMBER FDIC 


AD-264 (REV 3/80) 


