DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 818 CE 800 122 


TITLE Ways to Save Your Money. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 2. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Nov 83 

NOTE 5p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

AVAILABLE FROM Bank of America, Dept. 3401, Box 37128, San 
Francisco, CA 94137 (first set free, $0.10 per copy 
thereafter, 10 copies $1.00, 100 copies $7.00). 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 
DESCRIPTORS *Banking; *Consumer Education; Guidelines; 

Investment; *Money Management; Pamphlets; Planning 
IDENTIFIERS PF Project; *Savings Accounts 


ABSTRACT 

This report explains savings accounts and low-deposit 
investments in order to help consumers determine which accounts are 
right for them. It is divided into the following four sections 
(topics covered are listed in parentheses): (1) the savings program 
(setting savings goals, saving regularly, choosing a savings account, 
interest, the savings contract, and places to save); (2) types of 
Savings accounts (regular savings accounts, time deposit accounts, 
money market deposit accounts, “super NOW" accounts, and United 
States savings bonds); (3) investments (mutual funds and money market 
securities, the latter including United States Treasury issues, 
federal agency issues, municipal bonds, and corporate bonds); and (4) 
special purpose accounts (Christmas clubs, custodial and informal 
trust accounts, matching fund investment plans, Individual Retirement 
Accounts (IRAs), and Keogh plans). Information in this report is 
current at the time of printing, November 1983, but is subject to 
change. (DC) 


KRAEKEKARAEKEERAREREREERREKEEEEREREKEEEREEEKEEKRERERERREREEREKEREKEREEKEKKEKREEREEEE 


* Rerroductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can ke made ® 


* from the original document. s 
RARER REREREREKEEREREEEEEERREREREREKEEEREEEEEREEEEEREEEEEKERERREKEEREER 


O 


ED241818 


Ce 00 122 


\ 


The CiRcular’ 


Consumer information Report 2 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 

Albert J. Dytch 
TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC). ° 


Ways to Save Your Money 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


CENTER (ERIC 


Today, you can choose from more ways and places to save than ever 
before. This report describes the savings and low-deposit investments 
available and can help you determine which accounts are right for you. 


Your Savings Program 


In today's uncertain economic environment, 
its more important than ever to have a 
Carefully thought-out savings program. By 
accumulating a sum of money, you can help 
establish financial security, and you can take 
advantage of a broader range of choices for 
spending and investing 


Before you start to plan your savings pro- 
gram, however, you ll need to become famil- 
iar with the various aspects of saving and the 
variety of savings options available. And, to 
select the account or combination of ac- 
counts that best suits your needs, you should 
define your savings goals 


SET SAVINGS GOALS You're more likely 
to save if you're working toward a goal. Your 
goal might be to save for a vacation or for 
upcoming expenses such as taxes or insur- 
ance. Or, you may want to accumulate 
enough for a down payment on a house or 
establish a fund for retirement 


In addition to other savings goals, a good 
Savings program includes funds set aside 
and readily available for emergencies. Gen- 
erally, two to six months’ take-home pay is a 
good range for an emergency fund. How- 
ever, you should determine your own need 
by considering your current personal or 
family situation and the state of your 
finances, including debts 


Keep in mind that you may have emergency 
resources other than your savings. For ex- 
ample, you may be able to obtain emer- 
gency funds through insurance, Social Se- 
curity, or employee benefits. You also may 
have assets, such as stocks or bonds, that 
you could readily convert tu cash 


SAVE REGULARLY You can reach your 
savings goal—one payday at a time— 
by developing a savings habit. One way is 
to budget for savings each month. just as 
you would for rent, insurance, or loan pay- 
ments. Decide to save a percentage of your 
income—2%, 5%, 10%, or whatever you 
can—and stick to your decision 


if your employer offers a payroll deduction 
plan, you can arrange to have money from 
your paycheck automatically deposited on a 
regular basis to a savings account at your 
bank or other financial institution 


If you're strapped for funds to save, consider 


increasing your tax exemptions if your with- 
holdings are higher than they need be. You 
can put the extra money in a Savings or other 
type of account and earn interest on it 


CHOOSING A SAVINGS ACCOUNT To 
choose a savings account that's right for 
you, you'll first need to think realistically 
about yourself—your financial situation, 
your goals, and ithe period of time in which 
you want to reach them. Then, find the 
financial institution and savings account that 
are best suited to your particular needs. 
Keep four major considerations in mind. 

1. Return The amount your savings can 
earn in interest. 


2. Security The safety of your savings. 
The more secure your savings account is, 
the less your risk of loss from bankruptcy of 
an uninsured financial institution and the 
less likelihood that your account will fail to 
pay interest or return your principal. 


3. Liquidity The speed with which you can 
obtain your money without financial penalty. 
4. Convenience The ease with which you 
can manage your savings plan. Take into 
account the location of the financial institu- 
tion where you save and the kind and quality 
of services offered. 


Because no single type of savings account 
is likely to measure up to all your financial 
requirernents, you might use a combination 
of savings methods. For instance, you could 
invest a portion of your savings in a time 
deposit account and keep the rest in a 


regular savings account. The time deposit 
account would probably bring a higher re- 
turn, while the savings account would offer 
greater liquidity. 


INTEREST Iriterest is the amount you re- 
ceive in exchange for the use of your money. 
To compare savings plans, you'll need to 
understand the following. 


Annual Interest Rate The amount of in- 
terest that you receive over a one-year 
period is expressed as a percentage called 
‘he annual interest rate. This rate may be 

ed; or, it may increase or decrease at 
specified intervals (such as daily or weekly), 
depending on market conditions. 


Annual Yield The annual interest rate is 
only one of several factors that determine 
how much you'll earn an the funds in your 
Savings account. A different percentage 
figure—annual yield—is usually a more 
accurate expression of your intercsi earn- 
ings. Annual yield is calculated on the as- 
sumption that deposits and interest stay in 
the account for one full year. Also reflected in 
the annual yield is the method of calculating 
interest. 


With the simple interest method, interest is 
calculated on your balance—your deposits 
plus any interest that’s been paid to your 
account. If your account pays a 512% simple 
annua! interest rate, your annua! yield is also 
52%. That means a balance of $100 earn- 
ing 52% simple annual interest would pay 
$5.50 in interest in the course of one full year. 


With the compound interest method, inter- 
est is calculated on your balance plus any 
interest you've earned that has not yet been 
paid to your account. In other words, you 
earn interest on your interest. 


Interest compounding increases your inter- 
est earnings—even though the annual in- 
terest rate remains the same. If your account 
pays a 512% annual interest rate, your an- 
nual yield is 5.65%. A balance of $100 
earning 52% interest, compounded daily, 
would pay $5.65 in interest during one year. 


The more frequently interest is com- 
pounded, the greater the yield on your sav- 
ings accoun. 


Balance Computation Each time you 
make a deposit or a withdrawal, it affects 
your interest earnings. With the most com- 
mon method of balance computation— “day 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NTA&SA 1979 1981, 1983 


2 


1 


of deposit to day of withdrawal’ —you earn 
interest on the exact amount In your account 
each day. 


However, financial institutions can use other 
methods of dalance computation that are not 
as favorable for you. Make sure you under- 
stand how balance is calculated on the 
account you have tn mind. 


Other Points to Consider The amount of 
interest earnings you actually receive can be 
affected in several ways. Many accounts do 
not credit (pay) interest daily. Some pay 
interest at the end of each calendar month or 
quarter. Others pay interest at the end of a 
specified period of time called the term or 
maturity period. 


Another consideration is the daily interest 
rate. Some institutions calculate daily inter- 
est at 1/360 the annual interest rate, others 
at 1/365. You should also find out what 
maintenance charges and service fees are 
involved. 


THE SAVINGS CONTRACT The sig- 
nature card you sign wher you open a 
savings account Is a legal contract. You ray 
also receive, as part of the contract, other 
printed material containing the terms and 
conditions that apply to your account. You 
shcuid be given this material wnen you open 
the account, but ask for it earlier—when 
you're shopping for a savings account. 


PLACES TO SAVE Following are the 
mayor types of financial institutions that offer 
Savings accounts 


Banks You can receive a wide range of 
financial s2rvices at a bank. These include: 
savings and time deposit accounts; regular 
and interest-bearing checking accounts; 
money market deposit accounts; individual 
Retirement Accounts (IRAs); consumer, 
business, and real estate loans: and trust, 
investmert, international, and business 
services. Deposits in member banks are 
insured for up to $100,000 by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) 


Savings and Loan Associations (S&Ls) 
These institutions provide much of the 
money used to finance homes in the United 
States. Other services S&Ls can offer in- 
clude savings and time deposit accounts, 
interest-bearing checking accounts, money 
market deposit accounts, IRAs, consumer 
loans, and trust services. Deposits in mem- 
ber associations are insured for up to 
$100.000 by the Federal Savings and Loan 
Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) 


Credit Unions These are nonprofit sav- 
ings and lending organizations that provide 
services to members. (Members must have 
a common bond through employment at the 
same firm, residence in the same com- 
munity, or participation in the same group.) 
Credit unions can offer a variety of services, 
including savings and time deposit ac- 
counts, interest-bearing checking accounts, 
money market deposit accounts, IRAs, con- 
sumer and real estate loans. and certain 
investment services. Deposits in federal- 
and state-chartered credit unions are in- 


2 


sured for up to $100 000 through the Na- 
tional Credit Union Administration. 


industrial Loan Companies These are a 
type of finance company that offers savings 
accounts. Besides making consumer and 
real estate loans, these companies issue 
investment certificates similar to passbook 
savings accounts. Certificates are protected 
for up to $50,000 through the Thrift Guaran- 
tee Corporation 


Other Financial Institutions Brokerage 
houses, mutual fund companies, and other 
institutions may offer a wide variety of finan- 
cial services including such savings plans 
as time deposits and money market deposit 
accounts. However, the terms and the secu- 
rity of their savings accounts may differ 
substantially from similar accounts offered at 
the more trad‘tional places to save. 


Types of 
Savings Accounts 


Savings accounts are a basic component of 
most savings programs. They provide a high 
degree of convenience and security and, 
usually, a predictable rate of return. You may 
choose from many types of savings ac- 
counts, from low-yielding regular savings 
accounts to higher-yielding time deposit and 
money market accounts. Each type has its 
own rules on deposits, withdrawals, pay- 
ment of interest, and charges. 


REGULAR SAVINGS ACCOUNTS A 
good way to start a savings program Is witha 
regular savings account because of the low 
opening deposit requirement, but the annual 
interest rate is limited by law to 512%. You 
can use this account to accumulate funds to 
meet the deposit requirements of accounts 
that pay higher interest. Regular savings 
accounts can be of value, too, as a place for 
emergency and short-term savings since 
there's no penalty for early withdrawal. 


Sometimes called a passbook account, a 
regular savings account is the most basic 
and flexible type of savings account avail- 
able. You may be required to deposit a 
certain amount to open an account, but you 
can make deposits to your account in vir- 
tually any amount at any time 


Generally, you can withdraw money from the 
account at any time. However, some institu- 
tions may limit the number of withdrawals 
you can make during a given period without 
charge. Others also may impose a monthly 
service charge if your balance falls below a 
certain amount. And, you may be charged a 
fee if you close your account before a speci- 
fied period 


TIME DEPOSITS With a time deposit ac- 
count, you agree to leave your money on 
deposit until the end of a specified period 
called the term or maturity period. In ex- 
change, you receive an interest rate that is 
usually higher than the rate on regular sav- 
INgs accounts. 
3 


A time deposit account is a good place to put 
your money if you don't need immediate 
access to it. However, time deposit accounts 
are available for a wide range of terms, so 
you can choose a term that best fits your 
financial needs. 


Within federal and state guidelines, financial 
institutions are permitted to offer time de- 
posit accounts with different deposit re- 
quirements, terms, interest rates, and with- 
drawal restrictions 


Initial Deposits The minimum deposit re- 
quired to open a time deposit account varies 
widely—from as low as $100 to as high as 
$2,500 or more 


Terms These range from 7 days to 10 
years. With most time deposit accounts, the 
term begins on the day of deposit. However, 
with one type of time deposit account, called 
a passbook time deposit, terms consist of 
calendar quarters. If you deposit funds on 
any day other than the first business day of 
the calendar quarter, the term for that de- 
posit won't begin until the first business day 
of the next quarter. 


Interest Rates The term andthe minimum 
deposit determine the annual interest rate. 
Rates may be fixed for the maturity period, 
or they may vary daily or weekly. Variable 
rates are usually based on the auction rates 
for U.S. Treasury Bills. 


Additional Deposits You cannot make 
additional deposits to many of these ac- 
counts. Instead, you must open a new ac- 
count with its own maturity period. Usually, 
your account stops earning interesi on the 
maturity date 


Some accounts allow you to add funds. 
However, a minimum may be required, and 
you may have ta make the deposit during a 
specified period of time ai the end of the 
term If you're allowed to add funds, the 
maturity date for the entiie account may be 
extended for the same length of time as the 
Original term. Or, each new deposit may 
have its own maturity period. 


With many accounts, after the maturity date 
your funds are reinvested unless you with- 
draw them within a certain number of days. 
During this time, you also may be allowed to 
withdraw part of your funds. Generally, the 
funds left on deposit will be reinvested on the 
day of the withdrawal 


Early Withdrawal Penalties |f you make 
a withdrawal from a time deposit account 
before the end of the maturity period, federal 
iaw requires a substantial interest penalty on 
the amount withdrawn. In some cases, the 
penalty may exceed the interest you have 
earned and include some of the principal. 
Financial institutions can impose additicnal 
penalties as well. Make sure you understand 
the penalties involved. 


MONEY MARKET DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS 
If you can meet the $2.500 minimum deposit 
requirement, you may want to open a money 
market deposit account because it com- 
bines high yield, liquidity, and the safety of 
federal insurance 


This account is like a regular savings ac- 
count in that you can withdraw your money at 
any time without penalty. It's different from a 
reguiar savings account in that it pays a 
variable rate -f interest, comparable to the 
money market rates—the current interest 
rates paid on short-term private and gov- 
ernment securities. However, if your aver- 
age daily balance falls below $2,500, the 
interest rate usually drops to 514% annual 
interest 


Each statement period, you're allowed to 
make a total of six transfers, including three 
checking transactions. to another person, 
another organization, or accounts you have 
at another financial institution 


SUPER NOW ACCOUNTS if you regu- 
larly maintain a checking balance of $2,500, 
you may want to consider the Super NOW 
account. This account pays a variable rate of 
interest that is usually slightly lower than the 
rate on a money market deposit account, at 
the same institution. But, with a Super NOW 
you may write as many checks as you wish 


Until recently, the types of interest-bearing 
checking plans were limited to the regular 
NOW (negotiable order of withdrawal) ac- 
counts and credit union share draft ac- 
counts. A negotiable order of withdrawal and 
a share draft function like checks except that 
you write them against a savings account 
instead of a checking account 


o1 


NOW accounts usually pay 54° fixed inter- 
est: most credit union share draft accounts 
yield 512% to 6%. With the Super NOW 
accounts offered by most banks and S&Ls, 
you earn a higher rate as long as you 
maintain an average daily balance of $2,500 
or more 


As with most interest-bearing checking ac- 
counts, you benefit from a Super NOW if you 
keep at least the minimum balance and write 
only a few checks. If you write a lot of checks, 
thie fees for such transactions could offset 
the interest you earn. Shop carefully for this 
and other interest-bearing checking ac- 
counts: be sure you understand the terms 
and conditions involved 


U.S. SAVINGS BONDS These are 
among the most convenient securities to 
purchase and redeem. Theyre extremely 
safe, and your interest earnings arent sub- 
ject to state or local income tax 


The federal guvernment currently offers two 
types of savings bonds: Series EE and 
Series HH. Series E and Series H bonds are 
no longer available, but if you Own any of 
them now, they'll continue to earn interest 
until their final maturity 


Series EE These bonds are available in 
denominations of $50 to $10,000. However, 
they're sold at a discount —at less than face 
value. You purchase an EE bond for 50°. of 
the face value printed on the bond and 
redeem it for full face value at maturity. The 
maturity period is determined by how long tt 


takes to accumulate enough interest to 
double the issue value of the bond. 


Series EE bonds you purchase now will earn 
interest at a fixed rate that increases on a 
graduated scale for the first five years, to a 
maximum of 72% compound annual inter- 
est. Bonds you hold at least five years pay a 
variable rate tied to money market rates 
When you redeem the bonds, you receive an 
average tor the term; you're guaranteed a 
minimum of 712%, compounded annually 
Bonds you bought before November 1982 
must be held at least five years after that 
date to qualify for the variable rate 


Interest is paid to you when you redeem your 
bonds; you can do so any time after six 
months from the issue date. (For the current 
interest rate and approximate maturity pe- 
riod, contact your financial institution. ) 


You can buy Series EE bonds at most 
financial institutions or through a payroll 
deduction plan if your employer offers one 


Series HH These bonds are no longer 
available for purchase; the only way to get a 
new HH bond is in exchange for an E or EE 
bond. HH bonds are issued in denomi- 
nations of $500 to $10,000 and earn a fixed 
interest rate. You obtain them at face value 

and every six months the U.S. Treasury 
sends you a check for your interest earnings 


Although the maturity period for HH bonds is 
ten years, you may redeem them any time 
after six months from the issue date. How- 
ever, if you obtained an HH bond for cash 
and redeem it before five years have 
passed, you'll receive less than face value 


Most financial institutions that issue EE 
bonds have the forms you need to exchange 
Es and EEs for HHs. You also can trade for 
HH bonds at a Federal Reserve Bank or, by 
mail, through the Bureau of the Public Debt, 
U.S. Treasury Department, Washington, DC 
20226 


Investments 


The line between saving and investing isn't 
always clear. Generally, when you invest, 
you seek a higher rate of return than when 
you save; in exchange, you usually ust 
sacrifice some liquidity or security. There 
are, however, ways to invest with a minimum 
risk and with a relatively small initial deposit 


MONEY MARKET SECURITIES When 
you invest in money market securities, you 
make a short-term loan to one of a broad 
range of borrowers—the U.S. Treasury, a 
federal agency, a state or local government, 
or a corporation. You can purchase securi- 
ties through a bank or broker. Normally, you ll 
pay a fee on transactions of less than 
$100,000. Money market securities may be 
held until maturity or sold to another investor 
Although they're easy to sell on short riotice, 
the price you receive can vary each week 


U.S. Treasury Issues These are con- 
sidered to be among the safest investments 
you can make because they're backed by 


The Treasury De- 


4 


the U.S. government 


partment issues three types of securities: 
notes, bonds, and bills 


Treasury notes have maturities of 2 to 10 
years; bonds have maturities of 10 to 30 
years. These securities pay interest semi- 
annually and are redeemed at maturity 
Usually, notes with maturities of less than 4 
years are issued in denominations of 
$5,000. Treasury notes with longer matu- 
r'ities and Treasury bonds are available in 
denominations of $1,000 or more 


Treasury bills, or T-bills, itave maturities of 
13, 26, or 52 weeks. They're sold at a 
discount and are redeemed for face value at 
maturity. The minimum denomination is 
$10,000. You can buy T-bills through a 
commercial bank or a broker or directly from 
a Federal Reserve Bank. The bills are held 
for you in a safekeeping account rather than 
issued in paper form. If you purchase T-bills 
from the Federal Reserve Bank, there's no 
commission or safekeeping fee. However, 
commercial banks and brokers may charge 
a service fee, safekeeping fee, or both 


Federal Agency Issues These securities 
represent the debt of various federal! agen- 
cies that administer selected lending pro- 
grams of the U.S. government. 


Agency securities offer the advantage of a 
generally higher return than you ca’. receive 
on U.S. Treasury issues. Minimum denom- 
nations vary with each agency. Some are as 
low as $1,000, but a $5,000 minimum is 
typical. Maturities range from a tew months 
to 30 years. Most agency securities must be 
heid in safekeeping for you by a bank or 
broker; you'll be charged for this service. 


Municipal Bonds These are the debt ob- 
ligations of state or local governments or 
state agencies. Typically, municipal bonds 
are issued in denominations of $5,000. 
However, to offset the risk involved with 
these bonds, investment counselors gen- 
erally recommend buying at least three 
issued by different agencies 


Interest earned on municipal bonds is ex- 
empt from federal income tax and, in most 
cases, from state and local taxes in the state 
where the bonds are issued. Depending on 
your tax bracket, these tax exemptions can 
increase your return by a sizable amount. 


When buying bonds, consider the issuer's 
creditworthiness. Several independent 
services provide credit ratings using a stan- 
dardized system. Reports by two such ser- 
vices, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, are 
available at most public libraries. 


Bonds with a good credit rating generally will 
provide you with greater investment secu- 
rity, but those with lower ratings frequently 
offer higher interest rates as compensation 
for greater risk 


Corporate Bonds These represent ‘he 
borrowings of corporations. Minimum de- 
nominations vary with each company but 
typically start at $1,000. Some bonds are 
backed cnly by the company’s promise to 
pay; others are backed by specific assets. In 
the latter case, if the company can't meet the 


3 


interest payments, the property could be 
sold to repay bond holders. As with mu- 
nicipal bonds, you should consider the 
issuers Credit rating before you buy 


Corporate bonds usually pay a higher inter- 
est rate than U.S. government bonds or tax- 
free municipals with the same cred't rating 
However, interest earnings are taxable 


MUTUAL FUNDS in recent years, mutual 
funds have become an increasingly popular 
investment. With a minimum of $500 to 
$1,000, you can generally participate in a 
broad range of investments 


When you invest in a mutual fund, you buy 
shares in a portfolio of securities managed 
by professionals. The interest rate you re- 
ceive depends on how much the fund's 
securities are earning. Some funds special- 
ize in only one kind of security or industry; 
most offer a variety and, therefore, a means 
to minimize risk. If your fund belongs to a 
family of funds —an investment group tha. 
offers several types of funds—you can 
switch money from one fund to anot'er to 
take advantage of changes in market 
conditions 


One of the most popular types of funds ts the 
money market mutual fund. It may investina 
variety of money market securities or in only 
one type, such as U.S. Treasury Bills. As 
with a money market deposit account, you 
can withdraw your money at any time with- 
Out penalty. However, you can write an 
unlimited number of checks, usually for a 
specified minimum amount such as $250 or 
more, and the minimum deposit can be as 
little as $190 or 2ss. Keep in mind, though, 
that your money is not protected by federal 
insurance 


Mutual funds are required by law to state 
their investment policies; you can use these 
statements to select funds that match your 
investment goals. You can huy fund shares 
through brokers or directly from mutual fund 
corporations 


Special Purpose 
Accounts 


Many financial institutions offer accounts 
tailored to fit certain goals such as meeting 
holiday expenses, administering funds for 
another person, or generating retirement 
income 


CHRISTMAS CLUBS The purpose of 
these accounts. whether they're called 
Christmas Clubs or some other name, is to 
help you save for year-end or holiday ex- 
penses. With this type of account, you agree 
to make deposits in equal amounts at regu- 
lar intervais over a year’s time. Generally, 
you cannot withdraw your money until a year 
has passed. Some accounts pay no interest 
Others pay the same rate as a regular 
Savings account 


Under most plans, you either set the total 
Savings goal for the year or the amount of 
your regular deposit. Depending on the plan 
you may have deposits transferred awo- 
matically from your checking or savings 
account. Or, as a reminder, you may be 
given a book of dated coupons to send in 
with your deposits 


CUSTODIAL AND INFORMAL TRUST 
ACCOUNTS These are designed to bene- 
fit anc.her person. They're available in the 
form of savings and time deposit accounts, 
money market deposit accounts, and regu- 
lar and interest-bearing checking accounts 


As an adult, you can open a custodial ac- 
count for a minor. The account is transferred 
to the child when he or she reaches the age 
of 18. The child is considered the legal 
owner of the funds, and there are restrictions 
regarding deposiis and withdrawals you can 
make. This type of account usually is 
ope 1ed under the advice of an attorney 


With an informal trust account, you're con- 
sidered the legal owner of the deposited 
funds. After your death, funds in the account 
automatically belong to the person you 
named as beneficiary 


Alternatively, you can sign a pay-on-death 
agreement designating a beneficiary. As 
with an informal trust account, the funds are 
automatically released to your beneficiary 
when you die. 


MATCHING FUND INVESTMENT PLAN 
Your employer may offer a matching fund 
investment plan, often called a thrift plan. In 
general, youre offered a choice of invest- 
ments ranging from the company’s stock to a 
fund that invests in a variety of other stocks 
After you make a choice, you contribute a 
percentage of your gross pay each month, 
usually between 1°. and 6°o. Each dollar 
you put in is matched by your employer— 
typically with 50 cents or another dollar—up 
to acertain limit 


lf you leave the firm, you get your money 
back plus any earned interest. You also may 
be entitled to your employer's contributions; 
plans vary in how long you must be with the 
company or participate in the plan for this to 
happen. If its a qualified employer re- 
tirement plan, no tax is due on your em- 
ployers contributions or on earnings on al: 
contributions until you receive the funds 


INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS 
(IRAs) Even if youre covered by a quali- 
fied employer retirement plan, you can open 
an IRA. You can contribute up to $2,000 or 
100°. of your annual earned income, which- 
ever is less. If you're marred and your 
spouse does not work, you can contribute a 
combined total of $2,250 to IRAs on your 
and your spouse's behalf. (If your spouse 
works, each of you may contribute $2,000 or 
100°. of earned income.) You can deduct 
these amounts on your federal income tax 
return. YOu may also be able to deduct a 


portion of your contribution on your Califor- 
nia income tax return. (Contact the State 
Franchise Tax Board for state tax 
requirements. ) 


Earnings on your IRA are not subject to 
federal or state income tax until you with- 
draw them. However, with certain excep- 
tions, you must pay interest and tax penal- 
ties if you withdraw funds from your IRA 
before you reach age 59'2 


If you Own your own business or are self- 
employed, you can also set up a Simplified 
Employee Pension (SEP) plan for yourself 
and your employees. Under a SEP. you may 
contribute 15° of your annual earnings or 
$15,000, whichever is less, to an IRA. In 
general, you must contribute the same per- 
centage of your employee’s earnings to 
IRAs on their behalf 


KEOGH PLAN If you're self-employed, 
you can generally establish your own pen- 
sion program through a Keogh plan. Each 
year you can set aside 15° of your annual 
earned income or $15,0U0, whichever is 
less. For the 1984 tax year, the limit is 25° of 
your annual earned income or $30,000, 
whichever ts less 


Depending on the amount you contribute to 
your Keogh plan, you may be able to deduct 
all or part of it on your federal income tax 
return. You also can deduct a limited amount 
on your California income tax return. (Con- 
tact the State Franchise Tax Board for state 
tax requirements. ) 


No tax is due until you withdraw funds from 
the plan. However, with certain exceptions, 
you must pay interest and tax penalties if you 
withdraw funds before you reach age 592. 


When you begin a Keogh plan for yourself, 
you also must include employees who meet 
certain requiremerits. Generally, you cannot 
establish both a Keogh and SEP plan. Be- 
cause setting up a Keogh or a SEP plan can 
be complex, you should consult your attor- 
ney or tax adviser. (For more information 
about retirement plans, see Report #6 in this 
series, Planning for Retirement income.) 


Making Your 
Program Work 


As your financial situation and goals change, 
you'll need to make adjustments to your 
savings and investment program. When 
you re just startnyg out, you may need the 
liquidity and relatively high yield of a money 
market account to help you furnish a home 
or provide for a growing family. When you're 
older, you Can probably start to put money 
into a long-term retirement account and feel 
comfortable about making some low-risk 
investments 


Whatever your savings strategy, you'll see 
the reward of your efforts as you reach each 
of your savings gcals 


Information in this report is Current at the time of 
printing, November 1983. but is subject to 
change 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 


BANK OF AMERICA NTASA+ MEMBER FDIC od 


AD-252 (11 83) 


