DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 823 CE 800 127 


TITLE Solar Energy: Uses for Your Home. The CIRcular: 
Consumer Information Report 15. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Aug 82 

NOTE 5p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1l Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS Consumer Education; Cost Effectiveness; *Decision 
Making; Energy Conservation; Guidelines; *Heating; 
*Heat Recovery; Information Sources; Pamphlets; 
*Solar Energy; Tax Credits; Water 

IDENTIFIERS *California; Contractors; *Home Improvement; PF 
Project 


ABSTRACT 

This report defines active and passive solar energy 
systems, describes home uses for solar energy, and offers guidelines 
for choosing and installing a system. Much of the information is 
specific to the state of California. Uses for solar energy which are 
mresented include passive space heating, passive cooling, active 
space heating, household water heating, and swimming pool heating. 
The following considerations in deciding whether to invest in a 
system are discussed: reducing the need for a system through energy 
conservation, determining cost effectiveness, financing the system, 
and claiming federal and California tax credits. Suggestions are 
offered for deciding whether to do it yourself or to have a 
contractor do the installation, for selecting a contractor, and for 
choosing a system. A list of sources of further information cites six 
energy information centers and four California energy utilities. 
Information in this report is current at the time of printing, August 
1982, but is subject to change. (DC) 


RAEKKAKEREEKRAERKEKEEKAKRAKEEKKEERKKKEKERREEEEEKKEEEEKREKEREKKEEEREKERKEAEKEKKREKEET 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made ® 


* from the original document. e 
REEKERAEEREKKREKREKEKEEKEEKEEKEEEEREKEKEEKERKEEREEKEEREKKEKEEERRKKEKEKRKRKEERE 


ED24182 3 


() €e F008 /a7 


he CiReular” 


Consumer Information Report 15 


Solar Energy: Uses for Your Home 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 


Albert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


i. 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL 


RESOURCES INFORMATION 


ve (ON 


eaicalie oft 
essarily represt 


If you've been thinking pre “going solar,” this report can help you 
decide. It explains how to put the sun to work heating your house, your 
household water, and your swimming pool. You'll also find information 


on choosing, financing, and installing a system. 


You get in your car, start to sit down, and 
suddenly realize that the seat's too hot to sit 
on. You've just had a firsthand demonstra- 
tion of solar energy collection, storage, and 
distribution. The sun's rays pass through 
the windows, hit the car's interior, and are 
transformed into heat. Some of this heat is 
radiated back into the air and is trapped by 
the window glass, raising the car's inside 
temperature. 


While tne same principles apply when using 
solar energy in your home, the methods 
used to collect and store the heat are much 
more efficient. A home solar energy system 
also distributes the heat where it's needed 
and regulates the temperature 


The sun's power is being used in a growing 
number of homes throughout the country. It 
may be a practical source of energy for your 
home as well. 


Major Uses - 


There are two major types of solar energy 
systems, “active” and “passive.” An active 
system collects and distributes the sun's 
heat with mechanical hardware, such as 
solar collectors and pumps. In a passive 
system, the house itself is designed to col- 
lect and store heat, which is then distributed 
throughout the house by natural convec- 
tion (air movement) and radiation. A well- 
designed passive solar house will alse re- 
main comfortably cool during hot weather. 


Because of the hardware they use, active 
systems may require more maintenance 
and cost more to operate than passive sys- 
tems. In many cases, however, a combina- 
tion of active and passive features is the 
most effective way to use solar energy, tak- 
ing advantage of both the energy-efficient 
structural design of a passive system and 
the control over heat distribution offered by 
an active system. 


PASSIVE SPACE HEATING Many pas- 
sive solar houses have large areas of 
south-facing glass that let in the sun's rays. 
A greenhouse, a sunroom or atrium, or 
double-paned windows can be used for this 
purpose. The sun's heat is then absorbed, 
either by solid, heavy materials— floors or 


walls made of concrete or masonry, for in- 
stance— or by tubes or drums filled with 
water. This “thermal mass” stores the heat 
and radiates it into the house. 


There are several different passive solar 
heating systems, and many passive solar 
homes combine more than one system. 
With a “direct gain” system, the house is 
heated both directly by sunlight passing 
through the living space to reach the ther- 
mal mass and by radiation from the mass. 
In an “indirect gain” system, the mass is 
placed between the south-facing glass and 
the living space. The sunlight first strikes 
the mass, which in turn heats the rest of the 
house. 


Another type of passive solar heating, ‘iso- 
lated gain,’ uses a space attached to the 
main house—such as a greenhouse or 
atrium—for collecting and storing solar en- 
ergy. The rest of the house can be heated 
by radiation from the thermal mass or by 
convection. In the latter case, windows, 
doors, or vents are used to control the flow 
of solar-heated air into the house. 


The solar heat collected by the house dur- 
ing the day is prevented from escaping 


through the glass at night by some type of 
insulation. Where winter temperatures are 
fairly mild, as in much of California, 
double-paned glass provides sufficient in- 
sulation. Movable shutters or insulating 
drapes can also be used to reduce heat 
loss. During cold, cloudy weather, a con- 
ventional furnace or a woodstove can be 
used to supply additional heat. 


PASSIVE COOLING in warm weather, 
the sun's rays are kept off the south-facing 
windows by overhangs, movable shutters, 
awnings, Or deciduous trees. 


In areas where the temperature drops at 
night, vents and windows are opened to let 
in the cooler outside air. The thermal mass 
then releases the heat absorbed during the 
day, and natural ventilation carries it out of 
the hcuse. During the day, the cooled and 
shaded thermal mass absorbs any heat 
that enters the house through the roof and 
walls, keeping the interio temperature in a 
comfortable range. 


Incorporating passive design features into 
a new house during the building process is 
the-most cost-effective way to use solar 
energy. However, by remodeling you may 
be able to “retrofit” (incorporate) a passive 
system into your house. Depending on its 
design and location, you may be limited to 
minor improvements such as adding awn- 
ings ur a south-facing window; but it rnay be 
practical to make more extensive changes, 
such as adding a greenhouse. 


ACTIVE SPACE HEATING An active 
solar space heating system uses mechan- 
ical devices requiring auxiliary power to dis- 
tribute and regulate heat. The sunlight is 
captured by “flat-plate collectors.” These 
are s‘iallow, black boxes that are usually 
“glazed’’—covered with qlass, fiberglass, 
or plastic—to reduce heat loss. 


The collectors usually face toward the 
south and are fittea on the roof or south wall 
of your home, mounted on a fence, or, 
sometimes, placed on the ground. 


Air or liquid passing through the collectors 
transfers the heat to where it can be either 
used immediately or stored. In a liquid sys- 
tem, the heated liquid (usually water or an 
antifreeze solution) is stored in an insulated 


COPYRIGHT ¢ 


- 


BANK OF AMERICA NTASA 1977, 1978. 1979. 1980 198). 1982 


1 


tank. In an air system, the heated air is 
usually circulated through a bin filled with 
three to six feet of rocks (usually one to two 
inches in diameter), which absorb the heat. 
As the air or liquid cools, it is circulated back 
into the collectors and is heated again. Be- 
cause most active solar heating systems 
can store only one to three days’ worth of 
heat, they are usually backed up by a con- 
ventional heating system. 


Automatic or manuai controls—such as 
thermostats or dampers—regulate the flow 
of heat from storage to areas in the house. 
In an air system, fans blow heated air 
through existing ducts and registers; in a 
liquid system, the hot liquid is pumped 
through heating coils o: floor pipes. 


HOUSEHOLD WATER HEATING From 
the turn of the century until the late 1920s, 
solar water heating was a flourishing busi- 
ness in California. But as natural gas and 
other fuels became less expensive, the use 
of solar energy declined. More recently, as 
the cost of fossil fuels has risen, solar water 
heating has been regaining popularity. In 
California, it's proving to be a practical way 
to heat water. A system can often be in- 
Stalled in an existing home for a reasonable 
cost; you can even buy packaged solar 
waier heating systems right off the shelf. 


Solar water heaters are usually used to 
hat incoming water before it enters a con- 
vantional water heater. In the most common 
system, a pump circulates the water be- 
tween glazed solar collectors and an insu- 
lated storage tank. When you need hot wa- 
ter, the solar-heated water passes through 
the conventional water heater, which 
supplies the extra heat. (Instead of a con- 
ventional water heater, some systems use 
heating elements in the storage tank itself 
to supply extra heat.) 


SWIMMING POOL HEATING Heating 
swimming pools is one of the most popular 
and practical uses of solar energy. Many 
solar pool heating systems are now avail- 
able commercially. A typical system uses 
unglazed flat-plate collectors; the pool itself 
stores the heat. In many cases, the pool 
filter pump can be used to circulate the 
water through the collectors and back into 
the pooi. If you want to use your pool during 
cooler months, you may also need a backup 
heating system or a pool cover. In mild cli- 
mates, a pool cover alone may be all you 
need. 


FREEZE PROTECTION When water is 
used in an active solar energy system, 
some type of protection is needed, even in 
mild climates, to prevent the water from 
freezing and cracking the collector panels 
and pipes. If yours is a closed loop system 
(the water in the panels and storage tank is 
for circulation only, not household use), you 
can add an oil or antifreeze solution to pre- 
vent freezing. 


Two other methods—“drain down” and 
“recirculation” —utilize temperature sen- 
sors. When the temperature nears freezing, 


2 


the sensor either causes the water to drain 
out of the collectors (drain down) or acti- 
vates a pump which circulates warm water 
from the storage tank back into the collec- 
tors (recirculation). 


Investing in Sunshine 


CONSERVE ENERGY FIRST You can 
greatly reduce your utility costs by making 
energy-saving home improvements such 
as insulating your house, installing storm 
windows and doors, and weatherstripping 
and caulking your windows. For helo in de- 
termining what measures will be effective, 
ask your utility company if it will conduct an 
“energy audit’ —a procedure that analyzes 
your home's energy use and pinpoints 
areas where savings can be realized. 


If you're building a new home, you must 
follow the California Energy Commission's 
standards for insulation. Information about 
the standards is available from your local 
building inspection department or the 
Energy Commission (see page 4 for the 
address). 


Once you've taken steps to conserve en- 
ergy, you may find that you've reduced the 
need for a solar energy system at this time. 
If you choose to install one later, your home 
will be better prepared. 


WILL IT PAY? A solar energy system 
won't eliminate your utility bills entirely, but 
an efficient system can reduce the amount 
you pay each month. Typically, solar heat- 
ing systems are designed to handle from 
50% to 90% of your Heating needs. In addi- 
tion, a passive solar house often stays rela- 
tively cool without air conditioning. 


You will most likely see fuel savings im- 
mediately after your system is installed, but 
it probably will be some time before the 
? cumulated savings equal the cost of your 
system. The payback period for your sys- 
tem depends in part on your family's heat- 
ing and cooling needs, weather conditions 
in your area, the size of your house, and 
current and future utility rates. Other var- 
iables are the costs of installing and main- 
taining the system. 


FINANCING A SYSTEM A solar energy 
system is a big investment for which you'll 
probably consider financing. Many banks, 
Savings and loan associations, credit 
unions, and finance companies will make 
loans for solar energy systems. 


If you're building a new home, the cost of a 
solar energy system will probably be in- 
cluded in your mortgage. If you're adding a 
system to your present home, you may be 
able to borrow directly from a financial in- 
Stitution, typically through its home im- 
provement loan program. The lender may 
take a deed of trust as security for this type 
of loan, depending on the institution's policy 
and the size of the loan. 


When you apply for a solar energy loen, you 
may be required to submit copies of the 


3 


plans, specifications, and cost breakdowns 
for the system you're planning to install. 
General plans and specifications may be 
available from the equipment manufacturer 
or dealer. For detailed plans showing how 
your system will be installed, ask your con- 
tractor or designer. 


Another possible source of financing is your 
utility company. Many utility companies 
Offer insulation financing; some offer re- 
bates ana loans to help you buy and install 
solar equipment. In addition, some com- 
panies offer solar energy consultation ser- 
vices to homeowners. Ask your local utility 
company what programs it offers (see the 
“Utilities” section at the end of this report). 


You may also be able to finance your solar 
energy system through your contractor or 
equipment supplier. Finance charges and 
repayment terms for these instaliment con- 
tracts are negotiated between you and the 
contractor or supplier. 


Shop carefully for your solar energy financ- 
ing; compare annual percentage rates, 
other credit costs, and the repayment 
terms. Include the finance charges when 
calculating the cost of installation. 


TAX CREDITS “Currently, you may be 
able to recover part of the cost of installing a 
solar energy system through federal and 
State tax credits. A tax credit is subtracted 
from the tax you'e ordinarily owe and 
can be claimed even if you don't itemize 
deductions. However, you must file Internal 
Revenue Service Form 1040 and California 
State Franchise Tax Board Form 540. 


Federal Tax Credits You can claim an 
income tax credit of 40% of the cost of in- 
stalling a qualifying solar energy system in 
your principal residence, for a maximum 
credit of $4,000. If you make qualified 
energy-conserving improvements on your 
present home—such as adding insulation 
or new storm windows—you can claim a 
separate federal tax credit of 15% on the 
first $2,000 you spend on those items, for a 
maximum credit of $300. 


If your tax credits exceed the tax you owe for 
the year, the extra amount may be carried 
over to later tax years through 1987. Both 
federal tax credits apply to expenses in- 
curred through 1985. To claim them, you 
must file IRS Form 5695, “Residential En- 
ergy Credit.” 


California Tax Credit You may alsoclaim 
a California income tax credit equa! to 55% 
of the cost of installing a qualifying solar 
energy system on premises you own. The 
maximum crec:t is $3,000 for each sepa- 
rate function the system performs. (For 
swimming pool and spa water systems, the 
credit rates are less than 55%, but the 
maximum is also $3,000.) These tax creaits 
are also a‘’a‘lable on energy conservation 
measures taken in connection with a solar 
energy system. You can claim the solar en- 
ergy credit for systems and devices in- 
stalled through December 31, 1983. (In- 
stead of taking the tax credit, you can de- 


preciate the cost of the system over a 
three-year period—that is, you can spread 
the cost over three years and deduct a por- 
tion on your tax return each year.) 


You may also claim a credit for the cost of 
eligible energy conservation measures not 
related to a solar energy system. For resi- 
dential property, the credit is 40% of the 
cost, including installation charges. The 
maximum credit allowed is $1,500 per year. 
It is available for tax years 1981 through 
1986. 


To claim a California tax credit, you must file 
Franchise Tax Board Form 3805L, “State- 
ment to Support Solar Energy Credit,” or 
Franchise Tax Board Form 3514, “Energy 
Conservation Credit.” 


If a federal energy conservation credit anda 
California solar energy credit are allowed 
on the same costs, the combined state and 
federal credits may not exceed the maxi- 
mum California credit for solar energy sys- 
tems (55%) or for energy conservation 
measures (40%). The California credit may 
have to be reduced to ensure this result. 


informative Publications For more in- 
formation on these tax credits, get IRS Pub- 
lication 903, Energy Credits for Individuals, 
and the California Energy Commission's 
Guidelines and Criteria for the California 
Solar Energy Tax Credit. The latter publica- 
tion also explains the technical require- 
ments your system must meet to qualify for 
the state tax credit. 


Cal SEAL Program For assurance that 
your system qualifies for the state tax credit, 
you can make use of the Cal SEAL (Califor- 
nia Solar Energy Assurance Label) pro- 
gram. If your system meets certain techni- 
cal requirements, this nonprofit consumer 
protection program issues a label, part of 
which is attached to your system and part to 
the tax credit form. (While this label is a 
good assurance that you'll receive the tax 
credit, the Franchise Tax Board has final 
authority.) The Cal SEAL program also 
helps resolve consumer complaints regard- 
ing systems bearing their label. For more 
information, contact Cal SEAL at the ad- 
dress listed on page 4 of this report. 


Instaliing a System 


WHO CAN DO THE WORK if you have 
plumbing and building skills—and the 
time—you might be able to install a solar 
water heating or swimming pool sysiem, or 
some passive design features, yourself. But 
even if you do your own installation, you 
may want to have your system designed 
professionally to ensure that it will meet 
your heating needs. Installing an active 
space heating system and building a pas- 
sive solar house probably should be left to 
qualified professionals. 


If you decide to have the work done by a 
contractor, you should hire one who spe- 
cializes in installing the type of solar equip- 


SUMMER SUN 


INSULATION 


DRAPES 


DOUBLE -PANED 
WwINOOW 


THERMAL MASS — 
le MASONRY NORTH WALL 
N 


Passive 
System 


ANO = 
< CONCRETE FLOOR 


oe ans 
Pre ts 


Direct Gain Heating Double-paned windows face south to admit as much winter 
sunlight as possible. The thermal mass soaks up the heat, radiating it back into the 
house gradually. At night, the released heat is retained inside the house by the 
insulation and double-paned windows, or by insulating drapes. 


In the summe;, the overhang and blinds keep out the sun's rays during the day. 
Where the temperature drops at night, vents and windows are opened to cool the 
thermal mass; it releases the heat absorbed in the daytime, and natural ventilation 
carries it out of the house. During the day, the cooled and shaded thermal mass 
absorbs the heat entering the house, keeping the inside air relatively cool. 

¢ 


WATER FOR HOUSEHOLD USE 


AUXILIARY 
WATER HEATER 


Active 
System 


Water and Space Heating (liquid) When solar heat is available, the collector 
pump (at left ot storage tank) :noves liquid through the collectors and back to 
storage. The pump at the right of the storage tank moves liquid through the heat 
exchange coil to warm air going into the house. The heat exchange coil in the 
storage tank warms incoming household water before it's drawn into the auxiliary 
water heater. 


ment you want. There are currently six 
license classifications that qualify a con- 
tractor to install either one or several types 
of solar energy systems: Plumbing (C-36), 
Swimming Pools (C-53), Hot Water Heating 
(C-4), Heating and Air Conditioning (C-20), 
General Building (B), and General En- 
gineering (A). 


To help you choose among contractors, the 
Cal SEAL program supplies, on request, a 
list of solar contractors who have passed 
tests for installation proficiency. 


You could also have your system designed 
and installed by a solar equipment manu- 
facturer whose staff includes licensed and 
qualified personnel. Or, an architect or en- 
gineer could design your system and ".re a 
qualified contractor to install it. 


Experienced solar professionals can be 
found through advertisements, telephone 
directories, or friends. Referrals are also 
made by local and regional contractors’ as- 
sociations, some state and federal agen- 
cies, and some industry associations. Your 
utility company may also distribute a list of 
solar manufacturers and installers. 


You can check the qualifications of a con- 
tractor, designer, or architect by asking 
about his or her experience with solar en- 
ergy systems. Also ask for the names of 
their customers; talking with them will give 
you information about the quality of the pro- 
fessional’s work and about living with a 
solar energy system. If the person you're 
considering hiring won't release former cus- 
tomers’ names, find out why. 


Before making a final selection, get written 
estimates from at least two or three com- 
panies. Additional information about home 
improvement contracts can be found in 
Planning Hon . Improvements, Report 
#11 in this series. 


CHOOSING ASYSTEM The designer of 
your solar energy system generally selects 
the components. If you're interested in a 
specific product or manufacturer, discuss it 
with the professional you hire. 


If you're doing the work yourself, shop care- 
fully for solar equipment; compare quality 
of construction as well as price. Get written 
estimates of operating costs. And, check 
instruction manuals for completeness and 
Clarity. 


To help you compare solar collectors and 
home water heating systems, various test 
results and certifications are availabic. For 
example, the Solar Rating and Certificauion 
Corporation (SRCC) answers mail or 
phone inquiries about specific products. It 
also publishes quarterly directories in 
which products are rated for thermal per- 
formance and cons ‘ruction quality. (See the 
SRCC listing on this page for the address.) 


You may find it helpful to hire an enginee;x or 
a professional solar consultant to help you 
choose among systems and bids or to 
interpret test results and performance 
claims. 

Before you purchase a system, check local 
building and zoning regulations. Many Cali- 
fornia cities and counties have adopted 
solar energy codes that set standards for 
the installation of storage tanks, collectors, 
insulation, and ductwork. If you belong to a 
homeowners association, make certain 
that your solar installation will conform to 
association rules on home improvements. 
State law prohibits any such association 
from placing unreasonable restrictions on 
the use of solar energy systems. 


Warranties Your system's warranty is 
your best safeguard if trouble arises. Com- 
pare product warranties (also called guar- 
antees) before you buy. To qualify for the 
California tax credit, your system must have 
at least a one-year instalier’s warranty (on 
parts and labor) and a three-year manufac- 
turer's warranty (covering collector panels, 
stora je tanks, and heat exchangers), anda 
one-year manufacturer's warranty on 
pumps and controls. These warranties are 
also required for Cal SEAL qualification. 


Don't accept oral warranties. Insist on 
receiving, in writing, al! claims about how 
the product will perfofm and how long it will 
last. Federal law requires that a written war- 
ranty be made available at your request. 


Be sure you understand all the terms and 
conditions of the warranty. If the warranty 
requires you to return a defective part to the 
manufacturer for service or replacement, 
remember that in the case of solar collec- 
tors or a hot water tank, this could be very 
difficult as well as costly. Also check 
whether the warranty can be transferred to 
someone else if you sell your home. 


Ask the seller to write down and sign any 
additional claims. A nanufacturer may not 
have to honor warranies or claims made by 
someone else. If, for example, the seller 
claims that a product wil last \en years but 
the manufacturer's warranty is only for 
three years, the manufacturer may not be 
liable for the seller's claims. 


Try to determine whether the company you 
deal with is financially able to honor its war- 
ranties. If your system has a Cal SEAL 
label, it is insured for one year against any 
failure of the contractor to honor warranties 
on both parts and labor. Under this plan, 
your system will be repaired even if the 
contractor goes out of business. Cal SEAL 
also offers an additional two years’ war- 
ranty insurance. 


if your solar energy systern breaks down 
and you'r efforts to work things out with the 


contractor or manufacturer do not produce 
results, you can contact the Energy Unit of 
the California Department of Consumer Af- 
fairs for help in resolving your complaint. 


Remember to keep a copy of the design 
schematic of your system that's submitted 
to obtain a building permit. It will be a useful 
guide if repairs are required. 


For More Information 


INFORMATION CENTERS Conserva- 
tion & Renewable Energy Inquiry & Re- 
ferral Service (CAREIRS), P.O. Box 8900, 
Silver Spring, MD 20907. Tel: (800) 523- 
2929 (toll-free). Call for answers to techni- 
cal questions and for lists of solar profes- 
sionals and publications. 


Solar Rating and Certification Corpora- 
tion (SRCC), 1001 Connecticut Ave., NW, 
Suite 800, Washington, DC 20036. Tel: 
(202) 293-2981. SRCC answers questions 
about solar products and publishes a quar- 
terly directory of solar equipment test 
results. 


California Energy Commission, 1111 
Howe Ave., Mail Station 70, Sacramento, 
CA 95825. Tel: (800) 952-5670 or (916) 
920-7781. Contact for general solar energy 
information, material on tax credits, a 
reading list, and the free State Energy 
Newsletter. 


The American Solar Energy Society, 
1230 Grandview Ave., Boulder, CO 80302. 
Tel: (303) 492-6017. Call or write for general 
solar energy information. A Society chapter 
is the Northern California Solar Energy 
Association, PO. Box 886, Berkeley, CA 
94701. Tel: (415) 843-4306. Meetings are 
open to the public. 


California Solar Energy Industries As- 
sociation (CAL SEIA), 926 J Street, Suite 
516, Sacramento, CA 95814. Tel: (916) 
443-1877. Contact for basic tax credit 
information and information about solar 
professionals. 


Cal SEAL, 926 J Street, Suite 514, Sac- 
ramento, CA 95814. Tel: (916) 442-6475. 
Contact for a list of Cal SEAL-approved 
solar equipment and professionals. 


UTILITIES Call your local utility company 
for information about rebates and loans for 
solar water heating systems. Pacific Gas 
and Electric, Energy Conservation Center, 
tel: (800) 792-8000 or, in area code 805, cell 
collect (415) 764-1600. (A list cf solar manu- 
facturers and installers is also available.) 
Southern California Gas, Energy Con- 
servation Hotline, tel: (800) 352-4124. 
Southern California Edison, Solar Pro- 
gram, tel: (800) 352-8909. San Diego Gas 
and Electric, Energy Information Center, 
tel: (714) 232-4252, ext. 1766. 


Information in this report is current at time of 
printing, August 1982, but is subject to change. 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 (ER) 


AD-265 (REV. 8/82) 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA + MEMBER FDIC 


