 Apple-1 Registry - Stories --> Please enable JavaScript. Registry About List of all Apple-1 Simple list Prototypes Gallery Map --> Museums Contact Apple-1 About the Apple-1 Serial numbers Interactive Apple-1 Peripherals Software Documents Stories Links Market Value of the Apple-1 Auctions Marketplace How to sell or buy Wanted Stories The remarkable and not wave-soldered Scardino Apple-1 (Germany – February 10, 2022) Two forensic examinations of the handwritten serial number on the back of some Apple-1s were carried out in 2021/22 using two original Apple-1s. Both times the result was clear: it is the handwriting of Steve Jobs. Another legacy of Steve Jobs. The story was a small sensation, and hundreds of newspapers, blogs, etc. reported on this in 2022. In 2022, a family contacted the Apple-1 Registry. The (grand)father of the three family members had passed away, and he had owned an Apple-1. As it turned out, it was the most unusual and, from a historical point of view, the most interesting original Apple-1 (except for the prototypes, of course). This Apple-1 was given as a bare board by Steve Jobs to Homebrew Computer Club member James J. Scardino. Woz gave James instructions for building the Apple-1. James' best friend was Dick Sherman, who was more into the 6800 and founded the 6800 Club. The history of this computer is phenomenal. James worked on it for some time, and according to his daughter, he spent many weeks in Steve Jobs’ parents’ garage. He liked Jobs, and finally in 1976, the Apple-1 worked. The Scardino Apple-1 truly looks like a homemade computer. James' heirs spoke at length in 2022 with Apple-1 Registry curator Achim Baqué. This Apple-1 was published in the Apple-1 Registry as #99 ‘James J. Scardino’ . It is so far the only existing Apple-1 (except for the prototypes) that was not wave-soldered! No peeling or bubbles on the back. Original Apple-1 mainboard, original ACI, original PROMs, and original manuals were sold by Steve Jobs in 1976. In February 2023, Woz confirmed that some Apple-1 boards were sold blank. The owner built a printer interface for the Apple-1 in 1976. It is housed inside the wooden case. We promised each other to stay in touch. James’ daughter asked Achim if he would be interested in the computer. It was her father's wish, and the express wish of the family, that this computer should go to a museum or to an enthusiast who would truly appreciate it. Originally, the family wanted to keep the computer. After discussing it for two months, they decided that Achim could buy the computer if he wanted to. Everyone quickly agreed on the price. In February 2023, Achim flew to San Francisco. His short version of two very interesting days in the Bay Area: On the first day, he visited Stanford University for two hours, viewed the Apple collection, and spoke with a professor about the early Apple days for another two hours. Later that day, he visited Apple Park for several hours and walked many miles around the campus, inside and out. Highlights included the architecture itself and a meeting with Arion Paylo and Chris Espinosa (Apple employee #8). They had an engaging and fascinating conversation. Apple Park is a masterpiece of architecture and design in every detail. He was permitted to take pictures outside. Day two was dedicated to meeting Daniel Kottke again and later the wonderful family who owned one of the most interesting Apple-1s—if not the most interesting from a historical point of view: the Scardino Apple-1. Steve Wozniak had shared his schematics and all necessary information to build this Apple-1. So far, no other Apple-1 built by a Homebrew Computer Club member has been found. But here we have it—built by James Scardino, who spoke extensively with both Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs. James first met Woz at the Homebrew Computer Club. His best friend Dick Sherman, more interested in the 6800, founded the 6800 Club. James bought the original blank Apple-1 and ACI boards and all four PROMs from Steve Jobs. Woz later told me that Jobs hadn’t informed him about the sale. Everything else was done at James’ home and on weekends in Steve Jobs’ parents’ garage. James enjoyed spending time there. This Apple-1 is hand-soldered (not wave-soldered) and therefore has no peeling or bubbles! It looks like it came from a production line—though not brand new. It’s another wonderful example of someone truly using the Apple-1 to understand and work with it. It wasn’t treated like a museum piece. James Scardino had excellent soldering skills. Woz was very impressed and told me recently that even he couldn’t have soldered it that well. This Apple-1 was working in 1976. During my second day, Daniel Kottke turned it on—and it worked instantly, over 40 years after its last start. I am now the proud owner of this historically important Apple-1 and brought it home with me—along with its large wooden case—on my flight back. Thank you again, Lufthansa. And there's even more than just the Apple-1 and ACI. Original manuals, additional handwritten materials, a handmade mahogany wooden case (resembling the Byte Shop cases), a keyboard, and transformer. Also, some documents thought to be lost—four of them, copies from 1976. More details about these documents will be published later. I told Woz about them, and he was thrilled. He even asked for a copy. On that same second day, Woz invited me to dinner. So we met—Woz, his wife, another early computing pioneer, and myself. Woz now has copies of the ‘lost’ documents and graciously signed the Scardino Apple-1. We had a wonderful conversation, followed by some email exchanges. More information will follow someday. More The first 12 Apple-1s in Europe and a letter from Steve Jobs + Letter from Steve Jobs In 2018, a German industrialist contacted Achim Baqué (Apple-1 Registry). His name is Peter Vizenetz. He claimed to have information and a story regarding Apple-1 computers. There were several phone conversations, and Mr. Vizenetz recorded a 24-minute interview (in German) for Achim Baqué. The entire story of the first Apple-1 in Europe is included. In 2021, another contact with an owner of an original Apple-1 computer helped put the pieces of the puzzle together. In 2022, it was time to publish the news. Peter Vizenetz’s remarkable story: Mr. Vizenetz flew with his family from Munich to the USA on vacation in 1976 and read in a trade magazine about a young company in Silicon Valley. It was said to offer a single-board computer with a character generator. Mr. Vizenetz drove to Silicon Valley in his motorhome and visited Steve Jobs in his parents' now-famous garage. Jobs' “office” was located next to his father’s garden tools. Jobs and Vizenetz got along well. Mr. Vizenetz was looking for a computer for process control in industrial automation. He immediately took two Apple-1 computers (1st batch) and later, according to him, bought 10 more. Thus, in 1977, there were 12 Apple-1s in Germany. The engineers in Mr. Vizenetz's company experimented with the Apple-1, but without success, and eventually used other computers. The Apple-1s remained in Mr. Vizenetz’s possession. Incidentally, in 1977 Mr. Vizenetz, Mr. Breidenbach Senior, and one other person visited Apple. Mr. Breidenbach Senior was his business partner. They were received by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and the "sales manager," who invited them to dinner. Apple was very interested in establishing a European presence. Steve Jobs showed strong interest in working with Mr. Vizenetz. However, after Mike Markkula joined Apple, Jobs temporarily lost interest in Europe. Mr. Breidenbach Senior was tasked with developing a bus control for the Apple-1, which he did. Unfortunately, the Apple-1 proved unsuitable for process automation. Mr. Breidenbach continued development on the Apple II, while Mr. Vizenetz focused on industrial computers. Mr. Vizenetz gave five Apple-1s to Mr. Breidenbach Senior. The remaining Apple-1s were distributed to various engineers, according to Mr. Vizenetz’s recollection. It is unknown whether these are already listed in the registry, as their paths can no longer be traced. In 2022, three Apple-1s were confirmed to be located in Europe. Mr. Vizenetz at one point wanted to scrap the five Apple-1s still in his possession. They were considered electronic waste, as the Apple II was already on the market. Mr. Breidenbach Senior saved all five Apple-1s. In May 2019, Mr. Vizenetz contacted the widow of Mr. Breidenbach Senior. He recalled having left some Apple-1s and documents with him. At that time, the Breidenbach family did not want to go public. The fact that at least one Apple-1 was in the possession of the heirs (including Achim Breidenbach) was no secret. For example, on this website , various information and pictures were published. Since 2021, Achim Baqué and Achim Breidenbach have been in contact. Achim Breidenbach is the son of Mr. Breidenbach Senior, the former business partner of Mr. Vizenetz. The three Apple-1s are now added to the Apple-1 Registry. All are located in Germany. The story continues: After some time, it turned out that the sibling heirs of Mr. Breidenbach Senior still had three Apple-1s. Achim Breidenbach and Mrs. Breidenbach (the widow) remembered some details. Mr. Breidenbach Senior once exchanged one Apple-1 at Apple Germany for a high-quality Mac. For a long time, this Apple-1 was displayed on the wall in the executive office at Apple Germany. When Apple later moved out of Ismaning (Munich), the whereabouts of this Apple-1 became unknown. Achim Baqué has a theory. There is a previously unlisted Apple-1 and circumstantial evidence suggests it could be the missing one. However, the owner has not yet allowed the information or pictures to be published. Another Apple-1 was sold by Mr. Breidenbach Senior to a museum in Bern, where it still resides today. This likely clarifies the complete history of another Apple-1. Three Apple-1s remain in family possession, as previously mentioned. There is also a letter from Steve Jobs to Mr. Vizenetz, which is still in the family’s possession. The text of this letter was published many years ago on Applefritter. Its whereabouts had been unknown until now. A digital copy of the letter is now added to Apple-1 #96—and is shared again here. More Paul Terrell, The Byte Shop, 'Apple Computer A' + Paul Terrell's Polaroids + Paul Terrell's Polaroids + Paul Terrell's Polaroids + Paul Terrell's Polaroids + Apple Computer A + 'Apple Computer A' Paul Terrell was so kind to answer some questions about the Apple-1 delivery to the Byte Shop and provided some scans of Polaroids to be shared. Paul agreed to contribute a story to the Apple Registry. Achim Baqué asked him to write down the story of the Apple-1 from his point of view. Hopefully it is possible to publish it in the near future. --> Prototype 'Apple Computer A' Before the Apple-1, there was an 'Apple Computer A'. Press release . Paul Terrell (founder of the Byte Shop) recently gave Achim Baqué (curator of the Apple-1 Registry, a list of all Apple-1 computers) some information. Thanks to Paul’s support and his Polaroids of an early Apple-1, it was a great surprise to zoom into the pictures from 1976. The photos were taken when Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs first showed the Apple-1 to Paul at the Byte Shop. The Polaroids had already been published in low resolution, but some characteristics had not been noticed until now. It was not easy to get even a tiny bit of information about the production prototype. Achim Baqué asked Woz, Wendell Sander, Bill Fernandez, Chris Espinosa, Daniel Kottke, and Paul Terrell about the production prototype and received answers from all of them. However, not all open questions could be clarified. Howard Cantin, the designer of the Apple-1 mainboard, might have some answers. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get in touch with him. Confirming various assumptions took time and required a lot of research. No one remembers the prototype. We have only a few pictures. In the left center of all Apple-1 boards is the text “Apple Computer 1”. However, the prototype reads "Apple Computer A © 76". This might have been done to mark it as a prototype, or perhaps the plan was to name the final version that way? Woz doesn't remember why the name was changed. Now that the mystery of the handwritten number is solved, I will continue searching for information about the prototypes. Over the past years, I have already tried to collect all available information, but not much is known. Steve Wozniak mentioned a fire in his garage, and perhaps the prototype(s) were lost in that fire. That would have been a terrible loss. This is an Apple-1 prototype with a different board layout than the later final production series. It was previously known that there were some differences. Thanks to the detailed pictures by Paul Terrell, it is now clear that there are many differences. Some traces are different. There is only a very small jumper section in the middle (above the IC 74154). The small capacitors are the same ones used for the 2nd batch. And so on. Unfortunately, only the front side is known/visible. The Apple-1 prototype includes all the extra components for the 6800/6501 CPU instead of the 6502. Woz was sent a photo of the circuit board by the Apple-1 Registry in early 2012 and commented on the production prototype: “This Apple I below was probably about the first Apple I on an Apple PC board. I had left the 6800 space because it was needed for the $20 6501 instead of the $25 6502. The difference was strong clock driver transistors. Paul Terrell may well have gotten a sort-of prototype since his order is really the reason we built Apple I’s with parts installed. We built a couple with the 6501 but by real production time we could get the 6502 for the same cost.” According to this, the prototype was built with a 6501 CPU. For a 6501, you need the same additional components as for the 6800 CPU. The Woz monitor in the PROMs works without modification. The fact that Paul Terrell was shown a prototype aligns with the book *Little Kingdom* by Michael Moritz. Achim Baqué will continue to search for information about the prototypes. In recent years, he collected everything he could, but little is known. Steve Wozniak mentioned a fire in his garage, and perhaps the prototype(s) were in that garage. That would have been a terrible loss. There is a chance that the prototypes still exist. Achim Baqué has some clues about their whereabouts, but nothing certain. In every story about the first Apple computer, Woz bought the 6502 and built the Apple-1 around it—not the 6501 CPU. But at least for the production prototype, it was the MOS 6501 CPU. Update July 2022: Just weeks after publishing on the registry, blogs, and newspapers what is known about the ' Apple Computer A ', it showed up at auction . Update August 2022: It was sold for US$ 677,196. It is most likely due to erroneous reporting in blogs and newspapers that the prototype was not auctioned off for far more than a million US$. It started with a reporter who asked Woz about the prototype. Since this reporter clearly had little knowledge of Apple-1 computers and prototypes, he asked Woz about the hand-soldered prototype. However, that is a completely different prototype. The prototype that was auctioned was the one that was industrially manufactured. Woz made corrections to this prototype by hand-soldering. Laypeople and that reporter confused the production prototype with the hand-soldered one. And so, doubts began to spread. Many blogs picked up the supposed story in the eternal chase for clicks or, as usual, copied the text 1:1. And, unfortunately as usual, without verifying or researching anything. It was the victory of those who know nothing but like to have an opinion on everything. For those involved in the field, it was terrible to see such a historical object being misrepresented. It is the first production prototype of the most valuable company in the world. That alone should be enough to recognize its historical significance. About the wooden Byte Shop cases + Koa cases For years it was unknown who built the Byte Shop cases made of Koa wood. Next came the theory that Randy Wigginton's father built them. Randy was Apple employee #6. Because of my (Achim Baqué) conversation with Randy Wigginton, it became clear that Randy's brother, Ralph Wigginton , built the cases. In March 2022, Achim had contact with Ralph and Randy. There are some surprising facts about the cases. Unfortunately, false information about the cases was spread further and further because apparently nobody wanted to verify it. Too often a text is simply copied and accepted as true just because someone wrote it at some point. Fortunately, contemporary witnesses do exist, and with a little effort, you can get closer to the true events. Here is a summary of information from various e-mail correspondences, personal and telephone conversations. Among others, the Wigginton brothers, Steve Wozniak, and Paul Terrell were interviewed, as well as many other people who unfortunately had no information about the cases. Here is Ralph's email: Thanks for asking, and setting the record straight, as Woz gives credit to my father. I tell my students about the box and my perception of Steve and Steve as a lesson in what NOT to do. Randy was “working” with Woz and Jobs for a while. Because I built furniture for our family, my brother asked me if I could make a display case and some other boxes. I saw the components and the keyboard, then came up with a design. The first case or two were made of Ash because that was my favorite wood to work with. I made many trips to Orchard Supply Hardware to get the clips and other pieces that allowed the keyboard panel and top panel to be easily removed and replaced. A lot of time was spent making it look like a fine piece of furniture. The next few boxes I built were pine and stained to look like Oak, because Ash was just too hard a wood to work with. I cut a lot of pieces after that but never assembled the boxes. Why? This is the story/bit of advice I give my students. I met S & S a few times and said, “These guys are crazy, they’re not going anywhere. I’m going to go to college and make something of myself!”. To which Randy replied, “Ralph, you really don’t understand, this could be big.” Unfortunately, I judged those two books by their cover (appearance), and walked away from the opportunity of a lifetime. I don’t recall ever getting paid for any of those boxes, but I do have the story. Good luck with your Registry. After some more emails, Ralph, Randy, and Achim talked via Skype about the cases. According to Ralph's recollection, he made about 6 wooden cases for Steve Jobs. Steve Jobs was delighted but never paid Ralph for his work. Achim showed Ralph pictures of the Byte Shop cases. At first, he thought it was his work. But after a closer look, he was sure that the cases were copies of his work, but not the cases he built for Jobs. This could be seen in some details. Paul Terrell told Achim that he did not sell the cases in his store. He suspects that another of his Byte Shop stores or Steve Jobs was selling them. Unfortunately, this still leaves the question of who built the Byte Shop cases unanswered. The assumption is that Steve Jobs had the cases built based on Ralph's design. Woz emphasized in a personal conversation with Achim that he knew nothing about cases and that Steve Jobs alone took care of the marketing. Woz worked continuously on the Apple II and had no interest or time to deal with cases. Achim has more information, but it has not yet been confirmed or is based on hearsay. The research into the housing took months, and Achim spoke to countless contemporary witnesses. A list of all known Apple-1s with original wooden Byte Shop cases is here . The cases were made of Koa wood. More Historic artifact: Check signed by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak For years, it was unknown who built the Byte Shop cases made of Koa wood. Next came the theory that Randy Wigginton's father built them. Randy was Apple employee #6. Because of my (Achim Baqué) conversation with Randy Wigginton, it became clear that Randy's brother, Ralph Wigginton , built the cases. In March 2022, Achim had contact with Ralph and Randy. There are some surprising facts about the cases. Unfortunately, false information about the cases was spread further and further because apparently nobody wanted to verify it. Too often, a text is simply copied and accepted as true just because someone wrote it at some point. Fortunately, contemporary witnesses do exist, and with a little effort, you can get closer to the true events. Here is a summary of information from various e-mail correspondences, personal and telephone conversations. Among others, the Wigginton brothers, Steve Wozniak, and Paul Terrell were interviewed, as well as many other people who unfortunately had no information about the cases. Here is Ralph's email: Thanks for asking, and setting the record straight, as Woz gives credit to my father. I tell my students about the box and my perception of Steve and Steve as a lesson in what NOT to do. Randy was “working” with Woz and Jobs for a while. Because I built furniture for our family, my brother asked me if I could make a display case and some other boxes. I saw the components and the keyboard, then came up with a design. The first case or two were made of Ash because that was my favorite wood to work with. I made many trips to Orchard Supply Hardware to get the clips and other pieces that allowed the keyboard panel and top panel to be easily removed and replaced. A lot of time was spent making it look like a fine piece of furniture. The next few boxes I built were pine and stained to look like Oak, because Ash was just too hard a wood to work with. I cut a lot of pieces after that but never assembled the boxes. Why? This is the story/bit of advice I give my students. I met S & S a few times and said, “These guys are crazy, they’re not going anywhere. I’m going to go to college and make something of myself!”. To which Randy replied, “Ralph, you really don’t understand, this could be big.” Unfortunately, I judged those two books by their cover (appearance), and walked away from the opportunity of a lifetime. I don’t recall ever getting paid for any of those boxes, but I do have the story. Good luck with your Registry. After some more emails, Ralph, Randy, and Achim talked via Skype about the cases. According to Ralph's recollection, he made about 6 wooden cases for Steve Jobs. Steve Jobs was delighted but never paid Ralph for his work. Achim showed Ralph pictures of the Byte Shop cases. At first, he thought it was his work. But after a closer look, he was sure that the cases were copies of his work, but not the cases he built for Jobs. This could be seen in some details. Paul Terrell told Achim that he did not sell the cases in his store. He suspects that another of his Byte Shop stores or Steve Jobs was selling them. Unfortunately, this still leaves the question of who built the Byte Shop cases unanswered. The assumption is that Steve Jobs had the cases built based on Ralph's design. Woz emphasized in a personal conversation with Achim that he knew nothing about cases and that Steve Jobs alone took care of the marketing. Woz worked continuously on the Apple II and had no interest or time to deal with cases. Achim has more information, but it has not yet been confirmed or is based on hearsay. The research into the housing took months, and Achim spoke to countless contemporary witnesses. A list of all known Apple-1s with original wooden Byte Shop cases is here . The cases were made of Koa wood. More Ronald G. Wayne + Ronald G. Wayne --> He was and will always be a part of Apple history. His contributions to Apple were the first logo and the contract. Maybe everyone would have sold all their Apple shares like he did. Who could have expected that this company would be successful? It was against all odds. Many people can’t understand why he sold everything, but it makes total sense. Today, it is easy to say it is worth billions. But it’s the same with the stock market—everyone is always smarter in hindsight. You never know if it is wise to sell or not. Ron Wayne generously allowed me to publish his explanation (remember: for any reprint or reproduction, you need the permission of Ron Wayne and the Apple-1 Registry. But you can link to this story without permission): January 2018 I had a conversation with Apple co-founder Ronald G. Wayne . At this time, he was 83 years old. He wrote me a very moving letter. Many people just reduce the story about Ron Wayne to the point when he sold his 10% Apple share. "And while I’ve tried to properly explain my reasons, in the many public interviews that I’ve had, none of them allowed me the time to cover the matter as fully as it should be. To begin with, one thing that's distressed me over the years has been the number of comments I’d heard from people who seemed to think that in some way I was squeezed out, cheated. Nothing could be further from the truth. My departure was entirely my own choice, and both Jobs and Wozniak understood fully and accepted my decision with good grace. The first issue did, in fact, relate to money—in this way. Within days after the contract was signed, Jobs successfully secured the sale of a large number of the Apple I Computer to a retail store named "The Byte Shop". Then, exactly as he should have done, he'd gotten a loan of (as I understood) $15,000 with which to buy the materials needed to fill the order. Unfortunately, I later heard that the Byte Shop had a terrible reputation for not paying their bills. This immediately raised a question in my mind. Since we'd founded the Apple Computer "Company," there was no "corporate" protection if the business failed. And in such a case, who was going to take on the debt? Neither Jobs nor Wozniak had two coins to rub together—while I had a house, a car, and a bank account, all of which were reachable by an aggrieved lender. Add to this the fact that a few years before meeting Mr. Jobs, I’d founded a corporation of my own in Las Vegas to design and build casino gaming machines—before I’d learned that I had no business “being in business.” I was a far better engineer than I was a businessman. In time, the whole enterprise failed (my fault). However, to my mind, I was psychologically unable to use the corporate shell to protect myself. Every creditor was therefore paid every penny owed, and I bought back every share of stock at the price that had been paid to me. It took me a year and a half of painful effort to accomplish that—and with that background in mind, I felt that the personal risk (with the Byte Shop) was then too great. Then too, there was the question of "what position I’d hold" in the new enterprise. Mr. Jobs had worked with me at Atari, where I held the posts of Chief Draftsman and Product Development Engineer. During that time, he watched as, by necessity, I’d totally rebuilt the company's documentation system—a system that impressed Steve enormously. It was obvious that they'd want me to run the Apple Documentation Department. The problem was that I was a product development man in my own right, with a passion for gaming machines rather than computers. In short, I knew that I’d never get a project of my own—particularly since I’d further recognized that I was standing in the shadow of technological giants. And the last thing I wanted for myself was to spend the next twenty years of my life shuffling papers in a large back office—even though I was certain, at the time, that the Wozniak creation would be the core of a very successful enterprise. … There were several other issues as well which affected my decision, all of which seemed meaningful and combined to affect my final action. I did, however, continue to help my former partners in any way that I could, largely because, as I said, I knew it would be a very successful enterprise. In the end, it really was a true delight to have been a part of an actual turning point in technological history—though no one at the time had any idea that it was. Only time would reveal that fact. Now—you know the rest of the story." You can support Ron Wayne and get a lot of interesting first-hand information from a co-founder of Apple Computer by buying his book Adventures of an Apple Founder (ISBN 0615517420). For example, here: amazon.com (this is NOT an affiliate link and we will NOT get commission if you click on it). This book contains 80 years of his life and not only the early days at Apple. More Meeting Steve Jobs 1976 By early Byte Shop employee Clay Archer with kind permission. "I worked at the Byte Shop in Fresno, California, from 1977 to about 1979. I was just out of high school and starting community college (studying Electronics), and this store opened up about a mile from my home by a former mainframe programmer named Mike Sannis. This was the 3rd Byte Shop to open—the first in the San Francisco Bay Area and the other in southern California (at the time, the owner told me it was the 3rd store, but there may have actually been a 4th). I walked in and told the owner (Mike) that I was going to work there. I worked out a trade for my first computer, which was an Imsai 8080 (not the one I’m currently selling; I’m hanging onto my first computer). Mike was terrible at soldering and had a tendency to spill coffee on everything, so I assembled the whole computer while Mike concentrated on selling and programming. As far as Apple computers are concerned, one day a gentleman, perhaps a couple of years older than me (early 20’s), was trying to sell a computer board based on the 6502 chip. He said he had sold some to the other Byte Shop stores. Mike had me look at it and give my opinion. He and I agreed it was an interesting hobby system, but we were already selling Intel 8080 systems: Cromemco, Imsai, Byte-8, NorthStar, and most notably the Processor Technology SOL-20, and all of the software we were developing and using was for the 8080. We thanked him (Steve Jobs?) and he went on his way." "I'm not 100% sure it was Steve Jobs, but my recollection of him was that he was about my height (6'2"), with dark hair cut a little shorter than what was typical (we tended to grow it out back then). He was wearing a white shirt and slacks and had slight body odor. He just seemed to stand out a bit—that's why I recall meeting him." More Apple-1 homemade in 1977 from Steve Wozniak's plans By Bryan Blackburn with kind permission. + Bryan Blackburn's homebrew Apple-1 with kind permission Home Made Apple-1 Back around 1977, I came across plans by Steve Wozniak, AKA Woz, for the Apple-1 computer. I had the chips and the time, so why not? This is what I built. I no longer have the set of plans I used; I have no idea what became of them. The project took me about a month to complete, and though I populated the board with chips and made sections of it run perfectly, as a whole, it didn't work well, and I soon abandoned the project. If I recall, I suspected the problems were with the surplus dynamic RAMs, but looking back, I also took some shortcuts in my construction due to lack of cash to do it right. For example, all the parts were used or surplus (even the IC sockets). I did make an off-board 1K static RAM board that worked better, but I had to rob the chips from my Digital Group computer to populate it, and I valued that computer far more. It was fun while it lasted. The Circuit The Apple-1 was an ingenious design that was very unique for the day. Based on the MOS Technology 6502, it was probably the first hobby computer ever designed by a real electronics engineer. The Apple-1 used dynamic RAM, a far more economical memory than static RAM, but very hard to use. Dynamic RAM required "refreshing" every 2 ms. This was a heavy burden for an early microprocessor, requiring special timing and controllers to stop or pause the processor long enough to complete a refresh cycle 500 times a second. Almost no one could make it work the first time. Miss a beat, and you lose most or all your data. (I remember MITS had many problems with their attempt, and although the Digital Group version worked fine, a few modifications were required to the CPU and other boards to make it work.) Woz made it work. The Apple-1 used the same clock signal to refresh the RAM, clock the video, and run the processor. It worked perfectly and made history. My home-built version had several differences from Woz's Apple-1. I already had a nice video card as part of my Digital Group system, so I didn't build one onboard. I also didn't have access to the ROM listings, so I made my own boot ROM to load programs by keyboard. I also made other modifications, but I no longer remember what they were or why I made them... That's all I can remember about the homebrew! More Steve Wozniak's calculator + Woz' HP 65. With kind permission With kind permission of the owner (he is known to the Apple-1 Registry but his name is hidden to protect him). He told the Apple-1 Registry: "I have an HP65 calculator that was once owned by Steve Wozniak. It was given to me in the late 80s by a friend who had gotten it from another friend that did a lot of work in the Bay Area. The “official story” is that Woz, at the time working for the calculator division at HP, sold his HP65 to finance building the Apple-1. The story I heard back then was that Woz was sneaking out parts from HP, assembling the calculators, and giving them to his friends. I don’t know what the truth is, but that’s the story I got with my HP65. It has S. Wozniak (and other things) scratched inside. No, I don’t want to sell it." According to Steve Wozniak's autobiography iWoz , he sold his HP 65 calculator for US$500 to buy the Apple-1 mainboards. And Steve Jobs sold his VW bus for US$750. [1] They needed US$1,000 to get a computer company to print the boards. Reference iWoz , Chapter 12, page 173: "To come up with the $1,000 we thought we’d need … I sold my HP 65 calculator for $500. The guy who bought it only paid me half though, and never paid me the rest. I didn’t feel too bad because I knew HP’s next-generation calculator, the HP 67, was coming out in a month and would cost me only $370 with the employee discount. And Steve sold his VW van for another few hundred dollars. He figured he could ride around on his bicycle if he had to. That was it. We were in business." [1] Other sources claim it was a different vehicle. Steve Jobs and the VW bus + VW bus from 1964 The story goes that Steve Jobs sold his VW bus to finance building the Apple-1. Some people argue that he owned a Volvo. Anyway, Steve Jobs definitely owned a VW bus. He liked the car because his best friend and high school buddy owned a 1964 VW bus (see picture). Both had a lot of fun driving around California, for example, to the beach in Santa Cruz. This ’64 VW bus still existed in 2019. The curator of the Apple-1 Registry had a chance to sit in this bus and drive around with the owner. The owner had many stories to tell and some pictures to show. Steve Jobs and he are in the same high school yearbook; Steve Jobs wrote personal letters to him, etc.! Both were friends until Steve Jobs passed away. Steve Jobs gave him two Apple-1 computers in the 70s, including other items. A wonderful picture shows the owner, Steve Jobs, and Bill Clinton. According to Steve Wozniak's autobiography iWoz , he sold his HP 65 calculator for US$500 to buy the Apple-1 mainboards. And Steve Jobs sold his VW bus for US$750. They needed US$1,000 to get a computer company to print the boards. Reference iWoz , Chapter 12, page 173: "To come up with the $1,000 we thought we’d need … I sold my HP 65 calculator for $500. The guy who bought it only paid me half though, and never paid me the rest. I didn’t feel too bad because I knew HP’s next-generation calculator, the HP 67, was coming out in a month and would cost me only $370 with the employee discount. And Steve sold his VW van for another few hundred dollars. He figured he could ride around on his bicycle if he had to. That was it. We were in business." Besides this fact, some people believe Steve Jobs sold his Volvo. According to a friend of Steve Jobs, he owned both a VW bus and a Volvo. Steve Jobs drove with Daniel Kottke in this green Volvo to deliver the Apple-1 computer to the Byte Shop. Curator of the Apple-1 Registry visited Daniel Kottke, Wendell Sander and Jerry Manock In 2018, I (Achim Baqué) visited Daniel Kottke, and we had a wonderful talk for hours. He gave me so much information about the early days at Apple. We talked about the making of the Apple-1, the Macintosh, Steve Wozniak, and Steve Jobs. Daniel is a great guy. Here is an interesting fact about the Apple-1: Some sources claim that Daniel Kottke and Patty added all the chips to the Apple-1 boards and Woz tested and fixed problems. According to Daniel Kottke, Woz showed up maybe just once a week because he was busy with other projects and still working at HP. It was Daniel Kottke who tested and fixed minor problems. When Kottke started adding chips to the Apple-1, Patty was sitting in front of a TV and already doing the job. Steve Jobs had a stack of Apple-1 boards under his arm. Daniel doesn’t know how many Apple-1 units were assembled when he started this job. He equipped most of the Apple-1 boards with all the chips. Wendell Sander showed me his Apple-1 and other unique artifacts. We had a very nice talk. With Jerry Manock, I talked about Apple, his projects, and much more. Nice side story: I visited John Blankenbaker as well to get the prototype Kenbak-1 signed. He plugged the Kenbak-1 into the wall socket before I could say, ‘wait, shouldn’t we check the components first?’, switched it on, started to program it. The Kenbak-1 instantly worked, and I got it on video! Luckily, in 2019 it was possible to meet John Blankenbaker and Jerry Manock again, and on another trip in 2019, Daniel Kottke and Wendell Sander in the Bay Area as well. More About the 'company Apple-1' - #70 in the Apple-1 Registry Pamela Lawson, the daughter of Don Hutmacher, wrote in 2015: 'Don Hutmacher worked for Apple at their headquarters in Cupertino. He was a manufacturing engineer and worked on many projects from 1980 to 1990. When Steve Jobs was let go from Apple in the mid-80s, Don was allowed by his boss to go into Steve Jobs' office to take anything that was left over. It had been picked clean by the time he got there. He noticed a computer and a bag of Starbucks coffee. The computer was the Apple-1 in a custom metallic case. It bears a tag with the initials BF (Bill Fernandez), 5-APR-1977, ACM Mod., and the number 2.' Wendell Sander added: 'Wow, I always wondered where this Apple-1 went. When I got there in August of 1977, this was the “Company Apple-1.” I used it several times in 1977 and 1978, mostly to demo the Apple-1 to others. I was the Apple-1 expert because I had one. I think Bill and I were the only ones that used it. I had assumed it ended up at Stanford [1] with the other Apple stuff. The ACM mod would have been for Mike Markkula; his initials are ACM. I am almost certain the mod was to put BASIC in EPROM. I seem to remember that, but Bill can probably verify if that is correct. That is a pretty special Apple-1 because it was the “official” company computer. The case is particularly impressive and the only one like it I know of. It looks like a metal version of the wood cases. Feel free to pass along these comments.' Bill Fernandez told me on March 8, 2020: 'I don't have any pictures or memory of this particular computer. By this time, I would have been working in the garage for about 2 months. "ACM" most likely refers to Mike Markkula. I was probably tasked with modifying the Apple-1 in some way for Mike's use, and this was probably the second one modified in this way.' [1] This Apple-1 was sold at auction to Paul Allen and is in his museum in Seattle, USA. Steve Jobs' job application + job application It is not directly linked to the Apple-1 but is pretty interesting. Steve Jobs' handwritten and signed job application from 1973 is very unique. In the questionnaire, Steve Jobs highlights his experience with “computers and calculators” and special abilities in “electronic tech or design engineer – digital.” The questionnaire is believed to have been completed around the time he dropped out of Reed College in Portland, Oregon. A year later, he joined Atari as a technician, where he worked with Steve Wozniak before they founded Apple in 1976. Other interesting aspects of the one-page questionnaire are that Jobs notes he does not have a phone number and has a driving license but access to transportation is “possible, but not probable” (sic). The first auction was in 2018 (over US$175,000). The second, from charterfields.com, started February 24, 2021 (Jobs' 65th birthday) and ended in March 2021 with a result of US$222,400. Image with kind permission of auction house Charterfields in London, UK. With a little help ... Chuck Peddle In 2018 I (Achim Baqué) had contact to Chuck Peddle. Chuck told me about how he helped Woz with the Apple-1. Woz was developing his Apple-1, but it didn't work yet. According to Chuck, he made some changes to the design and eventually helped to get the computer working. My last contact was August 24. I asked him if we could meet at the VCF West 2019. His answer was “I’m not sure”. Only little later Chuck passed away on December 15 unfortunately. --> A Conversation with Apple-1 PCB designer Howard Cantin With kind permission of Mike Willegal. Original post here . A conversation between Mike Willegal and Howard Cantin We live in a unique age where important people engaged in the early days of the personal electronics industry are often accessible and willing to talk about the “old days.” Today, I had the good fortune to have a telephone conversation with Howard Cantin. Howard is the PCB (printed circuit board) layout designer responsible for early Atari and Apple PCBs. I was interested in talking to Howard because my reproductions of his work have created a large amount of curiosity about how the original PCBs were created. I was also interested in his relationship to Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. At that time, PCBs were laid out on a transparent film on drafting boards. Tape and preprinted images of each IC’s footprint were transferred to the film in order to make the image of the board. The film was photographed, and the photographic films of each layer were provided to the PCB manufacturer to fabricate the actual PCBs. What follows are taken from notes during the call with Howard. The call was not recorded, so the words are mine. Footnotes, denoted by brackets, are additional information that Howard did not relate but add context to the story. Background Howard worked from his house for clients including Atari and Apple. Howard says he laid out all the boards for the first four years at Atari, until Nolan Bushnell sold the business [1]. He also laid out the first boards for other electronics startups in the valley that became major players. Though he couldn’t remember the names of others, he says he did the first PCB for Intel. Howard says he was well connected to insiders in the valley electronics community and was the person to go to when a PCB layout was needed. Howard related how he set many of the standards in PCB layout that were followed by others. Nolan Bushnell of Atari was often in a hurry and pushed Howard to hurry along a design. Howard says he was a fast designer, partly because of working under the pressure provided by Nolan. He could add a chip to a layout in an hour. Steve Wozniak Regarding Steve Wozniak, Howard related to me the often retold story about how Woz created a game design that used 60 parts instead of the 100 in the design that preceded it [2]. Howard related that engineers at Atari couldn’t understand the design. Because they couldn’t understand it, Atari ended up not using it. How Howard Worked Most designs had an edge connector, so he would start with that and then add parts that connected to the edge connector. Then he would connect those parts to the parts that connected to those parts, and so on. Vias were expensive and to be avoided, as they would take up the space needed for 3 traces. Howard provided his original artwork and photographic transparencies ready for the PCB manufacturer to his clients. Howard often didn’t negotiate price before taking on a job, but a typical cost was 6 to 8 dollars per chip. Howard worked directly from customers' schematics and is still proud of his ability to produce a result that matched the schematic perfectly. The Hobby Computer The first board that Howard did for Jobs and Wozniak was a computer to be sold to the hobbyists at the local computer club [3]. Howard says that this computer was the board that provided the financing to start Apple Computer. Howard refers to this as a hobby computer, not an Apple Computer [4]. Howard says the two Steves were always together and they conducted their discussions with him together. To pay for this computer, the Steves tried to trade an old Fiat Station Wagon for services rendered [5]. Howard asked for cash, so the Fiat was sold and the proceeds used to pay Howard. At some point, stock was offered, but this was also refused. The First Apple Computer Steve Jobs appeared to be a perfectionist to Howard. During the layout of the first Apple Computer [6], Howard had three proposed layouts with different form factors. There was apparently a lot of back and forth figuring out the form factor. Finally, Howard suggested one of the layouts happened to exactly match the size of a piece of legal paper (8.5×14), and Jobs selected that one [7]. The proto area in the corner of this computer was empty, and it was Howard’s idea to put pads for a chip and an array of pads that became the proto area. Though Howard did the main chip placement on this second layout, Howard paid a woman to lay the tape for traces. She was not very good, and the traces she laid were not very straight. Jobs wasn’t satisfied and took the design and had it redone digitally. Jobs later told Howard that this re-layout cost Apple three months [8]. Howard asked Steve why he needed to redo the layout, and Steve said he was only going to do it once in his life. Howard did not use that woman for laying traces again. Howard told me that after that project, he would have refused more work from Apple. In any case, Apple didn’t come back to him. PIRACY Howard also mentioned that he thought one of the Steves took a picture of an Atari board that he happened to be working on at the same time he was working for them. He thought that the Steves might have used this picture to duplicate an Atari design in some way. Howard did not have any specific details about what exactly was done with the image. Howard also said he talked on the phone with someone in England who might have been investigating another pirated Atari design. At one point, Nolan Bushnell asked Howard to pirate another design, but Howard refused. Howard now thinks that this was Nolan’s way of checking Howard’s honesty. [1] Atari was sold to Warner Communications in 1976 [2] This must be the Breakout game [3] Homebrew Computer Club [4] In my opinion, this computer is actually the Apple-1 [5] Is this the source for the often heard van story? [6] Actually the Apple II [7] I often wondered if the size of an Apple II matching a legal page size was a coincidence [8] Though the Apple-1 layout is very consistent, I could tell that the Apple II layout is quite a bit more consistent – now I know why More We appreciate your help: Please spread the word about the Apple-1 Registry by adding a link to your social media account and/or website. Contact us if you have new information about any Apple-1 or Apple-1 (parts) for sale. You can link to the Apple-1 Registry. Any form of reprint or reproduction (including excerpts) is only allowed with written permission from the Apple-1 Registry. Here you will find press releases and images free to use under CC BY-SA 4.0. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Dis qus. --> --> Home Terms & Conditions Privacy Legacy Contact --> 