
n I /If I 




f§©@ 



IN PERFORMANCE 

The word is getting around. There is 
simply no better processor available for 
general purpose computer work than 
the Motorola MC6800. This memory 
oriented processor is easier to program 
and makes possible more efficient, 
shorter and faster running programs 
than the old fashioned bus oriented 
processors. Have you been convinced 
that machine language, or assembler 
programs are only for the experts? 
Well not with a modern 6800 based 
computer. Anyone can learn very 
quickly with this simple straight- 
forward hexidecimal notation pro- 
cessor. When you add to these ad- 
vantages the unique programmable in- 
terfaces and the Mikbug® ROM you 
truly have a "benchmark" system. 

Mikbug® eliminates the tedious and 
time consuming job of loading the 
bootstrap program from the switch 
console each time the computer is turn- 
ed "On". With Mikbug® this is auto- 
matic and you simply don't have 
switches and status lights. It has been 
said (not by us) that a switch console is 
essential for "hardware development," 
(perhaps they meant "hardware de- 
bugging"). Anyway the SwTPC 6800 
system has no need for either. This is a 
fully developed, reliable system with 
no strange habits. All boards have full 
buffering for solid noise immune oper- 
ation. One crystal type clock oscillator 
drives everything, processor interfaces 
and all; so there are no adjustments and 
no problems. 

FOR VALUE 

The SwTPC 6800 in its basic form 
comes complete with everything you 
will need to operate the computer ex- 
cept an I/O device. This may be either 
a teletype of some kind, or a video 



terminal. You get a heavy duty an- 
nodized aluminum case, a 10 Amp 
power supply large enough to power a 
fully expanded system, a mother board 
with seven memory/processor slots and 
eight interface slots, a 2,048 word sta- 
tic memory and a serial control inter- 
face. This kit is now only $395.00. It 
was introduced at $450.00, but when 
processor prices went down we reduced 
the price of the kit accordingly. 

As an owner of our 6800 computer 
you will get copies of our newsletter 
with helpful information and software 
listings. We have a library of software 
including all the common computer 
games and our fantastic BASIC. This 
is available to you for the cost of copy- 
ing, you don't have to buy anything to 
get this material. 

What more could you want? Pay a visit 
to our nearest dealer and see the 6800, 
plus our new cassette interface, graphics 
terminal and printer. He will be happy 
to demonstrate our system and to sup- 
ply you with a 6800 that will fit your 
exact needs. 

Mikbug® is a Motorola Trademark 



Ol 

Computer System 
with serial interface and 2,048 words 
of memory $395.00 



Southwest Technical Products Corp. 
219 W. Rhapsody 
San Antonio, Texas 78216 



The Computer Store, 820 Broadway, 
Santa Monica, Calif. 90401, (213) 451-0713 

Cyberdux, Microcomputer Applications, 
1210 Santa Fe Dr., Encinitas, Calif. 92024 
(714) 279-4189 

The Micro Store, 634 South Central 
Expressway, Richardson, Texas 75080 
(214) 231-4088 

ELS Systems, 2209 N. Taylor Rd., 
Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44112 
(216) 249-7820 

Microcomputer Systems Inc., 

144 S. Dale Mabry Ave., Tampa, Florida 

33609, (813) 879-4301 

William Electronics Supply, 1863 Wood- 
bridge Ave., Edison, N.J. 08817 
(201) 985-3700 

Computer Mart of New York, Inc. 
314 Fifth, New York, N.Y. 10001 
(212) 279-1048 

The Byte Shop Computer Storey 1, 
1063 El Camino Real, Mountain View, 
Calif. 94040, (415) 969-5464 

The Byte Shop Computer Store#2, 
3400 El Camino Real, Santa Clara, Calif. 
95051, (408) 249-4221 

A-VID Electronics Co., 1655 E. 28th Street, 
Long Beach, Calif. 90806 (213) 426-5526 

Computer Warehouse Store, 584 Common- 
worth Ave., Boston, Massaschusetts 02215 
(617) 261-1100 

The Computer Workshop, Inc., 11308 
Hounds Way, Rockville, Ind. 20852 
(301) 468-0455 

The Computer store, Inc., 120 Cambridge 
Street, Burlington, Mass. 01803 
(617) 272-8770 

Marsh Data Systems, 5405 B. Southern 
Comfort Blvd., Tampa, Florida 33614 
(813) 886-9890 

Midwest Enterprises Inc., 815 Standish Ave., 
Westfield, New Jersey 07090 
(212) 432-2066 

The Milwaukee Computer Store, 6916 W. 
North Ave., Milwaukee, Wl 53213 
(414) 259-9140 

Control Concepts, P.O. Box 272, 
Needham Heights, Mass. 02194 

American Microprocessors, Equipment & 
Supply Corp. at Chicagoland Airport, P.O. 
Box 515, Prairie View, Illinois 60069 
(312) 634-0076 

The Computer Room Inc., 3938 Beau D'Rue 
Dr., Eagan, Minn. 55122, (612) 452-2567 

Computerware, 830 First St., Encinitas, 
Calif. 92024 (714) 436-9119 

Atlanta Computer Mart, 5091 B Buford 
Highway, Atlanta, Ga. 30340 
(404) 321-4390 



Four ways to get 

more out of (or into) 
your computer 



Here are four ol our most popular computer peripherals. They let you do a lot more with your 
Altair 8800 or IMSAI 8080. They are simple to use and simple to install. And they all have the 
combined quality and low price that has made Cromemco the leading name in microcomputer 
peripherals. Cromemco's delivery is prompt, too. 
Watch this space for other exciting new Cromemco products to come. 






!%«:^fc= s«i: Iter. ■■ te^te: - *.:-~t 



1111 



K BYTESAVER 





The easy way to put programs into PROM. Cromemco's 
Bytesaver™ gives you a place for up to 8K of PROM memory 
using 2704/2708 PROMs. Also gives you a built-in PROM 

programmer (saves buying one separately). Enough memory 
capacity to hold powerful programs such as 8K BASIC. Kit 
(Model 8KBS-K): $195. Assembled (Model 8KBS-W): $295. 



Let your color TV be your display terminal. You can have a 
full-color computer display terminal at unbelievably low cost 
with the Cromemco TV Dazzler™. You can display multi- 
colored charts, graphs, educational material, games. Requires 
only 2K-byte memory for 128 x 128-element picture. Kit 
(Model CGI-K): $215. Assembled (Model CGI-W): $350. 








Fast analog I/O with 7 channels. Couples your digital com- 
puter to an analog world. This advanced board lets you 
input 7 channels of analog to your computer and output 7 
channels of analog to feed to output devices. Also has an 
8-blt parallel I/O port. Very fast conversion — only 5 micro- 
seconds. Kit (Model D + 7A-K): $145. Assembled (Model 
D + 7A-W): $245. 

JOYSTICK ALSO AVAILABLE: Kit (Model JS-1-K): $65. Assem- 
bled (Model JS-1-W): $95. 



Low-cost Optical Data Digitizer: This small, rugged camera is 
useful for image recognition, process control, and other 
Industrial applications. Has f2.8 25-mm lens. Uses image 
sensors that produce 1024-element (32 x 32) picture. Con- 
troller boards also available to give software control of 
exposure, frame rate and memory allocations for picture 
storage. Camera kit (Model 88-ACC-K): $195. Controller kit 
(Model 88-CCC-K): $195. Camera assembled (Model 88- 
ACC-W): $295. Controller assembled (Model 88-CCC-W): $295 



n 



Cromemco 



Specialists in computer peripherals 

^^^^^ 2432 Charleston Rd., Mountain View, CA 94043 • (415) 964-7400 



Imagine a microcomputer 

Imagine a microcomputer with all the design 
savvy, ruygedness, and sophistication of the best 



Imagine a microcomputer supported by dozens 
of interface, memory, and processor option boards. 
One that can be interfaced to an indefinite number 

of peripheral devices including dual floppy discs, 

CRTs, line printers, cassette recorders, video dis- 
plays, paper tape readers, teleprinters, plotters, 
and custom devices. 



Imagine a microcomputer supported by exten- 
sive software including Extended BASIC, Disk 
BASIC, DOS and a complete library of business, 
developmental, and industrial programs. 

Imagine a microcomputer that will do everything 
a mini will do, only at a fraction of the cost. 

You are imagining the Altalr™ 8800b. The Altair 
88001) is here today, and it may very well be the 
mainframe of the 70's. 



The Altair 8800b is a second generation design 
of the most popular microcomputer in the field, 
the Altair 8800. Built around the 8080A micro- 
processor, the Altair 8800b is an open ended 
machine that is compatible with all Altair 8800 
hardware and software. It can be configured to 
match most any system need. 

NOTE: Altair is a trademark of MITS, Inc. 





Redesigned front panel. Totally synchro- 
nous logic design. Same switch and LED 
arrangement as original Altair 8800. 
New back-lit Duralith (laminated plastic 
and mylar, bonded to aluminum) dress 
panel with multi-color graphics. New 
longer, flat toggle switches. Five new 
functions stored on front panel PROM 
including; DISPLAY ACCUMULATOR (dis- 
plays contents of accumulator), LOAD 
ACCUMULATOR (loads contents of the 
8 data switches (A7-AO) into accumulator) 
OUTPUT ACCUMULATOR (Outputs con- 
tents of accumulator to I/O device 
addressed by the upper 8 address 
switches), INPUT ACCUMULATOR (in- 
puts to the accumulator from the I/O 
device), and SLOW (causes program 
execution at a rate of about S cycles per 
second— for program debugging). 



Full 18 slot motherboard. 

Rugged, commercial grade Optima 
cabinet. 



New front panel interface board buffers 
all lines to and from 8800b bus. 

-Two, 34 conductor ribbon cable assem- 
blies. Connects front panel board to front 
panel interface board. Eliminates need 
for complicated front panel/bus wiring. 



New, heavy duty power supply +8 volts 
at 18 amps, + 18 volts at 2 amps, 18 volts 
at 2 amps. 110 volt or 220 volt operation 
(SO/60 Hz). Primary tapped for either 
high or low line operation. 



•New CPU board with 8080A micro- 
processor and Intel 8224 clock generator 
and 8216 bus drivers. Clock pulse widths 
and phasing as well as frequency are 
crystal controlled. Compatible with all 
current Altair 8800 software and 
hardware. 



altair 8800-b 



M ITS, Inc. 1976/2450 Alamo S.E. /Albuquerque, New Mexico 87106 



In 
This 

BOTE 



Whatever your stand on the ques- 
tions of free exchange of software, one 
thing is certain: To write software of 
any form is an act of creation. The 
decision as to what is done with a 
work of software should reside with 
the creator. If you are a writer of 
software, find out about some of the 
legal aspects of your work by reading 
Calvin N Mooers' Are You an Author? 

A multiprocessor system is a combi- 
nation of two or more processors to 
accomplish more than what a single 
processor could do by itself. In his 
article Build This Mathematical Func- 
tion Unit, author R Scott Guthrie 
describes a simple form of the multi- 
processor concept: a scientific calcu- 
lator unit controlled by an 8 bit 
microprocessor. The calculator comes 
preprogrammed with all the software 
you need to carry out floating point 
arithmetic operations and special func- 
tions, to say nothing of an arithmetic 
expression parser implicit in the paren- 
thesis keys. The calculator peripheral 
in one fell swoop eliminates a lot of 
the software development required for 
an interpretive mathematically oriented 
computer language. 

Learn how to Randomize Your 
Programming by reading Robert 
Grappel's discussion of pseudorandom 
number sequences along with practical 
software to implement 8 or 16 bit 
generators. 



About the Cover 

BYTE began with its first issue 
dated September 1975. Since that 
time, a 96 page magazine has grown 
into a 128 page monthly compendium 
of information with a reputation of 
which we're quite naturally proud. 
That first issue was assembled from 
scratch in seven weeks of hectic 
activity starting May 25 1 975. At that 
time, we had no real estimate of the 
way in which you, our readers, would 
respond. The goal was simply to put 
out the best product possible given the 
constraints and problems of a new 
enterprise. Since that time, much has 
changed as the people who bring you 



this magazine have all grown and 
improved with experience. 

The principles upon which BYTE is 
based, technical excellence combined 
with a sense of humor and a spirit of 
fun, have not changed. As a celebra- 
tion of that combination, we commis- 
sioned Robert Tinney to implement a 
fanciful picture of the BYTE 0.01 
Centennial Celebration. With this very 
personal anniversary, we look forward 
to the developments and improve- 
ments of the coming year. 

In BNF notation, 
<we : := <We> 

< the contents of the BYTE 
staff listing, page 5> 



Well, here it is: the first version of 
Star Trek to be printed in full in 
BYTE. Gerald H Herd describes his 
version of A BASIC Star Trek Trainer 
as implemented on a Data General 
NOVA, but easily adaptable to any 
BASIC machine with about 5 K bytes 
of text area. 

One of the choices open to readers 
familiar with the industrial OEM mar- 
kets is to purchase computer products 
intended for systems engineering situ- 
ations. In his product description 
article on The MSC 8080+ Microcom- 
puter as a Personal System, BYTE 
reader Ken Barbier enthusiastically 
describes one such product and his 
experiences using it. 

Binary, octal, hexadecimal or 
decimal? That is the question. What- 
ever your preference, however, James 
Brown will help you out with his 
article on How to do a Number of 
Conversions. By implementing the 
whole set of conversions, you can try 
each base on for size, depending upon 
your mood and idiosyncracies. 

Last month, Burt Hashizume de- 
scribed the neat new architecture of 
the "super 8080" called Z-80 by its 
maker, Zilog Inc. In this issue, Dr 
Robert Suding brings the excitement 
down to earth with the complete 
details of The Circuit for Z-80s, a 



complete central processor with some 
programmable memory and a dash of 
systems software in an erasable ROM 
thrown in for good measure. 

What's an SC/MP? Find out by 
reviewing Robert Baker's Microproc- 
essor Update: SC/MP Fills a Gap. 

In the final instalment of our series 
of three reprints from Nat Wads- 
worth's Machine Language Program- 
ming for the "8008" (and Similar 
Microcomputers), you'll find some 
information on the details of machine 
language programming in computers 
with limited resources. 

Recycling pretested integrated cir- 
cuits mounted on surplus printed cir- 
cuit boards is an inexpensive way to 
obtain a good parts inventory. The 
main problem is getting the circuits off 
the board. Ralph Droms and Jonathan 
Bondy have dreamed up A Flameless 
IC Recycling Trick as one way to 
accomplish the recycling goal. 

What does it take to program an 
8080 debugging monitor? Joe Kasser 
and Richard Allen describe AMSAT's 
answer to this question in AMSAT 
8080 Standard Debug Monitor: 
AMS80 Version 2. This is a complete 
assembly of a useful control program 
which can be adapted to any 8080 
based microcomputer system. 



In the Queue 



t ElTf # 13 

(or, if you're superstitious, 
volume 2, number 1) 

SEPTEMBER 1976 

staff 



26 
36 
40 
50 
62 
104 
108 



16 
44 
76 
84 



Foreground 



BUI LD THIS MATHEMATICAL FUNCTION UNIT-Part 1 

Hardware— Guthrie 
RANDOMIZE YOUR PROGRAMMING 

Software— Grappel 
A BASIC STAR TREK TRAINER 

Software— Herd 
HOW TO DO A NUMBER OF CONVERSIONS 

Software— Brown 
THE CIRCUIT FOR Z-80s 

Hardware— Sliding 
A FLAMELESS IC RECYCLING TRICK 

Techniques— Bondy-Droms 
AMSAT 8080 STANDARD DEBUG MONITOR: AMS80 VERSION 2 

Systems Software— Allen-Kasser 



Background 



ARE YOU AN AUTHOR? 

Software— M ooers 
THE MSC 8080+ MICROPROCESSOR AS A PERSONAL SYSTEM 

Product Description— Barbier 
MICROPROCESSOR UPDATE: SC/MP FILLS A GAP 

Hardware— Baker 
MACHINE LANGUAGE PROGRAMMING FOR THE "8008"-Chapter 3 

Software— Wadsworth 

Nucleus 



4 


In This BYTE 


6 


Come One, Come All! 


12 


Letters 


61 


Software Bug of the Month 4 


73 


BYTE's Bits 


74, 81, 96 


What's New? 


92 


Classified Ads 


98 


Clubs, Newsletters 


124 


Programming Quickies 


128 


BOMB 


128 


Reader's Service 



BYTE magazine is published 
monthly by BYTE Publica- 
tions, Inc., 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough, New Hampshire 
03458. Subscription rates are 
$12 for one year worldwide. 
Two years, $22. Three years, 
$30. Second class postage paid 
at Peterborough New Hamp- 
shire 03458 and at additional 
mailing offices. Phone 
603-924-7217. Entire contents 
copyright 1976 BYTE Publica- 
tions, Inc. Peterborough NH 
03458. Address editorial cor- 
respondence to Editor, BYTE, 
70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
03458. 



PUBLISHERS 

Virginia Peschke 

Manfred Peschke 

EDITOR 

Carl T Helmers, Jr 

GENERAL MANAGER 

Manfred Peschke 

PRODUCTION MANAGER 

Judith Havey 

CIRCULATION 

Deborah R Luhrs 

DEALER CIRCULATION 

Deena Zealy 

PUBLISHERS ASSISTANTS 

Cheryl Hurd 

Carol Nyland 

ADVERTISING 

Elizabeth Alpaugh 

Virginia Peschke 

TYPOGRAPHY 

Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 

Goodway Graphics 

Mary Lavoie 

Taimi Woodward 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

Ed Crabtree 

Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 

ART 

Mary Jane Frohlich 

Bill Morello 

PRINTING 

The George Banta Company 

Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 

ASSOCIATES 

Bob Baker 

Dan Fylstra 

Harold A Mauch 

Chris Ryland 

PRODUCTS COORDINATOR 

Floyd W Rehling 



Come One, Come All! 



Editorial by Carl Helmers 



Articles Policy 

BYTE is continually seek- 
ing quality manuscripts writ- 
ten by individuals who are 
applying personal systems, or 
who have knowledge which 
will prove useful to our read- 
ers. Manuscripts should have 
double spaced typewritten 
texts with wide margins. Num- 
bering sequences should be 
maintained separately for fig- 
ures, tables, photos and list- 
ings. Figures and tables should 
be provided on separate sheets 
of paper. Photos of technical 
subjects should be taken with 
uniform lighting, sharp focus 
and should be supplied in the 
form of clear glossy black and 
white prints (if you do not 
have access to quality photog- 
raphy, items to be photo- 
graphed can be shipped to us 
in many cases). Computer list- 
ings should be supplied using 
the darkest ribbons possible 
on new (not recycled) blank 
white computer forms or bond 
paper. Where possible, we 
would like authors to supply a 
short statement about their 
background and experience. 

Articles which are accepted 
are typically acknowledged 
with a binder check 4 to 8 
weeks after receipt. Honorari- 
ums for articles are based 
upon the technical quality and 
suitability for BYTE's reader- 
ship and are typically $15 to 
$30 per typeset magazine 
page,, We recommend that au- 
thors record their name and 
address information redun- 
dantly on materials submitted, 
and that a return envelope 
with postage be supplied in 
the event the article is not 
accepted. ■ 



NCC 1976 

BYTE shared a booth with David Ahl's 
Creative Computing at the 1976 NCC show 
June 7-10 in New York. For those who are 
not familiar with the computing trade, NCC 
is the big trade show sponsored by AFIPS 
(American Federation of Information Pro- 
cessing Societies) and attended by large 
numbers of people in the traditional data 
processing world. It features a strong techno- 
logical information program with lecturers 
on numerous topics, as well as one of the 
most complete trade shows with booths 
manned by every major manufacturer and 
vendor in the computer industry. 

This year's floor show was in the New 
York Coliseum, and the technical presenta- 
tions were held in the New York Hilton and 
Americana Hotels. I attended a technical 
session on personal computing on Tuesday 
morning June 8 in the Americana Hotel. 
Speakers at this session included Stephen B 
Gray, Ted Nelson, and Dr Alfred Bork. The 
theme of Ted Nelson's talk was the idea of 
the computer becoming a home appliance, a 
necessity in the home in the same way that a 
lot of technological innovations have be- 
come "necessities." Computer Lib becomes 
a reality. To an audience of very sym- 
pathetic professionals, Ted emphasized the 
concept of the computer and its use as a 
"way of life," in the same sense that talking 
is a way of life. For those initiated into the 
art of computing, the truth of this view is 
quite evident. Ted also made great argu- 
ments for eliminating the term "microcom- 
puter" — what we're all building, buying or 
using is not micro in any sense of the word, 
but simply an inexpensive computer of the 
general purpose variety. (Eliminating that 
term also gets rid of an ambiguity with 



respect to microprogramming.) Ted made a 
strong case of comparison between the 
traditional "cuckoo" computer center con- 
cept and the medieval church with its 
priesthood and obscure Latin language. Per- 
sonal computing as practiced by large num- 
bers of people will help end the con- 
centration of apparent power in the "in" 
group of programmers and technicians, just 
as the enlightenment and renaissance in 
Europe brought about a much wider under- 
standing beginning in the 14th century. (See 
a forthcoming article by Dave Fylstra and 
Mike Wilbur for some further commentary 
on the subject.) 

Ted also introduced his concept of the 
perfect computer store, when he started 
talking about the "itty bitty machine corpo- 
ration" whose first computer store is to 
open soon in Evanston IL. He intends to 
become the McDonald's of computing. By 
way of formal legalisms, he entered several 
terms into interstate commerce, a first step 
toward obtaining a legally protected trade- 
mark: "FUNTRAN" is the itty bitty 
machine corporation's extensible function 
translation language, providing word proces- 
sing, planning and figuring. "Simulatrix" is 
his name for a proposed library of games 
with educational and recreational values 
combined, a library to be maintained with 
royalties to authors. Interactive art works 
itty bitty machine corporation is to sell 
under the "Lady Lovelace" trade name (not 
a porn film, but the name of the world's first 
programmer), and the itty bitty machine 
corporation's first hardware product is to be 
called the "heaven eleven," an LSI-11 with 
an Altair compatible bus for peripherals. 
(For the upper crust, there is "heaven on 
wheels," a van to be equipped with a 
"heaven eleven.") [All the quoted words in 



6 



SUPER CHIP! 

The Z 80 CPU by Zilog 




From The Digital Group, of course. 



If you are considering the purchase of an 8080-based sys- 
tem, look no further. The Z-80 has arrived. A new genera- 
tion 8080 by the same individuals who helped design the 
original 8080 — combining all the advantages of the 6800, 
6500 and 8080 into one fantastic little chip! And, the Z-80 
maintains complete compatibility with 8080 software. 

What's even better . . . the Z-80 is being brought to you by 
The Digital Group — people who understand quality and 
realize you expect the ultimate for your expenditure. With 
the Z-80, combined with the Digital Group System's video- 
based operation, you're at state of the art. There's no place 
better. 

Take a look at some specifications: 

Z-80 FEATURES 

• Complete compatibility with 8080A object code 

• 80 new instructions for a total of 158 

• 696 Op codes 

• Extensive 16-bit arithmetic 

• 3 Interrupt modes (incl 8080), mode 2 provides 128 
interrupt vectors 

• Built-in automatic dynamic memory refresh 

• Eleven addressing modes including: 

Immediate 

Immediate extended 

Page Zero 

Relative 

Extended 

Indexed 

Register 

Implied 

Register Indirect 

Bit 

Combination of above 



• New Instructions (highlights): 

Block move up to 64k bytes memory to memory 
Block I/O up to 256 bytes to/from memory directly 
String Search 
Direct bit manipulation 

• 22 Registers — 16 general purpose 

• 1 , 4, 8 and 1 6 bit operations 

DIGITAL GROUP Z-80 CPU CARD 

• 2k bytes 500ns static RAM 

• 256 bytes EPROM bootstrap loader (1702A) 

• 2 Direct Memory Access (DMA) channels 

• Hardware Interrupt controller 

Supports all 3 modes of interrupt 
Mode 2 supports 128 interrupt vectors 

• Data and Address bus lines drive 30 TTL loads 

• Z-80 runs at maximum rated speed 

• Single step or single instruction step 

• EPROM de-selectable for full 64k RAM availability 
(programs may start at location 0) 

• Complete interchangeability with Digital Group 8080A, 
6800 and 6500 CPUs 

The Z-80 is here. And affordable. Prices for complete Digital 
Group systems with the Z-80 CPU start at $475. For more 
information, please call us or write. Now. 



THE DIGITAL GROUP INC. 




RO BOX 6528 
DENVER,GO 80206 
(303)861-1686 



ASCII/Graphics Programmable, Multi-mode, Video Interface 

MERLIN IS HERE! 

Have you been trying to decide whether to spend your hard 
earned money on a fancy graphics display, or on an ASCII, 
alphanumeric (perhaps limited graphics) video interface? Now 
there is a third alternative! Get both with MERLIN the 
MiniTerm magician who can display your Altair or IMSAI 
memory in either format, or both. Of course MERLIN is plug-in 
compatible with both computers, and provides standard 
composite video output. 

MERLIN has a 64 character generator chip to display ASCII 
coded data from your memory as 40 characters by 20 lines. And 
by a twist of magic (software control of a mode latch), 
MERLIN's hardware free format "memory saver" mode starts a 
new line after every carriage return. Change mode again and each 
point on the screen: 100 vertical by 80 or 160 horizontal, is 
controlled by a separate memory bit. Want both? Top V lines 
can be ASCII data, the rest is displayed as graphics. 

Software control of ASCII/Graphics mode is just the beginning. 
Think of some of the crazy (as well as useful) things that can be 
done with software control of: video polarity (black/white), 
carriage returns (blanked/displayed), control characters (blank- 
ed/video inverted), and cursor (on/off). 

By the magic of DMA, MERLIN is super fasti Up to sixty 
completely different screens every second makes possible a 
whole new world of computer fun: computer animation! 
Worried about connecting your keyboard? Just plug it into 
MERLIN's keyboard I/O connector. Perhaps you think MERLIN 
is all magic and no smarts. NOT SO! Sockets and decoding for 
4K ROM or 2K (2708) EPROM and our optional ROM software 
makes MERLIN the smartest video interface available. Our basic 
ROM (MBI*) contains all these keyboard editing functions for 
both fixed and free format modes: 

-Cursor Up, Down, Right, Left, and 'Home' 
-Delete Character or to 'End-of-Memory' 
-Auto and Manual Scroll 
-Insert and Replace Modes 
-4 Slave Cursor Operations 
-6 User Defined Functions 
and MONITOR routines: 

-HEX Dump and HEX Input 

-ASCII Text Input 

-Set Memory Display Area 

-Set Display Mode 

-Examine/Modify CPU Program Registers 

-Examine/Modify Memory 

-Memory Fill 

-Execute User Program with Automatic Breakpoints 

Our extended function ROM (MET) ) contains more editing 
functions, including a search routine, more MONITOR 
commands and graphics subroutines. MERLIN's Basic Intelli- 
gence comes with scratch pad RAM memory for monitor use. 

With a lot of magic, we at MiniTerm are able to offer this fun 

and exciting interface for the low price of only $249. All prepaid 

orders received before November 1, 1976 will receive free the 

MBI ROM, regularly sold separately at $34.95. 

A User Manual, including hardware and software details is 

available for $8.00 (deductible from MERLIN order). Order now 

and receive a free listing of LIFE which runs in 1.2K including 

800 bytes for the display. 

Prices subject to change without notice. Mass. residents please 

add 5% sales tax. 



MiniTerm Associates 




Bom 268. Bedford. Man 01730 



*MBI - MERLIN's Basic Intelligence 
MEI -MERLIN's Expanded Intelligence 



this paragraph are claimed as trademarks of 
itty bitty machine corporation.] It will be 
interesting to see what comes out of 
Evanston in the coming months. Ted closed 
his talk with the following very quotable 
passage: "Using a computer should always 
be easier than not using it." 

NCC is a hectic affair, and unfortunately 
I had to miss several of the other interesting 
technical sessions in order to work the 
booth. In the afternoon of June 8, David 
Ahl had organized a lengthy session on 
related topics. 

But the 1976 NCC in New York is merely 
a taste of things to come. In the planning 
stages, under the overall guidance of chair- 
person Dr Portia Isaacson, is the 1977 NCC, 
which will be held in Dallas TX at about the 
same time next year. Portia is an enthusiastic 
personal computing user, and is a member of 
the North Texas Computer Hobbyist Group 
in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Her enthu- 
siasm for the concept that "personal com- 
puting is an idea whose time has come" will 
be reflected in the 1977 NCC program. One 
major interest area theme is scheduled to be 
that of the individual and computing. This 
will be reflected in the technical sessions, in 
programming and system design contests for 
amateurs and enthusiasts, and special exhi- 
bits. The show will be a major event on any 
small computer person's travel calendar for 
1977. 

On a Subject Nearer in Time, 
There is Personal Computing '76 

As I write this month's editorial, the final 
preparations for the Personal Computing '76 
show are being completed by John Dilks and 
Dave Jones, who are the principal persons 
responsible for the event. The list of exhib- 
itors who signed up for booths as of June is 
shown in this month's advertisement for the 
show. The technical program will include 
numerous detailed seminars by computer 
users and manufacturers' representatives 
alike. 

I'll be giving an opening talk at the start 
of the show, and other speakers will include 
Steven B Gray, founder of the original 
Amateur Computer Society, and Ted Nelson, 
author of Computer Lib/ Dream Machines. I 
expect that, like the earlier and very success- 
ful shows at Trenton (Amateur Computer 
Group of NJ) and Cleveland (Midwest Affili- 
ation of Computer Clubs) this year, the 
Personal Computing '76 show will be like a 
gigantic computer club meeting and will give 
ample opportunity for various manufac- 
turers and vendors to meet potential users, 

Continued on page 126 




Personal 



7fi 1^ Computing Tft 

^ Consumer Trade Fair 



Atlantic City, N.J. 
August 28th-29th 

Come To Personal Computing '76 

And Meet Fellow Computer Enthusiasts and 

Suppliers in Person . . . 

What it's all about! 

AMSAT Software Development 

Computerized Music Micro Computers 

Video Terminals Hardware Development 

Kit Construction Disc Memories 

Printers Computer Comparisons 

Computer Games Interfacing 

Digital Tapes Program Implementation 

• Seminars and Technical talks by leading electronic equipment manufacturers 

• Major Exhibits from all over the country 

• Demonstrations in many areas including Home and Personal Computing 

• Door Prizes, Free Literature and Free Mementos 

• All this plus Sun and Surf— Fun and Excitement— Relaxation and Leisure 



Weekend Fair admission $5.00 advanced, $7.50 at door. Admission includes Exhibits, 
Seminars. 

Write for FREE TRIP-KIT to Personal Computing '76 Fair Headquarters, Box 1138 
Boardwalk and Michigan Ave., Atlantic City, New Jersey 08404 



EXHIBITION BOOTHS STILL AVAILABLE-CALL (609) 927-6950 




Personal 



^ compute yg Trade Fair 



Personal Computing '76 is your opportunity to meet representatives of many of the 
manufacturers you have seen advertised in BYTE. Among the products you'll get to examine 
at firsthand are these . . . many of the items have been committed as door prizes for the 
drawing which will be held at the show. 

And then, of course, we at BYTE will do our part toward filling the door prize pot, by 
contributing one lifetime subscription to BYTE beginning with issue No. 1. The first 16 issues 
will be delivered in a bound volume sometime in 1977, although we'll start the subscription 
with the current issue if the winner is not presently a subscriber. 



IBM Corporation will be present at the Personal Computing '76 show, to 
demonstrate "live" the 5100 System. This machine is a high technology 
combination of video display, keyboard and mass storage hardware with 
high technology software of a complete APL interpreter and BASIC 
interpreter. Evaluating its features, it is perhaps the ultimate in a small 
programming and applications oriented computer system. 
MOS Technology, 950 Rittenhouse, Norristown, PA 19401, will supply 
this KIM-1 board as a door prize at Personal Computing '76. 



iirffgj 




BYTE 




IBM Demonstration 







Manufacturers 

Cromemco [TV Dazzler] 

Digital Equipment Corporation 

Digital Group 

EBKA [Familiarizor] 

Economy Company 

E & L Instruments [MMDI-K] 

HAL Communications [MCEM-8080] 

Heathkit 

IBM Corporation 

Lear Siegler [ADM Kit] 

Microterm 

MITS [Altair 680 Kitl 

MOS Technology [KIM-1] 

MOSTEK [F-8 Evaluation Kit] 

National Multiplex 

Ohio Scientific 

[Model 300 Computer Trainer] 
Processor Technology [VDM Kit] 
Prolog 

RCA Laboratories 

Seals Electronics [8K memory board] 
Southwest Technical Products 

[6800 system kit] 
Sphere [310 Kit] 
Technical Design Labs 

[Z-80 CPU Board] 
Vector Electronics Co. 
Wave Mate [Wire wrap gun & wire] 
Williams Electronics 
Wintek 



Here is a preliminary list of exhibitors as of 
June 30, 1976. [Door prize offerings 
committed as of June 30 are in brackets 
following the exhibitor's name.] 



Stores and Retailers 

Computer Mart of NJ 

[$25 Gift Certificates] 
The Computer Store (Boston) [Books] 
Computer Store (LA) 
Computer Systems Center 
Digital Computer Services 

[6502 processor] 
Hoboken Computer Works 
Itty Bitty Machine Corporation 

[Computer Lib] 
NBC Imports [T-shirts] 
Russ Banks Computer Store 
SD Sales 



Publishers & Organizations 

ARRL, QST 

AMSAT 

Benwill Publications 

BYTE Publications 

[Lifetime subscription] 
The Computer Hobbyist 
Creative Computing [Books] 
Hayden Books 
Interface 

Microcomputer Digest 
Peoples Computer Company 

sees 



MOS Technology 



10 



Some of the Door Prizes 




Cromemco, home of the TV-Dazzler will 
supply a TV-Dazzler kit as a door prize at 
Personal Computing '76. You can proba- 
bly expect to see two or three dazzlers in 
operation as you walk around the show, 
since no product presently available so 
epitomizes the fascination of personal 
computing as this color graphics display. 




Southwest Technical Products Corpora- 
tion, 219 W. Rhapsody, San Antonio, TX 
will provide an SWTPC 6800 computer 
system kit as a door prize for the show. 




Processor Technology Corporation, 
6200-B Hollis Street, Emeryville, CA 
94608, will give out a VDM-1 module as a 
door prize at Personal Computing '76 
which plugs directly into the Altair/ 
IMSAI/Polymorphics backplane bus struc- 
ture to produce El A video such as that 
shown in the monitor. 




E & L Instruments, 61 First Street, Derby, 
CT 06418 will make available one MMD-1 
computer kit, shown here, as a door prize. 



MITS, 2450 Alamo SE, Albuquerque, NM 
87106, will provide this Altair 680 in kit 
form to the lucky winner of one of the 
door prize drawings. 




Wave Mate, 1015 West 190th Street, 
Gardena CA 90248, manufacturer of a 
wire wrapped computer kit, will provide 
this wire wrap gun and unwrapping tool as 
a door prize at the show. 




This is the HAL Communications Corpora- 
tion's MCEM-8080 microcomputer sys- 
tem, a single board computer containing a 
monitor in 1 K bytes of ROM, and 8080-A 
processor, 1 K bytes of programmable 
memory and system buffering. HAL 
Communications, 807 East Green Street, 
Box 365, Urbana, IL 61801 will provide 
an MCEM-8080 as a door prize at the 
Personal Computing '76 Show. 









Ohio Scientific Instruments, 11679 Street, 
Hiram, OH will provide a Model 300 
Computer Trainer as a door prize for 
Personal Computing '76. 



MJB Research & Development Corpora- 
tion's contribution to the stack of door 
prizes at Personal Computing '76 will be 
this 8K Altair compatible "Seals" memory 
board. MJB is located at 36 W 62nd 
Street, New York, NY 10023. 



11 



Letters 



It's about time somebody 
jumped in with a word or 
two in favor of sanity and 
rationality in programming 
style. 




STRUCTURE'S WHERE IT'S AT! 

In regard to Ronald Herman's article 
[page 22, June 1976 BYTE] on "Program- 
ming for the Beginner:" Right On!! I for one 
am fed up with articles and letters of the 
"my code is two bytes shorter than yours" 
variety. It's about time somebody jumped in 
with a word or two in favor of sanity and 
rationality in programming style. While the 
techniques Mr Herman presents are by no 
means new, their acceptance among pro- 
grammers of smaller systems is shall we say 
not as widespread as one might wish. This is 
detrimental not only to the individual prac- 
titioner of the "dirty tricks" school of 
programming, but to the home computing 
community as a whole, for such practices 
can severely restrict the utility and share- 
ability of the software produced, and 
thereby work to defeat the purpose of 
hobbyist software interchange standards. 

I think that to a large extent it is up to 
such people as the editors of BYTE to 
encourage neophyte programmers to develop 
structured, top-down programming practices 
rather than bit-pinching, memory-grudging 
trickery. Novices in particular should be 
warned that code of the latter type can be 
nearly impossible to debug, and just try and 
understand it a year from now! Since you, 
the editors, have been pushing for standard- 
ization of various sorts, I think that it would 
not be too unreasonable for you to exercise 
a little discretion as to what sort of program- 
ming style is advocated in the articles and 
letters you select for publication. I might 
also suggest that software-related articles 
include metalanguage descriptions of the 
algorithms involved, similar to Mr Herman's 
pseudo code. 

For those old-timers already past the 
point of no return, by all means don't let me 
interfere with your work. If the "quick and 
dirty" approach to coding is your bag, then 



go right ahead. Just don't ask me to debug it 
for you, and please, please don't tempt 
neophytes down your primrose path. 

Gregory P Kusnick 

3532 Ramona 

Palo Alto CA 94306 

P.S. In case you haven't figured this out yet, 
all my BOMB points for this month go to 
Ronald Herman. 

We're all for structured programming, just 
surprised at how long it took for someone to 
write an article on the subject. Ron 
Herman's article shows a very useful tech- 
nique for organizing one's programming 
thoughts. Let it be known: Articles which 
use a pseudo code representation for pro- 
grams are highly desirable. Of course, in the 
cases where what might be called a "dirty 
trick" is required, we can always partition 
the problem so that the tricks are off 
isolated in some subroutine. 

DISPLAY WANTED 

I recently picked up the May and June 
issues of BYTE at the "Rochester Hamfest" 
at Rochester NY. I was very impressed with 
BYTE as it appears to be an excellent 
magazine for the "computer hobbyist" or 
"ham RTTY operator." 

I would like to see an article on a 72 
character per line TV display which would 
then be compatible with Teletype line 
lengths such as the model 32 and 33s, etc. 

Vincent R Staffo 
Rochester NY 

ATTENTION HAMS! 
REQUEST FOR A HAM NETWORK 

I am a "charter subscriber" to BYTE and 
have been in and around the radio/ 
electronics business for quite a while, since 
1941 in fact. I have an Amateur Extra Class 
license and operate all bands, SSB, CW and 
RTTY. I am also CE for a St Louis direc- 
tional AM and stereo FM station (20 years). 

It seems to me that the opportunities in 
the microprocessor field are virtually 
unlimited but also that the pitfalls are of the 
same order. I also believe that a large 
number of your readers must also be hams 
and RTTYers. I would like to see BYTE 
magazine promote a net type of operation 
on the ham bands to promote the exchange 
of information regarding microprocessor 
systems and peripherals. A few minutes of 

Continued on page 93 



12 



If you thought a rugged, 
professional yet affordable 
computer didn't exist, 



think 
IMSAI 

8080. 



Sure there are other commercial, 
high-quality computers that can 
perform like the 8080. But their 
prices are 5 times as high. There is 
a rugged, reliable, industrial com- 
puter, with high commercial-type 
performance. The IMSAI 8080. 
Fully assembled, it's $931. 
Unassembled, it's $599. And ours 
is available now. 

In our case, you can tell 
a computer by its cabinet. The 
IMSAI 8080 is made for commer- 
cial users. And it looks it. Inside 
and out! The cabinet is attractive, 
heavy-gauge aluminum. The 
heavy-duty lucite front panel has 
an extra 8 program controlled 
LED's. It plugs directly into the 
Mother Board without a wire 
harness. And rugged commercial 
grade paddle switches that are 
backed up by reliable debouncing 
circuits. But higher aesthetics on 
the outside is only the beginning. 
The guts of the IMSAI 8080 is 
where its true beauty lies. 

The 8080 is optionally 
expandable to a substantial system 
with 22 card slots in a single 
printed circuit board. And the 
durable card cage is made of 
commercial-grade anodized 
aluminum. 

The IMSAI 8080 power 




supply produces a true 28 amp 
current, enough to power a full 
system. 

You can expand to a 
powerful system with 64K of 
memory, plus a floppy disk con- 
troller, with its own on-board 
8080-and a DOS. A floppy disk 
drive, an audio tape cassette input 
device, a printer, plus a video 
terminal and a teleprinter. These 
peripherals will function with an 
8-level priority interrupt system. 
IMSAI BASIC software is avail- 
able in 4K, that you can get in 
PROM. And a new $139 4K 
RAM board with software 



IMSAI S0S0 



.„— KX-— **"* 



memory protect. For the ultimate 
in flexibility, you can design the 
system for low-cost multiprocessor, 
shared memory capability. 

Find out more about the 
computer you thought didn't 
exist. Get a complete illustrated 
brochure describing the IMSAI 
8080, options, peripherals, soft- 
ware, prices and specifications. 
Send one dollar to cover handling. 

Call us for the name of the 
IMSAI dealer nearest you. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



m 




IMS Associates, Inc. B-9 

14860 Wicks Boulevard 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
(415) 483-2093 



New Intel microcom 
system costs, increase 



Intel has two new LSI components 
for the MCS-40™ microcomputer system 
which will help you cut system costs, 
increase throughput and reduce the num- 
ber of components you have to stock for 
I/O interface requirements. The new Intel 
4269 Programmable Keyboard Display 
and the 4265 Programmable General Pur- 
pose I/O devices eliminate the large 
number of discrete SSI/MSI components 
previously required for keyboard, control 
panel, indicator array, alphanumeric dis- 
play, printer, communications and other 
I/O interfaces. These new LSI parts in- 
crease system throughput up to 50%, and 
make it easy to add standard Intel memory 
and system peripherals. 

The 4269 Keyboard Display can be 
software programmed to interface to vari- 
ous keyboard and display elements and 
makes it possible for you to eliminate 
fifteen or more discrete components. 

It significantly increases system 
throughput since it performs the scan, 
storage, refresh, and other simultaneous 
keyboard/display tasks previously required 
of the 4004 or 4040 CPU. 

When programmed as a keyboard or 
line sensor input interface, the 4269 can 
scan up to 64 key closures or lines. When a 
key closure is detected, the 4269 generates 
a system interrupt and stores up to eight 
characters in its first-in/first-out buffer 
before requiring CPU service. 

In alphanumeric applications, the 
4269 eliminates the need to use the CPU 




Sell-Scan is a registered trademark of the Burroughs Corporation 



puter I/O devices cut 
throughput up to 50°/° 




and system memory for display refresh 
since the necessary memory and control 
are built in. One 4269 can operate and 
refresh alphanumeric displays or indicator 
arrays with up to 32x4 digits, 16x8 charac- 
ters or any configuration of 128 elements or 
lights, including a 20-character Burroughs 
Self-Scan* Display 

The 4265 General Purpose Program- 
mable I/O is ideally suited to implement 
custom interface requirements. Up to 
four devices can be controlled by the 
CPU. Each 4265 has 16 I/O lines organ- 
ized into four ports which can be used in 
14 different data transfer and control/ 
interface organizations. The 4265 provides 
synchronous/asynchronous control, buffer 
inputs and outputs, bit set and bit reset 
capability on output port lines- and byte 
transfer control. It can be used to add in- 
dustry standard RAM memory such as 
Intel's 5101 CMOS RAM. And the 4265 
lets you use system peripherals such as the 
8251 Programmable Communications 
Interface (USART), the 8253 Program- 
mable Interval Timer or the 8214 Priority 
Interrupt Control Unit. 

To order, contact our franchised 
distributors: Almac/Stroum, Components 
Specialties, Components Plus, Cramer, 
Elmar, Hamilton/Avnet, Industrial Com- 
ponents, Liberty, Pioneer, Sheridan or 
L.A. Varah. For your copy of our MCS-40™ 
System brochure, use the bingo card or 
write: Intel Corporation, 3065 Bowers 
Avenue, Santa Clara, California 95051. 



intJ 



Microcomputers^^ First from the beginning. 



Are you the proud author of a piece of hobbyist 
software? If so, you are in the same class as the 
author of a novel, a play or any other kind of salable 
writing. 



Are You an Author? 



Calvin N Mooers 
Rockford Research Inc 
140 1/2 Mt Auburn St 
Cambridge MA 02138 



Softlifting is a white collar 
(no gun) crime which is 
easy to commit and hard 
to detect. 



Are you the proud author of a piece of 
hobbyist software? If so, you are in the same 
class as the author of a novel, a play or any 
other kind of salable writing. If your soft- 
ware is good, and other people want it, it 
could be worth something to you. Dollars! 
Money! 

This is the first of several articles in 
BYTE describing details of an owner's rights 
in computer software. It is written from the 
hobbyist and software writer's standpoint. 
While I am not a lawyer with a formal legal 
degree, I have some practical credentials for 
discussing these matters. I have 30 years 
experience in studying this topic and in 
advising my lawyers concerning my own 
patent, trademark and software copyright 
problems. I have previously written on this 
subject as it concerns the professional data 
processing markets (in particular see my 
article "Computer Software and Copyright" 
in the March 1975 issue of the ACM 
Computing Surveys). Any lawyers or indi- 
viduals who read my views on the subject 
and have comments to make are invited to 
respond in writing to me or via the BYTE 
letters column. 

Maybe you are not yet an author, but 
only a user of personal computing software. 
Then you, like everyone else, need more and 
better software in order to use and enjoy 
your computer. Yet where are the suppliers? 



Why do some of the potential suppliers seem 
to be holding back? 

There is a partial answer to this question. 
You undoubtedly know that a few bad 
apples are rapidly giving all computer hobby- 
ists a very bad name. For example, it now 
appears that more copies of Altair's BASIC 
have been pirated than have been legally 
sold. (See the letter by Bill Gates on page 3 
of the February 1976 edition of MITS 
Computer Notes, the March April 1976 issue 
of People's Computer Company and widely 
published elsewhere in newsletters and club 
bulletins.) 

Software piracy is a white collar (no gun) 
type of crime. It is easy to commit and hard 
to detect. As a crime it is in the same class as 
shoplifting, or the use of a "blue box" on a 
telephone to make illegal freebie worldwide 
telephone calls. Software piracy is a crime 
ethically because it extracts creativity and 
effort from the author(s) of software against 
their will and thereby robs them of their 
property. It is a crime legally to the extent 
that existing legal mechanisms are available 
for the protection of software by owners 
who desire some form of recompense 
through sales. 

As a software user who has come by his 
or her software honestly, what can you do 
with your software? What can you not do? 
From my experience talking to many 
people, I have concluded that very few 
persons really know what they can do and 
cannot do within the present legal defini- 
tions. There is much misinformation and 
little real knowledge. One target of this 
article is you who are software users. 

Furthermore, it is you — the great 
majority of honest users — who will by your 



16 



A Note of Interest 

The concern with protection of software creations is by no means con- 
fined to the personal computing field. A t about the time this article was being 
edited, a survey entitled "Development of an International System for Legal 
Protection of Computer Programs" by Oliver R Smoot appeared in the April 
1976 edition of Communications of the ACM, page 171 of the volume 19 
number 4 issue. The content of the report was an informal account of a 
recent (June 1975) meeting of an international committee named the Advi- 
sory Group of Non-Governmental Experts on the Protection of Computer 
Programs, held under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organ- 
ization in Geneva, Switzerland. . . CH 



peer pressure provide the most effective way 
for putting a stop to the bad apples who 
steal software. If the software piracy threat 
can be stopped, more and better software on 
the market will be the result. 

Methods of Protection 

So you are an author, and you have this 
great little piece of hobby software (or 
business software). It is so new, it is still a 
secret between you and your computer. 
Even your best friend hasn't been provided 
with a copy. It is all yours. 

(We presume that this software was 
created in your own basement, and not on 
your company's time or computer. We pre- 
sume that your business arrangement with 
your employer allows you to hold ownership 
in your own out-of-hours software creations. 
(Maybe you had better dig out that copy of 
your employment contract, and read the 
fine print on this matter.) We also presume 
that your creation wasn't copied from some- 
one else's copyrighted software or 
documentation.) 

For the moment this new software is all 
yours, and you legally and completely own 
it. The courts will back you up to the hilt. 
So much for the good news. 

Now for the bad news. Exactly what is it 
that your own? Should you try to protect 
your new software? If so, how? How can 
you take your software out of your base- 
ment without losing your ownership? If you 
can find a buyer, what is it that you really 
sell? What steps (patent, trademark, copy- 
right, trade secret, or other method) should 
you take to protect your new property? 

The easiest way out is for you to give 
your software away, thereby forfeiting 
ownership. You won't have any problems as 
an owner. For some kinds of hobby soft- 
ware, this is the preferred course. After all, a 



hobby is mainly for the fun of the thing, and 
you don't really expect to make any money. 

But what if you really did put in an awful 
lot of time, and worked up some documen- 
tation, got all the bugs out, and have 
something that you think others would 
really like to pay some money for. What 
then? 

If you can find a buyer for your software, 
someone who is willing to purchase all rights 
to your software, sight-unseen, for some nice 
round number, then your worries are also 
completely over. The buyer can worry about 
protecting it, and selling it. However, most 
buyers will want to examine the goods 
before buying, so you are back to where we 
began: If you want to sell your software 
creations, how do you protect your prop- 
erty before and after the sale? Thus we get 
down to basics. 

Secrecy 

If you don't let your software out of 
your basement, and you don't let anyone 
else see or have access to it, even by data 
line, and you tell no one about it, then you 
are probably completely protected (barring a 
computer-oriented burglary). This is the 
method of protection by secrecy. It is 
completely effective. The best people do it: 
IBM is reputed to have many more secret 
developments filed away in their labs than 
all they have ever published or marketed. 

Can the "idea" of your new software be 
protected? The answer is clearly "No," 
particularly if the software is to be marketed 
to a number of customers. Forget it. 

Patent 

Can the new software be patented? This 
method of software protection might seem 
to be a hopeful way, since a patent protects 
the processes or devices used to carry out an 



When you create or pur- 
chase software, exactly 
what is it that you own? 



The easiest way out of 
software protection prob- 
lems is for you to give 
your software away, 
thereby forfeiting owner- 
ship. This is guaranteed to 
cure any problems you 
may have as an owner. For 
some kinds of software 
this is the preferred 
course. After all, a hobby 
is mainly for the fun of 
the thing and you don't 
really expect to make any 
money. 



17 



With software, trade secret protection is not likely. 
You simply cannot sell copies of the secret and keep 
the secret at the same time. 



In my estimation, the best 
tool we have is copyright, 
which is the same legal 
tool used by all other 
authors — authors of 
novels, plays, and all other 
kinds of creative written 
works. 



inventive new idea. In practice, the answer is 
again "No." There are two reasons. The first 
is that your software is almost certainly not 
sufficiently original in concept to be patent- 
able. The second is that during the past ten 
years the courts — including the Supreme 
Court — have had as much trouble in 
agreeing about how to deal with software 
patents as they have had with the equally 
intriguing topic of pornography (What is it? 
Should it be allowed?). Finally, getting a 
patent will cost you an arm and a leg (more 
than $1000), and will take a minimum of 
two to three years (if ever) to get. Again, 
forget it. Let the big corporations fight this 
battle. 

Trade Secret 

If you are going to sell your software to 
more than one customer for hobby com- 
puter use, you can also forget the "trade 
secret" method of protection. This method 
works for large companies if it is a manufac- 
turing process or formula that can be kept 
behind locked doors (like the formula for 
Coca Cola). But with software, you simply 
cannot sell copies of the secret, and keep the 
secret at the same time. 

Trademarks 

Trademarks are another fascinating legal 
device for your protection as an entre- 
peneur. Trademark laws protect your use of 
a special mark (your trademark) on your 
goods or services. The purpose of your 
trademark on your software is to inform the 
buying public that the goods or services so 
marked and sold are manufactured or pro- 
vided by you, and not by someone else. If 
you are interested in the game of software 
selling, you should seriously consider using a 
trademark (or service mark) to help protect 
you from unfair imitators, since there are 
legal sanctions to prevent them from using 
your mark. However, useful as it is, a 
trademark cannot be used to protect the 
software itself from theft. 

Copyright 

How can your new software be sold, and 
still be protected from "soft-lifting" (equiva- 
lent to "shoplifting" in another context)? 
How can it be protected from the pirates? In 
my estimation, the best tool we have is 
copyright, which is the same legal tool used 



by all other authors — authors of novels, 
plays, and other kinds of creative written 
works. 

Copyright is unbelievably swift and 
cheap. What you do is to place the magic 
incantation "Copyright 1976 J Jones" (if 
your name is J Jones) at the top of the first 
page or title page of your software listing, 
and then give a copy so marked to a friend. 
You now have a copyright! 

It is like magic. The very instant that you 
place your program, or listing, or tape, or 
documentation on sale or put it into distri- 
bution with this notice on it you become the 
proud owner of a US copyright in the 
software so marked. 

You do not need to file papers anywhere 
to obtain your legal copyright protection! 
(However, more about this topic later, and 
about filing a copyright claim in the US 
Copyright Office.) 

However, if you first distribute any 
copies of your software without this copy- 
right notice, then you have lost your rights 
forever. By first distributing your software 
without a copyright notice, you thereby tell 
the world that you renounce your owner- 
ship, and that anyone thereafter may copy 
your software at any time with no need for 
permission. 

It is best if the notice "Copyright 1976 J 
Jones" (with the correct name and date) is 
placed in a comment line at the head of the 
program. It should also be stamped or 
handwritten on all tapes and boxes contain- 
ing cards or tapes for the software. It is 
important that it be placed on the title page 
of all documentation. All copies, what- 
soever, going out should bear your copyright 
notice. 

What Copyright Means 

A copyright means that no one, without 
your permission, is legally authorized to 
make copies of your copyrighted software. 
In the language of the law, you now have: 

"the exclusive right Lo print, reprint, 
publish, copy, and vend the copy- 
righted work; to translate the work 
into other languages or dialects, or to 
make any other version thereof . . . 

Since one can't run a computer without first 
using a copy of the software to make a data 
pattern inside the computer, you can begin 
to see how copyright can protect you. 



18 




ICCIDI 
JOPTW 




iii > II i" L' in' 



Introducing SCELBAL, 
the new microcomputer 
language that's simpler 
than machine language. 



A complete language for 
"8008'7"8080" systems 
including source listings, 
routines, flow charts and 
more! 



SCELBAL. scientific ELementary 
BAsic Language for "8008"/"8080" 
systems. A complete, illustrated program book. Routines. 
Techniques. Source Listings. Flow Charts. And more. 
Took several years to develop. Now yours for many years 
to come. First time that intimate details of higher level 
language has been offered for such a low price. Only $49! 
You get 5 Commands: SCR, LIST, RUN, SAVE, LOAD. 
14 Statements: REM, LET, IF . . . THEN, GOTO, FOR with 
STEP, END, INPUT, PRINT, NEXT, GOSUB, RETURN and 
optional DIM. 7 Functions: INT, SGN, ABS, SQT-i, RND, 
CHR, TAB. And, it runs in 8K and more. Here's all the 
data needed to customize a high level language for your 
system ... at a fraction of the cost! 

Order your copy today! Get $^ Q 



started advancing your system! 



ppd. 




GAMES ■.•■• 



£»»*«»" 



Here's SCELBI's First Book of 
Computer Games for the 8008/8080. 
Action-packed. And fun. 

Try to beat the computer at its own game. 
Here's the first complete machine language 
i computer manual for computer games to 
\ include source listings, flow charts, 
| routines and more. Space Capture — You 
\ against the computer using "search and 
S destroy" strategy to shoot down roaming 
\ alien spaceships in outerspace. Hexpawn 
\ — a mini-chess game that lets the 
»"' computer make mistakes . . . but only 
i once. Hangman — an updated version 
\ of the great kid game. Computer selects 
| words at random from long, expandable 
list. Try to beat it in 8 moves or less. 
Illustrated. Fun extras to put your 
computer to challenging, competitive, 
fun use. _ . ... \A 95 

rW i 



Order yours today! 



ppd. 



SCELBI's new microcomputer 
Game Book of Outer Space . . . 

Captain your own crusading starship 
against the logic of your "8008" or 
"8080". You must destroy a random 
number of alien ships without running 
out of stardates, out of fuel, out 
of ammunition or out of the galaxy. 
Plan your mission. How much fuel is 
used for your warp factor? Don't run 
into roaming stars that can damage your 
ship. Suddenly! Condition Red! Alien In 
sight! How big is he? Fire a phasor or 
torpedo! He's damaged or destroyed. 
But, you've used valuable fuel. That's 
Just the beginning. A new game every 
time. Complete program book in machine 
language for 4K memory, including 
source listings, flow charts, routines, etc. 
Great intergalactic adventure and fun. 

Order "GALAXY" today! 14 95 PPd- 



G4MXY 




'"in umn,..™ *■■ 



"8080" 
SOFTWARE MANUALS 



Three new basic, com- 
plete "MUST" manuals! 
"8080" Assembler Pro- 
gram operates easily in 
4K bytes of RAM (includ- 
ing symbol table). Unique 
feature: How to accept 
mnemonics related to 
"8008" based machines 
on "8080". Includes all 
major routines, pertinent 
flow charts, highly com- 



mented assembled listing 
and more. $17.95. 

"8080" Editor Program 

identical to "8008" 
Editor, with machine 
codes for "8080". $14.95. 
"8080" Monitor Routines 
same functions as "6008" 
specifically developed 
to utilize expanded 
capabilities of "8030". 
$11.95. 




Tat, 



aur "v Ba 



14 95 

ppd. 

SAVE $5.35! BUY ALL 3 



11 95 

ppd. 

FOR ONLY 



$39.50! 




MACHINE LANGUAGE 



«®lm^ 




1 19 95 p P d. 



PROGRAMMING 

FOR THE "8008" 

(and similar microcomputers) 



Here's the detailed, 
basic manual you need to 
develop today's machine 
language programs. 170 
pages. Illustrated. Easy- 
to-read, understand. Most 
techniques applicable to 
other micro-computers, 
Including "8080". 
Floating-point arith- 
metic package is 
pap worth the price 

alonel 
Order todayl 




Detailed presentation of "8008" codes • Flow Charts 
Mapping • Floating-point Package • Debugging 
Basic programs: loops, counters, masks 
Organizing Tables • Editing/Assembling 
Math operations • I/O, Real Time Programming 
Maximizing memories • And lots more. 

Master Charge, Postal and Bank Money Orders preferred. 
Personal checks delay shipping up to 4 weeks. Pricing, 
specifications, availability subject to change without notice. 
Prices for U.S. and Canadian delivery at book mailing rate. 
Add $2.50 for each publication If Priority Air Service (U.S.) 
desired. Foreign orders add $6.00 for each publication. 

ICELBI COMPUTER 
CONSUMING 

1322 Rear Boston Post Rd., Milford, CT 06460 
Telephone: 203/874-1573 



The best way to explain what this 
language of the copyright law means is to 
describe what you as the purchaser of the 
software can and cannot do with copy- 
righted software if you wish to stay within 
the law. 

After you have bought the copyrighted 
software, you may read your copy, throw it 
away, re-sell it, give it to a friend, memorize 
it, burn it — or do just about anything except 
to "make a copy." You own the paper it is 
written on, you own this particular copy of 
a program; but you don't have the legal right 
to make further copies! This is what copy- 
right is all about. 

Of course, computers were not with us in 
1909 when the current copyright law was 
written. But even back in 1909 they had 
"high technology" for the time— linotypes 
and high speed printing presses. Our present 
computers are merely another form of high 
technology machines, and they also use and 
produce printed material. The copyright law 
applies to computers too. 

Making a computer listing is both making 
a "copy" and "printing" or "reprinting" 
copies of a program in the language of the 
copyright law. Giving a listing to a buddy is 
"publishing," even if no money is involved 
in the act. Selling the listing, say for 50<t, is 
"vending" a copy. Unless you have permis- 
sion, in one way or another, from the 
copyright owner, doing any of these things is 
called an "infringement" of the copyright. 

If you have a copyrighted program listing 
in 8080 language, and you convert it to 
6800 language, this, in my opinion, is also an 
instance of "translating the work into 
another language or dialect." Taking the 
program and making major changes in it is, 
in my opinion, an instance of "making 
another version thereof." Again if you have 
not been authorized to do so, these actions 
would also be infringements. 

It is evident that when you buy some 
software for running in your computer, you 
must be allowed to do a number of things 
that might otherwise be forbidden by the 
copyright laws. Thus when you buy copy- 
righted software you should get from the 
seller, either as a definite written statement, 
or more usually as an implied understanding 
between the software seller and yourself, a 
clear indication of what things you can do 
with your purchased software. 

The major computer manufacturers seem 
to take particular pains to make these 
matters very clear. For example, they tell 
you that you can copy the software into 
your computer (they may even specify the 
serial number of the computer) for purposes 
of running the computer. They may also 



permit you to make a limited number of 
copies of the listing, but only for purposes 
of your own study and maintenance. They 
will often tell you that you are not author- 
ized to furnish copies of the software, 
listing, or documentation to any other per- 
son. To maintain their control, they may 
even retain ownership of the physical 
listings, tapes, and documentation. 

These generally-authorized actions per- 
mitted with copyrighted software are now 
usually understood by the sellers and buyers 
of software in the data processing field at 
large. Therefore if you as a buyer have any 
intent of making a wider use of the software, 
you should be sure to get your license or sale 
agreement to specify all the actions that you 
wish to be permitted. 

Copyright, What You Can't Do 

A person has bought some software. What 
can he or she do, and what can't he or she 
do with it? What are the penalties? 

The usual understanding between the 
seller and the buyer of the software is that 
the person buying the software is allowed to 
copy the software into his computer to 
make it run, that he or she is allowed to 
make a limited number of private copies for 
safety back-up or maintenance, but that the 
buyer shall not furnish copies of any kind to 
any other person. 

To go beyond these authorized limita- 
tions, and to do other things (make and 
distribute other copies, other versions, or 
translations) with such purchased software, 
is wrong. It is not a city ordinance or state 
law that is broken. It is a Federal law duly 
passed by Congress. It is called "copyright 
infringement." 

Three things can happen to a copyright 
infringer: 

First. The infringer may get a guilty 
conscience, but otherwise get away with an 
illegal act. As with shoplifting, which is also 
difficult to detect, this is the usual outcome. 
However if enough people in the hobby field 
go in for "soft-lifting," the software pro- 
ducers might get the message, and stop 
making software available to hobbyists. In 
the hobby field, and for good reason, this is 
already beginning to happen in at least one 
well known case. 

Second. If the software owner finds out 
about the infringer's illegal acts, the infringer 
may be in for big trouble, especially if the 
owner feels sufficiently damaged by the 
illegal activities. The software owner may 
decide that there has been so much infringe- 
ment that it is now time to "give those guys 
a lesson" and to make an example of one of 



20 




Now, you can buy an Altair 8800 or 
Altair 680 computer kit right off the 
shelf. Most all Altair options, software 
and manuals are also available. The 
MITS Dealer List below is just the 
beginning: 



off the shelf 



RETAIL COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
410 N.E. 72nd 
Seattle, WA 981 15 
(206)524-4101 

COMPUTER KITS 
1044 University Ave. 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

(415)845-5300 

THE COMPUTER STORE 

(Arrowhead Computer Co.) 

820 Broadway 

Santa Monica, CA 90401 

(213)451-0713 

THE COMPUTER SHACK 
3120 San Mateo NE 
Albuquerque, NM 87110 
(505)883-8282 



GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
2839 W. 44th Ave. 
Denver, CO 80211 

(303)458-5444 

GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
8123-25 Page Blvd. 
St. Louis, MO 63130 

(314)427-6116 

BYTETRONICS 

Suite 103-1600 Hayes St. 

Nashville, TN 37203 

(615)329-1979 

CHICAGO COMPUTER STORE 
517 Talcott Rd. 
Park Ridge, IL 60068 
(312)823-2388 

MARSH DATA SYSTEMS 
5405-B Southern Comfort Blvd. 
Tampa, FL 33614 
(813)886-9890 



MICROSYSTEMS 
6605A Backlick Rd. 
Springfield, VA 22150 

(Washington DC area) 
(703)569-1110 

THE COMPUTER SYSTEMCENTER 
3330 Piedmont Road 
Atlanta, GA 30305 

(404)231-1691 



THE COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
120 Cambridge St. 
Burlington, MA 01803 
(617)272-8700 



THE COMPUTER STORE OF ANN ARBOR 
310 East Washington St. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 
(313)995-7616 



COMPUTER PRODUCTS UNLIMITED 
4216 West 12th St. 
Little Rock, AR 72204 

(501)666-2839 

the COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
63 South Main St. 
Windsor Locks, CT 06096 

(203)871-1783 

the COMPUTER STORE of NEW YORK 
55 West 39th St. 
New York, NY 10018 

THE COMPUTER ROOM 
3938 Beau D'Rue Drive 
Eagan, MN 55122 

(612)452-2567 



NOTE: Altair is a trademark of MITS, Inc. 



MITS, Inc. 2450 Alamo S.E. Albuquerque, N.M. 87106 



the infringers. This could lead to a lot of 
rancor, and you certainly wouldn't want 
that to happen to you! 

More about the third possibility later. 

Getting Caught Can Be 
Bad News! 

Scenario: A US marshal appears at the 
infringer's door. (Copyright is a federal law, 
so it goes to a federal court which uses 
federal marshals to convey its "greeting.") 
The marshal carries a legal paper called a 
"complaint." The infringer has now "had 
it." Like it or not, he must accept the 
complaint. A full legal response to it is 
required within 20 days. Whatever the 
infringer does now could cost plenty of 
money, time, and grief. Also bad publicity if 
he or she was chosen to be an example. 

Probably the best thing an infringer can 
do at this stage is to make peace — but fast 
— with the owner of the infringed copyright. 
All the other alternatives have high risk and 
cost. Trying to fight the case (assuming a 
real "softlifter" is involved) will cost buckets 
of money for legal fees, whether the suit is 
won or lost. To not fight, or to default on 
the complaint, means the infringer will 
receive an automatic default judgment which 
could cost a minimum of $250 for each 
alleged instance of copyright infringement. 

In cases of infringement, the copyright 
law provides for mandatory damages to be 
paid to the owner which "shall not be less 
than $250 nor more than $5,000" for each 
act of infringement. Each time a copy had 
been run off for a friend would probably 
constitute a separate act of infringement. 
The fact that no money was involved in the 
deal does not excuse the infringement. 
Neither is ignorance of the law an acceptable 
excuse. 

Profits and Prison 

What about the guy who knew the 
software was copyrighted, but still made and 
sold copies of the software hoping to make a 
tidy profit? Maybe he wanted to buy some 
super disk system with his ill-gotten gains. 
When he copies wilfully and sells the stolen 
copyrighted software, it is a federal crime 
(yes, I said criminal). The newspapers 
recently had accounts of the FBI going after 
a nationwide audio-tape bootlegging ring. 
Audio tape bootlegging is a similar kind of 
copyright infringement. 

Although a hobby computer program 
pirate would probably have to go large scale 
before the software owner could get the 
reluctant federal authorities to move, it 
could happen. The law provides that if a 
copyright infringement is wilful and for 



profit, the convicted infringer "shall be 
punished by imprisonment for not exceeding 
one year or by a fine of not less than $100 
or more than $1,000, or both, in the 
discretion of the court . . . . " 

The Effects of Software Piracy 

But what if the software owners don't 
take the legal sanctions route. What then? 
After all, it is terribly expensive for them to 
do so. What we can expect to happen — and 
now is happening — is that software pro- 
ducers will shun the hobby software field. 
Already the bad apples in the hobby field 
have produced a devastating impact. Bill 
Gates, producer of the Altair BASIC, in his 
"Open Letter to Hobbyists" mentioned 
earlier, tells of his sad experience. 

According to Bill, he and two associates 
produced the Altair BASIC, investing three 
man years and burning up $40,000 in 
computer time. It was to be sold on commis- 
sion through MITS for use with Altair 
computers. Gates now finds that many of 
the "users" he talks to praise his BASIC very 
highly, but few of them can admit that they 
bought the copy they use. He says, "As most 
of the hobbyists must be aware, most of you 
steal your software." He is bitter, and says 
that the return for his group was less than $2 
an hour for the great amount of time they 
put into the programming, debugging, and 
documentation required to make a first class 
package. He continues, "We have written 
6800 BASIC, and are writing 8080 APL and 
6800 APL, but there is very little incentive 
to make this software available to 
hobbyists." 

The software people I have talked to 
agree with him. This means that prudent 
software producers will begin to sell com- 
plex packages only to commercial and busi- 
ness buyers, since such buyers would be less 
likely to break the law. This means that soon 
only the hardware and kit manufacturers 
will be willing to supply hobbyist systems 
software. If so, hobby equipment prices 
must rise to absorb the cost of the bundled 
software. Another result will be that the 
hobbyist will be severely limited in choice of 
software. Hobby systems will be limited 
mainly to what the manufacturer wants to 
produce. 

The hobbyists can do a lot to clean up 
this situation. They can first learn what the 
owner's rights are in his software. They can 
expose the bad apples who are peddling 
stolen property. They can exclude bad 
apples from hobby meetings until they 
change their ways. The pressure from one's 
"peers" can be very powerful if it is properly 
applied." 



22 



0f\ 












Rickeys tackling the SDK80 
microcomputer kit for his next science project. 



Rickey likes soccer, lizards, hot 
fudge sundaes, skateboards and 
microscopes. He can't decide if he'd 
rather be Franco Harris, Bobby 
Fischer or Jonas Salk. 

When his Dad brought home 
the Intel SDK-80 microcomputer 
systems kit, Rickey helped him put 
it together. It took only four hours. 
Everything was there. The 8080 
CPU, RAM, PROM, programmable, 
I/O, a printed circuit board with all 
those capacitors and resistors and 
the other things that go with it. The 



best part was the instruction manuals. 
Every step was clearly explained. It was 
easy. The programming part looked 
especially interesting. So simple. Just 
imagine talking to a computer. 

The big thrill came on Saturday 
when they went to his Dad's office to 
use a terminal. When they connected 
the SDK-80 to the teletypewriter 
they got a printout. That was excit- 
ing. Within an hour they were talking 
to the computer, then inventing 
games. They stayed all day. 

Now Rickey is building a micro- 



computer of his own. He may be the 
first kid on his block with his own 
computer. Thanks to a $350 low 
interest loan from his Dad. 

If you're interested in being the 
first on your block to have a micro- 
computer, contact your Intel distri- 
butor: Almac/Stroum, Component 
Specialties, Components Plus, 
Cramer, Elmar, Hamilton/Avnet, 
Industrial Components, Liberty, 
Pioneer, Sheridan, or L. A. Varah. 

Microcomputers. J «-»■§■ I" 
First from the beginning. II lL£^l 



3065 Bowers Ave , Santa Clara, California 95051 






HowFarCanYbuGo 

Find out-by adding 8080 compatible 



3P+S Input/Output Module 

Our 3P + S is o simple inexpensive answer 
to handling a variety of peripheral devices. 
If has two 8-bit parallel I/O ports, wifh full 
handshaking logic. Plus, if has a serial I/O 
port, wifh a dafa rafe range from 35 to 
9600 Baud. Simultaneously handle a paper 
tope reader, a keyboard, a TV terminal, a 
tape punch, and a telephone coupler! 
Available with premium grade low-profile 
IC sockets, $149. Owner's Manual, $4.95* 

ALS-8 Assembly Language 
Operating Syitem ^ 

Just turn on the switch, and instantly you 
have the power to write, edit, assemble, 
de-bug, and run your own programs. 
The ALS-8 is the most useful software 
development tool available today. Optional 
firmware includes S1M-1, an interpretive 
simulator, that simulates programs without 
running them in real time. Thus, errors 
encountered during testing do not endanger 
your entire system. The TXT-2 firmware adds 
the dimension of text editing. Insert, delete, 
move entire lines or single characters, and 
much more! ALS-8 (assembled only), $425. 
SIM-1, $95. TXT-2, $95. 

VDM-i Video Display Module 

If you're setting up just the system you really 
want, don't fall short by limiting its com- 
municating ability. The VDM-1 is an ultra- 
high speed video output device. Its 1 6 display 
lines have 64 characters each, upper and 
lower case. 1024 bytes of random access 
memory are on the card. It scrolls up or 
down, even to 2000 lines per minute! Any 
combination of the 1024 cursors can be 
displayed as black-on-white or vice versa. 
Free terminal mode software is included, 
along wifh premium grade, low-profile 
IC sockets. $199. Owner's Manual, $4.95? 

8KRA Static MemoryModule 

We now offer a low-power static memory 
module, with a full 8192 bytes of memory. 



It has an exclusive K5ET™ address selection 
DIP switch, so you can conveniently set 
address boundaries in increments of IK. 
Our low-power RAM's typically require one- 
third less power than those commonly used 
by our competitors. They'll even retain 
memory for 4-5 hours when powered by 
fwo "D" flashlight cells. On-board recharging 
circuitry and battery connectors make it 
possible to protect your data against sudden 
power loss. Each RAM has its own IC socket, 
too, for easier assembly and repair. $295. 
Owner's Manual, $4.95.* 

2KRO EPROM Module 

The 2KRO Read Only Memory will accept 
up to eight 1702A or 5203 EPROM's (not 
included), providing 2048 eight-bit words 
of non-volatile storage for monitor, 
executive, loader and other programs. 
Programming services available from your 
dealer or write us for details. $65. 
Owner's Manual, $4.95* 

4KJRA Static Memory Module 

The 4KP.A (4096 bytes) was our first static 
memory module. It's still very popular, and 
uses the same low-power static RAM's as the 
8KRA. Plus, we've added a DIP switch, and 
every RAM now has its own premium grade, 
low profile IC socket. Onboard recharging 
circuitry (with battery backup) makes it 
possible to retain memory for 8-1 hours 
during power failure. $159. 
Owner's Manual, $4.95.* 

MBl MotherBoard 

Our single piece Mother Board for the Alrair 8800 
gives you 16-cord capacity in one single installation. 
Available with l2(MD-12)or 16 (MD-1) slots. $70. 
(Discontinued; limited to stock on hand.) 

Wife Wrap Board 

Do your own wire wrap prototyping with the WWD 
Wire Wrap Board. Up to 62 1 6-pin sockets or various 
combinations of 14, 16, 24 and 40-pin sockets. $40. 

EXB Extender Board 

The EXB Extender Board allows accessibility in servicing 
any 8080-compatible module. $35. 

*Fully descriptive Owner's Manual available 
separately. Price refundable with purchase of kit. 



OnThe 8080 Bus? 

products from Processor Technology. 




Whether your minicomputer system 
is Sol, IMSAI, or Altai r, its rea 
capabilities depend on what 
goes inside. Processor Tech- 
nology Corp. now offers a 
full line of 8080-compat- 
ible components. From 
fine static memories 
to a unique assem 
bly language 
operating 
system. We 
also have a 
variety of 
useful 
software 
packages, 
available 
for little 
more 
than 
copying 
costs. 

Kit Prices 

are shown, 
and they 
include the 
Owner's Manual. 

Assembled units 
available at slightly 
higher prices. 



Write Us for further details on all our 
8080-compatible products, and for fhe 
dealer nearest you. 





Technology 



6200-V Hollis Street 
Emeryville, CA 94608 



Build This Mathematical Function Unit 



Part I: Hardware 



R Scott Guthrie 
1374 FrancherePI 
Sunnyvale CA 94087 



Why Use a Calculator? 

The small computer system designers and 
computer hobbyists have a wide variety of 8 
bit, 12 and 16 bit microprocessors to choose 
among for their design problems. Most of 
these units are capable of performing binary 
fixed point arithmetic. However, there are 
many applications which require floating 
point arithmetic operations with greater 
precision and extended mathematical func- 
tions. Sophisticated software routines or 
complicated hardware must usually be de- 
veloped and debugged in order to achieve 
these goals. However, without undue compli- 
cation the floating point arithmetic func- 

Figure 1: Mathematical Function Unit System Block Diagram. The Mathe- 
matical Function Unit accepts inputs from the computer at the left, simulates 
keystroke inputs to the calculator, and decodes BCD outputs which can be 
read by the computer. The result of connecting this peripheral to your 
microprocessor is a multiprocessor computer system, for the calculator chip is 
nothing but a form of microcomputer which comes with a fixed program load 
needed to perform mathematical and arithmetic operations. 



tions can be achieved through the use of the 
existing hardware found in calculator chips. 

The more sophisticated calculator chips 
are capable of trigonometric, logarithmic 
and other special functions as well as the 
standard add, subtract, multiply and divide 
capabilities and can be easily interfaced to 
microcomputer systems. 

My objective with this project was to 
develop a method of interfacing a calculator 
chip to a microcomputer, thus relieving the 
problems of writing the software for arith- 
metic and mathematical operations. This 
two part article describes how you can 
combine the calculator's hardware with a 
conventional 8 bit microcomputer. The re- 
sult is a multiprocessor system: the micro- 
computer and its ROM programmed calcu- 
lator slave. 

Hardware 

The Mathematical Function Unit is built 
of standard TTL, MOS, and CMOS logic 
components, and uses TTL compatible input 



FROM 
COMPUTER 
OUTPUT 
PORT 



V IN/OUT LINE 



C5 



INPUT 
CODE 
LATCH 



i_£ 



4 TO 16 
DECODER 



u. 



2 TO 4 
DECODER 



DIGIT 
COUNT 

z 



SOLID 
STATE 
SWITCH 
NET- 
WORK 



— DATA LINES 

— CONTROL LINES 

-» DIRECTION OF SIGNAL 



DIGIT 
SELECTOR 



MOS 

TECHNOLOGY 

INC. 



MPS 7529- 
103 



READY LINE 



-*>R -\ 



LATCH CONTROL 



7 SEG. 
TO 
BCD 



CALCULATOR 
CHIP 



BCD 



TO 

COMPUTER 
) INF 









i 


p 

S,0. 






p 
s. 

0. 






DECODE 


RS 



>B2 

>B3{ INPUT 
PORT 

l P 
' S 
> O 



26 



Figure 2: Memory formats of the Mathematical Function Unit data. When transferring data 
from the calculator to the microprocessor's main memory, one byte at a time is read, starting 
with the algebraic sign. A natural way to store the coded numbers read is in the form of 12 
bytes in ascending order in the address space of your computer. Each byte's low order nybble is 
a BCD number in the magnitude positions (Xs or Ys in the figure). The high order portion of 
each byte contains the content of the decimal point, sign and overflow bit lines at the time the 
byte is read from the calculator. For output to the Mathematical Function Unit, the low order 
bits of a byte are used to drive the 6 key selection lines CO to C5. 



± 


X X X X X x,x X 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 


+ 


Y Y 



4 5 



Contents 

Address offset 
(hexadecimal) 



■ Magnitude of exponent 
-Sign of exponent 
-Magnitude of number 
-Algebraic sign of number 



and output lines. Although not shown in the 
schematic diagrams, my version included an 
internal power supply, so the connections to 
the microcomputer are limited to signal and 
ground lines. Any 8, 12, or 16 bit machine's 
input and output ports can potentially be 
used with this interface. 

The basic operations of the Mathematical 
Function Unit consist of the input of a code 
to be interpreted as a "function desired," 
the processing or calculating required to 
perform that "function," the decoding and 
output of the result, and the internal timing 
needed for control. 

The functional block diagram of figure 1 
shows how these sections are related, and 
provides a basic knowledge of the internal 
operation of the Mathematical Function 
Unit. 

Input Section 

The input to the Mathematical Function 
Unit from an external device such as a 
microprocessor consists of 8 lines from an 
output port of that device. These lines are 
labeled X, Y, Cq, C-j, C2, C3, C4 and C5. 
The input section stores the new data 
supplied, and decodes this to the "function 
desired." See table 1 for a complete list of 
the functions and their codes. The function 
is applied to the calculator chip in the form 
of the correct "pushed button." (Since this 
is all done electronically, the pushing of 
buttons is simulated using solid state 
switches, and no push buttons really exist.) 

The X line is used to distinguish new data 
from old. As this line is raised from logic 
level to 1, the data on lines Cq to C5 is 



Byte Format: Calculator Outputs 



R 


O 


P 


S 


B3 B2 B1 BO 

I I I 



7 6 5 4 3 2 1 



Wired to MFU pin 



BCD digit 
-Sign bit 

-Decimal point bit 
-Overflow bit 
-Ready Bit 



Byte Format: Calculator Inputs 



C5 C4 C3 C2 C1 



X Y 



5 4 3 2 1 




CO Wired to MFU pin 



Calculator function code 
see table 1) 

Calculator Control 



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

I would like to thank J C 
Hertsch of MOS Technology, 
Inc. for his assistance by sup- 
plying information and dona- 
ting the calculator chip used in 
this project, which was carried 
out under the auspices of 
California Polytechnic State 
University, San Luis Obispo. 



27 



Figure 3: Schematic Diagram of the Mathematical Function Unit. A total of 25 integrated circuits is required to accomplish the 
floating point and mathematical functions of a scientific calculator. 



2 TTL 
LOADS 



7 TTL 
LOADS 



2 TTL 
LOADS 
PER 
LINE 



Integrated Circuit Summary 


(or Figure 3 




■ 


Typ« 


Pim 


+5 V 


♦ 7.5 V 


GND 


ICl 


74123 


16 


16 




8 


IC2 


7402 


14 


14 




7 


IC3 


7475 


16 


5 




12 


IC4 


7475 


16 


5 




12 


IC5 


74155 


16 


16 




8 


IC6 


74154 


24 


24 




12 


IC7 


7405 


14 


14 




7 


IC8 


7406 


14 


14 




7 


IC9 


7406 


14 


14 




7 


ICIO 


7492 


14 


5 




10 


IC11 


MM5616 


14 




14 


7 


IC12 


MM5616 


14 




14 


7 


ICl 3 


MM5616 


14 




14 


7 


IC14 


MM5616 


14 




14 


7 


IC15 


MM5610 


16 


1 


16 


8 


IC16 


MM5610 


16 


1 


16 


8 


IC17 


74150 


74 


24 




12 


IC18 


MPS7529-103 


28 




28 


5 


ICl 9 


74123 


16 


16 




8 


IC20 


7402 


14 


14 




7 


IC21 


7404 


14 


14 




7 


IC22 


7400 


14 


14 




7 


IC23 


7400 


14 


14 




7 


IC24 


7402 


14 


14 




7 


IC25 


7410 


14 


14 




7 


IC26 


7400 


14 


14 




7 


IC27 


MM5610 


16 


1 


16 


8 


IC2B 


MM5610 


16 


1 


16 


8 


IC29 


7476 


16 


5 




12 


IC30 


7475 


16 


5 




12 




R22-29 

4.7K.I/IW 



accepted as new information, and gated into 
the input buffer. After this data has been 
accepted, the data on the C lines is ignored 
until the next X line transition from to 1. 

Trvs Y line is used to determine whether 
an input or an output of information is to be 
performed by the Mathematical Function 
Unit. A logic 1 on this line indicates an input 
operation, while a logic indicates that an 
output of information is to occur. 

Input lines Cq through C5 are used to 
convey the codes for the different functions 
from the controlling device to the MFU 
input circuitry. A unique combination of 
and 1 levels on these lines at input time is 
taken as a "key pressed" code. It may be 



noted that 64 total combinations are pos- 
sible with these 6 input lines; however, only 
40 combinations are used, with the other 24 
codes being invalid. These C lines are not 
used during the output state of the Mathe- 
matical Function Unit, when Y is low. 

Processing Section 

The processing of the required function is 
done by a large scale integration single chip, 
40 key scientific calculator array, (MPS 
7529-103) made by MOS Technology, Inc. 
This calculator chip has roughly the same set 
of available functions as some of the more 
sophisticated non programmable hand held 
calculators on the market today. When used 



28 



IC2IB 
7404 



-pcA- 



MM3EI0 
7 SECTIONS 
(SEE NOTE I) 



IC27 
IC2B 



+ 5V C4 6 - 8 / iF +5V 

T [-)(— ♦ f£ w» * 

|S 1 14 



R7 RB 

15 20K 10K 

TRIM 



CLR 

ICI9A 
74123 



22D b— 



7402 'T-SIOpF 



1 y 7400 



" 7400 



r^OE)^ 



liE>- : 



III N 



7402 



't$™y 



*- s \ — v* 

10 "cVj- 




IC2IE 
7404 

lf^- IC 



12, J 400 ' 1 V B 



IC2IA 
7404 



7402 j 

J ZtOo^ 1 Ih 



IC29 
7475 



IC30 
7475 



OUTPUTS TO 
COMPUTER 



<T 



R READY 






OVERFLOW 
P DECIMAL POINT 



-4 

<T> 



I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 



S SIGN 
BO 



<t" 



in the Mathematical Function Unit with the 
proper hardware and software, your micro- 
processor system can outperform the best of 
them. 

Some of the operating features of the 
MPS 7529-1 03 calculator chip include: 

• Number entry in floating point or 
scientific notation. 

• Automatic selection of correct nota- 
tion for result (scientific or floating 
point). 

• Algebraic problem entry. 

• Two levels of parenthesis. 

• Full chain calculation with any func- 
tion sequence. 



The functional features include: 
• Basic arithmetic (+,—,*,/) 



Note 1: The pin connections for buffers using 7406 and MM5610 integrated circuits 
are not shown in detail on the diagram. They are shown in terms of "a" (input) and "b" 
(output) pins. The connections are as follows: 


7406, six sections per package 




MM5610, 


six sections 


per 


package 


Section "a" pin ' 


'b" pin 




Section 




"a" pin 




b" pin 


A 1 
B 3 
C 5 
D 9 
E 11 
F 13 


2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 




A 
B 
C 
D 

E 
F 




3 
5 
7 
9 
11 
14 




2 

4 

6 

10 

12 

15 

. 



29 







INPUT TO MFU 
(ONE KEY ONLY) 


X 




STATE IRRELEVANT 




Y 






STATE IRRELEVANT 


LAI CH 
INPUT 
DATA 

SET 
NOT 
»p/\r>Y 


ACTIVE LOW 


























KEY PRESSED 
LINE 
















KEY RELEASED 
LINE 














1 


Sh 1 
READY 


1 












1 


MFU 
BUSY 










I 




1 



TO Tl 



T4 



Tf 



Figure 4: Mathematical Function Unit input timing sequence. This diagram 
shows typical relative timing of several signals during an input operation: 

• Tg is the time of an X line transition from to 1. 

• T] is 1.5 fjs after Tq. The data must be stable from Tq until after Tj. 

• 7"2 Is 300 /us after Tq. At this time, the ready flip flop is reset. 

• Tj is 50 ms after Tq. At this time, key pressed is reset, key released 

is set. 

• 7^ is 100 ms after Tq. At this time, key released is reset. 

• Tf is the delay until the calculator is again ready. The actual time 

interval depends upon the calculator function selected. 







OUTPUT FROM MFU 
(ONE DIGIT ONLY) 


X 
Y 




STATE IRRELEVANT 
LOW ALWAYS 


LATCH 






INPUT 
DATA 




HIGH 


ALWAYS— DATA IGNORED 


SET 
NOT 








READY 

KFY PRFS^FP 


INACTIVE 


LINE 
KEY RELEASED 






INACTIVE 


LINE 






1 


SET 
READY 










J 


MFU 
BUSY 






1 




1 



T2 



Figure 5: Mathematical Function Unit output timing sequence. This diagram 
shows typical relative timing of several signals during an output operation: 

• Tq is the time of an X line transition from Otol. 

• Tj is shown to indicate that no data latch pulse occurs in this mode. 

• 7j> Is 300 us after Tq. At this time, the ready flip flop is reset. 

• Tf is the delay until the calculator is ready again, the maximum time 

before a digit is available in the output buffers. 



• Trig functions (sine, cosine, tangent) 

• Inverse trig functions (arc sine, arc 
cosine, arc tangent) 

• Logarithms (Ln, Log) 

• Anti-logarithms (e x , and 10 x ) 

• Exponentiation (Y x ) 

• Factorials (N!) _ 

• Convenience Functions (1/X, X ,VX, 
Pi) 

• Full feature memory (store, recall, 
sum) 

• Exchange operation (X **• Y) 

• Degree or radian selection for trig 
functions 

• Automatic error detection 

• Clearing operations (clear entry, clear 
all) 

The calculation range includes positive or 
negative numbers with absolute values be- 
tween 1X10,-" and 9.999999X1 99 . Any 
number in this range may be entered and all 
results must fall within this range or an 
overflow will be indicated. 

The output format of the calculator chip 
consists of 12 digit positions organized as 
shown in figure 2. Each output digit oc- 
cupies one byte of memory when the micro- 
processor reads information from the Mathe- 
matical Function Unit. 

The expected decimal point will be indi- 
cated in one of the digit locations 1 through 
8, and a decimal point will be indicated in 
digit location if the calculator chip's 
degree radian mode has been set to the 
radian mode. 



Output Section 

The output section of the Mathematical 
Function Unit is connected to the control- 
ling processor through 8 output lines to an 8 
bit input port. The output section is respon- 
sible for the decoding of the data supplied 
by the calculator chip after the required 
actions have been completed. The output 
section also generates the correct sequence 
for information presented to the controlling 
computer. 

A handshaking signal is provided by the 
ready (R) line. This line is at a logic 1 level 
when the Mathematical Function Unit is not 
performing any input output or calculation 
operations. This line is used as a signal to the 
controlling computer as to the status of the 
slave. The ready line could be used to 
generate an interrupt upon completion of 
the calculations, or it could be connected 
directly to an input port line which would 
be polled until the Mathematical Function 
Unit has set it high indicating completion of 
its tasks. 



30 



The other 7 lines are data lines to the 
controlling computer and contain the infor- 
mation normally seen on the display of a 
calculator. The B lines contain one BCD 
digit of the normally displayed number, 
while the (overflow), S (sign), P (decimal 
point) lines contain other necessary informa- 
tion. 

The unit is designed to output one digit 
per request, where a request consists of a 
transition from a logic to a 1 on input X 
line while input Y line is held at a logic 
level. This means that only one digit is 
transferred at a time, slowing down the 
maximum speed of the system. This greatly 
simplifies both the supporting hardware and 
software handling of the 12 digits of the 
"displayed" number which is sent to the 
computer. 

These 12 digits are generally loaded into 
the controlling computer's main memory in 
12 sequential locations. This leads to the 
question of using a direct memory access 
operation to transfer this data. Due to the 
small amount of data (12 bytes), the calcu- 
lator chip's slow speed, and the added 
hardware required, using direct memory 
access for the loading of the generated 
information would probably not be 
efficient. 

The overflow line is high (logic 1) if the 
digit displayed exceeds the capacity of the 
calculator chip. The sign line is high if the 
digit position contains a negative sign, at 
which time the B lines are invalid. The 
decimal point line is high if a decimal point 
accompanies the digit on the BCD lines, and 
positionally goes to the right of the digit. 

The output of the calculator chip is in 
seven segment notation and the decoding of 
•this to the MFU's output format of BCD is 
done by ICs 20b, 21c and e, 22b and c, 23, 
24, 25, and 26c, as shown in the schematic 
diagram of figure 3. This decoder circuit 



Table 1. Hexadecimal Codes for the Mathematical Function Unit operations. 
The low order six bits of an 8 bit byte determine the function presented to 
the Mathematical Function Unit according to this table. On hand calculators, 
these functions correspond to the mnemonics of the keytops. A simple 
"program" for the calculator would be a string of bytes sent one by one with 
meaningful selection of these operation codes, followed by reading the 
outputs, formatting them and displaying them on a TV typewriter or 
Teletype. 



Hex Code 

00 

01 

02 

03 

04 

05 

06 

07 

08 

09 

0A 

0B 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

1A 

1B 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

2A 

2B 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 



Function 

Zero (0) 

One (1) 

Two (2) 

Three (3) 

Four (4) 

Five (5) 

Six (6) 

Seven (7) 

Eight (8) 

Nine (9) 

Arc Function 

Display Restore 

Decimal Point 

Add 

Subtract 

Multiply 

Divide 

Y to the X power 

Equals 

Left Parenthesis 

Right Parenthesis 

PI (3.1415927) 

Change Sign 

Enter Exponent 

Sine 

Cosine 

Tangent 

Natural Log (In) 

Log (base 10) 

Square Root 

Recall From Memory 

Add to Memory 

Swap X with Y 

Degree — Radians 

Store in Memory 

Clear Entry - Clear All 

1/X Inverse 

X2 

10 x 

e x 

N! Factorial 



(AM other Hex codes are invalid) 



















n n n 






























R i 

0l 

P ' 

S < 

BOi 

Bl ' 

B2' 

83' 


■=■0" " c = 1 - 


13 


R F 

5 ( 


R 
i 7 


If 


\ \K 


1 C 13 


IC 
27 


CI4 

n 




. -C3-.. -I+ \- 






5' 


r\c 






\\ 








LI | IC22 | 


| IC 20 


X 


IC2-| | 


IC 1 


IC 


18 






IC 
29 












Y 




»« i. I 


ijc, 


2 


lC5 
'C4 
'C3 


IC 
3 


1 


IC 
5 




W 

1 




IC 

7 




IC 
II 










IC 
28 












[ IC 23 1 


1 IC25 




_ 
















fl 1 ™ .- 1 




' CHE 








1. '<- lb 1 


C2 






IC 
8 




IC 
12 


C 9 


y 










IC 

30 


'CI 
'CO 

• 


IC 

4 




IC 
6 




CIO 


|.IC2I | 


|. IC26 


















DC7 




IC 17 








IC 
9 




IC 
13 




(3 


N 




GND 




IC 
10 




') l.'C24 | 


A © 
















|,RP2 


J 1 








C 14 


] 





















































Figure 6: Parts placement 
in the author's prototype 
of the Mathematical Func- 
tion Unit. The unit was 
constructed on a piece of 
Vector P pattern Vector- 
board (.1 inch grid, 2.54 
mm grid) as depicted in 
photo I, with this layout. 



31 




Photo 1 : The physical assembly of the prototype Mathematical Function 
Unit. A multiple conductor ribbon cable is used to route ground and signal 
information to the microprocessor system which drives the Mathematical 
Function Unit through a parallel 10 port. A separate power supply (not 
shown in the schematics of this article) was built into the box. 

interprets a blanked digit position as a zero, 
so all digit positions contain a digit, overflow 
symbol, or negative sign with decimal points 
included when applicable. 

Timing and Control 

The basic timing and control problem for 
the Mathematical Function Unit is to pre- 
vent the external device from overrunning 
the unit with information, holding signals 
for the required length of time, controlling 
the input and output buffers, and control- 
ling the ready flip flop used for handshaking. 

The timing pulses are generated by a 
series of monostable multivibrators, and the 
ready flip flop is made of NOR Gates, IC 2a, 
and 2b in figure 3. 

A transition from a logic to a logic 1 
level on the X input line is responsible for 



initiating both the input and output se- 
quences. These two sequences are deter- 
mined by the state of the Y input line, 
where a 1 signifies the input procedure, 
while a logic means an output of informa- 
tion is to be performed. 

Input Timing Sequence 

The normal environment of the calculator 
chip is in a hand held calculator with a 
human operator pushing the buttons. This 
allows the calculator enough time to scan 
the keyboard several times, determining 
whether a key is being pressed, or if a noise 
spike on the line caused an unwanted pulse 
during a couple of scan times. This is the 
method used by many calculator chips for 
debouncing the push buttons used. The 
calculator chip used in this project requires 
about 40 ms for a pressed key to be 
recognized. (About 7 keyboard scan times.) 
This 40 ms delay is virtually impossible for a 
human hand to beat, assuring a key will be 
recognized every time a button is pushed. 
There is always going to be a sufficient delay 
between different key pressings due to the 



Note: The author and two friends have gotten together in order to make a printed circuit 
board available for this design. The product is a two layer board with plated through 
holes, and is designed to be compatible with the Altair 8800 or IMSAI computers, 
interfacing through an 10 port. The price is quoted as $24.95 plus $1.23 for postage and 
handling. California residents please add 6% sales tax. Write RSG Electronics, PO Box 13, 
Santa Margarita CA 93453. (Price is subject to change without notice.) 



32 



slow human controller; however, all of these 
delay times do not necessarily hold true 
when interfacing with a much faster control- 
ling device, such as a microcomputer. This 
requires that a timing network be imple- 
mented to insure that the calculator chip 
receives the proper signals in the proper 
sequence, with the proper delays. 

The "key pressed" delay is provided by 
monostable multivibrator, IC lb, and is 
adjustable by R6. When this 40 to 50 ms 
delay is completed, IC 19a, also a mono- 
stable multivibrator, is triggered as a "key 
released" delay providing the system with a 
short delay between key pressings. These 
two delays form the minimum time required 
for the Mathematical Function Unit to 
become ready for the next sequence; how- 
ever, for some of the more time consuming 
functions such as the trigonometric, factorial 
and logarithmic functions, the calculator 
would not be finished after the two delays 
had passed. To insure calculations are com- 
pleted before setting the Mathematical Func- 
tion Unit state to "Ready," both delays 
must be completed and a decimal point be 
sensed by the output circuitry. Since a 
decimal point is the only character present 
in all output displays, and is not present 
until all calculations are complete, sensing 
the decimal point indicates end of calcula- 
tion. (The gates used for detection of the 
decimal include 20a, 21a and b, 22a and d, 
and 26a and b in figure 3.) When these 
requirements are met, a condition is placed 
on the ready flip flop, setting it to the 
"Ready" state. The timing signals for the 
input sequence are shown in figure 4. 

The length of the delay between T4 and 
Tf (of input routine; see figure 4) will 
depend on how the calculator chip's internal 
scan timing coincides with the surrounding 
hardware. For the 7529-103 calculator chip 
used in this project, this delay will not 
exceed 3.3 ms after the calculations or 
required actions are complete. 

Output Timing Sequence 

The output sequence is specified by 
placing a logic level on the Y input line. 
This low level inhibits the operation of the 
key pressed and key released delays which 
are not needed for output. The X line 
transitions are used to clock a counter, IC 
10, which with IC 17 selects the next digit 
to be placed in the output buffers. This digit 
is decoded as previously mentioned, and 
latched in the buffers while the ready flip 
flop is set to "Ready." 

The next digit is found by pulsing the X 
line again while keeping the Y line low. The 



Y line must be kept low during the entire 
output procedure since a high state on this 
line resets the counter, which will then point 
to the first digit again. 

A pictorial description of the output 
timing signals is shown as figure 5. 

The length of the delay between T2 and 
Tf will depend on how the calculator chip's 
internal scan timing coincides with the 
surrounding hardware. This delay will not 
exceed 3.3 ms for the calculator chip used in 
this project. 

TTL -MOS -TTL Interface 

The power requirements for the Mathe- 
matical Function Unit are 5 volts at approx- 
imately 0.5 Amps, and 7.5 volts at close to 
200 mA. The 5 volt supply is used for all 
TTL gates, and the 7.5 volts is used to 
operate the MOS calculator chip. The signal 
levels are buffered and adjusted from the 
TTL input levels to 7.5 volts through the 
open collector, high voltage output inverters 
ICs 7, 8 and 9, using 10 k ohm pull-up 
resistors in the two resistor packs connected 
to the 7.5 volt supply. 

These higher voltage signals are applied to 
the switch matrix made from CMOS Quad 
Bilateral Switches (ICs 11-14) operating at 
that higher voltage. The signals are then 
directly compatible with the calculator chip 
used. 

The signals coming from the calculator 
chip to the output circuitry are buffered to 
the 5 volt level through the use of CMOS 
Hex Non-inverting Buffers, ICs 15, 16, 27 
and 28. 

Construction 

The Mathematical Function Unit is con- 
structed on an 1 1 by 4 inch (27.94 by 1 0.1 6 
cm) piece of Vectorboard with all wiring 
done point to point. A parts placement 
diagram with all of the visible parts, with 
numbers referencing figure 3, is found in 
figure 6. The two 24 pin multiplexors and 
the 28 pin MOS Calculator Chip are placed 
in sockets. Photo 1 shows the hardware 
mounted in its case; refer to figure 6 to 
identify components. 

The main component board is bolted in a 
13 by 5 by 3 inch (33.02 by 12.7 by 7.62 
cm) aluminum chassis with a piece of clear 
plexiglas on the top. Contained also in this 
chassis are the simple 5 volt and 7.5 volt 
power supplies for the unit, with the 5 volt 
regulator, power switch and the IO data line 
connector mounted on the rear of the box. 
The "Ready" indicator is mounted on the 
front panel, indicating the state of the 
Mathematical Function Unit." 



In part 2 of his article, 
which will be published 
next month, you'll find 
details of the software 
needed to drive this calcu- 
lator interface from an 
Intel 8080 based computer 
system . . . . CH 



33 




c °£« ess 

from 
texasl nst 



MftMriNHpM^M 



MMHM 



New. The complete 

microprocessor learning system. 

Ready -to -use. Economical. User -paced. 

Introducing three new add-ons for TFs basic 
Microprogrammer Learning Module. 



Microprocessors. Now they're sim- 
pler to understand, easier to cope 
with, because of TI's complete new 
microprocessor learning system. 

It's modular... consists of four, 
portable components: the basic 
LCM 1001 Microprogrammer 
Learning- Module and three new 
add-ons: Controller. Memory. And 
Input/Output. 

It's a down-to-fundamentals 
system for getting "hands on" ex- 
perience with microprocessors. It 
focuses your attention on learning 
microprocessor concepts — not on 
individual products. You progress 
from module to module in a logical 
sequence. 

Each module is self-contained. 

Complete and ready-to-use. No kits 
to assemble. Nothing to build. Each 
has its own battery/charger power 
system. Each has its own instruc- 
tion manual. 

Microprogrammer Module 

This is the one you start with. The 

basic building block (LCM-1001). It 
demonstrates the most fundamen- 
tal level of microprocessor opera- 
tion: Single-clock-step microin- 
struction. It contains a 4-bit static 
parallel processor with manual 
switch inputs, VLED monitors, and 
pushbutton manual clock. A 40-pin 
socket lets you link up with the 
controller. $i 49.95* 

Controller Module 

Add the LCM-1002 Controller 
Module. Progress from micro to 
macro level programming. Learn 
instruction set development and 
microcomputer architecture. Use 
the Controller with RAM or addi- 
tional program memory — 12 basic 
instructions are programmed into 
the PROM (which may be rede- 
fined). Using these, write your own 
programs. Or, expand the instruc- 
tion set and customize the system 
to your needs using the blank loca- 
tions you define yourself. $189.95.* 



Memory Module 

Add an LCM-1003 Memory Mod- 
ule to the Controller. Now you're 
into fully automated digital system 
operation. The read/write memory 
is configured as a IK word by 12-bit 
structure, for both data and pro- 
gram storage. Switches are pro- 
vided for manual loading. The 
memory automatically increments 
the address. This feature spares 
you the tedium of cycling the 
entire memory when loading or 
changing memory. $189.95.* 

Input/Output Module 

With the final module, you're in 
contact with the outside world. 

There are four 4-bit input ports 
and four 4-bit output ports with 
buffers for data transfer synchron- 
ization. Operate the ports inde- 
pendently, or in conjunction with 
each other. For example, two ports 
can recognize an 8-bit code ap- 
proach. $109.95* 

Building-block System. 

This approach to microprocessor 
self-instruction is sensible and 
economical — add another module 
when you're ready to learn more. 

To order your Microprocessor 
Learning Modules, call your near- 
est TI distributor. Use the coupon 
to get a detailed brochure. 

n 



New, authoritative 

book on microprocessor 

software design. 

Only $12.95.* 

A working knowledge of micro- 
processor software is essential. 
Acquiring such knowledge is 
now simplified with Software 
Design for Microprocessors. 

Helps you fully understand 
basic microprocessor machine 
code and assembly language. 
Suitable for non-technical pro- 
fessionals as well as the techni- 
cally trained. 

In 500 pages are the graphs, 
tables and data needed to learn 
the language, special terms, and 
the underlying concepts that 
lead to understanding the com- 
plex facets of microprocessor 
software. The text concludes 
with four fully-worked examples 
for "real world" situations. 

Use the coupon below to order 
your copy. 



* Manufacturer's suggested list price. 
Subject to change without notice. 



To: Texas Instruments Incorporated 

Mail checks and money orders to: P.O. Box 3640, M/S 84. Dallas. Texas 75285 
Postage paid. Add state and local taxes where applicable. I 

Mail company purchase orders to: P.O. Box 5012. M/S 84. Dallas, Texas 75222 
Postage and taxes will be added to your invoice. 

Please send me 

Z more information on theTI Microprocessor Learning Modules. 

Copies of Soltware Design lor Microprocessors @ $12.95" ea. 

I enclose □ check [ i money order for $ 




i€ARnmG 
ccrvreft 



I 



TitfP 




Firm 








City RtatP 7ip 

"Subject to change without notice 

tAL.AZ, CA. C0.CT. FL, GA, IA, IL, IN. KY, MA, MD. Ml, MN, M0, NC, NJ, NM, NY, OH. PA, TN, TX, UT, VA, WA, Wl. 


B-7 



<ri 1976 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
13500 North Central Expressway 
Dallas, Texas 



Texas Instruments 



INCORPORATED 



61002 



Randomize Your Programming 



Robert Grappel 
148 Wood St 
Lexington MA 02173 



Computers are supposed to produce pre- 
dictable results; when a program acts un- 
predictably, it is usually time for head- 
scratching and debugging. There are times, 
however, when unpredictability is exactly 
what the programmer wants. A class of 
examples is the simulation of games with a 
chance element. How can a computer 
simulate a coin toss or the throw of a die or 
the picking of a card? In each of these cases, 
the application requires a value within set 
limits which is unpredictable in its sequence. 

As a second class of examples, suppose 
one wants to test a program or piece of 
hardware with random data. How can a 
microcomputer generate the appropriate 
numbers? In this case, it would be nice to be 
able to repeat the sequence of values at will, 



so that any errors that are found can be 
repeatedly tested. 

This article describes simple programs 
which can provide the capability of generat- 
ing appropriate sequences. The programs 
are written for the Motorola 6800 processor, 
but are simple enough that conversion to 
other instruction sets should pose no major 
problem. 

Pseudorandom Sequences 

To be precise, the programs described in 
this article generate "pseudorandom" se- 
quences. These are sequences which give 
each value in the range of the sequence 
(except the value 0, which will be discussed 
later) exactly once before the sequence 
repeats. Given the starting value, the se- 



Llsting 1: The "RANDOM" subroutine specified in the symbolic assembly language of the 
Motorola 6800 processor, along with hexadecimal machine code. The origin was set arbitrarily 
to address 1000 for this assembly, but any other address could be used without change since all 
branches use relative addressing and data is passed to RANDOM via a pointer in the index 
register. 



Commentary 
load A from random byte source; 
if random byte not zero then proceed; 
else force non zero state A = 1 ; 
begin exclusive OR procedure; 
mask out feedback bits; 
if no feedback then exit without setting bit; 
loop to find a set feedback bit; 
if not set then reiterate; 
is there more than one feedback bit? 
if not then shift in a new bit; 
shift without setting bit; 
restore pseudorandom value to argument; 
return to the caller; 
shift and set bit; 

increment pseudorandom number value; 
restore pseudorandom value to argument; 
return to the caller; 



ine 


Addr 


Hex Code 


Label 


Op 


Operand 


1 


1000 


A6 


00 


RANDOM 


LDAA 


o,x 


2 


1002 


26 


01 




BNE 


NOTO 


3 


1004 


4C 






INCA 




4 


1005 


16 




NOTO 


TAB 




5 


1006 


C4 


8E 




ANDB 


#$8E 


6 


1008 


27 


06 




BEQ 


SKIP 


7 


100A 


58 




SHIFT 


ASLB 




8 


100B 


24 


FD 




BCC 


SHIFT 


9 


100D 


5D 






TSTB 




10 


100E 


27 


04 




BEQ 


EXOR 


11 


1010 


48 




SKIP 


AS LA 




12 


1011 


A7 


00 




STAA 


o,x 


13 


1013 


39 






RTS 




14 


1014 


48 




EXOR 


AS LA 




15 


1015 


4C 






INCA 




16 


1016 


A7 


00 




STAA 


0,X 


17 


1018 


39 






RTS 





36 



quence is fixed. If the sequence is long 
enough, however, the result is an apparently 
random sequence. For example, the se- 
quence based on four bit values is: 

1,2,4,9,3,6,13,10,5,11,7,15,14,12,8.... 

This looks random when only two or three 
values are considered. A longer sequence can 
be chosen and only a portion of each value 
used. This will heighten the apparent ran- 
domness of the sequence. 

Pseudorandom sequences are usually gen- 
erated in hardware through the use of a shift 
register and feedback from certain stages of 
the register through an exclusive OR gate to 
the beginning of the register. This hardware 
configuration is easily simulated in software, 
and such a program is shown as the sub- 
routine RANDOM found in listing 1. The 
origin of the subroutine was chosen to be 
hexadecimal 1000 for no especially strong 
reason. Any other origin would work as well 
since all branches within RANDOM use 
relative addressing, RANDOM generates 
eight bit values, and the sequence is 255 
values in length. It is designed to be called 
with the address of a byte in which the 
random value is to be generated located in 
the index register. If the same sequence is 
desired every time, this byte should be 
initialized to a fixed value such as zero. If 
the byte is not initialized, the sequence will 
be based on prior memory content and 
therefore unpredictable. 

Random Logic 

RANDOM begins by loading an accumu- 
lator with the present value of the random 
byte accessed via the index register of the 



Table I: Properties of Pseudorandom Generators. 



iges 


Period 


Feedback Bits 


Mask 


2 


3 


1,2 


03 


3 


7 


2,3 


06 


4 


15 


3,4 


OC 


5 


31 


3,5 


14 


6 


63 


5,6 


30 


7 


127 


6,7 


60 


8 


255 


2,3,4,8 


8E 


9 


511 


5,9 


0110 


10 


1023 


7,10 


0240 


11 


2047 


9,11 


0500 


12 


4095 


2,10,11,12 


0E02 


13 


8191 


1,11,12,13 


1001 


14 


16383 


2,12,13,14 


3802 


15 


32767 


14,15 


6000 


16 


65535 


11,13,14,16 


8400 



6800. The value zero is illegal here, because 
the sequence will not set any bits in the byte 
if all bits ever go to zero simultaneously. 
This case is eliminated by the increment 
instruction, line 3, which sets the byte to 1 
if it ever gets to be zero. The accumulator is 
being used as an eight bit shift register. The 
appropriate feedback loop must be 
simulated. This is done by the instructions 
between NOTO and SKIP. The feedback 
loop is an exclusive OR function of certain 
bits. The AND instruction chooses the bits 
to be exclusive ORed. The exclusive OR 
function is true, if and only if exactly one of 
its inputs is true. Hence, if the AND leaves 
no bits set, the exclusive OR is false. If at 
least one bit is set, the SHIFT loop is 
entered. This loop shifts the feedback bits 
left until one has moved out of the left of 
the accumulator and into the carry flag. The 
contents of the accumulator are again tested. 
If the bit that was shifted to the carry was 



Listing 2: Using the RANDOM routine to generate a 16 bit pseudorandom number. This 
extension is obtained by calling RANDOM once for each byte of a 16 bit number. The origin 
used here is arbitrarily chosen as hexadecimal 2000. 



Line 


Addr 


Hex Code 


Label 


Op 


Operand 


1 


2000 


00 00 


RAND2 


RMB 


2 


2 


2002 


CE 20 00 


RND16BIT 


LDX 


#RAND2 


3 


2005 


BD 10 00 




JSR 


RANDOM 


4 


2008 


A6 00 




LDAA 


o,x 


5 


200A 


08 




INX 




6 


200B 


85 01 




BITA 


#1 


7 


200D 


27 03 




BEQ 


RETRND 


8 


200F 


BD 10 00 




JSR 


RANDOM 


9 


2012 


39 


RETRND 


RTS 





Commentary 

reserve two bytes for 16 bit key; 

point index at 16 bit random number; 

calculate high order 8 bit part; 

get high order part to A; 

point to loyw order part of 16 bit number; 

should carry be propagated down? 

if not then skip low order randomizer; 

calculate low order 8 bit part; 

return with new 16 bit number in RAND2; 



37 



Listing 3: The "DICE" program specified in the symbolic assembly language of the Motorola 
6800 processor, along with hexadecimal machine code. This subprogram is written to exercise 
the pseudorandom number generator, print the results (or display them) using the OUTHR 
subroutine of the Motorola MIKBUG program. After output, the INEEE subroutine is called to 
wait for a keyboard response before generating another "roll. " An arbitrary starting address is 
used, 2000 hexadecimal, and RANDOM is assumed to start at address WOO hexadecimal. 



Line 


Addr 


Hex Code 


Label 


Op 


Operand 


1 


2000 


00 




DIE 


RMB 


1 


2 


2001 


CE 20 


00 


DICE 


LDX 


#DIE 


3 


2004 


BD 10 00 


ROLL 


JSR 


RANDOM 


4 


2007 


A6 00 






LDAA 


0,X 


5 


2009 


84 OF 






ANDA 


#$0F 


6 


200B 


81 02 






CMPA 


#2 


7 


200D 


2D F5 






BLT 


ROLL 


8 


200F 


81 0C 






CMPA 


#12 


9 


2011 


2E F1 






BGT 


ROLL 


10 


2013 


A6 00 






LDAA 


o,x 


11 


2015 


BD EO 


6B 




JSR 


OUTHR 


12 


2018 


BD E1 


AC 




JSR 


INEEE 


13 


201 B 


20 E4 






BRA 


DICE 



Commentary 

one byte for pseudorandom number seed; 

point index at the random number value; 

go define next random digit; 

move random digit to A; 

force low order value to 1 5; 

is digit less than 2? 

if so then roll again; 

is digit greater than 12? 

if so then roll again; 

move random digit to A for output; 

display using MIKBUG Rev 9 OUTHR 

operator response via MIKBUG Rev9 INEEE 

then restart the program 



the only bit set, then the test for zero is 
passed and the exclusive OR is true. Other- 
wise, there was more than one bit set in the 
feedback loop and the exclusive OR is false. 
If the exclusive OR test was false, then the 
contents of the accumulator are shifted left 
once and the low order bit is left zero. If the 
test was true, then the accumulator is shifted 
and the low order bit is made one. The 
accumulator is restored into the random 
byte and the subroutine returns to the 
program which called it. 

By changing the feedback connections, 
pseudorandom generators of varying periods 
and value size can be made. Table 1 shows 
the feedback points for generators of lengths 
2 to 1 6. The number of stages is the number 
of bits in the shift register, which determines 
the maximum value the pseudorandom num- 
ber will be. The period of the sequence (the 
number of values generated before the se- 
quence repeats) is given by the formula 
2 n — 1, where n is the number of stages. 
RANDOM can generate sequences cor- 
responding to generators of 2 to 8 stages, 
simply by changing the mask value of the 
AND instruction (line 5 in listing 1) to pick 
out the proper bits to exclusive OR. The 
appropriate masks are given in table 1 . 

Longer Sequences 

The eight bit accumulator of the 6800 
processor limits RANDOM to eight stages. A 
more complex program could be written to 
directly generate longer sequences, and for 
those who wish to write such programs, the 
table gives the masks for up to 16 bit 
generators. There is another way to generate 
longer pseudorandom sequences, and that is 
to generate them in smaller sections. 
RAND2 shows a simple way to generate 16 



bit sequences using RANDOM twice (see 
listing 2). The high order byte is generated 
by RANDOM directly. If the byte is even 
(which will be the case half of the time), the 
low order byte is unchanged by this call. If 
the byte is odd, then the low order byte is 
changed by another call to RANDOM. 
Longer sequences yet can be generated by 
extension of the ideas in RAND2. 

Rolling the Die 

An example of a practical use for 
RANDOM is shown in the little test program 
DICE. This program, given in listing 3, 
simulates the tossing of a pair of dice. It uses 
RANDOM to generate pseudorandom values 
between 2 and 12. RANDOM generates an 
eight bit value which is truncated to the low 
order four bits by an AND masking opera- 
tion. If this value is not between 2 and 12, 
the process is repeated. It should be clear 
how to modify DICE to simulate one 
die . . . or two dice, or the flipping of a coin. 
In general, the longer the pseudorandom 
sequence in use, the more apparently 
random the values returned by these rou- 
tines will be. Eight bits should be quite 
adequate for many games of chance. 
Thorough testing of programs or hardware 
might profit from a longer sequence. 

Now, generation of nearly random values 
should no longer be a problem. This 
should ease the job of programmers trying to 
simulate games of chance, and help in other 
areas of simulation, statistical work, and 
testing. These are just about the simplest 
programs which can perform the necessary 
tasks. Try them. And, when your computer 
gives you unpredictable results, you don't 
have to look for the bug. It's your program- 
mable "randomness" generator!" 



38 



Learn to use a microprocessor. 



portable computer /* 
teaches you how. /£' 



J. 



Kimmsara 



£hb^ £££»»! 



fnafKKsass.1. 



Low cost, battery operated 
Intercept Jr. Tutorial 
System instructs you on 
todays most advanced LSI 
semiconductor devices, 
then serves double 
duty as an operating 
solid-state computer! 




ill 



,*i 



Learn microprocessors in hours. 

With its detailed Owner's Handbook, 
Intercept Jr. teaches you basics of micropro- 
cessors, Random Access Memories (RAMs), 
Read Only Memories (ROMs) and input/ 
output interfacing, all in less than 8 hours. 

Contains everything you need. 

Intercept Jr. is a complete all-CMOS 
computer on a 10- by 12-inch board. Con- 
tains batteries, entry keyboard, 8-digit LED 
display, RAM and ROM memory ... all con- 
trolled by an Intersil IM6100 12-bit CMOS 
microprocessor. 

An inexpensive teaching computer. 

For $281.00 you get both the handbook 
and the computer, plus provisions for expan- 
sion with 1024 words of additional memory, 
from 256 to 2048 words of added program, 
and input/output interfacing with terminals. 



G£W #3| j*» 
~~ *~» €3r 



6o 



Send in coupon today. 

Intersil, Inc., 

10900 North Tantau Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 



PRICE 



OTY. 



TOTAL 



□ I'm interested. Send me Intercept $281 .00 $_ 

Jr. Tutorial System complete with 

Owner's Handbook. 

□ I need to know more. Send full FREE 
technical details on Intercept Jr. 

Plug-in Expansion Modules Also Available 

□ RAM Module, with 1024 words of 145.00 _ 

added non-volatile memory. 

□ P/ROM Module, with sockets for 74.65 _ 

256 to 2048 words of program. 

□ I/O Module, for interfacing TTY 81.70 _ 

keyboard/reader and printer/punch. 

(California residents add 6% sales tax.) 



TOTAL PAYMENT DUE 



□ Check enclosed. 

□ Money order enclosed. 

□ Bill me. (Please list Purchase Order, no 

SHIPPING ADDRESS (Please print) 




A BASIC Star Trek Trainer 



Listing 1: The text of the 
Star Trek Trainer, speci- 
fied in BASIC for a Data 
General NOVA. For users 
of other BASIC defini- 
tions, modifications will 
be required, depending 
upon the specification of 
your particular 
implementation. 



10 REM SHIP 1 IS ENTERPRISE, SHIP 2 IS KLINGON BATTLECRUISER. 

20 REM EACH VESSEL REPRESENTED BY 7 NUMBERS IN THE STATE ARRAY S. 

30 REM SO, ) IS FORWARD PHASOR, 1 =OPERATIVE,0 INOP 

40 REM S(2, I REAR PHASOR, 1 OP, INOP. 

50REMSI3, ) PHOTON TORP.;;S(4, ) WARP DRIVE. 

60 REM S(5, I IS DEFLECTOR SHIELD EFFECTIVENESS. 1.TOTALLY EFFECTIVE, 

70 REM MEANS SHIELDS GONE. S(7, I IS DAMAGE COEFFICIENT , A MEASURE OF 

80 REM TOTAL SUSTAINED DAMAGE.SI6, I IS IMPULE ENGINES STATUS 

90 DIM S[7,2] 

100 REM INITIALIZE VARIABLES 

110 FOR 1 = 1 TO 2 

120 FOR J=1 TO 6 

130 LETS[J,I]=1 

140 NEXT J 

150 LET S[7,ll=0 

160 NEXT I 

170 REM GEN RANGE AND BRNG 

180 PRINT "ENTER STARDATE" 

190 INPUT A 

200 LET A2=-ABSIA/1000) 

210 LET R = 1017'RND(A2) 

220 LET B = 180 - RND(A2) 

230 LET 1 = 1 

240 REM ODD MOVES ENTERPRISE'S, EVEN KLINGNON 

250 PRINT "KLINGON APPROACHING" 

260 PRINT "R="R"KM. BEARING = "B" DEG." 

270 PRINT "COMMAND" 

280 INPUT C 

290 PRINT C 

300 LET 1 = 1 

310 LET J=2 

320 LET H=0 

330 GOSUB C OF 790,920,1040, 1140, 1180, 1250, 1310 

340 GOTO 1360 

360 REM KLING. MOVE SELECTION 

360 LET 1=2 

370 REM CHECK KLINGON PHASOR STATUS 

380 LET W=S[1,I)+S|2,I] 

390 LET J=1 

400 IFS[3,I]=1ANDR>3E+06ANDB<100THEN710 

410 IF W>0 AND R<3E+06 THEN 540 

420 IF W#OTHEN 480 

430 REM ATTEMPT TO BREAK CONTACT 

440 PRINT "KLINGON ATTEMPTS TO BREAK CONTACT" 

450 LET C=5 

460 GOSUB 1180 

470 GOTO 1920 

480 PRINT "KLINGON MANEUVERING TO ATTACK" 

490 LET C=4 

500 GOSUB 1140 

510 LET B=0 

520 LET H=0 

530 GOTO 1920 

540 PRINT "KLINGON FIRES PHASOR" 

550 LET C=1 

560 IF BOO THEN 640 

570 IF SI2,I]=0THEN 600 

580 GOSUB 920 

590 GOTO 1 360 

600 LET B=B-90 

610 GOSUB 790 

620 LET B=B+90 

630 GOTO 1360 

640 IF S[1,I]=0THEN 670 

650 GOSUB 790 

660 GOTO 1360 

670 LET B=B+90 

680 GOSUB 920 

690 LET B=B-90 

700 GOTO 1360 

710 PRINT "KLINGON FIRES PHOTON TORPEDO" 

720 LET C=3 

730 LET B2=B 

740 LET B=40 

750 GOSUB 1040 

760 LET B=B2 

770 GOTO 1360 

780 REM FIRE FWD PHASORS 

790 LET H=0 

800 IF S[1,l]#OTHEN 830 

810 PRINT "FWD PHASORS INOP" 

820 IF 1 = 1 THEN 260 

830 LET R1=1-0.2"(R/1E+06) 

840 LET B1=(90-BI/90 

850 IF BKOOR R>5E+06THEN 900 

860 REM GEN RANDOM NUMBER IN INTERVAL TO 1 

870 IF RKRNDI1ITHEN 900 

880 LET H = 1 

890 LET P=4 

900 RETURN 

910 REM REAR PHASOR 

920 IF S[2,l]#OTHEN 960 

930 PRINT "REAR PHASORS INOP" 

940 REM 

950 IF 1 = 1 THEN 260 

960 LET H=0 



Gerald H Herd 
742 Valley Dr 
Pensacola FL 32503 



While complex Star Trek and Space War 
games, complete with space warps, fleets of 
enemy ships, and starbases currently exist, 
they generally require a sophisticated system 
to support them. For the microcomputer 
hobbyist who does not have the resources of 
Star Fleet at his disposal for the purchase of 
hardware, the following short version of Star 
Trek is offered. 

The program was developed in BASIC on 
a NOVA 1200 minicomputer and emulates a 
Star Trek game I originally encountered on 
the Univac 1108 system at Georgia Tech. 
The program requires about 2200 16 bit 
words in its current form, although consider- 
able savings of memory are possible by 
simply deleting the remarks. While lacking 
many of the trappings of larger games, the 
BASIC Star Trek Trainer offers the follow- 
ing advantages: 

1) A choice of weapons, phasor banks or 
photon torpedoes, each turn. 

2) Maneuvering commands. 

3) Deflector shields which weaken as the 
number of hits on each craft increases. 



40 



Listing 1 : 



4) Warp and impulse drive engines, the 
status of which are taken into account 
to compute the incremental changes in 
range between turns. 

5) Evasive maneuvering to escape out of 
sensor range and end the game in a 
draw. 

The player, as captain of the Enterprise, 
alternates moves with the Klingon battle- 
cruiser. After a readout of the range and 
bearing to the enemy vessel, the player is 
queried for his command. After each move 
the player receives a status report of the 
Enterprise or the Klingon. 

Each ship is armed with a forward twin 
phasor bank, a single rear phasor, and a 
forward firing photon torpedo tube. These 
weapons have relative destructive powers of 
4, 2 and 8 respectively. The probability of 
achieving a hit with the phasors is given by 
(line 830): 

P H = 1 - R/(5E06) where 

R is the range in kilometers between ships. 
For ranges over 5 million kilometers the 
phasors are useless. The forward phasors 
may be used for bearings to 90 degrees, 
the rear phasors for bearings 90 to 180 
degrees. The photon torpedo tube may be 
used for targets bearing to 90 degrees for 
which the range is at least 2 million kilo- 
meters. The probability of a hit is given by 
(line 1090): 

P H = (1 -B/90) *(1 -2R/1E08). 

While the phasors are range dependent, the 
photon torpedo is almost entirely bearing 
dependent. 

Both ships have options for maneuvering 
to attack and trying to break contact. 
Maneuvering to attack halves the range and 
brings the bearing to zero. This command 
appears most useful when used to close in on 



ACCEPT YOUR SURRENDER" 



970 LET RI'l-O^'RME-Oe 

980 REM RANGE BEARING CHECK 

990 IF R>5E+06 OR BOO THEN 1030 

1000 IF RKRNDI1I THEN 1030 

1010 LET H=1 

1020 LET P=2 

1030 RETURN 

1040 LET H=0 

1050 IF S[3,l| #0THEN 1080 

1060 PRINT "PHOTON TORPEDO INOP" 

1070 IF 1 = 1 THEN 260 

1080 IF R<2E+06OR B>90THEN 1130 

1090 LET R2=(1-B/90IM1-2'R/1E+08) 

1100 IF R2<RND(1I THEN 1130 

1110 LET H=1 

1120 LET P=8 

1130 RETURN 

1140 LET R = RM1-0.5 # S(4,I]) 

1150 LET B=0 

1160 LET H=0 

1170 RETURN 

1180 LET R=RM1+S[4,I]+0.05'S[6.1!> 

1190 IF R>1E+08THEN 1230 

1200 PRINT "CONTACT NOT BROKEN" 

1210 LET H=0 

1220 RETURN 

1230 PRINT "CONTACT LOST" 

1 240 STOP 

1250 PRINT "SELF DESTRUCT ACTIVATED' 

1260 FOR 1 = 10 TO 1 STEP-1 

1270 PRINT I 

1280 NEXT I 

1290 PRINT "BOOM" 

1300 STOP 

1310 PRINT "MESSAGE FROM KLINGON "• 

1320 PRINT "PREPARE TO BE BOARDED." 

1330 PRINT '""•MESSAGE FROM STAR FLEET COMMAND" 

1340 PRINT "YOU DIRTY COWARD" 

1350 STOP 

1360 LET J=3-l 

1370 IF 03THEN 1920 

1380 REM DAMAGE ASSESSMENT 

1390 IF H#0 THEN 1440 

1400 PRINT "MISS" 

1410 GOTO 1920 

1420 REM P= DESTRUCTIVE POWER OF WEAPON. D= INCREMENTAL DAMAGE DONE, LIMIT 

1430 REM TO A MAX VALUE OF 2. 

1440 PRINT "HIT" 

1450 LET D=P"(1-S[5,J1) 

1460 IF D <= 2 THEN 1480 

1470 LET D=2 

1480 LET S|7,J]=S[7,JJ+D 

1490 LET S[5,J]=S[5,J]-P/100 

1500 LET Z=10-INT(S[7,J] ) 

1510 IF J=1 THEN 1580 

1520 REM DAMAGE DONE TO KLINGON 

1530 PRINT "SCANNER REPORT KLINGON" 

1540 IF Z>1 THEN 1610 

1550 PRINT "KLINGON DESTROYED" 

1560 STOP 

1570 REM DAMAGE TO ENTERPRISE 

1580 PRINT "ENTERPRISE DAMAGE RPT" 

1590 IF Z>0THEN 1610 

1600 LET Z=1 

1610 GOTO Z OF 1620,1640,1850,1730,1730,1780,1780,1780,1830,1830 

1620 PRINT "ENTERPRISE DESTROYED" 

1630 STOP 

1640 PRINT "WEAPON SYST. DESTROYED" 

1650 PRINT "WARP DRIVE DESTROYED" 

1660 PRINT "MAJOR STRUCTURAL DAMAGE" 

1670 PRINT "SHIELDS BUCKLING" 

1680 LET S|1,J]=0 

1690 LET S[2,J]=0 

1700 LET S|3,J]=0 

1710 LET S[4,J]=0 

1720 GOTO 1920 

1730 PRINT "PHASORS DESTROYED" 

1740 PRINT "MINOR DAMAGE AMIDSHIPS" 

1750 PRINT "SHIELDS WEAKENING" 

1760 LET S|1,J]=S[2,J)=0 

1770 GOTO 1920 

1780 PRINT "FOREWARD PHASORS DESTROYED" 

1790 PRINT "MINOR DAMAGE AMIDSHIPS" 

1800 PRINT "SHIELDS WEAKENING" 

1810 LET S|1,J]=0 

1820 GOTO 1920 

1830 PRINT "SHIELDS HOLDING NO DAMAGE" 

1840 GOTO 1920 

1850 PRINT "WEAPONS SYST. DEACTIVATED" 

1860 PRINT "DILITHIUM CRYSTALS OVERHEATING" 

1870 LET S|1,J]=0 

1880 LET S|3,J]=0 

1890 LET S|3,J]=0 

1900 GOTO 1920 

1910 REM NEW RANGE.BEARING 

1920 LET R3=0 5"(S[4,1] +S(4,2] +0.05*IS[6,1 ] +S[6,2] )) 

1930 LET R = R+R3*(RND(1)-0.5)'1E+06 

1940 LET R-ABS(R) 

1950 LET B=ABS(B-150+20MRND(1)I) 

1960 IF B>180THEN 2000 

1970 LET l=J 

1980 LET J=3— I 

1990 GOTO I OF 260,360 

2000 LET B=ABS(360-B) 

2010 GOTO 1970 

2020 END 



41 



SUMMARY OF INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE GAME 

The player will engage a Klingon battle cruiser and will alternate moves with the 
Klingon. 

When the prompting message "STARDATE?" appears, enter any random number to 
initialize the game. This is a seed for the pseudorandom number generator, and using a 
different number each game prevents repetition of the same battles. 

Enter the command after the prompting message "COMMAND" appears. Select 
commands from the following list: 

Command 1 fires forward phasors, of which there are two. 

Command 2 fires the rear phasor. 

Command 3 fires the photon torpedo. The photon torpedo fires forward. The 
minimum photon torpedo range is 5 million kilometers. 

Command 4 means "maneuver to attack." The bearing to the target Klingon and 
the range are reduced. 

Command 5 means "attempt to break contact" by using the warp drive. If the 
range goes greater than 100 million kilometers, contact is lost and the game ends. 

Command 6 is the suicide command, the end game maneuver used to prevent 
capture by Klingons. 

Command 7 is surrender to the Klingons. 

The relative strength of a photon torpedo is 8, the relative strength of the rear Phasors is 
2, and the relative strength of the forward phasors is 4. 



Listing 2: A sample run of this version of Star Trek. 



ENTER STARDATE 

6091. 1 
KLINGON APPROACHING 
R= 3849000 KM. 
COMMAND 

3 
MISS 

KLINGON FIRES PHOTON TORPEDO 
MISS 

R= 3661890 KM. 
COMMAND 

4 
KLINGON FIRES PHASOR 
HIT 

ENTERPRISE DAMAGE RPT 
SHIELDS HOLDING NO DAMAGE 
R= 2021835 KM. BEARING^ 
COMMAND 

3 
HIT 

SCANNER REPORT KLINGON 
SHIELDS HOLDING NO DAMAGE 
KLINGON FIRES PHASOR 
HIT 

ENTERPRISE DAMAGE RPT 
SHIELDS HOLDING NO DAMAGE 
R= 1658325 KM. BEARING^ 
COMMAND 

3 
MISS 

KLINGON FIRES PHASOR 
HIT 

ENTERPRISE DAMAGE RPT 
SHIELDS HOLDING NO DAMAGE 
R= 2092815 KM. BEARING^ 
COMMAND 

3 
HIT 

SCANNER REPORT KLINGON 
FOREWARD PHASORS DESTROYED 
MINOR DAMAGE AMIDSHIPS 
SHIELDS WEAKENING 
KLINGON FIRES PHASOR 
MISS 
R= 2266905 KM. BEARING 



BEARINC= 69.282 DEG. 



BEARING= 56.722 DEG. 



15.44 DEG. 



S.4E 



DEG. 



10.48 



DEG. 



13.12 DEG. 



a fleeing or crippled foe. Attempting to 
break contact opens the range. (Along about 
the time your weapon systems are de- 
activated, your shields are half gone and the 
Klingon is closing in, it is time to get it in 
gear and haul for Alpha Centauri.) The game 
ends in a draw when the range exceeds 100 
million kilometers. 

Damage assessments are provided any 
time a vessel is hit by a phasor or photon 
torpedo. The amount of damage done de- 
pends on the relative strength of the weapon 
(8 for a photon torpedo, 4 or 2 for phasors) 
as well as the effectiveness of the deflector 
shields. The amount of damage done is 
computed and added to the cumulative 
damage, and the deflector shield effective- 
ness is reduced. 

Two other commands, surrender and self- 
destruct, are included for defeatists. 

The program is written in a version of 
BASIC which permits GOSUB. . .OF. . . and 
GOTO. . .OF. . . statements, and may re- 
quire minor reprogramming for other BASIC 
languages. The random number function, 
RND (X) generates a random variable with 
uniform distribution in a range (0,1). The 
argument X, when negative, is used as the 
random number seed; when positive the 
argument is ignored and an internal seed is 
used by the generator. By entering a 
"stardate" at the beginning of each game, a 
unique pseudo-random number series is gen- 
erated for that game. 

The Enterprise and the Klingon use the 
same routines for command processing. 
Lines 780 - 1 030 determine if a phasor shot 
produced a hit or a miss. Lines 1 040 - 1 1 30 
process a photon torpedo command. 
Maneuvering to attack is handled in lines 
1140-1170, while attempting to break 
contact transfers control to lines 
1180 — 1240. The damage assessment 
routine in lines 1380 — 1890 prints out the 
scanner reports or damage control reports. 
At the end of each move the subroutine in 
lines 1910 - 2000 is called to change the 
range and bearing. 

The computer selects the Klingon's move 
in lines 350 - 770. Presently the Klingon is 
programmed to be somewhat aggressive. For 
novice Star Trek players the Klingon wins 
about 75 percent of the first several dozen 
games." 



42 




No it's just that 



first edition of this popular book^sold out in 5 months flat. 



The second edition of AN INTRODUCTION TO MICROCOMPUTERS has been revised and expanded to two 
volumes, to keep up with the fast-moving microcomputer industry's pace of change. 

Have things changed that much in just 5 months? You probably know the answer to that already: a flood of 
new and second-source CPU chips and a whole host of new LSI support packages. Nowhere else can you get all 
this vital information. VOLUME I — BASIC CONCEPTS surveys the subject, from elementary concepts to 
system configuration and design. In VOLUME II — SOME REAL PRODUCTS we take a long, hard look at the 
products available today and about to be announced tomorrow. If you're actually putting together your first 
system, you may find some help in the latest addition to the microcomputer library: 8080 PROGRAMMING 
FOR LOGIC DESIGN. 

Whether you are planning new products, updating existing ones, or simply need to keep abreast of the latest 
developments in this revolutionary new technology, AN INTRODUCTION TO MICROCOMPUTERS has become 
the industry's standard reference on the subject. 

VOLUME I — BASIC CONCEPTS, takes you by the hand, from elementary logic and simple binary arithmetic through the concepts which are shared by 
all microcomputers. It tells you how to take an idea that may need a microcomputer and create a product that uses one. This book is complete — every 
aspect of microcomputers is covered: the logic devices that constitute a microcomputer system; communicating with external logic via interrupts, direct 
memory access, and serial or parallel I/O; microprogramming and macroprogramming; assemblers and assembler directives; linking and relocation — 
everything you need to know if you are going to select or use a microcomputer. Volume I is equivalent to Chapters 1 through 6 of AN INTRODUCTION 
TO MICROCOMPUTERS, first edition, but with extensive new sections on chip slice products and serial I/O. Order publication number 2001. Date 
available: May 31, 1976. 

VOLUME II — SOME REAL PRODUCTS, covers real microcomputers, in considerable detail. Every major microcomputer: 4-bit, 8-bit or 16-bit, is 
described, including some soon to be announced products. Major chip slice products are also covered. More than 20 microcomputers in all. Order 
publication number 3001. Date available: July 15, 1976. 

8080 PROGRAMMING FOR LOGIC DESIGN, is a completely new book on a totally new subject: implementing digital and combinatorial logic using 
assembly language within an 8080 microcomputer system. What happens to fan-in and fan-out? How do you implement a one-shot? This book simulates 
well known digital logic devices using assembly language; next it shows you how to simulate an entire schematic, device by device, keeping the assembly 
language simulation as close to the digital logic as possible. But that is the wrong way to use a microcomputer; the book explains why, then shows you the 
correct way. This book describes the meeting ground of programmer and logic designer; it is written for both readers. Order publication number 4001 . Date 
available: June 15, 1976. 

For ordering and pricing information in Europe contact: Everywhere else 

SYBEX 

Publications Department 
313 Rue Lecourbe 
75015 — Paris, France 
Telex: 200858 Sybex 



eft 

^^y osb 



BORNE & ASSOCIATES INC. 

P.O. Box 2036 • Berkeley.California 94702 • 1415) 548-2805 

Copies of each book are available for $7.50 per book plus sales tax for California residents. 
Discounts are available on orders of 100 books or more. Please be sure to include publication 
numbers with order. Add 30 cents for surface mail, $2.50 for airmail shipping charge when 
ordering from outside the U.S.A. Dealer, distribution and translation inquiries welcome. 



BankAmericard and Master Charge orders accepted • Please include in mail order: card number, expiration date, full name and address 



MONOLITHIC SYSTEMS CORP. 



MICRO COMPUTER CONTROL PANEL 



Photo 1 : One of the keys to the ease of use of this Monolithic Systems Corporation "8080+" microcomputer is its "smart" 
control panel. Instead of row after row of blinking lights, this panel uses software to drive a hexadecimal display, with a 
hexadecimal data entry keypad and several control function buttons. The photographs accompanying this article are supplied 
courtesy of Monolithic Systems Corp, 14 Inverness Dr E, Englewood CO 801 10. 



The MSC 8080+ Microcomputer 



as a Personal System 



Ken Barbier 
PO Box 1042 
Socorro NM 87801 



In the beginning there were rows and 
rows of little lights and little switches. 
Incredible as it may seem, some micro, mini, 
and mega computers still come with rows 
and rows of little lights and little switches. 
After wearing out countless eyeballs, finger- 
tips, and four letter words, Mankind finally 
asked: "Isn't there a better way?" 

Along came the monitor program in read 
only memory, allowing instant power up and 
communication with a console terminal 
device. This is an excellent solution when 
higher level languages are available, and not 
too bad a solution when text editors and 
assemblers are available. But for entering 
machine language routines of any length, 



and for debugging programs which are inti- 
mately connected with hardware, such as 
device drivers, the terminal has its 
limitations. 

Enter the intelligent control panel, with 
hexadecimal or octal keyboard and readout. 
Machine language programs or data blocks 
can be swiftly entered, and debugging by 
single stepping through a program while 
monitoring memory or registers becomes a 
snap. For the designer of small systems 
working down at the machine language or 
hardware level the intelligent control panel 
can be an attractive alternative . 

The MSC 8080+, from Monolithic Sys- 
tems Corp, Englewood CO, is an Intel 8080 



based microcomputer with what is un- 
doubtedly one of the most complete 
"smart" panels on the market. It includes 
other unique features which make it a good 
choice for the person building or experiment- 
ing with small systems. 

Some Features of the MSC 8080+ 

Unpack the MSC 8080+, connect a single 
+5 VDC @ 2 A power supply, press the 
RESET switch on the control panel, and you 
have an operating microcomputer. This ease 
of setup was one of the reasons I chose this 
product as my personal computer. The 
control panel monitor program takes up two 
of the four 1702A EROM positions on the 
processor board, and uses a maximum of 64 
bytes of the 1 KB static programmable 
memory, also on the board. The panel 
monitor program has its own hardware 
interrupt via the RESET switch, and does 
not interfere with use of the eight RST 
instructions which are provided for inter- 
rupts by the 8080 processor itself. (A 
separate CPU RESET switch provides access 
to interrupt 0, once your program is loaded.) 



Other goodies supplied include a 4.5 inch 
by 7 inch (1 1 .43 cm X 1 7.78 cm) wire wrap 
area right on the processor board, with room 
for 42 sixteen pin sockets (12 of these are 
used up by the 1 KB RAM). Surrounding 
this area are nine 26 pin connectors, ac- 
cepting either wire wrap directly, or ribbon 
cable connectors, to provide access to periph- 
erals. All connections to the 8080 pro- 
cessor are already buffered before reaching 
the wire wrap section, simplifying the addi- 
tion of peripheral interfaces. 

On the MSC 8080+ processor board there 
is also a DC to DC inverter to provide the 
+12, -5, and -9 VDC required for the 8080 
integrated circuit and the 1702As, so that 
only the single +5 VDC supply is necessary. 
Connectors are provided for a number of 




Photo 2: The various boards of this industrial quality product are designed to 
be stacked using 1 inch (2.54 cm) spacers. This view illustrates the processor 
board (front) and dynamic programmable memory board (rear) mounted 
together with spacers; interconnections throughout an MSC 8080+ system are 
made using 26 conductor parallel ribbon cable assemblies like the one in the 
upper right hand corner of this picture. Also note the uncommitted wire 
wrapping area which can be used for custom logic designs oriented to a 
specific application system. 



45 




Photo 3: A side view of the control panel and processor board stacked together for a minimal system. The control panel consists 
of the metal cosmetic panel (top) and a circuit board to which key switches are attached (middle). The processor board is shown 
at the bottom of this assembly. For purposes of photography, interboard connector cables have been omitted in this view. Other 
boards of the family could be added to this stack. (The author's system has an additional 4 K CMOS programmable memory 
board with battery backup added to the two boards shown here.) 



memory options, which are detailed later in 
this article. 

The control panel is what I found to be 
the outstanding feature of the MSC 8080+. 
It has a 16 key hexadecimal keypad, a four 
digit hex display, 16 function keys, and four 
status indicator LEDs. A 20 mA current 
loop TTY interface is provided on the panel, 
but an additional 1702A (optional) is re- 
quired to drive it. This 1702A Teletype 
interface contains a program with timing 
loops to perform the parallel to serial con- 
versions, a software UART algorithm. 

The MSC 8080+ is intended for the 
industrial market, so the quality of manu- 
facture and components is first rate and the 
unit comes assembled. Industrial quality 
design is one of my reasons for choosing this 
processor. In spite of this, the goal of the 
under $1000 computer is met. 

Control Panel Operation 

As supplied, the memory address of the 
panel monitor program is (in hexadecimal) 
from 0200 through 03FF, and the 1 KB 
RAM can be found at 0400 through 07FF. 
Some functions of the monitor use the 
stack, so the next operation after RESET 
should be to initialize the stack. This is done 
by entering 07FF on the hexadecimal key- 
pad and pressing the LOAD STK PTR 
function key. As the digits are entered they 
will appear, shifting into the hex display 
from the right, and will disappear when 
loaded into the desired register. The func- 
tions LOAD STK PTR, LOAD ADDR, and 
LOAD H+L use 16 bit (4 digit) entries; all 
other entries are eight bits (2 digits). 



A user's program can now be keyed in. 
The start address is set by entering four 
digits and using the LOAD ADDR key. The 
address entered will disappear from the 
display and the eight bit contents of the 
addressed location will appear in the two 
low order display digits as LOAD ADDR is 
pressed, indicating proper operation of the 
system. Now enter two digits of data or 
program and press LOAD MEM. At this time 
an address register in the panel will be 
incremented and the contents of the next 
sequential memory location will be dis- 
played. If a load error occurs (the panel 
reads back each entry from memory to 
verify it) an error indication of "FF" ap- 
pears in the two high order digits of the 
display. This gives an instant indication if 
you are trying to write into ROM, or a non- 
existent address, or hardware that is 
malfunctioning. 

Loading each sequential memory location 
from the panel thus consists of entering and 
verifying two hex digits of data and pressing 
LOAD MEM. At any time during loading, 
the address of the next sequential location 
can be displayed by pressing READ ADDR. 
When loading is complete you can verify the 
program by entering the start address, then 
using READ NEXT MEM to examine each 
location in turn. 

Once your program is entered, initial 
values of any register can be set using the 
LOAD REG, LOAD H+L, or LOAD STK 
PTR keys. Enter your starting address using 
LOAD ADDR, and you are ready to run. 

Unless you have infinite confidence in 
your infallibility, you may want to single 
step through the program the first time. Just 



46 



press STEP to execute each instruction in 
turn. The address of the next instruction will 
then be displayed. The contents of any 
register can be examined (READ REG) or 
changed (LOAD REG) as you step through 
your program. DECR ADDR will allow you 
to back up the program counter one byte at 
a time. 

When you are confident the program is 
fully debugged, enter the start address and 
press RUN to execute it. If things do not go 
as planned, press STOP to halt the program 
and display the address of the next instruc- 
tion. Registers and memory can then be 
examined. 

Larger segments of programs, or long 
loops that would take all day to single step 
through, can be run by temporarily patching 
in the HALT instruction where traps are 
desired. After starting the program with the 
RUN key, the PROGRAM HALT indicator 
will light when you reach the HALT instruc- 
tion. Then simply press STOP to display the 
next program address and enable all of the 
other panel functions. 

The 8080+ control panel uses a combina- 
tion of hardware and software, but its 
operation is transparent to the user's pro- 
gram. If the user's program should end up in 
the illegal combination of disabled interrupts 
and program halt, the panel RESET key will 
restore operation without it being necessary 
to turn the power off. 

It is hard to believe without experiencing 
it how easily a program can be keyed in and 
debugged using the MSC 8080+ control 
panel. It makes an expert out of a novice in 
minutes. 

Hardware Configuration 

One unusual aspect of the MSC unit is the 
absence of edge connectors on the boards. 
All connections between the control panel, 
processor board, and optional memory 
boards are through 26 conductor ribbon 
cables and matching connectors. The boards 
can be physically stacked in endless com- 
binations using #4-40 X 1 inch threaded 
spacers, or can be mounted in Augat 8170 
series frames. As the components of the 
system are intended to be a part of the user's 
industrial hardware, no cabinets or power 
supplies are furnished. 

The control panel, processor, and 
dynamic programmable memory boards are 
all 7 1/2 inches by 13 1/2 inches (19.05 X 
34.29 cm). The CMOS programmable mem- 
ory is slightly smaller on the long dimension 
but has compatible hole patterns for the 
spacers or frame mounting. 

Currently available options include the 



processor board without programmable 
memory, and no EROMs installed in the 
four sockets; a dynamic programmable 
memory board with room for 32 KB; and a 
nonvolatile 4 KB CMOS static program- 
mable memory board with built in NiCad 
batteries which are kept charged during 
normal operation. In the works, according to 
MSC, is a compatible EROM board with 
pre-loaded software including a text editor 
and assembler. 

A User Comments on the MSC 8080+ 

For years I had been waiting for the price 
of some old worn out mini to come within 
reach of a meager hobbyist budget, but 
before that could occur the age of micropro- 
cessors was upon us. I didn't feel that I had 
the time to spare to put together a system 
from a handful of parts, so I watched the 
"processor on a board" market develop with 
much interest. Prices were still high, but 
falling rapidly, when the Altair explosion 
occurred. I was instantly tempted by the 
first Altair ad, but since I had no TTY or 
other terminal to go with it the investment 
required for any sort of useful configuration 
was still several kilobucks. And there were 
all those rows of lights and switches! I had 
too many of those to contend with while 
earning a paycheck; I resolved that any 
system I had at home would have minimal 
blinking lights! So I watched, and waited, 
and collected specifications sheets, and com- 
pared instruction sets. 

I think too little has been said about the 
relative merits of micros and minis when 
comparing instruction sets. It is not enough 
to have bunches of instructions and memory 
addressing methods. It is not enough to have 
all kinds of tricks to conserve memory. To 
be truly useful a machine must have a set of 
instructions that are easy to learn, easy to 
remember, easy to use, and suited to the 
task at hand. A calculator will beat any 
micro at number crunching, but is lost as a 
controller. (How long must we wait for the 
micro-control I ing-a-calculator chip?) 

Having worked with machines from big 
IBM size to hand held calculators, I had a 
pretty good idea of what I wanted for a 
home controller, game player, and ac- 
counting system. The Intel 8008 didn't quite 
make it, but when I saw the instruction set 
of the Intel 8080, I flipped! All that 
simplified CALLing and RETurning, PUSH- 
ing and POPping, and decimal adjust too! 

So now I knew my system would use the 
8080. I started trying to design a "smart" 
control/display panel. From the day I saw 
the first Altair ad til I found what I wanted 



For more information on 
the MSC 8080+ contact: 
Monolithic Systems Corp, 14 
Inverness Or E, Englewood CO 
80110. Their phone number is 
(303) 770-7400. 



47 




Altair Owners... 

Have you heard our new hit single? 

THE FIRST DOUBLE DENSITY FLOPPY DISK SYSTEM FOR MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS! 

BASIC FOR THE 6800 

We now have full blown BASIC ready 
for delivery. It has full floating point 
arithmetic, strings, subroutines, arrays, 
and USER DEFINED VERBS! 

Price $65.00 per copy (includes 
documentation and paper tape) 

PROM /RAM BOARD FOR ALTAIR 8800 
AND IMSAI SYSTEMS 

Contains 3,840 bytes of ROM and 
256 bytes of scratchpad RAM on one 
board. Extensive monitor software 
provides memory examine/change 
using octal or hex, trap functions, 
bootstrap loaders for MITS BASIC and 
monitor software, paper tape and 
cassette dump and load functions using 
hex or BNPF formats. Also contains a 
DISASSEMBLER and a RELOCATOR. 
Price $245.00 

ADDITIONAL PRODUCTS FOR THE 
SWTP 6800 

Wire Wrap Board 

Accepts 40 pin, 24 pin, 16 pin and 14 
pin sockets as well as discrete 
components. Contains 7 805 on-board 
regulator for +5V power bus. Plugs 
into the SWTP 6800 mother board. 
Price $25.00 

PROM /RAM Board 

Contains 3,840 bytes of 1702A ROM 
and 256 bytes of RAM on one board. 
May be used to contain MSI-FDOS 
software and scratchpad area. 
Price $95.00 

MSI SOFTWARE PRODUCTS: 

12K 6800 Basic $65.00 

Relocating loader program. . . $15.00 

Disassembler program $25.00 

IK Mini Assembler program. . . $25.00 

We've made several othet hits at MSI, Including 
our floppy disK system for programmable calcu- 
lators, CRT terminals, PROM programmers, high 
speed printers, and instrumentation interfaces. 

For more comprehensive product information, 
write MSI at the address below. Watch our monthly 
ad, and we'll introduce you to our new products 
for the computer nobbiest. 

TtticUueat Scientific *)K&foumeHt& — — 



fl 

MSI is proud to introduce the FD-8 
floppy disk memory system for use 
with the Altair 8800, Motorola 6800, 
and other micro computer systems. 

The FD-8 requires only one PIA 
chip for Interfacing to any 
microcomputer system. One 8 bit 
bidirectional data port and one 8 bit 
control port and that's it! Complete 
FDOS software for 8080 and 6800 
systems is provided and can operate 
from either RAM or ROM as desired. 

Format Specifications: 

• 77 Tracks/ Diskette 

• 16 (32) Sectors /Track* 

• 256 Bytes/ Sector 

• 315,392(630,784*) Bytes/ Diskette 

*Model FD-8-II with Double Density 

Introductory Prices: 

SINGLE DRIVE MODELS: 

SINGLE DENSITY, KIT $ 950.00 

DOUBLE DENSITY, KIT $1250.00 

DUAL DRIVE MODELS: 

SINGLE DENSITY, KIT $1750.00 

DOUBLE DENSITY, KIT $2050.00 





220 WEST CEDAR, OLATHE. KANSAS 66061 • PHONE 913 764-3273 • TWX 910 749 6403 (MSI OLAT) 



48 



from MSC, I spent long hours of free time 
trying to design the perfect control panel. 
All my designs were bogged down in exces- 
sive amounts of hardware, so too expensive. 
I gave up on the panel idea, and started 
building a CRT terminal, although I had 
nothing to connect it to yet. 

Suddenly there appeared before me (in 
one of the electronics trade magazines) a 
description of Monolithic Systems Corpora- 
tion's 8080 based processor board with 
single +5 VDC power supply and room left 
over for all my interface circuitry. Ideal! By 
the time I called them, they were announc- 
ing the MSC 8080+ system, with that neat 
processor board and a smart panel. I dug out 
my old panel design sketches and sure 
enough they had stolen all my ideas by long 
distance telepathy! And added lots of func- 
tions I would never have thought of. 

I wasted no time in ordering an MSC 
8080+. When it arrived it took me only one 
weekend to connect up my CRT terminal 
hardware, key in and debug the software I 
had previously written, and have a smart 
CRT terminal in operation. This is a tribute 
both to Monolithic's interfacing documenta- 
tion, and the speed of operation possible 
with this control panel. 

A 4 KB CMOS board arrived later, and 
after hooking it up I was able to turn things 
off without losing all my software. Of course 
it is still possible to blow my programs by 
writing stupid mistakes into them, but the 
ability to single step through program seg- 
ments has all but eliminated that problem. 
(Most debug programs used with a console 
terminal have a limited number of settable 
traps, or breakpoints, and it is too easy to 
sneak past them all and get totally lost. Not 
so with single stepping.) 

This combination has proved to be an 
ideal solution to the problem of putting 
together an inexpensive home computer, 
especially as I had no method of program 
storage with the power off. While the cost is 
not as low as some systems advertised in 
BYTE, there are many tangible benefits that 
come with the small extra expenditure. The 
panel has all the functions you'll ever need 
for machine language programming. The 
system was factory assembled and tested, 
built of the best quality components and 
fully guaranteed. All of the "works" are 
hidden behind a professional appearing front 
panel, so it doesn't look like a collection of 
surplus parts. And, delivery was on a realistic 
schedule. 

The least I can say is that I am com- 
pletely satisfied with this product, and don't 
hesitate to recommend it to other computer- 
heads." 



All- new Phi-Deck: 

precision remote controlled 

cassette transports starting at 

under $100! 





C^aJ! 


Featuring: 

• Re-engineered precision parts 

• New cast frames 




• 4 motor reliability 




Ir^wjP^ gfPfjpvCa 


• Remotely controlled 




$r 


• Precise, fast head 
engage/disengage 

• Quick braking 

• Various speed ranges 




Electronic 


packages for control or read/write 


For 


application In: 


6. Data duplicating 


1. 


Micro processing 


7. Security/automatic warning 


2. 


Data 


systems 




recording/logging/storage 


8. Test applications 


3. 


Programming 


9. Audio visual/education 


4. 


Instrumentation 


10. Hi-Fi 


5. 


Industrial Control 


11. Others 



I 

urt 
i 
i 
i 



a I InpiGl A Division of The Economy Co. 
1901 North Walnut P.O. Box 25308 
_l Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125 (405) 521-9000 

□ I am interested in application no 

□ Have Representative call □ Send application notes 



Name 

Company Name 
Address _ 
City_ 



Title 



State 



Phone Number 



Zip 



BROWN-OUT PROOF 
your ALTAIR 8800 

With the unique Parasitic Engineering constant voltage 
power supply kit. A custom engineered power supply for 
your Altair. It has performance features that no simple 
replacement transformer can offer: 

* BROWN-OUT PROOF: Full output with line voltage as 

low as 90 volts. 
•OVER-VOLTAGE PROTECTION: Less than 2% increase 

for 130 volt input. 
•HIGH OUTPUT: 12 amps @ 8 volts; 0.5 amps @ ±16 

volts. Enough power for an 8800 full of boards. 
•STABLE: Output varies less than 10% for any load. 

Regulators don't overheat, even with just a few 

boards installed. 
•CURRENT LIMITED: Overloads can't damage it. 
•EASY TO INSTALL: All necessary parts included. 

Only ip I O postpaid in the USA . 
calif, residents add $4.50 sales tax. 

Don't let power supply problems sabotage your Altair 8800. 

PARASITIC ENGINEERING 



PO BOX 6314 



ALBANY CA 94706 



49 



How to Do a Number of Conversions 



James Brown 

2518 Finley St #636 

Irving TX 75062 



Table 1: Hexadecimal Codes of Selected ASCII Characters (high order bit 
assumed zero). 



Hexadecimal 


ASCII 


Hexadecimal 


ASCII 


Hexadecimal 


ASCII 


Code 


Character 

NUL 


Code 


Character 




Code 


Character 


00 


30 


40 


@ 






31 


1 


41 


A 


0A 


line feed 


32 


2 


42 


B 






33 


3 


43 


C 


0D 


car. ret. 


34 


4 


44 


D 






35 


5 


45 


E 


20 


space 


36 


6 


46 


F 






37 


7 


47 


G 


2B 


+ 


38 


8 






2C 


, 


39 


9 






2D 


— 


3A 








2E 












2F 


/ 











Perhaps one of the more difficult tasks on 
any small computer is the conversion from 
numeric characters to a form usable by the 
machine and back again. That is, given some 
type of input output device (Teletype or TV 
typewriter) connected to your computer, it 
would be desirable to have the capability of 
entering a string of numeric characters (con- 
secutive digits) through the keyboard. The 
computer would then perform some opera- 
tion on that number. Finally, the result of 
that compulation is displayed back on the 
10 device. Since the computer's natural 
language is N bit binary (i.e., ones and 
zeros), how can such a string be converted? 
An example of the problem is: How do I 
convert the three character decimal string 
'196' into the binary integer equivalent 1100 
0100 (or octal 204, or hexadecimal C4)? 

Converting a decimal (base 10) number 
into binary can be a long and involved 
operation. Let us work our way into decimal 
conversion by considering what would be 



Listing la: The BIN Rou- 
tine Specified for an 8080. 
This listing, as all the list- 
ings of this article, shows 
the symbolic code and ab- 
solute machine code for an 
8080 version of the rou- 
tine. The notes refer to 
absolute addresses which 
must be adjusted when re- 
locating the code to some 
address in memory address 
space. BIN reads the 7' 
and '0' characters of an 
ASCII encoded binary 
string, leaving up to 8 bits 
of input in B. 



Note 1 



Rel. 












Addr. 


Code 

06 00 


Label 


Op. 

MVI 


Operand 

B,0 


Commentary 


0000 


BIN: 


ANSWER := 0; 


0002 


CD xx xx 


BINLOOP: 


CALL 


GET 


A := INPUT | character |; 


0005 


FE 30 




CPI 


'0' 


is A LT '0'? 


0007 


D8 




RC 




if so then return; 


0008 


FE 32 




CPI 


•2' 


is A LT '2'? 


000A 


DO 




RNC 




if not then return; 


000 B 


1F 




RAR 




CARRY := A ; 


OOOC 


78 




MOV 


A, B 


A := ANSWER; 


000 D 


17 




RAL 




rotate carry into A; 


000E 


D8 




RC 




overflow: if CARRY = 1 then return 


000 F 


47 




MOV 


B, A 


ANSWER := A; 


0010 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


BINLOOP 


reiterate for next bit; 



Note 2 

Note 1 : address of GET should replace "xx xx". 
Note 2: "xx xx" should be the address of BINLOOP. 



50 



necessary to do the following conversions in 
order of increasing complexity: 

1 . Binary character strings (ASCI I or 1 ) 
to or from unsigned 8 bit integers. 

2. Octal character strings (ASCII to 7) 
to or from unsigned 8 bit integers. 

3. Hexadecimal character strings (ASCII 
to 9, A to F) to or from unsigned 16 
bit integers. 

4. Signed decimal character strings 
(ASCII to 9, +, -) to or from signed 
16 bit integers. 

Before we start, let us examine what the 
computer sees when a character is read from 
the keyboard, assuming that the keyboard 
speaks ASCII. Examining table 1, notice that 
each character is assigned a unique binary 
value. Not only are the numeric characters 
thru 9 grouped together; but, if the left hand 
four bits were dropped, there would be a 
direct correspondence to the binary equival- 
ents of thru 9. As shown below, this is a 
fairly simple task: 

Algorithm: 
'ASCII char' (AND) (0000 1 11 1) = result 

Examples 

'0': (0011 0000) (AND) (0000 1111) = 

0000 0000 
'1 ': (001 1 0001 ) (AND) (0000 1111) = 

0000 0001 
'9': (001 1 1 001 ) (AND) (0000 1111) = 

0000 1 001 

In each case, the result is a binary number in 
the low order of the byte after the AND 
operation has masked the high order bits. 

Binary Conversions 

Converting the ASCII character codes for 
1 and into a true binary value is perhaps 
the simplest to actually implement, and is a 
good starting point in understanding how 
number conversions work. All of the other 



routines follow the basic plan presented 
here. 

In the preceding, zapping the left four 
bits to get a binary value has one fatal flaw; 
it only works for one character. In develop- 
ing something to handle a two character 
string such as '10', it might as well accept 
ASCII strings with any length, as long as the 
result can be contained in eight bits (an 
arbitrary choice). 

The simplest way of doing this is to 
perform the conversion one character at a 
time as they are entered and develop the 
result as each character of the string ('1 ' or 
'0') is processed. Clearly the first step is to 
read the character and convert it into the 
binary value 1 or 0, using the masking 
technique shown earlier. 

Since most computers have some type of 
shift instruction (see note 1), this is an 
effective way of moving the new bit into the 
result which is being calculated. Specifically, 
we must shift the result left one bit and then 
OR the new converted value to it. This is 
mathematically equivalent to multiplying by 
2 and adding. For example, the four char- 
acter binary string '1011' is entered and 
converted to the binary number 1011. This 
is equivalent to the expression: 

1 * 2 3 + * 2 2 + 1 * 2 1 +1 * 2° = 1 1 
(base 10) 

and could be accomplished by the following 
sequence: 

1 . answer: = 

2. INPUT character 

3. character: = character (AND) 01 (hex) 

4. answer: = answer (SHIFT LEFT) 1 

5. answer: = answer (OR) character 

6. GO TO 2. 

If those four characters were all I wanted 
to enter, I now need to tell the computer to 
stop looping, since there is a possibility of 
entering as many as eight characters. The 



Note 1 



Note 2 



Rel. 












Addr. 


Code 


Label 


Op. 


Operand 


Commentary 


0000 


0E 08 


BOT: 


MVI 


C,8 


CNT :=8; 


0002 


78 


BOTLOOP: 


MOV 


A, B 


A := ANSWER; 


0003 


07 




RLC 




CARRY := Ay; rotate A Left 


0004 


47 




MOV 


B, A 


ANSWER := A; 


0005 


3E 18 




MVI 


A, 18H 


A := b'00011000'; 


0007 


17 




RAL 




rotate A left; A n = CARRY; 


0008 


CD xx xx 




CALL 


PUT 


OUTPUT := A; 


0OOB 


OD 




DCR 


C 


CNT := CNT - 1; 


000C 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


BOTLOOP 


if CNT NE then repeat; 


000F 


C9 




RET 




else return; 



Note 1 : address of PUT shou Id replace "xx xx". 
Note 2: "xx xx" should be the address of BOTLOOP. 



Listing lb: The BOT Rou- 
tine Specified for an 8080. 
This routine writes out a 
string of 8 binary encoded 
ASCII digits, taken from 
the B register. 



51 



Figure la: The BIN Rou- 
tine Flowchart. This rou- 
tine treats successive 
ASCII '0' and T charac- 
ters of input as the digits 
of a binary string. The 
digits are shifted into 
ANSWER until an illegal 
character or overflow re- 
turns control. In the 8080 
code of listing la, AN- 
SWER is register B. 



bin: 



binloop: 




Figure lb: The BOT Rou- 
tine Flowchart. BOT is a 
binary output routine 
which writes an 8 digit 
ASCII binary string con- 
verted from ANSWER. 
The digits are printed high 
order first in a loop which 
shifts out the bits one by 
one. In the 8080 code of 
listing lb, ANS WER is sup- 
plied by register B. 



bot: 



.CHARACTER 
j TERMINATES 



.CHARACTERS 
TERMINATES 
STRING 



ROTATE AN- 
SWER RIGHT 
BY ONE 
POSITION 



ROTATE 
CARRY LEFT 
INTO A 



iOUTPUT>y 



CNT> 
CNT-I; 




I OLD LOW ORDER l 
I IS NOW IN I 

I CARRY FLAG 
I I 



1 

! ASCII '0' OH '1' | 

(OOIIOOOO OR 
'OOIIOOOI ) 



LT 



C RETURN J 



Note 1 



Listing 2a: The 01 N Rou- 
tine Specified for an 8080. 
This routine accepts an in- 
put string of ASCII octal 
characters and collects the 
results in ANSWER (CPU 
register B). Conversion 
ends with invalid char- 
acters or an overflow. 



Rfil. 














Addr. 


Code 


Label 


Op. 


Operand 


Commentary 




0000 


06 00 


OIN: 


MVI 


B,0 


ANSWER :=0; 




0002 


CD xx xx 


OINLOOP: 


CALL 


GET 


A := INPUT [character]; 




0005 


FE 30 




CPI 


'0' 


is A LT '0'? 




0007 


D8 




RC 




if so then return; 




0008 


FE 38 




CPI 


'8' 


is A LT '87 




OOOA 


DO 




RNC 




if not then return; 




000 B 


E6 07 




ANI 


7 


A := A&b'000001ir [mask 


low order] 


000 D 


4F 




MOV 


C, A 


C := A; 




000 E 


78 




MOV 


A, B 


A := ANSWER; 




000 F 


07 




RLC 




rotate A left three 




0010 


D8 




RC 




bit positions 




0011 


07 




RLC 




and check for 




0012 


D8 




RC 




overflow into 




0013 


07 




RLC 




CARRY after 




0014 


D8 




RC 




each operation; 




0015 


B1 




ORA 


C 


A ;= A OR ANSWER; 




0016 


47 




MOV 


B, A 


ANSWER := A; 




0017 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


OINLOOP 


reiterate for next digit; 





Note 2 

Note 1: address of GET should replace "xx xx". 
Note 2: "xx xx" should be the address of OINLOOP. 



52 



simplest way of doing this is to have the 
routine recognize some sort of delimiter (ie: 
some character other than '0' or '1'). 
Looking, once again, at table 1, the char- 
acters space, period, comma, carriage return, 
line feed, are all less than the character '0', 
when considered as binary values. This con- 
dition is rather handy, since the same set of 
machine instructions could recognize a 
variety of delimiters without rewriting if I 
want to change what delimeter means. Look- 
ing further, if the special characters between 
the 1 and A are excluded as delimiters, the 
following pair of tests checks for both 
delimiters and invalid characters. 

• If the character is less than a '0' then 
finished. 

• If the character is greater than a '1' 
then illegal character. 

There is one further consideration that 
this routine should take into account. The 
routine should check for a string of char- 
acters whose value would exceed the maxi- 
mum value which could be contained in 
8 bits (anything over 255 decimal). Notice 
that the routine really cannot count the 
number of characters entered since nine 
zeros and a one are still the value one, even 
though 10 characters were processed. Most 
computers have something called a carry bit 
or overflow flag. During a shift left this carry 
bit usually receives the most significant bit 
from the register being shifted. Thus, as soon 
as the carry bit becomes a one, then the 
result has overflowed 8 bits; and the number 
being entered is too big. Figure 1a shows the 
detailed flow of the binary input procedure; 
listing 1a shows the 8080 assembly code of 
this procedure. 



Output is simply the reverse process but 
has error checking omitted. Since the input 
was left to right, the output should be the 
same. (It is extremely frustrating to enter 
the character string '1100' and have the 
string '0011 'printed out.) Fortunately most 
computers have a rotate left instruction 
(note 1). If I choose to always print 
8 characters per 8 bit value (after all, the 
computer is working, not me), the output 
routine should perform the following steps: 

1. value = value (ROTATE LEFT) 1 

2. character = value (AND) 1 

3. character = character (OR) '0' (ASCII 
character code for '0' is hex 30) 

4. OUTPUT character 

5. GOT0 1. 

Figure lb contains the flow diagram for 
this procedure, and listing lb shows typical 
code for an 8080 computer. 

Octal Conversions 

For octal input from strings with ASCII 
characters '0' thru '7', the binary input 
routine can be used with some modifica- 
tions. As shown in figure 2a, the illegal 
character check now looks for something 
greater than a '7', the shift left is now three 
bits instead of one, and the mask used on 
the character during the logical AND opera- 
tion is now an octal 7. 

The octal output routine was a bit of a 
problem because the value is an 8 bit 
quantity. Hence, the routine must process 
the first two bits, then the next three, then 
the next three, left to right, as indicated on 
the flow chart. In my implementation, the 
8080 had a rotate which would flow through 
the carry flag. Thus the bits as they are 



Note 1 



Note 2 



Note 3 



Rel. 
Addr. 



Code 



Label 



Op. 



Operand 



Commentary 



0000 


0E03 


OOT: 


MVI 


C,3 


CNT := 3; 


0002 


AF 




XRA 


A 


Clear A; Clear CARRY; 


0003 


78 




MOV 


A, B 


A := ANSWER; 


0004 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


OOTSKIP 


skip around POP first time 


0007 


F1 


OOTLOOP: 


POP 


PSW 


restore (A, flags); 


0008 


17 


OOTSKIP: 


RAL 




rotate A left 


0009 


17 




RAL 




by three 


000A 


17 




RAL 




bit positions; 


000B 


F5 




PUSH 


PSW 


save (A, flags); 


oooc 


E6 07 




ANI 


7 


A := A &b'0000011T 
[mask low order]; 


000 E 


F6 30 




ORI 


'0' 


A := A OR b'001 10000' 
[add hexadecimal 30]; 


0010 


CD xx xx 




CALL 


PUT 


OUTPUT := A; 


0013 


0D 




DCR 


C 


CNT := CNT - 1 ; 


0014 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


OOTLOOP 


if CNT NE then repeat; 


0017 


F1 




POP 


PSW 


flush garbage from stack; 


0018 


C9 




RET 




return to caller; 



Note 1: "xx xx" should be the address of OOTSKIP. 
Note 2: address of PUT should replace "xx xx". 
Note 3: "xx xx" should be the address of OOTLOOP. 



Listing 2b: The OOT 
Routine Specified for an 
8080. This routine con- 
verts the contents of AN- 
SWER (CPU register B) 
into a 3 digit ASCII string 
of octal characters, trans- 
ferring the result to the 
output device during the 
conversion. 



53 



oin: 



Figure 2a: The OIN Rou- 
tine Flowchart. OIN is the 
octal version of an input 
routine; its logic is an ex- 
tension of the simpler BIN 
routine. OIN treats suc- 
cessive characters from 
ASCII '0' to 7' as octal 
digits which are shifted 
into ANSWER. The rou- 
tine accepts input until an 
illegal octal character or 
overflow occurs. In the 
8080 code of listing 2a, 
ANSWER is register B. 



( BEGIN J OOT: ( BEGIN J 



answer:-o 




cnt> 3> 
carry:- O; 

A: -ANSWER; 



ootloop: 



» l ^ 



I OXX IN LOW 

I ORDER 

I (FIRSTTIME) 



ROTATE A 
LEFT 3 
POSITIONS 



SHIFT 
ANSWER 
LEFT 3 BITS 




answer:* 
answer or 

C; 



ILLEGAL 
CHARACTER 
I TERMINATES 



I MASK THE 3 J 
I LOW ORDER ! 



BITS 



I OVERFLOW I 
I TERMINATES I 
1 STRING 



(return J 



handled are shown below, after the value is 
loaded into the A register and carry reset to 
zero. 

Carry A Register 

bb bbb bbb 

RAL : b bb bbb bbO 

RAL : b bb bbb bOb 

RAL : b bb bbb Obb 

At this point carry and the A register are 
saved and a character put out. Processing 
then continues at the first rotate, after the 
saved information is restored. The A register 
plus carry, in effect, operates as if the 
machine has a 9 bit register. 

Hexadecimal 

Input and output of hexadecimals em- 
ploys logic similar to the preceding routines, 
with the following differences: 

1. ASCII '0' through '9' and 'A' through 
'P are legal numbers. 



I XXX IN LOW 
J0RDER(2nd, 
3rd TIME) 



A> A87; 
A> A OR 'O' 



OUTPUT:' 

V A 




( RETURN J 



Figure 2b: The OOT Rou- 
tine Flowchart. OOT is the 
octal version of an output 
routine for character string 
conversion. Its logic is 
complicated by the fact 
that 8 bits is not an even 
multiple of 3 bits. Thus 
there is a special case 
which treats the carry flag 
as a ninth bit for the first 
(high order) output digit. 
Then the basic logic con- 
sists of shifting 3 places, 
extracting 3 bits and crea- 
ting an ASCII character 
from '0' to 7'. This rou- 
tine in its 8080 implemen- 
tation uses the stack as a 
temporary data area, as 
shown in listing 2b. 



54 



Note 1 



Note 2 



Rel. 












Addr. 


Code 


Label 


Op. 

LXI 


Operand 

H,0 


Commentary 


0000 


21 00 00 


XIN: 


ANSWER := 0; 


0003 


CD xx xx 


XINLOOP: 


CALL 


GET 


A : = INPUT |character|; 


0006 


FE 30 




CPI 


'0' 


is A LT '0'? 


0008 


D8 




RC 




if so then return; 


0009 


FE 3A 




CPI 


';' 


is A LT ':' [numerics]? 


000 B 


DA xx xx 




JC 


XINSHIFT 


if so then go shift it in; 


000 E 


FE41 




CPI 


'A' 


is A LT 'A'? 


0010 


D8 




RC 




if so then return; 


0011 


FE 47 




CPI 


'G' 


is A LT 'G' [alphabetic A to F|? 


0013 


DO 




RNC 




if not then return; 


0014 


C6 09 




ADI 


9 


A := A + 9 [convert to hexadecimal ]; 


0016 


E6 0F 


XINSHIFT: 


ANI 


15 


A := A & b'00001 111' [mask low order] ; 


0018 


29 




DAD 


H 


shift ANSWER register pair 


0019 


D8 




RC 




left four bit 


001 A 


29 




DAD 


H 


positions using 


001 B 


D8 




RC 




double byte addition 


001 C 


29 




DAD 


H 


and test each 


001 D 


D8 




RC 




operation for 


001 E 


29 




DAD 


H 


an overflow error 


001 F 


D8 




RC 




return condition; 


0020 


B5 




ORA 


L 


A := A OR L [add new code to lower order| 


0021 


6F 




MOV 


L, A 


restore low order to ANSWER; 


0022 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


XINLOOP 


reiterate for next nybble; 



Note 3 

Note 1: address of GET should replace "xx xx". 
Note 2: "xx xx" should be the address of XINSHIFT. 
Note 3: "xx xx" should be the address of XINLOOP. 



Listing 3a: The XIN Rou- 
tine Specified tor an 8080. 
This routine accepts an in- 
put string of ASCII hexa- 
decimal characters and col- 
lects the results as a 16 bit 
number in ANSWER (CPU 
register pair H and L). 



Rel. 










Addr. 


Code 


Label 


Op. 

MVI 


Operand 


0000 


0E04 


XOT: 


C,4 


0002 


AF 


XOTLOOP: 


XRA 


A 


0003 


29 




DAD 


H 


0004 


17 




RAL 




0005 


29 




DAD 


H 


0006 


17 




RAL 




0007 


29 




DAD 


H 


0008 


17 




RAL 




0009 


29 




DAD 


H 


O0OA 


17 




RAL 




000B 


FE 0A 




CPI 


10 


000 D 


DA xx xx 




JC 


XOTASCII 


0010 


C6 07 




ADI 


7 


0012 


C6 30 


XOTASCII 


ADI 


'0' 


0014 


CD xx xx 




CALL 


PUT 


0017 


0D 




DCR 


C 


0018 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


XOTLOOP 


001 B 


C9 




RET 





Note 1 



Note 2 



Note 3 



Note 1 : "xx xx" should be the address of XOTASCII. 
Note 2: address of PUT should replace "xx xx". 
Note 3: "xx xx" should be the address of XOTLOOP. 



Commentary 

CNT := 4; 

CARRY := 0; A := [clear A, CARRY]; 

Shift four bits of ANSWER 

into A using 

two byte addition 

with CARRY 

receiving each 

bit from the high 

order due to overflow; 

is A LT 10 [test for numeric digit]? 

if so then go form ASCII character code; 

if not then A := A + 7 [adjust to alpha]; 

A := A + '0' |convert to ASCII code]; 

OUTPUT := A; 

CNT := CNT- 1; 

if CNT NE then repeat; 

else return to caller; 



Listing 3b: The XOT 
Routine Specified for an 
8080. This routine con- 
verts the contents of AN- 
SWER (CPU register pair 
H and L) into a 4 digit 
ASCII string of hexadeci- 
mal characters, transfer- 
ring the results to the out- 
put device with PUT. 



2. The shift left is now four bits. 

3. On input if the character is ASCII 'A' 
through 'F', then a binary 9 is added 
to generate a correct value in the low 
order 4 bits which are then masked as 
usual: 

ASCII A = hexadecimal 41 + 09 = 4A 
(and) 0F = 0A 

4. On output if a 4 bit binary value is 
greater than a 9, then a 7 is added to 
the value. The conversion is then 



completed by adding hexadecimal 30, 
the ASCII code for (zero). 
For example: 

00 + 30 = 30 or ASCII '0' 

09 + 30 = 39 or ASCII '9' 

0A + 07 = 11 + 30 = 41 or ASCII 'A' 

OF + 07 = 16 + 30 = 46 or ASCII 'F' 

The software of 16 bit unsigned hexa- 
decimal input and output conversion is 



55 



xin; 



f BEGIN J 



xot: 



Figure 3a: The XIN Rou- 
tine Flowchart. XIN is the 
hexadecimal version of the 
input algorithm, with the 
extension of accepting 
16 bit values. The XIN 
routine tests for the valid- 
ity of the hexadecimal dig- 
its, then converts the low 
order bits to a binary ver- 
sion of the digit. This 
value is then shifted into 
the ANSWER being pre- 
pared. In the 8080 version 
of this routine (listing 3a), 
ANSWER becomes the HL 
index register pair, and the 
8080's double precision 
addition operation is uti- 
lized. Conversion termi- 
nates with an invalid 
character or when over- 
flow occurs. 




I ILLEGAL 
I CHARACTER 
TERMINATES 



Illegal 
hexadeci- 
mal charac-| 

TER TERMIN- i 
ATES INPUT 



rADJUST LOW 
I ORDER OF 
| VALID HEX- 
| ADECIMAL 
| ALPHABETIC 
^CHARACTER 



BITS 



D 



SHIFT4HIGH 
ORDER BITS 
OF ANSWER 
INTO A 



XOTASCII 




Ai- A + 'O' ; 



OUTPUT!' 




(return ") 



Figure 3b: The XOT Routine Flowchart. 
XOT converts a 16 bit quantity in ANSWER 
into a series of ASCII hexadecimal char- 
acters, starting with the high order digit. The 
logic shifts out 4 bits at a time into the 
accumulator, adjusts the value if alphabetic 
codes are present then prints the ASCII 
version obtained by adding V to the value. 
Four digits are created and printed prior to 
return. 



shown in listings 3a and 3b as implemented 
for an 8080 computer. The flow charts of 
figures 3a and 3b outline the logic for 
adaptation to other computers. When this 
was implemented, an arbitrary choice was 
made to use 16 bit values instead of 8 bit. 
This can lead to some inconvenience on an 
8 bit microprocessor without 16 bit opera- 
tions. However, certain instructions were 



available on the 8080 to perform double 
register operations (two 8 bit registers 
treated as a single unit). The 8080 DAD 
instruction performs 16 bit addition on the 
(H,L) register pair using another specified 
register pair. When the 8080 instruction 
DAD H is encountered, the value in (H,L) is 
doubled, thus in effect shifting that pair of 
registers left one bit.. For input shifting, it 



56 





Rel. 












Addr. 


Code 


Label 


Op. 

LXI 


Operand 




0000 


21 00 00 


DIN: 


H,0 




0003 


01 00 00 




LXI 


B,0 


Note i 


0006 


CD xx xx 




CALL 


GET 




0009 


FE 2B 




CPI 


'+' 


Note 2 


000B 


CA xx xx 




JZ 


DINSIGN 




000E 


FE 2D 




CPI 


'— ' 


Note 3 


0010 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


DINNUMB 




0013 


0D 




DCR 


C 




0014 


41 


DINSIGN: 


MOV 


B.C 


Note 1 


0015 


CD xx xx 




CALL 


GET 




0018 


FE 30 


DINNUMB: 


CPI 


'0' 




001 A 


D8 




RC 






001 B 


FE 3A 




CPI 


';' 




001 D 


DO 




RNC 






001 E 


E6 0F 




ANI 


15 




0020 


4F 




MOV 


C, A 




0021 


78 




MOV 


A, B 




0022 


06 09 




MVI 


B,9 




0024 


54 




MOV 


D, H 




0025 


5D 




MOV 


E, L 




0026 


17 




RAL 




Note 4 


0027 


D2 xx xx 




JNC 


DINMPYP 




002A 


AF 




XRA 


A 




002B 


91 




SUB 


C 




002C 


4F 




MOV 


C, A 




002D 


7C 




MOV 


A, H 




002 E 


17 




RAL 




Note 5 


002 F 


DA xx xx 




JC 


DINMPYN 




0032 


06 




MVI 


B,0 


Note 6 


0033 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


DINEGATE 




0036 


19 


DINMPYN: 


DAD 


D 




0037 


DO 




RNC 






0038 


05 




DCR 


B 


Note 5 


0039 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


DINMPYN 




003C 


05 


DINEGATE 


DCR 


B 




003 D 


09 




DAD 


B 


Note 2 


003E 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


DINSIGN 




0041 


19 


DINMPYP 


DAD 


D 




0042 


D8 




RC 






0043 


05 




DCR 


B 


Note 4 


0044 


C2 xx xx 




JNZ 


DINMPYP 




0047 


09 




DAD 


B 


Note 2 


0046 


C3 xx xx 




JMP 


DINSIGN 



Commentary 



ANSWER := 0; 

SIGN :=0;NSIGN := 0; 

A := INPUT [character] ; 

is A = '+'? 

if so then go save sign 

is A = '-'? 

if not then go to numeric tests; 

SIGN :» -1; 

NSIGN : = SIGN; 

A := INPUT [character] ; 

is A LT'0'? 

if so then return [not numeric] ; 

is A LTV? 

if not then return [not numeric] ; 

A := A & b'00001 111' [mask low order] 

VALUE := A [save input, low order] ; 

A := NSIGN; 

CNT :=9; 

MULTPLR : = ANSWER [high order] ; 

MULTPLR := ANSWER [low order] ; 

is SIGN positive? [uses copy in A] ; 

if not then go to positive multiply; 

A :=0; CARRY :=0; 

A := A - VALUE [negate VALUE] ; 

C := A [save negated value] ; 

A := ANSWER [high order] ; 

is ANSWER negative? 

if so then proceed [not first time] ; 

CNT := [so sign extension at DINEGATE works] ; 

first time add VALUE to ANSWER [initialized to zero 

ANSWER := ANSWER + MULTPLR [both are negative 

if no overflow then return; 

CNT := CNT - 1; 

if CNT NE then reiterate; 

CNT := CNT - 1 [now CNT := -1 ] ; 

ANSWER := ANSWER + (- VALUE) [1 6 bit ops] ; 

reiterate with next numeric character; 

ANSWER := ANSWER + MULTPLR; 

if CARRY := 1 then return [overflow] ; 

CNT := CNT -1 ; 

if CNT NE then reiterate; 

ANSWER := ANSWER + VALUE; 

reiterate with next numeric character; 



Listing 4a: The DIN Rou- 
tine Specified for an 8080. 
This routine converts an 
ASCII decimal string of 
the form 'SXXXXX' into a 
signed 1 6 bit quantity in 
ANSWER (the CPU's H 
and L register pair). The 
'S' can be either '+', '—'or 
a null string ("); the 'X' 
can be a decimal digit '0' 
to '9' or a null siring. 
(Thus a successful conver- 
sion can involve from I to 
6 characters.) Conversion 
is terminated by an over- 
flow or an invalid char- 
acter. 



Note 1 : address of GET should replace "xx xx". 
Note 2: "xx xx" should be the address of DINSIGN. 
Note 3: "xx xx" should be the address of DINNUMB. 



Note 4: "xx xx" should be the address of DINMPYP. 
Note 5: "xx xx" should be the address of DINMPYN. 
Note 6: "xx xx" should be the address of DINEGATE. 



was a simple matter o.f performing four of 
these and then using an OR to the low order 
8 bits from the value generated as a result of 
step 3 above. Output necessitated four 
groups of DAD H and RAL operations to 
shift a bit into carry, then rotate it into the 
A register before step 4 was performed (see 
listing 3b). 

Decimal Integer Conversions 

Purely out of habit, I choose to use 
leading minus sign to indicate negative, 
ASCII '— ', with '+' or nothing to indicate 
positive integers. Again I felt that a 16 bit 
routine would be more useful than an 8 bit 
one, allowing two's complement binary 



values for 32767 to -32768 instead of 127 
to -128 (see note 2). 

Input was fairly straightforward, as 
shown by listing 4a and figure 4a. If the first 
character read is a '— ', set the minus flag. 
Then for all numbers read, if the minus flag 
is set, the value is negated. The developing 
answer is multiplied by 10 and the new value 
read added to it. The implementation shown 
performs multiplication by repeated addi- 
tion for simplicity, although a hardware 
multiply instruction would certainly im- 
prove performance if it were available. 

Decimal output, unfortunately, could not 

Text continued on page 60 



57 



Note 1 



lote 2 



Note 3 



Note 4 



Note 5 



Note 6 



Note 7 



Note 3 



Note 2 




VALUE or'o; 

NONZERO^O 




Rel. 
Addr. 

0000 
0003 
0004 
0006 
0007 
0008 
000B 
000C 

000 D 
OOOE 
000F 
0010 
0011 
0012 
0014 
0017 
0018 
0019 

001 A 
001 B 
001 C 
001 D 

001 F 
0020 
0021 
0022 
0023 
0024 
0025 
0028 
0029 
002C 

002 D 
002 E 
002F 
0032 
0033 
0036 
0038 
003A 
003D 
003E 
0040 
0043 
0044 
0045 
0047 
0049 
004B 
004 D 



<D 



Code 

11 XX XX 

D5 

E0 01 

7C 

17 

D2 xx xx 

7D 

2F 

6F 

7C 

2F 

67 

23 

3E2D 

CD xx xx 

E3 

5E 

23 

56 

23 

E3 

06 00 

7D 

93 

7C 

7C 

9A 

67 

FA xx xx 

04 

C3 xx xx 

19 

AF 

B0 

C2 xx xx 

B1 

C2 xx xx 

F6 30 

0E00 

CD xx xx 

7B 

FE 01 

C2 xx xx 

D1 

C9 

10 27 

E8 03 

64 00 

0A00 

01 00 



Label 

DOT: 



Op. Operand 



I 1 

| BRANCH 
I TO I 

I DOTPOSIT I 
I I 



DOTPOSIT: 



DOTDIVID: 



DOTOUT: 



DOTPRNT: 



DOTBYPA: 



TENSTABL: 



LXI 

PUSH 

MVI 

MOV 

RAL 

JNC 

MOV 

CMA 

MOV 

MOV 

CMA 

MOV 

INX 

MVI 

CALL 

XTHL 

MOV 

INX 

MOV 

INX 

XTHL 

MVI 

MOV 

SUB 

MOV 

MOV 

SBB 

MOV 

JM 

INR 

JMP 

DAD 

XRA 

ORA 

JNZ 

ORA 

JNZ 

ORI 

MVI 

CALL 

MOV 

CPI 

JNZ 

POP 

RET 

DW 

DW 

DW 

DW 

DW 



D, TENSTABL 
D 

C, 1 
A, H 

DOTPOSIT 
A, L 

L, A 
A,H 

H, A 
H 

A,'-' 
PUT 

E,M 
H 

D,M 
H 

B,0 

A, L 

E 

A,H 

A, H 

D 

H, A 

DOTOUT 

B 

DOTDIVID 

D 

A 

B 

DOTPRNT 

C 

DOTBYPA 

'0' 

C,0 

PUT 

A, E 

1 

DOTPOSIT 

D 

10000 
1000 
100 
10 

1 



Commentary 

POINTER :=addr (TENSTABL); 

STACK := POINTER; 

NONZERO ;= 1; 

A := ANSWER; 

is ANSWER negative? 

if not then go to positive routine; 

ANSWER := -ANSWER - 1 [low order] 



ANSWER := -ANSWER - 1 [high order] ; 

ANSWER := (-ANSWER -11 + 1; 
A := '— ' [ASCII leading minus] ; 
OUTPUT := A [display minus sign] ; 
exchange POINTER and ANSWER; 
TEMP : = M(POINTER) [low order] ; 
POINTER := POINTER + 1; 
TEMP := M(POINTER) [high order] ; 
POINTER := POINTER +1; 
exchange ANSWER and POINTER; 
VALUE :=0; 

ANSWER := ANSWER - TEMP [low order] 



ANSWER := ANSWER - TEMP [high order] 

if ANSWER LT then go put character; 
VALUE := VALUE + 1; 
reiterate, counting in VALUE; 
ANSWER := ANSWER + TEMP; 
A :=0; CARRY :=0; 
is VALUE = 0? 
if not then go print it; 
is NONZERO = [leading zero test] ; 
if not then bypass leading zero print; 
A := A OR '0' [convert VALUE to ASCII] ; 
NONZERO := [reset zero flag] ; 
OUTPUT := A [display ASCII digit] ; 
A := TEMP [low order] ; 
is TEMP = 1 [low order] ? 
if not then reiterate; 
else flush stack 
and return; 

define constants for the 
decimal division routine 
(note: low order at low 
memory address for 8080); 



tenstable: 






LOCATION 


VALUE (DECIMAL) 


(HEX) 





IO OOO 


27IO 


2 


1 OOO 


03E8 


4 


IOO 


0061 


6 


IO 


OOOA 


8 


1 


OOOI 



note: 

intel format in listing 4b requires low 
order hexadecimal byte at first (low) 

ADDRESS. 



C RETURN J 



Listing 4b: The DOT 

Routine Specified for an 
8080. This routine con- 
verts the signed two 's com- 
plement number in AN- 
SWER (register pair H and 
L) into an ASCII signed 
decimal string with leading 
zero suppression. The re- 
sult is sent to the output 
device during the conver- 
sion. 



58 



din: 



f BEGIN ^ 






ANSWERI-O; 
SIGN!- 0; 

nsign:-o ; 






\ *■■■ / 

\ INPUT; / 



DOT! f BEGIN J 



pointer:- 

addrlTEN- 

STABL); 

NONZEROI: 



note: 
pointers 16 bits 
answer « 16 bits 
temp* i6bits 




DINSIGN: T^ 




G> 



temp:-mem 

(POINTER); 
POINTER ;- 
POINTER + I; 




I 16 BIT I 

'OPERATIONS! 
I I 



' I NO 



value: 

A 8 15: 



answer:- 
answer*io 

+ VALUE; 



YES 




I MASK LOW ORDER 
I WITH BINARY 
'OOOOIIII 

[decimal LEFT SHIFT 
THEN ADD; USE DIF- 
FERENT LOGIC FOR 
+ AND- ALGEBRAIC I 

ISIGNS ; 




value:- 

VALUE + I 



| WENT TOO I 
| FAR, SO RE- I 
I STORE VALUE \ 



c 



RETUR 



D 



Figure 4a: The DIN Routine Flowchart. 
With decimal arithmetic values, the shifting 
involved is no longer an integer multiple of 
one bit. The DIN routine uses the decimal 
version of binary shifting: multiplying the 
value by the base of the number system, 
then adding in the new low order value. DIN 
also includes sign decoding logic for the 
ASCII '+' and '-' characters. In the 8080 
version of DIN, the result is a signed two's 
complement number in ANSWER, a 16 bit 
quantity in the HL index register pair. 



Figure 4b: The DOT Routine Flowchart. 
The decimal equivalent of the shifting used 
in the base 2 n output routines is division by 
the base of 10. This routine also includes 
leading zero suppression and logic to print a 
sign digit. Division is performed by repeated 
subtraction using values stored in TEN- 
STAB L. In the 8080 version of listing 4b, 
the ANSWER to be output is a 16 bit signed 
two's complement number in the HL Index 
register pair. 



59 



Text continued from page 57 

be made quite so simple, primarily because 
there really exists no decimal (base 10) left 
shift. This left two alternatives, either re- 
petitively divide by 10 stacking the re- 
mainders, or perform a succession of pseudo 
divisions by subtracting appropriate con- 
stants. The latter technique was chosen due 
to the complexity of multi register division. 
The code of such a routine for an 8080 is 
shown in listing 4b, and the corresponding 
flow chart is figure 4b. 

The output routine checks the initial 
value to determine if it is negative, and if so, 
output the ASCII character '— '. If the value 
is negative, it is negated (making it 
positive) so that positive and negative num- 
bers can be handled the same way. A table 
containing powers of 10 (10,000; 1,000; 
100; 10; 1) was then utilized to perform 
pseudo divisions by successive subtraction. 
This is outlined in the flow diagram in figure 
4b. For the 8080 implementation, there is 
no 16 bit subtraction, hence a multiple 
precision subtract operation is coded. 

The handling of signed numbers is op- 
tional, as well as the zero suppression. They 
were included because it is easier to take 
them out than to try to divine where they go 
and how to do it. 

Many microprocessors have an instruction 
which maintains decimal numbers. Given the 
8 bit quantity hexadecimal 79, assume a 
hexadecimal 02 is added to it, giving the 
hexadecimal value 7b. This instruction then 
can be used to adjust this result back to two 
decimal digits, 4 bits each. The value then 
would appear as hexadecimal 81, which can 
be thought of as adding the decimal numbers 
79 + 2, giving 81. If computations are to be 
made in this packed decimal mode, then the 



Assumptions 

The assumptions for the procedures of 
this article are: 

1. An input and output subroutine 
exists (GET and PUT) which pre- 
serve CPU registers except A. 

2. The conversion process is itself a 
subroutine. 

3. The conversion process need not 
save any registers. 

4. Validating characters is done 
(though not necessary). 

5. Overflow checking is done (again 
not necessary and in some instances 
not desirable). 

6. All values are treated as unsigned 
integers (except the decimal rou- 
tines). 

7. Non significant leading zeros are 
not required on input. 

8. Leading zeros are printed on output 
(except for decimal). 



hexadecimal routine presented could be used 
to input and output these values. 

In conclusion, these routines are not 
presented as the final answer in number 
conversions. In order to implement any or 
all of these routines on your own personal 
computer, the flow diagrams may be more 
useful than the sample 8080 implementa- 
tion. That implementation is targeted for 
Intel's 8080 microprocessor, one of the most 
widely used hobby computers at the time of 
this writing. All the routines made full use of 
certain special features and strange quirks of 
the 8080 microprocessor. Whatever your 
particular machine, the time spent in under- 
standing these routines should save you a 
few headaches in your next program. ■ 



NOTES 



Note 1 : 

During a left shift, as the high order bit 
leaves the register, it enters the carry bit and 
the vacated low order bit receives a zero. 

For example: Before : Carry=0 A=1001 0111 
After : Carry=1 A=001 1110 

During a rotate left, as a bit leaves the high 
order bit position, that value is shifted into the 
vacated low order bit position. On the Intel 
8080, two types of rotate are available: 

1. RRL : rotate accumulator copying 
swapped bit to carry. 

before: Carry=0 A=1 001 0111 
after: Carry=1 A=0010 1111 

2. RAL : rotate accumulator thru carry 
before: Carry =0 A=1001 0111 
after: Carry=1 A=0010 1110 

On computers with a rotate through the 
carry bit, new bits can be shifted into the 
accumulator while old bits are shifted out. 



Note 2: 

Two's complement arithmetic uses the high 
order bit of a value to indicate sign; 1 is 
negative and is positive. A negative value is 
formed by complementing all bits of the value 
(1 to and to 1 ) and adding one. Thus, the 
largest positive value for a 16 bit quantity is a 
hexadecimal 7FFF, and the smallest negative 
value is a hexadecimal 8000, or decimal 32767 
to -32768. The 8 bit values are 7F to 80 or 
127 to -128. 

For example: given the value 1, create the 
value — 1. 

0000 0001 = 1 Start with 1 

1111 1110 Complement all 1 6 bits 

+1 Add 1 

11111111=-! Giving the value -1. 



60 



Software Bug 

of the Month 4 



Even when a program has been exhaus- 
tively tested, bugs can still occur. This 
month's tale concerns an overconfident pro- 
grammer who wrote a program, tested it 
extensively, and then bragged about it, to his 
ultimate regret. 

The program was supposed to test 
whether the number N was prime. If N was 
prime, it was supposed to set K = 1; 
otherwise, it would set K = 0. The idea was 
to test whether N is a multiple of 2, then 3, 
then 4, and so on. A trick was used, in that 
if N is not prime — that is, N = I* J — then 
either I or J must be less than, or equal to, 
the square root of N. Therefore we only 
need to test multiples of numbers up to the 
square root of N. 

The FORTRAN version of the program 
was as follows: 

SUBROUTINE PRIME(N, K) 
K = 1 



I = 2 

IF (MOD(N, 
K = 
RETURN 

1 = 1 + 1 
IF (1*1 .LE. 
RETURN 
END 



l).NE.O) GO TO 2 



N) GOTO! 



Not satisfied with his ability to write a 
program that works the first time, our 
programmer tried out this one on a wide 
variety of test cases. All checked out per- 
fectly. Great was his despair, then, when the 
programmer down the hall said to him one 
day, "Hey, you know that bug we've been 
working on for about a month? You know 
what we just traced it to? Your little old 
prime subroutine!" (Please don't ask what a 
prime number testing subroutine was doing 
in a larger system.) 
What was the bug? 

[NOTE: The MOD(N,l) function returns the 
integer remainder of the division N/I.J 

Answer in Next Month's BYTE ■ 



SOLUTION TO BUG OF THE MONTH 3 

What happened first was that the recog- 
nizer for a digit was called; it found the first 
digit in the unsigned integer, and quit at that 
point. Thus the rest of the unsigned integer 
was never found. 

The programmer tried to fix this by 
rearranging the BNF rule as 

<unsigned integer> ::= <unsigned integer> <digit> / <digit> 

(that is, putting the second case first). 
Unfortunately, this time, the first thing the 
recognizer did was to call itself; this made it 
call itself again, and so on, producing an 
endless loop. So the BNF rule was rear- 
ranged again: 

<unsigned integer> ::= <digit> <unsigned integer> / <digit> 

(that is, rearranging the order in the first 
case). This gave him his second endless loop. 
His last bug really should have been thought 
of first: he was working in PL/I, which 
allows subroutines to be recursive — but 
they have to be declared RECURSIVE, and 



this he had forgotten. i 



W Douglas Maurer 
University Library Room 634 
George Washington University 
Washington DC 20052 



If you want a microcomputer 
with all of these standard features . • • 




• 8080 MPU (The one 
with growing soft- 
ware support) 

• 1024 Byte ROM 
(With maximum ca- 
pacity of 4K Bytes) 
•1024 Byte RAM j 
(With maximum £ 
capacity of 2K 
Bytes) 

•TTY Serial I/O 
•EIA Serial I/O 

• 3 parallel l/O's 
•ASCII/Baudot 
terminal com- 
patibility with TTY machines or video units 

• Monitor having load, dump, display, insert 
and go functions 



• Complete with card 
connectors 
• Comprehensive 
User's Manual, plus 
Intel 8080 User's 
Manual 
• Completely 
factory assembled 
and tested— not 
a kit 

• Optional ac- 
cessories: Key- 
board/video 
display, audio 
cassette modem 
interface, power supply, ROM programmer 
and attractive cabinetry . . . plus more options 
to follow. The HAL MCEM-8080. $375 



.then let us send you our card. 



HAL Communications Corp. has 
been a leader in digital communi- 
cations for over half a decade. 
The MCEM-8080 microcomputer 
shows just how far this leadership 
has taken us . . . and how far it 
can take you in your applications. 
That's why we'd like to send 
you our card— one PC 
board that we feel is the 
best-valued, most complete 



m 



microcomputer you can buy. For 
details on the MCEM-8080, write 
today. We'll also include compre- 
hensive information on the HAL 
DS-3000 KSR microprocessor- 
based terminal, the terminal that 
gives you multi-code compati- 
bility, flexibility for future 
changes, editing, and a 
convenient, large video 
display format. 



HAL Communications Corp. 

Box 365, 807 E. Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801 

Telephone (217) 367-7373 



61 



The Circuit for Z-80s 



Dr Robert Suding 

Research Director, The Digital Group Inc 

PO Box 6528 

Denver CO 80206 



The microprocessor integrated circuit is 
the real engine for your system. Now you 
can replace that old engine with a real power 
house, the new Z-80 (the Z-80 was de- 
scribed in Burt Hashizume's Microprocessor 
Update on page 34 of August 1976 BYTE). 
After initially reading about this integrated 
circuit in early '76, I just had to get one to 
see how many of the blurbs were true (I give 
sales advertisements a \% credibility on the 
first pass). 

Aside from a few typos, promised sup- 
port chips that didn't show, and several 
mistakes in the software documentation, it 
was fabulous. The software flexibility added 
by this chip was a great addition to the 
8080/6502/6800 Digital Group stable. The 
relative branch was very helpful for machine 
language programming, and the ability to 
test, set, and clear individual bits in a byte 
has opened a new world of control applica- 
tions. I saw a 20% savings in memory 
requirements even though I was still new to 
much of the Z-80's special software. 

The Z-80's hardware made good sense 
too. Getting rid of the 18 MHz crystal 
requirement of the 8224/8080 system and 
using a 2.5 MHz crystal with a simple single 
phase TTL clock made me happy. The 
interrupt and DMA system has some neat 
features. Sure gonna be hard to justify using 
the old 8080/6502 or 6800 CPU boards any 
more, thought I, as I set out to design the 
circuit for Z-80s. 

The circuit for Z-80s presented in this 
article is the actual wiring used in the Digital 
Group's Z-80 processor card. Not too un- 
believably, we would just love to sell you the 
whole system. The circuit is being published 
in complete detail for your information, 
whether you choose to purchase it as part of 
your system, or use it as a starting point for 
your own custom design. The systems ap- 



proach to microprocessors which I described 
in the June 1976 BYTE [page 32} is 
reflected in the design of this central pro- 
cessor circuit. 

This Z-80 circuit is shown in figures 1 and 
2. In figure 1 you'll find the central pro- 
cessor integrated circuit (IC43, a Z-80 made 
by Zilog or second source Mostek), and 
miscellaneous drivers, decoders and gates. In 
figure 2 you'll find the wiring of 2 K bytes 
of programmable memory along with a 256 
byte 1702A erasable read only memory 
which can be used to store the bootstrap 
programs for your system. 

Full direct memory access (DMA) is used 
in this design. What's DMA to you? Well for 
one thing, DMA permits hand loading of the 
memory from a front panel which is com- 
pletely independent of a particular proces- 
sor. It permits future processor upgrading by 
replacing a single board. High speed data 
devices, such as some tape, disk, and video 
systems which may operate too fast for most 
processors, can directly load memory using 
DMA. Finally, for the truly gigantic among 
you, multiple processors can share common 
memory with the addition of control logic. 

Buffering is included on this processor 
board design to permit driving a full memory 
system (64 K bytes) and up to 256 IO ports. 
Miscellaneous logical functions such as 
power on reset and single stepping are 
provided. 

The EROM bootstrap provides a con- 
venient way to initialize the system at power 
on, by using a low cost cassette [page 46, 
July 1976 BYTE] . We use an EROM in the 
design in order to allow customized 
initialization by sophisticated users able to 
program their own EROMs. Circuitry to 
inhibit EROM selection is included in order 
to permit full use of "0 page" programmable 
memory for user software. 

Two K bytes of programmable random 
access memory give sufficient storage for a 
small operating system. The Digital Group 
Z-80 system includes a cassette which loads 
this area of programmable memory with a 
system monitor which permits reading and 



62 



When inserting large integrated circuits into sockets, 
avoid uneven stresses. In extreme cases of uneven 
insertion pressure, it is possible to crack the case of a 
24 or 40 pin integrated circuit, rendering it useless. 



writing other cassettes, keyboard entry of 
data and programs, and TV display of 
memory data, all 14 registers, indices, and 
flags (in octal or hexadecimal). 

The system used to interface this pro- 
cessor to memory and 10 exemplifies the 
"processor independence" ideal mentioned 
in my article in the June BYTE. Two sets of 
16 address lines are brought out from each 
Digital Group processor card. The 16 lines 
labeled "memory address" in figure 1 lead to 
the memory boards; the 16 lines labeled 
"port address" in figure 2 go to the 10 port 
selecting card(s). Similarly, memory data to 
and from the processor is separated, as is the 
peripheral 10 data to and from the pro- 
cessor. 

The Z-80 DMA read, write and 10 lines 
are brought to decoding logic to derive your 
universal control lines, ie : me mory read 
( MRP) , memory wri te (M WR), 10 read 
(IORD),and 10 write (I0VVR). 

The major objective of processor inde- 
pendency is supported by providing this 
common set of 32 address lines, 32 data 
lines, and 4 control lines for each processor. 
It is the responsibility of the processor board 
to provide the logical derivation of these 68 
lines. The complete list of backplane con- 
nections for the system includes all 68 logic 
lines and is summarized in table 1. The rest 
of the system is interfaced to this common 
68 line system. Processor interchange is thus 
particularly simple: It is achieved by 
plugging in a different processor card. 

Z-80 Processor Circuit 

The logic of this Digital Group Z-80 
processor circuit may be logically divided 
into six interrelated sections. They are the 
processor itself and immediate "house- 
keeping" logic, run control, DMA, interrupt, 
buffering, and memory. The processor and 
immediate housekeeping consists of the 
Z-80, a 7400 single phase crystal controlled 
clock generator, and decoders for read, 
write, memory and 10 operations. These are 
all found in figure 1. 

A power on reset function is provided by 
IC38d, one section of a 4010 CMOS buffer. 
An external switch is attached to the back- 
plane assembly for a remote "reset and go" 
operation after power has been applied. 



A 7442, IC48, decodes IO states of the 
processor: memory reading, memory 
writing, input port reading, and output port 
writing. Each of these signals occurs at the 
proper time as determined by the processor. 

Run control logic permits single stepping 
through a program if a front panel readout is 
provided for viewing the resulting instruc- 
tion sequencing. In addition, wait states for 
slow external memory and the EROM access 
delay are provided. The wait line input of 
the Z-80 is utilized to control execution. A 
feature of this Z-80 circuit is the ability to 
jumper select either "single step" or "step 
on instruction." The jumpering for "single 
steps" permits stepping within an instruction 
cycle in the same manner as the 8080. "Step 
on instruction" will display only the first 
byte of each single or multibyte instruction. 
Normal processor running mode is unaf- 
fected by which stepping mode is selected. 

Two sections of a 7402, IC28a and 
IC28b, arc used as a run latch. When the step 
switch is activated, the run latch is reset, and 
the one shot (74123, IC37b) fires a 50 ms 
pulse to debounce the switch. The resultant 
pulse is held in a 7474 latch section, 
IC29a, for a very short time until synchro- 
nized by the Z-80 and acknowledged 
through the second oneshot section of IC37. 
The 7402 NOR gate IC28c passes either the 
continuous run or the step pulse depending 
on the mode selected. IC28d will then drop 
the ready line if either no run command 
exists (conlinous or step), or the "wait" 
command line goes high. If no "single step" 
operation is to be used, pin 43 of the 
backplane is tied to +5 V externally. 

Direct Memory Access 

The Z-80 has built-in features for direct 
memory access. The DMA logic supporting 
the processor consists of sections of IC44, 
IC29 and IC49. DMA is designed as an 
external request for control of memory and 
the granting of this request as soon as the 
processor can safely suspend its operations 
without losing current data. A DMA request 
is entered whenever either pin 8 or 9 of 
IC44c goes high. This will set a latch, IC29b, 
bringing down the Z-80's bus request line. 

Text continued on page 68 



Contrary to some grape- 
vine rumors, you can't 
simply unplug your 8080 
integrated circuit and plug 
in a Z-80. A glance at 
figure 1 and comparison of 
IC43's Z-80 pinouts with 
an 8080 specification will 
shoot that rumor down. 
Once you have a Z-80 
wired, however, the in- 
struction set is a superset 
of the 8080 instruction set 
which provides a better 
general purpose processing 
architecture. 



63 



Figure I : The central processor of the Z-80 circuit. See also figure 2 for the balance of the logic found in the Digital Group Z-80 
central processor card. This figure contains the processor integrated circuit, IC43, and ancilliary logic of the system clock, buffers, 
run control, interrupts and direct memory access control. A summary of back plane connections is found in table I accompanying 



BACKPLANE 
PINS 



DMAG RFSH MRQ MWR MRD 

H b a m m 



10 RD 10 WR 



N.O. RESET BUTTON 



DMA END DMARO 



NMI 




RFSH MRO IORQ RD WD 



IC43 Z-80 CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT 



WAIT 



■PROCESSOR ADDRESS BUS- 



AO Al A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7 A8 A9 AIO All AI2 AI3 AI4 AI5 



, PROCESSOR DATA BUS , 

DO Dl 02 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 



DMA GRANT 
WIRED TO: 

48-12 

32-1 

32-15 

31-1 

31-15 

30-1 

30-15 

47-1 

47-15 

42-1 

41-1 

41-15 

0"CPU CONTROL 
I -DMA CONTROL 



DMA GRANT 



LSB 



IC4I 
8T97 



32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 



IC4I 
8T97 



24 RESISTORS - 
2.2K 



BACKPLANE PINS- 



2 4 6 

7-Y-V- 

3 5 7 



IC4I 
8T97 



IC42 
8T97 



■5V 



■5V 



14 12 10 2 

7 -v- J v-v 

13 II 9 13 



IC42 
8T97 



IC42 
8T97 



IC47 
8T97 



IC47 
8T97 



MSB 



Y^^^^^^^^i^^^^-f 



-5V 



•5V 



•5V 




2 14 6 14 

7-V-V- 

3 5 7 



LSB 
IC30 
8T97 



IC30 
8T97 



IC30 
8T97 



14 12 10 



IC3I 
8T97 



D7 



LOCAL 

DATA 

BUS 



+ 5V 



■5V 



■5V 




46a66QQ^466afiafiy &&&&!;&&& 



AO Al A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7 A8 A9 AIO All AI2 AI3 AI4 A 15 
MEMORY ADDRESS 



MOO MOI M02 M03 M04 M05 M06 M07 
MEMORY OUTPUTS 



64 



this article. The complete list of power connections for both figures 1 and 2 is found in table 2. This schematic was redrawn to fit 
the constraints of the magazine page. A complete schematic in its original form, drawn on one page, is included with the 
documentation of the Digital Group Z-80 central processor kit. 



STOP/ STEP 




IC3I 
3T97 



D IT IC l\J C *T O II 



wiawis 



POI P02 P03 P04 P05 P06 P07 
PERIPHERAL OUTPUTS 



f 



f 




IORD 



8 DIODES 
IN9I4 
(OPTIONAL 
PROTECT- 
ION) 



,3 ,J ,J | J , J , J , J , J 2.2K 

aaa^A6A H UH H 



STORS 



M.IO Mil MI2 MI3 MI4 MI5 MI6 MI7 
MEMORY INPUTS 



PIO PI I PI2 PI3 PI4 PI5 PI6 

PERIPHERAL INPUTS 



PI7 



Table 1: A Generalized Processor Independent Bus Structure. This table lists connector pin identification, signal name, DMA 
access properties, primary signal direction relative to the processor card, and description. This is the bus definition used in the 
Digital Group systems. 







DMA 


In or 


Pin 


Name 


G? 


Out? 


1 
2 
3 
4 

5 


- 


_ 


_ 


MI7 




IN "> 


6 


MI6 




IN 


7 


MI5 




IN 


8 


MI4 




IN 


9 


MI3 




IN 


10 


MI2 




IN 


11 


Mil 




IN 


12 


MIO 




IN J 


13 


M07 


G 


OUT "> 


14 


M06 


G 


OUT 


15 


M05 


G 


OUT 


16 


M04 


G 


OUT 


17 


M03 


G 


OUT 


18 


M02 


G 


OUT 


19 


M01 


G 


OUT 


20 


MOO 


G 


OUT., 


21 


MRD- 


G 


OUT 


22 


AO 


G 


OUT "* 


23 


A1 


G 


OUT 


24 


A2 


G 


OUT 


25 


A3 


G 


OUT 


26 


A4 


G 


OUT 


27 


A5 


G 


OUT 


28 


A6 


G 


OUT 


29 


A7 


G 


OUT 


30 


A8 


G 


OUT 


31 


A9 


G 


OUT 


32 


A10 


G 


OUT 


33 


A11 


G 


OUT 


34 


A12 


G 


OUT 


35 


A13 


G 


OUT 


36 


A14 


G 


OUT 


37 


A15 


G 


OUT^ 


38 


MWR- 


G 


OUT 


39 


RFSH- 


G 


OUT 


40 


DMARQ 




IN 


41 


DMAG 




OUT 


42 


DMAEND 




IN 


43 


RUN 




IN 


44 


STEP 




IN 


45 


WRQ- 




IN 


46 


MRQ- 


G 


OUT 


47 


RESET- 




IN 


48 


ROMCE- 




OUT 


49 


_ 


_ 


_ 


50 


— 


— 


— 



Description 

+5 V power bus 

System ground bus 

Spare voltage bus 

—5 V power bus (not used by 

Z-80) 



Input data from memory 



V Output data to memory 



Memory read data strobe 



V Memory address lines 



Memory write data strobe 

Refresh line (Z-80) for dynamic 

memories 

DMA Request #1 

DMA Grant 

DMA end signal 

Run if logic 1 , stop or step if 

Stop if and RUN » 0;single step 

each 1 pulse. 

Wait request, from external slow 

memories 

Memory request 

Reset signal 

ROM on processor board is 

enabled; do not decode page 0. 

+ 12 V power bus 

—12 V power bus 



Pin 

A 
B 
C 

D 



Name 



DMA 
G? 



In or 
Out? 



E PI7 

F PI6 

H PI5 

J PI4 

K PI 3 

L PI2 

M PI1 

N PI0 



P 

R 
S 
T 



P07 
P06 
P05 
P04 
U P03 

V P02 
W P01 
X POO 

Y IORD- 
Z PA0 

AA PA1 
AB PA2 
AC PA3 
AD PA4 
AE PA5 
AF PA6 
AH PA7 
A J PA8 
AK PA9 
AL PA10 
AM PA11 
AN PA12 
AP PA13 
AR PA14 
AS PA15 
AT IOWR- 
AU IRQ- 

AV » 

AW * 

AX " 

AY " 

AZ NMI- 

BA ROMDIS 

BB DMARQ 

BC 

BD * 

BE 

BF - 



G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 

G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 



Description 

+5 V power bus 

System ground bus 

Spare voltage bus 

—5 V power bus (not used by 

Z-80) 



>- Input data from peripherals 



IN 
IN 
OUT 



Output data to peripherals 



Peripheral read data strobe 



V Peripheral address, low order, 
identical to A0 through A7 in 
Z-80 processor. 



>- Peripheral address, high order, 
wired to ground (logical 0) in 
Z-80 processor. 



Peripheral write data strobe 
Interrupt request line 

Cassette bootstrap: Data output 

Output port 1 bit 

Cassette bootstrap: Data input 

Input port 1 bit 

Non maskable interrupt input 

Bootstrap ROM disable 

DMA Request #2 

unused 

Valid memory address (6800, 

6502 systems) 

+12 V power bus 

— 12 V power bus 



NOTES: 



"G" in the "DMA G?" column indicates that 
the signal is in a high impedance state when the 
DMAG signal is logical 1. This means that the line 
in question can be driven by an alternate three 
state driver during a DMA operation. If the signal is 
not disabled by DMAG, then this column is blank. 

In the "Name" column, if the name is followed 
by a minus sign as in "MRD-", then the signal is 
active low. This is indicated in the logic diagram by 
a bar over the name in question. 

An "*" in the name column indicates a signal 
which is not defined by the processor circuit of 
figures 1 and 2 in this article. 

"In or Out?" is relative to the central processor 
card. 



Figure 2: The Digital Group Z-80 processor card also includes this memory 
subsystem. Memory banks and 1 are programmable user memory typically 
decoded to addresses at split octal locations 000/000 to 007/377, hexa- 
decimal 0000 to 07FF. The programmable jumpers J A 13, J A 14 and J A 15 in 
this diagram are used to pick the base address for these memory banks, and 
allow the lower two I K blocks of any of the eight 8 K blocks in the Z-80's 
64 K memory address space. The read only memory, IC20, is enabled during 
bootstrap. During bootstrap, since the ROM addresses overlap the pro- 
grammable memory a ddresses at locations to 377 octal (0 to FF hexa- 
decimal) the ROMCE line is used to disable any programmable memory ref- 
erences to page 0. A fter bootstrapping the programmable memory exclusive 
of page 0, the ROM becomes invisible to the system when the ROMDIS line is 
in a high state. (This line should be controlled by a manual switch.) *~ 




AAAAAAAA &MMMMA MAAAAAA % MmmmmiiMM 



r-tOn^iON— O 
oooooooo 

1333X333 



33X3X333 



<<<<<<<<<<<< < < ? 5 

0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0-11 



67 



One way to test out a 
newly constructed circuit 
(not necessarily the best 
way) is the traditional 
"smoke test": Turn on 
power and see if the 
circuit burns up. A far 
better method is to do a 
little thinking and careful 
inspection first. 



Text continued from page 63 

When the Z-80 is finished with any needed 
housekeeping, it issues the bus acknowledge 
signal, granting the request. Further Z-80 
operations are suspended and the various 
buffers, IC31, IC32, IC33, IC41, IC42 and 
IC47, go to a high impedance state, and the 
external circuitry making the request is 
allowed full control over memory using the 
backplane bus. 

DMA request and grant is ended by any 
of three methods. A reset operation will 
always end any current DMA operation. A 
jumper at pin 9 of IC29b allows selecting 
one of the other two DMA ending opera- 
tions. If the jumper is connected from pin 9 
to pin 10 of IC29b, then the DMA operation 
will be ended whenever both DMA request 
lines return low. If the jumper is connected 
from pin 9 of IC29b to the line labeled DMA 
end, then a latched DMA operation results. 
One or more positive going pulses at either 
DMA Request line will initiate DMA. One or 
more positive going pulses at the DMA end 
line will end the DMA. 

Interrupts 

The Z-80 has extended interrupt process- 
ing capabilities, and sufficient hardware is 
included on the Digital Group Z-80 board to 
support the three Z-80 interrupt modes. 
Mode is the same as the 8080A, generally 
considered as the eight restart instructions 
which are placed on the data bus upon an 
interrupt acknowledge signal from the pro- 
cessor. Mode 1 is an automatic interrupt to 
address 000070. Mode 2 is an extremely 
powerful vectored interrupt system which is 
new with the Z-80. A new register, called the 
I register, is used as a high order portion of 
the vector address. When an interrupt is 
encountered and acknowledged, the data 
placed on the data bus becomes the low 
order portion of the interrupt vector ad- 
dress. Interrupt processing thus starts at an 
arbitrary 16 bit address formed from the I 
register and a variable input. Another inter- 
rupt system provided by the Z-80 is called 
non maskable interrupt (NMI). This inter- 
rupt will occur anytime the Z-80's pin 17 is 
brought low, and is intended for highest 
priority operations like responding to a 
power failure before the power supply 
capacitors bleed down. 

IC50, IC44, IC36, IC35, IC34 and IC27 
provide the needed interrupt processing 
interfaces. The 74125s of IC34 and IC35 
provide three state buffering for the inter- 
rupt address vectoring required by Z-80 
interrupt modes and 2. The 7442, IC27, 



produces an interrupt honored acknowledge- 
ment signal (if required) for use in mode 0. 
The INT input at the Z-80 pin 16 will be 
forced low whenever any interrupt input, 
except NMI, is brought low. Interrupts are 
interfaced using a 16 pin DIP socket. 

Buffering 

The Digital Group processor circuits are 
designed to drive a full complement of 
memory and IO. In addition, the processors 
are designed to operate under direct memory 
access as mentioned previously, and three 
state buffers permit isolating the processor 
card from its own (see figure 2) and auxil- 
iary memory. 

Sections of 8T97s IC41, IC42 and IC47 
provide buffered address outputs from the 
Z-80 processor with each section capable of 
each driving 30 standard TTL loads. These 
drivers handle both memory and IO port 
addressing. DMA grant is connected to these 
drivers so that when a DMA is in process, the 
external device is given full control of the 
address lines since the processor's drivers are 
in a high impedance state. 

The 8T97 sections used for data output, 
IC31 and IC32, provide the ability to drive 
as many as seven Digital Group IO boards 
(28 ports) without further buffering. 

Data input to the processor is placed onto 
the internal bidirectional bus by two types 
of circuits. A pair of 741 25s provides a three 
state noninverted buffering of memory input 
from a backplane bus (pins 5 to 12) which 
has noninverted data. A pair of open col- 
lector 7403s, IC40 and IC46, provide an 
inverted open collector drive of the same 
bus, a requirement since the Digital Group 
peripherals put data onto the backplane in 
inverted form. Notice, however, that the pin 
connections of the 7403 are compatible with 
the 74126 circuit, so if you desire to use this 
design with noninverting peripherals simply 
replace the 7403s with 74126s to change the 
sense of the data on the outputs of the 
receivers. 

Memory (see figure 2) in this Z-80 proc- 
essor circuit is of two types, EROM and 
programmable memory. The EROM is a 
single chip preprogrammed by the Digital 
Group to simplify system operation of 
our kits. If you roll your own software, a 
customized bootstrap EROM could also be 
used. When power is applied to the system, a 
"power on reset" function results, which 
starts the processor running at address 
000 000. IC29 and IC25 decode the lowest 
256 bytes of memory, resulting in a EROM 
chip enable condition. The EROM proceeds 
through its programming to clear the screen, 
display a message, initialize some program- 



68 



mable memory addresses, and control initial 
cassette reading. 

Two K of programmable memory allows 
an extensive operating system to be entered 
from cassette. Sixteen 2102s are arranged as 
two banks of 8 integrated circuits. Which of 
the two banks selected (if either) is a 
function of decoding by IC23, IC24 and 
IC25, as well as the three jumper settings. 
The 7442 will assign the two banks of 21 02s 
as the bottom 2 K of any one of eight 8 K 
blocks in memory address space. 

The three jumpers permit assigning the 
processor's 2 K programmable memory to 
addresses other than the bottom 2 K. When 
a user wishes to add one or more Digital 
Group 8 K boards to his or her system, the 
processor's 2 K may be moved to fail above 
the highest address of the supplemental 8 K 
board. Example: A user has two Digital 
Group 8 K memory boards on his system. 
By assigning the processor circuit's 2 K to 
the address range of 16 K to 18 K, one 
memory board to to 8 K, and the other to 
8 K to 16 K, an 18 K system results, with all 
active memory in the low address range. 

The EROM used for bootstrapping is a 
relatively slow device, so the processor must 
be forced to wait for its data access. A 
74121 provides a 475 ns delaying pulse to 
the processor when either the processor 
EROM is accessed or an external slow 
memory access is required. Since the Digital 
Group programmable memory cards are 
built using 500 ns access time (or faster) 
2102 static memories, the processor nor- 
mally runs at full speed. 

Some Notes on Construction 

While the circuit diagrams of figures 1 
and 2 provide the information needed to 
wire wrap or hand wire your own Z-80 
processor, I'll bet you'll find the Digital 
Group processor board in our kit to be a 



worthwhile time saver. This Z-80 processor 
card is manufactured using two sided FR-10 
printed circuit board material and measures 
12 inches wide by 5 inches high (30.5 cm 
wide by 12.7 cm high). It has a dual 50 pin 
(100 terminals in all) connector to the 
backplane assembly. The definition of sig- 
nals at the connector is provided in table 1. 
The Digital Group board is not "Altair 
compatible" due to two major system con- 
straints: processor independency and use of 
a single fully protected external power 
supply. These design goals ruled out the bus 
structure supported by MITS and indepen- 
dent suppliers of peripherals for MITS 
systems. Experienced designers will un- 
doubtedly interface the Z-80 to the "Altair 
bus" but the processor dependency problem 
will remain. Some experimenters may wish 
to custom design this Z-80 into their own 
system. The circuit of figures 1 and 2 should 
provide sufficient details of the Z-80's opera- 
tion to assist you and provide a starting 
point. Further detailed information on the 
Z-80 chip and its specifications is of course 
available from its manufacturer, Zilog Inc. 

Testing 

After building the processor circuit, but 
before inserting any of your (socketed) 
integrated circuits, try a little preliminary 
testing with an ohmmeter. Check for a short 
between backplane terminals 1 and 2, 2 and 
50, and 1 and 50. I and 2 should show an 
initial momentary low resistance and then 
approach infinity as power supply bypass 
capacitors charge up. 2 and 50 will show 
some resistance due to the zener, and to 
ohmmeter polarity, but not a short. 

Two techniques are possible at this point. 
One way (referred to in the fine print of 
traditional literature as the "smoke test") is 
to plug in all integrated circuits and insert 
the card in a backplane assembly wired for 



Only $59.95 

Assembled 

Tested 




'' PerCom 



FINALLY - A CASSETTE INTERFACE THAT WORKS! 
The PerCom CI-810 

• Easily connected to any computer • An 8-bit parallel interface 

• 'Kansas City' Standard • Load a 1k byte program in 40 seconds 

• Little or no software required • Easily upgraded to 218 byte/sec 

• Operate 2 tape units simultaneously • 18 page Instruction Manual 

PerCom Data Co. 

4021 Windsor, Garland, Texas 75042 
(214) 276-1968 

'peripherals for persona/ computing' 




69 



Table 2: Power connections for the Z-80 
processor circuit shown in figures 1 and 2. 
Note that IC8 and IC9, IC18 and IC19 are 
omitted from the numbering sequence. 



Number 


Type 


+5 V 


GN 


ICO 


2102 


10 


9 


IC1 


2102 


10 


9 


IC2 


2102 


10 


9 


IC3 


2102 


10 


9 


IC4 


2102 


10 


9 


IC5 


2102 


10 


9 


IC6 


2102 


10 


9 


IC7 


2102 


10 


9 


IC10 


2102 


10 


9 


IC11 


2102 


10 


9 


IC12 


2102 


10 


9 


IC13 


2102 


10 


9 


IC14 


2102 


10 


9 


IC15 


2102 


10 


9 


IC16 


2102 


10 


9 


IC17 


2102 


10 


9 


IC20 


1702A 


12,13, 

15,22, 

23 




IC21 


74121 


14 


7 


IC22 


7400 


14 


7 


IC23 


7442 


16 


8 


IC24 


7404 


14 


7 


IC25 


7420 


14 


7 


IC26 


7430 


14 


7 


IC27 


7442 


16 


8 


IC28 


7402 


14 


7 


IC29 


7474 


14 


7 


IC30 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC31 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC32 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC33 


7404 


14 


7 


IC34 


74125 


14 


7 


IC35 


74125 


14 


7 


IC36 


7430 


14 


7 


IC37 


74123 


16 


8 


IC38 


4010 


16,1 


8 


IC39 


74125 


14 


7 


IC40 


7403 


14 


7 


IC41 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC42 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC43 


Z-80 


11 


29 


IC44 


74LS02 


14 


7 


IC45 


74125 


14 


7 


IC46 


7403 


14 


7 


IC47 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC48 


7442 


16 


8 


IC49 


7440 


14 


7 


IC50 


7400 


14 


7 



■800 ns- 



-9 V 



16,24 



Figure 3: Central processor clock timing 
waveform. To verify the frequency of oscil- 
lation with a calibrated oscilloscope, mea- 
sure the total time interval for two cycles of 
the clock waveform. This interval should be 
800 ns if the correct crystal is used and it is 
oscillating at its fundamental frequency. A 
frequency counter would show 2.5 MHz as 
the frequency. 



power. Another way is to insert only one or 
two integrated circuits at a time, function by 
function, and test as you go. The Digital 
Group has found a compromise which seems 
to work best when building kits, namely to 
plug in all but most critical or expensive 
integrated circuits, then test. This approach 
is optimal when using printed circuit wiring 
since the probability of a disastrous wiring 
error is in general low, assuming a fully 
debugged printed circuit board. Then if OK 
so far, plug them in and go ahead. 

So, proceeding with this approach, insert 
all integrated circuits except the Z-80, the 
1702A, and the 2102s. Note that all inte- 
grated circuits except 2102s in the Digital 
Group Z-80 board have their keyway or dot 
indicating the pin 1 end oriented away from 
the connector. 

Measure the resistance at the backplane 
voltage supply pins again. In particular, note 
the lower resistance value between back- 
plane pins 1 and 2. Reverse the ohmmeter 
and remeasure. A shorted reading now indi- 
cates a bad integrated circuit, and near equal 
readings indicate a reversed integrated circuit 
somewhere. Now insert the crystal into its 
holder. In our Digital Group kits this is done 
by snapping in the body of the crystal 
(gently), then pushing forward to contact 
the pins. 

Before inserting the processor card into 
its backplane connector, measure the volt- 
ages at the connector. A single wrong voltage 
may cost you a board's worth of ICs. 

Measure these backplane pins against 
ground: 

Pin 1 - +5 V ±5% 

Pin 2 - OV 

Pin 50 12 V+10% 

(The backplane pin 1 end is marked on the 
Digital Group Z-80 processor card. If you 
use a homebrew assembly, use the equivalent 
test before proceeding.) 

Make a final inspection of the processor. 
Check for shorts between components on 
the top and lines running underneath. In kit 
systems, look for any solder bridges. Check 
the proper pin 1 orientation of all your 
integrated circuits. If you use the printed 
circuit, sight down the rows of pins for 
missing solder points. Missed solder points 
typically seem to occur at the end pins of 
integrated circuit sockets, and one side of 
resistors or capacitors. 

After all this preliminary checking you 
can insert the processor board into its 
connector. 

Apply power to the system and again 
measure voltages at the processor card as 
noted previously. 



70 



Checking Your Waveforms 

Connect a calibrated triggered sweep 
oscilloscope to pin 6 of the 7400 IC50b. Set 
the triggering to occur on the positive edge, 
and the sweep setting to 100 ns per division. 
Look for a two cycle time of 800 ns seconds 
as shown in figure 3. If your oscilloscope 
does not sweep as fast as 100 ns/div, then a 
slower sweep can be used; but be absolutely 
sure that the two cycle time is exactly 800 
nanoseconds as shown in figure 3. 

A frequency counter may also be at- 
tached to pin 6 of IC50b. The desired 
frequency is 2.5 MHz. Any appreciable error 
indicates either a defective crystal, a bad 
7400, or an overtone oscillation (one way to 
correct this last case is by using 74L00 for 
IC50). 

Measure the voltage at the following pins 
(before expensive integrated circuits have 
been inserted). Correct any discrepancy. 



Z-80 (IC43) 



1702A(IC20) 



Any 2102 RAM: 



pin 29 = V 
pin 11 =+5 V 

pins 24 & 16 = -9 V 
pins 12, 13, 15,22 
and 23 = +5 V 

pin9 = 0V 
pin 10 = +5 V 



Carefully insert the Z-80, the 1702A, and 
the 2102s. With the large Z-80 and 1702 
circuits, insertion should be done evenly 
without allowing excessive stress. Packages 
have been known to crack into two parts 
during insertion. Make sure that pin 1 
(indicated by either a dot or a 1 on these 
circuits) is properly oriented. Recheck the 
processor circuit asembly for orientation, 
lead shorts, solder shorts, and missing solder 
joints. Think courageous thoughts. Plug in 
the processor board. Bravely turn on power. 

Using the Z-80 Processor Card 

Several operational systems structures 
(see my June 1976 BYTE article) are con- 
sistent with this processor circuit design. 
This Z-80 circuit can be used with a minimal 
amount of additional hardware (a PIA and 
UART, a Teletype machine, and a suitably 
programmed EROM) as if it were an "evalu- 
ation board" that maintains system de- 
pendency so that different processor 
integrated circuits may be compared. 

Preferably, this board becomes the key 
component in a much larger general purpose 
system. A special EROM is provided in the 
Digital Group Z-80 kit which interfaces this 
Z-80 board to our audio cassette and TV 
based system structure. A cassette of pro- 
gramming is provided with our kit version, 
which loads programmable memory with an 



Fully Tested 



S.T.M. SYSTEMS 
Not a Kit Presents 

BABY! 

A complete microcomputer in an attache case. 

The unit uses the MCS 6502 8 Bit Microprocessor. 

Up to 4K RAM fully buffered * Slot for 4K ROM 

(2708 type) 

DMA, Video Interface (composite video) sixteen 32 

character lines. 

Audio cassette Interface (data rate approximately 1200 

BPS load & dump). 

I/O ports with 1 PIA 6820, 6520 type. 

Typewriter type 63 key keyboard, (upper and lower 

case plus Greek with control key). 

Power supply 1 20 VAC to 5 volt 3 amp fully regulated. 

Speaker, two (2) LEDs, DMA, 60 Hz real time clock, 

video on and off keyboard and audio cassette dump 

and load format all under program control. 

The first 200 systems sold will have a frosted Plexiglas 

case! Standard unit will have molded plastic case, 

Plexiglas case will become an option. 

Audio cassette tape supplied with dump program, text 

editor, games of Shooting Stars, Life and Ticktack Toe, 

Music Program (self generated computer music and 

user generated from keyboard). 

*Basic unit with 2K RAM and 512 Byte bootstrap 
loader and monitor in firmware (PROM) ... $ 850.00 
Unit with 4K RAM $1000.00 

Remember it's not a kit, it's fully tested and ready to 
go. Just plug BABY! in hook up your video monitor, 
load your auto cassette with the programs we supply 
and you're off and running. 
Optional Video Monitor $150.00 

Be the first person on your block to have this unique, 
completely portable system. 

ORDER TODAY: 
S. T. M. SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 248 
Mont Vernon, N.H. 03057 



D BankAmericard Exp. 
□ Master Charge No. 



□Cashier's Check 

□ Money Order 

Personal Check (allow 6—8 weeks for personal check to clear.) 
Delivery 60 to 90 days after Receipt Of Order 

Name 



Address 
City 



State 



Zip 



Ask for our OEM discounts on customized version. 



operating system for reading and writing 
cassettes, and building and displaying 
programs. 

Conclusion 

The Z-80 is a neat chip to use. Contrary 
to some grapevine rumors, you can't simply 
unplug your 8080 integrated circuit and plug 
in the Z-80; but it is an architecturally 
simple chip to design with. I hope this design 
excites you as much as the Z-80 excited me. 
Enjoy." 



71 




TDL IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE THE REVOLUTIONARY Z-80 CPU CARD, 
AN ALTAIR/IMSAI COMPATIBLE CPU CARD FEATURING THE POWERFUL 
Z-80 UP PRODUCED BY ZILOG INCORPORATED. WHAT'S SO REVOLUTION- 
ARY ABOUT THE Z-80? A LOOK AT THE FOLLOWING COMPARISONS 
WILLSHOWYOU: 



As you can see, the Z-80 is a very 
powerful and fast uP - in fact its a NEXT 
generation microprocessor. And its 
available to you in a totally compatible 
format, NOW. Just unplug your current 
CPU card, plug in the Z-80 CPU, load 
a program, and you're up and running - 
with a NEXT generation uP. The power 
and versatility of the Z-80 is unequalled 
in the uP field, and it opens the door to 
tremendous developments in the state of 
the art. More powerful, faster, and less 
memory consuming versions of your 
current 8080 software are just a part of 
the possibilities the Z-80 provides. (TDL's 
own 8-K BASIC for the Z-80 will be 
available in September.) 

Each Z-80 CPU kit comes complete with: 

• Prime commercial quality boards, IC 
sockets etc. 

• easy to follow instructions 

• Zilog's Z-80 Manual 

• Schematics 

• An easy to understand and apply user's 
guide 

• TDL's Z-MONITOR on paper tape (soon 
to be available in deluxe PROM version) 

• And membership in the Z-80 user's 
group. 

Move up to the Z-80. Only $269. 

THE FASTEST RAM? The high speed 
capability of the Z-80 demands an extra- 
fast RAM to back it up, and TDL's new 
Z8K RAM board fills the bill. The Z8K is 
an 8K by 8 static RAM with the fastest 
access time in personalcomputing-215ns. 
Its the only RAM in personal computing 
fast enough to let the Z-80 run at full 
speed with no wait states. If that isn't 
enough, it also happens to be one of the 
lowest powered RAMs around as well. 
Only 150 ma typical current load on the 
5V supply. That makes the Z8K run cool 
-and perfect for battery standby opera- 
tion as well. Other so-called "low power" 
4K RAM boards can't compete with these 
specs. Its the perfect match for the Z-80, 
and its features and low cost make it a 
perfect match for ANY uP. (It's fully Altair 
bus compatible of course...) Price: Only 
$295 

WHAT ABOUT QUALITY? All TDL 

products share one thing in common - 
exceptionally high quality. The quality 
starts with engineering that is dedicated 
to keep your system state of the art at the 
lowest possible cost. Consider also the 
"Qual Division" whose ONLY purpose is 



Comparison of the Zilog Z-80, Intel 8080, and Motorola 6800CPU chips 

Z80 8080 6800 

NUMBER OF: 

Instructions 

Internal Registers 

Addressing Modes 
Voltage Required 
Standard Clock Rate 
Clock Phases 
Clock Voltage 
DynamicRAM refresh and timing signals 

without slowing down CPU or 

requiring additional circuitry 
Single instruction memory to memory and 

memory to I/O BLOCK TRANSFERS 
Single instruction SET, RESET, or TEST 

of any bit in accumulator, any 

general purpose register, or any 

external memory location 
Single instruction BLOCK SEARCH of 

any desired length of external 

memory for any 8-bit character 
Non-Maskable Interrupt and TTL 

compatible inputs 
Internal sync of inputs and direct 

strobe of outputs 



158* 


78 




72 


17 


7 




6 


10 


7 




8 


+5 


+5,-5 


+ 12 


+5 


DC-3MHZ 


0.5-2MHZ 


0.1-1MHz 


1 


2 




2 


4.2 


8.4 




4.8 


Yes 


No 




No 


Yes 


No 




No 



Yes 



Yes 
Yes 



Yes 



No 



No 



No 


No 


No 


Yes 


No 


No 



• Includes all 78 machine code instructions of the 8080A and is therefore capable 
of running any standard 8080A software without modification. 

ADDITIONAL FEATURES OF THE Z-80: 

• Up to 500% more throughput than the 8080A 

• Requires 25% to 50% less memory 

• Three modes of fast interrupt response 

• Outperforms any other microcomputer 



space than the 8080A CPU 
plus a non-maskable interrupt 
in 4-, 8-, 16-bit applications 



to keep TDL's products the best in the 
industry. And our products use only the 
finest boards available, prime components, 
sockets for all ICs, gold plated edge 
contacts and other earmarks of a 
commercial grade product. And its backed 
by a solid 90 day guarantee on parts and 
materials. 

SAVE MONEY NOW Order both a Z-80 
CPU card, and one or more Z8K RAM 
boards before September 1st, 1976, and 
you can deduct 10% on the total cost. Act 
now while this special offer lasts. (Does 



not apply to COD orders.) 
HOW TO ORDER Just send check or 
money order, or use your BankAmericard 
or Mastercharge, and your orders will be 
shipped to you postpaid within 30 days. 
COD orders must be accompanied by a 
25% deposit. Your credit card order must 
include the serial # of the card, expiration 
date, and your order must be signed. New 
Jersey residents add 5% state sales tax. 
For more information, send for our free 
catalog. 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



TDL 



(609) 392-7070 
72 



/TECHNICAL DESIGN LABS INC. 
f 342 COLUMBUS AVENUE 
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY 08629 




Attention: Southern California Readers, 
Educators 

Here is a bulletin board listing of a new 
course which is probably worth taking if 
you're a novice, or emulating if you're an 
instructor. 

The prospect of a computer in every 
home, shop and classroom is no idle "cam- 
paign promise" to one professor at Cali- 
fornia State University, Long Beach. 

"If you can't buy one, build one," is one 
of several approaches taken in three com- 
puter courses to be offered on Saturdays 
beginning September 4 through the CSULB 
School of Education. All three courses are 
designed for non-technical people: teachers, 
librarians, businesspeople; hobbyists or 
homemakers. 

The instructor, Richard C McLaughlin, 
associate professor of instructional media, 
says that "some years ago, as a junior high 
school science teacher, I realized that my 
role in life was not developing future scien- 
tists but rather promoting an appreciation of 
science and technology among our entire 
population." His background includes a 
bachelor's degree cum laude in physics from 
the State University of New York at Albany 
and a PhD in instructional communications 
from Syracuse University. He has recently 
been active in the Southern California Com- 
puter Society, the California Educational 
Computing Consortium and the North 
Orange County Computer Club. 

While some attention will be paid to 
traditional computers and minicomputers in 
these courses, by far the greatest emphasis 
will be placed upon low cost general purpose 
computers. These are now available as do-it- 



yourself kits (about $1000) or already as- 
sembled and waiting to be plugged in. Prof 
McLaughlin's courses can be of great use to 
people having little or no background in 
computer technology but willing to learn. 

The purpose of the courses will be to 
acquire a functional understanding of com- 
puters resulting in practical applications. The 
first five Saturdays will constitute a course 
on the building of a microcomputer. No 
actual construction will be required, but the 
class should be of immense value to anyone 
using a microcomputer (or a larger mini- 
computer) or planning to build one from a 
kit. 

The second course of five Saturdays will 
cover programming any type of computer 
(large timesharing service, minicomputer or 
personal computer system) in the conversa- 
tional BASIC language now used in many 
schools and businesses throughout the 
nation. 

The last five Saturdays will be devoted to 
a course on using computer terminals and 
setting up work stations tailored to the end 
user's special needs, be they in the class- 
room, library, shop or home. 

The three courses begin on September 4, 
October 9 and November 13, running from 
8:30 AM to 2:30 PM. Each course is worth 
two credit units and may be taken inde- 
pendently according to the student's own 
needs. Classes are open to all high school 
graduates, college students and adults. Per- 
sons not formally admitted to CSULB may 
enroll at $66 per course through the Office 
of Continuing Education, 1250 Bellflower 
Blvd, Long Beach CA 90840. Telephone: 
(213) 498-5561." 



Microcomputer Interfacing Workshop 

September 23, 24, 25, 1976, a three-day 
workshop based on the popular 8080 micro- 
processor, sponsored by the VPI and SU 
Extension Division of the Continuing Educa- 
tion Center in Blacksburg VA, will include 
many hours of experience in programming 
and interface construction with over 12 
operating microcomputers for participant 
use. For more information contact Dr Norris 
Bell, VPI and SU Continuing Education 
Center, Blacksburg VA 24061, (703) 
951-6328." 



Functional Specification: 
Altair Bus Driver 

A question which has recurred in several 
letters is "How do I interface my simple 8 
bit bidirectional bus to an Altair compatible 
peripheral?" What is needed is an article 
which defines the signals of the Altair back 
plane and gives an interface plan and design 
for making an Altair compatible extension 
bus to an arbitrary 8 bit processor such as 
the 6800, 6502, 8080, Z-80, 2650, etc. Such 
an article must include a table of pinouts, 
power and logic requirements, photographs 
of a prototype and a rough description of 
the processor and system in which it is 
used." 



73 



. <■< ^r «•? o* 




CO*** 



?to 



A*<* 8 



Video Terminal Interface: Connects 
to standard TV monitor or modified 
receiver to display 16 lines of 32 or 64 
characters. Characters are formed in 
a 7 x 9 matrix for easy readability. Char- 
acter set includes 128 upper and lower 
case ASCII characters and 64 graphic 
characters for plotting on a 48 x 64 
(48 x 128 with memory option) array. 
An 8-bit input port is provided for the 
keyboard. Characters are stored in the 
onboard memory, which may be read 
out of or written in to by the computer. 
Cursor control, text editing, and graph- 
ics software is included. $185 (32 
char.) kit. $210 (64 char.) kit. 

Poly I/O Idea Board: This will save 
you a lot of time in making prototype 
circuits. I/O port address is selectable 
with dip switch, and inputs 
and outputs are fully buffered. $55 kit. 

Analog Interface: Good for interfacing 
your computer to an analog world. Ten 
bits of resolution in and out. $145 for one 
channel and $195 for two channels (kit). 

Ask about how to get a free POLY I/O 
Idea Board or Analog Board. 

8K RAM on a single board. Connection 
for battery backup. $300 kit. 



Special Offer 

Video Terminal Interface 

(32 character) and 8K RAM, $450 kit. 

Expires - September 30th, 1976. 



You've probably been hearing about the 
POLY 88 microcomputer system that 
uses keyboard and video. We don't have 
the space here to describe all the fea- 
tures. See it at your local computer store. 

Support your local computer store. 

All prices and specifications subject to change 
without notice. Prices are USA only. Calif, residents 
add 6% sales tax. All non-paid orders add 5% USA 
shipping, handling, and insurance. (Outside USA add 
10%) Bankamericard and Master Charge accepted. 

PolyMorphic 
Systems 

737 S. Kellogg, Goleta, CA 93017 
(805) 967-2351 



What's 

New? 



OSI 400 System 

Ohio Scientific Instruments, 11679 Hay- 
den St, Hiram OH 44234, has announced the 
"Model 400 Superboard" single board com- 
puter. The board itself, minus components, 
sells for $29 and will work with either the 
MOS Technology 6502 or the Motorola 
6800 central processor circuits. The board 
has slots for 1 K bytes of memory, 1 6820 
PIA, one 6850 PIA, current loop (Teletype) 




and RS-232 serial interfaces. A complete kit 
for a 6502 version with monitor PROM and 
parts for a Teletype current loop interface is 
$139, and the same kit for a 6800 processor 
is $159. Also available is the Model 470 
floppy disk, the Model 420 memory expan- 
sion board, the Model 430 IO board, and the 
Model 440 video graphics board. Write for 
the OSI catalog brochure about their boards, 
kits and assembled products." 



Advance Information 

Lloyd Rice of Computalker has forwarded 
to BYTE a copy of the "advance announce- 
ment" brochure on the Computalker CT-1 
Speech Synthesizer. The price of this unit 
will be $395 in Altair/IMSAI/Polymorphic 
compatible plug-in board form. Target date 
for hardware delivery is September 1 1976. 
All Computalker CT-1 customers will be 
supplied with the CSR1 software driver 
package which features "a sophisticated 
synthesis by rule system incorporating the 
latest research findings on human 
speech .... Versions are planned for the 
8080, 6800 and 6502 CPU chips." Write 
Computalker, 821 Pacific St No. 4, Santa 
Monica CA 90405, for the brochure, which 
also is accompanied by a reprint of Lloyd's 
article in the April 1976 issue of Dr Dobbs' 
Journal of Computer Calisthenics and 
Orthodontia.* 



Catalog for Electronics Designing 
and Testing 

59 Ways to Save Time and Money Design- 
ing and Testing in Electronics, a full color 32 
page catalog of electronic prototype bread- 
boarding and test equipment, has been intro- 
duced by Continental Specialties Corpora- 
tion. The catalog is said to have a lot more 
utility than simply displaying CSC products 
and prices; it is billed as "a handy problem- 
solver for electronics hobbyists as well as 
working designers, technicians and produc- 
tion people who want to save time and 
money in every aspect of design, production 
and QC testing." The catalog, which includes 
a list of domestic and foreign distributors, is 
available free from Continental Specialties 
Corporation, 44 Kendall St, POB 1942, New 
Haven CT 06509." 




Right from the Source 

Intersil, manufacturer of the IM6100 
PDP-8 compatible microcomputer, has just 
announced their version of the prototyping 
and evaluation board needed to try out the 
microcomputer. The "Intercept )r" system 
is a tutorial trainer utilizing Intersil's 
IM6100 and related CMOS devices. Accord- 
ing to the manufacturer, "the system pro- 
vides students, hobbyists and designers with 
practical low cost exposure to micro- 
processors, RAMs, PROMs and input output 
interfacing." 

The Intercept Jr product recognizes the 
instruction set of Digital Equipment Corpo- 
ration's PDP-8/E™ minicomputer and pro- 
vides an operating CMOS microcomputer on 
a 10 by 11 inch (25.4 by 27.9 cm) double 
sided printed circuit board. Also on the 



74 



board are a keyboard, two 4 digit LED 
displays, a "resident microinterprcter," and 
a battery power supply. The extra boards 
shown in the photo include a CMOS 1 K by 
12 bit programmable memory module with 
its own battery backup for non-volatility, a 
2 K by 1 2 bit PROM module and a serial 10 
interface which has both RS-232 and 20 mA 
current loop capabilities. 

The Intercept )r system comes com- 
pletely assembled and factory tested with 
batteries. Power terminals are also provided 
to enable running the system from a 5 or 
10 V power source. The owner's handbook 
contains full details of the system's opera- 
tion, a hardware description and basic pro- 
gramming techniques. The prices are well 
within the range of the individual who wants 
a PDP-8 compatible machine: The basic 
computer module is $281, the program- 
mable random access memory module is 
$145, the PROM module is $74.65, and the 
IO module is $81.70. A computer store 
could easily buy these modules, put them 
inside an attractive case and have a com- 
mercial finished product with a well known 
instruction set. According to the Intersil 
people, all modules are in stock for immedi- 
ate delivery. 

For information and ordering contact 
Intersil Inc, 10900 No Tantau Av, Cupertino 
CA 95014." 

Software New Product: 8080 TRACE Program 

The 8080 TRACE Program is a valuable 
software development tool which speeds and 
simplifies 8080 program debugging. TRACE 
performs its function by executing the 
problem program's instructions under 
TRACE control and provides the pro- 
grammer a visual display of the program 
counter (PC), contents of the status word 
(SW) and registers A through L for each 
executed instruction. Thus, deviations from 
expected performance are readily recognized 
and corrected with minimal programmer 
participation. 

TRACE uses an IO terminal such as an 
octal keyboard and display device for 
entering TRACE run parameters and dis- 
playing register contents dynamically. The 
instruction location is displayed for each 
instruction executed within the address 
limits specified by the programmer at 
TRACE initiation time. The sense switches 
can be used optionally to select registers for 
display during the program's run time. 

The TRACE program listing and descrip- 
tion are available for $7.50; an Altair ACR- 
compatible cassette tape is included for $10. 
For additional information, send SASE to R 
E Rydel, 1411 Northgate Sq, Apt 21 B, 
Reston VA 22090." 




Meet the new 

OSI400 
Computer System. 

Now more performance and 
more flexibility actually cost you less. 

Ask yourself how much system you need. Or how little. 
Whatever the answer, even if you want to change it later, you 
get more system for less money with the OSI 400. 

Start with the OSI Superboard. Add your choice (!) of a 
6502, 651 2 or 6800 microprocessor; eight 21 02s for 1 024 bytes 
of RAM; and an external front panel. Power it up and you have a 
working CPU. Or populate the board with a processor, system 
clock, 512 bytes of PROM, 1024 of RAM, an ACIA with RS-232 
or 20 ma loop interface, a PIA with 16 I/O lines and full buffer- 
ing to as many as 250 system boards for system expansion. 

Even fully populated, Superboard costs less than $140 with 
a 6502, less than $160 with a 6800. 

But take a look at what you can have for $29. Our special 
offer includes a plated-through-hole G-10 epoxy Superboard, 
bare, plus a 50-page theory of operation and construction 
manual including complete chip documentation in an attrac- 
tive OSI binder. 

And Superboard is just the beginning of the OSI 400 
system. You can expand its memory; interface to many l/Os 

including plotters, cas- 
settes, FSK, ASCII, 
Baudot and more; go 
video, includinggraph- 
ics; even add floppy 
disk. And bare boards 
are just $29 each, com- 
plete with in-depth 
manuals. 
But first things first. 




400 me now! SPECIAL —$29 postpaid with this coupon only. 

Name 



Address . 
Slate 



City _ 

.Phone . 



Enclose check or money order or supply 
Bank Card information below. 



Card No. (include all digits) 

Interbank No. (Master Charge) 



Good thru . 



Ohio residents 
please add tax 



081 



Sign your name 

Ohio Scientific Instruments 

11679 Hayden Street 

Hiram, Ohio 44234 Dept. B 



75 



Microprocessor Update: 



SC/MP Fills a Gap 



Robert Baker 
15 Windsor Dr 
Atco NJ 08004 



The new National Semiconductor micro- 
processor SC/MP, commonly called SCAMP, 
was designed to fill a gap between clumsy 4 
bit microprocessors and the currently avail- 
able 8 bit microprocessors. According to the 
manufacturer, it is simple to use, requiring 
very few support chips for a basic system 
and is upgradable as the need arises. Only a 
single +10 to +14 V power supply is needed 
for the 40 pin dual inline processor. chip. A 
block diagram of the processor chip is shown 
in figure 1 . 



Microprocessor 

The processor provides simple interfacing 
with an 8 bit data bus that has TTL or 
CMOS compatible options. There are four 
serial data output ports and three serial data 
input ports along with two sense inputs for 
simple IO hardware. Three software con- 
trolled, user accessible output control flags 
may be used as needed for these direct 
control output applications. A separate bus 
access control provides Direct Memory 



Figure 1: Internal block 
diagram of the National 
Semiconductor SC/MP. In 
addition to a fairly typical 
8 bit bus oriented proc- 
essor design, the SC/MP 
includes some features 
intended for ultra low cost 
system designs. These 
include three program- 
mable output flags, a serial 
input and output port, and 
two sense inputs, one of 
which can be used for 
interrupts. This is one of 
the reasons it is possible to 
make an inexpensive mini- 
mal system such as the 
$99 kit shown in photo I. 



3 o 
CD < 



4MSB MULTIPLEXED 
ADDRESS 



CRYSTAL 
OR TIMING 
CAPACITOR 



REQUEST 

ENABLE IN — 
ENABLE OUT- 
WAIT 



OSCILLATOR 
9 TIMING 
GENERATOR 



■o** 



-o*- 



RESET- 



10 
CONTROL 



H 



INSTRUCTION 

DECODE 
a CONTROL 



, GATING 8 
FUNCTION 
CONTROL 



INSTRUCTION 
REGISTER 




1 c 



OUTPUT 
ADDRESS 



PROGRAM 
COUNTER 



POINTER I 



BUS TRANSFER, 
SHIFT, ETC. 



ACCUMULATOR 



I 12-BIT 
+<C3 LATCHED 
| ADDRESS 



16-BIT 
REGISTERS 



EXTENSION 



O SERIAL 
DATA IN 
I 



I SERIAL 

Hrm**<3 DATA 0UT 

1 ' I f — I SENSE A/ 

^ — I INTERRUPT 

< -J SENSE B 

I 

I 



u 
l- > 

LU CE 

S.O. 

I < 

I- o 



♦<^]FLAGO 
♦< | FLAG I 



3 



BUFFER 



A 



8- BIT DATA IO 



»"<Z1 FLAG2 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 
_J 



CONTROL 
OUTPUTS 



76 



Access (DMA), multiprocessor, and single 
instruction step capabilities. The direct 
memory access feature allows fast direct 
data transfers from memory to peripherals, 
peripherals to memory, and peripheral to 
peripheral. Asynchronous control signals are 
generated on chip for direct interfacing to 
memories of any speed. Multiple mode, 16 
bit addressing allows addressing of up to 
64 K bytes of memory with peripherals 
addressed in the same manner as memory. 
The available addressing modes include 
program counter relative, pointer relative, 
immediate data, and auto-indexing. There 
are 46 instructions available as listed in table 
1. 

The typical microcycle time is 2 /is, so 
instruction times range from 10 to 46 [is. 
Four 16 bit address pointer registers are 
available as stack pointers to external mem- 
ory for unlimited subroutine nesting. 

Applications 

A first level or basic SC/MP system is 
shown in figure 2. This is a typical dedicated 
intelligent controller. The only requirements 
are a power supply (+10 to +14 V), a clock 
timing capacitor or crystal, and the desired 
memory. In this configuration, only 4096 
bytes of memory are addressable. By adding 
a hex D flip flop (National MM74C174), an 
8 channel digital multiplexer (National 
MM74C151), and a 1 to 8 demultiplexer 
(National MM74C42), the system can be 
expanded to a second level system as shown 
in figure 3. This system provides 8 input and 
8 output serial data ports along with four 
general purpose, latched, control flags. There 
is no change in the memory addressing 
capability; only 4096 bytes can still be 
addressed. 

Expanding the system (further) requires 
the addition of interface latch elements 



dh 



CRYSTAL OR 

CLOCK TIMING CAPACITOR 



SM/MP 
CPU CHIP 



ADDRESS STROBE 



12-BIT LATCHED 
ADDRESS BUS 



READ STROBE 



WRITE STROBE 



8-BIT DATA BUS 



STANDARD 
MEMORY 
(ROM/PROM/RAM) 



■ SENSE A/ INTERRUPT 
■SENSE B 
■SERIAL DATA IN 



-►SERIAL DATA OUT 
-►CONTROL OUTPUT 
-►CONTROL OUTPUT 
-►CONTROL OUTPUT 

— CONTINUE /START 

- RESET/ STOP 




Photo 1 : National Semiconductor markets an evaluation kit for SC/MP which 
is probably one of the least expensive ways to try out a working processor. 
The kit includes the circuit board, all electronic components including 
processor and firmware ROM, crystal for I MHz clock speed and power 
supply regulator. The assembly of this board, using ample documentation as a 
guide, results in a computer with 256 bytes of programmable memory, a 512 
byte firmware operating system called "K/TBUG" and a 20 mA Teletype 
current loop interface for operator control. A single 12 V power supply is 
required. 



Figure 2: What National 
Semiconductor calls a 
"first level" system is illus- 
trated in this block dia- 
gram. This block diagram 
roughly corresponds to 
what the SC/MP kit pro- 
duces after assembly. The 
block labelled "Standard 
Memory" contains 256 
bytes of programmable 
memory and 512 bytes of 
read only memory in the 
kit. 



77 



Table 1: SCI MP instruc- 
tion summary (Typical 
execution time, 2 us per 
microcycle). 







Execution 






Execution 






time in 






time in 


Double-byte instructions: 


microcycles 


Single-byte instructions: 




microcycles 


Memory Reference 


Load 


18 


Extension Register 


Load AC from extension 


6 




Store 


18 




AND extension 


6 




AND 


18 




OR extension 


6 




OR 


18 




EXCLUSIVE or extension 


6 




EXCLUSIVE OR 


18 




Decimal ADD extension 


11 




Decimal ADD 


23 




ADD extension 


7 




ADD 


19 




Complement and ADD extension 


8 




Complement and ADD 


20 


Pointer Register Move 


Exchange pointer low 


8 


Transfer 


Jump 


11 




Exchange pointer high 


8 




Jump if positive 


9,11 




Exchange pointer with PC 


7 




Jump if zero 
Jump if not zero 


9,11 
9,11 


Shift, Rotate, Serial I/O 


Serial I/O 
Shift right 


5 
5 


Memory increment/ 








Shift right with link 


5 


Decrement 


Increment and load 


22 




Rotate right 


5 




Decrement and load 


22 




Rotate right with link 


5 


Immediate 


Load 


10 


Miscellaneous 


Halt 


8 




AND 


10 




Exchange AC and extension 


7 




OR 


10 




Clear carry/link 


5 




EXCLUSIVE OR 


10 




Set carry /link 


5 




Decimal ADD 


15 




Disable interrupts 


6 




ADD 


11 




Enable interrupts 


6 




Complement and ADD 


12 




Copy status to AC 


5 


Miscellaneous 


Delay 


3 to 
132,096 




Copy AC to status 
No operation 


6 
5-10 



(ISP-8 A/543) and buffering (such as the 
ISP-8A/551) to the processor. This 
expanded system, as shown in figure 4, 
provides a full capability system which can 
now address up to 64 K bytes of memory. 

There is a complete collection of hard- 
ware and software support for the SC/MP 
system including a debug system, application 
cards, assembler, editor, system diagnostics, 
cross assembler, and application routines. 
The National Semiconductor users group, 
COMPUTE, is also available to SC/MP users 



as well as their software library which makes 
programs available for the cost of 
reproduction. 

In Conclusion 

The SC/MP processor is approximately an 
order of magnitude slower than other 8 bit 
processors such as the 6800, 8080, Z-80 or 
6502. For example, the SC/MP addition 
time for an 8 bit quantity in memory is 19 
microcycles or 38 us at its rated speed, as 
opposed to the 4 processor cycles or 4 us 



Figure 3: The SC/MP "sec- 
ond level" system is illus- 
trated by this diagram. 
Here, the use of additional 
CMOS integrated circuits 
provides more serial inputs 
and outputs for use in a 
dedicated control situ- 
ation. 



j^b 



CRYSTAL OR 

CLOCK TIMING CAPACITOR 



SM/MP 
CPU CHIP 



CONTINUE/ 
START 



ADDRESS STROBE 



12- BIT LATCHED 
ADDRESS BUS 



READ STROBE 



WRITE STROBE 



8-BIT DATA BUS 



SENSE A /INTERRUPT 



SENSE B 



CONTROL OUTPUTS 



SERIAL OUT 



RESET/ 
STOP 



u 



STANDA. 
MEMORY 
(ROM/PROM/RAM1 



CMOS HEX-D 

FLIP-FLOP 

MM74CI74 



6 CHANNEL MUX 
MM74CI5I 



l-OF-B DEMUX 
MM74C42 



DATA SYNC 
DELAY 



_^ FOUR LATCHED 
"•' CONTROL FLAGS 

(RELAYS, INDICATORS, ETC) 

EIGHT SERIAL 

INPUTS 
(FROM TRANSDUCERS, 
— SWITCHES, ETC.) 



-►EIGHT SERIAL 

OUTPUTS 

(PULSE SOLENOIDS, 
-► FIRE SCRS.ETC.) 



78 



required for an MOS Technology 6502 to 
add two 8 bit numbers at its rated I MHz 
clock speed. 

As with any 8 bit processor, the instruc- 
tion set of the SC/MP is adequate to 
accomplish general purpose functions. The 
set includes one very interesting function 
which reflects the SC/MP's intended use in 
dedicated low cost systems: in such systems 
timing loops are a frequent requirement, so 
National put in a hardware delay instruction 
which provides a programmable wait period 
of from 3 to 132,096 microcycles with a 
single instruction. This eliminates the need 
for programmed timing loops while allowing 
a very flexible resolution of from 6 micro- 
seconds to 0.264192 seconds. While this is 
not a true real time clock integrated into an 
interrupt structure, the delay instruction 
should provide programming convenience in 
many time dependent situations. 

Thus, balancing its low cost against a 
relatively slow execution time, the SC/MP 
will most likely be implemented as a 
"smart" control element buried into periph- 
erals and accessories for the personal systems 
market. Adapting it as a general purpose 
processor is quite possible; however, in larger 
systems where the processor is a small part 



J±] 



CRYSTAL OR 

CLOCK TIMING CAPACITOR 



SC /MP 
CPU CHIP 



12-BIT LATCHED ADDRESS BUS 



CONTROL BUS 



8-BIT DATA BUS 



ADDRESS 
STROBE 



of the total cost, the price advantage relative 
to a faster processor is minimal. In small 
systems, such as the prototyping kit illus- 
trated in photo 1, the price advantage 
relative to faster processors is obvious in the 
$99 price of this simple processor available 
off the shelf from several distributors. If 
you're building a small computer for a 
specialized application, then SC/MP will be a 
likely prospect when combined with some 
read only memory and custom IO devices." 



BUFFER 

ELEMENT 

ISP-8A/55I 



INTERFACE 
LATCH 
ELEMENTS 
ISP-8A/543 



BUFFERED 

ADDRESS 

OO-II 

MEMORY 
' WAIT 

ADDRESS 
READ AND 
WRITE 
STROBE 

, BUFFERED 
8-BIT 

BIDIRECTIONAL 
DATA BUS 



FOUR 

CONTROL 

FLAGS 



Figure 4: National calls 
this the "expanded 
SC/MP" system. Here, the 
use of a buffer element 
and interface latch ele- 
ment results in a conven- 
tional 16 bit address bus 
along with an 8 bit bidirec- 
tional data bus, for use in 
larger systems. 



MODEL CC-7 SPECIFICATIONS: 

A. Recording Mode: Tape saturation binary. 
This is not an FSK or Home type recorder. 
No voice capability. No Modem. (NRZ) 

B. Two channels (11 Clock, (2) Data. OR, Two 
data channels providing four (4) tracks on 
the cassette. Can also be used for Bi-Phase, 
Manchester codes etc. 

C. Inputs: Two (2). Will accept TTY, TTL or 
RS 232 digital. 

D. Outputs: Two (2). Board changeable from 
RS 232 to TTY or TTL digital. 

E. Runs at 2400 baud or less. Synchronous or 
Asynchronous. Runs at 4800 baud or less. 
Synchronous or Asynchronous. Runs at 
3.1 "/sec. Speed regulation ± .5% 

F. Comparability: Will interface any computer 
or terminal with a serial I/O. (Altair, Sphere, 
M6800, PDP8, LSI 11, IMSAI, etc. 

G. Other Data: (110-220 V), (50-60 Hz); 3 
Watts total; UL listed 955D; three wire line 
cord; on/off switch; audio, meter and light 
operation monitors. Remote control of mo- 
tor optional. Four foot, seven conductor 
remoting cable provided. Uses high grade 
audio cassettes. 

H. Warrantee: 90 days. All units tested at 300 
and 2400 baud before shipment. Test cas- 
sette with 8080 software program included. 
This cassette was recorded and played back 
during quality control. 

ALSO AVAILABLE: MODEL CC-7A with vari- 
able speed motor. Uses electronic speed control 
at 4"/sec. or less. Regulation i .2% 
Runs at 4800 baud Synchronous or Asynchro- 
nous without external circuitry. 
Recommended for quantity users who ex- 
change tapes. Comes with speed adjusting tape 
to set exact speed. 



DIGITAL DATA RECORDER $149.95 
FOR COMPUTER or TELETYPE USE 

Any baud rate up to 4800 




Uses the industry standard tape satura- 
tion method to beat all FSK systems ten to 
one. No modems or FSK decoders required. 
Loads 8K of memory in 17 seconds. This 
recorder, using high grade audio cassettes, 
enables you to back up your computer by 
loading and dumping programs and data fast 
as you go, thus enabling you to get by with 
less memory. Can be software controlled. 



Model CC7... $149.95 
Model CC7 A... $169.95 



NATIONAL multiplex 

CORPORATION 



NEW - 8080 I/O BOARD with ROM. 
Permanent Relief from "Bootstrap Chafing" 

This is our new "turnkey" board. Turn on 
your Altair or Imsai and go (No Bootstrap- 
ping). Controls one terminal (CRT or TTY) 
and one or two cassettes with all programs 
in ROM. Enables you to turn on and just 
type in what you want done. Loads, Dumps, 
Examines, Modifies from the keyboard in 
Hex. Loads Octal. For the cassettes, it is a 
fully software controlled Load and Dump at 
the touch of a key. Even loads MITS Basic. 
Ends "Bootstrap Chafe" forever. Uses 512 
bytes of ROM, one UART for the terminal 
and one USART for the Cassettes. Our 
orders are backing up on this one. No. 2SI0 
(R) 



Kit form $140. - 
tested $170.00 



Fully assembled and 



Send Two Dollars for Cassette Operating 

and Maintenance Manual with Schematics 

and Software control data for 8080 and 

6800. Includes Manual on 

I/O board above. Postpaid 

Master Charge & BankAmericard accepted. 

On orders for Recorders and Kits please add 
$2.00 for Shipping & Handling. 
(N.J. Residents add 5% Sales Tax) 

3474 Rand Avenue, Box 288 
South Plainfield, New Jersey 07080 
(201) 561-3600 



79 




You'll Want to Nybble at these 

^* jf IC Dvwllw Where does the editor of a computer magazine turn 

when he must verify some author's hardware design? 
Information on a 75450 interface gate, or a 74147 
priority encoder circuit does not spring forth by magic. 
Checking the information supplied by authors is part of 
BYTE's quality control program. 

When you build a project, you need this same sort of 
information. All you find in the advertisements for parts 
are mysterious numbers identifying the little beasties . . . 
hardly the sort of information which can be used to 
design a custom logic circuit. You can find out about 
many of the numbers by using the information found in 
these books. No laboratory bench is complete without 
an accompanying library shelf filled with references - 
and this set of Texas Instruments engineering manuals 
plus Don Lancaster's TTL Cookbook will provide an 
excellent starting point or addition to your personal 
library. 

• The Transistor and Diode Data Book for Design Engi- 
neers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. You'd expect a big 
fat data book and a wide line of diodes and transistors from a 
company which has been around from the start of semicon- 
ductors. Well, it's available in the form of this 1248 page manual 
from Tl which describes the characteristics of over 800 types of 
transistors and over 500 types of silicon diodes. This book covers 
the Tl line of low power semiconductors (1 Watt or less). You 
won't find every type of transistor or diode in existence here, 
but you'll find most of the numbers used in switching and 
amplifying circuits. Order your copy today, only $4.95. 

• The Power Semiconductor Handbook for Design Engi- 
neers by Texas Instruments Incorporated. To complement 
the low power transistor handbook, Tl supplies this 800 page 
tome on high power transistors and related switching devices. 
Here is where you find data on the brute force monsters which 
are used to control many Watts electronically. Fill out your 
library with this book, available for only $3.95. 

• Understanding Solid State Electronics by Texas Intru- 
ments Incorporated. This is an excellent tutorial introduc- 
tion to the subject of transistor and diode circuitry. The book 
was created for the reader who wants or needs to understand 
electronics, but can't devote years to the study. This 242 page 
softbound book is a must addition to the beginner's library at 
only $2.95. 

• The Optoelectronics Data Book for Design Engineers by 
Texas Instruments Incorporated. This 366 page book is a 
compendium of information on Tl phototransistors, LEDs and 
related devices. Order yours at $2.95. 



• The TTL Cookbook by Don Lancaster, published by 
Howard W Sams, Indianapolis, Indiana. Start your quest for data 
here with Don's tutorial explanations of what makes a TTL logic 
design tick. 335 pages, $8.95. 

• The TTL Data Book for Design Engineers, by Texas 
Instruments Incorporated. How does an engineer find out about 
the TTL circuits? He reads the manufacturer's literature. This 
640 page beauty covers the detailed specs of most of the 7400 
series TTL logic devices. No experimenter working with TTL has 
a complete library without The TTL Data Book for Design 
Engineers. Order yours today, only $3.95. 

• The Supplement to The TTL Data Book for Design 
Engineers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. What happens 
when you can't find a 7400 series device listed in The Data Book 
for Design Engineers? Before you start screaming and tearing 
your hair out in frustration, turn to the Supplement. The 
Supplement has 400 pages of additional information including a 
comprehensive index to both TTL Data Book volumes. To be 
complete (and keep your hair in place and vocal cords intact) 
you'd best order the supplement at $1.95 to accompany the 
main volume. 

• The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for Design 
Engineers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. When you run 
across one of those weird numbers like 75365 the immediate 
frustration problem occurs again. What kind of gate could that 
be? We won't tell in this ad, but you can find out by reading the 
specifications in The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for 
Design Engineers. You can interface your brain to the 72xxx 
(linear) and 75xxx (interface) series of functions by ordering 
your copy of this 688 page manual at only $3.95. 

• The Semiconductor Memory Data Book for Design 
Engineers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. Don't forget the 
importance of memories to your systems. Refer to this 272 page 
manual to find out about the Tl versions of many of the popular 
random access memories and read only memories. Order your 
personal copy today, only $2.95. 



_TTL Cookbook @ $8.95 
_TTL Data Book @ $3.95 
.Supplement to TTL Data Book <s> $1 .95 
.Linear and Interface Circuits @ $3.95 
.Semiconductor Memory Data @ $2.95 
.Transistor and Diode Data Book <§> $4.95 
.Power Semiconductor Handbook <a> $3.95 
.Understanding Solid State Electronics @ $2.95 
.Optoelectronics Data Book @ $2.95 



Please add 75 cents for postage and handling. 
Send to: Name 



Please allow six weeks for delivery. 



Address 



City 



State 



Zip 



biti 



Check enclosed 

Bill MC # 

Bill BA # 



.Exp. Date. 
.Exp. Date. 



PETERBOROUGH, NH 03458 



Signature 



80 



IF YOU CAN'T FIND IT OFF THE SHELF 
TRY THE DATA DOMAIN 



We are proud to announce we are now dealers for the Digital Group. 
IMS Cromemco CSC Vector OSI Processor Tech 



The 




OataO 



OMAIN 



111 S. College Av 
Bloomington, Ind. 47401 
Phone (812) 334-3607 



What's 

New? 



OEMs and Kit Makers Take Note: 

Bowmar Instrument Corporation, 8000 
Bluffton Rd, Fort Wayne IN 46809, has 
introduced a new thermal printer, called the 
TP-3120, which can be integrated into 
products for the consumer markets. The 
printer is said to be highly reliable due to 
minimization of moving parts and evidence 
of a mean time between failure in excess of 
3 million characters for the thermal print 
head and an overall operating life of more 
than 1 million lines of printing. 

The TP-3120 operates at a speed of 29.4 
characters per second and prints up to 1.07 
lines per second. The printer produces alpha- 
numeric outputs, has low power consump- 
tion and quiet operation, and thus should 




prove attractive in small systems. The design 
goal was a printer for use in microprocessor 
based terminals, medical electronics, point 
of sale cash register devices, test equipment 
and other instances where hard copy is a 
desirable feature if the cost is low enough." 




A 6800 Evaluation Board - Plus 
EROM Programmer and Tiny BASIC! 

AMI (American Microsystems Inc) has 
introduced a microprocessor prototyping 
board for hardware and software evaluation 
of the 6800 based microcomputer systems 
family in specific applications. 

The AMI 6800 Microprocessor Evaluation 
Board (EVK300) features a built-in program- 
mer for the S6834 EROM circuit. This 
feature gives the AMI board an additional 
capability not usually found in evaluation 
kits. Using the board, designers can become 
proficient with the 6800 processor, and 
system development can take place quickly 
and painlessly. 

The board can also serve as a general 
purpose computer for low volume systems 
by the utilization of up to 58 input/output 
lines and expansion up to 56 K bytes of 
programmable or read only memory. 

The single board computer measures 10.5 



B1 



inches (26.7 cm) by 12 inches (30.5 cm) and 
has two 86 pin edge connectors. The board 
can be used for evaluating incoming micro- 
circuits and for programming EROMs on a 
limited production basis. Communication 
with the computer is done through a Tele- 
type current loop interface. 

A high level interpretive computer lan- 
guage called AMI 6800 Tiny BASIC is 
furnished to EVK300 board users residing in 
the EROM at no extra charge, and proto- 
typing operating system program (PROTO), 
residing in the ROM, is also supplied with 
the board. 

The board is available in three package 
options: in kit form with the printed circuit 
board and a minimum of parts (EVK100 — 
$295); an expanded kit with 512 byte 
EROM (EVK200 - $595) and the expanded 
kit fully assembled and tested having 2 K 
bytes EROM with Tiny BASIC (EVK300 - 
$950). Contact American Microsystems Inc, 
3800 Homestead Rd, Santa Clara CA 
95051." 



More Tiny BASIC — Doctor Dobbs 
Is Really Moving 

Electronic Product Associates Inc, 1157 
Vega St, San Diego CA 9211 0, have an- 
nounced that Tiny BASIC is now available 
for the Micro-68 computer development 
system. This BASIC is a 16 bit integer 
arithmetic subset of Dartmouth BASIC and 
includes: LET, IF ... THEN, INPUT, 
PRINT, GOTO, GOSUB, RETURN, END, 
REM, CLEAR, LIST, RUN, RND, and USR. 
The entire system will fit in only 2 K of 




memory and is available for a number of 
different configurations for input and out- 
put. Adding Tiny BASIC for $10 to the 
Micro-68 computer provides one of the 
lowest cost BASIC language systems avail- 
able today. The Micro-68 is a Motorola/ 
AMI/Hitachi 6800 prototype development 
system which sells complete with power 
supply, cabinet, hexadecimal keyboard and 
6 digit LED priced at $430." 




Get Up and Running Quickly 
with This Self Contained Package 

Electronic Product Associates Inc, 1157 
Vega St, San Diego CA 92110, 
(714)276-8911, has announced a complete 
microcomputer system for $1050. Called the 
Expanded-68, the computer is based on the 
Motorola 6800 microprocessor chip set. De- 
signed for engineering prototype develop- 
ment use, the Expanded-68 comes with 8 K 
of memory, power supply, 16 digit key- 
board, Teletype interface, hexadecimal LED 
display, expansion cabinet, application 
manual and programming manual. It should 
prove quite usable for the experimenter as 
well as the industrial designer. Also available 
for direct interfacing are: dual floppy disk 
drive, 40 column impact printer, 132 col- 
umn printer, cassette tape interface, TV 
interface, general purpose board, and full 
ASCII keyboard." 



The IMSAI Floppy Disk Subsystem 

IMS Associates, 14860 Wicks Blvd, San 
Leandro CA 94577, recently announced the 
availability of a floppy disk drive with an 
intelligent interface and controller. The 
system is specifically designed for use with 
the IMSAI 8080 computer. 

The floppy disk has a capacity of 243 K 



82 




bytes using the IBM 3740 format. The 
interface and controller contains its own 
processor and direct access memory which 
operate independently but under command 
of the main processor of the IMSAI 8080. 
This enables the main processor to perform 
other tasks while a disk operation is in 
process. Also, the user can change the 
program format of the disk by reprogram- 
ming the interface EROM chips. 

Up to four floppy disk drives can be 
controlled by one interface and controller. 
Each disk can be write protected under 
software control. 

The disk drive comes in a cabinet with a 
power supply and the capacity to accom- 
modate a second drive as shown in the 
photo. A rack mounted version is also 
available. All interconnection cables are 
included. The IMSAI floppy disk drive and 
interface controller are $1,649 assembled 
and $1,449 unassembled. An additional disk 
drive without a cabinet is $925. The inter- 
face controller alone is $799 assembled and 
$599 unassembled. 

Disk operating system software is avail- 
able on diskette for $40. Also, 12 K Ex- 
tended BASIC with disk access capability 
was announced in July of this year." 



A PROM Resident 8080 Assembler 

Microcomputer Technique Inc, 1120 
Reston International Office Center Building, 
Reston VA 22091, has announced a resident 
assembler which runs in the Intel System 
Design Kit (SDK) microcomputer. The 
assembler requires 4 K bytes of memory and 
is available from stock for $450, delivered in 
four preprogrammed PROM chips. 

The MTI assembler operates in one, two 
or three passes (user selectable), produces 
relocatable or absolute object code, contains 
a relocatable loader, has rudimentary condi- 
tional assembly statements and is designed 
to work with serial media such as magnetic 
or paper tape." 



IMSAI 

announces 

a unique 

4KRAM 

board 

for just 

$139. 

Nobody has a 4K RAM board 
that gives you so much for your 
money. It's fully compatible with 
the Altair 8800. 

Through the front panel 
or under software control, you 
can write protect or unprotect 
any IK group of RAM's. Also 
under software control you can 
check the status of any 4K RAM 
board in IK blocks to determine 
whether it's protected or not. The 
board has LED's that clearly show 
you the memory protect status 
of each IK block and which 
block is active. And there's a 
circuit provided that will let you 
prevent the loss of data in the 
memory if there's a power failure. 
This low power board has a 
guaranteed 450 ns cycle time- 
no wait cycle required. There's 
nothing like the IMSAI 4K RAM 
board around. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



M 



IMS Associates, Inc. 



r. 



IMS Associates, Inc. Dept. B-9 
1922 Republic Ave. 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
(415) 483-2093 

Order Your IMSAI 4K RAM Board For 
Only $139 Use BankAmericard, 
Master Charge, personal check or 
money order. 



"1 



D Send . 



D Charge lo my credit card 
□ BAC No - 
D MC No._ 



. 4K RAM boards (oday 



Signature 

Name 

Address 

City/State/Zip- 



Lr 



83 



Chapter 3 



BYTE Reprint 



MACHINE LANGUAGE 

PROGRAMMING FOR THE "800$" 
and similar microcomputers 



FUNDAMENTAL PROGRAMMING SKILLS 



Before one can effectively develop machine 
language programs for a computer, one must 
be thoroughly familiar with the instruction 
set for the machine. It is assumed for the re- 
mainder of this manual that the reader has 
studied the detailed information for the in- 
struction set of the 8008 CPU which was 
provided in the first chapter. The programmer 
should become intimately familiar with the 
mnemonics (pronounced kneemonics) for 
each type of instruction. Mnemonics are 
easily remembered symbolic representations 
of machine language instructions. They are far 
easier to work with than the actual numeric 
codes used by the computer when the pro- 
grammer is developing a program. While the 
programmer will develop programs and think 
in terms of the mnemonics, the programmer 
must eventually convert the mnemonics to 
the machine codes used by the computer. 
This, however, is almost purely a look-up 
procedure. In fact, as will be seen shortly, 
this task can actually be performed by the 
computer through the use of an ASSEMBLER 
program. 

Machine language programmers should also 
be familiar with manipulating numbers in 
binary and octal form. It is assumed that 



readers are familiar with representing numbers 
as binary values. However, there may be a few 
readers who are not used to the convention of 
representing binary numbers by their octal 
equivalents. The technique is quite simple. 
It consists merely of grouping binary digits 
into groups of three and representing their 
value as an octal number. The octal num- 
bering system only uses the digits through 
7. This is exactly the range that a group of 
three binary digits can represent. The octal 
numbering system makes it a lot easier to 
manipulate binary numbers. For instance, 
most people find it considerably more con- 
venient to remember a three digit octal num- 
ber such as 104 than the binary equivalent 
01000100. An octal number is easily ex- 
panded to a binary number by simply placing 
the octal value in binary form using three 
binary digits. 

The information in an eight bit binary re- 
gister can be readily converted to an octal 
number by grouping the bits into groups of 
three starting with the least significant bits. 
The two most significant bits in the register 
which form the last group will only be able to 
represent the octal numbers to 3. The dia- 
gram below illustrates the convention. 



EIGHT CELL REGISTER 



************************************************* 

* *+** + *** 

*o *ito*o*oti*o*o* 

* *+** + *** 
************************************************* 



Note in the diagram how an imaginary ad- 
ditional binary digit with a value of zero was 
assigned to the left of the most significant bit 
so that the octal convention for the two most 
significant bits could be maintained. 



A table illustrating the relationship 
between the binary and octal systems is 
provided for reference below. 



BINARY 


REPRESENTATIVE 


PATTERN 


OCTAL NO. 


000 





001 


1 


010 


2 


011 


3 


100 


4 


101 


5 


110 


6 


111 


7 



A person who desires to develop machine 
language programs for computers should 
become familiar with standard conventions 
used when dealing with closed registers 
(groups of binary cells of fixed length such as 
a memory word or CPU register). One very 
simple point to remember is that when a 
group of cells in a register is in the all ones 
condition: 

11 111 111 

and a count of 1 is added to the register, the 
register goes to the value: 

00 000 000 

Or, if a count of: 10 (binary) was added to a 
register that contained all ones, the new value 
in the register would be as shown: 

11 111 111 
+ 00 000 010 



00 000 001 



10 4 

CONVERTING AN 8 BIT REGISTER FROM BINARY TO OCTAL NUMBERS 



Similarly, going the opposite way, if one sub- 
tracts a number such as 100 (binary) from a 



84 



Reprinted from MACHINE LANGUAGE 
PROGRAMMING FOR THE "8008" (and 
similar microcomputers). 



Author: Nat Wadsworth 
Copyright 1975 
Copyright 1976 - Revised 
Scelbi Computer Consulting Inc 
With the permission of the 
copyright owner. 



register that contains some lesser value, such 
as 010 (binary), the register would contain 
the result shown below: 



00 000 010 
00 000 100 



11 111 110 



It may be noted that if one uses all the bits 
in a fixed length register, one may represent 
mathematical values with an absolute magni- 
tude from zero to the quantity two to the 
Nth power, minus one (0 to (2**N - 1)) 
where N is the number of bits in the register. 
If all the bits in a register are used to 
represent the magnitude of a number, and it is 
also desired to represent the magnitude as 
being either positive or negative in sign, then 
some additional means must be available to 
record the sign of the magnitude. Generally, 
this would require using another register or 
memory location solely for the purpose of 
keeping track of the sign of a number. 

In many applications it is desirable to es- 
tablish a convention that will allow one to 
manipulate positive and negative numbers 
without having to use an additional register 
to maintain the sign of a number. One way 
this may be done is to simply assign the most 
significant bit in a register to be a sign in- 
dicator. The remaining bits represent the 
magnitude of the number regardless of 
whether it is positive or negative. When this is 
done, the magnitude range for an N cell re- 
gister becomes to (2**(N-1))-1 rather than 
to (2**N) - 1. The convention normally 
used is that if the most significant bit in the 
register is a one then the number represented 
by the remaining bits is negative in sign. If 
the MSB is zero, then the remaining bits 
specify the magnitude of a positive number. 
This convention allows computer 
programmers to manipulate mathematical 
quantities in a fashion that makes it easy for 
the computer to keep track of the sign of a 
number. Some examples of binary numbers in 
an eight bit register are shown next. 

BINARY 
REPRESENTATION OCTAL DECIMAL 



00 00 1 


000 


1 


+ i 


10 001 


000 


2 10 


£ 


1111 


1 1 1 


17 7 


+ 127 


11111 


111 


377 


- 127 


00 000 


00 1 


00 1 


+ 1 


10 000 


001 


201 


1 



gister (or word) as the magnitude, simply 
using the signed bit convention alone can still 
be a somewhat clumsy method to use in a 
computer. This is because of the method in 
which a computer mathematically adds the 
contents of two binary registers in the accum- 
ulator. Suppose, for example, that a computer 
was to add together positive and negative 
numbers that were stored in registers in the 
signed bit format. 



00001000 (+ 8 decimal) 
PLUS 10001000 (- 8 decimal) 



EQUAL 10 010 000 (This is not 0!) 



The result of the operation illustrated 
would not be what the programmer intended! 
In order for the operation to be performed 
correctly, it is necessary to establish a method 
for processing the negative number called the 
two's complement convention. In the two's 
complement convention, a negative number is 
represented by complementing what the value 
for a positive number would be (comple- 
menting is the process of replacing bits 
thai are '0' with a '1,' and those that are '1' 
with a 0) and then adding the value one (1) to 
the complemented value. As an example, the 
number minus eight (-8) decimal would be 
derived from the number plus eight (+8) by 
the following operations. 



00 001 000 

11 110 111 
00 000 001 



11 111 000 



(Original + 8) 

(Complemented) 
(now add +1) 

(2's complement 
form of - 8) 



Some examples of numbers expressed in 
two's complement notation with the signed 
bit convention are shown below. 



BINARY 
REPRESENTATION OCTAL DECIMAL 



00 001 


000 


010 


+ 8 


11111 


000 


370 


8 


01111 


111 


177 


+ 127 


10 000 


00 1 


201 


- 127 


00 000 


001 


001 


+ 1 


11111 


111 


377 


1 


00 000 


000 


000 


+ 


10 000 


000 


200 


- 128 



tion of having the MSB in the register estab- 
lish the sign. If the MSB = 1, as in the above 
illustration, the number is assumed to be 
negative. Since the number is in the two's 
complement form, the computer can readily 
add a positive and a negative number and 
come up with a result that is readily inter- 
preted. Look! 



ADD 



00 001 000 (+8 decimal) 

11 111 000 (- 8 dec as 2's comp) 



00 000 000 (Correct answer = 0) 



While the signed bit convention allows the 
sign of a number to be stored in the same re- 



Note that when using the two's comple- 
ment method, one may still use the conven- 



Another established convention in handling 
numbers with a computer is to assume that '0' 
is a positive value. Because of this convention, 
the magnitude of the largest negative number 
that can be represented in a fixed length re- 
gister is one more than that possible for a 
positive number. 

The various means of storing and mani- 
pulating the signs of numbers as just dis- 
cussed have advantages and drawbacks, and 
the method used depends on the specific 
application. However, for most user's, the 
two's complement signed bit convention will 
be the most convenient, most often used, 
method. The prospective machine language 
programmer should make sure that the con- 
vention is well understood. 



Another area that the machine language 
programmer must have a thorough knowledge 
of is the conversion of numbers between the 
decimal numbering system that most people 
work with on a daily basis, and the binary and 
octal numbering system utilized by computer 
technologists. Programmers working with 
microcomputers will generally find the octal 
numbering system most convenient. Because 
the conversion from octal to binary is simply 
a matter of grouping binary bits into groups 
of three as discussed at the start of this 
chapter, it is easier to remember octal codes 
than long strings of binary digits. However, 
most people are used to thinking in decimal 
terms, which the computer does not use at 
the machine language level. Thus, it is nec- 
essary for programmers to be able to convert 
back and forth between the various num- 
bering systems as programs are developed. 

The conversion process that is generally the 
most troublesome for people to learn is from 
decimal to binary, or decimal to octal (and 
vice-versa)! It is usually a bit easier for people 
to learn to convert from decimal to octal, and 
then use the simple octal to binary expansion 
technique, than to convert directly from 
decimal to binary. The easier method will be 
presented here. It is assumed that the reader 
is already familiar with going from octal to 
binary (and vice-versa). Only the conversions 
between decimal and octal (and the reverse) 
will be presented at this point. 

A decimal number may be converted to its 
octal equivalent by the following technique: 

Divide the decimal number by 8. Record 
the remainder (note that is the RE- 
MAINDER!!) as the least significant digit 
of the octal number being derived. Take the 
quotient just obtained and use it as the new 
dividend. Divide the new dividend by 8. 
The remainder from this operation becomes 



85 



the next significant digit of the octal number. 
The quotient is again used as the new divi- 
dend. The process is continued until the quo- 
tient becomes '0.' The number obtained from 
placing all the remainders (from each division) 
in increasing significant order (first remainder 



as the least significant digit, last remainder as 
the most significant digit) is the octal number 
equivalent of the original decimal. The 
process is illustrated below for clarity. 



The octal equivalent of 1234 decimal is: 



ORIGINAL NUMBER 1234 / 8 

LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 

NEW DIVIDEND 154 / 8 

LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 

NEW DIVIDEND 19 / 8 

LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 

NEW DIVIDEND 2 / 8 

Thus the octal equivalent of 1234 decimal is: 



154 



19 



2 3 . . 

- 2 . . . 
2 3 2 2 



The above method is quite easy and 
straightforward. Since a majority of the time 
the user will be interested in conversions of 
decimal numbers less than 255 (the maximum 
decimal number that can be expressed in an 



ORIGINAL NUMBER 



eight bit register) only a few divisions are 
necessary: 

The octal equivalent of 255 decimal is: 
QUOTIENT REMAINDER 
255 / 8 = 31 7 



LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 
NEW DIVIDEND 31 

LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 

NEW DIVIDEND 3 



Thus the octal equivalent of 255 is: 



/ 8 = 



3 7 7 



For numbers less than 63 decimal (and 
such numbers are used frequently to set 
counters in loop routines) the above method 
reduces to one division with the remainder 
being the LSD and the quotient the MSD. 



This is a feat most programmers have little 
difficulty doing in their head! 

The octal equivalent of 63 decimal is: 



ORIGINAL NUMBER 



63 / 



LAST QUOTIENT BECOMES 

NEW DIVIDEND 7 / 



Thus the octal equivalent of 63 is: 



77 



Going from octal to decimal is quite easy 
too. The process consists of simply multi- 
plying each octal digit by the number 8 raised 
to its positional (weighted) power, and then 
adding up the total of each product for all 
the octal digits: 



2 3 2 2 Octal 



2 


X 


(8*0) = 


(2X1) 


= 


2 


. . .2 


X 


(8*1) = 


(2X8) 


= 


1 6 


. . 3 


X 


(8*2) = 


(3X64) 


= 


19 2 


2 


X 


(8*3) 


(2X 512) 


= 


102 4 



Thus the decimal equivalend of 2322 Octal is : 12 3 4 

Besides the basic mathematical skills in- 
volved with using octal and binary numbers, 
there are some practical bookkeeping consid- 
erations that machine language programmers 
must learn to deal with as they develop pro- 



MEMORY 


TOTAL 


WORDS 


WORDS 


THIS 


THIS 


INSTR. 


ROUTINE 


2 


2 


2 


4 


2 


6 


1 


7 


1 


8 


1 


9 


1 


10 



grams. These bookkeeping matters have to do 
with memory usage and allocation. 

As the reader who has read chapter one in 
this manual knows, each type of instruction 
used in the 8008 CPU requires one, two, or 
three words of memory. As a general rule, 
simple register to register or register to 
memory commands require but one memory 
word. Immediate type commands require two 
memory locations (the instruction code 
followed immediately by the data or oper- 
and). Jump or call instructions require three 
words of memory storage. One word for the 
instruction code and two more words for the 
address of the location specified by the in- 
struction. The fact that different types of in- 
structions require different amounts of 
memory is important to the programmer. 

As programmers write a program it is often 
necessary for them to keep tabs on how many 
words of memory the actual operating por- 
tion of the program will require (in addition 
to controlling the areas in memory that will 
be used for data storage). One reason for 
maintaining a count of the number of 
memory words a program requires is simply 
to ensure that the program will fit into the 
available memory space. 

Often a program that is a little too long to 
be stored in an available amount of memory 
when first developed can be rewritten, after 
some thought, to fit in the available space. 
Generally, the trade-off between writing com- 
pact programs versus not-so-compact routines 
is simply the programmer's development time. 
Hastily constructed programs tend to require 
more memory storage area because the pro- 
grammer does not take the time to consider 
memory conserving instruction combinations. 



However, even if one is not concerned 
about conserving the amount of memory used 
by a particular program, one still often needs 
to know how much space a group of in- 
structions will consume in memory. This is 
so that one can tell where another program 
might be placed without interfering with a 
previous program. 

For these reasons, programmers often find 
it advantageous to develop the habit of 
writing down the number of memory words 
utilized by each instruction as they write the 
mnemonic sequences for a routine. Addition- 
ally, it is often desirable to maintain a column 
showing the total number of words required 
for storage of a routine. An example of a 
work sheet with this practice being followed 
is illustrated here: 



MNEMONICS COMMENTS 

LAI 000 Place 000 in accumulator 

LHI 001 Set Register H to 1 

LLI 150 And Regis L to 150 

ADM Add the contents of memory 

INL Locations 150 & 151 on page 1 

ADM Adding second number to first 

RET End of subroutine 



86 



In the example the total number of words 
used in column was kept using decimal num- 
bers. Many programmers prefer to maintain 
this column using octal numbers because of 
the direct correlation between the total num- 
ber of words used, and the actual memory 
addresses used by the 8008. 

The example just presented can be used to 
introduce another consideration during pro- 
gram development. That is memory alloca- 
tion. One must distinguish between program 
storage areas in memory, and areas used to 



hold data that is operated on by the program. 
Note that the sample subroutine was designed 
to have the computer add the contents of 
memory locations 150 and 151 on page 01. 
Thus, those two locations must be reserved 
for data. One must ensure that those 
specific memory locations are not inadver- 
tantly used for some other purpose. In a 
typical program, one may have many lo- 
cations in memory assigned for holding or 
manipulating data. It is important that one 
maintain some sort of system of recording 
where one plans to store blocks of data and 



PG 


LOC 


MACHINE CODE 


LABELS 


MNEMONICS 


COMMENTS 


01 


000 








ADD, 




Add no's@ 150 & 151 


01 


010 














01 


020 














01 


030 














01 


040 














01 


050 














01 


060 














01 


070 














01 


100 














01 


110 














01 


120 














01 


130 














01 


140 














01 


150 












Number storage 


01 


151 












Number storage 


01 


152 














01 


153 














01 


154 














01 


155 














01 


156 














01 


157 














01 


160 














01 


170 














01 


200 















MEMORY USAGE MAP 



PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT WORK SHEET 



PG 


LOC 


MACHINE CODE 


LABELS 


MNEMONICS 


COMMENTS 


01 


000 


006 


000 




ADD, 


LAI 000 


Set ACC = 000 


01 


002 


056 


001 






LHI 001 


Set pntr PG = 1 


01 


004 


066 


150 






LLI 150 


Set pntr LOC = 150 


01 


006 


207 








ADM 


Add l'stno. to ACC 


01 


007 


060 








INL 


Adv pntr to 2'nd no. 


01 


010 


207 








ADM 


Add 2'nd no. to l'st 


01 


011 


007 








RET 


Exit subroutine 



















































































































































































where various operating routines will reside 
as a program is developed. This can be readily 
accomplished by setting up and using memory 
usage maps (often commonly referred to as 
core maps). An example of a memory usage 
map being started for the subroutine just dis- 
cussed is shown. 

The same type of form may also be used as 
a program development sheet as shown here . 
One may observe that the form provides for 
memory addresses, the actual octal values 
of the machine codes, labels and mnemonics 
used by the programmer, and additional in- 
formation. 

Memory usage maps are extremely valuable 
for keeping large programs organized as they 
are developed, or for displaying the locations 
of a variety of different programs that one 
might desire to have residing in memory at 
the same time. It is suggested that the person 
intending to do even a moderate amount of 
machine language programming make up a 
supply of such forms (using a ditto or mimeo- 
graph machine) to have on hand. 



87 



There are some important factors about 
machine language programming that should 
be pointed out as they have considerable im- 
pact on the total efficiency and speed at 
which one can develop such programs and get 
them operating correctly. The factors relate 
to one simple fact. People developing machine 
language programs (especially beginners) are 
very prone to making programming mistakes! 
Regardless of how carefully one proceeds, it 
always seems that any fair sized program 
needs to be revised before a properly 
operating program is achieved. The impact 
that changes in a program have on the de- 
velopment (or redevelopment) effort vary 
according to where in the program such 
changes must be made. The reason for the 
seriousness of the problem is because program 
changes generally result in the addresses of 
the instructions in memory being altered. 
Remember, if an instruction is added, or de- 



leted, then all the remaining instructions in 
the routine being altered must be moved to 
different locations! This can have multiplying 
effects if the instructions that are moved are 
referred to by other routines (such as call and 
jump commands) because then the addresses 
referred to by those types of commands must 
be altered too! To illustrate the situation, a 
change will be made to the sample program 
presented several pages ago. Suppose it was 
decided that the subroutine should place the 
result of the addition calculation in a word in 
memory before exiting the subroutine, 
instead of simply having the result in the ac- 
cumulator. The original program, for 
example, could have been residing in the 
locations shown on the program development 
work sheet on the previous page. Changing 
the program would result in it occupying the 
following memory locations: 







MEMORY 






PAGE 


LOC 


CONTENTS 


MNEMONICS 


COMMENTS 


01 


000 


006 


LAI 000 


Place 000 in accumulator 


01 


001 


000 






01 


002 


056 


LHI 001 


Set Reg H to 1 


01 


003 


001 






01 


004 


066 


LLI 150 


Set Reg L to 150 


01 


005 


150 






01 


006 


207 


ADM 


Add contents of memory 


01 


007 


060 


INL 


Locations 150 & 151 


01 


010 


207 


ADM 


Add 2nd to 1st 


01 


011 


066 


LLI 160 


Set Reg L to 160 


**01 


012 


160 






** 01 


013 


370 


LMA 


Save answer @ 160 


** 01 


014 


007 


RET 


End of subroutine 



The ** locations denote the additional 
memory locations required by the modified 
subroutine. If the programmer had already 
developed a routine that resided in locations 
012, 013, or 014, the change would require 
that it be moved ! 

If one was using a program development 
work sheet, one would have had to erase the 
original RET instruction at the end of the 
routine and then written in the two new 
commands, and added the RET instruction 
at the end. The effects would not be too de- 
vestating since the change was inserted at the 
end of the subroutine. But, suppose a similar 
change was necessary at the start of a sub- 
routine that had 50 instructions in it? The 
programmer would have to do a lot of 
erasing! 

The effects of changes in program source 
listings was recognized early as a problem in 
developing programs. Because of this" people 
developed programs called EDITORS that 
would enable the computer to assist people in 
the task of creating and manipulating source 
listings for programs. An EDITOR is a 
program that will allow a person to use a com- 
puter as a text buffer. Source listings may be 
entered from a keyboard or other input 
device and stored in the computer's memory, 
information that is placed in the text buffer is 
kept in an organized fashion, usually by lines 
of text. An Editor program generally has a 
variety of commands available to the operator 
to allow the information stored in the text 
buffer to be manipulated. For instance, lines 
of information in the text buffer may be 



added, deleted, moved about or inserted 
before other lines, and so forth. Naturally, the 
information in the buffer can be displayed to 
the operator on an output device such as a 
cathode ray tube (CRT) or electromechan- 
ical printing mechanism. Using this type of 
program, a programmer can rapidly create a 
source listing and modify it as necessary. 
When a permanent copy is desired, the 
contents of the text buffer may be punched 
on paper tape or written on a magnetic 
tape cassette. It turns out that the copy 
placed on paper tape or a cassette can often 
be further processed by another program to 
be discussed shortly which is termed an 







MEMORY 






PAGE 


LOC 


CONTENTS 


MNEMONICS 


00 


000 


026 


OVER, 


LCI 100 


00 


001 


100 






00 


002 


106 




CAL NEWONE 


00 


003 


013 






00 


004 


000 






00 


005 


106 




CAL LOAD 


00 


006 


023 






00 


007 


000 






00 


010 


104 




JMP OVER 


00 


011 


000 






00 


012 


000 






00 


013 


056 


NEWONE, 


LHI 000 


00 


014 


000 






00 


015 


066 




LLI 200 


00 


016 


200 






00 


017 


317 




LBM 


00 


020 


010 




INB 


00 


021 


371 




LMB 


00 


022 


007 




RET 



ASSEMBLER program. However, an 
important reason for making a copy of the 
text buffer on paper tape or magnetic cassette 
tape is because if it is ever necessary to make 
changes to the source listing, then the old 
listing can be quickly reloaded back into the 
computer. Changes may then be rapidly made 
using the Editor program, and a new clean 
listing obtained in a fraction of the time that 
might be required to erase and rewrite a large 
number of lines using pencil and paper. 
Relatively small programs can be developed 
using manual methods. That is, by writing the 
source listings with pencil and paper. But, 
anyone that is planning on doing extensive 
program development work should obtain an 
Editor program in order to substantually 
increase their overall program development 
efficiency. Besides, an Editor program can be 
put to a lot of good uses besides just making 
up source listings! Such as enabling one to 
edit correspondence or prepare written 
documents that are nice and neat in a fraction 
of the time required by conventional 
methods. 

Changes in source listings naturally result in 
changes to the machine codes (which the 
mnemonics simply symbolize). Even more 
important, the addresses associated with 
instructions often must be changed due to 
additions or deletions of words of machine 
code. For instance, in the example routine 
being used in this section, memory address 
PAGE 01 LOCATION 011 originally 
contained the code for a RET (RETURN) in- 
struction which is 007. When the subroutine 
was changed by adding several more 
instructions (so the answer could be stored in 
a memory location), the RET instruction was 
shifted down to the address PAGE 01 
LOCATION 014. The address where it 
formerly resided was changed to hold the 
code for the first part of the LLI 160 
instruction which is 066. Had changes been 
made earlier in the routine, then many more 
memory locations would need to be assigned 
different machine codes. However, the 
changes caused by adding on to the sample 
program previously discussed are not as far 
reaching as the one presented on the follow- 
ing page. There the changes result in the 
addresses of subroutines referred to by other 
routines being changed, so that it is then 
necessary to go back and modify the machine 
codes in all of the routines that refer to the 
subroutine that was changed ! 



COMMENTS 

Load reg C with 100 

Call a new subroutine 

And then another 



Jump back & repeat 

Load reg H with zeroes 

And L with 200 

Fetch mem contents to B 
Increment the value in B 
Place B back into memory 
End of subroutine 



88 







MEMORY 








AGE 


LOC 


CONTENTS 


MNEMONICS 


COMMENTS 


00 


023 


056 


LOAD, 


LHI 003 


Set H to PG 03 


00 


024 


003 








00 


025 


361 




LLB 


Place register B into L 


00 


026 


370 




LMA 


Place ACC into memory 


00 


027 


021 




DCC 


Decrement value in reg C 


00 


030 


013 




RFZ 


Return if C is not zero 


00 


031 


000 




HLT 


Halt when C = zero 



Suppose it was decided to insert a single 
word instruction right after the LCI 100 com- 
mand in the above program. The new program 
would appear as shown next. 







MEMORY 








AGE 


LOC 


CONTENTS 


MNEMONICS 


COMMENTS 


00 


000 


026 


OVER, 


LCI 100 


Load reg C with 100 


00 


001 


100 








00 


002 


250 




XRA 


Clear the accumulator 


00 


003 


106 




CAL NEWONE 


Call a new subroutine 


00 


004 


** 014 








00 


005 


000 








00 


006 


106 




CAL LOAD 


And then another 


00 


007 


** 024 








00 


010 


000 








00 


011 


104 




JMP OVER 


Jump back and repeat 


00 


012 


000 








00 


013 


000 








00 


014 


056 


NEWONE 


, LHI 000 


Load Reg H with zeroes 


00 


015 


000 








00 


016 


066 




LLI 200 


And L with 200 


00 


017 


200 








00 


020 


317 




LBM 


Fetch mem contents to B 


00 


021 


010 




INB 


Increment the value in B 


00 


022 


371 




LMB 


Place B back into memory 


00 


023 


007 




RET 


Exit subroutine 


00 


024 


056 


LOAD, 


LHI 003 


Set H to PAGE 03 


00 


025 


003 








00 


026 


361 




LLB 


Place reg B into L 


00 


027 


370 




LMA 


Place ACC into memory 


00 


030 


021 




DCC 


Decrement value in reg C 


00 


031 


013 




RFZ 


Return if C is not zero 


00 


032 


000 




HLT 


Halt when C is zero 



Note in the illustration how not only the 
addresses of all the instructions beyond 
location 002 (denoted by the *) change, but 
even more important, that parts of the in- 
structions themselves (the address portion 
of the CAL instructions, denoted by the **) 
must now be altered. The essential point 
being made here is that if the starting address 
of a routine or subroutine that is referred to 
by any other part of the program is changed, 
then each and every reference to that routine 
must be located and the address portion 
corrected! This can be an extremely formi- 
dable, time consuming, tedious, and down 
right frustrating task if all the references must 
be found and corrected by manual means in a 
large program! 

Early computer technologists soon became 
disgusted with making such program correc- 
tions by hand methods after learning that it 
was almost impossible to develop large pro- 
grams without making a few errors. They 
went to work on finding a method to ease the 
task of making such corrections and came up 
with a type of program called an ASSEM- 
BLER that could utilize the computer it- 
self to perform such exacting tasks. 
ASSEMBLER programs are types of programs 
that are able to process source listings when 
they have been written in mnemonic (sym- 



bolic) form and translate them into the 
OBJECT code (actual machine language code) 
that is utilized directly by the computer. An 
ASSEMBLER also keeps track of assigning 
the proper addresses to references to rout- 
ines and subroutines. This is accomplished 
through a process initiated by the program- 
mer assigning LABELS to routines in the 
source listing. One may now see that the 
combination of an Editor and an Assembler 
program can greatly ease the task of de- 
veloping machine language programs over 
that of the purely manual method. The use 



of such programs is almost mandatory when 
programs become large because the manual 
method becomes highly unwieldy. A primary 
reason that an Editor and Assembler are so 
useful is because if a mistake is made in the 
program, one can use the relatively quick 
method of utilizing the Editor program to 
revise the source listing. Then, one may use 
the Assembler program to reprocess the 
corrected source listing and produce a new 
version of the machine code assigned to new 
addresses if appropriate. 

For quite small programs, say less than 
100 instructions, the use of Editor and 
Assembler programs are not mandatory. 
In fact, even if one uses these aids for small 
programs, one should know how to manually 
convert mnemonic listings to object code. 
This is because it may occasionally be de- 
sirable to make minor program changes 
(patches) without having to go through 
the process of using an Editor and Assem- 
bler. This is particularly true when one 
is DEBUGGING large programs and wants 
to ascertain whether a minor correction will 
correct a problem. The process of convert- 
ing from a mnemonic listing to actual mach- 
ine code is not difficult in concept. Many 
readers will have discerned the process from 
the examples already provided. However, for 
any who are in doubt, the process will be 
explained for the sake of clarity. 

Suppose a person desired to produce a 
small program that would set the contents 
of all the words in PAGE 01 of memory to 
000. The programmer would first develop 
the algorithm and write it down as a mne- 
monic (source) listing. Such an algorithm 
might appear as follows. 



MNEMONIC 

LHI 001 
LLI 000 

AGAIN, LMI 000 

INL 

JFZ AGAIN 

HLT 



COMMENTS 

Set the high address register to PAGE 01. 
Set the low address register to the first 
location on the page assigned by reg. H. 
Load the contents of the memory location 
specified by registers H & L to 000. 
Advance register L to the next memory 
location (but do riot change the page). 
If the value of register L is not 000 
after it has been incremented then JUMP 
back to the part of the program denoted by 
the label AGAIN and repeat the process. 
If the value of register L is 000, then have 
the computer stop as the program is done! 



To convert the source listing to machine 
(object) code the programmer must first 
decide where the program is to reside in 
memory. In this particular case it would 
certainly not be wise to place the program 
anywhere on PAGE 01 as the program would 
self-destruct! The program could safely be 
placed anywhere else. For the sake of demon- 
stration it will be assumed that it is to reside 
on PAGE 02 starting at LOCATION 100. To 
convert the source listing to machine code the 
programmer would simply make a list of the 
addresses to be occupied by the program. 
Then the programmer would simply look up 
the machine code corresponding to the 
mnemonic for each instruction and place this 
number next to the address in which it 
will reside. (The machine code for each 
mnemonic used by the '8008' CPU is 
provided in Chapter ONE of this manual.) 



ORIGINAL 


MEMORY 


MEMORY 


MNEMONIC 


ADDRESS 


CONTENTS 


LHI 001 


02 100 


056 




02 101 


001 


LLI 000 


02 102 


066 




02 103 


000 


AGAIN, LMI 000 


02 104 


076 





02 


105 


000 


INL 


02 


106 


060 


JFZ AGAIN 


02 


107 


110 




02 


110 


104 




02 


111 


002 


HLT 


02 


112 


377 



Once the program has been put in machine 
language form the actual machine code may 
be placed in the assigned locations in mem- 
ory. The programmer may then proceed to 
verify the algorithm's validity. For small 
programs such as the example just illustrated 
the machine code can simply be loaded into 
the correct memory locations using manual 
methods typically provided on microcom- 
puter systems. Such small programs can then 
be easily checked out by stepping through 
the program one instruction at a time. 



If the program is relatively large then a 
special loader program which is typically 
provided with an ASSEMBLER program 
could be used to load in the machine code. 

Checking out and DEBUGGING large 
programs can sometimes be difficult if a 
few simple rules are not followed. A good 
rule of thumb is to first test out each sub- 
routine independently. One may choose to 
STEP through a subroutine, or else to place 
HALT instructions at the end of each sub- 



Since some instructions are location 
dependent in that they require the actual 
address of referenced routines, it is often 
necessary to assign the machine code in two 
processes. The first process consist of 
assigning the machine codes to specific 
memory addresses wherever possible. When 
the machine code requires an address that 
has not yet been determined, the memory 
location is left blank. The second process 
consists of going back and filling in any blanks 
once the addresses of referenced routines have 
been determined. In the example being used 
for illustration, only one process is required 
because the address specified by the label 
AGAIN is defined before the label (address) is 
referenced by the JFZ instruction. The 
sample program when converted to 
machine language code would appear as 
shown next. 



COMMENTS 

Machine code for LHI mnemonic 
Immediate part of LHI mnemonic 
Machine code for LLI mnemonic 
Immediate part of LLI mnemonic 
Machine code for LMI mnemonic 
Note that the label AGAIN now 
defines an address of LOCATION 
104 on PAGE 02 

Immediate part of LMI mnemonic 
Increment low address here 
Machine code for JFZ mnemonic 
Low address portion of the CONDI- 
TIONAL JUMP instruction as 
defined by label AGAIN above 
PAGE address portion of the 
CONDITIONAL JUMP instruction 
defined by label AGAIN 
Alternately, the code 000 or 001 
could have been used here as the 
machine code for a HALT command 



routine. Then one may verify that data was 
manipulated properly by a particular sub- 
routine before going on to the next section 
in a program. The use of strategically located 
HALT instructions in a program initially 
being tried out is an important technique 
for the programmer to remember. When a 
HALT is encountered the user may check the 
contents of memory locations and examine 
the contents of CPU registers to determine 
if they contain the proper values at that 
point in the program. (Using the manual 
operator controls and indicator lamps typi- 
cally provided with microcomputer develop- 
ment systems.) If all is well at a check point 
then the programmer may replace the 
HALT instruction with the actual in- 
struction for that point. One may then 
continue checking the operation of 
the program after making certain that 
any registers that were altered by the 
examination procedure (typically 

registers H and L in an '8008' system) 
have been reset to the desired values 
if they will effect operation of the 
program as it continues! 



It is often helpful to use a utility pro- 
gram known as a MEMORY DUMP pro- 
gram to check the contents of memory 
locations when testing a new program. 
A memory dump program is a small utility 
program that will allow the contents of 
areas in memory to be displayed on an 
output device. Naturally, the memory dump 
program must reside in an area of memory 
outside that being used by the program 
being checked. By using this type of pro- 
gram the operator may readily verify the 
contents of memory locations before and 
after specific operations occur to see if 
their contents are as expected. A memory 
dump program is also a valuable aid in 
determining whether a program has been 
properly loaded or that a portion of a 
program is still intact after a program 
under test has gone errant. 

One will find that having flow charts 
and memory maps at hand during the 
DEBUGGING process is also very help- 
ful. They serve as a refresher on where 
routines are supposed to be in memory 
and what the routines are supposed to 
be doing. 

If minor corrections are necessary or 
desired, then one may often make program 
corrections, or PATCHES as they are com- 
monly referred to by software people, to 
see if the corrections believed appropriate 
will work as planned. An easy way to make 
a PATCH to a program is to replace a CALL 
or JUMP instruction with a CALL to a new 
subroutine that contains the desired cor- 
rections (plus the original CALL or JUMP 
instruction if necessary). If a CALL or 
JUMP instruction is not available in the 
vicinity of the area where a correction must 
be made then one can replace three words 
of instructions with a CALL patch provided 
that one is very careful not to split up a 
multi-word instruction. If this cannot be 
avoided, then the remaining portion of 
a split-up multi-word instruction must be 
replaced with a NO-OPERATION instruc- 
tion such as a LAA command (in an '8008' 
system). One must also make certain that 
the instructions displaced by the inserted 
CALL instruction are placed in the patch- 
ing subroutine (provided that they are not 
being removed purposely). An example 
of several patches being made to the small 
example program previously discussed will 
be illustrated next. 

Suppose, in the example just presented, 
that the operator decided not to clear (set 
to 000) all the words in PAGE 01 of mem- 
ory, but rather to only clear the locations 
000 to 177 (octal) on the page. The pro- 
gram could be modified by replacing the 
JFZ AGAIN instruction which started at 
LOCATION 107 on PAGE 02 with the 
command CAL 000 003 (CALL the sub- 
routine starting at LOCATION 000 on 
PAGE 03 which will be the PATCH). 
Now at LOCATION 000 on PAGE 03 
one could put: 



90 



MNEMONIC 
LAI 200 



MEMORY 
ADDRESS 



MEMORY 
CONTENTS 



03 000 006 

03 001 200 



CPL 


03 


002 


276 


JFZ AGAIN 


03 


003 


110 




03 


004 


104 




03 


005 


002 


RET 


03 


006 


007 



COMMENTS 

Put value 200 into the ACC 

Note value of 200 used because 

contents of register L has 

been incremented 

Compare contents of the ACC 

with the contents of register L 

If accumulator and L do not 

match then continue with the 

original program 

End of PATCH subroutine 



Suppose instead of filling every word on 
PAGE 01 with zeroes the programmer de- 
cided to fill every other other word? A patch 
could be made by replacing the LMI 000 





MEMORY 


MEMORY 


MNEMONIC 


ADDRESS 


CONTENTS 


LMI 000 


03 


000 


076 




03 


001 


000 


INL 


03 


002 


060 


INL 


03 


003 


060 


RET 


03 


004 


007 



command at LOCATION 106 on PAGE 02 
and again inserting a CAL 000 003 command 
to a patch subroutine that might appear as 
illustrated below. 



COMMENTS 

Keep the LMI instruction 
as part of the PATCH 
Keep original increment L 
And add another increment 
L to skip every other word 
Exit from PATCH subroutine 



Finally, to illustrate a patch that splits a 
multi-word command, consider a hypo- 
thetical case where the programmer decided 
that prior to doing the clearing routine, it 
would be important to save the contents 
of register H before setting it to PAGE 01. 
If a three word CALL command is placed 
starting at LOCATION 100 on PAGE 02 in 
the original routine to serve as a PATCH, it 
may be observed that the second half of the 
LLI 000 instruction would cause a problem 
when the program returned from the patch. 

MEMORY MEMORY 

MNEMONIC ADDRESS CONTENTS 



LEH 


03 


000 


345 


LHI 001 


03 


001 


056 




03 


002 


001 


LLI 000 


03 


003 


066 




03 


004 


000 


RET 


03 


005 


007 



(The value of 000 at LOCATION 103 on 
PAGE 02 in the example program would be 
interpreted as a HLT command by the com- 
puter when it returned from the patch sub- 
routine.) In order to avoid this problem the 
programmer could place a LAA (effectively a 
NO-OPERATION command) at LOCATION 
103 on PAGE 02 after placing the patch 
command CAL 000 003 instruction beginning 
at LOCATION 100 on PAGE 02. The actual 
patch subroutine might appear as shown 
below. 

COMMENTS 

Save register H in register E 
Now set register H to point 
to PAGE 01 
And set the low address 
pointer to LOCATION 000 
End of PATCH subroutine 



In the balance of this manual numerous 
techniques for developing machine language 
programs will be presented and discussed. 
Many of the examples used will be presented 
as subroutines that the reader may use when 
developing customized programs. It is im- 
portant for the new programmer to learn 
to think of programs in terms of routines 
or subroutines and then learn to combine 
subroutines into larger programs. This prac- 
tice makes it easier for the programmer to 
initially develop programs. It is generally 
much easier to create small algorithms and 
then combine them, in the form of sub- 
routines, into larger programs. Remember, 
subroutines are sequences of instructions 
that can be CALLED by other parts of a 
program. They are terminated by RETURN 
or CONDITIONAL RETURN commands. 
It is also wise when developing programs to 
leave some room in memory between sub- 
routines so that patches can be inserted 
or routines lengthened without having to 
rearrange the contents of a large amount of 
memory. Finally, while speaking of sub- 
routines, it will be pointed out that the 
user would be wise to keep a note book 
of subroutines that the individual develops 
in order to build up a reference library 
of pertinent routines. It takes time to think 
up and check out algorithms. It is very easy 
to forget just how one had solved a par- 
ticular problem six months after one init- 
ially accomplished the task. Save your 
accrued efforts. The more routines you 
have to utilize, the more valuable your 
machine becomes. The power of the machine 
is all determined by WHAT YOU PUT IN ITS 
MEMORY! 



1. First, the programmer should clearly define and write down on paper exactly 
what the program is to accomplish. 

2. Next, flow charts to aid in the complex task of writing the mnemonic (source) 
listings are prepared. They should be as detailed as necessary for the program- 
mer's level of experience and ability. 

3. Memory maps should be used to distribute and keep track of program storage 
areas and data manipulating regions in available memory. 

4. Using the flow charts and memory maps as guides, the actual source listings of 
the algorithms are written using the symbolic representations of the instructions. 
An Editor program is frequently used to good advantage at this point. 

5. The mnemonic source listings are converted into the actual machine language 
numerical codes assigned to specific addresses in memory. An Assembler pro- 
gram makes this task quite easy and should be used for large programs. 

6. The prepared machine code is loaded into the appropriate addresses in the 
computer's memory and operation of the program is verified. Often the initial 
check out is done using the STEP mode of operation, or by exercising indivi- 
dual subroutines. The judicial use of inserted HALT instructions at key loca- 
tions will often be of value during the initial testing phase. 

7. If the program is not performing as intended then problem areas must be iso- 
lated. Program PATCHES may be utilized to make minor corrections. If serious 
problems are found it may be necessary to return to step no. 3, or step no. 1! i 



91 



Classified Ads for Individuals and Clubs 



Readers who have equip- 
ment, software or other items 
to buy, sell or swap should 
send in a clearly typed notice 
to that effect. To be consider- 
ed for publication, an adver- 
tisement should be clearly 
non-commercial, typed double 
spaced on plain white paper, 
and include complete name 
and address information. 
These notices are free of 
charge and will be printed one 
time only on a space available 
basis. Insertions should be lim- 
ited to 100 words or less. 
Notices can be accepted from 
individuals or bona fide com- 
puter users clubs only. We can 
engage in no correspondence 
on these and your confirma- 
tion of placement is appear- 
ance in an issue of BYTE.* 



FOR SALE: DEC tape controller model 552 for 
TU-55 tape drive, two units available, best offer, 
Edmund Wong 660-44th Av, San Francisco CA 
94121 (415) 221-3492. 

FOR SALE: $500 takes all, or: Ml L Mod 8 - CPU, 
TTY board, buffer, 2 K PROM board, 2 K RAM 
board, input, output, 4 K ROM/PROM/RAM 
board, 2 K Monitor-8 ROM, etc, socketed ICs, 
$300; Digital Group cassette interface, $20; Creed 
TTY- $100; TVT-1 & KBD-1 $120. $500 takes all 
the above. Altair 8800 new kit, unassembled & 
untouched $400. Richard F Schultz, 611 N Dex- 
ter, Lansing Ml 48910, 1517) 393-9438. 

FOR SALE: Intel CPU system. Asking $1,200 or ? 
Worth over $5,000. CPU Intel 8008 8 bit parallel 
8 K RAM memory 2102 type, expandable in 16 K 
units, 2K PROM memory 1702 type SYSCOR 
dual digital tape cassettes, IBM selectric printer/ 
keyboard model 735, RS232 ASCII 1200 baud 
modem with cables, 4 heavy duty power supplies. 
The above rack mounted in or mounted on 30" X 
48" X 29" work station table. Software and BASIC 
available. Call Dave Trimble at (305) 273-9783 
after 5 PM or write POB 20401, Orlando FL 
32814. 

FOR SALE: Digital cassette recorder made by 
National Multiplex Corp. Same one advertised in 
BYTE for $149.95. Like new, less than 10 hours 
use. First cashier's check or money order for $100 
takes it postpaid in original carton. Charles Packer, 
801 Pocahontas PI, Hampton VA 23661, (804) 
722-1364. 

FOR SALE: 5262 2 K RAMS - $2 each, misc core 
stacks — $1 /Kbyte, PC card edge connectors, 0.156 
contact spacing: 1 side X 22 - 1 5<t, 2 side X 43 - 
$2, 2 side X 58 - $2.50. Have box full of each 
item - S Wiebking, 919D Magellan Cir, Dallas TX 
75218, (214) 328-4035. 



FOR SALE: Modem, Model 883A Tele-Data 
(Singer), 0-300 Baud, Full Duplex, RS-232-B to 
Bell 103 Series, synchronous or asynchronous, 
audio and DC loop-back tests, instruction book, 
like new. Herb Lyon, 2520 Vernon Dr, Greenville 
TX 75401, (214) 455-9225. 

FOR SALE: 1 Tally 311 paper tape system. Unit 
consists of 1200 baud paper tape reader, 1200 
baud paper tape punch, power supply, and control 
and interface logic for RS232 interface. All parts 
are mounted in a 5 foot high enclosed 19 inch 
rack. Maintenance manual, extender board and 
oiling kit are also included. I also have some 
assorted teletype equipment. Asking $300 for the 
Tally 311 system. Call J Foley at (603) 893-1033 
or write to him at 3 Salem St, Salem NH 03079. 

FOR SALE: One new Processor Technology 
VDM-1 display board for ALTAIR (unassembled) 
$150; two new Tl ASCII keyboards (64 key), $35 
each; J Georgoulis, 504 Ft Drum Dr, Austin TX 
78745. 

FOR SALE: PORTACOM portable computer ter- 
minal, has RS-232C and built-in acoustic coupler, 
10 char/sec, $995. Steue Heffner, 106 So Main St, 
Pennington NJ 08534, (609) 737-2314 or 
924-7086. 

WANTED: Teletype Model UPE 800 punch for 
ASR 33. Quote price and availability in letter. Also 
need 6800 text editor, assembler, linker. AR 
Dickinson, 3520 D Pan American IME, Albuquer- 
que NM 87107. 

FOR SALE: Model 15 TTY, works good. $95 plus 
shipping. Contact C Ascolillo, 892-6130 or POB 
1264, Portland ME 04062. 

One inch computer tape at bargain prices! Scotch 
861 and 871 on 3600' reels in original boxes. List 
price $38, my price $6/reel plus postage. Jim Stitt, 
311 N Marshall Rd, Middleton OH 45042. 

WANTED: 8008 data book & info -will pay. Did 
anybody else build a C-MOD 8080 System? I'd like 
to hear from you. I need some info on driving core 
memory also. FOR SALE: I have 5 extra brand 
new 8008-1 CPUs at $14 each to speed up your 
system or make a smart terminal. Compact core 
memory planes 64 X 64 (4 K X 1) at $5. Money 
order please. Steve Kelley, 9506 Peach St, Oakland 
CA 94603. 

I MSA I 8080. Assembled and tested by professional 
EE. 22 slot mother board and all software rights. 
(RAM, etc, also available) $850 or offer (reg price 
$983 + handling and tax). Also, one in box: $600 
(reg price $651 + handling and tax). Swap for CRT 
terminal or other goodies. Contact: Richard Lyon, 
265 W Portola Av, Los Altos CA 94022, (415) 
941-8159. 

WANTED: Maintenance manual for IBM Selectric 
Model 72. Also looking for printing robot of same. 
Charles Gelsinger, 4000 Camino Val, Albuquerque 
NM 87105. 

FOR SALE: Computer systems for sale fully 
assembled and tested equipment for less than 
similar kit systems. Basic system includes 8080 
computer, extended basic software, cassette inter- 
face and drive, and much more. For information 
contact: Glenn Barnas, 85 Strong St, Wallington 
NJ 07057, (201) 471-5741. 

FOR SALE: Data set - Western Electric Model 
205B data set and power supply. Will trade or sell 
for best offer over $20. Harvey A Sugar, 4301 57th 
Av #1, Bladensburg MD 20710. 

I need manuals, schematics, etc, for Kleinschmit 
Teletypewriter and reperforator, Army surplus 
models no. TT 1 78 & TT 119A/FG. Any help will 
be appreciated. Please write Philip Wershba, POB 
1194, Goleta CA 93017 or call (805) 685-1931. If 
my wife answers, hang up. 



FOR SALE: Sphere System 2, assembled and 
running. Keyboard, CRT with video and cabinet, 
4 K RAM, 2 PIAs (1 port used by KBD), Serial 
interface including 2 ACIAs, Modem, 2 KC cas- 
settes. Sell for my (kit) cost: $1187. FOB. Tom 
Pappas, 8321 E Rose Ln, Scottsdale AZ 85253, 
(602) 991-9376. 

FOR SALE OR ?: Altair 1 K static RAM board 
assembled with 256 words. Will take cash or trade 
for 1702As or ? Make offer. Any reasonable offer 
accepted. Bill Henry, POB 323, Santee CA 92071. 

HELPI I got in over my head. Must sell ALTAIR 
8800, 8 K dynamic memory, 88-2SIO (serial IO), 
ACR interface, SWTP TVT-II w/serial IO, KYBD3, 
custom case, computer controlled cursor, modified 
TV, 8 K BASIC (on tape). All equipment assem- 
bled and operating. $1500 or any reasonable offer. 
Donald Bleeden, 661 S Cloverdale #3, Los Angeles 
CA 90036, (213) 936-1260. 

CORE MEMORY PLANES FOR SALE. Two 4 K 
X 16, 1 Msec core memory with matrix diodes. 
Brand new surplus in original packing with QC and 
warranty stickers intact. Documentation included. 
Best offer over $50 each plus postage. Ted Becker, 
317 158th St SE, Bothell WA 98011 (206) 
743-1321. 

IMSAI 8080 For Sale: New completely assembled 
8080 system. Includes, 12 K RAM, two serial IO 
ports, cassette recorder interface, eight levels of 
priority interrupts, and clock board. Only $2,450 
or highest bid. Also ASR-33 Teletype terminal in 
super condition, just $875. John Whitney, 2405 
Haisley Dr, Ann Arbor Ml 48103 1313) 662-2530. 

FOR SALE: Burroughs C-3660 programmable cal- 
culator with memory and magnetic card reader. 
Good condition. Best offer over $500. If no reply 
to your letter, unit has been sold. Tom French, 
909 Society Av, Albany GA 31701. 

FOR SALE: System 21 Data management station 
(VIATRON) as advertised in BYTE March 1976 
page 87. This unit works very good and is new 
status. All modes of operation are in good con- 
dition. Complete with instruction manual and 
schematics. $400. You pay shipping; if no reply to 
your letter, unit has been sold. Tom French, 909 
Society Av, Albany GA 31701. 

FOR SALE: Honeywell high speed line printer 
(132 characters per line) in excellent condition, 
complete with Honeywell interface. $800. Call 
George Coy, RFD 1, Milton VT 05468, (802) 
893-2154. 

FOR SALE: MITS Altair 6806 microprocessor kit. 
Complete documentation; parts still in original 
packages. First check for $400 to clear takes it. 
Wife threatening divorce! Paul Goyer, 1351 W 
Touhy, Chicago I L 60626. (3121 465-41 28 eves. 



Before sending your classified 
ad to B YTE, read it over. Did 
you include your name, ad- 
dress, phone number (with 
area code) in the text of the 
ad? B YTE has received several 
ads with incomplete phone 
numbers or missing addresses. 



92 



Continued from page 12 

personal discussion with another ham who is 
familiar with a particular type or band of 
equipment or program might save many 
people from costly errors. 

Such a net would probably draw a huge 
following of listeners in addition to the 
actual participants; remember the first 
RTTY net on 40? I would be happy to help 
organize and control such a net; although 
my actual microprocessor experience is 
limited at this time, perhaps we could get 
something going. I will be on 3.820 MHz, 
plus or minus QRM on Monday evenings at 7 
PM CDST. (00:00 GMT, Tuesday.) 

If there are any suggestions as to other 
times, dates, modes, bands, etc, please drop 
me a line. 

MelvonGHartWOIBZ 

936 Dontaos Dr 

St Louis MO 63131 

Let us know what happens. 

KIM ON, NOW 

I thought I'd drop you a line to tell you 
of my experiences with the KIM-1 I've had 
for 10 days now. I ordered it six weeks ago. 
It took a little over a month to come — not 
bad. Everything was pretty much the way 
BYTE described as far as hardware and 
software. 

1 didn't have any power supplies here at 
home so I read over the User Manual the 
first night. I took the KIM-1 to school where 
I teach and fired it up with a 5 V supply. I 
was happy to see the drain only about 0.6 to 
0.7 A. The KIM-1 people call for a 1.2 A 
supply. I have some cute little 5 V 1 A 
supplies used for the Indiana Instruments 
Inc logic system so I finally tried one of 
them and it works fine so far. 

The display is very bright and clear. The 



keyboard has a nice touch too. Well, I tried 
the first program example in the User 
Manual which is to add two numbers. I did 
their example of 2 plus 3 and got 5. I was 
elated. Then I tried their second example of 
adding FF to FF to get FE and I got 54. 
[Hexadecimal notation is used in this letter's 
arithmetic examples.] Something screwy. So 
I took an easier pair of numbers, namely 5 
plus 5. I was looking for an answer of A of 
course. But I got 10. That's a funny 
symptom, I thought. So I tried 6 plus 6. You 
guessed it. I got 1 2. I ran around showing all 



ItlJKKESMRti SYSIIiWS 

PRESENTS 




DISCOVER THE EPIC 2: A COMPLETE ONE-BOARD MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEM AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE. 



EPIC 2 features: 

Easy to use teletype-stylo fully encoded keyboard, 
your standard audio 



Proyrams loaded and stored 
tape recorder 



Video interface - displays 16 lines of alpha numeric 
characters on your TV set or optional video monitor. 



Unified extendable bus. 
2 K RAM memory. 



256 byte PROM bootstrap. 

2 MHz 8080 micro-compute;. 

16 general purpose I/O lines. 

Standard programs included: Monitor, Text Editor, 
Game of Life, Blackjack Game. 

Memory expansion and our optional Vector Graphics 
Software Package allows you to create, display, and 
store graphics. 

Many more options to come! 



Please send me .EPIC 2 (s). Enclosed is S775 [California residents include £ 

ordered- I am allowing 90 days for delivery. 



, sales tax) for each EPIC 2 



For additional information please write: 

BURKESHIRE SYSTEMS P.O. Box 512 Mountain View, California 94040 



SOLID STATES MUSIC PRODUCTS 



Static Memory Boards (4Kx8) 
MB-1 Mk-8 Board 
Kit $103 PC Board $22 

MB-2 Altair 8800 board with on board 
address & wait switching. 

Kit(2102's 1us) $112 

Kit(91 L02A's) $139 PC Board $25 



Erom Board 

MB-3 EROM Board with on board ad- 
dress and wait switching. 2Kx8 may be 
expanded to 4Kx8 

2K Kit $145 4K Kit $225 

Kit Less E ROMs $65 



I/O Boards 

1/0-1 8 bit parallel in & out ports 
Common address decoding jumper se- 
lected, Altair 8800 Plug compatible. 
Kit $42 PC Board $25 

I/0-2 I/O for 8800, 2 ports committed 
pads for 3 more, other pads for EROMs, 
UART, etc. 
Kit . . . $47.50 PC Board $25 

Misc. 

Altair compatible mother board . . . .$45 

32x32 Video Board $35 

Altair extended board (less con.) . . . .$8 



2102's 



lusec 



65usec 



,5usec 



ea. 
32 



$1.95 
$59 



$2.25 
$68 



$2.50 
$76 



8212 $5.00 

MM5320 $5.95 
AY5-1013 UART 
$7.95 



1702A* 

2101 

2111-1 

2112 

8223 

91L02A 
32 ea. 
* Program 
Hex List 



$10.00 
$ 4.50 
$ 4.50 
$ 4.50 
$ 3.00 
$ 2.55 
$ 2.40 

ing send 
$ 5.00 

IC's and 



74200 $5.90 

74L200 $5.90 

MH0025 $2.50 

MH0026 $2.95 

8T97 $2.10 

Please send for complete listing of 

Xistors at competitive prices. 



MIKOS 

419 Portofino Dr. 
San Carlos, Calif. 94070 

Check of money order only. Calif, residents 6% tax. All 
orders postpaid in US. All devices tested prior to sale. 
Money back 30 day Guarantee. $10 min. order. Prices 
subject to change without notice. 



93 



I had visions of having to 
write programs via the 
keyboard forever and 
that's a long time. 



When we are as dependent 
on the computer as we are 
now on our electrical dis- 
tribution network, that is 
when we will have to 
worry about being under 
the control of a computer 
dictatorship. 



the micro experts this funny result. I knew 
something was wrong but what? 

After a half hour of diddling with the 
keys I tried my 5 plus 5 again and this time I 
got A as i should. I added FF to FF and 
got FE as I should. Whatever was wrong 
fixed itself. I had to shut down for the night. 

The next day I went through the same 
agony. The processor acted "queer" for 
about a half an hour then magically was OK. 
Ah hah. I've got a thermal problem I 
thought. So I let it cool down for a few 
minutes by turning it off. When I powered 
up the problem was back. Now to wait until 
it gets to that magic temperature where it 
fixes itself. Well an hour went by and it 
didn't fix itself. So I started poking the keys 
again and bingo — it started working cor- 
rectly. I was in a state of confusion — had 
visions of sending the thing back after only 
two days. 

I started reading the Programming Man- 
ual. Then I discovered the processor had a 
decimal mode and I knew exactly what had 
happened. When I turn my processor on, the 
flip flop for decimal mode comes up in that 
mode rather than the binary mode. I quickly 
included a CLD instruction at the front of 
my program and now it clears the decimal 
mode and does the math in the binary. 

Next I tried their program to make notes 
on a speaker controlled by seven switches. It 
worked the first time — a beautiful sound. 

Then I tried to make a tape recording of 
the addition program. The recording process 
went fine. Then I tried to play back. When 
you have success the display relights. I 
couldn't get that display to relight to save 
me. 

Back to the manuals. I read and read. 
Then I recalled 12 V. I had forgotten the 
12 V supply in my hurry to get results. You 
need 12 V to run the 565 PPL for playback. 
The next day I got hold of a nice little 12 V 
supply and checked it, for 50 mA load con- 
ditions. It was 1 1 .6 V and had about 5 mV 
ripple. Just right. My problems are over. 
I hooked it up and went through the 
record-playback procedure. Nothing. I did it 
about a dozen times checking and recheck- 
ing the procedure. I must have reread that 
section of the User Manual a dozen times. 
But no luck. Nuts. 

Well the processor works anyway and 
that's the main thing. I tried to write my 
first program — to multiply two 8 bit 
numbers and get a 16 bit answer. I learned 
what "immediate" means the hard way. Also 
I learned what "relative branch" means the 
hard way. The single step mode was real 
handy for debugging my program. I even 
figured out how I could get the answer to 



appear where the 4 address digits normally 
appear. Hurray! 

Meanwhile I tried for several days to get a 
fix on my recording problem. I tried my 
Roberts $200 reel job at IV2 inches per 
second with no luck. I began checking the 
waveshapes of the tones because they 
sounded low frequency to me — not the 
3700 and 2400 Hz they were to be. I 
managed to sync scope just right to measure 
the tones and they were on the money. It 
must be the playback circuit. I traced the 
signal all through it and it was just as it was 
supposed to be right up to the PB7 port 
where it enters the interface chip. 

I began reading some more. This time I 
looked at and studied the software listing for 
the KIM Monitor since I had mastered a few 
of the op codes, and the Texas Instrument 
Learning Center lectures told us last year it's 
"like reading a newspaper." Well it's not like 
that yet for me but it's coming. I was 
amazed at all the subroutines. But the great 
thing is the liberal use of comments. I hope 
that future contributors of programs to 
BYTE are as definitive. Then it hit me. 

Apparently, to initialize the processor 
you must have to hit the ST stop key. This is 
an interrupt command and for it to work 
properly you must have a special vector set 
up at location 17FA and 17FB, namely 
1C00. I had read this before and knew you 
needed it for the single step mode but I 
never connected it to the ST key nor the ST 
key to the initialization of the processor. 

Well I now tried my recording procedures 
after entering 1C00 at the vector location, 
and after hitting the ST key a few times and 
guess what — she worked. That was today 
and it made my day I'll tell you. I had 
visions of having to write programs via the 
keyboard forever and that's a long time. 
Now the tape recorder part works — even on 
my $25 cassette. In fact my cassette works 
better than the big reel job. I suspect old 
tape on the reel job. I tried recording from 
0000 to 01 CO, that's 432 bytes; and it takes 
about a minute. Playback was perfect twice 
in a row. The block record has an ID number 
and you can look for it or not. Also you can 
relocate the data anywhere in proper mem- 
ory. Real neat. 

Someday I hope to get a TTY or TVT 
going with this system. But for now, I'm 
looking for an application for demonstration 
in classroom. BYTE has been very good to 
date. Keep up the good work. 

George L Thompson 

Associate Professor, EE 

Rochester Institute of Technology 

One Lomb Memorial Dr 

Rochester NY 14623 



94 



CANADIAN SUPPLIERS 

In reply to your reader Atwood's letter in 
the June issue of BYTE, here are three 
young companies, all with what I believe to 
be good products: 

(1) 6800 based mini: 

Mini-Peripherals Inc 

2615 Blackwell St, Unit 112 

Ottawa CANADA 

(2) 6800 based intelligent dual floppy 
disk: 

Dynalogic Corp 
141 Bentley Av 
Ottawa CANADA 

(3) CRT terminals to 19,200 Baud: 

Cybernex Ltd 

2595 Blackwell St, Unit 111 

Ottawa CANADA 

In addition, Mini-Peripherals manufac- 
tures a dual floppy DMA add-on for 6800 
systems. 

Norman J McKay, P Eng 

Mini-Peripherals Inc 

2615 Blackwell St, Unit 112 

Ottawa CANADA 

ON POWER TO COMPUTERS 

"Could a Computer Take Over?" and Mr 
Carrick have approached the problem of a 
computer dictatorship from the narrow 
viewpoint of an engineer. Since when has 
intelligence been the criterion in determining 
who will rule? Power has always, and will 
always, go to those who control the institu- 
tions upon which a civilization is dependent. 
While the argument goes on whether a 
computer will ever have enough information 
capacity or reliability to become a world 
dictator we are using computers to do more 
and more jobs; ie: traffic control, financial 
transactions, production line control, etc. 
When we are as dependent on the computer 
as we are now on our electrical distribution 
network, that is when we will have to worry 
about being under the control of a computer 
dictatorship. No central master computer 
will be needed, just a total dependence on a 
computer network. How will the computer 
rule? That depends on us. 

Gordon R Morrison 

33 Maple St 

Glastonbury CT 06Q33 



Subscribers: We Need That Label 

When corresponding with BYTE about 
subscriptions, please enclose your LATEST 
mailing label OR copy exactly the code at 
the top of the label and include zip code." 



MERRIMAC PROCESSOR SYSTEMS 

ANNOUNCES THE CRTV 

A complete low cost Teletype ®Model 33 KSR 
replacement using a standard TV as the 
monitor. Complete, whether purchased as a 
kit or assembled. 

(1) Full cursor controls - clear, home, cursor 
up, down, left, right. 

(2) Infinite scrolling. 

(3) Selectable data rate to 600 baud. 

(4) Half/full duplex; local mode. 

(5) "Break" function allows entering many 
debug routines. 

(6) Model 33 keyboard with added cursor 
functions, clear, and home keys. 

(7) Housed in attractive enclosure. 

Completely assembled and tested . . . $495.00 
Complete kit $355.00 

For Complete Information write — 

Merrimac Processor Systems 

P.O. Box 76 
Chester, New Hampshire 03036 



ALTAIR 8800 OWNERS 



We recently received the following letter: 



APRIL 26* 1976 



GENTLEMEN: 



I JUST WANTED TO TELL YOU THAT I THINK YOUR CLOCK FIX-IT KIT IS 
REALLY GREATl I WAS HAVING TROUBLE RUNNING BASIC AND AFTER 
INSTALLING YOUR KIT FOUR OF MY KITS BOARDS THAT WEREN'T RUNNING 
CAME BACK TO LIFE AND NOW ARE HELPING i-iE TO WRITE THIS LETTER 
ON THE COMPUTER. ENCLOSED IS ANOTHER ORDER FOR A CLOCK KIT. 
THIS IS FOR THE SECOND ALTAIR TKftT I ' AM NOW IK THE PROCESS 
OF BUILDING. 
AGAIN MANY THANKS FOR SUCH A FINE PRODUCT. 



SINCERELY 
LLCYC L. ShITH 



How well does your Altair run? 

A Clock Fix Kit is only $15 postpaid. 



PARASITIC ENGINEERING 



PO BOX 6314 



ALBANY CA 94706 



95 



What's 

New? 



A Lab Computer, Anyone? 

Jonathan A Titus, president of Tychon 
Blacksburg VA 24060, sent along this 



Inc, 



picture of the MiniMicro Designer his firm 
makes and E&L Instruments markets. The 




computer is an 8080 processor, and the 
context in which this system is most appro- 
priate is the experimental laboratory of the 
electronic engineer, instrumentation engi- 
neer, research scientist or educator. The 
system comes with three modules of pro- 
grammed learning text and experiments, plus 
the over 500 pages of text in E&L Instru- 
ments' Bugbook III. 

The single most important feature of this 
design is the E&L Instruments solderless 
breadboard section which can be used to 
breadboard peripherals using the various 
8080 system lines which are routed directly 
to this section of the board. In a laboratory 
context, this provides a quick and simple 
way to try out design ideas and test them 
out in the context of a programmable 
computer system. This is the type of 
product one might expect to see in every 
well equipped teaching laboratory within the 
next few years. 

For detailed information on purchase and 
delivery, contact E&L Instruments, 61 First 
St, Derby CT 0641 8. ■ 



Attention: LSI-11 Hackers 

A firm called MDB Systems, 1995 N 
Batavia St, Orange CA 92665, has an- 
nounced a line of products compatible with 
the Digital Equipment Corporation's LSI-11 
line. These items include dynamic program- 
mable memory in 4, 8, 12 and 16 K sizes, 
EROM and PROM modules, a general pur- 




pose interface, universal wire wrap modules, 
peripheral controllers for printers, paper 
tape and card readers. The firm will also sell 
you the LSI-11 central processor itself at 
$900. Write for a catalog and price list if you 
are interested in assembling a custom LSI-11 
system." 



Tutorial Computer System 

The UC 1800 processor is a new product 
manufactured by Infinite Incorporated, PO 
Box 906, Dept CPNR, 151 Center St, Cape 
Canaveral FL 32920. This neatly packaged 
processor uses the RCA COSMAC 1802 
microprocessor, and comes completely 
assembled with training aids and a user 
manual of approximately 200 pages. 
According to the company, this package is 
designed to take the individual from com- 
puter basics to hands on practice and 




96 



experimentation with a live computer. The 
package price of the unit depicted is $495. 
An OEM version of the central processor 
board for this product is available for 
industrial and dedicated application, at $179 
in quantities of one. 

Specifications of the UC 1800 include a 
hexadecimal keyboard and display, front 
panel controls of interrupt, direct memory 
access and an IO flag, a built in 256 byte 
programmable memory which is expandable 
to 64 K bytes with external circuitry and a 
120 VAC input power supply." 

Want to Get Unusual Tools? 

A mail order firm called Jensen Tools and 
Alloys provides an excellent source of 
unusual specialty tools for the electronics 
hardware world. No literature shelf is com- 
plete without the latest Jensen catalog, 
which includes tools ranging from vacuum 
desoldering systems to a zoo of pliers in 
every shape and form to complete tool kits 
and power tools from precision lathes to 
hand held drills. Jensen also carries the OK 
line of wire wrap tools and carries the Claus 
"NO NIK" wire strippers so useful in pre- 
paring wire wrap wire. Ask for the latest 1 28 
page J ensen catalog by writing them at 41 1 7 
No 44th St, Phoenix AZ 8501 8." 




Ideal for 
communicating 

with your 
microprocessor! 

RS-232 interface x 32 characters $400 

TV/TTY kbd./display (16 lines x 64 characters) $500 
Keyboard/CRT Monitor (24 lines x 80 characters) $700 



I ShlpTn 














Calif residents add 




Cf\ ■ 


Please find a check 
' enclosed intheamounl 
■ of total order S 




MICON | 


1 Bill my BankAmencard 


exp. 


Micon Industries 


1 Mastercharge 


exp 
date 


252 Oak Street ■ 
Oakland, CA 94607 ■ 


My signature as purchase 


(415)763-6033 | 



INTEGRATED 

GOPHER 

SYSTfrVEINC. 



MICROCOMPUTER SPECIALIST 
WANTED 

Integrated Computer Systems is a 
young, rapidly growing company, 
highly active in Microcomputer 
education and consulting services 
in the U.S., Europe and Japan 
(ICS has already taught Micro- 
computer courses to more than 
4,000 engineers and managers.) 
We have an immediate require- 
ment for personnel with proven 
capabilities as: 

• Microcomputer Instructors for 
both Domestic and Interna- 
tional courses 

• Microcomputer Course Writers 

• Microcomputer Hardware 
Engineers 

• Microcomputer Programmers 
The applicants should have direct 
Microcomputer experience, both 
in assembly language program- 
ming and digital logic design. 
Teaching experience is obviously 
also desirable with multilingual 
(especially French and German) 
teaching ability preferred. 

Salary range is 14-27K commensu- 
rate with experience and responsi- 
bilities. Mail resume to: Integrated 
Computer Systems, Inc. P.O. Box 
"58, Culver City, Ca 90230. 



QUALITY 

USED TEST EQUIPMT 

TEKTRONIX 

Oscilloscopes 

Plug-ins 

Sig. gen.s 

Carts 
HEWLETT-PACKARD 

Meters 

Probes 

Carts 
For a complete list of 
available items, write: 



PTI 



r I I Div. 12 
P.O. Box 8699 
White Bear Lake, Mn 
55110 



N. Y.'s Newest Store for 
Micro and Mini Compu- 
ter Hardware and Soft- 
ware. 

We will be featuring a 
large selection of: IMSAI 
(kits and assembled) Pro- 
cessor Technology's full 
line. Also a selection of 
choice modules from 
Cromemco, Solid State 
Music and others. Plus: 
full line of TTL logic, 
discrete components, 
memory and MPU chips. 



Audio Design Electronics 

487 Broadway Suite 512 

New York NY 10013 

212-226-2038 



97 




Clubs and Newsletters 



KC Thruput 

The Kansas City computer enthusiasts 
have gotten together to form the "Computer 
Network of Kansas City" as a result of a 
BYTE mention in these columns [May 1976, 
page 57] . The first meeting in May led to a 
fairly quick organization and a three page 
newsletter. The meeting algorithm was set as 
"the second Sunday of each month at 7 PM" 
and meetings for the time being are held at 
the Midwest Research Institute Library on 
Volker Blvd near the University of Kansas 
City. For further information contact Earl 
Day, president, at 492-9315, Harold 
Schwartz, vice president, at 371-2616, or 
George Scheil, secretary, at 363-0814. The 
newsletter comments by Earl Day closed on 
the following interesting note .... 




South Florida Activities 

The latest issue of the newsletter I/O put 
out by the South Florida Computer Group, 
dated June 1976, contained eight pages 
numbered in binary. 

The group has split into two chapters 
based on geography. The Miami chapter 
meetings are held at 7:30 PM on the first 
Monday of each month, currently (June 
1976) at the Paps Institute, 1155 NW 14th 
St, Miami FL. Contact Jim Whitmore, 
685-1218, or John Lynn, 271-2805, for 
more information. The Fort Lauderdale 
chapter meetings are held at 7:30 PM on the 



second Thursday of each month at the 
Florida Power and Light Building, 501 So 
Andrews Av, Fort Lauderdale FL. Contact 
Terry Williamson, 752-8395, Lee Hinman, 
974-1457, or George Fugate, 522-5358. 

Austin TX Club? 

RD McCoy, 3501-B Clawson Rd, Austin 
TX 78704, writes that he is interested in the 
prospect of meeting other microcomputer 
enthusiasts in the Austin TX area. He can be 
reached by phone at 443-0971 . 

People's Computer Company — 
Cromemco Contest 

Cromemco, maker of the TV Dazzler, and 
People's Computer Company, POB 310, 
Menlo Park CA 94025, have gotten together 
to sponsor a contest with prizes as follows: 

First prize: $500 certificate for Cro- 
memco hardware. 

Second prize: $250 certificate for Cro- 
memco hardware. 

Third prizes: 10 certificates for $35 in 
Cromemco hardware. 

Honorable Mentions: 16 copies of What 
To Do After You Hit Return. 

The object of the contest is to develop a 
program resulting in a new and interesting 
display using the Cromemco TV Dazzler. 
Write to PCC for rules, but the deadline is 
September 30, so you'll have to hurry. 

El Paso Computer Group 

There is a club now in El Paso TX, as 
evidenced by the version revision 1 issue of 
the El Paso Computer Group Quasi Annual 
Newsletter. The club address is El Paso 
Computer Group, 9716 Saigon Dr, El Paso 
TX 79925. Current membership is six 
according to the one page newsletter sheet 
dated May 1976. A major activity has been 
designing several club-produced PC boards 
for the Altair 8800: a vectored interrupt 
board with real time clock, an extender 
board for the 100 pin connector, and a 
conversion board to allow an SWTPCTVTII 
to talk directly to a Processor Technology 
3P+S board. Prices on boards are $20, $12 
and $2 respectively, and are available from 
the club. 

Microcomputer Society of Florida 

Sandy Meltzer, president of the Micro- 
computer Society of Florida, sent a progress 
report on his group's activities. The Tampa 
Bay chapter meets at Marsh Data Systems on 
the first and third Saturdays of each month 
at 2 PM, and presently has over 100 mem- 
bers. The Naples chapter is being organized 



98 



FREE! 

New CAMBION XQ cata- 
log. Scores of famous CAM- 
BION electronic compo- 
nents for hobbyist or exper- 
imenter in small packs or 
individually at modest cost. 
Parts available at retail elec- 
tronic shops or by mail 
from factory. Coils - chokes 
- IC sockets - tools - patch 
cords, and lots more. Circle 
Readers Service number 
now. 



CAMBION 



Cambridge Thermionic Corp. 

445 Concord Avenue, 

Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 

Phone: 617-491-5400 



WANTED 

Microprocessors Kit or Assembled 

ALTAIR • SPHERE • MOTOROLA 
INTEL & OTHERS 

Altai rs, immediate delivery. 

Memories, I/O boards, chassis, power 
supplies, modems, peripherals, spe- 
cials, prom programmers, ADCS, 
DACS, GPIOS, RS232 faces, and any 
associated software. Ask about 
our complete Altair system. 
Available now. 

FORWARD INFORMATION AND/OR 
INQUIRIES TO: 

AMERICAN USED MICROPROCESSORS, 

EQUIPMENT & SUPPLY CORP. 

AT THE CHICAGOLAND AIRPORT 

BOX 515 

PRAIRIEVIEW, ILLINOIS 60069 

TELEPHONE (312) 634-0076 

For complete monthly catalog of 
items available and in stock Enclose 
$10. for six issues. Many new un- 
used items. Amazing values for 
everyone. Tested and guaranteed. 



SURPLUS juP & TERMINAL 

• Not a KIT! Ready to use 

• 2 ea; 400 line (80 char/line) 
Cassette Tapedecks 

• Kbd, pP, 9" dia Video Display, 
& Power Supply. 

• Modular 'Card' Construction 

• MOS-LSI, ASCII, RS-232C 

• NEW or like-New, GUAR- 
ANTEED 

• Size: 20"Wx 24" L x 33"D 

• Everything INCLUDED 

This Data-Management-Station 
(DMS) is a business-oriented, highly 
versatile, machine especially suited 
for mailing, addressing, filing, label- 
ling, data storage, and other time & 
personnel consuming tasks. 
DMS SPECIAL PRICE: $649.00 

«\J CFR 

♦i ^#1 Associates 603-382-5179 

^ N O H X 0385r On9:00 - 5:00EST 
We also offer many ELEC- 
TRONIC MUSIC SYNTHESIS 
kits, plans, parts, and more . . . 

mail us a S.A.S.E. or POSTAGE 
for FREE INFORMATION 



Lear Siegler 
ADM-3K 

24 X 80 terminal 
Kit $849.95 

IMSAI 8080 SYSTEM 

IN STOCK AT 
DISCOUNT PRICES 

Call or write for details & 
catalog 



SYNCHRO-SOUND ENTERPRISES 

193-25 JAMAICA AVE. 

H0LLIS, N.Y. 11432 

(212)468-7067(9 AM -5 PM) 



Cc 



otnpuler 



Wart 



4 



l few UJorh Jfnc. 

Authorized dealer for: 

Sphere • IMSAI 

Processor Technology 

SWTPC 6800 & CT 1024 

Featuring the best in microcom- 
puters and books. Competitive 
prices on systems. Take a byte 
out of the new Apple-1 com- 
puter. 

Friendly Service Advice 
Problem Solving 

Open Monday through Saturday 
10-6, Thursday until 9:30 

314 Fifth Avenue 

New York NY 10001 

212 279-1048 




Pictured above is the. new OP-80A 
High Speed Paper Tape Reader from 
OAE. This unit has no moving parts, 
will read punched tape as fast as you 
can pull it through (0-5,000 c.p.s.), 
and costs only $74.50 KIT. $95.00 
ASSEMBLED & TESTED. It in 
eludes a precision optical sensor ar- 
ray, high speed data buffers, and all 
required handshake logic to interface 
with any uP parallel I/O port. 

To order, send check or money order 
(include $2.50 shipping/handling) to 
Oliver Audio Engineering, 7330 
Laurel Canyon Blvd., No. Holly- 
wood, CA 91605. or call our 24 hr. 
M/C-B/A order line: (213) 874-6463. 



by Dr George Haller, 1500 Galleon Dr, 
Naples FL 33940. The group puts out a 
newsletter and can be reached by contacting 
Sandy at Marsh Data Systems, 5405B 
Southern Comfort Blvd, Tampa FL 33614, 
or by attending one of the Tampa Bay 
chapter's meetings. 

Texas A&M University 
Microcomputer Club 

Robert R Wier, secretary, sent word of 
this club's formation. Meetings started in 
April of this year, and the club has grown to 
about 55 members with varying back- 
grounds: from freshman students to senior 
faculty, from systems analysts to art majors. 
The meetings are held each Wednesday 
during the semester at 8 PM in room 333B 
of the Zachry Engineering Center. Dr 
Charles Adams is coordinating the activity 
and may be reached in the evenings at (713) 
823-0877. Meetings usually consist of about 
an hour of general discussion followed by a 
program or meetings of several smaller 
groups with specific interests. Currently 
there are interest groups in the implemen- 
tation of BASIC, implementation of APL, 
computer games, and specific user groups for 
various types of microprocessors. 

Robert extends his invitation to anyone 
passing through College Station TX to stop 
by at a meeting. The campus is located 100 
miles northwest of Houston on state High- 
way 6. The mailing address is: Texas A&M 
University Microcomputer Club, POB M-9, 
College Station TX 77844. 

The Carolina Computer and 
Radio Amateur Association 

BYTE received issues 1 and 2 of the "Bits 
and Dits" newsletter of the CCARAA. This 
group mixes amateur radio with computing 
in the form of automated repeater work, 
talks on logic design and programming, 
AMSAT operating activities, and applica- 
tions of computers to amateur radio station 
activities. For further information contact 
Boyd S Miner, K4KEP, at the Association's 
mailing address, POB 341, Laurens SC 
29360. 

Get RICHC Quick? 

Roger C Garrett, 16 Grinnell St, James- 
town Rl 02835, wrote a letter noting the 
formation of the Rhode Island Computer 
Hobbyist Club. He and members of the club 
would like to hear from other computer 
enthusiasts in Rhode Island who would be 
interested in the prospect. At present, two 
members are assembling Altairs and two are 
building home brews based on the MOS 



Technology 6502. Roger also reports that he 
is working on a FORTRAN cross assembler 
for the 6502 and would like to hear from 
other 6502 hackers for the purposes of 
exchanging ideas and programs. 

MAPLE Leaves 

For small systems enthusiasts interested 
in the APL language, there is an active group 
of people beginning the "Microprocessor 
APL Enthusiasts." They have started a publi- 
cation, the MAPLE Leaves newsletter. On 
the principle that "n heads are better than 
1" when it comes to creating APL software 
for home computers, the group is interested 
in promoting APL interpreters in a manner 
similar to the way Tiny BASIC has evolved. 

To find out what's up, contact John 
Sikorski, president of MAPLE, or Ruth Low, 
newsletter editor of MAPLE Leaves, for 
information on this grass roots APL aware- 
ness project .... 

MAPLE Leaves 
Box 574NUMS 
Chicago I L 60611 

An Item of Interest 

All 6800 owners who have purchased the 
SWTPC 6800 computer were treated to an 
excellent issue number 1 (June 1976) of the 
newsletter which is being sent free to all 
SWTPC 6800 Computer System owners, as 
well as to computer hobbyist clubs and 
publications. (If your club or publication did 
not get a copy, then it's probably because 
SWTPC did not know about you, so write 
and ask for one. Southwest Technical Pro- 
ducts is located at 219 W Rhapsody, San 
Antonio TX 78216. Ask for the SWTPC 
6800 Computer Newsletter, number 1, June 
1976). The newsletter contains some very 
interesting information, which is sum- 
marized here: 

• Some editorial copy concerning 
"SWTPC's attitude on software." 
Basically, the attitude is one of 
"bundling" systems software into the 
price of the computer itself and 
charging the amount necessary for 
covering expenses of program duplica- 
tion and handling. The explicit policy 
is stated: 

"None of the programs available 
from SWTPC are proprietary. 
Where available, you may either 
purchase a tape and instruction 
manual from us or copy them from 
a friend. We don 't care. " 

• An announcement of the SWTPC 6800 
Editor/Assembler. This is being made 



100 



Olympia 



MICROCOMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
-IMSAI DEALER - 

In stock now: 

°The INTELLIGENT floppy from 
IMSAI containing an 8080A with 
its own on-board firmware for 
distributed processing power 

° IMSAI 8080 microcomputers in kit 
form or custom-assembled to your 
specifications 

°The IMSAI boards and accessories 
which you need to complete your 
system 

A dozen years experience in all 
aspects of the computer industry. 
Experience to meet your digital 
needs. Call or write for more 
information: 



6009-B 13th Way S.E. 

Olympia, Washington 98503 

206/456-3924 



SAN 
FRANCISCO 



Action Audio Electronics 
Westlake Shopping Center 
(415) 756-7440 



1. Largest repair facility for com- 
puter kits in Northern California. 



2. Easy access from all major free- 
ways and BART. 4 blocks from 
Junipero Serra, Skyline, Highway 1, 
US 280 and Daly City BART. 



3. We sell IMSAI, Cromemco, Blast- 
Master, Byte, etc. 



4. Stop by for a free copy of "8800 
BUS"; a current list of all 8800 bus 
compatible boards. 



LEARN 

^COMPUTER 

SOFTWARE 

$49.95 BUYS A 

COMPLETE COURSE IN 

PROGRAMMING FOR THE 

SMALL SYSTEM ENGINEER 

• PRINCIPLES 

. TECHNIQUES 

• EXAMPLES 

• APPLICATIONS 

LOGICAL 

SERVICES INCORPORATED 



Creative Computer Division 

711 Stierlin Road 

Mtn View, CA 94043 

(415) 965-8365 

FREE BROCHURE 



WHAT'S A CREED? 



A Creed is a compact, modern and 
reliable English Teletype. You've 
probably seen references to Creeds 
and wondered what they are. We 
don't advertise much, our business is 
mostly by word of mouth. 

Each Creed includes: keyboard, 
printer, punch, TTL interface parts 
kit and manual for $150, FOB 
Naperville. The Creed is a Baudot 
TTY, but Baudot to/from ASCII can 
be done in hardware or software 
giving you a heavy duty TTY for a 
fraction of the cost of a light duty 8 
bit TTY. 

Interested? Send for free data 
sheet and price sheet or order a 28 
page manual on the Creed and 
hardware and software interfaces for 
$1 (credit given on Creed purchase). 
Lots of other unique things available, 
e.g. an optical scanner for $15 
postpaid. 



Wilcox Enterprises 

25W1 78-39th Street 

Naperville, II 60540 

Phone 31 2-420-8601 




mp-40 



• Completely Assembled 

• 64 Character ASCII 

• 40 Column Capacity 

• 5x7 Impact Dot Matrix 

• Ordinary Roll Paper 

• Parallel Interface 

• Includes Power Supply 
and Case Work 

Utah Residents add 5% Sales Tax 
Allow 60 days for delivery 

mpi 

P. O. Box 22101 
Salt Lake City / Ut. 84112 



STANDARDIZE! 



SPECIAL OFFER . . . 
HIROSE 20 PIN CABLE + 
CHASSIS MOUNT CON- 
NECTOR 



(solder) ONLY 
REGULARLY 



$14.95 
$17.00 



Rugged, Reliable, widely 
used in video applications. 
Qty. discount, no C.O.D's, 
Details, Specs: 

JOHN ANTHONY TELEVISION 

DINGMANS FERRY 
PA. 1 8328 



available for $14.95 in either paper 
tape or "Kansas City Standard" [see 
March 1976 BYTE] magnetic tape 
form. The assembler requires 8 K 
bytes of memory to run, and is as- 
sembled to work with SWTPC systems. 
There is no memory purchase require- 
ment. Specify which form you would 
like (paper tape or magnetic tape 
cassette) when you order. 
A list of game programs and prices for 
a commented assembled source listing. 
All the games except one entitled 
"Space Voyage" will run in a 2 K 
SWTPC 6800 (or any 6800 system 
with MIKBUG and 2 K of memory). 
Package deals for three different selec- 
tions from the list are also available. 
Documentation of known SWTPC 
6800 problems and bugs. The state- 
ment in the newsletter is: "We are 
happy to say that after having deliv- 
ered the SWTPC 6800 system for over 
five months now, we have run across 
no problems on the system. There are, 
however, some mistakes in the MP-M 
and MP-MX instructions on some of 
the earlier kits . . . . " I The statement 



Clubs and Newsletters Directory 

As a summary of the current state of local, regional, and national 
organizations, special interest groups, and periodicals of interest to 
personal computing people, BYTE will publish a directory in a 
forthcoming issue. We would appreciate it if each such organization 
would provide a summary of applicable information in the following 
list: 

• Name of organization [eg: Silicon Hollow Computer Coven] . 

• Mailing address [eg: PO Box 31, Silicon Hollow, Transylvania 
00000] . 

• Meeting location [eg: Third stump past the 11th sinkhole on the 
old Silicon Hollow game trail] . 

• Meeting algorithm [eg: "First Tuesday after the second Wednes- 
day before the first full moon of leap years"] . 

• Name of newsletter or publication [eg: Silicon Boule] . 

• Contact person [eg: Witch Hazel]. 

• Contact phone number. 

• Dues or subscription fees. 

• Special interests [eg: Computer applications: the automated 
swamp] . 

• Other comments. 

The deadline for the directory information is September 15 1976. If 
you wish to be certain that the latest information about your club, 
newsletter or organization is available, be sure to send this information 
to 

BYTE 

Clubs & Newsletters Directory 

70 Main St 

Peterborough NH 03458 



of the first sentence is confirmed by 
what we've heard to date at BYTE. 
For example, Sol Libes of the ACGNJ 
in conversation May I pointed out 
that of several systems purchased by 
members in NJ, nearly all were as- 
sembled in short order and worked on 
initial power up. \ 

Documentation of additional clock 
rates for use with the MP-S serial 
interface board of the system. With 
this documentation, it is possible to 
run the terminal with your SWTPC 
6800 at rates of up to 9600 baud, 
since nearly every standard data rate is 
available from the clock circuit in the 
system. 

Detailed technical information 
abounds: modifications of a previously 
published Tic Tac Toe game, modify- 
ing the 6800 for 220 VAC operation, 
modifying the CT-1024 for European 
television (625 line, 50 Hz) operation, 
the complete documentation of the 
BLKJAK-1 program, used to play the 
well known game at your terminal (no 
assembly listing, just a 5F8 byte long 
hexadecimal dump), a memory dump 
program (assembly listing), etc. 
The crowning glory of the whole 
newsletter is the complete documenta- 
tion of the "Line Numbering Editor 
and Microbasic Interpreter." These are 
provided as complete user documenta- 
tion plus fully assembled source 
listings. The editor program was 
written by Robert H Uiterwyk, and 
uses the MIKBUG ROM for utility 
subroutines. The assembly of the 
editor results in a module requiring 
hexadecimal 524 bytes, and is as- 
sembled with an origin at location 
0020 in memory address space. The 
Microbasic is written by Robert H 
Uiterwyk and Bill Turner. It features 
the following language features: 

Line numbers are 16 bit integers (1 

to 65535) 

Line editing is built into the system 

along with the following 

commands: 

NEW clears the program space 
LIST lists varying amounts of 
the BASIC program 
SIZE prints bytes used and bytes 
remaining exclusive of variables 
RUN executes a BASIC program 
immediate execution of un- 
numbered statements 

The BASIC subset implemented 
includes: 



102 



16 bit signed integer arithmetic 

Variable names A to Z with 

subscripting 

No string variables 

DIM statements: two dimensions 

maximum, 255 is largest dimen- 
sion 

Simple arithmetic expressions 

with multiply and divide 

LET 

relational tests and IF statement 

GOTOn 

GOSUB n 

RETURN 

FOR . . . NEXT 

PRINT 

INPUT 
The entire symbolic assembly listing of 
Microbasic is given, so that customiza- 
tion is well within the realm of pos- 
sibility. The memory requirements of 
this program are hexadecimal C82 (or 
decimai 3202) bytes, and the origin is 
hexadecimal location 0020 in memory 
address space. 
The entire contents of this excellent 
newsletter from SWTPC take up 50 pages. It 
is highly recommended reading, both for 
BASIC hackers and as a source of useful 
information." 




i i — i r 



AT LAST 

A HARD COPY TERMINAL AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE. 

• For personal computing, system applications, or remote I/O. 

• The model iSi-12111 uses a 6800 microprocessor. 

• Has "Kansas City" cassette interface. 

• The model iSi-12111 emulates a Teletype" with paper tape 
reader and punch, but at either 100 or 300 BAUD and with both 
RS-232 and 20 MA current loop I/O. 

• Quiet (Non impact printing) 

• S995 assembled (not a kit) 

• Small (fits into a standard brief case). 

• iSi, providing custom instrumentation for 17 years 

• Please write for details. These will be sold on a first ordered first 
delivered basis. 

I INSTRUMENTATION SERVICES INC. 

I9S7 WINNETKA AVENUE NCRTH. MINNEAPOLIS. M N 35-327 
PHONE CS121 Haa-BB16 • TELEX 39-0101 








k 



101 BASIC Computer Games is the most popular 
book of computer games in the world. Every pro- 
gram in the book has been thoroughly tested and 
appears with a complete listing, sample run, and de- 
scriptive write-up. All you need add is a BASIC- 
speaking computer and you're set to go. 

101 BASIC Computer Games. Edited by David H. 
Ahl. 248 pages. 8%x11 paperbound. $7.50 plus 75«f 
postage and handling ($8.25 total) from Creative 
Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 



CO C-<™ Brwflkwription 

C ACEYDU Play aceydocey with the computer 

(1) AMAZIN Computer cons I rue is a maze 

t— ANIMAL Computer guesses animals and leai ns new 

,— . ones liom you 

'■•' AWARI Ancient game ol totaling beans in (jits 

BAGLES Guess a mystery 3 digit number by logic 

BANNER Punts any message on a large banner 

BASBAL Baseball game 

BASKET Basketball name 

BATNUM Match wits in a battle ol numbers li 

the compute 

BATTLE Decode a maim to locale enemy 

battleship 
BINGO Compulerprinlsyoui card and calls 

the numbers 
BIKJAC Blackjack! very comprehensive). Las 

Vegas rules 
BLKJAK Blackjack (standard game) 

BOAT Desiioy a gunboat Itom yout submarine 

BOMBER Fly World War II bombing missions 

BOUNCE Plot a bouncing hall 

BOWL Bowling al the neighborhood lanes 

BGXING 3 round Olympic boxing match 

BUG Roll dice vs Ihecomputer todrawa bug 

BULCOW Guess a mystery 5 digit number vs 

the computer 
BULEYE Throw dans 

BULL You're the matador in a championship 

bullfight 
BUNNY Computer drawing ol the Playboy bunny 

BUZZWO Compose your speeches with the latest 

buzzwords 
CALNOR Calendar lor any yeat 

CAN-AM Guve a Group 7 car in a Can-Am road race 

CHANGE Computer imitates a cashier 

CHECKfi Game ol checkers 

CKEMST Dilute kryplocyanic acid to make it 

harmless 
CHIEF Silly arithmetic drill 

CHOMP Eat a cookie avoiding the poison piece 

(2ot tnoteplayeisl 
CIVILW Fight Hie Civil Wai 

CRAPS Playetapslrlice), Las Vegas styfe 

CUBE Negolinlo n 3-0 cube avoiding hidden 

landmines 
GIAMNQ Punts 1 -page diamond patterns 

DICE Summarizes dice rolls 

DIGITS Computer tries to guess digits you 

select at random 
DOGS Penny arcade dog race 

EVEN lake objects from a pile - try to enC with 

an even number 
EVEN 1 Same as EVEN - computer improves 

FIPFOP Solitaire logic game- change a row 

olXstoOs 
FOGTBL Prolessionallootball I very comprehensive! 

FOTBAL High School loolball 

FURS Trade lurs with the white man 

GOLF Gall game- choose your clubs and swing 

G0M0KO Ancient board game ol logic and strategy 

GUESS Guess a mystery number - computet 

gives you clues 
GUNNER F ue a cannon at a stationary target 

GUNERI Fire a cannon at a moving target 

HANG Hangman word guessing game 

HElLO Computer becomes your friendly 

psychiatrist 
HEX Kenapawngame 



HKQ 


Try lo hit lhe mystery lackpot 




Hl-Q 


Try to remove all the pegs from a board 




HMRABI 


Govern the ancienl city-state ol Sumena 




HOCKEY 


Ice Hockey vs Cornell 


r\ 


HORSES 


Oil-track betting on a horse race 


[) 


HURKLE 


Find the Hurkle hiding on a 10k 10 grid 




KINEMA 


Dull in simple kinematics 




KING 


Govern a modern island kingdom wisely 




LETTER 


Guess a mystery letter - computer 
gives you clues 




LIFE 


John Conway's Game ol Lite 




UFE2 


Competitive game ol hie |2 or more 
players! 


6 C 


LITG7 


Children's literature qui; 




MATK01 


Children's arithmetic drill using 
pictures ol dice 




MNOPLY 


Monopoly lot 2 players 




MUGWMP 


Locale 4 Mugwumps hiding ona 10* 10 




NICOMA 


Computet guesses number you think ol 


n 


NIM 


Chinese game of Nim 


\J f 


NUMBER 


Silly number matching game 




1 CHECK 


Challenging game to remove checkers 
from a board 




ORBIT 


Destroy an orbiting germ-laiden enemy 
spaceship 




PIZZA 


Deliver piuas successfully 


d( 


POETRY 


Compute' composes poetry in 4-part 




harmony 




POET 


Computer composes random poetry 




POKER 


Poker game 




CUBIC 


3-dimensionaltic-iac toe 




QUEEN 


Move a single chess queen vs the 
computer 




REVRSE 


Order a series ol numbers by reversing 


n 


ROCKET 


Land an Apollo capsule on the moon 


\j 


RDCKT 1 


Lunar lancmg Itom 500 leet Iwith plot) 




R0CKT2 


Very comprehensive lunar landing 




ROCKSP 


Game ol rock, scissors, paper 




ROULET 


European louletle table 




RUSROU 


Russian roulette 




SALVO 


Destroy an enemy fleet of ships 


r\ 


SALVO 1 


Destroy 4 enemy outposts 


(J 


SLOTS 


Slot machine lone-arm bandit) 


\Sf 


SNOOPY 


Pictures of Snoopy 




SPACWR 


Comprehensive game ol space war 




SPLAT 


Open a parachute at the last passible 
moment 




STARS 


Guess a mystery number - stars give 






you clues 


c» 


STOCK 


Stock markel simulation 


SYNONM 


Word synonym drill 




TARGET 


Destroy a target in 3-0 space- 
very tricky 




3D PLOT 


Plots lamiLes of curves- looks 3 
dimensional 




TICTAC 


Tic-tac-toe 


c 


TOWER 


Towns ol Hanoi puzzle 


n 


TRAIN 


Timespeeddistancequi: 


\j. 


TRAP 


Trap a mystery number - computer gives 
you clues 




23MTCH 


Game ol 23 notches- try not to take 
the last one 




UGLY 


Silly profile plot ol an ugly woman 




WAR 


Caid game ol war 


q 


WAR-2 


Tioop tactics in wai 


WEKDAY 


Fads about your birthday 


WORO 


Word guessing game 




YAHT2E 


Dice game otYahtzee 




ZOOP 


BASIC programmer's nightmare 





103 



A Flameless IC Recycling Trick 



Jonathan Bondy 
16 W Lancaster Av 
ArdmorePA 19333 



Ralph Droms 

30 N Waterloo Rd 

Devon PA 19333 



ALUMINUM 
C CHANNEL 




PC BOARD 



DIP 

IC CHIP 



SOLDERING IRON 
HEATING ELEMENT 



Figure 1: A short section of aluminum C 
channel attached to the soldering iron heat- 
ing element provides the method of simul- 
taneously heating all the pins of a 14 or 16 
pin integrated circuit flamelessly. The solder- 
ing iron should preferably have a 25 W or 
greater heating element to provide adequate 
heat to all the IC pins. 





EXTERNALLY 
THREADED 

\ 


SOLDERING IRON 


ZD 





SOLDERING IRON 



23c 



D- 



INTERNALLY 
-THREADED (CUT 
WITH SELF-TAPPING 
SCREW) 



MACHINE SCREW 
■ (THRU HOLE 
IN TIP) 



INTERNALLY 
THREADED 



Figure 2: Depending upon 
the type of soldering iron 
element, one of these two 
methods can be used to 
attach the C channel sec- 
tion to the element. 



Recently, some computer boards became 
available to us at a reasonable price (free). 
Having stacked them up in a couple of 
boxes, we decided that storing just the 
integrated circuits rather than the boards 
would make much more sense, so we investi- 
gated techniques for depopulating the 
boards. An article in a previous issue of 
BYTE suggested the use of a blowtorch to 
heat the pins of the chips. Discovering that 
the cheapest propane torch kit we could find 
($15 at today's prices) would have pur- 
chased a sizable number of surplus chips, we 
pressed on in search of a more inexpensive 
device. The final product was a standard 
soldering iron (which we already had) with a 
specially designed tip. 

A trip to the local hardware store pro- 
duced a six foot (1.83 m) length of 
aluminum C channel for about $2. Cutting 
off a piece the length of a 16 pin IC chip 
provided us with a tip that can heat all the 
pins on a standard 14 or 16 pin dual inline 
package simultaneously, as shown in figure 
1. We found that our two soldering irons 
employed two different methods of attach- 
ing the tip to the heating element: Either the 
tip was internally threaded and the iron 
externally threaded, or vice versa. Dupli- 
cating both kinds of threading (external and 
internal) was accomplished by use of two 
screws which duplicated the thread sizes on 
the two irons. One was a self tapping screw 
which cut internal threads in a hole drilled 
through the aluminum piece; and the other 
was inserted into the internally threaded 
iron through the hole drilled in the tip. 
Figure 2 illustrates the two assembly 
methods. 

The resulting iron-tip combination al- 
lowed us to depopulate a 15 chip board in 
approximately 10 minutes (with less than 
1% breakage single handed and 0% when one 
of us heats and one pulls). Our only problem 
is that we have a 5 feet 1 1 inch (1.8 m) sec- 
tion of aluminum C channel left over, so we 
will make available a do it yourself "kit" 
consisting of an undrilled 2 inch (5.08 cm) 
piece of C channel for only 50 cents 
(shipping and handling included). Send to 
Ralph Droms." 



104 



hi all right here 



Prompt service_ 



BRTGAR™ 
eLecTronics 



In-depth inventories 



ECTRONICS for INDUSTRY 

LOW, LOW PRICES! 



Offices 6 Warehouse: 1 Alice Street, Binghan 

SAVE 



\ New York 13904-Tel : 607-723 3111 



PHONE ORDERS 
607 723 3111 



SAVE 



MINIATURE LAMPS a 

CHICAGO MINIATURE LAMPS #387 

SAME AS 1327 EXCEPT LONGER LIFE 
28 volts. .04 amps. Bulb Style T-l-3/4 
Mid-Flange Base. BRAND NEW BOXED, 100 
per box. 40,000 pes in stock. 

PRICE SCHEDULE 
1 - 99 .. 4<K each 100 - up . . 35* ea 



NION INDICATING GLOW LAMPS -J^jU£-~^> 

NE-2 neon lamps, with dropping resistor 

to operate directly from 115 VAC. 

Nominal Watts - 1/17. T-2 Clear Bulb, 

wire terminals. 

25,000 pes in stock. Mfd by G.E. Co. 

lot each up to 1000 pes. 

1000 pes & up 7£ each. 



EEEEggaOEEiE 



■ RITI CLO INCANDISCINT LAMPS 



V 



BRITE-GLO Incandescent Lamps 
Ultraminiaturized Series, 100,000 hr.life 
Versatile , low cost indicator lamp. Ideal 
for Stero Amplifiers , Mobile Equipment, 
Instrumentation, Computer and Display 
Panels, Etc. 

High temperature , T 1-3/4 lamps - Metal 
Base - Wire Terminals . Metal base in- 
creases light output and protects lamp 
from damage. 

41, 685 pes - 6.3 volts, 75 ma, 8" wire 
leads. 



40,263 
leads. 



6. 3 volts, 200 ma, 13" 

DISCOUNT SCHEDULE 
1-99 25C ea. 
100-499 200 ea. s , 
500-999 15C ea. 
1000-UP 12C ea. 



bargains iprj}g(gam®i5«i 




BRAND NEW - FINEST QUALITY 



QUAN 

10,686 
3,000 
29,000 
75,000 
35,000 
7000 
3000 
5700 
7900 
7200 
6600 
1800 
1000 



T.I. 
Electra 



T.I. 

Electra 

Electra 



TOL. 
(%) 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 



OHMS WATTS PRICE 
Each 



191 

191 

243 

2.43K 

909 

10 

15.4 

28 

53.6 

90.9 

1650 

6190 

2670 



1/8 
1/8 
1/8 
1/8 
1/4 
1/2 
1/2 
1/2 
1/2 
1/8 
1/8 
1/8 
1/6 



.06 
.07 
.07 
.07 
.07 
.04 
.04 
.04 - 



Computer Grade Capacitor 



MallorY 




CG (STA ND ARD) 85°C Supplied with PVC In sula ting Slee»e 
Quan. Mfd. vdc size Each 

35 1-25/64 x 2-11/64 $.75 
350 1-25/64 x 2-11/64 .50 

400 1-25/64 x 2-11/64 .60 



10000 1100 
25000 100 
10000 80 



POTTER 

S BRUMFIELD 

RELAYS 



SUB-MINIATURE 



TYPE KH 5505 (Identical to KHU17D11) 

COIL: 24vdc, 650 ohms. 

CONTACTS: 4PDT, 3amps at 30vdc or 120 vac 

Small rugged DC relay with clear poly- 
carbonate dust cover. Contacts are gold 
flashed silver. 

Mounts by solder terminals or 3-48 stud 
5/16" long. Also mounts as plug-in. 
6500 pc in stock, BRAND NEW, while they 
last at this price. $1 _ 2J each 



Electrolytic Capacitors 



TUBULAR, HIGH RELIABILITY 



^~^£m ^9 



QCJAN. 

600 

375 

298 

299 

571 

375 

313 

597 

4000 

26,000 

416 

350 

2500 

1161 

2600 

1000 

825 

1099 

6549 

1942 

10,500 

520 

290 

476 

409 

284 

255 

281 

20,000 

339 

400 



MFD 

100 

250 

500 

1000 

1200 

1500 

2000 

100 

50 

200 

1500 

2000 

10 

2000 

10 

500 

100 

150 

250 

300 

60 

80 

300 

40 

100 

200 

5 

10 

4 



VDC 

3 

3 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

12 

15 

15 

15 

15 

25 

25 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

150 

150 

150 

200 

250 

250 

350 

350 

250 

250 

250 



EACH 

.30 

.35 

SI. 00 

1.00 

1.02 

1.10 

1.11 

.60 

.30 

.30 

1.10 

1.10 

.25 

1.40 

.40 

.80 

.95 

.90 

.98 

1.07 

.70 

.90 

1.00 

1. 00 

1.39 

1.50 

.90 

.90 

.35 

.70 

.60 



QUAN. 

1055 

246 

967 

400 

529 

453 



30 

40 

4 

10 

15 

20 



VDC 
350 
350 
450 
450 
450 
450 



EACH 
51.00 
1.14 
.98 
1.07 
1.07 
1.14 



METALLIZED PAPER FILM 



QUAN 

899 

437 

400 

1360 

820 

4200 

400 

771 

417 

1100 

1100 

1600 

565 

4000 

389 

500 

600 

717 

30,000 

1000 

291 



MFD 

.1 

.33 

1.0 

. 22 

.022 

.033 

.1 

1.0 

1.5 

.001 

0022 

. 022 

.047 

.022 

.05 

.1 

. 2 

. 25 

.01 

.047 

.22 



VDC 
100 
100 
100 
150 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
400 
400 
400 
400 
600 
600 
600 
600 
600 
100 
100 
400 



.35 
.40 
.45 
.40 
.35 
.35 
.40 
.40 
.40 
.35 
.40 
.45 
.50 
.25 
.30 
.30 
.30 
.30 
.15 
.20 
.30 



m 



BRAND NEW PHENOLIC SHEETS 
Grade LE- Natural 
Type - FBE, Mil Spec: 15035, .052" thick 
Needed by all experimenters , amateurs and 
radio men for insulating parts - terminal 
strips - building sets or for research 
& development, etc. 

Stock ft 560 - 6" x 6" x .062" 42C each 

" it 561 - 6" x 12" x .062 824 each 

% 563 - 12" x 12" x .062 $1.58 ea 

# 564 - Full sheets 38" x 47" x .062" 

S13.00 each. 

BRAND NEW QUALITY SHEETS 



High-Speed Reset Counter 
Veeder-Root 



A Flt.llltl-: COUNTER M \NIWI. RllSF.T 

U5VDC/11SVAC 

VEBOER ROOT 171604 

U5VAC (Rectifier supplied* Basic 
counter is 115VDC, 6 watts 4 (i E nre, 
black on white background. Push button 
reset. Dim.: 1-78" width 1-1/8" high 



S 12 95 



LIGHTED 



$2.95 Each 



PUSHBUTTON SWITCHES 




Mfr: Grayhill 
Switch Co. 



Unit can be used on 6 v 

or in series for 12 volt 

^SPST, mom, PC board gold 

S. plated pins for wiring or 

^ easy installation. 

10,000 pes in stock 

Widely used an computers, machine tools, 
office machines, guidance control and a 



IV X IV w ' de vaMe ty of applications. 



Computer Grade Capacitors 





PHONE ORDERS 




607 723 


3111 


QUAN. 


MFD. 


VOLTS 


350 


30000 


5 


494 


60000 


5 


1016 


25000 


6 


527 


4D0OO 


7 


353 


15000 


10 


S69 


15500 


10 


277 


40000 


10 


316 


74000 


10 


375 


15000 


12 


267 


14000 


13 


600 


10000 


15 


52 


i 


12500 


16 



Instant off-the-shelf 
delivery. 



1\^ 






SIZE 
1-3/8 



3/16 
3" x 4-1/2" 
2-1/16" x 4-9/16" 
2" x 5" 
2" x 4-1/8" 
2" x 4-7/16" 
3" x 4-1/2" 
3" x 4-3/4" 
2" x 4-1/2" 
2" x 4-3/8" 
2-1/16" x 4-1/2" 
2" x 4-1/0" 



$1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.25 
1.25 
1.70 
2.00 
1.25 
1.25 
1.25 
1.25 



QUAN. 

252 

628 

1014 

10706 

4200 

792 

478 

337 

200 

500 

23436 

11800 



MFD. 
11500 

11000 

8200 

1100 

750 

1500 

450 

400 

500 

750 

100 

80 



100 
100 
150 
200 
350 
400 



SIZE 

2" x 4-1/2" 

2" x 4-1/2" 

1-3/8" x 3-1/8" 
1-25/64" x 2-11/64" 

1" x 3-1/2" 

2" x 4-1/2" 

1-7/16" x 2-9/16" 

1-7/16" x 2-1/2" 

2-1/16" x 2-3/8" 

1-1/2" x 4" 
1-25/64" x 2-11/64" 
1-25/64" x 2-11/64" 



PRICE EA 
51.25 
1.25 
1.70 
1.00 

.75 
1.30 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 

.75 

.75 



HIGH POWER DUMMY LOAD 




Mfg. Eastern Microwave. #10-1254. .. RF Coaxial Load Re- 
sistor utilizing water flow to cool and provide a load 
resistance of 50 ohms for inputs from DC to 4000 MHz. 
Maximum power input is 1000 watts. Requires a flow of 
.218 GPM min. per 100 watts of input power; 100 psi 
pressure. Compression fittings on water line inlet and 
outlet for copper tubing supply lines. Has a Flange 
type coaxial fitting, friction type, 13/16" I.D. with 
2-1/4" flange. Completely shielded unit of machined 
aluminum. Size: 1-5/8" diameter by 5-3/8" long. 
Shipping weight, 2 lbs. 
5,000 pes in stock, NEW BOXED $14.95 each 



Cherry Electrical Products 




These switches are postage 
stamp sized precision swit- 
ches which feature long op- 
erating life & high electrical capacity for their size 
5 amp, 1/4 HP, 125-250 vac, SPOT, quick dis-connect 
terminals. 2,000 pes in stock without lever.. 75C each 
2,400 pes in stock with extended roller lever. 95C ea 



TANTALUM CAPACITORS 



TYPE 109D 

TUBULAR SINTERED-ANODE TANTALEX CAPACITOR 

#109D147X9060T2 

1620 pes - 140 uf +10% - 60Vdc $2.00 ea. 



GENERAL^ ELECTRIC 



L TANTALUMS ~ 



3,000 pes CL31BE180MPE, 18'if - J 5vdc 65J each 
300 pes CL31BE550MPE, 55uf - 15vdc 85C each 

non-polarized CL32/33 
900 ccs CL33BL020fWE, 2.0uf - 75vdc $1.00 each 



MTP/MTPH ULTRA-MINIATURE TANTALUM CAPACITORS 



10,550 pes f^TP685MO20PlD, 6.8uf - 20vdc 55C each 
2,100 pes MTP106MO30P1A, lOuf - 30vdc 75C each 
1,028 pes MTP336MD10P1A, 33uf - lOvdc 65C each 



iflE mii ar 5 



OLID ILtCTROLVTI TANTALUM CAPACITORS 



4996 pes, 4.7uf- ±10%, 6vdc, TAS475K006P1A 35C ea 

394 pes, .47uf + 10%, 6vdc, TAS474K006P1A 38C ea 

1430 pes, 47uf + 10%, 6vdc, TAS476K006P1C 40C ea 
326 pes, 220uf t 20%, 6vdc, TAS227H006P1G $1.20 ea 

285 pes, 5.6uf ± 10%, lOvdc, TAS565K010P1C 404 ea 

4574 pes, lOuf ±10%, lOvdc, TAS106K010P1C 40C ea 

900 dcs, 15uf ±20%, lOvdc, TAS156M010P1C 404 ea 

8B7 pes, .068uf +10%, 20vdc, TAS633K02DP1A 5K ea 

152 pes, 2.2uf ± 20%, 20vdc, Sprague 40C ea 

1457 pes, .47uf ±10%, 35vdc, TAS474K035P1A 5K ea 

GENERAL ©ELECTRIC ' L * IN roiL t * WMWW +, "° e 

365 pes G.E. 40uf,±2O%, 50vdc, 1250c 
Type: 2K105AA6M. $1.75 each 
1168 pes SPRAGUE, 40uf, ±20%, SOvdc, 125°C 
Type: 220D005A3M. $1.75 each 1 C 



73 H 
■H iB 

w m 
QJ 

a: ti 
■a 

OJ IT) 

n at 

4J CO 

O] rrj 

(L) 



J3 O 4) U 



S.D. SALES CO. 



P. O. BOX 28810 
DALLAS, TEXAS 75228 



UP YOUR 
COMPUTER! 

21L02-1 1K LOW POWER 
500NS STATIC RAM 

TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE 

And so is power. Not only are our RAM's 
faster than a speeding bullet but they are now 
very low power. We are pleased to offer prime, 
new 21L02— 1 low power and super fast RAM's. 
Allows you to STRETCH your power supply 
farther and at the same time keep the WAIT 
light off. 

8 for $17.50 



TOUCHTOIME KEYBOARD 
SWITCH SET 

By Controls Research. High quality long life switches 
with keytops. For encoders, combination locks, etc. 




12 switches and tops, including thru 9. Switch 
contacts are independent, allows hook-up to any matrix. 
Keytops easily removed. 

$2.95 Set 
2 for $5.00 



4K LOW POWER RAM BOARD KIT 



Imsai and Altair 8080 plug in compatible. Uses low power 
static 21L02-1 500 ns. RAM's. Fully buffered, drastically 
reduced power consumption, on board regulated, all sockets 
and parts included. Premium quality plated thru PC Board. 



THE WHOLE WORKS 



$89.95 




1 MORE TIME 



Call your BANK AMERICARD or MASTER CHARGE 

order in on our 

CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES TOLL FREE WATTS: 



1-800-527-3460 

TEXAS RESIDENTS CALL COLLECT: 

214/271-0022 



Please call between 8:30 AM and 6:00 PM C.S.T. - Monday 
through Friday. You may also call to check stock or just ask a 
question. However, only B.A.C. and M.C. orders will be accepted. 
We do not ship C.O.D. (See terms of sale on other page.) 



S. D. SALES CO. 



P. 0. BOX 28810 DALLAS, TEXAS 75228 



ALARM CLOCK KIT SIX DIGIT LED 

Thousands of hobbyists have bought and built our original clock kit 
and were completely satisfied. But we have received many requests 
for an alarm clock kit with the same value and quality that you have 
come to expect from S.D. So, here it is! 

THE KIT INCLUDES: 

1 Mostek 50252 Alarm Clock Chip 

6 Hewlett Packard .30 in. common cathode readouts. 

1 5 NPN Driver Transistors 

2 Switches for time set 

2 Slide Switches for alarm set and enable 

1 Filter Cap 

4 IN4002 Rectifiers 

1 IN914 Diode 

1 .01 Disc Cap 

15 Resistors PCB -3.00 

1 Speaker for alarm XFMR - 1.50 

1 LED lamp for PM indicator. 



$9.95 



60 Hz. Crystal Time Base 

FOR DIGITAL CLOCKS djg 

S. D. SALES EXCLUSIVE! 



95 




KIT FEATURES: 

A. 60 Hz output with accuracy comparable to a digital watch. 

B. Directly interfaces with all MOS clock. chips. 

C. Super low power consumption (1.5 Ma typ.) ^O 

D. Uses latest MOS 17 stage divider IC. &£. 

E. Eliminates forever the problem of AC line glitches. 

F. Perfect for cars, boats, campers, or even for portable 

clocks at ham field days. 

G. Small size, can be used in existing enclosures. 

Kit includes crystal, divider IC, P.C. Board plus all other necessary 
parts and specs. 



MOS 4 DIGIT COUNTER I C 

All in one 28 PIN DIP. 4 Decade counters, latches, MUX circuits, display decoders, etc. 
Features: 5VDC operation, 25 MW power consumption, BOTH 7 segment and BCD outputs. 
Perfect for DVM's, frequency meters, tach's, etc. Can be cascaded for more digits. #5002 - 
$8.95. 



8008-1 MICRO PROCESSOR 

New Units. High speed 8008. Almost twice as fast as units sold by others. Still a very versatile 
and widely used MPU. No data book, only pinout data included at this price. $12.50 
LIMITED QTY. 



1101 A RAM IC 

256 X 1 BITS. Perfect for 8008 or small systems such as telephone dials that do not require a 
lot of memory. Special 59c. 8 FOR $4. 



C& K MINI TOGGLE SWITCH 

#7103 SUB MINI SPDT Center OFF. Special - 99c. 



TTL INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 



7400 - 19c 7430 - 19c 

7402 - 19c 7432 - 34c 

74L04- 29c 7437 - 39c 

74S04 - 44c 74 38 - 39c 



7404 
7406 
7408 
7410 
7411 
7413 
7420 



- 19c 

- 29c 

- 19c 

- 19c 

- 29c 

- 50c 

- 19c 



7440 
7447 
7448 
7451 
7453 
7473 
7474 
7475 



19c 
85c 
85c 
19c 
19c 
39c 
35c 
69c 



7476 - 35c 
7480 - 49c 
7483 - 95c 

7485 - 95c 

7486 - 45c 
7490 - 65c 
7492 - 

7495 - 

7496 - 
74121 - 
74123- 



74153- 75c 

74154- 1.00 

74157- 75c 

74161 - 95c 



75c 
75c 
89c 
38c 
65c 
74141 - 75c 



74164 - 
74165- 
74174 - 
74131 - 
74191 - 
74192- 
74193- 
74195- 



1.10 

1.10 
95c 
2.50 
1.25 
1.25 
1.00 
69c 




MOTOROLA POWER DARLINGTON - $1.99 

BACK IN STOCK! 

Like MJ3001. NPN 80 V., 10A., HFE 6000 TYP. TO-3 case. 

We include a free 723C volt, reg, with schematic for a power supply. 

SPECIAL - S1.99 



MOTOROLA RTLIC'S 

Brand new, factory prime. Hard to find, but still 
used in a variety of projects. (See the RTL Cook- 
book by Howard W. Sams.) 



MC724P-59C 
MC725P-59C 
MC764P-49C 
MC767P-69C 
MC771P-49C 
MC775P-89C 



MC780P-89C 
MC785P-49C 
MC787P-89C 
MC788P-49C 
MC789P-59C 
MC790P-89C 



MC791P-69C 

MC792P-59C 

MC799P-59C 

MC9704P-89C 

MC9709P-69C 

MC9760P-69C 



MV-SOTYPELED't 

by UTRONIX 
10 for $1 

Factory Prime! 



3 DIGIT LED ARRAY -75c g-£| 

tyimom* fmri 

DL33MM8 3 MAN-3 Size Readouts in one 
package. These are factory prime, not 
retested rejects as sold by others, 
compare this price! 75c3for$2. 



SALE ON CUT LEAD SEMICONDUCTORS 

Leads were cut for PCB insertion. Still very useable. 



1N914/1N4148 100/$2 

1N4002 1 AmplOOPIV 40/S1 

1N4745A16V1WZener 20/S1 

EN2222 NPN Transistor 25/$1 

EN2907 PNP Transistor 25/S1 

2N3904 NPN Driver Xstr 25/S1 

2N3392 GE Pre-amp Xstr 25IS1 

C103Y SCR. 800MA. 60V 10/$1 



ALL NEW. 

UNUSED. 

SOME ARE 

HOUSE* 



SLIDE SWITCH ASSORTMENT 

Our best seller. Includes miniature and standard 
sizes single and multi-position units. All new. 
tirst quality, name brand switches. Try one pack- 
age and you'll reorder more. Special — 12 lor IT 
(Assortment) 



DISC CAP ASSORTMENT 

PC leads. At least 10 different 

values. Includes .001 , .01 , .05, 

plus other standard values. 

60 FOR $1 



UPRIGHT ELECTROLYTIC CAPS 

47 mfd 35V-10/S1 68 mfd 25V-8/S1 
Brand new by Sprague. PC leads. 



RESISTOR ASSORTMENT 

1/4W5% and 10%. PC leads. 
A good mix of values. 200/S2 



r™h 



# 



1000 MFD FILTER CAPS 

Rated 35 WVDC. Upright style with P.C. leads. 
Most popular value lor hobbyists. Compare at up 
to $1 .19 each from franchise type electronic parts 
stores. S.D. Special 4 lor $1 



FAIRCHILD BIG LED REAOOUTS 

A big .50 inch easy to read character. Now available In eithw common anode 
or common cathode. Take your pick. Super low current drain, only 5 MA per 
segment typical. 



FND 
FND 



510 
503 



Common Anode 
Common Cathode 



YOUR 
CHOICE 

$1.50 ea. 6 for $7.50 



DUAL 741C (5558) OP AMPS 

Mini dip. New house numbered units 

by RAYTHEON. 

4 FOR $1 



FET'S BY TEXAS INSTRUMENTS — SPECIAL 5 for $1 

#TIS-75 but with an internal house number. TO-92 plastic case. N. Channel. 
Junction type FET. 



We do not sell junk. Money back 
guarantee on every item. NoC.O.D. 
Texas Res. add 5% tax. Postage 
rates went up 30% ! Please add 5% 
o( your total order to help cover 
shipping. 

ORDERS UNDER $10 

ADD 75c HANDLING. 



S. D. SALES CO. 

P.O. BOX 28810 
DALLAS, TEXAS 75228 






ORDERS OVER $1 5 CHOOSE 
$1 FREE MERCHANDISE 

FOREIGN ORDERS MUST BE PAID IN U.S. FUNDS 



What is AMSAT? 

AMSAT is the name of one of the most exotic technical activities 
practiced by amateur radio operators: building and orbiting communications 
satellites. The Radio Amateur Satellite Corporation is a joint project of 
amateur radio groups all over the world. The practice is to design and build 
small satellites which can be carried "piggyback" on a NASA launching of 
other satellites. These "OSCAR" (Orbiting Satellite Carrying Amateur Radio) 
vehicles contain facilities for receiving and retransmitting messages originating 
from amateur radio stations around the world. To find out about A MS A T, 
contact A MSA Tat PO Box 27, Washington DC 20044. 



AMSAT 8080 Standard Debug Monitor. 



AMS80 Version 2 



Richard C Allen W5SXD 
4648 Spruce St 
Bellaire TX 77401 

Joe Kasser G3ZCZ 
11532 Stewart Ln 
Silver Spring MD 20904 



Table J: List of AMS80 monitor commands. 



A Address: examine/change the contents of a 

memory address location. 

Examine current location. 

LF Examine next location (LF = line feed 
character). 

— Examine previous location (minus sign). 

D Dump an area of memory on the Teletype. 

F Fill a block of memory with a constant. 

G Go to (and start executing from) a memory 

location. 

M Move a block of memory. 

X Set up an execution address. 

J Restore all registers, then jump to (and start 

executing from) a memory location. 

R Examine/change the contents of the 

registers. Follow R with mnemonic of a 
particular register if desired. 

P Punch the contents of memory on paper 

tape via the Teletype in Intel hexadecimal 
format. 

E Punch an end of file mark on the tape. 

L Load a paper tape (previously punched in 

Intel hexadecimal format) into memory. 

N Punch 100 nulls on the paper tape. 

CR Terminate sequence of commands (CR = 
carriage return character). 



This monitor or debug package resides in 
low memory in an 8080 system. It is 
designed as a minimum system debug 
package. 

The source code (see listing 1) contains a 
large number of comments, explaining in 
detail what is being done in each routine, so 
it is not discussed in great detail, but just 
summarized in a few words. 

The monitor contains interrupt vectors, 
utility subroutines and a command sequence 
which allows the contents of memory loca- 
tions and the 8080 registers to be examined 
or changed. Commands are listed in table 1. 
The utility routines are also available for 
incorporation in user programs. 

Changes to memory and registers are 
made through the system console which 
might be a Teletype or CRT terminal. As 
presented, the monitor includes a listing of 
the Teletype routines used to drive the 
system for which it was configured. These 
routines will have to be changed to conform 
to the hardware of a particular user system. 

Utility Subroutines 

The utility subroutines are located within 
the monitor. A jump table is used to 
interface these routines to the user pro- 
grams. This jump table is located at hexa- 
decimal location 40. This jump indirect 
technique adds a very small overhead to the 
total execution time of a user program, 
which in practice is hardly ever noticed. It 
also ensures that in the event of later 
versions of the monitor being used in a 
system, programs already developed will still 
run. This is because when the monitor is 
changed (to improve it, to add a function 
such as a cassette interface driver, or just to 



108 



eliminate a bug) the actual locations of the 
subroutines may change, but the location of 
the jump table will not. 

For example, a user routine calculating 
and printing out spacecraft orbits will use 
the instruction CALL @TYPE in many 
places. If that user then gets a later version 
of the monitor in which the location of the 
TYPE routine has changed, the program will 
still run, because the location of @TYPE has 
not changed, but the jump instruction at 
that location calls the new position of 
TYPE. If @TYPE had not been used as an 
interface to the user program, the user 
would have had to reassemble his program so 
that his CALL TYPE instructions would 
locate the subroutine in the new location. 

The following utility routines are 
available: 

TYPE types an ASCII character from the 
A register. 

GETCH gets a character from the Tele- 
type (or terminal) to the A register. 

CHIN gets a character from the Teletype, 
echoes it to the Teletype, strips off the 
parity bit, and ends with the character 
in the A register. 

MSG prints an ASCII message on the 
Teletype; the message must end with a 
FF (all ones). The message address is 
passed in the H and L registers of the 
8080 processor. 

CRET types a carriage return/line feed on 
the Teletype. 

SPACE types a space character. 

THXN types the 4 low order bits of the A 
register as a hexadecimal ASCII 
character. 

THXB types the contents of the A 
register in as a two digit ASCII hexa- 
decimal representation. 

THXW types the contents of the HL 
register pair in as a four digit ASCII 
hexadecimal representation. 

GHXN gets a hexadecimal nybble to the 
A register (1 keystroke). 

GHXB gets a hexadecimal byte from the 
Teletype to the A register (2 key- 
strokes). 

GHXW gets a hexadecimal 2 byte address 
to the HL register pair (4 keystrokes). 

STORE stores a byte of data in memory, 
with check. 

NEGDE negates the contents of the DE 
register pair. 

PWAIT types "PAUSE" and waits for 
any character from the keyboard. 

OK? types "OK?", and waits as in 
PWAIT. A space character means go 
ahead or OK; any other character 
causes an abort and a return to the 
monitor. 



Interrupt Handling 

The monitor provides for seven interrupts 
as well as the initial reset. Each interrupt 
service routine must be told where the 
service routine is located in upper memory. 
The addresses of these routines are stored in 
a vector table located in programmable 
memory. These vectors are located and 
loaded into the HL register pair by the 
service routines after which the proper 
branch is executed. The monitor does not 
reset the 8080 interrupt disable flag or any 
external interrupt status ports. These opera- 
tions must be part of the user interrupt 
service routines. The service routines do not 
change the contents of any of the 8080 
registers, so that they are available and can 
be saved by the user as needed. 

10 Routines 

The monitor is written so that any 
Teletype 10 routines can be used as long as 
they are located at GETCH and TYPE. The 
print and punch routines also operate the 
Teletype, and include automatic turn on and 



Listing 1: The complete 
AMS80 monitor listing. 
This is a photo reproduc- 
tion of an assembly of the 
monitor, version 2.0. 



TITLE 'AMS80 - AMSAT STANDARD 6080 MONITOR/ 1/2.0' 

I 

1 AMS80 - AMSAT STANDARD 8080 MONITOR 

J 

I VERSION 1.0. 09N0V75 

J 

I RICHARD C. ALLEN. VSSXD 

1 4646 SPRUCE STREET 

1 BELLAIRE. TEXAS 77401 



I MODIFIED VERSION OF AMS80 VI .0 

I JOE KASSER G3ZCI 

I 1 1532 STEWART LANE 

) SILVER SPRING. MARYLAND 20904 

I TEL I 301-622-8194 



THIS MONITOR IS A MINIMUM 8080 SYSTEM MONITOR 
FOR USE BY AMSAT MEMBERS. IT PROVIDES THE BASIC 
STRUCTURE NECCESSARY FOR 8080 DEBUG AND ALSO A 
STANDARD BASE FOR AMSAT MEMBERS USING THE 8080. 

THIS STANDARD BASE WILL ALLOW PROGRAMS 
TO BE USED BY ALL AMSAT MEMBERS AND AID IN THE 
TRANSMISSION OF PROGRAM MATERIALS VIA THE OSCAR 
SATELLITES. 



THE ROUTINE ALLOWS FOR MEMORY EXAMINE AND MODIFIY. 
USER INTERRUPT/RST VECTORS. AND VARIOUS 
TELETYPE SUPPORT ROUTINES TO LOAD AND DUMP MEMORY 
IN A STANDARD FORMAT ( SAME AS THE INTEL FORMAT >-. 



I DEFINE THE SYSTEM MEMORY PARAMETERS 
I 



0000 
0C00 



ROM 
RAH 



EQU 
EQU 0C00H 



EQU RAM*2 56 



(START OF READ-ONLY-MEMORY 
■START OF READ-WRITE MEMORY 



I TOP OF MONITOR STACK 

I AND END OF MONITOR RAM 



1 DEFINE TTY CONTROL CHARS 



OOOD 
OOOA 
007F 


CR 
LF 
RBO 


EQU ODH 
EOU OAH 
EOU 7FH 


J CARRIAGE RETURN 
ILINE FEED 
1 RUB-OUT 




0014 
0012 

0013 
0011 


TOFF 
TON 

XOFF 
XON 


EQU 1«H 
EQU 12H 

EOU 13H 
EOU 11H 


J TAPE OFF COMMAND 
ITAPE ON COMMAND 

tPUNCH OFF COMMAND 
J PUNCH ON COMMAND 


Text continued 
on page 122 



109 



0000 22 I 20 C 
0003 C37000 
0006 7105 



0008 E5 

0009 2A000C 
000C E3 
OOOD C9 
OOOE 0000 



0010 E5 

0011 2A020C 

001 4 E3 

0015 C9 

0016 0000 



0016 E5 
0019 2A040C 
00 1C E3 
001D C9 
00 IE 0000 



0020 E5 

0021 2A060C 

0024 E3 

0025 C9 

0026 0000 



008B E5 
0029 2A080C 
002C E3 
002D C9 
002E 0000 



0030 E5 

0031 2A0A0C 

0034 E3 

0035 C9 

0036 0000 



0038 E5 

0039 2A0C0C 
00 3C E3 
003D C9 
003E 0000 



START Of SYSTEM 

ORG ROM 



SHLD SVHL 
JMP BEGIN 

DW ENDROM 



1 BEGIN NONITOH 



JMA1N ENTRY INTO EXEC-80 

;5AVE HL 

1 AND BEGIN 

1PAD BYTES ONLY 



DEFINE USER INTERRUPT/SUBROUTINE VECTORS 



MACRO VECT 

PUSH H 

LHLD VECT 

XTHL 

RET 

DW 

ENDM 



UINT 


RST1 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST1 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST2 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST2 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST3 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST3 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST4 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST4 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST5 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST5 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST6 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST6 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 




UINT 


RST7 


PUSH 


H 


LHLD 


RST7 


XTHL 




RET 




DW 





JSAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

J GO TO USER PROC 

J PAD 



jrst i 

J SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

J GO TO USER PHOC 

J PAD 

;RST 2 

J SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

1PUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

1G0 TO USER PHOC 

J PAD 

JRST 3 

I SAVE HL 

; FETCH USER VEC TUK 

;PUT ONTO STACK KE'TOrtlNC Hi 

J GO TO USER PROC 

1PAD 

IRST 4 

J SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

I GO TO USER PROC 

I PAD 

JRST 5 

I SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

J GO TO USER PROC 

J PAD 

JRST 6 

J SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

J GO TO USER PROC 

J PAD 

JRST 7 

J SAVE HL 

J FETCH USER VECTOR 

JPUT ONTO STACK RESTORING HL 

J GO TO USER PROC 

J PAD 





BEGINI 




00 70 


21 1D0C 


LXI H.THPA 


J SET PSEUDO 


0073 


3600 


HVI M.O 


J CARRT TO 


00 7 5 


D2 7A00 


JNC S * 5 


J NO CARRY ON INPUT 


0078 


3601 


HVI M,l 


JPSEUDO CY TO 1 


007A 


El 


POP H 


JPOP CALL ADDRESS IF ANY 


00 7B 


220EOC 


SHLD SVPC 


J AND SAVE PC 


007E 


21FEFF 


LXI H.-2 


J FETCH SP 


0081 


39 


DAD SP 


J ADJUSTING FOR POP 


0082 


22100C 


SHLD SVSP 


JSAVE USER STACK POINTER 


0085 


31 1A0C 


LXI SP.SVA»l 


J SET SP FOR REGISTER SAVE 


0088 


F5 


PUSH PSW 


JSAVE A. PSW 


0089 


C5 


PUSH B 


JSAVE BC 


008A 


D5 


PUSH D 


JSAVE DE 


00 mi 


2 1 1B0C 


LXI H.SVF 


JP01NT TO SAVED PSB 


008E 


7E 


MOV A.H 


J ALD FETCHIT 


008F 


E6FE i 


ANI OFEH 


JZERO CY 


0091 


47 


MOV B.A 


J AND SAVE 


0092 


3AID0C 


LDA TMPA 


J GET INPUT SAVED CY 


0095 


BO 


ORA B 


J AND INSERT 


0096 


77 


MOV H.A 


J RESTORE PSB WITH OK CY 


0097 


31000D 


LXI SP. STACK 


J SET SP TO EXEC STACK AREA 


009A 


2IEA04 


LXI H.NO 


J TYPE ENTRY 


009D 


CD1B0I 


CALL MSG 


J MESSAGE 



OOAO 31000D 

00A3 21F904 

00A6 CD1B01 

00A9 CD0001 

OOAC 47 



OOAD 2ICF00 

OOBO 7E 
00B1 FEFF 
00B3 CACOOO 
00B6 B8 
00B7 CAC900 
OOBA 23 
00B8 2 3 
OOBC 23 
OOBD C3BO0O 



OOCO 210005 
00C3 CD1B0I 
00C6 C3A000 



00C9 23 

OOCA 5E 

OOCB 23 

OOCC 56 

OOCD EB 

OOCE E9 



J NEXT MONITOR COMMAND 



LXI SP. STACK 
LXI H.M1 
CALL HSG 
CALL CHIN 
MOV B.A 



J RESTORE SP 

J TYPE 

J PROMPTER 

J GET COMMAND CHAR 

J AND SAVE COMMAND 



J SEARCH OPERATION TABLE FOR COMMAND 



LXI H.OPTAB 

MOV A.M 
CPI - I 
JZ ILLEG 
CHP B 
JZ FNDCM 
I NX H 
I NX H 
I NX H 
JHP SRCH 



J FETCH TABLE VECTOR 

J GET TABLE COMMAND BYTE 

JCHECK FOR END OF TABLE 

JMUST BE ILLEGAL INPUT 

JCOMPARE TO INPUT 

J FOUND COMMAND 

J BUMP TO 

J NEXT 

J COMMAND 

JAND CONTINUE 



J UNDEFINED COMMAND. TYPE ERROR MESSAGE 



ILLEQl LXI .H.M2 
CALL MSG 
JMP NEXT 



J UNDEFINED 
J MESSAGE 
J TRY AGAIN 



J FOUND COMMAND. NOW FETCH ADDRESS AND EXECUTE COMMAND 



I NX H 
MOV E.M 
I NX H 
MOV D.M 
XCHG 
PCHL 



JBUHP TO LOW ADDRESS BYTE 

J AND FETCH IT 

J GET HIGH 

J ADDRESS BYTE 

JADDRESS TO HL 

J GOTO COMMAND PROCESSOR 



J MONITOR SUPPORT SUBROUTINE VECTORS 
JUSER UTILITY SUBROUTINES 



J THE FOLLOWING SET OF JUMPS ARE PROVIDED SO 

J USEH PROGRAMS CAN REFERENCE COMMON ENTRY POINTS 

J TO THE VARIOUS ROUTINES. THESE LOCATIONS WILL 

J REMAIN CONSTANT WHILE THE ACTUAL LOCATION OF EACH 

J ROUTINE MAY CHANGE FROM ONE REVISION LEVEL TO THE 

J NEXT. 

J 

J THE CALLING SEQUENCE FOR EACH SUBROUTINE 

J REMAINS THE SAME AS DEFINED IN THE LISTING. WITH 

J ONLY A SLIGHT EXECUTION TIME OVERHEAD FOR THE 

J EXTRA JMP. 



J TYPE A CHARACTER FROM 'A 1 

J GET CHAR TO A (NO ECHO) 

J GET CHAR TO 'A' WITH ECHO 

J c PARITY SET OFF ) 

JTYPE MSG. POINTER IN HL 

J ( MSG TERMINATED BY OFFH ) 

JTYPE CR. LF. RUB-OUT 

JTYPE A SPACE 

JTYPE B3-B0 OF 'A 1 IN HEX 

J ( ONE ASCII CHARACTER ) 

JTYPE 'A' IN ASCII-HEX 2 CH 

JTYPE "HL 1 IN ASCI I -HEX 4 CH 

J GET HEX NIBBLE TO B3-B0 'A* 

J GET HEX BYTE FROM TTY1 > "A" 

J GET HEX WORD TO HL 

JSTORE A BYTE M.A WITH CHECK 

JNEGATE THE DE REGISTER 

JTYPE 'PAUSE' AND WAIT FOH 

J AN( CHARACTER ON TTYI 

JTYPE ' OK? ' AND WAIT FOR 

J SPACE IF OK. OTHERS WILL 

J PRINT ABORT MSG AND RETURN 

J TO MONI TOR. 



0040 


C35705 


tTYPEI 


JMP 


TYPE 


0043 


C3660 5 


tGETCHI 


JMP 


GETCH 


0046 


C30001 


ICHINl 


JMP 


CHIN 


0049 


C31B01 


tMSGt 


JHP 


MSG 


004C 


C32D01 


•CRETI 


JMP 


CRET 


004F 


C33A01 


•SPACE! 


JMP 


SPACE 


00 52 


C34F0I 


• THXNi 


JMP 


THXN 


0055 


C34201 


• THXB1 


JMP 


THXB 


0058 


C36001 


• THXWI 


JMP 


THXW 


00 SB 


C36B01 


• OHXNl 


JMP 


GHXN 


00 SE 


C38201 


•GHXBI 


JMP 


GHXB 


0061 


C39501 


• GHXWI 


JMP 


GHXW 


0064 


C3B001 


•STOREI 


JMP 


STORE 


0067 


C31302 


•NEGDEI 


JHP 


NEGDE 


006A 


C30C04 


• PWAITt 


JMP 


PWAIT 


006D 


C38E02 


I0KI1 


JMP 


OK? 



OOCF 41 
OODO C101 



00D2 OD 
00D3 AOOO 



00D5 2E 
00D6 D301 



00D8 OA 
00D9 F601 



00D8 2D 
OODC 0C02 



OODE 44 
OODF 1D02 



00E1 46 
00E2 CB02 



00E4 47 
00E5 7C02 



00E7 4D 
00E6 AC02 



00 EA 58 
OOEB 6402 



OOED 4A 
OOEE 4202 



OOFO 52 
00F1 F202 



00F3 50 
00F4 A003 



J OPERATION DECODE/DISPATCH TABLE 

J 

OPTABI 



DB 


'A' 


DW 


GETAD 


DB 


CR 


DW 


NEXT 


DB 


» . ■ 


DW 


LOCAT 


DB 


LF 


Dfc 


NXLOC 


DB 


.-. 


DW 


LSTLC 


DB 


'D' 


DW 


DUMP 


DB 


•F' 


DW 


FILL 


DB 


'G' 


DW 


GOTO 


DB 


'M' 


DW 


MOVE 


DB 


'X' 


DW 


GETXA 


DB 


'J' 


DW 


JUMP 


DB 


'R' 


DW 


REGEX 


DB 


• p. 


DW 


PUNCH 



; COMMAND 

i TO GET ADDRESS 



'COMMAND 

t EFFECTIVE NOP 



; COMMAND 

i TO EXAMINE CURRENT LOCATION 



J COMMAND 

J TO EXAMINE NEXT LOCATION 



J COMMAND 

J TO EXAMINE PREVIOUS LOCATION 



1 COMMAND 

I TO DUMP MEMORY AREA 



J COMMAND 

* TO FILL MEMORY 



J COMMAND 

J TO GOTO MEMORY LOCATION 



i COMMAND 

J TO MOVE AREA OF MEMORY 



I COMMAND 

1 TO GET XEQ ADDRESS 



{COMMAND 

J TO JUMP TO MEMORY LOCATION 



; COMMAND 

I REGISTER EXAMINE 



I COMMAND 

J PUNCH MEMORY 



110 






1$tf 'T It TIME Yt>« 

CREflTJJE 

CQMPLITJNG 
STUFF!! 



Creative Computing 
Magazine 

A bi-monthly 88-page magazine for students, 
hobbyists, and anyone curious about computers. 
Fiction, articles, humor about computers, 
cybernetics, careers, building info., etc. Emphasis 
on games, puzzles, and projects. Contemporary, 
non-technical approach. Subscription. $8.00 pp. 

Games & Puzzles Issue of 
Creative Computing 

88 pages of games and puzzles for pocket 
calculators, computers, and humans. "Beating the 
Game," "Computer Chess," "Hunting a Wumpus 
in a Cave, "building your own computer, reviews of 
24 games, books, and much more! $1.50 pp. 

Futures Issue of Creative Computing 

Artificial Intelligence (Bertram Raphael, Herbert 
Dryfus, etc.), Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Isaac 
Asimov, Martin Harwit, etc.), microprocessors, 
videodiscs as an ultimate computer input device, 4 
new games, and more. 88 big pages! $1.50 pp. 

Artist and Computer 

A high-quality, 4-color book edited byRuthLeavitt 
which displays the work of 35 internationally- 
known computer artists. Each artist describes his 
or her work in non-technical terms. 140 il- 
lustrations. $4.95. 




rovxi ! 



The Best of Creative Computing 

A 328-page book featuring stories by Isaac Asimov 
and others; articles on cybernetics, robots, 
computer crime, privacy; computer games such as 
Star Trek, Rabbit Chase, Magic Square, Madlib, 
and 1 4 more; super computer graphics; cartoons, 
reviews; poetry; and more! $8.95. 

Creative Computing T-Shirt 

Albert Einstein portrait produced by Blocpix™ 
process. Scarlet trim, black design. Available in 
adult sizes: S, M, L, XL. $4.00 pp. 

Mr. Spock Computer Image 

Big 17x22" computer scannerimage. Heavy stock. 
Comes in strong mailing tube. $1.50 pp. 

Star Trek People Computer Images 

Six 8'/jx1 1 computer images on heavy stock of 
Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scott, Chekov, and Uhura. 
$1.50 pp. 

101 BASIC Computer Games 

A collection of 101 games in BASIC, each one with 
a complete listing, sample run, and write -up. 256 
pages. $7.50. 



Shipping (books only) $1.00 

All orders outside U.S.A. add $1.00 

New Jersey residents add 5% sales tax 

Total .^^_^_ 
DCash, check, M.O. enclosed 

DCharge my Bankcard (minimum charge $15) 

DBankAmericard DMaster Charge 

Acct. No. 



Expiration date. Mo.. 



_Yr. 



Name- 



Address 



City 



State 



.Zip. 



Creative Computing, P.O. Box 789- M, 
Morristown, N.J. 07960, U.S.A. 



DO IT NOW.. . 
SUBSCRIBE TO BYTE 



Many issues of BYTE are already completely sold 
out. Don't take a chance of missing any of the terrific 
articles planned for future issues. Subscribe today. Use 
the pullout postcard in this issue or the form below. 



Please allow six weeks for processing. 



(Artwork of this doodle supplied by Richard Lerseth) 




I'd Rather BYTE than BARK 



1 Name 






Address 


! City 


State 


Zip 


! D Bill me 


□ Bill MC BAC # Exp. Date 




! BYTE 


70 Main Street Peterborough, NH 03458 





111 



00F6 45 
00F7 1804 



00F9 4C 
OOFA 6804 



OOFC 4E 
OOFD 5004 



DB '«■ 

DW PEND 


■COMMAND 

I PUNCH END-OF-FILE 


DB "f 
DW LOAD 


> COMMAND 

i LOAD MEMORY 


DB ■«« 

DW NULL 


■COMMAND 

1 PUNCH NULLS 



■ END OF TABLE CODE 



0148 F5 


THXBI 


PUSH 


PSW 


iSAVE A.PSB 


0143 OF 




RRC 




■SHIFT 


0144 OF 




RHC 




J TO 


0145 OF 




RRC 




■ LEFT 


0146 OF 




RRC 




1 NIBBLE 


0147 CD4F01 




CALL 


THXN 


■ TYPE HEX NIBBLE 


014A Fl 




POP PSW 


■RESTORE DATA 


014B CD4F01 




CALL 


THXN 


■TYPE RIGHT NIBBLE 


014E C9 




RET 




J AND EXIT 



ROUTINE TO INPUT ONE CHARACTER. 
STRIP OFF PARITY. AND ECHO IF ABOVE 
A SPACE (I.E.. NOT CR. LF. ETC.) 



CALLING SEQUENCE ... 
CALL CHIN 



■CHARACTER IN 

■RETURN AFTER ECHO STARTED 

■WITH CHAR .AND. 7FH IN 'A' 



0100 3EFF 


CHINI 


NVI A.-i 


■ SET ECHO 


0108 381A0C 




STA ECHO 


> FLAG ON 


0105 CD660S 


CHINNI 


CALL GETCH 


■ GET CHARACTER 


0108 E67F 




ANI 7FH 


■STRIP PARITY 


010A F5 




PUSH PSW 


■ SAVE DATA 


010B 3A1A0C 




LOA ECHO 


1 AND CHECK 


010E A7 




ANA A 


■ ECHO FLAG 


010F C81401 




JNZ S»5 


■ ECHO SET 


0118 Fl 




POP PSW 


■ECHO NOT SET 


0113 C9 




RET 


1 SO RETURN 


0114 Fl 




POP PSW 


■ RESTORE DATA AND ECHO 


0115 FEBO 




CPI ■ • 


■CHECK FOR CONTROL 


0117 D45705 




CMC TYPE 


■TYPE IF >- SPACE 


OUA C9 




RET 


■RETURN 



MESSAGE PRINT ROUTINE 
CALLING SEQUENCE ... 

LXI H.ADRESS (ADDRESS OF MESSAGE 

CALL MSB JCALL ROUTINE 

■RETURN HERE AFTER LAST CHAR 
I INITIATED. ALL REGISTERS 
> PRESERVED 



011B F5 


HSGI 


PUSH PSW 


■ SAVE PSW 


01IC E5 




PUSH H 


■ SAVE HL 


01 ID 7E 


HNXTl 


MOV A.M 


■ GET A CHARACTER 


01 IE FEFF 




CPI -1 


■CHECK FOR 377Q/0FFH/ 


01 BO CA2A01 




JZ MDONE 


■ FOUND THE TERMINATOR 


0183 CD570S 




CALL TYPE 


■ TYPE THE CHARACTER 


0186 S3 




■ NX H 


■ BUMP HEM VECTOR 


0187 C31D01 




JHP MMXT 


1 AND CONTINUE 


018A El 


MDONEt 


POP H 


J RESTORE HL 


01SB Fl 




POP PSW 


> AND PSW 


01BC C9 




RET 


■ EXIT TO CALLER 



ROUTINE TO TYPE CR. LF. RBO 
CALLING SEQUENCE ... 
CALL CRET 



0180 E5 
018E 813601 
0131 CDIB01 

0134 El 

0135 C9 



PUSH H 

LXI H.CRHSG 

CALL HSG 

POP H 

RET 



■ RETURN HERE WITH ALL 

■ REGISTERS PRESERVED 



ISAVE HL 

JADDRESS OF CRLFRBO HSG 

■ TYPE IT 

■RESTORE HL 

> AND RETURN 



0136 OD0A7FFF CRMSGI DB CR-LF. RBO, -1 

ROUTINE TO TYPE ONE SPACE 

CALLING SEQUENCE ... 

CALL SPACE 

■RETURN HERE 

ALL REGISTERS PRESERVED 



013A F5 


SPACE 1 


PUSH PSW 


ISAVE A.PSB 


013B 3E80 




MVI A. ' • 


■ GET A SPACE 


0130 C0570 5 




CALL TYPE 


1 AND DO IT 


0140 Fl 




POP PSW 


■RESTORE PSW 


0141 C9 




RET 


■AND RETURN 



ROUTINE TO TYPE VALUE IN 
CALLING SEQUENCE ... 



IN HEX ON TTY 



LDA DATA 
CALL THXB 



ALL REGS PRESERVED 



■DATA BYTE IN 
■TYPE IN HEX 

■RETURN HERE 



014F F5 
0150 E60F 
0152 FEOA 
0154 DAS901 
0157 C607 
0159 C630 
015B CD570 5 
015E Fl 
0I5F C9 



0160 F5 

0161 7C 

0168 CD4801 

0165 70 

0166 CD4801 

0169 Fl 
016A C9 



I ROUTINE TO TYPE ONE ASCII CHARACTER REPRESENTING 
I BITS 3-0 OF 'A' IN HEX 



1 CALLING SEQUENCE 



LDA DATA 
CALL THXN 



I DATA NIBBLE IN BITS 3-0 
I TYPE NIBBLE IN HEX 
■RETURNS HERE 



1 ALL REGS PRESERVED. AND CONTENTS OF 'A' BITS 

1 ARE NOT SIGNIFICANT AND ARE IGNORED- 

I 

THXNl PUSH PSW ISAVE PSW 

ANI OFH IISOLATE NIBBLE B3>S0 

CPI 10 <SEE IF > 9 

JC >»5 (NIBBLE <- 9 

AD1 7 IADJUST ALPHA CHAR 

ADI •O 1 ' ADD IN ASCII 

CALL TYPE IAND TYPE THE NIBBLE 

POP PSW 1 RESTORE PSW 

RET > AND RETURN 



ROUTINE TO TYPE A WORD IN HEX 



LULU WORD 
CALL THXW 



I WORD I N HL 
■TYPE IT IN HEX 
I RETURN HERE 



ALL REGISTERS PRESERVED 



PUSH PSW 
MOV A.H 
CALL THXB 
MOV A.L 
CALL THXB 
POP PSW 
RET 



ISAVE PSW 
I GET HIGH BYTE 
) AND TYPE IT 
I GET LOW BYTE 
1 AND TYPE IT 
■RESTORE PSW 
) AND RETURN 



ROUTINE TO GET ONE HEX CHARACTER FROM TTY 



CALLING SEQUENCE 



CALL QHXN 
JC NONHX 



■GET HEX NIBBLE 

)CY SET IF NON HEX 

■HEX NIBBLE IN 'A' B3-B0 



IF THE CHARACTER ENTERED IS TO 9 OR A TO F THEN 
■A" WILL BE SET TO THE BINARY VALUE TO F AND 
THE CARRY WILL BE RESET. 

IF THE CHARACTER ENTERED IS NOT A VALID HEX DIGIT 

THEN THE 'A' REGISTER WILL CONTAIN THE ASCII CHAR 
AND THE CARRY WILL BE SET TO A 1 • 

ALL REGISTERS EXCEPT PSW PRESERVED 



016B CD0501 


GHXN1 


CALL CHINN 


■ GET CHARACTER IN 
■(CHINN IN CASE NOT ECHO) 


016E FE30 




CPI '0' 


1 RETURN IF 


0170 D8 




RC 


1 < 'O 1 


0171 FE3A 




CPI •!■ 


ISEE IF NUMERIC 


0173 DA7F01 




JC GHX1 


■CHAR IS TO 9 


0176 FE41 




CPI 'A 1 


ISEE IF A TO F 


176 D8 




RC 


J CHAR '!• TO • ' 


0179 FE47 




CPI 'G 1 


JSEE IF > 'f 


017B 3F 




CMC 


■INVERT CY SENSE 


017C D8 




RC 


■CHAH > 'F' 


017D D60 7 




SUI 7 


■CHAR IS A TO F SO ADJUST 


017F D630 


GHX1 I 


SUI 'O' 


■ADJUST TO BINARY 


0181 C9 




RET 


J AND EXIT 



ROUTINE TO GET ONE HEX BYTE FROM TTYI 

CALLING SEQUENCE ... 

CALL GHXB J GET HEX BYTE 

JC NONHX J SAME AS GHXN. NON-HEX INPUT 

■HEX BYTE IN 'A' 

ALL REGS EXCEPT PSW PRESERVED- CY SET AS IN GHXN 



0188 


CD6B01 GHXB I CALL GHXN 


■GET LEFT NIBBLE 


0185 


08 


RC 


■LEAVE IF NON-HEX 


0186 


C5 


PUSH B 


ISAVE BC 


0167 


07 


RLC 


1 SHI FT 


0188 


07 


RLC 


1 TO 


0189 


07 


RLC 


1 LEFT 


016A 


07 


RLC 


1 NIBBLE 


168 


47 


MOV B-A 


■ AND SAVE IN B 


018C 


CD6B01 


CALL GHXN 


IGET RIGHT NIBBLE 


018F 


DM301 


JC J»4 


IJHP IF NON-HEX 


019E 


80 


ADD B 


1ADD IN LEFT NIBBLE 


0193 


CI 


POP B 


1 RESTORE BC 


0194 


C9 


RET 


■AND EXIT 



112 



Wl CRYSTALS 

HtSj^ri tuccc FnFnilFNHIFS (INI V 



CY1A 
CY2A 
CY3A 
CY7A 

CY12A 
CY14A 
CY19A 
CY22A 
CY30B 



THESE FREQUENCIES ONLY 
Frequency Case/Style 



1.000 MHz 
2.000 MHz 
4.000 MHz 
5.000 MHz 
10.000 MHz 
14.31818 MHz 
18.000 MHz 
20.000 MHz 
32.000 MHz 



HC33/U 
HC33/U 
HC18/U 
HC18/U 
HC18/U 
HC18U 
HC18/U 
HC18/U 
HC18/U 



-PrTi. 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
$4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
$4.95 



CLOCK CHIPS — CALCULATOR CHIPS 

MM5309 G Digit. BCD Outputs. Reset PIN I 

HM5311 6 Otgil. BCO Outputs, 13 pr 24 Huur 

MM5312 4 DlQil. BCO Outputs, t PPS Output 

MM5313 6 Digit BCD Outputs. 1PPS Output 

MMS314 B Digit, 12 or 24 HPur. 50 or 6G Hz 

MM5316 4 Digit. Alarm. 1 PPS Output 

MM531B Video Clock Ctiip, For Ose With MM5841 

CT7001 6 Digit, Calender. Alarm. 12 or 24 Hour 
CALCULATOR CHIPS 

MMS72S 6 Digit, Foul Function. Less Decimal ! 

MH573B 8 Drfli!. 5 Function; +, =, x, -,% 

MM5739 B Digit. 4 Funclion. Floating Decimal 

CT5001 12 Digit. 4 Function 

CT5O05 12 Droit. 4 Function with Memory 

CTS030 <2 Digit. 4 Function and % 

MISC. MOS 

MM5320 IV Cameia Sync Generator S 

MMS330 4ts Digit DVM Chip 

MM5369 GO Hz llmebase Circuit From 3.5B MHz 

MM5B4I Video Generator For MMS318 

MC1408-L; 7 Bit Digital to Analog Converter 

MK5O07 4 Decade Counter wltn Lalcnes 

LD1 10 LD1 1 1 3ft Digit DVM Chip Set 

95H90 ICO MHz - 10 Counter For Prescalers 



9.95 
1095 
25.00 



THE NEW RCA CA3140 

MOST USEFUL OP AMP SINCE THE 741 

CA3140 vs. 741 at a glance 



Input Current 
lj fpA) 

Slew Rale. SR 
(closed loop) (V^s) 

Gain -Bandwidth 
Product, l T (MH2) 



$1.25 



VECTOR WIRING PENCIL 




"•-'W 



Vector Wiring Pencil PI 73 consists of a hand held featherweight (under one ounce) 
tool which is used to guide and wrap insulated wire, led oft a sell-contained replaceable 
boObin, onto component leads or terminals installed on pre-puncheo "P" Pattern 
Vectortord' Connections between the wrapped wire and componeni l;ads, pads or 
terminals are made try soldering. Complete with 250 FT ol red wire. en Cfl 



REPLACEMENT WIRE— BOBBINS FOR WIRING PENCIL 

W36-3-A-Pkg. 3 250 ft. 36 AWG GREEN S2.40 

W36-3-B-Pkg. 3 250 It. 36 AWG RED $2.40 

W36-3-C-Pkg. 3 250 fl. 36 AWG CLEAR $2.40 

W36-3-D-Pktj. 3 250 it. 36 AWG BLUE $2.40 



vK& 1/16 VECTOR BOARD 



64H-U 062mP 
1C9PJ-I 02XXXP 
MP44 063 
B'iP.l.1 062 
169P44 062 
IG9PB4 062 
I69P44 062C1 



VECTOR TERMINALS 



Part No. Finish 
Gold Tinned Posl Size 
T44-1 T44 025' srj 

T46-1 T46 02B sq 

T49A M9 025 sq. 

PKG 103 Terminals 



25 pes SO pes 

Gold Tin Gold Tin 

t 50 lot 1.00 lot 2 75101 1.7510! 

1 75 lot 1 25 lot 3.00 lot 2.25 lol 

1 75 lot I 25 lot 3 10 lot 2.25 lol 
S3.50C S13.00M 



DIP SWITCH 



These switches feature seven SPST shoe switches fci a 
molded dip. They are ideally suited tor microprocessor 
applications. » ge 



C36D 
C38M 
2N232B 
MDA 980 



SCR AND FW BRIDGE RECTIFIERS 

15A@400V SCR 

35A @ 2O0V SCR 

1.6A@200V 

25A @ 50V 



25A@ 200V 



FW BRIDGE REC. 
FW BRIDGE REC 



1.95 



64 KEY KEYBOARD 



This keyboard feaiures 64 unen- 
coded SPS1 keys, unattached to 
any kind of P.C 8. A very solid 
molded plastic 13" x 4" base 
suits most aooiications. 

$19.95 



HDD165 16 LINE TO FOUR BIT PARALLEL KEYBOARD ENCODER 




JOYSTICK 

These joysticks feature four 
1 00K potentiometers, that vary 
resistance proportional to the 
angle of the stick. Sturdy metal 
construction with plastics 
components only at the mova- 
ble joint. Perfect lor electronic 
games and instrumentation. 

$9.95 ea. 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



8080A 8212 



8080 SUPPORT DEVICES 

I BIT INPUT/OUTPUT PORT FOR 8080 



S37 95 8224 CL0CK GENERATOR AND DRIVER FOR 8080 

8228 SYSTEM CONTROLLER AND BUS DRIVER FOR £ 



2504 
251B 
2519 
2524 
2525 
2527 
2529 
2532 
2533 
3341 
74LS670 



2513 
2516 
74S387 



CPU'S 
8 BIT CPU 
Super 8008 
Super 8008 

SR'S 
1024 Dynamic 
Hex 32 BIT 
Hex 40 BIT 
512 Dynamic 
1024 Dynamic 
Dual 256 BIT 
Dual 512 BIT 
Quad 80 BIT 
1024 Static 
Fito 
16 x 4 Reg 

UAHTS 
30K Baud 

ROM'S 
Char. Gen 
Char. Gen. 
1024 -Bit Programmable 



S19.95 
24.95 
37.95 



S11 00 
13.00 



2101 
2102 
2107 

2111 
7010 
7489 
BIO! 

am 

S599 
91L02 
74200 
93410 

1702A 

5203 

82S23 

82S123 

74S287 

3601 



256 x 1 
1024 x 1 
4095 x 1 



RAM'S 

Static 

Dynamic 

Sialic 

Static 

Dynamic 

Static 

MNOS 

Static 

Static 

Static 

Sialic 

Static 

Sialic 

Sialic 

PROMS 

Pantos 

Famos 

Open C 

Tri state 

Sialic 

Fast 



S 5.95 8080 
- ,295 S24.95 

12.95 



S 2.25 
2.95 
6.95 



MM5262 Fully decoded 2FU1 dynamic 
time, ai. d requires, a +5. +8.5, and 



2K RAM SPECIAL 

RAM. All inputs except clocks are TTL compatible. Provides a 635 ns minimum access 
-15V power Supply Low power provdos non volatile mummy iismrj battery back up. 

$0.99 ea. (11.00 cents per bit) 



RC4194 Dual Track V Reg 

RC4195 ^ISVTrack Reg 

F9368 Decoder 

LD110/111 DVM Chip Set 

CA3130 Super CMOS Cp Amp 

MCH0BL7 D/A 

F3341 FIFO 

MM5B41 Oiaracter Gen. 



"Special Requested Items* 



WJ/T 



MK5007 S10.95 



AY5-9100 Push Button Dialer 



2525 
2527 

CD4518 



595 4566AE 



WE LL BE HAPPY TO QUOTE OH YOUR SPECIAL PARTS - 



MC4044 

LM3909 

MM5320 

4072AF. 

7422 

7497 

74186 

74279 

82S90 

MCT-2E 



Continental Specialties 



PROTO 



POWER 

FOB THE 

PROFESSIONAL 



POWER! 




For the economy-minded experimenter 
NEW 

Proto Board 100 

HHr«H.WB« SnW flj 

19.95 THE MINI 

" ..-.-PS" " .w.ww BREADBOARD 

>?oiisss.mii - BDDGETKIT 

ssr %\ 



e tai? J r«'. 1 i'29 95 .' :: '**»*■*/ jb -» 
"""*' " 39.95 Msm V ' 




SPECIAL! 



LOGIC MONITOR 

Simultanuously displays static and 
ij|j dynamic logic stales ot DTL. TTL, 

I 



Pocket si 



ir CMOS DIP Ks. 



S84.95. 



" ■ 

V:- 



, OT-59S 
' QT-59B 
' OT-47S 
• QT-47B 
| t OT-35S 
m» OT-35B 



QT Piolo Strips 



•IP- 



QT lype 
OT-59S 
QT-59B 
QT-47S 
QT-47B 
QT-35S 
QT-3SB 
OT-18S 
QT-12S 
QT-BS 
QT-7S 



DIGITAL CLOCK KIT — 3 1 / 2 INCH DIGITS 




4 DIGIT KIT S49.95 
6 DIGIT KIT S69.95 



4 DIGIT ASSEMBLED S59.95 
6 DIGIT ASSEMBLED S79.95 



This cluck features big 3'i" high digits 
tor viewing in oil ices, auditoriums, etc. 
Each digil is lor mod by 3! blight 0.2" 
LED's TheclockopBiatiis from 117 VAC. 
has either 12 or 24 lir. operation The 6 
digilvcrsion Is 27"x3Vi" x I Vz", and Iho 
4 digit is 18" i 3VS" x W. Kits come 
complete with all components, case ami 
transformer 
Specify 12 Or 24 Hr When Ordering 



Satisfaction Guaranteed. $5.00 Mm. Order. U.S. Funds. 

California Residents — Add 6% Sales Tax — Data Sheets 25c each 

Send a 13c Stamp (postage) for a FREE 1976 Catalog 

1021 HOWARD AVE., SAN CARLOS, CA. 94070 
PHONE ORDERS — (415) 592-8097 



5 FUNCTION ELECTRONIC CALCULATOR 
RADOFIN MODEL 8P 



$8.95 



> 8 Digit Display 
• 5 Functionsconsetsotaddi 
liplication. division, percentage 



Sibttl 



X mill* 



th constant on 
all (unctions, wiin lull floating decimal point 
. Power source is 1 piece 9V DC Battery OOGP, 
jack lor AC adapter 

i Black superfine grained linen plastic cabinet 




5 FUNCTION ELECTRONIC CALCULATOR WITH 
WALLET-NOTEBOOK AND POCKET CHECKBOOK 
RADOFIN MODEL 1710 

FEATURES: »P l9»9U 

• 8 Digit Display 



i 5 Functions consists ot addition, subtraction, mul- 
tiplication, division, percentage: wilh constant on 
all lunctions. wilh tull floating decima point, 
i Power source is 6 AAA cells 9 V DC 
■ Wallet is 2 tone texon; cabinet k blacx plasiic. 



BQ 



3% DIGIT DVM KIT 




This 0-2 VDC .05 per cent digital voltmeter features the Motorola 3ft digit 
DVM chip set. It has a .4" LED display and operates from a single +5V 
power supply. The unit is provided complete with an injection molded black 
plastic case complete with Bezel. An optional power supply is available 
which (its into the same case as the 0-ZV DVM allowing 1 1 7 VAC operation. 

A. 0-2V DVM with Case $49.95 

B. 5V Power Supply $14.95 




115 VAC 



JE700 CLOCK 

The JE70O is a low cost digital clock, but 
is a very high quality unit The unit lea- 
lures a simulated walnul case wilh di- 
mensions ol 6" (2K" « i". It utilizes a 
MAN72 liigh bnghlness rraduul, and the 
MM53M clock chip, 

$17.95 



Liquid Crystal Temperature Display' 

Six Digit Light p L 33 

Emitting Diode Disp|ay 

Display 

This clock makes an attractive addition to any desk. It has 
an extruded, black anodized aluminum case. It displays 
hours, minules, and seconds with .11 inch displays, and 
comes complete with a liquid crystal thermometer. It oper- 
ates off 1 1 5 VAC at 50 or 60 Hz. $24.95 



This large digit clock (.6" hours & 
minutes, ,3" seconds) lenturesthe 
MM5314 clock chip. It operates 
from 117 VAC. and will operate in 
either a 12 or 24 hour mode. The 
clock is complete with a walnut 
grain case, and has fast set, slew 
set, and hold time set features, 

KIT - ALL COMPONENTS & CASE $34.95 
WIRED & ASSEMBLED $39.95 




JE803 PROBE 



J 






the Logic Probe is a unit which Is lor Hie most part 

IndespenstHe in trouble snooting logic larmlies 

TTL. DTL. P.TL. CMOS It derives the pow*i it' 

needs to operate duectiy oil ol the cucuil undei 

lest, drawing a scan! 10 mA max It uses a MAN3 

icadoul to indicate any ol the following stales Dy 

these symbols (H) ■ 1 (LOW)- (PULSE) P The g^- __ -_ „.. 

Probe i:;ni delect high Ireiiucncy |iuh;i!:, to ■!!. UHi \)j m IJJ) pg f |\| [ 

It cunt be used at MOS levels 01 circuit damage 



result 



printed circuit board 




PL 5V 1A Supply 

Tins is a standaid 1TL power supply using ihe well known 
LM309K regulator IC to provide a solid 1 AMP ot cut rent at 5 
volts We try to make ihings easy (or you by providing 
everything you need 111 one package, including the n.iidw, ire 

""»"" $9.95 Per Kit 




exelar 

This watch is manufactured by Na- 
tional Semiconductor. It provides 5 
lunctions; hours, minutes, seconds, 
date, A.M. indicator dot. Accuracy is 
assured to 5 seconds per month by 
precision quartz crystal. If something 
should go wrong with the watch, repair 
is assured within 48 hours after it is 
received. Complete with steel black 
leather band. 

ES4-YS 

3 MICRON GOLD PLATE BEZEL 



$29.95 



DIGITAL ALARM 
CLOCK 

This 4 digit Novus Alarm Clock 
Is a very reliable and smartly 
styled unit, It provides such 
features as an alarm settable 
lo any minute of the day, a 7 
minutes snooze alarm, a power 
failure indicator, and even an 
A.M., P.M. indicator. 



Novus 




$19.95 



NOT A KIT 



ROUTINE TO GET A HEX WHO FROM TTYI 
CALLING SEQUENCE •■• 



CALL GHXW 
JC NONHX 



I GET HEX WORD TO HL 
1 NON-HEX IF CV SET 

I OK. WORD IN HL 



IF INPUT VALUE IS VALID HEX THEN VALUE WILL BE IN HL 
WITH ALL OTHER REGISTERS PRESERVED AND CY RST 

IF INPUT IS INVALID. HL WILL BE PARTIALLY MODI FI CD 
AND CY WILL BE SET AND 'A" WILL HAVE THE 
ILLEGAL NON-HEX CHARACTER; 



I SET AND 

J CLEAR CY 

I SAVE STATUS 

J GET HIGH HEX BYTE 

IAND SET TO H 

1JMP IF VALID 

JRESrORE STATUS 

J SET A TO BAD CHARACTER 

)SET CY 

( AND EXIT 

I GET LOW HEX BYTE 

I AND SET TO L 

(JMP IF VALID 

( INVALID. RESTORE STATUS 

1SET A TO BAD CHAR 

I SET CARRY 

J AND RETURN 

J ALL OK 

I SO RET WITH HL SET TO WORD 



0195 


37 


QHXWI 


STC 


0196 


3F 




CMC 


0197 


F5 




PUSH PSW 


0198 


CD820I 




CALL GHXB 


0I9B 


67 




HOV H.A 


019C 


D2 A30 1 




JNC GHX2 


019F 


Fl 




POP PSW 


01A0 


7C 




MOV A.H 


01A1 


37 




STC 


01A2 


C9 




RET 


01A3 


CD8301 


GHXei 


CALL GHXB 


01A6 


6F 




MOV L.A 


01A7 


D2AE0I 




JNC GHX3 


01AA 


FI 




pop psw 


01AB 


7D 




MOV A.L 


01AC 


37 




STC 


01AD 


C9 




RET 


OIAE 


Fl 


GHX3I 


POP PSW 


01AF 


C9 




RET 



01CA 


210EOS 


ILLCH1 


LXI H.M3 


(ILLEGAL INPUT 


01CI/ 


C3C300 




JMP ILLEG+3 


I MESSAGE AND BACK TO 
) MONITOR. 


01D0 


221B0C 


GTA1I 
LOCATl 


SHLD ADR 


J SAVE 'ADR' 

J FROM COMMAND '• ■ ALSO 


01D3 


CD2D01 




CALL CRET 


;RETURN CARRIAGE 


01D6 


2A1B0C 




LHLD ADR 


) FETCH 'ADR' 


01D9 


CD6001 




CALL THXW 


J AND PRINT IT 


01 DC 


CD3A01 




CALL SPACE 


J SPACE 


01DF 


7E 




MOV A.M 


J FETCH CONTENTS 


01E0 


CD4201 




CALL THXB 


1 AND TYPE 


01E3 


CD3A01 




CALL SPACE 


1 SPACE 


01E6 


CD8201 




CALL GHXB 


( AND GET DATA OR COMMAND 


01E9 


DAF001 




JC NONHX 


INON-HEX INPUT 


01 EC 


CDB001 




CALL STORE 


) STORE THE NEW VALUE 


01EF 


7E 




MOV A.M 


; AND 


01F0 


CD3A01 




CALL SPACE 


( ECHO 


01F3 


CD4201 


NXLOCt 


CALL THXB 


( VALUE 

J FROM COMMAND 'LF' ALSO 


0IF6 


8A1B0C 




LHLD ADR 


I ACCESS 


01F9 


23 




INX H 


( NEXT 


01 FA 


C3D001 




JMP GTA1 


IAND CONTINUE 


01FD 


FEOD 


NONHX t 


CPI CR 


JIF CR 


01FF 


CAAOOO 




JZ NEXT 


( RETURN TO M0N1T0H 


0202 


FEOA 




CPI LF 


JIF LF 


0204 


CAF601 




JZ NXLOC 


( ACCESS NEXT 'ADR' 


030 7 


FE2D 




CPI •-• 


JIF - ACCESS LAST 


0209 


C2CA01 


LSTLCI 


JNZ ILLCH 


(NOT CR. LF. OR - SO ILLE 
J FROM COMMAND •-' ALSO 


080C 


2AIB0C 




LHLD ADR 


(DECREMENT 


020 F 


2B 




DCX H 


( "ADR' 


0210 


C3D00 1 




JMP GTA1 


JAND CONTINUE 



ROUTINE TO STORE A BYTE IN MEMORY WITH READ-BACK CHK 
CALLING SEQUENCE ••> 



CALL STORE 



(ADDRESS IN HL 
IDATA IN 'A* 
(STORE THE BYTE 
(RETURNN HERE IF OK 



ALL REGISTERS PRESERVED 

IF READ-BACK CHECK FAILS. AND APPROPRIATE ERROR 
MESSAGE WILL BE TYPED. AND CONTROL RETURNED TO 
THE MONITOR. 



(STORE THE BYTE 
(READ-BACK CHECK 
(LEAVE IF OK 
(ERROR. SAVE VECTOR 
(TYPE ERROR 
( MESSAGE 
(RESTORE VECTOR 
( AND TYPE ADDRESS 
(AND RETURN TO EXEC 



( MEMORY EXAMINE/MODIFY ROUTINES 

( 

( THE FOLLOWING ROUTINES HANDLE MEMORY EXAMINES 

1 AND MODIFIES. THE ADDRESS OF THE MEMORY LOCATION 

( CURRENTLY BEING ACCESSED IS IN •ADR'. TO INITIALISE 

( 'ADR'. THE MONITOR COMMAND 'A' IS USED. 

( 

J •♦ A 1234 

J 

( WILL SET THE 'ADR' TO THE VALUE 1234 (HEX) 

I 

( THE ROUTINE WILL THEN RETURN THE CARRIAGE. 

( TYPE VALUE OF 'ADR' AND IT'S CONTENTS IN HEX. 

( AND WAIT FOR ONE OF THE FOLLOWING INPUTS! 



01B0 77 STOREI MOV M.A 


01B1 BE 


CMP M 


01B2 C8 


RZ 


01B3 ES 


PUSH H 


0IB4 211205 


LXI H.M4 


0IB7 CD1B01 


CALL HSG 


01BA El 


POP H 


01BB CD6001 


CALL THXW 


01 BE C3A000 


JMP NEXT 



A VALID HEX BYTE TO REPLACE THE VALUE TYPED 
IN WHICH CASE THE ROUTINE WILL 
•STORE' THE BYTE. INCREMENT 'ADR'. AND 
DO THE NEXT ADDRESS. 

A LINE-FEED WILL CAUSE THE NEXT ADDRESS TO BE 
ACCESSED V1TH-0UT MODIFYING THE CURRENT ONE 

A CARRIAGE-RETURN WILL RETURN CONTROL TO THE 
MONITOR. 

A MINUS SIGN WILL CAUSE THE 'ADR' TO BE 
DECREMENTED BY ONE. 

THE LF AND '-' MAY BE ENTERED AS A 
MONITOR COMMAND ALSO AND WILL PERFORM THE SAME 
FUNCTION. 

IN ADDITION. THE COMMAND '•' FROM THE 
MONITOR WILL CAUSE THE CONTENTS OF THE CURRENT 
'ADR' TO BE TYPED AS IF THE COMMAND 'A' WITH 
'ADR' HAD BEEN ENTERED. 



01C1 CD3A01 
01C4 CD9501 
01C7 D2D001 



CALL SPACE 
CALL GHXW 
JNC GTA1 



(FROM COMMAND ' 
(TYPE A SPACE 
( AND GET 'ADR' 
(JMP IF VALID 



ROUTINE TO NEGATE THE DE REGISTER 
CALLING SEQUENCE ... 





... 


(VALUE IN DE 




CALL NEGDE 


(NEGATE DE 

(RETURN HERE WITH DE- 


0213 FS NEGDEl PUSH PSW 


(SAVE PSW 


0214 7A 


MOV A.D 


(FETCH D 


0215 2F 


CMA 


(COMPEL EM ENT 


0216 57 


MOV D.A 


(AND RESTORE 


0217 7B 


MOV A.E 


(FETCH E 


0218 8F 


CMA 


( COMPLEMENT 


0219 5F 


MOV E.A 


( AND RESTORE 


021 A 13 


INX D 


(ADD ONE TO D 


02IB Fl 


POP PSW 


(RESTORE PSW 


021C C9 


RET 


JAND EXIT 



ROUTINE TO DUMP A BLOCK OF MEMORY TO TTY 

THIS ROUTINE WILL DUMP A BLOCK OF MEMORY 
ON THE TTY. 16 BYTES PER LINE WITH THE ADDRESS 
AT THE START OF EACH LINE. 

THE FOLLOWING MONITOR COMMAND IS USEDI 

•• D XXXX YYYY 

WILL CAUSE THE CONTENTS OF MEMORY LOCATIONS 

XXXX TO YYYY TO BE PHINTED. XXXX AND YYYY MUST 

BOTH BE VALID FOUR DIGIT HEX ADDRESSES AND IF 

XXXX >- YYYY ONLY LOCATION XXXX WILL BE PRINTED. 

AFTER THE FIRST LINE. ALL LINES WILL START WITH AN 
ADDRESS THAT IS AN EVEN MULTIPLE OF 16. 



(FROM COMMAND 'D' 
(GET HEX ADDRESS 
( GET ANOTHEH 



(NEGATE DE FOR END CHECK 

(RETURN CARRIAGE 
(TYPE VECTOR ADDRESS 

(SPACE 

(GET DATA 

( AND DISPLAY 

(CHECK FOR ALL DONE 

(CHECK FOR MOD 16 

( ADDRESS 

(NEW LINE IF MOD 16 

( CONTINUE IF NOT 



JUMP - ROUTINE TO TRANSFER CONTROL 

THIS ROUTINE WILL ACCEPT AN ADDRESS FROM TTYI 
AND THEN RESTORE ALL REGISTERS TO THE STATE AS 
SAVED IN RAM ON ENTRY TO THE MONITOR AND TRANSFER 
CONTROL TO THE ADDRESS ENTERED. 

•» J 1234 



021D 


CD9S03 




CALL PU3 


0220 


CD9503 




CALL PU3 






( FROM 


ADDRESS IN 


0223 


CD1302 




CALL NEGDE 


0226 


CD2D0I 


DMRETl 


CALL CRET 


0229 


CD6001 




CALL THXW 


028C 


CD3A01 




CALL SPACE 


022F 


CD3A01 


DMNXTl 


CALL SPACE 


0232 


7E 




HOV A.M 


0233 


CD4201 




CALL THXB 


0236 


CDA402 




CALL LAST 


0239 


7D 




MOV A.L 


023A 


E60F 




ANI 15 


023C 


CAS 60 2 




JZ DMRET 


023F 


C32F08 




JMP DMNXT 



114 




DELTA ELECTRONICS 



POST OFFICE BOX 2, AMESBURY, MASSACHUSETTS 01913 



Phone (617) 388-4705 




Data Cassette Transport 



We have a limited number of these digital tape 
transports left. They are mechanically complete, 
but do not include drive electronics or recording 
heads. Use as the basis for your own design bulk 
storage unit. Each deck has 3 motors, one driving 
the capstan and one each for the take up reels. 
Each motor is 24v AC, split capacitor synchronous 
type. The transport has a slot loading mechanism 
for the cassette. 7" x 71/2" x 3%", 7 lbs. 
STOCK NO. B5222 $17.95ea, 2/35.00 




7400 series TTL Parts Special 



We have a series of surplus computer 
boards loaded with 7400 series TTL 
ICs, which are easily removed for reuse. 
We select 2 boards (samples shown) 
and guaran tee at least 60 ICs, but most 
will have more than 70. The ICs are 
made mostly by T.I., and include gates, 
counters, flip flops, one shots, shift 
registers, decoders, etc. Less than 10 
cents an IC, many of which sell for 
over$1. Shipping weight 1 lb. each. 




STOCK NO. B5409 



2 boards for $5. 00, 5 boards for $10.00 



Burroughs Decade Counters, 

Burroughs Series C2506 20 Mhz Decade Counters. 4 to 7 digits 

These counters are self contained decade counters with 4, 5, 6, or 7 digits, and 

may be ganged together for more digits. They are rated at 20 Mhz minimum, 

25 Mhz typical. By using one of the new fast decade counter ICs in the 

first stage, they could be used at 200 Mhz or higher. Each digit has a 

decade counter, strobed latch, and decoder/driver (with socket) for a 

B-5750 or similar Nixie tube. The BCD outputs are brought out for 

external use (or even for driving 7 segment or other displays). All inputs 

and outputs are TTL, power requirements are +5v and +200v. Ideal for 

frequency counters, DVMs, digital thermometers, etc. We will sell them with 

without tubes. 1973 distributor prices were $91 for the 4 digit model, $167 for 7 dig. 

without tubes STOCK NO. B5134 $18.00 

with tubes STOCK NO. B5134T $29.50 




Burroughs C-2506-4 
Burroughs C-2506-5 
Burroughs C-2506-6 
Burroughs C-2506-7 



or 



4 digits, 

4 digits, 

5 digits, 

5 digits, 

6 digits, 

6 digits, 

7 digits, 
7 digits, 



without tubes 
with tubes 

without tubes 
with tubes 

without tubes 
with tubes 



STOCK NO. 
STOCK NO. 

STOCK NO. 
STOCK NO. 

STOCK NO. 
STOCK NO. 



B5134T 

B5135 
B5135T 

B5136 
B5136T 

B5137 
B5137T 



$22.50 
$36.00 

$27.00 
$42.50 

$31.50 
$49.00 



10,816 bit Core Memory Board 

If you have ever lost a long program because of a power failure, you are aware of the 
value of non-volatile magnetic core memory. These Burroughs memory boards are 
organized as a 52 x 52x4 bits wide (2704 x 4 bits), for a total of 10,816 bits. Or, 
1352 8 bit words. We were able to locate some basic data for this memory. 7%" x 
9"x1%". Less than 1/10 cent per bit! See the July 76 BYTE for an excellent 
discussion on using core memories. 
STOCK NO. B5316 2 lbs. $9.95 each, 4/35.00 




Send for our latest free catalog. Minimum order $5, phone orders welcome. Include sufficient postage (2 lbs min.l, excess will 
be refunded. BANKAMERICARD & MASTERCHARGE welcome, ALL numbers needed for processing. Minimum charge $15. 



JUMP TO LOCATION 1834H 
IN ADDITION TWO OTHER MODES ARE POSSIBLE. 

THE COMMAND 

•* J (CR) 

WILL CAUSE THE ADDRESS SAVED AS A RESULT OF 
A RST TO BE USED FOR THE EXECUTION ADDRESS. 
INSERTING A RST IN A PROGRAM AS A BREAKPOINT 
WILL CAUSE THE ENTIRE MACHINE STATE TO BE SAVED 
AND THE J CCR) WILL RETURN YOU TO THE POINT AFTER 
THE RST 0. 

OF COURSE. IF THE RST REPLACED PART OF AN 
INSTRUCTION YOU MUST REPLACE THE RST AND 
MODIFY THE ADDBESS WITH 'RP-' SO THAT YOU WILL GET 
BACK INTO THE PBOGRAM AT THE PROPER PLACE. 

ALSO 

THE COMMAND 

•• J CLF) 

WILL CAUSE THE ADDRESS ENTERED WITH THE 'X' 
COMMAND TO BE USED AS IF IT WERE TYPED IN. 

THE CARRIAGE RETURN AND LINE FEED RESPONSES WILL 
CAUSE THE ADDRESS TO BE TYPED FOR VERFI FI CATION AND 
AFTER THE ADDRESS THE •OK?' PROMPT WILL REQUIRE A 
SPACE REPLY FOR EXECUTION TO PROCEED. OTHERWISE 
THE OPERATION WILL BE ABORTED. 







JUMP I 




J COMMAND ' J ' 


0841 


CD3A0I 




CALL SPACE 


1 SPACE 


0845 


CD9S01 




CALL GHXW 


IGET ADDRESS 


0841 


D86108 




JNC JMP3 


JHEX ADDRESS ENTERED 


084B 


FEOD 




CPI CR 


ISEE IF CR RESPONSE 


084D 


C8 5608 




JNZ JHP1 


J NO. GO CHECK FOR LF 


0850 


8A0E0C 




LHLD SVPC 


IGET SAVED PC VALUE 


0853 


C35E08 




JMP JMP8 


J AND GO PROCESS 


08 56 


FEOA 


JMPII 


CPI LF 


JCHECK FOR LF RESPONSE 


0856 


C8CA0 1 




JNZ ILLCH 


J ALL OTHERS ILLEGAL 


085B 


3A800C 




LHLD XESAD 


IGET XEU ADDRESS FROM 'X 


08SE 


CD6001 


JMP8I 


CALL THXW 


J TYPE ADDRESS 


0861 


CDS 108 


JKP3I 


CALL 0K7 


I OKI 


0864 


881E0C 




SHLD GOGO.l 


;SET UP FINAL JUMP 


0867 


3EC3 




MVI A.0C3H 


)JMP COMMAND 


0269 


381 DOC 




STA GO GO 


I TO RAH 


086C 


31140C 




LXI SP.SVE 


J RESTORE REGS 


086F 


Dl 




POP D 


J TO 


08 70 


CI 




POP B 


J VALUES 


0871 


FI 




POP PSW 


1 IN RAM 


0878 


8A100C 




LHLD SV3P 


I SAVED SP 


0875 


F9 




SPHL 


I SET NEW 5P 


0876 


2A120C 




LHLD SVHL 


IAND HL 


0879 


C31D0C 




JMP 00 GO 


J AND EXECUTE 



COMMAND a M 
FORMAT 



HOVE MEMORY BLOCK 
•• M XXXX YYYY ZZZZ OK? 



WILL MOVE THE BLOCK OF MEMORY STARTING AT 
XXXX AND ENDING AT AND INCLUDING YYYY TO THE 
BLOCK STARTING AT ZZZZ. 



...*. THE FOLLOWING RESTRICTIONS APPLY I ••*••« 
EITHER ZZZZ <- XXXX 



OR 



ZZZZ > YYYY 



THE ROUTINE MOVES BYTES IN ASCENDING MEMORY ORDER 
SO IF THE HEX ADDRESS VALUES DO NOT SATISFY 
THE ABOVE RULES. MOVED DATA WILL OVERWRITE DATA TO 
BE MOVED. 



08AC 


CD9S03 


MOVE! 


CALL PU3 


IGET XXXX 


08AF 


os 




PUSH D 


J SAVE ON STACK 


08B0 


CD9503 




CALL PU3 


IGET YYYY TO DE 


08B3 


CD9503 




CALL PUS 


I 6ET ZZZZ TO DE. YYYY TO HL 


08B6 


EB 




XCHS 


IDE-Y, HL-Z. TOP-X 


08B7 


E3 




XTHL 


JDE-Y, TOP-Z, HL-X 


08B8 


CD1308 




CALL NE6DE 


IDE— Y. TOP-Z. HL-X 


08BB 


CD8E08 




CALL OK? 




08BE 


7E 


M0V1 1 


MOV A.H 


J SET THRU X 


08BF 


E3 




XTHL 


J HL-Z. TOP-X 


08C0 


CDB001 




CALL STORE 


(CHECKED STORE 


0BC3 


83 




I NX H 


JBUMP Z 


08C4 


E3 




XTHL 


I RES TORE 


09C5 


C DA 402 




CALL LAST 


JCHECK FOR END 


08C8 


C3BE02 




JMP M0V1 


J AND CONTINUE 






) COMMAND 'F' - FILL 


A BLOCK OF MEMORY WITH VALUE 






) FORMAT 










• • F XXXX YYYY 


W OK? 



WILL CAUSE MEMORY LOCATIONS XXXX THRU YYYY 
INCLUSIVE TO BE SET TO THE VALUE VV (HEX). 



08CB CD9S03 


FILLl 


CALL PU3 


JDE-X 


08CE CD9503 




CALL PU3 


1DI-Y. HL-X 


08D1 CD1308 




CALL NEGDE 


JDE--Y 


08D4 CD3A01 




CALL SPACE 




08D7 CD8801 




CALL GHXB 


J GET VV -> "A" 


08 DA DACA01 




JC ILLCH 


IMUST BE VALID HEX 


08DD CDSE08 




CALL 0K7 




08E0 CDBOOI 


FILL1 1 


CALL STORE 


• JSTUFF IT 


08E3 CDA408 




CALL LAST 


I CHECK IT 


08E6 C3E002 




JMP FILLl 


I AND CONTINUE IT 



087C CD9503 
087F EB 
0880 CD8E02 
0883 E9 



0884 CD9S03 

0887 EB 

0888 88200C 
088B C3AO00 



I COMMAND ' G' 

J 

GOTO I CALL PUS 
XCHG 
CALL OK? 
PCHL 



DIRECT GOTO ADDRESS 

IGET HEX ADDRESS 

I TO HL 

IVFY 

1 THEN JMP ADR 



I COMMAND 'X 

J 

GETXAI CALL PU3 
XCHG 

SHLD XEOAD 
JMP NEXT 



SET EXECUTION ADDRESS FOR 'J' 



IGET HEX ADDRESS 
I TO HL 

I SAVE IT 

J AND BACK TO NEXT 



OK? - ROUTINE TO VERIFY OPERATION 
CALLING SEQUENCE ... 



J VERIFY 

1 RETURN HERE IF SPACE 

I ABORT IF NOT 



ALL REGISTERS PRESERVED 



08BE 


F5 


OKJI 


PUSH PSW 


J SAVE PSW 


088F 


ES 




PUSH H 


I AND HL 


02»0 


8 1 460 5 




LXI H.M7 


I ADR OF 'OK? • M 


0893 


CD1B01 




CALL MSG 


1 PRINT IT 


0896 


814D0 5 




LXI H.HS 


1 POSSIBLE ABORT 


0899 


CD0001 




CALL CHIN 


J GET ANSWER 


089C 


FE80 




CPI ■ • 


J SPACE? 


089E 


C8C300 




JNZ ILLEG»3 


J NO. GO ABORT 


08A1 


El 




POP H 


1 RESTORE HL 


08A8 


Fi 




POP PSW 


1 AND PSW 


02A3 


C9 




RET 


J AND LEAVE 



ROUTINE TO CHECK FOR LAST OPERATION IN 
DUMP. FILL. MOVE. ETC. 



08A4 ES 
08A5 19 
08A6 DAAOOO 
08A9 El 
02AA 83 
08AB C9 



PUSH H 
DAD D 
JC NEXT 
POP H 
1NX H 
RET 



1SAVE MEM VECTOR 

1 ADD NEGATIVE END ADDRESS 

I DONE IF CARRY 

I RESTORE VECTOR 

I BUR? AND 

1 EXIT 



I REGISTER EXAMINE/MODIFY ROUTINE 

I 

I THE MONITOR COMMAND 'R' FOLLOWED BY A SINGLE 

I CHARACTER WILL CAUSE THE ENTRY SAVED 

I CONTENTS OF THAT REGISTER TO BE PRINTED AND A 

1 MODIFICATION ACCEPTED. IF THE 'R ' IS FOLLOWED BY 

1 A CR THEN ALL OF THE REGISTERS SILL BE PRINTED. 

I 

I RA - ACC 

J RF - FLAGS. PSB 

I RB - B 

J RC - C 

I RD - D 

I RE - E 

I RH - H 

I RL - L 

J RS - SP 

J RP - PROGRAM COUNTER IF MONITOR 'CALLED' 

1 

J RCCR) - PRINT ALL REGISTERS 

J 

1 REGISTERS S AND P WILL BE PRINTED AS 4 HEX DIGITS 

1 AND MODIFICATIONS TO THEM MUST BE 4 DIGITS ALSO. 



08E9 


4I464S43 


RXLSTI 


DB 'AFBCDEHL 


.0 IREGISTER LIST 


08ED 


444S484C 








08F1 


00 


REGEXI 




J FROM COMMAND 'R ' 


08F8 


CD0001 




CALL CHIN 


IGET REGISTER ID 


08F5 


FEOD 




CPI CR 


I CHECK FOR CR 


02F7 


CA6303 




JZ REXAL 


J DO ALL IF CR 


08FA 


F5 




PUSH PSW 


1SAVE ID 


02FB 


3E3D 




MVI A. •-• 


JTTPE 


08FD 


CD5705 




CALL TYPE 


I - 


0300 


FI 




POP PSW 


1 RESTORE ID 


0301 


110EOC 




LXI D.SVPC 


IADDRESS OF PC 


0304 


FE50 




CPI 'P' 


ISEE IF 


0306 


CA3E03 




jz Rxe 


IPRINT PC 


0309 


13 




I NX D 


1P0INT TO 


030A 


13 




INX D 


J SP 


030B 


FE53 




CPI 'S' 


JCHECK S 


030D 


CA3E03 




JZ RX8 


1 DO SP 


0310 


47 




MOV B.A 


1SAVE ID 


031 1 


81E902 




LXI H.RXLST 


J LI ST VECTOR 


0314 


1 1 190C 




LXI D. SVA 


JADDRES5 OF 'A' STORAGE 


0317 


7E 


RXOI 


MOV A.M 


IGET TABLE IS 


0318 


A7 




ANA A 


JCHECK FOR END 


0319 


CACAO 1 




JZ ILLCH 


INOT IN TABLE 



116 





BILL GODBOUT ELECTRONICS 
BOX 2355, OAKLAND AIRPORT, CA 94614 



has Board kits for you . . . 



,CAVi! 



TERMS: Add 1 lb. po&tagz peA kJX. CoJLL{ i ofWAJiyL& add tax; no COV oKdzfi&. Vok MaAteAchaAge? ofi 
Ba.nkameAA.caAd* otide/u, qjxZZ (415) 357-7007, 24 kouAA. Have, you bznt ^ok qua {&/£%? Jt'& jtee. 




This is a multipurpose, simple, and cost-effective memory. Does your 
6800, 6502, 8008, SC/MP, or other processor need some memory? The 
Naked Ram is compatible with any system using a bi-directional data 
buss. Own a JOLT system? The Naked Ram is directly compatible. .. it 
even comes with an appropriate 40 pin connector and is the same size. 
This kit uses 2112s, and draws 750 ma or less to keep you on good 
terms with your power supply. Sockets included for all ICs;- too. 



M^g® ®& 



m 



m 



® 




$99.95 



EVERYTHING YOU COULD WANT IN A *K X 8 MEMORY KIT. . .At tat r 8800/ IMSAI/Pol ymorphic 
plug-in compatible, zero wait states guaranteed over the full temp range of to 
55°C, maximum current drain 750 ma (typical 600 ma), buffers on the addresses, 
data lines, and outputs, enough regulators to give some headroom to your supply, 
lots of bypass caps, low power Schottky support ICs...with sockets included for 
all ICs, a really nice PC board, complete instructions, and a warranty against 
defective parts. 






8080 Software XEconorom 

The picture to the left shows our 8080 Software Board ($159-95). The EROMs are pro- 
grammed with assembler, editor, and monitor routines for the 8080...a valuable first 
step to getting away from machine language programming. There's not enough room to 
describe all the software functions, but we'll send you the software packet and 
board documentat ion for 52.95 (refundable wi th order for board) . Have your own 
software? Put it in our *(Kx8 EC0N0R0M board ($159.95)- Program it yourself or 
have us do the programming for a nominal surcharge. For greater storage, we have an 
8K X 8 board for $2*9-95; if you're just getting started, there's a 2K version for 
$115. AH board kits are ALTAIR 8800/IMSAI compatible, featuring low power opera- 
tion, buffered addresses and outputs, sockets for ICs, logic print, and instructions. 



TO 



ip 



\L? a a □ UULbU U Lb UAJ UU LbLbLb □ 
may recall our announcement of a 16 bit machine a few months ago. You 
recall that we didn't solicit any orders, because we frankly dldn 
we'd be able to get our machine out on the market. Constantly chan 
ly situations, design improvements, and software have kept us occupied 
last year.. .but the first part is just about wrapped up, so here's a s 
iew of the CPU board. If you look closely you'll see not just the PACE 
a cassette/TTY interface, and on-board RAM and ROM. BUT... we're not 
ng orders (yet), so please don't write us just now. When we have a 
e system, available off-the-shelf, you'll see It in our ads. Hang in 



may 
know 
ging 

for 
neak 
CPU, 
ol i- 
com- 




031C 


BB 


CMP B 


031D 


CA2503 


JZ RX1 


0320 


83 


I NX H 


0381 


IB 


DCX 


0328 


C31703 


JMP RXO 


0315 


1A RX1 1 LDAX D 


0386 


CD4S0I 


CALL THXB 


0389 


C03A01 


CALL SPACE 


032C 


CDB801 


CALL GHXB 


038F 


DA3603 


JC RX1A 


0338 


18 


STAX D 


0333 


C3A000 


JMP NEXT 


0336 


FEOD RX1AI CPI CR 


0336 


CAAOOO 


JZ NEXT 


33B 


C3CA01 


JMP ILLCH 


033E 


EB RX2I XCHG 


033F 


51 


MOV E.M 


0340 


23 


INX II 


0341 


56 


MOV D.M 


0348 


EB 


XCHG 


0343 


C 06001 


CALL THXW 


0346 


CD3A01 


CALL SPACE 


0349 


CD* SOI 


CALL GHXW 


034C 


DA3603 


JC RX1A 


034F 


EB 


XCHG 


0390 


78 


MOV N,D 


0351 


SB 


DCX H 


0352 


73 


MOV M.E 


0353 


C SAO 00 


JMP NEXT 


0356 


CD3A01 RXTSEI CALL SPACE 


0359 


CD570 5 


CALL TYPE 


035C 


3E3D 


MVI A/'- 1 


035E 


CDS705 


CALL TYPE 


0361 


C9 


RET 



ICHECK INPUT ID 
> FOUND IT 
J NEXT TBL 
1NEXT REG 
JCONTINUE 

1GET THE RGE 
) AND PRINT IT 

JAND WAIT FOR REOUEST 
1N0N-HEX SO SEE IF CR 
JSTORE INPUT IN RG 
JAND BACK TO MONITOR 
JCR OK 

J BACK TO MON 
10THERS ILLEGAL 

JRG ADR TO HL 

I GET LOW S OR P 

JBUMP VECTOR 

J GET HIGH S OR P 

1RG VAL TO HL 

J TYPE WORD 

J SPAC E 

JAND GET REQUEST 

J IF NON-HEX 

JRSTORE RAM VECTOR FOR RG 

JSTORE HIGH S OR P 

JBUMP VECTOR DOWN 

JSTORE LOW S OR P 

J BACK TO MON 

J SPACE 
J TYPE ID 
J THEN 
J » 

J AND RETURN 



0368 


CD8D01 


REXALI 


CALL CRET 


J RETURN CARRIAGE FOR ALL 


REGS 


0365 


11190C 




LXI D.SVA 


JADDRESS OF 'A' 




0368 


21E902 




LXI H.RXLST 


J ID LIST 




036B 


7E 


RXA1I 


MOV A.M 


J GET ID 




036C 


AT 




ANA A 


J CHECK FOR LAST 




036D 


CA7C03 




JZ RXA2 


J DONE SINGLES 




0370 


CD5603 




CALL RXTSE 


J TYPE SPACE. ID. AND - 




0373 


1A 




LDAX D 


J GET REG 




0374 


IB 




DCX D 


JBUMP RG PNTR 




0375 


83 




INX H 


J AND LIST PNTR 




0376 


CD4801 




CALL THXB 


J TYPE REGISTEH 




0379 


C36B03 




JMP RXA1 


J AND CONTINUE 




037C 


3E50 


RXACI 


MVI A. 'P* 


J DO PC 




0371 


CD5603 




CALL RXTSE 


JSP. ID. - 




0381 


2A0EOC 




LRLD SVPC 


J GET PC 




0384 


CD6001 




CALL THXW 


J AND PRINT 




0387 


3E53 




MVI A. 'S' 


J DO SP 




0389 


CD5603 




CALL RXTSE 


JSP.ID. - 




038C 


2A100C 




LHLD SVSP 


J GET SP 




036F 


CD6001 




CALL THXW 


JAND PRINT 




0398 


C3A000 




JMP NEXT 


J BACK TO MON 




0395 


CD3A01 


PU3I 


CALL SPACE 


J SPACE 




0398 


CD9501 




CALL GHXW 


J GET HEX WORD 




03»B 


DACA01 




JC ILLCH 


J IF BAD 




039E 


EB 




XCHG 


J SAVE TO DE 




039F 


C9 




RET 


J AND RETURN 





J ROUTINES TO PUNCH OR LOAD MEMORY ON TTY 

J 

J THESE ROUTINES WORK WITH DATA IN THE INTEL 

J BINARY FORMAT. THE FORMAT CONSISTS OF A RECORD 

J HEADER. UP TO 16 BYTES OF DATA. AND 

J A RECORD CHECKSUM. 

J 

J RECORD FORMAT 

J 

J HEADER CHARACTER 'I' 

J HEX -ASCI I BYTE COUNT, TWO CHARACTERS 

J HEX-ASCII LOAD ADDRESS. FOUR CHARACTERS HHLL 

J HEX-ASCII RECORD TYPE. TWO CHARACTERS 00 FOR DATA 

J 01 FOR EOF 

J DATA BYTES IN HEX-ASCII. TWO CHARACTERS EACH 

J 

J HEX-ASCII CHECKSUM. TWO CHARACTERS 

I 

I THE CHECKSUM IS CALCULATED SUCH THAT THE 

J SUM OF ALL OF THE TWO CHARACTER BYTE FIELDS 

J WILL BE ZERO. 

J 

J THE EOF RECORD MAY CONTAIN AN EXECUTION ADDRESS 

J IN THE LOAD ADDRESS FIELD' THE LOAD ROUTINE WILL 

J TRANSFER CONTROL TO THIS ADDRESS AFTER READING THE 

i TAPE IF THE ADDRESS IS NON-ZERO. 



03A0 CD9503 
03A3 CD9503 
03A6 CD0C04 
03A9 3E11 
03AB CD5705 



CALL PU3 
CALL PU3 
CALL PWAIT 
MVI A.XON 
CALL TYPE 



JCOMMAND ■»■ 
J GET FROM ADDRESS 
J GET TO ADDRESS 
J TYPE PROMPT AND WAIT 
J START 
J THE PUNCH 



03B3 


CEOO 


ACI 




3B5 


47 


MOV B.A 




03B6 


7B 


MOV A. E 




3B7 


91 


SUB C 




03B8 


IF 


MOV C.A 




03B9 


7A 


MOV A.D 




03BA 


98 


SBB B 




3BB 


DAC303 


JC PN1 


J RCD LENGTH ■ 1 6 


03BE 


3E10 


MVI A. 16 




3C0 


C3C603 


JMP PN2 




03C3 


79 PN1 1 MOV A. C 


J LAST RECORD 


03C4 


C611 


ADI 17 




03C6 


B7 PN2I ORA A 




03C7 


CAFE03 


JZ PDONE 




3CA 


D5 


PUSH D 


J5AVE HIGH 


03CB 


5F 


MOV E.A 


JE-LENGTH 


3CC 


1600 


MVI D.O 


JCLREAR CHECKSUM 


3CE 


CD2D01 


CALL CRET 


J PUNCH CR.LF. RBO 


03D1 


3E3A 


MVI A. "I" 


J PUNCH HDR 


03D3 


CD570 5 


CALL TYPE 




03D6 


7B 


MOV A.E 




03D7 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 


J PUNCH LENGTH 


3DA 


7C 


MOV A.H 




03DB 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 




03DE 


7D 


MOV A.L 




03DF 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 




03E2 


AF 


XRA A 




03E3 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 


J PUNCH RECORD TYPE 


03E6 


7E PN3l MOV A.M 


I GET DATA 


03E7 


23 


INX H 




03E6 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 




03EB 


ID 


OCR E 


IDECR CNT 


03EC 


C2E60 3 


JNZ PN3 


JCONTINUE 


03EF 


AF 


XRA A 


J CALCULATE 


03F0 


92 


SUB D 


J CHECKSUM 


03F1 


CDF803 


CALL PBYTE 


JAND PUNCH IT 


03F4 


Dl 


POP D 


i RESTORE HIGH ADDRESS 


03F5 


C3AE03 


JMP PNO 


JAND CONTINUE 


03F8 


CD4201 PBYTEl CALL THXB 




3FB 


82 


ADD D 


J ADD TO SUM 


03FC 


57 


MOV D.A 




3FD 


C9 


RET 




03FE 


CD2D01 PDONEi CALL CRET 




0401 


3E13 


MVI A.XOFF 


J PUNCH 


0403 


CD5705 


CALL TYPE 


1 OFF 


0406 


CD660 5 


CALL GETCH 


J WAIT FOR GO-AHEAD 


0409 


C3A000 


JMP NEXT 


J BACK TO MON 



J ROUTINE TO TYPE 'PAUSE' MESSAGE 
J AND WAIT FOR TTYI GO-AHEAD 



040C E5 
040D 212A05 
0410 CD1B01 

0413 El 

0414 CD6605 
0417 C9 



PUSH H 
LXI H.MS 
CALL MSG 
POP H 
CALL GETCH 
RET 



J SAVE H 
J PROMPT 
J MESSAGE 

J WAIT FOR GO-AHEAD 
J AND THEN LEAVE 



J ROUTINE TO PUNCH EOF RECORD 



0416 


CD3A01 


PENDI 


CALL SPACE 




04IB 


CD9501 




CALL GHXW 


J GET ADDRESS OR CR 


041E 


D22904 




JNC PENDI 


J ADDRESS 


0421 


210000 




LXI H.O 


J SET ADDRESS 


0424 


FEOD 




CPI CR 


J CHECK FOR CR REPLY 


0426 


C2CA01 




JNZ ILLCH 


J OTHERS ILLEGAL 


0429 


CD0C04 


PEND1 I 


CALL PWAIT 


J PROMPT PAUSE 


042C 


3E1 1 




MVI A.XON 


J PUNCH 


042E 


CD570 5 




CALL TYPE 


J ON 


0431 


CD2D01 




CALL CRET 


J CR.LF, RBO 


0434 


3E3A 




MVI A. "1 ■ 




0436 


CD5705 




CALL TYPE 


J TYPE HDR 1 


0439 


AF 




XRA A 




043A 


57 




MOV D.A 


JZERO CHECKSUM 


043B 


CDF803 




CALL PBYTE 


JAND OUTPUT ZERO LEI 


043E 


7C 




MOV A.H 




043F 


CDF803 




CALL PBYTE 


.'EXECUTION 


0442 


7D 




MOV A.L 




0443 


CDF603 




CALL PBYTE 


J ADDRESS 


0446 


3E01 




MVI A.l 


JRCD TYPE 


0446 


CDF603 




CALL PBYTE 




044B 


AF 




XRA A 




044C 


92 




SUB D 


J CALCULATE CHECKSUM 


044D 


CDF803 


; PUNCH 


CALL PBYTE 
NULLS 


J AND PUNCH IT 


0450 


0E64 


NULLS 1 


MVI C.100 


J 100 NULLS 


0452 


AF 




XRA A 




0453 


CD5705 




CALL TYPE 




0456 


OD 




DCR C 




0457 


C25304 




JNZ $-4 


JCONTINUE 


045A 


C3FE03 


NULL I 


JMP PDONE 


J DONE 
JCOMMAND 'N' 


045D 


CD0C04 




CALL PWAIT 


JPHOPMT PAUSE 


0460 


3E11 




MVI A.XON 


J PUNCH 


0462 


CD5705 




CALL TYPE 


J ON 


0465 


C35004 




JMP NULLS 


J GO DO IT 



J HL HAS LOW ADDRESS, DE HAS HIGH ADDRESS 



03AE 7D 
03AF C610 
03B1 4F 
03BS 7C 



MOV A.L 
ADI 16 
MOV C,A 
MOV A.H 



J ROUTINE TO LOAD HEX-A5CII TAPE 
LOAD I JCOMMAND 'L' 



118 



World's Lowest 
IC Prices 



TTL 






LOW POWER SCHOTTKY 




7400 14 


74151 


60 


74LS00 


25 


74LS164 150 


7402 14 


74157 


60 


74LS02 


25 


74LS174 1.50 


7404 16 


74160 


75 


74LS10 


25 


74LS175 150 


7410 14 


74161 


75 


74LS73 


40 


74LS193 150 


7420 14 


74163 


75 


74LS75 


50 


74LS251 1.50 


7427 25 


74165 


80 


74LS151 


85 


74LS253 1.50 


7438 25 


74173 


1 25 


74LS153 


95 


74LS257 1.50 


7440 14 


74174 


75 


74LS157 


1 50 


74LS258 150 


7445 45 


74175 


75 


74LS163 


1 50 




7447 65 


74177 


70 


CMOS 




7450 14 


74180 


80 


4001 


16 


4027 40 


7451 14 


74181 


1 50 


4002 


16 


4028 


60 


7473 22 


74191 


1 00 


4006 


90 


4030 


35 


7474 23 


74192 


70 


4007 


16 


4040 


95 


7493 50 


74193 


70 


4008 


70 


4042 


60 


7495 49 


74198 


1 00 


4011 


16 


4043 


75 


74107 29 


9602 


50 


4012 


16 


4044 


70 


74116 1 00 


9300 


75 


4013 


35 


4049 


38 


74123 50 


9312 


70 


4015 


80 


4050 


38 


74150 60 






4016 


35 


4066 


65 


SCHOTTKY 






4019 


70 


4068 


35 


74S02 25 


74S172 


3 50 


4020 


90 


4069 


16 


74S37 40 


74S175 


1 50 


4021 


95 


4071 


16 


74S85 2 00 


74S181 


3 50 


4023 


16 


4073 


16 


74S139 1 50 


74S197 


1 50 


4024 


75 


4075 


16 


74S140 50 


74S257 


1 50 


4025 


20 


4516 


85 


74S153 2 50 






LINEARS 


4585 


85 


HIGH SPEED 






NE555V 


43 


RAMS 


74H00 20 


74H51 


20 


NE556A 


90 


2102 150 


74H01 20 


74H52 


20 


741V 


30 


PROMS 


74H04 20 


74H74 


40 


1458V 


52 


82S23S123 1 95 


74H10 20 


74H103 


50 


566V 


1 25 




74H11 20 


74H106 


50 


567V 


1 35 




74H40 20 






540L 


2 00 




Older Minimum $10 00 > 


AddS? OOshipp 


mg and 1 


tandling charge per order California residents add 6°o 


sales tax All orders shipi 


oed promptly 








Order the famous las 


is 6 volume Proqrami 


ned Learning 


Course "Microcomputer Design 


is a Snap" for $99.50 


and receive a 


special 


$10.00 credit 


on any group of IC's. 


Satisfaction 100°, guar 

cut 


mteed. 


(C 

J 


.O.D. Orders: 


Phone (day or night) 408/354-1448 

PO Box 2542 B 


CLII 


sv^r 


1 


Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



113 



0466 


CD3A0 1 


CALL SPACE 


046B 


CD9501 


CALL GHXW 


046E 


D27904 


UNC LDU 


0471 


210000 


LXI H,0 


0474 


FEOD 


CPI CR 


0476 


C2CA0I 


JNZ ILLCH 


0479 


E5 


LDUI PUSH H 


04 7A 


AF 


XRA A 


047B 


321A0C 


STA ECHO 


047E 


3E12 


MVI A, TON 


0460 


CD570 5 


CALL TYPE 


0463 


El 


LDOI POP H 


0464 


E5 


PUSH H 


0465 


CDDC04 


CALL RIX 


0466 


063A 


MVI Bi "1 • 


048A 


90 


SUB B 


046B 


C28304 


JNZ LDO 


048E 


37 


MOV D.A 


048F 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


0492 


CACA04 


JZ LD2 


0495 


5F 


MOV E.A 


0496 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


0499 


F5 


PUSH P3V 


049A 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


049D 


CI 


POP B 


049E 


4F 


MOV C.A 


049F 


C5 


PUSH B 


04A0 


E3 


XTHL 


04A1 


22220C 


SHLD BLKAD 


04A4 


E3 


XTHL 


04A5 


CI 


POP B 


04A6 


09 


DAD B 


04A7 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


04AA 


CDE204 


LD1I CALL BYTE 


04AD 


CDBO0I 


CALL STORE 


04S0 


23 


I MX H 


04B1 


ID 


DCR E 


04B2 


C2AA04 


JNZ LD1 


04B5 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


04B6 


CA8304 


JZ LDO 


04BB 


213205 


LXI H.M6 


04BE 


CD1B01 


CALL MS Q 


04C1 


2A220C 


LHLD BLKAD 


04C4 


CD6001 


CALL THXW 


04C7 


C3A000 


JHP NEXT 


04CA 


CDE204 


LD21 CALL BYTE 


4CD 


67 


MOV H<A 


04CE 


CDE204 


CALL BYTE 


04D1 


6F 


MOV L,A 


04D2 


B4 


ORA H 


04D3 


3E14 


MVI A. TOFF 


04D5 


CD5705 


CALL TYPE 


0406 


CAAOOO 


JZ NEXT 


04DB 


E9 


PCHL 


04DC 


CD660 5 


RIXl CALL SETCH 


04DF 


E67F 


ANI 7FH 


04E1 


C9 


RET 


04E2 


CD8201 


BYTEl CALL GHXB 


04E5 


4F 


MOV C.A 


04E6 


82 


ADD D 


04E7 


57 


MOV D.A 


04E8 


79 


MOV A.C 


04E9 


C9 


RET 
ISSISII 



(GET BIAS OR CR 

>BIAS ADRESS ENTERED 

(BIAS 

I CHECK FOR CR 

10THERS N.G. 

I SAVE BIAS 

I KILL 

I TTYO ECHO 

J TAPE 

J ON 

IQET BIAS 

J AND RESTORE 

IQET INPUT 

J CHUCK FOR RCD MARK 

I CLEAR CHECKSUM 

J GET LENGTH 

I ZERO ALL DONE 

I SAVE LENGTH 

J GET HIGH ADDRESS 

) AND SAVE 

I GET LOU ADDRESS 

I FITCH MSBYTE 

JBC HAS ADDRESS 

J SAVE VECT 

I TO HL 

I SAVE BLOCK ADDRESS 

I IN CASI OF ERROR 

I RESTORE 

IADD TO BIAS 

J GET TYPE 

J GET DATA 

I AND STORE IT 



( CONTINUE 
J GET CHECKSUM 
i CONTINUE 
JCHEKSUM ERROR 

i Msa 

I ADDRESS OF THIS BLOCK 
I FOR REFERENCE 
IAND EXIT 

J GET MSB OF XEQAD 



I TAPE RDR 

I OFF 

I MOW IF NO XEQAD 

;ao TO ROUTINE 



I GET TWO CHARS 



0557 F5 

0558 DB01 
055A E604 
055C C25805 
055F Fl 

560 F5 

0561 2F 

562 D300 

0564 Fl 

0565 C9 



566 DB01 

568 E601 

56A C2660 5 

56D DBOO 

056F 2F 

0570 C9 



LDA 
CALL 



TYPEI PUSH 

IN 
ANI 
JNZ 
POP 
PUSH 
CMA 
OUT 
POP 
RET 

JTH1S ROUTINE 



CHAR CHARACTER IN 

TYPE J TYPE IT 

JRETURN HERE 



PSW (SAVE CONTENTS OF 'A' 

1 J INPUT TTY STATUS 

4 J TEST FOR BUSY 

TYPE*1 J IF BUSY. KEEP TRYING 

PSW JRETRIEVE THE DATA 

PSW (AND SAVE IT AGAIN 

1 PREPARE THE DATA 

; OUTPUT IT 

PSW (RESTORE 'A' 



WORKS IN MY SYSTEM 



(BUT MAY NOT WORK IN YOURS 

1R0UTINE TO GET A CHARACTER FROM THE TTY 

ICALLING SEQUENCE 

; CALL GETCH 



r GET CHARACTER 

(RETURN HERE WITH CHARACTER 

I IN 'A' 



■ALL REGISTERS PRESERVED EXCEPT 'A' WHICH 
(CONTAINS THE INPUT CHARACTER 



IN 

ANI 

JNZ 

IN 

CMA 

RET 



1 ; INPUT TTY STATUS 

1 J TEST FOR READY 

GETCH JKEEP TRYING IF NOT READY 
I6ET THE CHARACTER 

J PROCESS IT 



J THIS ROUTINE WORKS IN MY SYSTEM BUT MAY NOT 
1W0RK IN YOURS 



ENDROM EQU t 



(BOUNDARY MARKER 



SYSTEM RAM AREA DEFINITIONS 



J USER RESTART VECTORS 1 - 7 



ocoo 


RST1 I 


DS 2 


0C02 


RST2I 


DS 2 


0C04 


RST3I 


DS 2 


0C06 


RST41 


DS 2 


0C06 


RST5I 


DS 2 


OCOA 


RST6I 


DS 2 


OCOC 


RST7I 


DS 2 



MONITOR REGISTER SAVE AREA 



I SYSTEM MESSAGES 



04EA 


0D0A0A41 


HOI 


04EE 


4D533830 




04F2 


20 56322E 




04F6 


300AFF 




04F9 


0D0A7F2A 


Mil 


04FD 


2A20FF 




500 


20495320 


M2I 


0504 


554E4445 




0506 


46494E45 




50C 


44FF 




050E 


203F3FFF 


M31 


0512 


140D0A7F 


M4i 


0516 


4D454D20 




051A 


57524954 




0S1E 


45204552 




522 


524F5220 




0526 


41 5420 FF 




52A 


20 5041 55 


MSI 


052E 


534520FF 




0532 


14204348 


M6i 


0536 


4B534D20 




53A 


4552 522C 




053E 


2042 4C4F 




542 


434B20FF 




546 


20204F4B 


M7I 


54A 


3F20FF 




54D 


2041424F 


MB! 


0551 


52 544544 




0555 


E1FF 





DB CR.LF.LF. "AM580 V8.0".LF.-I 



DB CR.LF.RBO. ••• ".-1 
DB ' IS UNDEFINED'.-l 



DB ' 77 '.-1 

DB TOFF. CR.LF.RBO. 'MEM WRITE ERROR AT *.-l 



DB ' PAUSE '.-1 

DB TOFF.' CHKSM ERR. BLOCK '*-! 



DB ' 0K7 ',-1 
DB ' ABORTEDI '. -1 



ISYSTEM I/O ROUTINES 



IUSER IS TO PATCH HIS OWN TELETYPE 
(ROUTINES HERE 



1R0UTINE TO TYPE A CHARACTER 
(CALLING SEQUENCE 





SVPCl 










OCOE 


SVPCLI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


PC 


LOW 


OCOF 


SVPCHI 
SVSPI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


PC 


HIGH 


0C10 


SVSPLI 


DS 1 


( SAVED 


sp 


LOW 


0C11 


SVSPHI 
SVHLl 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


SP 


HIGH 


0CI2 


SVLI 


DS 1 


(5AVED 


L 




0C13 


SVHI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


H 




0C14 


SVEI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


E 




0C15 


SVDl 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


D 




0C16 


SVCI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


C 




0C17 


SVBI 


D5 1 


(SAVED 


B 




0C18 


SVFI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


PSB. FLI 


0C19 


SVAI 


DS 1 


(SAVED 


ACC 







TMPAI 




OCID 




GOGOl 


DS 3 


0C20 




XF.QADl 


DS 2 


0C22 




BLKAD! 


DS 2 


0C24 


00 




NOP 


0000 






END 



(CHIN ECHO FLAG. OO-ECHO 
(-0 - NO ECHO 



(EXAMINE/MODIFY ADDRESS 



(TEMP STORAGE LOCATIONS 
( 'JUMP' STORAGE 



('X 1 EXECUTION ADDRESS 
I 'L' BLOCK ADDRESS 

(PROGRAM BOUNDARY MARKER 



120 



/A COMPLETE 
I 1KRAM 
I SYSTEM 



INTRODUCING THE 



VERASF8 COMPUTER 




16" 



14-3/4" 



With CPU card, buffered 
mother card, power supply 
and cabinet. The VERAS 
System is developed 
around the popular F-8 
Series of chips which in 
our estimation is the finest 
and most versatile Micro 
processor now available. 
The VERAS System can 
be made into a 17K pro- 
cessor by merely adding 
four of our optional memo- 
ry boards. 

OUR 4K STATIC RAM BOARD FEATURES: (OPTIONAL) 

• Outputs buffered. 

• On board decoding for any four of 64 pages. 

• Address and data lines are fully buffered. 

• 32 2102-1 static RAM's, 500 ns. or less, requiring no refreshing. 

• No onboard regulators to cause heat problems. (Chassis mounted) 

• 4K memory boards with connector, buyers and static RAM's are available in kit form for $149.00 

The fully buffered mother board will accept (4) 4K RAM boards for a total of 16K byliss of memory. Individual power ter- 
minals for each 4K RAM board are provided. Memory expansion beyond 16K bytes can be accomplished by the addition of 
more mother boards. Extra buffered mother boards with connectoi are available in kit form for S45.00 

Our modular power supply is designed around a high frequency torroid transformer which affords a large saving In size and 
weight, and keeps filtering to a minimum. It is rated at +5V at 10 amps and -5V and ±12V at 1 amp. This power supply will 
drive our CPU, four memory boards and some peripherals. POWER SUPPLY KIT S124 00 

All boards are high quality G-10, double sided, solder plated with gold plated edge Connector, 

PACKAGING FEATURES ARE: 

• All Complete modular plug-in construction. 

• B) Specifically designed rugged aluminum card rack with piovisions for voltage regulators (TO-?20 supplied) to keep heat 

off the boards. 

• CI Designed for convection or optional forced cooling. 

• D) All I/O ports brought out to the rear panel connectors for easy accessibility. 

• El Auxiliary DC power available at the rear panel to power peripherals. 

Veras Systems is currently developing the following: 

UV PROM board, DMI and DMA board, Cassette, modern, video board and more. All these boards will have innovative de- 
sign, something you will come to expect from VERAS SYSTEMS. 

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY PRICE FOR THE VERAS F8 

Computer kit is S429.00 or S679.00 assembled. The price will be S459.00 after Sept. 15, 1976. The kit includes everything 
you need to build the VERAS F-8 Computer as described. All boards, connectors, switches, discrete components, power supply 
and cabinet are supplied. Programming manual, data book and simplified support documentation supplied. 8K Assembler and 
Editor (paper tape! available on request with minimum order of 8K RAM. 

Computer dealers and hobbyist club inquiries are invited. 

^^ Expected delivery time 30 days or less. 



THE SYSTEM DESIGNED WITH THE USER IN MIND 
THE CPU BOARD FEATURES: 

Two I/O ports on the CPU and ROM chip make 32 bidirectional TTL lines. 

The Fairbug' programmed storage unit provides the programmer with all 

I/O subroutines, allows the programmer to alter or display memory, and 

register its contents via teletype. 

Programmable internal timer is built into the ROM chip. 

Built in clock generator and power on reset are built into the CPU chip. 

There is a local interrupt with automatic address vector. 

It is expandable to 65K bytes of memory. 

20 mil loop and/or RS232 interface included. 

1K of on board 2102 RAM. 

Serial interface built into PSU chip, 

I The More Flexible and Expandible 
Computer at a Comparative Price. 



VERAS SYSTEMS 



> 



I Warranty: 90 days on parts 
and labor for assembled units. 
90 days on parts for kits. 
Prices, specifications and 
delivery subject to change 
without notice. 

'Fairbug is a registered trademark of Fairchild Corp. 

VERAS SYSTEMS 

A Div. of Solid State Sales, Inc. 
Box 74B, Somerville, MA 02143 
(6171 547-1461 

[~l Enclosed is check for S 

1 or G Master Charge # 



□ vERAS F-8 Computer Kit DAssembled 
D4K Ram Board Quantity 

□ Power Supply Kit 



City, State. 



INTEL 8080 CPU S29.50 

2518-HEX 32 BIT SR .... SG.00 

2102-1 1024 8T RAM S 2.60 

5280-4K DYNAMIC HAM S12.50 

5202A UV PROM S12.50 

MM5203UVPROM SI 2.50 

1702AUVPROM S12.50 

5204-4K PROM $24.95 

MINIATURE MULTI-TURN TRIM POTS 
100, 500, 5K, 10K, 100K 200K 

S.75 eac^i 3/S2.0G 

MULTI-TURN TRIM POTS Sim. lar to Bourns 
3010 siyle3/l6"x5/8"xl-1/4"; 50. 100, 
IK, 10K, 50K ohms 

$1.50e;i .■■■-- 3/S4.00 

LIGHT ACTIVATED SCR's 

TO-18. 200V 1A S 1.75 

TRANSISTOR SPECIALS 

2N3585 NPN Si TO 66 S .95 

2N3772 NPN Si TO-3 S 1 60 

2N4908 PNP Si TO 3 . .... S 1 .00 

2N6055 NPN Si TO 3 Darlington . S 1 30 

2N5086 PNP Si TO-92 4/S 1.00 

2N4898 PNP TO-66 S .60 

2N404 PNP GE TO 5 5/S 1 .00 

2N3919 NPN Si TO-3 RF S 1 .50 

MPSA 13 NPN Si TO-92 3/S 1 .00 

2N3767 NPN Si TO-66 S .70 

2N2222 NPN Si TO-18 5/S 1 .00 

2N3055 NPN S. TO-3 S .80 

2N3904 NPN Si TO-92 5/S 1 .00 

2N3906 PNP Si TO-92 5/S 1 .00 

2N5296 NPN Si TO-220 S .50 

2N6109 PNP S. TO 220 S .55 

2N3866 NPN S. TO-5 RF S .75 

2N3638 PNP Si TO-5 5/S 1.00 

2N651 7 NPN TO-92 Si 3/S 1 .00 

C/MOS (DIODE CLAMPED) 

74C02- .25 4016- 50 4035-113 

74C10- .25 401/ 1-00 4042- 90 

4001- 19 4018- 1 20 4047-1.80 

4002- 22 4019- 5u 4049- 50 

4006- 120 4022 100 4050 60 

4007- .22 4023- 25 4055 1 75 

4009- 47 4024- -80 4066- .90 

4010- .47 4025 22 4071 - .40 

4011- .22 4027- 48 4077 35 

4012- 22 4028-100 4081 35 

4013- 30 4029-100 4076-120 
4015- 1.10 4030- 45 

LED READOUTS 

FND 500-.5" C.C SI. 75 

HP7740-.3" C.C St .40 

MAN-7-.3" C.A SI .25 

NS 33-3 dig. array 51 .35 

Send 25£ lui oui caialoy fcilunruj 

Transistors and Reciiliers 

145 Hampshire Si ., Cambr idye, Mass. 



4 WATT IR LASER DIODE $7.95 



PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD 



4 1'2"x6-1/2" SINGLE SIDED FPOXY 

BOARD 1/16" ihicfc. unetched 

S.50 ea 5/S2.20 

VECTOR BOARD 1" SPACING 

4.5" x 6'" SHEET . Sl.50 

2N 3820 P FET S .45 

2N 5457 N FET S .15 

2N4891 UJT S .45 

TIS43 UJT S .35 

ER900 TRIGGER DIODES 4/S1 .00 

2N 6028 PROG. UJT S .65 

VERIPAX PC BOARD 

This board is a 1/16" sini|ln sided papei epoxv 
board. 4'/,"x6'/," DRILLED and ETCHED 
winch will hold up to 21 stnijle 14 pin IC's 
or 8, 16. or LSI DIP IC's with busses foi 

power supply connecioi S400 

MV 5691 YELLOW-GREEN 

BIPOLAR LED SI. 25 

MT-2 PHOTO TRANS S 60 

RED, YELLOW, GREEN OR 

AMBER LARGE LED's . . . ea. S 20 

14 PIN DIP SOCKETS S 25 

16 PIN DIP SOCKETS S -28 

MOLEX PINS 100/S1.00 

1000/S8.00 

8 PIN MINI DIP SOCKETS S 25 

10 WATT 2ENERS 3.9, 47. 5.6, 8.2, 12, (5 

18 OR 22V. 100. 150. 200. . . ea S .60 
1 WATT ZENERS 4 7. 5.6, 10, 12. 15, 

18 OR 22V ea. S .25 



TANTULUM CAPACITORS 



Silicon Power Rectifiers 




PRV 1A 3A 


12A 50 A 125A 


100 .06 .14 


.30 .80 3.70 


200 .07 .20 


.35 1.15 4.25 


400 .09 .25 


.50 1.40 6.50 


600 .11 .30 


.70 1.80 8.50 


800 .15 .35 


.90 2.30 10.50 


1000 .20 .45 


1.10 2.75 12.50 



SILICON SOLAR CELLS 



2%" diameter 



.5V at 500 ma. 



. $5.00 ea., 6/S27.50 



REGULATED MODULAR 
POWER SUPPLIES 
t-15 VDC AT lOOrna 

115VAC INPUT S27.95 

5VDC AT 1 A. 1 15V AC NPUT . . . S24.95 
12 VDC AT .54 S24.95 



52Uf 35V 5 SI (JO 
47UF 35V 5/S1.00 
68UF 35V 5/S 1.00 
1UF 35V 5.'S1.00 
3.3UF 35V 4 'SI. 00 
4 /UF 35V 4-S1.00 



6 8UF 35V 
22UF 35V 
33UF 35V 
:U)UF 6V 
47UF 35V 
10DUF 35V 
IfiQUj 15V 



ii.Sl 00 
S .50 



C_[ /Qui Al AH .VI CI i H.I. rillP S5.7 

NATIONAL MOS DEVICES 



MM 1402 

MM 1403 

MM1404 

MM5013 

MM5016 

MM5017- 

MM5055- 

MM5056 



2.70 
2.25 
2.25 



MM505 

MM5058 

MM50G0 

MM 5061 

MM5555 

MM5556 

MM5210 

MM5260 



2.75 
2.50 



74 LOO 
7400 - 
7401 
7402 
7403 
7404 
7405 
7406 
7407- 
7408 
7409 
7410 
7411 
7412 
7413- 
7414 
7416 
741 7 
7420- 
7426 
7427- 
7430 
7432 
7437- 
7438 
7440- 
744 I 



TTL IC SERIES 

7442 

7445 

7446- 

744 7 

7448 

7472- 

74 73 

7474- 

74 75 

7476 

7480- 

7483- 

7485- 

7486- 

7489 : 

7490 

7491 

7492 

7493 

7494 - 

7495 

7496 
74107 
74121 - 
74123 - 
74125- 



74 1 26 - 

74150- 

74151 

74153- 

74154- 

74155- 



74157- 


7 Ft 


74161 


1 00 


74164- 


1 OR 


74165- 


1.05 


74173 


1.35 


74174 


1.20 


74175 


.95 


74177- 


1.00 


74180- 


1 ,00 


74181- 


2.10 


74190- 


1.1b 


74191- 


1.10 


74 1 92- 


,H5 


74193 


.8b 


74 194- 


1 2b 


74195- 


,74 


74 1 96 


1.10 


742E3 


1 50 


75324- 


1,75 


75491 - 


60 


75492- 


.60 



MIN 


ATURE DIP 


SW 


TCHFS 




C1S-2GG-4 


Four SPST 


wit 


hes 






in one 


minidip pack 


uje. 




. S1 


50 


crs-206-s 


Eiiihi SPST 


iwii 


•Man 


in a 


16 


pili DIP package. 






S2 


55 



i I013-A3OK s 
irssl UART. 



Full Wave Bridges 



SANKEN AUDIO POWER AMPS 

Si 1010 G 10 WATTS S 6.90 

Si 1020 G 20 WATTS SI 3.95 

Si 1050 G 50 WATTS S24.95 

PRV " ~2/T~~ 6A 25A~ 

200 .95" ~_~ 1.25 2 .00 

400" Yl5~"_ 1.50 3.00 

600 1.35 1.75 4.00 
CD 110 LINEAR 256 XI BIT SELF 
SCANNING CHARGED COUPLED 

D EVISE $99.00 

LINEAR CIRCUITS 

LM 309K 5V 1 A REGULATOR , . Si .25 
723 - 40 -» 40VV REGULATOR . , S .50 

301/748-Hi Per. Op. Amp S .31 

320T5. 12, 15, GR 24V 

NEGATIVE REG SI. 50 

741 A o. 741 C OP AMP S .31 

710 COMPARATOR S .35 

307 OP AMP $ ,31 

CA 3047 HI Pef. Op. Amp 

340T 5, 6, 8, 12,15, 18.24V POS 

REG. TO-220 

101 DPER. AMP. HI PERFORM. . . 
LM 308 Oper. Amp., Low Power . . 

747 - DUAL 741 

556 - DUAL TIMER 

537 - PRECISION OP. AMP 

LM 3900 - QUAD OP. AMP .... 

LM 324 QUAD 741 

560 - PHASE LOCK LOOP .... 
5G1 PHASE LOCK LOOP ... 

565 - PHASE LOCK LOOP .... 

566 FUNCTION GEN 

567 - TONE DECODER 

LM 1310N FM STEREO DEMOD. . 
8038 IC VOLTAGE CONT. OSC. . 
LM370 AGC SQUELCH AMP. . 

555 -2ys - 2 HR. TIMER 

553 OUAD TIMER 

FCD 810 OPTO-ISOLATOR .... 

1458 DUAL OP AMP 

LM 380 - 2W AUDIO AMP 

LM 377 - 2W Steieo Audio Amp. , 
LM381 - STEREO PREAMP, . , . 
LM 382 DUAL AUDIO PREAMP 
LM311 - HI PER. COMPARATOR 
LM319 Dual Hi Speed Comp. . . 

'LM339 QUAD COMPARATOR 



S .95 

S150 
S .75 
S .95 
S .65 
$1.00 
SI .70 
S 49 
SI. 50 
S2.00 
S2.00 
SI, 25 
S1.65 
SI. 50 
S2.75 
S3.90 
SI. 15 
S .45 
S2.50 
S .80 
S 60 
S .95 
S2.50 
SI .50 
SI. 50 
S .90 
SI. 25 
S1.50 



ALCO MINIATURE TOGGLE SWITCHES 

MTA 106SPDT SI. 20 

MTA 206 DPDT . . . S1.70 



Terms: FOB Cambridge, Mass. 
Send Check or Money Order. 



Order $5.00, COD'S $20.00 



SOLID STATE SALES 

P.O. BOX 74B 

SOMERVILLE, MASS. 02143 TEL. (617) 547-4005 



WE SHIP OVER 95% 

OF OUR ORDERS THE 

DAY WE RECEIVE THEM 



Text continued from page 109 



turn off instructions to the machine. These 
routines will be different for other users 
because of the hardware in the interface. 
This listing incorporates the routines used on 
the development system as an example only. 

Modifications to the Monitor 

This monitor was assembled to reside in 
low memory. Thus when the system is first 
turned on, the power reset circuit will put it 
into the monitor. A large area of ROM in 



low memory has been saved for future 
expansion. This expansion area will include 
drivers for high speed paper tape devices and 
for a cassette interface. 

Summary 

Although presented as an AMSAT users 
monitor, its use is by no means limited to 
AMSAT members. Anybody who has an 
8080 system will be able to use, modify or 
otherwise operate upon this software." 



Listing 2: An example of 
use of the AMS80 
monitor. 



(All numbers are in 
hexadecimal notation.) 



The "sign on" message is printed wher- 
ever the monitor is initiated. A command is 
entered to examine the contents of memory 
location 1234. It contains the number 42. 
The number 01 is typed in, the monitor 
echoes the 01, and then a line feed character 
is typed in, advising the monitor to examine 
the next location. Locations 1235 through 
1237 are examined and changed in the same 
manner. At 1238 the sequence is terminated. 

The contents of memory locations 1234 
through 1238 are then examined without 
changes. Then at 1238, the address pointer is 



AMS8 V2.0 Sign on message 



Display block 
Fill memory area with constant 



** A 
1234 
1235 
1236 
1237 
1238 
** A 
1234 
1 235 
1236 
1237 
1238 
1237 
** 
1234 
** F 
** D 
1234 
»* C 
1300 
** M 
** D 
1300 

** n 

** R 

A=00 
** RA=00 
* * RA= 1 2 
** RA=12 
** R 

A=00 F=46 B=0D C=0D D«00 E=03 H=00 L=C3 
** P 1243 1248 PAUSE 
: 06 1243003A01CD950 1D235 Punch tape 



Note: The program 
expects a new command 
after printing asterisks. 



1 2 34 Examine Memory Location 1234 
42 01 01 Change Contents 

01 02 02 
CD 03 03 
A4 04 04 
02 

1234 Examine without changing contents 
01 
02 
03 
04 

02 - Back up one location 
04 
1234 1238 

01 02 03 04 02 
1234 1238 76 OKi 
1234 1238 

76 76 76 
1300 1304 

Fl 1 1 0E 0C FE 
1234 1238 1300 
1300 1304 

76 76 76 76 76 
1342 1234 1345 
Examine registers 

F=46 B=0D C=0D D=00 E=03 H=00 L=C3 P-3CD2 S=2FE2 



76 7 6 Display it 



Display another area 
OK? Move block 

Verify that data was moved 
OK? ABORTED! Aborted function 



1 2 Change accumulator [A] 
00 Change it back 



Examine registers-i 

P=3CD2 S*2FE2 



** E PAUSE 
: 00000001FF 

*+ X 3800 
** J 3800 
8080 V3.0 



Punch end of file mark 

Set up location of Intel Monitor 
OK? Go to it 
Program executing 



backed up by the " — " command to 
examine the contents of location 1237. 

The block of memory from 1234 to 1238 
is then displayed. 

A command is then entered to fill each 
location within the block of memory from 
1234 to 1238 with the number 76 (the 8080 
HLT instruction). After entering parameters, 
the computer asks "OK?". If a "space" 
character is typed, the fill command is 
executed. The contents of the block of 
memory are then displayed and sure enough 
the 76s have been entered. 

Next the contents of the block of mem- 
ory locations from 1300 to 1304 are dis- 
played. After this command to move the 
contents of memory locations 1234 to 1238 
to a block starting at location 1300 is given. 
The monitor again asks "OK?" so you can 
verify addresses, after which depressing the 
"space" key causes the move command to 
be executed. The contents of memory loca- 
tions 1300 to 1304 are then displayed to 
verify the execution of the move command. 
If a move command (or other command of 
this type) is then entered incorrectly, it can 
be aborted by depressing the "CR" key after 
the query "OK?". 

The contents of the registers are exam- 
ined using the "R" command. The contents 
of the accumulator are changed using the 
"RA " command after which all registers are 
again examined using "R ". 

A punch command is then entered and a 
"PAUSE" is typed out by the monitor. 
When the tape punch is deemed to be ready, 
typing a "space" character causes the com- 
mand to execute and punch the tape as 
instructed. The program then pauses, and 
s when the tape punch is deemed to be off, 
execution continues after another "space" 
character is depressed. An end of file mark is 
then punched in a similar manner. 

Finally an execution address of 3800 is 
set up with "X" and the program is entered 
with a "J " command. The program starting 
at memory location 3800 begins executing, 
printing out the message "8080 V 3.0" 
which ends this example, m 



122 



MC14412 UNIVERSAL MODEM CHIP 
MC14412 contains a complete FSK modulator and de-mod- 
ulator compatible with foreign and USA communications. 
(0-600 BPS) 
FEATURES: 

.On chip crystal oscillator 
.Echo suppressor disable tone generator 
.Originate and answer modes 

.Simplex, half-duplex, and full duplex operation 
• On chip sine wave 
.Modem self test mode 
.Selectable data rates: 0-200 
0-300 
0-600 
.Single supply 

VDD=4.75 to 15VDC - FL suffix 
VDD=4. 75 to 6 VDC - VL suffix 
TYPICAL APPLICATIONS: 

.Stand alone - low speed modems 
.Built - in low speed modems 
.Remote terminals, accoustic couplers 

MC14412FL S28.99 

MC14412VL $21.74 

6 pages of data .60 

Crystal for the above S4.95 




MC14411 BIT RATE GENERATOR. 
Single chip for generating selectable frequencies for equip- 
ment in data communications such as TTY, printers, CRT s 
or microprocessors. Generates 14 different standard bit 
rates which ore multiplied under external control to IX, 
8X, 16X or 64X initial value. Operates from single +5 

volt supply. MC14411 .», $11.98 

4 pages of data 40 

Crystal for the above $4.95 

FLUID LEVEL DETECTOR. LM1 830 is used to compare exter- 
nal probe to probe resistance with a reference resistor. Use 
as water level detector or with any polar fluid. Smoke 
level detector can be made by substituting a photo cell 
for the fluid probes... etc. LM1830. . .$2.99. Specs .60 

- . H 

PRECISION REFERENCE DIODE. LM399 is a temperature- 
stabilized monolithic zener and buffer. Internal heater 
stabilizes output to .0002%/°C. Buffer reduces zener im- 
pedance to .5 ohm. Use in lab standards and calibrators. 
Initial break down tolerance is 2%. 
LM399H $5.95. Specs for LM399H..60g 

4 DIGIT COUNTER. MM74C926 is a 4 digit counter with 
7 segment output. Carry output for cascading and intermal 
display select allows outputting of counter or set of 
internal latches. 3 to 6V operation. Great for clocks, 
event and frequency counters. 
MM74C926- with spec sheet $12.00 

FOUR QUADRANT MULTIPLIER. MC1495L provides 
output as a linear product of two analog input. Use 
for frequency doubler, balanced modutar/demodulator, 
electronics gains control. 

MC1495L $5.50 

6 pages of specs 60 

9 pages of applications 90 

TELETYPE CODE CONVERSION CHIP 

MM5220BL converts 5 level Baudot into 8 level ASCII. Use 

this chip to make your old TTY talk to your new computer. 

MM5220BL fc . $1 8 . 00 

Specs for the above .30 

MOS TIME BASE KIT. 

Only 1" X 1.5". Input 5 to 15 VDC, output is 60HZ 
square wove for portable or mobile clocks. PC board is 
drilled ! MTBK-60HZ $5.88 




78H05 Voltage regulator. Fairchild 5V, 5A, TO-3 reg- 
ulator. Take care of those heavy current requirments with- 
out separate regulator/pass transistor combinations. Use it 
with the same ease of instalation as the 309K(same pin 
arrangement.) with specs $11 .25 




LM317 Voltage Regulator. 1 .5A, 3 terminal adjustable 
regulator in TO-3 case. Adjusts from +1 .2V to +37V. 
Complete overload protection. .1% load regulation, 
.01%/V line regulation. No need to stock assorted reg- 
ulators - just stock resistors $4.99 

Specs for the above 70 

DATA BOOKS BY NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR 

DIGITAL . Covers TTL, DTL, Tri-State, etc $3.95 

LIN EAR. Covers amplifiers, pre-amps, op-amps, . . $3.95 
LINEAR APPLICATIONS. Dozens of application notes and 
technical briefs covering the use of op-amps, regulators, 

phase locked loops and audio amps $3.25 

CMOS Gates, Flip Flops, registers, functional blocks $3 
VOLTAGE REGULATORS. A must for anyone making a 
power supply. Complete theory including transformers, 

filters, heat sinks, regulators, etc $3.00 

MEMORY. Information on MOS and Bipolar memories': 

RAMS, ROMS, PROMS and decoders/encoders $3.95 

INTERFACE. Covers peripheral drivers, level translators, 
line driver/receivers, memory and clock drivers, sense amps 

display driver and opto-couplers $3.95 

(Outside U.S., add postage for 1.5lbsl 

DATA BOOKS FROM FAIRCHILD. 

uA Linear. 776 pages of data and applications for Fair- 
child linear ICt Great value $4.25 

MOS/CMOS/nMOS/pMOS/CCD. Data and applications on 
MOS and charge coupled devices including preliminary data 
on new and future offerings. Want to know about 16K 
charge coupled line addressable memories? $3.95 



imfism 



Soys 



GET YOUR HIGHER EDUCATION AT 
GOOD OLD TTI* WITH THE LATEST 
IN DATA BOOKS AND MANUALS 
*Tri-Tek, Inc. 



GOLD CHIP 

Linear Integrated Circuits 

Brand new process by RCA in which the aluminum metalization 
has been replaced by gold. The chip is then hermetically seal- 
ed. What this means to you is unprecedented reliability and 
uniformity. Plastic parts that meet mil specs! ! 
Tri-Tek is proud to be the first to bring this new level of 
performance to you at SURPLUS PRICES. Why buy regrades?? 

CA30I A. . Improved, general purpose op-amp, 8 pin dip.. 59c 

CA307. . .Super 741 op-amp. 8 pin dip 52c. 

CA324. . .Compensated quad op-amp, 14 pin dip SI .80 

CA339A.. Low offset quad comparator. 14 pin dip. ..$1.59 
CA741 C. . Famous general purpose op-omp, 8 pin dip.. 45g 
CA747C. .General purpose dual op-amp, 14 pin dip... 82c 

CA748C. .Externally compensated 741, 8 pin dip 49c 

CA1458. . General purpose dual op-amp. 8 pin dip 69c 

CA3401..Quad single supply (5-18V) op amp. 14 prn..89< 

Another super buy from RCA. CA555 timer. 8 pin dip. 59c 



NEW NATIONAL BOOKS! 

AUDIO HANDBOOK contains detailed discussions, 
including complete design particulars, covering many 
areas of audio with real world design examples. .. $3. 25 
SPECIAL FUNCTIONS DATA BOOK contains detailed 
information for specifying and applying special amplifiers, 
buffers, clock drivers, analog switches and D/A-A/D 
converter products $3 . 25 



ULTRASONIC TRANSCEIVER. LM1812 is a special I.C. 
containing a 12W ultrasonic transmitter, selective receiver, 
noise rejection circuitry, display driver and keyed modulator. 
Use in sonars, burglar alarms, liquid level control, direction 
control for model submarines, etc. 
LM1B12 $9.15. Specs and apps 60c 



PRECISION REFERENCE AMP 

LH0070-1H provides a precise 10.0 volts for use in BCD A 

to D converters or meter calibrators. Typical initial accuracy 

is .3% (t ,03V). Comes in TO-5 can. 

LH0070-1 H with specs $5.35 



TV CAMERA SYNC 


GENERATOR. 


MM5320N I.C 


generates 


all sync signa 


s for 


T.V. camerc 


Even 


color ! ! . 






MM5320N 




....$18.80... 






$1 


.00 


T.V. CLOCK 


CHIP 


SET. MM53 18/5841 


two chip 


set 


'orms 


basis for time 


of day display on your TV 


screen. If 


teresting 


and convenient way 


to keep time. 










MM53 18/5841 


Set 


$22.45 






..SI 


.00 



D-A CONVERTER BY ZELTEX 

8 bir precision hybrid circuit for use in controllers, timers, 
volt meters, etc. Molded plastic package with P.C. pins. 
Super buy on this better than usual subsystem. ZELTEX 
model ZD430. DAC-430 $4 .95 



NEW BOOK!!! "An Introduction to Microcomputers" 
This is the book which Fairchild Semiconductor Company 

called " the best darned introduction to the industry 

to date." Covers everything from basic concepts to a re- 
view of real microcomputers. IMC-001 $8.00 




tRi-tek, inc. 

6522 noRth 43R6 avenue, 

QlendAle, ARizona 85301 

phone 602 - 931-6949 



We pay shipping on all orders over $10 US, $15 foreign in US funds. Orders 

under $10, please add $1 handling. Please add insurance. Master Charge 
and Bank America cards welcome, ($20 minimum) Telephone orders may be 
placed 11AM to 5PM doily, Mon thru Fri. Call 602-931 -4528. Check reader 
service card or send stamp for our latest flyers packed with new and surplus 
electronic components. 



Programming Quickies: 



8 Bit Fractional Multiplication 

Ira Chayut, 3030 Brighton 12th St, 
Brooklyn NY 11235, submits the following 
subroutine for a Motorola 6800 which 
returns the most significant 8 bits of the 
integer product of two 8 bit operands. The 
program is shown here beginning at address 
0000 hexadecimal. This multiplication is 
equivalent to treating one number (for 
example the argument in A) as an integer 
from to 255 and the second number (for 
example the argument in B) as a fraction 
from 1/256 to 255/256. 

Ira wrote the routine for use in a digital 
filtering application where the fractional 
interpretation was needed. The version sub- 
mitted was located at addresses 026F to 



Do you ever spend a spare moment 
creating a little program or subroutine to 
explore some of the possibilities of your 
computer? Write down a symbolic and abso- 
lute listing in the language of your computer 
plus a short paragraph describing the pro- 
gram and its purpose. Then send the result 
to Quickies, BYTE, 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough NH 03458. Each Programming 
Quickie published will earn its originator 
$20 worth of fame and fortune. 



Addr 


Hex Code 

B7 00 10 


Label 

MULT 


Op 

STAA 


Operand 


0000 


ARG1 


0003 


4F 




CLRA 




0004 


74 00 10 


MLOOP 


LSR 


ARG1 


0007 


58 




ASLB 




0008 


24 03 




BCC 


NONADD 


000A 


BB00 10 




ADDA 


ARG1 


000 D 


26 F5 


NONADD 


BNE 


MLOOP 


000 F 


39 




RTS 





0010 



ARG1 



027F as an artifact of the Motorola Design 
Evaluation Kit which was used; we've re- 
located it to location 0000 (but we kept the 
long form of memory reference to ARG1). 
To relocate this program at an arbitrary 
address, the address constants in instructions 
at locations 0000, 0004, and 000A will have 
to be changed to reflect the new location of 
ARG1. 

Commentary 



ARG1 := A [save in temporary] ; 

A := [initial product sum is zero] 

ARG1 := ARG1 12; 

CY := MSB(B); B := ASL(B,1); 

if CY = then skip the addition; 

else A := A + ARG1; 

if ARG2 NE then reiterate; 

else return with result in A; 



single byte temporary data area, uninitialized; 




Computing 1776 Poster 

Robert Tinney painted a beautiful oil painting on a bicentennial 
theme bridging two centuries of America's development. This 
painting has been reproduced on the cover of this issue, and a 
full-sized poster in color without the BYTE logo has been 
printed for you. It will make a perfect wall decoration in your 
office, home or computer room. 

The poster is 20" by 24" (51 cm by 61 cm) large with a white 
border of 2 inches (5 cm) at all four sides. The image size is 16" 
by 20" (41 cm by 51 cm), and it is the original size. The price is 
-$2.95 postpaid, and the poster is shipped in a mailing tube to 
avoid folding. Only 2,000 copies have been printed on the first 
run which will be sold on a first come first served basis. So hurry 
if you want to be among the first to show this beautiful poster 
to your friends. 



BYTE Posters 

PO Box 274 

Jaffrey Center NH 03454 

603-924-7217 

Name 



Allow 6 - 8 weeks for processing. 



. Posters $2.95 each 



Address 



City 



_State . 



-Zip. 



O Bill BankAmericard 
□ Bill Master Charge 
No 



□Check Enclosed 



. Exp. Date 



124 



%r': 



7400N TTL 



SN7400N 
SN7401N 
SN7402N 
SN7403N 
SN7404N* 
SN7405N 
SN7406N 
SN7407N 
SN7408N 
SN7409N 
SN7410N* 
SN7411N 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
5N7414N 
SH7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7420N 
SN7421N 
SN7422N" 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7426N 
SN7427N 
SN7429N 
SN7430N 
SN7432N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN744QN 
SN7441N 
SN7442N 
SN7443N 
SN7444N 
SN744SN 
SN7446N 
SN7447N* 
SN7448N 
SN7450N 
| SN7451N 



SN7453N 

SN7454N 

SN7459A 

SN7460N 

SN7470N 

SN747IN' 

SN7472N 

SN7473N' 

SN7474N* 

SN7475N* 

SN7476N- 

SN7479N' 

SN7480N 

SN7482N 

5N74B3N 

SN7485N 

SN7486N 

SN74B8N 

SN7489N 

SN7490N* 

SN7491N 

SN7492N 

SN7493N" 

SN7494N 

SN7495N 

SN7496N 

SN7497N* 

SN74100N* 

SN74107N 

SN74121N* 

SN74122N 

SN74123N- 

SN74125N 

SN74126N 

SN74132N 

SN74136N 

SN74141N 

SN74142N' 

SN74143N* 

SN74144N* 

SN74145N 

SN74147N 

SN7414BN 



SI1741S0N 

SN74151N 79 

SN74153N .89 

SN74154N* 1.25 

SN74I55N .99 

SN74156N .99 

SN74157N 99 

SN74160N 1.25 

SN74161N .99 

SN74163N* .99 

SN74164N 1.10 

SN74165N 1.10 

SN74166N 1.25 

SN74167N 5.50 

SN74170N 2.10 

SN74172N 18.00 

SN74173N 1.50 

SN74174N 1.25 

SN74175N 99 

SN74176N .90 

SN74177N .90 

SN74180N 99 

SN74181N 249 

SN74182N .95 

SN74184N 1.95 

SN741B5N 2.20 

SN74186N* 5.00 

SN74187N 6.00 

SN74190N 1,19 

SN74191N 1.25 

SN74192N* 89 

SN74193N* 89 

SN74194N 125 

SN74195N .75 

SN74196N 1 25 

SN74197N 75 

SN74198N 1.75 

SN74199N 1 75 

5N742Q0N 5.59 

SN74279N* .90 

SN74251N 179 

SN742B4N 6.00 

SN74285N 6 00 



MANY OTHERS AVAILABLE ON REQUEST 
20% Discount for 100 Combined 7400's 



CO4000 
CD4001 
C04002 
CD4006 
CO40O7 
CD4009 
CD4010 
CD4011 
CD4012 
CD4013 
C04016 
CD4017 
CO4019 
C04020 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CO4027 
CO4028 
CD4029 
CD4030 



CMOS 



CD4035 
C04Q40 
CD4042 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CO4047 
CD4049 
CO405O 
CO4051 
CO4053 
CD4060 
CD4066 
C04069 
CO4071 
CD4072' 
C04081 
CD45I1 
C04518 
74 COON 
74C02N 



295 
2.95 
3.25 



74C04N 

74C10N 

74C20N 

74C30N 

74C42N 

74C73N 

74C74 

74C90N 

74C95N 

74C107N 

74C151 

74C154 

74C157 

74C160 

74C161 

74C163 

74C164 

74C173 

74C193 

74C195 

MC4044* 

MC14016" 



LM30CH 

LM301H 

LM301CN 

LM302H 

LM304H 

LM3G5H 

LM307CN 

LM3Q8H 

LM308CN 

LM309H 

LM309K 

LM310CN 

LM311H 

LM311N 

LM3IBCN 

LM319N 

LM319D 

LM320K-5 

LM320K-5 2 

LM320K-12 

LM320K-1S 

LM320T-5* 

LM320T-8" 

LM320T-12' 

LM320T-1B* 

LM323K-S- 

LM324N 

LM339N 

LM340K-5 

LM34QK-12 

LM340K-15 

LM34QK-24 

IM340T-5 

LM340T-6 

LM34QT-B' 

LM340T-1B- 

LM140T-12 

LM340T-15 

LM340T-24 

LM350N 

LM351CN 

LM370N 

LM370H 

LM373N 



LINEAR 



LM377N 

LU380N 

LM3B0CN 

LM3B1N 

LM382N 

NE501K 

N6510A 

NE531H 

NE536T 

NE540L 

NE550N 

NE5S3 

NE555V* 

NE5608- 

NE561B- 

NE562B" 

NE565H* 

NE565N* 

NE566CN* 

NE567H* 

NE567V* 

LM703CN 

LM709H 

LM709N 

LM7I0N 

LM711N 

LM723N 

LM723H 

LM733N 

LM739N 

LM741CH 

LM741CN 

LM74I 14N 

LM747H 

LM747N 

LM748H 

LM74SN 

LM1303N 

LM1304N 

LM1305N 

LM1307N 

LM1310N 



LM13S1N 1 

LM1414N 1 

LM1458C 

LM1496N 

LM 1556V 1 

LM2111N 1 

LM2901N 2 

LM3065N 

LM3900N 

LM3905N 

LM3903* 1 

LM5556N 1 

MC5558V 1 

LM7525N 

LM7535N 1 

803BB" 4 

LM75450 

75451CN 

75452CN 

75453CH 

75454CN 

75491CN 

75492CW 

75494CN 

RCA LINEAR 
CA3013 2 

CA3023 2 

CA3035 2 

CA3039 1 

CA3046 1 

CA3059 3 

CA306O 3 

CA3080 

CA30B1 2 

CA3082 2 

CA3083 1 

CA30B6 

CA30B9 3 

CA3091 10 

CA3123 2 

CA3130 I 

CA3600 1 

RC4194 5 

RC4195 3 



KITS 



EXAR 



ics 



XR-2206KA SPECIAL $17.95 

Includes monolilhic tunciion generator IC. PC board, and assembly instruction 
TianuaJ. 

XH-22MKB SPECIAL $27.95 

Same as XR 2206KA above and includes external components tor PC Ooarrt. 



TIMERS 

XR-555CP 

XR-320P 

XR-556CP 

XR-2556CP 

XR-2240CP 

PHASE LOCKED LOOPS 
XR-210 i 

XR-215 t 

XR-S67CP 1 

XR-2567CP i 



3.20 
3.25 



STEREO OECOOERS 

XR-1310P 
XR-1310EP 
XR18O0P 

WAVEFORM GENERATORS 

XR-205 
XR-2206CP 
XR-2207CP 
MISCELLANEOUS 

XR-2211CP 
XR4136 



$3.20 
3.20 
3.20 



100 per strip MOLEX PINS 

Intended for use as an inexpensive substitute fnr IC 
scckets. Also perfect lor use as board connectors 
IHIHUl ano in subassemblies. 
t SPECIAL — 100/1.49— 1000/12.00 



CONSUMER ELECTRONICS 



PONG 
SUPER PONG 



SINGLE 
GAME 

4 GAMES 

IK ONE 



Zil PONG 



GAMES INCLUDED IN SUPER PONG ARE: 

• PONG • CATCH 

• SUPER PONG • HANDBALL 

FEATURES OF PONG ANDSUPER PONG 

I Incremental speed on volleys increases excitement. 

I Playing Held adjusts to any size screen. 

I Game appears in color or in black * white, depending on letevsion sel 

I Unmctakable "PONG' sound accompanies each volley. 

I Digital scoring flashes on ihe screen between each point. 

I 2 player challenge or Solitaire 

I Hooks up smply (o any model television sel: the screen actually becomes the playing field 

I English and other techniques can Dp used 10 make any member c! ihe family a Pong champion 

i Ballery operated By 4 size "D" flashlight hatter ire Included Witt the Unn. 

AC Adaptor (Eliminates Batteries) $9.95 





OPTO ELECTRONICS R ;™ EN 

DISCRETE LEDS 




125" dia. 



.185" dia. 



.190" dia. 



XC209H 
XC209G 
XC209Y 
XC209O 



XC526R 
XC526G 
XC526V 
XC5260 



XC1I1H 
XCI1IG 
XC111Y 



fe 



.200" dia. 



.200" dia. 



XC22H 
XC22G 
XC22V 
XC220 



.085" dia. 

MV50 

085" dia. Micio 
red ted 



t-mbUA mam 

■ ll 



TYPE 
MAN 1 
MAN 2 
MAN 3 
MAM 4 
MAN 7 



POLARITY 

COMMON ANODE 
5 x 7 DOT MATRIX 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 
MAN 7G COMMON ANODE-GREEN 
MAN 7Y COMMON ANODE-YELLOW 
MAN 72 COMMON ANOCE 




MAN 74 

DL707 

OL747 

DL750 

DL33B 

FND70 

FN0503 

FNDBOr 



COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 
COMMON ANODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 



300 SI. 50 
.300 S1.50 
600 2.25 



16 pin 
IB pin 
22 pin 



IC SOLDERTAIL — LOW PROFILE (TIN) SOCKETS 



5 SOLDERTAIL STANDARD (TIN) 



10 pin 
14 pin 
16 pin 
IB pin 




SOLDERTAIL STANDARD (GOLD) 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS (GOLD) LEVEL #3 



24 pin SI .05 

28 pin 1 40 

36 pin 159 

40 pin 1.75 



50 PCS. RESISTOR ASSORTMENTS $1 .25 PER ASST. 



ASST. 1 
ASST. 2 
ASST. 3 
ASST. 4 
ASST. 5 
ASST. G 

ASST. 7 

ALL OTHER 
5-25 PCS 



10 OHM 12 OHM 15 OHM 18 OHM 22 OHM 

27 OHM 33 OHM 39 OHM 47 OHM 56 OHM 

68 OHM 82 OHM 100 OHM 120 OHM 150 OHM 

1BOOHM 220 OHM 270 OHM 330 OHM 390 OHM 

470 OHM 560 OHM 680 OHM 820 OHM IK 

1.2K 1.SK 1.8K 2.2K 



3.3K 



1E0K 
390K 



5 m. 2 7M 

RESISTORS 



1? 



FROM 
30-95 



3.9K 



I60K 
470K 
1.2M 
3.3M 

2.2 

PCS 



4 7K 



220K 
560K 



5 6K 



tOOK 
270K 

680K 



2.7K 
6 8K 



120K 
330K 
820K 



0-i 



4.7M 5.6M 

5 6M AVAILABLE 
100-495 PCS: 



1/4 WATT 5% 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% - 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% - 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% ■ 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% - 50 PCS. 

1/4 WATT 5% ■ 50PCS. 

MULTIPLES OF 3 ea 

03 ea 500-995: .0275 ea. 



14 PCS. POTENTIOMETER ASSORTMENTS 
ASST. A 2 ea: 10 OHM-20 OHM-50 OHM-100 OHM-200 OHM-250 OHM-500 OHM 
ASST. B 2 ea: IK, 2K, 5K. 10K. 20K. ?OK 50K 
ASST. C2ea: SOK, 100K. 2O0K, 250K, 500K. 1M. 2M $9.95 PBf ASSt. 



Each assortment contains 14 pes ol 10 turn pots. All pots ate available in single unit quantities. S.99 e. 




*Astrisk Denotes Items On Special For This Month* 
Satisfaction Guaranteed. $5.00 Min. Order. U.S. Funds. 
California Residents — Add 6% Sales Tax — Data Sheets 25c each 
Send a 13c Stamp (postage) tor a FREE 1976 Catalog 

1021 HOWARD AVE., SAN CARLOS, CA. 94070 
PHONE ORDERS — (415) 592-8097 



74LS00 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS0B 
74LS10 
74LS13 
74LSI4 
74LS20 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS40 
74LS5I 



74.LS00 TTL 



7-ILS55 
741S73 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS76 
74LSB3 
74LSB6 
74LS9Q 
7.SLS92 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS9S 
74LS107 
74LS112 
74LS132 
7-1 LSI 36 
74 LS 



74LS151 
74LS153 
74 LSI 57 
74 LSI 62 
74 LSI 63 
74LS164 
741S181 
74 LSI 90 
74 LSI 91 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS257 
MLS260 
74LS279 
74LS670 



2.85 
2.85 
2.2S 
2.25 



DATA HANDBOOKS 

n out & Description of 5400/7400 ICS $2.95 

n out & Description of 4000 Series ICS $2.95 

"-out & Functional Description $2.95 

ALL THREE HANDBOOK$ S6.95 



DPOT 




mf 




10-M 


»« 






ON 


NONE 


« 


f 


2.95 


2.55 


f.B7 


1.70 




6 


a 


ON 


113 


2.95 


2.15 


1.58 


1.43 






>v'i 


0„ 


«» 


ON 
ON 


I 


,.« 


IBS 


Mi 

13) 


.30 



MINIATURE 
TOGGLE 



PUSH BUTTON 

Model 1 Quanlty nel pricas 
Number Each 2-9 10-29 30-99 
PQ 123 S2.35 SI 95 S1.47 SI 30 

PB-126 S2.35 SI 95 51.47 S1.30 



! 



THUMBWHEEL SWITCHES 




B POSITION TlOTARinWITCH TnesrsTSTTc z ? position one 






FOR 



TYPE 
IN746 

1N751A 
1N752 
1N753 
1N754 
IN96S8 
1N5232 
1N5234 
1N5235 
1N5236 
1N450 
1N45B 
1ISJ485A 
1N4001 
1N4002 
1N4003 
1N40D4 



ZENERS — DIODES — RECTIFIERS 



400m 
400m 
JOOm 
400m 
JOOm 
400m 



50 PIV 
1 00 PI V 
200 PIV 

400 PIV 



7m 5/100 

10m 5-1 00 
1 AMP 121.00 



I TYPE VOLTS 
1N4005" 600 PIV 
1N4006* 800 PIV 
1N4007* 1000 PIV 
1M3600 SO 
1N4148 75 
1N4154 35 
1N4734 5.B 
IN4735 6.2 
1N4736 6.8 
1N4738 B.2 
IN4742 12 
IN4744 15 
1N11B3 50 PIV 
1N11B4 100 PIV 
1N118G 200 PIV 
•N11B8 400 PIV 



1 AMP 
1 AMP 
1 AMP 
200m 



ton .00 
10/1.00 
10/1.00 



35 AMP 
35 AMP 
35 AMP 
35 AMP 



MPS A05 

MPS AC* 

2NJ219A 

2N2J2! 

2H222!I<- 

2N2369 

?N2369A 

FN2415 

2N24S4 

2N2906A 

2N2907A 

2N2925 

2N30S3 

2N3055 

MJE30SS 

MJE2955 

2N339S 

2M339S 



3«1 00 
431 JO 

am.oo 

5 SI 00 
4S10O 
5.-S1 00 
4/S1 00 



TRAN5ISTORS 



PN3569 ill .00 

7. 2N3701 SSI 00 tri 

2H3705 5 SI 00 ML 

2N3706 531 00 JT 

2N3707 5/S1.D0 I 

2N3711 5/S1 00 

2N3724 S 65 ' L 



PN356T 


3/S1 00 


PN35BB 


4JJ1 00 


PN356!) 


4'ST .00 


2N3704 


5 SI 00 


2H3705 


SSI DO 


2N3706 


5.S1 00 


2N3707 


5,'S1 .00 


2N3711 


5/SI 00 


2N3724 


S 65 


2N372S 


SI CO 


2N3903 


5*100 


2N3904 


4/11 00 


2N3905 


4S) 00 


2N3906 


JrSlOO 


2N4013 


3,11 00 


2N4014 


3SI 00 



PN4249 

PN4250 
2NM00 
2N4401 
2N4J02 
2N4403 
7NJ409 
2N50B6 
2N50B7 
2NS08S 
2N50B9 
2H5I29 
2N5138 
2N5139 
2N5209 
2N595I 



47 pi 
100 pl 
220 pi 

470 pf 

.001ml 
.0022 
0047ml 
01ml 

.1 35V 

.15 35V 
22 35V 
.33 35V 
•1735V 
.G835V 
1.035V 



.47[50V 
1.0 50V 
3.3 50V 
4.7 25V 
10 25 V 
10 50V 
22 25V 
22 50V 
47 25V 
47 50V 
100 25V 
100 50V 
220 25V 
220 50V 
470 25V 
1000 16V 
2200 16V 



.12 



CAPACITOR CORNER 

50 VOLT CERAMIC DISC CAPACITORS 
10-49 50-100 1-9 10- 

04 .03 OOVF .05 .0 

.04 .03 0047 M F ,05 .0 

.04 .03 .QVF .05 .0 

.04 .03 022fiF 06 .0 

04 03 047^F 06 .0 

04 035 .l^F 12 .0 

100 VOLT MYLAR FILM CAPACITORS 
022ml 
047ml 



.07 



.tml 



.27 



12 10 07 22mt 

- 20% DIPPED TANTALUMS (SOLID) CAPACITORS 
28 -23 .17 1.5138V .30 .26 

28 .,23 .17 2.2|25V .31 .27 

28 .23 .17 3.3 25V .31 .27 

2B .23 .17 4.7 25V .32 .28 

28 .23 .17 6.8 25V .36 .31 

28 .23 .17 10 25V 40 -35 

28 .23 .17 15 25V 63 -50 

MINIATURE ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC CAPACITORS 

Axial LBid 



.15 



.13 



.10 



.47 25V 15 

.47 50V .16 

1.0 16V .15 

1.0 25V .16 

1.0 50V 16 

4.7 16V .15 

4.7 25V .15 

4.7 50V .16 

10 16V 14 

10 25V 15 

10 50V .16 

47 50V .24 

100 16V 19 

100 25V 24 

100 50V .35 

220 16V .23 

470 25V .31 



Radial Lead 
.13 



Continued from page 8 

for computer people to meet computer 
people, and for the transfer of technical 
information through the vehicle of the 
seminars to be held during the show. And 
then, of course, there is always the prospect 
of technological surprises cooked up in the 
laboratories and workshops of various per- 
sons and organizations .... 

A Note About Publicity in BYTE 

The planning and execution of an event 
such as the Personal Computing '76 show 
must begin a long time in advance of the 
actual event. When John Dilks first called in 
January and asked for some publicity for the 
show, it was eight months in advance, yet in 
view of the things he had to get done, it felt 
like the show was to be held the next week. 
The lead time was nearly nine months for 
this show, and that might be too short for a 
large event (which the show has become, 
thanks to the generous support of interested 
attendees and manufacturers). For example, 
another large show mentioned earlier, the 
the AFIPS National Computer Conference 
has a cycle of planning which begins more 
than 18 months ahead of the date of the 
show. 

BYTE has worked quite closely with the 



organizers of the Personal Computing '76 
show from its inception last January. It is in 
the interests of those participating in this 
exciting maturation of computing technolo- 
gy to help call attention to the prospects and 
utility of personal computing systems. In 
effect, such events help "sell" the idea and 
promote a larger market with more options 
and more products through education. If 
your club or organization is planning to hold 
a computer festival, flea market or other 
event to' help publicize the idea of personal 
computing systems, BYTE will extend a 
similar hand. We won't promise to give the 
same coverage to a regional or local show as 
we would for an event which is clearly 
national in scope; but the principle is the 
same in either case: Help bring people with 
our common interests together for purposes 
of fun, enjoyment, education and com- 
merce. An important thing to remember is 
that planning should begin well ahead of the 
event (three months at least in terms of the 
magazine production cycle). 

I'll be looking forward to meeting many 
BYTE readers at Personal Computing '76, as 
has happened in the past at events such as 
the World Altair Convention in Albuquer- 
que, the Trenton Computer Festival, and the 
NCC show in New York." 



At Last! 



BYTE T-shirts are here! 




At last! No more wardrobe crises! BYTE T-shirts are here! Now you 
have the perfect garb for computer club meetings, Altair Conven- 
tions, playing Shooting Stars and computer chess. (A pair of 
trousers from your own closet is suggested as an addition to the 
BYTE T-shirt. The Bytique can't do everything for you.) 

BYTE T-shirts are of top quality 100% cotton or cotton-polyester. 
The original design, by artist Judy Lee Rehling, is silk screened in 
red on white shirts with blue trim on collars and sleeves, or on blue 
heather shirts. Each shirt is mailed first class for safe, rapid delivery 
to you. 

The $5 price includes handling and first class postage. 



Send to: 
The Bytique 



In unusual cases, processing may exceed 30 days. 



PO Box 274 

Jaffrey Center NH 03454 

Please send me extra large 

large 

medium 

small 

Total enclosed $ 



Bill MasterCharge No 

Bill BankAmericard No._ 

Name 

Address 

City 



blue heather 

white with blue trim and 

red letters 

T-shirts @ $5 each (includes hand- 
ling and first class postage) 

Exp. Date 

Exp. Date 



Signature 

Other colors, styles I'd like to see_ 



_State_ 



_Zip_ 



126 




UNIVERSAL POWER SUPPLY 

A unique plug-in supply by Panasonic. Useful 
for calculators, small radios, charging many & 
various small NiCad batteries. Adjustment 
screw plug on the side changes output voltage 
to 4 1 /2, 6, TA, or 9 volts DC at 100 MA. Output 
cord with plug, 6 ft long. 

No. SP-143C $4.50 3/$12 



POWER SUPPLY 

LAMBDA 5VDC 74 AMP 

LV-EE-5-OV $125.00 



NJE 5/OUP-D5 



5 VDC 32 AMP 



$75.00 



CLOCK KIT $14.00 

Includes all parts with MM5316 chip, 
etched & drilled PC board, transformer, 
everything except case. 

SP-284 $14.00 each 2/$25.00 




f^M^^ 1 ^ 



PARITY DETECTOR 

New packaged, made for RCA, detects even or odd parity, baud rate 110, 150 or 
134.46. Built-in logic supply for the IC's, operates from standard 115 vac. Control 
panel allows manual or automatic reset mode of operation. Aluminum enclosure (not 
shown), covers the electronics. TTY compatible. 

Ship wgt. 10 lbs. $16.50 



COMPUTER DISPLAY TUBE 

New Sylvania 9 inch CRT, 85 degree deflection, with tinted faceplate. Same as used 
in Viatron systems (buy a spare). With complete specs. 

Ship wgt. 5 lbs. $15.00 



LINEAR by RCA, brand new, gold bond process 



301 

307 

324 

339A 

741 



$ 



.60 

.52 

1.80 

1.60 

.50 



747 
748 
1458 
3401 
555 timer 



$ 



.82 
.50 
.96 
.80 
.60 



MM5314 
MM5316 
7001 



$3.00 
3.00 
8.00 



MEMORY SYSTEM $125.00 

New memory system by Honeywell, small . . . 
measures only 9x4x1 inches. 1024 core memory, 
1024 words with 8,9,10 bits/word. Random access, 
with all logic, register, timing, control, core select and 
sense functions in one package. New, booklet of 
schematics and data. Looks like a good beginning for 
a mini-computer. Limited supply on hand. 
Ship wgt 3 lbs. #SP-79 $125.00 




DATA ENTRY AUDIO TERMINAL 

Sends and receives hard copy or audio of touch tone data sent & 
received. Output 600 ohms for phone lines. ITT touch phone pad 
with oscillators. Hard copy by strip printer 5 characters per inch, 35 
digits visually displayed at once. Prints & receives touch tone codes, 
digits only. Power supply etc. all in the one case. With two units you 
can send and receive with monitoring of visual & audio tone at both 
stations. 
Original cost $1065 Ship wgt. 25 lbs. $49.00 each 



yfle^nMd 




Please add shipping cost on above. 



PHONE 617-595-2275 



FREE CATALOG SP-8 NOW READY 



MESHNA P0 Bx 62 E. Lynn Mass. 01904 



127 



bvii 

reader 
service 



To get further information on the products advertised in BYTE, fill out the reader 
service card with your name and address. Then circle the appropriate numbers for the 
advertisers you select from this list. Add a 9 cent stamp to the card, then drop it in the 
mail. Not only do you gain information, but our advertisers are encouraged to use the 
marketplace provided by BYTE. This helps us bring you a bigger BYTE. 



A116 


Action Audio Electronics 


101 


A 


94 


Merrimac 95 


A 70 


American Microprocessors 99 


A 


18 


Meshna 127 


A107 


Audio Design Electronics 


97 


A 


93 


Micon 97 


A111 


Brigar 105 






* 


Microcomputer Applications 101 


A120 


Burkeshire 93 




A 


71 


Micro Peripherals 101 




BYTE's Books 80 




A119 


Midwest Scientific Inst 48 




BYTE's Poster 124 




A 


57 


Mikos 93 




BYTE's Subs 111 




A112 


MiniTerm 8 




BYTE's T-Shirts 126 






* 


MITSCIV, 2,3,21 


A 88 


Cambion 99 




A 


22 


National Multiplex 79 


A 89 


CFR Associates 99 




A 


40 


Ohio Scientific Inst 75 


A 83 


Computer Mart of NY 99 




A 


64 


Oliver Audio Engineering 99 


A 87 


Creative Computing 103, 


111 


A 


50 


Osborn and Associates Inc 43 


A 41 


Cromemco 1 




A 


63 


Parasitic Engineering 49, 95 


A 97 


Data Domain 81 




A 


85 


Per Com Data 69 


A 7 


Delta 115 




A 


23 


Polymorphic Systems 73 


A 78 


Digital Group 7 




A 


24 


Processor Tech 24, 25 


A 79 


Economy Co 49 




A110 


PTI 97 


A102 


Eltron 119 




A 


26 


Scelbi 19 


A 9 


Godbout 117 




A 


27 


SD Sales 106, 107 


* 


HAL Communications 61 




A 


59 


Solid State Sales 121 


# 


IMS 13,83 




A 


29 


Southwest Tech CM 


A113 


Instrumentation Services 103 


A 


30 


Sphere CI II 


•A123 


Integrated Computer System 97 


A 


99 


STM Systems 71 


A117 


Intel 14, 15,23 




A 


96 


Synchro Sound 99 


A118 


Intersil 39 




A 


82 


Technical Design Labs 72 


A 15 


James 113, 125 






* 


Texas Instruments 34, 35 


A122 


John Anthony Television 


101 


A 


32 


Tri Tek 123 


A 90 


Logical Services 101 




A115 


Wilcox 101 



'Reader service inquiries not solicited. Correspond directly with company. 



BOMB 



BYTE's 

Ongoing 

Monitor 
Box 



June BOMB Results 

Winner of the BOMB bonus for the June issue was Bob Abbott, for his article 
"Building an M6800 Microcomputer." The three runners-up were Dr Suding's "Systems 
Approach to a Personal Microprocessor," G H Gable's "Interact with an ELM," 
"Programming for the Beginner" by Ron Herman. 



Feedback is what keeps a linear amplifier in line. Like a linear amplifier, B YTE can use a bit 
of feedback. The BOMB analysis is done once a month to provide encouragement to authors 
and some formal feedback on how readers appreciate articles. BYTE pays the winning author a 
$50 bonus, so you can encourage the authors you like by voting your preferences. Remember 
that with few exceptions BYTE authors are just readers who have sat down at their typewriters 
to tell a story about what they've done or what they know about some aspect of this 
technology. 



LIKED 



PAGE ARTICLE 

16 Mooers: Are You an Author? 

26 Guthrie: Mathematical Function Unit— Part 1 

36 Grappel: Randomize Your Programming 

40 Herd: BASIC Star Trek Trainer 

44 Barbier: MSC 8080+ Microcomputer 

50 Brown: How to Do a Number of Conversions 

62 Suding: The Circuit for Z-80s 

76 Baker: SC/MP Fills a Gap 

84 Wadsworth: "8008" Programming— Chapter 3 
108 Allen-Kasser: AMSAT 8080 Standard Debug Monitor 



LEAST 












BEST 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


12 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 



128 




c 9 

y »* 

M6800 



CRT'S 



P 



• IP 



only 



§149 



Compatible with 

Motorola Evaluation Kits SWT Kits Cramer Kits 

With a CRT interface module from Sphere you can communicate 
with your computer . . . PDQ! No fooling around with blinking lights, 
you get up to 32 characters by 16 lines of instant display on your 
television set or video monitor. 

The Sphere CRT module interfaces to your Motorola 6800 product 
with easy to connect flat ribbon cable bus through 16 lines of address bus, 
8 lines of data bus, the VMA, the phase #2 clock and the read/write port. 

Mail this coupon today for your CRT PDQ - OK! 

Sphere CRT interface kits. 



Please send me 

Enclosed Check/Mastercharge/Bankamericard 



Amount $ 

Name 

Address 

City 



Card No. 



State & Zip 

Limited offer, prices subject to change • Allow up to 30 days for delivery. 





SPHEFE 

CORPORATION 



Distributorships 
Available 



Dept. 104 P. O. Box 213 Bountiful, Utah 84010 (801) 292-8466 








J 




Measuring just 11" wide x 11" deep x 5" high, and weighing a 
mere 7 pounds, the Altair™ 680b is a "complete, general-purpose 
computer. 

The secret to this revolutionary, small computer is its CPU 
board. This double-sided board fits along the bottom of (he Altair 
case and plugs directly into the front panel board It contains 
the new 6800 microprocessor, 1,024 bytes of RAM memory, a 256 
byte PROM monitor, provisions for 768 bytes of additional PROM 
or ROM, and a single Interface port with a Motorola ACIA serial 
interface adapter which can be configured either RS-2.)2 or TTY. 
A five level Baudot interface option is also available 

I he Altair 680b can be programmed from front panel switches, 
or it can be interfaced to a video display terminal, or teletype- 
writer. Three additional circuit boards can be plugged inside the 
Altair 680b for further memory and interface expansion the first 
of these boards is a 16k static- RAM memory board 

Software already developed includes Altair 680 BASIC with 
all the features of the 8k BASIC previously developed lor the 
Altair 8800. These include Boolean operators, the ability to read 
or write a byte from any 1,0 port or memory location, multiple 
statements per line, and the ability to interrupt program execution 
and then continue after the examination of variable values. This 
software takes only 6.8k bytes of memory space and a copy is 
included free with the purchase of the Altair 680 IbK memory 
board. 

Other software includes a resident two pass assembler. The 
Altair 680b is also compatible with Motorola 6800 software. 

The Altair b80h is ideal tor hobbyists who want a powerful 
computer system at an economic price. Altair 680b owners qualify 

NOTE: Altair is a trademark of MITS, Inc. 



lor membership in the Altair Users Croup, and like other Altaic 
owners, they receive a complimentary subscription to Computer 
Notes and complete factory support. 

PRICES: 

Altair 680b kit with complete, easy-to-understand assembly man- 
ual, operator s manual, and programming manual $466 

Assembled Altair 680b j &2 5 

Altair 680b turnkey model kit 395 

I xpander Card 680MB (required to expand 680) $ >4 

Altair 680BSM 16k static RAM board kit with 680 BASIC $685 

Altair 680 BASIC when purchased separately $200 

Baudot option j"^-, 

MAIt THIS COUPON TODAY 



□ Enclosed is a check for *_ 

□ BankAmerirard - 



-or Master Charge n_ 



Q Altair bSOh D Kit D Assembled Q Other fspeci.y) 

em lose 48 u,i post Ige and handling 
□ Please send tree information package. 



- STATE «. ZIP_ 



©LXfQLjiS© 



2450 Alamo SE/Albuquerque, NM 87106, 505-243-7821 



speciiu ations subject to change Please allow up to b0 da 



- deli' 



