-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RXgLxuJVX6hzhhvp+AIDaZl+TdM2oM7fWUX0PAAai3j40H2dUYvkzUte+02ta9D4
 bfq+IeLhJmEdfkHHNyVfHA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000732717-99-000007.txt : 19990315
<SEC-HEADER>0000732717-99-000007.hdr.sgml : 19990315
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-99-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990312

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		99563927

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON
		STREET 2:		ROOM 9-4
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2108214105

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON
		STREET 2:		ROOM 9-4
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
<TEXT>


                                  FORM 10-K

                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)

  |X|           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                    For fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                      OR

  |_|         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the transition period from             to              

                        Commission File Number:  1-8610

                           SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

             Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
               I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

                 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                         Telephone Number 210-821-4105


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached
Schedule A)

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934  during the  preceding  12 months (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was  required to file such  reports),  and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes   X     No _____

Indicate by check mark if  disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and will not be contained,  to
the  best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this  Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   (    )

Based on  composite  closing  sales price of $52 7/8 per share on February 26,
1999, the aggregate  market value of all voting and  non-voting  stock held by
non-affiliates was $103,706,200,000.

As  of  February  26,  1999,   1,962,346,336   shares  of  Common  Stock  were
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)  Portions of SBC  Communications  Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareowners  for
the fiscal year ended December 31,  1998 (Parts I and II).

(2)  Portions of SBC  Communications  Inc.'s Notice of 1999 Annual Meeting and
Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1999 (Parts III and IV).

                                  SCHEDULE A

          Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act:


                                                         Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                        on which registered
                                        
Common Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per Share)                New York, Chicago and
                                                       Pacific Stock Exchanges

7.75 % Exchangeable Notes,                             New York Stock Exchange
Due March 15, 2001

7.56% Pacific Telesis Group                            New York Stock Exchange
Corporation-obligated mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts

8.50% Pacific Telesis Group                            New York Stock Exchange
Corporation-obligated mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts


                               TABLE OF CONTENTS




Item                                                                  Page
- -----                                                                 ----
                                  PART I

 1.  Business.......................................................     4
 2.  Properties.....................................................    18
 3.  Legal Proceedings..............................................    18
 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............    18


  Executive Officers of the Registrant..............................    19


                                    PART II

 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
       Stockholder Matters..........................................    20
 6.  Selected Financial and Operating Data..........................    20
 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
       and Results of Operations....................................    20
 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.....    20
 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................    20
 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
       and Financial Disclosure.....................................    20


                                   PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.............    21
11.  Executive Compensation.........................................    21
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.    21
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................    21


                                    PART IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K   22


                                    PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                                   GENERAL

SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) is a holding company whose subsidiaries and
affiliates operate predominantly in the communications services industry.
SBC's subsidiaries and affiliates provide wireline and wireless
telecommunications services and equipment, directory advertising,
publishing and cable television services.  SBC's principal Wireline
subsidiaries are Southwestern Bell Telephone Company (SWBell), providing
telecommunications services over approximately 16 million access lines in
Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas and Arkansas (five-state area), and
Pacific Bell (PacBell), providing telecommunications services over
approximately 18 million access lines in California.  SBC also provides
telecommunications services through The Southern New England Telephone
Company (SNETel) subsidiary over approximately 2 million access lines in
Connecticut, and over approximately 300,000 access lines in Nevada through
its Nevada Bell subsidiary.  (SWBell, PacBell, SNETel and Nevada Bell are
collectively referred to as the Telephone Companies.)  The Telephone
Companies provide local exchange services within authorized regions
(in-region) and are subject to regulation by each state in which they
operate and by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).   SBC was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its
principal executive offices at 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas
78205-2233 (telephone number 210-821-4105).

SBC was formed as one of the original seven regional holding companies (RHCs)
created to hold AT&T Corp.'s (AT&T) local telephone companies.  AT&T divested
SBC by means of a spin-off of stock to its shareowners on January 1, 1984
(divestiture) resulting in SBC becoming a separate publicly traded company.
The divestiture was made pursuant to a consent decree, referred to as the
Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ), issued by the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia (District Court).

On February 8, 1996, the Federal Government enacted the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), a major, wide-ranging amendment to the
Communications Act of 1934.

By its specific terms, the Telecom Act supersedes the jurisdiction of the
District Court with regard to activities occurring after the date of
enactment.  The FCC is given authority for all post-enactment conduct, with
the District Court retaining jurisdiction of pre-enactment conduct for a
five-year period.  As a result of these provisions, on April 11, 1996 the
District Court issued its Opinion and Order terminating the MFJ and
dismissing all pending motions as moot, thereby effectively ending 13 years
regulation of RHCs under the MFJ.

In December 1997, the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Texas ruled that parts of the Telecom Act were unconstitutional on the
grounds that they improperly discriminate against certain subsidiaries of SBC
by imposing restrictions that prohibit certain of the Telephone Companies by
name from offering interLATA long distance and other services that other
Local Exchange Carriers are free to provide.  In September 1998, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (5th Circuit) reversed this
decision and ruled that the challenged provisions of the Telecom Act were
constitutional.  In January 1999, the United States Supreme Court declined to
hear an appeal of the 5th Circuit's decision.

Additional information relating to the Telecom Act is contained in the 1998
SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Operating Environment and
Trends of the Business" beginning on page 11, and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Business Combinations

Ameritech Corporation

On May 11, 1998, SBC announced a definitive agreement to merge an SBC
subsidiary with Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) in a transaction in which
each share of Ameritech common stock will be converted into and exchanged for
1.316 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 1,450 million
shares).  After the merger, Ameritech will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of
SBC.  The transaction, which has been approved by the board of directors and
shareowners of each company, is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of
interests and to be a tax-free reorganization.  The merger is subject to
certain regulatory approvals including the FCC and state commissions in Ohio
and Illinois.  If approvals are granted, the transaction is expected to close
in 1999.  Additional information on this matter is contained in Note 3 of the
1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Pacific Telesis Group

On April 1, 1997, SBC and Pacific Telesis Group (PAC) completed the merger of
an SBC subsidiary with PAC, in a transaction in which each outstanding share
of PAC common stock was exchanged for 1.4629 shares of SBC common stock
(equivalent to approximately 626 million shares).  With the merger, PAC
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC.  The transaction has been accounted
for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free reorganization.  Additional
information on this matter is contained in Note 2 of the 1998 SBC Annual
Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation

On October 26, 1998, SBC and Southern New England Telecommunications
Corporation (SNET) completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary with SNET, in a
transaction in which each share of SNET common stock was exchanged for 1.7568
shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 120 million shares).
SNET became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC effective with the merger and
the transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a
tax-free reorganization.  Additional information on this matter is contained
in Note 2 of the 1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Post-merger initiatives

Several strategic decisions resulted from the PAC and SNET merger integration
processes. The decisions resulted from an extensive review of operations
throughout the merged company and include significant integration of
operations and consolidation of some administrative and support functions.
Additional information on this matter is contained in Note 2 of the 1998 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Reorganization

SBC is centralizing several key functions that will support the operations of
the Telephone Companies, including network planning, strategic marketing and
procurement.  It is also consolidating a number of corporate-wide support
activities, including research and development, information technology,
financial transaction processing and real estate management.  The Telephone
Companies will continue as separate legal entities.  These initiatives
continue to result in the creation of some jobs and the elimination and
realignment of others, with many of the affected employees changing job
responsibilities and in some cases assuming positions in other locations.

SBC recognized charges during 1998 and 1997 in connection with the SNET and
PAC merger initiatives. Charges arising out of the merger relating to
relocation, retraining and other effects of consolidating certain operations
are being recognized in the periods those charges are incurred.  Additional
information on these matters is contained in Note 2 of the 1998 SBC Annual
Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

                             BUSINESS OPERATIONS

SBC is among the largest telecommunications companies in the United States,
with approximately 37 million access lines and approximately 6.9 million
wireless customers in the United States.  SBC serves the nation's two most
populous states, California and Texas.  SBC service areas includes 8 of the
nation's 10 largest metropolitan areas, 19 of the nation's 50 largest
metropolitan areas.  SBC has investments in telecommunications businesses in
selected international markets, including Mexico, France, South Africa, Chile,
South Korea, Switzerland, Israel and Taiwan.  SBC's broad operations offer
customers an expansive range of services and products, varying by market,
including: local exchange services, wireless communications, long distance
services, Internet services, telecommunications equipment, messaging, paging,
and directory advertising.  Services and products are provided through several
subsidiaries.  These services and products (which are described more fully
below) include wireline and wireless telecommunications services, sales of
advertising for and publication of yellow pages and white pages directories,
sales of customer premises, private business exchange (PBX) and wireless
equipment, enhanced services, Internet services, and cable television
services.

SBC's revenues are categorized for financial reporting purposes as landline
local service (substantially all of which was provided by the Telephone
Companies), wireless subscriber (provided by Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems,
Inc. (Mobile Systems), Pacific Bell Mobile Services (PBMS), SNET Cellular,
Inc. and SNET Mobility, Inc., collectively referred to as SBC Wireless),
network access (provided by the Telephone Companies), long distance service
(substantially all of which was provided by the Telephone Companies and SNET
America, Inc. (SAI)), directory advertising (principally provided by
Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (SWBYP), Pacific Bell Directory (PB
Directory), and SNET Information Services, Inc. (SNETIS) and other (including
equipment sales at SBC Wireless, the Telephone Companies, and SNET Diversified
Group, Inc. nonregulated products and services and billing and collection
services for interexchange carriers provided by the Telephone Companies,
Internet services provided by Pacific Bell Internet (PBI), Southwestern Bell
Internet Services (SBIS), and SNETIS, and cable television services provided
by SNET Personal Vision, Inc. (SNET Personal Vision)).

With the passage of the Telecom Act, SBC Wireless offers interLATA and
intraLATA wireless long distance services.  In 1996, two SBC subsidiaries,
Southwestern Bell Communications Services, Inc. and Pacific Bell
Communications, began offering wireline interLATA long distance services to
customers in selected areas outside the Telephone Companies' authorized
regions (out-region).  The Telephone Companies provide intraLATA long distance
services in-region.  SAI provides interLATA long distance services primarily
to customers in Connecticut, and is prohibited from completing calls to SBC's
other in-region states.

The following table sets forth for SBC the percentage of total operating
revenues by any class of service which accounted for 10% or more of total
operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.

- ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------
                                                      Percentage of Total
                                                       Operating Revenues
- ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------
                                                      1998      1997       1996
- ------------------------------------------------ ---------- --------- ----------
Landline local service                                 39%       39%        38%
Wireless subscriber                                    13%       13%        12%
Network access                                         23%       23%        25%
Long distance                                           8%        9%        10%
- ------------------------------------------------ ---------- --------- ----------

Landline local services involve the transport of wireline telecommunications
traffic between telephones and other customer premises equipment (CPE)
located within the same local service calling area.  Landline local services
include:  basic local exchange service, certain extended area service,
dedicated private line services for voice and special services, directory
assistance and various vertical services, including custom calling services,
call control options, messaging and Caller ID services.

Wireless subscriber services involve the transport of wireless local area
traffic between wireless telephones and other CPE, wireless long distance,
and roaming services.

Until the passage of the Telecom Act, SBC's long distance services involved
the transport of intraLATA telecommunications traffic, except for certain
wireless service areas that cover more than one LATA, for which SBC had
obtained MFJ waivers.  Beginning in 1996, SBC began providing both interLATA
and intraLATA long distance services to its wireless customers, as well as
wireline interLATA long distance services in selected out-region areas
according to the rules of the Telecom Act. With completion of the SNET merger
in 1998, SBC now also provides wireline interLATA long distance to its
in-region customers in Connecticut.  Long distance services also include
other services such as Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS or 800
services) and other special services.

Network access services connect a subscriber's telephone or other equipment
to the transmission facilities of other carriers that provide long distance
(principally interLATA) and other communications services.  Network access
services are either switched, which use a switched communications path
between the carrier and the customer, or special, which use a direct
nonswitched path.

Operating Segments

In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
(FAS 131), which establishes standards for the way that public business
enterprises report information about operating segments in quarterly and
annual financial statements.  FAS 131 changes segment reporting from an
industry segment basis to an operating segment basis defined based on how the
business is managed.  SBC adopted FAS 131 in the fourth quarter of 1998.
Under the predecessor accounting standard, SBC operated in a single industry
segment. Under FAS 131, SBC has four reportable segments:  Wireline,
Wireless, Directory and Other.  The Wireline segment provides landline
telecommunications services, including local, network access and long
distance services, messaging and Internet services and sells customer premise
and private business exchange equipment.  The Wireless segment provides
wireless telecommunications services, including local and long distance
services, and sells wireless equipment.  The Directory segment sells
advertising for and publication of yellow pages and white pages directories
and electronic publishing.  The Other segment includes SBC's international
investments and other domestic operating subsidiaries.  Disclosures required
by FAS 131 are included in Note 9 of the 1998 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners, and are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

Wireline

Wireline is SBC's largest operating segment, providing approximately 77% of
SBC's operating revenues in 1998.  The Telephone Companies provide landline
telecommunications services to approximately 23.3 million residential and
13.4 million business access lines in the eight states in which they
operate.  During 1998 total access lines grew by 4%, of which 46% of the
increase was due to growth in California and over 32% of the increase was due
to growth in Texas.

During 1998, the Telephone Companies continued to expand their offering of
vertical services throughout their operating areas.  These services include,
among other things, Caller ID, a feature which displays the telephone number
of the person calling and the caller's name in certain markets; Caller ID
Call Waiting, a feature which displays the telephone number and caller's
name in certain markets when the customer is on a call; Call Return, a
feature that redials the number of the last incoming call; Call Blocker, a
feature which allows customers to automatically reject calls from a
designated list of telephone numbers; and voice messaging.

Southwestern Bell Messaging Services, Inc. provides voice messaging services
under the registered trademark CallNotes to residential and business
customers.  Pacific Bell Information Services, a subsidiary of PacBell, has
several registered trademark products, which include residential voice
messaging services (The Message Center), business messaging services (Pacific
Bell Voice Mail), and business call management services (Pacific Bell Call
Management).  PBI, SBIS, and SNETIS provide Internet services in selected
in-region metropolitan areas.

Since 1996, the Telephone Companies have been offering certain local services
on a "wholesale" basis to competitors, as well as providing elements of the
Telephone Companies' networks on an "unbundled" basis for local competition.
These services are being offered as specified by the Telecom Act and state
actions and interconnection agreements.  The Telecom Act and the regulations
promulgated by federal and state agencies to implement it have resulted in
SBC facing increased competition in significant portions of its business.  At
December 31, 1998, SBC provided wholesale services to approximately 800,000
access lines.  Management cannot quantify the impact to SBC's business in
1999 from local exchange competition, as uncertainty exists as to the breadth
and scope of competitors' offering of local exchange services to all portions
of the market in-region, and as certain regulations, tariffs and negotiations
governing such competition are not yet finalized.

Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

Equipment offerings at SWBell, PacBell, and SNET Diversified Group, Inc. range
from single-line and cordless telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems,
all of which can be offered with the Telephone Companies' central office based
solutions.  PBX is a private telephone switching system, usually located on a
customer's premises, which provides intra-premise telephone services as well
as access to the public switched network.

New Products

As part of its continuing strategy to be among the leaders in the
communications services industry, SBC is constantly developing new services
and products.  It currently is introducing four new data products. These data
products include Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL), Integrated
Pathway, Managed Frame Relay and Dedicated Business Internet.  All four of
these new products are targeted primarily to meet the growing demand for data
communications products resulting from the increased use of advanced
information technology in the marketplace. ADSL enables customers to transfer
over existing telephone lines, data, graphics, audio and video files at
speeds up to 1.5 megabits per second.  ADSL allows customers to
simultaneously make a phone call and access information via the Internet or
an office local area network.  ADSL is the subject of a pending FCC review.
Additional information on the pending FCC review of ADSL is contained in the
1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners on page 12, and is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

National-Local Strategy

Contingent upon completion of the Ameritech transaction, SBC plans to
implement a "national-local" strategy, in which it will offer local services
across the country in combination with major national and international
operations.  The strategy allows SBC to expand from a regional company to a
company that provides services in "national-local" and global markets.  SBC
believes this expansion will better position it to compete head-to-head with
incumbent local telephone companies, competitive local exchange carriers,
data networks, long distance carriers and global competitors.  In February
1999, SBC announced that Boston, Massachusetts; Miami, Florida; and Seattle,
Washington will be the first markets in which SBC will compete under the
"national-local" strategy.

Wireless

SBC Wireless offers a wide variety of wireless services in 19 of the top 50
metropolitan markets across the United States using both traditional cellular
and new personal communication services (PCS) networks.  Including both
networks, at the end of 1998, SBC Wireless operations provided local wireless
services to 6,851,000 customers throughout its wireless markets.  In addition,
since the enactment of the Telecom Act, SBC began offering wireless long
distance services to its traditional cellular customers, and at year-end 1998
had been selected as the long distance carrier by approximately 4,601,000, or
78%, of its customers.  SBC provides long distance services to all of its
PCS wireless customers.

SBC Wireless also has numerous "roaming agreements" with other wireless
carriers which allows its subscribers to use their wireless service
throughout the United States and Canada by accessing other carrier's networks
where SBC Wireless does not operate networks or hold wireless licenses.

SBC Wireless offers digital service, including advanced features in most of
the metropolitan areas where it is licensed to provide wireless service.
Mobile Systems first began providing commercial digital service in Chicago in
July 1993.  Digital service improves sound quality, provides a greater degree
of privacy on individual calls, increases call-handling capacity of the
networks, allows additional service offerings, and reduces exposure to
billing fraud.

Cellular

At the end of 1998, wireless services were provided to 5,924,000 traditional
cellular customers.  SBC provides traditional cellular services in 5 of the
nation's top 10 metropolitan areas, as follows:  Washington, D.C.; Chicago,
Illinois; Boston, Massachusetts; Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas; and Houston, Texas.
Additionally, portions of the Connecticut wireless market fall within the New
York consolidated metropolitan service area (MSA).  SBC is licensed to provide
service in 45 rural service areas (RSAs) and is currently providing service in
all of these markets.  Each RSA is contiguous to an existing metropolitan
service area or another RSA operated by SBC, which allows for the expansion of
service in a way that may add value to customers' service.  SBC also operates
one RSA in Arkansas under an interim operating authority granted by the FCC,
and operates several MSAs and RSAs in Arkansas related to cellular networks and
licenses received in exchange for certain SBC PCS licenses, discussed below.

In January 1997, Mobile Systems began doing business within the five-state area
as Southwestern Bell Wireless, Inc.  Mobile Systems operates in out-region
areas under the name of Cellular One by means of licenses from Cellular One
Group, a partnership among affiliates of Mobile Systems, AT&T Wireless Services
and Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc.  These areas include MSAs, such as
Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; Albany, Buffalo, and Rochester, New York
and Boston, Massachusetts; and RSAs in Illinois, Massachusetts, New York,
Virginia and West Virginia.  Cellular One offers, on a resale basis, wireline
interLATA long distance service in all out-region markets where it provides
local wireless service.  In January 1997, Cellular One also began a trial
offering wireline local service, on a resale basis, in Rochester, New York.
SBC subsequently ended the Rochester trial and will no longer offer wireline
local service there.

SNET Cellular and its affiliates provide directly or indirectly retail and
wholesale wireless services and telecommunications equipment in the states of
Connecticut and Rhode Island, and portions of Massachusetts.

Mobile Systems also markets wireless communications equipment in each of its
service areas.

On January 20, 1999, SBC announced it has agreed to acquire Comcast Cellular
Corporation (Comcast Cellular), the wireless subsidiary of Comcast
Corporation, in a transaction valued at $1.674 billion. Under the terms of
the agreement, SBC will pay $400 million in cash and assume Comcast
Cellular's current debt of $1.274 billion.  The transaction will be accounted
for through the purchase accounting method. Comcast Cellular offers analog
and digital wireless services to more than 800,000 subscribers in
Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey and Illinois.  The largest market in which
Comcast Cellular operates is Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  SBC for several
years has been operating the Illinois properties it is purchasing under a
previous agreement between the two companies.  The transaction, which is
subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed by the third
quarter of 1999.

PCS

In 1993, the FCC adopted an order allocating radio spectrum and outlining the
development of licenses for new PCS.  PCS utilizes wireless
telecommunications digital technology at a higher frequency radio spectrum
than cellular, but using lower powered transmission equipment.  Like
cellular, it is designed to permit access to a variety of communications
services regardless of subscriber location. SBC or affiliates hold PCS
licenses in the Major Trading Areas of Los Angeles-San Diego, California; San
Francisco-San Jose, California; and Tulsa, Oklahoma. The California licenses
cover substantially all of California and Nevada.  SBC is currently operating
in all its major California-Nevada markets and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  During 1996,
SBC received several AT&T cellular networks in Arkansas, in exchange for PCS
licenses previously held by SBC for Memphis, Tennessee and Little Rock,
Arkansas and other considerations.

PBMS was formed to offer PCS services across California and Nevada. The
network incorporates the Global System for Mobile Communications standard,
which is widely used internationally, and phones that it markets feature a
built-in pager and answering machine.  PBMS began trials in August 1996,
began offering services in January 1997, and by mid-1997 provided widespread
offerings of PCS services to all of California and Nevada.  At the end of
1998, PBMS provided wireless services to 809,000 customers over its PCS
networks.  Mobile Systems also provided wireless services to 37,000 customers
over its PCS networks in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

In an FCC auction concluded in January 1997, SBC acquired the following
additional PCS licenses for Basic Trading Areas that are within the
five-state area:  Springfield, Missouri; McAlester, Oklahoma; Joplin,
Missouri; Pittsburgh, Kansas; Temple-Killeen, Texas; Waco, Texas; Tyler,
Texas and Longview-Marshall, Texas.

Directory

SWBYP publishes more than 45 million books of white and yellow pages
directories, representing approximately 342 directories, principally within
the five-state area.  PB Directory, the publisher of Pacific Bell SMART
Yellow Pages, publishes 35 million books, representing approximately 114
directories in California and Nevada.  SNETIS publishes over 4 million books
of white and yellow pages directories, representing approximately 48
directories, principally throughout Connecticut and adjacent communities.
SBC recognizes all directory advertising revenues and expenses in the month
the related directory is published.  SWBYP nine largest revenue-producing
yellow pages directories are currently published in the second half of SBC's
fiscal year, while PB Directory's publishing schedule is spread throughout
the year for its directories.  SWBYP directories are printed by
R.R. Donnelley & Sons, PB Directory's directories are printed by World Color
Press, and SNETIS directories are printed by Quebecor Printing.

International

International operations are included in the Other segment.

Mexico

A consortium consisting of SBC International, Inc.; a subsidiary of France
Telecom; and Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V. (Carso Global); and certain
Mexican investors hold through a trust all of the outstanding AA Shares of
Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's largest national
telecommunications company.  The AA shares held by the consortium represent
approximately 90% of the full voting shares and 28% of the equity of Telmex.
Carso Global holds a 44.9% interest in the consortium and the right to direct
the trustee with respect to the election of a majority of the directors of
Telmex, while SBC International and the France Telecom subsidiary each holds
a 24.5% interest and the right to direct the trustee with respect to a
minority of the directors.  SBC International also owns approximately 4.3% of
the L Shares, which have limited voting rights. As a result of repurchases of
L Shares by Telmex since 1994, SBC International has sold portions of its
Class L shares to Telmex in order to maintain its investment at below 10% of
Telmex' total equity capitalization. As of February 1, 1999, SBC
International's total interest in Telmex represents approximately 9.8% of the
outstanding equity. In 1997, SBC issued approximately $396 million in 7 3/4%
Exchangeable Notes, due March 2001, which may be redeemed upon maturity in
either cash or Telmex L Shares, at SBC's option.  At December 31, 1998, the
outstanding notes represented 3.2% of Telmex' L Shares.

Telmex provides wireline and wireless telecommunications services throughout
Mexico.  At the end of 1998, Telmex had 9.9 million access lines in service
and provided cellular service to approximately 2.1 million subscribers.
Telmex also provides interLATA telecommunications services in the United
States jointly with Sprint Communications, LLC, and holds 49% of Grupo
Televisa's cable television subsidiary, Cablevision.

France

In October 1994, SBC International formed a strategic alliance with Compagnie
Generale des Eaux (CGE), a French diversified public company which in 1998
changed its name to Vivendi.  Through this alliance, SBC International
acquired an indirect 10% ownership of Societe Francaise du Radiotelephone
S.A. (SFR), a nationwide cellular company in France, and minority ownership
interests in other communications businesses controlled by CGE, and CGE
obtained an effective 10% interest in SBC's wireless operations in
Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, and surrounding rural markets.  SBC and CGE both
made contributions to the alliance.  In 1997, SBC International contributed
its indirect 10% ownership of SFR shares and an additional $240 million to
acquire a 15% interest in Cegetel, S.A., a new French company formed by CGE
to provide a broad base of telecommunications services throughout France.
Operations on a limited scale, began in 1998.  At the end of 1998, SFR had
4.2 million wireless subscribers and 602,000 long distance subscribers.

Chile

In February 1995, SBC International purchased 40% of VTR S.A. (VTR), a
privately owned telecommunications holding company in Chile.  Through the
purchase of shares from a minority investor, offset by the subsequent sale in
1997 of a portion of those shares, SBC International's ownership has increased
to 44%.  VTR is 56% indirectly owned by Grupo Luksic, a large Chilean
conglomerate.  Through its subsidiaries, VTR provides local and cable
television services in Chile.  In December 1997, VTR sold its wireless service
operations.  At the end of 1998, local services were provided to approximately
141,000 access lines and cable television services were provided to
approximately 384,000 subscribers.  Agreements were reached in 1998 for the
disposition of SBC International's remaining interest in VTR, subject to
certain conditions.  The transaction is expected to close in 1999.

United Kingdom

In October 1995, SBC International combined its United Kingdom cable
television operations, which included Midlands Cable Communications and
Northwest Cable Communications, with those of Telewest Communications, plc, a
publicly held joint venture between Tele-Communications International, Inc.
and MediaOne Group, Inc. (formerly U S WEST, Inc.)  The resulting entity,
Telewest Communications plc, merged with General Cable in 1998 to form the
largest cable television operator in the United Kingdom and also provides
local exchange services.  Prior to the disposition in 1998 of its entire
holdings in Telewest, SBC owned approximately 10% of the company.  Additional
information on this matter is contained in Note 7 of the 1998 SBC Annual
Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

Israel

SBC International has investments in Israel through a 50% interest in Aurec
Limited and a 22.7% interest in Amdocs Limited (Amdocs).  Aurec has interests
in companies involved in the publication of yellow page directories, outdoor
advertising, insurance underwriting, long distance, network data solutions,
and cable television.  At the end of 1998, Golden Channels, an Aurec
affiliate providing cable television in Israel, had passed 640,000 households
and provided service to approximately 437,000 households, a penetration rate
of approximately 68%.

In 1996, a consortium in which SBC International participated received one of
two licenses for international telecommunications service in Israel.  Other
consortium members are STET (Italy's national telephone company), the
US/Israeli Aurec Group, and the Israeli Globescom and Kahn groups.  Aurec
holds an 8.25% interest in the Med-1 undersea cable linking Israel, Cypress
and Italy.

Amdocs is a leading provider of product-driven information systems solutions
to major telecommunications companies in the United States and around the
world.  In June of 1998, Amdocs issued 18 million shares in an international
initial public offering.  The company began in 1982 as a joint venture
between a subsidiary of SBC and an Israeli partner.  SBC International owned
25.8% of the shares before the offering and 22.7% thereafter.  This reduction
in ownership reflects both dilution from the Initial Public Offering (IPO)
and the sale of shares pursuant to an option granted by SBC International to
the IPO underwriters.

Australia

In 1997, SBC International sold its directory interests in Australia to
Telstra Corporation Limited, the principal provider of telecommunications
services in Australia.

South Africa

In 1997, SBC International acquired an effective 18% stake in Telkom, S.A.
Limited (Telkom), South Africa's state-owned local exchange, long distance,
and cellular company.  SBC International's partner in the acquisition is
Telekom Malaysia, which acquired a 12% stake in Telkom. Telkom provides
complete wireline and wireless telecommunications services within South
Africa.  At the end of 1998, Telkom had more than 4.9 million access lines in
service.  In addition, at the end of 1998, Vodacom Group (Pty) Ltd, in which
Telkom has a 50% interest, provided cellular services to 1.5 million
subscribers.

In the third quarter 1998, SBC International sold its 15.5% interest in
Mobile Telephone Networks (MTN), one of two South African national cellular
companies, to the remaining shareholders of MTN.  SBC International was
required to divest its interest in MTN as part of its acquisition of Telkom.

Switzerland

In June 1997, SBC International purchased a 40% interest in diAx, a joint
venture formed to provide long distance telephone service in Switzerland.
SBC's partner in the joint venture is diAx Holdings, a consortium of Swiss
utility and insurance companies.  Service was launched in May 1998, and at
the end of 1998, diAx provided services to 233,000 access lines (via equal
access).

In December 1997, SBC International formed a joint venture with diAx Holdings
for the purpose of submitting a bid for a wireless license.  SBC
International's ownership interest in this joint venture, diAx Mobile, is
40%, with the remaining ownership interest being held by diAx Holdings.  In
April 1998, diAx Mobile was also awarded a wireless license by the Swiss
government.  Wireless service offerings began in late December 1998.  The
award of the license is currently in litigation, as an unsuccessful bidder
for the license has challenged the award to diAx Mobile.

China

In December 1997, SBC International signed a Construction and Maintenance
Agreement with China Telecom and twelve other telecommunications companies to
construct a direct undersea cable link between the United States and China.
The cable is expected to be completed by the year 2000.

Japan

In the third quarter of 1998, SBC signed an agreement to participate in
building a state-of-the-art undersea communications pipeline directly linking
Japan and the United States.  SBC will be one of 12 initial parties with an
ownership stake in the Japan-U.S. Cable Network and responsibility for
oversight, maintenance and administration. The consortium has agreed to
invest more than $1 billion in the network for the first phase of
construction. The network should be up and running in mid-year 2000.

South Korea

SBC has wireless interests in South Korea where its affiliate provided
wireless service to approximately 2.1 million subscribers at the end of 1998.

Taiwan

SBC International owns a 19.4% interest in a consortium that formed TransAsia
Telecommunications, Inc., a new cellular service provider in the southern
region of Taiwan.  Service offerings commenced in January 1998, and at the
end of 1998, TransAsia Telecommunications, Inc. provided cellular service to
approximately 186,000 subscribers.

East Asia Financial Risks

Presently, SBC has limited investments in Eastern Asia and the Pacific Rim
and therefore does not anticipate a significant financial impact from recent
financial economic turmoil.

                           DOMESTIC VIDEO SERVICES

SBC also announced during 1997 that it is scaling back its limited direct
investment in certain video services in the areas also served by PacBell and
SWBell.  As part of this curtailment, SBC halted construction on the Advanced
Communications Network (ACN) in California.  As part of an agreement with the
ACN vendor, SBC paid the liabilities of the ACN trust that owns and finances
ACN construction and incurred costs to shut down all construction previously
conducted under the trust and received certain consideration from the
vendor.  SBC also curtailed several other video-related activities, including
its broadband network video trials in Richardson, Texas and San Jose,
California.  SBC and its joint venture partners are winding up the Tele-TV
joint venture in southern California.

Media Ventures, Inc. (Media Ventures), another SBC subsidiary, owned two
cable television systems serving the suburban Washington, D.C. area along
with a partner, Prime Cable (Prime).  Media Ventures became the general
partner and retained an approximate 95% ownership interest in the Partnership
until 1998.  Prime contributed $20 million to the Partnership and managed the
cable systems on behalf of the Partnership.  SBC sold its Media Ventures'
interest in the Partnership to Prime and other investors in the third quarter
of 1998.  In October 1998, SBC completed the sale of its interests in Prime
Cable of Chicago, Inc. to Prime and other investors.  A PAC subsidiary had
acquired these interests prior to the merger with SBC.

In the fourth quarter of 1998, SBC sold 90% of the stock of subsidiaries that
operate a wireless video business in southern California to E.L. Acquisition,
Inc., a subsidiary of Prime.

During 1995, SBC, through SBC Interactive Media, Inc. (SBC Interactive), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC, became an equal partner in Americast, a
venture with Ameritech Corporation, BellSouth Corporation, GTE, and The Walt
Disney Company, to design, market and deliver video programming and
interactive services.  In 1996, SNET became a minority partner in this
venture.  In mid-1997, SBC Interactive notified the venture of its withdrawal
of operations in territories served by SWBell.  On October 7, 1997 the
remaining partners in the venture attempted to initiate arbitration against
SBC Interactive regarding the validity of its withdrawal.  On October 15,
1997, SBC Interactive filed a declaratory judgement action in and sought a
preliminary injunction from Delaware Chancery Court to halt the arbitration
attempt.  On December 24, 1997, the Chancery Court directed that the
arbitration proceed, and on January 22, 1998, SBC appealed that ruling.  This
matter is still being litigated and is not material to the financial
statements.

SNET Personal Vision operates a cable television system in Connecticut, which
began deploying cable service in the first quarter of 1997.  At the end of
1998, SNET Personal Vision provided service to approximately 24,000
households.

Additional information related to SBC's video operations is contained in Note
2 of the 1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

                            GOVERNMENT REGULATION

In the in-region states, the Telephone Companies are subject to regulation by
state commissions which have the power to regulate, in varying degrees,
intrastate rates and services, including local, long distance and network
access services.  The Telephone Companies are also subject to the jurisdiction
of the FCC with respect to interstate and international rates and services,
including interstate access charges.  Access charges are designed to compensate
the Telephone Companies for the use of their facilities for the origination or
termination of long distance and other communications by other carriers.

Additional information relating to federal and state regulation of the
Telephone Companies is contained in the 1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners
under the heading "Regulatory Environment" on page 11, and is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

SBC's cable systems are subject to federal and local regulation, including
regulation by the FCC and local franchising authorities, concerning rates,
service and programming access.

                 IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

The FCC authorizes the licenses for multiple wireless carriers in each
geographic market.  The cellular licenses, of which there are only two in
each geographic region have a standard duration of ten years.  Upon
application and a showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards,
licenses may be renewed.  Renewal applications were filed and granted for the
following MSA markets during 1998: Bloomington-Normal, Illinois; Glen Falls,
New York; Laredo, Texas; Little Rock-North Little Rock, Arkansas; Pittsfield,
Massachusetts; and Pine Bluff, Arkansas.  Renewal applications for eight RSA
markets will be filed in the following states during 1999: Illinois;
Missouri; New York; Oklahoma and Texas.  Renewals of these licenses are
anticipated to be granted in late 1999 or early 2000.

Under the auction process of an FCC order outlining the development of PCS,
licenses with durations of ten years were awarded in 51 major markets.  SBC's
licenses for Los Angeles-San Diego, California, San Francisco-San Jose,
California and Tulsa, Oklahoma expire in 2005.  These licenses, upon
application and a showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards,
may be renewed.

Cable television systems generally are operated under nonexclusive permits or
"franchises" granted by local governmental authorities. Each franchise is
renewable upon a showing of compliance with established local and federal
standards.  SBC sold its suburban Washington, D.C. cable systems and all
related franchises were transferred as part of the sale of the properties in
Montgomery County, Maryland; Arlington County, Virginia; and the City of
Gaithersburg, Maryland.  During 1995, SBC received a franchise to operate a
cable system in Richardson, Texas, which expires in September 2013 and had
acquired a franchise agreement in the PAC merger with the city of San Jose,
California.  In 1998, SBC reached agreement with the cities of San Jose,
California and Richardson, Texas to terminate the franchises that they had
granted SBC and its affiliates for video trials.  On September 6, 1996, SNET
Personal Vision received an 11-year license that covers the state of
Connecticut.  A number of SBC subsidiaries hold FCC channel licenses for
wireless video services.  These subsidiaries also have numerous leases with
Instructional Television Fixed Service channel licensees to use their excess
channel capacity.  The channels under these licenses and leases are primarily
in southern California.

                                MAJOR CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for more than 10% of SBC's consolidated revenues in
1998, 1997 or 1996.

                                 COMPETITION

Wireline and Wireless

Information relating to wireline and wireless competition is contained in the
1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Competition"
beginning on page 15, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

International

Information relating to international competition is contained in the 1998
SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Competition" on page 15,
and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Directory

Information relating to directory advertising and publishing competition is
contained in the 1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading
"Competition" on page 15, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

Customer Premises Equipment, Wireless Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

SBC faces significant competition from numerous companies in marketing its
telecommunications equipment.

                           RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Certain company-sponsored basic and applied research was conducted at Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore).  The Telephone Companies owned a
two-seventh interest in Bellcore, with the remainder owned by the other four
remaining RHCs.  In November 1997, the RHCs sold Bellcore to a third party but
continue to have a research agreement with Bellcore. The RHCs have retained
the activities of Bellcore that coordinate the Federal Government's
telecommunications requirements for national security and emergency
preparedness.

Applied research is also conducted at SBC Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a
subsidiary of SBC.  TRI provides research, technology planning and evaluation
services to SBC and its subsidiaries.

                                  EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1998, SBC and its subsidiaries employed 129,850 persons.
Approximately two-thirds of the employees are represented by the
Communications Workers of America (CWA).  New agreements between the CWA and
the Telephone Companies were reached in April 1998, and September 1998
for SNET, covering an estimated 80,000 employees through April 1,
2001.  Among other items, the agreements specify an 11% increase in wages
over the life of the contracts.  A new three-year agreement (which covers an
estimated 2,000 employees) was reached in 1998 between the CWA and SWBYPS,
that is effective December 5, 1998 through December 7, 2001.  In August
1998, PB Directory reached a new four-year agreement with the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, covering approximately 1,000 employees in
northern and southern California.  Among other items, both the SWBYPS and PB
Directory agreements include an approximate 11% increase in compensation
over the life of the contracts.  The CWA also represents an estimated 3,000
employees in other subsidiaries of SBC.

                             RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Reciprocal Compensation Ruling

In February 1999, the FCC ruled that a substantial portion of Internet
communications is interstate traffic and therefore subject to federal
jurisdiction.  The FCC noted that carriers were bound by existing
interconnection contracts as interpreted by state commissions.  The FCC will
issue rules determining the extent, if any, such communications are subject
to reciprocal compensation.  The FCC also ruled that, in the context of
interpreting particular interconnection agreements, the state commissions
might determine that reciprocal compensation was appropriately based on the
agreement of the parties or other factors.  SBC believes that the FCC ruling
should prevent state commissions from imposing reciprocal compensation on
this traffic.

Ameritech Ohio Agreement

On February 23, 1999, SBC and Ameritech signed an agreement with the staff of
the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), the Ohio Consumers' Counsel,
the Edgemont Neighborhood Coalition and Parkview Areawide Seniors (a consumer
group representing senior citizens in Northern Ohio) to recommend approval of
the merger between SBC and Ameritech.  Time Warner Telecom and CoreComm,
competitive providers of local service in Ohio, have also signed the
agreement as non-opposing stipulating parties.  The agreement provides for
certain commitments from SBC and Ameritech, including capping rates for basic
local service until January 2002; maintaining a specified level of full-time
equivalent employees in Ohio for two years; establishing and maintaining
minimum customer service standards for two years subsequent to the merger
close, including potential penalties for non-compliance with the minimum
standards; providing residential unbundled loop discounts and making various
charitable contributions within three years of the merger.  The agreement
requires approval by the PUCO before implementation.

           CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Information set forth in this form contains forward-looking statements that
are subject to risks and uncertainties.  SBC claims the protection of the
safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause SBC's future results to differ materially
from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:  (1) adverse
economic changes in the markets served by SBC or changes in available
technology; (2) the final outcome of various FCC rulemakings and judicial
review, if any, of such rulemakings; (3) the final outcome of various state
regulatory proceedings in SBC's eight-state area, and judicial review, if
any, of such proceedings; and (4) the timing of entry and the extent of
competition in the local and intraLATA toll markets in SBC's eight-state
area.  Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this form,
although not enumerated here, also could materially impact SBC's future
earnings.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The properties of SBC do not lend themselves to description by character and
location of principal units.  At December 31, 1998, 93% of the property,
plant and equipment of SBC was owned by the Wireline subsidiaries.  Network
access lines represented 42% of the Wireline subsidiaries' investment in
telephone plant; central office equipment represented 40%; land and
buildings represented 10%; other miscellaneous property, comprised
principally of furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other work
equipment, represented 5%; and information origination/termination equipment
represented 3%.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Six putative class actions in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Kansas that
involved the provision by SWBell of maintenance and trouble diagnosis services
relating to telephone inside wire located on customer premises have been
settled during 1998.  These actions alleged that SWBell's sales practices in
connection with these services violated antitrust, fraud and/or deceptive
trade practices statutes.  The trial court has approved the settlement, which
is not expected to materially affect the financial results of SBC.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

A special meeting of the shareowners of SBC was held on December 10, 1998, in
San Antonio, Texas.  Shareowners representing 1,535,760,506 shares of common
stock were present in person or were represented at the meeting by proxy
where two items were submitted for vote.

Shareowners approved at the meeting the issuance of shares of common stock of
SBC pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ameritech, SBC and an
SBC subsidiary, dated as of May 10, 1998, pursuant to which Ameritech would
become a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC. The vote was 1,321,416,117 FOR and
21,533,264 AGAINST, with 12,326,431 ABSTAINING.

Shareowners approved and adopted a proposal to amend the Bylaws of SBC to
provide the maximum number of persons that may serve as directors on the Board
of Directors of SBC be increased to 25 from 21.  The vote was 1,465,067,133
FOR and 54,245,254 AGAINST, with 16,448,119 ABSTAINING.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Name           Age                              Position        Held
                                                                         Since

Edward E. Whitacre Jr. 57   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer        1/1990

J. Cliff Eason         51   President - SBC International               6/1997

Royce S. Caldwell      60   President - SBC Operations                  7/1995

Cassandra C. Carr      54   Senior Executive Vice President -           10/1998
                            External Affairs

James D. Ellis         55   Senior Executive Vice President and         3/1989
                            General Counsel

Charles E. Foster      62   Group President - SBC                       7/1995

Karen E. Jennings      48   Senior Vice President - Human Resources     10/1998

James S. Kahan         51   Senior Vice President - Corporate           7/1993
                            Development

Donald E. Kiernan      58   Senior Vice President, Treasurer and        7/1993
                              Chief Financial Officer

Stanley T. Sigman      51   President and Chief Executive Officer       4/1997
                            SBC Wireless Inc.

All of the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions
with SBC or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years, except for
Ms. Jennings, who has held high-level managerial positions since 1995.  Prior
to that, Ms. Jennings held responsible managerial positions with SBC.
Executive officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office.

                                   PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The number of shareowners of record as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 were
1,005,621 and 1,059,158.  Other information required by this Item is included
in the 1998 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the headings "Quarterly
Financial Information" on page 37, "Selected Financial and Operating Data" on
page 5, and "Stock Trading Information" on page 41, which are incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the 1998 SBC Annual Report
to Shareowners under the heading "Selected Financial and Operating Data" on
page 5 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information required by this Item is included in the 1998 SBC Annual Report
to Shareowners on page 6 through page 19, which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information required by this Item is included in the 1998 SBC Annual Report
to Shareowners under the heading "Market Risk" on page 17 through page 19,
which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the 1998 SBC Annual Report
to Shareowners on page 20 through page 37, which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on any accounting
or financial disclosure matters occurred during the period covered by this
report.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation
S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report
since the registrant did not furnish such information in its definitive proxy
statement prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A.  Other information
required by this Item 10 is included in the registrant's definitive proxy
statement, dated March 12, 1999, under the headings "Board of Directors"
beginning on page 4 and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" beginning on page 31 which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 12, 1999, under the headings "Compensation of
Directors" from page 13 through page 14, and "Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation", "Executive Compensation", "Pension
Plans", and "Contracts with Management" from page 19 through page 31, which
are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 12, 1999, under the heading "Common Stock
Ownership of Directors and Officers" on page 15, which is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 12, 1999, under the heading "Compensation of
Directors" from page 13 through page 14 and "Contracts with Management" from
page 30 through 31, which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                                 Page
                                                                 ----

     (1) Report of Independent Auditors..........................   *
        Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
         Consolidated Statements of Income.......................   *
         Consolidated Balance Sheets.............................   *
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows...................   *
         Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity..........   *
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............   *


     *Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
      registrant's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 1998.  (See Part II.)

                                                                 Page
                                                                 ----

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules:
         II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts..................  26

     Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been
     omitted because the required information is contained in the financial
     statements and notes thereto, or because such schedules are not required
     or applicable.

     (3) Exhibits:

     Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as
     exhibits hereto.  Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so
     incorporated are from File No. 1-8610.

   Exhibit
   Number

     2-a    Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Pacific Telesis Group, SBC
            Communications Inc. and SBC Communications (NV) Inc., dated as of
            April 1, 1996.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1996.)

     2-b    Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Southern New England
            Telecommunications Corporation, SBC Communications Inc., and SBC
            (CT), dated as of January 4, 1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated
            January 4, 1998.)

     2-c    Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ameritech Corporation, SBC and
            SBC Delaware, Inc., dated as of May 10, 1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form
            8-K, dated May 10, 1998.)

     3-a    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary
            of State of Delaware on April 28, 1998.  (Exhibit 3-a to Form
            10-Q dated March 31, 1998.)

     3-b    Certificate of Designation, filed with the Secretary of State of
            Delaware on March 31, 1997.

     3-c    Bylaws dated June 26, 1998.

     4-a    Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no instrument
            which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
            registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed
            herewith.  Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
            agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
            request.

     4-b    Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between SBC and SBC
            Communications Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
            Statement No. 33-11669.)

     4-c    Resolutions guaranteeing certain obligations of Pacific Telesis
            Group.  (Exhibit 4-g to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan. (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-b   Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to
            Form 10-K for 1992.)

     10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K
            for 1997.)

     10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units
            of Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1,
            1988), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration
            Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-f   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective
            for Units of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
            1988 or later), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to
            Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-g   Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to
            Form 10-K for 1986.)

     10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-h to Form
            10-K for 1997.)

     10-i   Financial Counseling Program.   (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-j   Supplemental Health Plan. . (Exhibit 10-j to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.   (Exhibit 10-k to
            Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC
            and its directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
            Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

     10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of
            SBC and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Exhibit 10-p to
            Form 10-K for 1988.)

     10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of
            SBC and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Approved November
            21, 1997).  (Exhibit 10-n to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-o   Stock Savings Plan.   (Exhibit 10-o to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.   (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10-q to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

     10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-s to
            Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-t   Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee
            Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific
            Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-t(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                     1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-u   Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
            (Exhibit 10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-v   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
            (Exhibit 10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-v(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                     1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-w   Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan.  (Attachment A
            to Pacific Telesis Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11,
            1994, and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

            10-w(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective January 1,
                     1995.  (Attachment A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1995
                     Proxy Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

     10-x   Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
            (Exhibit A to Pacific  Telesis Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed
            February 26, 1990.)

            10-x(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective April 1, 1994.
                     (Exhibit 10xx(i) to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific
                     Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

     13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for the fiscal
            year ended December 31, 1998.  Only the information incorporated
            by reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

     21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

     23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

     23-b   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

     24     Powers of Attorney.

     27     Financial Data Schedule.

     99-a   Report of Independent Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

     99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings Plan for the year
            1998 to be filed under Form 10 K/A.

     99-c   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings and Security Plan
            for the year 1998 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

     99-d   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Pacific Telesis Group
            Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Nonsalaried
            Employees for the year 1998.

     99-e   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Pacific Telesis Group
            Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried and
            Nonsalaried Employees (LESOP) for the year 1998.

     99-f   Annual report on Form 11-K for the SNET Bargaining Unit Retirement
            Savings Plan for the year 1998.

     99-g   Annual report on Form 11-K for the SNET Management Retirement
            Savings Plan for the year 1998.

SBC will furnish to shareowners upon request, and without charge, a copy of
the annual report to shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which
are incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K.  SBC will furnish any other
exhibit at cost.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

On October 15, 1998, SBC filed a Form 8-K, including an Item 5. Other
Events, and an Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  In the report,
SBC disclosed a press release discussing its third quarter 1998 earnings and
selected financial information for the periods ended September 30, 1998 and
1997.

On October 26, 1998, SBC filed a Form 8-K, including an Item 5. Other
Events, and an Item 7. Exhibits.  In the report, SBC disclosed that it had
completed the merger with Southern New England Telecommunications
Corporation.

On October 30, 1998, SBC filed a Form 8-K, including an Item 5. Other
Events.  In the report, SBC disclosed that its subsidiary, Pacific Bell
announced on October 29, 1998 it was commencing a fixed spread repurchase
offer for any and all of its outstanding 8.50% debentures due August 15,
2031; 7.75% debentures due September 15, 2032; and 7.50% debentures due
February 1, 2033.

On November 19, 1998, SBC filed a Form 8-K, including an Item 7. Financial
Statements and Exhibits.  In the report, SBC disclosed unaudited financial
statements to reflect the proposed business combination of SBC and Ameritech
Corporation as and for the nine months ended September 30, 1998.

<TABLE>
                                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                   Schedule II - Sheet 1
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                             Allowance for Uncollectibles
                                                  Dollars in Millions


<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D       COL. E
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                               (1)            (2)
                                                                            Charged
                                            Balance at       Charged        to Other                     Balance
                                           Beginning of   to Costs and      Accounts      Deductions    at End of
               Description                    Period      Expenses Note    -Note (a)      -Note (b)      Period
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>                <C>           <C>              <C>        <C>   
 Year 1998..............................    $  430             513           278              749        $  472
 Year 1997..............................    $  339             566           388              863        $  430
 Year 1996..............................    $  303             438           254              656        $  339








<FN>
(a)  Amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this
     account when recovered.

(b)  Amounts written off as uncollectible.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                  Schedule II - Sheet 2
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                        Accumulated Amortization of Intangibles
                                                  Dollars in Millions


<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D        COL. E
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                               (1)            (2)

                                            Balance at                      Charged                       Balance
                                           Beginning of      Charged        to Other                     at End of
               Description                    Period       to Expense       Accounts      Deductions      Period
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>                <C>             <C>           <C>          <C>   
 Year 1998..............................    $ 1,047            136             1             443(a)       $   741
 Year 1997..............................    $   638            410             5               6          $ 1,047
 Year 1996..............................    $   554            139             2              57(b)       $   638












<FN>
(a)  Primarily related to the disposition of SBC Media Ventures, Inc. and an
     impairment of an investment in wireless video.

(b)  Primarily related to the disposition of Associated Directory Services,
     Inc.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                   Schedule II - Sheet 3
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                               Reserve for Restructuring
                                                  Dollars in Millions

<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D        COL. E
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------

                                                               (1)            (2)
                                            Balance at       Charged        Charged                         Balance
                                           Beginning of   to Costs and      to Other        Deductions     at End of
               Description                    Period        Expenses        Accounts         -Note (a)       Period
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>                                              <C>           <C>  
 Year 1998..............................    $   7              -               -               7           $   -
 Year 1997..............................    $ 142              -               -             135           $   7
 Year 1996..............................    $ 337              -               -             195           $ 142

<FN>
(a)  The 1996 amount reflects $(64) of costs for enhanced retirement benefits
     paid from pension fund assets which do not require current outlays of
     SBC's funds.  This 1996 reversal of $64 resulted from revised estimates
     of these retirement costs.  The 1996 amount also includes non-cash net
     pension and postretirement settlement gain charged against the
     restructuring reserve of $66.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 12th day
of March, 1999.

                                       SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.


                                       By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                       (Donald E. Kiernan
                                       Senior Vice President, Treasurer and
                                       Chief Financial Officer)

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:
    Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*
    Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and
 Accounting Officer:
    Donald E. Kiernan
    Senior Vice President, Treasurer
    and Chief Financial Officer

                                       /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
Directors:                             (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-in-fact
                                       and on his own behalf as Principal
Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*               Financial Officer and Principal
Clarence C. Barksdale*                 Accounting Officer)
James E. Barnes*
August A. Busch III*
Royce S. Caldwell*                     March 12, 1999
Ruben R. Cardenas*
William P. Clark*
Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
Herman E. Gallegos*
Jess T. Hay*
Bobby R. Inman*
Charles F. Knight*
Mary S. Metz*
Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
Toni Rembe*
S. Donley Ritchey*
Joyce M. Roche'*
Richard M. Rosenberg*
Carlos Slim Helu'*
Patricia P. Upton*

* by power of attorney
<PAGE>

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

     Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as
     exhibits hereto.  Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so
     incorporated are from File No. 1-8610.

   Exhibit
   Number


     2-a    Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Pacific Telesis Group, SBC
            Communications Inc. and SBC Communications (NV) Inc., dated as of
            April 1, 1996.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1996.)

     2-b    Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Southern New England
            Telecommunications Corporation, SBC Communications Inc., and SBC
            (CT), dated as of January 4, 1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated
            January 4, 1998.)

     2-c    Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ameritech Corporation, SBC and
            SBC Delaware, Inc., dated as of May 10, 1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form
            8-K, dated May 10, 1998.)

     3-a    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary
            of State of Delaware on April 28, 1998.  (Exhibit 3-a to Form
            10-Q dated March 31, 1998.)

     3-b    Certificate of Designation, filed with the Secretary of State of
            Delaware on March 31, 1997.

     3-c    Bylaws dated June 26, 1998.

     4-a    Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no instrument
            which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
            registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed
            herewith.  Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
            agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
            request.

     4-b    Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between SBC and SBC
            Communications Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
            Statement No. 33-11669.)

     4-c    Resolutions guaranteeing certain obligations of Pacific Telesis
            Group.  (Exhibit 4-g to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan. (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-b   Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to
            Form 10-K for 1992.)

     10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K
            for 1997.)

     10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units
            of Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1,
            1988), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration
            Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-f   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective
            for Units of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
            1988 or later), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to
            Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-g   Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to
            Form 10-K for 1986.)

     10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-h to Form
            10-K for 1997.)

     10-i   Financial Counseling Program.   (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-j   Supplemental Health Plan. . (Exhibit 10-j to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.   (Exhibit 10-k to
            Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC
            and its directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
            Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

     10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of
            SBC and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Exhibit 10-p to
            Form 10-K for 1988.)

     10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of
            SBC and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Approved November
            21, 1997).  (Exhibit 10-n to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-o   Stock Savings Plan.   (Exhibit 10-o to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.   (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10-q to Form 10-K for
            1997.)

     10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

     10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-s to
            Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-t   Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee
            Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific
            Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-t(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                     1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-u   Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
            (Exhibit 10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-v   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
            (Exhibit 10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-v(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                     1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

     10-w   Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan.  (Attachment A
            to Pacific Telesis Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11,
            1994, and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

            10-w(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective January 1,
                     1995.  (Attachment A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1995
                     Proxy Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

     10-x   Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
            (Exhibit A to Pacific  Telesis Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed
            February 26, 1990.)

            10-x(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective April 1, 1994.
                     (Exhibit 10xx(i) to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific
                     Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

     13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for the fiscal
            year ended December 31, 1998.  Only the information incorporated
            by reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

     21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

     23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

     23-b   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

     24     Powers of Attorney.

     27     Financial Data Schedule.

     99-a   Report of Independent Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

     99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings Plan for the year
            1998 to be filed under Form 10 K/A.

     99-c   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings and Security Plan
            for the year 1998 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

     99-d   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Pacific Telesis Group
            Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Nonsalaried
            Employees for the year 1998.

     99-e   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Pacific Telesis Group
            Supplemental Retirement and Savings Plan for Salaried and
            Nonsalaried Employees (LESOP) for the year 1998.

     99-f   Annual report on Form 11-K for the SNET Bargaining Unit Retirement
            Savings Plan for the year 1998.

     99-g   Annual report on Form 11-K for the SNET Management Retirement
            Savings Plan for the year 1998.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.(II)
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>BYLAWS DATED JUNE 26, 1998
<TEXT>



                                                                   Exhibit 3-c


                                                      As amended June 26, 1998


                           SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

    Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware, October 5, 1983

                                    Bylaws

                                   Article I

                                 Stockholders

Section 1.  Annual Meeting

      An annual meeting of the stockholders,  for the election of Directors to
succeed  those  whose  terms  expire  and for the  transaction  of such  other
business  as may  properly  come  before  the  meeting,  shall be held at such
place,  on such  date,  and at such time as the Board of  Directors  shall fix
each year.

Section 2.  Special Meeting

      Special meetings of the  stockholders may be called at any time,  either
by the Board of Directors  or by the  Chairman of the Board,  and the Chairman
of the Board shall call a special meeting whenever  requested in writing to do
so by stockholders  representing  two-thirds of the shares of the corporation,
then  outstanding,  and  entitled to vote at such  meeting.  This request must
specify the time, place and object of the proposed meeting.

Section 3.  Notice of Meetings

      Written  notice of all  meetings of the  stockholders  shall be given to
each  stockholder  entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten (10) nor
more than  sixty  (60) days  before  the date on which  the  meeting  is to be
held.  The notice shall state the place,  date and hour of the  meeting,  and,
in the case of a  special  meeting,  the  purpose  or  purposes  for which the
meeting is called.  If mailed,  such  notice  shall be deemed to be  delivered
when  deposited  in the  United  States  mail with  postage  thereon  prepaid,
addressed  to the  stockholder  at his  address  as it  appears  on the  stock
transfer books of the  corporation.  Any previously  scheduled  meeting of the
stockholders  may be postponed by  resolution  of the Board of Directors  upon
public  notice given prior to the time  previously  scheduled for such meeting
of stockholders.

     When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date, or time, written notice
need not be given of the meeting when reconvened,  if the place,  date, and time
thereof are announced at the meeting at which the  adjournment is taken.  If the
date of the  meeting to be  reconvened  is more than  thirty (30) days after the
date for which  notice of the  meeting was  originally  given or if a new record
date is fixed for the meeting, written notice of the place, date and time of the
meeting  to be  reconvened  shall  be  given  in  conformity  herewith.  At  any
reconvened  meeting,  any  business  may be  transacted  that  might  have  been
transacted at the original meeting.

Section 4.  Quorum

      At any meeting of the  stockholders,  the holders of forty percent (40%)
of all of the shares of the stock entitled to vote at the meeting,  present in
person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

      If a quorum  shall  fail to attend  any  meeting,  the  chairman  of the
meeting or the  holders of a majority  of the shares of the stock  entitled to
vote who are  present,  in person or by proxy,  may  adjourn  the  meeting  to
another place, date, or time.

Section 5.  Organization

      The  Chairman of the Board,  or a Director or officer as the Chairman of
the Board may designate,  shall act as chairman of the stockholders'  meeting.
The chairman of the meeting  shall  designate an officer to act as a secretary
for the meeting in the absence of the corporation's Secretary.

Section 6.  Proxies and Voting

      At any meeting of the stockholders,  every stockholder  entitled to vote
may vote in person or by proxy.

      Each  holder  of common  stock  shall  have one vote for every  share of
stock that is registered in the stockholder's  name on the record date for the
meeting.

      All  voting  may be by a voice  vote,  provided  that  upon  demand of a
stockholder  entitled  to vote in person or by proxy,  a recorded  vote of all
shares of stock at the meeting shall be taken.

      Directors  shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast.  All other
matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast,  unless a greater
number is required by law or the Certificate of  Incorporation  for the action
proposed.

Section 7.  Nomination of Directors

      Only  persons  who  are  nominated  in  accordance  with  the  following
procedures  shall  be  eligible  for  election  as  Directors.  Nomination  of
persons  for  election  to the Board of  Directors  may be made at any  annual
meeting of  stockholders  (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors
or any duly  authorized  committee  thereof or (b) by any  stockholder  of the
corporation  entitled  to vote for the  election  of  Directors  at the annual
meeting. In addition to any other applicable  requirements,  a nomination made
by a stockholder  shall be pursuant to timely notice in proper written form to
the Secretary of the Corporation.

      To be timely,  a stockholder's  notice to the Secretary must be received
at the  principal  executive  offices of the  corporation  not less than sixty
(60)  days nor more than  ninety  (90)  days  prior to the date of the  annual
meeting;  provided,  however,  that in the event that less than  seventy  (70)
days'  notice or prior public  disclosure  of the date of the meeting is given
or made to stockholders,  notice by the stockholder must be received not later
than ten (10) days  following the day on which notice or public  disclosure of
the date of the annual meeting was mailed or made, whichever first occurs.

      To be in proper  written form, a  stockholder's  notice to the Secretary
must  set  forth  (a) as to each  person  whom  the  stockholder  proposes  to
nominate for election as Director (i) the name,  age,  business  address,  and
residence address of the person,  (ii) the principal  occupation or employment
of the  person,  (iii)  the class or series  and  number of shares of  capital
stock of the  corporation  which  are owned  beneficially  or of record by the
person,  and  (iv)  any  other  information  relating  to the  person  that is
required  to  be  disclosed  in  solicitations  of  proxies  for  election  of
Directors  pursuant to Section 14 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended,  and (b) as to the  stockholder  giving  the  notice (i) the name and
record  address  of such  stockholder,  (ii) the class or series and number of
shares of capital stock of the corporation which are owned  beneficially or of
record by such stockholder,  and (iii) any other information  relating to such
stockholder  that would be required to be  disclosed  in a proxy  statement or
other filings  required to be made in connection with  solicitation of proxies
for the  election  of  Directors  pursuant  to  Section  14 of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended.  Such  notice  must be  accompanied  by a
written  consent of each  proposed  nominee to being named as a nominee and to
serve as a Director if elected.

      No  person  shall  be  eligible  for  election  as  a  Director  of  the
corporation  unless  nominated in accordance  with the procedures set forth in
this Section 7. If the Chairman  determines  that a nomination was not made in
accordance  with the foregoing  procedure,  the Chairman  shall declare to the
meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective  nomination shall
be disregarded.

Section 8.  Conduct of Annual Meeting

      No business  may be  transacted  at an annual  meeting of  stockholders,
other than  business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or
any  supplement  thereto)  given  by or at  the  direction  of  the  Board  of
Directors (or any duly authorized  committee thereof),  (b) otherwise properly
brought  before the meeting by or at the  direction  of the Board of Directors
(or any duly authorized committee thereof),  or (c) otherwise properly brought
before  the  meeting  by  a  stockholder   as  of  the  record  date  for  the
determination  of  stockholders  entitled to vote at such annual  meeting.  In
addition  to any other  applicable  requirements  for  business to be properly
brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder,  such stockholder must have
given timely  notice  thereof in proper  written form to the  Secretary of the
Corporation.

      To be timely,  a stockholder's  notice to the Secretary must be received
at the  principal  executive  offices of the  corporation  not less than sixty
(60)  days nor more than  ninety  (90)  days  prior to the date of the  annual
meeting;  provided,  however,  that in the event that less than  seventy  (70)
days' notice or prior public  disclosure of the date of the annual  meeting is
given or made to the  stockholder,  notice by the stockholder must be received
not later than the close of  business  on the tenth day  following  the day in
which such notice of the date of the annual  meeting was mailed or such public
disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.

      To be in proper  written  form,  stockholder's  notice to the  Secretary
must set forth,  as to each matter such  stockholder  proposes to bring before
the annual  meeting,  (i) a brief  description  of the business  desired to be
brought  before  the  annual  meeting  and the  reasons  for  conducting  such
business  at the  annual  meeting,  (ii) the name and  record  address of such
stockholder,  (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital  stock
of  the  corporation  which  are  owned  beneficially  or of  record  of  such
stockholder,  and  (iv)  any  material  interest  of the  stockholder  in such
business.

      No business  shall be  conducted at the annual  meeting of  stockholders
except  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set  forth in this  Section  8;
provided,  however, that nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to preclude
discussion by any  stockholder  of any business  properly  brought  before the
annual  meeting.  If the Chairman  determines  that  business was not properly
brought   before  the  annual   meeting  in  accordance   with  the  foregoing
procedures,  the Chairman  shall  declare to the meeting that the business was
not  brought  properly  before  the  meeting  and such  business  shall not be
transacted.

                                  Article II

                              Board of Directors

Section 1.  Number and Terms of Office

      The  business  and  affairs  of  the  corporation  shall  be  under  the
direction of a Board of Directors.

      The number of  Directors  shall be not more than  twenty-five  (25),  as
determined  by a majority  vote of the total number of Directors  then serving
in office,  provided,  however,  that such maximum  number of Directors may be
reduced  (but not  thereafter  raised)  to a  maximum  number of not less than
twenty-one  (21) Directors by a majority vote of the total number of Directors
then serving in office.

      Directors  shall be divided into three  classes  designated  as Group A,
Group B, and Group C. The three  classes of  Directors  shall each  consist of
an equal  number of  Directors  or a number of  Directors  as nearly  equal as
possible.  When the total  number of  Directors  is  divided  by three and one
remains,  the Director  remaining shall be assigned to Group A. When the total
number  of  Directors  is  divided  by three  and two  remain,  they  shall be
assigned  one to Group A and one to Group B. The  number of  Directors  in any
one class may not exceed the number of  Directors  in any other  class by more
than one,  except as may result from the phasing-in of a decrease in Directors
under Section 2 of this Article II.

      The Board of Directors  appointed by the incorporators shall serve until
the first  stockholders'  meeting.  At the first meeting of stockholders after
organization  of the  corporation,  Directors  to  serve  in  Group A shall be
elected to a term of one year;  Directors to serve in Group B shall be elected
to a term of two years;  and Directors to serve in Group C shall be elected to
a full  term of  three  years.  Thereafter,  at  each  annual  meeting  of the
stockholders,  Directors  shall be  elected  to a full term of three  years to
succeed those in the Director group whose terms expire at that annual meeting.

Section 2.  Increases and Decreases in Directors

      The  Board  of  Directors   may  increase  or  decrease  the  number  of
Directors,  subject  to the  maximum  limits  provided  in  Section  1 of this
Article  II, by a vote of a majority  of the total  number of  Directors.  Any
vacancies  created by an increase in the number of  Directors  shall be filled
as  provided  in  Section 3 of this  Article II and be  distributed  among the
Director  groups  in  accordance  with  Section  1 of  this  Article  II.  Any
decrease in the authorized  number of Directors shall be phased in by reducing
the  number of  Directors  in the first  Director  group  whose  terms  expire
subsequent  to the  decrease  to the  number  required  to be in that group by
Section  1 of this  Article  II at the end of the  phasing-in  period,  and by
similarly  reducing the number of Directors in the other Director  groups upon
expiration  of their  terms,  so that when the terms of Directors in all three
Director groups have  successively  expired  subsequent to the decrease,  each
Director group shall have the distribution of Directors  required by Section 1
of this Article II of these Bylaws.

Section 3.  Vacancies

      If the position of any Director is or becomes vacant,  a majority of the
Directors  remaining  in office may appoint a  successor  to serve the full or
remaining  term,  as the case may be, of the other  Directors  in the group in
which the vacancy occurred or was created.

Section 4.  Regular Meetings

      Regular  meetings of the Board of Directors  shall be held at such place
or  places,  on such  date or  dates,  and at such  time or  times as shall be
established  by the  Board of  Directors.  A notice  of each  regular  meeting
shall not be required.

Section 5.  Special Meetings

      Special  meetings of the Board of  Directors  may be called by one-third
of the  Directors  or by the  Chairman  of the Board and shall be held at such
place, on such date, and at such time as the Directors  calling the meeting or
the  Chairman of the Board  shall fix.  Notice of a special  meeting  shall be
given to each Director in any of the following  ways: in person,  by telephone
or  by  delivery  of a  written  notice  or  facsimile  communication  to  the
Director's  business or  residence.  Notice  given in writing or by  facsimile
communication  to the  Director's  business or residence  must be delivered at
least  twenty-four  (24) hours before such meeting.  Notice given by telephone
or in person  shall be given at least  twelve (12) hours prior to the time set
for the  meeting.  Neither the business to be  transacted  at, nor the purpose
of,  any  regular  or  special  meeting  of the  Board  of  Directors  need be
specified  in the  notice of such  meeting.  A written  waiver of any  notice,
signed by a Director,  whether before or after the time of the event for which
notice is to be given,  shall be equivalent to the notice required to be given
to such person.

Section 6.  Quorum

      At any  meeting  of the  Board of  Directors,  a  majority  of the total
number of the Directors shall constitute a quorum.

Section 7.  Committees of the Board of Directors

      The  corporation  elects to be  governed  by the  provisions  of Section
141(c)(2)  of the General  Corporation  of the State of  Delaware,  as amended
effective  July  1,  1996.  The  Board  of  Directors  may  from  time to time
designate  committees of the Board of Directors,  with such lawfully delegable
powers and  duties as it  thereby  confers,  to serve at the  pleasure  of the
Board of  Directors  and shall elect a Director or  Directors  to serve as the
member or members,  designating,  if it desires,  other Directors as alternate
members who may replace any absent or  disqualified  members at any meeting of
the  committee.  Any  committee  so  designated  may  exercise  the  power and
authority  of the Board of  Directors  as  permitted by law. In the absence or
disqualification  of any  member of any  committee  and any  alternate  member
designated  to replace such member,  the members of the  committee  present at
the meeting and not  disqualified  from voting may by  unanimous  vote appoint
another  member of the Board of  Directors  to act at the meeting in the place
of the absent or disqualified member.

      Each  committee  may determine  procedural  rules for the conduct of its
meetings  and  business,  and  shall  act  in  accordance  therewith,   unless
otherwise  provided by the Board of Directors in the  resolution  establishing
the committee.

                                  Article III

                            Officers of the Company

Section 1.  Generally

      The  officers  of the  corporation  shall  consist of a Chairman  of the
Board, a President,  one or more Vice  Presidents,  a Secretary,  a Treasurer,
and a  Vice  President-Chief  Financial  Officer  appointed  by the  Board  of
Directors.  The Board of  Directors  may also  appoint  one or more  Assistant
Secretaries,  Assistant Treasurers,  and such other officers and agents as the
Board of  Directors  may desire.  Officers  shall be appointed by the Board of
Directors at its first  meeting  after every annual  meeting of  stockholders.
Each officer or agent  appointed  by the Board of Directors  shall hold office
until a successor  is elected and  qualified  or until such  person's  earlier
resignation or removal.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person.

Section 2.  Duties of the Chairman of the Board

      The  Chairman  of  the  Board  shall  preside  at  all  meetings  of the
stockholders and of the Board of Directors.

      Unless  otherwise  directed by the Board of  Directors,  the Chairman of
the Board,  or such other  officer or agent as the  Chairman  of the Board may
designate,  shall have  authority to vote and  otherwise  act on behalf of the
corporation,  in person or by proxy, at any meeting of  stockholders,  or with
respect to any action of stockholders  of any other  corporation in which this
corporation may hold securities,  and otherwise to exercise any and all rights
and powers that this  corporation  may possess by reason of its  ownership  of
securities in any other corporation.

Section 3.  Duties of the President

      The President  shall perform the duties as usually pertain to the office
and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned.

Section 4.  Duties of Vice Presidents

      Each Vice President  shall perform the duties as usually  pertain to the
office to which  appointed  and such other  duties as may from time to time be
assigned.

Section 5.  Duties of Secretary and Assistant Secretaries

      The Secretary  shall make a record of the proceedings of all meetings of
the stockholders,  Board of Directors and any committee of Directors, in books
to be kept for that  purpose.  The  Secretary  shall also give and publish all
necessary  notices of all  meetings,  have custody of the  corporate  seal and
affix it when authorized, and preserve and keep all general contracts,  papers
and documents.  In general,  the Secretary  shall perform all duties  incident
to the office of  Secretary  and such other duties as from time to time may be
assigned.

      Each Assistant  Secretary  shall perform such duties of the Secretary as
may from time to time be assigned.

Section 6.  Duties of Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers

      The  Treasurer  shall have  charge of all monies,  funds and  securities
which may come  into the  Treasurer's  possession,  maintain  deposits  of the
corporation's   monies  and  funds  in  such  depositories  as  the  Board  of
Directors,  the Chairman of the Board or the  President  shall  approve,  make
disbursements  of such  monies  and  funds  under  direction  of the  Board of
Directors,  the Chairman of the Board,  or the  President,  keep an account of
all  receipts  and  disbursements,  and make such  reports as may be required.
The Treasurer shall also maintain a record of the outstanding  shares of stock
in the corporation,  a stock transfer record and a list of the stockholders of
the corporation.  In general,  the Treasurer shall perform all duties incident
to the office of  Treasurer  and such other duties as from time to time may be
assigned.

      Each Assistant  Treasurer  shall perform such duties of the Treasurer as
may from time to time be assigned.

Section 7.  Duties of the Vice President-Chief Financial Officer

      The  Vice  President-Chief  Financial  Officer  shall  be the  principal
officer in charge of the  accounts of the  corporation  and shall  perform all
duties incident to the office of Vice  President-Chief  Financial  Officer and
such other duties as from time to time may be assigned.

Section 8.  Delegation of Authority

      The Board of  Directors  may from time to time  assign or  delegate  the
powers,  authorities or duties of the Chairman of the Board,  the President or
any  officer or agent to any other  officers  or agents,  notwithstanding  any
provision hereof.

                                  Article IV

                                Indemnification

      The  corporation  shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is
threatened  to be made a party  to any  action,  suit or  proceeding,  whether
civil,  criminal,  administrative  or  investigative  (including any action or
suit by or in the  right of the  corporation)  by reason of the fact that such
person is or was a  Director,  officer or  employee  of the  corporation,  or,
while  such  person  is  or  was  a  Director,  officer  or  employee  of  the
corporation,  such person is or was serving at the request of the  corporation
as  a  director,   officer,   employee,   or  agent  of  another  corporation,
partnership,  joint venture,  trust,  or other  enterprise,  against  expenses
(including attorneys' fees), judgments,  fines, and amounts paid in settlement
actually  and  reasonably  incurred  by such  person in  connection  with such
action,  suit,  or  proceeding,  but in each  case  only if and to the  extent
permitted under applicable state or federal law.

      The  indemnification  provided  herein shall not be deemed  exclusive of
any  other  rights  to which  those  indemnified  may be  entitled,  and shall
continue  as to a person who has ceased to be a Director,  officer,  employee,
or  agent,  and  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of  the  heirs  and  personal
representatives of such a person.

                                   Article V

                                     Stock

Section 1.  Stock Certificates; Uncertificated Shares

      The shares of the  corporation  shall be  represented  by  certificates,
provided  that the  Board of  Directors  of the  corporation  may  provide  by
resolution or resolutions  that some or all of any or all classes or series of
its  stock  shall be  uncertificated  shares.  Any such  resolution  shall not
apply to  shares  represented  by a  certificate  until  such  certificate  is
surrendered  to  the  corporation.  Notwithstanding  the  adoption  of  such a
resolution by the Board of  Directors,  every holder of stock  represented  by
certificates and upon request every holder of  uncertificated  shares shall be
entitled to have a  certificate  signed by, or in the name of the  corporation
by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman  of the Board of Directors,  or the President
or  Vice-President,  and by the  Treasurer or an Assistant  Treasurer,  or the
Secretary  or an  Assistant  Secretary of such  corporation  representing  the
number  of  shares   registered  in  certificate  form.  Any  or  all  of  the
signatures  on the  certificate  may be a  facsimile.  In  case  any  officer,
transfer  agent or registrar who has signed or whose  facsimile  signature has
been  placed  upon  a  certificate  shall  have  ceased  to be  such  officer,
transfer  agent or  registrar  before such  certificate  is issued,  it may be
issued  by the  corporation  with the same  effect  as if he or she were  such
officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.

Section 2.  Transfers of Stock

      Transfers  of stock shall be made only on the stock  transfer  record of
the  corporation  and upon  surrender  of the  certificate  previously  issued
therefor  which  is  outstanding  and  not  canceled,  except  in the  case of
uncertificated shares.

Section 3.  Transfer on Death Directions

      At the  request  of a  stockholder  residing  in a  state  that  permits
transfer  on death  directions  by law,  the  Treasurer  shall  record  on the
stockholder's certificate,  or, in the case of uncertificated shares, upon the
account  statements  evidencing  the  shares,  a  direction  to  transfer  the
stockholder's  interest  in the  corporation  to a  person  designated  by the
stockholder  on death of the  stockholder.  The  Treasurer  shall execute such
direction  upon  proof  of  death  of  the   stockholder,   surrender  of  the
outstanding  certificate with the direction  written  thereon,  and under such
regulations as may be prescribed by the Treasurer.

                                  Article VI

                             Business Combinations

Section 1.  Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations

A.    In  addition  to any  vote  of  stockholders  required  by law or  these
      Bylaws, and except as otherwise  expressly provided in Section 2 of this
      Article VI, any Business  Combination  (as  hereinafter  defined)  shall
      require the  affirmative  vote of the holders of at least 66_ percent of
      the  then  outstanding  shares  of  capital  stock  of  the  corporation
      entitled to vote  generally in the  election of  Directors  (the "Voting
      Stock"),  voting  together  as a single  class.  Such  affirmative  vote
      shall  be  required  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  no  vote  may  be
      required,  or that a lesser  percentage  may be specified,  by law or in
      any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.

B.    The term "Business Combination" shall mean:

      i.    Any merger or  consolidation  of the corporation or any subsidiary
            (as hereinafter  defined) with (a) any Interested  Stockholder (as
            hereinafter  defined)  or (b) any other  corporation  which is, or
            after such  merger or  consolidation  would be, an  Affiliate  (as
            hereinafter defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or

      ii.   Any sale, lease,  exchange,  mortgage,  pledge,  transfer or other
            disposition (in either one or in a series of  transactions)  to or
            with  any   Interested   Stockholder   or  any  Affiliate  of  any
            Interested  Stockholder  of  any  assets  of  the  corporation  or
            any   subsidiary   having  an  aggregate  Fair  Market  Value  (as
            hereinafter defined) of $10,000,000 or more; or

      iii.  The issuance or transfer by the  corporation or any subsidiary (in
            either one or in a series of  transactions)  of any  securities of
            the  corporation or any  subsidiary to any Interested  Stockholder
            or  any  Affiliate  of  any  Interested   Stockholder   for  cash,
            securities or other property (or a combination  thereof) having an
            aggregate Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more; or

      iv.   The  adoption  of any  plan or  proposal  for the  liquidation  or
            dissolution  of the  corporation  proposed  by or on  behalf of an
            Interested   Stockholder   or  any  Affiliate  of  any  Interested
            Stockholder; or

      v.    Any  reclassification  of securities  (including any reverse stock
            split), or recapitalization  of the corporation,  or any merger or
            consolidation  of the corporation  with any of its subsidiaries or
            any other  transaction  (whether or not with or into or  otherwise
            involving  an  Interested   Stockholder)  which  has  the  effect,
            directly or indirectly,  of increasing the proportionate  share of
            the  outstanding  shares of any  class of  equity  or  convertible
            securities of the corporation or any subsidiary  which is directly
            or  indirectly   owned  by  any  Interested   Stockholder  or  any
            Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder.

Section 2.  Exceptions to Vote Required by Section 1

      The  provisions  of Section 1 of this Article VI shall not be applicable
to any particular Business  Combination,  and such Business  Combination shall
require  only  such  affirmative  vote as is  required  by law  and any  other
provision of these Bylaws, if:

A.    The  Business  Combination  is approved by a majority of the  Continuing
      Directors (as hereinafter defined); or

B.    All of the following conditions are met:

      i.    The aggregate  amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value of any
            consideration  other than cash as of the date of the  consummation
            of the  Business  Combination  to be received per share by holders
            of common  stock in such  Business  Combination  or by  holders of
            shares of any other class of outstanding  Voting Stock shall be at
            least equal to the highest  amount  determined  under  sub-clauses
            (a), (b), and (c) below:

            a.    The  highest  per  share  price   (including  any  brokerage
                  commissions,  transfer taxes and  soliciting  dealers' fees)
                  paid by the Interested  Stockholder for any shares of common
                  stock  acquired  by  it  (1)  within  the  two-year   period
                  immediately  prior to the first public  announcement  of the
                  proposal  of the  Business  Combination  (the  "Announcement
                  Date")  or (2) in the  transaction  in  which it  became  an
                  Interested Stockholder, whichever  is  higher; and

            b.    The Fair Market  Value per share of common  stock on the day
                  after  the  Announcement  Date or on the date on  which  the
                  Interested  Stockholder  became an  Interested  Stockholder,
                  whichever is higher; and

            c.    The  price  per  share  equal to the Fair  Market  Value per
                  share of  common  stock  determined  pursuant  to  paragraph
                  B(i)(b)  above,  multiplied  by the ratio of (1) the highest
                  per  share  price  (including  any  brokerage   commissions,
                  transfer  taxes and  soliciting  dealers'  fees) paid by the
                  Interested  Stockholder  for any  shares of common  stock it
                  acquired  within the two-year  period  immediately  prior to
                  the  Announcement  Date to (2) the  Fair  Market  Value  per
                  share of  common  stock on the  first  day in such  two-year
                  period upon which the  Interested  Stockholder  acquired any
                  shares of common stock; and

      ii.   The  consideration to be received by holders of a particular class
            of  outstanding  Voting Stock shall be in cash or in the same form
            as the Interested  Stockholder  has previously  paid for shares of
            such class of Voting  Stock.  If the  Interested  Stockholder  has
            paid for shares of any class of Voting  Stock with  varying  forms
            of  consideration,  the form of  consideration  for such  class of
            Voting  Stock  shall be either  cash or the form of  consideration
            used by the  Interested  Stockholder to acquire the largest number
            of shares of such class of Voting  Stock  previously  acquired  by
            it; and

      iii.  After  such  Interested   Stockholder  has  become  an  Interested
            Stockholder  and  prior  to  the  consummation  of  such  Business
            Combination:

            a.    Except  as  approved   by  a  majority  of  the   Continuing
                  Directors,  there  shall have been no failure to declare and
                  pay  at  the  regular  date  therefor  any  full   quarterly
                  dividends  (whether or not  cumulative)  on any  outstanding
                  preferred stock; and

            b.    There  shall have been (1) no  reduction  in the annual rate
                  of dividends  paid on the common stock  (except as necessary
                  to reflect any  subdivision of the common stock),  except as
                  approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors,  and (2)
                  an increase in such annual rate of  dividends  as  necessary
                  to  reflect  any  reclassification  (including  any  reverse
                  stock  split),   recapitalization,   reorganization  or  any
                  similar  transaction  which has the effect of  reducing  the
                  number of  outstanding  shares of the common  stock,  unless
                  the failure so to  increase  such annual rate is approved by
                  a majority of the Continuing Directors; and

            c.    Such  Interested  Stockholder  shall  have  not  become  the
                  beneficial  owner of any  additional  shares of Voting Stock
                  except as part of the  transaction  which  resulted  in such
                  Interested  Stockholder becoming an Interested  Stockholder;
                  and


      iv.   A proxy or information  statement describing the proposed Business
            Combination and complying with the  requirements of the Securities
            Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations  thereunder (or
            any   subsequent   provisions   replacing   such  Act,   rules  or
            regulations)   shall  be  mailed  to  the   stockholders   of  the
            corporation  at least  thirty (30) days prior to the  consummation
            of  such  Business  Combination,  whether  or not  such  proxy  or
            information statement is required pursuant thereto.

Section 3.  Definitions

      For the purposes of this Article VI:

A.    A "person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.

B.    "Interested   Stockholder"   shall  mean  any  person  (other  than  the
      corporation or any subsidiary  (as  hereinafter  defined) and other than
      any profit  sharing,  thrift,  employee stock  ownership,  retirement or
      other employee  benefit plan of the corporation or any subsidiary of any
      trustee of or  fiduciary  with  respect to any such plan when  acting in
      such capacity) who or which:

      i.    Is the  beneficial  owner (as  hereinafter  defined),  directly or
            indirectly,  of more than 10  percent  (10%) of any  shares of the
            Voting Stock of the corporation; or

      ii.   Is an Affiliate (as  hereinafter  defined) of the  corporation and
            at any time within the two-year  period  immediately  prior to the
            date  in  question   was  the   beneficial   owner,   directly  or
            indirectly,  of 10  percent  (10%)  or more of any  shares  of the
            Voting Stock of the corporation; or

      iii.  Is an  assignee  of or has  otherwise  succeeded  to any shares of
            Voting  Stock  which were at any time within the  two-year  period
            immediately  prior to the date in question  beneficially  owned by
            any  Interested  Stockholder,  if such  assignment  or  succession
            shall have  occurred in the course of a  transaction  or series of
            transactions  not involving a public  offering  within the meaning
            of the Securities Act of 1933.

C.    A person  shall be deemed a  "beneficial  owner" of any shares of Voting
      Stock:

      i.    Which  such  person or any of its  Affiliates  or  Associates  (as
            hereinafter defined) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or

      ii.   Which such person or any of its  Affiliates or Associates  has (a)
            the  right  to  acquire   (whether   such  right  is   exercisable
            immediately  or only after the  passage of time),  pursuant to any
            agreement,  arrangement or  understanding  or upon the exercise of
            conversion  rights,  exchange  rights,  warrants,  or  options  or
            otherwise,  or (b) the right to vote  pursuant  to any  agreement,
            arrangement or understanding; or

      iii.  Which are  beneficially  owned,  directly  or  indirectly,  by any
            other  person with which such person or any of its  Affiliates  or
            Associates has any agreement,  arrangement  or  understanding  for
            the purpose of  acquiring,  holding,  voting or  disposing  of any
            shares of Voting Stock.

D.    "Affiliate"  or  "Associate"  shall have the same meanings set forth for
      such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations  under the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on March 1, 1983.

E.    "Subsidiary"  means any  corporation of which a majority of any class of
      equity security is owned,  directly or indirectly,  by the  corporation;
      provided,   however,   that  for  the  purposes  of  the  definition  of
      Interested  Stockholder  set forth in paragraph B of this Section 3, the
      term  "subsidiary"  shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of
      each class of equity security is owned,  directly or indirectly,  by the
      corporation.

F.    "Continuing  Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the
      corporation who is unaffiliated with the Interested  Stockholder and was
      a member of the Board prior to the time that the Interested  Stockholder
      became an  Interested  Stockholder  and any  successor  of a  Continuing
      Director who is  unaffiliated  with the  Interested  Stockholder  and is
      recommended  or elected to succeed a  Continuing  Director by a majority
      of Continuing Directors then on the Board.

G.    "Fair  Market  Value"  means:  (1) in the  case of  stock,  the  highest
      closing sale price during the 30-day  period  immediately  preceding the
      date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite  Tape for New
      York Stock  Exchange-Listed  Stocks,  or, if such stock is not quoted on
      the Composite  Tape, on the New York Stock  Exchange,  or, if such stock
      is  not  listed  on  such  Exchange,  on  the  principal  United  States
      securities  exchange  registered  under the  Securities  Exchange Act of
      1934 on which such  stock is listed,  or, if such stock is not listed on
      any such exchange,  the highest  closing bid quotation with respect to a
      share of such  stock  during  the 30-day  period  preceding  the date in
      question  on the  National  Association  of  Securities  Dealers,  Inc.,
      Automated  Quotations  System or any system  then in use,  or if no such
      quotations are available,  the fair market value on the date in question
      of a  share  of  such  stock  as  determined  by  the  majority  of  the
      Continuing  Directors  in good  faith;  and (2) in the case of  property
      other than cash or stock,  the fair market value of such property on the
      date  in  question  as  determined  by  a  majority  of  the  Continuing
      Directors in good faith.

H.    In the  event  of any  Business  Combination  in which  the  corporation
      survives,  the  phrase  "any  consideration  other than cash" as used in
      paragraph  B(i) of Section 2 of this Article VI shall include the shares
      of common  stock  and/or  the shares of any other  class of  outstanding
      Voting Stock retained by the holders of such shares.

Section 4.  Certain Determinations

      The  Continuing  Directors of the  corporation  shall have the power and
duty to  determine  for the  purposes  of this  Article  VI,  on the  basis of
information  known to them after reasonable  inquiry:  (a) whether a person is
an  Interested  Stockholder;   (b)  the  number  of  shares  of  Voting  Stock
beneficially  owned by any  person;  (c) whether a person is an  Affiliate  or
Associate of another person;  and (d) whether the assets which are the subject
of any Business  Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the
issuance or transfer of securities  by the  corporation  or any  subsidiary in
any Business  Combination  has, an aggregate  Fair Market Value of $10,000,000
or more.

Section 5.  No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations of Interested Stockholders

      Nothing  contained  in this Article VI shall be construed to relieve any
Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation otherwise imposed by law.

                                  Article VII

                                 Miscellaneous

Section 1.  Facsimile Signatures

      In addition to the  provision  for the use of  facsimile  signatures  on
stock   certificates  as  provided  in  Section  1  of  Article  V,  facsimile
signatures of any officer or officers of the  corporation may be used whenever
and as authorized by the Board of Directors.

Section 2.  Corporate Seal

      The  Board  of  Directors   shall   provide  a  suitable  seal  for  the
corporation  that  contains  the  name of the  corporation  and the  state  of
incorporation, which seal shall be kept by the Secretary.

Section 3.  Fiscal Year

      The fiscal year of the corporation  shall be identical with the calendar
year unless otherwise established by the Board of Directors.

Section 4.  Time Periods

      In applying any provision of these Bylaws which  requires that an act be
done or not be done in a specified  number of days prior to an event,  or that
an act be done  during a period  of a  specified  number  of days  prior to an
event,  calendar days shall be used.  The day of the doing of the act shall be
excluded and the day of the event shall be included.

                                 Article VIII

                                  Amendments

      These  Bylaws  may  be  amended  or  repealed  in  accordance  with  the
Certificate  of  Incorporation  by the Board of Directors at any meeting or by
the stockholders at any meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>1996 STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>


1996 Stock & Incentive Plan Final
                                                                  Exhibit 10-r



            [SBC LOGO]     SBC Communications Inc.


















                              1996 STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN






















                                              Plan Effective:  January 1, 1996
                                             As amended through:  June 2, 1998

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

Article 1 Establishment and Purpose............................................1

  1.1  Establishment of the Plan...............................................1
  1.2  Purpose of the Plan.....................................................1
  1.3  Effective Date of the Plan..............................................1

Article 2 Definitions..........................................................1

Article 3 Administration.......................................................5

  3.1  The Committee...........................................................5
  3.2  Authority of the Committee..............................................6

Article 4 Shares Subject to the Plan...........................................6

  4.1  Number of Shares........................................................6
  4.2  Lapsed Awards...........................................................7
  4.3  Adjustments in Authorized Plan Shares...................................7

Article 5 Eligibility and Participation........................................7

  5.1  Eligibility.............................................................7
  5.2  Actual Participation....................................................8

Article 6 Stock Options........................................................8

  6.1  Grant of Options........................................................8
  6.2  Form of Issuance........................................................8
  6.3  Exercise Price..........................................................9
  6.4  Duration of Options.....................................................9
  6.5  Vesting of Options......................................................9
  6.6  Exercise of Options.....................................................9
  6.7  Payment.................................................................9
  6.8  Termination of Employment..............................................11
  6.9  Employee Transfers.....................................................12
  6.10 Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options.......................12
  6.11 Competition............................................................12

Article 7 Restricted Stock....................................................13

  7.1  Grant of Restricted Stock..............................................13
  7.2  Restricted Stock Agreement.............................................13
  7.3  Transferability........................................................13
  7.4  Other Restrictions.....................................................13
  7.5  Removal of Restrictions................................................14
  7.6  Voting Rights, Dividends and Other Distributions.......................14
  7.7  Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability...................14
  7.8  Termination of Employment for Other Reasons............................14
  7.9  Employee Transfers.....................................................14
  7.10 Other Grants...........................................................15

Article 8 Performance Units and Performance Shares............................15

  8.1  Grants of Performance Units and Performance Shares.....................15
  8.2  Value of Performance Shares and Units..................................15
  8.3  Performance Period.....................................................16
  8.4  Performance Goals......................................................16
  8.5  Dividend Equivalents on Performance Shares.............................18
  8.6  Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units and Performance Shares.18
  8.7  Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement......19
  8.8  Termination of Employment for Other Reasons............................19
  8.9  Termination of Employment for Cause....................................19
  8.10 Nontransferability.....................................................19

Article 9 Beneficiary Designation.............................................20

Article 10 Deferrals..........................................................20

  10.1 Deferrals..............................................................20
  10.2 Deferral of Performance Unit and Performance Share Distributions.......20

Article 11 Employee Matters...................................................21

  11.1 Employment Not Guaranteed..............................................21
  11.2 Participation..........................................................21
  11.3 Claims and Appeals.....................................................21

Article 12 Change in Control..................................................22

Article 13 Amendment, Modification, and Termination...........................22

  13.1 Amendment, Modification, and Termination...............................22
  13.2 Awards Previously Granted..............................................22

Article 14 Withholding........................................................22

  14.1 Tax Withholding........................................................22
  14.2 Share Withholding......................................................23

Article 15 Successors.........................................................23

Article 16 Legal Construction.................................................23

  16.1 Gender and Number......................................................23
  16.2 Severability...........................................................23
  16.3 Requirements of Law....................................................24
  16.4 Securities Law Compliance..............................................24
  16.5 Governing Law..........................................................24

                           SBC Communications Inc.
                        1996 Stock and Incentive Plan


Article 1   Establishment and Purpose.

   1.1      Establishment of the Plan.  SBC Communications Inc., a Delaware
            corporation (the "Company" or "SBC"), hereby establishes an
            incentive compensation plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this
            document.

   1.2      Purpose of the Plan.  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the
            success and enhance the value of the Company by linking the
            personal interests of Participants to those of the Company's
            shareowners, and by providing Participants with an incentive for
            outstanding performance.

                The Plan is further intended to attract and retain the
            services of Participants upon whose judgment, interest, and
            special efforts the successful operation of SBC and its
            subsidiaries is dependent.

   1.3      Effective Date of the Plan.  The Plan shall become effective on
            January 1, 1996; however, grants may be made before that time
            subject to becoming effective on or after that date.  During the
            first year this Plan is effective, Awards shall be issued only to
            the extent the potential payout of Shares shall not exceed 10% of
            the Shares approved for issuance under this Plan.

Article 2   Definitions.

                Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the
            meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the
            initial letter of the word is capitalized:

                (a)   "Award" means, individually or collectively, a grant
                      under this Plan of Nonqualified Stock Options,
                      Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Performance
                      Units, or Performance Shares.

                (b)   "Award Agreement" means an agreement which may be
                      entered into by each Participant and the Company,
                      setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to
                      Awards granted to Participants under this Plan.

                (c)   "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the SBC Board of
                      Directors.

                (d)   "Cause" shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the
                      part of an Employee that is materially and demonstrably
                      detrimental to the Company or any Subsidiary as
                      determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

                (e)   "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if
                      (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections
                      13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a
                      trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
                      employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation
                      owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the
                      Company in substantially the same proportions as their
                      ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the
                      "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said
                      Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
                      Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of
                      the total voting power represented by the Company's
                      then outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any
                      period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at
                      the beginning of such period constitute the Board of
                      Directors of the Company and any new Director whose
                      election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
                      election by the Company's shareowners was approved by a
                      vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors then
                      still in office who either were Directors at the
                      beginning of the period or whose election or nomination
                      for election was previously so approved, cease for any
                      reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the
                      shareowners of the Company approve a merger or
                      consolidation of the Company with any other
                      corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which
                      would result in the voting securities of the Company
                      outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to
                      represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
                      converted into voting securities of the surviving
                      entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of the total
                      voting power represented by the voting securities of
                      the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
                      immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the
                      shareowners of the Company approve a plan of complete
                      liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale
                      or disposition by the Company of all or substantially
                      all the Company's assets.

                (f)   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                      amended from time to time.

                (g)   "Committee" means the committee or committees, as
                      specified in Article 3, appointed by the Board to
                      administer the Plan with respect to grants of Awards.

                (h)   "Director" means any individual who is a member of the
                      SBC Board of Directors.

                (i)   "Disability" shall mean the Participant's inability to
                      perform the Participant's normal Employment functions
                      due to any medically determinable physical or mental
                      disability, which can last or has lasted 12 months or
                      is expected to result in death.

                (j)   "Employee" means any management employee of the Company
                      or of one of the Company's Subsidiaries.  "Employment"
                      means the employment of an Employee by the Company or
                      one of its Subsidiaries.  Directors who are not
                      otherwise employed by the Company shall not be
                      considered Employees under this Plan.

                (k)   "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of
                      1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor
                      Act thereto.

                (l)   "Exercise Price" means the price at which a Share may
                      be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as
                      determined by the Committee.

                (m)   "Fair Market Value" shall mean the closing price of
                      Shares on the relevant date, or (if    there were no
                      sales on such date) the next preceding trading date,
                      all as reported in the New York Stock Exchange
                      Composite Trading listings, or in a similar report
                      selected by the Committee.  A trading day is any day
                      that the Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.

                (n)   "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means an option to
                      purchase Shares from SBC, granted under this Plan,
                      which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and is
                      intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the
                      Code.

                (o)   "Insider" shall mean an Employee who is, on the
                      relevant date, an officer, director, or ten percent
                      (10%) beneficial owner of the Company, as those terms
                      are defined under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

                (p)   "Key Executive Officer Short Term Award" means a
                      Performance Unit expressed in dollars.

                (q)   "Nonqualified Stock Option" or "NQSO" means the option
                      to purchase Shares from SBC, granted under this Plan,
                      which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.

                (r)   "Option" or "Stock Option" shall mean an Incentive
                      Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, and shall
                      include a Restoration Option.

                (s)   "Participant" means a person who holds an outstanding
                      Award granted under the Plan.

                (t)   "Performance Unit" and "Performance Share" shall each
                      mean an Award granted to an Employee pursuant to
                      Article 8 herein.

                (u)   "Plan" means this 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  The
                      Plan may also be referred to as the "SBC 1996 Stock and
                      Incentive Plan" or as the "SBC Communications Inc. 1996
                      Stock and Incentive Plan."

                (v)   "Restricted Stock" means an Award of Stock granted to
                      an Employee pursuant to Article 7 herein.

                (w)   "Restriction Period" means the period during which
                      Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions
                      or conditions under Article 7.

                (x)   "Retirement" or to "Retire" shall mean the termination
                      of a Participant's employment with the Company or one
                      of its Subsidiaries, for any reason other than death,
                      Disability or for Cause, on or after the earlier of the
                      following dates, or as otherwise provided by the
                      Committee: (1) the date the Participant would be
                      eligible to retire with an immediate pension under the
                      rules of the SBC Supplemental Retirement Income Plan,
                      whether or not actually a participant in such plan; or
                      (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the
                      following combinations of age and service at
                      termination of employment on or after April 1, 1997,
                      except as otherwise indicated below:

                             Net Credited Service        Age
                              10 Years of more         65 or older
                              20 years or more         55 or older
                              25 years or more         50 or older
                              30 years or more         Any age

                      With respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP
                      Service Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of
                      the SBC Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program upon
                      termination of employment, the terms "Retirement" or to
                      "Retire" shall include such Participant's termination
                      of employment.

                (y)   "Rotational Work Assignment Company ("RWAC") shall mean
                      any entity with which SBC Communications Inc. or any of
                      its Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide
                      an employee for a rotational work assignment.

                (z)   "Shares" or "Stock" means the shares of common stock of
                      the Company.

                (aa) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in which the
                     Company owns directly, or indirectly through
                     subsidiaries, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
                     combined voting power of all classes of Stock, or any
                     other entity (including, but not limited to,
                     partnerships and joint ventures) in which the Company
                     owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined
                     equity thereof.

                (bb) "Window Period" means the period beginning on the third
                     business day following the date of public release of the
                     Company's quarterly sales and earnings information, and
                     ending on the twelfth business day following such date.

Article 3   Administration.

   3.1      The Committee.  Administration of the Plan shall be bifurcated as
            follows:

                (a)   With respect to Insiders, the Plan and all Awards
                      hereunder shall be administered only by the Human
                      Resources Committee of the Board or such other
                      Committee as may be appointed by the Board for this
                      purpose (the "Disinterested Committee"), where each
                      Director on such Disinterested Committee is a
                      "Disinterested Person" (or any successor designation
                      for determining who may administer plans, transactions
                      or awards exempt under Section 16(b) of the Exchange
                      Act), as that term is used in Rule 16b-3 under the
                      Exchange Act, as that rule may be modified from time to
                      time.

                (b)   The Disinterested Committee and such other Committee as
                      the Board may create, if any, specifically to
                      administer the Plan with respect to non-Insiders (the
                      "Non-Insider Committee") shall each have full authority
                      to administer the Plan and all Awards hereunder with
                      respect to all persons who are not Insiders, except as
                      otherwise provided herein or by the Board.  Either
                      Committee may be replaced by the Board at any time.

   3.2      Authority of the Committee.  The Committee shall have full power
            except as limited by law and subject to the provisions herein, to
            select the recipients of Awards, to determine the size and types
            of Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards
            in a manner consistent with the Plan; to construe and interpret
            the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the
            Plan; to establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the
            Plan's administration; and (subject to the provisions of Article
            13 herein) to amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding
            Award to the extent such terms and conditions are within the
            discretion of the Committee as provided in the Plan.  Further,
            the Committee shall make all other determinations which may be
            necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.

                No Award other than Restoration Options may be made under the
            Plan after December 31, 2010.

                All determinations and decisions made by the Committee
            pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders or
            resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding
            on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
            Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries.

                Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee is
            authorized, and shall not be limited in its discretion, to use
            any of the Performance Criteria specified herein in its
            determination of Awards under this Plan.

Article 4   Shares Subject to the Plan.

   4.1      Number of Shares.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section
            4.3 herein, the number of Shares available for grant under the
            Plan shall not exceed 30 million Shares of Stock.  No more than
            10% of the Shares approved for issuance under this Plan may be
            Shares of Restricted Stock.  No more than 40% of the Shares
            approved for issuance under this Plan may be issued to
            Participants as a result of Performance Share or Restricted Stock
            Awards.  The Shares granted under this Plan may be either
            authorized but unissued or reacquired Shares.  The Disinterested
            Committee shall have full discretion to determine the manner in
            which Shares available for grant are counted in this Plan.

                Without limiting the discretion of the Committee under this
            section, unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the
            following rules will apply for purposes of the determination of
            the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan or
            compliance with the foregoing limits:

                (a)   The grant of a Stock Option or a Restricted Stock Award
                      shall reduce the Shares available for grant under the
                      Plan by the number of Shares subject to such Award.
                      However, to the extent the Participant uses previously
                      owned Shares to pay the Exercise Price or any taxes, or
                      Shares are withheld to pay taxes, these Shares shall be
                      available for regrant under the Plan.

                (b)   With respect to Performance Shares, the number of
                      Performance Shares granted under the Plan shall be
                      deducted from the number of Shares available for grant
                      under the Plan. The number of Performance Shares which
                      cannot be, or are not, converted into Shares and
                      distributed (including deferrals) to the Participant
                      (after any applicable tax withholding) following the
                      end of the Performance Period shall increase the number
                      of Shares available for regrant under the Plan by an
                      equal amount.

                (c)   With respect to Performance Units representing a fixed
                      dollar amount that may only be settled in cash, the
                      Performance Units Award shall not affect the number of
                      Shares available under the Plan.

   4.2      Lapsed Awards.  If any Award granted under this Plan is canceled,
            terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, Shares subject to
            such Award shall be again available for the grant of an Award
            under the Plan.

   4.3      Adjustments in Authorized Plan Shares.  In the event of any
            merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
            separation, liquidation, Stock dividend, split-up, Share
            combination, or other change in the corporate structure of the
            Company affecting the Shares, an adjustment shall be made in the
            number and class of Shares which may be delivered under the Plan
            (including individual limits), and in the number and class of
            and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted
            under the Plan, and/or the number of outstanding Options, Shares
            of Restricted Stock, and Performance Shares constituting
            outstanding Awards, as may be determined to be appropriate and
            equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent
            dilution or enlargement of rights.

Article 5   Eligibility and Participation.

   5.1      Eligibility.  All management Employees are eligible to
            participate in this Plan.

   5.2      Actual Participation.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
            Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible
            Employees, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall
            determine the nature and amount of each Award.  No Employee is
            entitled to receive an Award unless selected by the Committee.

Article 6   Stock Options.

   6.1      Grant of Options.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the
            Plan, Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from
            time to time, and under such terms and conditions, as shall be
            determined by the Committee.  The Committee shall have discretion
            in determining the number of Shares subject to Options granted to
            each Employee; provided, however, that the maximum number of
            Shares subject to Options which may be granted to any single
            Employee during any calendar year shall not exceed 2% of the
            Shares approved for issuance under this Plan.  The Committee may
            grant ISOs, NQSOs, or a combination thereof; provided, however,
            that no ISO may be issued after January 1, 2006.   The Committee
            may authorize the automatic grant of additional Options
            ("Restoration Options") when a Participant exercises already
            outstanding  Options, or options granted under a prior option
            plan of the Company, on such terms and conditions as it shall
            determine.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the
            number of Restoration Options granted to a Participant with
            respect to the exercise of an option (including an Option under
            this Plan) shall not exceed the number of Shares delivered by the
            Participant in payment of the Exercise Price of such option,
            and/or in payment of any tax withholding resulting from such
            exercise, and any Shares which are withheld to satisfy
            withholding tax liability arising out of such exercise.  A
            Restoration Option shall have an Exercise Price of not less than
            100% of the per Share Fair Market Value on the date of grant of
            such Restoration Option, and shall be subject to all the terms
            and conditions of the original grant, including the expiration
            date, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee in its
            sole discretion shall determine.

   6.2      Form of Issuance.  Each Option grant may be issued in the form of
            an Award Agreement and/or may be recorded on the books and
            records of the Company for the account of the Participant. If an
            Option is not issued in the form of an Award Agreement, then the
            Option shall be deemed granted as determined by the Committee.
            The terms and conditions of an Option shall be set forth in the
            Award Agreement, in the notice of the issuance of the grant, or
            in such other documents as the Committee shall determine.  Such
            terms and conditions shall include the Exercise Price, the
            duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which an Option
            pertains (unless otherwise provided by the Committee, each Option
            may be exercised to purchase one Share), and such other
            provisions as the Committee shall determine, including, but not
            limited to whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO.

   6.3      Exercise Price.  Unless a greater Exercise Price is determined by
            the Committee, the Exercise Price for each Option Awarded under
            this Plan shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
            Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.

   6.4      Duration of Options.  Each Option shall expire at such time as
            the Committee shall determine at the time of grant (which
            duration may be extended by the Committee); provided, however,
            that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th)
            anniversary date of its grant.

   6.5      Vesting of Options.  Options shall vest at such times and under
            such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee;
            provided, however, unless a later vesting period is provided by
            the Committee at or before the grant of an Option, one-third of
            the Options will vest on each of the first three anniversaries of
            the grant; if one Option remains after equally dividing the grant
            by three, it will vest on the first anniversary of the grant, if
            two Options remain, then one will vest on each of the first two
            anniversaries.  The Committee shall have the right to accelerate
            the vesting of any Option; however, the Chairman of the Board or
            the Senior Vice President-Human Resources, or their respective
            successors, or such other persons designated by the Committee,
            shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for
            any Participant who is not an Insider.

   6.6      Exercise of Options.  Options granted under the Plan shall be
            exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and
            conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which
            need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.

                Options shall be exercised by providing notice to the
            designated agent selected by the Company (if no such agent has
            been designated, then to the Company), in the manner and form
            determined by the Company, which notice shall be irrevocable,
            setting forth the exact number of Shares with respect to which
            the Option is being exercised and including with such notice
            payment of the Exercise Price.  When Options have been
            transferred, the Company or its designated agent may require
            appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising
            the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to
            exercise the Option.   No Option may be exercised with respect to
            a fraction of a Share.

   6.7      Payment.  The Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of
            exercise.  No Shares shall be issued or transferred until full
            payment has been received therefor.

                Payment may be made:

                (a)   in cash, or

                (b)   unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time,
                      and subject to such additional terms and conditions
                      and/or modifications as the Committee or the Company
                      may impose from time to time, and further subject to
                      suspension or termination of this provision by the
                      Committee or Company at any time, by:

                      (i)  delivery of Shares of Stock owned by the
                           Participant in partial (if in partial payment,
                           then together with cash) or full payment;
                           provided, however, as a condition to paying any
                           part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the time
                           of exercise of the Option, the Participant must
                           establish to the satisfaction of the Company that
                           the Stock tendered to the Company must have been
                           held by the Participant for a minimum of six (6)
                           months preceding the tender; or

                      (ii) if the Company has designated a stockbroker to act
                           as the Company's agent to process Option
                           exercises, issuance of an exercise notice together
                           with instructions to such stockbroker irrevocably
                           instructing the stockbroker:  (A) to immediately
                           sell (which shall include an exercise notice that
                           becomes effective upon execution of a limit order)
                           a sufficient portion of the Shares to pay the
                           Exercise Price of the Options being exercised and
                           the required tax withholding, and (B) to deliver
                           on the settlement date the portion of the proceeds
                           of the sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax
                           withholding to the Company.  In the event the
                           stockbroker sells any Shares on behalf of a
                           Participant, the stockbroker shall be acting
                           solely as the agent of the Participant, and the
                           Company disclaims any responsibility for the
                           actions of the stockbroker in making any such
                           sales.  No Stock shall be issued until the
                           settlement date and until the proceeds (equal to
                           the Option Price and tax withholding) are paid to
                           the Company.

                If payment is made by the delivery of Shares of Stock, the
            value of the Shares delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market
            Value of the Shares on the day preceding the date of exercise of
            the Option.
                Restricted Stock may not be used to pay the Option Price.

   6.8      Termination of Employment.

                Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the following
            limitations on exercise of Options shall apply upon termination
            of Employment:

                (a)   Termination by Death or Disability.  In the event the
                      Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason
                      of death or Disability, all outstanding Options granted
                      to that Participant shall immediately vest as of the
                      date of termination of Employment and may be exercised,
                      if at all, no more than three (3) years from the date
                      of the termination of Employment, unless the Options,
                      by their terms, expire earlier.  However, in the event
                      the Participant was eligible to Retire at the time of
                      termination of Employment, notwithstanding the
                      foregoing, the Options may be exercised, if at all, no
                      more than five (5) years from the date of the
                      termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their
                      terms, expire earlier.

                (b)   Termination for Cause.  If the Employment of a
                      Participant shall be terminated by the Company for
                      Cause, all outstanding Options held by the Participant
                      shall immediately be forfeited to the Company and no
                      additional exercise period shall be allowed, regardless
                      of the vested status of the Options.

                (c)   Retirement or Other Termination of Employment.  If the
                      Employment of a Participant shall terminate for any
                      reason other than the reasons set forth in (a) or (b),
                      above, all outstanding Options which are vested as of
                      the effective date of termination of Employment may be
                      exercised, if at all, no more than five (5) years from
                      the date of termination of Employment if the
                      Participant is eligible to Retire, or one (1) year from
                      the date of the termination of Employment if the
                      Participant is not eligible to Retire, as the case may
                      be, unless in either case the Options, by their terms,
                      expire earlier.  In the event of the death of the
                      Participant after termination of Employment, this
                      paragraph (c) shall still apply and not paragraph (a),
                      above.

                (d)   Options not Vested at Termination.  Except as provided
                      in paragraph (a), above, all Options held by the
                      Participant which are not vested on or before the
                      effective date of termination of Employment shall
                      immediately be forfeited to the Company (and shall once
                      again become available for grant under the Plan).

                (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in
                      its sole discretion, establish different terms and
                      conditions pertaining to the effect of termination of
                      Employment, but no such modification shall shorten the
                      terms of Options issued prior to such modification.

   6.9      Employee Transfers.  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
            employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of
            its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company
            or a Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of
            employment at a RWAC is equal to or less than five (5) years,
            shall not be deemed a termination of Employment.  Provided,
            however, for purposes of this Article 6, termination of
            employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the
            Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a termination
            of Employment as that term is used herein.  Similarly,
            termination of an entity's status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC
            shall be deemed a termination of Employment of any Participants
            employed by such Subsidiary or RWAC.

   6.10     Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options.  Unless
            otherwise provided by the Committee:

                (a)   During the Participant's lifetime, the Participant's
                      Options shall be exercisable only by the Participant or
                      by the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
                      After the death of the Participant, except as otherwise
                      provided by SBC's Rules for Employee Beneficiary
                      Designations, an Option shall only be exercised by the
                      holder thereof (including, but not limited to, an
                      executor or administrator of a decedent's estate) or
                      his or her guardian or legal representative.

                (b)   No Option shall be transferable except: (i) in the case
                      of the Participant, only upon the Participant's death
                      and in accordance with the SBC Rules for Employee
                      Beneficiary Designations; and (ii) in the case of any
                      holder after the Participant's death, only by will or
                      by the laws of descent and distribution.


   6.11     Competition.  Notwithstanding anything in this Article 6 to the
            contrary, prior to a Change in Control, in the event the
            Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that a Participant
            is engaging in competitive activity with the Company, any
            Subsidiary, or any business in which any of the foregoing have a
            substantial interest (the "SBC Businesses"), the Committee may
            cancel any Option granted to such Participant, whether or not
            vested, in whole or in part.  Such cancellation shall be
            effective as of the date specified by the Committee.  Competitive
            activity shall mean any business or activity in the same
            geographical market where a substantially similar business
            activity is being carried on by an SBC Business, including, but
            not limited to, representing or providing consulting services to
            any person or entity that is engaged in competition with an SBC
            Business or that takes a position adverse to an SBC Business.
            However, competitive activity shall not include, among other
            things, owning a nonsubstantial interest as a shareholder in a
            competing business.

                The determination of whether a Participant has engaged in
            competitive activity with the Company shall be determined by the
            Committee in good faith and in its sole discretion.

Article 7   Restricted Stock.

   7.1      Grant of Restricted Stock.  Subject to the terms and provisions
            of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time,
            may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to eligible Employees in
            such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the Committee
            shall determine.  In addition to any other terms and conditions
            imposed by the Committee, vesting of Restricted Stock may be
            conditioned upon the attainment of Performance Goals based on
            Performance Criteria in the same manner as provided in Section
            8.4, herein, with respect to Performance Shares.  No Employee may
            receive, in any calendar year, in the form of Restricted Stock
            more than one-third of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance
            under this Plan.

   7.2      Restricted Stock Agreement.  The Committee may require, as a
            condition to an Award, that a recipient of a Restricted Stock
            Award enter into a Restricted Stock Award Agreement, setting
            forth the terms and conditions of the Award.  In lieu of a
            Restricted Stock Award Agreement, the Committee may provide the
            terms and conditions of an Award in a notice to the Participant
            of the Award, on the Stock certificate representing the
            Restricted Stock, in the resolution approving the Award, or in
            such other manner as it deems appropriate.

   7.3      Transferability.  Except as otherwise provided in this Article 7,
            the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold,
            transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
            hypothecated until the end of the applicable Restriction Period
            established by the Committee, which shall not be less than a
            period of three years.

   7.4      Other Restrictions.  The Committee shall impose such other
            conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock
            granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including,
            without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a
            stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock
            and/or restrictions under applicable Federal or state securities
            laws; and may legend the certificates representing Restricted
            Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.

                The Company shall also have the right to retain the
            certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the
            Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or
            restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied.

   7.5      Removal of Restrictions.  Except as otherwise provided in this
            Article 7, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted
            Stock grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable
            by the Participant after the last day of the Restriction Period
            and completion of all conditions to vesting, if any.  However,
            unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the Committee, in its
            sole discretion, shall have the right to immediately waive all or
            part of the restrictions and conditions with regard to all or
            part of the Shares held by any Participant at any time.

   7.6      Voting Rights, Dividends and Other Distributions.  During the
            Restriction Period, Participants holding Shares of Restricted
            Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights and shall
            receive all regular cash dividends paid with respect to such
            Shares.  Except as provided in the following sentence, in the
            sole discretion of the Committee, other cash dividends and other
            distributions paid to Participants with respect to Shares of
            Restricted Stock may be subject to the same restrictions and
            conditions as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to
            which they were paid.  If any such dividends or distributions are
            paid in Shares, the Shares shall be subject to the same
            restrictions and conditions as the Shares of Restricted Stock
            with respect to which they were paid.

   7.7      Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability.  In the
            event the Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason
            of death or Disability, all Restriction Periods and all
            restrictions imposed on outstanding Shares of Restricted Stock
            held by the Participant shall immediately lapse and the
            Restricted Stock shall immediately become fully vested as of the
            date of termination of Employment.

   7.8      Termination of Employment for Other Reasons.  If the Employment
            of a Participant shall terminate for any reason other than those
            specifically set forth in Section 7.7 herein, all Shares of
            Restricted Stock held by the Participant which are not vested as
            of the effective date of termination of Employment immediately
            shall be forfeited and returned to the Company.

   7.9      Employee Transfers.  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of
            employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of
            its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company
            or a Subsidiary and a RWAC, to the extent the period of
            employment at a RWAC is equal to or less than five (5) years,
            shall not be deemed a termination of Employment.  Provided,
            however, for purposes of this Article, termination of employment
            with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer to the Company or any
            of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a termination of Employment
            as that term is used herein.  Similarly, termination of an
            entity's status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall be deemed a
            termination of Employment of any Participants employed by such
            Subsidiary or RWAC.

   7.10     Other Grants.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
            the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may make grants
            of cash or other property to eligible Employees in such amounts
            and upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall
            determine.  If the grant is in the form of stock or shares in a
            company other than SBC:  (a) the award shall be subject to tax
            withholding in accordance with Article 14, hereof, in the same
            manner as Stock, and (b) for purposes of deferrals under Article
            10, hereof, the award shall be treated as Shares except that any
            dividends or dividend equivalents thereon shall be paid out
            unless otherwise provided by the Committee, which may, among
            other things, provide that the dividends or dividend equivalents
            be deferred in the same manner as  a cash award.

Article 8   Performance Units and Performance Shares.

   8.1      Grants of Performance Units and Performance Shares.  Subject to
            the terms of the Plan, Performance Shares and Performance Units
            may be granted to eligible Employees at any time and from time to
            time, as determined by the Committee.  The Committee shall have
            complete discretion in determining the number of Performance
            Units and/or Performance Shares Awarded to each Participant.

   8.2      Value of Performance Shares and Units.

                (a)   A Performance Share is equivalent in value to a Share
                      of Stock.  In any calendar year, no individual may be
                      Awarded Performance Shares having a potential payout of
                      Shares of Stock exceeding two-thirds of 1% of the
                      Shares approved for issuance under this Plan.

                (b)   A Performance Unit shall be equal in value to a fixed
                      dollar amount determined by the Committee.  In any
                      calendar year, no individual may be Awarded Performance
                      Units having a potential payout equivalent exceeding
                      the Fair Market Value of two-thirds of 1% of the Shares
                      approved for issuance under this Plan.  The number of
                      Shares equivalent to the potential payout of a
                      Performance Unit shall be determined by dividing the
                      maximum cash payout of the Award by the Fair Market
                      Value per Share on the effective date of the grant.  In
                      the event the Committee denominates a Performance Unit
                      Award in dollars instead of Performance Units, the
                      Award may be referred to as a Key Executive Officer
                      Short Term Award.  In all other respects, the Key
                      Executive Officer Short Term Award will be treated in
                      the same manner as Performance Units under this Plan.

   8.3      Performance Period.  The Performance Period for Performance
            Shares and Performance Units is the period over which the
            Performance Goals are measured.  The Performance Period is set by
            the Committee for each Award; however, in no event shall an Award
            have a Performance Period of less than one year.

   8.4      Performance Goals.  For each Award of Performance Shares or
            Performance Units, the Committee shall establish performance
            objectives ("Performance Goals") for the Company, its
            Subsidiaries, and/or divisions of any of foregoing, based on the
            Performance Criteria and other factors set forth in (a) through
            (d), below.  Performance Goals shall include payout tables,
            formulas or other standards to be used in determining the extent
            to which the Performance Goals are met, and, if met, the number
            of Performance Shares and/or Performance Units which would be
            converted into Stock and/or cash (or the rate of such conversion)
            and distributed to Participants in accordance with Section 8.6.
            All Performance Shares and Performance Units which may not be
            converted under the Performance Goals or which are reduced by the
            Committee under Section 8.6 or which may not be converted for any
            other reason after the end of the Performance Period shall be
            canceled at the time they would otherwise be distributable.  When
            the Committee desires an Award to qualify under Section 162(m) of
            the Code, as amended, the Committee shall establish the
            Performance Goals for the respective Performance Shares and
            Performance Units prior to or within 90 days of the beginning of
            the service relating to such Performance Goal, and not later than
            after 25% of such period of service has elapsed.  For all other
            Awards, the Performance Goals must be established before the end
            of the respective Performance Period.

                (a)   The Performance Criteria which the Committee is
                      authorized to use, in its sole discretion, are any of
                      the following criteria or any combination thereof:

                      (1)  Financial performance of the Company (on a
                           consolidated basis), of one or more of its
                           Subsidiaries, and/or a division of any of the
                           foregoing.  Such financial performance may be
                           based on net income and/or Value Added (after-tax
                           cash operating profit less depreciation and less a
                           capital charge).

                      (2)  Service performance of the Company (on a
                           consolidated basis), of one or more of its
                           Subsidiaries, and/or of a division of any of the
                           foregoing.  Such service performance may be based
                           upon measured customer perceptions of service
                           quality.

                      (3)  The Company's  Stock price; return on
                           shareholders' equity;  total shareholder return
                           (Stock price appreciation plus dividends, assuming
                           the reinvestment of dividends); and/or earnings
                           per share.

                      (4)  With respect to the Company (on a consolidated
                           basis), to one or more of its Subsidiaries, and/or
                           to a division of any of the foregoing:  sales;
                           costs; market share of a product or service;
                           return on net assets; return on assets; return on
                           capital; profit margin; and/or operating revenues,
                           expenses or earnings.

                (b)   If the performance of more than one Subsidiary is being
                      measured to determine the attainment of performance
                      goals, then a weighted average of the Subsidiaries'
                      results shall be used, as determined by the Committee,
                      including, but not limited to, basing such weighting
                      upon the revenues, assets or net income for each
                      Subsidiary for any year prior to the Performance Period
                      or by using budgets to weight such Subsidiaries.

                (c)   Except to the extent otherwise provided by the
                      Committee in full or in part, if any of the following
                      events occur during a Performance Period and would
                      directly affect the determination of whether or the
                      extent to which Performance Goals are met, they shall
                      be disregarded in any such computation:  changes in
                      accounting principles; extraordinary items; changes in
                      tax laws affecting net income and/or Value Added;
                      natural disasters, including floods, hurricanes, and
                      earthquakes; and intentionally inflicted damage to
                      property which directly or indirectly damages the
                      property of the Company or its Subsidiaries.  No such
                      adjustment shall be made to the extent such adjustment
                      would cause the Performance Shares or Performance Units
                      to fail to satisfy the performance based exemption of
                      Section 162(m) of the Code.

   8.5      Dividend Equivalents on Performance Shares.  Unless reduced or
            eliminated by the Committee, a cash payment in an amount equal to
            the dividend payable on one Share will be made to each
            Participant for each Performance Share which on the record date
            for the dividend had been awarded to the Participant and not
            converted, distributed (or deferred) or canceled.

   8.6      Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units and Performance 
            Shares.  As soon as practicable after the applicable Performance
            Period has ended and all other conditions (other than Committee
            actions) to conversion and distribution of a Performance Share
            and/or Performance Unit Award have been satisfied (or, if
            applicable, at such other time determined by the Committee at or
            before the establishment of the Performance Goals for such
            Performance Period), the Committee shall determine whether and
            the extent to which the Performance Goals were met for the
            applicable Performance Units and Performance Shares.  If
            Performance Goals have been met, then the number of Performance
            Units and Performance Shares to be converted into Stock and/or
            cash and distributed to the Participants shall be determined in
            accordance with the Performance Goals for such Awards, subject to
            any limits imposed by the Committee.  Unless the Participant has
            elected to defer all or part of his Performance Units or
            Performance Shares as provided in Article 10, herein, payment of
            Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be made in a
            single lump sum, as soon as reasonably administratively possible
            following the determination of the number of Shares or amount of
            cash to which the Participant is entitled.  Performance Units
            will be distributed to Participants in the form of cash.
            Performance Shares will be distributed to Participants in the
            form of 50% Stock and 50% Cash, or at the Participant's election,
            100% Stock or 100% Cash.  In the event the Participant is no
            longer an Employee at the time of the distribution, then the
            distribution shall be 100% in cash, provided the Participant may
            elect to take 50% or 100% in Stock.  At any time prior to the
            distribution of the Performance Shares and/or Performance Units
            (or if distribution has been deferred, then prior to the time the
            Awards would have been distributed), unless otherwise provided by
            the Committee, the Committee shall have the authority to reduce
            or eliminate the number of Performance Units or Performance
            Shares to be converted and distributed or to mandate the form in
            which the Award shall be paid (i.e., in cash, in Stock or both,
            in any proportions determined by the Committee).

                Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, any election to
            take a greater amount of cash or Stock with respect to
            Performance Shares must be made in the calendar year prior to the
            calendar year in which the Performance Shares are distributed (or
            if distribution has been deferred, then in the year prior to the
            year the Performance Shares would have been distributed absent
            such deferral).  In addition, if required in order to exempt the
            transaction from the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange
            Act, any election by an Insider to take a greater amount in cash
            must be made during a Window Period and shall be subject to
            Committee approval.

                For the purpose of converting Performance Shares into cash
            and distributing the same to the holders thereof (or for
            determining the amount of cash to be deferred), the value of a
            Performance Share shall be the average of the Fair Market Values
            of Shares for the period of five (5) trading days ending on the
            valuation date. The valuation date shall be the first business
            day of the second month in the year of distribution (or the year
            it would have been distributed were it not deferred), except that
            in the case of distributions due to death or Disability, the
            valuation date shall be the first business day of the month in
            which the Committee determines the distribution.  Performance
            Shares to be distributed in the form of Stock will be converted
            at the rate of one (1) Share of Stock per Performance Share.

   8.7      Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability, or 
            Retirement.  If the Employment of a Participant shall terminate
            by reason of death or Disability, the Participant shall receive a
            lump sum payout of all outstanding Performance Units and
            Performance Shares calculated as if all unfinished Performance
            Periods had ended with 100% of the Performance Goals achieved,
            payable in the year following the date of termination of
            Employment.  In the event of Retirement, the full Performance
            Units and Performance Shares shall be converted and distributed
            based on and subject to the achievement of the Performance Goals
            and in accordance with all other terms of the Award and this
            Plan.

   8.8      Termination of Employment for Other Reasons.  If  the Employment
            of a Participant shall terminate for other than a reason set
            forth in Section 8.7 (and other than for Cause), the number of
            Performance Units and Performance Shares to be converted and
            distributed shall be converted and distributed based upon the
            achievement of the Performance Goals and in accordance with all
            other terms of the Award and the Plan; however, the Participant
            may receive no more than a prorated payout of all Performance
            Units and Performance Shares, based on the portions of the
            respective Performance Periods that have been completed.

   8.9      Termination of Employment for Cause.  In the event that a
            Participant's Employment shall be terminated by the Company for
            Cause, all Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be
            forfeited by the Participant to the Company.

   8.10     Nontransferability.  Performance Units and Performance Shares may
            not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise
            alienated or hypothecated, other than in accordance with the SBC
            Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations.

Article 9   Beneficiary Designation.

                In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions or
            Awards under this Plan, other than Restricted Stock, shall pass
            in accordance with the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary
            Designations.

Article 10  Deferrals.

   10.1     Deferrals.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, a
            Participant may defer all or part of the Stock or cash to be
            received upon conversion and distribution of Performance Units or
            Performance Shares.  In the event of the termination of
            Employment of a Participant prior to becoming eligible for
            Retirement, no deferrals under this Article shall be permitted
            and any previously deferred Performance Shares or Performance
            Units, and earnings thereon, shall be distributed as soon as
            administratively possible.

   10.2     Deferral of Performance Unit and Performance Share 
            Distributions.  Prior to the calendar year in which Performance
            Units or Performance Shares are to be distributed (or if
            deferred, prior to the calendar year the Awards would have been
            distributed), Participants may elect to defer the receipt of a
            Performance Unit or Performance Share distribution upon such
            terms as the Committee deems appropriate.  Unless otherwise
            provided by the Committee, Participants may elect to defer
            receipt of all or part of a Performance Unit or Performance Share
            for distribution in a lump sum in February of any calendar year
            following the year in which the Awards would otherwise be
            distributed, or to be distributed in up to 15 annual installments
            (each installment shall be equal to the total Shares or cash in
            the Award divided by the number of remaining installments),
            payable each calendar year in the month determined by the
            Participant, beginning as soon as administratively possible after
            Retirement or in a later month in the calendar year of
            Retirement, or in the calendar year immediately thereafter.

                (a)   Deferred amounts which would otherwise have been
                      distributed in cash shall be credited to the
                      Participant's account and shall bear interest from the
                      date the Awards would otherwise have been paid. The
                      interest will be credited quarterly to the account at
                      the declared rate determined by the Company from time
                      to time, which shall not be less than one-fourth of the
                      annual Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average-Monthly
                      Average Corporates, as published by Moody's Investor
                      Service, Inc., (or successor thereto) for the month of
                      September before the calendar year in question.

                (b)   Deferred amounts which would otherwise have been
                      distributed in Shares by the Company shall be credited
                      to the Participant's account as deferred Shares. The
                      Participant's account shall also be credited on each
                      dividend payment date for Shares with an amount
                      equivalent to the dividend payable on the number of
                      Shares equal to the number of deferred Shares in the
                      Participant's account on the record date for such
                      dividend. Such amount shall then be converted to a
                      number of additional deferred Shares determined by
                      dividing such amount by the price of Shares, as
                      determined in the following sentence. The price of
                      Shares related to any dividend payment date shall be
                      the average of the Fair Market Values of Shares for the
                      period of five (5) trading days ending on such dividend
                      payment date, or the period of five (5) trading days
                      immediately preceding such dividend payment date if the
                      New York Stock Exchange is closed on the dividend
                      payment date.

                (c)   At any time during the calendar year prior to the
                      calendar year during which an Award deferred under the
                      provisions of this Article 10 is scheduled for
                      distribution, a Participant may further defer the
                      commencement of the distribution of such Award to a
                      subsequent calendar year and upon such further
                      deferral, change the number of installments applicable
                      to the distribution of the Award.  Amounts that are
                      further deferred pursuant to this Article 10 shall
                      continue to be subject to all provisions of this Plan
                      including further distribution modifications as
                      provided herein.

Article 11. Employee Matters.

   11.1     Employment Not Guaranteed.  Nothing in the Plan shall interfere
            with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any
            Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's Employment at any time,
            nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the
            employ of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries.

   11.2     Participation.  No Employee shall have the right to be selected
            to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected,
            to be selected to receive a future Award.

   11.3     Claims and Appeals.  Any claim under the Plan by a Participant or
            anyone claiming through a Participant shall be presented to the
            Committee. Any person whose claim under the Plan has been denied
            may, within sixty (60) days after receipt of notice of denial,
            submit to the Committee, a written request for review of the
            decision denying the claim. The Committee shall determine
            conclusively for all parties all questions arising in the
            administration of the Plan.

Article 12  Change in Control.

            Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control:

                (a)   Any and all Options granted hereunder immediately shall
                      become vested and exercisable;

                (b)   Any Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on
                      Restricted Shares shall lapse and they shall
                      immediately become fully vested;

                (c)   The 100% Performance Goal for all Performance Units and
                      Performance Shares relating to incomplete Performance
                      Periods shall be deemed to have been fully achieved and
                      shall be converted and distributed in accordance with
                      all other terms of the Award and this Plan; provided,
                      however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
                      this Plan, no outstanding Performance Unit or
                      Performance Share may be reduced.

Article 13. Amendment, Modification, and Termination.

   13.1     Amendment, Modification, and Termination.  The Board may at any
            time suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; the
            Disinterested Committee may at any time and from time to time,
            alter or amend the Plan in whole or in part.

   13.2     Awards Previously Granted.  No termination, amendment, or
            modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material
            way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the
            written consent of the Participant holding such Award.

Article 14  Withholding.

   14.1     Tax Withholding.  The Company shall deduct or withhold an amount
            sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes (including
            the Participant's employment tax obligations) required by law to
            be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a
            result of this Plan ("Withholding Taxes").

14.2  Share Withholding.  With respect to withholding required upon the
            exercise of Options, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted
            Stock, upon the distribution of Performance Shares in the form of
            Stock, or upon any other taxable event hereunder involving the
            transfer of Stock to a Participant, the Company shall withhold
            Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be
            determined in an amount equal to the Withholding Taxes on such
            Stock.

                Any fractional Share of Stock payable to a Participant shall
            be withheld as additional Federal withholding, or, at the option
            of the Company, paid in cash to the Participant.

                Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method
            of payment for the Exercise Price is from the sale by a
            stockbroker pursuant to Section 6.7(b)(ii), herein, of the Stock
            acquired through the Option exercise, then the tax withholding
            shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.  For administrative
            purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the sale price
            of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of the
            Stock.

                Prior to the end of any Performance Period a Participant may
            elect to have a greater amount of Stock withheld from the
            distribution of Performance Shares to pay withholding taxes;
            provided, however, the Committee may prohibit or limit any
            individual election or all such elections at any time.   In
            addition, if required in order to exempt the transaction from the
            provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, any such
            election by an Insider must be made during a Window Period and
            shall be subject to Committee approval.

Article 15  Successors.

                All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect
            to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to
            the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the
            result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation,
            or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or
            assets of the Company.

Article 16  Legal Construction.

   16.1     Gender and Number.  Except where otherwise indicated by the
            context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the
            feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular
            shall include the plural.

   16.2     Severability.  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be
            held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or
            invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and
            the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or
            invalid provision had not been included.

   16.3     Requirements of Law.  The granting of Awards and the issuance of
            Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws,
            rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental
            agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.

   16.4     Securities Law Compliance.  With respect to Insiders,
            transactions under this Plan are intended to comply with all
            applicable conditions or Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the
            Exchange Act.  To the extent any provision of the plan or action
            by the Committee fails to comply with a condition of Rule 16b-3
            or its successors, it shall not apply to the Insiders or
            transactions thereby.

   16.5     Governing Law.  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the
            Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in
            accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>

<TABLE>

                                                                                                   EXHIBIT 12

                                           SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.
                             COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
                                             Dollars in Millions


                                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                --------------------------------------------------------------

                                                     1998         1997        1996        1995          1994
                                                --------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>
Income Before Income Taxes,
   Extraordinary Loss and Cumulative
   Effect of Accounting Changes*                 $  6,318     $  2,558     $ 5,283     $ 4,670      $  4,403
     Add: Interest Expense                            993        1,043         901       1,043         1,010
          Dividends on Preferred Securities            80           80          60           -             -
          1/3 Rental Expense                          147          129         115          85            93
                                                ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  -----------

     Adjusted Earnings                           $  7,538     $  3,810     $ 6,359     $ 5,798      $  5,506
                                                ============ ===========  =========== ===========  ===========


Total Interest Charges                           $  1,052     $  1,168     $ 1,043     $ 1,048      $  1,010
Dividends on Preferred Securities                      80           80          60           -             -
1/3 Rental Expense                                    147          129         115          85            93
                                                ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  -----------

     Adjusted Fixed Charges                      $  1,279     $  1,377     $ 1,218     $ 1,133      $  1,103
                                                ============ ===========  =========== ===========  ===========


Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges                   5.89         2.77        5.22        5.12          4.99


<FN>
* Undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method
have been excluded.
</FN>
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF SBC'S 1998 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

Selected Financial and Operating Data
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At December 31 or for the year
ended:                               1998 1   1997 2     1996     1995     1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Data
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating revenues                 $ 28,777$  26,681 $ 25,202 $ 23,356 $ 22,555
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses                 $ 21,891$  23,103 $ 18,976 $ 17,878 $ 17,216
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                   $ 6,886 $   3,578 $  6,226 $  5,478 $  5,339
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                   $   993 $   1,043 $    901 $  1,043 $  1,010
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity in net income of affiliates $   236 $     201 $    207 $    120 $    226
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes                       $ 2,306 $     984 $  2,070 $  1,632 $  1,575
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing operations
 before extraordinary loss and
 cumulative effect of accounting
 changes 3                         $ 4,068 $   1,674 $  3,387 $  3,132 $  2,962
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                  $ 4,023 $   1,674 $  3,477 $ (3,577)$  2,985
================================================================================
Earnings per common share:
Income from continuing operations
 before extraordinary loss and
 cumulative effect of accounting
 changes 3                         $  2.08 $    0.86 $   1.73 $   1.60 $   1.53
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                  $  2.06 $    0.86 $   1.78 $  (1.83)$   1.54
================================================================================
Earnings per common share-Assuming
Dilution:
Income from continuing operations
 before extraordinary loss and
 cumulative effect of accounting
 changes 3                         $  2.05 $    0.85 $   1.72 $   1.60 $   1.53
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                  $  2.03 $    0.85 $   1.77 $  (1.82)$   1.54
================================================================================
Total assets                       $45,066 $  44,836 $ 42,057 $ 40,361 $ 49,525
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt                     $11,612 $  13,176 $ 12,100 $ 11,592 $ 11,698
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construction and capital
 expenditures                      $ 5,927 $   6,230 $  5,855 $  4,729 $  4,262
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Free cash flow 4                   $ 2,454 $   1,366 $  2,046 $  2,572 $  3,058
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends declared per common
 share 5                           $ 0.935 $   0.895 $   0.86 $  0.825 $   0.79
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Book value per common share        $  6.52 $    5.38 $   5.22 $   4.50 $   7.36
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges    5.89      2.77     5.22     5.12     4.99
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Debt ratio                          48.86%    57.07%   56.83%   63.04%    48.71%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted Average Common Shares
 Outstanding (000,000)               1,957     1,945   1,956     1,955    1,936
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted Average Common Shares
 Outstanding With Dilution
 (000,000)                           1,984     1,962   1,967     1,963    1,940
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
End of Period Common Shares
 Outstanding (000,000)               1,959     1,954   1,942     1,960    1,952
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Data
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Network access lines in
 service (000)                      37,252    35,727   34,003   32,385   31,173
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Access minutes of use (000,000)    148,560   139,470  128,716  112,874  100,800
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wireless customers (000)             6,851     5,951    4,827    3,995    3,158
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Number of employees                129,850   128,100  119,270  117,260  120,140
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 As detailed in management's discussion and analysis of Results of Operations,
  1998 results include charges for strategic initiatives related to the merger
  with Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation (SNET) and gains on
  sales of certain non-core businesses.  Excluding these items, SBC reported an
  adjusted income from continuing operations before extraordinary loss and
  cumulative effect of accounting change of $4,117 and an adjusted net income
  of $4,072 for 1998.
2 As detailed in management's discussion and analysis of Results of Operations,
  1997 results include charges for several items including strategic initiatives
  and ongoing merger integration costs, gain on the sale of SBC's interests in
  Bell Communications Research, Inc. and a first quarter after-tax settlement
  gain. Excluding these items, SBC reported an adjusted net income of $3,450
  for 1997.
3 1998, Early retirement of debt and Change in directory accounting; 1996,
  Change in directory accounting; 1995, Discontinuance of Regulatory Accounting;
  and 1994, Income from spun-off operations.
4 Free cash flow is net cash provided by operating activities less construction
  and capital expenditures.
5 Dividends declared by SBC's Board of Directors; these amounts do not include
  dividends declared and paid by Pacific Telesis Group and SNET prior to their
  respective mergers.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) is a holding company whose subsidiaries and
affiliates operate predominantly in the communications services industry.
SBC's subsidiaries and affiliates provide landline and wireless
telecommunications services as well as equipment and directory advertising
both domestically and worldwide.

The consolidated financial results reflect SBC's mergers with Southern New
England Telecommunications Corporation (SNET) in 1998 and Pacific Telesis
Group (PAC) in 1997 as pooling of interests (see Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

SBC's principal wireline subsidiaries are Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
(SWBell), providing telecommunications services in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma,
Kansas and Arkansas (five-state area), Pacific Bell (PacBell, which also
includes Pacific Bell Information Services), The Southern New England
Telephone Company (SNETel) and Nevada Bell (collectively referred to as the
Telephone Companies).  SBC's principal wireless subsidiaries are Southwestern
Bell Mobile Systems, Inc. (Mobile Systems), Pacific Bell Mobile Services
(PBMS) and SNET Cellular, Inc.  SBC's principal directory subsidiaries are
Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (SWBYP), Pacific Bell Directory (PB
Directory) and SNET Information Services, Inc. The Telephone Companies are
subject to regulation by each of the states in which they operate and by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and the accompanying notes.

Results of Operations

Summary

Financial  results,  including  percentage  changes  from the prior year,  are
summarized as follows:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               Percent Change
                                                              -----------------
                                                                 1998    1997
                                                                  vs.     vs.
                               1998        1997        1996      1997    1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating revenues         $ 28,777    $ 26,681    $ 25,202       7.9%    5.9%
Operating expenses         $ 21,891    $ 23,103    $ 18,976      (5.2)%  21.7%
Income before
 extraordinary loss and
 cumulative effect of
 accounting change         $  4,068    $  1,674    $  3,387        -       -
Extraordinary loss         $    (60)          -           -        -       -
Cumulative effect of
 accounting change         $     15           -    $     90        -       -
Net income                 $  4,023    $  1,674    $  3,477        -       -
===============================================================================

In 1998 and 1996, SBC reflected a cumulative effect of accounting change
related to accounting for directory revenues and expenses (see Note 1 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  In 1998, SBC incurred an
extraordinary loss related to the early retirement of debt at PacBell (see
Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Results for 1998 and 1997 also include several items that SBC normalizes for
management purposes. For 1998, normalizing items included $219 of gains on
sales of certain non-core businesses, principally the required disposition of
SBC's interest in Mobile Telephone Networks (MTN), a South African national
cellular company, due to SBC's investment in Telkom SA Limited (Telkom), and
$268 of charges related to strategic initiatives resulting from the merger
integration process with SNET.  For 1997, normalizing items included $1,899
of costs related to strategic initiatives resulting from the merger
integration process with PAC, the impact of several second quarter 1997
regulatory rulings and charges for ongoing merger integration costs (see Note
2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
merger integration costs), as well as $33 of gain on the sale of the
Telephone Companies' interests in Bell Communications Research, Inc.
(Bellcore) and $90 of first quarter 1997 settlement gain at PAC associated
with lump-sum pension payments that exceeded the projected service and
interest costs for 1996 retirements.  Collectively these items decreased
income before extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of accounting change
by $49 and $1,776 in 1998 and 1997.  Excluding these items, 1998 income
before extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of accounting change would
have been $4,117, or 19.3% higher than 1997 earnings of $3,450.  The
corresponding diluted per share amounts would be $2.08 in 1998, or 18.2%
higher than $1.76 in 1997.

Excluding these items, the 1998 increase in income before extraordinary loss
and cumulative effect of accounting change was due primarily to broad-based
growth in demand for SBC's Wireline, Wireless and Directory operations.
Results for 1998 also reflect reduced dilution from Personal Communications
Services (PCS) operations in California and Nevada.  Demand growth was also
the primary factor contributing to the 1997 increases, partially offset by a
high level of expenses for the introduction of PCS in California and Nevada.

Segment Results

SBC has four reportable segments: Wireline, Wireless, Directory and Other.
The Wireline segment provides landline telecommunications services, including
local, network access and long distance services, messaging and Internet
services and sells customer premise and private business exchange equipment.
The Wireless segment provides wireless telecommunications services, including
local and long distance services, and sells wireless equipment.  The
Directory segment sells advertising for and publication of yellow pages and
white pages directories and electronic publishing.  The Other segment
includes SBC's international investments and other domestic operating
subsidiaries.  (See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

SBC evaluates performance of these segments based on income before income
taxes, adjusted for normalizing items.  Normalizing items for 1998 and 1997
are described above.  There were no normalizing items for 1996.

Collectively, these normalizing items had the effect of reducing operating
revenues in 1998 and 1997 by $8 and $188 and increasing operating expenses in
1998 and 1997 by $422 and $2,550, as well as affecting non-operating income
and expenses.  If all of the normalizing items were included in their
respective segments, the effect would be to increase (reduce) each segment's
income before income tax in 1998 and 1997 as follows: Wireline $(306) and
$(2,007); Wireless $(49) and $(100); Directory $12 and $(75); and Other $268
and $0.  The following sections will discuss SBC's operations excluding these
normalizing items.

Operating Revenues

Following are SBC's normalized operating revenues, including segment totals
and percentage changes from the prior year (reductions of $8 in 1998 and $188
in 1997 are excluded):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Percent Change
                                                               -----------------
                                                                 1998     1997
                                                                  vs.      vs.  
                                   1998      1997       1996     1997     1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wireline                       $ 22,210  $ 20,926   $ 19,919      6.1%     5.1%
Wireless                          4,185     3,697      3,137     13.2     17.9
Directory                         2,393     2,286      2,145      4.7      6.6
Other                                85        57         43     49.1     32.6
Corporate, adjustments &
 eliminations                       (88)      (97)       (42)    (9.3)       -
==============================================================
Total Normalized Operating
 Revenues                      $ 28,785  $ 26,869   $ 25,202      7.1%     6.6%
================================================================================

Wireline

Wireline operating revenues increased $1,284, or 6.1%, in 1998 and $1,007, or
5.1%, in 1997.  Components of Wireline operating revenues, including
percentage changes from the prior year, are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Percent Change
                                                               -----------------
                                                                 1998     1997
                                                                  vs.      vs.
                               1998        1997        1996      1997     1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Local service              $ 11,154    $ 10,434    $  9,513       6.9%     9.7%
Network access:
 Interstate                   4,612       4,494       4,354       2.6      3.2
 Intrastate                   1,917       1,884       1,851       1.8      1.8
Long distance service         2,353       2,351       2,523       0.1     (6.8)
Other                         2,174       1,763       1,678      23.3      5.1
=============================================================
  Total Wireline           $ 22,210    $ 20,926    $ 19,919       6.1%     5.1%
================================================================================

     Local Service revenues increased $720, or 6.9%, in 1998 and $921, or
     9.7%, in 1997 due primarily to increases in demand which totaled $656
     and $799 in 1998 and 1997, including increases in access lines and
     vertical services revenues.  The number of access lines increased by
     4.3% and 5.1% in 1998 and 1997.  Approximately 40% and 31% of access
     line growth in 1998 and 1997 was due to sales of additional access lines
     to existing residential customers.  In both years, approximately 46% of
     the access line growth was in California and 32% was in Texas.  Access
     lines in Texas and California account for approximately 75% of the
     Telephone Companies' access lines. Vertical services revenues, which
     include custom calling options, Caller ID, voice mail and other enhanced
     services, increased by approximately 20% in both years and totaled
     approximately $1,892 and $1,582 in 1998 and 1997.

     Additionally, local service revenues increased as a result of several
     regulatory actions that also had the effect of decreasing one or more
     other types of operating revenues.  In 1998 and 1997, federal payphone
     regulation, introduction of extended area service plans and the
     introduction of the California High Cost Fund (CHCFB) collectively
     increased local service revenues by approximately $157 and $211, and
     decreased long distance revenue by approximately $53 and $117,
     interstate network access revenue by $20 and $53, intrastate network
     access revenue by approximately $24 and $26 and other operating revenue
     by approximately $7 and $0.  The net effect on Wireline operating
     revenue was an increase of $53 and $15 in 1998 and 1997.  The California
     Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) has stated that the CHCFB is intended
     to directly subsidize the provision of service to high-cost areas and
     allow PacBell to set competitive rates for other services.

     These increases in local service revenues were partially offset by
     decreases of approximately $43 and $18 resulting from cellular
     interconnection rate reductions in 1998 and 1997.  Rate reductions under
     CPUC price cap orders also reduced 1997 local service revenues by
     approximately $56.

     Network Access Interstate network access revenues increased $118, or
     2.6%, in 1998 and $140, or 3.2%, in 1997 due largely to increases in
     demand for access services by interexchange carriers, and growth in
     revenues from end-user charges attributable to an increasing access line
     base, which collectively resulted in an increase of approximately $420
     and $361 in 1998 and 1997.  Partially offsetting these increases were
     the effects of rate reductions of approximately $189 in 1998 and $120 in
     1997 related to the FCC's productivity factor adjustment, access reform
     and other changes and regulatory shifts related to payphone deregulation
     of approximately $20 and $53 as noted in local service above.
     Additional decreases in 1998 totaling approximately $76 resulted from an
     increase in universal service fund net payments implemented in the first
     quarter of 1998 that exceeded the 1997 net payments of long-term
     support, which were designed to subsidize universal service.  The net
     federal universal fund payments and receipts will be exogenous factors
     in future federal price cap filings.  Interstate network access revenues
     in 1997 also had a net decrease of approximately $42 due to the reversal
     of 1996 revenue sharing and proposed 1996 tariff decrease estimates at
     the Telephone Companies.

     Intrastate network access revenues increased $33 in both 1998 and 1997,
     due largely to increases in demand totaling approximately $79 and $121
     in 1998 and 1997, including usage by alternative intraLATA toll
     carriers.  These increases in 1998 and 1997 were partially offset by
     state regulatory rate reductions at PacBell and SWBell totaling
     approximately $23 and $50 and the effects of the CHCFB described above
     in local service totaling approximately $24 and $26.

     Long Distance Service revenues were relatively unchanged in 1998 and
     decreased approximately $172, or 6.8%, in 1997.  Long distance service
     revenues decreased due to the effect of the regulatory shifts discussed
     in local service above of approximately $53 and $117 in 1998 and 1997
     related to the CHCFB, introduction of extended area service plans and
     payphone deregulation, price competition from alternative intraLATA toll
     carriers of approximately $43 and $100 in 1998 and 1997 at SWBell and
     SNETel and regulatory rate reductions of approximately $34 in 1997.
     These decreases were offset in 1998 and partially offset in 1997 by
     revenues from increased toll messages and demand at PacBell totaling
     approximately $48 and $45 in 1998 and 1997 and increased customer
     migration to SNET All Distance (trademark), an interstate and intrastate
     toll service, of approximately $20 and $42 in 1998 and 1997.  In addition,
     revenues in 1998 increased by approximately $22 due to the net effect of
     regulatory rate orders and local exchange carrier billing settlements.

     Other operating revenues increased $411, or 23.3%, in 1998 and $85, or
     5.1%, in 1997 due primarily to increased sales from nonregulated
     products and services at the Telephone Companies totaling approximately
     $201 and $72 in 1998 and 1997, increased equipment sales at the
     Telephone Companies of approximately $92 and $6 in 1998 and 1997 and
     revenues from new business initiatives, primarily Internet services,
     totaling approximately $71 and $39 in 1998 and 1997.  In addition, net
     payments for state universal funds of approximately $15 in 1998
     contributed to the increase.  These increases were partially offset in
     1998 by approximately $7 related to the CHCFB, discussed in local
     service above.

Wireless

Wireless operating revenues increased $488, or 13.2%, in 1998 and $560, or
17.9%, in 1997.  Components of Wireless operating revenues, including
percentage changes from the prior year, are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Percent Change
                                                               -----------------
                                                                 1998     1997
                                                                  vs.      vs.
                               1998        1997        1996      1997     1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subscriber                 $  3,783    $  3,372    $  2,907      12.2%    16.0%
Other                           402         325         230      23.7     41.3
==============================================================
  Total Wireless           $  4,185    $  3,697    $  3,137      13.2%    17.9%
================================================================================

     Subscriber revenues consist of wireless local service and long distance.
     Wireless subscriber revenues increased $411, or 12.2%, in 1998 and $465,
     or 16%, in 1997 due primarily to growth in the number of customers of
     15.1% and 23.3%, partially offset by declines in average revenue per
     customer.  Increases in 1997 wireless subscriber revenues of
     approximately $103 also resulted from the introduction of PCS operations
     in California, Nevada and Oklahoma.  At December 31, 1998, SBC had
     5,924,000 traditional cellular customers, 81,000 resale customers and
     846,000 PCS customers.  At December 31, 1997, SBC had 5,526,000
     traditional cellular customers, 60,000 resale customers and 365,000 PCS
     customers.

     Other wireless revenues increased $77, or 23.7%, in 1998 and $95, or
     41.3%, in 1997 due primarily to increases in equipment revenue
     attributable to growth in the number of customers and conversion to
     digital equipment.

Directory

Directory operating revenues increased $107, or 4.7%, in 1998 and $141, or
6.6%, in 1997.  Directory operating revenues, including percentage changes
from the prior year, are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Percent Change
                                                               -----------------
                                                                 1998     1997
                                                                  vs.      vs.
                               1998        1997        1996      1997     1996
================================================================================
Total Directory            $  2,393    $  2,286    $  2,145       4.7%     6.6%
================================================================================

Directory operating revenues increased in 1998 due mainly to increased
demand, including benefits from merger initiatives.  Also contributing to the
increase was approximately $17 from directory rescheduling from the first
quarter of 1999 into the fourth quarter of 1998.  Directory advertising
revenues increased in 1997 due mainly to increased demand and the publication
of directories in 1997 that were not published in 1996 due to rescheduling.

Operating Expenses

Following are SBC's normalized operating expenses, including percentage
changes from the prior year(additions of $422 in 1998 and $2,550 in 1997
are excluded):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Percent Change
                                                                ----------------
                                                                   1998    1997
                                                                    vs.     vs.
                                  1998        1997        1996     1997    1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operations and support:
  Wireline                    $ 12,711    $ 12,291    $ 11,464      3.4%    7.2%
  Wireless                       2,786       2,610       1,994      6.7    30.9
  Directory                      1,227       1,230       1,159     (0.2)    6.1
  Other                            152          93          46     63.4       -
  Corporate, adjustments &
    eliminations                  (363)       (368)       (153)    (1.4)      -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total operations and support    16,513      15,856      14,510      4.1     9.3
Depreciation and amortization *  4,956       4,697       4,466      5.5     5.2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalized Operating
 Expenses                     $ 21,469    $ 20,553    $ 18,976      4.5%    8.3%
================================================================================
* See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for breakdown by
segment.

     Wireline

     Operations and support expenses increased $420, or 3.4%, in 1998 and
     $827, or 7.2%, in 1997.  Increases for 1998 include costs of
     approximately $262 related to progress in the merger implementation
     process including centralizing support functions and other merger
     initiatives at SWBell and PacBell.  Offsetting these increased costs
     were reductions in 1998 primarily related to realization of merger
     initiative benefits that totaled approximately $317.  These reductions
     included lower use of contract labor, primarily at PacBell, lower costs
     associated with customer number portability and reduced research and
     development costs.  Operations and support expense also increased in
     1998 due to costs associated with reciprocal compensation for the
     termination of Internet traffic of approximately $136 at the Telephone
     Companies (see "Federal Regulation" for further discussion about
     reciprocal compensation).  Increased expenses in 1998 of approximately
     $55 related to new business initiatives, primarily voice mail, Internet,
     long distance and cable.  Additional costs in 1998 totaling
     approximately $172 related to increased wages and salaries, benefits,
     materials and right to use fees.  Comparisons to 1997 are also impacted
     by the absence of the recognition of 1997 pension settlement gains
     relating to 1997 retirees after the merger with PAC totaling
     approximately $136.

     Increases in 1997 include costs for wages, salaries, benefits, sales
     commissions and contract labor totaling approximately $327.  Increases
     in 1997 also include costs associated with customer number portability
     after the merger with PAC, interconnection, other regulatory mandated
     network enhancements and materials of approximately $414.  Increased
     expenses in 1997 of approximately $156 related to new business
     initiatives, primarily voice mail, Internet, long distance and cable.
     These increases were partially offset by a reduction related to the
     recognition of pension settlement gains discussed above.

     Wireless

     Wireless expenses increased $176, or 6.7%, in 1998 and $616, or 30.9%,
     in 1997 due primarily to growth in the number of customers and increased
     equipment sales.  The large increase in 1997 expenses includes
     approximately $362 of expenses from the introduction of PCS operations.
     These increases were partially offset by decreased customer acquisition
     costs of 11% and 4% in 1998 and 1997.

     Directory

     Directory expenses remained relatively unchanged in 1998 as lower costs
     resulting from the merger integration process, including decreased
     employee-related costs, were offset by expenses from increased demand
     and directory rescheduling discussed in directory operating revenue
     above.  Directory expenses increased in 1997 due mainly to increased
     demand and the publication of directories in 1997 that were not
     published in 1996 due to rescheduling.

     Depreciation and Amortization expense is primarily in the Wireline and
     Wireless segments.  In total, depreciation and amortization increased
     $259, or 5.5%, in 1998 due primarily to increased depreciation expense
     of $201 in the Wireline segment and $41 in the Wireless segment
     resulting from overall higher plant levels.  The increase in 1998 was
     partially offset by reduced depreciation at PacBell related to analog
     switching equipment of $42.  Total depreciation and amortization
     increased $231, or 5.2%, in 1997.  The increase was due to increased
     depreciation expense of $193 in the Wireline segment and $141 in the
     Wireless segment resulting from overall higher plant levels. The
     wireless increase was due primarily to the launch of PCS operations.
     Reduced depreciation of $107 at PacBell related to analog switching
     equipment partially offset the increase.

Interest Expense on a consolidated basis for 1998 decreased by $50, or 4.8%,
in 1998 and increased by $142, or 15.8%, in 1997.  Interest expense for 1998
includes $3 of one-time charges for SNET merger-approval costs and 1997
includes $27 associated with one-time charges, primarily interest on the PAC
merger-approval costs.  Excluding these charges, interest expense for 1998
decreased $26, or 2.6%, and increased $115, or 12.8%, for 1997.  The 1998
decrease was due primarily to reductions in interest expense resulting from
lower average debt levels and lower weighted average interest rates,
partially offset by lower capitalization of interest during construction.
The 1997 increase was due primarily to increased average debt levels.

Equity in Net Income of Affiliates increased $35 in 1998 and decreased $6 in
1997.  The 1998 increase reflects increased equity in net income of $78 from
SBC's investment in Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's
national telecommunications company, SBC's May 1997 investment in Telkom and
SBC's wireless operations.  Also contributing to the increase were lower
losses resulting from reduced involvement in Tele-TV.  These increases were
partially offset by a reduction of $53 in contribution from investments in
Switzerland, France and Israel, primarily resulting from expenditures on long
distance and wireless in Switzerland and long distance in France and Israel.

The 1997 decrease reflects decreased equity in net income of $49 from
Telmex.  This lower income resulted from the change in the functional
currency used by SBC to record its interest in Telmex from the peso to the
U.S. dollar beginning in 1997 and SBC's reduced ownership percentage after
the sale of Telmex L shares.  Results also reflect preoperating expenses of
$32 in several international investments, including long distance in France,
Switzerland and Israel and cellular communications in Taiwan, and decreased
contribution of $13 from SBC's wireless operations.  These decreases were
mainly offset by equity in net income of $58 from Telkom and $27 in lower
losses from Tele-TV.

SBC's earnings from foreign affiliates will continue to be generally
sensitive to exchange rate changes in the value of the respective local
currencies.  SBC's foreign investments are recorded under U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, which include adjustments for the purchase
method of accounting and exclude certain adjustments required for local
reporting in specific countries, such as inflation adjustments.

Other Income (Expense) - Net for 1998 and 1997 includes amounts that SBC
management normalized for reviewing results.  Normalizing amounts for 1998
include $358 in gains on the sale of non-core businesses, primarily the
required disposition of SBC's interest in MTN and the sale of SBC Media
Ventures, Inc., pending from the prior year.  Amounts for 1997 reflect gains
of $54 from the sale of SBC's interests in Bellcore and $32 in second quarter
charges related to SBC's strategic initiatives, primarily writeoffs of
nonoperating plant.  Absent these items, other income (expense) for 1998,
1997 and 1996 was $(113), $(100) and $(75).

During 1998, several offsetting transactions impacted other income and
expense contributing to the normalized increase of net other expense of $13.
SBC recognized other expense of $237 related to an impairment of an
international investment and investments in certain wireless technologies,
primarily wireless video.  Also increasing other expense were higher minority
interest, lower interest income and call premiums and unamortized discounts
on early retirement of debt at SWBell that totaled $67 more than the previous
year.  Offsetting these decreases were other income related to a special
dividend of $158 received from a software affiliate and gains of $127
recognized on the sales and the charitable contribution of SBC's
available-for-sale investment in Telewest Communications plc (see Note 7 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the
gains).  Movement in the market value of Telmex L shares requires a market
valuation adjustment on certain SBC debt redeemable either in cash or Telmex
L shares.  Additionally, Telmex under their repurchase program from time to
time repurchases enough shares in the market that SBC is required to sell
part of its Telmex L share holdings to Telmex to remain under 10% ownership
of Telmex.  The net of these activities contributed $90 more to other income
than in 1997.  Also affecting comparisons with 1997 was approximately $64 in
royalties and gains recognized in 1997.

During 1997, there were also several offsetting transactions contributing to
the normalized increase in net other expense of $25.  Higher minority
interest, including distributions paid on an additional $500 of Trust
Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) sold by PAC in June 1996, and lower
interest income resulted in $43 more net expense than in 1996.  The net
activity related to market movement on Telmex L shares increased other
expense by $47 more than in 1996.  Partially offsetting these net other
expenses were royalty payments associated with software developed by an
affiliate and other investment gains totaling $64.

Income Taxes for 1998 include taxes related to the sale of certain non-core
businesses discussed in other income (expense) - net and tax benefits
associated with merger integration initiatives relating to SNET.  Income
taxes for 1997 reflect the tax effect of charges for strategic initiatives
resulting from SBC's comprehensive review of operations and the impact of
several regulatory rulings.  Income taxes for 1997 also included taxes on the
first quarter pension settlement gain discussed in operations and support.
The net effective tax rate on these items was lower as a result of
non-deductible items included in the charge and valuation adjustments to
certain deferred tax assets which may not be utilized due to restrictions
associated with the merger.  Excluding these items, income taxes for 1998 and
1997 would have been $2,332 and $1,951.  Income taxes for 1998 were higher
due primarily to higher income before income taxes.  Income taxes for 1997,
excluding the non-recurring items, were slightly lower than income taxes for
1996 of $2,070.

Extraordinary Loss  In 1998, SBC recorded an extraordinary loss of $60
related to the refinancing of $684 of long-term debt at PacBell.

Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change  As discussed in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, SNET Information Services, Inc. and PB
Directory changed their methods of recognizing directory publishing revenues
and related expenses effective January 1, 1998 and January 1, 1996,
respectively.  The cumulative after-tax effect of applying the new method to
prior years for SNET Information Services, Inc. was recognized as of January
1, 1998 as a one-time, non-cash gain applicable to continuing operations of
$15, or $0.01 per share.  The gain is net of deferred taxes of $11.  The
one-time gain recognized as of January 1, 1996 for PB Directory was $90, net
of deferred taxes of $53, or $0.05 per share.  Management believes the change
to the issue basis method is preferable because it is the method generally
followed in the publishing industry, including SWBYP, and better reflects the
operating activity of the businesses.  These accounting changes are not
expected to have a significant effect on net income in future periods.

Operating Environment and Trends of the Business

Regulatory Environment

Overview

The telecommunications industry is in a period of dynamic transition from a
tightly regulated industry overseen by multiple regulatory bodies to a
market-driven industry monitored by state and federal agencies.  The
Telephone Companies' wireline telecommunications operations remain subject to
regulation by the eight state regulatory commissions for intrastate services
and by the FCC for interstate services.

Consolidation of companies is occurring within the marketplace for local
telephone service and across other telecommunications services, such as long
distance, cellular, cable television, Internet and other data transmission
services.  Companies operating in some of these markets are also expanding
into others, such as the provision of local service by long distance
companies.  Additionally, new technologies are also affecting the way people
view and use communications services.

The telecommunications industry is also changing internationally, as
government-owned telephone monopolies are being privatized in many countries
and competitive entrants are authorized.  U.S.-controlled companies may
acquire or form investment, joint venture or strategic relationships with
these newly privatized companies or their new competitors involving any or
all of the range of telecommunications services.  Foreign-controlled
companies also may acquire or form such relationships with U.S. companies.

SBC is aggressively representing its interests before federal and state
regulatory bodies, courts, Congress and state legislatures.  SBC will
continue to evaluate the increasingly competitive nature of its business, and
develop appropriate competitive, legislative and regulatory strategies.

Wireline

Federal Regulation

Through affiliates, SBC offers landline interLATA long distance services to
customers in selected areas outside the Telephone Companies' operating
areas.  Further, SBC offers interLATA long distance services to customers in
Connecticut through SNET America, Inc. (SAI).  Under the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), before being permitted to offer landline interLATA
long distance service in any state within the regulated operating areas of
SWBell, PacBell and Nevada Bell, SBC must apply for and obtain state-specific
approval from the FCC.  The FCC's approval, which involves consultation with
the United States Department of Justice and the appropriate state commission,
requires favorable determinations that certain of the Telephone Companies
have entered into interconnection agreement(s) that satisfy a 14-point
"competitive checklist" with predominantly facilities-based carrier(s) that
serve residential and business customers or, alternatively, that certain of
the Telephone Companies have a statement of terms and conditions effective in
that state under which they offer the "competitive checklist" items.  The FCC
must also make favorable public interest and structural separation
determinations in connection with each application.  See "State Regulation"
for status of the state applications.

In December 1997, the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Texas ruled that parts of the Telecom Act were unconstitutional on the
grounds that they improperly discriminate against certain subsidiaries of SBC
by imposing restrictions that prohibit certain of the Telephone Companies by
name from offering interLATA long distance and other services that other
Local Exchange Carriers (LECs) are free to provide.  In September 1998, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (5th Circuit) reversed
this decision and ruled that the challenged provisions of the Telecom Act
were constitutional.  In January 1999, the United States Supreme Court
(Supreme Court) declined to hear an appeal of the 5th Circuit's decision.

Interconnection  In August 1996, the FCC issued rules by which competitors
could connect with LECs' networks, including those of the Telephone
Companies.  Among other things, the rules addressed unbundling of network
elements, pricing for interconnection and unbundled elements, and resale of
retail telecommunications services.  The FCC rules were appealed by numerous
parties, including SBC.

In July 1997, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (8th
Circuit) held that the FCC did not have the authority to promulgate rules
related to the pricing of local intrastate telecommunications and that its
rules in that regard were invalid.  The 8th Circuit also overturned the FCC's
rules which allowed competitors to "pick and choose" among the terms and
conditions of approved interconnection agreements.  In October 1997, the 8th
Circuit issued a subsequent decision clarifying that the Telecom Act does not
require the incumbent LECs to deliver network elements to competitors in
anything other than completely unbundled form.

In September 1997, a number of parties, including SBC, filed petitions to
enforce the July 1997 ruling of the 8th Circuit that the right to set local
exchange prices, including the pricing methodology used, is reserved
exclusively to the states.  The petitions responded to the FCC's rejection of
Ameritech Corporation's interLATA long distance application in Michigan, in
which the FCC stated it intended to apply its own pricing standards to
Regional Holding Company (RHC) interLATA applications.  The petitioners
asserted the FCC was violating state authority.  On January 22, 1998, the 8th
Circuit ordered the FCC to abide by the July 1997 ruling and reiterated that
the FCC cannot use interLATA long distance applications made by SBC and other
RHC wireline subsidiaries wishing to provide interLATA long distance to
attempt to reimpose the pricing standards ruled invalid in July 1997 by the
8th Circuit.

In January 1999, the Supreme Court ruled on an appeal of the 8th Circuit's
order.  The ruling held that the Telecom Act gives the FCC the authority to
set guidelines for states to follow in setting prices under the Telecom Act,
and reinstated the FCC rules allowing those seeking to interconnect to "pick
and choose" specific provisions from previous interconnection agreements.
Because the 8th Circuit's decision did not address the lawfulness of the
content of the FCC pricing guidelines, the Supreme Court remanded that issue
to the 8th Circuit for further consideration.  The ruling also upheld FCC
rules forbidding incumbent LECs from separating already combined network
elements, but remanded back to the FCC its determination of which network
elements must be made available. The Supreme Court also held that, before the
FCC could require telecommunications carriers to make a particular network
element available to requesting carriers, the FCC must first consider as to
proprietary elements, whether access to the elements was necessary and
whether the failure to provide access to a particular element would impair
the requesting carrier's ability to provide the service it seeks to offer.
The effect of this ruling on the telecommunications industry cannot be
determined at this time.

Reciprocal Compensation  Reciprocal compensation is billed to SBC's
subsidiaries by Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLECs) for the
termination of certain local exchange traffic to CLEC customers.  SBC
believes that under the Telecom Act the state commissions have authority to
order reciprocal compensation for intrastate or local traffic, while only the
FCC has authority over interstate and interexchange traffic.  SBC believes
most Internet traffic is interexchange and interstate.  Several state
commissions, including the CPUC in an October 1998 order, have taken the
position that Internet communications is intrastate or local traffic and
ordered SBC to pay reciprocal compensation to certain CLECs pursuant to then
existing contracts.  State commissions in the five-state area other than
Kansas have also issued orders finding that SBC is required to pay reciprocal
compensation to certain CLECs.  In June 1998, a U.S. District Court in Texas
affirmed the Texas Public Utility Commission's (TPUC) determination and
upheld payment of reciprocal compensation, holding that an Internet call is
comprised of two portions, and that the TPUC has jurisdiction over the local
portion of the traffic and the FCC over the Internet component.  Similar
decisions regarding Internet traffic have been made by other state
commissions.  SBC has sought review or reconsideration of these cases.

The question whether Internet communications should be classified as
local/intrastate or interstate traffic for reciprocal compensation purposes
is the subject of a pending FCC proceeding and the FCC is expected to rule on
this issue in the near future.  SBC's subsidiaries have been recording
amounts sought by certain CLECs for the termination of Internet traffic to
Internet Service Providers.

Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) is a high-speed data service
principally used for Internet access.  In June 1998, SBC filed with the FCC a
petition requesting relief for ADSL from pricing, unbundling and resale
regulatory restrictions.  The FCC denied the petition and declared that
incumbents, such as the Telephone Companies, must offer such services for
resale at a discount and must offer unbundled access to the equipment used in
ADSL provisioning to the extent possible.  SBC has filed with the FCC a
petition for reconsideration of this order.  The FCC sought comments on
offering the incumbent LECs the option of providing deregulated advanced
services through an affiliate with appropriate safeguards.

The effects of the FCC decisions on the above topics are dependent on many
factors including, but not limited to, the ultimate resolution of the pending
appeals; the number and nature of competitors requesting interconnection,
unbundling or resale; and the results of the state regulatory commissions'
review and handling of related matters within their jurisdictions.
Accordingly, SBC is not able to assess the impact of the FCC orders and
proposed rulemaking at this time.

State Regulation

The following provides an overview of state regulation in the eight states in
which the Telephone Companies operated at December 31, 1998.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Number of
                                                     Signed
                                                   Wireline
              Alternative                   Interconnection        Long Distance
State        Regulation 1  Dialing Parity 2    Agreements 3   Application Status
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arkansas  Yes, indefinite     Presently not              54    Decision expected
                             required prior                            in 1999 4
                           to long distance
                              authorization
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California      Yes, ends        Proceeding              66    Decision expected
                   1/2002           pending                            in 1999 4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Connecticut     Yes, ends    Dialing parity              13        Long distance
                   2/2001            exists                  service provided by
                                                             the retail entity 5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kansas    Yes, indefinite        Commission              55    Decision expected
                                    ordered                            in 1999 4
                             implementation
                           by 2/1999; state
                                    statute
                                  presently
                                  prohibits
                                requirement
                                before long
                                   distance
                              authorization
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Missouri  Yes, indefinite        Proceeding              61    Decision expected
                                    pending                            in 1999 4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nevada          Yes, ends     Presently not              19          No activity
                  12/2002    required prior
                           to long distance
                                  approval;
                                 proceeding
                                    pending
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oklahoma        Yes, ends Ordered by 3/1999              52    Decision expected
                   2/2001                                              in 1999 4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Texas           Yes, ends     TPUC deferred             175    Decision expected
                   9/2001      its decision                            in 1999 4
                                pending FCC
                            issuance of new
                             dialing parity
                               rules; state
                                    statute
                                  presently
                                  prohibits
                                requirement
                                before long
                                   distance
                              authorization
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other significant notes:
1  Alternative regulation is other than rate of return regulation.
2  In a January 1999 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that the FCC had
   the authority to issue rules implementing intrastate and intraLATA dialing
   parity.  Several interexchange carriers are arguing in pending state
   proceedings that the ruling requires immediate implementation of dialing
   parity, preempting state requirements.  The Telephone Companies take the
   position that dialing parity requirements should be consistent with state
   laws and that they should not be required to provide intraLATA toll
   dialing parity prior to receiving authorization to provide interLATA long
   distance services.  In states where dialing parity exists, customers are
   able to subscribe to an intraLATA toll carrier just as they do for long
   distance services.
3  Interconnection agreements are signed with CLECs for the purpose of
   allowing the CLECs to exchange local calls with the incumbent telephone
   company.
4  Awaiting determination by state commissions on the Telephone Companies'
   compliance with the 14-point competitive checklist.  FCC approval is
   required subsequent to state determination.
5  SNETel is restricted from providing interLATA long distance service in
   any of the other Telephone Companies' operating regions.

The following presents highlights of certain regulatory developments.

California  In October 1998, the CPUC issued a decision modifying the current
regulatory framework for PacBell effective January 1, 1999.  The decision
adopted PacBell's proposal that the current cap on basic residential rates be
continued for three more years, through 2001, with the CPUC retaining the
ability to adjust basic telephone rates.  The decision suspended earnings
sharing, rate of return reviews and the use of earnings caps and floors
through 2001.  In addition, the decision adopted PacBell's proposal to
eliminate depreciation reviews and granted PacBell the freedom to set its own
depreciation rates and methodology.  It also continued the suspension of the
productivity factor adjustment.  In addition, the CPUC decision eliminated
most future exogenous cost adjustments, including the recovery of future
costs related to a 1993 accounting change for postretirement benefits other
than pensions.  Management currently estimates the items embodied within the
new regulatory framework will have the net effect of reducing annual revenue
by approximately $100 from 1999 through 2004.

In July 1998, the CPUC issued a rate rebalancing decision related to its 1996
order on universal service.  The CPUC's decision was implemented
prospectively beginning September 1, 1998 and reduces PacBell's non-basic
local service, network access and long distance service revenues by $305
annually to offset the approximately $305 annually that PacBell expects to
receive from the CHCFB.  Beginning in February 1997, PacBell, and all other
California telecommunications carriers, began collecting funds via customer
surcharges consistent with the CPUC's 1996 decision.  The CPUC has yet to
decide on the specific mechanism to be employed to ensure the distribution of
funds collected by PacBell and other carriers from February 1997 through
August 1998 is revenue neutral.

Connecticut  In January 1997, SNET submitted to the Connecticut Department of
Public Utility Control (DPUC) its proposal on corporate restructure.  The
proposal recommended that SNETel functions be split: ownership and
maintenance of switching and transmission network facilities, i.e., all
wholesale functions, would remain in the telephone company, SNETel, and all
retail functions would go to SAI, which was the long distance subsidiary.
Both would be wholly-owned by SNET.  In June 1997, the DPUC granted SNET
permission to restructure its telephony operations, with several DPUC-imposed
modifications.

Under the plan, all retail operations (retail marketing and customer service)
have been transferred to SAI, and SAI will be treated by the regulators like
all other CLECs.  SNET local service customers will choose their provider via
a balloting process, which has been scheduled for September 1999.  All
wholesale services and the network infrastructure will remain with SNETel,
which will be restricted to meeting the needs of CLECs, including SAI and
other wholesale customers.  SAI can buy its wholesale service from SNETel or
any other wholesale provider.  SAI has been providing interstate and
international long distance service since 1993, and received certification to
provide local service and intrastate toll in Connecticut in 1997.

Missouri  Effective September 26, 1997, the Missouri Public Service
Commission (MPSC) determined that SWBell is subject to price cap regulation.
Prices in effect as of December 31, 1996 are the initial maximum allowable
rates for services and cannot be adjusted until January 1, 2000 for basic and
access services and on January 1, 1999 for non-basic services.  On an
exchange basis where a competitor began operations, the freeze on maximum
allowable rates for non-basic services was removed.  After January 1, 2000,
caps for basic and access services may be adjusted based on one of two
government indices.  After January 1, 1999, caps for non-basic services may
be increased up to 8% per year.  In an exchange where competition for basic
local service exists for five years, services will be declared competitive
and subject to market pricing unless the MPSC finds effective competition
does not exist.  The Office of Public Counsel and MCI WorldCom, Inc. (MCI
WorldCom) sought judicial review of the MPSC determination and in May 1998
the state circuit court affirmed the MPSC decision.

Texas  Under the Public Utility Regulatory Act, which became effective in May
1995 (PURA), SWBell elected to move from rate of return regulation to price
regulation with elimination of earnings sharing.  Basic local service rates
are capped at existing levels for four years following the election, i.e.,
until September 1999.  The TPUC is prohibited from reducing switched access
rates charged by LECs to interexchange carriers while rates are capped.

LECs electing price regulation are committed to network and infrastructure
improvement goals, including expansion of digital switching and advanced
high-speed services to qualifying public institutions, such as schools,
libraries and hospitals, requesting the services.  PURA also established an
infrastructure grant fund for use by public institutions in upgrading their
communications and computer technology.  The 1997 Texas legislative session
changed the funding for this infrastructure grant fund from annually
collecting $150 for ten years to a fixed percentage (1.25%) applied to all
telecommunications providers' sales taxable revenues.  The law also provides
a cap of $1,500 for the life of the fund.  SWBell's annual payments were
approximately $36 in 1997 and $56 in 1998.  Due to the industry's growth in
revenues, the fund should be completely funded before the original ten years.

PURA establishes local exchange competition by allowing companies that desire
to provide local exchange services to apply for certification by the TPUC,
subject to certain buildout requirements, resale restrictions and minimum
service requirements.  PURA provides that SWBell will remain the default
carrier of "1 plus" intraLATA long distance traffic in its territory until
SWBell is allowed to carry interLATA long distance.  In 1996, MCI WorldCom
and AT&T Corp. (AT&T) sued the state of Texas, alleging that PURA violates
the Texas state constitution, and claiming that PURA establishes
anticompetitive barriers designed to prevent MCI WorldCom, AT&T and Sprint
Corporation (Sprint) from providing local services within Texas.  The FCC,
also in response to petitions filed by AT&T and MCI WorldCom, preempted and
voided portions of PURA that required certain buildout requirements.
Furthermore, the FCC also preempted rules that excluded competitors from
entering markets with fewer than 31,000 access lines and which made resale of
Centrex phone services subject to a limited property restriction.  AT&T and
MCI WorldCom have dismissed their suits regarding this matter.  In October
1997, SWBell filed with the FCC a petition for reconsideration regarding the
preemption of the property restriction for Centrex services.  This issue is
still pending before the FCC.

Competition

Wireline

Competition continues to increase for telecommunications and information
services.  Recent changes in legislation and regulation have increased the
opportunities for alternative service providers offering telecommunications
services.  Technological advances have expanded the types and uses of
services and products available.  As a result, SBC faces increasing
competition as well as new opportunities in significant portions of its
business.

Recent state legislative and regulatory developments allow increased
competition for local exchange services.  Companies wishing to provide
competitive local service have filed numerous applications with each of the
state commissions throughout the Telephone Companies' regulated operating
areas, and the commissions of each state have been approving these
applications since late 1995.  Under the Telecom Act, companies seeking to
interconnect to the Telephone Companies' networks and exchange local calls
must enter into interconnection agreements with the Telephone Companies.
These agreements are then subject to approval by the appropriate state
commission.  SBC has reached approximately 495 interconnection and resale
agreements with competitive local service providers, and most have been
approved by the relevant state commission.  AT&T, MCI WorldCom and other
competitors are reselling SBC local exchange services, and as of December 31,
1998, there were approximately 800,000 SBC access lines supporting services
of resale competitors throughout the Telephone Companies' regulated operating
areas, most of them in Texas and California.  Many competitors have placed
facilities in service and have begun advertising campaigns and offering
services.  SBC also was granted facilities-based and resale operating
authority in certain territories served by other LECs and now offers local
exchange service offerings to these areas.

In California, the CPUC authorized facilities-based local services
competition effective January 1996 and resale competition effective March
1996.  While the CPUC has established local competition rules and interim
prices, several issues still remain to be resolved, including final rates for
resale and LEC provisioning and pricing of certain network elements to
competitors.  PacBell has incurred substantial costs implementing local
competition and number portability.  In November 1998, the CPUC issued a
decision allowing PacBell to begin recovery of local competition
implementation costs.

In Texas, the TPUC set rates in December 1997 that SWBell may charge for
access and interconnection to its telephone network.  The TPUC decision sets
pricing for dozens of network components and completes a consolidated
arbitration between SWBell and six of its wholesale customers, including AT&T
and MCI WorldCom.

In Missouri, the MPSC issued orders on a consolidated arbitration hearing
with AT&T and MCI WorldCom and on selected items with Metropolitan Fiber
Systems.  Among other terms, the orders established discount rates for resale
of SWBell services and prices for unbundled network elements.  SWBell
appealed the interconnection agreement resulting from the first arbitration
proceeding on November 5, 1997; a decision is still pending.  A second
arbitration process to address other interconnection issues with AT&T has
concluded, and the MPSC ordered that a conforming interconnection agreement
be filed.  SWBell appealed this order in April 1998.

The Telephone Companies expect increased competitive pressure in 1999 and
beyond from multiple providers in various markets, including facilities-based
CLECs, interexchange carriers and resellers.  At this time, management is
unable to assess the effect of competition on the industry as a whole, or
financially on SBC, but expects both losses of market share in local service
and gains resulting from new business initiatives, vertical services and new
service areas.  Competition also continues to intensify in the Telephone
Companies' intraLATA long distance markets.  For example, it is estimated
that providers other than PacBell now serve more than half of the business
intraLATA long distance customers in PacBell's service areas.  In addition,
if intraLATA toll dialing parity is required, competition in intraLATA long
distance markets is expected to increase.

In the international arena, Telmex was granted a concession in 1990, which
expired in August 1996, as the sole provider of long distance services in
Mexico.  Several large competitors have received licenses to compete with
Telmex and have begun operations.  As of December 31, 1998, Telmex has
retained approximately 75% of its long distance customers.  Telmex's share of
international long distance traffic is expected to decline significantly when
the proportional return mechanism, which guarantees Telmex the same
percentage of incoming traffic as outgoing traffic, expires at the end of
1999.  Aggressive local competition is expected in 1999, primarily in the
business segment.

Wireless

In 1993, the FCC adopted an order allocating radio spectrum and licenses for
PCS.  PCS utilizes wireless telecommunications digital technology at a higher
frequency radio spectrum than cellular.  Like cellular, it is designed to
permit access to a variety of communications services regardless of
subscriber location.  In an FCC auction, which concluded in March 1995, PCS
licenses were awarded in 51 major markets.  SBC or affiliates acquired PCS
licenses in the Major Trading Areas of Los Angeles-San Diego, California; San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California; Memphis, Tennessee; Little Rock,
Arkansas; and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  The California licenses cover substantially
all of California and Nevada.  SBC is currently operational in all of its
major California-Nevada markets and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  During 1996, SBC
received several AT&T cellular networks in Arkansas in exchange for SBC's PCS
licenses in Memphis, Tennessee, and Little Rock, Arkansas, and other
consideration.

PCS service was formally launched in all the major California and Nevada
markets at different times throughout 1997, with the buildout to other areas
continuing. The network incorporates the Global System for Mobile
Communications standard, which is widely used in Europe.  PBMS is selling PCS
as an off-the-shelf product in retail stores, through exclusive agents and in
company-owned stores across California and Nevada.  Significant competition
exists, particularly from the two established cellular companies in each
market.

In an FCC auction that concluded in January 1997, SBC acquired eight
additional PCS licenses for Basic Trading Areas that are within the
five-state area.

SBC also has state-approved interconnection agreements to receive reciprocal
compensation from interexchange carriers and other local service providers
accessing its wireless networks in all states where it provides wireless
services.

Companies that were granted licenses in areas where SBC also provides
wireless service include subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T, Sprint and
other RHCs.  Significant competition from PCS providers exists in SBC's major
markets.  Competition has been based upon both price and service packaging,
such as unlimited calling plans, and has contributed to SBC's decline in
average subscriber revenue per wireless customer.

Under the Telecom Act of 1996, SBC may offer interLATA long distance over its
wireless network both inside and outside the regulated operating areas.  SBC
has entered the wireless long distance markets, and offers wireless long
distance service in all of its wireless service areas.

Directory

SWBYP, PB Directory and SNET Information Services, Inc. face competition from
over 100 publishers of printed directories in their operating areas.  Direct
and indirect competition also exists from other advertising media, including
newspapers, radio, television and direct mail providers, as well as from
directories offered over the Internet.

Other Business Matters

New Accounting Standards  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" (FAS 133), which will require all derivatives to be
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, and will require changes in the
fair value of the derivatives to be recorded in net income or comprehensive
income.  FAS 133 must be adopted for years beginning after June 15, 1999,
with earlier adoption permitted.  Management is currently evaluating the
impact of the change in accounting required by FAS 133, but is not able to
quantify the effect at this time.

See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
the new accounting standard on software costs.

Wireless Acquisition  See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of the acquisition of Comcast Cellular
Corporation.

Long Distance Agreement  On February 8, 1999, SBC announced an agreement with
Williams Communications (Williams), a subsidiary of Williams Cos., Inc.,
under which Williams will serve as SBC's long distance provider.  As part of
this agreement, SBC plans to acquire 10% of the common stock of Williams.
This investment will occur simultaneously with an initial public offering of
common stock by Williams, scheduled for the second quarter of 1999.

Merger  See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of the merger agreement with Ameritech Corporation.

SBC's Year 2000 Project  SBC operates numerous date-sensitive computer
applications and systems throughout its businesses.  Since 1996, SBC has been
working to upgrade its networks and computer systems to properly recognize
the Year 2000 and continue to process critical operational and financial
information.  Companywide teams are in place to address and resolve Year 2000
issues and processes are under way to evaluate and manage the risks and costs
associated with preparing SBC's date-impacted systems and networks for the
new millennium.

SBC is using a four-step methodology to address the issue.  The methodology
consists of inventory and assessment, hardware and software fixes, testing
and deployment.  SBC measures its progress by tracking the number of
completed hardware and software applications, network components, personal
computers and building facilities that can correctly process Year 2000 dates.

Inventory and assessment is estimated to require 20% of the overall effort
and includes the identification of items (i.e., line-by-line review of
software code, switch generics, vendor products, etc.) that could be impacted
by the Year 2000 and the determination of the work effort required to ensure
compliance.  The inventory and assessment phase has been completed.  This
process involved reviewing over 340 million lines of software code, 1,200
central office switches, 7,000 company buildings, conducting an inventory and
assessment of 117,000 personal computers, and coordinating with 1,300
suppliers of 14,000 products to obtain adequate assurance they will be Year
2000 compliant or determine and address any appropriate contingency plans or
backup systems.

Making the hardware and software fixes is the second phase of the process and
is estimated to require 25% of the overall effort.  This activity involves
modifying program code, upgrading computer software and upgrading or
replacing hardware.  As of December 31, 1998, the hardware and software fixes
were substantially complete.

Testing involves ensuring that hardware and software fixes will work properly
in 1999 and beyond and occurs both before and after deployment.  Testing is
estimated to comprise 45% of the overall effort.  Testing began early in
1998, is more than two-thirds complete, and will continue through 1999 to
allow for thorough testing before the Year 2000.  Contingency plans and
backup systems are currently being written.

Deployment involves placing the "fixed" systems into a live environment to
ensure they are working properly.  Additional testing is done after
deployment as well.  Deployment is estimated to require 10% of the overall
effort.  More than half of the deployment phase was completed as of December
31, 1998.

SBC expects to spend approximately $265 on the entire project, with
approximately $140 spent through December 31, 1998.  As testing and hardware
and software fixes are estimated to require most of the expenditures, there
is not a strict correlation between expenditures and project completion.

The activities involved in SBC's Year 2000 project necessarily require
estimates and projections, as described above, of activities and resources
that will be required in the future.  These estimates and projections could
change as work progresses on the project.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

SBC had $460 of cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 1998.
Commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 1998 totaled $1,044.  SBC has
entered into agreements with several banks for lines of credit totaling
$1,460, all of which may be used to support commercial paper borrowings (see
Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  SBC had no
borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit as of December 31, 1998.

Cash from Operating Activities

During 1998, as in 1997 and 1996, SBC's primary source of funds continued to
be cash generated from operations, as shown in the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows.  Net cash provided by operating activities exceeded SBC's
construction and capital expenditures during 1998, as in 1997 and 1996; this
excess is referred to as free cash flow, a supplemental measure of
liquidity.  SBC generated free cash flow of $2,454, $1,366 and $2,046 in
1998, 1997 and 1996.

Cash from Investing Activities

To provide high-quality communications services to its customers, SBC,
particularly its Wireline and Wireless operations, must make significant
investments in property, plant and equipment.  The amount of capital
investment is influenced by demand for services and products, continued
growth and regulatory commitments.

SBC's capital expenditures totaled $5,927, $6,230 and $5,855 for 1998, 1997
and 1996.  Capital expenditures in the Wireline segment were relatively
unchanged in 1998 compared to 1997.  The Wireline segment's capital
expenditures increased 12% in 1997 due primarily to demand-related growth,
network upgrades, customer-contracted requirements, ISDN projects and
SWBell's regulatory commitments.  The Wireless segment's capital expenditures
decreased 17% and 23% in 1998 and 1997 due primarily to expenditures for
initial buildout of the PCS network and conversion of SBC's largest cellular
markets to digital during 1997 and 1996.

In 1999, management expects total capital spending to be between $6,400 and
$6,800.  Capital expenditures in 1999 will relate primarily to the continued
evolution of the Telephone Companies' networks, including amounts agreed to
under regulation plans at SWBell, and continued buildout of Mobile Systems'
markets and PBMS.  SBC expects to fund ongoing capital expenditures with cash
provided by operations.

SWBell has substantially completed the additional network and infrastructure
improvements to be made over periods ranging through 2001 to satisfy
regulatory commitments.

Cash from Financing Activities

Dividends declared by the Board of Directors of SBC were $0.935 per share in
1998, $0.895 per share in 1997, and $0.86 per share in 1996.  These per share
amounts do not include dividends declared and paid by PAC and SNET prior to
their respective mergers. The total dividends paid by SBC, PAC and SNET were
$1,836 in 1998, $1,755 in 1997 and $1,795 in 1996.  Pursuant to the terms of
the merger agreement, PAC reduced its dividend beginning in the second quarter
of 1996.  The lower second and third quarter dividends paid in 1996 improved
1996 cash flow by approximately $195.  SBC's dividend policy considers both
the expectations and requirements of shareowners, internal requirements of SBC
and long-term growth opportunities.

In February 1998, SBC called $630 of long-term debt for retirement, including
$175 at PacBell and $425 at SWBell, and issued approximately $200 in
debentures at PacBell due February 2008 and approximately $200 in debentures
at SWBell due March 2048.  In September 1998, SBC called $175 of long-term
debt for retirement, all at SWBell.  In October 1998, PacBell repurchased
$684 of debentures.

Total debt increased during 1997 due primarily to the issuance of medium-term
notes and debentures at the Telephone Companies and debt redeemable either in
cash or Telmex L shares.

During 1996 PAC issued $1,000 of TOPrS, $500 at 7.56% in January 1996 and
$500 at 8.5% in June 1996 (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).  The proceeds were used to retire outstanding short-term debt,
primarily commercial paper that had increased significantly during 1995.

SBC's total capital consists of debt (long-term debt and debt maturing within
one year), TOPrS and shareowners' equity.  Total capital increased $108 in 1998
and $1,056 in 1997.  The increase in 1998 was due to 1998 earnings, partially
offset by lower debt levels.  The increase in 1997 was primarily due to higher
debt levels and 1997 earnings.

SBC's debt ratio was 48.9%, 57.1% and 56.8% at December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996.  The debt ratio is affected by the same factors that affect total
capital.

Market Risk

SBC's capital costs are directly linked to financial and business risks.  SBC
seeks to manage the potential negative effects from market volatility and
market risk.  Certain financial instruments used to obtain capital are
subject to market risks from fluctuations in market interest rates.  The
majority of SBC's financial instruments are medium- and long-term fixed rate
notes and debentures.  Fluctuations in market interest rates can lead to
significant fluctuations in the fair value of these notes and debentures.  It
is the policy of SBC to manage its debt structure and foreign exchange
exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and
maintain financial flexibility over the long term.  Where appropriate, SBC
will take actions to limit the negative effect of interest and foreign
exchange rates, liquidity and counterparty risks on shareowner value.

Quantitative Information about Market Risk

- --------------------------------------------------
   Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------
                  U.S. Dollar     Net Underlying
                  Value of Net       Foreign
                    Foreign          Currency
December 31,        Exchange       Transaction
1998               Contracts        Exposures
- --------------------------------------------------
Swiss Franc          $ 24            $  24
Japanese Yen          142              142
French Franc           37               37
Chilean Peso           32               32
- --------------------------------------------------
Total Exposure     $  235            $ 235
- --------------------------------------------------

Note:  There is no net exposed long/short currency position and no foreign
exchange loss from a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar.

The preceding table describes the effects of a change in the value of the
Swiss franc, Japanese yen, Chilean peso and French franc given a hypothetical
10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar.  Since the identified exposure is fully
covered with forward contracts, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar which
affect the value of the underlying foreign currency commitment are fully
offset by changes in the value of the foreign currency contract.  If the
underlying currency transaction exposure changed, the resulting mismatch
would expose the company to currency risk of the foreign exchange contract.
For this reason, all contracts are related to firm commitments and matched by
maturity and currency.

Equity Price Risk Sensitivity Analysis

SBC is exposed to equity price risk related to the change in the price of
AirTouch Communications, Inc. (AirTouch) common stock related to the
settlement of employee stock options.  At December 31, 1998, the net
appreciated value of the equity swap contract entered in 1994 was $26, while
the value of the underlying employee stock option exposures for AirTouch
common stock was $25, leaving a net exposed long equity position of $1.  If
the value of AirTouch common stock increased by 26%, the net exposed long
equity position would increase by $1 to $2.  Since January 1, 1995, the
average yearly share price of AirTouch common stock has increased 26%.  The
equity swap contract expires April 1999 and the last option grant expires
January 2003.  (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
In February 1999, management evaluated the exposure to future appreciation of
AirTouch common stock and the benefit to "unwinding" the swap.  As a result,
SBC began exiting the equity swap contract, receiving cash for the
appreciated value of the contract and recognizing a minimal gain.  Once
exited, SBC will record in other income (expense) - net future changes in the
value of the underlying employee stock option exposure.  If the value of
AirTouch common stock were to increase by an additional 26% from mid-February
1999, SBC would record additional expense of approximately $8.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

The principal amount by expected maturity, average interest rate and fair
value of SBC's liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk are
described in Notes 10 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Following are SBC's interest rate derivatives subject to interest rate risk
(none of these derivatives mature in 2000 through 2003):

- -----------------------------------------------------------
                              Maturity
- -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Fair
                                   After          Value
                             1999   2003  Total   12/31/98
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Interest Rate Derivatives
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Interest Rate Swaps
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Receive Variable/Pay
 Fixed Notional Amount 1     $50     -    $50      $(1)
Fixed Rate Payable           7.2%    -
Weighted Average Variable
 Rate Receivable 2           5.1%    -
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Receive Variable/Pay
 Fixed Notional Amount 3      -     $13   $13      $(1)
Fixed Rate Payable           6.7%   6.7%
Weighted Average Variable
 Rate Receivable 4           5.0%   5.5%
===========================================================

 1 Receive Variable/Pay Fixed amount is offset equally by $50 in Variable
   Rate Debt maturing in 1999 with an average interest rate of 4.5% and a
   fair value of $50.
 2 Weighted Average Variable Rate Receivable based on current and the implied
   forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date for Constant
   Maturity Treasury minus 20 basis points.
 3 Receive Variable/Pay Fixed amount offsets $13 in lease obligation due
   after 2003 with an average interest rate of 5.8% and a fair value of $13.
 4 Weighted Average Variable Rate Receivable based on current and the implied
   forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date for One Month LIBOR.

As a result of interest rate fluctuations, if SBC were to terminate the
contracts, it would be required to pay $2 to replace the fixed rate flows or
"unwind" the interest swaps.  SBC does not intend to terminate the $50
contract as it is linked to the variable rate debt issued by SBC that also
matures in 1999.

There has been no material change in the updated market risks since December
31, 1997.

Qualitative Information about Market Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk

From time to time SBC makes investments in operations in foreign countries,
is paid dividends, receives proceeds from sales or borrows funds in foreign
currency.  Before making an investment, or in anticipation of a foreign
currency receipt, SBC will often enter into forward foreign exchange
contracts.  The contracts are used to provide currency at a fixed rate.
SBC's policy is to measure the risk of adverse currency fluctuations by
calculating the potential dollar losses resulting from changes in exchange
rates that have a reasonable probability of occurring.  SBC covers the
exposure that results from changes that exceed acceptable amounts.  SBC does
not speculate in foreign exchange markets.

Equity Risk

SBC has exposure to risk of market changes related to its recorded liability
for outstanding employee stock options for common stock of AirTouch (spun-off
operations).  SBC plans to make open market purchases of the stock of
spun-off operations to satisfy its obligation for options that are
exercised.  Off-balance-sheet risk exists to the extent the market price of
AirTouch rises in value.  As discussed in "Equity Price Risk Sensitivity
Analysis" above, SBC evaluated the exposure to future appreciation of
AirTouch common stock and is exiting a swap contract related to the options
by April 1999.

Interest Rate Risk

SBC issues debt in fixed and floating rate instruments.  Interest rate swaps
are used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by fixing the
interest rate of floating rate debt.  When market conditions favor issuing
debt in floating rate instruments, and SBC prefers not to take the risk of
floating rates, SBC will enter interest rate swap contracts to obtain
floating rate payments to service the debt in exchange for paying a fixed
rate.  SBC does not seek to make a profit from changes in interest rates.
SBC manages interest rate sensitivity by measuring potential increases in
interest expense that would result from a probable change in interest rates.
When the potential increase in interest expense exceeds an acceptable amount,
SBC reduces risk through the issuance of fixed rate instruments and
purchasing derivatives.

Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that
are subject to risks and uncertainties.  SBC claims the protection of the
safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause SBC's future results to differ materially
from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: (1) adverse economic
changes in the markets served by SBC or changes in available technology; (2)
the final outcome of various FCC rulemakings and judicial review, if any, of
such rulemakings; (3) the final outcome of various state regulatory
proceedings in SBC's eight-state area, and judicial review, if any, of such
proceedings; and (4) the timing of entry and the extent of competition in the
local and intraLATA toll markets in SBC's eight-state area.  Readers are
cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially impact SBC's future earnings.

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              1998        1997        1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
Operating Revenues
Landline local service                                  $   11,100  $   10,334   $   9,465
Wireless subscriber                                          3,783       3,372       2,907
Network access                                               6,512       6,215       6,203
Long distance service                                        2,355       2,352       2,523
Directory advertising                                        2,420       2,280       2,156
Other                                                        2,607       2,128       1,948
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating revenues                                    28,777      26,681      25,202
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating Expenses
Operations and support                                      16,714      17,802      14,510
Depreciation and amortization                                5,177       5,301       4,466
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses                                    21,891      23,103      18,976
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Income                                             6,886       3,578       6,226
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Income (Expense)
Interest expense                                              (993)     (1,043)       (901)
Equity in net income of affiliates                             236         201         207
Other income (expense) - net                                   245         (78)        (75)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total other income (expense)                                  (512)       (920)       (769)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income Before Income Taxes, Extraordinary Loss and
 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change                      6,374       2,658       5,457
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes                                                 2,306         984       2,070
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income Before Extraordinary Loss and Cumulative
 Effect of Accounting Change                                 4,068       1,674       3,387
Extraordinary Loss from Early Extinguishment of Debt,
 net of tax                                                    (60)          -           -
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, net of tax              15           -          90
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Income                                              $    4,023  $    1,674   $   3,477
============================================================================================
Earnings Per Common Share:
 Income Before Extraordinary Loss and Cumulative
  Effect of Accounting Change                           $     2.08  $     0.86   $     1.73
  Net Income                                            $     2.06  $     0.86   $     1.78
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings Per Common Share-Assuming Dilution:
 Income Before Extraordinary Loss and Cumulative
  Effect of Accounting Change                           $     2.05  $     0.85   $     1.72
  Net Income                                            $     2.03  $     0.85   $     1.77
============================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         December 31,
                                                              ---------------------------
                                                                   1998         1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>           <C>
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                                      $    460     $    410
Short-term cash investments                                           6          320
Accounts receivable - net of allowances for uncollectibles of
 $472 and $430                                                    5,790        5,344
Prepaid expenses                                                    414          357
Deferred income taxes                                               489          660
Other current assets                                                379          426
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current assets                                              7,538        7,517
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, Plant and Equipment - Net                              29,920       29,068
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangible Assets - Net of Accumulated Amortization of
 $741 and $1,047                                                  3,087        3,663
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investments in Equity Affiliates                                  2,514        2,740
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Assets                                                      2,007        1,848
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Assets                                                   $ 45,066     $ 44,836
=========================================================================================
Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity
Current Liabilities
Debt maturing within one year                                  $  1,551     $  2,139
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                          7,980        8,330
Dividends payable                                                   458          441
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current liabilities                                         9,989       10,910
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-Term Debt                                                   11,612       13,176
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities
Deferred income taxes                                             1,990        1,569
Postemployment benefit obligation                                 5,220        5,200
Unamortized investment tax credits                                  359          431
Other noncurrent liabilities                                      2,116        2,030
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred credits and other noncurrent liabilities           9,685        9,230
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Corporation-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
 securities of subsidiary trusts#                                 1,000        1,000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareowners' Equity
Preferred shares ($1 par value, 10,000,000 authorized:
 none issued)                                                         -            -
Common shares ($1 par value, 7,000,000,000 authorized:
 issued 1,987,532,349 at December 31, 1998 and
 1,984,141,868 at December 31, 1997)                              1,988          992
Capital in excess of par value                                    9,139        9,966
Retained earnings                                                 3,396        1,204
Guaranteed obligations of employee stock ownership
 plans (ESOP)                                                      (147)        (219)
Deferred compensation - leveraged ESOP (LESOP)                      (82)        (119)
Treasury shares (28,217,018 at December 31, 1998 and
 29,741,356 at December 31, 1997, at cost)                         (882)        (730)
Accumulated other comprehensive income                             (632)        (574)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total shareowners' equity                                        12,780       10,520
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity                      $ 45,066     $ 44,836
=========================================================================================
<FN>
# The trusts contain assets of $1,030 in principal amount of the Subordinated
Debentures of Pacific Telesis Group.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Dollars in millions, increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1998      1997       1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>        <C>        <C>
Operating Activities
Net income                                                  $  4,023  $  1,674   $  3,477
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
  provided by operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization                                5,177     5,301      4,466
  Undistributed earnings from investments in
   equity affiliates                                             (56)     (100)      (138)
  Provision for uncollectible accounts                           513       566        438
  Amortization of investment tax credits                         (72)      (82)       (82)
  Deferred income tax expense                                    533       239        485
  Extraordinary loss, net of tax                                  60         -          -
  Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax             (15)        -        (90)
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
      Accounts receivable                                       (959)     (902)    (1,097)
      Other current assets                                        (8)      (56)       301
      Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                  (187)    1,431        591
  Other - net                                                   (628)     (475)      (450)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total adjustments                                              4,358     5,922      4,424
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities                      8,381     7,596      7,901
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investing Activities
Construction and capital expenditures                         (5,927)   (6,230)    (5,855)
Investments in affiliates                                        (85)      (26)       (74)
Purchase of short-term investments                               (42)     (916)    (1,005)
Proceeds from short-term investments                             355     1,029        816
Dispositions                                                   1,140       578         96
Acquisitions                                                       -    (1,118)      (442)
Other                                                             11        13         19
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities                         (4,548)   (6,670)    (6,445)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financing Activities
Net change in short-term borrowings with original
 maturities of three months or less                             (367)     (563)       (974)
Issuance of other short-term borrowings                            2     1,079         209
Repayment of other short-term borrowings                          (8)     (805)       (134)
Issuance of long-term debt                                       413     1,597         988
Repayment of long-term debt                                   (1,121)     (602)       (443)
Early extinguishment of debt and related call premiums          (765)       (6)          -
Issuance of trust originated preferred securities                  -         -       1,000
Purchase of fractional shares                                      -       (15)          -
Issuance of common shares                                         64         -         111
Purchase of treasury shares                                     (498)      (87)       (650)
Issuance of treasury shares                                      308       293          52
Dividends paid                                                (1,811)   (1,724)     (1,765)
Other                                                              -        (7)       (103)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities                         (3,783)     (840)     (1,709)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents              50        86        (253)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents beginning of year                      410       324         577
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and Cash Equivalents End of Year                       $    460  $    410   $     324
===========================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity
Dollars and shares in millions except per share amounts
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  Common                                                   Accumulated    Treasury
                                  Shares    Capital in Retained  Guaranteed     Deferred         Other     Shares            Total
                               ------------- Excess of Earnings Obligations Compensation Comprehensive ------------- Comprehensive
                               Shares Amount Par Value (Deficit)    of ESOP        LESOP        Income Shares Amount        Income
                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>  <C>    <C>         <C>        <C>           <C>          <C>      <C>    <C>           <C>
Balance, December 31, 1995        991 $ 991  $  10,002  $  (546)   $  (331)    $    (242)     $  (578)   (11) $ (481)         $  -
 Net income for the year
  ($1.78 per share)                 -     -          -    3,477          -             -            -      -       -         3,477
 Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax:
   Foreign currency
    translation adjustment,
    net of income tax
    benefit of $28                  -      -          -        -          -             -          (59)     -       -           (59)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Comprehensive Income                                                                                                    3,418
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends to shareowners
 ($0.86 per share)                  -      -       (115)  (1,680)         -             -            -      -       -             -
Reduction of debt
 associated with ESOP               -      -          -        -         55             -            -      -       -             -
Cost of LESOP trust shares
 allocated to employee accounts     -      -          -        -          -            81            -      -       -             -
Issuance of common shares           -      -         20        -          -             -            -      -       -             -
Purchase of treasury shares         -      -          -        -          -             -            -    (13)   (650)            -
Issuance of treasury shares         -      -         21        -          -             -            -      4     146             -
Other                               -      -          3       14          -             -            -      -       -             -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1996        991    991      9,931    1,265       (276)         (161)        (637)   (20)   (985)        3,418
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Net income for the year
  ($0.86 per share)                 -      -          -    1,674          -             -            -      -       -         1,674
 Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax:
   Foreign currency
    translation adjustment,
    net of income tax
    expense of $38                  -      -          -        -          -             -           63      -       -            63
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Comprehensive Income                                                                                                    1,737
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends to shareowners
  ($0.895 per share)                -      -          -   (1,755)         -             -            -      -       -             -
Reduction of debt 
 associated with ESOP               -      -          -        -         57             -            -      -       -             -
Cost of LESOP trust shares
 allocated to employee accounts     -      -          -        -          -            42            -      -       -             -
Issuance of common shares           1      1         39        -          -             -            -      -       -             -
Purchase of treasury shares         -      -          -        -          -             -            -     (2)    (87)            -
Issuance of treasury shares         -      -        (38)       -          -             -            -      7     335             -
Other                               -      -         34       20          -             -            -      -       7             -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1997        992    992      9,966    1,204       (219)         (119)        (574)   (15)   (730)        1,737
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Net income for the year
  ($2.06 per share)                 -      -          -    4,023          -             -            -      -       -         4,023
 Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax:
   Foreign currency
    translation adjustment,
    net of income tax
    benefit of $37                  -      -          -        -          -             -          (58)     -       -           (58)
   Unrealized gain on
    available-for-sale
    securities                      -      -          -        -          -             -           60      -       -            60
   Less: reclassification
    adjustment for gains
    included in net income          -      -          -        -          -             -          (60)     -       -           (60)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Comprehensive Income                                                                                                    3,965
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends to shareowners
 ($0.935 per share)                 -      -          -   (1,836)         -             -            -      -       -             -
Two-for-one stock split           993    993       (993)       -          -             -            -    (15)      -             -
Reduction of debt
 associated with ESOP               -      -          -        -         72             -            -      -       -             -
Cost of LESOP trust shares
 allocated to employee accounts     -      -          -        -          -            37            -      -       -             -
Issuance of common shares           3      3         74        -          -             -            -      -       -             -
Purchase of treasury shares         -      -          -        -          -             -            -    (12)   (498)            -
Issuance of treasury shares         -      -        (33)       -          -             -            -     14     346             -
Other                               -      -        125        5          -             -            -      -       -             -
====================================================================================================================================
Balance, December 31, 1998      1,988 $1,988   $  9,139 $  3,396    $  (147)       $  (82)     $  (632)   (28)$  (882)     $  3,965
====================================================================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Note 1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation - The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of SBC Communications Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries
(SBC).  The statements reflect SBC's mergers with Pacific Telesis Group (PAC)
and Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation (SNET) as pooling of
interests (see Note 2).  SBC's subsidiaries and affiliates operate
predominantly in the communications services industry, providing landline and
wireless telecommunications services and equipment and directory advertising
both domestically and worldwide.

SBC's principal wireline subsidiaries are Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
(SWBell), providing telecommunications services in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma,
Kansas and Arkansas, Pacific Bell (PacBell, which also includes Pacific Bell
Information Services), The Southern New England Telephone Company and Nevada
Bell (collectively referred to as the Telephone Companies).  SBC's principal
wireless subsidiaries are Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems, Inc., Pacific
Bell Mobile Services and SNET Cellular, Inc.  SBC's principal directory
subsidiaries are Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (SWBYP), Pacific Bell
Directory (PB Directory) and SNET Information Services, Inc.

All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in the consolidation
process.  Investments in partnerships, joint ventures and less than
majority-owned subsidiaries are principally accounted for under the equity
method.  Earnings from certain foreign investments accounted for under the
equity method are included for periods ended within three months of SBC's
year end.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying
notes.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Certain amounts in
prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the
current year's presentation.

Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.

Investment tax credits earned prior to their repeal by the Tax Reform Act of
1986 are amortized as reductions in income tax expense over the lives of the
assets which gave rise to the credits.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments
with original maturities of three months or less.

Deferred Charges - Directory advertising costs are deferred until the
directory is published and advertising revenues related to these costs are
recognized.

Revenue Recognition/Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change - SBC recognizes
revenues as earned.  Amounts billed in advance of the period in which service
is rendered are recorded as a liability.

   SNET Information Services, Inc. prior to January 1, 1998, and PB
   Directory, prior to January 1, 1996, recognized revenues and expenses
   related to publishing directories using the "amortization" method, under
   which revenues and expenses were recognized over the lives of the
   directories, generally one year.  Effective January 1, 1998, for SNET
   Information Services, Inc. and January 1, 1996, for PB Directory, the
   accounting was changed to the "issue basis" method of accounting, which
   recognizes the revenues and expenses at the time the related directory is
   published.  The change in methodology was made because the issue basis
   method is generally followed in the publishing industry, including SWBYP,
   and better reflects the operating activity of the business.

   The cumulative after-tax effect of applying the changes in method to prior
   years was recognized as of January 1, 1998 and 1996 as one-time, non-cash
   gains of $15, or $0.01 per share and $90, or $0.05 per share.  The gains
   are net of deferred taxes of $11 and $53.  Had the current method been
   applied during prior periods, income before extraordinary loss and
   cumulative effect of accounting change would not have been materially
   affected.

   Property, Plant and Equipment - Property, plant and equipment is stated at
   cost.  The cost of additions and substantial betterments of property,
   plant and equipment is capitalized.  The cost of maintenance and repairs
   of property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses.
   Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using straight-line methods
   over their estimated economic lives, generally ranging from 3 to 50
   years.  In accordance with composite group depreciation methodology, when
   a portion of the Telephone Companies' depreciable property, plant and
   equipment is retired in the ordinary course of business, the gross book
   value is charged to accumulated depreciation; no gain or loss is
   recognized on the disposition of this plant.

   Intangible Assets - Intangible assets consist primarily of wireless
   cellular and Personal Communications Services (PCS) licenses, customer
   lists and the excess of consideration paid over net assets acquired in
   business combinations.  These assets are being amortized using the
   straight-line method, over periods generally ranging from 5 to 40 years.
   At December 31, 1998 and 1997, amounts included in net intangible assets
   for licenses were $2,141 and $2,261.  Management periodically reviews the
   carrying value and lives of all intangible assets based on expected future
   cash flows.

   Software Costs - The costs of computer software purchased or developed for
   internal use are expensed as incurred.  However, initial operating system
   software costs are capitalized and amortized over the estimated economic
   lives of the associated hardware. The American Institute of Certified
   Public Accountants has issued a Statement of Position (SOP) that requires
   capitalization of certain computer software expenditures beginning in 1999.

   Management continues to evaluate the impact of the change in accounting
   required by the SOP and anticipates that it will increase net income by
   less than $200 in 1999.  With comparable levels of software expenditures,
   the SOP would tend to increase net income in comparison with SBC's current
   method of accounting for software costs.  However, the increases would be
   largest in the year of adoption with diminishing levels of increases
   compared with current accounting throughout the amortization period.
   Consequently, given otherwise comparable income levels excluding software,
   and otherwise comparable software expenditures, the effect of the SOP
   would be to increase income in the first year and decrease income in each
   subsequent year until the number of years affected by the SOP equals the
   amortization period.

   Advertising Costs - Costs for advertising products and services or
   corporate image are expensed as incurred  (see Note 18).

   Foreign Currency Translation - Local currencies are generally considered
   the functional currency for SBC's share of foreign operations, except in
   countries considered highly inflationary.  SBC translates its share of
   foreign assets and liabilities at current exchange rates.  Revenues and
   expenses are translated using average rates during the year.  The ensuing
   foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate
   component of shareowners' equity.  Other transaction gains and losses
   resulting from exchange rate changes on transactions denominated in a
   currency other than the local currency are included in earnings as
   incurred.

   Derivative Financial Instruments - SBC does not invest in any derivatives
   for trading purposes.  From time to time as part of its risk management
   strategy, SBC uses immaterial amounts of derivative financial instruments
   including interest rate swaps to hedge exposures to interest rate risk on
   debt obligations, and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge
   exposures to changes in foreign currency rates for transactions related to
   its foreign investments.  Derivative contracts are entered into for
   hedging of firm commitments only.  SBC currently does not recognize the
   fair values of these derivative financial investments or their changes in
   fair value in its financial statements.  Interest rate swap settlements
   are recognized as adjustments to interest expense in the consolidated
   statements of income when paid or received.  Foreign currency forward
   exchange contracts are set up to coincide with firm commitments.  Gains
   and losses are deferred until the underlying transaction being hedged
   occurs, and then are recognized as part of that transaction.  PAC entered
   into an equity swap contract to hedge exposure to risk associated with its
   recorded liability for certain outstanding employee stock options relating
   to stock of AirTouch Communications Inc. (AirTouch) (see Note 15).  The
   equity swap contract and its liability are recorded at fair value in the
   balance sheet as other assets or liabilities.  Equity swap settlements are
   recorded in interest expense in the consolidated statements of income when
   paid or received.

Note 2.  Mergers with SNET and PAC

   On April 1, 1997, SBC and PAC completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary
   with PAC, in a transaction in which each outstanding share of PAC common
   stock was exchanged for 1.4629 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to
   approximately 626 million shares).  With the merger, PAC became a
   wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC.  The transaction has been accounted for as
   a pooling of interests and a tax-free reorganization.

   Transaction costs and one-time charges relating to the closing of the
   merger were $359 ($215 net of tax) including, among other items, the
   present value of amounts to be returned to California ratepayers as a
   condition of the merger and expenses for investment banker and
   professional fees.  Of this total, $287 ($180 net of tax) is included in
   expenses in 1997, and $72 ($35 net of tax) in 1996.  The amounts due to
   ratepayers are being paid out over five years, from 1998 to 2002.

   On October 26, 1998, SBC and SNET completed the merger of an SBC
   subsidiary with SNET, in a transaction in which each share of SNET common
   stock was exchanged for 1.7568 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to
   approximately 120 million shares).  SNET became a wholly-owned subsidiary
   of SBC effective with the merger and the transaction has been accounted
   for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free reorganization.  Financial
   statements for prior periods have been restated to include the accounts of
   SNET.  Transaction costs related to the merger were $40 ($26 net of tax).

   Operating revenues, income before extraordinary loss and cumulative effect
   of accounting change and net income of the separate companies for the
   pre-merger periods of the last three periods were as follows:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Nine
                                              Months
                                               Ended
                                        September 30,   Year Ended December 31,
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                                1998        1997        1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Operating revenues:
       SBC                                $   19,495    $ 24,659    $ 23,260
       SNET                                    1,606       2,022       1,942
   =============================================================================
       Combined                           $   21,101    $ 26,681    $ 25,202
   =============================================================================
   Income before extraordinary loss and
    cumulative effect of accounting
    change:
       SBC                                $    3,085    $  1,474    $  3,189
       SNET                                      164         198         193
       Adjustments                                 3           2           5
   =============================================================================
       Combined                           $    3,252    $  1,674    $  3,387
   =============================================================================
   Net income:
       SBC                                $    3,085    $  1,474    $  3,279
       SNET                                      179         194         193
       Adjustments                                 3           6           5
   =============================================================================
       Combined                           $    3,267    $  1,674    $  3,477
   =============================================================================

   The combined results include the effect of changes applied retroactively
   to conform the accounting methodologies between SNET and SBC for pension
   and postemployment benefits.  SBC believes the new method is more
   prevalent and better reflects the operations of the business.

   Post-merger initiatives
   During the second quarter of 1997, SBC announced after-tax charges of $1.6
   billion related to several strategic decisions resulting from the merger
   integration process that began with the April 1, 1997 closing of its
   merger with PAC, which included $165 ($101 after tax) of charges related
   to several regulatory rulings during the second quarter of 1997 and $281
   ($176 after tax) for merger approval costs.  The decisions resulted from
   an extensive review of operations throughout the merged company and
   include significant integration of operations and consolidation of some
   administrative and support functions.

   During the fourth quarter of 1998, SBC again performed a complete review
   of all operations affected by the merger with SNET to determine the impact
   on ongoing merger integration processes.  Review teams examined
   operational functions and evaluated all strategic initiatives. As a result
   of this review, SBC announced net after-tax charges of $268 related to
   strategic decisions arising from the review and expensing of
   merger-related costs incurred by SNET.

   One-time charges related to the strategic decisions reached by the review
   teams totaled $403 ($249 after tax) in the fourth quarter of 1998 and $2
   billion ($1.3 billion after tax) in the second quarter of 1997.  At
   December 31, 1998 and 1997, remaining accruals for anticipated cash
   expenditures related to these decisions were approximately $323 and $432.

   Reorganization  SBC is centralizing several key functions that will
   support the operations of the Telephone Companies, including network
   planning, strategic marketing and procurement.  It is also consolidating a
   number of corporate-wide support activities, including research and
   development, information technology, financial transaction processing and
   real estate management.  The Telephone Companies will continue as separate
   legal entities.  These initiatives continue to result in the creation of
   some jobs and the elimination and realignment of others, with many of the
   affected employees changing job responsibilities and in some cases
   assuming positions in other locations.

   SBC recognized charges of approximately $82 ($50 net of tax) during the
   fourth quarter of 1998 and $338 ($213 net of tax) during the second
   quarter of 1997 in connection with these initiatives.  The charges were
   comprised mainly of postemployment benefits, primarily related to
   severance, and costs associated with closing down duplicate operations,
   primarily contract cancellations.  Other charges arising out of the
   mergers related to relocation, retraining and other effects of
   consolidating certain operations are being recognized in the periods those
   charges are incurred.  The initial integration process subsequent to the
   PAC merger resulted in SBC incurring expenses for these merger-related
   items in advance of any substantial synergistic benefits.  During the
   second half of 1997, these merger-related charges totaled $501 ($304 net
   of tax).

   Impairments/asset valuation  As a result of SBC's merger integration
   plans, strategic review of domestic operations and organizational
   alignments, SBC reviewed the carrying values of related long-lived assets
   in the fourth quarter of 1998 and the second quarter of 1997.  The reviews
   were conducted company-wide, although the fourth quarter 1998 review
   focused primarily on SNET.  These reviews included estimating remaining
   useful lives and cash flows and identifying assets to be abandoned.  Where
   this review indicated impairment, discounted cash flows related to those
   assets were analyzed to determine the amount of the impairment.  As a
   result of these reviews, SBC wrote off some assets and recognized
   impairments to the value of other assets, recording a combined charge of
   $321 ($199 after tax) in the fourth quarter of 1998 and $965 ($667 after
   tax) in the second quarter of 1997.

   The 1998 impairments and writeoffs primarily related to recognition of an
   impairment of the assets supporting SNET's video and telephony operations,
   and also included charges for required changes in wireless equipment,
   inventory and sites.  The 1997 impairments and writeoffs related primarily
   to the wireless digital TV operations in southern California, certain
   analog switching equipment in California, certain rural and other
   telecommunications equipment in Nevada, selected wireless equipment,
   duplicate or obsolete equipment, cable within commercial buildings in
   California, certain nonoperating plant and other assets.

   Pacific and Southwestern video curtailment/purchase commitments  SBC also
   announced in 1997 that it was scaling back its limited direct investment
   in video services in the areas also served by PacBell and SWBell.  As a
   result of this curtailment, SBC halted construction on the Advanced
   Communications Network (ACN) in California.  As part of an agreement with
   the ACN vendor, SBC paid the liabilities of the ACN trust that owned and
   financed ACN construction, incurred costs to shut down all construction
   previously conducted under the trust and received certain consideration
   from the vendor.  In the second quarter of 1997, SBC recognized net
   expense of $553 ($346 after tax) associated with these activities.  During
   the third quarter of 1997, SBC recorded the corresponding short-term debt
   of $610 previously incurred by the ACN trust on its balance sheet.
   Additionally, SBC curtailed certain other video-related activities
   including discontinuing its broadband network video trials in Richardson,
   Texas, and San Jose, California, substantially scaling back its
   involvement in the Tele-TV joint venture and withdrawing its operations in
   territory served by SWBell from the Americast venture.  Americast partners
   are disputing the withdrawal in arbitration and litigation, the outcome of
   which cannot be predicted, but is not expected to have a material impact
   on SBC's financial condition or results of operations.  The collective
   impact of these decisions and actions by SBC resulted in a charge of $145
   ($92 after tax) in the second quarter of 1997.

Note 3.  Merger Agreement with Ameritech Corporation

   On May 11, 1998, SBC announced a definitive agreement to merge an SBC
   subsidiary with Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) in a transaction in
   which each share of Ameritech common stock will be converted into and
   exchanged for 1.316 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to
   approximately 1,450 million shares).  After the merger, Ameritech will be
   a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC.  The transaction, which has been
   approved by the board of directors and shareowners of each company, is
   intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and to be a
   tax-free reorganization. The merger is subject to certain regulatory
   approvals, including the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and state
   commissions in Ohio and Illinois.  If approvals are granted, the
   transaction is expected to close in 1999.

   SBC and Ameritech own competing cellular licenses in several markets,
   including, but not limited to, Chicago, Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri
   (Overlapping Cellular Licenses).  In an effort to comply with the FCC's
   rules and regulations and certain provisions of the Merger Agreement, SBC
   and Ameritech expect to be required by the FCC to divest one of the
   Overlapping Cellular Licenses in each market and are attempting to
   determine the manner in which an Overlapping Cellular License in each
   market should be divested.

   The pro forma effect on SBC's consolidated statements of income had the
   merger occurred on January 1, 1996 is as follows:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Pro Forma (unaudited):                 1998       1997      1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Operating revenues                 $ 45,931  $  42,679  $ 40,119
   Income before extraordinary loss
    and cumulative effect of
    accounting change                 $  7,674  $   3,970  $  5,521
   Net income                         $  7,629  $   3,970  $  5,611
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Basic earnings per share:
   Income before extraordinary loss
    and cumulative effect of
    accounting change                 $   2.25  $    1.17  $   1.62
   Net income                         $   2.24  $    1.17  $   1.65
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Diluted earnings per share:
   Income before extraordinary loss
    and cumulative effect of
    accounting change                 $   2.23  $    1.16  $   1.61
   Net income                         $   2.21  $    1.16  $   1.64
   =================================================================

   This pro forma information does not include the effect of changes, which
   will be applied retroactively, to conform accounting methodologies between
   SBC and Ameritech.  Based on information currently available, management
   estimates the conforming changes will not materially affect the pro forma
   operating revenues or income before extraordinary loss and cumulative
   effect of accounting change.  Additionally, the pro forma information also
   does not include any potential cost savings which may result from the
   integration of SBC's and Ameritech's operations or future transaction
   costs relating to the merger (which are estimated to be less than $90),
   nor does it consider any reorganization costs or costs associated with the
   disposition of the Overlapping Cellular Licenses that may be required.
   Management is unable to quantify the potential cost savings that may
   result from the integration of SBC and Ameritech.  The financial impact of
   the reorganization costs or costs associated with the disposition of the
   Overlapping Cellular Licenses cannot be determined pending the resolution
   of the disposal.

Note 4.  Pacific Telesis Group Financial Information

   The following table presents summarized financial information for PAC at
   December 31, or for the year then ended:

   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1998     1997      1996
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balance Sheets
    Current assets                                 $  3,037 $  2,835  $  2,474
    Noncurrent assets                                15,428   14,150    14,134
    Current liabilities                               5,278    4,513     3,527
    Noncurrent liabilities                           10,482   10,413    10,308
   ============================================================================
   Income Statements
    Operating revenues                             $ 11,302 $ 10,101  $  9,588
    Operating income (loss)                           2,612    (166)     2,198
    Income (loss) before extraordinary loss
     and cumulative effect of accounting changes      1,240    (546)     1,057
    Net income (loss)                                 1,180    (224)     1,142
   ============================================================================

   SBC has not provided separate financial statements and other disclosures
   for PAC as management has determined that such information is not material
   to the holders of the Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) (see
   Note 11), which have been guaranteed by SBC.  This information is provided
   as a supplement only.

Note 5.  Earnings Per Share

   A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of basic earnings per
   share and diluted earnings per share for income before extraordinary loss
   and cumulative effect of accounting change for the years ended
   December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 are shown in the table below.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Year Ended December 31,                        1998       1997       1996
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Numerators
   Numerator for basic earnings per share:
    Income before extraordinary loss and
     cumulative effect of accounting change     $4,068     $1,674     $3,387
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Dilutive potential common shares:
    Other stock-based compensation                   4          3          2
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Numerator for diluted
      earnings per share                        $4,072     $1,677     $3,389
   ==========================================================================
   Denominators
   Denominator for basic earnings per share:
    Weighted average number of common
     shares outstanding (000)                1,956,610  1,944,617  1,956,200
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Dilutive potential common shares (000):
    Stock options                               21,701     12,926      7,385
    Other stock-based compensation               5,542      4,388      3,410
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Denominator for diluted
      earnings per share                     1,983,853  1,961,931  1,966,995
   ==========================================================================
   Basic earnings per share:
    Income before extraordinary loss and
     cumulative effect of accounting change    $  2.08    $  0.86    $  1.73
    Extraordinary loss                           (0.03)        -          -
    Cumulative effect of accounting change        0.01         -        0.05
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net income                                 $  2.06    $  0.86    $  1.78
   ==========================================================================
   Diluted earnings per share:
    Income before extraordinary loss and
     cumulative effect of accounting change    $  2.05    $  0.85    $  1.72
    Extraordinary loss                           (0.03)        -          -
    Cumulative effect of accounting change        0.01         -        0.05
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net income                                 $  2.03    $  0.85    $  1.77
   ==========================================================================

Note 6.  Property, Plant and Equipment

   Property, plant and equipment is summarized as follows at December 31:

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1998         1997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Land                                           $      442   $      434
   Buildings                                           6,842        6,502
   Central office equipment                           28,019       25,864
   Cable, wiring and conduit                          30,916       29,943
   Other equipment                                     5,897        5,926
   Under construction                                  1,350        1,546
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      73,466       70,215
   Accumulated depreciation and amortization          43,546       41,147
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Property, plant and equipment-net              $   29,920   $   29,068
   ========================================================================

   SBC's depreciation expense as a percentage of average depreciable plant
   was 7.2%, 7.4% and 6.9% for 1998, 1997 and 1996.

   Certain facilities and equipment used in operations are under operating or
   capital leases.  Rental expenses under operating leases for 1998, 1997 and
   1996 were $440, $386 and $346.  At December 31, 1998, the future minimum
   rental payments under noncancelable operating leases for the years 1999
   through 2003 were $1,817, $2,652, $2,519, $2,553 and $2,508 and $7,096
   thereafter.  Capital leases are not significant.

Note 7.  Investment in Telewest Communications plc

   During 1998, SBC owned up to 15% of Telewest Communications plc
   (Telewest), the largest cable television operator in the United Kingdom.
   Due to restrictions existing on the sale of SBC's interest in Telewest,
   SBC accounted for its investment using the cost method of accounting.
   During the third quarter of 1998, as a result of Telewest's merger with
   General Cable, Telewest entered into a new agreement with its key
   shareholders, including SBC, which lifted those restrictions.  SBC was
   then required to account for its investment in Telewest as
   available-for-sale securities pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards
   Board Statement No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
   Equity Securities" (FAS 115).  Under FAS 115, available-for-sale
   securities are measured at fair value in the statement of financial
   position, and unrealized holding gains and losses are excluded from
   earnings and reported as a net amount in a separate component of
   shareowners' equity until realized.  During 1998, SBC sold approximately
   90% of its Telewest investment for $425 and made a charitable contribution
   of the remainder. The net effect from Telewest transactions for the year
   ended December 31, 1998 was to increase net income by $60.

Note 8.  Equity Investments

   Investments in affiliates accounted for under the equity method include
   SBC's investment in Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's
   national telecommunications company.  SBC is a member of a consortium that
   holds all of the AA shares of Telmex stock, representing voting control of
   the company.  Another member of the consortium, Carso Global Telecom, S.A.
   de C.V., has the right to appoint a majority of the directors of Telmex.
   SBC also owns L shares which have limited voting rights.  Throughout 1998,
   SBC sold portions of its L shares in response to open market share
   repurchases by Telmex, so that its total equity investment remained below
   10% of Telmex's total equity capitalization.

   Other major equity investments held by SBC include a 1997 investment of
   approximately $760 in Telkom SA Limited (Telkom), the state-owned
   telecommunications company of South Africa (see Note 17), an indirect 15%
   ownership in Cegetel, a joint venture providing a broad range of
   telecommunications offerings in France, investments in Chilean
   telecommunications operations and minority ownership of several domestic
   wireless properties.

   The following table is a reconciliation of SBC's investments in equity
   affiliates:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           1998       1997        1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Beginning of year                  $   2,740   $  1,964    $  1,616
   Additional investments                    55      1,076         337
   Equity in net income                     236        201         207
   Dividends received                      (167)       (90)        (70)
   Currency translation adjustments        (110)      (135)        (94)
   Reclassifications and other
    adjustments                            (240)      (276)        (32)
   =======================================================================
   End of year                        $   2,514   $  2,740    $  1,964
   =======================================================================

   The currency translation adjustment for 1998 primarily reflects the effect
   of exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investment in South Africa.  Other
   adjustments for 1998 reflect a write-down of an international investment
   and the sale of portions of SBC's Telmex L shares.

   Currency translation adjustments for 1997 primarily reflect the effect of
   the exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investments in South African and
   French telecommunications companies.  Other adjustments for 1997 reflect
   the sale of portions of SBC's Telmex L shares and the change to the cost
   method of accounting in 1997 for SBC's 1995 investment in South African
   wireless operations which were sold during the third quarter of 1998 (see
   Note 17).

   Undistributed earnings from equity affiliates were $918 and $862 at
   December 31, 1998 and 1997.

Note 9.  Segment Information

   SBC has four reportable segments: Wireline, Wireless, Directory and
   Other.  The Wireline segment provides landline telecommunications
   services, including local, network access and long distance services,
   messaging and Internet services and sells customer premise and private
   business exchange equipment.  The Wireless segment provides wireless
   telecommunications services, including local and long distance services,
   and sells wireless equipment.  The Directory segment sells advertising for
   and publication of yellow pages and white pages directories and electronic
   publishing.  The Other segment includes SBC's international investments
   and other domestic operating subsidiaries.

   These segments are strategic business units that offer different products
   and services and are managed accordingly.  SBC evaluates performance based
   on income before income taxes, adjusted for normalizing items.  For 1998,
   normalizing items included gains on sales of certain non-core businesses,
   principally the required disposition of SBC's interest in Mobile Telephone
   Networks (MTN), a South African national cellular company, due to SBC's
   investment in Telkom, and charges related to strategic initiatives
   resulting from the merger integration process with SNET.  For 1997,
   normalizing items included the costs related to strategic initiatives
   resulting from the merger integration process with PAC, the impact of
   several second quarter 1997 regulatory rulings and charges for ongoing
   merger integration costs (see Note 2), as well as the gain on the sale of
   the Telephone Companies' interest in Bell Communications Research, Inc.
   (Bellcore) and the first quarter 1997 settlement gain at PAC associated
   with lump-sum pension payments that exceeded the projected service and
   interest costs for 1996 retirements.  The effect of any normalizing
   adjustments is shown separately in the table below.  The accounting
   policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
   Transactions between segments are reported at fair value.

   Corporate, adjustments and eliminations include corporate activities, the
   elimination of intersegment transactions, and other adjustments.  Included
   in other adjustments are differences in accounting between subsidiary and
   consolidated financial statements for postretirement benefits at PacBell
   and the treatment of conforming accounting adjustments arising out of the
   pooling of interests with SNET and PAC that were required to be treated as
   changes in accounting principles by the subsidiaries.

<TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                         Corporate,
At December 31, 1998 or for the                                                          Adjustments &   Normalizing
year ended                             Wireline   Wireless     Directory      Other      Eliminations    Adjustments      Total
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>           <C>       
Revenues from external customers     $  22,097  $     4,184  $      2,320 $       82   $           102 $          (8) $  28,777
Intersegment revenues                      113            1            73          3              (190)            -          -
Depreciation and amortization            4,265          583            31          -                77           221      5,177
Equity in net income of affiliates           -           25             -        211                 -             -        236
Interest expense                           861          179            11         37               (98)            3        993
Income before income taxes               4,364          490         1,131        269               195           (75)     6,374
Segment assets                          33,427        7,161         1,385      2,854               239             -     45,066
Investment in equity method
 investees                                  34          232             -      2,274               (26)            -      2,514
Expenditures for additions to
 long-lived assets                       5,178          644            30         11                64             -      5,927
=================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                         Corporate,
At December 31, 1997 or for the                                                          Adjustments &   Normalizing
year ended                             Wireline   Wireless     Directory       Other     Eliminations    Adjustments      Total
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>           <C>       
Revenues from external customers     $  20,718  $     3,696  $      2,197 $       57   $           201 $        (188)$   26,681
Intersegment revenues                      208            1            89          -              (298)            -          -
Depreciation and amortization            4,095          491            28          -                83           604      5,301
Equity in net income of affiliates          (5)           9             -        206                (9)            -        201
Interest expense                           837          152             4         25                (2)           27      1,043
Income before income taxes               3,736          355         1,043        192                75        (2,743)     2,658
Segment assets                          32,018        7,071         1,227      3,398             1,122             -     44,836
Investment in equity method
 investees                                  34          229             -      2,503               (26)            -      2,740
Expenditures for additions to
 long-lived assets                       5,275          776            38          -               141             -      6,230
=================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                         Corporate,
At December 31, 1996 or for the                                                          Adjustments &   Normalizing
year ended                             Wireline    Wireless    Directory       Other     Eliminations    Adjustments      Total
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>           <C>       
Revenues from external customers     $  19,751  $     3,137  $      2,077 $       34   $           203 $           - $   25,202
Intersegment revenues                      168            -            68          9              (245)            -          -
Depreciation and amortization            3,954          397            28          1                86             -      4,466
Equity in net income of affiliates          (5)          22             -        226               (36)            -        207
Interest expense                           766          107             5         34               (11)            -        901
Income before income taxes               3,789          567           970        178               (47)            -      5,457
Expenditures for additions to
 long-lived assets                       4,712        1,006            32          5               100             -      5,855
=================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

   Geographic Information

   SBC's investments outside of the United States are primarily accounted for
   under the equity method of accounting and do not record in operating
   revenues and expenses the revenues and expenses of the individual
   companies in which SBC invests.  Long-lived assets consist primarily of
   the book value of these investments.

   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Year Ended December 31,        1998        1997        1996
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Revenues:
    United States            $  28,692 $    26,624 $    25,168
    Mexico                          15          21          25
    South Africa                    48          22           3
    France                           4           5           3
    Chile                            1           2           2
    Other foreign                   17           7           1
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                     $  28,777 $    26,681 $    25,202
   ============================================================

   ------------------------------------------------
   December 31,                   1998        1997
   ------------------------------------------------
   Long-Lived Assets:
    United States            $  31,135 $    30,229
    Mexico                         836         733
    South Africa                   694         837
    France                         557         543
    United Kingdom                   -         339
    Chile                           59         295
    Other foreign                  214         234
   ------------------------------------------------
   Total                     $  33,495 $    33,210
   ================================================

Note 10.  Debt

   Long-term debt, including interest rates and maturities, is summarized as
   follows at December 31:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     1998                 1997
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     SWBell
       Debentures
         5.38%-5.88%     2003-2006            $       500                $ 500
         6.13%-6.88%     2000-2048                  1,750                1,550
         7.00%-7.75%     2009-2027                  1,150                1,750
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    3,400                3,800
         Unamortized discount-net of premium          (38)                 (36)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total debentures                           3,362                3,764
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Notes
         5.04%-7.67%     1998-2010                  1,063                1,236
         Unamortized discount                          (5)                  (6)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total notes                                1,058                1,230
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     PacBell
       Debentures
         4.62%-5.88%     1999-2006                    475                  475
         6.00%-6.88%     2002-2034                  1,194                1,194
         7.12%-7.75%     2008-2043                  1,587                2,250
         8.50%           2031                          29                  225
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    3,285                4,144
         Unamortized discount-net of premium          (65)                 (89)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total debentures                           3,220                4,055
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Notes
         6.12%-8.70%     2001-2009                  1,500                1,300
         Unamortized discount                         (18)                 (18)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total notes                                1,482                1,282
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Other notes and debentures
         4.37%-6.98%     1998-2007                    501                  633
         7.00%-10.50%    1998-2033                  2,048                2,033
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    2,549                2,666
         Unamortized premium-net of discount           61                   65
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total other notes and debentures           2,610                2,731
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Guaranteed obligations of ESOP 1
        8.41%-9.40%      2000                         127                  198
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Capitalized leases                               260                  294
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total long-term debt,
      including current maturities                 12,119               13,554
     Current maturities                              (507)                (378)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total long-term debt                     $    11,612               13,176
     ===========================================================================
     1 See Note 14.

   In February and September 1998, SBC called $805 of long-term debt for
   retirement.  SBC recognized after-tax charges of $11 associated with the
   calling of this debt.

   In October 1998, PacBell repurchased $684 of long-term debt.  The
   repurchases resulted in a $60 after-tax extraordinary loss, net of taxes
   of $42.

   At December 31, 1998, the aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt
   and average interest rate scheduled for repayment for the years 1999
   through 2003 were $507 (6.6%), $574 (6.4%), $1,034 (7.5%), $980 (6.7%),
   $749 (6.3%) with $8,406 (6.9%) due thereafter.  As of December 31, 1998,
   SBC was in compliance with all covenants and conditions of instruments
   governing its debt.

   Debt maturing within one year consists of the following at December 31:

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     1998           1997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Commercial paper                              $  1,044       $  1,412
   Current maturities of long-term debt               507            378
   Other short-term debt                                -            349
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                         $  1,551       $  2,139
   ========================================================================

   The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper debt at
   December 31, 1998 and 1997 was 5.49% and 6.02%.  SBC has entered into
   agreements with several banks for compensated lines of credit totaling
   $655 and uncompensated lines of credit totaling $805, thus total lines of
   credit available are $1,460, all of which may be used to support
   commercial paper borrowings.  SBC had no borrowings outstanding under
   these lines of credit as of December 31, 1998 or 1997.

Note 11.  Financial Instruments

   The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of SBC's long-term debt,
   including current maturities and other financial instruments, are
   summarized as follows at December 31:

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1998               1997
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      Carrying  Fair     Carrying    Fair
                                      Amount    Value    Amount      Value
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SWBell debentures                  $3,362    $3,531   $3,764     $3,828
   SWBell notes                        1,058     1,129    1,230      1,271
   PacBell debentures                  3,220     3,463    4,055      4,337
   PacBell notes                       1,482     1,590    1,282      1,342
   Other notes and debentures          2,610     2,725    2,731      2,947
   TOPrS                               1,000     1,029    1,000      1,034
   Guaranteed obligations of ESOP 1      127       132      198        207
   ========================================================================
    1 See Note 14.

   The fair values of SBC's long-term debt were estimated based on quoted
   market prices, where available, or on the net present value method of
   expected future cash flows using current interest rates.  The fair value of
   the TOPrS was estimated based on quoted market prices.  The carrying
   amounts of commercial paper debt approximate fair values.

   SBC does not hold or issue any financial instruments for trading
   purposes.  SBC's cash equivalents and short-term investments are recorded
   at amortized cost.  The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents and
   short-term investments and customer deposits approximate fair values.

   Pacific Telesis Financing I and II (the Trusts) were formed for the
   exclusive purpose of issuing preferred and common securities representing
   undivided beneficial interests in the Trusts and investing the proceeds
   from the sales of TOPrS in unsecured subordinated debt securities of PAC.
   Under certain circumstances, dividends on TOPrS could be deferred for up to
   a period of five years.  PAC sold $1 billion of TOPrS, $500 at 7.56% in
   January 1996 through Pacific Telesis Financing I and $500 at 8.5% in
   June 1996 through Pacific Telesis Financing II.  As of December 31, 1998,
   the Trusts held subordinated debt securities of PAC in principal amounts of
   $516 and $514 with interest rates of 7.56% and 8.5%.  Both issues of TOPrS
   were priced at $25 per share, have an original 30-year maturity that may be
   extended up to 49 years, are callable five years after date of sale at par
   and are included on the balance sheet as corporation-obligated mandatorily
   redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts.  The proceeds were
   used to retire short-term indebtedness, primarily commercial paper.  SBC
   has guaranteed payment of the obligations of the TOPrS.

   Derivatives

   SBC entered into an equity swap contract to hedge exposure to risk of
   market changes related to its recorded liability for outstanding employee
   stock options for common stock of AirTouch (spun-off operations) and
   associated stock appreciation rights (SARs) (see Note 15).  In February
   1999, SBC began exiting the equity swap contract, receiving cash for the
   appreciated value of the contract and recognizing a minimal gain.  Once
   exited, SBC will record in other income (expense) - net future changes in
   the value of the underlying employee stock option exposure.  SBC plans to
   make open-market purchases of the stock of spun-off operations to satisfy
   its obligation for options that are exercised.  Off-balance-sheet risk
   exists to the extent the market price of the stock of spun-off operations
   rises above the market price reflected in the liability's current carrying
   value.  The equity swap hedged this exposure and minimized the impact of
   market fluctuations.  The contract entitled SBC to receive settlement
   payments to the extent the price of the common stock of spun-off operations
   rose above the notional value of $23.74 per share, but imposed an
   obligation to make payments to the extent the price declined below this
   level.  The swap also obligated SBC to make a monthly payment of a fee
   based on LIBOR.  The total notional amount of the contract, $13 and $19 as
   of December 31, 1998 and 1997, covered the approximate number of the
   outstanding options and SARs of spun-off operations on that date.  SBC
   periodically adjusted downward the outstanding notional amount as the
   options and SARs were exercised.

   Both the equity swap and SBC's liability for the stock options and SARs of
   spun-off operations are carried in the balance sheet at their market
   values, which were immaterial as of December 31, 1998 and 1997.  Gains and
   losses from quarterly market adjustments of the carrying amounts were
   substantially offsetting.  As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
   accounting loss that would have been incurred from nonperformance by the
   counterparty to the equity swap was $26 and $14.

Note 12.  Income Taxes

   Significant components of SBC's deferred tax liabilities and assets are as
   follows at December 31:

   -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1998         1997
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Depreciation and amortization                $  3,959     $  3,679
   Equity in foreign subsidiaries                    357          253
   Other                                             355        2,052
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Deferred tax liabilities                        4,671        5,984
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Employee benefits                               1,707        2,528
   Unamortized investment tax credits                 91          174
   Currency translation adjustments                  333          303
   Other                                           1,244        2,140
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Deferred tax assets                             3,375        5,145
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Deferred tax assets valuation allowance            36           70
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net deferred tax liabilities                 $  1,332     $    909
   ===================================================================

   The decrease in the valuation allowance is the result of an evaluation of
   the uncertainty associated with the realization of certain deferred tax
   assets.  The valuation allowance is maintained in deferred tax assets for
   certain unused federal and state loss carryforwards.

   The components of income tax expense are as follows:

   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1998       1997       1996
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Federal:
      Current                                 $   1,583   $    786    $ 1,443
      Deferred-net                                  437         76        364
      Amortization of investment tax credits        (72)       (82)       (82)
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1,948        780      1,725
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   State and local:
      Current                                       262         41        224
      Deferred-net                                   96        163        121
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    358        204        345
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                      $   2,306   $    984    $ 2,070
   ============================================================================

   A reconciliation of income tax expense and the amount computed by applying
   the statutory federal income tax rate (35%) to income before income taxes,
   extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of accounting change is as
   follows:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1998        1997     1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Taxes computed at federal statutory rate   $    2,231  $      930  $ 1,910
   Increases (decreases) in income taxes
    resulting from:
     Amortization of investment tax credits
      over the life of the plant that gave
      rise to the credits                            (47)        (53)     (53)
     State and local income taxes-net of
      federal income tax benefit                     233         133      224
     Other-net                                      (111)        (26)     (11)
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                      $    2,306  $      984  $ 2,070
   =============================================================================

Note 13.  Employee Benefits

   Pensions - Substantially all employees of SBC are covered by one of
   various noncontributory pension and death benefit plans.  The pension
   benefit formula used in the determination of pension cost for
   nonmanagement employees is based on a flat dollar amount per year of
   service according to job classification.  For PAC managers, benefits
   accrue in separate account balances based on a fixed percentage of each
   employee's monthly salary with interest.  For all other managers, benefits
   accrue in separate account balances based on a fixed percentage of each
   employee's monthly salary plus interest or are determined based upon a
   stated percentage of adjusted career income.  Both the bargaining-unit and
   management employees of SNET have a cash balance pension plan.
   Accordingly, pension benefits are determined as a single account balance
   and grow each year with pay and interest credits.

   SBC's objective in funding the plans, in combination with the standards of
   the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended), is to
   accumulate funds sufficient to meet its benefit obligations to employees
   upon their retirement.  Contributions to the plans are made to a trust for
   the benefit of plan participants.  Plan assets consist primarily of
   stocks, U.S. government and domestic corporate bonds, index funds and real
   estate.

   The following table presents the change in the pension plan benefit
   obligation for the years ended December 31:

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1998        1997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Benefit obligation at beginning of the year       $ 18,116    $ 16,330
   Service cost - benefits earned during the period       339         300
   Interest cost on projected benefit obligation        1,265       1,237
   Amendments                                             254         402
   Actuarial gain                                         566       1,398
   Special termination benefits                            53           -
   Benefits paid                                       (1,723)     (1,551)
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Benefit obligation at end of year                 $ 18,870    $ 18,116
   ========================================================================

   The following table presents the change in pension plan assets for the
   years ended December 31 and the pension plans' funded status at December 31:

   ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1998        1997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------
   Fair value of plan assets at beginning
    of the year                                $ 24,998    $ 22,428
   Actual return on plan assets                   3,753       4,111
   Benefits paid                                 (1,720)     (1,541)
   ------------------------------------------------------------------
   Fair value of plan assets at end of year    $ 27,031    $ 24,998
   ==================================================================

   Funded status                               $  8,161    $  6,882
   Unrecognized prior service cost                1,312       1,221
   Unrecognized net gain                         (8,327)     (7,081)
   Unamortized transition asset                    (759)       (895)
   ------------------------------------------------------------------
   Prepaid pension cost                        $    387    $    127
   ==================================================================

   The following table presents amounts recognized in SBC's Consolidated
   Balance Sheets at December 31:

   ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                               1998        1997
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Prepaid pension cost                    $    819    $    545
   Accrued pension liability                   (432)       (418)
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Net amount recognized                   $    387    $    127
   ================================================================

   Net pension cost is composed of the following:

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               1998        1997       1996
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Service cost - benefits earned during
    the period                             $    339    $    300   $    317
   Interest cost on projected benefit
    obligation                                1,265       1,237      1,226
   Expected return on plan assets            (1,771)     (1,640)    (1,664)
   Amortization of prior service cost            27          15        (19)
   Recognized actuarial gain                    (99)       (115)       (92)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net pension benefit                     $   (239)   $   (203)  $   (232)
   ===========================================================================

   Significant weighted average assumptions used in developing pension
   information include:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1998        1997        1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Discount rate for determining projected
    benefit obligation                              7.0%     7.25%        7.5%
   Long-term rate of return on plan assets          8.5%      8.5%        8.5%
   Composite rate of compensation increase          4.3%      4.3%        4.3%
   =============================================================================

   The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of all
   benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to previously rendered
   employee service.  It is measured based on assumptions concerning future
   interest rates and employee compensation levels.  Should actual experience
   differ from the actuarial assumptions, the benefit obligation will be
   affected.

   In April 1997, management amended the pension plan for non-PAC managers to
   a cash balance pension plan effective June 1, 1997.  Under the new plan,
   participants accrue benefits based on a percentage of pay plus interest.
   In addition, a transition benefit is phased in over five years.  The new
   plan also requires computation of a grandfathered benefit using the old
   formula for five years.   Participants receive the greater of the cash
   balance benefit or the grandfathered benefit.  The new cash balance plan
   allows lump sum benefit payments in addition to annuities.  This change
   did not have a significant impact on SBC's net income for 1997.

   In March 1996, management amended the pension plan for PAC managers from a
   final pay plan to a cash balance plan effective July 1, 1996.  An enhanced
   transition benefit, based on frozen pay and service as of
   June 30, 1996, was established to preserve benefits already accrued by
   salaried employees under the final pay plan and resulted in an increase in
   earned benefits for most employees.  SBC also updated the actuarial
   assumptions used in valuing the PAC plans to reflect changes in market
   interest rates and recent experience, including a change in its assumption
   concerning future ad hoc increases in pension benefits.  Taken together,
   these changes increased net income by approximately $125 during 1996.

   Approximately 4,200 employees left PacBell during 1996 under retirement or
   voluntary and involuntary severance programs and received special pension
   benefits and cash incentives in connection with the PacBell restructuring
   and related force reduction programs.  Annual pension cost excludes $64 of
   additional pension benefits charged to PacBell's restructuring reserve in
   1996.

   During 1997, a significant amount of lump sum pension payments resulted in
   a partial settlement of PAC's pension plans.  Therefore, net settlement
   gains in the amount of $299 were recognized in 1997.  Of this amount, $152
   was recognized in the first quarter of 1997 and related primarily to
   managers who terminated employment in 1996.  These gains are not included
   in the net pension cost shown in the preceding table.

   In connection with a voluntary early-out offer that provided enhanced
   pension benefits, approximately 1,135 employees left SNET during 1996.
   Annual pension cost excludes $65 of net settlement gains charged to SNET's
   restructuring reserve in 1996.

   Supplemental Retirement Plans - SBC also provides senior and middle
   management employees with nonqualified, unfunded supplemental retirement
   and savings plans.  These plans include supplemental defined pension
   benefits as well as compensation deferral plans, some of which include a
   corresponding match by SBC based on a percentage of the compensation
   deferral.  Expenses related to these plans were $105, $90 and $90 in 1998,
   1997 and 1996.  Liabilities of $1,008 and $897 related to these plans have
   been included in other noncurrent liabilities in SBC's Consolidated
   Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997.

   Postretirement Benefits - SBC provides certain medical, dental and life
   insurance benefits to substantially all retired employees under various
   plans and accrues actuarially determined postretirement benefit costs as
   active employees earn these benefits. Employees retiring after certain
   dates will pay a share of the costs of medical coverage that exceed a
   defined dollar medical cap.  Such future cost-sharing provisions have been
   reflected in determining SBC's postretirement benefit costs.  SBC
   maintains Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trusts to fund
   postretirement benefits.  Assets consist principally of stocks and U.S.
   government and corporate bonds.

   The following table sets forth the change in the benefit obligation for
   the years ended December 31:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1998        1997
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Benefit obligation at beginning of the year       $  7,701    $  7,112
   Service cost - benefits earned during the period       109         106
   Interest cost on projected benefit obligation          537         516
   Amendments                                             363         (48)
   Actuarial gain                                        (220)        397
   Benefits paid                                         (410)       (382)
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Benefit obligation at end of year                 $  8,080    $  7,701
   =======================================================================

   The following table sets forth the change in plan assets for the years
   ended December 31 and the plans' funded status at December 31:

   -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1998        1997
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Fair value of plan assets at beginning
    of the year                                $  3,826    $  2,926
   Actual return on plan assets                     847         677
   Employer contribution                            354         462
   Benefits paid                                   (248)       (239)
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Fair value of plan assets at end of year    $  4,779    $  3,826
   ===================================================================

   Funded status                               $ (3,301)   $ (3,875)
   Unrecognized prior service cost                  286         (13)
   Unrecognized net gain                         (1,912)     (1,175)
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued postretirement benefit obligation   $ (4,927)   $ (5,063)
   ===================================================================

   Postretirement benefit cost is composed of the following:

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1998      1997     1996
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Service cost-benefits earned during
     the period                                  $   109   $   106  $   105
    Interest cost on accumulated postretirement
     benefit obligation (APBO)                       537       516      512
    Expected return on assets                       (272)     (220)    (181)
    Other - net                                        6       (14)       5
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Postretirement benefit cost                  $   380   $   388  $   441
   ===========================================================================

   The fair value of plan assets restricted to the payment of life insurance
   benefits was $844 and $987 at December 31, 1998 and 1997.  At December 31,
   1998 and 1997, the accrued life insurance benefits included in the APBO
   benefit obligation were $367 and $93.

   The assumed medical cost trend rate in 1999 is 7.0%, decreasing linearly
   to 5.5% in 2002, prior to adjustment for cost-sharing provisions of the
   medical and dental plans for active and certain recently retired
   employees.  The assumed dental cost trend rate in 1999 is 5.75%, reducing
   to 5.0% in 2002.  Raising the annual medical and dental cost trend rates
   by one percentage point increases the APBO as of December 31, 1998 by $488
   and increases the aggregate service and interest cost components of the
   net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1998 by approximately $34.
   Decreasing the annual medical and dental cost trend rates by one
   percentage point decreases the APBO as of December 31, 1998 by $408 and
   decreases the aggregate service and interest cost components of the net
   periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1998 by approximately $27.
   Significant assumptions for the discount rate, long-term rate of return on
   plan assets and composite rate of compensation increase used in developing
   the APBO and related postretirement benefit costs were the same as those
   used in developing the pension information.

Note 14.  Other Employee Benefits

   Employee Stock Ownership Plans - SBC maintains contributory savings plans
   which cover substantially all employees.  Under the savings plans, SBC
   matches a stated percentage of eligible employee contributions, subject to
   a specified ceiling.

   SBC has four leveraged ESOPs as part of the existing savings plans.  Two
   of the ESOPs were funded with notes issued by the savings plans to various
   lenders, the proceeds of which were used to purchase shares of SBC's
   common stock in the open market.  These notes are unconditionally
   guaranteed by SBC and therefore presented as a reduction to shareowners'
   equity and an increase in long-term debt.  They will be repaid with SBC
   contributions to the savings plans, dividends paid on SBC shares and
   interest earned on funds held by the ESOPs.

   The third ESOP purchased PAC treasury shares in exchange for a promissory
   note from the plan to PAC.  Since PAC is the lender, this note is not
   reflected as a liability and the remaining cost of unallocated trust
   shares is carried as a reduction of shareowners' equity.  Principal and
   interest on the note are paid from employer contributions and dividends
   received by the trust.  All PAC shares were exchanged for SBC shares
   effective with the merger April 1, 1997.  The provisions of the ESOP were
   unaffected by this exchange.

   The fourth ESOP acquired SNET shares with the proceeds of notes issued by
   the savings plans, which SNET guaranteed, through a third party.  The SNET
   common stock was acquired through open market purchases, in exchange for a
   promissory note from the plan to SNET.  SNET periodically makes cash
   payments to the ESOP that, together with dividends received on shares held
   by the ESOP, are used to make interest and principal payments on both
   loans.  All SNET shares were exchanged for SBC shares effective with the
   merger October 26, 1998.  The provisions of the ESOP were unaffected by
   this exchange.

   SBC's match of employee contributions to the savings plans is fulfilled
   with shares of stock allocated from the ESOPs and with purchases of SBC's
   stock in the open market.  Shares held by the ESOPs are released for
   allocation to the accounts of employees as employer matching contributions
   are earned.  Benefit cost is based on a combination of the contributions
   to the savings plans and the cost of shares allocated to participating
   employees' accounts.  Both benefit cost and interest expense on the notes
   are reduced by dividends on SBC's shares held by the ESOPs and interest
   earned on the ESOPs' funds.

   Information related to the ESOPs and the savings plans is summarized below:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      1998      1997      1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Benefit expense-net of dividends and
    interest income                                 $   55     $  59    $   76
   Interest expense-net of dividends and
    interest income                                     16        21        30
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total expense                                    $   71     $  80    $  106
   =============================================================================
   Company contributions for ESOPs                  $  110     $ 112    $  121
   =============================================================================
   Dividends and interest income for debt service   $   58     $  63    $   67
   =============================================================================

   SBC shares held by the ESOPs are summarized as follows at December 31:

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1998          1997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Unallocated                                    11,505,123    17,210,803
   Committed to be allocated                       1,245,335       282,388
   Allocated to participants                      47,425,671    45,966,307
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                          60,176,129    63,459,498
   ========================================================================

Note 15.  Stock-Based Compensation

   Under various SBC plans, senior and other management employees and
   non-employee directors have received stock options, SARs, performance
   shares and nonvested stock units to purchase shares of SBC common stock.
   Options issued through December 31, 1998 carry exercise prices equal to
   the market price of the stock at the date of grant and have maximum terms
   ranging from five to ten years.  Depending upon the grant, vesting of
   options may occur up to four years from the date of grant.  Performance
   shares are granted to key employees in the form of common stock and/or in
   cash based upon the price of common stock at date of grant and are awarded
   at the end of a two- or three-year period, subject to the achievement of
   certain performance goals.  Nonvested stock units also are valued at
   market price of the stock at date of grant and vest over a three-year
   period.  Up to 206 million shares may be issued under these plans.

   In 1996, SBC elected to continue measuring compensation cost for these
   plans using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed in
   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
   Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123).  Accordingly, no compensation cost
   for SBC's stock option plans has been recognized.  The compensation cost
   that has been charged against income for SBC's other stock-based
   compensation plans, primarily SARs and nonvested stock units, totaled $45,
   $43 and $22 for 1998, 1997 and 1996.  Had compensation cost for stock
   option plans been recognized using the fair value based method of
   accounting at the date of grant for awards in 1998, 1997 and 1996 as
   defined by FAS 123, SBC's net income would have been $3,921, $1,597 and
   $3,445, and basic net income per share would have been $2.00, $0.82 and
   $1.76.

   Options and SARs held by the continuing employees of PAC at the time of
   the AirTouch spin-off were supplemented with an equal number of options
   and SARs for common shares of spun-off operations.  The exercise prices
   for outstanding options and SARs held by continuing employees of PAC were
   adjusted downward to reflect the value of the supplemental spun-off
   operations' options and SARs.  The balance sheet reflects a related
   liability equal to the difference between the current market price of
   spun-off operations stock and the exercise prices of the supplemental
   options outstanding (see Note 11).  As of December 31, 1998, 459,916
   supplemental spun-off operations options and SARs were outstanding with
   expiration dates ranging from 1999 to 2003.  Outstanding options and SARs
   that were held by employees of the wireless operations at the spin-off
   date were replaced by options and SARs for common shares of spun-off
   operations.  The spun-off operations assumed liability for these
   replacement options and SARs.

   For purposes of these pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of
   the options granted after 1994 is amortized to expense over the options'
   vesting period.  Because most employee options vest over a two- to
   four-year period, these disclosures will not be indicative of future pro
   forma amounts until the FAS 123 rules are applied to all outstanding
   non-vested awards.  The fair value for these options was estimated at the
   date of grant, using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
   following weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1998, 1997 and
   1996: risk-free interest rate of 5.72%, 6.56% and 6.25%; dividend yield of
   2.21%, 3.07% and 4.91%; expected volatility factor of 15%, 15% and 18%;
   and expected option life of 5.3, 5.8 and 4.7 years.

   Information related to options and SARs is summarized below:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      Weighted
                                                                       Average
                                                         Number       Exercise
                                                                         Price
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Outstanding at January 1, 1996                   60,648,949          $20.89
   Granted                                          25,035,921           23.00
   Exercised                                        (3,979,290)          18.73
   Forfeited/Expired                                (2,159,301)          21.59
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Outstanding at December 31, 1996
     (35,522,826 exercisable at weighted
      average price of $20.13)                      79,546,279           21.64
   Granted                                          33,560,019           27.28
   Exercised                                       (17,548,592)          20.51
   Forfeited/Expired                                (4,817,751)          25.16
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Outstanding at December 31, 1997
     (40,802,392 exercisable at weighted
      average price of $21.02)                      90,739,955           23.76
   Granted                                          21,756,535           42.51
   Exercised                                       (16,853,425)          22.13
   Forfeited/Expired                                (4,591,616)          31.08
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Outstanding at December 31, 1998
     (47,493,729 exercisable at weighted
      average price of $22.31)                      91,051,449          $28.17
   =============================================================================

   Information related to options and SARs outstanding at December 31, 1998:

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $13.50-    $17.50-     $26.00-     $34.00-
   Exercise Price Range            $17.49     $25.99      $33.99      $43.00
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Number of options and SARs:
     Outstanding                   3,492,843  41,277,620  25,901,002  20,379,984
     Exercisable                   3,492,843  41,277,620   2,639,149      84,117
   Weighted average exercise price:
     Outstanding                      $16.51      $22.39      $27.60      $42.59
     Exercisable                      $16.51      $22.39      $28.21      $42.00
   Weighted average remaining
    contractual life              3.43 years  6.38 years  8.31 years  5.97 years
   =============================================================================

   The weighted-average, grant-date fair value of each option granted during
   1998, 1997 and 1996 was $8.62, $5.57 and $3.47.

Note 16.  Shareowners' Equity

   Common Stock Split - On January 30, 1998, the Board of Directors of SBC
   declared a two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a stock
   dividend, on the shares of SBC's common stock.  Each shareholder of record
   on February 20, 1998 received an additional share of common stock for each
   share of common stock then held.  The stock was issued March 19, 1998.
   SBC retained the current par value of $1.00 per share for all shares of
   common stock.

Note 17.  Acquisitions and Dispositions

   During the third quarter of 1998, SBC sold its interest in MTN to the
   remaining shareholders of MTN for $337.  The sale fulfilled SBC's
   obligation to divest MTN as a requirement of the acquisition of Telkom.
   The effect on other income (expense) - net and net income from the sale of
   MTN was $250 and $162.  See Note 7 for the disposition of SBC's interest
   in Telewest.

   In May 1997, a consortium made up of SBC and Telekom Malaysia Berhad, 60%
   owned by SBC, completed the purchase of 30% of Telkom.  SBC invested
   approximately $760, approximately $600 of which will remain in Telkom.

   During 1996, SBC received several AT&T Corp. cellular networks in Arkansas
   in exchange for SBC's PCS licenses in Memphis and Little Rock and other
   consideration.

   These acquisitions were primarily accounted for under the purchase method
   of accounting.  The purchase prices in excess of the underlying fair value
   of identifiable net assets acquired are being amortized over periods not
   to exceed 40 years.  Results of operations of the properties acquired have
   been included in the consolidated financial statements from their
   respective dates of acquisition.

   The above developments did not have a significant impact on consolidated
   results of operations for 1998, 1997 or 1996, nor would they had they
   occurred on January 1 of the respective periods.

   On January 20, 1999, SBC announced it has agreed to acquire Comcast
   Cellular Corporation (Comcast Cellular), the wireless subsidiary of
   Comcast Corporation, in a transaction valued at $1,674.  Under the terms
   of the agreement, SBC will pay $400 in cash and assume Comcast Cellular's
   current debt of $1,274.  The transaction will be accounted for through the
   purchase accounting method.  Comcast Cellular offers analog and digital
   wireless services to more than 800,000 subscribers in Pennsylvania,
   Delaware, New Jersey and Illinois.  The largest market in which Comcast
   Cellular operates is Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  SBC for several years
   has been operating the Illinois properties it is purchasing under a
   previous agreement between the two companies.  The transaction, which is
   subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed by the end of
   1999.

Note 18.  Additional Financial Information

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  December 31,
                                                         -----------------------
   Balance Sheets                                             1998        1997
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Accounts payable and accrued liabilities:
      Accounts payable                                   $   2,865   $   3,115
      Accrued taxes                                          1,206       1,118
      Advance billing and customer deposits                    855         764
      Compensated future absences                              568         558
      Accrued interest                                         249         326
      Accrued payroll                                          338         315
      Other                                                  1,899       2,134
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                                 $   7,980   $   8,330
   =============================================================================

   Statements of Income                          1998         1997        1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Advertising expense                       $    594    $     558   $     400
   =============================================================================
   Interest expense incurred                 $  1,052    $   1,168   $   1,043
   Capitalized interest                           (59)        (125)       (142)
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total interest expense                    $    993    $   1,043   $     901
   =============================================================================

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Statements of Cash Flows                      1998         1997        1996
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Cash paid during the year for:
      Interest                               $  1,070    $   1,014   $     888
      Income taxes, net of refunds           $  1,721    $     489   $   1,367
   =============================================================================

   No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 1998,
   1997 or 1996.

   Several subsidiaries of SBC have negotiated contracts with the
   Communications Workers of America (CWA), none of which is subject to
   renegotiation in 1999.  Approximately two-thirds of SBC's employees are
   represented by the CWA.

Note 19.  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Basic
                                               Earnings
                Total   Operating               (Loss)            Stock Price
   Calendar   Operating   Income   Net Income Per Common -----------------------------
    Quarter   Revenues     (Loss)     (Loss)     Share      High       Low      Close
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   <S>        <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>     <C>        <C>      
   1998
   First 1    $   6,855 $   1,775  $     985   $    0.50 $ 46.563 $  35.375  $  43.375
   Second         7,030     1,817      1,020        0.52   44.938    37.125     40.000
   Third 2        7,216     1,903      1,262        0.65   44.875    35.000     44.375
   Fourth 1,2     7,676     1,391        756        0.39   54.875    41.125     53.625
   --------------------------------------------
   Annual 1,2 $  28,777 $   6,886  $   4,023   $    2.06
   ===================================================================================
   1997 3
   First      $   6,405 $   1,685  $     901   $    0.46 $ 29.125 $  24.813  $  26.250
   Second         6,372      (831)      (736)      (0.38)  30.938    24.625     30.938
   Third          6,790     1,573        867        0.45   31.125    26.781     30.719
   Fourth         7,114     1,151        642        0.33   38.063    30.000     36.625
   --------------------------------------------
   Annual     $  26,681 $   3,578  $   1,674   $    0.86
   ===================================================================================

<FN>
   1  Net Income and Earnings per Common Share reflect a cumulative effect of
      accounting change of $15, or $0.01 per share in the first quarter from a
      change in accounting for directory operations and an extraordinary loss on
      retirement of debt of $60, or $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter.
   2  Net income in the third quarter includes after-tax gains of $219 for
      gains on sales of certain non-core businesses, principally the required
      disposition of MTN, due to SBC's investment in Telkom.  Net income in the
      fourth quarter also includes $268 of charges related to strategic
      initiatives resulting from the merger integration process with SNET.
   3  Net income (loss) includes $90 in first quarter pension settlement gain
      for 1996 retirements (see Note 13), $1.6 billion in second quarter
      charges related to post-merger initiatives (see Note 2), $10 and $294 in
      third and fourth quarter merger integration costs and $33 in fourth
      quarter gain on sale of SBC's interests in Bellcore.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                        Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareowners
SBC Communications Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of SBC
Communications Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
related consolidated statements of income, shareowners' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.  We did not audit the
1996 financial statements of Pacific Telesis Group, a wholly-owned
subsidiary, which statements reflect total operating revenues constituting
approximately 38% of the Company's related consolidated financial statement
total for the year ended December 31, 1996.  Those statements were audited by
other auditors whose report, which has been furnished to us, included an
explanatory paragraph that describes the change in its method of recognizing
directory publishing revenues and related expenses.  Our opinion, insofar as
it relates to the 1996 data included for Pacific Telesis Group, is based
solely on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits and the report
of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and, for 1996, the report of other
auditors, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of SBC
Communications Inc. at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.


                                                         ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Antonio, Texas
February 12, 1999


                             Report of Management


The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.  The integrity and objectivity of
the data in these financial statements, including estimates and judgments
relating to matters not concluded by year end, are the responsibility of
management, as is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless
otherwise indicated.

The financial statements of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) have been audited
by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.  Management has made available to
Ernst & Young LLP all of SBC's financial records and related data, as well as
the minutes of shareowners' and directors' meetings.  Furthermore, management
believes that all representations made to Ernst & Young LLP during its audit
were valid and appropriate.

Management has established and maintains a system of internal accounting
controls that provides reasonable assurance as to the integrity and
reliability of the financial statements, the protection of assets from
unauthorized use or disposition and the prevention and detection of
fraudulent financial reporting.  The concept of reasonable assurance
recognizes that the costs of an internal accounting controls system should
not exceed, in management's judgment, the benefits to be derived.

Management also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its
financial data by the careful selection of its managers, by organizational
arrangements that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and by
communication programs aimed at ensuring that its policies, standards and
managerial authorities are understood throughout the organization.
Management continually monitors the system of internal accounting controls
for compliance.  SBC maintains an internal auditing program that
independently assesses the effectiveness of the internal accounting controls
and recommends improvements thereto.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which consists of eight
directors who are not employees, meets periodically with management, the
internal auditors and the independent auditors to review the manner in which
they are performing their responsibilities and to discuss auditing, internal
accounting controls and financial reporting matters.  Both the internal
auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit
Committee and have access to the Audit Committee at any time.


/s/ Edward E. Whitacre Jr.

Edward E. Whitacre Jr.
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer


/s/ Donald E. Kiernan

Donald E. Kiernan
Senior Vice President, Treasurer
and Chief Financial Officer

Stock Trading Information

SBC is listed on the New York, Chicago and Pacific stock exchanges and
The Swisss Exchange.  SBC is traded on the London Stock Exchange through
the SEAQ International Markets facility.

Ticker symbol (NYSE): SBC

Newspaper stock listing: SBC or SBC Comm
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF SBC
<TEXT>



                                                               EXHIBIT 21


               PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES OF SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.
                            AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1998



                                       State of             Conducts
        Name                         Incorporation        Business Under

Southwestern Bell                      Missouri               Same
 Telephone Company

Southwestern Bell               Dually incorporated in        Same
 Mobile Systems, Inc.            Delaware and Virginia

SBC International, Inc.                Delaware               Same

Southwestern Bell                      Missouri               Same
 Yellow Pages, Inc.

Pacific Telesis Group                   Nevada                Same

Southern New England                  Connecticut             Same
 Telecommunications
  Corporation

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR
<TEXT>


                                                                  EXHIBIT 23-a



                        Consent of Independent Auditors


We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) of our report dated February 12,
1999, included in the 1998 Annual Report to Shareowners of SBC.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedules of SBC listed in
Item 14(a).  These schedules are the responsibility of SBC's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion,
the financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements (Form S-8) pertaining to the SBC Savings Plan and the SBC
Savings and Security Plan and certain other plans (Nos. 333-24295 and
333-66105), the Stock Savings Plan (Nos. 33-37451 and 33-54291), the SBC
Communications Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan (No. 33-49855), the SBC
Communications Inc. 1995 Management Stock Option Plan (Nos. 33-61715 and
333-49343), the SBC Communications Inc. 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan (No.
333-30669), and in the Registration Statements (Form S-3) pertaining to
the SBC Communications Inc. Direct Stock Purchase and Reinvestment Plan
(Nos. 333-08979, 333-44553, and 333-02587 (originally filed on Form S-4)),
and SBC Communications Capital Corporation and SBC Communications Inc.
(Nos. 33-45490 and 33-56909), and in the Registration Statement (Form S-4)
pertaining to SBC Communications Inc. (No. 333-45837), and in the related
Prospectuses, of our report dated February 12, 1999, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and
our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the
financial statement schedules included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
for the year ended December 31, 1998.




                                                ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Antonio, Texas
March 8, 1999

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT
<TEXT>



                                                                  EXHIBIT 23-b



                         Consent of Independent Accountants

We consent to the inclusion in the Annual Report for the year ended December
31, 1998 on Form 10-K and the accompanying Proxy Statement dated on or about
March 12, 1998 of SBC Communications Inc., of our report dated February 27,
1997 (Exhibit 99-a), on our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule of Pacific Telesis Group and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1996, and for the year then ended, as included in Pacific Telesis
Group's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements (Form S-8) pertaining to the SBC Savings Plan and the SBC Savings
and Security Plan and certain other plans (Nos. 333-24295 and 333-66105), the
Stock Savings Plan (Nos. 33-37451 and 33-54291), the SBC Communications Inc.
1992 Stock Option Plan (No. 33-49855), the SBC Communications Inc. 1995
Management Stock Option Plan (No. 33-61715 and 333-49343), the SBC
Communications Inc. 1996 Stock and  Incentive Plan (No. 333-30669), and in
the Registration Statements (Form S-3) pertaining to the SBC Communications
Inc. Direct Stock Purchase and Reinvestment Plan (Nos. 333-08979, 333-44553,
and 333-02587, originally filed on Form S-4), and SBC Communications Capital
Corporation and SBC Communications Inc. (Nos. 33-45490 and 33-56909), and in
the Registration Statement (Form S-4) pertaining to SBC Communications Inc.
(No. 333-45837), and in the related Prospectuses, of our report dated
February 27, 1997 (Exhibit 99-a), on our audit of the consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule of Pacific Telesis Group and
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended, as included
in Pacific Telesis Group's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996.

                                                    PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Francisco, California
March 8, 1999

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>POWERS OF ATTORNEY
<TEXT>




                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer and a director of the
Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints James
D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr., Judith M. Sahm, or any
one of them, all having addresses in the City of San Antonio and State of
Texas, his attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, and in his
office and capacity in the Corporation as an officer and a director, to
execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any
amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys
full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
whatsoever requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises,
as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
__________________________________
Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
Director and Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer and a director of the
Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Alfred G. Richter, Jr., Judith M. Sahm, or
any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San Antonio and State of
Texas, his attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, and in his
office and capacity in the Corporation as an officer, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as he might or could do if personally present at the
doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or
shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Royce S. Caldwell
________________________________
Royce S. Caldwell
President-SBC Operations and
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Alfred G. Richter, Jr., Judith M. Sahm, or
any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San Antonio and State of
Texas, his attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, and in his
office and capacity in the Corporation as an officer, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as he might or could do if personally present at the
doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or
shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ D. E. Kiernan
________________________________
D. E. Kiernan
Senior Vice President, Treasurer
and Chief Financial Officer
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Clarence C. Barksdale
__________________________________
Clarence C. Barksdale
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ James E. Barnes
__________________________________
James E. Barnes
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ August A. Busch III
__________________________________
August A. Busch III
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Ruben R. Cardenas
__________________________________
Ruben R. Cardenas
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ William P. Clark
__________________________________
William P. Clark
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Martin K. Eby, Jr.
__________________________________
Martin K. Eby, Jr.
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Herman E. Gallegos
__________________________________
Herman E. Gallegos
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Jess T. Hay
__________________________________
Jess T. Hay
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Bobby R. Inman
__________________________________
Bobby R. Inman
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Charles F. Knight
__________________________________
Charles F. Knight
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Mary S. Metz
__________________________________
Mary S. Metz
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.
__________________________________
Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Toni Rembe
__________________________________
Toni Rembe
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ S. Donley Ritchey
__________________________________
S. Donley Ritchey
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Joyce M. Roche
__________________________________
Joyce M. Roche
Director
<PAGE>
                                                           Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Richard M. Rosenberg
__________________________________
Richard M. Rosenberg
Director
<PAGE>
                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Carlos Slim Helu
__________________________________
Carlos Slim Helu
Director
<PAGE>

                                                            Exhibit 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

      THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

      WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward
E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Alfred G. Richter, Jr.,
Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, all having addresses in the City of San
Antonio and State of Texas, the undersigned's attorney, for the undersigned
and in the undersigned's name, place and stead, and in the undersigned's
office and capacity in the Corporation as a director, to execute and file
such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or
amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power
and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever
requisite or necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally
present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
29th day of January 1999.




/s/ Patricia P. Upton
__________________________________
Patricia P. Upton
Director
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27: FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE, 12/31/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S DECEMBER 31, 1998 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                                     <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                       DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-END>                            DEC-31-1998
<CASH>                                          460
<SECURITIES>                                      6
<RECEIVABLES>                                 6,262
<ALLOWANCES>                                    472
<INVENTORY>                                       0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                              7,538
<PP&E>                                       73,466
<DEPRECIATION>                               43,546
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               45,066
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                         9,989
<BONDS>                                      11,612
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                             0
<PREFERRED>                                       0
<COMMON>                                      1,988
<OTHER-SE>                                   10,792
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 45,066
<SALES>                                           0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             28,777
<CGS>                                             0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                16,714
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                              5,177
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                513
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              993
<INCOME-PRETAX>                               6,374
<INCOME-TAX>                                  2,306
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                           4,068
<DISCONTINUED>                                    0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                 (60)
<CHANGES>                                        15
<NET-INCOME>                                  4,023
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  2.06
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  2.03
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL.
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
     REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
     STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X, RULE 5-03(B).  THIS AMOUNT IS
     INCLUDED IN THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
     IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL-COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO
     REGULATION S-X, RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>



                                                                  Exhibit 99-a

                      Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareowner of Pacific Telesis Group:

We have audited the consolidated statement of income, shareowner's equity and
cash flows of Pacific Telesis Group (a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC
Communications Inc. effective April 1, 1997) and subsidiaries (the
"Company") for the year ended December 31, 1996, and the related financial
statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 1996, as
included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996.  These consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the
financial statement schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform an audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of
operations of Pacific Telesis Group and Subsidiaries and of their cash flows
for the year ended  December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information required to be included therein as of and
for the year ended December 31, 1996.

As discussed in Note A to the consolidated financial statements, Pacific
Bell, a subsidiary of Pacific Telesis Group, changed its method of
recognizing directory publishing revenues and related expenses effective
January 1, 1996.

                                          PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Francisco, California
March 8, 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
