-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 tgWMDRMRmmjqWWYDHc4ul3mLX7bw9evfjmoYxGncvovRKWzsr6MAc5lOiqCUYh6b
 FPvdypxCYVUNZeZ0Nl7fPA==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000732717-94-000005.txt : 19940321
<IMS-HEADER>0000732717-94-000005.hdr.sgml : 19940321
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-94-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19931231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19940318

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	4813
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		34
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		94516639

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E. HOUSTON ROOM 9-N-4
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 2933
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78299-2933
		BUSINESS PHONE:		210-351-30

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E. HOUSTON ROOM 9-N-4
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 2933
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78299-2933
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

 

                                      Form 10-K

                          Securities and Exchange Commission
                                Washington, D.C. 20549
          (Mark One)
              X   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required)

                       For fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

                                         or  

          ______  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required)

               For the transition period from             to           
                           Commission File Number:  1-8610

                            SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION

                 Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
                   I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

                    175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                            Telephone Number 210-821-4105

             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                             Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                 on which registered  
          Common Shares                     New York, Chicago and
          (Par Value $1.00 Per Share)       Pacific Stock Exchanges

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
          None.

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
          reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
          (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
          file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X     No _____

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
          pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
          and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
          in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
          reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
          Form 10-K.   ( X )

          Based on composite closing sales price on February 28, 1994, the
          aggregate market value of all voting stock held by non-affiliates
          was $23,546,222,094.  As of February 28, 1994, 601,820,373 shares
          of Common Stock were outstanding.


                         Documents Incorporated By Reference

          (1)Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual report to
          shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (Parts I
          and II).
<PAGE>

          (2)Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's Notice of 1994
          Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994 (Parts
          III and IV).
<PAGE>




                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                        PART I

          Item                                                   Page

          1.  Business                                           3
          2.  Properties                                         14
          3.  Legal Proceedings                                  14
          4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
               Holders                                           14


              Executive Officers of the Registrant               15


                                       PART II

          5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and 
              Related Stockholder Matters                        16
          6.  Selected Financial and Operating Data              16
          7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis
              of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   16
          8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data        16
          9.  Changes in and disagreements with 
              Accountants on Accounting and Financial 
              Disclosure                                         16


                                       PART III

          10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
               Registrant                                        16
          11.  Executive Compensation                            16
          12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial 
               Owners and  Management                            16
          13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions     16 



                                       PART IV

          14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and 
             Reports on Form 8-K                                 17 



                                        PART I

          Item 1.  Business

          The Company

          Southwestern Bell Corporation (Corporation) is a communications
          holding company whose subsidiaries are engaged principally in
          communications services.  The Corporation has several
          subsidiaries, which include:  Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
          (Telephone Company), Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems, Inc.
          (Mobile Systems), SBC International, Inc.  (SBC International),
          Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (Yellow Pages), Associated
          Directory Services, Inc. (ADS), Southwestern Bell
          Telecommunications, Inc. (Telecom), Southwestern Bell Printing
          Company (SB Printing) and Southwestern Bell Enterprises, Inc.
          (Enterprises).  The Telephone Company provides telephone services
          in the states of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas
          (five-state area) and is the Corporation's largest subsidiary,
          accounting for approximately 71 percent of the Corporation's 1993
          income before extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of changes
          in accounting principles; Mobile Systems principally provides
          wireless communication services; SBC International is a holding
          company owning interests in directory, cable television and
          telecommunications businesses in Australia, Israel, Mexico and
          the United Kingdom; Yellow Pages engages principally in the sale
          of advertising for and publication of Yellow Pages and White
          Pages directories and in other directory-related activities; ADS
          engages principally in the production and distribution of non-
          Bell telephone directories and in other directory-related
          activities; Telecom is engaged in the sale of customer premises
          and private business exchange equipment; and SB Printing is
          engaged in the general directory and commercial printing
          business.

          The Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of
          Delaware in 1983 by AT&T as one of seven regional holding
          companies (RHCs) formed to hold AT&T's local telephone companies. 
          AT&T divested the Corporation by means of a spin-off of stock to
          its shareowners on January 1, 1984 (divestiture).  The
          divestiture was made pursuant to a consent decree, referred to as
          the Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ), issued by the United
          States District Court for the District of Columbia (Court). 

          Operations Under the MFJ

          The MFJ, as originally approved by the Court in 1982, placed
          restrictions on the types of businesses in which the Corporation
          could engage.  The principal restriction prohibits the
          Corporation from providing interexchange telecommunications
          services.  An exchange in this context refers to a Local Access
          and Transport Area (LATA), which is generally centered on a
          standard metropolitan service area or other identifiable
          community of interest.  Interexchange service refers to the
          provision of telecommunications services between exchanges.  The
          MFJ initially restricted the Corporation from providing
          information services and from manufacturing or providing
          telecommunications products, other than the provision of customer 
          premises equipment (CPE) manufactured by others.  CPE, as defined
          in the MFJ, represents equipment used on customers' premises to
          originate, route or terminate telecommunications.  The MFJ also
          initially restricted the Corporation from engaging in
          nontelecommunications lines of business.  These services and
          products are collectively known as "restricted lines of
          business".  The MFJ permits the Corporation to obtain relief from
          these restrictions upon a showing that there is no substantial
          possibility that it could use its monopoly power to impede
          competition in the specific market it seeks to enter (waiver
          standard).  

          The Department of Justice (DOJ) initiated a review of the MFJ's
          line of business restrictions in 1987.  After that review, the
          Court removed the restriction against entry into
          nontelecommunications lines of business, as well as that portion
          of the information services restriction which prohibited voice
          messaging services (VMS), electronic mail, electronic White Pages
          services and certain gateway functions (i.e., a
          telecommunications arrangement, either by video or audio, in
          which customers can communicate with many different information
          service providers). 

          In April 1990, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
          Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit Court) affirmed the Court's
          decision not to remove the interexchange and manufacturing
          restrictions, but clarified the waiver standard in a manner
          beneficial to future waiver requests by the Corporation.  The
          D.C. Circuit Court also reversed the decision not to lift the
          information services restriction in its entirety, and remanded
          the issue to the Court for reconsideration under a more lenient
          public interest standard which is to apply when AT&T and the DOJ,
          the original parties to the MFJ, do not oppose relief.  In July
          1991, the Court applied this public interest standard and issued
          an order which removed the information services restriction in
          its entirety, but stayed the effectiveness of the relief it
          granted the RHCs, pending appeals.  The D.C. Circuit Court has
          affirmed the order and the United States Supreme Court (Supreme
          Court) has refused to review the matter.  Thus, the removal of
          the information services restriction on an intraexchange basis
          (within the LATA) has become final.

          Also as a result of proceedings before the Court since
          divestiture, the Corporation has been authorized to engage in the
          restricted lines of business outside the United States, subject
          to certain conditions designed to prevent an impact on United
          States markets.  The Corporation has also obtained relief from
          the Court to provide interexchange cellular services in various
          markets throughout the United States, as well as intersystem
          handoff and automatic call delivery capabilities.

               Recent Waivers Granted or Denied 

          In February 1993, the Corporation and the other RHCs were granted
          a waiver for generic international relief.  The relief allows the
          Corporation and other RHCs, through foreign telecommunications
          entities, to provide the foreign portion of international
          telecommunications traffic between the United States and any 
          foreign country and to own minority interests in international
          satellite and submarine cable facilities.  The relief granted
          allows the RHCs to pursue international opportunities without the
          need to obtain transactional relief on a country-by-country
          basis.

          Also in February 1993, the Corporation and the other RHCs were
          granted a waiver to provide interLATA cellular service for rural
          service areas (RSAs).  The relief permits clustering of RSAs with
          metropolitan service areas (MSAs), and RHC switching for
          independent adjoining RSAs, regardless of LATA boundaries.

          In September 1993, the Corporation was granted a waiver to
          purchase two cable television systems located in Montgomery
          County, Maryland and Arlington County, Virginia from Hauser
          Communications, Inc.  The relief allows the Corporation to own
          and operate certain facilities in the provision of video
          programming despite LATA boundaries.
           
          The Corporation, jointly with the other RHCs, had appealed a
          July 1990 order of the Court holding that the RHCs were not
          permitted to transport common channel signaling 7 (CCS7)
          information across LATA boundaries for handoff to interexchange
          carriers at centralized signal transport points (STPs).  CCS7 is
          the AT&T version of the internationally standardized signaling
          system which transmits signaling and service definition
          information between components of the telephone network.  The STP
          is a type of switch which routes the signaling messages within
          the signaling network.  The Court held that the MFJ requires that
          signaling information be given to the interexchange carriers in
          the LATA where the call originated, and also denied the RHCs'
          requests for waivers to establish the centralized STP service
          arrangement.  The order was affirmed by the D.C. Circuit Court,
          and in February 1993 the Supreme Court refused to review the
          decision.

               Pending Waiver Requests and Appeals

          The Corporation has initiated other requests with the Court which
          seek the removal of some of the remaining restrictions.  This
          includes a generic request, filed jointly by all the RHCs,
          seeking relief from the interexchange prohibition to provide
          wireless services without regard to geographic boundaries.  In
          addition, the Corporation has requested relief to provide
          interexchange cellular services in certain of its own regional
          markets.  The Corporation has also filed waiver requests seeking
          relief from the manufacturing restriction, to permit the design
          and development of CPE, and the provision of telecommunications
          equipment to third parties.  All of these requests are pending.  

          In June 1993, the Corporation, along with the other RHCs, filed a
          joint request for a waiver to provide information services on an
          interLATA basis.  A condition of the request is that the RHCs
          lease the interLATA transport from independent interexchange
          carriers.  Opposition briefs were filed in October 1993.

          In January 1992, the Court denied a waiver to allow Ameritech
          Corporation (Ameritech), an RHC, to receive royalties from the 
          sale to third parties of telecommunication equipment designed,
          developed and/or manufactured by the unaffiliated party with the
          financial assistance of Ameritech.  The Court also denied the
          DOJ's request for a declaratory ruling that a funding/royalty
          agreement with a firm in which an RHC has neither a significant
          equity interest nor influence over operations does not constitute
          manufacturing.  The ruling was appealed to determine whether an
          otherwise independent company over which an RHC has no operating
          control and only a minimal ownership interest, may be labelled an
          "affiliated enterprise" of the RHC under the MFJ, and whether a
          funding/royalty relationship such as that proposed by Ameritech
          is permissible under the MFJ.  In December 1993, the D.C. Circuit
          Court ruled that the MFJ bans all arrangements in which RHCs have
          a direct and continuing share in the revenues of entities engaged
          in restricted activities.  However, Ameritech's waiver request
          was remanded to the Court for further consideration and is
          pending.

          The Corporation has requested relief with regard to certain
          paging services, as described below.  Although the Corporation
          recently sold its paging services subsidiary, these requests are
          being pursued as they may have relevance to other aspects of the
          Corporation's business.  In February 1989, the Court granted a
          waiver permitting the RHCs to provide multi-LATA one-way paging
          services regardless of geographic scope, but included a condition
          requiring the interexchange links for multi-LATA paging services
          to be obtained from unaffiliated interexchange carriers.  The
          Corporation appealed that portion of the order which prohibited
          it from owning the interexchange links outside the service
          territory of the Telephone Company.  In October 1990, the D.C.
          Circuit Court reversed the Court's decision and remanded the
          matter to the Court for reconsideration.  This matter is still
          pending. 

          In January 1993, the Corporation filed a request for a waiver to
          provide interLATA paging origination and access to voice storage
          and retrieval services.  This waiver would permit the origination
          of pages from outside of LATA boundaries and permit paging
          subscribers to access their voice-mail messages from outside of a
          LATA.  This request is pending with the Court.

          Principal Services

          The Corporation provides its services through subsidiaries. These
          services (which are described more fully below) include landline
          and wireless telecommunications services, the sale of advertising
          for and publication of Yellow Pages and White Pages directories,
          the provision of customer premises, private business exchange
          (PBX) and cellular equipment, and cable television services. 
          Telecommunications services include local services, network
          access and long-distance (i.e., toll) services.  Landline
          telecommunications services are provided in the five-state area
          by the Telephone Company and in the United Kingdom by SBC
          International.  Wireless telecommunications services are provided
          by Mobile Systems.  

          Landline and wireless local services involve the transport of
          telecommunications traffic between telephones and other CPE 
          located within the same local service calling area.  Local
          services include:  basic local exchange service, extended area
          service, dedicated private line services for voice and special
          services, directory assistance and various vertical services. 
          Vertical services represent discretionary, generally
          nonregulated, services which a customer may choose to supplement
          his/her basic line, such as:  call waiting, call forwarding, call
          blocking, etc. 

          Landline and wireless toll services involve the transport of
          traffic between local calling areas and include such services as
          Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS or 800 services) and
          other special services.  Local calling areas are within the same
          LATA, except for certain wireless service areas in which MFJ
          waivers apply.  

          Network access services link a subscriber's telephone or other
          equipment to the transmission facilities of other non-Telephone
          Company carriers which, in turn, provide long-distance and other
          communications services.  Network access is either switched,
          which uses a switched communications path between the carrier and
          the customer, or special, which uses a direct nonswitched path.

          For financial reporting purposes, the Corporation's revenues are
          categorized as local service (principally provided by the
          Telephone Company and Mobile Systems), network access (provided
          by the Telephone Company), long-distance service (principally
          provided by the Telephone Company), directory advertising
          (provided by Yellow Pages, the Telephone Company and ADS) and
          other (including equipment sales at Mobile Systems, Telecom and
          SBC International, the Telephone Company's nonregulated products
          and services, billing and collection services for interexchange
          carriers provided by the Telephone Company, cable television
          services provided by SBC International, printing services
          provided by SB Printing, and paging services and equipment sales
          provided by Metromedia Paging Services, Inc. (Metromedia Paging)
          until it was sold in December 1993).

          The following table sets forth for the Corporation the percentage
          of total operating revenues by any class of service which
          accounted for 10 percent or more of total operating revenues in
          any of the last three fiscal years.

                                           Percentage of Total 
                                             Operating Revenues      

                                        1993       1992       1991

             Charges for local
             service:
                  Landline              37%        37%        38%
                  Wireless              12%        10%         7%

             Charges to
             interexchange         
             carriers for network
             access                     20%        20%        20% 

             Charges for long-
             distance         
             (i.e., toll) service        9%        10%        11%


          Major Customer

          See Note 14, "Segment and Major Customer Information," on page 43
          of the Corporation's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1993, which is incorporated herein by
          reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

          Government Regulation

          In the five-state area, the Telephone Company is subject to
          regulation by state commissions which have the power to regulate
          intrastate rates and services, including local, toll, private
          line and network access (both intraLATA and interLATA access
          within the state) services.  The Telephone Company is also
          subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications
          Commission (FCC) with respect to foreign and interstate rates and
          services, including interstate access charges.  Access charges
          are designed to compensate the Telephone Company for the use of
          its facilities for the origination or termination of long-
          distance and other communications by non-Telephone Company
          carriers.

          Additional information relating to federal and state regulation
          of the Telephone Company is contained in the registrant's annual
          report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1993, under the heading "Regulatory Environment" on page 25 which
          is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
          Instruction G(2).

          The Corporation's recently acquired cable systems are subject to
          federal and local regulation, including regulation by the FCC and
          local franchising authorities concerning rates, service, and
          programming access.

          Principal Markets

               Telecommunications

          The Telephone Company provides its services along approximately 9
          million residential and 4 million business access lines in the
          five-state area.  During 1993, more than half of the Telephone
          Company's access line growth occurred in Texas.  In 1993, 1992
          and 1991, approximately 73 percent of the Telephone Company's
          total operating revenues were attributable to intrastate
          operations.  The intrastate operations of the Telephone Company
          represented approximately 56 percent,  57 percent and 59 percent
          of the Corporation's total operating revenues for 1993, 1992 and
          1991, respectively.  All intrastate operations of the Corporation
          (including the Telephone Company and Mobile Systems) represented
          approximately 68 percent, 67 percent and 66 percent of its total
          operating revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

          At the end of 1993, Mobile Systems provided cellular services to 
          2,049,000 customers, or 5.7 out of every 100 people living in its
          service areas.  These services are provided in 28 metropolitan
          markets, including five of the nation's top 15 metropolitan
          areas, as follows:  Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; Boston,
          Massachusetts; St. Louis, Missouri; and Dallas, Texas.  Mobile
          Systems (or partnerships in which it has an ownership interest)
          is licensed to provide service in 26 RSAs and is currently
          providing service in all of these markets.  All RSAs are
          contiguous to an existing MSA or another RSA operated by Mobile
          Systems, which allows for the expansion of service in a way that
          adds value to customers' service.  Mobile Systems operates in
          certain areas under the name of Cellular One, by means of a
          partnership arrangement with McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc.
          and Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc., which holds the Cellular One
          service mark.  These areas include both metropolitan and rural
          service areas, such as Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; and
          other service areas in Illinois, Massachusetts, Virginia and West
          Virginia. 
            
          In February 1994, the Corporation announced an agreement to
          purchase, for stock valued at $680, the domestic cellular
          business of Associated Communications Corporation, including
          cellular systems in Buffalo, Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls,
          New York.  These properties are adjacent to cellular systems in
          Syracuse, Utica and Ithaca, New York, which the Corporation
          agreed to purchase from other parties in November 1993.  These
          acquisitions will increase the number of markets served by Mobile
          Systems to 61 and increase Mobile Systems' potential customer
          base to more than 40 million.  These transactions are expected to
          close during 1994. 



               International

          In December 1990, a consortium consisting of SBC International,
          together with a subsidiary of France Telecom and a group of
          Mexican investors led by Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V., purchased
          from the Mexican government all of the Class AA shares of
          Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's national
          telecommunications company.  The consortium has voting control of
          Telmex through its ownership of Class AA shares.  SBC
          International's interest in the Class AA shares held by the
          consortium represents approximately 5 percent of the total equity
          capitalization of Telmex.  SBC International also holds
          530,157,101 Class L shares, which have limited voting rights. 
          The Class L shares held by SBC International represent
          approximately 5 percent of the total equity capitalization of
          Telmex, bringing SBC International's total interest to
          10 percent.  Telmex provides complete landline and wireless
          telecommunications services within Mexico.  At the end of 1993,
          Telmex had 7.6 million access lines in service and provided
          cellular service to more than 195,000 subscribers.  As of
          December 31, 1993, telephone service reached approximately 41 of
          every 100 Mexican households.  For additional information
          regarding the Corporation's investment in Telmex, see Note 13,
          "Equity Investments," on page 42 of the Corporation's annual
          report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1993, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
          General Instruction G(2).

          SBC International cable television operations are managed by SBC
          Cable Communications Group, Ltd., and include Midlands Cable
          Communications and Northwest Cable Communications, both in the
          United Kingdom, with combined service areas including 1.1 million
          potential households.  In May 1993, the Corporation completed the
          sale of 25 percent of its United Kingdom cable operations to Cox
          Cable Communications (Cox).  The Corporation and Cox share
          management of the cable operations.

          At the end of 1993, SBC International cable television in the
          United Kingdom served approximately 80,000 subscribers.  SBC
          International's penetration rate at the end of 1993 in the United
          Kingdom was 21.9 percent.  Penetration rate is defined as the
          number of customers as a percentage of solicited households that
          have network access.  Cable operators in the United Kingdom may
          provide both cable television and local exchange service.  At the
          end of 1993, SBC International provided local exchange service to
          approximately 39,000 subscribers.

          SBC International also holds a minority interest in Golden
          Channels, a cable television provider in Israel.  Golden Channels
          holds franchises in areas containing 412,000 potential
          households.  At the end of 1993, Golden Channels served
          approximately 194,000  households and had a penetration rate (as
          defined above) of approximately 55 percent.

          In Israel and Australia, SBC International also has interests in
          companies involved in the publication of yellow pages directory
          advertising.
<PAGE>




               Directory Publishing

          Yellow Pages publishes nearly 40 million copies of 389 classified
          directories within the Telephone Company's five-state area.  The
          ten largest revenue-producing Yellow Pages directories are
          currently published in the second half of the Corporation's
          fiscal year.  Directory advertising revenues and expenses
          associated with Yellow Pages directories are recognized in the
          month the related directory is published.

          ADS engages principally in the production and distribution of 269
          telephone directories for GTE Telephone companies throughout 29
          states of the continental United States.  ADS also publishes
          telephone directories for 17 non-Bell telephone companies, some
          of which are co-bound with GTE directories.  To a less
          significant extent, ADS produces and publishes a number of other
          directories unaffiliated with any telephone company. 

               Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales        
             

          Telecom markets business and residential communications equipment
          through two divisions, Business Systems and Original Equipment. 
          Telecom's offerings range from single-line and cordless
          telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems.  PBX is a
          private telephone switching system, usually located on a
          customer's premises, which provides intra-premise telephone
          services as well as access to the public switched network.  

          The Business Systems division markets a wide variety of
          telecommunications products and services to business customers in
          the Telephone Company's five-state area.  The Original Equipment
          division, through an exclusive, long-term distribution agreement
          with Conair Corporation effective April 1993, markets a full line
          of residential telephones to retailers nationwide, under the
          Freedom Phone name.  Separately, the Original Equipment division
          markets residential and business products to U.S. telephone
          companies, and internationally, in 39 countries.

          Mobile Systems markets cellular communications equipment in each
          of its service areas.

               Printing

          In February 1993, the Corporation sold the assets of the
          commercial printing operations of Gulf Printing Company (Gulf),
          including the Gulf name.  The remaining operations are continuing
          under the name "Southwestern Bell Printing Company."  SB Printing
          provides directory printing in the Telephone Company five-state
          service area, and prints more than 62 million copies of 809
          directories annually.  SB Printing maintains a sales office in
          St. Louis, Missouri, and also operates one plant in Houston,
          Texas.  SB Printing's wholly-owned subsidiary, Times Journal
          Publishing Company (Times Journal), operates two plants in
          Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and prints smaller telephone directories
          and provides commercial printing services.

          During 1993, SB Printing was awarded a five-year contract to 
          print 15.5 million directory copies for Telmex's directory
          operations, beginning in 1994.

               Domestic Cable Television

          In February 1993, the Corporation reached an agreement to
          purchase, for $650 million, two cable television systems located
          in Montgomery County, Maryland, and Arlington County, Virginia,
          from Hauser Communications, Inc.  The purchase was closed in
          January 1994.

          In December 1993, the Corporation and Cox Cable Communications
          (Cox) entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding with
          respect to the formation of a $4.9 billion partnership to own and
          operate cable television systems.  In return for a 40 percent
          general partnership interest, the Corporation would contribute
          $1.6 billion in cash or other assets within four years of
          formation.  The Corporation would have the option to increase its
          initial ownership stake to 50 percent within specified time
          frames, through additional cash or asset contributions.  Cox
          would contribute 21 cable television systems, located throughout
          the United States, based on a negotiated value of $3.3 billion,
          and would hold a 60 percent general partnership interest and a
          $1 billion preferred partnership interest.  The transaction is
          subject to completion of negotiations and regulatory approvals,
          with the formation of the partnership expected to be completed by
          late 1994.

               Paging Services

          In December 1993, the Corporation sold Metromedia Paging, which
          provided paging services in 76 markets throughout the United
          States, to Local Area Telecommunications, Inc., a New York-based
          telecommunications service company.

          Status of New Services

               Telecommunications

          During 1993, the Telephone Company continued to expand its
          offering of optional services, known as Easy Options.  These
          options include, among others:  Caller ID, a feature which
          displays the telephone number of the person calling and, by next
          year, will also display the caller's name in certain markets;
          Call Return, a feature that redials the number of the last
          incoming call; and Call Blocker, a feature which allows customers
          to automatically reject calls from a designated list of telephone
          numbers.

          Recent changes in Texas law will allow the Telephone Company to
          introduce Caller ID in its largest markets during 1994 and 1995. 
          Caller ID is now being offered in certain markets in all of the
          states in the Telephone Company's five-state area.

          The FCC has promulgated certain rules that impact the manner in
          which the Telephone Company may offer enhanced services, which
          generally include services which are more than basic transmission
          services.  Under FCC decisions known as Computer Inquiry III, the <PAGE>
 
          Telephone Company is permitted to offer enhanced services either
          on its own or jointly with its affiliates, subject to
          nonstructural safeguards, designed to permit the Telephone
          Company's competitors to acquire needed network services on an
          efficient, non-discriminatory basis and to reduce the risk of
          cross-subsidization.  These safeguards include accounting and
          reporting procedures, and Open Network Architecture (ONA)
          requirements, which represent the Telephone Company's plan
          essentially to provide equal access to its network to all
          enhanced service providers.  Enhanced services are deregulated at
          the federal level, and none of the Telephone Company's state
          commissions have, as yet, asserted jurisdiction over intrastate
          enhanced services.

          In December 1991, after various court proceedings, the FCC
          slightly modified the original Computer Inquiry III nonstructural
          competitive safeguards.  The Telephone Company received FCC
          acknowledgement of its initial ONA implementation in November
          1992.  However, the current modified Computer Inquiry III
          nonstructural safeguards are subject to an appeal now pending at
          the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

          In July 1993, Mobile Systems launched the largest digital
          deployment program in North America with commercial digital
          service in Chicago.  Digital service improves sound quality,
          provides a greater degree of privacy on individual calls,
          increases call-handling capacity of the networks and reduces
          exposure to billing fraud.  In September, Mobile Systems launched
          commercial digital service in its St. Louis market.  During 1994,
          Mobile Systems plans to provide digital service in
          Washington, D.C., Boston, Dallas-Fort Worth and the West Texas
          markets of Midland-Odessa, Abilene, Amarillo and Lubbock.  

          During March 1993, Mobile Systems introduced FreedomLink, a new
          wireless business phone system which employs cellular technology
          to provide anywhere, anytime communications, using cellular
          frequencies.   

               Voice Messaging Services

          Southwestern Bell Messaging Services, Inc. (SMSI), a subsidiary
          of  Enterprises, currently offers residential and small business
          voice messaging services in Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Oklahoma
          City, Tulsa, St. Louis, Kansas City, Little Rock, San Antonio and
          certain other portions of Texas.  Effective June 1, 1993, Telecom
          assumed SMSI's voice messaging services sales to medium and large
          business.

          Importance, Duration and Effect of Licenses

          The FCC authorizes the licensing of only two cellular carriers in
          each geographic market.  These cellular licenses have a standard
          duration of ten years and are renewable upon application and a
          showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards.

          The FCC licenses granted to Mobile Systems in Washington, D.C.;
          Baltimore, Maryland; Kansas City, Missouri/Kansas; St. Louis,
          Missouri; and Dallas, Texas all expired on October 1, 1993.  



          Renewal applications were filed in each of these markets during
          August 1993.  To date, Mobile Systems has received no competing
          applications in these markets nor have any petitions to deny been
          filed.  Final license grants are expected to be received by
          mid-1994.  Renewal applications are to be filed in the following
          markets during August 1994:  Chicago, Illinois; San Antonio,
          Texas; Boston, Massachusetts; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and
          Wichita, Kansas.

          Cable television systems generally are operated under
          nonexclusive permits or "franchises" granted by local
          governmental authorities.  The Corporation operates its recently
          acquired cable systems under franchises granted by Montgomery
          County, Maryland (expires May 25, 1998); Arlington County,
          Virginia (expires October 18, 2000); and the City of
          Gaithersburg, Maryland (expires November 2, 2001).  Each
          franchise is renewable upon a showing of compliance with
          established local and federal standards.
<PAGE>




          Competition

               Telecommunications

          Information relating to competition in the telecommunications
          industry is contained in the registrant's annual report to
          shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, under
          the heading "Competition" on page 27 which is incorporated herein
          by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

               International

          Most major and several minor cable operators in the United
          Kingdom have begun to offer both cable television and local
          exchange services in selected franchise service areas.  Domestic
          United Kingdom telephone companies are restricted from offering
          video entertainment over their networks until 1998.  The United
          Kingdom currently has two major domestic telephone companies.  In
          addition to cable, viewers in the United Kingdom may select
          television programming from four television stations which are
          broadcast free, or may subscribe to programming directly from
          satellite broadcasting services.  Both are sources of programming
          for cable companies.

               Directory Publishing

          Yellow Pages faces competition from numerous directory publishing
          companies as well as other advertising media.  There are 42 other
          directory publishers in the five-state area producing yellow page
          directories. 

          ADS publishes the majority of its directories under a long-term
          contract with GTE/Contel.  ADS also faces competition from other
          publishers and non-directory advertising media.

               Voice Messaging Services

          SMSI and Telecom face competition in each market in which voice
          messaging services are offered.  Competition is primarily from
          telephone answering services and other voice messaging services
          providers.  In addition, answering machines and voice messaging
          equipment used as adjuncts to PBX systems provide competing
          alternatives to voice messaging services. 

               Customer Premises Equipment

          Telecom faces significant price competition from numerous
          companies within both its Business Systems division and Original
          Equipment division.

               Printing

          SB Printing and its subsidiary, Times Journal, engage in general
          directory and commercial printing and face significant
          competition in each of these operations.  In the United States
          and Canada, there are at least seven large directory printing
          companies and over 100 large commercial printing companies in
          direct competition with SB Printing.
<PAGE>




          Research and Development

          The majority of company-sponsored basic and applied research
          activities are conducted at Bell Communications Research, Inc.
          (Bellcore).  The Telephone Company owns a one-seventh interest in
          Bellcore along with the other six RHCs.  Bellcore is also the
          coordinator for the federal government's telecommunications
          requirements on national security and emergency preparedness.

          Basic and applied research is also conducted at Southwestern Bell
          Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a subsidiary of the
          Corporation.  TRI provides technology planning and assessment
          services to the Corporation and its subsidiaries.

          Employees

          As of January 31, 1994, the Corporation and its subsidiaries
          employed 59,040 persons.  Approximately 67 percent of the
          employees are represented by the Communications Workers of
          America (CWA).  Effective in August 1992, a three-year contract
          was negotiated between the CWA and the Telephone Company. 
          Effective in December 1992, a three-year contract was negotiated
          between the CWA and Yellow Pages.  These contracts will be
          subject to renegotiation in mid-1995.  In March 1991, Telecom
          negotiated a three-year contract with the CWA.  This contract
          will be subject to renegotiation in 1994.  The CWA also
          represents a minor number of employees in other subsidiaries of
          the Corporation.

          Item 2.  Properties.

          The properties of the Corporation do not lend themselves to
          description by character and location of principal units. 
          Ninety-two percent of the property, plant and equipment of the
          Corporation is owned by the Telephone Company.  At December 31,
          1993, network access lines represented 45 percent of the
          Telephone Company's investment in telephone plant; central office
          equipment represented 36 percent; land and buildings represented
          10 percent; other miscellaneous property, comprised principally
          of furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other work
          equipment, represented 7 percent; and information
          origination/termination equipment represented 2 percent.

          Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

          Not applicable.

          Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

          No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth
          quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
<PAGE>





           Executive Officers of the Registrant as of January 31,
           1994.
                   Name         Age             Position         Held
                                                                 Since

           Edward E. Whitacre    52      Chairman and            1-90
           Jr.                           Chief Executive
                                         Officer

           James R. Adams        54      Group President         7-92

           Robert A. Dickemper   50      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President-
                                         Staff/Administration

           William E. Dreyer     55      Senior Executive Vice   7-93
                                         President-External
                                         Affairs 

           James D. Ellis        50      Senior Executive Vice   3-89
                                         President and General
                                         Counsel

           Charles E. Foster     57      Group President         10-90

           Richard A. Harris     53      Senior Executive Vice   10-90
                                         President- Human
                                         Resources

           James S. Kahan        46      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President-  Strategic
                                         Planning and
                                         Corporate Development 

           Donald E. Kiernan     53      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President, Treasurer
                                         and Chief Financial
                                         Officer

           Robert G. Pope*       58      Vice Chairman of        7-93
                                         Southwestern Bell
                                         Corporation and
                                         President and 
                                         Chief Executive
                                         Officer of
                                         Southwestern Bell
                                         Telephone Company

                       


          *Mr. Robert G. Pope has announced his intention to retire
          effective March 31, 1994.
<PAGE>




          All of the above Executive Officers have held high-level
          managerial positions with the Corporation, its subsidiaries or
          former affiliates for more than the past five years, except for
          Messrs. Kiernan and Kahan who have held such high-level
          managerial positions since May 1990 and January 1992,
          respectively.  Prior to their appointments as Executive Officers,
          Mr. Kiernan was a partner with Ernst & Young and Mr. Kahan held
          responsible managerial positions with the Corporation.  Officers
          of the Corporation are appointed by the Corporation's Board of
          Directors.  Officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office
          but hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.

                                       PART II

          Items 5 through 8.

          The information required by these Items is included in the "Stock
          Performance" section on page 1, page 20 through page 43 and in
          the "Stock Data" section on the back cover of the registrant's
          annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1993.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference
          pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

          Item 9.  Changes in and disagreements with Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

          No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on
          any accounting or financial disclosure matters occurred during
          the period covered by this report.

                                       PART III

          Items 10 through 13.

          Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of
          Regulation S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure in Part I of
          this report since the registrant did not furnish such information
          in its definitive proxy statement prepared in accordance with
          Schedule 14A.

          The other information required by these Items is included in the
          registrant's definitive proxy statement, dated March 18, 1994,
          from page 4 through page 9 and beginning with the last paragraph
          on page 16 through page 24 and is incorporated herein by
          reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).
<PAGE>




                                       PART IV

          Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K.

          (a)  Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                                   Page 
                                                                            
                    (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:                 
                      
               Consolidated Statements of Income                      *
               Consolidated Balance Sheets                            *
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                  *
               Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity         *
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             *
               Report of Independent Auditors                         *
          __________

          *    Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions
               of the registrant's annual report to shareowners for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.  (See Part II.)

                                                                            
                                                                 Page
               (2)Financial Statement Schedules:
                    Consent of Independent Auditors                25
                    V-Property, Plant and Equipment                26
                    VI-Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion 
                     and Amortization of Property, Plant and
                     Equipment                                     30
                    VIII-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts         31
                    X-Supplementary Income Statement Information   33


               Financial statement schedules other than those listed above
               have been omitted because the required information is
               contained in the financial statements and notes thereto, or
               because such schedules are not required or applicable.

               (3) Exhibits:

               Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
               SEC, are incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto.  

               3-a  Certificate of Incorporation of Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation (restated), dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit
                    3-a to Form 10-K for 1988, File 1-8610.)

               3-b  Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
                    1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter
                    1991, File 1-8610.)

               4-a  Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
                    instrument which defines the rights of holders of long
                    and intermediate term debt of the registrant or any of
                    its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith. 
                    Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
                    agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
                    SEC upon request.
<PAGE>




               4-b  Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
                    Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell
                    Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
                    Statement No. 33-11669)

               4-c  Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
                    Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
                    Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate. 
                    (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989,
                    File 1-8610.)

               4-d  Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
                    1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
                    Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the
                    successor Rights Agent, which includes the Form of
                    Rights Certificate as an attachment identified as
                    Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

               4-e  Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment
                    to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as
                    Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-a Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991. 
                    (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

               10-b Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993. 
                    (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-c Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-d Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
                    January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
                    File 1-8610.)

               10-e Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan Effective for Units of
                    Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January
                    1, 1988, revised October 27, 1989.  (Exhibit 10-e to
                    Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

               10-f Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 Effective for Units
                    of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
                    1988 or Later, revised and restated October 27, 1989. 
                    (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

               10-g Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.) <PAGE>
 



               10-h Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to
                    Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-i Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-j Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987. 
                    (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-k Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
                    Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for
                    1985, File 1-8610.)

               10-l Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
                    directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive
                    Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

               10-m Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
                    Severance Agreements for all Officers of the
                    Corporation and certain Officers of the Corporation's
                    subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988,     
                    File 1-8610.)

               10-n Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
                    revised effective January 1, 1994.   (Appendix A to
                    Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994,
                    File 1-8610.) 

               10-o Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan. 
                    (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    12, 1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-p Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan. 
                    (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    18, 1994, File 1-8610.)

               12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

               13   Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual
                    report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1993 which are incorporated by reference.  

               21   Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation 

               23   Consent of Independent Auditors

               24   Powers of Attorney 

               99-a Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings Plan for Salaried Employees for the
                    year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-K/A 

               99-b Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings and Security Plan (Non-Salaried <PAGE>
 
                    Employees) for the year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-
                    K/A 

          Southwestern Bell Corporation will furnish to shareowners upon
          request, and without charge, a copy of the annual report to
          shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which are
          incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K.  Southwestern Bell
          Corporation will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

          (b)Reports on Form 8-K:

               On December 7, 1993, Southwestern Bell Corporation filed a
               Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 1993,
               reporting on Item 5, Other Events. <PAGE>
 
      <TABLE>
                                               SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION        Schedule V - Sheet 1
                                         SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                                Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION>                                                                                          
                                                                                           

            COL. A               COL. B         COL. C      COL. D      COL. E         COL. F
                               Balance at     Additions    Retirements  Other       Balance at
                              Beginning of     at cost                  Changes       End of 
        Classification           Period       -Note (a)    -Note (b)  -Note (d)        Period

    <S>                         <C>           <C>        <C>         <C>            <C>

           Year 1993
    Aerial Cable                $   1,325.3    $    52.1  $    22.2  $       (.7)   $    1,354.5
    Aerial Wire                        34.8           .8        1.1          -              34.5
    Buildings                       2,646.8        138.0       36.5          1.8         2,750.1
    Buried Cable                    6,230.3        453.9       57.6         52.1         6,678.7
    Central Office Assets           9,271.4        884.0      449.1         16.9         9,723.2
    Conduit Systems                 1,294.8         46.9        2.4           .3         1,339.6
    Furniture and Office            1,514.6        179.2       95.0         11.2         1,610.0
     Equipment 
    Held for Future Use                 8.3          -          -           (7.9)             .4
    Information Equipment             510.0         47.5       67.9         27.1           516.7
    Intrabuilding Network             143.5          1.1        1.8          -             142.8
    Cable 
    Land                              207.3          2.9        3.2        (14.0)          193.0
    Other Communications              915.5        298.4       34.2       (306.4)          873.3
     Equipment 
    Poles                             312.6          9.3        4.1          -             317.8
    Submarine Cable                     4.7           .1         .1           .1             4.8
    Underground Cable               2,028.7         85.1       15.2          7.1         2,105.7
    Vehicles and Work                 529.8         46.8       19.9        (31.2)          525.5      
     Equipment 

         Total Property,        $  26,978.4  $   2,246.1   $  810.3   $   (243.6)    $  28,170.6  <PAGE>
 
          Plant and Equipment 
<FN>
    Depreciation as a percentage of average depreciable                                    7.0% 
     plant and equipment
 
                    The Notes on Sheet 4 are an integral part of this Schedule.



      </TABLE> 
      <TABLE>
																																																      Schedule V - Sheet 2
                          SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION 
															SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                 Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION>

              COL. A               COL. B       COL. C      COL. D       COL. E       COL. F
                                 Balance at    Additions Retirements     Other      Balance at
                                Beginning of   at cost                  Changes      End of 
          Classification           Period      -Note (a)   -Note (b)   -Note (c)      Period

            Year 1992
    <S>                           <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>       

    Aerial Cable                  $  1,299.7   $   47.9    $    22.3  $     -    $    1,325.3
    Aerial Wire                         34.8         .6           .6        -            34.8
    Buildings                        2,528.8      130.8         14.4        1.6       2,646.8
    Buried Cable                     5,918.5      390.2         55.3      (23.1)      6,230.3
    Central Office Assets            8,985.3      941.6        528.7     (126.8)      9,271.4
    Conduit Systems                  1,267.9       28.7          1.8        -         1,294.8
    Furniture and Office             1,387.0      184.8         65.7        8.5       1,514.6
     Equipment 
    Held for Future Use                  6.6        3.2           .2       (1.3)          8.3
    Information Equipment              569.1       45.8        130.1       25.2         510.0
    Intrabuilding Network              144.2        1.5          2.4         .2         143.5
    Cable 
    Land                               207.6        2.4          3.8        1.1         207.3
    Other Communications               610.5      287.4        126.4      144.0         915.5
    Equipment
    Poles                              307.1        9.5          4.0        -           312.6
    Submarine Cable                      4.7        -            -          -             4.7
    Underground Cable                1,981.2       62.4         15.0         .1       2,028.7
    Vehicles and Work                  502.4       45.3         17.9         -          529.8
     Equipment                                                                   
         Total Property,           $25,755.4   $2,182.1     $  988.6  $    29.5   $  26,978.4 
          Plant and Equipment 
<FN>
    Depreciation as a percentage of average depreciable                                  6.8%  
     plant and equipment

             The Notes on Sheet 4 are an integral part of this Schedule.


      </TABLE> 
      <TABLE>
                                         SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION           Schedule V - Sheet 3
                                  SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                              Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION> 

                    COL. A                 COL. B       COL. C       COL. D      COL. E       COL. F
                                         Balance at   Additions   Retirements     Other     Balance at
                                          Beginning    at cost                   Changes      End of 
                Classification            of Period   -Note (a)    -Note (b)   -Note (c)      Period

                  Year 1991
       <S>                              <C>             <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>     

       Aerial Cable                     $   1,281.8     $  46.5     $   27.2     $   (1.4) $  1,299.7
       Aerial Wire                             35.1          .5           .8          -          34.8
       Buildings                            2,382.3       174.4         13.1        (14.8)    2,528.8
       Buried Cable                         5,688.7       299.0         67.7         (1.5)    5,918.5
       Central Office Assets                8,665.2       820.4        517.8         17.5     8,985.3
       Conduit Systems                      1,238.8        31.7          2.4          (.2)    1,267.9
       Furniture and Office Equipment       1,299.1       161.3         77.3          3.9     1,387.0
       Held for Future Use                     14.5         2.2           .7         (9.4)        6.6
       Information Equipment                  532.8        49.9         27.7         14.1       569.1
       Intrabuilding Network Cable            141.1         2.1          2.5          3.5       144.2
       Land                                   184.7        23.3           .4          -         207.6
       Other Communications Equipment         469.3       155.4         18.2          4.0       610.5
       Poles                                  310.4         9.9         13.2          -         307.1
       Submarine Cable                          4.8         -             .1          -           4.7
       Underground Cable                    1,931.2        73.0         23.0          -       1,981.2
       Vehicles and Work Equipment            490.5        38.3         19.6         (6.8)      502.4      
            Total Property, Plant and    $ 24,670.3   $ 1,887.9     $  811.7    $     8.9  $ 25,755.4 
            Equipment  

<FN>
       Depreciation as a percentage of average depreciable plant                                  6.8% 
        and equipment

                         The Notes on Sheet 4 are an integral part of this Schedule. <PAGE>
 
                                                                                    Schedule V - Sheet 4

      (a) Includes allowance for funds used during construction and additions to capitalized leases.

      (b) Items of telephone plant, when retired or sold are deducted from the property accounts at the
          amount of cost originally recorded.  Amounts are estimated if original historical cost is not
          known.  

      (c) Primarily includes transfers to and from Material and Supplies for reused material for
          Southwestern Bell Telephone Company (Telephone Company).  The 1992 amounts include certain
          reclassifications.  

      (d) Primarily equipment sold relating to Metromedia Paging Services, Inc.  Also includes transfers
          to and from Material and Supplies for reused material for the Telephone Company.  Amounts also
          include certain reclassifications.

      </TABLE>
<PAGE>


      <TABLE>
                                         SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION
                      SCHEDULE VI - ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION
                                       OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                              Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION>

                    COL. A                 COL. B       COL. C       COL. D       COL. E        COL. F

                                                      Additions 
                                         Balance at    Charged                    Other        Balance 
                                          Beginning   to Expense                  Changes     at End of 
                 Description              of Period               Retirements      -Note        Period
       <S>                               <C>           <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>       

       Year 1993                         $ 10,079.0    1,906.9       806.2      (100.6) (b)  $  11,079.1
       Year 1992                         $  9,245.1    1,762.1       914.4       (13.8) (a)  $  10,079.0
       Year 1991                         $  8,348.0    1,676.5       793.3        13.9  (a)  $   9,245.1

<FN>
      _________

      (a)  Comprised principally of the following items:

        (1)Amounts received for property, plant and equipment sold primarily relating to Southwestern
        Bell Telephone Company (Telephone Company).
        (2)Provisions for the cost of removing plant and equipment retired primarily relating to the
        Telephone Company.
        (3)The Telephone Company's deferral of certain interstate amortization expenses to 1992, as
        required by the FCC beginning in July 1991.

      (b)  Comprised principally of the following items:

        (1)Provisions for the cost of removing plant and equipment retired primarily relating to the
        Telephone Company and equipment sold relating to Metromedia Paging Services, Inc.
        (2)Amounts received for property, plant and equipment sold primarily relating to the Telephone
        Company.
      </TABLE> 

      <TABLE>
                                         SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION        Schedule VIII - Sheet 1
                               SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                         Allowance for Uncollectibles
                                              Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION> 

                    COL. A                 COL. B             COL. C             COL. D       COL. E

                                                             Additions
                                                         (1)          (2)
                                                                    Charged
                                         Balance at                to Other                  Balance 
                                          Beginning    Charged     Accounts    Deductions   at End of 
                 Description              of Period   to Revenue   -Note (a)    Note (b)      Period

       <S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>   

       Year 1993                           $ 95.5       149.9        35.2         169.4       $ 111.2
       Year 1992                           $ 82.3       134.9        36.5         158.2       $  95.5
       Year 1991                           $ 81.0       127.8        24.6         151.1       $  82.3







<FN>
                           

      (a)Amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this account when recovered.

      (b)Amounts written off as uncollectible.

      </TABLE>
<PAGE>


      <TABLE>

                                         SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION           Schedule VIII - Sheet 2
                               SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                    Accumulated Amortization of Intangibles
                                              Dollars in Millions
      <CAPTION>

                    COL. A                 COL. B             COL. C             COL. D       COL. E

                                                             Additions
                                                         (1)          (2)

                                         Balance at                 Charged                  Balance 
                                          Beginning    Charged     to Other    Deductions   at End of 
                 Description              of Period   to Expense   Accounts                   Period

       <S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>           <C>   

       Year 1993                           $ 443.6      100.1          .7       176.2 (a)     $ 368.2
       Year 1992                           $ 366.0       80.1          -          2.5         $ 443.6
       Year 1991                           $ 294.4       88.4          .6        17.4         $ 366.0
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                           
                  












<FN>                           

      (a)Primarily related to the disposition of Metromedia Paging Services, Inc.

      </TABLE> <PAGE>
 







                             SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                 Dollars in Millions


                                                          Column B - 
                                                           Charged to
                          Column A - Item                   Expense


                                      Year 1993
             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,530.4

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and
                      income taxes
                              Property                      $  306.4

                              Gross receipts                $  179.0

             3.   Advertising costs                         $   89.5


                                      Year 1992

             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,676.9

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and 
                     income taxes
                              Property                      $  283.1

                              Gross receipts                $  148.8

             3.  Advertising costs                          $   85.0


                                      Year 1991
             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,534.6

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and
                        income taxes 

                              Property                      $  274.9

                              Gross receipts                $  131.3
             3.   Advertising costs                         $   79.0 


                                      SIGNATURES


             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
          this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
          thereunto duly authorized, on the 18th day of March, 1994.
                              
                                           SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION


                                           By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan  
                                           (Donald E. Kiernan 
                                           Senior Vice President, Treasurer 
                                           and Chief Financial Officer)

             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
          of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
          persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
          the date indicated.

          Principal Executive Officer:
             Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*
             Chairman and
             Chief Executive Officer

          Principal Financial and
           Accounting Officer:
             Donald E. Kiernan
             Senior Vice President, Treasurer 
             and Chief Financial Officer
           
                                           /s/ Donald E. Kiernan 
          Directors:                       (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-
                                           in-fact and on his own behalf as
                                           Principal Financial Officer
          Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*          and Principal
          Clarence C. Barksdale*           Accounting Officer)
          James E. Barnes*
          Jack S. Blanton*
          August A. Busch III*                      March 18, 1994
          Ruben R. Cardenas*
          Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
          Tom C. Frost*
          Jess T. Hay*
          Bobby R. Inman*
          Charles F. Knight*
          Sybil C. Mobley*
          Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
          Robert G. Pope *
          Carlos Slim Helu*
          Patricia P. Upton *

          * by power of attorney 


                                    EXHIBIT INDEX



             Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
             SEC, are incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto.  

              3-a   Certificate of Incorporation of Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation (restated), dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit
                    3-a to Form 10-K for 1988, File 1-8610.)

              3-b   Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
                    1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter
                    1991, File 1-8610.)

              4-a   Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
                    instrument which defines the rights of holders of long
                    and intermediate term debt of the registrant or any of
                    its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith. 
                    Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
                    agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
                    SEC upon request.

              4-b   Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
                    Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell
                    Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
                    Statement No. 33-11669)

              4-c   Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
                    Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
                    Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate. 
                    (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989,
                    File 1-8610.)

              4-d   Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
                    1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
                    Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the
                    successor Rights Agent, which includes the Form of
                    Rights Certificate as an attachment identified as
                    Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

              4-e   Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment
                    to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as
                    Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-a  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991. 
                    (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

              10-b  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993. 
                    (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-c  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)
<PAGE>



              10-d  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
                    January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-e  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan Effective for Units of
                    Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January
                    1, 1988, revised October 27, 1989.  (Exhibit 10-e to
                    Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

              10-f  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 Effective for Units
                    of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
                    1988 or Later, revised and restated October 27, 1989. 
                    (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

              10-g  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-h  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-i  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-j  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987. 
                    (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-k  Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
                    Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for
                    1985, File 1-8610.)

              10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
                    directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive
                    Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

              10-m  Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
                    Severance Agreements for all Officers of the
                    Corporation and certain Officers of the Corporation's
                    subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988,     
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-n  Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
                    revised effective January 1, 1994.  (Appendix A to
                    Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994,
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-o  Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan. 
                    (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    12, 1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-p  Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan. 
                    (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    18, 1994, File 1-8610.) <PAGE>
 


              12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

              13    Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual
                    report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1993 which are incorporated by reference.  

              21    Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation 

              23    Consent of Independent Auditors

              24    Powers of Attorney 

              99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings Plan for Salaried Employees for the
                    year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-K/A 

              99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings and Security Plan (Non-Salaried
                    Employees) for the year 1993 to be filed under 
                    Form 10-K/A 


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>

 


<TABLE>

                                                                                EXHIBIT 12
                                         SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION
                               COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
                                              DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
<CAPTION>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

                                                    1993       1992      1991       1990         1989

       <S>                                   <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>    
       Income Before Income Taxes,
        Extraordinary Loss and Cumulative
        Effect of Changes in Accounting
        Principles*                          $   1,882.9 $  1,701.2 $ 1,557.0   $1,541.4  $   1,479.5

           Add:Interest Expense                    496.2      530.0     577.7      529.7        543.8
               1/3 Rental Expense                   41.0       45.1      37.5       43.4         42.5



           Adjusted Earnings                 $   2,420.1 $  2,276.3 $ 2,172.2   $2,114.5  $   2,065.8


       Total Interest Charges                $     496.2 $    530.0 $   577.7   $  529.7  $     543.8

       1/3 Rental Expense                           41.0       45.1      37.5       43.4         42.5


           Adjusted Fixed Charges            $     537.2 $    575.1 $   615.2   $  573.1  $     586.3


       Ratio of Earnings to                         4.51       3.96      3.53       3.69         3.52
        Fixed Charges
<FN>
          *Undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method have been
          excluded.

          NOTE:Prior year ratios have been restated to conform to current year methodology of
          computing undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method.

</TABLE> 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13
<TEXT>

 








                                  STOCK PERFORMANCE

          On page one of the Annual Report is a stacked bar graph detailing
          the Corporation's stock performance for 1993 and 1992. <PAGE>
 

        <TABLE>
        Selected Financial and Operating Data 
        Dollars in millions except per share amounts
        <CAPTION>

        At December 31 or for the year             1993       1992      1991      1990         1989
        ended:
        <S>                                <C>          <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>  
        Operating revenues                 $     10,690 $   10,015 $   9,332 $   9,113    $   8,730
        Operating expenses                 $      8,310 $    7,818 $   7,198 $   7,071    $   6,722
        Operating income                   $      2,380 $    2,197 $   2,134 $   2,042    $   2,008
        Interest expense                   $        496 $      530 $     578 $     530    $     544
        Equity in net income of affiliates $        250 $      208 $      95 $       6    $       6
        Income taxes                       $        625 $      568 $     488 $     440    $     387
        Income before extraordinary loss
         and cumulative 
         effect of changes in accounting
         principles                        $      1,435 $    1,302 $   1,157 $   1,101    $   1,093
        Extraordinary loss on early
         extinguishment
         of debt, net of tax               $      (153)          - $    (81)         -            -
        Cumulative effect of changes in 
         accounting principles, net of tax $    (2,127)          -         -         -            -
        Net income (loss)                  $      (845) $    1,302 $   1,076 $   1,101    $   1,093
        Earnings per common share: (1)
        Income before extraordinary loss
        and cumulative 
         effect of changes in accounting
         principles                        $       2.39 $     2.17 $    1.93 $    1.83    $    1.82
        Extraordinary loss on early
         extinguishment
         of debt, net of tax                     (0.25)          -    (0.14)         -            -

        Cumulative effect of changes in
         accounting principles, 
         net of tax                              (3.55)          -         -         -            -
        Net income (loss)                  $     (1.41) $     2.17 $    1.79 $    1.83    $    1.82
        Total assets                       $     24,308 $   23,810 $  23,179 $  22,196    $  21,161
        Long-term debt                     $      5,459 $    5,716 $   5,675 $   5,483    $   5,456 <PAGE>
 
        Construction and capital
         expenditures                      $      2,221 $    2,144 $   1,826 $   1,778    $   1,483
        Free cash flow                     $      1,220 $    1,470 $   1,067 $     893    $   1,283
        Dividends declared per common
         share (1)                         $       1.51 $     1.46 $    1.42 $    1.38    $    1.30
        Book value per common
         share (1, 2)                      $      12.68 $    15.51 $   14.76 $   14.31    $   13.92
        Ratio of earnings to 
         fixed charges(3)                          4.51       3.96      3.53      3.69         3.52
        Return on weighted average
         shareowners' equity (4)                  19.20%     14.27%    13.03%    12.92%       12.90%
        Debt ratio (2)                            47.36%     42.92%    45.09%    43.98%       42.01%
        Network access lines in service
         (000)                                   13,238     12,803    12,398    12,105       11,759
        Access minutes of use (000,000)          43,767     41,235    38,885    36,982       34,295
        Long-distance messages (000,000)          1,093      1,057     1,055     1,034          988
        Cellular customers (000)                  2,049      1,413       960       667          382
        Number of employees                      58,400     59,500    61,200    66,700       66,200
<FN>
        1 Prior years have been restated to reflect two-for-one stock split effective May 25, 1993.
        2 Shareowners' equity used in debt ratio and book value per common share calculations includes  
           extraordinary loss and changes in accounting principles.
        3  Prior year ratios have been restated to conform to current year methodology.
        4 Calculated using income before extraordinary loss and changes in accounting principles.
          These impacts are included in shareowners' equity.
        5 Compounded Annual Growth Rate from 1984 to 1993. 
        NA Not Available.
</TABLE>                                       

      <TABLE>
      Selected Financial and Operating Data 
      Dollars in millions except per share amounts
      <CAPTION>


      At December 31 or for the year           1988     1987     1986    1985     1984CAGR5
      ended:
      <S>                                <C>         <C>      <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
      Operating revenues                 $    8,453  $ 8,003  $ 7,902 $ 7,925 $  7,191 4.5%
      Operating expenses                 $    6,503  $ 5,926  $ 5,705 $ 5,802 $  5,254 5.2%
      Operating income                   $    1,950  $ 2,077  $ 2,197 $ 2,123 $  1,937 2.3%
      Interest expense                   $      578  $   532  $   543 $   542 $    521    -
      Equity in net income of
       affiliates                        $        8  $     5  $     3 $     - $      -    -
      Income taxes                       $      350  $   544  $   711 $   655 $    579    -
      Income before extraordinary loss
       and cumulative 
       effect of changes in accounting
       principles                        $    1,060  $ 1,047  $ 1,023 $   996 $    883 5.5%
      Extraordinary loss on early
       extinguishment
       of debt, net of tax                        -        -        -       -        -    -
      Cumulative effect of changes in 
       accounting principles, net of
       tax                                        -        -        -       -        -    -
      Net income (loss)                  $    1,060  $ 1,047  $ 1,023 $   996 $    883    -
      Earnings per common share: (1)
      Income before extraordinary loss
       and cumulative
       effect of changes in accounting
       principles                        $     1.76  $  1.74  $  1.71 $  1.67 $   1.51 5.2%
      Extraordinary loss on early
       extinguishment
       of debt, net of tax                        -        -        -       -        -    -
      Cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting 
       principles, net of tax                     -        -        -       -        -    -
      Net income (loss)                  $     1.76  $  1.74  $  1.71 $  1.67 $   1.51    -
      Total assets                       $   20,985  $21,500  $20,300 $19,291 $ 18,042 3.4% <PAGE>
 
      Long-term debt                     $    5,039  $ 5,649  $ 4,912 $ 5,001 $  4,935    -
      Construction and capital
       expenditures                      $    1,222  $ 1,450  $ 1,912 $ 1,989 $  1,727  2.8%
      Free cash flow                     $    1,308  $ 1,028  $   659 $   209 $    481 10.9%   
      Dividends declared per 
       common share (1)                  $     1.24  $  1.16  $  1.07 $  1.00 $    .93 5.5%
      Book value per
       common share (1, 2)               $    14.15  $ 13.63  $ 13.04 $ 12.38 $  11.71    -
      Ratio of earnings to 
       fixed charges (3)                       3.26     3.72     3.91    3.78     3.57    -
      Return on weighted average
       shareowners' equity (4)               12.69%   12.98%   13.34%  13.71%   13.14%    -
      Debt ratio (2)                         41.42%   44.59%   43.43%  43.72%   43.65%    -
      Network access lines in service
       (000)                                 11,340   11,105   11,083  10,898   10,650 2.4%
      Access minutes of use (000,000)        31,412   30,114   28,034  26,623       NA    -
      Long-distance messages (000,000)          940      873      831     797      747    -
      Cellular customers (000)                  244      155       41      35        9    -

      Number of employees                    64,900   67,100   67,500  71,400   71,900    -

<FN>
      1 Prior years have been restated to reflect two-for-one stock split
       effective May 25, 1993.
      2 Shareowners' equity used in debt ratio and book value per common share 
      calculations includes extraordinary loss and
        changes in accounting principles.
      3 Prior year ratios have been restated to conform to current year methodology.
      4 Calculated using income before extraordinary loss and changes in accounting principles.
        These impacts are included in shareowners' equity.
      5 Compounded Annual Growth Rate from 1984 to 1993. 
      NA Not Available.                                                         
</TABLE>                                         

 



          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

          Southwestern Bell Corporation's principal subsidiaries provide
          landline and wireless telecommunications services and equipment,
          directory advertising, publishing and printing, and cable TV
          services.

          Dollars in millions except per share amounts


          Southwestern Bell Corporation (Corporation) is a holding company
          whose subsidiaries operate predominantly in the communications
          service industry.  The Corporation's subsidiaries principally
          provide landline and wireless telecommunications services and
          equipment, directory advertising, publishing and printing, and
          cable television services.  In December 1993, the Corporation
          sold Metromedia Paging Services, Inc. (Paging) which provided
          paging services.

          In 1993, 76 percent of the Corporation's operating revenues came
          from its largest subsidiary, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
          (Telephone Company), which provides telecommunications services
          through approximately 13.2 million access lines in Arkansas,
          Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas (five-state area).  The
          Telephone Company is a public utility subject to regulation by
          each of the state jurisdictions in which it operates and by the
          Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

          This discussion should be read in conjunction with the
          consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes.

          Results of Operations

          Summary

          Financial results, including changes from the prior year, are
          summarized as follows:

                                                           Percent change   
                                                          1993 vs. 1992 vs.
                          1993         1992       1991      1992     1991

    Operating revenues $ 10,690.3  $10,015.4  $9,331.9      6.7%     7.3%

    Operating expenses $  8,310.7   $7,818.0  $7,198.3      6.3%     8.6%
    Income before
     extraordinary loss
     and accounting    
     changes           $  1,435.2   $1,301.7  $1,156.5     10.3%    12.6%
    Extraordinary 
     loss              $   (153.2)       -    $  (80.7)      -        -
    Accounting changes $ (2,127.2)       -         -         -        -
    Net income (loss)  $   (845.2)  $1,301.7  $1,075.8    (164.9)%  21.0% 



          The Corporation reported income before extraordinary loss and
          cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of
          $1,435.2, $1,301.7 and $1,156.5 in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
          respectively.  The corresponding earnings per common share for
          those years were $2.39, $2.17 and $1.93, respectively. 
          Extraordinary loss associated with early extinguishment of debt
          was $153.2, or $0.25 per share, in 1993, and $80.7, or $0.14 per
          share, in 1991.  The adoption of financial accounting standards
          relating to postretirement benefits, postemployment benefits and
          income taxes resulted in one-time charges of $2,127.2, or $3.55
          per share, in the first quarter of 1993.  As a result, net loss
          for 1993 was $845.2, or $1.41 per share.  Net income for 1992 and
          1991 was $1,301.7 and $1,075.8, respectively.  Subsidiaries other
          than the Telephone Company provided 29 percent, 26 percent and 19
          percent of the Corporation's income before extraordinary loss and
          cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 1993,
          1992 and 1991, respectively.  All per share amounts have been
          restated to reflect the 1993 two-for-one stock split.

          The primary factors contributing to the increase in income before
          extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of changes in accounting
          principles in 1993 were the growth in demand for services and
          products at Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems, Inc. (Mobile
          Systems) and the Telephone Company, the decrease in license fees
          paid by the Telephone Company for switching system software, and
          the increase in income generated from the Corporation's equity
          investments, primarily Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
          (Telmex).  These factors were partially offset by increased
          postretirement benefit and depreciation expenses and accruals for
          potential rate reductions, mainly at the Telephone Company. 
          Results for 1993 also reflect one-time charges for Telephone
          Company restructuring and write-off of analog cellular equipment,
          partially offset by a gain on the sale of Paging.

          The primary factors contributing to the increase in income before
          extraordinary loss in 1992 included increased demand for services
          and products at the Telephone Company and at Mobile Systems, the
          increase in income generated from the Corporation's additional
          investment in Telmex and expense reductions from the voluntary
          management retirement program implemented in the fourth quarter
          of 1991.  These factors were partially offset by increases in
          license fees for switching system software, depreciation and
          benefit expense, mainly at the Telephone Company.

          Items affecting the comparison of the operating results between
          1993 and 1992, and between 1992 and 1991, are discussed in the
          following sections. <PAGE>
 


     Operating Revenues

     Total operating revenues increased $674.9, or 6.7 percent, in 1993 and
     $683.5, or 7.3 percent, in 1992.  Revenue components of total
     operating revenues, including changes from the prior year, are as
     follows:
                                                           Percent change

                                                            1993 vs.  1992
                                                              1992     vs.
                         1993          1992       1991                1991
     Local service                                            
       Landline        $ 3,904.9   $  3,727.5  $ 3,527.9     4.8%    5.7%
       Wireless          1,282.5        940.9      701.0    36.3    34.2

     Network access                                           
       Interstate        1,804.7      1,710.3    1,651.9     5.5     3.5
       Intrastate          880.7        837.5      788.9     5.2     6.2

     Long-distance         977.3      1,011.7    1,026.6    (3.4)   (1.5)
      service

     Directory             869.0        847.9      847.7     2.5     0.0
      advertising

     Other                 971.2        939.6      787.9     3.4    19.3

                       $10,690.3   $ 10,015.4  $ 9,331.9     6.7%    7.3%


         Local Service  Landline revenues increased in 1993 and 1992 due
         primarily to increases in demand, including growth in the number
         of access lines of 3.4 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively. 
         Nearly two-thirds of the access line growth occurred in Texas. 
         Landline revenues for the periods also increased as a result of
         extended area service plans which expand the area defined as local
         service.

         Wireless revenues increased in 1993 and 1992 due primarily to the
         growth in the number of cellular customers of 45.0 percent and
         47.2 percent, for each year, respectively.  These increases were
         partially offset by declines in average revenue per customer in
         both periods.  Market penetration for 1993, 1992 and 1991 was 5.7,
         4.0 and 2.7 customers per 100 people, respectively, in Mobile
         Systems' service areas.

         Network Access  Interstate network access revenues increased in
         1993 and 1992 due primarily to increases in demand for access
         services and growth in revenues from end user charges attributable
         to an increasing access line base.  These increases were partially
         offset by decreases in interstate rates recognized by the
         Telephone Company. <PAGE>
 


         Intrastate network access revenues increased in 1993 and 1992, as
         compared to prior years, due primarily to increases in demand. 
         These increases were partially offset by previously ordered rate
         reductions, primarily in Texas.

         Long-Distance Service  Telephone Company long-distance revenues
         decreased in 1993 and 1992 due mainly to accruals for potential
         rate reductions in Oklahoma and the impact of extended area
         service plans.  These decreases were partially offset by increases
         in demand for long-distance services.  Although extended area
         service plans have had a negative effect on long-distance service
         revenues, this effect is partially offset by related increases in
         local service revenues, as noted in the discussion of landline
         local service revenues.  Results in 1992 were also affected by a
         positive change in net settlements with independent telephone
         companies.

         Directory Advertising revenues in 1993 and 1992 reflect growth in
         Yellow Pages revenues in each year.  The increases in both years
         were offset by the absence of revenues associated with certain
         directory operations sold in June 1992.

         Other revenues increased in 1993 and 1992 due to increases in
         equipment sales, primarily at Mobile Systems, and increases in
         demand for the Telephone Company's nonregulated services and
         products.  In 1993, these increases were partially offset by the
         absence of revenues associated with operations sold during 1993,
         including residential equipment sales, commercial printing and
         paging services.  In 1992, other revenues were negatively impacted
         by a decrease in revenues associated with billing and collection
         services provided to interexchange carriers by the Telephone
         Company.

     Operating Expenses

     Total operating expenses increased $492.7, or 6.3 percent, in 1993 and
     $619.7, or 8.6 percent, in 1992.  Expense components of total
     operating expenses, including changes from the prior year, are as
     follows: <PAGE>
 


                                                             Percent
                                                             change

                                                            1993 1992
                                                            vs.  vs. 
                            1993       1992      1991       1992 1991

     Cost of services 
     and products         $ 3,387.6 $3,423.4 $  3,159.9 (1.0)% 8.3%

     Selling, general 
     and administrative     2,916.1  2,552.4    2,273.4 14.2  12.3

     Depreciation 
     and amortization       2,007.0  1,842.2    1,765.0  8.9   4.4

                          $ 8,310.7 $7,818.0 $  7,198.3  6.3%  8.6%


         Cost of Services and Products decreased in 1993 due primarily to a
         decrease in license fees paid by the Telephone Company for
         switching system software, and the absence of expenses associated
         with operations sold, including residential equipment sales and
         commercial printing (sold in 1993) and directory advertising
         operations (sold in 1992).  These decreases were partially offset
         by costs related to increased demand for services and products at
         Mobile Systems and the Telephone Company, and annual compensation
         increases.

         The increase in 1992 was primarily due to Telephone Company
         expenditures for switching system software associated with advanced
         calling features, and an accelerated implementation of a single
         national database of 800 numbers as mandated by the FCC, as well as
         costs related to increased demand for cellular services and
         products.  These increases were partially offset by the savings
         from the voluntary management retirement program implemented in the
         fourth quarter of 1991.

         Selling, General and Administrative expenses increased in 1993 due
         primarily to increased demand for cellular services and products
         and the increase of approximately $110 in postretirement benefits
         expense required by the adoption of Statement of Financial
         Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
         Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" (Statement No. 106) as
         discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.  The increased
         expenses also reflect a one-time charge for restructuring, as
         further discussed in "Other Business Matters," as well as increases
         in property and other taxes and annual compensation increases. 
         Comparisons to 1992 are impacted by the recording of one-time
         charges in 1992 for an offer of pension enhancements and related
         benefits to designated nonmanagement employees and for estimated
         expenses associated with relocating the Corporation's headquarters.

         In addition to the charges for pension enhancements and relocation
         noted above, the increase in 1992 resulted from increased demand
         for services and products, primarily cellular, and from higher 
         benefit expenses mostly attributable to the voluntary management
         retirement program implemented in the fourth quarter of 1991. 
         These increases were partially offset by salary savings due to
         force reductions.

         Depreciation and Amortization increased in 1993 mainly due to
         changes in plant level and composition, particularly at the
         Telephone Company.  Depreciation expense also increased in 1993 due
         to a reduction in cellular analog equipment lives.  These increases
         were partially offset by a decrease in reserve deficiency
         amortization at the Telephone Company.

         The increase in 1992 was due mostly to implementation of revised
         depreciation rates resulting from the triennial review of rates by
         regulators, and a change in plant level and composition.  These
         increases were partially offset by the decrease in reserve
         deficiency amortization.

     Interest Expense decreased $33.8, or 6.4 percent, in 1993.  The
     decrease was due primarily to lower interest rates on debt refinanced
     by the Telephone Company and the repayment of debt during 1993. 
     Interest expense decreased $47.7, or 8.3 percent, in 1992 due to lower
     interest rates on short-term obligations and interest savings on long-
     term debt refinanced by the Telephone Company in 1991. <PAGE>
 


     Equity in Net Income of Affiliates increased $41.7, or 20.0 percent, in
     1993 due primarily to higher earnings at Telmex resulting from overall
     growth, including increases in access lines, and increases in rates
     sufficient to offset the impact of inflation.  In 1992, the increase of
     $113.5, or 120.1 percent, was due primarily to the September 1991
     increase in the Corporation's equity investment in Telmex from 5 to 10
     percent and higher earnings at Telmex resulting from increases in
     access lines and an increase in local service rates.  In both years,
     these factors were offset partially by increases in wages and benefit
     expenses, and other operating expenses related to the rehabilitation
     and modernization of the telephone network.  The Corporation's
     investment in Telmex is recorded under U.S. generally accepted
     accounting principles which exclude inflation adjustments and include
     adjustments for the purchase method of accounting.  See Note 13 to the
     financial statements for additional information. 

     Other Expense - Net increased $67.2 in 1993 and was flat in 1992
     compared with 1991.  The increase was due to a nonrecurring charge for
     the write-off of analog cellular equipment, the absence of interest
     income associated with the settlement of federal income tax audit
     issues in 1992 and an increase in legislative advocacy expenses in
     1993.  These increases were partially offset by the gain on the sale of
     paging operations in 1993.

     Federal Income Tax expense increased $62.5, or 12.8 percent, in 1993
     and $52.0, or 11.9 percent, in 1992, primarily due to higher income
     before income taxes.  Federal income taxes in 1993 were also affected
     by the increase in income tax rates under the Omnibus Budget
     Reconciliation Act.  Based on comparable results, management estimates
     that the change in rates will decrease net income in 1994 by
     approximately $35-40.  The increase in 1992 was partially offset by an
     increase in the amortization of deferred taxes in 1992.

     Extraordinary Item  The Telephone Company recorded extraordinary
     charges of $153.2 and $80.7 in 1993 and 1991 as a result of refinancing
     $2,100 and $732 of long-term debt, respectively.  See Note 7 to the
     financial statements for additional information.

     Operating Environment and Trends of the Business

     Regulatory Environment

     The Telephone Company operates in a five-state area comprised of
     Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas.  The intrastate
     telecommunications operations of Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma are
     currently regulated under traditional rate-of-return methodology. 
     Since 1990, Kansas and Texas intrastate telecommunications operations
     have been governed by alternative forms of regulation.  The Telephone
     Company's interstate telecommunications operations in the five states
     are regulated by the FCC, using, since 1991, a price-cap methodology. <PAGE>
 



     The Texas Public Utility Commission (TPUC) requires that certain
     ratemaking adjustments be made to the Telephone Company's reported
     earnings in order to compute earnings subject to sharing according to
     its regulatory plan.  These adjustments, however, are not used in
     preparing the published financial statements.  Similarly, other
     jurisdictions may require that adjustments be made to reported earnings
     in order to compute regulatory returns.  As a result, differences may
     exist between the returns reported to these regulatory bodies and those
     computed from Telephone Company financial information included in the
     consolidated financial statements.

     Following is a summary of significant regulatory proceedings.

     Missouri  Missouri has completed its fourth and final year under an
     incentive regulation plan (Missouri Plan), formed as part of a
     September 1989 agreement among the Missouri Public Service Commission
     (MPSC), Office of Public Counsel (OPC) and the Telephone Company. 
     Under its terms, the Telephone Company was required to reduce annual
     revenues, effective October 1989, by approximately $82, and upgrade its
     network in Missouri between 1990 and 1997 at an estimated cost of $180. 
     The Missouri Plan also provided for a sharing of earnings between the
     Telephone Company and its customers at certain rate-of-return
     thresholds.

     Revenue sharing amounts for 1990 and 1991 were refunded to customers in
     June 1991 and June 1992, respectively, with no material impact on the
     Corporation's financial results.  The Telephone Company was not
     required to share revenues for 1992, and expects that sharing for 1993,
     if any, will be minimal.

     In October 1992, the Telephone Company, the MPSC staff and OPC filed
     separate recommendations to the MPSC concerning the success of the
     Missouri Plan and proposing changes in procedures and parameters.  The
     Missouri Plan, originally scheduled to expire on December 31, 1992, was
     ordered extended until December 31, 1993, to allow for consideration of
     the various proposals.  

     The MPSC staff filed a complaint with the MPSC in January 1993 alleging
     that, under traditional rate-of-return methods, the Telephone Company's
     intrastate rates should be reduced by $150 annually.  In December 1993,
     the MPSC issued an order requiring rate reductions of $84.6 annually,
     beginning January 1, 1994.  The order also offered the Telephone
     Company the option of participating in a five-year Accelerated
     Modernization Plan (AMP).  The AMP would have required annual revenue
     reductions of $84.6, which would then be subject to a five-year rate
     freeze, as well as continued revenue sharing and accelerated network
     modernization. <PAGE>
 


     In December 1993, the Telephone Company declined the AMP offer on the
     basis that it would be detrimental to the Telephone Company, and
     obtained a temporary restraining order from the Cole County Circuit
     Court (Circuit Court), temporarily preventing enforcement of the
     ordered rate reductions.  In February 1994, the Circuit Court granted a
     stay of the ordered rate reductions, pending disposition on appeal. 
     All revenues in excess of the MPSC proposed reduced rates are being
     paid to the Circuit Court at this time and will not be reflected in
     1994 operating revenues.

     The MPSC order did not impact 1993 financial results.  The final impact
     of the order on future financial results cannot be determined until all
     issues are resolved.

     Oklahoma  In January 1989, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC)
     ordered an investigation into the reasonableness of the Telephone
     Company's intrastate rates.  A final order was issued in August 1992,
     requiring the Telephone Company to refund revenues in excess of 11.41
     percent return on equity, effective April 1991 through the date of the
     final order.  The ordered refund obligation is $148.4.

     The OCC order also would reduce annual revenues by $100.6 effective
     September 1992 (of which $24.5 relates to wide-area calling plans which
     had already been implemented when the order was issued, and $7.4
     relates to expanded wide-area calling plans implemented during 1993
     through March 1994), partially offset by a positive annual revenue
     adjustment of $7.8 to compensate the Telephone Company for its
     investment of $84 over the next five years for network modernization. 
     The order would also lower the allowed return on equity from 14.25
     percent to 12.20 percent.  In addition, the order denies recovery of
     depreciation expense associated with certain network assets and changes
     the regulatory method of accounting for pension expense.  These actions
     could result in a maximum one-time reduction in net income of
     approximately $36.

     In September 1992, the Telephone Company appealed to the Oklahoma
     Supreme Court which suspended the effectiveness of the entire order
     pending final disposition.  This appeal is still pending. 

     The Telephone Company is contesting all aspects of the OCC's actions. 
     Although it is unable to predict the outcome of the proceeding at this
     time, management believes that the OCC-ordered refund of revenues
     collected before the date of the OCC's August 1992 order is illegal
     under Oklahoma law, and will be overturned by the Court.  The Court may
     require the Telephone Company to implement some portion of the annual
     rate reductions indicated in the OCC order.  Management is unable to
     determine the outcome of the remaining portions of the OCC order. 
     Ultimate resolution of the entire OCC order is not expected to have a
     material impact on the Corporation's financial results.

     In 1986, the OCC made an inquiry into the effects of the Tax Reform Act
     of 1986 on the Telephone Company.  As a result, in October 1989, the
     OCC concluded that the Telephone Company had a revenue surplus of
     $27.5, and required the Telephone Company to invest this surplus,
     together with interest, to upgrade its network in Oklahoma rather than 
     refund it to customers.  In addition, prospective annual rate
     reductions totaling $7.8 were ordered, effective October 1989.

     In October 1989, the OCC order was appealed to the Oklahoma Supreme
     Court by various parties, including the Telephone Company.  In
     December 1991, the Court upheld the portion of the OCC's decision that
     required the Telephone Company to invest the revenue surplus in network
     upgrades.  The Court also determined that the OCC's finding of a
     depreciation reserve deficiency was not supported by substantial
     evidence and that the OCC's treatment of employee severance payments
     and cash working capital analysis was inappropriate.  The OCC has not
     reconsidered the remand issues.  A prehearing conference has been
     scheduled for April 1994.  Although the final outcome of the OCC's
     reconsideration is uncertain at this time, management does not expect
     the decision to have a material future impact on the Corporation's
     financial results.

     Texas  The Telephone Company has completed the third year of its four-
     year incentive regulation agreement (the Agreement), which was approved
     by the TPUC in November 1990.  Under the terms of the Agreement the
     Telephone Company has agreed, over a four-year period ending November
     29, 1994, to cap certain local rates, provide annual rate reductions
     and other benefits to customers in Texas, and upgrade the network at a
     cost of approximately $329.  Rate reductions and customer benefits for
     1991 were approximately $246.  Additional rate reductions of $34 and
     $21 were implemented in 1992 and 1993, respectively, and additional
     rate reductions of approximately $146 will be implemented in 1994.

     The Agreement also provides an earnings-sharing mechanism designed to
     encourage efficiency and innovation by the Telephone Company.  Revenue
     sharing amounts for 1991 and 1992 were refunded to customers in 1993,
     with no material impact on the Corporation's financial results. 
     Management expects that sharing for 1993, if any, will be minimal.

     In 1991, the Agreement was appealed through the courts, and, in
     February 1993, the Texas Court of Appeals (Appeals Court) upheld the
     Agreement, but found that the TPUC incorrectly applied laws on the
     treatment of federal income tax benefits related to disallowed expenses
     and directed the matter back to the TPUC for resolution.  In August
     1993, the Telephone Company and opposing intervenors filed appeals in
     the Texas Supreme Court, and the matter is pending.  

     In October 1992, the Office of Public Utility Counsel (OPUC) filed a
     petition for inquiry into the rates of the Telephone Company, alleging
     that the Telephone Company had realized excess annual earnings of
     approximately $234, which the sharing mechanism failed to capture.  The
     Telephone Company filed a motion to dismiss in November 1992.  In
     July 1993, TPUC granted the Telephone Company's motion to dismiss. 

     Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions  The adoption of Statement
     No. 106 for ratemaking purposes has been addressed by regulatory
     authorities in most of the Telephone Company's state jurisdictions. 
     See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information on
     Statement No. 106.  Texas and Arkansas, through commission order, and
     Kansas, through stipulation and commission order, have agreed to 
     accrual accounting for postretirement benefit expenses, with some
     funding requirements.  In Missouri, the MPSC has ordered continued pay-
     as-you-go treatment for postretirement benefit expenses.  The Telephone
     Company intends to appeal this order.  In Oklahoma, the OCC has not
     ruled on the issue, although OCC staff has recommended accrual
     accounting for postretirement benefit expenses, with some funding
     requirements.

     An FCC order issued in December 1991 required all local exchange
     carriers to use the amortization method for recognition of the
     transition benefit obligation.  In June 1992, the Telephone Company
     asked the FCC for the ability to increase its price caps to take into
     account the incremental interstate costs resulting from the accrual
     accounting required by Statement No. 106 (referred to as exogenous
     treatment).  In January 1993, the FCC issued an order denying exogenous
     treatment for these incremental costs, but did not preclude the seeking
     of exogenous treatment of the transition benefit obligation in a
     separate filing in 1993.  In February 1993, the Telephone Company
     joined with other local exchange carriers in an appeal of the January
     1993 FCC order.  In April 1993, the Telephone Company filed tariffs
     with the FCC requesting exogenous treatment of the transition benefit
     obligation.  In June 1993, the FCC allowed the proposed rates to go
     into effect on July 1, 1993, subject to further investigation which
     could result in future refunds for all or part of the amount
     attributable to the transition benefit obligation.  Potential refunds
     are currently being accrued by the Telephone Company; however, any
     future refunds are not expected to have a material impact on the
     Corporation's financial results.  

     Competition

     Competition is growing in the telecommunications industry.  Regulatory
     and court decisions have expanded the number of alternative service
     providers offering telecommunications services.  Technological advances
     have expanded the types and uses of services and products available. 
     Accordingly, the Corporation faces increasing competition in
     significant portions of its business.

     The Telephone Company currently faces competition from, but not limited
     to, competitive access providers (CAPs), private networks, residential
     multi-tenant services, interexchange carriers, cellular providers,
     resellers and providers of telecommunications equipment.  CAPs
     typically build fiber optic "rings" throughout large metropolitan areas
     to provide transport services (generally high-speed data) for large
     business customers and interexchange carriers.  Also, an increasing
     number of individual firms, particularly large business customers, have
     established their own private network systems to transmit voice and
     data, bypassing Telephone Company facilities.  The extent of the
     economic incentive to bypass the local exchange network depends upon
     local exchange prices, access charges, regulatory policy and other
     factors.  End user charges ordered by the FCC are designed to mitigate
     the effect of system bypass.

     Recent regulatory rulings have sought to expand competition for special
     and switched access services.  Special access refers to a dedicated
     transmission path, used primarily by large business customers and long-
     distance carriers, which does not involve switching at the local
     exchange carrier central office.  Switched access refers to the link
     between local exchange carriers' switching facilities and long-distance
     carriers' networks; switched access transport is one component of this
     process.  In October 1992, the FCC released an order requiring large
     local exchange carriers, including the Telephone Company, to file
     tariffs permitting independent parties to physically collocate (i.e.,
     locate) their equipment within local exchange carrier central offices
     for purposes of providing certain special access services.  Local
     exchange carriers were also required to work out virtual collocation
     agreements for central offices where there is insufficient space for
     physical collocation.  Virtual collocation involves a set of technical
     and pricing rules intended to position the interconnector as if its
     equipment were located in the central office.  Tariffs were filed in
     February 1993, and became effective in June 1993.  In November 1992,
     the Telephone Company joined with 11 local exchange carriers in a
     petition filed with the FCC to stay the physical collocation
     requirement, and also filed a separate petition to stay the virtual
     collocation requirement.  After denial of the petitions, the Telephone
     Company and several other local exchange carriers filed an appeal with
     the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  Oral
     arguments were presented in February 1994.

     In September 1993, the FCC released an order essentially imposing the
     same collocation requirements for switched access transport services as
     for special access services.  In November 1993, the Telephone Company
     and other local exchange carriers filed an appeal of that order as
     well.  Switched access transport collocation tariffs were filed in
     November 1993, and became effective in February 1994.

     State regulatory commissions are also addressing issues pertaining to
     CAPs.  In Texas, the  TPUC was asked to determine whether CAPs must
     first obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity before
     providing certain intrastate services.  In response, the TPUC adopted a
     change to the definition of local exchange service that would allow
     CAPs to provide certain intrastate services without specific TPUC
     approval.  The Telephone Company is appealing this decision.  In
     February 1993, the TPUC denied a petition filed by a CAP seeking
     intrastate collocation, rate unbundling and the elimination of resale
     restrictions in Telephone Company tariffs, and indicated it would
     address these issues in separate proceedings.  In Missouri, CAPs are
     permitted to provide certain services, including special access and
     interexchange and intraexchange private line services, upon a showing
     of financial viability and authorization from the MPSC.  In Missouri, a
     number of CAPs are presently certified to offer services.  

     The MPSC, in December 1992, granted the Telephone Company
     transitionally competitive status for toll, WATS, 800, operator and
     private line services, which has been appealed by several parties. 
     This decision permits the Telephone Company to file minimum and maximum
     rates for those services, within which it can change rates without
     prior MPSC approval once enabling tariffs are approved.  The Telephone
     Company plans to file for these rates in early 1994. 

     In February 1993, the Arkansas Public Service Commission issued an
     order granting Tier 1 local exchange carriers, including the Telephone
     Company, the choice between physical and virtual collocation.  The
     Telephone Company has appealed that decision to the Arkansas Court of
     Appeals.  In Oklahoma, the OCC issued an order in February 1993,
     adopting a policy of local exchange carrier discretion to choose
     between physical and virtual collocation.  In Texas, the TPUC adopted a
     rule in January 1994, requiring expanded interconnection for special
     access services on terms similar to the interstate tariffs.  The rule
     also requires the Telephone Company to provide expanded interconnection
     for private line services, and to unbundle special access and private
     line services.  In Missouri, the MPSC has initiated preliminary
     discussions on expanded interconnection.  The Kansas Corporation
     Commission (KCC) presently does not authorize intrastate collocation.

     The Telephone Company faces increasing competition in its intraLATA
     toll markets, primarily from interexchange carriers and resellers. 
     IntraLATA toll competition currently exists in various forms in
     Arkansas, Missouri and Texas.  In Kansas, certain types of intraLATA
     toll competition went into effect in November 1993.  And in Oklahoma,
     the OCC is currently considering an Administrative Law Judge's
     recommendation to allow certain types of intraLATA toll competition.

     In the future, it is likely that additional competitors will emerge in
     the telecommunications industry.  Cable television companies and
     electric utilities have expressed an interest in providing
     telecommunications services.  Interexchange carriers have also
     expressed interest in providing local service, either directly or
     through alternative wireless networks, and one carrier has publicly
     announced its intent to provide local service in certain markets, some
     of which may be in the Telephone Company's five-state area.  During
     1993, several regional holding companies announced mergers,
     acquisitions, or investments in domestic cable companies, subject to
     court and regulatory approval.  As a result of these mergers and
     acquisitions, the Corporation may face competition from entities
     offering both cable and telephone services over their transport mediums
     in the Telephone Company's operating territory.

     In September 1993, the FCC adopted an order allocating radio spectrum
     and outlining development of licenses for new personal communications
     services (PCS).  PCS utilizes wireless telecommunications technology,
     using different radio spectrum than cellular, and, like cellular, is
     designed to permit access to a variety of communications services
     regardless of subscriber location.  Under an auction process scheduled
     to begin in May 1994, up to seven new licenses could be awarded in each
     of 51 geographic areas.  Licenses may be combined by spectrum amounts
     and geographically, including creation of a nationwide service.  The
     Corporation would be allowed to fully participate in areas outside its
     cellular service areas, and would be allowed to bid on a smaller
     license in areas where it has a cellular presence.  The Corporation is
     currently evaluating its options under the order.

     Competitive opportunities may arise as a result of pending legislative
     and legal proceedings.  Legislation has recently been introduced in the
     United States Congress which, if adopted, could allow the Corporation 
     to enter previously restricted lines of business.  Specifically,
     provisions of certain of these bills seek to eliminate or modify
     restrictions imposed at divestiture by the Modification of Final
     Judgment related to electronic publishing, telecommunications equipment
     manufacturing and interLATA telecommunications services, and would
     allow local exchange carriers to compete in the cable television
     business in their own areas.  In addition, pricing flexibility could be
     granted for services subject to competition.  In February 1994, the
     Corporation filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Dallas,
     seeking to overturn provisions of the Cable Communications Policy Act
     of 1984, in order to provide cable television service in the Telephone
     Company's five-state area.  The outcome of these proceedings cannot be
     predicted at this time.

     The Corporation is aggressively representing its interests regarding
     competition before federal and state regulatory bodies and courts, and
     before Congress and state legislatures, and will continue to evaluate
     the increasingly competitive nature of its business and the appropriate
     regulatory, legislative and industry solutions needed to respond
     effectively to competition. 

     The Corporation currently accounts for the economic effects of
     regulation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
     Regulation" (Statement No. 71).  Continued application of Statement No.
     71 is appropriate only if it is reasonable to assume that rates
     designed to recover costs can be charged to and collected from
     customers.  This assumption requires, among other things, consideration
     of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition during the
     recovery period for any capitalized costs.  It is management's opinion
     that application of Statement No. 71 to the Corporation is appropriate
     at this time.  If, as a result of actual and anticipated increases in
     competition and other changes in the telecommunications industry,
     including the manner of determining rates, the Corporation determines
     that it no longer qualifies for the provisions of Statement No. 71,
     management expects that the resulting non-cash extraordinary charge
     would be material.

     Other Business Matters

     Operational Restructuring  During the third quarter of 1993, the
     Telephone Company announced a restructuring of its operations.  The
     restructuring realigns the Telephone Company into two operating
     divisions, Customer Services, comprised of nine geographic market
     areas, and Network Services, which focuses on technology planning and
     deployment.  As part of the restructuring, approximately 800 management
     positions were eliminated during 1993.  Costs for severance, relocation
     and benefits associated with the positions currently eliminated were
     accrued during 1993, reducing net income by approximately $35.  Over
     the next 18 to 24 months, approximately 700 additional management
     positions will be eliminated. 


     Cable Television Partnership In December 1993, the Corporation and Cox
     Cable Communications (Cox) entered into a non-binding Memorandum of
     Understanding with respect to the formation of a $4.9 billion
     partnership to own and operate cable television systems.  See Note 12
     to the financial statements for additional information.   

     Acquisitions and Dispositions During 1993, the Corporation sold Paging,
     sold portions of its commercial printing operations, and entered into
     an agreement which exclusively licensed sales under its residential
     equipment trademark.  None of these transactions had a material effect
     on the Corporation's financial results in 1993.  

     In January 1994, the Corporation completed the purchase, for $650, of
     two cable television systems located in Montgomery County, Maryland,
     and Arlington County, Virginia, from Hauser Communications, Inc.  In
     February 1994, the Corporation announced an agreement to purchase, for
     stock valued at $680, the domestic cellular business of Associated
     Communications Corporation, including cellular systems in Buffalo,
     Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls, New York.  These properties are
     adjacent to cellular systems in Syracuse, Utica and Ithaca, New York,
     which the Corporation agreed to purchase from other parties in November
     1993.  These transactions are expected to close during 1994. 
     Management does not expect any of these acquisitions to have a material
     effect on the Corporation's financial results in 1994.

     Pending Litigation  The Telephone Company is presently engaged in
     litigation with four Texas cities arising from the Telephone Company's
     alleged breach of certain ordinances relating to the Telephone
     Company's use of, and work activities in, streets and other public
     ways.  The cases are entitled City of Mesquite v. Southwestern Bell
     Telephone Company, et al., and City of Harlingen and City of
     Brownsville v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, et al., in the U.S.
     District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and City of Port
     Arthur, et al., v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, et al., in the
     136th Judicial District Court of Jefferson County, Texas.  The City of
     Port Arthur action was certified as a class action on November 20,
     1992.  The certification order has been appealed by the Telephone
     Company.  If the class certification is affirmed, the class could
     include approximately 110 Texas cities.

     The ordinances provide for the payment of a percentage of the gross
     receipts received by the Telephone Company from the provision of
     certain services within the cities.  While the particular claims of the
     cities vary, they all allege that the Telephone Company should have
     included revenues received from other services in calculating the
     compensation described in the ordinances.  The cities have demanded
     general unspecified actual and exemplary damages or have not
     specifically alleged the amount of damages resulting from the gross
     receipts claims.  The Telephone Company believes it has several
     meritorious defenses to the claims and intends to vigorously pursue
     these defenses.  Although the outcomes of these cases are uncertain,
     the Telephone Company believes that it will either be successful on the
     merits of the cases or that any unfavorable result will not have a
     material impact on the Corporation's financial results. <PAGE>
 



     Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Capital Expenditures and Other Commitments

     To provide high-quality communications services to its customers, the
     Corporation, particularly the Telephone Company and Mobile Systems,
     must make significant investments in property, plant and equipment. 
     The capital investment is influenced by regulatory commitments and
     demand.

     The Corporation's capital expenditures totaled $2,221.1, $2,144.3 and
     $1,826.4 for 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  The 1993 increase in
     capital expenditures was primarily due to increases in Telephone
     Company expenditures on broadband infrastructure and customer
     contracted requirements, continued build-out of cable television and
     telephone network facilities in the United Kingdom, and growth and
     digital conversion at Mobile Systems.  The increase in capital
     expenditures in 1992 resulted primarily from the introduction of new
     services and products at the Telephone Company, as well as network
     enhancements to provide for the portability of 800 service among
     interexchange carriers, as required by the FCC, and improved network
     standardization.  Other 1992 increases related mainly to digital
     conversion and growth in cellular operations and the construction of
     cable television facilities in the United Kingdom.

     The Telephone Company committed, beginning in 1990, to make network
     upgrades estimated to cost approximately $329 in Texas over a four-year
     period, $180 in Missouri over an eight-year period and $160 in Kansas
     over a five-year period.  As of December 31, 1993, in Texas, Missouri
     and Kansas, the Telephone Company had invested $264.8, $174.4 and
     $137.7, respectively.  In addition, the Telephone Company has
     committed, beginning in 1994, to make network upgrades in Arkansas over
     a four-year period, at an estimated cost of $231.

     Management expects capital expenditures in 1994 to be between $2,200
     and $2,400.  Capital expenditure increases in 1994 for the Corporation
     will relate to the continued build-out of Mobile Systems existing
     markets and digital conversions, the construction of cable television
     and telephone network facilities in the United Kingdom, and domestic
     cable television build-out and installations.  Capital spending at the
     Telephone Company is expected to be relatively flat in 1994.  The
     Corporation expects to fund ongoing capital expenditures with cash
     provided by operations.  

     In connection with the proposed partnership with Cox discussed in Note
     12 to the financial statements, the Corporation has committed to
     contribute $1,600 to the partnership in cash or other assets within
     four years of formation.  The size, nature and timing of these
     contributions are subject to many factors, the evaluation of which will
     include consideration of funding alternatives.  In addition,
     commitments for pending acquisitions of cellular properties, as also
     discussed in Note 12, will be satisfied through a combination of cash,
     stock and assumption of debt.

     In 1993, cash received from the sales of businesses exceeded cash paid 
     for acquisitions by $257.4.  The January 1994 acquisition of cable
     television systems in Maryland and Virginia was accomplished with a
     combination of cash, assumed debt and stock totaling $650.

     Dividends Declared

     Dividends declared by the Corporation totaled $905.3 ($1.51 per share)
     in 1993, $876.2 ($1.46 per share) in 1992, and $852.4 ($1.42 per share)
     in 1991.  Management's dividend policy considers both the expectations
     and requirements of shareowners, internal requirements of the
     Corporation, and long-term growth opportunities.

     Cash, Lines of Credit and Free Cash Flow

     The Corporation had $618.4 of cash and cash equivalents available at
     December 31, 1993.  Commercial paper borrowings as of December 31,
     1993, totaled $890.5.  The Corporation has entered into agreements with
     several banks for lines of credit totaling $770.0, all of which may be
     used to support commercial paper borrowings.  The Corporation had no
     borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit as of December 31,
     1993.  

     During 1993, as in 1992 and 1991, the Corporation's primary source of
     funds continued to be cash generated from operations, as shown in the
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  Net cash provided by operating
     activities exceeded the Corporation's construction and capital
     expenditures during 1993, as in 1992 and 1991. 

     The Corporation generated free cash flow of $1,219.7, $1,470.4 and
     $1,066.6 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  In 1993, cash provided
     by operating activities was reduced by the contribution of $135.5 to
     the collectively bargained Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association
     trusts.  Comparisons to 1992 are also impacted by the inclusion of
     refunds associated with the settlement of federal income tax audit
     issues in 1992.  Free cash flow in 1991 reflected cash payments
     associated with the voluntary management reduction plan implemented in
     1990.  

     The Corporation issued $2,207 in debt during 1993, primarily at the
     Telephone Company.  Included in this amount was the refinancing of
     Telephone Company long-term debt with an aggregate principal amount of
     $2,100.  Since June 1991, the Telephone Company has refinanced $3,182
     in long-term debt.  Annualized interest savings resulting from debt
     refinancing in 1993 are approximately $50; since 1991, annualized
     savings are approximately $96.  Other repayments of debt totaled $204
     during 1993. <PAGE>
 



     Total Capital

     The Corporation's total capital consists of debt (long-term debt and
     debt maturing within one year) and shareowners' equity.  Total capital
     decreased in 1993 due to the effects of adopting new accounting
     standards and the extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt. 
     Absent these factors, total capital increased in 1993 and 1992 due
     primarily to reinvestment of earnings. 

     Debt Ratio

     The Corporation's debt ratio (long-term debt and debt maturing within
     one year, as a percentage of total capital) was 47.4 percent, 42.9
     percent and 45.1 percent at December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991,
     respectively.  Changes in accounting standards resulted in a decrease
     in equity in 1993 and increased the debt ratio by 6.1 percent.  The
     debt ratio decreased in 1992 from 1991 due primarily to higher equity
     levels.  

     Stock Repurchase Program
      
     See Note 10 to the financial statements for additional information.

     Employee Stock Ownership Plans

     See Note 8 to the financial statements for additional information. <PAGE>



          Report of Management


          The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
          conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  The
          integrity and objectivity of the data in these financial
          statements, including estimates and judgments relating to matters
          not concluded by year end, are the responsibility of management,
          as is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless
          otherwise indicated.  

          The financial statements of Southwestern Bell Corporation
          (Corporation) have been audited by Ernst & Young, independent
          auditors.  Management has made available to Ernst & Young all of
          the Corporation's financial records and related data, as well as
          the minutes of shareowners' and directors' meetings. 
          Furthermore, management believes that all representations made to
          Ernst & Young during its audit were valid and appropriate.  

          Management has established and maintains a system of internal
          accounting controls that provide reasonable assurance as to the
          integrity and reliability of the financial statements, the
          protection of assets from unauthorized use or disposition and the
          prevention and detection of fraudulent financial reporting.  The
          concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the costs of an
          internal accounting controls system should not exceed, in
          management's judgment, the benefits to be derived.

          Management also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of
          its financial data by the careful selection of its managers, by
          organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division
          of responsibility and by communication programs aimed at ensuring
          that its policies, standards and managerial authorities are
          understood throughout the organization.  Management continually
          monitors the system of internal accounting controls for
          compliance.  The Corporation maintains an internal auditing
          program that independently assesses the effectiveness of the
          internal accounting controls and recommends improvements thereto.


          The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which consists of
          seven directors who are not employees, meets periodically with
          management, the internal auditors and the independent auditors to
          review the manner in which they are performing their
          responsibilities and to discuss auditing, internal accounting
          controls and financial reporting matters.  Both the internal
          auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone
          with the Audit Committee and have access to the Audit Committee
          at any time.

          /s/ Edward E. Whitacre Jr.
          Edward E. Whitacre Jr.                    
          Chairman of the Board and                
          Chief Executive Officer                  


          /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
          Donald E. Kiernan
          Senior Vice President, Treasurer
          and Chief Financial Officer 






          Report of Independent Auditors


          The Board of Directors and Shareowners
          Southwestern Bell Corporation

          We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
          Southwestern Bell Corporation as of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
          and the related consolidated statements of income, shareowners'
          equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
          ended December 31, 1993.  These financial statements are the
          responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our
          responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
          statements based on our audits.

          We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
          auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
          perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
          the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
          audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
          the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
          audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
          significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
          the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
          our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

          In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
          above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
          financial position of Southwestern Bell Corporation at
          December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the consolidated results of its
          operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
          period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally
          accepted accounting principles.  

          As discussed in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial
          statements, in 1993 the Corporation changed its method of
          accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions,
          postemployment benefits, and income taxes.

                        
                                                  /s/ Ernst & Young


          San Antonio, Texas   
          February 11, 1994 


Consolidated Statements of Income
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
                                                 1993         1992         1991
Operating Revenues
Local service                              $  5,187.4   $  4,668.4   $  4,228.9
Network access                                2,685.4      2,547.8      2,440.8
Long-distance service                           977.3      1,011.7      1,026.6
Directory advertising                           869.0        847.9        847.7
Other                                           971.2        939.6        787.9
Total operating revenues                     10,690.3     10,015.4      9,331.9

Operating Expenses
Cost of services and products                 3,387.6      3,423.4      3,159.9
Selling, general and administrative           2,916.1      2,552.4      2,273.4
Depreciation and amortization                 2,007.0      1,842.2      1,765.0
Total operating expenses                      8,310.7      7,818.0      7,198.3
Operating Income                              2,379.6      2,197.4      2,133.6

Other Income (Expense)
Interest expense                               (496.2)      (530.0)      (577.7)
Equity in net income of affiliates              249.7        208.0         94.5
Other expense - net                             (72.9)        (5.7)        (6.2)
Total other income (expense)                   (319.4)      (327.7)      (489.4)
Income Before Income Taxes, Extraordinary 
 Loss and Cumulative Effect of Changes 
 in Accounting  Principles                    2,060.2      1,869.7      1,644.2

Income Taxes
Federal                                         550.7        488.2        436.2
State and local                                  74.3         79.8         51.5
Total income taxes                              625.0        568.0        487.7
Income Before Extraordinary Loss and 
  Cumulative Effect of Changes in 
  Accounting Principles                        1,435.2      1,301.7      1,156.5
Extraordinary Loss on Early Extinguishment
  of Debt, net of tax                          (153.2)         -          (80.7)
Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting 
  Principles, net of tax                     (2,127.2)         -            -  
Net Income (Loss)                          $   (845.2)  $  1,301.7   $  1,075.8

Earnings Per Common Share:*
Income Before Extraordinary Loss and 
  Cumulative Effect of Changes in 
  Accounting Principles                    $     2.39   $     2.17   $     1.93
Extraordinary Loss on Early Extinguishment
  of Debt, net of tax                           (0.25)         -          (0.14)
Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting 
  Principles, net of tax                        (3.55)         -            -  
Net Income (Loss)                          $    (1.41)  $     2.17   $     1.79

Weighted Average Number of Common Shares
  Outstanding (in millions)                     599.8        600.2        600.3

*Restated to reflect two-for-one stock split effective May 25, 1993.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated 
financial statements.




Consolidated Balance Sheets
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
                                                                           Dec
                                                               1993        1992
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                                 $   618.4   $   505.2
Accounts receivable - net of allowances for 
 uncollectibles of $111.2 and $95.5                         2,055.2     1,929.6
Material and supplies                                         148.9       130.1
Prepaid expenses                                              126.5       139.5
Deferred charges                                              192.0       181.0
Deferred income taxes                                         197.0        86.5
Other                                                         281.8       231.2
Total current assets                                        3,619.8     3,203.1
Property, Plant and Equipment - Net                        17,091.5    16,899.4
Intangible Assets - Net of Accumulated Amortization of
$368.2 and $443.6                                           1,147.4     1,323.3
Investments in Equity Affiliates                            1,420.8     1,249.4
Other Assets                                                1,028.0     1,134.8
Total Assets                                              $24,307.5   $23,810.0

Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity
Current Liabilities
Debt maturing within one year                             $ 1,385.7   $ 1,279.3
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                    2,876.2     2,634.1
Dividends payable                                             226.6       219.0
Total current liabilities                                   4,488.5     4,132.4
Long-Term Debt                                              5,459.4     5,716.1

Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities
Deferred income taxes                                       2,387.0     3,527.6
Postemployment benefit obligation                           2,897.0         -  
Unamortized investment tax credits                            430.4       496.2
Other noncurrent liabilities                                1,036.6       633.4
Total deferred credits and other noncurrent liabilities     6,751.0     4,657.2

Commitments (Notes 5, 12)

Shareowners' Equity
Preferred shares ($1 par value, 10,000,000 authorized:
    none issued)                                                -           -  
Common shares ($1 par value, 1,100,000,000 authorized:
     issued 602,744,484 at December 31, 1993, and 
        601,778,178* at December 31, 1992)                    602.7       300.9
Capital in excess of par value                              5,577.0     5,834.8
Retained earnings                                           1,891.4     3,634.8
Guaranteed obligations of employee stock ownership plans     (352.9)     (397.3)
Treasury shares (2,510,404 at December 31, 1993, and
    2,031,584* at December 31, 1992, at cost)                (109.6)      (68.9)
Total shareowners' equity                                   7,608.6     9,304.3
Total Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity                 $24,307.5   $23,810.0

*Restated to reflect two-for-one stock split effective May 25, 1993.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated 
financial statements.



 

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Dollars in millions, increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
                                                     1993         1992         1991
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
Operating Activities
Net income (loss)                              $   (845.2)  $  1,301.7   $  1,075.8
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) 
  to net cash
  provided by operating activities:
   Depreciation and amortization                  2,007.0      1,842.2      1,765.0
   Undistributed earnings from investments 
    in equity affiliates                           (177.3)      (168.5)       (87.2)
   Provision for uncollectible accounts             149.9        134.9        127.8
   Amortization of investment tax credits           (65.8)       (72.9)       (87.4)
   Pensions and other postemployment expenses       289.9         78.6        (57.8)
   Deferred income tax expense                     (123.8)        19.4         14.5
   Extraordinary loss, net of tax                   153.2          -           80.7
   Cumulative effect of accounting 
    changes, net of tax                           2,127.2          -            -  
   Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
      Accounts receivable                          (275.5)      (284.9)      (168.4)
      Other current assets                           (5.7)      (134.0)       (86.7)
      Accounts payable and accrued liabilities      303.3        353.8        162.7
   Other - net                                      (96.4)       544.4        154.0
Total adjustments                                 4,286.0      2,313.0      1,817.2
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities         3,440.8      3,614.7      2,893.0

Investing Activities
Construction and capital expenditures            (2,221.1)    (2,144.3)    (1,826.4)
Investments in equity affiliates                      -            -         (467.3)
Purchase of short-term investments                 (419.7)      (195.0)      (126.8)
Proceeds from sale of short-term investments        315.5        120.4        259.1
Dispositions and (acquisitions) - net               257.4        (60.9)      (201.5)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities            (2,067.9)    (2,279.8)    (2,362.9)

Financing Activities
Net change in short-term borrowings with original
   maturities of three months or less               (11.0)      (332.2)        21.1
Issuance of other short-term borrowings              16.0        521.4          -  
Repayment of other short-term borrowings           (137.7)      (394.8)         -  
Issuance of long-term debt                        2,178.1        556.6      1,218.7
Repayment of long-term debt                        (215.8)      (245.7)        (9.8)
Early extinguishment of debt and related 
call premiums                                    (2,190.3)      (355.6)      (799.5)
Issuance of common shares                            18.0          -            -  
Purchase of treasury shares                        (191.1)      (161.5)      (147.3)
Issuance of treasury shares                          77.6         35.0         23.3
Dividends paid                                     (803.5)      (780.4)      (759.3)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities            (1,259.7)    (1,157.2)      (452.8)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents           113.2        177.7         77.3
Cash and cash equivalents beginning of year         505.2        327.5        250.2
Cash and Cash Equivalents End of Year          $    618.4   $    505.2   $    327.5

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial 
statements.
</TABLE>


 

<TABLE>


      Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity
      Dollars in millions except per share amounts 
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Guaranteed
                                                                         Obligations
                                                    Capital               of Employee        
                                                    in                    Stock                
                                  Common Shares     Excess of   Retained   Ownership     Treasury Shares    
                               Shares       Amount  Par Value   Earnings      Plans      Shares       Amount            Total
                               
        <S>                   <C>           <C>     <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>           <C>      <C>
        Balance, December
        31, 1990               300,889,089  $300.9   $5,824.0    $2,985.9     $(475.6)   (1,019,640)   $(54.0)   $8,581.2
        Net income for the
         year
         ($1.79 per share*)              -       -          -     1,075.8            -             -         -
        Dividends to
         shareowners
         ($1.42 per share*)              -       -          -     (852.4)            -             -         -
        Reduction of debt
         Employee Stock
         Ownership Plans                 -       -          -           -         36.9             -         -
        Purchase of treasury
         shares                          -       -          -           -            -   (2,757,626)   (147.3)
        Issuance of treasury
         shares
         Dividend
          Reinvestment Plan              -       -        3.2           -            -     1,864,012      97.5
         Other issuances                 -       -        1.9           -            -     1,182,055      62.4

        Balance, December
         31, 1991              300,889,089   300.9    5,829.1     3,209.3      (438.7)     (731,199)    (41.4)    8,859.2
        Net income for the
         year
         ($2.17 per share*)              -       -          -     1,301.7            -             -         - <PAGE>
 
        Dividends to
         shareowners
         ($1.46 per share*)              -       -          -     (876.2)            -             -         -
        Reduction of debt
         Employee Stock
        Ownership Plans                  -       -          -           -         41.4             -         -
        Purchase of treasury
        shares                           -       -          -           -            -   (2,514,092)   (161.5)
        Issuance of treasury
        shares
         Dividend
         Reinvestment Plan               -       -        5.5           -            -     1,799,731     108.6
         Other issuances                 -       -        0.2           -            -       429,768      25.4

        Balance, December
         31, 1992               300,889,089   300.9    5,834.8     3,634.8      (397.3)   (1,015,792)    (68.9)    9,304.3
        Net income (loss)
         for the year
         ($(1.41) per share)             -       -          -     (845.2)            -             -         -
        Dividends to
         shareowners
         ($1.51 per share)               -       -          -     (905.3)            -             -         -
        Two-for-one stock
         split                 300,889,089   300.9    (300.9)           -            -     (731,569)         -
        Reduction of debt
         Employee Stock
         Ownership Plans                 -       -          -           -         44.4             -         -
        Issuance of common
         shares                    966,306     0.9       41.2           -            -             -         -
        Purchase of treasury
         shares                          -       -          -           -            -   (3,660,698)   (192.9)
        Issuance of treasury
         shares
         Dividend
         Reinvestment Plan               -       -        4.0           -            -     1,889,232     103.2
         Other issuances                 -       -      (2.1)           -            -     1,008,423      49.0
        Other                            -       -          -         7.1            -             -         - <PAGE>
 
        Balance, December
         31, 1993              602,744,484  $602.7   $5,577.0    $1,891.4     $(352.9)   (2,510,404)  $(109.6)   $7,608.6
<FN>
       * Restated to reflect two-for-one stock split effective May 25, 1993.

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>

                                                   

 



          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                    Dollars in millions except per share amounts


          1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

               Basis of Presentation  The consolidated financial statements
               include the accounts of Southwestern Bell Corporation and
               its majority-owned subsidiaries (Corporation).  Southwestern
               Bell Telephone Company (Telephone Company) is the
               Corporation's largest subsidiary.  All significant
               intercompany transactions are eliminated in the
               consolidation process.  Investments in partnerships, joint
               ventures and less than majority-owned subsidiaries are
               principally accounted for under the equity method.  Earnings
               from foreign investments accounted for under the equity
               method are included for periods ended within three months of
               the Corporation's year end.  Certain amounts in prior period
               financial statements have been reclassified to conform to
               the current year's presentation.

               Regulatory Accounting  The Corporation prepares its
               financial statements in accordance with the provisions of
               Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71,
               "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation"
               (Statement No. 71).  The provisions of Statement No. 71
               require, among other things, that regulated enterprises
               reflect rate actions of regulators in their financial
               statements, when appropriate.  These rate actions can
               provide reasonable assurance of the existence of an asset,
               reduce or eliminate the value of an asset, or impose a
               liability on a regulated enterprise.

               Allowance for Funds Used During Construction  Where capital
               invested by the Telephone Company in construction projects
               is not allowed in the rate base upon which revenue
               requirements are determined, it is the practice of
               regulatory authorities to allow, in lieu thereof, a
               capitalization of interest and equity costs during periods
               of construction.  These capitalized costs are reflected as
               income during the construction period and as an addition to
               the cost of plant constructed, and are included in other
               expense-net on the Corporation's Consolidated Statements of
               Income.

               Income Taxes  Deferred income taxes are provided for certain
               temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
               and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
               amounts used for tax purposes. <PAGE>
 

                    Investment tax credits resulted from federal tax law
               provisions that allowed for a reduction in income tax
               liability based on certain construction and capital
               expenditures.  Corresponding income tax expense reductions
               were deferred and are being amortized as reductions in
               income tax expense over the life of the property, plant and
               equipment that gave rise to the credits.

                    Effective January 1, 1993, the Corporation adopted a
               new accounting standard for accounting for income taxes. 
               See Note 3. 

               Cash Equivalents  Cash equivalents include all highly liquid
               investments with an original maturity of three months or
               less.  The carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates
               fair value.

               Deferred Charges  Certain cellular service sales commissions
               are deferred and amortized over 12 months.  Directory
               advertising costs are deferred until the directory is
               published and advertising revenues related to these costs
               are recognized.

               Material and Supplies  New and reusable materials are
               carried principally at average original cost.  Specific
               costs are used for large individual items.  Nonreusable
               material is carried at estimated salvage value.

               Property, Plant and Equipment  The cost of additions and
               substantial betterments of property, plant and equipment is
               capitalized.  Cost includes salaries and wages, material,
               applicable taxes, pensions and other benefits, allowance for
               funds used during construction and certain other items.

                    The Telephone Company computes depreciation using
               certain straight-line methods as prescribed by the FCC and
               the applicable state regulatory authorities.  The Telephone
               Company's provision for depreciation includes the
               amortization of interstate and certain intrastate
               accumulated depreciation deficiencies (reserve deficiency
               amortization).  Reserve deficiency amortization allows
               additional depreciation to be recognized currently in an
               attempt to reflect more accurately prior years' actual
               consumption of telephone plant.  

                    When a portion of the Telephone Company's depreciable
               property, plant and equipment is retired, the gross book
               value is charged to accumulated depreciation.

                    Property, plant and equipment of the Corporation, other
               than the Telephone Company, are depreciated on a straight-
               line method over their estimated useful lives, generally
               ranging from 3 to 40 years.

                    The cost of maintenance and repairs of property, plant 
               and equipment, including the cost of replacing minor items
               not constituting substantial betterments, is charged to
               operating expenses.

               Intangible Assets  Intangible assets consist primarily of
               licenses, customer lists and the excess of consideration
               paid over net assets acquired in business combinations and
               are being amortized using the straight-line method, over
               periods generally ranging from 5 to 40 years.

               Earnings Per Common Share  The earnings per common share
               computation uses the weighted average number of common
               shares outstanding, including shares held by employee stock
               ownership plans.  Common stock equivalents outstanding are
               not considered dilutive.

          2.   Employee Retirement Benefits

               Pensions  Substantially all employees of the Corporation are
               covered by noncontributory pension and death benefit plans. 
               The pension benefit formula used in the determination of
               pension cost is based on a flat dollar amount per year of
               service according to job classification for nonmanagement
               employees, and a stated percentage of adjusted career income
               for management employees.  

                    The Corporation's objective in funding the plans, in
               combination with the standards of the Employee Retirement
               Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended), is to accumulate
               funds sufficient to meet its benefit obligations to
               employees upon their retirement.  Contributions to the plans
               are made to a trust for the benefit of plan participants. 
               Plan assets consist primarily of stocks, U.S. government and
               domestic corporate bonds and real estate. <PAGE>
 



                    Net pension cost is composed of the following:
                                       1993           1992           1991

    Service cost--benefits earned    $  131.1       $  126.5      $   116.0
      during the period
    Interest cost on projected          428.3          399.5          382.8
      benefit obligation
    Actual return on plan assets     (1,019.9)        (312.0)      (1,545.1)
    Other--net                          498.7         (139.8)         988.5
                                                          
    Net pension cost (credit)       $    38.2      $    74.2     $    (57.8)

    Amount capitalized in           $     1.5      $    11.5     $     (5.5)
     property, plant and
     equipment 



              The following table sets forth the pension plans' funded
         status and amounts recognized as other assets in the
         Corporation's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31:

                                     1993         1992

     Fair value of plan assets    $ 7,507.9     $6,970.2
     Less: Actuarial present        6,319.5      5,772.2
      value of projected benefit
      obligation
     Plan assets in excess of       1,188.4      1,198.0 
      projected benefit
      obligation
     Unrecognized prior service       785.5        744.6
      cost
     Unrecognized net gain           (867.4)      (591.1)
     Unamortized transition          (849.3)      (930.7)
      asset
     Prepaid pension cost         $   257.2     $  420.8


              Significant assumptions used in developing pension
         information include:
                                     1993        1992         1991

     Assumed discount rate for        
     determining projected           7.25%        7.5%          7.5%  
      benefit obligation                                         
     Assumed long-term rate          8.0%         8.0%          7.75% 
      of return on plan assets                      
     Assumed composite rate of       4.6%         4.6%          4.6%  
      compensation increase                                       

              The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present
         value of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula
         to previously rendered employee service.  It is measured based on
         assumptions concerning future interest rates and employee
         compensation levels.  Should actual experience differ from the
         actuarial assumptions, the benefit obligation will be affected.

              The actuarial estimate of the accumulated benefit obligation
         does not include assumptions about future compensation levels. 
         The accumulated benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, was
         $5,815.0, of which $5,197.8 was vested.  At December 31, 1992,
         these amounts were $5,324.1 and $4,804.2, respectively.

              In December 1993 and 1992, under the provisions of Section
         420 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Corporation transferred
         $123.9 and $114.5, respectively, in pension assets to a health
         care benefit account for the reimbursement of retiree health care
         benefits paid by the Corporation. <PAGE>
 


         Supplemental Retirement Plans  The Corporation also provides
         senior and middle management employees with nonqualified,
         unfunded supplemental retirement and savings plans.  The plans
         allow employees to defer and invest portions of their current
         compensation for later payment, and the Corporation matches a
         percentage of the compensation deferral according to thresholds
         specified in the plans.  Expenses related to these plans were
         $66.8, $63.1 and $52.3 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively. 
         Liabilities of $483.4 and $412.9 related to these plans have been
         included in other noncurrent liabilities in the Corporation's
         Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
         respectively.

         Voluntary Retirement Programs  As a result of a March 1992
         agreement with the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the
         Telephone Company offered a limited early retirement plan to
         designated nonmanagement employees which included incentives
         affecting service pension eligibility and amounts.  Approximately
         1,200 nonmanagement employees participated in this offer.  The
         plan resulted in a charge to 1992 net income of approximately
         $24.

              In 1991, the Corporation amended the pension plan for
         management employees and offered incentives for managers to
         retire or resign effective December 30, 1991.  Approximately
         3,700 managers participated in the program in 1991.  The
         voluntary management retirement program resulted in a charge to
         1991 net income of approximately $30.

         Postretirement Benefits  The Corporation provides certain
         medical, dental and life insurance benefits to substantially all
         retired employees.  Effective January 1, 1993, the Corporation
         adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106,
         "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
         Pensions" (Statement No. 106), which requires accrual of
         actuarially determined postretirement benefit costs as active
         employees earn these benefits.  Prior to the adoption of
         Statement No. 106, the Corporation expensed retiree medical
         benefits when claims were incurred.  

              In implementing Statement No. 106, the Corporation
         immediately recognized an accumulated obligation for
         postretirement benefits (transition obligation) in the amount of
         $2,861.2 and a related deferred income tax benefit of $1,013.4. 
         The resulting 1993 charge to net income of $1,847.8, or $3.08 per
         share, is included in the cumulative effect of changes in
         accounting principles in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

              In accordance with Statement No. 71, a regulatory asset
         associated with the transition obligation was not recorded by the
         Telephone Company.  <PAGE>
 

              Postretirement benefit cost is composed of the following for
         the year ended December 31, 1993:
                                                      
                                      Health     Life        Total
                                                Insurance

     Service cost--benefits earned
      during the period              $   43.1   $    5.0   $    48.1
     Interest cost on accumulated
      postretirement benefit            212.3       19.3       231.6
      obligation (APBO)
     Actual return on assets            (10.4)     (17.8)      (28.2)
     Other--net                           1.4       (5.0)       (3.6)

     Postretirement benefit cost      $ 246.4   $    1.5     $ 247.9


              Expense recognized under the claims incurred method would
         have been approximately $129.5 for 1993.  In 1992 and 1991, the
         cost of providing these postretirement benefits was $104.9 and
         $97.2, respectively.

              In connection with the 1992 collective bargaining agreements
         negotiated between subsidiaries of the Corporation and the CWA,
         the Corporation established collectively bargained Voluntary
         Employee Beneficiary Association (CBVEBA) trusts to fund
         postretirement benefits.  In March 1993, the Corporation
         contributed $135.5 into the CBVEBA trusts to be ultimately used
         for the payment of postretirement benefits.  The Corporation also
         funds postretirement life insurance benefits at an actuarially
         determined rate.  Assets consist principally of stocks and U.S.
         government and corporate bonds. <PAGE>
 


              The following table sets forth the plans' funded status and
         the amount included in postemployment benefit obligation in the
         Corporation's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1993:

                                                    Life
                                         Health   Insurance    Total
                                                      

     Retirees                          $ 1,785.9  $  166.9 $ 1,952.8
     Fully eligible active plan            241.8      19.6     261.4
      participants
     Other active plan participants        800.4      85.9     886.3
     Total APBO                          2,828.1     272.4   3,100.5
     Fair value of plan assets            (145.9)   (296.6)   (442.5)
     APBO in excess of plan assets       2,682.2     (24.2)  2,658.0
     Unrecognized net gain (loss)          141.7      (6.9)    134.8
     Accrued (prepaid) postretirement  $ 2,823.9 $   (31.1)$ 2,792.8
      benefit


              The APBO was determined using an assumed discount rate of
         7.25 percent, a rate of future compensation increases of
         4.6 percent, and an expected long-term rate of return on plan
         assets of 8.0 percent. The assumed medical cost trend rate in
         1994 is approximately 10.5 percent, decreasing gradually to
         5.5 percent in 2004, prior to adjustment for cost-sharing
         provisions of the plan for active and certain recently retired
         employees.  The assumed dental cost rate in 1994 is 7.0 percent
         reducing to 5.0 percent in 2002.  The discount rate used in
         determining the postretirement benefit cost is 7.5 percent. 
         Raising the annual medical and dental cost trend rates by one
         percentage point increases the APBO as of December 31, 1993 by
         $206.4 and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the
         year ended December 31, 1993 by approximately $18.5.

         Postemployment Benefits  Under its benefit plans, the Corporation
         provides employees varying levels of disability pay, workers'
         compensation and medical benefits under specified circumstances. 
         Effective January 1, 1993, the Corporation adopted Statement of
         Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting
         for Postemployment Benefits" (Statement No. 112).  Statement No.
         112 requires accrual of these postemployment benefits at the
         occurrence of an event that renders an employee inactive or, if
         the benefits ratably vest, over the vesting period.  These
         expenses were previously recognized as the claims were incurred. 
         A charge to net income of $65.5, or $.11 per share, after a
         deferred tax benefit of $36.1, is included in the cumulative
         effect of changes in accounting principles in the 1993
         Consolidated Statement of Income.  Management does not anticipate
         that Statement No. 112 will materially affect ongoing
         postemployment benefit expense. <PAGE>
 

          3.   Income Taxes

                    The Corporation adopted Statement of Financial
               Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"
               (Statement No. 109) effective January 1, 1993.  In adopting
               Statement No. 109, the Corporation adjusted its net deferred
               income tax liability for all temporary differences between
               the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
               reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax
               purposes, computed based on provisions of the enacted tax
               law.  Financial statements prior to January 1, 1993, have
               not been restated to apply the provisions of Statement No.
               109.  The cumulative effect of adopting Statement No. 109 as
               of January 1, 1993 was to decrease net income for 1993 by
               $213.9, or $.36 per share, resulting primarily from the
               establishment of a deferred tax liability associated with
               certain prior acquisitions not related to the Telephone
               Company.  The adoption of Statement No. 109 had no material
               effect on pre-tax income.

                    As a result of implementing Statement No. 109, the
               Telephone Company recorded a $431.4 net reduction in its
               deferred tax liability.  This reduction was substantially
               offset by the establishment of a net regulatory liability in
               accordance with Statement No. 71, with minimal effect on net
               income.  The net regulatory liability recognizes the
               differences between the recording of income taxes for
               financial reporting purposes and recovery of those taxes
               through telephone service rates.  Amounts comprising the net
               liability will be amortized over the regulatory lives of the
               associated assets.  Future regulatory proceedings may affect
               the period in which these amounts are recognized in net
               income. <PAGE>
 


                    Significant components of the Corporation's deferred
               tax liabilities and assets as of December 31, 1993 are as
               follows:   

           Depreciation and                                     $ 3,439.1
           amortization   
           Employee benefits                                        131.9
           Other                                                    423.1
           Gross deferred tax                                     3,994.1
            liabilities      

           Employee benefits                                      1,281.6
           Unamortized investment tax                               156.9
            credits
           Other                                                    462.7
           Gross deferred tax assets                              1,901.2

           Deferred tax assets                                       70.0
            valuation allowance
           Net deferred tax                                     $ 2,162.9
            liabilities   


                    The components of income tax expense are as follows:

                                             1993       1992       1991
           Federal:                              

             Current                        $ 727.3    $ 560.4    $ 516.7
             Deferred--net                   (110.8)       0.7        6.9 
             Amortization of investment       (65.8)     (72.9)     (87.4)
              tax credits
                                              550.7      488.2      436.2

           State and local:                      
             Current                           87.3       61.1       43.9
             Deferred--net                    (13.0)      18.7        7.6

                                               74.3       79.8       51.5

           Total                            $ 625.0    $ 568.0    $ 487.7 



                    The components of deferred federal income tax expense
               for 1992 and 1991 as recorded prior to the adoption of
               Statement No. 109 are as follows:

                                                        1992       1991

           Depreciation and amortization                $ 29.6    $ (13.8)
           Employee benefits                             (93.7)     (13.6)
           Undistributed earnings from
            investments in equity                          60.7       25.5
            affiliates
           Other--net                                      4.1        8.8

           Total                                        $  0.7     $  6.9

                    A reconciliation of income tax expense and the amount
               computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate
               (35 percent for 1993, 34 percent for 1992 and 1991) to
               income before income taxes, extraordinary loss and
               cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles is as
               follows:

                                             1993       1992       1991
 
          Taxes computed at federal        $ 721.1     $635.7     $559.0 
           statutory rate

           Increases (decreases) in              
            taxes resulting  from:

           Amortization of investment            
            tax credits  over the life
            of the plant that gave rise       (65.8)     (72.9)     (87.4)
            to the credits
           Excess deferred taxes due to       (43.2)     (74.3)     (55.8)
            rate change
           Depreciation of telephone             
            plant  construction costs
            previously deducted for tax        22.5       21.7       23.2
            purposes--net
           State and local income                
            taxes--net of federal tax          48.3       52.7       34.0
            benefit
           Other--net                         (57.9)       5.1       14.7

           Total                            $ 625.0     $568.0     $487.7 <PAGE>
 



                    On August 10, 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
               Act was signed into law.  Among other provisions, the top
               corporate tax rate was raised to 35 percent, effective
               January 1, 1993.  The effect on net income was not material,
               as the increase in taxes on operating income and non-
               Telephone Company deferred tax liabilities was offset by an
               increase in deferred tax assets associated with the
               postemployment benefit obligation.  Increases in previously
               recorded deferred tax liabilities at the Telephone Company
               were offset by decreases in the net regulatory liability.

          4.   Property, Plant and Equipment

                    Property, plant and equipment, which is stated at cost,
               is summarized as follows at December 31:
                                                     1993          1992

           Telephone Company plant:                       

               In service                          $25,970.0    $25,005.4
               Under construction                      261.3        265.5

                                                    26,231.3     25,270.9

           Accumulated depreciation and
            amortization                           (10,532.2)    (9,604.8)
           Total Telephone Company                  15,699.1     15,666.1

           Other                                     1,939.3      1,707.5
           Accumulated depreciation and
            amortization                              (546.9)      (474.2)

           Total Other                               1,392.4      1,233.3

           Property, plant and equipment--net      $17,091.5    $16,899.4 <PAGE>
 



          5.   Leases

                    Certain facilities and equipment used in operations are
               under capital or operating leases.  Rental expenses under
               operating leases were $122.9,  $135.2 and $112.6 for 1993,
               1992 and 1991, respectively.  At December 31, 1993, the
               aggregate minimum rental commitments under noncancelable
               leases were as follows:
                                                 Operating      Capital 
           Year                                   Leases         Leases

           1994                                  $   71.7      $     6.4
           1995                                      58.7            3.0
           1996                                      40.6            2.2
           1997                                      32.9            1.3
           1998                                      28.1            1.3

           Thereafter                               153.2            3.4

           Total minimum lease payments          $  385.2           17.6

           Amount representing executory costs                      (1.7)
           Amount representing interest                             (4.3)

           Present value of minimum lease
           payments                                             $   11.6 



          6.   Debt Maturing Within One Year

                    Debt maturing within one year consists of the
               following at December 31:
                                          1993          1992        1991

        Commercial paper               $   890.5     $ 1,023.1 $ 1,228.6
        Current maturities of              495.2         256.2     370.7
         long-term debt               
        Total                          $ 1,385.7     $ 1,279.3 $ 1,599.3
                                           
        Commercial paper:                     
        Average amount outstanding
        during the year *              $ 1,139.5     $ 1,288.0 $ 1,328.6

        Maximum amount at any month
         end during the year           $ 1,379.5     $ 1,423.0 $ 1,643.8

        Weighted average interest rate
         at December 31,                     3.3%          3.5%      4.9%

        Weighted average interest rate on
         average  commercial paper **        3.2%          3.9%      6.1%
 
          *    Amounts represent average daily face amount.
          **   Computed by dividing the average daily face amount of
          commercial paper into the aggregate related interest expense.

                    At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the carrying amount of
               commercial paper approximates fair value.

                    The Corporation has entered into agreements with
               several banks for lines of credit totaling $770.0.  All of
               these agreements may be used to support commercial paper
               borrowings.  The majority of these lines are on a negotiated
               fee basis with interest rates negotiable at time of
               borrowing.  There were no borrowings outstanding under these
               lines of credit at December 31, 1993. <PAGE>
 


          7.   Long-Term Debt

                    Long-term debt, including interest rates and
               maturities, is summarized as follows at December 31: 

                                       Maturities        1993      1992

          Telephone Company debentures                     

             4.50%-5.88%  1995-2006               $     700.0   $   500.0
             6.12%-6.88%  2000-2024                   1,050.0       350.0
             7.00%-7.75%  1994-2025                   1,400.0       800.0
             8.25%-9.63%  1996-2024                     650.0     2,750.0

                                                      3,800.0     4,400.0
          Unamortized discount-net of premium           (34.2)     (168.9)

          Total Telephone Company debentures
          (Fair value of $3,830.8 and $4,427.0)       3,765.8     4,231.1

          Telephone Company notes                          
             5.04%-7.35%  1994-2010                     900.0       285.0
          Unamortized discount                           (4.8)       (1.3)

          Total Telephone Company notes
          (Fair value of $915.1 and $288.3)             895.2       283.7

          Guaranteed obligations of employee stock 
          ownership plans #                                

             8.41%-9.40%  1993-2000
          (Fair value of $398.5 and $397.5)             354.3       397.6

          Southwestern Bell Capital Corporation notes      
             4.59%-6.95%  1993-2000                     191.5       213.0
             7.00%-9.00%  1993-2004                     736.1       826.6

          Total Southwestern Bell Capital Corporation
           notes 
          (Fair value of $983.6 and $886.6)             927.6     1,039.6

          Capitalized leases and other                   11.7        20.3
          Total long-term debt, including current     5,954.6     5,972.3
           maturities

          Current maturities                           (495.2)     (256.2)
          Total long-term debt                      $ 5,459.4    $5,716.1

          # See Note 8. <PAGE>
 


                    The fair value of the Telephone Company debentures was
               based on quoted market prices.  The fair values of the notes
               for both the Telephone Company and Southwestern Bell Capital
               Corporation and the guaranteed obligations of employee stock
               ownership plans were estimated using a discounted cash flow
               analysis based on the yield to maturity of each issue.

                    The Corporation recorded extraordinary losses on the
               refinancing of long-term bonds by the Telephone Company of
               $153.2 and $80.7 in 1993 and 1991, respectively, net of
               related income tax benefits of $92.2 and $48.6,
               respectively.

                    The aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt
               scheduled for repayment for the years 1994 through 1998 are
               $495.2, $319.5, $377.6, $299.5 and $299.1, respectively.  As
               of December 31, 1993, the Corporation was in compliance with
               all covenants and conditions of indentures relating to its
               debt.

          8.   Employee Stock Ownership Plans

                    The Corporation maintains contributory savings plans
               which cover substantially all employees. Under the savings
               plans, the Corporation matches a stated percentage of
               eligible employee contributions, subject to a specified
               ceiling. 

                    The Corporation has two leveraged Employee Stock
               Ownership Plans (ESOPs) as part of the existing savings
               plans.  The ESOPs were funded with notes issued by the
               savings plans, the proceeds of which were used to purchase
               shares of the Corporation's common stock in the open market. 
               The notes are unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation.

                    The unpaid balance of notes is included in the
               accompanying consolidated balance sheets as long-term debt
               and as a reduction in shareowners' equity, reported as
               guaranteed obligations of employee stock ownership plans.
               The notes will be repaid with Corporation contributions to
               the savings plans, dividends paid on Corporation shares and
               interest earned on funds held by the ESOPs. 

                    Since 1990, the Corporation's match of employee
               contributions to the savings plans has been fulfilled with
               shares of stock allocated from the ESOPs and with purchases
               of the Corporation's stock in the open market.  Benefit cost
               is based on a combination of the contributions to the
               savings plans and the cost of shares allocated to
               participating employees' accounts.  Both benefit cost and
               interest expense on the notes are reduced by dividends on
               the Corporation's shares held by the ESOPs and interest
               earned on the ESOPs' funds. <PAGE>
 


                    Activity for the ESOPs and the savings plans for 1993,
               1992 and 1991 is summarized in the table below:

                                                   1993     1992     1991

        Benefit expense - net of dividends and
        interest income                            $29.0  $ 27.7   $ 24.0
        Interest expense - net of dividends and
         interest income                            19.9    22.6     25.2
        Net ESOP expense                            48.9    50.3     49.2
        Additional savings plans stock purchases     0.5     4.7      9.6
        Total expense                              $49.4  $ 55.0   $ 58.8
        Company contributions for ESOPs            $50.3  $ 50.4   $ 52.3
        Dividends and interest income for debt
         service                                   $26.3  $ 26.0   $ 25.7


          9.   Stock Option Plans

                    Under various plans, the Corporation is authorized to
               issue to senior and middle management employees up to 24
               million options to purchase shares of the Corporation's
               common stock (adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock
               split effective May 25, 1993).  Additionally, the
               Corporation is seeking shareowner approval at the 1994
               Annual Meeting of Shareowners to increase the number of
               options which may be issued under these plans to 28.5
               million.  Options become exercisable in periods of one year
               to three years after the date of grant and expire ten years
               after the date of grant.  All options issued through
               December 31, 1993, have been issued with exercise prices
               equal to the market price of the stock at the date of
               grant. <PAGE>
 

                    Information related to outstanding options is
          summarized below:
                                                                    Weighted
                                                                    Average
                                                                    Exercise
                                                     Number of     Price Per
                                                     Options*       Option*

           Outstanding January 1, 1991                    --            --

           Granted                                   439,388           $27.00
           Cancelled                                    (754)           27.00

           Outstanding December 31, 1991             438,634           $27.00

           Granted                                 5,192,742            32.73
           Exercised                                 (24,782)           27.00
           Cancelled                                 (23,648)           32.36

           Outstanding December 31, 1992           5,582,946           $32.31

           Granted                                 5,062,285            40.25
           Exercised                                (368,053)           30.72
           Cancelled                                (482,513)           35.89

           Outstanding December 31, 1993           9,794,665           $36.30

          *    Number of options and per option data restated to reflect
               two-for-one stock split effective    May 25, 1993.

                    Options to purchase 2,297,538 shares of Corporation
               stock were exercisable at December 31, 1993.

          10.  Shareowners' Equity

               Common Stock Split  The Board of Directors of the
               Corporation declared a two-for-one stock split in the form
               of a stock dividend on the shares of the Corporation's
               common stock, effective May 25, 1993.  The Corporation
               issued 300,889,089 additional shares of common stock in
               connection with the stock split and retained the current par
               value of $1.00 per share for all outstanding shares of
               common stock.  An amount equal to the aggregate par value of
               the additional shares of common stock issued was transferred
               from Capital in Excess of Par Value to Common Shares. 
               Weighted average common share amounts for periods prior to
               May 25, 1993 have been restated to reflect the effects of
               the stock split. <PAGE>
 


               Stock Repurchase Program  The Board has authorized the
               repurchase of up to 30 million shares, or 5 percent, of the
               Corporation's outstanding common stock.  These purchases
               would be in addition to purchases which may be made by or
               for the Corporation's employee benefit plans or the
               Southwestern Bell Corporation Dividend Reinvestment Plan for
               shareowners.  As of December 31, 1993, no shares had been
               repurchased pursuant to this authorization.

               Shareowners' Rights Plan  The Corporation has a Shareowners'
               Rights Plan (Plan).  The Plan becomes operative in certain
               events involving the acquisition of 20 percent or more of
               the Corporation's common stock by any person or group in a
               transaction not approved by the Board, or the designation by
               the Board of a person or group owning more than 10 percent
               of the outstanding stock as an adverse person, as provided
               in the Plan.  Upon the occurrence of these events, each
               right, unless redeemed by the Board, generally entitles the
               holder (other than the holder triggering the right) to
               purchase an amount of common stock of the Corporation (or,
               in certain circumstances, of the potential acquiror) having
               a value equal to two times the exercise price of $160.  The
               rights expire in January 1999.  After giving effect to the
               stock split in May 1993, each share of common stock also
               represents one-half of a right.

                    The rights have certain antitakeover effects.  The
               rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group
               that attempts to acquire the Corporation on terms not
               approved by the Board.

                    The rights should not interfere with any merger or
               other business combination approved by the Board since the
               rights may be redeemed. <PAGE>
 




          11.  Additional Financial Information                    

                                                        December 31,

           Balance Sheets                            1993         1992

           Accounts payable and accrued                      
           liabilities:
               Accounts payable                   $   893.1    $   951.5
               Accrued taxes                          554.5        429.1
               Advance billing and customer           278.6        251.3
                 deposits
               Compensated future absences            202.7        196.8
               Accrued interest                       130.9        136.8
               Accrued payroll                        117.7        116.0
               Other                                  698.7        552.6

           Total                                   $2,876.2     $2,634.1

           Statements of Income         1993         1992         1991

           Interest expense:                   

               Long-term debt       $   448.0     $   476.7     $  478.9
               Notes payable             36.8          50.1         81.1
               Other                     11.4           3.2         17.7

           Total                    $   496.2      $  530.0     $  577.7
           Allowance for funds
           used during
           construction            $     21.5     $    30.7     $   34.1


           Statements of Cash           1993         1992         1991
            Flows

           Cash paid during the            
            year for:
               Interest             $   502.0      $  538.4     $  581.5
               Income taxes         $   592.3      $  605.9     $  430.4 <PAGE>
 



          12.  Pending Acquisitions

                     In January 1994, the Corporation completed the
               purchase, for $650, of two cable television systems located
               in Montgomery County, Maryland, and Arlington County,
               Virginia.  Management does not expect the transaction to
               have a material effect on the Corporation's financial
               position or results of operations.

                    In December 1993, the Corporation and Cox Cable
               Communications (Cox) entered into a non-binding Memorandum
               of Understanding with respect to the formation of a $4.9
               billion partnership to own and operate cable television
               systems.  In return for a 40 percent general partnership
               interest, the Corporation would contribute $1.6 billion in
               cash or other assets within four years of formation.  The
               Corporation would have the option to increase its initial
               ownership stake to 50 percent within specified time frames,
               through additional cash or asset contributions.  Cox would
               contribute 21 cable television systems based on a negotiated
               value of $3.3 billion, and would hold a 60 percent general
               partnership interest and a $1 billion preferred partnership
               interest.  The transaction is subject to completion of
               negotiations and regulatory approvals.

                    In February 1994, the Corporation announced an
               agreement to purchase, for stock valued at $680, the
               domestic cellular business of Associated Communications
               Corporation (Assocciated), including cellular systems in
               Buffalo, Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls, New York.  These
               properties are adjacent to cellular systems in Syracuse,
               Utica and Ithaca, New York,  which the Corporation agreed to
               purchase from other parites in November 1993.  These
               transactions are subject to approvals by regulatory
               authorities, and in the case of the Associated acquisition,
               by its shareowners.

          13.  Equity Investments

                    Investments in affiliates accounted for under the
               equity method consist primarily of the Corporation's
               investment in Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex),
               Mexico's national telecommunications company.  In December
               1990, a consortium consisting of SBC International, Inc.
               (SBC International), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
               Corporation, together with a subsidiary of France Telecom
               and a group of Mexican investors led by Grupo Carso, S.A. de
               C.V., purchased all the Class AA shares of Telmex from the
               Mexican government.  The consortium has voting control of
               Telmex through its ownership of Class AA shares.  The
               Mexican investors have voting control of the consortium.

                    SBC International's share of the purchase price,
               including an option to buy certain additional shares, was
               $485.8.  In September 1991, SBC International exercised the 
               option to purchase 530,157,101 Class L shares of Telmex for
               $467.3.  The Class L shares have limited voting rights.  SBC
               International's interest in Telmex represents approximately
               10 percent of Telmex's total equity capitalization.

                    The Telmex acquisitions were recorded using the
               purchase method of accounting.  The purchase price in excess
               of the underlying fair value of identifiable net assets
               acquired is being amortized over 40 years.

                    The investment in Telmex L shares would not have had a
               material impact on consolidated results of operations for
               1991 had this acquisition occurred on January 1, 1991.  

                    Other equity investments include interests in
               Australian and Israeli operations which provide directory,
               cable television and other services.  

                    The following is a reconciliation of the Corporation's
               equity investments:
                                            1993      1992        1991

     Beginning of year                  $  1,249.4 $ 1,081.3 $     524.1

     Additional investments                   --        --         470.1
     Equity in net income                    249.7     208.0        94.5
     Dividends received and other            (78.3)    (39.9)       (7.4)

     End of year                        $  1,420.8 $ 1,249.4  $  1,081.3

                    The following table presents summarized financial
               information obtained from filings with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission by Telmex at December 31, or for the
               year ended:
                                         1993      1992       1991

       Balance Sheets

       Current assets                $  4,247.0 $ 3,930.6 $  4,008.5
       Noncurrent assets               12,785.6  11,212.1   10,555.0
       Current liabilities              1,255.6   1,133.1    1,272.2
       Noncurrent liabilities           3,848.5   3,244.4    3,823.0
       Shareowners' equity             11,928.6  10,765.0    9,468.4

       Income Statements

       Operating revenues            $  7,920.9 $ 7,200.2 $  6,334.7
       Operating income                 3,310.4   3,125.0    2,765.9
       Net income                       2,898.7   2,773.4    2,719.4 <PAGE>
 



             Such public information is based on Mexican generally
           accepted accounting principles and is adjusted to recognize the
           effects of inflation, including restatement of 1992 and 1991
           financial information for the 1993 inflation effect. 
           Translation to U.S. dollars was computed using the reported
           December 31, 1993, exchange rate of 3.1059 new pesos per
           dollar.

                Reconciliation to U.S. generally accepted accounting
           principles (GAAP) as reported by Telmex in such filings,
           including the cumulative effect of adopting Statement No. 109
           retroactive to January 1, 1990, reduced shareowners' equity at
           December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, by approximately $1,581,
           $1,793 and $1,873, respectively; and reduced net income for the
           12 months ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, by
           approximately $191, $293 and $702, respectively.

                Earnings reported by Telmex are not directly comparable to
           the Corporation's equity in net income of Telmex, which is
           based on U.S. GAAP, includes adjustments made pursuant to the
           purchase method of accounting and does not recognize the
           effects of inflation.

      14.  Segment and Major Customer Information

                The Corporation operates predominantly in the
           communications service industry.

                Approximately 12 percent in 1993 and 1992 and 14 percent
           in 1991 of the Corporation's consolidated revenues were from
           services provided to AT&T.  No other customer accounted for
           more than 10 percent of consolidated revenues. <PAGE>
 

          15.  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Calendar     Total Operating                                               Earnings Per
   Quarter          Revenues         Operating Income     Net Income (Loss)    Common Share

              1993       1992       1993      1992      1993       1992       1993    1992*

   <S>     <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>      <C>         <C>        <C>      <C>
   First   $ 2,457.8  $ 2,287.1   $  520.7  $  443.5 $(1,914.1)# $  261.6   $(3.19)# $0.44
   Second    2,539.3    2,388.6      574.9     518.5     294.4 #    304.5     0.49 #  0.51
   Third     2,795.1    2,617.7      655.3     635.9     388.6 #    385.6     0.65 #  0.64
   Fourth    2,898.1    2,722.0      628.7     599.5     385.9      350.0     0.64    0.58
   Total   $10,690.3  $10,015.4   $2,379.6  $2,197.4   $(845.2)  $1,301.7  $ (1.41) $ 2.17

<FN>
            * Restated to reflect two-for-one stock split effective May 25, 1993.

          # Includes extraordinary losses of $89.4 or $.15 per share, $43.6 or $.07 per share and
          $20.2 or $.03 per share for the first, second and third quarter of 1993, respectively.  The
          first quarter also includes a charge of $2,127.2 or $3.55 per share for cumulative effect of
          changes in accounting principles. <PAGE>
 

</TABLE>





          Stock Data

          Trading: Southwestern Bell Corporation is listed on the New York,
          Chicago and Pacific stock exchanges, as well as international
          exchanges in London, Zurich, Geneva and Basel.

          Ticker symbol (NYSE): SBC

          Daily newspaper stock table listing: SwBell or SowestBell <PAGE>

 








                                      APPENDIX 


          All page numbers referenced in this Exhibit and the Form 10-K
          relate to the printed Annual Report and/or Form 10k.  The
          order of the sections is as they appear in the printed 
          Annual Report.  The colored graphs and related footnotes 
          that appear in the printed document are approximately 
          1-1/2 inches by 3-1/2 inches.  The Stock Data section 
          appears on the back cover.


          A graph titled "Stock Performance (by quarter, adjusted for
          splits)" is shown on page 1.  Colored indicators are used to
          shown the 1993 High/Low; 1992 High/Low; and the Close.  Listed
          below are the plot points for the graph:

                                        High      Low       Close
          1992      First Quarter       33.000    28.500    28.750
                    Second Quarter      31.938    28.313    30.500
                    Third Quarter       34.500    30.438    34.250
                    Fourth Quarter      37.375    31.750    37.000

          1993      First Quarter       39.063    34.188    39.063
                    Second Quarter      40.750    37.000    38.750
                    Third Quarter       47.000    38.625    43.000
                    Fourth Quarter      45.250    39.625    41.500


          The section titled "Selected Financial and Operating Data" (shown
          on pages 20 and 21), details 10 year financial information for
          the Corporation.  In the printed document, the information is
          spread horizontally across two pages with just one set of
          headings on page 20.  Due to constraints in the EDGAR system for
          page width, the EDGAR version contains two sets of headings. 




          The section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
          Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appears on pages
          22-30.  The text of this section appears in two columns. <PAGE>
 


          A bar graph titled "Income Before Extraordinary Loss and
          Accounting Changes (in billions of dollars)" appears on page 22
          and to the right side of the subsection titled "Results of
          Operations - Summary".  The graph shows Income Before
          Extraordinary Loss and Accounting Changes for the past five
          years.  The actual figures are listed on the graph.  Listed below
          are the plot points:

               1989      1.09
               1990      1.10
               1991      1.16
               1992      1.30
               1993      1.44

           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph:
          Earnings grew at a compound annual rate of 7.0 percent from 1989
          to 1993.  



          A stacked bar graph titled "Distribution of Revenues(in billions
          of dollars)" appears on page 23 and to the right side of the
          subsection titled "Local Service".  The graph shows various
          categories of revenue distribution for the past five years.  The
          actual figures are listed on the graph.  Listed below are the
          plot points by category:

           Year   Total  Local     Network  Long-      Directory    Other
                         service   access   distance   advertising

           1989   8.7    3.7       2.7      1.0        0.7          0.6
           1990   9.1    3.9       2.6      1.1        0.8          0.7

           1991   9.3    4.2       2.4      1.0        0.9          0.8

           1992   10.0   4.7       2.5      1.0        0.9          0.9
           1993   10.7   5.2       2.7      1.0        0.9          0.9


           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph:
          Landline and wireless local service revenues grew to nearly half
          of total revenues in 1993. <PAGE>
 


          A bar graph titled "Access Lines (in millions)" appears in the
          right column on page 23 and to the left side of the subsection
          titled "Network Access".  The graph shows access line totals for
          the past five years.  The actual figures are listed on the graph. 
          Listed below are the plot points:

               1989      11.8
               1990      12.1
               1991      12.4
               1992      12.8
               1993      13.2

           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph: Access
          lines have grown 12.6 percent since 1989, including 3.4 percent
          growth in 1993.




          A stacked bar graph titled "Distribution of Expenses (in billions
          of dollars)" appears in the left column on page 24 and to the
          right side of the subsection titled "Cost of Services and
          Products".  The graph shows the categories of expenses for the
          past five years.  The actual figures are listed on the graph. 
          Listed below are the plot points:

           Year   Total  Cost of    Selling,         Depreciation
                         services   general and      and
                         and        administrative   amortization
                         products

           1989   6.7    2.9        1.9              1.9
           1990   7.1    3.2        2.2              1.7

           1991   7.2    3.1        2.3              1.8

           1992   7.8    3.4        2.6              1.8
           1993   8.3    3.4        2.9              2.0


           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph: Cost of
          services and products represents more than 40 percent of total
          operating expenses.
<PAGE>










          In the section titled "Operating Environment and Trends of the
          Business" and subsection "Regulatory Environment", 
          approximately one inch icons of the states of Missouri, 
          Oklahoma and Texas appear to the sides of the 
          subsections of the respective state.



          A bar graph titled "Capital Expenditures (in billions of
          dollars)" appears in the right column on page 29 and to the left
          side of the section titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and
          the subsection titled "Capital Expenditures and Other
          Commitments".  The graph shows Capital Expenditures for the past
          five years.  The actual figures are listed on the graph.  Listed
          below are the plot points:

               1989      1.48
               1990      1.78
               1991      1.83
               1992      2.14
               1993      2.22

           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph: Network
          modernization, digital conversion and cable television build-out
          contributed to 1992 and 1993 increases in capital expenditures.



          A bar graph titled "Dividends per Share (adjusted for splits)"
          appears in the left column on page 30 and to the right side of
          the subsection titled "Dividends Declared".  The graph shows
          Dividends for the past five years.  The actual figures are listed
          on the graph.  Listed below are the plot points:

               1989      1.30
               1990      1.38
               1991      1.42
               1992      1.46
               1993      1.51

           The following footnote appears at the base of the graph:
          Dividends increased 3.4 percent in 1993, the largest annual
          increase since 1990. <PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

 


                                                                 Exhibit 21


                    SUBSIDIARIES OF SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION
                                AS OF JANUARY 1, 1994



                                          State of         Conducts
           Name                         Incorporation       Business
                                                             Under

           Southwestern Bell              Missouri           Same
            Telephone Company


           Southwestern Bell               Dually            Same
            Mobile Systems, Inc.      incorporated in
                                        Delaware and
                                          Virginia

           SBC International, Inc.        Delaware           Same


           Southwestern Bell              Missouri           Same
            Yellow Pages, Inc.

           Associated Directory           Delaware           Same
            Services, Inc.


           Southwestern Bell              Delaware           Same
            Telecommunications,
            Inc.


           Southwestern Bell              Missouri           Same
            Printing Company

           Southwestern Bell              Delaware           Same
            Enterprises, Inc. 





          </TEXT>
          </DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>


                  

                                                                 EXHIBIT 23

                           Consent Of Independent Auditors




 

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual
          Report (Form 10K) of Southwestern Bell Corporation of our report
          dated February  11, 1994, included in the 1993 Annual Report to
          Shareowners of Southwestern Bell Corporation.

          Our audits also included the financial statement schedules of
          Southwestern Bell Corporation listed in Item 14(a).  These
          schedules are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. 
          Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. 
          In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to
          above, when considered in relation to the basic financial
          statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material
          respects the information set forth therein.

          We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the
          Registration Statements (Form S-8) pertaining to the Southwestern
          Bell Corporation Savings Plan for Salaried Employees and Savings
          and Security Plan (Non-Salaried Employees) (No. 33-38706), the
          Stock Savings Plan, Management Stock Savings Plan and Stock Based
          Savings Plan (No. 33-37451) and the Southwestern Bell Corporation
          1992 Stock Option Plan (No. 33-49855), and in the Registration
          Statements (Form S-3) pertaining to the Southwestern Bell
          Corporation Dividend Reinvestment Plan (Nos. 2-99261 and 33-
          49893), and Southwestern Bell Capital Corporation and
          Southwestern Bell Corporation (No. 33-45490), and in the related
          Prospectuses of our report dated February 11, 1994, with respect
          to the consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by
          reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph
          with respect to the financial statement schedules included in
          this Annual Report (From 10-K) for the year ended December 31,
          1993.



                                                   /s/ ERNST & YOUNG 

          San Antonio, Texas  
          March 15, 1994            





          </TEXT>
          </DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>


                                                          Exhibit 24




                                  POWER OF ATTORNEY

          KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

              THAT, WHEREAS, SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION, a Delaware
          corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation,"
          proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
          under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
          amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

              WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer or a director, or
          both, of the Corporation, as set forth beneath his or her
          signature;

              NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and
          appoints Robert G. Pope, James D. Ellis, William J. Free, Donald
          E. Kiernan, Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, his or her
          attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead,
          and in his or her office and capacity in the Corporation as an
          officer or a director, or, if he or she holds both such offices,
          then as both an officer and as a director, to execute and file
          such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file any
          amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to
          said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each
          and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or necessary to be
          done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and
          purposes as he or she might or could do if personally present at
          the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
          attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by
          virtue hereof.

              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of
          Attorney the 28th day of January, 1994.





          /s/ Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
          Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
          Director and Chairman of the Board
          and Chief Executive Officer  
<PAGE>









                                                          Exhibit 24

                                  POWER OF ATTORNEY

          KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

              THAT, WHEREAS, SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION, a Delaware
          corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation,"
          proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
          under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
          amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

              WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer or a director, or
          both, of the Corporation, as set forth beneath his or her
          signature;

              NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and
          appoints Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., Robert G. Pope, James D. Ellis,
          William J. Free, Donald E. Kiernan, Judith M. Sahm, or any one of
          them, his or her attorney, for him or her and in his or her name,
          place and stead, and in his or her office and capacity in the
          Corporation as an officer or a director, or, if he or she holds
          both such offices, then as both an officer and as a director, to
          execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute
          and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and
          granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and
          perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or
          necessary to be done in and concerning the premises, as fully to
          all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do if
          personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and
          confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
          cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of
          Attorney the 28th day of January, 1994.  


          /s/ Clarence C. Barksdale              /s/ James E. Barnes
          Clarence C. Barksdale                      James E. Barnes
          Director                                         Director 


          /s/ Jack S. Blanton                /s/ August A. Busch III
          Jack S. Blanton                        August A. Busch III
          Director                                         Director 
<PAGE>








          /s/ Ruben R. Cardenas               /s/ Martin K. Eby, Jr.
          Ruben R. Cardenas                      Martin K. Eby, Jr. 
          Director                                          Director


          /s/ Tom C. Frost                              /s/ Jess Hay
          Tom C. Frost                                      Jess Hay
          Director                                          Director



          /s/ B. R. Inman                      /s/ Charles F. Knight
          B. R. Inman                              Charles F. Knight
          Director                                         Director 



          /s/ Sybil C. Mobley            /s/ Haskell M. Monroe, Jr. 
          Sybil C. Mobley                     Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.
          Director                                          Director



          /s/ Carlos Slim Helu            /s/ Patricia P. Upton     
          Carlos Slim Helu                         Patricia P. Upton
          Director                                        Director  
<PAGE>








          Exhibit 24




                                  POWER OF ATTORNEY

          KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

              THAT, WHEREAS, SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION, a Delaware
          corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation,"
          proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
          under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
          amended, an annual report on Form 10-K, and

              WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer or a director, or
          both, of the Corporation, as set forth beneath his or her
          signature;

              NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and
          appoints Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, William J.
          Free, Donald E. Kiernan, Judith M. Sahm, or any one of them, his
          or her attorney, for him or her and in his or her name, place and
          stead, and in his or her office and capacity in the Corporation
          as an officer or a director, or, if he or she holds both such
          offices, then as both an officer and as a director, to execute
          and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute and file
          any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting
          to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each
          and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or necessary to be
          done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and
          purposes as he or she might or could do if personally present at
          the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
          attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by
          virtue hereof.

              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of
          Attorney the 28th day of January, 1994.





          /s/ R. G. Pope
          R. G. Pope
          Director and Vice Chairman <PAGE>
 






          </TEXT>
          </DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
