-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 P6fxQHc9lAbImmDqzpjsYcNl3sL1L99dgWUUm/DvfO7exQ77YW0ig7YxcSD/t5Lz
 QlEAPGW5Fxkkt89hJf1uig==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000732717-00-000018.txt : 20000313
<SEC-HEADER>0000732717-00-000018.hdr.sgml : 20000313
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000732717-00-000018
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000310

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732717
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				431301883
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08610
		FILM NUMBER:		565754

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON
		STREET 2:		ROOM 9-4
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2108214105

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		175 E HOUSTON
		STREET 2:		ROOM 9-4
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78205

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>1999 SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. FORM 10-K
<TEXT>




                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)

  |X|           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                    For fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                      OR

  |_|         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

          For the transition period from               to
                                         -------------    -------------

                        Commission File Number:  1-8610

                             SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

             Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
               I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

                 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                         Telephone Number 210-821-4105


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached
                                  Schedule A)

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes   X     No _____
    -------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ( )

Based on composite closing sales price of $43.375 per share on March 6, 2000,
the aggregate market value of all voting and non-voting stock held by
non-affiliates was $147,398,900,000.

As of March 6, 2000, 3,399,389,663 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)  Portions of SBC Communications Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareowners for the
     fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 (Parts I and II).

(2)  Portions of SBC Communications Inc.'s Notice of 2000 Annual Meeting and
     Proxy Statement dated March 10, 2000 (Parts III and IV).



<PAGE>


                                  SCHEDULE A

          Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act:


                                                         Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                               on which registered
        -------------------                               -------------------
Common Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per                     New York, Chicago and
Share)                                                 Pacific Stock Exchanges

7.75% Exchangeable Notes,                              New York Stock Exchange
Due March 15, 2001

7.56% Pacific Telesis Group                            New York Stock Exchange
Corporation-obligated mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts

8.50% Pacific Telesis Group                            New York Stock Exchange
Corporation-obligated mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts

6.875% Fifty Year Southwestern Bell                    New York Stock Exchange
Telephone Company Debentures,
Due March 31, 2048

6.875% Forty Year Southwestern Bell                    American Stock Exchange
Telephone Company Debentures,
Due February 1, 2011






<PAGE>

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS



Item                                                                  Page
- -----                                                                  ----
                                  PART I

 1.  Business.......................................................     4
 2.  Properties.....................................................    17
 3.  Legal Proceedings..............................................    17
 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............    17


  Executive Officers of the Registrant..............................    18


                                    PART II

 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
       Stockholder Matters..........................................    19
 6.  Selected Financial and Operating Data..........................    19
 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
       and Results of Operations....................................    19
 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.....    19
 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................    19
 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
       and Financial Disclosure.....................................    19


                                   PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.............    20
11.  Executive Compensation.........................................    20
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.    20
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................    20


                                    PART IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K   21




<PAGE>



                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                                     GENERAL

SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) is a holding company incorporated under the laws
of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 175
E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233 (telephone number 210-821-4105). SBC
maintains an Internet site at http://www.sbc.com.

History

SBC was formed as one of several regional holding companies (RHCs) created to
hold AT&T Corp.'s (AT&T) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, SBC was
spun-off from AT&T pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an
independent publicly traded telecommunications services provider. At formation,
SBC primarily operated in 5 southwestern states. SBC subsidiaries merged with
Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) in 1999, Southern New England
Telecommunications Corporation (SNET) in 1998 and Pacific Telesis Group (PAC) in
1997, thereby expanding SBC's wireline operations into a total of 13 states.
Since SBC was formed, it has implemented plans to develop and expand into
innovative new service and product offerings and to deliver those offerings,
along with many other new services, to new national and global markets. Its
strategy to enter new markets has been through mergers and acquisitions of
complementary businesses, strategic partnerships, and the development of its
global communications network. The services and products of SBC are marketed
under several established brands including Ameritech, CellularOne, Nevada Bell,
Pacific Bell, SBC Telecom, SNET, and Southwestern Bell.

Scope

SBC ranks among the largest providers of telecommunications services in the
United States and the world. Through its subsidiaries, SBC provides a
comprehensive offering of communications services and products in the United
States and has investments in 23 other countries around the world. SBC offers
its services and products to businesses and consumers, as well as other
providers of telecommunications services.

The services and products that SBC offers vary by market, and include: local
exchange services, wireless communications, long distance services, Internet
services, cable and wireless television services, security monitoring,
telecommunications equipment, messaging, paging, and directory advertising and
publishing. SBC groups its operating subsidiaries as follows:

o wireline subsidiaries provide primarily land and wire based services,
o wireless subsidiaries provide primarily radio wave based services,
o information and entertainment subsidiaries provide services primarily
    related to directory advertising and publishing, cable television, and
    security monitoring services, and
o international subsidiaries hold investments in foreign entities outside
    of the United States.

SBC's principal wireline subsidiaries provide telecommunications services in
California, Texas, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Missouri, Connecticut, Indiana,
Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas, and Nevada (13-state area). Certain
wireline local exchange services offered in the 13-state area are provided
through regulated subsidiaries which operate within authorized regions
(in-region) subject to regulation by each state in which they operate and by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Additional information relating to
Regulation is contained under the heading "Government Regulation" below and in
the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Operating
Environment and Trends of the Business", and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).


<PAGE>



National-Local

In 1999, SBC began to implement a "National-Local" strategy in conjunction with
its acquisition of Ameritech. Under the "National-Local" strategy, SBC will seek
to become a competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC) and offer local exchange
services in 30 new markets across the country in combination with other major
national and international operations. SBC expects to introduce service in nine
new markets in 2000, and another 21 during the following two years. This
"National-Local" strategy is part of SBC's overall strategy to expand from a
regional company to a company that provides communications services and products
nationally and globally.

Business Combinations

Ameritech Corporation

On October 8, 1999, SBC and Ameritech completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary
with Ameritech, in a transaction in which each share of Ameritech common stock
was exchanged for 1.316 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately
1,446 million shares). Ameritech became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC
effective with the merger, and the transaction has been accounted for as a
pooling of interests and a tax-free reorganization.

The FCC approved the merger in October 1999, subject to certain conditions,
including accelerated entry into new markets, so that SBC will offer wireline
services in 30 new markets within 30 months after the merger closing date. In
addition, SBC established a separate subsidiary to provide advanced services
such as Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) and agreed not to charge residential
customers minimum monthly long distance fees for at least three years after
entering the long distance business in that market. SBC will also offer a
low-income Lifeline universal service plan to low-income residential customers
in each state in its 13-state area. The FCC conditions require specific
performance and reporting provisions and contain enforcement provisions.

As a condition of the merger, Ameritech sold on October 8, 1999, 20 Midwestern
cellular properties including the competing cellular licenses in Chicago,
Illinois and St. Louis, Missouri.

Additional information on the Ameritech merger is contained in the 1999 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2).

Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation

In October 1998, SBC and SNET completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary with
SNET, in a transaction in which each share of SNET common stock was exchanged
for 1.7568 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 120 million
shares). SNET became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC effective with the merger
and the transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a
tax-free reorganization. Additional information on this matter is contained in
Note 2 of the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Pacific Telesis Group

In April 1997, SBC and PAC completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary with PAC,
in a transaction in which each outstanding share of PAC common stock was
exchanged for 1.4629 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 626
million shares). With the merger, PAC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC.
The transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free
reorganization. Additional information on this matter is contained in Note 2 of
the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

<PAGE>

Post-merger initiatives

Several strategic decisions resulted from the Ameritech, SNET, and PAC merger
integration processes. The decisions resulted from extensive reviews of
operations throughout each of the merged companies and included significant
integration of operations and consolidation of some administrative and support
functions. SBC recognized charges during 1999, 1998 and 1997 in connection with
the Ameritech, SNET and PAC merger initiatives. Charges arising out of the
mergers relating to relocation, retraining and other effects of consolidating
certain operations are being recognized in the periods those charges are
incurred.

Additional information on this matter is contained in Note 2 of the 1999 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2).

Reorganization

SBC is centralizing several key functions that will support the wireline
operations including network planning, strategic marketing and procurement. It
is also consolidating a number of corporate-wide support activities, including
research and development, information technology, financial transaction
processing and real estate management. These initiatives continue to result in
the creation of some jobs and the elimination and realignment of others, with
many of the affected employees changing job responsibilities, and in some cases
assuming positions in other locations.

Additional information on these matters is contained in Note 2 of the 1999 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2).




<PAGE>


                               BUSINESS OPERATIONS

Operating Segments

As a result of the merger with Ameritech and to better reflect the broadened
scope of its operations, SBC adjusted its segment reporting structure. SBC now
has four reportable segments that reflect the current management of its
business: Wireline, Wireless, Information and Entertainment, and International.
The Information and Entertainment segment expands on what was previously the
Directory segment, and includes all directory operations and Ameritech's
electronic security and cable television operations. All international
investment operations have been removed from the Other segment and are shown
separately in the International segment. The miscellaneous items that formerly
were included in the Other segment are immaterial and have been moved to
Corporate, Adjustments, and Eliminations. SBC evaluates performance based on
income before income taxes adjusted for normalized (i.e. one-time) items.

Financial information about reportable segments is included in Note 7 of the
1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and are incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Wireline

Wireline is SBC's largest operating segment, providing approximately 77 percent
of SBC's normalized operating revenues in 1999. The Wireline segment provides
landline telecommunications services, including local, network access and long
distance services, messaging, Internet services and sells customer premises and
private branch exchange (PBX) equipment, and markets satellite television
services. The Wireline segment provides its services to residential and business
customers through SBC's wireline telecommunications subsidiaries. The wireline
telecommunications subsidiaries provide services to approximately 37.2 million
residential and 22.7 million business access lines in the 13-state area. During
1999 total access lines grew by 3.1 percent, of which 33 percent of the increase
was due to growth in California, 19 percent in Texas and 9 percent in Illinois.
Access lines in California, Texas and Illinois account for approximately 60
percent of SBC's access lines.

Services and Products

Local exchange services - Local exchange services include traditional dial tone
primarily used to make or receive voice, fax, or analog modem calls from a
residence or business. The local exchange process transports the caller's signal
from the caller's telephone over an SBC transport facility and through an SBC
central office switching facility to another local telephone service location or
a long distance carrier selected by the caller. SBC also offers this service on
a wholesale basis to CLECs. At December 31, 1999, SBC provided wholesale
services to approximately 1.6 million access lines. Other local services include
certain extended area service, directory assistance, and operator services.

Vertical services include custom calling services provided by SBC's central
office facilities, such as Caller ID, Call Waiting, voice mail and other
enhanced services. These features allow the telephone users to manage their
local services with enhanced features such as displaying the number and/or name
of callers, signaling to the telephone user that additional calls are incoming,
and to send and receive voice messages.

Data services - Revenues from data services may be classified in local, network
access or long distance revenues and include high-speed data communication
services used for transporting digital traffic from one computer system to
another. Data services include digital products categorized into three basic
categories:

o    Switched Transport services such as Integrated Services Digital Network
     (ISDN), Frame Relay, and DSL;

<PAGE>

o    Dedicated Transport services such as Digital Services and Synchronous
     Optical Network (SONET); and

o    Application and Data Communications services which include Internet access
     and network integration.

ISDN transmits voice, video, and data over a single line in support of a wide
range of applications, including Internet access. Frame Relay is a fast packet
switching technology. Packet switching allows data to travel in individual
packets, or pieces, of information. DSL is a new digital modem technology that
converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines into access paths for multimedia
and high-speed data communications to the Internet or private networks. DSL
allows customers to simultaneously make a phone call and access information via
the Internet or an office local area network. Digital Services are high-speed
dedicated digital circuits offered with various speeds of transport. SONET
provides access to SBC's backbone network at very high speeds. Network
integration services include installation of business data systems, local area
networking, and other data networking solutions.

Network access services - Network access services connect a customer's telephone
or other equipment to the transmission facilities of other carriers that provide
long distance and other communications services.

Wireline long distance - Wireline long distance services primarily result from
the transport of intraLATA (Local Access Transport Area) telecommunications
traffic that is outside of a local calling area. SBC has been restricted from
providing interLATA long distance services within most of the in-region areas
due to historical regulatory restrictions. SBC provides wireline interLATA long
distance to its in-region customers in Connecticut, but is prohibited from
originating interLATA long distance calls from SBC's other in-region states.
Long distance services also include other services such as Wide Area
Telecommunications Service (WATS or 800 services) and other special services. In
addition, since 1996, SBC has offered wireline interLATA long distance services
to customers in selected areas outside the wireline subsidiaries' authorized
regions (out-region).

Customer premises equipment (CPE) - CPE and other equipment sales range from
single-line and cordless telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems, all of
which can be offered with the wireline subsidiaries' central office based
services and products. PBX is a private telephone switching system, usually
located on a customer's premises, which provides intra-premise telephone
services as well as access to the public switched network.

Cable Television - SBC also operates a cable television system under the SNET
brand in Connecticut that is currently included in the Wireline segment. SNET
began offering cable television service in the first quarter of 1997. As of
December 31, 1999, SNET provided cable television services to approximately
31,000 households in Connecticut.

Internet Services - SBC offers a range of Internet services and products for
residences and businesses, varying by market, from basic dial-up access to
high-bandwidth connections. Internet services offered include basic dial-up
access service, dedicated access, web hosting, e-mail, and high-speed access
services.

Broadband Initiative

In October 1999, as the first post-Ameritech merger initiative, SBC announced
plans to offer broadband services to approximately 80 percent of SBC's United
States wireline customers over the next three years (Project Pronto). SBC will
invest an estimated $6 billion in fiber, electronics and other technology for
this broadband initiative. The build-out will include moving many customers from
the existing copper network to a new fiber network. Over the deployment period,
marketing costs will be incurred depending on the rate of customer sign-ups and
installations. An ongoing assessment of the carrying value and economic useful
life of the existing network facilities will continue. Additional information on
this matter is contained in Note 5 of the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners,
and are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).
<PAGE>

Prodigy Agreement

In November 1999, SBC and Prodigy Communications Corporation (Prodigy) announced
an agreement to form a partnership that will join their consumer and small
business Internet operations. Under the terms of the agreement, which is
expected to close in the second quarter of 2000, SBC will make Prodigy its
exclusive retail consumer and small business Internet access service for
customers in SBC's service area. Prodigy will assume management of approximately
650,000 SBC subscribers of dial-up, ISDN and basic DSL Internet access services,
increasing Prodigy's total managed subscriber base to more than 2 million.
Subject to specific exceptions, SBC will exclusively market Prodigy service
through its extensive marketing channels with a commitment to deliver a minimum
of 1.2 million new customers over the next three years to the Prodigy member
base. The agreement provides SBC with a 43 percent ownership stake in the
partnership and a similar voting interest in Prodigy. Under certain
circumstances, this may translate into a direct ownership interest in Prodigy.
Required approvals for the transaction have been received from certain Federal
regulatory agencies that had jurisdiction to consider the transaction. The
agreement is subject to approval at a meeting of the shareholders of Prodigy,
which is anticipated in early 2000.

Sterling Commerce

In February 2000, SBC entered a definitive agreement to acquire Sterling
Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), a provider of electronic business integration
solutions, in an all cash tender offer valued at approximately $3.9 billion in
which Sterling would merge with an SBC subsidiary. Sterling specializes in
creating, powering and managing secure "e-Marketplace communities" where
multiple buyers and sellers can conduct real-time transactions, exchange goods
and services, facilitate business-to-business opportunities, and share
information faster and at lower costs. The transaction is expected to be
completed by the end of the second quarter of 2000.

DIRECTV Agreement

In July 1999, SBC entered into a strategic marketing and distribution agreement
with DIRECTV, Inc. that will make high-quality digital satellite television
service available to certain SBC wireline residential customers. SBC, through
DIRECTV, Inc., will offer customers a digital video entertainment service.

Williams Communications

In October 1999, SBC acquired approximately 4 percent of Williams Communications
Group, Inc. (Williams Communications), a subsidiary of Williams Cos., Inc. for
an investment of approximately $439 million. Williams Communications provides a
national network of fiber optic cable for telecommunications traffic transport.
SBC and Williams Communications have entered into various service agreements for
utilization of their modern, high-speed telecommunications network.

Wireless

The Wireless segment provides domestic wireless telecommunications services,
including local, long distance and roaming services. Wireless services and
products offered also include certain enhanced services, paging services and
wireless equipment. The Wireless operating segment provided approximately 14
percent of SBC's operating revenues in 1999. Services and products are provided
to consumer and business customers through SBC's domestic wireless subsidiaries.
As of December 31, 1999, SBC provides wireless services to approximately 11.2
million customers domestically.
<PAGE>

SBC offers wireless services in many markets across the nation using both
traditional cellular and new personal communication services (PCS) networks.
SBC's network facility-based wireless service areas cover approximately 117
million persons and its markets include 23 of the largest 35 metropolitan areas
across the nation.

Services and Products

Wireless local services involve the transport of wireless local area traffic
between wireless telephones or equipment and other telephones or equipment.
Wireless long distance services provide subscribers the ability to call
destinations outside of the subscriber's home area. Roaming services allow
subscribers to use their wireless telephone equipment whenever they travel
outside of their home area. SBC has numerous roaming agreements with other
wireless carriers allowing SBC subscribers to use their wireless telephone
equipment throughout the United States and Canada where SBC does not operate
networks or hold wireless licenses.

Wireless subscribers' home service areas vary from market to market and from
provider to provider, but generally are based upon metropolitan area boundaries
and travel patterns, licenses, and available network facilities. Home service
areas for wireless services may not equate to wireline local service areas,
which are established by different government regulation. SBC also provides
wireless services to non-SBC wireless telephone users roaming on SBC's wireless
networks. With the increased popularity and rapid growth of wireless services
and the number of providers, including PCS, across the nation, SBC has
experienced increased utilization of its wireless networks from non-SBC wireless
customers and corresponding growth in wireless roaming revenues.

Since certain regulatory restrictions were removed in 1996, SBC began offering
wireless long distance services to its traditional cellular customers. At
December 31, 1999, SBC had been selected as the long distance carrier by
approximately 86 percent of its traditional cellular customers. SBC provides
long distance services to all of its PCS wireless customers.

SBC offers digital wireless service, including enhanced features, in most of the
metropolitan areas where it is licensed to provide wireless service. SBC first
began providing commercial digital service in Chicago in July 1993. Digital
service improves sound quality, provides a greater degree of privacy on
individual calls, increases call-handling capacity of the networks, allows
additional service offerings, extends wireless telephone battery lives, and
increases security against cloning.

SBC currently provides local and nationwide paging services to approximately 1.5
million customers, most in the Midwest. SBC paging offers features such as fax
notification, voice mail, and numeric and alpha paging.

Comcast Acquisition

In July 1999, SBC completed the acquisition of Comcast Cellular Corporation
(Comcast), the wireless subsidiary of Comcast Corporation. Comcast offers analog
and digital wireless services to subscribers in Pennsylvania, Delaware, New
Jersey and Illinois. With the acquisition, SBC added approximately 862,000
subscribers.

Puerto Rico Acquisition

During 1999, SBC and Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex) completed the
acquisition of Cellular Communications of Puerto Rico (Cellular Communications)
adding approximately 375,000 subscribers in Puerto Rico and the United States
Virgin Islands. SBC owns a 50 percent equity stake in Cellular Communications.
Cellular Communications offers wireless services under the Cellular One brand
name. The company also offers paging and long distance service in Puerto Rico
and is planning to offer wireline phone service in San Juan as a CLEC.
<PAGE>

Radiofone Acquisition

In March 2000, SBC completed the acquisition of Radiofone, Inc. (Radiofone).
Radiofone serves more than 200,000 wireless customers in Louisiana and Michigan,
and approximately 300,000 paging customers in 11 states.

Licenses

The FCC authorizes the licensing of multiple wireless carriers in each
geographic market. SBC's domestic cellular, paging and PCS services are provided
under various licenses granted by the FCC in each geographic market SBC serves.
Cellular and paging licenses are issued for a standard duration of ten years.
PCS licenses are issued for five years. Licenses are renewed upon demonstration
of compliance with the FCC's regulations and continued service to the public.

Information and Entertainment

The Information and Entertainment segment includes advertising, yellow and white
pages directories, electronic publishing, security monitoring services and cable
television services, excluding cable television services by SNET. The
Information and Entertainment operating segment provided approximately 10
percent of SBC's operating revenues in 1999.

Directory and Electronic Advertising Services

SBC's principal advertising, directory, yellow and white pages subsidiaries
operate primarily in the 13-state region. SBC, through its Information and
Entertainment subsidiaries publishes more than 122 million books representing
approximately 882 directories.

The Southwestern Bell and Ameritech branded directories are printed by R.R.
Donnelley & Sons. Pacific Bell and SNET branded directories are printed by
Quebecor World (USA) Inc.

In addition to traditional printed directories, SBC Interactive offers
SMARTpages on the Internet, located at http://www.smartpages.com providing
customers with national business listings, searchable by individual company name
and by topic category. The Ameritech Internet Yellow Pages, located at
http://www.yellowpages.net provides coverage of over 10 million United States
businesses and includes theme-oriented specialty guides.

Security Monitoring Services

SecurityLink offers a full array of electronic security products and services
for homes and businesses, including monitored burglar and fire alarm systems,
personal emergency response service, closed circuit television and electronic
access control.

Cable Television Services

SBC offers enhanced cable television services in the Chicago, Cleveland,
Columbus and Detroit metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 1999, SBC provides
cable services to approximately 281,000 customers in approximately 100
Midwestern communities. SBC has scaled back its expansion plans for new cable
franchises and is evaluating how the cable TV business fits strategically with
the rest of the business.
<PAGE>

Cable Television Licenses

SBC's cable television systems are subject to Federal, state and local
regulation, including regulation by the FCC and local franchising authorities,
concerning rates, service and programming access. SBC has entered into
approximately 115 cable television franchise agreements with local government
authorities. Generally, these franchise agreements are in effect for a period of
15 years, and are transferable with regulatory approval.

International

The International segment includes all of SBC's international investments. SBC
has direct or indirect interests in businesses located in 23 countries outside
the United States, and as of December 31, 1999, has investments of approximately
$10.3 billion in international affiliates. SBC's international investments are
key to its global strategy. Businesses include local and long distance telephone
services, wireless communications, voice messaging, data services, video
services, Internet access, telecommunications equipment, and directory
publishing.

Europe

Through its various subsidiaries, SBC is the largest non-European
telecommunications investor in Europe and is positioned to access this large
telecommunications market.

SBC holds a 41.6 percent stake in Tele Danmark A/S (Tele Danmark), Denmark's
primary full-service communications operator. Tele Danmark serves approximately
3.5 million access lines, 1.1 million cellular customers and 825,000 cable
television customers. Tele Danmark has a 16.5 percent investment in Belgacom
S.A. (Belgacom) as well as investments in wireless services in Poland, the
Ukraine, Lithuania, Austria, Germany and Norway. It has investments in
competitive communications providers in Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, and the
Czech Republic. Tele Danmark also has investments in local telephone operations
in Hungary and an international digital transmission link through Russia, and
Korea and Japan. In addition, since 1998, Belgacom and Tele Danmark, through a
joint venture, have offered cellular service throughout the Netherlands.

In Belgium, SBC holds a 17.5 percent stake in Belgacom, the country's primary
full-service telecommunications operator and effectively controls 24.4 percent
of Belgacom when combined with its stake in Tele Danmark. With approximately 5.1
million access lines and more than 1.9 million cellular customers, Belgacom
provides local, long distance, cellular and other communications services and
offers directories and security services. Belgacom also has telecommunications
investments in France, the Netherlands, and Russia.

SBC holds a 15 percent equity interest in Cegetel S.A. (Cegetel), a holding
company, through a joint venture with France's Vivendi, a French diversified
public company. Cegetel owns 80 percent of Societe Francaise de Radiotelephone,
a nationwide cellular company with over 6.4 million customers.

In Germany, SBC, through its investment in Tele Danmark, indirectly owns 41.6
percent of Talkline Group, a cellular service provider and reseller. SBC also
owns Wer Liefert Was (WLW), a leading German-based publisher of
business-to-business directories for Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia, and the Czech
Republic.

In Hungary, through a joint venture with Deutsche Telekom (DT), SBC and DT each
hold a 29.8 percent stake in MATAV, the country's primary full-service
telecommunications operator. MATAV provides local, long distance and
international telephone service and is the controlling shareowner in certain
cellular ventures. MATAV has approximately 2.9 million access lines in a country
of 10.5 million people and serves over 867,000 cellular subscribers.
<PAGE>

In Norway, SBC has a direct 19.6 percent stake and effectively controls 27.9
percent in NetCom GSM (NetCom), through SBC's investment in Tele Danmark. NetCom
is one of the country's leading wireless telecommunications providers. With
approximately 720,000 customers, NetCom has a mobile infrastructure network
covering over 4.4 million persons.

SBC owns a 40 percent interest in diAx A.G (diAx), a consortium formed with
Switzerland's 6 largest electric utilities and other businesses, which offers
long distance, Internet and wireless services. Long distance services were
launched in May 1998 and wireless services in December 1998, and at year end
1999, diAx provided long distance services to 559,000 access lines (via equal
access) and 413,000 wireless subscribers.

Asia

Data traffic between Asia and North America is growing rapidly, driven in large
part by the increased popularity of the Internet. SBC has a 5.7 percent
investment in a consortium with China Telecom and twelve other
telecommunications companies that have laid high-speed undersea cable between
mainland China and the United States. SBC also has an approximate 5 percent
equity stake in a project to lay an undersea cable between Japan and the United
States. These cable networks are expected to meet trans-Pacific data and voice
traffic needs well into the future. The China cable project was made ready for
service in January 2000. The Japan cable project is scheduled to be completed in
2000.

SBC owns a 19.4 percent stake in TransAsia Telecommunications Inc. (TransAsia),
a consortium formed to provide cellular services in Taiwan's southern region,
headquartered in Kaohsiung. TransAsia serves over 478,000 cellular customers.

North America

Beyond its large United States presence, SBC is well positioned throughout North
America. The company has a 20 percent stake in Bell Canada, Canada's premier
telecommunications provider. Bell Canada offers a full range of services to more
than 11.2 million residential and business customers, including local, long
distance and wireless communications, Internet access, high-speed data services
and directories.

SBC also owns nearly a 9 percent equity share in Mexico's largest national
telecommunications provider of wireline and wireless services, Telmex, which
operates some 10.5 million access lines and serves more than 4.1 million
wireless customers. Through this relationship, SBC has worked with Telmex to
develop an advanced network, and has helped Telmex achieve its goal of enhanced
telephone service throughout Mexico.

South America

In January 2000, SBC and Telmex acquired a stake in Brazilian wireless provider
ATL - Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL), which serves customers in Brazil's Rio de
Janeiro and Espirito Santo states. As part of the transaction, Williams
Communications will reduce its stake to a 50 percent economic interest in ATL.
SBC and Telmex will have the opportunity to subsequently increase their
investment to a 50 percent stake in ATL, but cannot do so until 2004; until
then, Algar retains an investment in ATL as well as voting and board control of
ATL in accordance with Brazilian regulations.

In June 1999, SBC sold its remaining investment interests in Chile.
<PAGE>

Africa/Middle East

In 1997, SBC made a significant investment on the African continent when it
acquired an 18 percent ownership stake in Telkom, S.A. Limited (Telkom), South
Africa's state-owned local exchange, long distance, and cellular company.
Currently, Telkom serves 5.2 million access lines in South Africa, and also is
developing a second national wireless network, serving more than 2.1 million
wireless customers through Telkom's wireless subsidiary, Vodacom.

In Israel, SBC owns a 50 percent equity stake in the AUREC Group, a cable
television and publishing company. SBC also owns a 21.5 percent stake in Amdocs
Limited (Amdocs), a major supplier of billing and customer service software used
by telecommunications companies worldwide, and a 22 percent stake in a
consortium offering long distance service in Israel.

Financial information about foreign and domestic operations are included in Note
7 of the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and are incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

                            MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE

The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated total operating
revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10 percent or more of SBC's
consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.

- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------
                                            Percentage of Consolidated Total
                                                   Operating Revenues
- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------

                                                1999        1998         1997
- ----------------------------------------- ----------- ------------ ------------
Landline local service                           38%          37%          37%
Wireless subscriber                              12%          11%          11%
Network access                                   20%          21%          22%
- ----------------------------------------- ----------- ------------ ------------

Landline local service and network access revenues are included in the Wireline
segment's results of operations and each also exceeds 10 percent of Wireline's
total operating revenues. Wireless subscriber revenues are included in the
Wireless segment's results of operations and also exceeds 10 percent of
Wireless' total operating revenues.

                              GOVERNMENT REGULATION

In the in-region states, certain wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation
by state commissions which have the power to regulate, in varying degrees,
intrastate rates and services, including local, long distance and network access
services. Certain wireline subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of
the FCC with respect to interstate and international rates and services,
including interstate access charges. Access charges are designed to compensate
the wireline subsidiaries for the use of their facilities for the origination or
termination of long distance and access services by other carriers. Cable
television operations are also subject to certain FCC and state or local
jurisdiction with respect to service requirements.

Additional information relating to Federal and state regulation of the wireline
subsidiaries is contained in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading "Regulatory Environment" beginning on page 12, and is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).
<PAGE>

                   IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

Certain SBC subsidiaries own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights,
trademarks and other intellectual property necessary to conduct business. SBC
also licenses other companies to use this intellectual property. SBC does not
believe that the expiration of any of its intellectual property rights, or the
nonrenewal of those rights, would have a material adverse affect on its results.

                                 MAJOR CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for more than 10 percent of SBC's consolidated revenues in
1999, 1998 or 1997.

                                   COMPETITION

Wireline and Wireless

Information relating to wireline and wireless competition is contained in the
1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Competition" beginning
on page 16, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

Information and Entertainment

Information relating to directory and electronic advertising and publishing, and
cable television competition is contained in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners under the heading "Competition" beginning on page 16, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

International

Information relating to international competition is contained in the 1999 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading "Competition" beginning on page
16, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).

Customer Premises Equipment, Wireless Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

SBC faces significant competition from numerous companies in marketing its
telecommunications equipment.

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The majority of the research and development activities are related to the
Wireline and Wireless segments of SBC. Applied research is conducted at SBC
Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a subsidiary of SBC. TRI provides research,
technology planning and evaluation services to SBC and its subsidiaries.

Certain company-sponsored basic and applied research was also conducted at
Telcordia Technologies (Telcordia), formerly Bell Communications Research, Inc.
(Bellcore). SBC had owned a three-seventh interest in Bellcore, with the
remainder being owned by other RHCs. In November 1997, the RHCs sold Bellcore to
a third party but continue to have a research agreement with Telcordia. The RHCs
have retained the activities of Telcordia that coordinate the Federal
Government's telecommunications requirements for national security and emergency
preparedness.
<PAGE>

                                    EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1999, SBC employed 204,530 persons. Approximately two-thirds
of the employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA)
and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). Collective
bargaining agreements between the CWA or the IBEW and SBC's subsidiaries are in
effect with varying dates of expiration in the years 2001 and 2002. Among other
items, the agreements specify an average 11 percent increase in wages over the
life of the contracts.

                               RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

In-Region Long Distance

On December 16, 1999, the Texas Public Utility Commission voted unanimously to
endorse SBC's application to enter the Texas interLATA long distance market. SBC
must also receive FCC approval and has filed its long distance application to
provide interLATA long distance with the FCC on January 10, 2000. The FCC has 90
days after filing to act on the application.

            CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Information set forth in this form contains forward-looking statements that are
subject to risks and uncertainties. SBC claims the protection of the safe harbor
for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause SBC's future results to differ materially from
those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

     o    Adverse economic changes in the markets served by SBC, or countries in
          which SBC has significant investments.

     o    Changes in available technology.

     o    The final outcome of FCC rulemakings and judicial review, if any, of
          such rulemakings, including issues relating to jurisdiction.

     o    The final outcome of state regulatory proceedings in SBC's 13-state
          area, and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including
          proceedings relating to interconnection terms, access charges,
          universal service, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and
          reciprocal compensation.

     o    Enactment of additional state, Federal and/or foreign regulatory laws
          and regulations pertaining to SBC's subsidiaries and foreign
          investments.

     o    The timing of entry and the extent of competition in the local and
          intraLATA toll markets in SBC's 13-state area and SBC's entry into the
          in-region long distance market.

     o    The impact of the Ameritech transaction, including performance with
          respect to regulatory requirements and merger integration efforts.

     o    The timing and cost of deployment of SBC's broadband initiative also
          known as Project Pronto, its effect on the carrying value of the
          existing wireline network and the level of consumer demand for offered
          services.

Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially impact SBC's future earnings.



<PAGE>


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The properties of SBC do not lend themselves to description by character and
location of principal units. At December 31, 1999, 92 percent of the property,
plant and equipment of SBC was owned by the Wireline subsidiaries. Outside plant
facilities, including telephone poles, cabling, wiring and conduits represented
41 percent of the Wireline subsidiaries' investment in telephone plant; central
office equipment represented 40 percent; land and buildings represented 9
percent; other equipment, comprised principally of furniture and office
equipment, vehicles and other work equipment, represented 8 percent; and other
miscellaneous property represented 2 percent.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

SBC is a party to various legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business. While there can be no assurance as to the ultimate
outcome of any pending proceedings, as of the date of this report, SBC does not
believe that any pending legal proceedings to which SBC or its subsidiaries are
subject are required to be disclosed as material legal proceedings pursuant to
this item.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year covered by this report.


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                              EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          Name              Age               Position                                    Held Since
          ----              ---               --------                                    ----------
<S>                         <C>                                                           <C>

Edward E. Whitacre Jr.      58    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                     1/1990

Royce S. Caldwell           61    Vice Chairman and President - SBC Operations             11/1999

James W. Callaway           53    Group President - SBC Services                           11/1999

Cassandra C. Carr           55    Senior Executive Vice President - External Affairs       10/1998

James D. Ellis              56    Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel      3/1989

Charles E. Foster           63    Group President - SBC                                    7/1995

Karen E. Jennings           49    Senior Executive Vice President - Human Resources        10/1998

James S. Kahan              52    Senior Executive Vice President - Corporate              7/1993
                                  Development

Donald E. Kiernan           59    Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial         7/1993
                                  Officer and Treasurer

Edward A. Mueller           52    President - SBC International Operations                 11/1999

Stanley T. Sigman           52    Group President - SBC National Operations                11/1999


<FN>
All of the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions
with SBC or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years, except for Ms.
Jennings, who has held high-level managerial positions since 1995. Prior to
that, Ms. Jennings held responsible managerial positions with SBC. Executive
officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>



                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The number of shareowners of record as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 were
1,038,807 and 1,005,621. During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company sold
shares of common stock to non-employee directors pursuant to the Company's
Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan. Under the plan, a director may
make an annual election to receive all or part of his annual retainer or fees in
the form of SBC shares or deferred stock units (DSUs) that are convertible into
SBC shares. During this period, an aggregate of 3,270 SBC shares and DSUs were
purchased by non-employee directors at prices ranging from $47.50 to $52.00, in
each case the fair market value of the shares on the date of purchase. The
issuance of shares and DSUs were exempt from registration pursuant to Section
4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Other information required by this Item is
included in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the headings
"Quarterly Financial Information" on page 40, "Selected Financial and Operating
Data" on page 4, and "Stock Trading Information" on the back cover, which are
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners under the heading "Selected Financial and Operating Data" on page 4
which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information required by this Item is included in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners on page 5 through page 20, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information required by this Item is included in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners under the heading "Market Risk" on page 19 through page 20, which is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Information required by this Item is included in the 1999 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners on page 21 through page 40, which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in or disagreements with accountants have occurred on any accounting
or financial disclosure matters during the period covered by this report.




<PAGE>


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K
is furnished in a separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since
the registrant did not furnish such information in its definitive proxy
statement prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A. Other information required
by this Item 10 is included in the registrant's definitive proxy statement,
dated March 10, 2000, under the heading "Board of Directors" beginning on page 4
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" beginning on page
32 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(3).

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 10, 2000, under the headings "Compensation of
Directors" from page 14 through page 15, and "Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation", "Executive Compensation", "Pension Plans", and
"Contracts with Management" from page 20 through page 31, which are incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 10, 2000, under the heading "Common Stock Ownership
of Directors and Officers" on page 16, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this Item is included in the registrant's definitive
proxy statement, dated March 10, 2000, under the heading "Compensation of
Directors" from page 14 through page 15 and "Contracts with Management" from
page 30 through 31, which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).



<PAGE>





                                            PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                                            Page
                                                                             ---

  (1) Report of Independent Auditors......................................    *
      Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
       Consolidated Statements of Income..................................    *
       Consolidated Balance Sheets........................................    *
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows..............................    *
       Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity.....................    *
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.........................    *


      *Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
       registrant's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
       December 31, 1999. (See Part II.)

                                                                            Page
                                                                             ---

  (2) Financial Statement Schedules:
        II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.............................   25

      Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been
      omitted because the required information is contained in the financial
      statements and notes thereto, or because such schedules are not required
      or applicable.

      (3) Exhibits:

      Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as
      exhibits hereto. Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so incorporated
      are from File No. 1-8610.

    Exhibit
     Number
  -----------

    3-a    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of
           State of Delaware on April 28, 1998. (Exhibit 3-a to Form 10-Q dated
           March 31, 1998.)

    3-b    Certificate of Designation, filed with the Secretary of State of
           Delaware on March 31, 1997.(Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    3-c    Bylaws dated June 26, 1998. (Exhibit 3-c to Form 10-K for 1998.)

    4-a    Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no instrument
           which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
           registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith.
           Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to furnish
           a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

    4-b    Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between SBC and SBC
           Communications Capital Corporation. (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
           Statement No. 33-11669.)
<PAGE>

    4-c    Resolutions guaranteeing certain obligations of Pacific Telesis
           Group. (Exhibit 4-g to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    4-d    Guaranty of certain obligations of Pacific Bell Telephone Company and
           Southwestern Bell Telephone Company.

    4-e    Guaranty of certain obligations of Ameritech Capital Funding
           Corporation, Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Indiana Bell Telephone
           Company, Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone Company, The Ohio Bell
           Telephone Company, Pacific Bell Telephone Company, Southern New
           England Telecommunications Corporation, The Southern New England
           Telephone Company, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Wisconsin
           Bell, Inc.

    10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan. (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-b   Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form
           10-K for 1992.)

    10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K
           for 1997.)

    10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
           Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988),
           revised July 30, 1993. (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement No.
           33-54795.)

    10-f   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for
           Units of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or
           later), revised July 30, 1993. (Exhibit 10.6 to Registration
           Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-g   Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form
           10-K for 1986.)

    10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.

    10-i   Financial Counseling Program.   (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-j   Supplemental Health Plan. (Exhibit 10-j to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors. (Exhibit 10-k to Form
           10-K for 1997.)

    10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC
           and its directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
           Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

    10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of SBC
           and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K
           for 1988.)

    10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of SBC
           and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Approved November 21,
           1997). (Exhibit 10-n to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-o   Stock Savings Plan.

    10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.

    10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10-q to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

    10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-s to
           Form 10-K for 1997.)
<PAGE>

    10-t   Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee
           Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis
           Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

           10-t(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-u   Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
           (Exhibit 10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg.
           1-8609).)

    10-v   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
           (Exhibit 10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg.
           1-8609).)

           10-v(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
                (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-w   Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan. (Attachment A to
           Pacific Telesis Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11,
           1994, and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

           10-w(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective January 1, 1995.
                  (Attachment A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1995 Proxy
                  Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

    10-x   Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
           (Exhibit A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed
           February 26, 1990.)

           10-x(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective April 1, 1994.
                  (Exhibit 10xx(i) to Form 10-K for 1994 of Pacific Telesis
                  Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

    10-y   Agreement Regarding Change in Control, dated as of January 19, 1994,
           between Ameritech and Richard C. Notebaert, together with a schedule
           identifying another agreement in the same form (Exhibit 10mm to Form
           10-K for 1993, File No. 1-8612).

    12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for the fiscal year
           ended December 31, 1999. Only the information incorporated by
           reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

    21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

    23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

    23-b   Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

    24     Powers of Attorney.

    27-a   Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1999.

    27-b   Restated Financial Data Schedule - September 30, 1999.

    27-c   Restated Financial Data Schedule - June 30, 1999.

    27-d   Restated Financial Data Schedule - March 31, 1999.

    27-e   Restated Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1998.

    27-f   Restated Financial Data Schedule - September 30, 1998.

    27-g   Restated Financial Data Schedule - June 30, 1998.
<PAGE>

    27-h   Restated Financial Data Schedule - March 31, 1998.

    27-i   Restated Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1997.

    99-a   Report of Independent Accountants Arthur Andersen LLP.

    99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings Plan for the year 1999
           to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-c   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings and Security Plan for
           the year 1999 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-d   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Ameritech Savings Plan for
           Salaried Employees for the year 1999 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-e   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Ameritech Savings and Security
           Plan for Non-Salaried Employees for the year 1999 to be filed under
           Form 10-K/A.

SBC will furnish to shareowners upon request, and without charge, a copy of the
annual report to shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which are
incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K. SBC will furnish any other exhibit
at cost.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

      On October 12, 1999, SBC filed a Form 8-K, reporting on Item 2.
      Acquisition or Disposition of Assets. In the report, SBC announced the
      close of the merger with Ameritech Corporation on October 8, 1999.

      On October 19, 1999, SBC filed a Form 8-K, reporting on Item 5. Other
      Events and Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. In the report, SBC
      disclosed a press release announcing the launch of a $6 billion broadband
      initiative.

      On October 29, 1999, SBC filed a Form 8-K, reporting on Item 5. Other
      Events and Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. In the report, SBC
      disclosed a press release announcing third quarter earnings and containing
      unaudited pro forma combined financial statements reflecting the merger of
      a subsidiary of SBC and Ameritech Corporation.


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                     Schedule II - Sheet 1
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                             Allowance for Uncollectibles
                                                  Dollars in Millions


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D       COL. E
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                               (1)            (2)
                                                                            Charged
                                            Balance at       Charged        to Other                     Balance
                                           Beginning of   to Costs and      Accounts      Deductions    at End of
               Description                    Period      Expenses-Note    -Note (b)      -Note (c)      Period
                                                               (a)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>             <C>              <C>           <C>          <C>
 Year 1999..............................    $  810           1,136            596           1,443        $ 1,099
 Year 1998..............................    $  737             896            603           1,426        $   810
 Year 1997..............................    $  659             938            809           1,669        $   737







<FN>
(a)  Excludes direct charges and credits to expense on the statements of income
     and reinvested earnings related to interexchange carrier receivables.

(b)  Includes amounts previously written off which were credited directly to
     this account when recovered and amounts related to long-distance carrier
     receivables which are being billed by SBC.

(c)  Amounts written off as uncollectible.
</FN>
</TABLE>





<PAGE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                         Schedule II - Sheet 2
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                        Accumulated Amortization of Intangibles
                                                  Dollars in Millions


- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D        COL. E
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                               (1)            (2)

                                            Balance at                      Charged                       Balance
                                           Beginning of      Charged        to Other                     at End of
               Description                    Period       to Expense       Accounts      Deductions      Period
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>               <C>           <C>             <C>           <C>
 Year 1999..............................    $ 1,111            378             8             172           $ 1,325
 Year 1998..............................    $ 1,485            275             3             652(a)        $ 1,111
 Year 1997..............................    $   971            504            62              52           $ 1,485











<FN>
(a)  Primarily related to the disposition of SBC Media Ventures, Inc. and an impairment of
     an investment in wireless video.
</FN>
</TABLE>



<PAGE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                        Schedule II - Sheet 3
                                    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                               Reserve for Restructuring
                                                  Dollars in Millions

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 COL. A                       COL. B                 COL. C                 COL. D        COL. E
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Additions
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                               (1)            (2)

                                            Balance at       Charged        Charged                       Balance
                                           Beginning of   to Costs and      to Other      Deductions     at End of
               Description                    Period        Expenses        Accounts      -Note (a)       Period
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>               <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>
Year 1999..............................     $  123               5             -             114           $   14
Year 1998..............................     $   86             104             -              67           $  123
Year 1997..............................     $  226               -             -             140           $   86

<FN>
(a)  Includes $99 in 1999 and $30 in 1998 that was reversed to other operating
     expenses for amounts no longer required.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 10th day of
March, 2000.

                                         SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.


                                         By  /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                         -----------------------------
                                         (Donald E. Kiernan
                                         Senior Executive Vice President,
                                         Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:
     Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*
     Chairman and
     Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and
 Accounting Officer:
     Donald E. Kiernan
     Senior Executive Vice President, Chief
     Financial Officer and Treasurer

                                          /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                         -----------------------------
                                         (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-in-fact
                                         and on his own behalf as Principal
                                         Financial Officer and Principal
                                         Accounting Officer)


                                         March 10, 2000

Directors:
- --------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*                Charles F. Knight*
Clarence C. Barksdale*                  Lynn M. Martin*
James E. Barnes*                        John B. McCoy*
August A. Busch III*                    Mary S. Metz*
Royce S. Caldwell*                      Toni Rembe*
Ruben R. Cardenas*                      S. Donley Ritchey*
William P. Clark*                       Joyce M. Roche'*
Martin K. Eby, Jr.*                     Richard M. Rosenberg*
Herman E. Gallegos*                     Carlos Slim Helu'*
Jess T. Hay*                            Laura D'Andrea Tyson*
James A. Henderson*                     Patricia P. Upton*
Bobby R. Inman*
- --------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------

* by power of attorney





<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits
    hereto. Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so incorporated are from
    File No. 1-8610.

   Exhibit
   Number
  ---------

    3-a    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of
           State of Delaware on April 28, 1998. (Exhibit 3-a to Form 10-Q dated
           March 31, 1998.)

    3-b    Certificate of Designation, filed with the Secretary of State of
           Delaware on March 31, 1997.(Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    3-c    Bylaws dated June 26, 1998. (Exhibit 3-c to Form 10-K for 1998.)

    4-a    Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no instrument
           which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
           registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith.
           Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to furnish
           a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

    4-b    Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between SBC and SBC
           Communications Capital Corporation. (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
           Statement No. 33-11669.)

    4-c    Resolutions guaranteeing certain obligations of Pacific Telesis
           Group. (Exhibit 4-g to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    4-d    Guaranty of certain obligations of Pacific Bell Telephone Company and
           Southwestern Bell Telephone Company.

           4-e Guaranty of certain obligations of Ameritech Capital Funding
           Corporation, Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Indiana Bell Telephone
           Company, Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone Company, The Ohio Bell
           Telephone Company, Pacific Bell Telephone Company, Southern New
           England Telecommunications Corporation, The Southern New England
           Telephone Company, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Wisconsin
           Bell, Inc.

    10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan. (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-b   Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form
           10-K for 1992.)

    10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K
           for 1997.)

    10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
           Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988),
           revised July 30, 1993. (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement No.
           33-54795.)

    10-f   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for
           Units of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or
           later), revised July 30, 1993. (Exhibit 10.6 to Registration
           Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-g   Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form
           10-K for 1986.)

    10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.

    10-i   Financial Counseling Program.   (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-j   Supplemental Health Plan. (Exhibit 10-j to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors. (Exhibit 10-k to Form
           10-K for 1997.)

    10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC
           and its directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
           Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

    10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of SBC
           and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K
           for 1988.)

    10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of SBC
           and certain officers of SBC's subsidiaries (Approved November 21,
           1997). (Exhibit 10-n to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-o   Stock Savings Plan.

    10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.

    10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10-q to Form 10-K for
           1997.)

    10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

    10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.   (Exhibit 10-s to
           Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-t   Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee
           Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis
           Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

           10-t(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21,
                1997.  (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-u   Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
           (Exhibit 10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg.
           1-8609).)

    10-v   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
           (Exhibit 10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg.
           1-8609).)

           10-v(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
                (Exhibit 10-v(i) to Form 10-K for 1997.)

    10-w   Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan. (Attachment A to
           Pacific Telesis Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11,
           1994, and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

           10-w(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective January 1, 1995.
                  (Attachment A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1995 Proxy
                  Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

    10-x   Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
           (Exhibit A to Pacific Telesis Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed
           February 26, 1990.)

           10-x(i)Resolutions amending the Plan, effective April 1, 1994.
                  (Exhibit 10xx(i) to Form 10-K for 1994 of Pacific Telesis
                  Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

    10-y   Agreement Regarding Change in Control, dated as of January 19, 1994,
           between Ameritech and Richard C. Notebaert, together with a schedule
           identifying another agreement in the same form (Exhibit 10mm to Form
           10-K for 1993, File No. 1-8612).

    12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for the fiscal year
           ended December 31, 1999. Only the information incorporated by
           reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

    21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

    23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

    23-b   Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

    24     Powers of Attorney.

    27-a   Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1999.

    27-b   Restated Financial Data Schedule - September 30, 1999.

    27-c   Restated Financial Data Schedule - June 30, 1999.

    27-d   Restated Financial Data Schedule - March 31, 1999.

    27-e   Restated Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1998.

    27-f   Restated Financial Data Schedule - September 30, 1998.

    27-g   Restated Financial Data Schedule - June 30, 1998.

    27-h   Restated Financial Data Schedule - March 31, 1998.

    27-i   Restated Financial Data Schedule - December 31, 1997.

    99-a   Report of Independent Accountants Arthur Andersen LLP.

    99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings Plan for the year 1999
           to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-c   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings and Security Plan for
           the year 1999 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-d   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Ameritech Savings Plan for
           Salaried Employees for the year 1999 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-e   Annual report on Form 11-K for the Ameritech Savings and Security
           Plan for Non-Salaried Employees for the year 1999 to be filed under
           Form 10-K/A.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>GUARANTEE UNDERTAKING OF SBC
<TEXT>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 4-d

                              GUARANTEE UNDERTAKING
                                       OF
                            SBC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.


      I, the Assistant Treasurer of SBC Communications Inc. (the "Corporation"),
pursuant to the authority granted to me in the Schedule of Authorizations of the
Corporation, dated as of December 19, 1997, hereby undertake on behalf of the
Corporation for the benefit of the respective holders of the Debt Securities (as
defined below), as follows:

     (1) The Corporation hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the
punctual and full payment of all amounts payable by each of Pacific Bell
("PacBell") and Southwestern Bell Telephone Company ("SWBell") under each of the
outstanding Debt Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable
(whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for
redemption, repayment at the option of the holder or otherwise, in accordance
with the terms of each Debt Security and of each indenture under which such
security was issued) (the "Guarantee").

     (2) The Guarantee with respect to each outstanding Debt Security will
continuously remain in effect until the entire principal of (and premium, if
any) and interest, if any, on such Debt Security shall have been paid in full.

     (3) The Guarantee will constitute the direct, absolute and unconditional,
unsubordinated and unsecured obligation of the Corporation ranking pari passu
with all of its unsecured and unsubordinated obligations.

     (4) The holders of each Debt Security are entitled to enforce their rights
under the indenture relating to such security directly against the Corporation,
without first instituting a proceeding against the issuer of such security or
any other person or entity, upon any event of default in payment of principal,
or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such security (whether at stated
maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment at the
option of the holder or otherwise).

     (5)  This  Guarantee  undertaking  is  enforceable  to the  fullest  extent
permitted by law.

<PAGE>

     (6) For the purposes of this Guarantee undertaking, the term "Debt
Securities" shall mean the following: (a) Pacbell's Ten Year 7 1/4% Notes due
July 1, 2002, Twelve Year 6 1/4% Notes due March 1, 2005, Thirty Year 6 7/8%
Debentures due August 15,2023, Thirty-Three Year 7 1/8% Debentures due March 15,
2026, Forty Year 7 1/2% Debentures due February 1, 2033, Forty-One Year 6 5/8%
Debentures due October 15, 2034, Thirty-Six Year 6% Debentures due November 1,
2002 and the Thirty-Five Year 6 1/2% Debentures due July 1, 2003; and (b)
SWBell's Seven Year 6 1/8% Notes due March 1, 2000, Eight Year 6 3/8% Notes due
April 1, 2001, Twelve Year 6 5/8% Notes due April 1, 2005, Forty Year 6 7/8%
Debentures due February 1, 2011, Twenty-two Year 7% Debentures due July 1, 2015,
Thirty Year 7 5/8% Debentures due March 1, 2023, Thirty-Two Year 7 1/4%
Debentures due July 15, 2025, its Fifty Year 6 7/8% Debentures due March 31,
2048, Thirty-Six Year 5 7/8% Debentures due June 1, 2003, Forty Year 5 3/8%
Debentures due June 1, 2006 and it Forty Year 6 3/4% Debentures due June 1,
2008.

     (7)   The Guarantee is effective on the date hereof.



      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Guarantee undertaking.


Dated: November 8, 1999




                                /s/ Roger Wohlert
                              ----------------------------------
                              Name:  Roger Wohlert
                              Title: Assistant Treasurer



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>GUARANTEE UNDERTAKING OF THE ASST. TREAS. OF SBC
<TEXT>



                                                                     EXHIBIT 4-e

                              GUARANTEE UNDERTAKING
                                       OF
                             THE ASSISTANT TREASURER
                                       OF
                            SBC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.


     I, the Assistant Treasurer of SBC Communications Inc. (the "Corporation"),
pursuant to the authority granted to me in the Schedule of Authorizations of the
Corporation, dated as of November 19, 1999, hereby undertake on behalf of the
Corporation for the benefit of the respective holders of the Subject Debt
Securities (as defined below), as follows:

     (1) The Corporation hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as
long as all of the outstanding shares of stock of a Subsidiary, as defined
below, are owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation the punctual and
full payment of all amounts payable by such Subsidiary Southwestern Bell
Telephone Company, Pacific Bell Telephone Company, The Southern New England
Telephone Company, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation,
Ameritech Capital Funding Corporation, The Ohio Bell Telephone Company,
Wisconsin Bell, Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Indiana Bell Telephone
Company Inc., and Illinois Bell Telephone Company (each, a "Subsidiary"), under
each of the outstanding Debt Securities as and when the same shall become due
and payable (whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call
for redemption, repayment at the option of the holder or otherwise, in
accordance with the terms of each Debt Security and of each indenture under
which such security was issued) (the "Guarantee"). In the event the Corporation
sells, transfers or otherwise disposes of any percentage of its stock ownership
of a Subsidiary, and, as a result of such sale, transfer or other disposition,
such Subsidiary is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Corporation, then
this Guarantee shall expire immediately and the Corporation shall be released
immediately from any and all of its obligations hereunder.

     (2) Subject to the provision of Section (1) hereof, the Guarantee with
respect to each outstanding Debt Security will continuously remain in effect
until the entire principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on
such Debt Security shall have been paid in full.

     (3) The Guarantee will constitute the direct, absolute and unconditional,
unsubordinated and unsecured obligation of the Corporation ranking pari passu
with all of its unsecured and unsubordinated obligations.



<PAGE>


     (4) The holders of each Debt Security are entitled to enforce their rights
under the indenture relating to such security directly against the Corporation,
without first instituting a proceeding against the issuer of such security or
any other person or entity, upon any event of default in payment of principal,
or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such security (whether at stated
maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment at the
option of the holder or otherwise).

     (5) This Guarantee undertaking is enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law.

     (6) For the purposes of this Guarantee undertaking, the term "Debt
Securities" shall mean the following:



                             See enclosed Exhibit A



     (7) The Guarantee is effective on the date hereof.



            IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Guarantee undertaking.


Dated: January 5, 2000




                                /s/ Roger Wohlert
                              ------------------------------

                              Name:  Roger Wohlert
                              Title: Assistant Treasurer

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10-h

SBC Communications Inc.

















                                   SALARY AND
                          INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN




















                     Effective: January 1, 1984
                     Revisions Effective: November 19, 1999

<PAGE>


                                        6





                                   SALARY AND
                          INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section        Subject                         Page

      1.   Purpose............................     1
      2.   Definitions........................     1
      3.   Eligibility........................     1
      4.   Participation......................     1
      5.   Deferred Accounts..................     2
      6.   Distribution.......................     3
      7.   Amendment and Termination..........     6
      8.   Miscellaneous......................     6


<PAGE>


                                 SBC SALARY AND
                          INCENTIVE AWARD DEFERRAL PLAN

1.    Purpose.  The purpose of the Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan
      (the "Plan") is to provide Eligible Employees with a means for deferring
      the receipt of income.

2.    Definitions.  For purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases
      shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates
      otherwise:

           Base Salary. "Base Salary" or "Salary" shall mean the Eligible
           Employee's annual base salary, excluding commissions, lump-sum merit
           payments in lieu of salary, and TEAM Awards, and before reduction due
           to any contribution pursuant to this Plan or reduction pursuant to
           any other deferral plan of SBC.

           Chairman.  "Chairman" shall mean the Chairman of the Board of SBC
           Communications Inc.

           Committee.  "Committee" shall mean the Human Resources Committee of
           the Board of SBC Communications Inc.

           Eligible Employee.  "Eligible Employee" shall mean an Officer or a
           non-Officer employee of any SBC company who is designated by the
           Chairman as eligible to participate in the Plan.

           Officer.  "Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated by
           the Chairman as eligible to participate in the Plan who is an
           elected officer of SBC or of any SBC subsidiary (direct or
           indirect).

           SBC.  "SBC" shall mean SBC Communications Inc.

           SBC Shares. "SBC Shares" shall mean shares of SBC common stock.

3.    Eligibility. Each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in
      the Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan (the "Plan").

4.    Participation.

      (a)  Prior to the beginning of any calendar year, an Eligible Employee may
           elect to participate in the Plan by directing that up to 50% of his
           or her Base Salary and/or all or part of his or her short-term and/or
           long-term awards under the Short Term Incentive Plan and/or under the
           Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan and/or its successor plan,
           the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan, which would otherwise be paid
           currently to the employee in such calendar year, shall be credited to
           a deferred account subject to the terms of the Plan. In no event,
           however, shall the part of Salary or of any award credited to the
           Plan during any calendar year be less than $1,000 (which in the case
           of an award shall be based on valuation at the time the award would
           otherwise be paid). Any Base Salary deferral hereunder is conditioned
           upon a 30% Base Salary deferral election in the Stock Savings Plan.

      (b)  Such an election to participate in the Plan shall be in the form of a
           document executed by the employee and filed with SBC. An election
           related to Salary or awards otherwise payable currently in any
           calendar year shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the
           beginning of such calendar year. A new election to participate in the
           Plan shall be made annually.

      5.   Deferred Accounts.

      (a)  Deferred amounts related to Salary or awards which would otherwise
           have been distributed to the Eligible Employee in cash shall be
           credited to the employee's account and shall bear interest at the
           applicable Declared Rate on the balance from month-to-month in such
           account. The interest will be credited monthly to the account at
           one-twelfth of the annual Declared Rate for that calendar year
           compounded quarterly. The Declared Rate for each calendar year will
           be determined by the Senior Vice President-Human Resources, with the
           concurrence of the Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief
           Financial Officer, and will be announced on or before January 1 of
           the applicable calendar year. However, in no event will the Declared
           Rate for any calendar year be less than the Moody's Corporate Bond
           Yield Average-Monthly Average Corporates as published by Moody's
           Investor's Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto for the month of
           September before the calendar year in question, or, if such yield is
           no longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the
           Senior Vice President-Human Resources).

           In addition, if the employee's account under the Bell System Senior
           Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan ("Predecessor Plan") was
           transferred to an account under this Plan as of January 1, 1984, the
           effective date of this Plan, then the employee's account under this
           Plan shall be credited as of such date with the amount credited to
           the employee's account under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31,
           1983, and such amount shall bear interest in accordance with the
           terms of this Plan.


      (b)  Deferred amounts related to awards which would otherwise have been
           distributed in SBC shares shall be credited to the employee's account
           as deferred SBC Shares. The employee's account shall also be credited
           on each dividend payment date for SBC Shares with an amount
           equivalent to the dividend payable on the number of SBC Shares equal
           to the number of deferred SBC Shares in the employee's account on the
           record date for such dividend. Such amount shall then be converted to
           a number of additional deferred SBC shares determined by dividing
           such amount by the price of SBC Shares, as determined in the
           following sentence. The price of SBC Shares related to any dividend
           payment date shall be the closing price on the New York Stock
           Exchange ("NYSE") for SBC Shares on the dividend payment date, or the
           trading day immediately preceding such dividend payment date if the
           NYSE is closed on the dividend payment date.


      (c)  In the event of any SBC common stock dividend or split occurring
           after January 1, 1987, employees' accounts will automatically be
           credited with additional SBC Shares necessary to reflect such stock
           dividend or split. In the event of any other change in outstanding
           SBC common stock by reason of any recapitalization, merger,
           consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or other similar
           corporate change, the Board of Directors shall make such adjustments,
           if any, that it deems appropriate in the number of deferred SBC
           Shares then credited to employees' accounts. Any and all such
           adjustments shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
           concerned.

6.    Distribution.

      (a)  At the time an Eligible Employee makes an election to participate in
           the Plan, the employee shall also make an election with respect to
           the distribution (during the employee's lifetime or in the event of
           the employee's death) of the amounts to be credited to the employee's
           deferred account during the upcoming calendar year. Such an election
           related to awards otherwise payable currently in any calendar year
           shall become irrevocable on the last day prior to the beginning of
           such calendar year. Amounts credited as cash plus accumulated
           interest shall be distributed in cash; amounts credited as deferred
           SBC Shares shall be distributed in the form of an equal number of SBC
           Shares; provided, however, any fractional shares shall be credited as
           federal tax withholding.


      (b)  An employee may elect to receive the amounts credited to the
           employee's account with respect to Salary or with respect to each
           award to be paid in the upcoming calendar year in one payment or in
           some other number of approximately equal annual installments (not
           exceeding 15). The first installment (or the single payment if the
           employee has so elected) shall be paid within 60 days following the
           date specified in such election.

      (c)  Notwithstanding an election pursuant to Paragraph (b) of this Section
           6, all amounts then credited to the employee's accounts shall be paid
           immediately in a single payment if an employee is discharged for
           cause by his or her employing company, or if an employee otherwise
           ceases to be employed by his or her employing company and engages in
           competition with SBC or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof or
           with any business with which a subsidiary of SBC or an affiliated
           company has a substantial interest (collectively referred to herein
           as an "Employer Business"), or becomes employed by a governmental
           agency having jurisdiction over the activities of SBC or any of its
           subsidiaries. For purposes hereof, engaging in competition with any
           Employer business shall mean engaging by the employee in any business
           or activity in the same geographical market where the same or
           substantially similar business or activity is being carried on as an
           Employer business. Such term shall not include owning a
           nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a
           business that competes with an Employer business. However, engaging
           in competition with an Employer business shall include representing
           or providing consulting services to, or being an employee of, any
           person or entity that is engaged in competition with any Employer
           business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer business.
           Further, engaging in competition with an Employer business would
           result if the employee either engages directly in competitive
           activity or in any capacity in any location becomes employed by,
           associated with, or renders service to any company, or parent or
           affiliate thereof, or any subsidiary of any of them, if any of them
           is engaged in competition with an Employer business, regardless of
           the position or duties the employee takes and regardless of whether
           or not the employing company, or the company that the employee
           becomes associated with or renders service to, is itself engaged in
           direct competition with an Employer business.

      (d)  An employee may designate pursuant to the SBC Rules for Employee
           Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from time to
           time ("Rules") that, in the event the employee should die before full
           payment of all amounts credited to the employee's accounts, the
           balance of all deferred amounts shall be distributed in one payment
           or in some other number of approximately equal annual installments
           (not exceeding 5) to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated in
           writing by the employee. If no designation has been made or if all
           designated beneficiaries predecease the employee or die prior to
           complete distribution of all of the employee's amounts hereunder,
           then the balance of such amounts be shall be distributed according to
           the Rules. The first installment (or single payment if the employee
           has so elected) shall be paid within 60 days following the month of
           death.

      (e)  Installments subsequent to the first installment to the employee, or
           to a beneficiary, shall be paid on the date established in 6(b) or
           6(d) in each succeeding calendar year until the entire amount
           credited to the employee's deferred account shall have been paid.
           Deferred amounts held pending distribution shall continue to be
           credited with interest or additional deferred SBC Shares, as
           applicable, determined in accordance with Section 5(a) or 5(b).

      (f)  The obligation to make distribution of deferred amounts credited to
           an employee's account during any calendar year, plus the additional
           amounts credited on such deferred amounts pursuant to Section 5(a) or
           5(b), shall be borne by SBC or the applicable employing company which
           otherwise would have paid the related award currently. However, the
           obligation to make distributions with respect to deferred amounts
           which are related to amounts credited to an employee's account as of
           the effective date of the Plan pursuant to Section 5(a), and with
           respect to which no SBC company would otherwise have paid the related
           award currently, shall be borne by the company which employed the
           employee on the effective date of the Plan.

      (g)  For the purpose of this Section 6, an election described in Paragraph
           (a) or a beneficiary designation described in Paragraph (d) made
           under the comparable provisions of the Predecessor Plan shall be
           considered as an election or beneficiary designation, respectively,
           made under this Section 6.

      (h)  Notwithstanding the previous provisions of this Section 6, at any
           time during the calendar year prior to the calendar year during which
           an award deferred under the provisions of the Plan is scheduled for
           distribution, a participant my change his or her previous election(s)
           applicable to such award to further defer the commencement of
           distribution of such award to a subsequent calendar year, and in such
           case to also change the number of installments applicable to the
           distribution of the award. Amounts with respect to which the
           participant's election(s) are modified in accordance with the
           provisions of this Section 6(h) shall continue to be subject to all
           provisions of this Plan including further distribution modifications
           in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(h).

7.    Amendment and Termination. This Plan may be modified or terminated at any
      time in accordance with the provision of SBC's Schedule of Authorizations,
      but such changes or termination shall not adversely affect the rights of
      any Eligible Employee, without his or her consent, to any benefit under
      the Plan to which such employee may have previously become entitled prior
      to the effective date of such change or termination.

8.    Miscellaneous.

      (a)  Unsecured General Creditor.  The amounts deferred hereunder shall
           be held in the general funds of SBC.  SBC shall not be required to
           reserve, or otherwise set aside, funds for the payment of such
           amounts.

      (b)  Non-Assignability. The rights of an employee to any deferred amounts
           plus the additional amounts credited pursuant to Section 5(a), 5(b)
           and 5(c) shall not be subject to assignment by the employee.

      (c)  Administration. The Committee shall be the sole administrator of the
           Plan and will administer the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its
           provisions in accordance with its terms. The Committee shall further
           establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as it may deem
           necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All
           decisions of the Committee shall be binding unless the Board of
           Directors should determine otherwise.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10-o


           SBC Communications Inc.












                               STOCK SAVINGS PLAN

















                                               Plan Effective:  January 1, 1991
                                             As amended through January 1, 2000
<PAGE>


                                      INDEX


Section 1 - Statement of Purpose..................................1

Section 2 - Definitions...........................................1

Section 3 - Administration of the Plan............................5

Section 4 - Participation.........................................5
      4.1  Election to Commence a Savings Unit....................5
      4.2  Termination of Election................................6

Section 5 - Pre-Tax Contributions/After-Tax Contributions/Company Match 6
      5.1  After-Tax and/or Pre-Tax Account(s)....................6
      5.2  Company Matching Account...............................6
      5.3  Dividends..............................................7
      5.4  Vesting of Matching Account............................7
      5.5  Statement of Accounts..................................7

Section 6 - Retirement Alternative................................8
      6.1  Retirement Distribution................................8
      6.2  Termination Distribution...............................9
           6.2(a)  Termination of Employment Before Retirement....9
           6.2(b)  Termination of a Savings Unit..................9
           6.2(c)  Loss of Eligibility............................9
      6.3  Disability.............................................9
      6.4  Survivor Distribution.................................10

Section 7 - Specified Date Alternative...........................11
      7.1  Specified Date Distribution...........................11
      7.2  Termination Distribution..............................12
           7.2(a)  Termination of Employment Prior to Specified Date    12
           7.2(b)  Termination of a Savings Unit.................12
           7.2(c)  Loss of Eligibility...........................12
      7.3  Disability............................................12
      7.4  Survivor Distribution.................................12

Section 8 - Beneficiary Designation..............................13

Section 9 - Options..............................................13
      9.1  Grants................................................13
      9.2  Term of Options.......................................13
      9.3  Exercise Price........................................14
      9.4  Issuance of Options...................................14
      9.5  Exercise and Payment of Options.......................15
      9.6  Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer.................16
      9.7  Termination by Death..................................16
      9.8  Termination by Disability.............................16
      9.9  Retirement or Other Termination of Employment.........17

Section 10 - Discontinuation, Termination, Amendment.............17
      10.1  Company's Right to Discontinue Offering Savings Units17
      10.2  Company's Right to Terminate Plan....................17
      10.3  Amendment............................................17

Section 11 - Miscellaneous.......................................18
      11.1 Additional Benefit....................................18
      11.2 Small Distribution....................................18
      11.3 Emergency Distribution................................18
      11.4 Commencement of Payments..............................19
      11.5 Tax Withholding.......................................19
      11.6 Reserved..............................................19
      11.7 Transfer to a RWAC....................................19
      11.8 Leave of Absence......................................19
      11.9 Ineligible Participant................................20
      11.10Unsecured General Creditor............................20
      11.11Offset................................................20
      11.12Non-Assignability.....................................21
      11.13Employment Not Guaranteed.............................21
      11.14Gender, Singular and Plural...........................21
      11.15Captions..............................................21
      11.16Applicable Law........................................21
      11.17Validity..............................................21
      11.18Notice................................................21
      11.19Successors and Assigns................................21
      11.20Limitations and Adjustments...........................22
      11.21Distribution Alternative..............................22

Section 12 - Participation in Other Plan(s)......................23
      12.1 Participation in Predecessor Plans....................23
      12.2 Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or
           the Pacific Telesis Group Non-Qualified Savings Plan..23



<PAGE>



STOCK SAVINGS PLAN

Section 1 - Statement of Purpose

      The purpose of the Stock Savings Plan ("Plan") is to increase employee
      stock ownership and to provide retirement and short-term savings
      distributions to a select group of management employees consisting of
      Eligible Employees of SBC Communications Inc. (the "Company") and its
      Subsidiaries ("Participating Companies").


Section 2 - Definitions

      For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have
      the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      After-Tax Account. "After-Tax Account" means the account maintained on an
      after-tax basis on the books of account of the Company for each
      Participant for each Savings Unit to which After-Tax Amounts are credited.
      After-Tax Accounts are available only for Savings Units commenced prior to
      January 1, 1995.

      After-Tax Amount. "After-Tax Amount" means contributions made on an
      After-Tax basis with respect to a Savings Unit commenced prior to January
      1, 1995 under this Plan.

      Agreement. "Agreement" means the written agreement entitled "Stock Savings
      Plan Enrollment Form" and/or, effective on or after January 1, 1995, the
      written agreement entitled "Short Term Contribution Form" that shall be
      entered into by the Company and a Participant to carry out the Plan with
      respect to such Participant. The Company may adopt any form for such use
      or modify any such form.

      Base Compensation. "Base Compensation" is comprised of the following types
      of the Employee's compensation, before reduction due to any contribution
      pursuant to this Plan or reduction pursuant to any deferral plan of
      Employer, including but not limited to a plan that includes a qualified
      cash or deferred arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
      Code ("Code"), all as determined by the Company:

      (a)  annual base salary;
      (b)  commissions; and
      (c)the annual award identified as a "Team Award" by the Company,
         including any individual award identified by the Company as an
         "Individual Discretionary Award" made in connection therewith (the
         "IDA"), or any comparable awards, if any, identified by the Company to
         be used in lieu of the Team Award and the IDA.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Base Compensation does not include:

      (a) zone allowances or any other geographical differential and (b)
      payments made for unused vacation or other paid days off that were
         not used.

      Beneficiary.  "Beneficiary"  means the  person or persons  designated  as
      -----------
      such in accordance with Section 8 of this Plan.

      Chairman.   "Chairman"   means   the   Chairman   of  the  Board  of  SBC
      ---------
      Communications Inc.



<PAGE>




      Company Match Rate Expressed as a Percent. "Company Match Rate Expressed
      as a Percent" means eighty percent (80%), or such higher percentage as may
      be determined by the HRC, in its sole discretion, at any time, or such
      lower percentage as may be determined by the HRC, in its sole discretion,
      and announced to affected Eligible Employees prior to the Unit Start Date
      with respect to a Savings Unit.

      Disability.   "Disability"   means   inability   to  work  due  to  being
      ----------
      physically disabled.

      Eligible Employee. "Eligible Employee" means an Employee of Employer who
      (a) is in active service on a regular, full-time salaried basis (excluding
      term or contract Employees), (b) is, as determined by the Company, a
      member of Employer's "select group of management or highly compensated
      employees" within the meaning of the Employment Retirement Income Security
      Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder ("ERISA"), (c) (i)
      holds a 3rd level or higher management position, all as determined by the
      Company, and satisfies any employment status required by the HRC or the
      Chairman, or (ii) has an employment status which has been approved by the
      Chairman to be eligible to participate in this Plan, and (d) continuously
      maintains the employment status upon which eligibility to participate in
      this Plan was based; provided, however, the HRC or the Chairman may, from
      time to time, include or exclude any Employee or group of Employees from
      being deemed an "Eligible Employee" under this Plan.

      In addition, any Employee that holds options to acquire shares of AirTouch
      Communications, Inc., or ordinary shares or American Depository Shares of
      Vodafone AirTouch plc (or any similar rights), under the Pacific Telesis
      Group Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan or any other stock
      option plan of Employer as of December 15 of a particular year shall not
      be eligible to participate in this Plan for the following calendar year,
      and any previously executed Agreement shall be voided. Any employee of
      Ameritech Corporation, or any corporation, partnership, venture or other
      entity in which Ameritech Corporation holds at least a 50% interest, shall
      not be an Eligible Employee until otherwise provided by the HRC or the
      Chairman.

      Employee. "Employee" means any person employed by Employer on a regular
      full-time salaried basis, excluding Employees hired for a fixed maximum
      term and excluding Employees who are neither citizens nor permanent
      residents of the United States, all as determined by the Company.

      Employer.  "Employer"  means  SBC  Communications  Inc.  or  any  of  its
      --------
      Subsidiaries.

      Fair Market Value or FMV. "Fair Market Value" or "FMV" means the closing
      price on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for the Stock on the
      relevant date, or if such date was not a trading day, the next preceding
      trading date, all as determined by the Company. A trading day is any day
      that the Stock is traded on the NYSE. In lieu of the foregoing, the HRC
      may select any other index or measurement to determine the FMV of the
      Stock under the Plan.

      HRC.  "HRC"  means  the  Human  Resources   Committee  of  the  Board  of
      ---
      Directors of SBC.

      Options.  "Options"  shall mean the options to purchase Stock which shall
      -------
      be issued to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.

      Participant.   "Participant"   means  an  Employee  or  former   Employee
      -----------
      participating in the Plan.



<PAGE>


      Plan Year.  "Plan Year" means the calendar year.
      ---------

      Pre-Tax Account. "Pre-Tax Account" means the account maintained on a
      pre-tax basis on the books of account of the Company for each Participant
      for each Savings Unit to which Pre-Tax Amounts are credited.

      Pre-Tax Amount. "Pre-Tax Amount" means the contributions made by a
      Participant on a pre-tax basis with respect to a Savings Unit under this
      Plan.

      Retirement. "Retirement" means the termination of a Participant's
      employment with Employer, for reasons other than death, on or after the
      earlier of the following dates: (1) the date Participant is eligible to
      retire with an immediate pension pursuant to the SBC Supplemental
      Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP"); or (2) the date the Participant has
      attained one of the following combinations of age and service at
      termination of employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise
      indicated below:

                            Net Credited Service Age

                     10 years or more          65 or older
                     20 years or more          55 or older
                     25 years or more          50 or older
                     30 years or more          Any age

      With respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP Service Pension under
      and pursuant to the provisions of the SBC Pension Benefit Plan -
      Nonbargained Program upon termination of Employment, the term "Retirement"
      shall include such Participant's termination of employment.

      Retirement Alternative. "Retirement Alternative" means, with respect to
      any Savings Unit, the distributions described in Section 6 that the Plan
      provides based upon a selection of such alternative.

      Retirement    Distribution.    "Retirement    Distribution"   means   the
      --------------------------
      distribution described in Section 6.1.

      Rotational  Work  Assignment  Company.  "RWAC" shall mean any entity with
      ----------------------------------------
      which SBC  Communications  Inc.  or any of its  Subsidiaries  may have an
      agreement to provide an employee for a rotational work assignment.

      Savings Unit. "Savings Unit" means the Participant's Pre-Tax Amount and/or
      After-Tax Amount, and associated Company matching contributions, which
      provide stated distributions pursuant to Section 6 or Section 7 of this
      Plan in accordance with the Participant's Agreement for such Savings Unit.




<PAGE>


      Shares.  "Shares"  means an  accounting  entry  representing  a number of
      ------
      equivalent shares of Stock

      Short Term Incentive Award. An award paid under the Short Term Incentive
      Plan or an award under a similar plan intended by the Committee to be in
      lieu of an award under such Short Term Incentive Plan, including (a) the
      Key Executive Officer Short Term Award paid under the 1996 Stock and
      Incentive Plan and (b) payments made in 1998 under the Pacific Telesis
      Group Short Term Incentive Plan ("PTGSTIP") to persons identified as
      "Officer level employees" by the HRC for purposes of this Plan.

      Specified Date. "Specified Date" means, with respect to any Savings Unit
      for which the Participant elects the Specified Date Alternative, the fixed
      date specified in the Agreement on which the Specified Date Distribution
      will commence.

      Specified Date Alternative. "Specified Date Alternative" means, with
      respect to any Savings Unit, the distributions described in Section 7 that
      the Plan provides based upon a selection of such alternative.

      Specified Date  Distribution.  "Specified  Date  Distribution"  means the
      ----------------------------
      distribution described in Section 7.1.

      Stock.  "Stock" means the common stock of SBC Communications Inc.
      -----

      Subsidiary. A "Subsidiary" of the Company is any corporation, partnership,
      venture or other entity in which the Company has at least a 50% ownership
      interest. The HRC may at its sole discretion designate any other
      corporation, partnership, venture or other entity a Subsidiary for the
      purpose of participating in this Plan.

      Team Award. The annual award identified as a "Team Award" by the Company
      (or any comparable award identified by the Company as a replacement
      therefor), excluding any individual award made in connection therewith.
      Payments under the PTGSTIP made during 1998 to persons who are not
      identified as "Officer level employees" by the HRC for purposes of this
      Plan shall be deemed Team Awards under this Plan.

      Unit Period. "Unit Period" means the calendar year with respect to which
      the Participant elects to participate in the Plan on a pre-tax basis
      and/or an after-tax basis. The Unit Period for a Savings Unit will
      commence on the Unit Start Date and end upon the earliest to occur of the
      following: (i) the last day of the calendar year which includes the Unit
      Start Date, (ii) when the Participant terminates employment or ceases to
      be an Eligible Employee, or (iii) upon termination of the Savings Unit.



<PAGE>


      Unit Start Date. "Unit Start Date" means the date for commencement of a
      given Savings Unit. The Unit Start Date will be January 1, and for a
      Savings Unit comprised of all or a portion of a Participant's Short Term
      Incentive Award, the Unit Start Date shall be the day the Award would
      otherwise have been paid.


Section 3 - Administration of the Plan

      The HRC shall be the sole administrator of the Plan and will administer
      the Plan, interpret, construe and apply its provisions in accordance with
      its terms. The HRC shall further establish, adopt or revise such rules and
      regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable for the administration
      of the Plan. All decisions of the HRC shall be final and binding.


Section 4 - Participation

      4.1 Election to Commence a Savings Unit. Any Eligible Employee may elect
      to commence a Savings Unit on a pre-tax basis by filing a completed
      Agreement with the Company prior to the Unit Start Date. Pursuant to said
      Agreement, the Eligible Employee shall elect the percentage of Base
      Compensation that shall comprise Participant's Pre-Tax Amount. Such
      percentage shall remain in effect for the duration of the Unit Period even
      if Base Compensation should change. Such Agreement shall continue to be
      regarded as, and shall apply as, the Eligible Employee's election to
      commence each successive Savings Unit until the Company is advised in
      writing in accordance with the aforesaid time requirements by the Eligible
      Employee to the contrary. In the Agreement, the Participant shall also
      elect either the Retirement Alternative or the Specified Date Alternative
      and the timing of distribution of Stock.

      The Participant's percentage of Base Compensation applicable to a Savings
      Unit shall be a whole percentage and must be at least six percent (6%) and
      not more than thirty percent (30%).



<PAGE>


      A Participant shall be permitted to contribute all or a portion of his
      Short Term Incentive Award as follows. A Participant's election to
      contribute all or a portion of his Short Term Incentive Award which may be
      paid to a Participant by an Employer, shall be filed with the Company (on
      a form to be provided by the Company for such purpose) prior to the
      beginning of the calendar year during which such Award is earned (for
      Savings Units with Unit Start Date of January 1, 1998, or later, and for
      PTGSTIP payments that constitute Short Term Incentive Awards, the election
      must be filed prior to the beginning of the calendar year during which
      such Award is paid), or such earlier time as may be established by the
      Chairman. The contribution shall be deemed to have taken place on the day
      the Award would otherwise have been paid. In the Agreement relating to the
      Award, the Participant shall also elect either the Retirement Alternative
      or the Specified Date Alternative and the timing of distribution of Stock.
      This election is independent of the election for distribution of
      contributions associated with deferrals of Base Compensation. Such
      contribution of all or a portion of Participant's Short Term Incentive
      Award shall comprise a separate Savings Unit. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, Short Term Incentive Awards or any portion thereof contributed
      to the Plan prior to January 1, 1995, shall be credited into a 1994 or
      prior Savings Unit(s) as specified by the Participant.

      4.2 Termination of Election. A Participant's election to participate in
      the Plan for the duration of the Unit Period is irrevocable upon the
      filing of his Agreement with the Company; provided, however, such election
      may be terminated with respect to Base Compensation not yet paid by mutual
      agreement in writing between the Participant and the Company. Such
      termination if approved shall be effective beginning the first day of the
      month following the execution of such mutual agreement.


Section 5 - Pre-Tax Contributions/After-Tax Contributions/Company Match

      5.1 After-Tax and/or Pre-Tax Account(s). The Company shall establish and
      maintain a separate After-Tax Account (for contributions pursuant to
      Savings Units commenced prior to January 1, 1995 only) and/or Pre-Tax
      Account for each Participant for each Savings Unit. On the first business
      day of each month, the Company shall credit each Participant's Pre-Tax
      Account with the number of Shares found by dividing the Participant's
      Pre-Tax Amount for the previous month by the FMV on the last day of such
      previous month. Annual base salary shall be deemed contributed when
      earned; all other amounts shall be deemed contributed when paid.

      Shares credited to Participant's Pre-Tax Account and/or After-Tax Account
      are 100% vested at all times.

      Such Pre-Tax Account and/or After-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be
      reduced by the number of Shares corresponding to the number of shares of
      Stock distributed by the Company to the Participant or the Participant's
      Beneficiary with respect to such Savings Unit pursuant to this Plan.



<PAGE>


      5.2 Company Matching Account. The Company shall also establish and
      maintain a separate Matching Account for each Participant. The Matching
      Account will hold the Company's matching contribution to the Plan.
      Immediately following the computation of the Shares to be added to each
      Participant's Pre-Tax Account each month, the Company shall credit each
      Participant's Matching Account with the number of Shares found by taking
      the Company Match Rate Expressed as a Percent times the Participant's
      Pre-Tax Amount for the previous month, and dividing the resulting figure
      by the FMV of the Stock on the last day of such previous month; provided,
      however, if the Participant is concurrently participating in this Plan and
      (a) the match eligible (basic) portion of the SBC Savings Plan or (b) the
      match eligible portion of any other qualified plan of Employer, the
      matching contribution shall be credited, pursuant to this Plan, with
      respect to no more than six percent (6%) of the Participant's monthly Base
      Compensation less the basic (match eligible) election percentage in such
      plan; and provided further, however, Company matching contributions shall
      be paid, pursuant to this Plan and all plans of Employer combined, with
      respect to no more than six percent (6%) of Participant's monthly Base
      Compensation. Company Match shall only be paid on Base Compensation.

      5.3 Dividends. Additional Shares shall be credited to each Participant's
      Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax Account, and Matching Account, respectively,
      for dividends on Stock, on the basis of the number of Shares credited to
      each such Account on the record date for such dividend.

      The number of additional Shares to be credited to each Account for any
      dividend payment date shall be determined by dividing the total dividends
      which would have otherwise been payable on the number of Shares recorded
      in each Account, by the FMV on the last day of the month containing the
      dividend record date. The additional Shares shall be credited to each
      Account, as appropriate, on the last day of the month containing the
      dividend record date.

      5.4 Vesting of Matching Account. A Participant's interest in his Matching
      Account shall vest at such time as Participant shall have five (5) years
      of service as reflected on the records of Employer; provided, however, the
      Matching Account of any Participant who was employed by Employer on
      December 31, 1988 shall be 100% vested at all times. Shares in the
      Matching Account relating to a Savings Unit shall not be available for
      distribution to the Participant until vested and: (i) for ten (10) years
      after the Unit Period for such Savings Unit has ended and until the
      Participant is at least fifty-five (55) years of age, or (ii) until
      Participant's Retirement or other termination of employment (including
      death). Upon termination of employment, all unvested Shares shall be
      forfeited.

      5.5 Statement of Accounts. Each Participant will receive annual statements
      in such form as the Company deems desirable setting forth the balance of
      Shares standing to the credit of each of the Participant's Pre-Tax,
      After-Tax and Matching Accounts.



Section 6 - Retirement Alternative

      Section 6 shall apply to the portions of all Savings Units for which the
      Retirement Alternative is elected. (Section 7 shall have no application to
      such portions of such Savings Units.) The distributions specified in this
      Section 6 shall be provided under the Retirement Alternative.



<PAGE>


      6.1 Retirement Distribution. Upon Retirement or, effective for Savings
      Units commenced on or after January 1, 1995, the calendar year following
      Retirement if so elected by the Participant, with respect to a Savings
      Unit, the Company shall distribute to the Participant each year for up to
      fifteen (15) years, the number of years to be selected by Participant in
      his Agreement, beginning on the first day of the month next following the
      date of Retirement or during February of the year following Retirement if
      the calendar year following Retirement is elected for commencing
      distribution of Savings Units commenced on or after January 1, 1995, and
      annually on such date thereafter, from Participant's Pre-Tax Account,
      After-Tax Account, and Matching Account, shares of Stock corresponding to
      the number of Shares in each such Account on such date divided by the
      number of distributions to be made immediately prior to each such
      distribution. During the payout period, each such Account shall be
      credited with dividends in accordance with Section 5.3.

      The Participant shall elect the number of years of distribution of a
      Retirement Distribution no later than the end of the calendar year
      immediately preceding the first distribution. If a Participant's Agreement
      fails to show an election as to the number of years of distribution of a
      Retirement Distribution, and an election is not made no later than the end
      of the calendar year immediately preceding the first distribution, such
      Participant will receive distribution in two annual installments beginning
      on the first of the month next following the date of Retirement or during
      February of the year following Retirement, whichever commencement date was
      previously elected by the Participant.

      In the event that a final determination shall be made by the Internal
      Revenue Service or any court of competent jurisdiction that, by reason of
      Retirement, a Participant has recognized gross income for Federal income
      tax purposes in excess of the Retirement Distribution installment actually
      distributed by the Company to which such gross income is attributable, the
      Company shall make a lump sum distribution to the Participant of shares of
      Stock corresponding to the remaining Shares of his Pre-Tax, After-Tax and
      Matching Accounts for any affected Savings Units. If a distribution is
      made to a Participant pursuant to this paragraph for any Savings Unit, no
      other distributions shall thereafter be made under this Plan with respect
      to such Savings Unit.

      Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the Company will
      distribute the Participant's Retirement Distribution in the form of a lump
      sum distribution if the FMV of his Pre-Tax plus After-Tax plus Matching
      Accounts for a Savings Unit is less than $10,000 when distribution of the
      Retirement Distribution for such Savings Unit would otherwise commence.

      6.2  Termination Distribution.

      6.2(a) Termination of Employment Before Retirement. Upon any termination
      of employment of the Participant for reasons other than death or
      Disability or Retirement, the Company shall distribute to the Participant,
      with respect to a Savings Unit, in a lump sum, shares of Stock
      corresponding to the vested portion of the Shares standing credited to his
      Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching Accounts for such Savings Unit determined
      as of the date of such termination of service ("Termination
      Distribution").



<PAGE>


      6.2(b) Termination of a Savings Unit. A Participant shall terminate a
      Savings Unit if he terminates his election to participate in the Plan with
      respect to a Savings Unit pursuant to Section 4.2. Notwithstanding any
      other provision of the Plan, upon such discontinuance, the Participant
      shall immediately cease to be eligible for any distribution other than his
      Termination Distribution with respect to that Savings Unit (which shall be
      distributed upon his severance of employment) except as provided under
      Section 11.1. The Participant shall continue to be credited with dividends
      on the Shares standing credited to his Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching
      Accounts as provided under Section 5.3 and to vest in Shares as provided
      under Section 5.4 while he remains in employment with the Employer until
      payment of his Termination Distribution. However, no further Participant
      pre-tax or after-tax or Company contributions to this Plan shall be made
      pursuant to Sections 5.1 or 5.2 with respect to a Savings Unit after a
      Participant terminates such Savings Unit.

      6.2(c) Loss of Eligibility. In the event that the Participant ceases to be
      an Eligible Employee by reason of a change to an employment status which
      is not eligible to participate in this Plan, the Participant shall
      nevertheless continue participation in this Plan while he remains in
      employment with Employer; however, no further Participant pre-tax
      contributions or after-tax contributions, or Company matching
      contributions shall be made to this Plan pursuant to Sections 5.1 or 5.2
      subsequent to the date of such loss of eligibility.

      6.3 Disability. In the event that a Participant suffers a Disability,
      pre-tax contributions and/or after-tax contributions and Company matching
      contributions that otherwise would have been credited to Participant's
      Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax and Matching Accounts, as applicable, in
      accordance with Sections 5.1 and 5.2 will continue to be credited to such
      Accounts out of his disability payments (as used in this Plan, disability
      payments and disability benefits shall refer to only to Employer payments)
      at the same time and in the same amounts as they would have been credited
      if the Participant had not suffered a Disability for as long as he is
      eligible to receive monthly disability benefits equal to 100 percent of
      his monthly base salary at the time of his Disability. At such time as the
      Participant is not eligible to receive monthly disability benefits equal
      to 100 percent of his monthly Base Compensation at the time of his
      Disability, Participant pre-tax contributions and/or after-tax
      contributions and Company matching contributions that otherwise would have
      been credited to the Accounts of the Participant in accordance with
      Section 5.1 and 5.2 shall cease.

      If the Participant recovers from his Disability and returns within sixty
      (60) days thereafter to employment with Employer in an employment status
      which would make him eligible to participate in this Plan and prior to the
      end of the original Unit Period, the Participant shall continue or resume
      making pre-tax contributions and/or after-tax contributions, as the case
      may be, in accordance with Section 5.1 and the Company shall continue or
      resume making matching contributions, as the case may be, in accordance
      with Section 5.2 until the end of the original Unit Period.



<PAGE>


      If the Participant recovers from his Disability, the Participant shall be
      treated as terminating service with Employer on the date of his recovery,
      unless within sixty (60) days thereafter he returns to employment with
      Employer in an employment status which makes him eligible to participate
      in this Plan.

      If a Participant's Disability terminates by reason of his death, the
      rights of his Beneficiary shall be determined pursuant to Section 6.4 as
      if the Participant had not been disabled but rather had been in service on
      the date of his death and died on such date. If a Participant's Disability
      terminates by reason of attainment of age 65, the Participant shall upon
      the attainment of age 65 be entitled to a Retirement Distribution
      determined pursuant to Section 6.1. If a Participant's Disability
      terminates by reason of Retirement, the Participant shall be treated as
      having a Retirement on the date elected by the Participant and shall be
      entitled to a Retirement Distribution determined pursuant to Section 6.1.

      6.4  Survivor Distribution.

      6.4(a) If a Participant dies while in service with Employer (or while
      suffering from a Disability) prior to eligibility for Retirement with
      respect to a Savings Unit, upon the Participant's death the Company will
      distribute to the Participant's Beneficiary with respect to such Savings
      Unit, shares of Stock corresponding to all of the Shares in Participant's
      Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching Accounts. Distribution shall occur in the
      month following the date of death.

      6.4(b) If a Participant dies while in service after eligibility for
      Retirement with respect to a Savings Unit, but prior to commencement of
      distribution of a Retirement Distribution with respect to such Savings
      Unit, the Company will distribute to the Participant's Beneficiary the
      Stock that such Participant's Beneficiary would have received with respect
      to such Savings Unit had the Participant retired and commenced to receive
      a Retirement Distribution on the day prior to such Participant's death.
      Such distributions shall be made in accordance with the number of
      installments which the Participant had elected for distribution of his
      Retirement Distribution.

      6.4(c) If a Participant dies after Retirement but before commencement of
      distribution of a Retirement Distribution with respect to a Savings Unit,
      the Company will distribute to the Participant's Beneficiary the
      installments that Participant would have received with respect to such
      Savings Unit had the Participant survived. Payments will commence
      effective with the Participant's death. Such distributions shall be made
      in accordance with the method of distribution which the Participant had
      elected for distribution of his Retirement Distribution.

      6.4(d) If a Participant dies after the commencement of payment of a
      Retirement Distribution with respect to a Savings Unit, the Company will
      distribute to the Participant's Beneficiary the remaining installments
      that would have been distributed to the Participant had the Participant
      survived.



<PAGE>



Section 7 - Specified Date Alternative

      Section 7 shall apply to the portions of all Savings Units for which the
      Specified Date Alternative is elected. (Section 6 shall have no
      application to such portions of such Savings Units.) The distributions
      specified in this Section 7 shall be provided under the Specified Date
      Alternative.

      7.1 Specified Date Distribution. If a Participant elects the Specified
      Date Alternative with respect to a Savings Unit, the Company shall
      distribute to the Participant each year for up to four (4) years, the
      number of years to be selected by Participant in his Agreement, beginning
      on the first day of the month selected in his Agreement for commencement
      of distributions, and annually on such date thereafter, from Participant's
      Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax Account, and Matching Account (to the extent
      available for distribution), shares of Stock corresponding to the number
      of Shares in each such Account on such date divided by the number of
      distributions to be made immediately prior to each such distribution.
      During the payout period, each such Account shall be credited with
      dividends in accordance with Section 5.3. Shares of Stock corresponding to
      Shares in the Matching Account which are not immediately available for
      distribution shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump sum
      distribution as soon as practicable after such Shares become available for
      distribution. While such Shares remain in the Matching Account, such
      Account shall be credited with dividends on such Shares in accordance with
      Section 5.3.

      A Participant may elect, as the Specified Date for a Savings Unit, the
      first day of any month after the January following the calendar year
      during which the Savings Unit commences. If the Participant elects an
      annual distribution, the Savings Unit shall be paid out in February
      following the end of the Unit Period or as soon thereafter as is
      practicable.

      Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the Company will
      distribute the Participant's Specified Date Distribution in the form of a
      lump sum distribution if the FMV of his Pre-Tax plus After-Tax plus
      Matching Accounts for a Savings Unit is less than $10,000 when
      distribution of a Specified Date Distribution for such Savings Unit would
      otherwise commence.


      7.2  Termination Distribution.

      7.2(a) Termination of Employment Prior to Specified Date. Upon any
      termination of employment of the Participant for reasons other than death
      or Disability or Retirement before the Specified Date selected for a
      Savings Unit, the Company shall distribute to the Participant, with
      respect to such Savings Unit, in a lump sum, shares of Stock corresponding
      to the vested portion of the Shares standing credited to his Pre-Tax,
      After-Tax and Matching Accounts for such Savings Unit determined as of the
      date of such termination of service ("Termination Distribution").


<PAGE>



      7.2(b) Termination of a Savings Unit. The provisions of Section 6.2(b)
      shall apply with respect to the termination of any Savings Unit for which
      the Specified Date Alternative is selected.

      7.2(c) Loss of Eligibility. The provisions of Section 6.2(c) shall apply
      with respect to the loss of eligibility under any Savings Unit for which
      the Specified Date Alternative is selected.

      7.3 Disability. In the event that a Participant suffers a Disability, the
      provisions of Section 6.3 shall apply except that the provisions of the
      following paragraphs shall govern.

      If a Participant's Disability terminates by reason of his death prior to
      the Specified Date, the rights of his Beneficiary shall be determined
      pursuant to Section 7.4 as if the Participant had not been disabled but
      rather had been in service on the date of his death and died on such date.

      If a Participant suffering from a Disability attains the Specified Date
      for a Savings Unit, the Participant shall be entitled to the Specified
      Date Distribution determined pursuant to Section 7.1.

      7.4  Survivor Distribution.

      7.4(a) If a Participant dies prior to the commencement of distribution of
      the Specified Date Distribution with respect to a Savings Unit, upon the
      Participant's death the Company will distribute to the Participant's
      Beneficiary with respect to such Savings Unit, shares of Stock
      corresponding to all of the Shares in Participant's Pre-Tax, After-Tax and
      Matching Accounts. Distribution shall occur in the month following the
      date of death.

      7.4(b) If a Participant dies after the commencement of payment of an
      Specified Date Distribution with respect to a Savings Unit, the Company
      will distribute to the Participant's Beneficiary the remaining
      installments of any such distribution that would have been distributed to
      the Participant had the Participant survived.


Section 8 - Beneficiary Designation



<PAGE>


      Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate pursuant
      to the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be
      amended from time to time ("Rules"), which Rules shall apply hereunder and
      are incorporated herein by this Reference, any person or persons as his
      Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both primary as well as contingent) to whom
      distributions of Stock under this Plan shall be made in the event of his
      death prior to complete distribution to Participant of the distributions
      due him under the Plan. Each Beneficiary designation shall become
      effective only when filed in writing with the Company during the
      Participant's lifetime on a form prescribed by the Company with written
      acknowledgment of receipt.

      The filing of a new Beneficiary designation form will cancel all
      Beneficiary designations previously filed. The spouse of a married
      Participant domiciled in a community property jurisdiction shall join in
      any designation of Beneficiary or Beneficiaries other than the spouse.

      If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if
      all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to
      complete distribution of the Participant's distributions, then the Company
      shall direct the distribution of such distributions according to the
      Rules.


Section 9 - Options

      9.1 Grants. The HRC shall determine at its discretion whether the Options
      issued pursuant to this Plan shall be non-qualified stock Options or
      incentive stock Options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. Any
      Options issued hereunder shall be non-qualified Options unless the HRC
      specifies prior to the Unit Start Date that they shall be incentive stock
      Options. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any incentive
      stock Options issued under this Plan shall be issued and exercised in
      accordance with Section 422 of the Code. The Options may be issued in
      definitive form or recorded on the books and records of the Company for
      the account of the Participant, at the discretion of the Company. If the
      Company elects not to issue the Options in definitive form, they shall be
      deemed issued, and the Participants shall have all rights incident thereto
      as if they were issued on the dates provided herein, without further
      action on the part of the Company or the Participant. In addition to the
      terms herein, all Options shall be subject to such additional provisions
      and limitations as provided in any Administrative Procedures adopted by
      the HRC prior to the issuance of such Options. The number of Options
      issued to a Participant shall be reflected on the Participant's annual
      statement of account.

      9.2 Term of Options. The Options may only be exercised: (a) after the
      earlier of (i) the expiration of one year from date of issue or (ii) the
      Participant's termination of employment (only for Options issued on or
      after August 1, 1998), and (b) no later than the tenth anniversary of
      their issue, and shall be subject to earlier termination as provided
      herein.

      9.3  Exercise Price.  The price per share of Stock  purchasable  under an
      Option  shall  be the  Fair  Market  Value  of the  Stock  on the date of
      issuance of the Options.



<PAGE>


      9.4 Issuance of Options. February 1 and August 1 of each year shall each
      be an Option issuance date, unless Stock is not traded on the NYSE on such
      day in which event the immediate following day in which Stock is so traded
      shall be the Option issuance date. On each Option issuance date, each
      Participant shall receive two Options, or such higher number as may be
      determined by the HRC, in its sole discretion, at any time, or such lower
      number as may be determined by the HRC, in its sole discretion, and
      announced to Participants prior to the Unit Start Date with respect to a
      Savings Unit, for each Share credited to the Participant's Pre-Tax Account
      during the preceding six month periods. The number of Options to be
      received shall be determined by multiplying the number of Shares by the
      number of Options to be received for each Share and rounding up to the
      next whole number; provided, however, that no more than 200,000 Options
      shall be issued to any individual during the calendar year. No Share may
      be counted more than once for the issuance of Options and Options shall
      only be issued for Shares credited to a Savings Unit with respect to its
      Unit Period.

      In addition to the foregoing, the HRC may, at any time and in any manner,
      limit the number of Options which may be acquired as a result of the Short
      Term Incentive Award being contributed to the Plan. Further, except as
      otherwise provided by the HRC, in determining the number of Options to be
      issued to a Participant with respect to a Participant's contribution of a
      Short Term Incentive Award to the Plan and subsequent crediting of Shares,
      Options may be issued only with respect to an amount which does not exceed
      the target amount of such award (or such other portion of the award as may
      be determined by the HRC).

      Accordingly, the following rules shall apply:

           Options To Be Issued With Respect To A Short Term  Incentive  Award
           Contributed To The Plan.

           A Participant shall be permitted to contribute his Short Term
           Incentive Award, although paid after Retirement, into the Stock
           Savings Plan; and, subject to application of the rule in the
           following sub paragraph, Options may be issued thereon and on the
           dividends that would accumulate thereon applicable to the calendar
           year when the Short Term Award was placed into the Plan.

           Participants  Who  Retire,  Terminate  Employment  Or  Terminate  A
           Savings Unit.



<PAGE>


           Options are calculated on August 1 and February 1, in each case for
           the preceding six month periods based on the Shares posted to the
           Participant's accounts. The August 1 options are for January through
           June contributions plus 1st quarter and 2nd quarter dividend
           equivalents. The February 1 options are for July through December
           contributions plus the 3rd quarter and 4th quarter dividend
           equivalents. If a Participant retires, terminates employment or
           terminates a Savings Unit during an ongoing savings period, since the
           Unit Period ends upon Retirement, termination, etc., a dividend
           equivalent shall be treated as being paid with respect to a Unit
           Period (i.e., for purposes of receiving Options on such dividend
           equivalent) only if the Participant is employed on any day of the
           last month of the quarter preceding payment of the dividend, e.g.,
           one must be employed at least one day in December in order to receive
           Options on the fourth quarter dividend equivalent paid the following
           February 1. A retiree shall thus receive Options on dividends issued
           with respect to his/her last quarter if he or she worked at any time
           during the last month of such quarter. The same shall apply if a
           Savings Unit is terminated. However, if a Participant terminates
           employment other than as a result of Retirement or for any reason
           other than death or Disability, no further options shall be issued to
           the Participant on or after the last day of employment.

      9.5 Exercise and Payment of Options. Options shall be exercised by
      providing notice to the designated agent selected by the Company (if no
      such agent has been designated, then to the Company), in the manner and
      form determined by the Company, which notice shall be irrevocable, setting
      forth the exact number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Option
      is being exercised and including with such notice payment of the Exercise
      Price. When Options have been transferred, the Company or its designated
      agent may require appropriate documentation that the person or persons
      exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right to
      exercise the Option. No Option may be exercised with respect to a fraction
      of a share of Stock.

      The Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise. No Stock
      shall be issued or transferred until full payment has been received
      therefor.

      Payment may be made:

      (a) in cash, or

      (b) unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject to
      such additional terms and conditions and/or modifications as the Committee
      or the Company may impose from time to time, and further subject to
      suspension or termination of this provision by the Committee or the
      Company at any time, by:

           (i) delivery of Stock owned by the Participant in partial (if in
           partial payment, then together with cash) or full payment; provided,
           however, as a condition to paying any part of the Exercise Price in
           Stock, at the time of exercise of the Option, the Participant must
           establish to the satisfaction of the Company that the Stock tendered
           to the Company must have been held by the Participant for a minimum
           of six (6) months preceding the tender; or



<PAGE>


           (ii) if the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the
           Company's agent to process Option exercises, issuance of an exercise
           notice to such stockbroker together with instructions irrevocably
           instructing the stockbroker: (A) to immediately sell (which shall
           include an exercise notice that becomes effective upon execution of a
           limit order) a sufficient portion of the Stock to pay the Exercise
           Price of the Options being exercised and the required tax
           withholding, and (B) to deliver on the settlement date the portion of
           the proceeds of the sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax
           withholding to the Company. In the event the stockbroker sells any
           Stock on behalf of a Participant, the stockbroker shall be acting
           solely as the agent of the Participant, and the Company disclaims any
           responsibility for the actions of the stockbroker in making any such
           sales. No Stock shall be issued until the settlement date and until
           the proceeds (equal to the Exercise Price and tax withholding) are
           paid to the Company.

      If payment is made by the delivery of Stock, the value of the Stock
      delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the day
      preceding the date of exercise of the Option.

      Restricted Stock may not be used to pay the Option exercise price.

      9.6 Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer. During the optionee's lifetime
      (for purposes of Paragraphs 9.6 through 9.9, "optionee" shall only refer
      to the original recipient of an Option), the optionee's Options shall be
      exercisable only by the optionee or by the optionee's guardian or legal
      representative. After the death of the optionee, except as otherwise
      provided by the Company's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, an
      Option shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but not
      limited to, an executor or administrator of a decedent's estate) or his or
      her guardian or legal representative.

      No Option shall be transferable except: (a) upon the death of the optionee
      in accordance with the Company's Rules for Employee Beneficiary
      Designations; and (b) in the case of any holder after the optionee's
      death, only by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.

      9.7 Termination by Death. If an optionee's employment with Employer
      terminates by reason of death, the Option may thereafter be exercised, to
      the extent then exercisable, for a period of three (3) years from the date
      of such death or until the expiration of the stated term of such Option,
      whichever period is shorter.

      9.8 Termination by Disability. If an optionee's employment with Employer
      terminates by reason of Disability, any Option held by such optionee may
      thereafter be exercised, to the extent it was exercisable at the time of
      such termination (or on such accelerated basis as the HRC shall determine
      at the time of grant), for a period of three (3) years from the date of
      such termination of employment or the expiration of the stated term of
      such Option, whichever period is shorter.



<PAGE>


      9.9 Retirement or Other Termination of Employment. Except as otherwise
      provided in this paragraph, if an optionee's employment with Employer
      terminates as a result of Retirement or for any reason other than death or
      Disability, the Option may be exercised until the earlier of three months
      (one year for options granted on or after August 1, 1998) from the date of
      termination or three years (five years for options granted on or after
      August 1, 1998) from the date of Retirement, as applicable, or the
      expiration of the term of such Option; provided, however, that a transfer
      to a RWAC shall not be considered a termination of employment to the
      extent the term of employment at a RWAC is equal to or less than five
      years.


Section 10 - Discontinuation, Termination, Amendment

      10.1 Company's Right to Discontinue Offering Savings Units. The HRC or the
      Chairman may at any time discontinue offerings of additional Savings Units
      with respect to any or all future Plan Years. Any such discontinuance
      shall have no effect upon the pre-tax contributions or after-tax
      contributions or the terms or provisions of this Plan as applicable to any
      then previously existing Savings Units.

      10.2 Company's Right to Terminate Plan. No Savings Unit may be commenced
      after December 31, 2004. The HRC may terminate the Plan at any earlier
      time. Termination of the Plan shall mean that (1) there shall be no
      further offerings of additional Savings Units with respect to any future
      Plan Year; (2) pre-tax contributions and after-tax contributions shall
      prospectively cease with respect to all Savings Units for the then Plan
      Year and thereafter; and (3) all then currently existing Savings Units
      shall be treated as follows:

           The Participant's Matching Accounts shall be 100% vested. The
           Participant shall receive or continue to receive all distributions
           under this Plan at such time as provided in and pursuant to the terms
           and conditions of his Agreement(s) and as described in this Plan;
           provided, however, any distributions under a Savings Unit that is not
           completed due to a termination of the Plan under this Section 10.2
           shall be based upon only the actual pre-tax contributions plus
           after-tax contributions plus Company contributions made with respect
           to such Savings Unit prior to such termination, and dividends on same
           thereafter.



<PAGE>


      10.3 Amendment. The HRC may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part
      including, but not limited to, changing the formulas for determining the
      amount of Company contributions under Section 5 or the number of Options
      to be issued under Section 9; provided, however, that no amendment,
      including an amendment to this Section 10, shall be effective, without the
      written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the detriment of such
      Participant, the distributions described in this Plan as applicable to a
      Savings Unit of the Participant or to decrease the number of Shares
      standing credited to such Participant's Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching
      Accounts under the Plan. For purposes of this Section 10.3, an alteration
      to the detriment of a Participant shall mean a reduction in the period of
      time over which stock is distributable under a Participant's Agreement, or
      any reduction in the number of Options, increase in Exercise Price or
      decrease in the term of an Option. Written notice of any amendment shall
      be given to each Participant.

      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section of the
      Plan, the HRC may modify this Plan with respect to any person subject to
      the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as
      amended ("Exchange Act") to place additional restrictions on the exercise
      of any Option or the transfer of any Stock not yet issued under the Plan.

Section 11 - Miscellaneous.

      11.1 Additional Benefit. The reduction of any benefit payable under the
      SBC Pension Benefit Plan (or comparable plan identified by the Company as
      a replacement therefore), which results from participation in this Plan,
      will be restored as an additional benefit ("make-up piece") under this
      Plan. The Participant shall elect prior to commencement of payment of the
      make-up piece whether to receive such benefit in cash in a lump sum
      (consisting of the present value equivalent of the pension retirement
      benefit (life annuity) make-up piece) or such benefit in an annuity form
      of payment. Notwithstanding the proceeding provisions of this Section
      11.1, if all or a portion of the make-up piece is paid pursuant to SRIP or
      another non-qualified plan, then such amount shall not be payable pursuant
      to this Plan.

      11.2 Small Distribution. Notwithstanding any election made by the
      Participant, the Company will distribute any shares of Stock corresponding
      to Shares in the form of a lump sum distribution if the Shares in
      Participant's Pre-Tax Account plus After-Tax Account plus Matching Account
      have a FMV of less than $10,000 when such distribution would otherwise
      commence.

      11.3 Emergency Distribution. In the event that the HRC, upon written
      petition of the Participant, determines in its sole discretion, that the
      Participant has suffered an unforeseeable financial emergency, the Company
      shall distribute to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such
      determination, Stock corresponding to the number of Shares ordered by the
      HRC from his Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching Accounts for one or more
      Savings Units as necessary to meet the emergency (the "Emergency
      Distribution"). For purposes of this Plan, an unforeseeable financial
      emergency is an unexpected need for cash arising from an illness, casualty
      loss, sudden financial reversal, or other such unforeseeable occurrence.
      Cash needs arising from foreseeable events such as the purchase of a house
      or education expenses for children shall not be considered to be the
      result of an unforeseeable financial emergency. Upon receipt of an
      Emergency Benefit, a Participant shall not be permitted to commence a new
      Savings Unit until the next enrollment after one whole year has elapsed.



<PAGE>


      11.4 Commencement of Payments. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan,
      commencement of a distribution under this Plan shall begin sixty (60) days
      following the event which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to
      such distribution, or at such earlier date as may be determined by the
      HRC.

      11.5 Tax Withholding. Upon distribution of Stock, including but not
      limited to, shares of Stock issued upon the exercise of an Option, the
      Company shall withhold sufficient shares of Stock having a Fair Market
      Value on the date the taxes are determined necessary to satisfy the
      minimum amount of Federal, state, and local taxes required by law to be
      withheld as a result of such distribution.

      Any fractional share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be withheld
      as additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the Company, paid
      in cash to the Participant.

      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of payment
      for the Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to
      Section 9.5(b)(ii), hereof, of the Stock acquired through the Option
      exercise, then the tax withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.
      For administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the
      sale price of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of
      the Stock.

      11.6 Reserved

      11.7 Transfer to a RWAC. If a Participant transfers to a RWAC, all of the
      Participant's Savings Units shall be frozen upon transfer, unless
      otherwise determined by the Company. No further Participant pre-tax
      contributions, after-tax contributions or Company contributions shall be
      made subsequent to the transfer. During the period of employment at a RWAC
      (for a period not to exceed five (5) years), the Participant shall
      continue to be credited with dividends on his Pre-Tax, After-Tax and
      Matching Accounts, as applicable, as provided under Section 5.3 and to
      vest in such amounts as provided under Section 5.4, and all distributions
      shall continue to be payable to the Participant and his Beneficiaries in
      accordance with Section 6 and/or Section 7 hereof, as applicable. If the
      Participant has not resumed employment with Employer in an employment
      status which makes him eligible to participate in this Plan within five
      (5) years from the date of transfer, a Termination Distribution based on
      the amounts credited to the Participant's Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching
      Accounts, as applicable, shall be paid upon termination of employment with
      a RWAC or the expiration of such five (5) year period, whichever is
      earlier.



<PAGE>


      11.8 Leave of Absence. If a Participant absents himself from employment on
      a formally granted leave of absence (i.e., the absence is with formal
      permission in order to prevent a break in the continuity of the Employee's
      term of employment, which permission is granted in conformity with the
      rules of the Employer which employs the individual, as adopted from time
      to time), all of the Participant's Savings Units shall automatically be
      frozen upon such leave of absence, unless otherwise determined by the HRC.
      No Participant pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions or Company
      contributions shall be made during the leave of absence. However, during
      the leave of absence, the Participant shall continue to be credited with
      dividends on his Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching Accounts, as applicable,
      as provided under Section 5.3 and to vest in such amounts as provided
      under Section 5.4, and all distributions shall continue to be payable to
      the Participant and his Beneficiaries in accordance with Section 6 and/or
      Section 7 hereof, as applicable. If the Participant returns to employment
      with Employer in an employment status which makes him eligible to
      participate in this Plan before completion of or immediately upon the
      expiration of the leave of absence, Participant pre-tax contributions and
      Company matching contributions will resume until the end of the original
      Unit Period. If the Participant has not resumed employment with Employer
      in an employment status which makes him eligible to participate in this
      Plan before completion of or immediately upon the expiration of the leave
      of absence, a Termination Distribution based on the amounts credited to
      the Participant's Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Matching Accounts shall be paid
      to the Participant.

      This Section 11.8 shall not apply with respect to any period during which
      a Participant is suffering from a Disability, and such period of
      Disability shall not be included under this Section 11.8 as a portion of a
      period of leave of absence.

      11.9 Ineligible Participant. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
      Plan to the contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be a
      "management or highly compensated employee" within the meaning of ERISA,
      such Participant will not be eligible to participate in this Plan and
      shall receive an immediate lump sum distribution of shares of Stock
      corresponding to the vested portion of the Shares standing credited to his
      Pre-Tax plus After-Tax plus Matching Accounts. Upon such payment no other
      distribution shall thereafter be payable under this Plan either to the
      Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant, except as provided
      under Section 11.1.

      11.10 Unsecured General Creditor. Participants and their Beneficiaries,
      heirs, successors, and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights,
      interest, or claims in any property or assets of Employer. No assets of
      Employer shall be held under any trust for the benefit of Participants,
      their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors, or assigns, or held in any way as
      collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of Employer
      under this Plan. Any and all of the Employer's assets shall be, and
      remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of Employer. The only
      obligation of Employer under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded
      and unsecured promise of the Company to distribute shares of Stock
      corresponding to Shares, and Options, under the Plan in the future.

      11.11 Offset. If a Participant becomes entitled to a distribution of Stock
      under the Plan, the Company may offset against the amount of Stock
      otherwise distributable, any claims to reimbursement for intentional
      wrongdoing by the Participant against the Employer or an affiliate as well
      as any overpayment made under this Plan. Such determination shall be made
      by the Company.


<PAGE>



      11.12 Non-Assignability. Neither a Participant nor any other person shall
      have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate,
      mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in
      advance of actual receipt, shares of Stock corresponding to Shares under
      the Plan, if any, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which
      are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part
      of the Stock distributable shall, prior to actual distribution, be subject
      to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments,
      alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person,
      nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or
      any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.

      11.13 Employment Not Guaranteed. Nothing contained in this Plan nor any
      action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or
      as giving any Employee any right to be retained in the employ of Employer
      or to serve as a director.

      11.14 Gender, Singular and Plural. All pronouns and any variations there
      of shall be deemed to refer to the masculine or feminine, as the identity
      of the person or persons may require. As the context may require, the
      singular may be read as the plural and the plural as the singular.

      11.15 Captions. The captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of
      this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control nor affect the
      meaning or construction of any of its provisions.

      11.16 Applicable Law. This Plan shall be governed and construed in
      accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, to the extent not
      preempted by ERISA. Any action seeking to enforce an Employee's or
      Beneficiary's rights under this Plan, including but not limited to the
      terms of any Agreement or Option issued hereunder, may only be brought in
      Bexar County, Texas.

      11.17 Validity. In the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid,
      void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect
      whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this Plan.

      11.18 Notice. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to
      the Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand
      delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the principal
      office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Vice
      President-Human Resources of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed
      given on the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, on the date
      shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification.

      11.19 Successors and Assigns. This Plan shall be binding upon the Company
      and its successors and assigns.


<PAGE>



      11.20 Limitations and Adjustments. The number of shares of Stock which may
      be distributed pursuant to the Plan, exclusive of Section 9, is 6,500,000.
      The number of stock Options and shares of Stock which may be issued
      pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan is 10,500,000 each. Of the foregoing
      stock options, the number of incentive stock Options which may be issued
      pursuant to the Plan is 10,500,000.

      In the event of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
      separation, liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, share combination,
      or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the
      shares of Stock, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of
      shares of Stock which may be delivered under the Plan, and in the number
      and class of and/or price of shares of Stock subject to outstanding
      Options granted under the Plan, as may be determined to be appropriate and
      equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or
      enlargement of rights.

      11.21 Distribution Alternative. Effective November 17, 1995,
      notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6 and of Section 7, at any time
      during the calendar year prior to the calendar year during which a
      distribution(s) pursuant to a Savings Unit is scheduled to commence, a
      Participant may change his or her previous election(s) applicable to such
      Savings Unit to further defer the commencement of the distribution(s)
      pursuant to such Savings Unit to a subsequent calendar year, and in such
      case to also change the number of installments applicable to the
      distribution of the Savings Unit as follows: (a) the new election(s)
      applicable to such Savings Unit must conform with either Section 6, if the
      Retirement Alternative is the new selection for such Savings Unit, or
      Section 7, if the Specified Date Alternative is the new selection for such
      Savings Unit; (b) either the Retirement Alternative or the Specified Date
      Alternative may be selected for the new election(s) for a Savings Unit
      irrespective of the Alternative originally selected for such Savings Unit;
      (c) the commencement date for payments pursuant to such Savings Unit may
      be delayed to any point in time in a subsequent calendar year - the
      commencement date for payments may not be advanced to an earlier point in
      time; and (d) any number of installments may be selected pursuant to the
      new election(s) for a Savings Unit irrespective of the number of
      installments originally selected for such Savings Unit. Provided, however,
      in the event a Participant is involuntarily terminated from employment
      (which shall be deemed to include termination by reason of death), and
      such termination is for a reason other than for cause (i.e., willful and
      gross misconduct on the part of the Participant that is materially and
      demonstrably detrimental to the Company or any subsidiary thereof), and
      such termination is a Retirement (or in the case of Participant's death,
      Participant was Retirement eligible), then Participant (or Participant's
      Beneficiary(ies)) may make the change(s) to Participant's previous
      election(s) pursuant to this Section 11.21 at the time of Participant's
      termination of employment. Amounts with respect to which the Participant's
      election(s) are modified in accordance with the provisions of this Section
      11.21 shall continue to be subject to all provisions of this Plan
      including further distribution modifications in accordance with the
      provisions of the Section 11.21.


<PAGE>



Section 12 - Participation in Other Plan(s)

      12.1 Participation in Predecessor Plans. Effective November 21, 1997, the
      plans of the Stock Savings Program shall be merged into the Stock Savings
      Plan. All Savings Units under the Stock Based Savings Plan or the
      Management Stock Savings Plan shall be transferred to this Plan as of that
      date and shall be governed by the terms of this Plan.

      12.2 Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or
      the Pacific Telesis Group Non-Qualified Savings Plan. If an Eligible
      Employee elects to participate in this Plan with respect to contributions
      during 1998, the Employee may not defer, under the Pacific Telesis Group
      1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or the Pacific Telesis Group
      Non-Qualified Savings Plan, any compensation otherwise payable in 1998,
      and such election under this Plan shall operate as a termination of
      participation in such Pacific Telesis Group plans to the extent it relates
      to any deferrals of compensation otherwise payable in 1998.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10-p


           SBC Communications Inc.



















                             1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN



















                                               Plan Effective:  January 1, 1996
                                         As amended through:  November 19, 1999


<PAGE>



                             1992 Stock Option Plan
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



1.1   Purpose................................................1

1.2   Additional Definitions.................................1

1.3   Effective Date.........................................2

2.1   The Committee..........................................2

2.2   Authority of the Committee.............................2

3.1   Number of Shares.......................................3

3.2   Lapsed Options.........................................3

3.3   Adjustments in Authorized Shares.......................3

4.1   Grant of Options.......................................3

4.2   Form of Issuance.......................................4

4.3   Option Price...........................................4

4.4   Duration of Option.....................................4

4.5   Vesting of Options.....................................4

4.6   Exercise of Options....................................4

4.7   Payment................................................5

4.8   Termination of Employment..............................6

4.9   Transfers..............................................6

4.10  Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options.......6

4.11  Change in Control......................................7

5.1   Amendment, Modification, and Termination...............7

5.2   Awards Previously Granted..............................8

6.1   Tax Withholding........................................8

7.1   Employment.............................................8

7.2   Participation..........................................8

7.3   Successors.............................................8

7.4   Governing Law..........................................8





1992 Stock Option Plan


<PAGE>


                           SBC 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN


         ARTICLE 1.  PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE

1.1   Purpose. The purpose of the SBC 1992 Stock Option Plan ("Plan") is to
      promote the success and enhance the value of SBC Communications Inc. (the
      "Company") by linking the personal interests of the Employees of the
      Company and its Subsidiaries to the interests of the Company's
      shareowners, and by providing Employees with an additional incentive for
      outstanding performance. To achieve this purpose, Options to purchase
      common stock of the Company may be granted to Employees of the Company and
      its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Plan.

1.2   Additional  Definitions.  In addition to definitions  set forth elsewhere
      -----------------------
      in the Plan, for purposes of the Plan:

      (a)  "Cause" shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the part of a
           Participant that is materially and demonstrably detrimental to the
           Company or any Subsidiary as determined by the Committee in its sole
           discretion.

      (b)  "Employee" shall mean any management employee of the Company or of
           one of its Subsidiaries in the third (3rd) level of management or
           above. Directors who are not otherwise employed by the Company or any
           of its Subsidiaries shall not be considered Employees under the Plan.

      (c)  "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
           amended, or any successor Act thereto.

      (d)  "Fair Market Value" shall mean the closing price on the New York
           Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for Shares on the relevant date, or if such
           date was not a trading day, the next preceding trading date, all as
           determined by the Company. A trading day is any day that the Shares
           are traded on the NYSE. In lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may
           select any other index or measurement to determine the Fair Market
           Value of Shares under the Plan.

      (e)  "Option" shall mean the right to purchase one or more shares of the
           common stock of SBC Communications Inc. on the terms and conditions
           contained in this Plan, the rules of the Committee, and the terms of
           the Option.



<PAGE>






      (f)  "Retirement" shall mean the termination of a Participant's employment
           with the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, for reasons other than
           death, disability (as that term is used in the SBC Senior Management
           Long Term Disability Plan) or for Cause, on or after the earlier of
           the following dates: (1) the date Participant is eligible to retire
           with an immediate pension pursuant to the SBC Supplemental Retirement
           Income Plan; or (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the
           following combinations of age and service at termination of
           employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise indicated
           below:


                Net Credited Service           Age

                10 years or more          65 or older
                20 years or more          55 or older
                25 years or more          50 or older
                30 years or more          Any age

                With respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP Service
           Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of the SBC Pension
           Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program upon termination of Employment,
           the term "Retirement" shall include such Participant's termination of
           employment.

      (g)  "Rotational  Work  Assignment  Company"  or "RWAC"  shall  mean Bell
           Communications   Research,   Inc.,  formerly  the  Central  Services
           Organization,   Inc.,   and/or  any  other  entity  with  which  SBC
           Communications  Inc.  or any of its  subsidiaries  may enter into an
           agreement to provide an employee for a rotational work assignment.

      (h)  "Shares" or "Stock" or "Shares of Stock" shall mean the common stock
           of SBC Communications Inc.

      (i)  "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in which the Company owns
           directly, or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than fifty percent
           (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of Stock, or
           any other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and
           joint ventures) in which the Company owns more than fifty percent
           (50%) of the combined equity thereof.

1.3   Effective  Date.  The Plan shall be  effective on the date it is approved
      ---------------
      by the Company's shareowners.


                     ARTICLE 2.  ADMINISTRATION

2.1   The  Committee.  The  Plan  shall  be  administered  by  a  Committee  or
      --------------
      Committees (the "Committee") appointed by the Board of Directors.



<PAGE>


2.2   Authority of the Committee. The Committee shall have full power, except as
      limited by law or by the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the
      Company, and subject to the provisions of this Plan, to select the
      recipients of Options ("Participants"); determine the sizes of grants of
      Options under the Plan; determine the exercise price, duration, vesting
      requirements, and period of exercisability of each Option; determine the
      terms and conditions of such Option grants in a manner consistent with the
      Plan; construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument
      entered into under the Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and
      regulations for the Plan's administration; and, subject to the provisions
      of Article 5 - Amendment, Modification, and Termination, herein, amend the
      terms and conditions of any outstanding Option to the extent such terms
      and conditions are within the discretion of the Committee as provided in
      the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations which
      may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.

           All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to
      the provisions of the Plan, and all related orders and resolutions of the
      Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, including
      the Company, its shareowners, Employees, Participants, and their estates
      and beneficiaries.


               ARTICLE 3.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

3.1   Number of Shares. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.3
      Adjustments in Authorized Shares, herein, the total number of Shares of
      Stock for which Options may be granted under the Plan may not exceed
      9,000,000 Shares. These Shares may be either authorized but unissued or
      reacquired Shares.

3.2   Lapsed Options. If any Option granted under the Plan is canceled,
      terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, any Shares subject to such
      Option again shall be available for the grant of an Option under the Plan.

3.3   Adjustments in Authorized Shares. In the event of a merger,
      reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation,
      stock dividend, stock split, share combination, or other change in the
      corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, such adjustment
      shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered
      under the plan, and in the number and class of and/or price of Shares
      subject to outstanding Options granted under the Plan, as may be
      determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole
      discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; and provided
      that the number of Shares subject to any Option shall always be a whole
      number.


                      ARTICLE 4.  STOCK OPTIONS



<PAGE>


4.1   Grant of Options. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options
      may be granted to such Employees, at such times and on such terms and
      conditions, as shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, no
      Options may be granted after the 10th anniversary of the effective date of
      the Plan. The Committee shall have discretion in determining the number of
      Options and the number of Shares subject to each Option granted to each
      Participant. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
      Committee shall have the authority to establish guidelines setting forth
      anticipated grant levels which correspond to various salary grades or the
      equivalent thereof.

4.2   Form of Issuance. Options may be issued in the form of a certificate or
      may be recorded on the books and records of the Company for the account of
      the Participant. If an Option is not issued in the form of a certificate,
      then the Option shall be deemed granted upon issuance of a notice of the
      grant addressed to the recipient. The terms and conditions of an Option
      shall be set forth in the certificate, in the notice of the issuance of
      the grant, or in such other documents as the Committee shall determine.
      The Committee may require a Participant to enter into a written agreement
      containing terms and conditions relating to the Option and its exercise.

4.3   Option Price. The Option Price for each grant of an Option shall be
      determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the minimum Option
      Price shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a
      Share on the date the Option is granted.

4.4   Duration of Options. Each Option shall expire at such time as the
      Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that no
      Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date
      of its grant.

4.5   Vesting of Options. Options shall vest at such times and under such terms
      and conditions as determined by the Committee. The Committee shall have
      the authority to accelerate the vesting of any Option; provided, however,
      that the Senior Executive Vice President - Human Resources, or his
      successor, or such other person designated by the Committee, shall have
      the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options for any Participant who
      is in the fifth level of management or below and who is not a Director or
      an officer (as that term is defined in Section 16 of the Exchange Act).

4.6.  Exercise of Options. Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable
      at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the
      Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for
      each grant or for each Participant. However, in no event may any Option
      granted under this Plan become exercisable prior to the first anniversary
      of the date of its grant, except as provided in Section 4.11 Change in
      Control.



<PAGE>


           Options shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated
      agent selected by the Company (if no such agent has been designated, then
      to the Company), in the manner and form determined by the Company, which
      notice shall be irrevocable, setting forth the exact number of Shares with
      respect to which the Option is being exercised and including with such
      notice payment of the Option Price. When Options have been transferred,
      the Company or its designated agent may require appropriate documentation
      that the person or persons exercising the Option, if other than the
      Participant, has the right to exercise the Option. No Option may be
      exercised with respect to a fraction of a Share.

4.7   Payment. The Option Price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise.
      No Shares shall be issued or transferred until full payment has been
      received therefor.

      Payment may be made:

      (a)  in cash, or

      (b)  unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and subject
           to such additional terms and conditions and/or modifications as the
           Committee or the Company may impose from time to time, and further
           subject to suspension or termination of this provision by the
           Committee or the Company at any time, by:

           (i) delivery of Shares of Stock owned by the Participant in partial
               (if in partial payment, then together with cash) or full payment;
               provided, however, as a condition to paying any part of the
               Option Price in Stock, at the time of exercise of the Option, the
               Participant must establish to the satisfaction of the Company
               that the Stock tendered to the Company must have been held by the
               Participant for a minimum of six (6) months preceding the tender;
               or

           (ii)if the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as the
               Company's agent to process Option exercises, issuance of an
               exercise notice to such stockbroker together with instructions
               irrevocably instructing the stockbroker: (A) to immediately sell
               (which shall include an exercise notice that becomes effective
               upon execution of a limit order) a sufficient portion of the
               Shares to pay the Option Price of the Options being exercised and
               the required tax withholding, and (B) to deliver on the
               settlement date the portion of the proceeds of the sale equal to
               the Option Price and tax withholding to the Company. In the event
               the stockbroker sells any Shares on behalf of a Participant, the
               stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the
               Participant, and the Company disclaims any responsibility for the
               actions of the stockbroker in making any such sales. No Stock
               shall be issued until the settlement date and until the proceeds
               (equal to the Option Price and tax withholding) are paid to the
               Company.

           If payment is made by the delivery of Shares of Stock, the value of
      the Shares delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Shares
      on the day preceding the date of exercise of the Option.

           Restricted Stock may not be used to pay the Option Price.



<PAGE>


4.8   Termination of Employment.
      -------------------------

      (a)  Termination by Reason of Death or Disability. In the event the
           employment of a Participant is terminated by reason of death or
           disability (as that term is used in the SBC Senior Management Long
           Term Disability Plan), any outstanding Options granted to the
           Participant shall vest as of the date of termination of employment
           and may be exercised, if at all, no more than one (1) year following
           termination of employment, unless the Options, by their terms, expire
           earlier.

      (b)  Termination by Retirement. In the event the employment of a
           Participant is terminated by reason of Retirement, any outstanding
           Options granted to the Participant which are vested as of the date of
           termination of employment may be exercised, if at all, no more than
           three (3) years following termination of employment, unless the
           Options, by their terms, expire earlier.

      (c)  Termination of Employment for Other Reasons. If the employment of a
           Participant shall terminate for any reason other than the reasons set
           forth in (a) or (b), above, and other than for Cause, all outstanding
           Options granted to the Participant which are vested as of the date of
           termination of employment may be exercised by the Participant within
           the period beginning on the effective date of termination of
           employment and ending three (3) months after such date, unless the
           Options, by their terms, expire earlier.

      (d)  Termination for Cause. If the employment of a Participant shall
           terminate for Cause, all outstanding Options held by the Participant
           shall immediately terminate and be forfeited to the Company, and no
           additional exercise period shall be allowed.

      (e)  Options not Vested at Termination. Any outstanding Options not vested
           as of the effective date of termination of employment shall expire
           immediately and shall be forfeited to the Company.

4.9   Transfers. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a
      Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or
      between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a Subsidiary and a RWAC,
      to the extent the term of employment at a RWAC is equal to or less than
      five years shall not be deemed a termination of employment.



<PAGE>


4.10  Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options. During the Participant's
      lifetime, the Participant's Options shall be exercisable only by the
      Participant or by the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
      After the death of the Participant, except as otherwise provided by the
      Company's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, an Option shall
      only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but not limited to, an
      executor or administrator of a decedent's estate) or his or her guardian
      or legal representative.

           No Option shall be transferable except: (a) in the case of the
      Participant, only upon the Participant's death and in accordance with the
      Company's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations; and (b) in the case
      of any holder after the Participant's death, only by will or by the laws
      of descent and distribution.

4.11  Change in Control. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, all Options
      held by Participants hereunder shall immediately become vested and
      exercisable, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.6 Exercise of
      Options to the contrary. A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have
      occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and
      14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or other fiduciary
      holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a
      corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the Company
      in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
      Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3
      under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
      representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power
      represented by the Company's then outstanding voting securities, or (ii)
      during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the
      beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company
      and any new Director whose election by the Board of Directors or
      nomination for election by the Company's shareowners was approved by a
      vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors then still in office
      who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election
      or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any
      reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareowners of the
      Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other
      corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in
      the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
      continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
      converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least eighty
      percent (80%) of the total voting power represented by the voting
      securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
      after such merger or consolidation, or the shareowners of the Company
      approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for
      the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the
      Company's assets.


        ARTICLE 5.  AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION

5.1   Amendment, Modification, and Termination. The Board or the Committee may
      at any time and from time to time, terminate, amend, or modify the Plan.
      However, no such amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan may
      be made without the approval of the shareowners of the Company, if such
      approval is required by the Internal Revenue Code, by the insider trading
      rules of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, by any national securities
      exchange or system on which the Shares are then listed or reported, or by
      a regulatory body having jurisdiction with respect hereto.



<PAGE>


5.2   Awards Previously Granted. No termination, amendment, or modification of
      the Plan shall in any material manner adversely affect any Option
      previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the
      Participant holding such Option.


                       ARTICLE 6.  WITHHOLDING

6.1   Tax Withholding. Upon exercise of an Option, the Company shall withhold
      sufficient Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the taxes are
      determined in an amount necessary to satisfy the minimum amount of
      Federal, state, and local taxes required by law to be withheld as a result
      of such exercise.

           Any fractional share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be
      withheld as additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the
      Company, paid in cash to the participant.

           Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of
      payment for the Option Price is from the sale by a stockbroker pursuant to
      Section 4.7(b)(ii), hereof, of the Stock acquired through the Option
      exercise, then the tax withholding shall be satisfied out of the proceeds.
      For administrative purposes in determining the amount of taxes due, the
      sale price of such Stock shall be deemed to be the Fair Market Value of
      the Stock.


                      ARTICLE 7.  MISCELLANEOUS

7.1   Employment. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way
      the right of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof to terminate any
      Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any
      right to continue in the employment of the Company or any Subsidiary
      thereof.

7.2   Participation. No Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive
      an Option under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to
      receive a future Option.


7.3   Successors. All obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding
      on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor
      is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
      otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of
      the Company.

7.4   Governing Law. The Plan, and any and all agreements  hereunder,  shall be
      construed  in  accordance  with and  governed by the laws of the State of
      Missouri.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>



                                                                   EXHIBIT 10-r


                   SBC Communications Inc.


















                              1996 STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN





















                                               Plan Effective:  January 1, 1996
                                         As amended through:  November 19, 1999


<PAGE>




                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Article 1 Establishment and Purpose..........................................1

  1.1  Establishment of the Plan.............................................1
  1.2  Purpose of the Plan...................................................1
  1.3  Effective Date of the Plan............................................1

Article 2 Definitions........................................................1

Article 3 Administration.....................................................5

  3.1  The Committee.........................................................5
  3.2  Authority of the Committee............................................6

Article 4 Shares Subject to the Plan.........................................6

  4.1  Number of Shares......................................................6
  4.2  Lapsed Awards.........................................................7
  4.3  Adjustments in Authorized Plan Shares.................................7

Article 5 Eligibility and Participation......................................7

  5.1  Eligibility...........................................................7
  5.2  Actual Participation..................................................8

Article 6 Stock Options......................................................8

  6.1  Grant of Options......................................................8
  6.2  Form of Issuance......................................................8
  6.3  Exercise Price........................................................9
  6.4  Duration of Options...................................................9
  6.5  Vesting of Options....................................................9
  6.6  Exercise of Options...................................................9
  6.7  Payment...............................................................9
  6.8  Termination of Employment............................................11
  6.9  Employee Transfers...................................................12
  6.10 Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options.....................12
  6.11 Competition..........................................................12

Article 7 Restricted Stock..................................................13

  7.1  Grant of Restricted Stock............................................13
  7.2  Restricted Stock Agreement...........................................13
  7.3  Transferability......................................................13
  7.4  Other Restrictions...................................................13
  7.5  Removal of Restrictions..............................................14
  7.6  Voting Rights, Dividends and Other Distributions.....................14
  7.7  Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability.................14
  7.8  Termination of Employment for Other Reasons..........................14
  7.9  Employee Transfers...................................................14
  7.10 Other Grants.........................................................15

Article 8 Performance Units and Performance Shares..........................15

  8.1  Grants of Performance Units and Performance Shares...................15
  8.2  Value of Performance Shares and Units................................15
  8.3  Performance Period...................................................16
  8.4  Performance Goals....................................................16
  8.5  Dividend Equivalents on Performance Shares...........................18
  8.6  Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units and Performance
         Shares.............................................................18
  8.7  Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement....19
  8.8  Termination of Employment for Other Reasons..........................19
  8.9  Termination of Employment for Cause..................................19
  8.10 Nontransferability...................................................19

Article 9 Beneficiary Designation...........................................20

Article 10 Deferrals........................................................20

  10.1 Deferrals............................................................20
  10.2 Deferral of Performance Unit and Performance Share Distributions.....20

Article 11 Employee Matters.................................................21

  11.1 Employment Not Guaranteed............................................21
  11.2 Participation........................................................21
  11.3 Claims and Appeals...................................................21

Article 12 Change in Control................................................22

Article 13 Amendment, Modification, and Termination.........................22

  13.1 Amendment, Modification, and Termination.............................22
  13.2 Awards Previously Granted............................................22

Article 14 Withholding......................................................22

  14.1 Tax Withholding......................................................22
  14.2 Share Withholding....................................................23

Article 15 Successors.......................................................23

Article 16 Legal Construction...............................................23

  16.1 Gender and Number....................................................23
  16.2 Severability.........................................................23
  16.3 Requirements of Law..................................................24
  16.4 Securities Law Compliance............................................24
  16.5 Governing Law........................................................24

<PAGE>


                             SBC Communications Inc.
                          1996 Stock and Incentive Plan


Article 1  Establishment and Purpose.


   1.1     Establishment of the Plan.  SBC Communications Inc., a Delaware
           corporation (the "Company" or "SBC"), hereby establishes an
           incentive compensation plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this
           document.

   1.2     Purpose of the Plan. The purpose of the Plan is to promote the
           success and enhance the value of the Company by linking the personal
           interests of Participants to those of the Company's shareowners, and
           by providing Participants with an incentive for outstanding
           performance.

              The Plan is further intended to attract and retain the services of
           Participants upon whose judgment, interest, and special efforts the
           successful operation of SBC and its subsidiaries is dependent.

   1.3     Effective Date of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective on
           January 1, 1996; however, grants may be made before that time subject
           to becoming effective on or after that date. During the first year
           this Plan is effective, Awards shall be issued only to the extent the
           potential payout of Shares shall not exceed 10% of the Shares
           approved for issuance under this Plan.

Article 2  Definitions.


              Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the
           meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the
           initial letter of the word is capitalized:

              (a)  "Award" means, individually or collectively, a grant under
                   this Plan of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock
                   Options, Restricted Stock, Performance Units, or Performance
                   Shares.

              (b)  "Award Agreement" means an agreement which may be entered
                   into by each Participant and the Company, setting forth the
                   terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted to
                   Participants under this Plan.

              (c)  "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the SBC Board of
                   Directors.

              (d)  "Cause" shall mean willful and gross misconduct on the part
                   of an Employee that is materially and demonstrably
                   detrimental to the Company or any Subsidiary as determined by
                   the Committee in its sole discretion.

              (e)  "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i)
                   any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and
                   14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or other
                   fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan
                   of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly
                   by the shareowners of the Company in substantially the same
                   proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or
                   becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3
                   under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
                   Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the
                   total voting power represented by the Company's then
                   outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any period of
                   two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning
                   of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the
                   Company and any new Director whose election by the Board of
                   Directors or nomination for election by the Company's
                   shareowners was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds
                   (2/3) of the Directors then still in office who either were
                   Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or
                   nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for
                   any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the
                   shareowners of the Company approve a merger or consolidation
                   of the Company with any other corporation, other than a
                   merger or consolidation which would result in the voting
                   securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
                   thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining
                   outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of
                   the surviving entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of the
                   total voting power represented by the voting securities of
                   the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
                   after such merger or consolidation, or the shareowners of the
                   Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company
                   or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of
                   all or substantially all the Company's assets.

              (f)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
                   from time to time.

              (g)  "Committee" means the committee or committees, as specified
                   in Article 3, appointed by the Board to administer the Plan
                   with respect to grants of Awards.

              (h)  "Director" means any individual who is a member of the SBC
                   Board of Directors.

              (i)  "Disability" shall mean the Participant's inability to
                   perform the Participant's normal Employment functions due to
                   any medically determinable physical or mental disability,
                   which can last or has lasted 12 months or is expected to
                   result in death.

              (j)  "Employee" means any management employee of the Company or of
                   one of the Company's Subsidiaries. "Employment" means the
                   employment of an Employee by the Company or one of its
                   Subsidiaries. Directors who are not otherwise employed by the
                   Company shall not be considered Employees under this Plan.

              (k)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                   amended from time to time, or any successor Act thereto.

              (l)  "Exercise Price" means the price at which a Share may be
                   purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as
                   determined by the Committee.

              (m)  "Fair Market Value" shall mean the closing price on the New
                   York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for Shares on the relevant
                   date, or if such date was not a trading day, the next
                   preceding trading date, all as determined by the Company. A
                   trading day is any day that the Shares are traded on the
                   NYSE. In lieu of the foregoing, the Committee may select any
                   other index or measurement to determine the Fair Market
                   Value of Shares under the Plan.

              (n)  "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means an option to purchase
                   Shares from SBC, granted under this Plan, which is designated
                   as an Incentive Stock Option and is intended to meet the
                   requirements of Section 422 of the Code.

              (o)  "Insider" shall mean an Employee who is, on the relevant
                   date, an officer, director, or ten percent (10%) beneficial
                   owner of the Company, as those terms are defined under
                   Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

              (p)  "Key Executive Officer Short Term Award" means a
                   Performance Unit expressed in dollars.

              (q)  "Nonqualified Stock Option" or "NQSO" means the option to
                   purchase Shares from SBC, granted under this Plan, which is
                   not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
              (r)  "Option" or "Stock Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock
                   Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, and shall include a
                   Restoration Option.

              (s)  "Participant" means a person who holds an outstanding Award
                   granted under the Plan.

              (t)  "Performance Unit" and "Performance Share" shall each mean an
                   Award granted to an Employee pursuant to Article 8 herein.

              (u)  "Plan" means this 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  The Plan
                   may also be referred to as the "SBC 1996 Stock and
                   Incentive Plan" or as the "SBC Communications Inc. 1996
                   Stock and Incentive Plan."

              (v)  "Restricted Stock" means an Award of Stock granted to an
                   Employee pursuant to Article 7 herein.

              (w)  "Restriction Period" means the period during which Shares of
                   Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions or conditions
                   under Article 7.

              (x)  "Retirement" or to "Retire" shall mean the termination of a
                   Participant's employment with the Company or one of its
                   Subsidiaries, for any reason other than death, Disability or
                   for Cause, on or after the earlier of the following dates, or
                   as otherwise provided by the Committee: (1) the date the
                   Participant would be eligible to retire with an immediate
                   pension under the rules of the SBC Supplemental Retirement
                   Income Plan, whether or not actually a participant in such
                   plan; or (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the
                   following combinations of age and service at termination of
                   employment on or after April 1, 1997, except as otherwise
                   indicated below:

                         Net Credited Service    Age
                         --------------------    ---
                          10 Years of more     65 or older
                          20 years or more     55 or older
                          25 years or more     50 or older
                          30 years or more     Any age

                   With respect to a Participant who is granted an EMP Service
                   Pension under and pursuant to the provisions of the SBC
                   Pension Benefit Plan - Nonbargained Program upon termination
                   of employment, the terms "Retirement" or to "Retire" shall
                   include such Participant's termination of employment.

              (y)  "Rotational Work Assignment Company ("RWAC") shall mean any
                   entity with which SBC Communications Inc. or any of its
                   Subsidiaries may enter into an agreement to provide an
                   employee for a rotational work assignment.

              (z)  "Shares" or "Stock" means the shares of common stock of the
                   Company.

              (aa)"Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in which the Company
                  owns directly, or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than
                  fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all
                  classes of Stock, or any other entity (including, but not
                  limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which the
                  Company owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined
                  equity thereof.

              (bb)"Window Period" means the period beginning on the third
                  business day following the date of public release of the
                  Company's quarterly sales and earnings information, and ending
                  on the twelfth business day following such date.

Article 3  Administration.

   3.1     The Committee.  Administration of the Plan shall be bifurcated as
           follows:

              (a)  With respect to Insiders, the Plan and all Awards hereunder
                   shall be administered only by the Human Resources Committee
                   of the Board or such other Committee as may be appointed by
                   the Board for this purpose (the "Disinterested Committee"),
                   where each Director on such Disinterested Committee is a
                   "Disinterested Person" (or any successor designation for
                   determining who may administer plans, transactions or awards
                   exempt under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act), as that term
                   is used in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as that rule
                   may be modified from time to time.

              (b)  The Disinterested Committee and such other Committee as the
                   Board may create, if any, specifically to administer the Plan
                   with respect to non-Insiders (the "Non-Insider Committee")
                   shall each have full authority to administer the Plan and all
                   Awards hereunder with respect to all persons who are not
                   Insiders, except as otherwise provided herein or by the
                   Board. Either Committee may be replaced by the Board at any
                   time.

   3.2     Authority of the Committee. The Committee shall have full power
           except as limited by law and subject to the provisions herein, to
           select the recipients of Awards, to determine the size and types of
           Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards in a
           manner consistent with the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan
           and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to
           establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's
           administration; and (subject to the provisions of Article 13 herein)
           to amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award to the
           extent such terms and conditions are within the discretion of the
           Committee as provided in the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make
           all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the
           administration of the Plan.

              No Award other than Restoration Options may be made under the Plan
           after December 31, 2010.

              All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to
           the provisions of the Plan and all related orders or resolutions of
           the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons,
           including the Company, its stockholders, Employees, Participants, and
           their estates and beneficiaries.

              Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee is authorized,
           and shall not be limited in its discretion, to use any of the
           Performance Criteria specified herein in its determination of Awards
           under this Plan.

Article 4  Shares Subject to the Plan.

   4.1     Number of Shares. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3
           herein, the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan shall
           not exceed 30 million Shares of Stock. No more than 10% of the Shares
           approved for issuance under this Plan may be Shares of Restricted
           Stock. No more than 40% of the Shares approved for issuance under
           this Plan may be issued to Participants as a result of Performance
           Share or Restricted Stock Awards. The Shares granted under this Plan
           may be either authorized but unissued or reacquired Shares. The
           Disinterested Committee shall have full discretion to determine the
           manner in which Shares available for grant are counted in this Plan.

              Without limiting the discretion of the Committee under this
           section, unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the following
           rules will apply for purposes of the determination of the number of
           Shares available for grant under the Plan or compliance with the
           foregoing limits:

              (a)  The grant of a Stock Option or a Restricted Stock Award shall
                   reduce the Shares available for grant under the Plan by the
                   number of Shares subject to such Award. However, to the
                   extent the Participant uses previously owned Shares to pay
                   the Exercise Price or any taxes, or Shares are withheld to
                   pay taxes, these Shares shall be available for regrant under
                   the Plan.

              (b)  With respect to Performance Shares, the number of Performance
                   Shares granted under the Plan shall be deducted from the
                   number of Shares available for grant under the Plan. The
                   number of Performance Shares which cannot be, or are not,
                   converted into Shares and distributed (including deferrals)
                   to the Participant (after any applicable tax withholding)
                   following the end of the Performance Period shall increase
                   the number of Shares available for regrant under the Plan by
                   an equal amount.

              (c)  With respect to Performance Units representing a fixed dollar
                   amount that may only be settled in cash, the Performance
                   Units Award shall not affect the number of Shares available
                   under the Plan.

   4.2     Lapsed Awards. If any Award granted under this Plan is canceled,
           terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, Shares subject to such
           Award shall be again available for the grant of an Award under the
           Plan.

   4.3     Adjustments in Authorized Plan Shares. In the event of any merger,
           reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation,
           liquidation, Stock dividend, split-up, Share combination, or other
           change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the
           Shares, an adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares
           which may be delivered under the Plan (including individual limits),
           and in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to
           outstanding Awards granted under the Plan, and/or the number of
           outstanding Options, Shares of Restricted Stock, and Performance
           Shares constituting outstanding Awards, as may be determined to be
           appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion,
           to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.

Article 5  Eligibility and Participation.

   5.1     Eligibility.  All management Employees are eligible to participate
           in this Plan.

   5.2     Actual Participation. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
           Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees,
           those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature
           and amount of each Award. No Employee is entitled to receive an Award
           unless selected by the Committee.

Article 6  Stock Options.

   6.1     Grant of Options. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
           Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to
           time, and under such terms and conditions, as shall be determined by
           the Committee. The Committee shall have discretion in determining the
           number of Shares subject to Options granted to each Employee;
           provided, however, that the maximum number of Shares subject to
           Options which may be granted to any single Employee during any
           calendar year shall not exceed 2% of the Shares approved for issuance
           under this Plan. The Committee may grant ISOs, NQSOs, or a
           combination thereof; provided, however, that no ISO may be issued
           after January 1, 2006. The Committee may authorize the automatic
           grant of additional Options ("Restoration Options") when a
           Participant exercises already outstanding Options, or options granted
           under a prior option plan of the Company, on such terms and
           conditions as it shall determine. Unless otherwise provided by the
           Committee, the number of Restoration Options granted to a Participant
           with respect to the exercise of an option (including an Option under
           this Plan) shall not exceed the number of Shares delivered by the
           Participant in payment of the Exercise Price of such option, and/or
           in payment of any tax withholding resulting from such exercise, and
           any Shares which are withheld to satisfy withholding tax liability
           arising out of such exercise. A Restoration Option shall have an
           Exercise Price of not less than 100% of the per Share Fair Market
           Value on the date of grant of such Restoration Option, and shall be
           subject to all the terms and conditions of the original grant,
           including the expiration date, and such other terms and conditions as
           the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.

   6.2     Form of Issuance. Each Option grant may be issued in the form of an
           Award Agreement and/or may be recorded on the books and records of
           the Company for the account of the Participant. If an Option is not
           issued in the form of an Award Agreement, then the Option shall be
           deemed granted as determined by the Committee. The terms and
           conditions of an Option shall be set forth in the Award Agreement, in
           the notice of the issuance of the grant, or in such other documents
           as the Committee shall determine. Such terms and conditions shall
           include the Exercise Price, the duration of the Option, the number of
           Shares to which an Option pertains (unless otherwise provided by the
           Committee, each Option may be exercised to purchase one Share), and
           such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including,
           but not limited to whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a
           NQSO.

   6.3     Exercise Price. Unless a greater Exercise Price is determined by the
           Committee, the Exercise Price for each Option Awarded under this Plan
           shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value
           of a Share on the date the Option is granted.

   6.4     Duration of Options. Each Option shall expire at such time as the
           Committee shall determine at the time of grant (which duration may be
           extended by the Committee); provided, however, that no Option shall
           be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its
           grant.

   6.5     Vesting of Options. Options shall vest at such times and under such
           terms and conditions as determined by the Committee; provided,
           however, unless a later vesting period is provided by the Committee
           at or before the grant of an Option, one-third of the Options will
           vest on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant; if one
           Option remains after equally dividing the grant by three, it will
           vest on the first anniversary of the grant, if two Options remain,
           then one will vest on each of the first two anniversaries. The
           Committee shall have the right to accelerate the vesting of any
           Option; however, the Chairman of the Board or the Senior Vice
           President-Human Resources, or their respective successors, or such
           other persons designated by the Committee, shall have the authority
           to accelerate the vesting of Options for any Participant who is not
           an Insider.

   6.6     Exercise of Options. Options granted under the Plan shall be
           exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and
           conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which
           need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.

              Options shall be exercised by providing notice to the designated
           agent selected by the Company (if no such agent has been designated,
           then to the Company), in the manner and form determined by the
           Company, which notice shall be irrevocable, setting forth the exact
           number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised
           and including with such notice payment of the Exercise Price. When
           Options have been transferred, the Company or its designated agent
           may require appropriate documentation that the person or persons
           exercising the Option, if other than the Participant, has the right
           to exercise the Option. No Option may be exercised with respect to a
           fraction of a Share.

   6.7     Payment. The Exercise Price shall be paid in full at the time of
           exercise. No Shares shall be issued or transferred until full payment
           has been received therefor.

              Payment may be made:

              (a)  in cash, or

              (b)  unless otherwise provided by the Committee at any time, and
                   subject to such additional terms and conditions and/or
                   modifications as the Committee or the Company may impose from
                   time to time, and further subject to suspension or
                   termination of this provision by the Committee or Company at
                   any time, by:

                   (i)  delivery of Shares of Stock owned by the Participant in
                        partial (if in partial payment, then together with cash)
                        or full payment; provided, however, as a condition to
                        paying any part of the Exercise Price in Stock, at the
                        time of exercise of the Option, the Participant must
                        establish to the satisfaction of the Company that the
                        Stock tendered to the Company must have been held by the
                        Participant for a minimum of six (6) months preceding
                        the tender; or

                   (ii) if the Company has designated a stockbroker to act as
                        the Company's agent to process Option exercises,
                        issuance of an exercise notice together with
                        instructions to such stockbroker irrevocably instructing
                        the stockbroker: (A) to immediately sell (which shall
                        include an exercise notice that becomes effective upon
                        execution of a limit order) a sufficient portion of the
                        Shares to pay the Exercise Price of the Options being
                        exercised and the required tax withholding, and (B) to
                        deliver on the settlement date the portion of the
                        proceeds of the sale equal to the Exercise Price and tax
                        withholding to the Company. In the event the stockbroker
                        sells any Shares on behalf of a Participant, the
                        stockbroker shall be acting solely as the agent of the
                        Participant, and the Company disclaims any
                        responsibility for the actions of the stockbroker in
                        making any such sales. No Stock shall be issued until
                        the settlement date and until the proceeds (equal to the
                        Option Price and tax withholding) are paid to the
                        Company.

              If payment is made by the delivery of Shares of Stock, the value
           of the Shares delivered shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of
           the Shares on the day preceding the date of exercise of the Option.
              Restricted Stock may not be used to pay the Option Price.

   6.8     Termination of Employment.

              Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the following
           limitations on exercise of Options shall apply upon termination of
           Employment:

              (a)  Termination by Death or Disability. In the event the
                   Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason of
                   death or Disability, all outstanding Options granted to that
                   Participant shall immediately vest as of the date of
                   termination of Employment and may be exercised, if at all, no
                   more than three (3) years from the date of the termination of
                   Employment, unless the Options, by their terms, expire
                   earlier. However, in the event the Participant was eligible
                   to Retire at the time of termination of Employment,
                   notwithstanding the foregoing, the Options may be exercised,
                   if at all, no more than five (5) years from the date of the
                   termination of Employment, unless the Options, by their
                   terms, expire earlier.

              (b)  Termination for Cause. If the Employment of a Participant
                   shall be terminated by the Company for Cause, all outstanding
                   Options held by the Participant shall immediately be
                   forfeited to the Company and no additional exercise period
                   shall be allowed, regardless of the vested status of the
                   Options.

              (c)  Retirement or Other Termination of Employment. If the
                   Employment of a Participant shall terminate for any reason
                   other than the reasons set forth in (a) or (b), above, all
                   outstanding Options which are vested as of the effective date
                   of termination of Employment may be exercised, if at all, no
                   more than five (5) years from the date of termination of
                   Employment if the Participant is eligible to Retire, or one
                   (1) year from the date of the termination of Employment if
                   the Participant is not eligible to Retire, as the case may
                   be, unless in either case the Options, by their terms, expire
                   earlier. In the event of the death of the Participant after
                   termination of Employment, this paragraph (c) shall still
                   apply and not paragraph (a), above.

              (d)  Options not Vested at Termination. Except as provided in
                   paragraph (a), above, all Options held by the Participant
                   which are not vested on or before the effective date of
                   termination of Employment shall immediately be forfeited to
                   the Company (and shall once again become available for grant
                   under the Plan).

              (e)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole
                   discretion, establish different terms and conditions
                   pertaining to the effect of termination of Employment, but no
                   such modification shall shorten the terms of Options issued
                   prior to such modification.

   6.9     Employee Transfers. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment
           of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries
           (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a Subsidiary and
           a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is equal to
           or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a termination of
           Employment. Provided, however, for purposes of this Article 6,
           termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer
           to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a
           termination of Employment as that term is used herein. Similarly,
           termination of an entity's status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall
           be deemed a termination of Employment of any Participants employed by
           such Subsidiary or RWAC.

   6.10    Restrictions on Exercise and Transfer of Options.  Unless otherwise
           provided by the Committee:

              (a)  During the Participant's lifetime, the Participant's Options
                   shall be exercisable only by the Participant or by the
                   Participant's guardian or legal representative. After the
                   death of the Participant, except as otherwise provided by
                   SBC's Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations, an Option
                   shall only be exercised by the holder thereof (including, but
                   not limited to, an executor or administrator of a decedent's
                   estate) or his or her guardian or legal representative.

              (b)  No Option shall be transferable except: (i) in the case of
                   the Participant, only upon the Participant's death and in
                   accordance with the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary
                   Designations; and (ii) in the case of any holder after the
                   Participant's death, only by will or by the laws of descent
                   and distribution.


   6.11    Competition. Notwithstanding anything in this Article 6 to the
           contrary, prior to a Change in Control, in the event the Committee
           determines, in its sole discretion, that a Participant is engaging in
           competitive activity with the Company, any Subsidiary, or any
           business in which any of the foregoing have a substantial interest
           (the "SBC Businesses"), the Committee may cancel any Option granted
           to such Participant, whether or not vested, in whole or in part. Such
           cancellation shall be effective as of the date specified by the
           Committee. Competitive activity shall mean any business or activity
           in the same geographical market where a substantially similar
           business activity is being carried on by an SBC Business, including,
           but not limited to, representing or providing consulting services to
           any person or entity that is engaged in competition with an SBC
           Business or that takes a position adverse to an SBC Business.
           However, competitive activity shall not include, among other things,
           owning a nonsubstantial interest as a shareholder in a competing
           business.

              The determination of whether a Participant has engaged in
           competitive activity with the Company shall be determined by the
           Committee in good faith and in its sole discretion.

Article 7  Restricted Stock.

   7.1     Grant of Restricted Stock. Subject to the terms and provisions of the
           Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant
           Shares of Restricted Stock to eligible Employees in such amounts and
           upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. In
           addition to any other terms and conditions imposed by the Committee,
           vesting of Restricted Stock may be conditioned upon the attainment of
           Performance Goals based on Performance Criteria in the same manner as
           provided in Section 8.4, herein, with respect to Performance Shares.
           No Employee may receive, in any calendar year, in the form of
           Restricted Stock more than one-third of 1% of the Shares approved for
           issuance under this Plan.

   7.2     Restricted Stock Agreement. The Committee may require, as a condition
           to an Award, that a recipient of a Restricted Stock Award enter into
           a Restricted Stock Award Agreement, setting forth the terms and
           conditions of the Award. In lieu of a Restricted Stock Award
           Agreement, the Committee may provide the terms and conditions of an
           Award in a notice to the Participant of the Award, on the Stock
           certificate representing the Restricted Stock, in the resolution
           approving the Award, or in such other manner as it deems appropriate.

   7.3     Transferability. Except as otherwise provided in this Article 7, the
           Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold,
           transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
           hypothecated until the end of the applicable Restriction Period
           established by the Committee, which shall not be less than a period
           of three years.

   7.4     Other Restrictions. The Committee shall impose such other conditions
           and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted
           pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without
           limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase
           price for each Share of Restricted Stock and/or restrictions under
           applicable Federal or state securities laws; and may legend the
           certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice
           of such restrictions.

              The Company shall also have the right to retain the certificates
           representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession
           until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to
           such Shares have been satisfied.

   7.5     Removal of Restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this Article
           7, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant
           made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the
           Participant after the last day of the Restriction Period and
           completion of all conditions to vesting, if any. However, unless
           otherwise provided by the Committee, the Committee, in its sole
           discretion, shall have the right to immediately waive all or part of
           the restrictions and conditions with regard to all or part of the
           Shares held by any Participant at any time.

   7.6     Voting Rights, Dividends and Other Distributions. During the
           Restriction Period, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock
           granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights and shall receive
           all regular cash dividends paid with respect to such Shares. Except
           as provided in the following sentence, in the sole discretion of the
           Committee, other cash dividends and other distributions paid to
           Participants with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock may be
           subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares of
           Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid. If any such
           dividends or distributions are paid in Shares, the Shares shall be
           subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Shares of
           Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid.

   7.7     Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability. In the event
           the Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason of death or
           Disability, all Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on
           outstanding Shares of Restricted Stock held by the Participant shall
           immediately lapse and the Restricted Stock shall immediately become
           fully vested as of the date of termination of Employment.

   7.8     Termination of Employment for Other Reasons. If the Employment of a
           Participant shall terminate for any reason other than those
           specifically set forth in Section 7.7 herein, all Shares of
           Restricted Stock held by the Participant which are not vested as of
           the effective date of termination of Employment immediately shall be
           forfeited and returned to the Company.

   7.9     Employee Transfers. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment
           of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries
           (or between Subsidiaries) or between the Company or a Subsidiary and
           a RWAC, to the extent the period of employment at a RWAC is equal to
           or less than five (5) years, shall not be deemed a termination of
           Employment. Provided, however, for purposes of this Article,
           termination of employment with a RWAC without a concurrent transfer
           to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed a
           termination of Employment as that term is used herein. Similarly,
           termination of an entity's status as a Subsidiary or as a RWAC shall
           be deemed a termination of Employment of any Participants employed by
           such Subsidiary or RWAC.

   7.10    Other Grants. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the
           Committee, at any time and from time to time, may make grants of cash
           or other property to eligible Employees in such amounts and upon such
           terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. If the grant
           is in the form of stock or shares in a company other than SBC: (a)
           the award shall be subject to tax withholding in accordance with
           Article 14, hereof, in the same manner as Stock, and (b) for purposes
           of deferrals under Article 10, hereof, the award shall be treated as
           Shares except that any dividends or dividend equivalents thereon
           shall be paid out unless otherwise provided by the Committee, which
           may, among other things, provide that the dividends or dividend
           equivalents be deferred in the same manner as a cash award.

Article 8  Performance Units and Performance Shares.

   8.1     Grants of Performance Units and Performance Shares. Subject to the
           terms of the Plan, Performance Shares and Performance Units may be
           granted to eligible Employees at any time and from time to time, as
           determined by the Committee. The Committee shall have complete
           discretion in determining the number of Performance Units and/or
           Performance Shares Awarded to each Participant.

   8.2     Value of Performance Shares and Units.

              (a)  A Performance Share is equivalent in value to a Share of
                   Stock. In any calendar year, no individual may be Awarded
                   Performance Shares having a potential payout of Shares of
                   Stock exceeding two-thirds of 1% of the Shares approved for
                   issuance under this Plan.

              (b)  A Performance Unit shall be equal in value to a fixed dollar
                   amount determined by the Committee. In any calendar year, no
                   individual may be Awarded Performance Units having a
                   potential payout equivalent exceeding the Fair Market Value
                   of two-thirds of 1% of the Shares approved for issuance under
                   this Plan. The number of Shares equivalent to the potential
                   payout of a Performance Unit shall be determined by dividing
                   the maximum cash payout of the Award by the Fair Market Value
                   per Share on the effective date of the grant. In the event
                   the Committee denominates a Performance Unit Award in dollars
                   instead of Performance Units, the Award may be referred to as
                   a Key Executive Officer Short Term Award. In all other
                   respects, the Key Executive Officer Short Term Award will be
                   treated in the same manner as Performance Units under this
                   Plan.

   8.3     Performance Period. The Performance Period for Performance Shares and
           Performance Units is the period over which the Performance Goals are
           measured. The Performance Period is set by the Committee for each
           Award; however, in no event shall an Award have a Performance Period
           of less than one year.

   8.4     Performance Goals. For each Award of Performance Shares or
           Performance Units, the Committee shall establish performance
           objectives ("Performance Goals") for the Company, its Subsidiaries,
           and/or divisions of any of foregoing, based on the Performance
           Criteria and other factors set forth in (a) through (d), below.
           Performance Goals shall include payout tables, formulas or other
           standards to be used in determining the extent to which the
           Performance Goals are met, and, if met, the number of Performance
           Shares and/or Performance Units which would be converted into Stock
           and/or cash (or the rate of such conversion) and distributed to
           Participants in accordance with Section 8.6. All Performance Shares
           and Performance Units which may not be converted under the
           Performance Goals or which are reduced by the Committee under Section
           8.6 or which may not be converted for any other reason after the end
           of the Performance Period shall be canceled at the time they would
           otherwise be distributable. When the Committee desires an Award to
           qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, as amended, the Committee
           shall establish the Performance Goals for the respective Performance
           Shares and Performance Units prior to or within 90 days of the
           beginning of the service relating to such Performance Goal, and not
           later than after 25% of such period of service has elapsed. For all
           other Awards, the Performance Goals must be established before the
           end of the respective Performance Period.

              (a)  The Performance Criteria which the Committee is authorized to
                   use, in its sole discretion, are any of the following
                   criteria or any combination thereof:

                   (1) Financial performance of the Company (on a consolidated
                       basis), of one or more of its Subsidiaries, and/or a
                       division of any of the foregoing. Such financial
                       performance may be based on net income and/or Value Added
                       (after-tax cash operating profit less depreciation and
                       less a capital charge).

                   (2) Service performance of the Company (on a consolidated
                       basis), of one or more of its Subsidiaries, and/or of a
                       division of any of the foregoing. Such service
                       performance may be based upon measured customer
                       perceptions of service quality.

                   (3) The Company's Stock price; return on shareholders'
                       equity; total shareholder return (Stock price
                       appreciation plus dividends, assuming the reinvestment of
                       dividends); and/or earnings per share.

                   (4) With respect to the Company (on a consolidated basis), to
                       one or more of its Subsidiaries, and/or to a division of
                       any of the foregoing: sales; costs; market share of a
                       product or service; return on net assets; return on
                       assets; return on capital; profit margin; and/or
                       operating revenues, expenses or earnings.

              (b)  If the performance of more than one Subsidiary is being
                   measured to determine the attainment of performance goals,
                   then a weighted average of the Subsidiaries' results shall be
                   used, as determined by the Committee, including, but not
                   limited to, basing such weighting upon the revenues, assets
                   or net income for each Subsidiary for any year prior to the
                   Performance Period or by using budgets to weight such
                   Subsidiaries.

              (c)  Except to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee in
                   full or in part, if any of the following events occur during
                   a Performance Period and would directly affect the
                   determination of whether or the extent to which Performance
                   Goals are met, they shall be disregarded in any such
                   computation: changes in accounting principles; extraordinary
                   items; changes in tax laws affecting net income and/or Value
                   Added; natural disasters, including floods, hurricanes, and
                   earthquakes; and intentionally inflicted damage to property
                   which directly or indirectly damages the property of the
                   Company or its Subsidiaries. No such adjustment shall be made
                   to the extent such adjustment would cause the Performance
                   Shares or Performance Units to fail to satisfy the
                   performance based exemption of Section 162(m) of the Code.

   8.5     Dividend Equivalents on Performance Shares. Unless reduced or
           eliminated by the Committee, a cash payment in an amount equal to the
           dividend payable on one Share will be made to each Participant for
           each Performance Share which on the record date for the dividend had
           been awarded to the Participant and not converted, distributed (or
           deferred) or canceled.

   8.6     Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units and Performance
           Shares. As soon as practicable after the applicable Performance
           Period has ended and all other conditions (other than Committee
           actions) to conversion and distribution of a Performance Share and/or
           Performance Unit Award have been satisfied (or, if applicable, at
           such other time determined by the Committee at or before the
           establishment of the Performance Goals for such Performance Period),
           the Committee shall determine whether and the extent to which the
           Performance Goals were met for the applicable Performance Units and
           Performance Shares. If Performance Goals have been met, then the
           number of Performance Units and Performance Shares to be converted
           into Stock and/or cash and distributed to the Participants shall be
           determined in accordance with the Performance Goals for such Awards,
           subject to any limits imposed by the Committee. Unless the
           Participant has elected to defer all or part of his Performance Units
           or Performance Shares as provided in Article 10, herein, payment of
           Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be made in a single
           lump sum, as soon as reasonably administratively possible following
           the determination of the number of Shares or amount of cash to which
           the Participant is entitled. Performance Units will be distributed to
           Participants in the form of cash. Performance Shares will be
           distributed to Participants in the form of 50% Stock and 50% Cash, or
           at the Participant's election, 100% Stock or 100% Cash. In the event
           the Participant is no longer an Employee at the time of the
           distribution, then the distribution shall be 100% in cash, provided
           the Participant may elect to take 50% or 100% in Stock. At any time
           prior to the distribution of the Performance Shares and/or
           Performance Units (or if distribution has been deferred, then prior
           to the time the Awards would have been distributed), unless otherwise
           provided by the Committee, the Committee shall have the authority to
           reduce or eliminate the number of Performance Units or Performance
           Shares to be converted and distributed or to mandate the form in
           which the Award shall be paid (i.e., in cash, in Stock or both, in
           any proportions determined by the Committee).

              Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, any election to take a
           greater amount of cash or Stock with respect to Performance Shares
           must be made in the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which
           the Performance Shares are distributed (or if distribution has been
           deferred, then in the year prior to the year the Performance Shares
           would have been distributed absent such deferral). In addition, if
           required in order to exempt the transaction from the provisions of
           Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, any election by an Insider to take
           a greater amount in cash must be made during a Window Period and
           shall be subject to Committee approval.

              For the purpose of converting Performance Shares into cash and
           distributing the same to the holders thereof (or for determining the
           amount of cash to be deferred), the value of a Performance Share
           shall be the average of the Fair Market Values of Shares for the
           period of five (5) trading days ending on the valuation date. The
           valuation date shall be the first business day of the second month in
           the year of distribution (or the year it would have been distributed
           were it not deferred), except that in the case of distributions due
           to death or Disability, the valuation date shall be the first
           business day of the month in which the Committee determines the
           distribution. Performance Shares to be distributed in the form of
           Stock will be converted at the rate of one (1) Share of Stock per
           Performance Share.

   8.7     Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement. If
           the Employment of a Participant shall terminate by reason of death or
           Disability, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payout of all
           outstanding Performance Units and Performance Shares calculated as if
           all unfinished Performance Periods had ended with 100% of the
           Performance Goals achieved, payable in the year following the date of
           termination of Employment. In the event of Retirement, the full
           Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be converted and
           distributed based on and subject to the achievement of the
           Performance Goals and in accordance with all other terms of the Award
           and this Plan.

   8.8     Termination of Employment for Other Reasons. If the Employment of a
           Participant shall terminate for other than a reason set forth in
           Section 8.7 (and other than for Cause), the number of Performance
           Units and Performance Shares to be converted and distributed shall be
           converted and distributed based upon the achievement of the
           Performance Goals and in accordance with all other terms of the Award
           and the Plan; however, the Participant may receive no more than a
           prorated payout of all Performance Units and Performance Shares,
           based on the portions of the respective Performance Periods that have
           been completed.

   8.9     Termination of Employment for Cause. In the event that a
           Participant's Employment shall be terminated by the Company for
           Cause, all Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be
           forfeited by the Participant to the Company.

   8.10    Nontransferability. Performance Units and Performance Shares may not
           be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
           hypothecated, other than in accordance with the SBC Rules for
           Employee Beneficiary Designations.

Article 9  Beneficiary Designation.

              In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions or
           Awards under this Plan, other than Restricted Stock, shall pass in
           accordance with the SBC Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations.

Article 10 Deferrals.

   10.1    Deferrals. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant
           may defer all or part of the Stock or cash to be received upon
           conversion and distribution of Performance Units or Performance
           Shares. In the event of the termination of Employment of a
           Participant prior to becoming eligible for Retirement, no deferrals
           under this Article shall be permitted and any previously deferred
           Performance Shares or Performance Units, and earnings thereon, shall
           be distributed as soon as administratively possible.

   10.2    Deferral of Performance Unit and Performance Share Distributions.
           Prior to the calendar year in which Performance Units or Performance
           Shares are to be distributed (or if deferred, prior to the calendar
           year the Awards would have been distributed), Participants may elect
           to defer the receipt of a Performance Unit or Performance Share
           distribution upon such terms as the Committee deems appropriate.
           Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, Participants may elect to
           defer receipt of all or part of a Performance Unit or Performance
           Share for distribution in a lump sum in February of any calendar year
           following the year in which the Awards would otherwise be
           distributed, or to be distributed in up to 15 annual installments
           (each installment shall be equal to the total Shares or cash in the
           Award divided by the number of remaining installments), payable each
           calendar year in the month determined by the Participant, beginning
           as soon as administratively possible after Retirement or in a later
           month in the calendar year of Retirement, or in the calendar year
           immediately thereafter.

              (a)  Deferred amounts which would otherwise have been distributed
                   in cash shall be credited to the Participant's account and
                   shall bear interest from the date the Awards would otherwise
                   have been paid. The interest will be credited quarterly to
                   the account at the declared rate determined by the Company
                   from time to time, which shall not be less than one-fourth of
                   the annual Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average-Monthly
                   Average Corporates, as published by Moody's Investor Service,
                   Inc., (or successor thereto) for the month of September
                   before the calendar year in question.

              (b)  Deferred amounts which would otherwise have been distributed
                   in Shares by the Company shall be credited to the
                   Participant's account as deferred Shares. The Participant's
                   account shall also be credited on each dividend payment date
                   for Shares with an amount equivalent to the dividend payable
                   on the number of Shares equal to the number of deferred
                   Shares in the Participant's account on the record date for
                   such dividend. Such amount shall then be converted to a
                   number of additional deferred Shares determined by dividing
                   such amount by the price of Shares, as determined in the
                   following sentence. The price of Shares related to any
                   dividend payment date shall be the average of the Fair Market
                   Values of Shares for the period of five (5) trading days
                   ending on such dividend payment date, or the period of five
                   (5) trading days immediately preceding such dividend payment
                   date if the New York Stock Exchange is closed on the dividend
                   payment date.

              (c)  At any time during the calendar year prior to the calendar
                   year during which an Award deferred under the provisions of
                   this Article 10 is scheduled for distribution, a Participant
                   may further defer the commencement of the distribution of
                   such Award to a subsequent calendar year and upon such
                   further deferral, change the number of installments
                   applicable to the distribution of the Award. Amounts that are
                   further deferred pursuant to this Article 10 shall continue
                   to be subject to all provisions of this Plan including
                   further distribution modifications as provided herein.

Article 11.     Employee Matters.

   11.1    Employment Not Guaranteed. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with
           or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to
           terminate any Participant's Employment at any time, nor confer upon
           any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or
           one of its Subsidiaries.

   11.2    Participation. No Employee shall have the right to be selected to
           receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be
           selected to receive a future Award.

   11.3    Claims and Appeals. Any claim under the Plan by a Participant or
           anyone claiming through a Participant shall be presented to the
           Committee. Any person whose claim under the Plan has been denied may,
           within sixty (60) days after receipt of notice of denial, submit to
           the Committee, a written request for review of the decision denying
           the claim. The Committee shall determine conclusively for all parties
           all questions arising in the administration of the Plan.

Article 12 Change in Control.

           Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control:

              (a)  Any and all Options granted hereunder immediately shall
                   become vested and exercisable;

              (b)  Any Restriction Periods and all restrictions imposed on
                   Restricted Shares shall lapse and they shall immediately
                   become fully vested;

              (c)  The 100% Performance Goal for all Performance Units and
                   Performance Shares relating to incomplete Performance Periods
                   shall be deemed to have been fully achieved and shall be
                   converted and distributed in accordance with all other terms
                   of the Award and this Plan; provided, however,
                   notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, no
                   outstanding Performance Unit or Performance Share may be
                   reduced.

Article 13.     Amendment, Modification, and Termination.

   13.1    Amendment, Modification, and Termination. The Board may at any time
           suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; the Disinterested
           Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter or amend the
           Plan in whole or in part.

   13.2    Awards Previously Granted. No termination, amendment, or modification
           of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award
           previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the
           Participant holding such Award.

Article 14 Withholding.

   14.1    Tax Withholding. The Company shall deduct or withhold an amount
           sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes (including the
           Participant's employment tax obligations) required by law to be
           withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of
           this Plan ("Withholding Taxes").

14.2       Share Withholding. With respect to withholding required upon the
           exercise of Options, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted
           Stock, upon the distribution of Performance Shares in the form of
           Stock, or upon any other taxable event hereunder involving the
           transfer of Stock to a Participant, the Company shall withhold Stock
           having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined in
           an amount equal to the Withholding Taxes on such Stock.

              Any fractional Share of Stock payable to a Participant shall be
           withheld as additional Federal withholding, or, at the option of the
           Company, paid in cash to the Participant.

              Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, when the method of
           payment for the Exercise Price is from the sale by a stockbroker
           pursuant to Section 6.7(b)(ii), herein, of the Stock acquired through
           the Option exercise, then the tax withholding shall be satisfied out
           of the proceeds. For administrative purposes in determining the
           amount of taxes due, the sale price of such Stock shall be deemed to
           be the Fair Market Value of the Stock.

              Prior to the end of any Performance Period a Participant may elect
           to have a greater amount of Stock withheld from the distribution of
           Performance Shares to pay withholding taxes; provided, however, the
           Committee may prohibit or limit any individual election or all such
           elections at any time. In addition, if required in order to exempt
           the transaction from the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange
           Act, any such election by an Insider must be made during a Window
           Period and shall be subject to Committee approval.

Article 15 Successors.

              All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to
           Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the
           Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a
           direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of
           all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
           Company.

Article 16 Legal Construction.

   16.1    Gender and Number. Except where otherwise indicated by the context,
           any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the
           plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the
           plural.

   16.2    Severability. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held
           illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall
           not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be
           construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not
           been included.

   16.3    Requirements of Law. The granting of Awards and the issuance of
           Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules,
           and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies
           or national securities exchanges as may be required.

   16.4    Securities Law Compliance. With respect to Insiders, transactions
           under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions
           or Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange Act. To the extent
           any provision of the plan or action by the Committee fails to comply
           with a condition of Rule 16b-3 or its successors, it shall not apply
           to the Insiders or transactions thereby.

   16.5    Governing Law.  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the
           Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in
           accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  EXHIBIT 12

                             SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.
               COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
                               Dollars in Millions


                                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                --------------------------------------------------------------

                                                     1999         1998        1997        1996          1995
                                                --------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
Income Before Income Taxes,
   Extraordinary Items and Cumulative
   Effect of Accounting Changes*                 $ 10,382     $ 11,859     $ 6,356     $ 8,789      $  8,139
     Add: Interest Expense                          1,430        1,605       1,550       1,418         1,513
          Dividends on Preferred Securities           118          114          98          68             6
          1/3 Rental Expense                          236          228         202         188           152
                                                ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  -----------

     Adjusted Earnings                           $ 12,166     $ 13,806     $ 8,206     $ 10,463     $  9,810
                                                ============ ===========  =========== ===========  ===========


Total Interest Charges                           $  1,511     $  1,691     $ 1,700     $ 1,589      $  1,533
Dividends on Preferred Securities                     118          114          98          68             6
1/3 Rental Expense                                    236          228         202         188           152
                                                ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  -----------

     Adjusted Fixed Charges                      $  1,865     $  2,033     $ 2,000     $ 1,845      $  1,691
                                                ============ ===========  =========== ===========  ===========


Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges                   6.52         6.79        4.10        5.67          5.80

<FN>
* Undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method have been excluded.
</FN>
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF SBC'S 1999 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>


<TABLE>
Selected Financial and Operating Data
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At December 31 or for the year ended:            1999        1998      1997        1996      1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>         <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>
Financial Data 1
Operating revenues                          $  49,489  $   46,207 $  43,106  $   40,510 $  37,134
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses                          $  37,891  $   34,984 $  35,504  $   30,461 $  27,976
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                            $  11,598  $   11,223 $   7,602  $   10,049 $   9,158
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                            $   1,430  $    1,605 $   1,550  $    1,418 $   1,513
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity in net income of affiliates          $     912  $      613 $     437  $      470 $     216
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes                                $   4,280  $    4,380 $   2,451  $    3,368 $   2,858
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before extraordinary items and
  cumulative effect of accounting change    $   6,573  $    7,735 $   4,087  $    5,705 $   5,362
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss) 2                         $   8,159  $    7,690 $   4,087  $    5,795 $  (1,347)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share:
Income before extraordinary items and
  cumulative effect of accounting change    $    1.93  $     2.27 $    1.21  $     1.67 $    1.57
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss) 2                         $    2.39  $     2.26 $    1.21  $     1.70 $   (0.39)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share-assuming dilution:
Income before extraordinary items and
  cumulative effect of accounting change    $    1.90  $     2.24 $    1.20  $     1.66 $    1.56
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss) 2                         $    2.36  $     2.23 $    1.20  $     1.69 $   (0.39)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                $  83,215  $   74,966 $  69,917  $   65,765 $  62,197
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt                              $  17,475  $   17,170 $  17,787  $   16,536 $  16,105
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construction and capital expenditures       $  10,304  $    8,882 $   8,856  $    8,304 $   6,891
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Free cash flow 3                            $   6,274  $    4,099 $   2,723  $    2,964 $   3,946
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dividends declared per common share 4       $   0.975  $    0.935 $   0.895  $    0.860 $   0.825
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Book value per common share                 $    7.87  $     6.69 $    5.26  $     4.94 $    4.26
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges               6.52        6.79      4.10        5.67      5.80
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Debt ratio                                       42.9%       47.3%     54.9%       55.6%     59.8%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding (000,000)                         3,409       3,406     3,391       3,409     3,412
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding with dilution (000,000)           3,458       3,450     3,420       3,429     3,430
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
End of period common shares
  outstanding (000,000)                         3,395       3,406     3,398       3,389     3,418
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Data
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Network access lines in service (000)          60,682      58,845    56,616      53,891    51,532
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Access minutes of use (000,000)               264,010     247,597   228,300     208,230   184,384
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wireless customers (000) 5                     11,151       8,686     7,556       6,018     4,814
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Number of employees                           204,530     200,380   202,440     185,400   182,610
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
[FN]

1  Certain one-time adjustments are included in the results for each year
   presented. See Results of Operations for a summary of the 1999, 1998 and 1997
   one-time adjustments and the impact of these items on income before
   extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting change and net
   income. In 1996, results include the incremental operating impacts
   attributable to the operations of the overlapping Ameritech Corporation
   (Ameritech) wireless properties sold in 1999. Excluding these items, SBC
   Communications Inc. (SBC) reported an adjusted income before cumulative
   effect of accounting changes of $5,643, or $1.65 diluted earnings per share,
   and an adjusted net income of $5,733, or $1.67 diluted earnings per share.
   The 1995 results include (i) work force restructuring credit, (ii) gain on
   exchange of cellular interests and (iii) incremental operating impacts
   attributable to the operations of the overlapping Ameritech wireless
   properties sold in 1999. Excluding these items, SBC reported an adjusted
   income before extraordinary loss of $5,216, or $1.52 diluted earnings per
   share, and an adjusted net loss of $1,493, or $0.43 diluted loss per share.
2  Amounts include the following extraordinary items and cumulative effect of
   accounting change: 1999, gain on sale of overlapping cellular properties and
   change in directory accounting at Ameritech; 1998, early retirement of debt
   and change in directory accounting at Southern New England Telecommunications
   Corporation (SNET); 1996, change in directory accounting at Pacific Telesis
   Group (PAC); and 1995, discontinuance of regulatory accounting.
3  Free cash flow is net cash provided by operating activities less construction
   and capital expenditures.
4  Dividends declared by SBC's Board of Directors; these amounts do not include
   dividends declared and paid by Ameritech, SNET and PAC prior to their
   respective mergers.
5  All periods exclude customers from the overlapping Ameritech wireless
   properties sold in 1999.
</FN>


<PAGE>


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Dollars in millions except per share amounts

SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) is a holding company whose subsidiaries and
affiliates operate in the communications services industry. SBC's subsidiaries
and affiliates provide wireline and wireless telecommunications services and
equipment, directory advertising, electronic security services and cable
television services both domestically and worldwide.

The consolidated financial results reflect mergers of SBC subsidiaries with
Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) in 1999, Southern New England
Telecommunications Corporation (SNET) in 1998 and Pacific Telesis Group (PAC) in
1997 as pooling of interests (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and the accompanying notes.

Results of Operations


Summary

Financial results, including percentage changes from the prior year, are
summarized as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                Percent Change
                                                                              -------------------
                                                                              1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                                  1999       1998      1997     1998      1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>       <C>
Operating revenues                          $   49,489 $   46,207  $ 43,106      7.1%      7.2%
Operating expenses                              37,891     34,984    35,504      8.3      (1.5)
Income before extraordinary items and
  cumulative effect of accounting change         6,573      7,735     4,087    (15.0)     89.3
Extraordinary items                              1,379        (60)        -        -         -
Cumulative effect of accounting change             207         15         -        -         -
Net income                                       8,159      7,690     4,087      6.1      88.2
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

In 1999 and 1998, SBC reflected a cumulative effect of accounting change related
to accounting for directory revenues and expenses (see Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements). In 1999, SBC recognized an extraordinary
gain from the sale of overlapping cellular properties sold in October (see Note
15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 1998, SBC incurred an
extraordinary loss related to the early retirement of debt.

Reported results for 1999, 1998 and 1997 also include one-time items that SBC
normalizes for management purposes. Normalized results in 1999 include the
following adjustments:

o   After-tax charges totaling $1.5 billion including, among other items,
    recognition of impairment of long-lived assets, adjustments to the estimate
    of allowance for doubtful accounts at Ameritech, estimation of deferred
    taxes on international investments, wireless conversion costs and other
    merger integration costs as discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.
o   Elimination of income of $119 from the incremental impacts of overlapping
    wireless properties sold in October 1999.
o   After-tax pension settlement gains of $368 recorded in the fourth quarter
    associated with lump sum pension payments that exceeded the projected
    service and interest costs.
o   After-tax gains of $77 recognized from the sale of property by an
    international equity affiliate.
o   Reduction of a portion of a first quarter 1998 after-tax charge of $27 to
    cover the cost of consolidating security monitoring centers and
    company-owned cellular retail stores.


<PAGE>


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, continued
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Normalized results in 1998 include the following adjustments:

o   After-tax gain of $1,012 from the sale of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand
    Limited (TCNZ) shares.
o   After-tax charges related to strategic initiatives totaling $268 resulting
    from the merger integration process with SNET.
o   After-tax gains of $219 from the sale of certain non-core businesses,
    principally the required disposition of SBC's investment in Mobile Telephone
    Networks (MTN), a cellular company in South Africa.
o   Elimination of income of $123 from the incremental impacts of overlapping
    wireless properties sold in October 1999.
o   After-tax charge of $64 to cover the cost of consolidating security
    monitoring centers and company-owned wireless retail stores.
o   After-tax gain of $102 from the sale of certain telephone and directory
    assets.

Normalized results in 1997 include the following adjustments:

o   After-tax charges of $1.6 billion related to strategic initiatives resulting
    from the merger integration process with PAC.
o   After-tax charge of $87 for SBC's share of the costs of a work force
    restructuring at Belgacom SA (Belgacom).
o   After-tax charges of $304 for ongoing merger integration costs (see Note 2
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
o   After-tax first quarter settlement gains of $90 at PAC associated with lump
    sum pension payments that exceeded the projected service and interest costs
    for 1996 retirements.
o   After-tax gain of $58 from the sale of SBC's interests in Bell
    Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore).
o   Elimination of income of $88 from the incremental impacts of overlapping
    wireless properties sold in October 1999.

Excluding these items, 1999 income before extraordinary gain and cumulative
effect of accounting change would have been $7,439, or 12.5% higher than 1998
earnings of $6,611. The corresponding diluted per share amounts would be $2.15
in 1999, or 12.0% higher than $1.92 in 1998. In 1998, income before
extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of accounting change would have been
13.3% higher than 1997 earnings of $5,836. The corresponding diluted per share
amounts would have been 12.3% higher than $1.71 in 1997.

Excluding these items, the 1999 and 1998 increases in income before
extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting change were due
primarily to broad-based growth in demand across SBC's operations. Results for
1999 include operations related to the third quarter acquisitions of Comcast
Cellular Corporation (Comcast) and Cellular Communications of Puerto Rico, Inc.
(Cellular Communications). In addition, SBC's international investments
experienced growth due to the acquisitions of Bell Canada in June 1999 and Tele
Danmark A/S (Tele Danmark) in January 1998, as well as growth in 1999 and 1998
from SBC's investment in Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex).

Segment Results

As a result of the Ameritech merger and to better reflect the broadened scope of
its operations, SBC adjusted its segment reporting structure in 1999. SBC now
has four reportable segments that reflect the current management of its
business: wireline, wireless, information and entertainment, and international.
The wireline segment provides landline telecommunications services, including
local, network access and long distance services, messaging and Internet
services and sells customer premise and private business exchange equipment. The
wireless segment provides wireless telecommunications services, including local
and long distance services, and sells wireless equipment. The information and
entertainment segment expands on what was previously the directory segment, and
includes all directory operations from advertising, yellow pages, white pages
and electronic publishing and Ameritech's electronic security and cable
television operations. All international investment operations have been removed
from the other segment and are shown separately in the international segment.
The miscellaneous items that formerly were included in the other segment are
immaterial and have been reclassified to corporate, adjustments and eliminations
(see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

The normalized segment results include the 1999 effects of conforming accounting
methodologies between SBC and Ameritech. Among other items, non-cash adjustments
were made to conform accounting for pension and postretirement benefits between
the companies and to immediately expense certain items routinely deferred and
amortized by Ameritech, including sales commissions and leased customer security
and paging equipment. The pension and postretirement adjustments include the
effects of conforming the adoption date for postretirement accounting, methods
of recognizing actuarial gains and synchronization of estimates related to the
current year's benefit plans. The conforming accounting changes for 1999 and
prior were recorded as a cumulative effect of accounting change at the segments.
This cumulative effect of accounting change was retroactively restated to the
appropriate year in SBC's consolidated results. Segment results for periods
after 1999 also will include these conforming entries and be comparable to 1999
results.

Normalized income before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect
of accounting change for each segment for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               Percent Change
                                                                            ---------------------
                                                                             1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                              1999        1998        1997    1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>         <C>          <C>      <C>        <C>
Wireline                                $    8,052  $    7,318  $    6,558    10.0%      11.6%
Wireless                                       918         564         372    62.8       51.6
Information and entertainment                1,641       1,590       1,350     3.2       17.8
International                                  706         453         512    55.8      (11.5)
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations          364         435         375       -          -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Normalized Income Before Income Taxes,
  Extraordinary Items and Cumulative
  Effect of Accounting Change           $   11,681  $   10,360  $    9,167    12.8%      13.0%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Changes in income before income taxes in the wireline, wireless and information
and entertainment segments primarily reflect increases in operating income
discussed below. Changes in income before income taxes for the international
segment result primarily from the changes in equity in net income of affiliates
and other income (expense) - net discussed below; changes in this line also
impacted the wireline segment.

The normalizing items impacting the wireline segment include the 1999 one-time
adjustments to the estimate of allowance for doubtful accounts, strategic
initiatives resulting from the merger integration process and other items offset
by 1999 pension settlement gains. One-time adjustments in 1998 include charges
for merger integration costs related to the SNET merger, gain from the sale of
certain telephone and directory assets and the first quarter consolidation of
certain Ameritech operations. The 1997 one-time adjustments include costs for
strategic initiatives related to the merger integration process with PAC,
pension settlement gains and gains from the sale of SBC's interests in Bellcore.

The wireless segment's normalizing items include 1999 adjustments to convert
Ameritech's wireless customers to SBC's network platform and merger integration
costs offset by recognition of pension settlement gains, the 1999, 1998 and 1997
incremental impacts of the overlapping cellular properties, the 1998 charge to
cover the costs of consolidating company-owned cellular retail stores and the
1999 reduction of this charge. In addition, one-time items affecting the
wireless segment in 1997 include PAC merger integration costs. The information
and entertainment segment includes one-time charges in 1999, including
recognition of impairment of long-lived assets, adjustments to the estimate of
allowance for doubtful accounts and other merger integration costs offset by the
recognition of pension settlement gains, the 1998 charge to cover the costs of
consolidating security monitoring centers and the 1999 reduction of this charge.
In addition, 1997 one-time items included PAC merger integration costs.

The international segment's normalizing items include the 1999 gains related to
sales by an international equity affiliate, 1998 gains on sales of certain
non-core businesses, principally the required disposition of SBC's MTN
investment, and the sale of TCNZ shares. Also, 1997 included a one-time item for
SBC's share of the costs of a work force restructuring at Belgacom.

The following table provides a summary by segment of the net increase (decrease)
of the normalizing items on income before income taxes, extraordinary items and
cumulative effect of accounting change for 1999, 1998 and 1997:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1999         1998        1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wireline                               $       73   $      178  $    1,966
Wireless                                        6          (99)        (60)
Information and entertainment                 523          (23)         75
International                                 129       (1,811)         86
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations          97            -         562
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalizing Impacts              $      828   $   (1,755) $    2,629
============================================================================

Operating Income Components of normalized operating income by segment for 1999,
1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               Percent Change
                                                                            ---------------------
                                                                             1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                             1999         1998        1997    1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>
Wireline                               $    9,125   $    8,588  $    7,702     6.3%      11.5%
Wireless                                    1,280          931         647    37.5       43.9
Information and entertainment               1,684        1,624       1,384     3.7       17.3
International                                  (8)         (78)        (43)  (89.7)      81.4
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations         442          422         458       -          -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalized Operating Income      $   12,523   $   11,487  $   10,148     9.0%      13.2%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Components of segment operating revenues and expenses and discussion of the
segment results for 1999, 1998 and 1997 follow.

Operating Revenues SBC's normalized operating revenues increased $3,637, or
8.0%, in 1999 and $2,890, or 6.8%, in 1998. Components of operating revenues by
segment for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               Percent Change
                                                                            ---------------------
                                                                             1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                             1999         1998        1997    1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>
Wireline                               $   37,576   $   35,419  $   33,656     6.1%       5.2%
Wireless                                    6,764        5,629       5,023    20.2       12.1
Information and entertainment               4,777        4,345       3,819     9.9       13.8
International                                 147          149         122    (1.3)      22.1
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations        (304)        (219)       (187)      -          -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalized Operating Revenues    $   48,960   $   45,323  $   42,433     8.0%       6.8%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Wireline

Wireline normalized operating revenues increased $2,157, or 6.1%, in 1999 and
$1,763, or 5.2%, in 1998. Components of wireline operating revenues for 1999,
1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               Percent Change
                                                                            ---------------------
                                                                            1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                             1999         1998        1997    1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>           <C>         <C>       <C>         <C>
Local service                          $   19,126   $   17,239  $   15,864    10.9%       8.7%
Network access:
  Interstate                                7,544        6,960       6,939     8.4        0.3
  Intrastate                                2,645        2,717       2,762    (2.6)      (1.6)
Long distance service                       3,471        3,679       3,616    (5.7)       1.7
Other                                       4,790        4,824       4,475    (0.7)       7.8
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Wireline Revenues                $   37,576   $   35,419  $   33,656     6.1%       5.2%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Local service revenues increased $1,887, or 10.9%, in 1999 and $1,375, or
      8.7%, in 1998 due primarily to increases in demand, which totaled
      approximately $1,245 in 1999 and $1,270 in 1998, including increases in
      access lines, vertical services and data-related services revenues. In
      addition, revenues from two network integration companies acquired by SBC
      in the fourth quarter of 1998 and the second quarter of 1999 contributed
      approximately $578 to the increase in 1999 and $25 in 1998. The number of
      access lines increased by 3.1% in 1999 and by 3.9% in 1998. Approximately
      39% of access line growth in 1999 and 35% in 1998 was due to sales of
      additional access lines to existing residential customers. In 1999 and
      1998, approximately 33% and 31% of the access line growth was in
      California, 19% and 23% was in Texas and 9% and 12% was in Illinois.
      Access lines in California, Texas and Illinois account for approximately
      60% of SBC's access lines in both 1999 and 1998. Vertical services
      revenues, which include custom calling services, such as Caller ID, Call
      Waiting, voice mail and other enhanced services, increased by
      approximately 14% and totaled more than $3.3 billion in 1999 and increased
      by approximately 20% and totaled more than $2.9 billion in 1998.

      Local service revenues also increased as a result of regulatory actions
      that decreased one or more other types of operating revenues. In 1999, the
      introduction of extended area service plans, the introduction of the
      California High Cost Fund (CHCF) and the September 1999 Texas Universal
      Service Fund (TUSF) rate rebalancing collectively increased local service
      revenues by approximately $185 and decreased long distance revenues by
      approximately $112 and intrastate network access revenues by approximately
      $87, with a net decrease on wireline operating revenues of approximately
      $14. In 1998, the introduction of extended area service plans and the CHCF
      increased local service revenues by approximately $73 and decreased long
      distance revenues by approximately $43 and intrastate network access
      revenues by approximately $24, with a net increase on wireline operating
      revenues of approximately $6. The state public utility commissions (PUCs)
      have stated that the CHCF and the TUSF are intended to directly subsidize
      the provision of service to high-cost areas and allow Pacific Bell
      Telephone Company (PacBell) and Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
      (SWBell) to set competitive rates for other services. The increases in
      local service revenues were partially offset by decreases due to rate
      reductions under various PUC price cap orders of approximately $194 in
      1999 and $53 in 1998.

      Network access Interstate network access revenues increased $584, or 8.4%,
      in 1999 and $21, or 0.3%, in 1998. Included in the results is a decrease
      of approximately $66 due to a conforming item related to costs routinely
      deferred by Ameritech (see discussion under Segment Results above for
      further information on the effect of these conforming items). Excluding
      this conforming item, interstate network access revenues increased $650,
      or 9.3%, in 1999 and $21, or 0.3%, in 1998 due largely to increases in
      special access, demand for access services by interexchange carriers and
      growth in revenues from end-user charges attributable to an increasing
      access line base, which collectively resulted in an increase of
      approximately $795 in 1999 and $521 in 1998. In addition, customer number
      portability cost recovery, net of a Federal Communications Commission
      (FCC) retroactive rate decrease in the second quarter of 1999, contributed
      approximately $183 in 1999. Partially offsetting these increases were the
      effects of rate reductions of approximately $296 in 1999 and $336 in 1998
      related to the FCC's productivity factor adjustment and access reform.
      Additional decreases in 1998 totaling approximately $114 resulted from an
      increase in universal service fund net payments implemented in the first
      quarter of 1998 that exceeded the 1997 net payments of long-term support.
      The net federal universal fund payments and receipts will be exogenous
      factors in future federal price cap filings.

      Intrastate network access revenues decreased $72, or 2.6%, in 1999 and
      $45, or 1.6%, in 1998. These decreases were due largely to state
      regulatory rate reductions, including reduction of cellular
      interconnection rates and the intrastate rate reduction by the Texas
      legislature as discussed under Regulatory Environment, of approximately
      $144 in 1999 and $105 in 1998 and the effects of the TUSF and CHCF
      described in local service above totaling approximately $87 in 1999 and
      $24 in 1998. These decreases were partially offset by increases in demand,
      including usage by alternative intraLATA, toll carriers of approximately
      $200 in 1999 and $179 in 1998.

      Long distance service revenues decreased $208, or 5.7%, in 1999 and
      increased $63, or 1.7%, in 1998. Long distance service revenues decreased
      in 1999 and 1998 by approximately $202 and $36 due to price competition
      from alternative intraLATA toll carriers and the effects of implementing
      dialing parity. Decreases also resulted from the effects of regulatory
      shifts of approximately $112 in 1999 and approximately $43 in 1998
      discussed in local service above related to the TUSF, CHCF and
      introduction of extended area service plans and rate reductions in Kansas
      and California of approximately $24 in 1999. These decreases were
      partially offset by approximately $128 in 1999 and $133 in 1998 due to
      increased demand at Ameritech's long distance unit, certified to provide
      long distance service outside SBC's region, increased demand and toll
      messages for SNET All Distance and increased demand at PacBell in 1998.

      Other operating revenues decreased $34, or 0.7%, in 1999 and increased
      $349, or 7.8%, in 1998. Other operating revenues increased due to sales
      from nonregulated products and services, including customer premise
      equipment and network integration sales totaling approximately $91 in 1999
      and $263 in 1998 and revenues from other wireline business initiatives,
      primarily Internet services totaling approximately $59 in 1999 and $83 in
      1998. These increases were offset in 1999 and partially offset in 1998 by
      a decline in the public telephone business totaling approximately $133 in
      1999 and $36 in 1998. In addition, 1999 results include a decrease for the
      shift of certain directory revenues to the information and entertainment
      segment in the first quarter of 1999 totaling approximately $30.

Wireless

Wireless normalized operating revenues increased $1,135, or 20.2%, in 1999 and
$606, or 12.1%, in 1998. Components of wireless operating revenues for 1999,
1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                              Percent Change
                                                                           ----------------------
                                                                           1999 vs.   1998 vs.
                                       1999          1998          1997       1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>        <C>
Subscriber                       $    5,307    $    4,538    $    4,121       16.9%      10.1%
Other                                 1,457         1,091           902       33.5       21.0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Wireless Revenues          $    6,764    $    5,629    $    5,023       20.2%      12.1%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Subscriber revenues consist of local service, incollect roaming (revenues
      from SBC wireless customers roaming outside their home area) and wireless
      long distance. Wireless subscriber revenues increased $769, or 16.9%, in
      1999 and $417, or 10.1%, in 1998 due primarily to growth in the number of
      customers of 28.4% in 1999 and 15.0% in 1998. The growth in customers
      includes approximately 1,237,000 customers of Comcast and Cellular
      Communications acquired in 1999. California Personal Communications
      Services (PCS) operations also contributed to the customer growth. These
      increases were partially offset by declines in average revenue per
      customer. SBC had domestic wireless customers totaling 11,151,000 and
      8,686,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

      Other wireless revenues relate primarily to outcollect roaming (revenues
      from non-SBC wireless customers roaming on SBC's wireless network) and
      equipment sales and increased $366, or 33.5%, in 1999 and $189, or 21.0%,
      in 1998. The increases were primarily attributable to growth in outcollect
      roaming revenues, as well as equipment sales in the California PCS
      operations.

Information and Entertainment

Information and entertainment normalized operating revenues increased $432, or
9.9%, in 1999 and $526, or 13.8%, in 1998. Information and entertainment
operating revenues for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                              Percent Change
                                                                           ----------------------
                                                                            1999 vs.  1998 vs.
                                       1999          1998          1997       1998       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>       <C>
Total Information and
  Entertainment Revenues         $    4,777    $    4,345    $    3,819        9.9%      13.8%
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Information and entertainment operating revenues increased in 1999 and 1998
primarily from increased demand for directory advertising services. The 1999
increase also includes approximately $107 related to the change in directory
accounting at Ameritech and approximately $57 for changes in the directory
publishing schedule. In addition, 1999 directory revenues increased due to the
shift of certain directory revenues from the wireline segment totaling
approximately $30. Cable revenues increased approximately $51 in 1999 due
primarily to customer growth. Growth in the number of customers, including
through acquisitions, increased security revenues approximately $179 in 1998. In
addition, 1998 directory revenues increased approximately $150 due to revision
of a partnership agreement covering the publication of directories.

Operating Expenses SBC's normalized operating expenses, which include operations
and support and depreciation and amortization expenses, increased $2,601, or
7.7%, in 1999 and $1,551, or 4.8%, in 1998. Components of operating expenses by
segment for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   Percent Change
                                                                                  ------------------
                                                                                  1999 vs. 1998 vs.
                                             1999           1998          1997      1998     1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>            <C>           <C>         <C>      <C>
Wireline                               $   28,451     $   26,831    $   25,954       6.0%     3.4%
Wireless                                    5,484          4,698         4,376      16.7      7.4
Information and entertainment               3,093          2,721         2,435      13.7     11.7
International                                 155            227           165     (31.7)    37.6
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations        (746)          (641)         (645)        -        -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalized Operating Expenses    $   36,437     $   33,836    $   32,285       7.7%     4.8%
====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Operations and support SBC's normalized operations and support expenses
increased $1,979, or 7.5%, in 1999 and $1,112, or 4.4%, in 1998. Components of
operations and support expenses by segment for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as
follows:
<TABLE>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   Percent Change
                                                                                  ------------------
                                                                                  1999 vs. 1998 vs.
                                             1999           1998          1997      1998     1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>      <C>
Wireline                               $   21,625     $   20,391    $   19,796       6.1%     3.0%
Wireless                                    4,557          3,991         3,769      14.2      5.9
Information and entertainment               2,899          2,520         2,286      15.0     10.2
International                                 138            209           147     (34.0)    42.2
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations        (920)          (791)         (790)        -        -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Normalized Operations and
  Support                              $   28,299     $   26,320    $   25,208       7.5%     4.4%
====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Wireline operations and support expenses increased $1,234, or 6.1%, in
      1999 and $595, or 3.0%, in 1998. The 1999 results include $91 related to
      the treatment of conforming accounting methodologies between SBC and
      Ameritech. The conforming items include non-cash adjustments made to
      conform accounting for pension and postretirement benefits between the
      companies and to immediately expense certain items routinely deferred and
      amortized by Ameritech, including sales commissions (see discussion under
      Segment Results above for further information of the effect of these
      conforming items). The increase includes costs of approximately $460 in
      1999 and $21 in 1998 associated with business initiatives and other
      products, primarily Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL), Internet and voice
      mail. Additionally, operations and support expenses increased
      approximately $341 in 1999 and $214 in 1998 as a result of increased wages
      and salaries, materials and operating taxes, and by approximately $575 in
      1999 primarily as a result of the acquisition of two network integration
      companies in 1998 and 1999. Operations and support expenses also increased
      by approximately $83 in 1999 related to costs associated with software
      right-to-use fees including digital network deployment initiatives and by
      approximately $288 in 1999 and $297 in 1998 as a result of costs
      associated with reciprocal compensation for the termination of Internet
      traffic.

      Operations and support expense increases were partially offset by
      approximately $278 in 1999 and $317 in 1998 due to lower contract labor
      costs, employee benefits and costs associated with customer number
      portability. These reductions primarily resulted from the realization of
      merger initiative benefits. The 1998 decrease was partially offset by
      costs of approximately $262 related to progress in the PAC and SNET merger
      implementation process including centralizing support functions and other
      merger initiatives. Also partially offsetting the increases in operations
      and support was the change in accounting for software costs (see Note 16
      of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) which required
      approximately $345 of software costs to be capitalized rather than
      expensed in 1999. The 1997 results include the recognition of 1997 pension
      settlement gains relating to 1997 retirees since the merger with PAC
      totaling approximately $136.

      Wireless operations and support expenses increased $566, or 14.2%, in 1999
      and $222, or 5.9%, in 1998 due primarily to growth in the number of
      customers, including the acquisitions of Comcast and Cellular
      Communications discussed in subscriber revenues above. The 1999 results
      also were impacted by increased incollect roaming expenses and software
      costs capitalized rather than expensed in 1999.

      Information and entertainment operations and support expenses increased
      $379, or 15.0%, in 1999 and $234, or 10.2%, in 1998. The 1999 results
      include $116 of conforming charges related to sales commissions and leased
      customer equipment that SecurityLink from Ameritech, Inc. (SecurityLink)
      previously deferred and amortized (see discussion of conforming items
      under Segment Results above). The change in directory accounting at
      Ameritech discussed in information and entertainment operating revenues
      above caused expenses to increase by approximately $103. Electronic
      security and cable television expenses increased in 1999 and 1998 due
      primarily to growth-related employee increases, while directory
      employee-related expenses declined partially offsetting the costs of
      increased demand and changes in the schedule of published directories.

Depreciation and amortization SBC's normalized depreciation and amortization
expense increased $622, or 8.3%, in 1999 and $439, or 6.2%, for 1998. Components
of normalized depreciation and amortization expense by segment for 1999, 1998
and 1997 are as follows:
<TABLE>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   Percent Change
                                                                                  ------------------
                                                                                  1999 vs. 1998 vs.
                                             1999           1998          1997      1998     1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>           <C>        <C>      <C>
Wireline                               $    6,826     $    6,440    $    6,158       6.0%     4.6%
Wireless                                      927            707           607      31.1     16.5
Information and entertainment                 194            201           149      (3.5)    34.9
International                                  17             18            18      (5.6)       -
Corporate, adjustments & eliminations         174            150           145         -        -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Depreciation and Amortization    $    8,138     $    7,516    $    7,077       8.3%     6.2%
====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily in the wireline and wireless
segments. In 1999, overall higher plant levels increased depreciation expense by
$326 in the wireline segment and $67 in the wireless segment. Depreciation and
amortization expenses also increased by $142 due to the third quarter
acquisitions of Comcast and Cellular Communications. A new software accounting
standard (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) also
contributed $52 to the increase in 1999. Overall higher plant levels in 1998
increased depreciation expense by $329 in the wireline segment and $88 in the
wireless segment. Amortization expense at SecurityLink increased $38 in 1998 due
to acquisitions. The increase in 1998 was partially offset by reduced
depreciation of $42 on certain wireline analog switching equipment written off
in 1997.

A full year of operations from the wireless acquisitions, along with additional
capital expenditures as a part of the rapid deployment of advanced data
services, is expected to increase depreciation and amortization expense by
approximately $250 in 2000.

Interest expense on a consolidated basis for 1999 decreased by $175, or 10.9%,
in 1999 and increased by $55, or 3.5%, in 1998. The 1999 decrease was due
primarily to reductions in interest expense resulting from lower average debt
levels due to debt retirements in 1998 and early 1999. The 1998 increase was due
primarily to higher average debt levels early in 1998 and lower capitalized
interest in the wireless segment in 1998 than in 1997.

Equity in net income of affiliates increased $299 in 1999 and $176 in 1998. The
1999 increase includes $131 of gains related to the sale of property by SBC's
Israeli equity affiliate and reflects increased equity in net income of $108
from investments in Telmex and Tele Danmark. The new investment in Bell Canada
along with increased earnings at MATAV contributed $71 to the increase. These
increases were partially offset by $83 of reduced earnings from the sale of
SBC's investment in TCNZ and lower earnings from Telkom SA Limited (Telkom) and
Belgacom. Investments in domestic wireless partnerships contributed $17 to the
increase.

The 1998 increase includes $132 from inclusion of the first year of earnings
from Tele Danmark and earnings growth at Belgacom, offset by reduced earnings
from TCNZ, which was sold in April 1998. Also contributing to the increase was
$92 from Telmex, Telkom, domestic wireless partnerships and MATAV. These
increases were partially offset by increased losses of $53 from wireless start
up costs in Switzerland and long distance start up costs in Switzerland, France
and Israel.

SBC's earnings from foreign affiliates will continue to be sensitive to exchange
rate changes in the value of the respective local currencies. SBC's foreign
investments are recorded under United States' generally accepted accounting
principles, which include adjustments for the purchase method of accounting and
exclude certain adjustments required for local reporting in specific countries,
such as inflation adjustments. Equity earnings in 2000 will reflect a full year
of operations from SBC's investment in Bell Canada (see Note 15 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Bell Canada investment).

Other income (expense) - net in 1999, 1998 and 1997 includes amounts that SBC
management normalized for evaluating results. Normalizing adjustments for the
incremental impacts of overlapping wireless properties sold in October 1999 were
$24 in 1999, $31 in 1998 and $21 in 1997. Amounts for 1998 include gains of
$2,071 related to various sales of investments and assets, primarily the sale of
TCNZ and the required disposition of MTN. Amounts for 1997 also reflect gains of
$96 from the sale of SBC's interests in Bellcore and $26 in charges related to
strategic initiatives, primarily writeoffs of nonoperating plant. Excluding
these items, other income (expense) - net was expense of $205 in 1999, $156 in
1998 and $0 in 1997.

Results for 1999 include a gain from the sale of a portion of Amdocs Limited
(Amdocs), an SBC equity investee, of approximately $92 and gains of
approximately $63 representing dividends and market adjustments on Amdocs shares
used for contributions to the SBC Foundation and deferred compensation. Results
for 1999 also include a gain of approximately $59 recognized from the sale of
SBC's investment in Chile and a gain of approximately $81 recognized from the
sales of certain discontinued plant and other investments. These gains were
offset by increased expenses related to higher appreciation in the market value
of Telmex L shares underlying certain SBC debt redeemable in either cash or
Telmex L shares than in the comparable periods of 1998, net of gains recognized
from the sale of certain Telmex L shares, of approximately $296 and
approximately $76 in dividends paid on preferred securities issued by Ameritech
subsidiaries, losses on forward exchange contracts and other nonoperating items.
In addition, higher wireless minority interest and lower interest income
resulted in approximately $160 net expense.

During 1998, SBC recognized expenses of approximately $237 related to an
impairment of an international investment and investments in certain wireless
technologies, primarily wireless video, and approximately $154 related to the
combination of dividends paid on preferred securities owned by Ameritech
subsidiaries, losses on forward exchange contracts and debt redemption costs.
Partially offsetting these expenses was other income related to a special
dividend of approximately $158 received from Amdocs and gains of approximately
$127 recognized on the sale and the charitable contribution of SBC's
available-for-sale investment in Telewest Communications plc.

Results for 1997 include gains of approximately $95 recognized from the sale of
all or portions of certain international investments and royalty payments
associated with software developed by Amdocs and other investment gains totaling
approximately $82. Partially offsetting these gains was the net activity related
to market movement on Telmex L shares of approximately $47 and the combination
of dividends paid on preferred securities owned by Ameritech subsidiaries and
losses on forward exchange contracts totaling approximately $34. In addition,
higher minority interest and lower interest income resulted in approximately $96
net expense.

Income taxes for 1999, 1998 and 1997 reflect the tax effect of certain one-time
charges related to strategic initiatives resulting from SBC's comprehensive
review of operations after completion of the Ameritech, SNET and PAC mergers,
gains related to the sale of various assets and businesses and other items, and
pension settlement gains (see further discussion of these items under Segment
Results). The net effective tax rate on these items differed as a result of
nondeductible items included in the charges and valuation adjustments to certain
deferred tax assets. Excluding these items, income taxes for 1999, 1998 and 1997
would have been $4,242, $3,749 and $3,331. Income taxes for 1999, 1998 and 1997
were higher due primarily to higher income before income taxes.

Extraordinary items In 1999, SBC recorded an extraordinary gain of $1,379, net
of taxes of $960, related to the sale of overlapping wireless properties in
October (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 1998,
SBC recorded an extraordinary loss of $60 related to the repurchase of $684 of
long-term debt.

Cumulative effect of accounting change As discussed in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Ameritech's directory publishing subsidiary,
effective January 1, 1999, and SNET effective January 1, 1998, changed their
methods of recognizing directory publishing revenues and related expenses (see
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The cumulative after-tax
effect of applying the new method to prior years was recognized as of January 1,
1999 and 1998 as a one-time, non-cash gain applicable to continuing operations
of $207, or $0.06 per share and $15, or $0.01 per share, net of deferred taxes
of $125 and $11.

Operating Environment and Trends of the Business

Regulatory Environment

Overview

The telecommunications industry is in a period of dynamic transition from a
tightly regulated industry overseen by multiple regulatory bodies to a
market-driven industry monitored by state and federal agencies. SBC's wireline
telecommunications subsidiaries remain subject to regulation by state regulatory
commissions for intrastate services and by the FCC for interstate services.

Consolidation of companies is occurring within the marketplace for local
telephone service and across other communications services, such as long
distance, wireless, electronic security, cable television, Internet and other
data transmission. Companies operating in some of these markets also are
expanding into others, such as the provision of local service by long distance
companies, and companies in previously unrelated industries, such as
entertainment, are expanding into communications and communications companies
are expanding into these unrelated industries. Additionally, new technologies
also are affecting the way people view and use communications services.

The telecommunications industry also is changing internationally, as
government-owned telephone monopolies are being privatized in many countries and
competitive entrants are authorized. United States-controlled companies have
acquired or formed investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships with
these newly privatized companies or their new competitors involving any or all
of the range of telecommunications services. Foreign-controlled companies have
also acquired or formed such relationships with United States companies.

SBC is aggressively representing its interests before federal and state
regulatory bodies, courts, Congress and state legislatures. SBC will continue to
evaluate the competitive nature of its business and develop appropriate
competitive, legislative and regulatory strategies.

Trends

National-Local

In 1999, SBC began to implement a "National-Local" strategy in conjunction with
its acquisition of Ameritech. Under the "National-Local" strategy SBC will seek
to become a competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC) and offer local exchange
services in 30 new markets across the country in combination with other major
national and international operations. SBC expects to introduce service in nine
new markets in 2000, and is required by the FCC to enter the remaining 21
markets by midyear 2002 (see Ameritech Merger discussion below). This
"National-Local" strategy is part of SBC's overall strategy to expand from a
regional company to a company that provides communications services and products
nationally and globally.

Broadband Initiative

In October 1999, as the first post-Ameritech merger initiative, SBC announced
plans to offer broadband services to approximately 80% of SBC's United States
wireline customers over the next three years (Project Pronto). SBC will invest
an estimated $6 billion in fiber, electronics and other technology for this
broadband initiative. The build-out will include moving many customers from the
existing copper network to a new fiber network. Over the deployment period,
marketing costs will be incurred depending on the rate of customer sign-ups and
installations. An ongoing assessment of the carrying value and economic useful
life of the existing network facilities will continue (see Note 5 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Wireline

Federal Regulation

Through affiliates, SBC offers landline interLATA long distance services to
customers in selected areas outside its wireline subsidiaries' operating areas.
Further, through a subsidiary, SBC offers interLATA long distance services to
customers in Connecticut. Under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom
Act), before being permitted to offer landline interLATA long distance service
in any state within the 12-state region encompassed by the regulated operating
areas of SWBell, PacBell, Ameritech and Nevada Bell (these areas with the
addition of SNET are referred to as SBC's 13-state area), SBC must apply for and
obtain state-specific approval from the FCC. The FCC's approval, which involves
consultation with the United States Department of Justice and the appropriate
state commission, requires favorable determinations that SBC's wireline
subsidiaries have entered into interconnection agreement(s) that satisfy a
14-point "competitive checklist" with predominantly facilities-based carrier(s)
that serve residential and business customers or, alternatively, the
subsidiaries have a statement of terms and conditions effective in that state
under which they offer the "competitive checklist" items. The FCC also must make
favorable public interest and structural separation determinations in connection
with each application. See "State Regulation" for status of the state
applications.

Ameritech Merger On October 8, 1999, SBC and Ameritech completed the merger of
an SBC subsidiary with Ameritech (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of the merger with Ameritech).

The FCC issued an order approving the transaction, subject to certain
conditions, including fostering out-of-region competition, promoting advanced
services, opening local markets to competition and improving residential
services. These FCC conditions require specific performance and reporting
provisions and contain enforcement provisions that could potentially trigger
more than $2 billion in payments, as described below, if certain goals are not
met. The following is a brief summary of the major conditions:

    Out-of-Region Competition - Within 30 months from the merger closing, SBC
    must enter 30 new markets as a facilities-based competitive provider of
    local services to business and residential customers. Failure to achieve
    entrance into 30 markets within the 30-month time frame could result in a
    fine of $40 for each market missed.

    Promoting Advanced Services - SBC established separate subsidiaries to
    provide advanced services, such as DSL. These subsidiaries are required to
    use the same processes for the ordering and provisioning of SBC wireline
    services as competitors, pay an equivalent price for facilities and services
    and locate at least 10% of their advanced service facilities in low-income
    areas. In addition, SBC will provide data CLECs the economic equivalent of
    line sharing by providing them a second line at a 50% discount for the
    purposes of providing advanced services.

    Opening Local Markets to Competition - SBC will file performance measurement
    data reflecting 20 different categories for each state in its 13-state area
    with the FCC and relevant state commissions on a monthly basis. These
    performance measurements address functions that may have a particularly
    direct effect on SBC's local competitors and their customers such as SBC's
    response to competitors' requests for information and interconnection. If
    these performance goals are not met, payments of up to $1.1 billion over
    three years could be triggered.

    SBC will develop and deploy, with CLEC input, uniform electronic operational
    support systems (OSS) throughout its 13-state area that support the
    pre-ordering, ordering, provisioning, maintenance, repair and billing of
    resold local services and unbundled network elements. The OSS will include
    uniform application-to-application interfaces and graphical user interfaces.
    Payments of up to $20 could be triggered if deployment targets are not met.
    SBC will restructure OSS charges to eliminate any flat rate upfront charge
    for the right to use SBC's standard interfaces for accessing OSS. In
    addition, SBC will provide free training and OSS expert teams for CLECs with
    annual revenues under $300.

    Improving Residential Service - SBC will not charge residential customers
    minimum monthly long distance fees for at least three years after entering
    the long distance business in that market. In addition, SBC will offer a
    low-income Lifeline universal service plan to low-income residential
    customers in each state in its 13-state area.

The effects of these conditions on results of operations is still being
evaluated. However, SBC expects to incur approximately $500 in additional
expenses, exclusive of potential penalty payments, in 2000 to comply with these
conditions.

Unbundled Network Elements In August 1996, the FCC issued rules by which
competitors could connect with local exchange companies' (LECs) networks,
including those of SBC's subsidiaries. Among other items, the rules addressed
unbundling of network elements, pricing for interconnection and unbundled
elements and resale of retail telecommunications services. The FCC rules were
appealed by numerous parties, including SBC. In January 1999, the United States
Supreme Court (Supreme Court) ruled that the Telecom Act gives the FCC the
authority to set guidelines for states to follow in setting prices under the
Telecom Act, reinstated the FCC rules allowing those seeking to interconnect to
"pick and choose" specific provisions from previous interconnection agreements
and upheld FCC rules forbidding incumbent LECs from separating already combined
network elements. The Supreme Court also ordered the FCC to review its
unbundling rules that required major local telephone carriers, such as SBC's
subsidiaries, to lease to competitors, at a discount, parts of their phone
networks, including the telephone lines that run to customers' homes, switching
equipment that routes calls and directory and operator assistance.

In November 1999, the FCC adopted an order providing that the major local
telephone carriers must continue leasing certain parts of their phone network to
competitors at a discount. This order provides revised rules that expand the
definitions of certain unbundled network elements. The FCC did rule that
directory and operator assistance no longer has to be leased at a discount. The
order also limits discounted access to switches serving customers with four or
more lines under certain conditions. In addition, the FCC declined to expand its
regulation to include mandatory leasing of high speed Internet and data
equipment. Although the effect of this order on SBC's results of operations and
financial position cannot be determined at this time, it is expected to be
unfavorable.

Reciprocal Compensation is billed to SBC's wireline subsidiaries by CLECs for
the termination of certain local exchange traffic to CLEC customers. SBC
believes that under the Telecom Act the state commissions have authority to
order reciprocal compensation only for intrastate local traffic, while the FCC
has authority over interstate and interexchange traffic. SBC believes most
Internet traffic is interexchange and interstate. Several state commissions have
taken the position that a connection to the Internet is intrastate or local
traffic and ordered SBC to pay reciprocal compensation to certain CLECs pursuant
to existing contracts. In February 1999, the FCC declared that Internet traffic
is not intrastate or local traffic, but instead is primarily interstate, subject
to interstate jurisdiction. However, the FCC found that existing federal law
does not address to what extent, if any, compensation should be paid to CLECs
that deliver Internet traffic to Internet service providers and initiated a
proceeding to establish such rules. Pending the completion of that proceeding,
the FCC held that state commissions, interpreting existing contracts and
consistent with federal law, might nevertheless order payment of reciprocal
compensation for Internet traffic in certain circumstances. The FCC's February
1999 decision was appealed by MCI WorldCom, Inc. (MCI), US West, Inc. (US West)
and GTE Corporation (GTE). In its appeal, MCI disputed that a connection to the
Internet is part of interstate communication. US West and GTE appealed the FCC's
conclusion that states may require reciprocal compensation for such traffic
pending completion of FCC rulemaking. These appeals are pending in the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

In June 1999, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (7th
Circuit) issued an opinion affirming an order of the Illinois Commerce
Commission (ICC) directing Ameritech to pay reciprocal compensation on Internet
traffic under existing interconnection agreements. The 7th Circuit only reviewed
whether the ICC's determination that the parties intended that calls to Internet
Service Providers would be subject to reciprocal compensation violated federal
law. The 7th Circuit declined to review any contract issues and concluded that
the ICC's determination did not violate federal law as it was expressly
permitted under the February 1999 FCC ruling regarding reciprocal compensation.
SBC has sought a rehearing of the 7th Circuit Court decision.

Other appeals of reciprocal compensation decisions currently are pending before
the United States Circuit Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Tenth Circuits,
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (6th Circuit)
and United States District Courts in Indiana, Ohio and California. In August
1999, the Michigan District Court affirmed an order of the Michigan Public
Service Commission (MPSC) directing Ameritech to pay reciprocal compensation
under existing interconnection agreements. Relying upon the FCC's declaratory
ruling, the Michigan District Court concluded that the FCC had left the issue of
reciprocal compensation to be determined by state commissions and therefore
deferred to the MPSC's decision. SBC has appealed that decision to the 6th
Circuit. In July 1999, the United States District Court in Wisconsin dismissed
SBC's appeal without deciding the merits of the case. SBC appealed that
dismissal to the 7th Circuit.

SBC records expense for amounts sought by certain CLECs for the termination of
Internet traffic to Internet service providers.

Digital Subscriber Line is a high-speed data service principally used for
Internet access. In June 1998, SBC filed a petition with the FCC requesting
relief for DSL from pricing, unbundling and resale regulatory restrictions. The
FCC denied the petition and declared that incumbents, such as the SBC's wireline
subsidiaries, must offer such services for resale at a discount and must offer
unbundled access to the equipment used in DSL provisioning to the extent
possible. SBC filed a petition with the FCC for reconsideration of this order.

In November 1999, the FCC issued an order requiring the regional holding
companies (RHCs), such as SBC, to share phone lines with data CLECs. Using a
technology called line sharing, the RHCs split the frequency of a telephone line
so the Internet service is carried on a portion of it. This ruling is not
expected to have a material effect on SBC's financial position or results of
operations.

Federal Access Rates In May 1999, the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit (Court of Appeals) ruled that the FCC failed to
adequately explain certain changes to part of the price cap formula used to
calculate the access rates local carriers, such as SBC's subsidiaries, charge
long distance carriers. In a subsequent order, the Court of Appeals stayed this
decision until April 1, 2000. In November 1999, the FCC issued a further notice
of proposed rulemaking (FNPR) and SBC and numerous other local exchange and
interexchange carriers have proposed a solution to the issues in this docket
that would temporarily maintain the current price cap formula and reduce it
markedly after traffic sensitive rates are reduced. The effect of any future
final decision on SBC's results of operations and financial position cannot be
determined at this time.

Pricing Flexibility In August 1999, the FCC adopted an order and an FNPR on
interstate access charge reform issues. Under the order, Phase I flexibility
will permit a LEC, such as one of SBC's subsidiaries, to offer volume and term
discounts under contract for certain access services after the LEC has
demonstrated that competitors have made substantial investments in facilities in
the LEC's market areas. Phase II flexibility will permit a LEC to have special
access and dedicated transport services removed from price caps entirely after
the LEC demonstrates that a greater level of competitive investment exists.
Although the effect of this order and FNPR on SBC's results of operations and
financial position cannot be determined at this time, it is expected to be
favorable.

Acquisitions of Security Services Assets In 1998, the FCC issued a Memorandum
Opinion and Order to Show Cause relating to four asset acquisitions by
SecurityLink in 1996 and 1997. The FCC found that Ameritech had gained
"financial control" over the entities from which SecurityLink acquired the
security services assets, in violation of the 1996 Act, and required that,
within 30 days after issuance of the Order, Ameritech show cause why the FCC
should not require SecurityLink to divest the assets acquired in this
transaction. Previously, the FCC had ruled that the 1996 transaction was
permissible under the Telecom Act, and the District of Columbia Circuit Court
(D.C. Circuit Court) had vacated and remanded this decision to the FCC.
Ameritech filed a response with the FCC, contending that divestiture would not
be an appropriate remedy. The FCC's decision on these Orders to Show Cause is
pending.

The effects of the FCC decisions on the above topics are dependent on many
factors including, but not limited to, the ultimate resolution of the pending
appeals; the number and nature of competitors requesting interconnection,
unbundling or resale; and the results of the state regulatory commissions'
review and handling of related matters within their jurisdictions. Accordingly,
SBC is not able to assess the impact of the FCC orders and proposed rulemaking
at this time.


<PAGE>


State Regulation

The following provides an overview of state regulation in the 13 states in which
SBC's wireline subsidiaries operated at December 31, 1999:
<TABLE>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         Number of
                                                          Signed
                  Alternative                            Wireline       Long Distance Application
    State        Regulation 1      Dialing Parity 2   Interconnection            Status
                                                       Agreements 3
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>             <C>                     <C>                <C>        <C>
Arkansas              Yes                Yes                 66        Decision expected in 2000 4
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
California       Yes, through            Yes                140        Decision expected in 2000 4
                    12/2001
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Connecticut      Yes, through            Yes                 18        Long distance service
                    3/2001                                             provided 5
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Illinois              Yes                Yes                 48        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Indiana          Yes, interim            Yes                 45        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Kansas                Yes                Yes                 60        Decision expected in 2000 4
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Michigan              Yes                Yes                 27        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Missouri              Yes                Yes                 74        Decision expected in 2000 4
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Nevada                Yes                Yes                 31        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Ohio                  Yes                Yes                 51        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Oklahoma            Pending              Yes                 74        Decision expected in 2000 4
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Texas                 Yes                Yes                204        State approval received in
                                                                       1999; FCC decision
                                                                       expected in 2000
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
Wisconsin             Yes                Yes                 35        Filing planned in 2000 6
- -------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------- ----------------------------
</TABLE>

Notes:
1   Alternative regulation is other than rate of return regulation.
2   In a January 1999 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that the FCC had the
    authority to issue rules implementing intrastate and intraLATA dialing
    parity. Dialing parity allows customers to subscribe to an intraLATA toll
    carrier just as they do for long distance services.
3   Interconnection agreements are signed with CLECs for the purpose of allowing
    the CLECs to exchange local calls with the incumbent telephone company and,
    at the CLEC's option, to resell services and obtain unbundled network
    elements.
4   Awaiting determination by state commissions on SBC's compliance with the
    14-point competitive checklist. FCC approval is required subsequent to state
    determination.
5   Restricted from providing interLATA long distance service originating in any
    of the other 12 states in its 13-state area.
6   Will require approval by the state commission and the FCC.

The following presents highlights of certain regulatory developments:

Texas Long Distance Application In December 1999, the Texas Public Utility
Commission (TPUC) unanimously approved SWBell's interLATA long distance
application and formally declared that the local phone market in Texas is open
to competition, noting that SWBell has met the 14-point checklist requirements
of the Telecom Act. SWBell's long distance application was filed with the FCC in
January 2000 and the FCC has 90 days from that time to rule on the application.

Texas Legislation In May 1999, the Texas legislature adopted Senate Bill 560, as
amended. The bill, which became law on September 1, 1999, extends incentive
regulation indefinitely, provides more pricing flexibility on certain products
offered by SWBell, such as Caller ID, operator service and directory assistance,
and allows SWBell to package some services in ways attractive to customers. The
bill also required SWBell to reduce the intrastate switched access rate it
charges to long distance carriers by 1 cent on September 1, 1999 and by 2
additional cents on the earlier of either SWBell's entry into the long distance
market or July 1, 2000. The 2-cent reduction in intrastate access rates,
assuming a July 1, 2000 effective date, is expected to result in a reduction of
intrastate network access revenues of approximately $72 for 2000.

California Property Tax Investigation In 1992, PacBell entered into a settlement
with tax authorities and others, which fixed a specific methodology for valuing
utility property for tax purposes for a period of eight years. As a result, the
California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) opened an investigation to
determine if any property tax savings that may result from the settlement
agreement should be returned by PacBell to its customers. In January 2000, the
CPUC ruled the property tax changes resulting from the settlement are not
subject to refund. This ruling is not expected to have a material effect on
SBC's financial position or results of operations.

California Ruling In December 1999, a CPUC administrative judge ruled that
PacBell must pay $44 in penalties and contact customers for potential refunds
for alleged overly aggressive and deceptive marketing practices related to
packages of enhanced services such as Caller ID and call forwarding. SBC
believes the findings in this decision are unwarranted and appealed the ruling
to the CPUC in January 2000.

Competition

Wireline

Competition continues to increase for telecommunications and information
services. Recent changes in legislation and regulation have increased the
opportunities for alternative communications service providers. Technological
advances have expanded the types and uses of services and products available. As
a result, SBC faces increasing competition as well as new opportunities in
significant portions of its business.

Recent state legislative and regulatory developments allow increased competition
for local exchange services. Companies wishing to provide competitive local
service have filed numerous applications with each of the state commissions
throughout SBC's 13-state area and the commission of each state has been
approving these applications since late 1995. Under the Telecom Act, companies
seeking to interconnect to SBC's wireline subsidiaries' networks and exchange
local calls must enter into interconnection agreements with SBC. These
agreements are then subject to approval by the appropriate state commission. SBC
has reached approximately 873 wireline interconnection agreements with
competitive local service providers, and most have been approved by the relevant
state commission. AT&T Corp. (AT&T), MCI and other competitors are reselling SBC
local exchange services, and as of December 31, 1999, there were approximately
1.6 million SBC access lines supporting services of resale competitors
throughout SBC's 13-state area, primarily in Texas, California and Illinois.
Many competitors have placed facilities in service and have begun advertising
campaigns and offering services. SBC also was granted facilities-based and
resale operating authority in certain territories served by other LECs and
expects to begin offering local exchange service to these areas in late 2000.

In California, the CPUC authorized facilities-based local services competition
effective January 1996 and resale competition effective March 1996. While the
CPUC has established local competition rules and interim prices, several issues
still remain to be resolved, including final rates for resale. PacBell has
incurred substantial costs implementing local competition and number
portability. In November 1998, the CPUC issued a decision authorizing PacBell to
recover local competition implementation costs and a proceeding is pending to
determine the amount of those costs that are recoverable. In June 1999, the CPUC
issued a ruling recategorizing certain PacBell services, including the
maintenance of inside wiring, calling card, collect and person to person calls
and the provisioning of directory assistance to interexchange carriers, as
competitive products thereby allowing greater pricing flexibility. In its
ruling, the CPUC approved an increase in the maximum price for both inside wire
repair services and interexchange directory assistance.

In Texas, the TPUC set rates in December 1997 that SWBell may charge for access
and interconnection to its telephone network. The TPUC decision set pricing for
dozens of network components and completed a consolidated arbitration between
SWBell and six of its wholesale customers, including AT&T and MCI.

In Illinois, the ICC approved Advantage Illinois in 1994, providing a framework
for regulating Ameritech by capping prices for noncompetitive services. In this
order, the ICC approved a price cap on the monthly line charge for residential
customers and residential calling rates within local calling areas for an
initial five year period that ended in October 1999. Per the order, an
application for review was submitted in March 1998. This review is pending. The
price cap on residential rates will remain in effect until the review is
completed or the price cap is overridden by legislation.

In Missouri, the Missouri Public Service Commission (MSC) issued orders on a
consolidated arbitration hearing with AT&T and MCI and in a separate arbitration
on selected items with Metropolitan Fiber Systems (which is now owned by MCI).
Among other terms, the orders established discount rates for resale of SWBell
services and prices for unbundled network elements. SWBell appealed the
interconnection agreement resulting from the first AT&T/MCI arbitration
proceeding in November 1997. A second arbitration process to address other
interconnection issues with AT&T has concluded, and the MSC ordered that a
conforming interconnection agreement be filed. SWBell appealed this second order
in April 1998. In a consolidated decision issued in August 1999, affecting both
appeals, a federal district court in Missouri affirmed most portions of the
MSC's orders, finding, among other things, that the MSC's pricing decisions were
not unlawful and remanding decisions on certain fiber and unbundling issues back
to the MSC. In September 1999, SWBell appealed this decision to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

In Oklahoma, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC) approved a rule in
October 1999 creating alternative regulation for companies who opt into the
alternative regulation rule, including SWBell. Under the rule, which was
approved as an emergency rule and signed by the governor of Oklahoma, SWBell, in
order to opt into alternative regulation, was required to file an application
with the OCC for approval of its transition plan. The plan was approved by the
OCC in December 1999. When SWBell opts into the alternative regulation rule,
SWBell will be regulated under price cap regulation instead of rate of return
regulation. Under the emergency rule, SWBell plans to implement one element of
the transition plan, network infrastructure deployment, including DSL and switch
replacement. The cost of full deployment is currently estimated at $200 in total
capital expenditures over the next three years. Other items under SWBell's
transition plan will be implemented only if the Oklahoma legislature adopts the
alternative regulation rule and the rule becomes law. These other items include
promotional discounts on unbundled network elements provided to competitors,
pricing flexibility and ratepayer benefits. The ratepayer benefits include
SWBell's obligation to pay $30 into an education information technology fund as
well as waiver of the Oklahoma universal access fund surcharge for five years.
SWBell's current fund surcharge is approximately $2 annually and SWBell will pay
the current assessment into the fund even though it has waived collection of
this amount from customers. The OCC alternative regulation rule has been
submitted to the Oklahoma legislature for approval in the session that begins in
February 2000. If the rule is not approved into law, SWBell will not be
obligated to complete the infrastructure deployment and, at that time, will
determine if implementation will continue.

In Indiana, the Indiana Court of Appeals (Indiana Court) issued a decision in
October 1999 reversing a portion of the 1997 Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission (IURC) Opportunity Indiana (OI) order, which had directed Ameritech
to reduce rates for basic residential and business services and remanded the
rate issue to the IURC. In addition, the Indiana Court affirmed the IURC's order
requiring Ameritech to comply with the infrastructure investment commitments
made in OI. Ameritech has sought rehearing of this portion of the Indiana
Court's decision. Ameritech will continue to operate under the other provisions
of the OI order and will continue charging basic local rates at current levels.

SBC's wireline subsidiaries expect increased competitive pressure in 2000 and
beyond from multiple providers in various markets, including facilities-based
CLECs, interexchange carriers and resellers. At this time, management is unable
to assess the effect of competition on the industry as a whole, or financially
on SBC, but expects both losses of market share in local service and gains
resulting from new business initiatives, vertical services and new service
areas. Competition also continues to intensify in SBC's intraLATA long distance
markets. For example, it is estimated that providers other than PacBell now
serve more than half of the business intraLATA long distance customers in
PacBell's service areas. In addition, intraLATA toll dialing parity, implemented
throughout SBC's 13-state area, will continue to increase competition in
intraLATA long distance markets.

Wireless

SBC's wireless subsidiaries currently provide analog and digital wireless
products and services to approximately 11.2 million customers across the nation,
making SBC one of the three largest wireless providers in the United States. SBC
offers service in 23 of the 35 largest United States' metropolitan areas.

Companies that were granted licenses in areas where SBC also provides wireless
service include subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T, Sprint Corporation and
other RHCs. Significant competition from PCS providers exists in SBC's major
markets. Competition has been based upon both price and service packaging, such
as unlimited calling plans, and has contributed to SBC's decline in average
subscriber revenue per wireless customer.

Under the Telecom Act of 1996, SBC may offer interLATA long distance over its
wireless network both inside and outside the regulated operating areas. SBC has
entered the wireless long distance markets, and offers wireless long distance
service in all of its wireless service areas.

SBC also has state-approved interconnection agreements to receive reciprocal
compensation from interexchange carriers and other local service providers
accessing its wireless networks in all states where it provides wireless
services.

Information and Entertainment

SBC's directory subsidiaries face competition from over 100 publishers of
printed directories in their operating areas. Direct and indirect competition
also exists from other advertising media, including newspapers, radio,
television and direct mail providers, as well as from directories offered over
the Internet.

SBC's cable subsidiary offers cable television service in more than 80
communities in the Midwest and faces competition from other cable television
providers in those areas.

SBC's SecurityLink competes with other companies across North America as a
provider of security systems.

International

Telmex was granted a concession in 1990, which expired in August 1996, as the
sole provider of long distance services in Mexico. Several large competitors
have received licenses to compete with Telmex and have begun operations. As of
December 31, 1999, Telmex had approximately 84% of the long distance market in
Mexico. Telmex's share of international long distance traffic is expected to
decline significantly when the proportional return mechanism, which guarantees
Telmex the same percentage of incoming traffic as outgoing traffic, expires.
Mexican regulators postponed the elimination of the proportional return
mechanism, which had been scheduled for year-end 1999. The mechanism may expire
in 2000, but regulators have not yet provided a definitive time frame for the
expiration. Aggressive local competition is expected in 2000, primarily in the
business segment.

SBC has an investment in the Hungarian telecommunications company, MATAV. MATAV
provides domestic and international long distance telephone service throughout
Hungary and local telephone service in certain designated areas of Hungary.
MATAV has a concession agreement that provides for exclusivity until December
2001. There are discussions taking place with the Hungarian government to
shorten the exclusivity period; this would require MATAV's approval. Once the
exclusivity period expires, MATAV will experience aggressive competition,
especially in the domestic and international long distance markets.

Other Business Matters

New Accounting Standards In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" (FAS 133), which will require all derivatives to be recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value, and will require changes in the fair value of the
derivatives to be recorded in net income or comprehensive income. FAS 133 must
be adopted for years beginning after June 15, 2000, with earlier adoption
permitted. SBC currently is evaluating the impact of the change in accounting
required by FAS 133, but is not able to quantify the effect at this time (see
Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the
new accounting standard on software costs).

Acquisitions During 1999, SBC and Telmex each acquired a 50% interest in
Cellular Communications. The total transaction was valued at $827, including
assumption of approximately $370 in debt.

In November 1999, SBC announced it has agreed to acquire Radiofone, Inc.
(Radiofone) for approximately 8 million shares of SBC common stock. The
transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2000, pending
regulatory approvals. Radiofone serves more than 200,000 wireless customers in
Louisiana and Michigan and approximately 300,000 paging customers in 11 states.

In January 2000, SBC and Telmex acquired a stake in Brazilian wireless provider
ATL - Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL), which serves customers in the Brazilian
states of Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo. As part of the transaction,
Williams Communications Group Inc. will reduce its stake to a 50% economic
interest in ATL. SBC and Telmex will have the opportunity to subsequently
increase their investment to a 50% stake in ATL, but cannot do so until 2004.
Until then, Algar Telecom retains an investment in ATL, as well as voting and
board control of ATL, in accordance with Brazilian regulations.

See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
the Comcast and Bell Canada acquisitions.

SBC's Year 2000 Project SBC performed a four-step methodology to address the
Year 2000 issue consisting of inventory and assessment, hardware and software
fixes, testing and deployment. All phases of the Year 2000 project were
completed by December 31, 1999. SBC's network and operating systems successfully
passed through the Year 2000 date change. Employees monitored the network and
supporting systems and experienced no Year 2000-related problems. SBC spent
approximately $475 on the entire project, with approximately $227 spent in 1999.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

SBC had $495 of cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 1999.
Commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 1999 totaled $2,623 out of $6
billion authorized. SBC has entered into agreements with several banks for
committed lines of credit totaling $2,880, all of which may be used to support
commercial paper borrowings (see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements). SBC had no borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit as of
December 31, 1999.

Cash From Operating Activities During 1999, as in 1998 and 1997, SBC's primary
source of funds continued to be cash generated from operations, as shown in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Net cash provided by operating activities
exceeded SBC's construction and capital expenditures during 1999, 1998 and 1997;
this excess is referred to as free cash flow, a supplemental measure of
liquidity. SBC generated free cash flow of $6,274, $4,099 and $2,723 in 1999,
1998 and 1997.

In addition, SBC will incur additional expenses totaling approximately $2
billion in 2000 related to the FCC merger conditions, the merger initiatives,
including Project Pronto and obtaining approval to begin offering long distance.

Cash From Investing Activities To provide high-quality communications services
to its customers, SBC, particularly its wireline and wireless operations, must
make significant investments in property, plant and equipment. The amount of
capital investment is influenced by demand for services and products, continued
growth and regulatory commitments.

SBC's capital expenditures totaled $10,304, $8,882 and $8,856 for 1999, 1998 and
1997. Capital expenditures in the wireline segment increased by 17.2% in 1999
compared with 1998 due primarily to DSL, digital and broadband network upgrades,
capitalized software accounting rule changes and regulatory commitments. The
wireline segment's capital expenditures were relatively unchanged in 1998. The
wireless segment's capital expenditures were relatively unchanged in 1999 and
decreased in 1998 due primarily to completion of the 1997 initial build-out of
the PCS network and conversion of SBC's largest cellular markets to digital
during 1997.

See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
the acquisitions and dispositions.

In 2000, management expects total capital spending to be between $13 billion and
$14 billion. Capital expenditures in 2000 will be used to continue the evolution
of the wireline subsidiaries' networks, including amounts estimated for Project
Pronto, SBC's broadband initiative, and continued build-out of SBC's wireless
markets.

Cash From Financing Activities Dividends declared by the Board of Directors of
SBC were $0.975 per share in 1999, $0.935 per share in 1998, and $0.895 per
share in 1997. These per share amounts do not include dividends declared and
paid by Ameritech, SNET and PAC prior to their respective mergers. The total
dividends paid by SBC, Ameritech, SNET or PAC were $3,312 in 1999, $3,177 in
1998 and $3,015 in 1997. SBC's dividend policy considers both the expectations
and requirements of shareowners, internal requirements and long-term growth
opportunities.

In December 1999, SBC called approximately $31 of debt that was scheduled to
mature in December 2004. During 1999, subsequent to the completion of the
acquisitions of Comcast and Cellular Communications, SBC retired $1,415 of
Comcast's and Cellular Communications' long-term debt with no effect on net
income. In May 1999, SBC issued $750 of 6.25% unsecured Eurodollar notes, due
May 2009, with proceeds used to fund its investment in Bell Canada.

During 1998, SBC redeemed $2,789 of long-term debt, including mortgage bonds.
Also in 1998, SBC issued $2,150 of notes and debentures. In February 1998, SBC
also issued $750 of 5.88% unsecured Eurodollar notes, due February 2003, with
proceeds used primarily to fund its investment in Tele Danmark.

Total debt increased during 1997 due primarily to the issuance of medium-term
notes and debentures and debt redeemable either in cash or Telmex L shares.

In April 1998, an SBC subsidiary issued, through private placement, 3,250 shares
of stated rate auction preferred stock (STRAPS) in four separate series. Net
proceeds from these issuances totaled $322.

In June 1997 and December 1999, one of SBC's wholly owned subsidiaries issued
$250 and $100 of preferred stock in private placements. In January 2000, SBC's
Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 100 million shares of
SBC's common stock.

SBC expects to fund ongoing capital expenditures, the repurchase of stock and
merger initiative expenses with cash provided by operations and incremental
borrowings.

Other SBC's total capital consists of debt (long-term debt and debt maturing
within one year), Trust Originated Preferred Securities and shareowners' equity.
Total capital increased $3,453 in 1999 and $3,292 in 1998. The increase in 1999
was due to 1999 earnings, partially offset by lower debt levels. The increase in
1998 was primarily due to 1998 earnings, partially offset by lower debt levels.

SBC's debt ratio was 42.9%, 47.3% and 54.9% at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
The debt ratio is affected by the same factors that affect total capital.

Market Risk

SBC is exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates, and certain equity stock prices. In managing exposure
to these fluctuations, SBC may engage in various hedging transactions that have
been authorized according to documented policies and procedures. SBC does not
use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in
speculative activity. SBC's capital costs are directly linked to financial and
business risks. SBC seeks to manage the potential negative effects from market
volatility and market risk. The majority of SBC's financial instruments are
medium- and long-term fixed rate notes and debentures. Fluctuations in market
interest rates can lead to significant fluctuations in the fair value of these
notes and debentures. It is the policy of SBC to manage its debt structure and
foreign exchange exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial
risks and maintain financial flexibility over the long term. Where appropriate,
SBC will take actions to limit the negative effect of interest and foreign
exchange rates, liquidity and counterparty risks on shareowner value.

Quantitative Information About Market Risk

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity Analysis
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  U.S. Dollar Value    Net Underlying
                                    of Net Foreign    Foreign Currency
                                       Exchange          Transaction
December 31, 1999                      Contracts           Exposures
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Exposure - Japanese Yen           $ 142                $ 142
======================================================================

Note:  There is no net exposed long/short currency position and no foreign
exchange loss from a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar.

The preceding table describes the effects of a change in the value of the
Japanese yen given a hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar. Since the
identified exposure is fully covered with forward contracts, changes in the
value of the U.S. dollar which affect the value of the underlying foreign
currency commitment are fully offset by changes in the value of the foreign
currency contract. If the underlying currency transaction exposure changed, the
resulting mismatch would expose the company to currency risk of the foreign
exchange contract. For this reason, all contracts are related to firm
commitments and matched by maturity and currency.

Interest Rate Sensitivity The principal amount by expected maturity, average
interest rate and fair value of SBC's liabilities that are exposed to interest
rate risk are described in Notes 8 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Following are SBC's interest rate derivatives subject to interest
rate risk:
<TABLE>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Maturity
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                             Fair
                                                                           After             Value
                              2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2004    Total   12/31/99
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest Rate Derivatives
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest Rate Swaps:
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>         <C>
Receive Fixed/Pay Variable
  Notional Amount                 -       -     $130     $315      $200     $150     $795       $(20)
Variable Rate Payable 1        6.3%     6.9%     7.0%     7.1%      7.1%     7.2%
Weighted Average Fixed
  Rate Receivable              6.1%     6.1%     6.1%     6.1%      6.0%     6.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Receive Variable/Pay Fixed
  Notional Amount              $10     $120       $5        -         -     $250     $385         $6
Fixed Rate Payable             6.5%     6.5%     6.5%     6.5%      6.5%     6.5%
Weighted Average Variable
  Rate Receivable 2            6.4%     7.0%     7.1%     7.1%      7.2%     7.3%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lease Obligations:
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Variable Rate Leases 3           -      $42        -        -       $81        -     $123       $123
Average Interest Rate 3        6.7%     7.1%     7.2%     7.3%      7.3%       -
====================================================================================================
<FN>

1 Interest payable based on Three Month London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR)
  plus or minus a spread.
2 Interest receivable based on Three Month Commercial Paper Index published by
  Federal Reserve.
3 Average interest rate based on current and implied forward rates for One
  Month LIBOR plus 30 basis points. The lease obligations require interest
  payments only until maturity.
</FN>
</TABLE>

In 1999, a $50 interest rate swap contract, linked to the variable rate debt,
matured and interest rate swap contracts of $13 linked to variable rate lease
obligations were exited with minimal effect on net income.

There has been no material change in the updated market risks since December 31,
1998.

Qualitative Information About Market Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk From time to time SBC makes investments in businesses in
foreign countries, is paid dividends, receives proceeds from sales or borrows
funds in foreign currency. Before making an investment, or in anticipation of a
foreign currency receipt, SBC often will enter into forward foreign exchange
contracts. The contracts are used to provide currency at a fixed rate. SBC's
policy is to measure the risk of adverse currency fluctuations by calculating
the potential dollar losses resulting from changes in exchange rates that have a
reasonable probability of occurring. SBC covers the exposure that results from
changes that exceed acceptable amounts. SBC does not speculate in foreign
exchange markets.

Equity Risk SBC has equity price risk exposure from certain outstanding employee
stock options linked to Vodafone AirTouch ADRs which are not significant (see
Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Interest Rate Risk SBC issues debt in fixed and floating rate instruments.
Interest rate swaps are used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by
managing the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. SBC does not seek to make a
profit from changes in interest rates. SBC manages interest rate sensitivity by
measuring potential increases in interest expense that would result from a
probable change in interest rates. When the potential increase in interest
expense exceeds an acceptable amount, SBC reduces risk through the issuance of
fixed rate instruments and purchasing derivatives.

Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that
are subject to risks and uncertainties. SBC claims the protection of the safe
harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause SBC's future results to differ materially from
those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

o   Adverse economic changes in the markets served by SBC, or countries in which
    SBC has significant investments.
o   Changes in available technology.
o   The final outcome of FCC rulemakings and judicial review, if any, of such
    rulemakings, including issues relating to jurisdiction.
o   The final outcome of state regulatory proceedings in SBC's 13-state area,
    and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including proceedings
    relating to interconnection terms, access charges, universal service,
    unbundled network elements and resale rates, and reciprocal compensation.
o   Enactment of additional state, Federal and/or foreign regulatory laws and
    regulations pertaining to SBC's subsidiaries and foreign investments.
o   The timing of entry and the extent of competition in the local and intraLATA
    toll markets in SBC's 13-state area and SBC's entry into the in-region long
    distance market.
o   The impact of the Ameritech transaction, including performance with respect
    to regulatory requirements and merger integration efforts.
o   The timing and cost of deployment of SBC's broadband initiative also known
    as Project Pronto, its effect on the carrying value of the existing wireline
    network and the level of consumer demand for offered services.

Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not
enumerated here, also could materially impact SBC's future earnings.



<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999           1998            1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>             <C>
Operating Revenues
Landline local service                                   $    19,003    $    17,196     $    15,961
Wireless subscriber                                            5,851          5,265           4,852
Network access                                                10,094          9,575           9,491
Long distance service                                          3,456          3,673           3,616
Directory advertising                                          4,266          3,929           3,615
Other                                                          6,819          6,569           5,571
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating revenues                                      49,489         46,207          43,106
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Expenses
Operations and support                                        29,338         27,143          27,727
Depreciation and amortization                                  8,553          7,841           7,777
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses                                      37,891         34,984          35,504
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Income                                              11,598         11,223           7,602
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Income (Expense)
Interest expense                                              (1,430)        (1,605)         (1,550)
Equity in net income of affiliates                               912            613             437
Other income (expense) - net                                    (227)         1,884              49
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total other income (expense)                                    (745)           892          (1,064)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income Before Income Taxes, Extraordinary Items and
 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change                       10,853         12,115           6,538
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes                                                   4,280          4,380           2,451
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income Before Extraordinary Items and Cumulative
 Effect of Accounting Change                                   6,573          7,735           4,087
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Extraordinary items, net of tax                                1,379            (60)              -
Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax               207             15               -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Income                                               $     8,159    $     7,690     $     4,087
====================================================================================================
Earnings Per Common Share:
 Income Before Extraordinary Items and Cumulative
   Effect of Accounting Change                           $      1.93    $      2.27     $      1.21
 Net Income                                              $      2.39    $      2.26     $      1.21
====================================================================================================
Earnings Per Common Share-Assuming Dilution:
 Income Before Extraordinary Items and Cumulative
   Effect of Accounting Change                           $      1.90    $      2.24     $      1.20
 Net Income                                              $      2.36    $      2.23     $      1.20
====================================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   December 31,
                                                                             -------------------------
                                                                                 1999           1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                           <C>            <C>
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                                                  $      495    $       599
Accounts receivable - net of allowances for uncollectibles of
  $1,099 and $810                                                               9,378          9,783
Prepaid expenses                                                                  651            843
Deferred income taxes                                                             767            685
Other current assets                                                              639            787
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current assets                                                           11,930         12,697
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, Plant and Equipment - Net                                            46,571         44,194
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangible Assets - Net of Accumulated Amortization of
  $1,325 and $1,111                                                             6,796          5,161
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investments in Equity Affiliates                                               10,648          7,412
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Assets                                                                    7,270          5,502
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Assets                                                               $   83,215    $    74,966
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity
Current Liabilities
Debt maturing within one year                                              $    3,374    $     4,178
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                       15,103         13,253
Dividends payable                                                                 836            809
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current liabilities                                                      19,313         18,240
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-Term Debt                                                                 17,475         17,170
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities
Deferred income taxes                                                           4,821          2,846
Postemployment benefit obligation                                               9,612          9,193
Unamortized investment tax credits                                                389            474
Other noncurrent liabilities                                                    3,879          3,269
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred credits and other noncurrent liabilities                        18,701         15,782
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Corporation-Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
  Securities Of Subsidiary Trusts#                                              1,000          1,000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareowners' Equity
Preferred shares ($1 par value, 10,000,000 authorized: none issued)                 -              -
Common shares ($1 par value, 7,000,000,000 authorized: issued
  3,433,124,836 at December 31, 1999 and 3,433,762,063 at December 31, 1998)    3,433          3,434
Capital in excess of par value                                                 12,453         12,439
Retained earnings                                                              13,798          8,948
Guaranteed obligations of employee stock ownership plans (ESOP)                  (106)          (261)
Deferred compensation - leveraged ESOP (LESOP)                                    (73)           (82)
Treasury shares (37,752,621 at December 31, 1999 and
  28,217,018 at December 31, 1998, at cost)                                    (1,717)          (882)
Accumulated other comprehensive income                                         (1,062)          (822)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total shareowners' equity                                                      26,726         22,774
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Liabilities and Shareowners' Equity                                  $   83,215    $    74,966
======================================================================================================
<FN>
#The trusts contain assets of $1,030 in principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures of Pacific Telesis
Group.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Dollars in millions, increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             1999        1998         1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                       <C>         <C>          <C>
Operating Activities
Net income                                                             $    8,159   $   7,690    $   4,087
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
 provided by operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization                                             8,553       7,841        7,777
  Undistributed earnings from investments in equity affiliates               (471)       (256)        (172)
  Provision for uncollectible accounts                                      1,136         896          938
  Amortization of investment tax credits                                      (85)        (96)        (115)
  Deferred income tax expense                                               1,061         840          553
  Gain on sale of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand shares                     -      (1,543)           -
  Extraordinary items, net of tax                                          (1,379)         60            -
  Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax                         (207)        (15)           -
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable                                                      (731)     (2,257)      (1,281)
    Other current assets                                                      335         310         (661)
    Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                2,054       1,175        1,994
  Other - net                                                              (1,847)     (1,664)      (1,541)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total adjustments                                                           8,419       5,291        7,492
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities                                  16,578      12,981       11,579
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investing Activities
Construction and capital expenditures                                     (10,304)     (8,882)      (8,856)
Investments in affiliates                                                      51         (77)         (29)
Purchase of short-term investments                                            (26)        (42)        (916)
Proceeds from short-term investments                                           31         355        1,029
Dispositions                                                                4,867       2,727        1,000
Acquisitions                                                               (5,198)     (3,261)      (2,190)
Other                                                                           2          11           13
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities                                     (10,577)     (9,169)      (9,949)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financing Activities
Net change in short-term borrowings with original
 maturities of three months or less                                          (787)       (589)        (761)
Issuance of other short-term borrowings                                         -           2        1,079
Repayment of other short-term borrowings                                        -          (8)        (805)
Issuance of long-term debt                                                    738       2,890        2,246
Repayment of long-term debt                                                (2,301)     (2,860)        (999)
Early extinguishment of debt and related call premiums                        (31)       (765)          (6)
Purchase of fractional shares                                                   -           -          (15)
Issuance of common shares                                                     313         464          308
Issuance of preferred shares                                                  103         322          250
Purchase of treasury shares                                                (1,169)       (498)         (87)
Issuance of treasury shares                                                   318         308          293
Dividends paid                                                             (3,287)     (3,131)      (2,966)
Other                                                                          (2)          3           13
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities                                      (6,105)     (3,862)      (1,450)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                         (104)        (50)         180
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents beginning of year                                   599         649          469
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and Cash Equivalents End of Year                                  $      495   $     599    $     649
=============================================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SBC Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity
Dollars and shares in millions except per share amounts
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          1999                1998                1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Shares    Amount    Shares    Amount    Shares    Amount
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Common Stock
Balance at beginning of year                         3,434  $  3,434     3,428  $  3,428     3,430  $  3,430
Purchase of shares                                      (8)       (8)      (13)      (13)      (25)      (25)
Issuance of shares                                       7         7        19        19        23        23
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                               3,433  $  3,433     3,434  $  3,434     3,428  $  3,428
===============================================================================================================
Capital in Excess of Par Value
Balance at beginning of year                                $ 12,439            $ 12,375            $ 12,468
Purchase of shares                                              (398)               (487)               (576)
Issuance of shares                                               215                 370                 406
Other                                                            197                 181                  77
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $ 12,453            $ 12,439            $ 12,375
===============================================================================================================
Retained Earnings
Balance at beginning of year                                $  8,948            $  4,429            $  3,338
Net income ($2.39, $2.26 and $1.21 per share)                  8,159               7,690               4,087
Dividends to shareowners
 ($0.975, $0.935 and $0.895 per share)                        (3,312)             (3,177)             (3,015)
Other                                                              3                   6                  19
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $ 13,798            $  8,948            $  4,429
===============================================================================================================
Guaranteed Obligations of ESOP
Balance at beginning of year                                $   (261)           $   (409)           $   (535)
Reduction of debt associated with ESOP                           155                 148                 126
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $   (106)           $   (261)           $   (409)
===============================================================================================================
Deferred Compensation - LESOP
Balance at beginning of year                                $    (82)           $   (119)           $   (161)
Cost of LESOP trust shares allocated to employees                  9                  37                  42
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $    (73)           $    (82)           $   (119)
===============================================================================================================
Treasury Shares
Balance at beginning of year                           (28) $   (882)      (30) $   (730)      (41) $   (985)
Purchase of shares                                     (23)   (1,169)      (12)     (498)       (3)      (87)
Issuance of shares                                      13       334        14       346        14       335
Other                                                    -         -         -         -         -         7
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                 (38) $ (1,717)      (28) $   (882)      (30) $   (730)
===============================================================================================================
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income,
 net of tax
Balance at beginning of year                                $   (822)           $ (1,111)           $   (821)
Foreign currency translation adjustment,
 net of taxes of $290, $37 and $(38)                            (336)                224                (287)
Reclassification adjustment to net income for
 cumulative translation adjustment on securities sold              -                  56                   -
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities       113                  69                  (3)
Less reclassification adjustment for gains
 included in net income                                          (17)                (60)                  -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive income (loss)                               (240)                289                (290)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $ (1,062)           $   (822)           $ (1,111)
===============================================================================================================
Total Comprehensive Income
Net income                                                  $  8,159            $  7,690            $  4,087
Other comprehensive income (loss) per above                     (240)                289                (290)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Comprehensive Income                                  $  7,919            $  7,979            $  3,797
===============================================================================================================
<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Note 1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

    Basis of Presentation - The consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of SBC Communications Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries
    (SBC). The statements reflect mergers of SBC's subsidiaries with Pacific
    Telesis Group (PAC), Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation
    (SNET) and Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) as poolings of interests (see
    Note 2). SBC's subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications
    services industry, providing wireline and wireless telecommunications
    services and equipment, directory advertising, electronic security services
    and cable television services both domestically and worldwide.

    All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in the
    consolidation process. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures and less
    than majority-owned subsidiaries are principally accounted for under the
    equity method. Earnings from certain foreign investments accounted for using
    the equity method are included for periods ended within three months of
    SBC's year end.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States'
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
    estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
    estimates. Certain amounts in prior period financial statements have been
    reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.

    Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences
    between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
    reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.

    Investment tax credits earned prior to their repeal by the Tax Reform Act of
    1986 are amortized as reductions in income tax expense over the lives of the
    assets which gave rise to the credits.

    Cash Equivalents - Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid
    investments with original maturities of three months or less and the
    carrying amounts approximate fair value.

    Deferred Charges - Directory advertising costs are deferred until the
    directory is published and advertising revenues related to these costs are
    recognized.

    Revenue Recognition/Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change - SBC recognizes
    revenues as earned. Certain revenues derived from local telephone and
    wireless services are billed monthly in advance and are recognized the
    following month when services are provided. Revenues derived from other
    telecommunications services, principally network access, long distance and
    wireless airtime usage, are recognized monthly as services are provided.

    Ameritech's directory publishing subsidiary, prior to January 1, 1999, and
    SNET prior to January 1, 1998, recognized revenues and expenses related to
    publishing directories using the "amortization" method, under which revenues
    and expenses were recognized over the lives of the directories, generally
    one year. Effective January 1, 1999, for Ameritech and January 1, 1998, for
    SNET the accounting was changed to the "issue basis" method of accounting,
    which recognizes the revenues and expenses at the time the related directory
    is published. The change in methodology was made because the issue basis
    method is generally followed in the publishing industry, including by SBC's
    other directory subsidiaries and better reflects the operating activity of
    the business. The cumulative after-tax effect of applying the changes in
    method to prior years was recognized as of January 1, 1999 and 1998 as
    one-time, non-cash gains of $207, or $0.06 per share and $15, or $0.01 per
    share, net of deferred taxes of $125 and $11. Had the current method been
    applied during prior periods, income before extraordinary items and
    cumulative effect of accounting change would not have been materially
    affected.


<PAGE>


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

    Property, Plant and Equipment - Property, plant and equipment is stated at
    cost. The cost of additions and substantial improvements to property, plant
    and equipment is capitalized. The cost of maintenance and repairs of
    property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses. Property,
    plant and equipment is depreciated using straight-line methods over their
    estimated economic lives, generally ranging from 3 to 50 years. Certain
    subsidiaries follow composite group depreciation methodology; accordingly,
    when a portion of their depreciable property, plant and equipment is retired
    in the ordinary course of business, the gross book value is charged to
    accumulated depreciation; no gain or loss is recognized on the disposition
    of this plant.

    Intangible Assets - Intangible assets consist primarily of wireless cellular
    and Personal Communications Services (PCS) licenses, customer lists and the
    excess of consideration paid over net assets acquired in business
    combinations. These assets are being amortized using the straight-line
    method, over periods generally ranging from 5 to 40 years. At December 31,
    1999 and 1998, amounts included in net intangible assets for licenses were
    $3,713 and $2,660. Management periodically reviews the carrying value and
    lives of all intangible assets based on expected future cash flows.

    Advertising Costs - Costs for advertising products and services or corporate
    image are expensed as incurred.

    Foreign Currency Translation - Local currencies generally are considered the
    functional currency for SBC's share of foreign investments, except in
    countries considered highly inflationary. SBC translates its share of
    foreign assets and liabilities at current exchange rates. Revenues and
    expenses are translated using average rates for the year. The resulting
    foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Other transaction gains
    and losses resulting from exchange rate changes on transactions denominated
    in a currency other than the local currency are included in earnings as
    incurred.

    Derivative Financial Instruments - SBC does not invest in derivatives for
    trading purposes. From time to time, as part of its risk management
    strategy, SBC uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate
    swaps, to hedge exposures to interest rate risk on debt obligations, and
    foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge exposures to changes in
    foreign currency rates for transactions related to its foreign investments.
    Derivative contracts are entered into for hedging of firm commitments only.
    SBC currently does not recognize the fair values of these derivative
    financial investments or their changes in fair value in its financial
    statements. Interest rate swap settlements are recognized as adjustments to
    interest expense in the consolidated statements of income when paid or
    received. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts are set up to coincide
    with firm commitments. Gains and losses are deferred until the underlying
    transaction being hedged occurs, and then are recognized as part of that
    transaction (see Note 9).

Note 2.  Completion of Mergers

    In October 1999, SBC and Ameritech completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary
    with Ameritech in a transaction in which each share of Ameritech common
    stock was exchanged for 1.316 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to
    approximately 1,446 million shares). Ameritech became a wholly owned
    subsidiary of SBC effective with the merger and the transaction has been
    accounted for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free reorganization.
    Financial statements for prior periods have been restated to include the
    accounts of Ameritech. Transaction costs related to the merger were $77 ($48
    net of tax). Of this total $25 ($16 net of tax) is included in expenses in
    1999 and $52 ($32 net of tax) in 1998.

    Operating revenues, income before extraordinary items and cumulative effect
    of accounting change and net income of the separate companies on a
    pre-merger basis for the last three periods are presented below:
<TABLE>

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Nine Months
                                                       Ended
                                                    September 30,   Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ---------------------------------------------
                                                           1999         1998           1997
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    <S>                                                 <C>          <C>            <C>
    Operating revenues:
       SBC                                         $     22,477    $  28,777     $   26,681
       Ameritech                                         13,912       17,154         15,998
       Adjustments                                          203          276            427
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Combined                                       $     36,592    $  46,207     $   43,106
    ===========================================================================================
    Income before extraordinary items and
     cumulative effect of accounting change:
       SBC                                         $      3,569    $   4,068     $    1,674
       Ameritech                                          1,438        3,606          2,296
       Adjustments                                         (161)          61            117
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Combined                                       $      4,846    $   7,735     $    4,087
    ===========================================================================================
    Net income:
       SBC                                         $      3,569    $   4,023     $    1,674
       Ameritech                                          1,645        3,606          2,296
       Adjustments                                         (161)          61            117
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Combined                                       $      5,053    $   7,690     $    4,087
    ===========================================================================================
</TABLE>

    Combined results include the effect of retroactively conforming accounting
    methodologies between SBC and Ameritech. Among other items, non-cash
    adjustments were made to conform accounting for pension and postretirement
    benefits between the companies and to immediately expense certain items
    routinely deferred and amortized by Ameritech, including sales commissions
    and leased customer security and paging equipment. The pension and
    postretirement adjustments include the effects of conforming the adoption
    date for postretirement accounting, methods of recognizing actuarial gains
    and conforming the estimate methods used related to the current year's
    benefit plans.

    In October 1998, SBC and SNET completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary with
    SNET in a transaction in which each share of SNET common stock was exchanged
    for 1.7568 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 120
    million shares). SNET became a wholly owned subsidiary of SBC effective with
    the merger, and the transaction was accounted for as a pooling of interests
    and a tax-free reorganization.

    In April 1997, SBC and PAC completed the merger of an SBC subsidiary with
    PAC in a transaction in which each outstanding share of PAC common stock was
    exchanged for 1.4629 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately
    626 million shares). With the merger, PAC became a wholly owned subsidiary
    of SBC. The transaction was accounted for as a pooling of interests and a
    tax-free reorganization.

    Post-Merger Initiatives

    Upon completion of each merger, SBC performed an evaluation and review of
    operations throughout the merged company. These reviews included the
    formation of teams that performed comprehensive evaluations of companywide
    operations (review teams). Based on these merger integration reviews,
    certain strategic decisions were made and significant integration of
    operations and consolidation of some administrative and support functions
    occurred resulting in one-time charges. The following table summarizes the
    charges incurred for each merger related to these reviews and decisions:
<TABLE>

    --------------------------------------------- --- ----------- --- --------- -- ---------
    Pre-tax charges                                   Ameritech         SNET         PAC
    --------------------------------------------- --- ----------- --- --------- -- ---------
<S>                                                    <C>              <C>         <C>
    Reorganization                                $       582     $        82   $      839
    Impairments/asset valuation                           690             321          965
    Wireless conversion                                   220               -            -
    Regulatory and legal                                  164               -          165
    Merger approval costs                                  31               -          281
    Other items and estimates of other
      obligations                                          79               -            -
    Pacific and Southwestern video
      curtailment/purchase commitments                     -                -          698
    --------------------------------------------- --- ----------- --- --------- -- ---------
    Total one-time charges                        $     1,766     $       403   $    2,948
    ============================================= === =========== === ========= == =========
    After-tax charges                                  Ameritech        SNET         PAC
    --------------------------------------------- --- ----------- --- --------- -- ---------
    Reorganization                                $       379     $        50   $      517
    Impairments/asset valuation                           472             199          667
    Wireless conversion                                   143               -            -
    Regulatory and legal                                  102               -          101
    Merger approval costs                                  19               -          176
    Other items and estimates of other
      obligations                                         342               -            -
    Pacific and Southwestern video
      curtailment/purchase commitments                      -               -          438
    --------------------------------------------- --- ----------- --- --------- -- ---------
    Total one-time charges                        $     1,457     $       249   $    1,899
    ============================================= === =========== === ========= == =========
</TABLE>

    One-time charges incurred in the third and fourth quarter of 1999 totaled
    $1,766 ($1,457 net of tax). These charges included costs related to various
    regulatory and legal issues, merger approval costs and other related costs
    of $274 ($174 net of tax). In addition, these charges included costs related
    to strategic decisions reached by the review teams of $1,492 ($1,283 net of
    tax) in 1999. Charges in the fourth quarter of 1998 for the SNET merger and
    the second quarter of 1997 for the PAC merger of $403 ($249 net of tax) and
    $2 billion ($1.3 billion net of tax) also related to the strategic decisions
    reached by the review teams. At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, remaining
    accruals for anticipated cash expenditures related to the PAC and SNET
    decisions were approximately $52, $323 and $432. Anticipated cash
    expenditures related to the decisions for the Ameritech merger totaled $703
    at December 31, 1999.

    Reorganization - SBC is centralizing several key functions that will support
    the wireline operations including network planning, strategic marketing and
    procurement. It also is consolidating a number of corporatewide support
    activities, including research and development, information technology,
    financial transaction processing and real estate management. These
    initiatives continue to result in the creation of some jobs and the
    elimination and realignment of others, with many of the affected employees
    changing job responsibilities and in some cases assuming positions in other
    locations.

    SBC recognized net charges of approximately $582 ($379 net of tax) during
    the fourth quarter of 1999, $82 ($50 net of tax) during the fourth quarter
    of 1998 and $839 ($517 net of tax) during 1997 in connection with these
    initiatives. The charges were comprised mainly of postemployment benefits,
    primarily related to severance, and costs associated with closing duplicate
    operations, primarily contract cancellations. Other charges arising out of
    the mergers related to relocation, retraining and other effects of
    consolidating certain operations are being recognized in the periods those
    charges are incurred. The fourth quarter 1999 charge is net of $45 ($29 net
    of tax) of reversals of accruals made in connection with the SNET and PAC
    mergers that were related to plans now superseded by the current
    reorganization plans.

    Impairments/Asset Valuation - As a result of SBC's merger integration plans,
    strategic review of domestic operations and organizational alignments, SBC
    reviewed the carrying values of the long-lived assets in the third and
    fourth quarter of 1999, the fourth quarter of 1998 and the second quarter of
    1997. The reviews were conducted companywide, although the 1998 review
    focused primarily on SNET and the 1999 review focused primarily on
    Ameritech. These reviews included estimating remaining useful lives and cash
    flows and identifying assets to be abandoned. Where this review indicated
    impairment, fair market values, including, in some cases, discounted cash
    flows as an estimate of fair value, related to those assets were analyzed to
    determine the amount of the impairment. As a result of these reviews, SBC
    wrote off certain assets and recognized impairments to the value of other
    assets with a combined charge of $690 ($472 net of tax) in the third and
    fourth quarter of 1999, $321 ($199 net of tax) in the fourth quarter of 1998
    and $965 ($667 net of tax) in the second quarter of 1997.

    The 1999 adjustments include an impairment of $300 ($224 net of tax) related
    to Ameritech's security business. This impairment adjustment, taken as a
    reduction in goodwill of $300, reflects a reduction of the investment to
    fair market value based upon the value of comparable businesses. In
    connection with this adjustment, SBC shortened the estimated life of the
    remaining goodwill on the security business from 40 to 15 years. As a result
    of these adjustments, SBC estimates amortization expense will increase by
    $10 to $15 annually for the remaining life of the goodwill. Also in 1999,
    SBC performed a review of the allowance for doubtful accounts at the
    Ameritech subsidiaries and recognized a charge of $212 ($135 after tax).
    This charge resulted from adjusting Ameritech's estimation methods to the
    method utilized by SBC. Other 1999 adjustments consist primarily of
    valuation adjustments on certain analog switching equipment at Ameritech and
    certain cost investments.

    The 1998 impairments and writeoffs primarily related to recognition of an
    impairment of the assets supporting SNET's video and telephony operations,
    and also included charges for required changes in wireless equipment,
    inventory and sites. The 1997 impairments and writeoffs related primarily to
    the wireless digital television operations in southern California, certain
    analog switching equipment in California, certain rural and other
    telecommunications equipment in Nevada, selected wireless equipment,
    duplicate or obsolete equipment, cable within commercial buildings in
    California, certain nonoperating plant and other assets.

    Wireless Conversion - In December 1999, Ameritech notified its wireless
    customers that the current wireless network platform (Code Division Multiple
    Access or CDMA) would be converted to the network platform utilized by SBC
    (Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA). As part of the conversion, SBC sold
    the CDMA network assets and is leasing it back over the conversion period. A
    charge of $220 ($143 net of tax) was recognized in the fourth quarter to
    recognize the loss on the sale and leaseback and to replace the customers'
    CDMA handsets.

    Other Items and Estimates of Other Obligations - SBC performed reviews of
    Ameritech's and PAC's accounting operations and applied consistent
    accounting techniques between the merging companies. As a result, SBC
    recognized charges in 1999 and 1997 related to the impact of several
    regulatory and legal rulings of $164 ($102 net of tax) and $165 ($101 net of
    tax). Also in 1997, SBC recognized a charge of $281 ($176 net of tax) for
    PAC merger approval costs. In 1999 SBC incurred a charge of $31 ($19 net of
    tax) for Ameritech merger approval costs. In 1999 charges for deferred taxes
    on Ameritech's international investments of $289, net charges related to the
    routine deferral of certain costs and revenues by Ameritech of $62 ($40
    after tax) and other miscellaneous items of $17 ($13 net of tax) were
    recognized.

    Pacific and Southwestern Video Curtailment/Purchase Commitments - SBC also
    announced in 1997 that it was scaling back its limited direct investment in
    video services in the areas also served by Pacific Bell Telephone Company
    (PacBell) and Southwestern Bell Telephone Company (SWBell). As a result of
    this curtailment, SBC halted construction on the Advanced Communications
    Network (ACN) in California. As part of an agreement with the ACN vendor,
    SBC paid the liabilities of the ACN trust that owned and financed ACN
    construction, incurred costs to shut down all construction previously
    conducted under the trust and received certain consideration from the
    vendor. In the second quarter of 1997, SBC recognized net expense of $553
    ($346 net of tax) associated with these activities. During the third quarter
    of 1997, SBC recorded the corresponding short-term debt of $610 previously
    incurred by the ACN trust on its balance sheet.

    Additionally, SBC curtailed certain other video-related activities including
    discontinuing its broadband network video trials in Richardson, Texas, and
    San Jose, California, substantially scaling back its involvement in the
    Tele-TV joint venture and withdrawing its operations in territory served by
    SWBell from the Americast venture. During 1999, SBC negotiated a settlement
    with its Americast partners related to the withdrawal. The settlement did
    not have a material impact on SBC's financial condition or results of
    operations. The collective impact of these decisions and actions by SBC
    resulted in a charge of $145 ($92 net of tax) in the second quarter of 1997.

Note 3.  Subsidiary Financial Information

    SBC has not provided separate financial statements and other disclosures for
    PAC as management has determined that such information is not material to
    the holders of the Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) (see Note
    9), which have been guaranteed by SBC. See Note 7 for a discussion of
    conforming items on the segments and subsidiaries. This information is
    provided as a supplement only. The following table presents summarized
    financial information for PAC at December 31, or for the year then ended:
<TABLE>

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    PAC                                                   1999         1998         1997
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     <S>                                               <C>          <C>          <C>
    Balance Sheets
      Current assets                                 $   3,022    $   3,037     $  2,835
      Noncurrent assets                                 15,334       15,428       14,150
      Current liabilities                                4,944        5,278        4,513
      Noncurrent liabilities                            10,284       10,482       10,413
    ====================================================================================
    Income Statements
      Operating revenues                             $  11,747    $  11,305     $ 10,101
      Operating income (loss)                            2,866        2,612         (166)
      Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and
       cumulative effect of accounting changes           1,521        1,240         (546)
      Net income (loss)                                  1,303        1,180         (224)
    =====================================================================================
</TABLE>

    SBC has not provided separate financial statements and other disclosures for
    SWBell or PacBell as management has determined that such information is not
    material to the holders of certain SWBell and PacBell outstanding debt
    securities, which have been guaranteed by SBC. See Note 7 for a discussion
    of conforming items on the segments and subsidiaries. This information is
    provided as a supplement only. The following tables present summarized
    financial information for SWBell and PacBell:
<TABLE>

    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    SWBell                                                        1999         1998         1997
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
    Balance Sheets
      Current assets                                         $   2,453    $   2,538     $  2,452
      Noncurrent assets                                         13,978       13,241       12,562
      Current liabilities                                        5,127        4,679        3,686
      Noncurrent liabilities                                     8,403        7,838        8,310
    ============================================================================================
    Income Statements
      Operating revenues                                     $  11,173    $  10,752     $ 10,116
      Operating income                                           2,815        2,794        2,192
      Income before cumulative effect of accounting change       1,540        1,527        1,187
      Net income                                                 1,267        1,527        1,187
    ============================================================================================

    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    PacBell                                                       1999         1998         1997
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance Sheets
      Current assets                                         $   2,318    $   2,431     $  2,337
      Noncurrent assets                                         13,620       12,662       12,002
      Current liabilities                                        4,539        4,445        3,599
      Noncurrent liabilities                                     8,680        7,388        7,953
    ============================================================================================
    Income Statements
      Operating revenues                                     $   9,718    $   9,406     $  8,726
      Operating income                                           2,259        2,299          483
      Income before extraordinary loss and
       cumulative effect of accounting changes                   1,161        1,137            -
      Net income                                                   151        1,077          345
    ============================================================================================
</TABLE>

Note 4.  Earnings Per Share

    A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of basic earnings per
    share and diluted earnings per share for income before extraordinary items
    and cumulative effect of accounting change for the years ended December 31,
    1999, 1998 and 1997 are shown in the table below:
<TABLE>

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Year Ended December 31,                                1999            1998           1997
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>            <C>
    Numerators
    Numerator for basic earnings per share:
      Income before extraordinary items and
       cumulative effect of accounting change         $   6,573       $   7,735      $   4,087
      Dilutive potential common shares:
       Other stock-based compensation                         4               4              3
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Numerator for diluted earnings per share          $   6,577       $   7,739      $   4,090
    ===========================================================================================
    Denominators
    Denominator for basic earnings per share:
      Weighted average number of common
       shares outstanding (000,000)                       3,409           3,406          3,391
      Dilutive potential common shares
       (000,000):
       Stock options                                         42              38             25
       Other stock-based compensation                         7               6              4
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Denominator for diluted earnings per share            3,458           3,450          3,420
    ===========================================================================================
    Basic earnings per share
      Income before extraordinary items and
       cumulative effect of accounting change         $    1.93       $    2.27      $    1.21
      Extraordinary items                                  0.40           (0.02)             -
      Cumulative effect of accounting change               0.06            0.01              -
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net income                                        $    2.39       $    2.26      $    1.21
    ===========================================================================================
    Diluted earnings per share
      Income before extraordinary items and
       cumulative effect of accounting change         $    1.90       $    2.24      $    1.20
      Extraordinary items                                  0.40           (0.02)             -
      Cumulative effect of accounting change               0.06            0.01              -
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net income                                        $    2.36       $    2.23      $    1.20
    ===========================================================================================
</TABLE>

Note 5.  Property, Plant and Equipment

    Property, plant and equipment is summarized as follows at December 31:
<TABLE>

    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           1999           1998
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   <S>                                                  <C>            <C>
    Land                                             $      589     $      590
    Buildings                                            10,284         10,269
    Central office equipment                             43,335         40,874
    Cable, wiring and conduit                            48,785         46,499
    Other equipment                                      11,241          9,626
    Under construction                                    2,098          1,920
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        116,332        109,778
    Accumulated depreciation and amortization            69,761         65,584
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Property, plant and equipment-net                $   46,571     $   44,194
    ==========================================================================
</TABLE>

    SBC's depreciation expense as a percentage of average depreciable plant was
    7.4%, 7.2% and 7.4% for 1999, 1998 and 1997.

    Certain facilities and equipment used in operations are leased under
    operating or capital leases. Rental expenses under operating leases for
    1999, 1998 and 1997 were $707, $683 and $606. At December 31, 1999, the
    future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases for the
    years 2000 through 2004 were $366, $304, $220, $160 and $165 and $623
    thereafter. Capital leases are not significant.

    In October 1999, as the first post-Ameritech merger initiative, SBC launched
    an initiative to provide advanced broadband services to many of its United
    States wireline customers (Project Pronto) over the next three years. Since
    the launch of Project Pronto, SBC has incurred $20 ($13 net of tax) related
    to network placement costs. The launch of Project Pronto and the Federal
    Communications Commission's recent rulings on data services and unbundled
    network element pricing led SBC to review and evaluate the carrying value of
    its network plant in its traditional wireline operations in the fourth
    quarter of 1999 and determine that an impairment did not exist. Project
    Pronto will result in the migration of certain customers to new network
    services. As this migration occurs, SBC will monitor, review and assess both
    the carrying value and economic useful lives of the currently existing
    network facilities. This assessment may result in an impairment of the
    future carrying value of the existing facilities or the shortening of some
    of its economic lives. Should that occur, material charges to future
    operations in the wireline segment may be required.

Note 6.  Equity Investments

    Investments in equity affiliates are accounted for under the equity method
    and include the June 1999 purchase of a 20% interest of Bell Canada, the
    largest supplier of telecommunications services in Canada, and the 1998
    acquisition of a 41.6% equity interest of Tele Danmark A/S (Tele Danmark),
    the national communications provider in Denmark (see Note 15). SBC currently
    is able to elect six of twelve members of the Tele Danmark Board of
    Directors, including the Chairman, who would cast any tie-breaking vote.

    Investments in equity affiliates also includes SBC's investment in Telefonos
    de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's national telecommunications
    company. SBC is a member of a consortium that holds all of the AA shares of
    Telmex stock, representing voting control of the company. Another member of
    the consortium, Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V., has the right to appoint
    a majority of the directors of Telmex. SBC also owns L shares which have
    limited voting rights. Throughout 1999, 1998 and 1997, SBC sold portions of
    its L shares mainly in response to open market share repurchases by Telmex,
    so that its total equity investment remained below 10% of Telmex's total
    equity capitalization. At December 31, 1999 and 1998 SBC held an approximate
    8.9% and 9.8% equity interest in Telmex.

    Other major equity investments held by SBC include a 17.5% interest in
    Belgacom S.A. (Belgacom), the national communications provider in Belgium,
    an 18% interest in Telkom SA Limited (Telkom), the state-owned
    telecommunications company of South Africa, a 29.8% interest in MATAV, the
    national communications provider in Hungary, a 15% interest in Cegetel, a
    joint venture providing a broad range of telecommunications offerings in
    France and minority ownership of several domestic wireless properties.

    The following table is a reconciliation of SBC's investments in equity
affiliates:
<TABLE>

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     1999           1998          1997
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>             <C>           <C>
    Beginning of year                         $     7,412    $     4,453   $     4,226
    Additional investments                          3,702          3,159         1,076
    Equity in net income                              912            613           437
    Dividends received                               (445)          (344)         (254)
    Currency translation adjustment                  (707)           169          (476)
    Reclassifications and other adjustments          (226)          (638)         (556)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    End of year                               $    10,648    $     7,412   $     4,453
    =====================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The currency translation adjustment for 1999 primarily reflects the effect
    of exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investment in Tele Danmark and
    Belgacom. Other adjustments for 1999 reflect the sale of Telmex L shares and
    the sale of SBC's investment in Chile.

    The currency translation adjustment for 1998 primarily reflects the effect
    of exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investment in Tele Danmark partially
    offset by exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investment in Telkom. Other
    adjustments for 1998 reflect the sale of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand
    Limited (TCNZ) shares, a write-down of an international investment and the
    sale of Telmex L shares.

    Currency translation adjustments for 1997 primarily reflect the effect of
    the exchange rate fluctuations on SBC's investments in Telkom, Belgacom and
    MATAV. Other adjustments for 1997 reflect the sale of Telmex L, TCNZ and
    MATAV shares, and the change to the cost method of accounting for SBC's 1995
    investment in Mobile Telephone Networks (MTN), which was sold during the
    third quarter of 1998 (see Note 15).

    Undistributed earnings from equity affiliates were $1,788 and $1,317 at
    December 31, 1999 and 1998.

    The following table presents summarized financial information of significant
    investments accounted for using the equity method taking into account all
    adjustments necessary to conform to United States' generally accepted
    accounting principles, but excluding SBC's purchase adjustments including
    goodwill, at December 31, or for the year then ended:

<TABLE>
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 1999         1998         1997
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    <S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
    Income Statements
      Operating revenues                    $  32,776    $  24,232     $ 21,293
      Operating income                          8,941        6,383        5,254
      Net income                                4,892        3,515        2,327
    ============================================================================
    Balance Sheets
      Current assets                        $  13,961    $   9,793
      Noncurrent assets                        40,616       29,675
      Current liabilities                      13,395       12,323
      Noncurrent liabilities                   23,376       13,500
    ============================================================================
</TABLE>

    At December 31, 1999, SBC had goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, of
    approximately $5.9 billion related to investments in equity affiliates.
    Based on the December 31, 1999 quoted market price, the aggregate market
    value of SBC's investment in Tele Danmark was approximately $6.8 billion and
    MATAV was approximately $2.2 billion. SBC's investment in Telmex consists of
    both publicly traded and nonpublicly traded securities and therefore does
    not have a quoted market price. SBC's weighted average share of operating
    revenues shown above was 19% in 1999 and 1998 and 17% in 1997.

Note 7.  Segment Information

    SBC's segments are strategic business units that offer different products
    and services and are managed accordingly. SBC evaluates performance based on
    income before income taxes adjusted for normalizing (i.e. one-time) items.
    Transactions between segments are reported at fair value and the accounting
    policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.

    As a result of the merger with Ameritech and to better reflect the broadened
    scope of its operations, SBC adjusted its segment reporting structure in
    1999. SBC now has four reportable segments that reflect the current
    management of its business: wireline, wireless, information and
    entertainment, and international. The wireline segment provides landline
    telecommunications services, including local, network access and long
    distance services, messaging and Internet services and sells customer
    premise and private business exchange equipment. The wireless segment
    provides wireless telecommunications services, including local and long
    distance services, and sells wireless equipment. The information and
    entertainment segment expands on what was previously the directory segment,
    and includes all directory operations of the combined company including
    advertising, yellow pages, white pages and electronic publishing and
    Ameritech's electronic security and cable television operations. All
    international investment operations have been removed from the other segment
    and are shown separately in the international segment. The miscellaneous
    items that formerly were included in the other segment are immaterial and
    have been moved to corporate, adjustments and eliminations.

    Normalized results in 1999 include the following adjustments:

o       After-tax charges totaling $1.5 billion including, among other items,
        recognition of impairment of long-lived assets, adjustments to the
        estimate of allowance for doubtful accounts, estimation of deferred
        taxes on international investments, wireless conversion costs and other
        items as discussed in Note 2.

o       Elimination of income of $119 from the incremental impacts of
        overlapping wireless properties sold in October 1999.

o       After-tax pension settlement gains of $368 associated with lump sum
        pension payments that exceeded the projected service and interest costs.

o       After-tax gains of $77 recognized from the sale of property by an
        international equity affiliate.

o       An after-tax reduction of $27 of a portion of a first quarter 1998
        charge to cover the cost of consolidating security monitoring centers
        and company-owned wireless retail stores.

    For 1998, normalizing items included the following items:

o       After-tax gain of $1,012 for the sale of TCNZ shares.

o       After-tax charges of $268 related to strategic initiatives resulting
        from the merger integration process with SNET.

o       After-tax gains of $219 from the sale of certain non-core businesses,
        principally the required disposition of SBC's investment in MTN, a
        cellular company in South Africa.

o       Elimination of income of $123 from the incremental impacts of
        overlapping wireless properties sold in October 1999.

o       After-tax gain of $102 from the sale of certain telephone and
        directory assets.

o       After-tax charge of $64 to cover the cost of consolidating security
        monitoring centers and company-owned wireless retail stores.

    Normalizing items in 1997 included the following adjustments:

o       After-tax charges of $1.6 billion related to strategic initiatives
        resulting from the merger integration process with PAC.

o       After-tax charge of $87 for SBC's share of the costs of a work force
        restructuring at Belgacom.

o       After-tax charges of $304 for ongoing merger integration costs (see
        Note 2).

o       After-tax first quarter settlement gains of $90 at PAC associated
        with lump sum pension payments that exceeded the projected service and
        interest costs for 1996 retirements.

o       Elimination of income of $88 from the incremental impacts of
        overlapping wireless properties sold in October 1999.

o       After-tax gain of $58 from the sale of SBC's interests in Bell
        Communications Research, Inc.

    Corporate, adjustments and eliminations include corporate activities, the
    elimination of intersegment transactions and other adjustments. Included in
    other adjustments are differences in accounting between subsidiaries and
    consolidated financial statements for pension and postretirement benefits
    and the treatment of conforming accounting adjustments arising out of the
    pooling of interests transactions with Ameritech, SNET and PAC that were
    required to be treated as cumulative effect of accounting changes by the
    subsidiaries.


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Segment results, including a reconciliation to SBC consolidated results, for
1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 Information                 Corporate,
At December 31, 1999 or for                      and                         Adjustments    Normalizing
the year ended                Wireline  Wireless Entertainment International & Eliminations Adjustments  Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>      <C>       <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>         <C>
Revenues from external
  customers                  $ 37,254 $  6,759 $    4,686     $     137      $      124    $      529  $ 49,489
Intersegment revenues             322        5         91            10            (428)            -         -
Depreciation and
  amortization                  6,826      927        194            17             174           415     8,553
Equity in net income of
  affiliates                       (2)      42          -           739               2           131       912
Interest expense                1,188      227         53           312            (362)           12     1,430
Income before income taxes      8,052      918      1,641           706             364          (828)   10,853
Segment assets                 53,692   11,593      4,015        12,615           1,300             -    83,215
Investment in equity method
  investees                        31      216         48        10,372             (19)            -    10,648
Expenditures for additions
  to long-lived assets          8,754      988        232             1             329             -    10,304
================================================================================================================

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 Information                 Corporate,
At December 31, 1998 or for                      and                         Adjustments    Normalizing
the year ended                Wireline  Wireless Entertainment International & Eliminations Adjustments  Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues from external
  customers                  $ 35,114 $  5,628 $    4,263     $     132      $      186    $      884  $ 46,207
Intersegment revenues             305        1         82            17            (405)            -         -
Depreciation and
  amortization                  6,440      707        201            18             150           325     7,841
Equity in net income of
  affiliates                       (6)      25          -           588               6             -       613
Interest expense                1,250      189         42           282            (179)           21     1,605
Income before income taxes      7,318      564      1,590           453             435         1,755    12,115
Segment assets                 50,948    9,183      4,193        11,230            (588)            -    74,966
Investment in equity method
  investees                        47      244         34         7,106             (19)            -     7,412
Expenditures for additions
  to long-lived assets          7,471      978        193            13             227             -     8,882
================================================================================================================

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 Information                 Corporate,
At December 31, 1997 or for                      and                         Adjustments    Normalizing
the year ended                Wireline  Wireless Entertainment International & Eliminations Adjustments  Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues from external
  customers                  $ 33,282 $  5,022 $    3,728     $     103      $      298    $      673  $ 43,106
Intersegment revenues             374        1         91            19            (485)            -         -
Depreciation and
  amortization                  6,158      607        149            18             145           700     7,777
Equity in net income of
  affiliates                       (4)       9          -           528              (9)          (87)      437
Interest expense                1,198      165         54           104             (16)           45     1,550
Income before income taxes      6,558      372      1,350           512             375        (2,629)    6,538
Expenditures for additions
  to long-lived assets          7,314    1,066        238             2             236             -     8,856
================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

    Geographic Information

    SBC's investments outside of the United States are primarily accounted for
    under the equity method of accounting and do not record in operating
    revenues and expenses the revenues and expenses of the individual companies
    in which SBC invests. Specifically, less than 1% of total operating revenues
    for all years presented are from outside the United States. Long-lived
    assets outside the United States consist primarily of the book value of
    these investments:

    ---------------------------------------------------------
    December 31,                        1999          1998
    ---------------------------------------------------------
    United States                  $  48,924   $    45,493
    Canada                             3,770             -
    Denmark                            3,019         3,401
    Mexico                               906           836
    Belgium                              831           892
    South Africa                         708           694
    Hungary                              532           534
    France                               459           557
    Other foreign countries              129           199
    ---------------------------------------------------------
    Total                          $  59,278   $    52,606
    =========================================================

Note 8.  Debt

    Long-term debt of SBC and its subsidiaries, including interest rates and
    maturities, is summarized as follows at December 31:

<TABLE>
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             1999          1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>
    Notes and debentures
       4.37%-6.00%   1999-2007 1                      $     3,056   $     3,366
       6.03%-7.85%   1999-2048 2                           13,990        13,568
       8.00%-10.50%  1999-2031                                577           646
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           17,623        17,580
       Unamortized discount-net of premium                    236          (101)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total notes and debentures                             17,859        17,479
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Guaranteed obligations of ESOP 3
       8.10%-9.40%   2000                                      88           164
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Capitalized leases                                        258           268
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total long-term debt, including current maturities     18,205        17,911
    Current maturities                                       (730)         (741)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total long-term debt                              $    17,475   $    17,170
    ============================================================================
<FN>
    1 Includes $250 of 5.9% debentures maturing in 2038 with a put option by holder in 2005.
    2 Includes $125 of 6.35% debentures maturing in 2026 with a put option by holder in 2006.
    3 See Note 12.
</FN>
</TABLE>

    At December 31, 1999, the aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt and
    weighted average interest rate scheduled for repayment for the years 2000
    through 2004 were $730 (6.4%), $1,466 (6.7%), $1,107 (6.6%), $1,722 (6.0%),
    $1,154 (6.5%) with $11,790 (6.9%) due thereafter. As of December 31, 1999,
    SBC was in compliance with all covenants and conditions of instruments
    governing its debt. Substantially all of SBC's outstanding long-term debt is
    unsecured.

    In January 2000, SBC guaranteed existing publicly issued debt securities
    issued by Ameritech Capital Funding Corporation, Illinois Bell Telephone
    Company, Indiana Bell Telephone Company, Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone
    Company, The Ohio Bell Telephone Company, PacBell, Southern New England
    Telecommunications Corporation, The Southern New England Telephone Company,
    SWBell and Wisconsin Bell, Inc. Each guarantee will apply as long as the
    individual company remains a wholly owned subsidiary of SBC.

    Financing Activities - In December 1999, SBC called approximately $31 of
    debt that was scheduled to mature in December 2004. The net income effect of
    retiring this debt did not materially impact SBC's financial statements.
    During 1999, subsequent to the completion of the acquisitions of Comcast
    Cellular Corporation (Comcast) and Cellular Communications of Puerto Rico,
    Inc. (Cellular Communications), SBC retired $1,415 of Comcast's and Cellular
    Communications' long-term debt with no effect on net income. In May 1999,
    SBC issued $750 of 6.25% unsecured Eurodollar notes, due May 2009.

    In 1998, SBC issued approximately $2,150 in notes and debentures. The notes
    and debentures bear interest rates ranging from 5.65% to 6.88% and mature
    between 2001 and 2048. Also, in 1998, SBC issued $750 of 5.88% unsecured
    Eurodollar notes, due February 2003. SBC used proceeds from these borrowings
    primarily to fund its investment in Tele Danmark.

    Debt maturing within one year consists of the following at December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           1999             1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Commercial paper                                 $    2,623       $    3,412
    Current maturities of long-term debt                    730              741
    Other short-term debt                                    21               25
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                            $    3,374       $    4,178
    ============================================================================

    The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper debt at December 31,
    1999 and 1998 was 5.72% and 5.43%. SBC has entered into agreements with
    several banks for committed lines of credit totaling $2,880 all of which may
    be used to support commercial paper borrowings. SBC had no borrowings
    outstanding under these lines of credit as of December 31, 1999 or 1998.

Note 9.  Financial Instruments

    The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of SBC's long-term debt,
    including current maturities, and other financial instruments, are
    summarized as follows at December 31:
<TABLE>

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1999                      1998
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Carrying       Fair       Carrying       Fair
                                                Amount       Value        Amount       Value
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>           <C>         <C>
    Notes and debentures                     $   17,859   $   17,086   $    17,479  $   18,656
    TOPrS                                         1,000          924         1,000       1,029
    Preferred stock of subsidiaries                 820          820           717         717
    Guaranteed obligations of ESOP1                  88           94           164         169
    =============================================================================================
<FN>
    1 See Note 12.
</FN>
</TABLE>

    The fair values of SBC's notes and debentures, including ESOP obligations,
    were estimated based on quoted market prices, where available, or on the net
    present value method of expected future cash flows using current interest
    rates. The fair value of the TOPrS was estimated based on quoted market
    prices. The carrying amounts of preferred stock of subsidiaries and
    commercial paper debt approximate fair values. SBC's short-term investments
    and customer deposits are recorded at amortized cost and the carrying
    amounts approximate fair values.

    Preferred Stock Issuances by Subsidiaries - In April 1998, an SBC subsidiary
    issued through private placement 3,250 shares of stated rate auction
    preferred stock (STRAPS). Net proceeds from these issuances totaled $322.
    Dividends accrue on the STRAPS at varying rates, which are adjusted
    periodically through separate auctions on each series. Dividends are
    cumulative from the date of issuance. The dividend rates for each series
    ranged from 4.39% to 5.05% as of December 31, 1999.

    In June 1997 and December 1999, one of SBC's wholly owned subsidiaries
    issued $250 and $100 of preferred stock in private placements. The holders
    of the preferred stock may require SBC's subsidiary to redeem the shares
    after May 20, 2004. Holders receive quarterly dividends based on a rolling
    three-month London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR). The dividend rate for the
    December 31, 1999 payment was 6.28%.

    As of December 31, 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary had outstanding $85 of
    Series A Preferred Stock (7.04%, subject to mandatory redemption in 2001)
    and $60 of Series B Preferred Stock (variable rate, 4.60% as of December 31,
    1999, not subject to mandatory redemption).

    The preferred stock of subsidiaries discussed above is included in other
    noncurrent liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.

    Pacific Telesis Financing I and II (the Trusts) were formed in 1996 for the
    exclusive purpose of issuing preferred and common securities representing
    undivided beneficial interests in the Trusts and investing the proceeds from
    the sales of TOPrS in unsecured subordinated debt securities of PAC. Under
    certain circumstances, dividends on TOPrS could be deferred for up to a
    period of five years. As of December 31, 1999, the Trusts held subordinated
    debt securities of PAC in principal amounts of $516 and $514 with interest
    rates of 7.56% and 8.50%. The TOPrS are priced at $25 per share, have an
    original 30-year maturity that may be extended up to 49 years, are callable
    in 2001 at par and are included on the balance sheet as
    corporation-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
    subsidiary trusts. The proceeds were used to retire short-term indebtedness,
    primarily commercial paper. SBC has guaranteed payment of the obligations of
    the TOPrS.

    Derivatives - SBC enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure
    to adverse exchange risk. SBC also uses interest rate swaps to manage
    interest rate exposure. Related gains and losses are reflected in net
    income. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of SBC's derivative
    financial instruments are summarized as follows at December 31:
<TABLE>

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1999                      1998
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              Carrying/                 Carrying/
                                               Notional       Fair       Notional       Fair
                                                Amount       Value        Amount       Value
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
    Foreign exchange contracts-long          $        -   $      142   $        -   $        -
    Foreign exchange contracts-short                  -            -            -          765
    Interest rate swaps                           1,180          (14)         458          (27)
    Equity swaps                                      -            -           13           26
    =============================================================================================
</TABLE>

    Prior to its merger with an SBC subsidiary, PAC issued stock options to its
    employees during a spinoff of certain wireless properties. Some of these
    options were still outstanding when PAC merged with an SBC subsidiary in
    1997 (see Note 13). SBC had used equity swaps to hedge the equity price risk
    related to these spunoff operations employee stock options. However, in 1999
    SBC evaluated the related risk level and exited all of its related equity
    swap contracts, receiving cash for the appreciated value of the contracts
    and recognizing a minimal gain.

Note 10.  Income Taxes

    Significant components of SBC's deferred tax liabilities and assets are as
    follows at December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              1999          1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Depreciation and amortization                       $    6,865     $   6,104
    Equity in foreign affiliates                               540           457
    Deferred directory expenses                                524           383
    Other                                                    1,254           216
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred tax liabilities                                 9,183         7,160
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Employee benefits                                        2,418         2,416
    Currency translation adjustments                           586           333
    Allowance for uncollectibles                               222           168
    Unamortized investment tax credits                         147           132
    Other                                                    1,850         1,631
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred tax assets                                      5,223         4,680
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred tax assets valuation allowance                     99           143
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net deferred tax liabilities                        $    4,059     $   2,623
    ============================================================================

    The decrease in the valuation allowance is the result of an evaluation of
    the uncertainty associated with the realization of certain deferred tax
    assets. The valuation allowance is maintained in deferred tax assets for
    certain unused federal and state loss carryforwards.

    The components of income tax expense are as follows:

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 1999         1998         1997
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Federal:
      Current                               $   2,883    $   3,151      $ 1,781
      Deferred-net                                814          671          363
      Amortization of investment tax credits      (85)         (96)        (115)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                3,612        3,726        2,029
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    State and local:
      Current                                     421          485          232
      Deferred-net                                247          169          190
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  668          654          422
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                   $   4,280    $   4,380      $ 2,451
    ===========================================================================

    A reconciliation of income tax expense and the amount computed by applying
    the statutory federal income tax rate (35%) to income before income taxes,
    extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting change is as
    follows:
<TABLE>

    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      1999          1998        1997
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>         <C>
    Taxes computed at federal statutory rate                      $  3,798     $   4,240     $ 2,288
    Increases (decreases) in income taxes resulting from:
     Amortization of investment tax credits over the life of
       the plant that gave rise to the credits                         (55)          (62)        (75)
     State and local income taxes-net of federal income tax benefit    440           424         274
     Other-net                                                          97          (222)        (36)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                                         $  4,280     $   4,380     $ 2,451
    ==================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Note 11.  Employee Benefits

    Pensions - Substantially all employees of SBC are covered by one of various
    noncontributory pension and death benefit plans. Management employees
    participate in either cash balance or defined lump sum pension plans. The
    pension benefit formula for most nonmanagement employees is based on a flat
    dollar amount per year according to job classification. Most employees can
    elect to receive their pension benefits in either lump sum or annuity.

    SBC's objective in funding the plans, in combination with the standards of
    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended), is to
    accumulate funds sufficient to meet its benefit obligations to employees
    upon their retirement. Contributions to the plans are made to a trust for
    the benefit of plan participants. Plan assets consist primarily of stocks,
    U.S. government and domestic corporate bonds, index funds and real estate.

    Effective with the Ameritech merger, SBC performed a midyear valuation for
    all pension plans. The amounts that follow reflect the impacts and
    assumptions of the midyear valuation.

    The following table presents the change in the pension plan benefit
    obligation for the years ended December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999           1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Benefit obligation at beginning of the year    $   27,528     $   26,235
    Service cost - benefits earned during the
      period                                              584            548
    Interest cost on projected benefit obligation       1,831          1,813
    Amendments                                            460            224
    Actuarial (gain)/loss                              (1,121)         1,170
    Special termination benefits                           32             53
    Benefits paid                                      (3,629)        (2,515)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Benefit obligation at end of year              $   25,685     $   27,528
    ============================================================================

    The following table presents the change in pension plan assets for the years
    ended December 31 and the pension plans' funded status at December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1999           1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the
      year                                         $  41,794      $  38,703
    Actual return on plan assets                       8,065          5,593
    Benefits paid                                     (3,901)        (2,502)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1     $  45,958      $  41,794
    ============================================================================

    Funded status                                  $  20,273      $  14,266
    Unrecognized prior service cost                    1,898          1,653
    Unrecognized net gain                            (17,926)       (12,487)
    Unamortized transition asset                      (1,036)        (1,352)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Prepaid pension cost                           $   3,209      $   2,080
    ============================================================================

    1 Plan assets include SBC common stock of $34 at December 31, 1999 and $71
      at December 31, 1998.

    The following table presents amounts recognized in SBC's Consolidated
    Balance Sheets at December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999           1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Prepaid pension cost                           $    3,539     $    2,512
    Accrued pension liability                            (330)          (432)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net amount recognized                          $    3,209     $    2,080
    ============================================================================

    Net pension cost is composed of the following:
<TABLE>

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999           1998         1997
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>          <C>
    Service cost - benefits earned during the
      period                                       $      584     $      548    $     481
    Interest cost on projected benefit obligation       1,831          1,813        1,789
    Expected return on plan assets                     (2,951)        (2,722)      (2,527)
    Amortization of prior service cost                    (35)           (57)         (69)
    Recognized actuarial gain                            (273)          (161)        (157)
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net pension benefit                            $     (844)    $     (579)   $    (483)
    =========================================================================================
</TABLE>

    Significant weighted-average assumptions used in developing pension
    information include:
<TABLE>

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999        1998         1997
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>          <C>          <C>
    Discount rate for determining projected benefit obligation   7.75%        7.0%         7.2%
    Long-term rate of return on plan assets                      8.50%        8.5%         8.5%
    Composite rate of compensation increase                      4.25%        4.2%         4.2%
    ==============================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of all
    benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to previously rendered
    employee service. It is measured based on assumptions concerning future
    interest rates and employee compensation levels. Should actual experience
    differ from the actuarial assumptions, the benefit obligation will be
    affected.

    In April 1997, management amended the SBC Pension Benefit Plan to a cash
    balance pension plan effective June 1, 1997. Under the new plan,
    participants accrue benefits based on a percentage of pay plus interest. In
    addition, a transition benefit is phased in over five years. The new plan
    also requires computation of a grandfathered benefit using the old formula
    for five years. Participants receive the greater of the cash balance benefit
    or the grandfathered benefit. The new cash balance plan allows lump sum
    benefit payments in addition to annuities. This change did not have a
    significant impact on SBC's net income for 1997.

    During 1997, a significant amount of lump sum pension payments resulted in a
    partial settlement of PAC's pension plans. Therefore, net settlement gains
    in the amount of $299 were recognized in 1997. Of this amount, $152 was
    recognized in the first quarter of 1997 and related primarily to managers
    who terminated employment in 1996. These gains are not included in the net
    pension cost shown in the table above.

    In addition to the net periodic benefit costs reported in the above tables,
    SBC recognized $566 in net settlement gains in the fourth quarter of 1999.
    These settlement gains resulted from a significant amount of lump sum
    pension payments that caused a partial settlement of Ameritech's pension
    plans. SBC is currently evaluating whether additional lump sum payments will
    require the recognition of additional settlement gains in 2000.

    In December 1999, under the provisions of Section 420 of the Internal
    Revenue Code, SBC transferred $280 in pension assets to a health care
    benefit account for the reimbursement of retiree health care benefits paid
    by SBC.

    Supplemental Retirement Plans - SBC also provides senior and middle
    management employees with nonqualified, unfunded supplemental retirement and
    savings plans. These plans include supplemental defined pension benefits as
    well as compensation deferral plans, some of which include a corresponding
    match by SBC based on a percentage of the compensation deferral. Expenses
    related to these plans were $146, $114 and $97 in 1999, 1998 and 1997.
    Liabilities of $1,287 and $1,022 related to these plans have been included
    in other noncurrent liabilities in SBC's Consolidated Balance Sheets at
    December 31, 1999 and 1998.

    Postretirement Benefits - SBC provides certain medical, dental and life
    insurance benefits to substantially all retired employees under various
    plans and accrues actuarially determined postretirement benefit costs as
    active employees earn these benefits. SBC's postretirement benefit cost in
    1998 and 1997 for certain plans reflects an estimate of potential future
    cost sharing by retirees. SBC maintains Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
    Association trusts to fund postretirement benefits. Assets consist
    principally of stocks and U.S. government and corporate bonds.

    The following table sets forth the change in the benefit obligation for the
    years ended December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           1999           1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Benefit obligation at beginning of the year      $   15,489     $   12,978
    Service cost - benefits earned during the period        260            193
    Interest cost on projected benefit obligation         1,050            904
    Amendments                                               (2)         2,008
    Actuarial (gain)/loss                                  (515)           109
    Benefits paid                                          (771)          (703)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Benefit obligation at end of year                $   15,511     $   15,489
    ============================================================================

    The following table sets forth the change in plan assets for the years ended
    December 31 and the plans' funded status at December 31:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999           1998
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the
      year                                         $    6,869     $    5,583
    Actual return on plan assets                        1,199          1,114
    Employer contribution                                  93            442
    Benefits paid                                        (290)          (270)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1     $    7,871     $    6,869
    ============================================================================

    Funded status                                  $   (7,640)    $   (8,620)
    Unrecognized prior service cost                       960          1,119
    Unrecognized net gain                              (2,460)        (1,245)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accrued postretirement benefit obligation      $   (9,140)    $   (8,746)
    ============================================================================
    1 Plan assets include SBC common stock of $10 at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

    Postretirement benefit cost is composed of the following:
<TABLE>

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          1999         1998       1997
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>            <C>        <C>
     Service cost-benefits earned during the period $      260    $     193   $    187
     Interest cost on accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligation (APBO)                          1,050          904        876
     Expected return on assets                            (504)        (419)      (351)
     Amortization of prior service cost                    157         (260)      (280)
     Recognized actuarial gain                             (13)         (12)       (27)
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Postretirement benefit cost                    $      950    $     406   $    405
    ====================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The fair value of plan assets restricted to the payment of life insurance
    benefits was $1,277 and $1,323 at December 31, 1999 and 1998. At December
    31, 1999 and 1998, the accrued life insurance benefits included in the APBO
    benefit obligation were $540 and $322.

    The assumed medical cost trend rate in 2000 is 8.0%, decreasing linearly to
    5.0% in 2006, prior to adjustment for cost-sharing provisions of the medical
    and dental plans for active and certain recently retired employees. The
    assumed dental cost trend rate in 2000 is 5.5%, reducing to 5.0% in 2002. A
    one percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
    have the following effects:

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          One Percentage-        One Percentage-
                                           Point Increase         Point Decrease
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Effect on total of service and
       interest cost components              $       186             $       148
     Effect on postretirement
       benefit obligation                          1,632                   1,402
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Significant assumptions for the discount rate, long-term rate of return on
    plan assets and composite rate of compensation increase used in developing
    the APBO and related postretirement benefit costs were the same as those
    used in developing the pension information. Due to the Ameritech merger, a
    midyear valuation also was performed for all postretirement benefit plans.

Note 12.  Other Employee Benefits

    Employee Stock Ownership Plans - SBC maintains contributory savings plans
    that cover substantially all employees. Under the savings plans, SBC matches
    a stated percentage of eligible employee contributions, subject to a
    specified ceiling.

    SBC has six leveraged ESOPs as part of the existing savings plans. Two of
    the ESOPs were funded with notes issued by the savings plans to various
    lenders, the proceeds of which were used to purchase shares of SBC's common
    stock in the open market. These notes are unconditionally guaranteed by SBC
    and therefore presented as a reduction to shareowners' equity and an
    increase in long-term debt. They will be repaid with SBC contributions to
    the savings plans, dividends paid on SBC shares and interest earned on funds
    held by the ESOPs.

    One ESOP purchased PAC treasury shares in exchange for a promissory note
    from the plan to PAC. Since PAC is the lender, this note is not reflected as
    a liability and the remaining cost of unallocated trust shares is carried as
    a reduction of shareowners' equity. Principal and interest on the note are
    paid from employer contributions and dividends received by the trust. All
    PAC shares were exchanged for SBC shares effective with the merger April 1,
    1997. The provisions of the ESOP were unaffected by this exchange. Another
    ESOP acquired SNET shares with the proceeds of notes issued by the savings
    plans, which SNET guaranteed, through a third party. The SNET common stock
    was acquired through open market purchases in exchange for a promissory note
    from the plan to SNET. SNET periodically makes cash payments to the ESOP
    that, together with dividends received on shares held by the ESOP, are used
    to make interest and principal payments on both loans. All SNET shares were
    exchanged for SBC shares effective with the merger October 26, 1998. The
    provisions of the ESOP were unaffected by this exchange.

    Two ESOPs were funded with notes issued by the savings plans which Ameritech
    guaranteed, the proceeds of which were used to purchase, at fair market
    value, shares of Ameritech common stock held in treasury. As a result of
    Ameritech's unconditional guarantee, the notes are presented as a reduction
    to shareowners' equity and an increase in long-term debt. Ameritech
    periodically made cash payments that, together with dividends received on
    shares held by the ESOPs, were used to make interest and principal payments
    on the loan. All Ameritech shares were exchanged for SBC shares effective
    with the merger on October 8, 1999. The provisions of the ESOP were
    unaffected by this exchange.

    SBC's match of employee contributions to the savings plans is fulfilled with
    shares of stock allocated from the ESOPs and with purchases of SBC's stock
    in the open market. Shares held by the ESOPs are released for allocation to
    the accounts of employees as employer-matching contributions are earned.
    Benefit cost is based on a combination of the contributions to the savings
    plans and the cost of shares allocated to participating employees' accounts.
    Both benefit cost and interest expense on the notes are reduced by dividends
    on SBC's shares held by the ESOPs and interest earned on the ESOPs' funds.

    Information related to the ESOPs and the savings plans is summarized below:
<TABLE>

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999        1998       1997
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 <S>                                                              <C>        <C>        <C>
    Benefit expense-net of dividends and interest income  $       90  $       77  $      73
    Interest expense-net of dividends and interest income         10          25         36
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total expense                                         $      100  $      102  $     109
    =========================================================================================
    Company contributions for ESOPs                       $      104  $      142  $     141
    =========================================================================================
    Dividends and interest income for debt service        $       75  $      100  $     104
    =========================================================================================
</TABLE>

    SBC shares held by the ESOPs are summarized as follows at December 31:
<TABLE>

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   1999             1998
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>              <C>
    Unallocated                                                16,030,695       24,501,561
    Allocated to participants                                 101,257,366       95,069,009
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                                     117,288,061      119,570,570
    =========================================================================================
</TABLE>

Note 13.  Stock-Based Compensation

    Under various SBC plans, senior and other management employees and
    non-employee directors have received stock options, stock appreciation
    rights (SARs), performance stock units and nonvested stock units. Stock
    options issued through December 31, 1999 carry exercise prices equal to the
    market price of the stock at the date of grant and have maximum terms
    ranging from five to ten years. Beginning in 1994 and ending in 1999,
    certain Ameritech employees were awarded grants of nonqualified stock
    options with dividend equivalents. Depending upon the grant, vesting of
    stock options may occur up to four years from the date of grant. Performance
    stock units are granted to key employees based upon the common stock price
    at date of grant and are awarded in the form of common stock and cash at the
    end of a two- or three-year period, subject to the achievement of certain
    performance goals. Nonvested stock units are valued at market price of the
    stock at date of grant and vest over a three- to five-year period. Up to 310
    million shares may be issued under these plans.

    SBC measures compensation cost for these plans using the intrinsic
    value-based method of accounting as allowed in Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS
    123). Accordingly, no compensation cost for SBC's stock option plans has
    been recognized. Had compensation cost for stock option plans been
    recognized using the fair value-based method of accounting at the date of
    grant for awards in 1999, 1998 and 1997 as defined by FAS 123, SBC's net
    income would have been $7,969, $7,537 and $3,962, and basic net income per
    share would have been $2.34, $2.21 and $1.17. The compensation cost that has
    been charged against income for SBC's other stock-based compensation plans
    totaled $36, $83 and $65 for 1999, 1998 and 1997.

    For purposes of these pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
    options granted is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.
    The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of grant, using a
    Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
    assumptions used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997: risk-free interest rate
    of 5.31%, 5.69% and 6.47%; dividend yield of 1.65%, 2.38% and 2.98%;
    expected volatility factor of 15%, 18% and 19%; and expected option life of
    4.5, 5.0 and 4.9 years.

    As of December 31, 1998, 29,390 shares of nonperformance-based restricted
    stock issued to Ameritech employees were outstanding under the Ameritech
    plans. Shareowners' equity reflects deferred compensation for the unvested
    stock awarded. This amount was reduced and charged against operations
    (together with any change in market price) as the employees vested in the
    stock. All restricted stock under Ameritech plans vested as a result of the
    Ameritech merger with an SBC subsidiary in 1999.

    Information related to options and SARs is summarized below:
<TABLE>

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      Weighted-
                                                                                  Average Exercise
                                                                       Number           Price
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>                 <C>
    Outstanding at January 1, 1997                                   126,464,343        $20.03
    Granted                                                           56,229,919         25.52
    Exercised                                                        (27,891,733)        18.49
    Forfeited/Expired                                                (10,567,550)        22.85
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Outstanding at December 31, 1997
      (60,656,487 exercisable at weighted-average price of $19.36)   144,234,979         22.27
    Granted                                                           34,516,726         39.46
    Exercised                                                        (25,767,038)        20.61
    Forfeited/Expired                                                 (6,747,545)        29.64
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Outstanding at December 31, 1998
      (73,187,564 exercisable at weighted-average price of $20.85)   146,237,122         26.26
    Granted                                                           26,139,492         48.70
    Exercised                                                        (19,095,315)        23.13
    Forfeited/Expired                                                 (4,118,769)        39.06
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Outstanding at December 31, 1999
      (116,276,298 exercisable at weighted-average price of $26.91)  149,162,530        $30.24
    ================================================================================================
</TABLE>

    Information related to options and SARs outstanding at December 31, 1999:
<TABLE>

    ------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
    Exercise Price Range                        $10.90-$17.39  $17.40-$29.99 $30.00-$35.49 $35.50-$59.00
    ------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
<S>                                               <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
    Number of options and SARs:
      Outstanding                                  13,145,846     82,990,276     9,845,528    43,180,880
      Exercisable                                  13,145,846     74,948,465     9,845,528    18,336,459
    Weighted-average exercise price:
      Outstanding                                      $15.07         $23.93        $34.16        $46.10
      Exercisable                                      $15.07         $23.53        $34.16        $45.30
    Weighted-average remaining contractual life    3.93 years     6.29 years    8.30 years    8.83 years
    =========================================== ============= ============== ============= =============
</TABLE>

    The weighted-average, grant-date fair value of each option granted during
    1999, 1998 and 1997 was $9.31, $8.71 and $5.36.

    As of December 31, additional shares available under stock options with
    dividend equivalents were 1,526,514 in 1999, 1,505,625 in 1998 and 1,325,201
    in 1997.

    Options and SARs held by the continuing employees of PAC at the time of the
    AirTouch Communications, Inc. (AirTouch) spinoff were supplemented with an
    equal number of options and SARs for common shares of spunoff operations.
    The exercise prices for outstanding options and SARs held by continuing
    employees of PAC were adjusted downward to reflect the value of the
    supplemental spunoff operations' options and SARs. The balance sheet
    reflects a related liability equal to the difference between the current
    market price of spunoff operations stock and the exercise prices of the
    supplemental options outstanding. The spunoff operations options and SARs
    have been adjusted for Vodafone's acquisition of AirTouch and for Vodafone's
    five-for-one stock split in 1999. As of December 31, 1999, 404,825
    supplemental spunoff operations options and SARs were outstanding with
    expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2003. Outstanding options and SARs
    that were held by employees of the wireless operations at the spinoff date
    were replaced by options and SARs for common shares of spunoff operations.
    The spunoff operations assumed liability for these replacement options and
    SARs.

Note 14.  Shareowners' Equity

    From time to time, SBC repurchases shares of common stock for distribution
    or to offset shares distributed through its employee benefit plans or in
    certain acquisitions. In 1999, the Board of Directors approved the
    repurchase of approximately 23 million shares of SBC's common stock, which
    has been completed.

    In January 2000, SBC's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
    100 million shares of SBC's common stock.

Note 15.  Acquisitions and Dispositions

    Acquisitions - In July 1999, SBC completed the acquisition of Comcast, the
    wireless subsidiary of Comcast Corporation, in a transaction valued at
    approximately $1.8 billion, including assumption of $1.4 billion in debt.
    With the acquisition, SBC added approximately 862,000 wireless subscribers
    in Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey and Illinois.

    In June 1999, SBC acquired 20% of Bell Canada, a subsidiary of BCE Inc.
    (BCE), a publicly traded Canadian communications company, for approximately
    $3.4 billion. As part of the investment, SBC has the option to sell its
    shares to BCE at fair market value plus 25% in 2002 and 2004. BCE has the
    option to repurchase the shares on the same terms. SBC also has the right to
    sell its shares at a premium to BCE if a change in control of BCE occurs
    before June 2004. After June 2004, the sales price would be the higher of
    fair market value or the implied value in the transaction that gave rise to
    the change in control at BCE. Similarly, BCE may repurchase the shares at
    fair market value any time if there is a change in control of SBC. The
    investment agreement also provides for rights of first refusal and rights of
    first offer.

    In January 1998, SBC purchased a 34% interest in Tele Danmark, the national
    communications provider in Denmark, from the Kingdom of Denmark for
    approximately $3.1 billion. As part of the investment agreement, Tele
    Danmark repurchased and retired all remaining shares owned by the Danish
    government, effectively increasing SBC's equity ownership to 41.6% of Tele
    Danmark.

    In May 1997, a consortium made up of SBC and Telekom Malaysia Berhad, 60%
    owned by SBC, completed the purchase of 30% of Telkom. SBC invested
    approximately $760, approximately $600 of which remained in Telkom.

    During 1997, SBC also acquired assets of several companies engaged in
    electronic security services for approximately $1 billion in cash and stock.

    These above acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of
    accounting. The purchase prices in excess of the underlying fair value of
    identifiable net assets acquired are being amortized over periods not
    exceeding 40 years. Results of operations of the acquisitions have been
    included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective
    dates of acquisition.

    The above developments did not have a significant impact on consolidated
    results of operations for 1999, 1998 or 1997, nor would they, had they
    occurred on January 1 of the respective periods.

    Dispositions - In October 1999, SBC completed the required disposition, as a
    condition of the Ameritech merger, of 20 Midwestern cellular properties
    including the competing cellular licenses in several markets including, but
    not limited to, Chicago, Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri. SBC recorded an
    extraordinary gain of $1,379, or $0.40 per share on this sale net of taxes
    of $960. Results of operations for 1999 up to the date of disposition, 1998
    and 1997 include revenues of $705, $891 and $861, net income of $119, $123
    and $88 and diluted earnings per share of $0.03, $0.04 and $0.03 related to
    these cellular properties.

    During the third quarter of 1998, SBC sold its interest in MTN to the
    remaining shareholders of MTN for $337. The sale fulfilled SBC's obligation
    to divest MTN as a requirement of the acquisition of Telkom. The effect on
    other income (expense) - net and net income from the sale of MTN was $250
    and $162.

    In April 1998, SBC sold substantially all of its remaining interest in TCNZ
    in a global stock offering. Net proceeds received in two installment
    payments in April 1998 and March 1999 were approximately $2.1 billion
    resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $1 billion in 1998.

    Pending Transaction - In November 1999, SBC and Prodigy Communications
    Corporation (Prodigy) announced an agreement to form a partnership that will
    join their consumer and small business Internet operations. Under the terms
    of the agreement, which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2000,
    SBC will make Prodigy its exclusive retail consumer and small business
    Internet access service for customers in SBC's service area. Prodigy will
    assume management of approximately 650,000 SBC subscribers of dial-up, ISDN
    and basic DSL Internet access services, increasing Prodigy's total managed
    subscriber base to more than 2 million. Subject to specific exceptions, SBC
    will exclusively market Prodigy service through its extensive marketing
    channels with a commitment to deliver a minimum of 1.2 million new customers
    over the next three years to the Prodigy member base. The agreement provides
    SBC with a 43% ownership stake in the partnership and a similar voting
    interest in Prodigy. Under certain circumstances, this may translate into a
    direct ownership interest in Prodigy. Required approvals for the transaction
    have been received from certain Federal regulatory agencies that had
    jurisdiction to consider the transaction. The agreement is subject to
    approval at a meeting of the shareholders of Prodigy, which is anticipated
    in early 2000.

Note 16.  Software Costs

    The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued a Statement of
    Position (SOP) that requires capitalization of certain computer software
    expenditures beginning in 1999. The SOP, which prescribed prospective
    application, requires the capitalization of certain costs incurred in
    connection with developing or obtaining internal use software beginning in
    1999. Capitalized software costs are being amortized over three years. Prior
    to the adoption of the SOP, the costs of computer software purchased or
    developed for internal use were generally expensed as incurred. However,
    initial operating system software costs were, and continue to be,
    capitalized.

    With comparable levels of software expenditures, the SOP would tend to
    increase net income when compared with SBC's former method of accounting for
    software costs. However, the increases would be largest in the year of
    adoption with diminishing levels of increases compared with current
    accounting throughout the amortization period. Consequently, given otherwise
    comparable income levels excluding software, and otherwise comparable
    software expenditures, the effect of the SOP would be to increase income in
    the first year and decrease income in each subsequent year until the number
    of years affected by the SOP equals the amortization period. The effect of
    adopting the SOP was to increase net income by approximately $274, or $0.08
    per share, assuming dilution, for the year ended December 31, 1999.

Note 17.  Additional Financial Information
<TABLE>

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               December 31,
                                                                        ---------------------------
    Balance Sheets                                                            1999           1998
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>            <C>
    Accounts payable and accrued liabilities:
       Accounts payable                                                 $    4,834     $    4,726
       Accrued taxes                                                         3,386          2,611
       Advance billing and customer deposits                                 1,481          1,255
       Compensated future absences                                             711            677
       Accrued interest                                                        427            432
       Accrued payroll                                                         800            536
       Other                                                                 3,464          3,016
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                                               $   15,103     $   13,253
    ===============================================================================================

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Statements of Income                                          1999        1998           1997
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Advertising expense                                   $        812  $      814     $      844
    ===============================================================================================
    Interest expense incurred                             $      1,511  $    1,691     $    1,700
    Capitalized interest                                           (81)        (86)          (150)
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total interest expense                                $      1,430  $    1,605     $    1,550
    ===============================================================================================

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Statements of Cash Flows                                      1999        1998           1997
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Cash paid during the year for:
       Interest                                           $      1,516  $    1,713     $    1,676
       Income taxes, net of refunds                              2,638       2,676          1,640
    ===============================================================================================
</TABLE>

    No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 1999,
    1998 or 1997.

    Approximately two-thirds of SBC employees are represented by collective
    bargaining agreements with varying dates of expiration in the years 2001
    through 2002.

Note 18.  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
<TABLE>

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Total                                              Stock Price
                                                                   ----------------------------------
                                                          Diluted
      Calendar    Operating    Operating       Net       Earnings
      Quarter     Revenues      Income       Income     Per Share      High       Low        Close
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>      <C>       <C>          <C>
    1999
    First        $   11,802   $    3,051   $   1,980    $     0.57 $   59.938 $  46.063   $   47.188
    Second           12,256        3,227       1,938          0.56     58.000    48.000       58.000
    Third            12,534        2,462       1,135          0.33     59.875    45.375       51.063
    Fourth           12,897        2,858       3,106          0.90     55.500    44.063       48.750
    ----------------------------------------------------
    Annual       $   49,489   $   11,598   $   8,159    $     2.36
    =================================================================================================
    1998

    First        $   11,038   $    2,685   $   1,483    $     0.43 $   46.563 $  35.375   $   43.375
    Second           11,398        3,017       2,750          0.80     44.938    37.125       40.000
    Third            11,606        2,994       1,926          0.56     44.875    35.000       44.375
    Fourth           12,165        2,527       1,531          0.44     54.875    41.125       53.625
    ----------------------------------------------------
    Annual       $   46,207   $   11,223   $   7,690    $     2.23
    =================================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The first quarter of 1999 includes a cumulative effect of accounting change
    of $207, or $0.06 per share from a change in accounting for directory
    operations at Ameritech. The fourth quarter of 1999 includes an
    extraordinary gain of $1,379, or $0.40 per share on the sale of the
    overlapping wireless properties. The first quarter of 1998 includes a
    cumulative effect of accounting change of $15, or $0.01 per share from a
    change in accounting for directory operations at SNET. The fourth quarter of
    1998 includes an extraordinary loss on retirement of debt of $60, or $0.02
    per share.

    There were also normalizing (i.e. one-time) items which are included in the
    information above, but are excluded from the information that management
    uses to evaluate the performance of each segment of the business (see Note
    7). The after-tax impact of the 1999 normalizing items was as follows:

o       An expense reduction of $27 in the first quarter related to a first
        quarter 1998 charge to cover the cost of consolidating security
        monitoring centers and company-owned cellular retail stores.
o       Charges of $883 in the third quarter and $574 in the fourth quarter
        related to strategic initiatives resulting from the merger integration
        process with Ameritech (see Note 2).
o       Gains of $368 in the fourth quarter related to lump sum pension
        settlement gains for 1999 retirements.
o       Gains of $77 in the fourth quarter related to sales by an international
        equity affiliate.
o       Incremental impacts of overlapping wireless properties required to be
        sold in October 1999 of $39 in the first quarter, $28 in the second
        quarter, $47 in the third quarter and $5 in the fourth quarter.

    The after-tax impact of the 1998 normalizing items was as follows:

o       Charges of $64 in the first quarter to cover the cost of consolidating
        security monitoring centers and company-owned cellular retail stores.
o       Gain of $1,012 in the second quarter on the sale of TCNZ shares.
o       Gains of $219 in the third quarter on sales of certain non-core
        businesses, principally the required disposition of MTN, due to SBC's
        investment in Telkom.
o       Charges of $268 in the fourth quarter related to strategic initiatives
        resulting from the merger integration process with SNET.
o       Gain of $102 in the fourth quarter from the sale of certain telephone
        and directory assets.
o       Incremental impacts of overlapping wireless properties required to be
        sold in October 1999 of $19 in the first quarter, $30 in the second
        quarter, $28 in the third quarter and $46 in the fourth quarter.

<PAGE>



                         Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareowners
SBC Communications Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of SBC
Communications Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
related consolidated statements of income, shareowners' equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the 1998 and 1997
financial statements of Ameritech Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary, which
statements reflect total assets constituting approximately 40% of the Company's
related 1998 consolidated financial statement total and which reflect total
operating revenues constituting approximately 37% of the Company's related
consolidated financial statement totals for the years ended December 31, 1998
and 1997. Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been
furnished to us. Our opinion, insofar as it relates to the 1998 and 1997 data
included for Ameritech Corporation, is based solely on the report of the other
auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of SBC Communications
Inc. at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

San Antonio, Texas

February 11, 2000


<PAGE>


                              Report of Management

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
United States' generally accepted accounting principles. The integrity and
objectivity of the data in these financial statements, including estimates and
judgments relating to matters not concluded by year end, are the responsibility
of management, as is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless
otherwise indicated.

The financial statements of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) have been audited by
Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. Management has made available to Ernst
& Young LLP all of SBC's financial records and related data, as well as the
minutes of shareowners' and directors' meetings. Furthermore, management
believes that all representations made to Ernst & Young LLP during its audit
were valid and appropriate.

Management has established and maintains a system of internal accounting
controls that provides reasonable assurance as to the integrity and reliability
of the financial statements, the protection of assets from unauthorized use or
disposition and the prevention and detection of fraudulent financial reporting.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the costs of an internal
accounting controls system should not exceed, in management's judgment, the
benefits to be derived.

Management also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its financial
data by the careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements
that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and by communication
programs aimed at ensuring that its policies, standards and managerial
authorities are understood throughout the organization. Management continually
monitors the system of internal accounting controls for compliance. SBC
maintains an internal auditing program that independently assesses the
effectiveness of the internal accounting controls and recommends improvements
thereto.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which consists of 11 directors
who are not employees, meets periodically with management, the internal auditors
and the independent auditors to review the manner in which they are performing
their respective responsibilities and to discuss auditing, internal accounting
controls and financial reporting matters. Both the internal auditors and the
independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit Committee and have
access to the Audit Committee at any time.

Edward E. Whitacre Jr.
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer




Donald E. Kiernan
Senior Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


<PAGE>

Stock Trading Information

SBC is listed on the New York, Chicago and Pacific stock exchanges and
The Swiss Exchange. SBC is traded on the London Stock Exchange through
the SEAQ International Markets facility.

Ticker symbol (NYSE): SBC

Newspaper stock listing: SBC or SBC Comm


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>10
<TEXT>



                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                            PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES OF
                             SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.
                             AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999



                                       State of             Conducts
        Name                         Incorporation        Business Under

Ameritech Corporation                  Delaware               Same

Pacific Telesis Group                   Nevada                Same

SBC International, Inc.                Delaware               Same

Southern New England                  Connecticut             Same
 Telecommunications
 Corporation

Southwestern Bell               Dually incorporated in        Same
 Mobile Systems, Inc.            Delaware and Virginia

Southwestern Bell                      Missouri               Same
 Telephone Company

Southwestern Bell                      Missouri               Same
 Yellow Pages, Inc.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>11
<TEXT>


                                                                    Exhibit 23-a

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) of our report dated February 11, 2000, included
in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners of SBC.

Our audits also include the financial statement schedules of SBC listed in Item
14(a). These schedules are the responsibility of SBC's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. We did not audit
the 1998 and 1997 financial statements of Ameritech Corporation, a wholly owned
subsidiary, which statements reflect total assets constituting approximately 40%
of the Company's related 1998 consolidated financial statement total and which
reflect total operating revenues constituting approximately 37% of the Company's
related consolidated financial statement totals for the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997. Those statements and schedules were audited by other auditors
whose report has been furnished to us. In our opinion, based on our audits and
the report of other auditors, the financial statement schedules referred to
above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8) pertaining to the SBC Savings Plan and the SBC Savings and Security
Plan and certain other plans (Nos. 333-24295, 333-66105 and 333-88667), the
Stock Savings Plan (Nos. 33-37451 and 33-54291), the 1992 Stock Option Plan (No.
33-49855), the 1995 Management Stock Option Plan (Nos. 33-61715 and 333-49343),
the 1996 Stock and Incentive Plan (No. 333-30669), and in the Registration
Statements (Form S-3) pertaining to the SBC Communications Inc. Direct Stock
Purchase and Reinvestment Plan (Nos. 333-08979, 333-44553, and 333-02587
(originally filed on Form S-4), and SBC Communications Capital Corporation and
SBC Communications Inc. (Nos. 33-45490 and 33-56909), and in the Registration
Statement (Form S-4) pertaining to SBC Communications Inc. (No. 333-45837), and
in the related Prospectuses, of our report dated February 11, 2000, with respect
to the consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and
our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial
statement schedules included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 31, 1999.


                                                       ERNST & YOUNG LLP


San Antonio, Texas
March 7, 2000



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>12
<TEXT>


                                                                    Exhibit 23-b




                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the inclusion in this
Form 10-K of our report dated January 21, 1999 (Exhibit 99-a), as included in
Ameritech Corporation's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 1998. It should be noted that we have not audited any financial statements
of the company subsequent to December 31, 1998 or performed any audit procedures
subsequent to the date of our report.



                                                          Arthur Andersen LLP



Chicago, Illinois
March 7, 2000



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>13
<TEXT>


                                                                      EXHIBIT 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

     THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

     WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer and a director of the Corporation;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints James D.
Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Liam S. Coonan, Roger W. Wohlert, or any one of them,
all of the City of San Antonio and State of Texas, his attorneys for him and in
his name, place and stead, and in each of his offices and capacities in the
Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute
and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said
attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could
do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue
hereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
28th day of January 2000.





/s/ Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.
Chairman of the Board, Director
and Chief Executive Officer


<PAGE>

                                                                      EXHIBIT 24




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

     THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

     WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer and a director of the Corporation;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward E.
Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Liam S. Coonan, Roger W.
Wohlert, or any one of them, all of the City of San Antonio and State of Texas,
his attorneys for him and in his name, place and stead, and in each of his
offices and capacities in the Corporation, to execute and file such annual
report, and thereafter to execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto,
hereby giving and granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be
done in and concerning the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the
undersigned might or could do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or
cause to be done, by virtue hereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney
the 28th day of January 2000.





/s/ Royce S. Caldwell
Royce S. Caldwell
Vice Chairman of the Board, Director
and President-SBC Operations


<PAGE>


                                                                      EXHIBIT 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

     THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

     WHEREAS, the undersigned is an officer of the Corporation;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward E.
Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Liam S. Coonan, Roger W. Wohlert, or any one of
them, all of the City of San Antonio and State of Texas, his attorneys for him
and in his name, place and stead, and in each of his offices and capacities in
the Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to
execute and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting
to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act
and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could
do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue
hereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
28th day of January 2000.





/s/ D. E. Kiernan
- -----------------
D. E. Kiernan
Senior Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer








<PAGE>


                                                                      EXHIBIT 24




                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

     THAT, WHEREAS, SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation," proposes to file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, an annual report on Form 10-K; and

     WHEREAS, the undersigned is a director of the Corporation;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Edward E.
Whitacre, Jr., James D. Ellis, Donald E. Kiernan, Liam S. Coonan, Roger W.
Wohlert, or any one of them, all of the City of San Antonio and State of Texas,
the undersigned's attorneys for the undersigned and in the undersigned's name,
place and stead, and in the undersigned's office and capacity in the
Corporation, to execute and file such annual report, and thereafter to execute
and file any amendment or amendments thereto, hereby giving and granting to said
attorneys full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and concerning the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could
do if personally present at the doing thereof, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorneys may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, by virtue
hereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Power of Attorney the
28th day of January 2000.



/s/ Clarence C. Barksdale                   /s/ James E. Barnes
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Clarence C. Barksdale                       James E. Barnes
Director                                    Director


/s/ August A. Busch III                     /s/ Ruben R. Cardenas
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
August A. Busch III                         Ruben R. Cardenas
Director                                    Director


<PAGE>


                                                                      EXHIBIT 24
                                                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
                                                                          PAGE 2


/s/ William P. Clark                        /s/ Martin K. Eby, Jr.
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
William P. Clark                            Martin K. Eby, Jr.
Director                                    Director


/s/ Herman E. Gallegos                      /s/ Jess T. Hay
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Herman E. Gallegos                          Jess T. Hay
Director                                    Director


/s/ James A. Henderson                      /s/ Bobby R. Inman
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
James A. Henderson                          Bobby R. Inman
Director                                    Director


/s/ Charles F. Knight                       /s/ Lynn M. Martin
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Charles F. Knight                           Lynn M. Martin
Director                                    Director


/s/ John B. McCoy                           /s/ Mary S. Metz
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
John B. McCoy                               Mary S. Metz
Director                                    Director


/s/ Toni Rembe                              /s/ S. Donley Ritchey
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Toni Rembe                                  S. Donley Ritchey
Director                                    Director


/s/ Joyce M. Roche                          /s/ Richard M. Rosenberg
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Joyce M. Roche                              Richard M. Rosenberg
Director                                    Director


/s/ Carlos Slim Helu                        /s/ Laura D'Andrea Tyson
- ----------------------------                ---------------------------
Carlos Slim Helu                            Laura D'Andrea Tyson
Director                                    Director


/s/ Patricia P. Upton
- ----------------------------
Patricia P. Upton
Director


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-A: FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE, 12/31/99
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S DECEMBER 31, 1999 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                     1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                              DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                                   DEC-31-1999
<CASH>                                                 495
<SECURITIES>                                             1
<RECEIVABLES>                                       10,477
<ALLOWANCES>                                         1,099
<INVENTORY>                                              0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                    11,930
<PP&E>                                             116,332
<DEPRECIATION>                                      69,761
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                      83,215
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                               19,313
<BONDS>                                             17,475
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                    0
<PREFERRED>                                              0
<COMMON>                                             3,433
<OTHER-SE>                                          23,293
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                        83,215
<SALES>                                                  0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                    49,489
<CGS>                                                    0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                       11,048
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     8,553
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     1,136
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   1,430
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                     10,853
<INCOME-TAX>                                         4,280
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                  6,573
<DISCONTINUED>                                           0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      1,379
<CHANGES>                                              207
<NET-INCOME>                                         8,159
<EPS-BASIC>                                           2.39
<EPS-DILUTED>                                         2.36
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X, RULE
5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>15
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-B: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 9/30/99
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S SEPTEMBER 30, 1999 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    9-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               SEP-30-1999
<CASH>                                             532
<SECURITIES>                                        27
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,946
<ALLOWANCES>                                     1,043
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                11,977
<PP&E>                                         115,375
<DEPRECIATION>                                  69,335
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  81,846
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           20,056
<BONDS>                                         17,418
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,433
<OTHER-SE>                                      21,875
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    81,846
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                36,592
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    7,754
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 6,378
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   824
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               1,069
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  8,116
<INCOME-TAX>                                     3,270
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              4,846
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                          207
<NET-INCOME>                                     5,053
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.48
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.46
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>16
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-C: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 6/30/99
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S JUNE 30, 1999 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    6-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1999
<CASH>                                           1,140
<SECURITIES>                                         1
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,810
<ALLOWANCES>                                       832
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,669
<PP&E>                                         113,221
<DEPRECIATION>                                  68,251
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  78,945
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           19,142
<BONDS>                                         17,507
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,434
<OTHER-SE>                                      21,428
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    78,945
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                24,058
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    5,076
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 3,935
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   403
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 704
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  5,828
<INCOME-TAX>                                     2,117
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              3,711
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                          207
<NET-INCOME>                                     3,918
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.15
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.13
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>17
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-D: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 3/31/99
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S MARCH 31, 1999 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               MAR-31-1999
<CASH>                                           1,214
<SECURITIES>                                         1
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,837
<ALLOWANCES>                                       839
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,796
<PP&E>                                         111,367
<DEPRECIATION>                                  66,869
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  75,040
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           17,461
<BONDS>                                         16,925
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,433
<OTHER-SE>                                      20,247
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    75,040
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                11,802
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    2,567
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 1,942
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   206
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 357
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  2,789
<INCOME-TAX>                                     1,016
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,773
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                          207
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,980
<EPS-BASIC>                                       0.58
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.57
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>18
<DESCRIPTION>EXH 27-E: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 12/31/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S DECEMBER 31, 1998 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1998
<CASH>                                             599
<SECURITIES>                                         6
<RECEIVABLES>                                   10,593
<ALLOWANCES>                                       810
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,697
<PP&E>                                         109,778
<DEPRECIATION>                                  65,584
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  74,966
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           18,240
<BONDS>                                         17,170
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,434
<OTHER-SE>                                      19,340
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    74,966
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                46,207
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                   10,339
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 7,841
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   896
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               1,605
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 12,115
<INCOME-TAX>                                     4,380
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              7,735
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                   (60)
<CHANGES>                                           15
<NET-INCOME>                                     7,690
<EPS-BASIC>                                       2.26
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.23
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>19
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-F: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 9/30/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S SEPTEMBER 30, 1998 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    9-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               SEP-30-1998
<CASH>                                           1,183
<SECURITIES>                                        37
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,912
<ALLOWANCES>                                       760
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,934
<PP&E>                                         109,076
<DEPRECIATION>                                  65,242
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  74,905
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           16,764
<BONDS>                                         19,371
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,440
<OTHER-SE>                                      18,783
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    74,905
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                34,042
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    7,473
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 5,661
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   629
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               1,223
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  9,635
<INCOME-TAX>                                     3,491
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              6,144
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                           15
<NET-INCOME>                                     6,159
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.82
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.79
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>20
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-G: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 6/30/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S JUNE 30, 1998 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    6-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1998
<CASH>                                             907
<SECURITIES>                                        91
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,870
<ALLOWANCES>                                       753
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,678
<PP&E>                                         107,610
<DEPRECIATION>                                  64,066
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  74,177
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           17,134
<BONDS>                                         19,706
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,437
<OTHER-SE>                                      17,338
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    74,177
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                22,436
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    4,910
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 3,745
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   415
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 840
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  6,598
<INCOME-TAX>                                     2,380
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              4,218
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                           15
<NET-INCOME>                                     4,233
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.25
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.23
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>21
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27-H: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 3/31/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S MARCH 31, 1998 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                    3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               MAR-31-1998
<CASH>                                             836
<SECURITIES>                                       176
<RECEIVABLES>                                    8,847
<ALLOWANCES>                                       792
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                11,362
<PP&E>                                         105,991
<DEPRECIATION>                                  62,974
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  72,534
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           17,845
<BONDS>                                         19,924
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,434
<OTHER-SE>                                      15,288
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    72,534
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                11,038
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    2,434
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 1,851
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   216
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 431
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  2,323
<INCOME-TAX>                                       855
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,468
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                           15
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,483
<EPS-BASIC>                                       0.44
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.43
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>22
<DESCRIPTION>EXH. 27-I: RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCH, 12/31/97
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
 THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.'S DECEMBER 31, 1997 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENITRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER>                                 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1997
<CASH>                                             649
<SECURITIES>                                       320
<RECEIVABLES>                                    9,159
<ALLOWANCES>                                       737
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F1>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                12,096
<PP&E>                                         104,596
<DEPRECIATION>                                  61,665
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  69,917
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           18,268
<BONDS>                                         17,787
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         3,428
<OTHER-SE>                                      14,435
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    69,917
<SALES>                                              0<F2>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                43,106
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                   10,249
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 7,777
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   938
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               1,550
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  6,538
<INCOME-TAX>                                     2,451
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              4,087
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     4,087
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.21
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.20
<FN>
<F1> THIS AMOUNT IS IMMATERIAL
<F2> NET SALES OF TANGIBLE PRODUCTS IS NOT MORE THAN 10% OF TOTAL OPERATING
REVENUES AND THEREFORE HAS NOT BEEN STATED SEPARATELY IN THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO REGUALTION S-X, RULE 5-03(B). THIS AMOUNT IS INCLUDED IN
THE "TOTAL REVENUES" TAG.
<F3> COST OF TANGIBLE GOODS SOLD IS INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT IN THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE "TOTAL COST" TAG, PURSUANT TO REGULATION S-X,
RULE 5-03(B).
</FN>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99
<SEQUENCE>23
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 99-A REPORT OF INDEPENDANT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>


                                                                   Exhibit 99-a

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



Board of Directors, Ameritech Corporation

We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of Ameritech Corporation (a
Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareowners' equity and cash flows for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1998, as included in
Ameritech's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ameritech
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule included
in Item 14(a)(2) of Ameritech's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998
is the responsibility of Ameritech's management and is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.




Arthur Andersen LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 21, 1999



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
